From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 26 Sep 2001 14:06:25 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] I scored an engine, now what?

In a message dated 9/26/2001 5:22:56 AM Pacific Daylight Time, 
incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org Pmailed us:    << Where do I get the doghouse sealing 
foam? Just got a 1600 SP together, hoover bit installed, I assume this foam 
wraps around the oilcooler into the tin to force are through? It would be so 
much easier if my oe parts were all still there to replicate correctly. Any 
other seals or foam to consider? I have all the tin finally, and flaps. I do 
think that is the truely last stock bit I need, and your post reminded me.>>

Hi AL,
Your local hardware store carries home door sealant foam tape.  We use the 
stuff that is about 1/2" thick and 1/2" to 5/8" wide, a dark grey color that 
is almost black with large bubbles in it bigger than a pin head or three in 
diameter and is very soft/plush feel to it.  There are foam tapes with much 
smaller foam bubles and much harder, which will not conform as well to the 
tin.  The big secret in installing this foam is to not just tightly pull the 
foam tape over the top corners of the cooler.  Instead you want to back off a 
little slack (1/8" to 1/4") at each top corner for a square shoulder look to 
prevent a sloped shoulder look which will allow some of the cooling air to 
slip by the outside of the cooler.  Also apply two strips of this foam tape 
to either end (Left and Right sides of the cooler in a verticle postion and 
connect these at the bottoms with a horizontal stip between them.  Then 
install one or two more strip vertically between the first two vertical 
strips.

 <<Bus status is good, stock height front end together, doing brakes hoses, 
new control cables, tie rods, and sterring adjustments this weekend. Also 
spring plates being installed to stock 20.5 deg. Then the new trans, which 
waited in the garage all summer, and finally my new engine, a CW, almost 
stock Engle 100 cammed 1600 with a 30 pict2 (couldn't find a single screw 
carb :( )Hope to get her borrken in and the five oil chages done fro early 
November, then storing her for the harsh PA winter. Body won't be ready to 
weather that stuff for a year, body seals OE and shot, and OE paint needs 
some help, almost no bodywork though, I was lucky. That is until I punch the 
windshields, I know some mess will be in there, lotso cleaning, painting,
 and finally tar.....
 I'd appreciate if you have a parts source for those foam seals, I need to 
get the last bits to get this going ASAP, and want to do it right, we'll be X 
country driving this girl in a couple years, whne I finish the interior and 
get a roof rack...  AL >>

Sounds like a good start of a beautiful VW relationship!  ;-)  Keep On VWing, 
Eric&Barb
