From: "Robert Davis" <mangosplit(-at-)juno.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 27 Sep 2001 21:50:11 +0800
Subject: Chris Dreike's Steering Wheels

List:

Those of you that know me realize I'm somewhat of a picky guy.  Of course when it comes to bolts and fasteners, I don't hold a candle to Greg Noble, and in general David Mayes makes me look like I could care less, and Michael Heron and Todd Swangstu are the connoisseurs of correct minutia, with a host of others whose names I won't bore everyone with.  But nonetheless, I'm fairly particular myself.

The '59 Westfalia naturally needed it's steering wheel restored. I was going to take the normal route, have it painted by Koch's, which I've done before and have looked nice.  But the problem with the new paint on the wheels re-cracking within months caused me to look into Chris Drieke's newly molded wheels, using original VW cores.

I purchased one from Chris last Spring, based on the testimonials of Greg Noble and Thom, and was happy with it.  But it developed some bubbling in the paint, which didn't bum me out because I knew that Chris was fine tuning the painting process and he assured me he would make it right, once they felt confident that they had the process down.

Chris remembered to contact me about a month ago to let me know some new wheels were finished if I was ready to exchange.  First off, it's pretty damn impressive in and of itself that he made the effort to get ahold of me.  Yesterday I received my new wheel.  All I can say is that it is spectacular. It is so friggin' beautiful.  The wheels always had very nice definition and detail.  But now the paint looks fantastic.  It now has that nice *deep* rich look to it like you would expect from a VW steering wheel, or any other painted part that Volkswagen produced.

I'm in no way affiliated with Chris, other than we're both list members like the rest of you.  But when a product is nice I feel it necessary to let others know in case they researching options as well, plus Chris's efforts need to be recognized.

So if your thinking of restoring your steering wheel, you should consider one of Chris's wheels instead.  You won't be disappointed.

Robert
-- 


