Date: Fri, 10 Aug 2001 11:19:36 -0400
From: Kathryn Bowman <BussesBytheArch(-at-)compuserve.com>
To: "VintageBus List (msge)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
Subject: Front bearing packing theory...

Hi all,

I'm still trying to get our new-to-us 1959 Double Door Panel mechanically=

sound and ready for it's debut as it "earns it's keep" as the "Busses
Nowhere Near The Arch" event truck at our upcoming event.  I've gone
through most of the systems and I'm currently cleaning out, inspecting an=
d
re packing the bearings in the front drums.  After sitting in storage in
several Texas barns since 1964, you should have seen the jellified crap
that came out of the grease cavity between the bearings!  Both bearings o=
n
the passenger side drum had slight pitting on the outer races, but the
drivers side bearings look and feel great.  I'm going to replace all four=

of them anyway just to be sure.

I'm soliciting your collective opinions on two questions concerning this =
re
packing job:

Besides thoroughly re packing the bearings themselves before installing
them into the drums, just how much grease should be put into the cavity
"between" the inner and outer bearings in each drum.  I've heard various
theory s and opinions on this, and I, as well as others, would like to do=

it right.  In the past on my '67 Westy, I've packed it as full as possibl=
e,
basically leaving little or no room for air in there once the drum was
reinstalled on the spindle.  I haven't had any problems yet with doing it=

this way so far, but I've heard others say to not over pack it with greas=
e,
to leave unpacked room in there, although I've never heard a good reason
why to do it this way.  Does grease from this cavity really work it's way=

into the bearings if the cavity isn't fully packed, or are we just wastin=
g
grease by fully packing it up.  If you are of the "don't pack it full"
school of thought, please explain this theory fully so we can understand
better.  Otherwise, I'm gonna pack it full, going with "the more grease,
the better" train of thought.  For the collective good of all, how about =
a
few of you experienced/knowledgeable mechanics address this Transporter
issue in descriptions and explanations we can all understand.  Bentley su=
re
doesn't say much about it.

Also, with the vast amount of modern wheel bearing greases available to u=
s,
can anyone suggest any particular types or brands that should (or should
NOT") be used.  You know, "cheap ass" brands vs. synthetic vs. lithium
based vs. ???.  We want to know what you use and why.

I'll be flying out to L.A. tomorrow morning (Saturday) to attend my 30th
high school reunion at Universal Studios in "the Valley" Saturday night, =
so
I plan on stopping by a couple of the VW shops on my way northbound from
the Santa Ana airport.  I'll probably drop into Wolfsburg West and maybe
Vintage Parts in the Valley before going to the reunion.  I need a few la=
st
minute goodies for the mechanical work on this Transporter.  =


Thanks for your opinions.

Bill Bowman
NEATO

Busses Nowhere Near The Arch #17
Aug 31st thru Sept 3rd, 2001
Mark Twain Lake, near Hannibal, Missouri
info:   www.BNNTA.com
