Date: Thu, 10 Apr 2003 16:58:09 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] rebuild 2.0l

At 04:28 PM 4/10/2003, Billy wrote:
>Well, engines that leave Jake Raby's shop may or may not be
>the final word in aircooled technology, but VW felt good
>enough to go to them.

As did most other manufacturers.

>Correct in that they should still be adjusted, and that tight valves and other valve train symptoms can show you things by inspection. But sorry, there's lot's of folks who do not do valve adjustments every 3000 miles, and their engines would benefit from hydraulic valves.

How many people with Hondas take their cars in to have their hydraulic valvetrain adjusted... ever?  I would bet that only a fraction of a percent of people with hydraulic valvetrains have ever thought about adjusting them.  I won't argue that it's a bad idea to check them, but it sure isn't high on my list.  In the 101K miles on my current engine, I have adjusted the hydraulic lifters exactly two times, both times were when I had disassembled the engine for upgrades. 

>But as we learn on this list almost daily, rarely is anything automotive an absolute. Everything has tradeoffs and people have 
>different wants and needs.

Well said.

>I wonder if Jake asks his customers what they want or tells them...

I wonder that also.

>Jake Raby wrote:
"Zero Hydro engines leave my shop, I see their disasters weekly..
Hydro valves MUST still be adjusted, just not every 3K. Valve adjustments can be the best indicators before a disaster."

A disaster that would likely not happen at all if the engine were built and maintained properly.  Hydraulic lifters do not cause engine failures.  If the argument is that the hydraulics give you a small chance at catching a problem before it eats your motor, I do not accept that as a legitimate reason to avoid them either.

I have well over a quarter-million miles under my belt on engines with hydraulic lifters and no valvetrain-related trouble on any of them.  I go with what works for me and recommend that others do the same.

-David
