From: "Vanagon man" <vgonman(-at-)msn.com>
To: <Javabus(-at-)aol.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 11 Apr 2003 06:32:50 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] 2.0l rebuild

I have built my share of vw engines. I tend to pay close attention to
detail, cleanliness, and practicality.

You have to keep something in mind..............you are pushing a very
heavy, square vehicle.  Increasing torque is important, but HP to a much
lesser degree.  You will always be limited by the gearing in the
transmission for the air-cooled vehicle. 4000 rpms going 70 ish miles per
hour will be the same whether you have a 2.6 liter motor or a 1.7L
motor....sure you can have a shop give you a taller gear for 4th, but
remember that at the same time you are slowing down the cooling fan thus
making your motor run hotter.

 A freshly rebuilt stock 2 liter is pretty peppy for the most
part........You can go to the considerable expense of  stroking and putting
bigger cylinders in it for sure........but in the end is it worth it?  You
still are going to be going 75 max on the highway.  Sure you could go more,
but you will be blowing motors or tearing up your transmission.  If you were
building a type 4 for a Beetle, awesome idea if you got the money.

Add up the costs before you make your decision, and it is not cheap.
Quality parts are the key, and they are not cheap.

From the top of my head, you will need.different

Crank shaft

Pistons and cylinders (for stroker crank)

Head work (larger valves and different bore)

Exhaust modifications...............you just can't bolt on your old exhaust
and it run cool...........you will need bigger exhaust pipes.not cheap for
quality.

Some knowledgeable shop to clearance your case properly.

Probably should "beef up" the transmission too......you would be adding a
lot of torque and hp.it would be a shame to wring out the transmission right
off.


If I had that kind of money, I would order a engine outright from Jake
Raby.....then you know it is right for he has built dozens of them, and
knows exactly what works well.  He sells a power stroke engine people swear
by. Look him up and his prices.  Fair for what he does.........You won't
save money scrounging parts yourself, for you may buy parts that are of an
inferior quality to what he uses.

Adam P
81  Westy "The Brick "
70 Single Cab "Whitey"
74 Beetle "Ol Yeller"
73 Transporter (STILL at paint shop)
1988 Vanagon Wolfsburg
1976 Transporter (New CA bus)
1974 412 "Goldmember"
Used Vanagon Parts for sale (mostly aircooled)
