From: "Wakanska" <Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 11 Apr 2003 08:40:35 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] California Senate Bill SB 708

I live in California and own three buses...One '79 and three '71's. We don't
put that many miles on any of them and the daily drivers could be rotated if
needed. This wouldn't affect me too much, but I'm going to take it on myself
to contact as many vintage car people as I can between now and the 29th of
April. The letter campaigns DO stop a lot of this kind of crap.
I am on some pet owner and breeder lists where we are anti "animal rights".
Most of this legislation is just written to help build empire for the animal
control industry and ends up with a lot of government abuses. It allows them
to impound and kill more animals and to bust in doors and harrass people,
even for little stuff, like "Spot" turned over his water dish. They're
prosecuting people for felonies! Trust me, I've heard the stories of people
harrassed by animal control "pet nazi's" (wannabe cops who couldn't make the
grade), usually for not much good reason. They grab the dogs and cats from
their owners, call it "rescue", publish a lot of BS in the newspaper, and
then put most of the animals to sleep (those that they can't sell). All they
want is to have more laws to enforce. Big government has their heavy jack
boot on our necks for anything that doesn't fit their agenda.
Most recently we've beaten two bills in the works from the animal rights
organizations. They had to do with hunting bears with dogs and dove hunting.
Most of us don't hunt at all, and I personally don't appreciate the
predicament for the bear, nor do I attend cockfights, etc. but it's really
important to oppose EVERYTHING that the "AR's" want, because it all goes
against them. They are mostly just a bunch of fundraisers and lobbyists and
lawyers, and they meddle and campaign and take in tens of millions of
dollars a year while doing little or nothing directly for animals.
I know this is non-bus content and I apologize for that, but I just wanted
to point up that a lot of this legislation comes about as a result of
lobbying and slick lawyer types and there is money behind it, but the
numbers can beat it if people do write and call. They attack little groups,
so the only way that you can get your numbers is by supporting other groups
cooperatively and reciprocally, even if they don't have your interests in
common (nor you, theirs), and by watching the issues and writing and calling
as much as you can when needed. In other words, be involved!


> Please, no thank god I don't live there posts. This is a serious matter
for
> CA bus owners...
