Date: Sun, 11 Apr 2004 10:40:34 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, hcmills(-at-)tntech.edu
Subject: Re: [T2] rebuild 2.0l

>There is NO INHERENT PERFORMANCE LIMITATION with hydraulic lifters.  At 
>least not until you get into seriously hot cams for 8,000rpm 
>motors.  Hydraulic lifters do not equal low performance.

They are rpm limitations I believe. These are my memories, not facts - 
verify on your own: hydraulic lifters are adjusted a couple of turns in so 
that the internal spring is slightly compressed. They have a pre-load on 
them. This gives them the ability to compensate for a valve train that gets 
tighter and looser as the engine expands and contracts. They bleed down to 
compensate for engine is is smaller (cooler) and pump up to compensate for 
an engine that has expanded. Any slop causes the lifter to pump up.

Once the valves start to float a little (max rpm of the valve train is 
reached) the lifters are unloaded slightly and the lifters pump up so that 
they will not allow the valve to close completely and the engine loses 
compression (some if not all) and / or the valve is sticking out in the 
combustion chamber. If the combustion chamber clearances are really tight 
(high compression, dome pistons, connecting rods are stretching due to high 
rpms, loose assembly specs) then you risk a piston-valve collision bending 
valve, connection rod, damaging the piston, etc. RISK I said, not 
guaranteed. For that reason there is a minimum clearance between the valves 
and pistons (the cross sectional clay trick during assembly).

On some engines (dunno about aircooled VW's) the hydraulic lifters are 
heavier than solids and cause valve float at lower rpms. For than reason 
folks try all sorts of things to control valve float - stronger valve 
springs, double valve springs, aluminum push rods, titanium valve spring 
retainers, etc. All this to overcome valve train inertia and get that valve 
closed ASAP and keep everything tight (lifter to cam, pushrod to lifter and 
rocker arm) because if the parts are banging around on each other versus 
riding back and forth as a unit everything can fail - especially if heavy 
springs are used.

As a result of these valve train "improvements" the engine consumes a bit 
more HP to drive a less efficient valve train but ultimately makes more HP 
because the cam is wilder or the valves larger, etc. Also the engine can 
run at higher rpms.

The newer cars (and some older like Porsche 911 six cylinders and my '81 
Honda motorcycle) have rocker arms that ride directly on the cam. This 
allows fewer valve train parts and less weight for less valve train inertia 
and consequently less valve spring pressures required (more HP). Also this 
allows for more radical cams because this lighter valve train can follow 
the more radical shapes of the more radical cam (no parts crashing into 
each other as the valve opens and closes).

I'd stay with hydraulics for the regular driver engines and consider solids 
for a major rpm machine.

There was a big time racer named Smokey Yunick that wrote a GREAT series of 
HIGH performance engine books and explains the secrets and theories behind 
a true high performance engine. Not necessarily a "Hot to" book but a 
concept book backed up with a lifetime of experience (Like Gene Berg). 
Maybe not the be all - end all of books but certainly one of the best I've 
read. He explains all of this to much more detail than I could ever.

Hope this helps somebody. I'm not telling any of you it won't work. This is 
just a from my memory summary of what I've learned from reading - NOT from 
years of building engines. Check it out for yourself. You may find a way to 
make all this work for you despite the fact that the "experts" say naught.




Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
