Date: Sun, 11 Apr 2004 11:43:28 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Javabus(-at-)aol.com, type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 2.0l rebuild

>thanks for the replys so far, I think solid lifters is where I will start,
>maybe stick with the 94mm, but I was talking to a guy at fast auto today and
>he said 96mm with a strocker crank were the way for power, he said cams just
>give you a different power curve. I want smooth power through out but good
>power, no overheating problems, and not to much work. If I use a strocker
>crank how much clearancing will be needed and is this something to do at
>homeshop or send out. If I were to go with a cam what is suggested and who
>carries it.

He wants to sell you parts. Doesn't mean he is a bad person but he is doing 
you no good by not explaining all of the collateral items that have to be 
done. Don't just throw parts at it.

The cam alters the rpm that the power is delivered. I have a 2.0 Honda 
Prelude engine in my CR-V (that is the factory motor). They altered the 
cams a couple of times during production and increased the torque and HP 
but it requires max rpm (redline) to achieve it. It does fine but is 
certainly different from the Prelude engine in behavior.

The cam(s) are very important and alter the character of the engine. Don't 
choose without serious consideration. Start reading - Wizard and Yunick and 
Raby for starters. Bruce Anderson wrote a great book on Porsche 911 engines 
that tells alot too.

It's quite difficult to build a high performance engine with a good 
balanced usable personalty without careful choice of parts.

If you want to increase the bore and stroke then not improving the heads 
(intake, valves, cam) and exhaust to handle the added airflow potential 
would be a waste of money. It is a balanced relationship that has to be 
maintained. Also your stock EFI (if you have it) will not tolerate this I 
expect.

For the money - I'd pick up the phone and call Raby. Then you would buy 
spending your money on a package that works and lasts. Boston Bob is 
another option - dunno if he is an aircooled specialist or a wasserboxer guy

Another option (quite expensive too if you buy all new parts) is a Corvair 
110 HP or a Corvair 140 HP. Better (and more forgiving) would be a Corvair 
95. Rebuild prices for a stock rebuild is about the same as a stock Type 
IV, requires a whole new set of skills and shop manuals (engine layout is 
different, different set of ailments), and the installation/conversion kit 
is $650 new (maybe $200 or less used). Let's just say you'll need a new set 
of friends to teach you about this engine. This is what I'm doing. I'll 
report back in 10 years and let you know how it goes.

The best alternative is a stock 2.0 Type IV bus engine with newer EFI, 
slightly warmer cam (because the EFI could handle it), bigger valves to 
take advantage of EFI and cam) from earlier carbed Type IV engines (talk to 
an expert - not me), and a Porsche 5 speed tranny. Final drive gear ratio 
should be the same or SLIGHTLY higher (not more than 500 rpm) but you'll 
have 5 speeds to tackle the hills with (more gears to match engine power 
with road conditions) and extra sound proofing. Should change character of 
the bus entirely. Remember you are seeking more torque.

Match that with better tires (15" and C load range).

I don't know about you but my budget would be empty already...


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
