From: "TR Gesell" <trgesell(-at-)compuserve.com>
To: "TYPE2. COM \(E-mail\)" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 11 Apr 2003 10:59:18 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] California Senate Bill SB 708

Here's what I sent to my senator...

RickG



-----Original Message-----
From: TR Gesell [mailto:trgesell(-at-)compuserve.com]
Sent: Friday, April 11, 2003 10:58 AM
To: 'senator.alpert(-at-)sen.ca.gov'
Subject: Please NO on SB 708


Senator Alpert,

This may seem like a minor matter in light of current events, so I'll keep
it to one page.

My hobby (passion?)is restoring and driving classic automobiles. At any
given time, I have one such vehicle which is maintained to better than
factory standards.  The emmissions results from semiannual smog tests are
always far below the allowable limits. With that being said, I must register
my strong opposition to SB 708, and encourage you (as my State Senator) to
vote no on this bill.

The logic behind my position is as follows:

SB 708 would require smog checks on vehicles younger than 45 years, but
there is no requirement that any manufacturer continue to support such
vehicles with parts or service.

I expend great effort and money to keep my classic vehicle perfectly
maintained, but the original manufacturer has discontinued production of
many unique parts, especially those required only on California vehicles.

With a little effort and readily available aftermarket parts, it is easy to
keep a vehicle running well with very low emmissions, but we are confronted
with unrealistic requirements regarding installed parts.

Passing the emmissions test is usually the easy part of a Smog Check.  The
most difficult part of the check is the requirement that all original,
approved, (and unavailable!) parts be present and operational.

This leaves classic vehicle owners in the untenable position of being
required to have parts which are simply unavailable! The current "rolling"
30 year exemption is a more reasonable time frame. I believe I can obtain
the required parts for my 1977 vehicle until 2007.  If this is extended to
45 years, I will simply be unable to meet these requirements, and then what?
Realistically, most vehicles older than 30 years are going to be well
maintained by hobbyists anyway.  People who are unwilling to do the work
required to keep an older vehicle functioning reliably will simply buy a new
one for convenience.

It is ludicrous to pretend that a tiny handful of well maintained
collectible vehicles could possibly cause any significant harm to our
environment.  I cannot imagine any rational or legitimate purpose for this
legislation. I suspect it is supported not by environmental considerations,
but by those who stand to gain economically from the conduct of Smog Checks.

Thanks for Your Consideration,
TR Gesell
