Date: Sun, 11 Apr 2004 13:31:24 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Chuck Harvey <charvey(-at-)airmail.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Emergency Starting

Add a Ford Starter relay to couple the main battery to the charging battery.

These relays have 3 terminals. 1 is for a small 12 volt signal for when the 
key is the start position (or for this purpose when you flip a switch 
someplace for an emergency start), and two more larger lugs that are 
connected together when you put 12 volts to the 1st terminal.

Install the relay to the firewall. Install a positive cable from the main 
battery to the relay, and a positive cable to the aux battery. Both pos 
cables go to the big lugs on either side. Which side does not matter as 
when the relay is closed they will be connected.

Cable together the negative sides permanently or just add a heavy cable 
from the neg side of the aux battery to the frame (since the main battery 
is already cabled to the frame on the neg side).

When you flip your new switch the two batteries would be joined until you 
turned off your switch. You could do this manually or have it wired to do 
it whenever you turn the key to start or even to automatically when the key 
turns to start IF a manual switch was closed (on).

My worry about this is that supposedly it is bad to connect a dead battery 
with a charged one. Chance of explosion I seem to remember. Of course we 
just made a permanent version of the jumper cable solution and I have never 
had a problem with those.

Cost of the relay = $15 or so new, less at the junkyard - free if your 
buddies happen to have an old Maverick or p/u truck sitting in the backyard.



Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
