Date: Sun, 02 May 2010 10:45:58 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "T.P. Stephens" <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Doktor Tim's 72 Sunroof Bus For Sale

This has been my personal Bus since 1994. It had 140K on it when I 
bought it, with original worn out Solex dual carbs and a reman 
original engine installed by someone who had very good VW knowledge. 
Carbs replaced with NEW original Solexes in about 2000, now have some 
30K on them and getting 18+mpg in town and over 21+ mpg highway. It 
now has a total of 205K+. New rear drums/shoes/cylinders at about 
160k as well as a clutch disc. New OEM Pierburg fuel pump. The only 
aftermarket crap was a spiced in radio/cassett which I removed.  I 
can't prove it but suspect this is a NW ConRod engine. Few others 
would have lasted this long since rebuild. Still good compression 
balance and will be happy to confirm this for anyone seriously interested.

Body is solid. No evidence of dents or crash damage. Battery tray 
rusted. Rust on top around perimeter of the Sunroof. Windshield 
replaced with new VW seal and repair of rust underneith.

This is now as a Kombi, nothing behind the front seats but a plywood 
floor installed by me. Original spare tire cover in place. Comes with 
a custom 3/4 width plywood surface running from the rear deck to the 
back of the seats for sleeping platform. Very quick to remove/install.

Runs and drives as new, except reverse gear wants to pop out if you 
don't hold it in manually. It's been that way since I got it. All 
lights, wipers, heater functional. Spring on side door is weak 
otherwise works very nice. All original lock cylinders function 
nominal with original key. Lower seat belt latch for passenger seal 
missing. Upholstery ratty. Continental Load Range C reinforced Bus 
spec tires with lots of tread.

Available for inspection between now and mid July. Will not advertise 
to others until July 1. I want this to go to a Type2.com subscriber. 
I will be ready for transfer around July 10 or so.

A fine daily driver as is or better than most for a complete 
restoration. Price is $3000. You can't do an engine and tranny right 
for less than that on most examples you might get for a song. No 
question in my mind I would have to spent $5000+ to replace it with 
something similar. Ready for continued use with factory maintenance 
only. Drive it cross country today with no worries.

Location is Hillsboro, about 20 miles west of Portland, OR.

Email me to arrange inspection.

T.P. Stephens
Doktor Tim's Spezialwerkstatt
Maintenance, Repair and Restoration of Euorpean Vehicles exclusively 
since 1991.
