Date: Wed, 5 May 2010 10:59:11 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: accessys(-at-)smart.net
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] fuel shut off

Hey, Bob.  A few years back, I got something from Australia.  I think it was called Airod or something like that.  I thought about a petcock at the time and learned that the Honda petcock fits the fuel tank fitting.  The vacuum powered ones were kinda spendy even on eBarf, and I wasn't sure where to get the right vacuum signal anyway.  I had this thought of a vacuum leak causing the fuel supply to be reduced.  Like vacuum leaks aren't hard enough to track down.  The manual ones would have me crawling under the bus which completely defeats the point, or connecting some kind of cable to control it.  I figured we want the engine to shut off the fuel, not the possibly incapacitated driver, so that lead me to this 12V electric valve.

...digging through old email...

Yeah, it is Airod. I didn't install it (other things hopped in front priority-wise and then I got this crazy diesel engine idea), but it cost me around $75, I think, and then shipping from Australia.   It came with a controller that lets a few seconds of fuel through when the ignition is first powered.  Then, once the engine is running, it keeps the valve open.  Once the engine kills, the valve shuts.  Pretty snappy.  I got it from macmotors.com.au.  I'll sell the set-up they sent me for what I paid in January 2004, if you want it.  I don't know what they ask nowadays, or if they even still sell them.  I imagine someone sells those things online.  I'm not exactly a fountain of useful info like many others on this list, but I do have one of those valves. :)

 Paul Manning
Lake Grove, OR
1972 Westy (TDI transplant recipient)
http://viewfromabus.blogspot.com/




----- Original Message ----
From: "accessys(-at-)smart.net" <accessys(-at-)smart.net>
Sent: Wed, May 5, 2010 9:45:13 AM
Subject: [T2] fuel shut off 

the motor cycle shops were immensely useless.
I hope to get my engine back for my 78 bus next week and still haven't found a decent electric or vaccum fuel shut off valve....

anyone else done this, what did you use??/


thanks
Bob
