Date: Wed, 5 May 2010 12:32:03 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: accessys(-at-)smart.net
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] fuel shut off - eek, diesel content

first things first... the conversion.  Its been a heck of a ride, but I'm getting pretty close.  The engine is mounted.  I have the coolant system, fuel system and charged air finished.  I need to resolve my air intake / filter and then the induction and vacuum systems will be completed.  That leaves the electrical control system, which I'm working on now.  I'd hoped to have it ready for test runs next month, but I've been desk-job working so much I haven't been able to fun-job work much since the middle of March.

diesel fuel shut-off..  the fuel is drawn into the engine through an injection pump that is driven by the timing belt.  Once the engine stops, the pump stops.  I guess, its kind of like the old mechanical fuel pump that way.  I don't have a valve on the tank to stop fuel from spilling out of it if a fuel line is breached, but diesel fuel has a much higher flash-point, so it isn't such an emergency as gasoline spilling.  The environmental impacts, of course, are there.

Thanks for the interest in the conversion.  I try to post to my blog every few days.  Once its finished, I'll create separate posts system-by-system of what worked, what parts were used, what the costs were, etc. and then I'll be able to refocus that blog back to its original intent: document driving the frickin thing :)

 Paul Manning
Lake Grove, OR USA
1972 Westy (TDI transplant recipient)
http://viewfromabus.blogspot.com/





----- Original Message ----
From: "accessys(-at-)smart.net" <accessys(-at-)smart.net>
To: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Sent: Wed, May 5, 2010 12:03:22 PM
Subject: Re: [T2] fuel shut off

On Wed, 5 May 2010, Paul Manning wrote:
> Yeah, it is Airod. I didn't install it (other things hopped in front priority-wise and then I got this crazy diesel engine idea), 
> 
I know about the olde ""Rounde tuit" hows the diesel conversion... that TDI is quite an engine. my Brother in law has a stock Jetta TDI and loves it.

don't all diesels have a fuel shut off valve ????

Bob
