Date: Thu, 6 May 2010 14:45:09 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Solex Rejetting

WARNING - LONG !!!

On Sun, Dec 13, 2009 at 10:57 PM, Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu> wrote:

> I'd been meaning to reply to this thread for a while, but I haven't had a
> chance because I've been way too busy.

I've been wanting to get back, too, but this got put way to the bottom
of my list! Of course, I'm going a different direction from Mike. Not
having resources for multiple gauges and such, and feeling unsafe
relying on the LM-1 to give me an average reading of 2 carbs, I
decided to go back to the Weber progressive.

I had sent Mike some CHT readings for comparison with his readings,
but I later found out that those temps did not represent the maximum
the
engine would produce. I didn't learn that until going on a 200 mile
trip for New Years when I learned that in the mountains I had to
significantly throttle back to avoid exceeding 400 degrees. In fact,
in spite of plenty of power available, I had to significantly reduce
my top speed by feathering the gas. It got to where I observed that
each 10 kph yielded a 10 degree increase in CHT. Going uphill meant
often reducing to about 50 mph (or less? can't remember.... ) before
cresting the hill.

So that's where I decided to try the Weber progressive. When I first
installed it, I felt very satisfied with LM-1 readings pretty steady
around 13:1 all the way from idle up to 4000 RPM. That is, satisfied
until I took it out for a road test. Then the 10 degrees per 10 kph
rise kicked in even sooner, giving me these results: 60 kph - 360
degrees, 70 - 370, 80 - 380, 90 - 390, 100 - 400, or in other words, a
top speed of about 60 mph at max safe temp. And, of course, as Raby
says, you wouldn't want to run 400 all the time!

http://www.914world.com/specs/JakeRabyHeadTemps.php

Well, back to the drawing board. Reconsidering my good feeling about
13:1, I looked back at my letter from John Connolly, and saw that he
said the "death zone" is 13:1 to 15.5:1. He is still a little
confusing because he recommends 13:1 at half throttle and above.
Looking for help on this, I also found that John had started a thread
on the Weber progressive on The Samba:

http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/viewtopic.php?t=386388&highlight=progressive

where he said, "You want to be lean on the primary (for mpg and cool
running), but richen up to 13:1 when the secondary opens." So I'm not
clear on the 13:1 prohibition, but suffice it to say that it was
cooking my engine!

I didn't have any jets around, but I had read that the idle circuit
influences 80% of the range on the Weber progressive, so I played a
hunch and decided to enrichen the idle screw 1 turn and see what that
would do. IIRC, it gave me an idle around 11:1 with cruise ranges
running through the 12:1 range and on up to topping out at 13:1.

I was feeling VERY SATISFIED! with this results, and started out on a
great road test. I was approaching top speed at WOT with a very
satisfying top CHT of 378 when I very suddenly heard a VERY LOUD
NOISE!!!

I was sure I had broken my engine. The engine even started running bad
and the CHT dropped a lot. Don't remember if it was like 198, 278, or
what, but a very sudden decrease. So I was thinking dropped or snapped
valve, broken piston or something at the cylinder with the CHT. The
next day, with the engine cool, I noticed the spark plug was even wet
while doing a compression test, so I was sure something was wrong.

Well, compression test passes (120 on 3 cyls - including the suspect #
3, and 105 on # 1), so it's back to the drawing board again. Checked
valve lash. # 3 had reduced .003 and # 2 had reduced .004.

But now I can't get good readings from my LM-1. I'm thinking it's too
soon for it to fail. I've probably only used it a half a dozen times
since I bought it in 2004. It's giving me readings like 18:1. So I
enrichen idle to like 12:1 again, and it still revs up to 14, 15, and
16:1. Same thing if I back out the idle screw to where it's almost
falling out. Researching jet sizes on the web, I'm starting to think
that with the large air correction jet, I'm never going to get this
carb to work until I get new jets. Yet the meter is going against what
the spark plugs are telling me - heavy coating of pure soot.

So, I'm thinking maybe a bad plug wire is missing and allowing
unburned oxygen out of that cylinder. Somewhat upsetting since I had
just installed new wires. Unfortunately, the only thing I could get
around here was Brazilian. Was glad it was at least made for VW. The
PO has just used Autolite or some such American style wire w/o the tin
boots.

So using my tach as an indicator, I found # 2 was missing. So I grab
those old wires to see if I can stop the missing. Went through all
four. The last one seemed better, but still not right. As well as the
bus ran with those wires, I couldn't believe they were all bad. Then I
noticed that even though I had moved the wet plug from # 3 to # 1, it
was still coming out wet.

Being baffled by all this, I found write-ups at racetep.com. First, a
nice carb tuning article:

http://www.racetep.com/webjettune.html

and also a couple of prep articles:

http://www.racetep.com/vacleak.html

and

http://www.racetep.com/webfuelspark.html

especially the spark article caught my attention:

"This is a serious topic that seems to get ignored even by
professional installers. The essence of a Weber conversion is that you
are putting on a Larger carb that flows more fuel and Air to make more
HP.

Most older cars that are getting these carbs installed on them had
very bad Point and Condensor Igntion systems with very low spark
output. These systems were barely adequate for a stock carb let alone
a performance upgrade. Adding even a single 32/36 carb to an old BMW,
Opel, Etc will overload the stock ignitions systems capabilities.

When you add Dual or Triple carbs you are really causing a problem.
You are adding a bunch of extra Fuel and Air but not adding the extra
fire needed to burn it properly. This results in jetting problems,
rich running conditions, etc. If you are doing a conversion from a
later model Fuel Injected car that had a decent Electronic Igntion
system on it this will not be as much of a problem although you could
have a problem with Spark Advance on these types of vehicles (Read
below.)

When doing a Weber conversion on an older Point type Ignition car it
is a MUST to at least do an upgrade to Electronic Ignition with a
higher output Coil and good wires and plugs. This will allow you to
jet and tune the carb to its maximum HP and Fuel Economy potential."

(End quote)

Sorry for the long quote, but I felt it important to include even the
multi-carb write-up because it included the key phrase:

"You are adding a bunch of extra Fuel and Air but not adding the extra
fire needed to burn it properly"

So I thought that even though I was running too rich according to
spark plug soot, that the weak spark meant that all of the combustion
mix available was not burning, thus allowing unburned oxygen to
inflate the LM-1 readings.

Well, I had upgraded to the Hot Spark ignition already, so that meant
a second look at the spark plugs. I didn't change them (Bosch) with
the wires, because the electrodes looked like new, so I thought a
cleanup would do.

So I take a trip down to FLAPS and pick up a new set of NGKs. I CAN'T
BELIEVE WHAT A DIFFERENCE NEW PLUGS MADE!!!

Everything is perfect now. Put the supposedly bad plug wire back on,
and works great. LM-1 readings now:

 950 rpm    12.4:1 at correct Weber "Lean Best Idle"
1500 rpm - 12.2:1
2000 rpm - 12.3:1
2500 rpm - 12.9 to 13.0:1
3000 rpm - 12.8 to 13.1:1
3500 rpm - 12.9 to 13:1:1
4000 rpm - 12.8 to 12.9:1
4500 rpm - 12.9 to 13.0:1
5000 rpm - 12.9 to 13.0:1

Can't find top speed anymore. Speed reaching 87 mph and unsafe for
road conditions with plenty of power for more speed. Top CHT reading
341. I'm going to recheck my sensor since sensor problems have skewed
CHT readings in the past.

So, I'm thinking that the loud noise that started this all was just
because I had recently reinstalled the transmission bearer bolt, and
maybe under WOT load it shifted a little. As to the sudden CHT drop,
I'm thinking WOT also blew some dirt out of the carb and made it run
rich - thus cool. Though I did go through the carb before I installed
it. Would explain the rough running afterwards as well.

So who would of thought? All because of spark plugs. So I thought I
should post this experience to the list in case anyone else comes
across a similar problem. By all rights, I would have thought my plugs
were good, so it is fortunate that I stumbled upon the article and
found the solution. I guess I was headed for new plugs anyway because
of what I found on switching the plug, and because of changing wires
not improving things.

Hope this helps someone!

John
