Date: Sat, 2 Sep 2006 15:31:29 -0700 (PDT)
From: s r <bugs1973(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>, wetwesties <wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Subject: 78 Westy won't stay running

Hello list's, I have been fighting this for 2 days. I
now need help. This is a 78 Westy, 2000cc FI. It was
running fine with no problems other than a weak
pressure plate.

     On Wed. I degreased and hosed down the motor.
Thurs. I pulled the motor and replaced the
clutch(pressure plate, clutch disc, and throwout
bearing). That is all I did to the motor. Then I put
the motor back in. I hooked up all the wiring and
vacuum lines. I fixed a bad wire connection on the
starter. I went to start the bus and it would start
but as soon as the dash lights went out the motor
died, I tried again and the motor would start for a
second then die. It was getting late so on Fri.
morning I checked everything out to make sure I hooked
everything up right. Everything appears to be hooked
up correct. I tried to start it and it would run for a
second and then die. 

     I have a 79 bus, so I pulled the head temp
sensor, and replaced it with the one on the 78 westy,
still wont run, I changed the double relays between
the two bus's the 78 westy won't run, the 79 bus does.
I exchange the afm, and the ecu's, the 78 westy still
wont run, but the 79 bus does. I changed the points
and condensor, nothing. I put on my spare coil,
nothing. Spark plugs looks good. Fuel pump comes on
when I move the flap inside the afm. I am getting
spark and fuel, because it will start for a second.

     While poking around in the engine compartment I
noticed the wire going to the oil pressure sensor, is
barely hanging on(even though the dash light still
worked) I replaced the wire connector on the sensor.
Now when I turn the key to the on position now the oil
light does not come on. 

     The bus still will only start for a second. I
have no more ideas to try. I have to get my westy
running. Please help.

Thanks, 
Shawn Reed
Poc. Id
78 Westy
79 Bus

Shawn Reed
  Pocatello, Id
   
   http://www.worldisround.com/articles/280838/index.html?e
