From: "Jeff Stewart" <fonman4277(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 5 Oct 2002 22:54:06 -0400
Subject: The Saga of the Free Westy

Hey Folks,
     Last week quite a stir was caused here in N. Virginia with an ad in a
local paper, Leesburg Today. A free 1970 Westy was being offered. Well, the
phone number printed in the ad was disconnected, and I kinda gave up on it.
Well, my wife kept digging, and finally solved the mystery of the phone number
(it turns out 2 digits were reversed). I called the number and got an
answering machine, left a message, and the guy called me later that evening.
It was abandoned by a former tenant in his house, who has since moved out of
state. He has contacted the owner several times, but he won't come and get it.
Local police declared it abandoned and told the guy he was free to with it
what ever he wanted. Now it's mine. I looked at last Sunday, and it wasn't a
pretty sight. The sliding door was off the track and hanging from the rain
gutter,plus open about 4", for how long I have no idea. The left side of the
rear support for the engine was unbolted, and the engine was hanging down,
touching the ground. It is in filthy condition. I agreed to take it, figuring
I'd part it out. However, today I went and pulled the engine and trans-damn! I
love that removable panel on older bays! Once I got the engine pulled, I made
a grim discovery- big hole in the case right above #3. I am going back
tomorrow to reinflate the front tires and get it ready for a tow truck to pick
it up. After giving it a thorough going over today, it may be worth saving,
and not parting out. The front beam is good. The interior is good, although
very dirty. Rust around the lower body, seen worse though. Upper body, doors,
glass, all very good. After loading the engine in my truck and packing up, I
was about to leave for the day when I stopped and looked back at the bus, the
sliding door still hanging open. I got my tools back out and rehung the door,
greasing the track. I was able to shut the door, the first time it had been
closed for God knows how long. Packed my tools up again, got in my truck, and
paused again before leaving- I swear it was smiling! Next week it comes to my
place, and I am going to contact the "owner", and hope he'll give up the
title.
Jeff Stewart
1977 Westfalia
1974 S. Beetle Conv.
http://www.geocities.com/busnut4277
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/scampowners
"If it doesn't get dirt, grease, or blood under your nails, it's not a hobby"
