From: "Jeff Stewart" <fonman4277(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 6 Oct 2002 21:42:26 -0400
Subject: Free Bus Not a '70, But a '68? Good Bus Karma!

Hey Folks,
     Went back today to work on the free Westy. The mission today was to
inflate the front tires, not easy since the bead was broken off the rims. I
had tried yesterday to remove the lug bolts-bent a lug wrench using a 2'
breaker bar, and stopped just short of breaking my 1/2 inch drive. So, today I
pulled the wheels, drums and all, and set out looking for a gas station/tire
shop open on Sundays. After an hours search, I ended up at the Merchants in
Leesburg Va. A guy there worked about an hour trying to break the bolts free
from the drums. He wailed with the air wrench, sprayed Liquid Wrench on them,
hit them again repeatedly with the air wrench-no go. Then he went in the back
and came out with a huge sledge hammer "When all else fails, get out the BFH"
he said. He gave each one a good whack, and they finally broke free. OK, so
now I have tires with air, and the drums are separated from the rims, and I've
been there an hour, plus or minus a few minutes. I load the stuff in my truck,
and go back in the office expecting to pay $50.00-$60.00, easy. Manager looks
at me and says "I can't charge you for that"!!! I couldn't believe it! I
offered again to pay, but he said no! I did give the guy that did the work a
good tip.Got back to the bus and put the drums and wheels back on. It is now
ready for the tow truck. I took it for granted it was a '70, since that's what
the ad said but before left, I checked the plate behind the passengers seat,
and the VIN (if I'm looking at he right number) begins with "238", indicating
a '68? I also got the engine stripped down to the case, big hole left front,
just over #3. I can look down and see the rod. Interesting thing is, the heads
appear to be new. Anyway, whatever happened in there wasn't good. I'll have
some pics up this week.
Jeff Stewart
1977 Westfalia
1974 S. Beetle Conv.
1970 "Free" Westy
http://www.geocities.com/busnut4277
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/scampowners
"If it doesn't get dirt, grease, or blood under your nails, it's not a hobby"
