Date: Sun, 6 Oct 2002 22:26:23 -0400 (EDT)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: WTB: '73 Westfalia body shell

Volks,

Well, the '73 moved today.  Under its own power! in all four gears and
reverse! (didn't go very far in 4th, maybe a foot :-)  I will license it
and get it inspected over the next day or two, then I need to make some
hard decisions.

The good:

The good news on it is that this bus is a very complete '73 westy.  All
the mechanicals are in great shape!  Got a 2L engine and FI in it, got a
new front axle beam on it, greeat brakes, good steering box, the interior
is complete, if a bit shabby, canvas in the pop-top is fine, but
blue-striped sunbrella, etc. etc.

The bad:

The bad side is that it has a bad case of the east-coast/rust belt blues.
the rockers are shot on both sides, when you jack one wheel, the others
don't even begin to rise, the nose was re-skinned, but the passenger's
door post is 3/4" out of line, etc. etc.

The solution:

What I feel I have is the ideal parts donor for a "bus transplant"  What I
am looking for is one of those perfect west coast bodies... you know, rust
free, straight, etc. etc. but parted out.  That is to say, some dune buggy
got the trans after the engine blew up, and the interior got sold off, and
the canvas is hangin in tatters from sun damage, etc. etc.  etc.  I don't
even care if the front axle is gone... I have a new one! :-) All I need is
good sheet metal and a straight frame!  Paint would be nice, but is not
necessary.  Bondo is RIGHT OUT! What I would do is take the two, put every
good part off the '73 onto the good body and wind up with a decent,
rust-free bus..

The request:

I am on the prowl, and I am asking y'all to be on the prowl too.
Obviously, it would be loverly if this bus were in the DC area, but face
it, rust free bodies are *not* a dime a dozen here :-)  No one is throwing
away good shells that I have seen, more like they are sweeping up the rust
particles and emptying them into the ash-bin.  I figure this is a request
to the guys at busted bus, to Ronnie, and to those of you with "projects"
that you are under pressure about :-)  With coast-to-coast shipping
running $800-1000 for this sort of thing, I also can't afford a lot for
the shell, but will certainly talk to anyone.

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail
