Date: Mon, 07 Oct 2002 00:13:29 -0400
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <Doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com>
Subject: Exhaust header Put-Put-Put-Put

This is about an exhaust header leak in a 1976 type 4 two liter engine with 
oval exhaust ports and new copper exhaust header gaskets in place. It is a 
freshly overhauled engine.  I have the passenger side header off for 
inspection, due to massive exhaust leak around each copper seal, right at 
the cylinder head.  I hope you read this whole thing, because I need some 
criticism about some of my potential solutions.

Let me describe what I see.  At each port the 'stud' farthest from the 
centerline is just a bolt with washers. The original studs have been 
removed and I can see what looks like a metal shaving in one of the stud 
holes, that might be stud-saver. Who ever put it back together couldn't get 
these outer flange surfaces to seat properly against the copper gasket. 
Only half of the flange was properly seated. That left about a one 
millimeter gap on the other half of the oval. And I'm guessing at the one 
millimeter dimension. It could have been two or three millimeters.

OK, I'm going to have the same problem when I try to put the header back in 
place, unless I shave down the side of the header flange that is already 
seating solidly.  If I could do that JUST ENOUGH (!) the other half of the 
oval would seat correctly and the one good stud would hold everything in 
place, while the iffy stud did whatever it could do to help.

I guess it would help to error on the side of getting first contact on the 
side that isn't going to be held down well by a nut on a stud.

Yes, I think that is a reasonable idea. Give me some feedback and point out 
what I'm missing in all this.

It will take lots of judgement about how much to shave off.  I would like 
some flowable material in that gap when I do crank everything down.  So, 
that is the next question............

Any other ideas about how to insure that seal (with two iffy studs?)

I'm thinking I need a flowable material in that space, that will solidify 
after I tighten down the nuts on the two good studs and with the best hold 
out of the two iffy studs. The material must withstand years of 
heating/cooling cycles that range as high as 12 hundred degrees and as low 
as 20 below zero. And the stuff must stay in there against exhaust 
pressure. Also, it must be soft enough to compress and fill the gaps when 
the nuts are tightened down.

Epoxy that I am familiar with can take temps around 400 degrees F. That 
isn't going to even come close to the 1,200 degrees upper limit.

Exhaust system patch material containing silicates is the only other 
flowable material I can think of. But it will surely crack and crumble 
eventually, under the heat cycling and vibration and pressure of the 
exhaust gases.

I wonder If I could tap some kind of malleable metal wire up into the seal 
area, after I seat the header as well as possible and tighten the nuts? 
(Like pounding caulking fiber into the seams of a planked sailing vessel.) 
I wonder if silver wire could be taped into that space. Or maybe copper 
wire (like the copper gasket.)

Quantum leap......I wonder if there is a ceramic material that could be 
taped into that space and allowed/caused to solidify?  Powder coating 
technology may have something I could adapt. Anybody already familiar with 
powder coating materials?  Could I clean up/burnish the metal surfaces that 
constitute the header seal, and somehow load the space with powder coating 
material and cause it to flow and bond? Maybe with a propane torch? 
Somebody out there knows all about this. I hope you have read this far.

Any other ideas?  Come on, group. Brainstorm this one. I can't ever see 
getting those outer studs to do the job they were designed to do, and my 
attempts to file the flanges for a perfect fit are certain to be somewhat 
off the mark. Let's invent a new and better seal.

Doyt Echelberger
76 Westy in Ohio USA, with a loud voice.....put, put, put, put, put, put, 
put, put, put......
