From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Mon, 28 Oct 2002 10:19:18 -0600 (CST)
To: glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com (George Lyle)
Cc: chook(-at-)nisa.net (Courtney Hook), type2(-at-)type2.com (type2)
Subject: Re: [T2] Powder coating - more

George,

Every vehicle with base clear?

Nay Nay----

What you probably wanted to say is every mid 80's GM vehicle's clear
coat failed.

All of my current vehicle's have a base clear coat finish and are in
tact---direct from the factory and not one of them is newer than 95 and
all look excellent.

The benefit of the clear is to keep the UV off the pigment of the paint,
so it doesn't fade or chalk out as quick.

The only reason the clear coat will roll off is the guy who was applying
the finish let the basecoat dry too long and the clear had nothing to
melt into.

What wavelengths??

Now were talking about Flash Gordan stuff---forget this science fiction
wavelengths.

The only thing that will effect any finish is UV,  bird droppings,
rocks being thrown
off a truck at the nose of your vehicle, the salt air in Florida, owner
neglect, poor surface preparation prior to painting, and poor or
incorrect application of the material.

There is straight color out there that will last---trouble is nobody
wants to pay the price for it--
For instance--Imron---the stuff the commercial jets are painted with.

I just painted a tandem axle Mack dump truck for a guy in PPG Concept
urethane GM grenadier red.

The cost of the paint alone ( no primer's, sealer's,  sand paper,
masking tape, paper,) was $2200.00, for three gallons of paint hardener,
and reducer.

He usually gets 7 years out of the paint in adverse construction
conditions.

If you want the paint to last--you pay the piper--that's it.

Wavelengths-- I didn't know Marconi painted anything--now  have heard it
all---:>)

Later,

Earl Scheib


 
E-mail message   
 
I'm not a paint expert, but every base/clearcoat finish I have had for a
long term has ended up peeling off the clearcoat. The way it was
explained to me was that, without pigment to block UV, the clearcoat was
vulnerable to those wavelengths and deteriorated. 
These days it is virtually impossible to buy a new car without a
clearcoat finish. The dealers say that it is because "the customers love
the deep rich finish". I say it is because "the manufacturers want the
cars to look shabby in five years' time so people will buy new ones." 
The white paint on top of my '71 is still in good shape, despite being
outside for most of its life. Too bad they can't make paint like that
any more. 
George
