Date: Mon, 28 Oct 2002 13:37:35 -0800
To: "Rick Bailey" <apewithangelglands(-at-)hotmail.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Swapping engines

At 12:03 PM 10/28/2002, you wrote:
>  General engine swapping tips would also be appreciated, as it's going to 
> be my first time doing it. (I will have my father's help, and he's done 
> it in buses and beetles, so I won't be going it alone.)


Generally speaking on motor swapping. Mark the crankshaft centerline of the 
original motor and make sure the new engine crankshaft coincides. Set the 
new engine in and jacked/blocked in this correct orientation. Use cardboard 
to cut and fit a template for the motor mounts. Study the Vanagon diesel 
mounts and consider using those with mods for the early bay chassis. 
Otherwise, fabrication and fitting and welding up the engine mounts is 
next. Coupla hours of a skilled metal plate fitter/welder will do it far 
better than buying a welder and a few hours of practice to do a medium poor 
job. But the do it your selfer can get good results if they will add the 
time and tenacity needed to mock up a motor mount support in cardboard, 
then either hire a welder to replicate it in steel or get a power hacksaw 
or plasma cutter and welder and make it.

Specifically to T-2 diesel swap, if your talking a 4cyl VW/Audi diesel, you 
will need from Vanagon Diesel the oil pan & oil pickup, and the throttle 
arm on the injection pump, or bend yours accordingly. Then there is the 
intake manifold and air filter to fit the required angled position. Seems 
the same with the exhaust to me. Modify the Vanagon Diesel parts for the 
Bay engine bay. You will need a tank return for the fuel. Modify your tank 
with a through fitting or use T-2 Gas FI tank which has the a return 
fitting that will work for the diesel set up.

There will be no way of knowing how the tranny gearing feels under a very 
different torque curve with the diesel till you drive it, but expect some 
labored responce. Darrell at AA Transaxel could help with setting up some 
diesel gear ratios that will improve the diesels efficiency and 
drivability. Perhaps just a ring/pinion change??

Challenges become, engine mounts, special parts to fit angled setup, fuel 
tank. If you could find a junker Vanagon Diesel, you could take all the 
unique diesel parts parts, then give it to one of the Vanagon list people 
and be time/money ahead on trying to find all the needed parts hap hazzard.

2 sources I would check for Vanagon Diesel engine parts. Avverr's in 
Longview and Campbell-Nelson used parts dept, Lynwood, all situate in the 
State of Washington.

Now then, once you get this far, you will be able to drive it not more than 
3 or so miles at a time unless you also add a radiator and pipes and tank 
for cooling the diesel. That will take some custom fabrication skill not 
found outside the title of "Master Metalsmythe".

Much cheaper to buy and rebuild a stock Vanagon Diesel than swapping into a 
T-2. It would also be much cheaper to just fix the T-2 stock, even if 
someone gave you the diesel motor from an Audi sedan.
