Date: Tue, 23 Sep 2003 17:39:40 -0400
From: scott lyons <slyons(-at-)netrover.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] vac can checking (plus notes on dizzy's in general)

on 9/23/03 16:50, kagelp(-at-)songs.sce.com related:

> exactly how do i check the vac can on my dizzy.  i figure i get the mitey
> vac out and look inside but what should be moving?
> 
> Paul A. Kagel

paul,

you can first just test to make sure it hold vacuum by applying vacuum and
seeing if it holds, or leaks in.

there is a really good way to verify and test to specs if you have the
mityvac. i think that unit has a gauge on it, yes?

have the motor running and idling nicely, warmed up. connect a timing light.
attach the vacuum pump to the distributor canister and apply vacuum. record
the amount of advance at various vacuum levels. the specs for what the
results SHOULD be are in the bentley - check those and see of your unit
behaves to specs.

also, without the vacuum pump you can test the canister for specs based on
rpm - some of these values are in the bentley. just attach a tach, the
timing light and rev the motor to the rpm's listed and see if the advance
matches up. first do the test with the vacuum line off and plugged to see
how much mechanical advance you have. then attach the vacuum hose and re-do
the tests and record - you will now see how much total advance you have.

the important things to look for are too little vacuum advance, which will
rob performance, or too much total advance at about 3400 rpm or higher,
which can cause overheating. maximum safe total advance figures vary with
different engine setups, but anything at or under 38 degrees is safe for a
type IV motor. if you have a distributor that is giving you less than 30
degrees total advance at 3400 rpm, or more than 44 degrees total at 3400,
you have issues. 

another thing to look for is when the vacuum advance happens in the rpm
range. it is designed to start at just above idle rpm, like 1000 rpm or so.
the full vac advance comes in at varying rpms, and this is why there are so
many vac canisters, the vw engineers used the canister to tune the
performance of the engine to a fairly specific degree.

you can find replacement canister that will work, even if it not the
"correct" one for your application. as long as the total advance is within
limits and the motor has good drive-ability, the canister is fine to use.

personally, i don't use any retard ever, but i am not forced to do so by
emissions rules. on the dual vacuum canisters you can just leave the retard
port open. retarded spark is a performance inhibitor, for sure, and also
make your motor run hotter. the retard only happens at idle, by the way, so
it doesn't much affect running performance, just off-idle acceleration.

i have a mallory dual-advance (mechanical and vacuum) distributor on my '79
bus, and the beauty of the mallory is that you can tune it to exact factory
specs. you can control the amount of vac advance, the amount of mechanical
advance and the rate at which mechanical advance comes on. plus spare parts
are readily available, as mallory makes several hundred replacement dizzies
which all use the same parts. for my money, the mallory unilite is the only
replacement distributor one should consider.

scott lyons
