Date: Tue, 23 Sep 2003 20:15:56 -0700
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
To: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] My continuing vacuum saga

On Saturday, September 13, 2003, at 08:30  PM, Jason Thorpe wrote:

...and the saga continues.

> While it is clearly running better with the new vacuum hoses (in the 
> correct configuration!), it's still idling a bit rougher than I think 
> it should.  I'm also seeing a "hesitation" when revving at a 
> standstill... I can bring it up to about 1500RPM (that's just a by-ear 
> guess) okay, but if I hold it there, it begins to labor a bit, and 
> hesitate.  I experienced this problem before I replaced the hoses; 
> moving the Bus back to the curb in front of my house last week, I 
> nearly stalled in the middle of an intersection just pulling away from 
> the stop sign.

Dwell meter indicates about 48-50, backed off air bypass screw to get 
the idle up to between 800-850 (it was at about 750 before I did this), 
and ignition timed to 5 ATDC (amazingly, it was almost right on after 
reinstalling the distributor before I adjusted it... I guess I did a 
good job of remembering its position :-)

It is idling better now.  However, I'm still hearing a "sssss" and the 
hesitation is still there... depress gas pedal, engine revs up, and 
then begins to run rough and lose RPMs.

Hooked up vacuum gauge to intake air vacuum, indicates 13''.  I guess 
my previously "just acceptable" 15'' reading was due to the low idle 
speed.

So now I'm back to hunting vacuum leaks, I guess.  All of the small 
hoses are new (except for throttle body hose, but that hose looked 
quite new already), so I guess I'm down to:

	- Decel valve vacuum hoses
	- Brake booster vacuum hose
	- Boot between AFM and throttle body

Anywhere else I should look?

On top of it all, my oil leak is getting worse, to the point where I'm 
afraid the Bus won't make it to Berkeley even if I *do* get it running 
well again.  I also noticed that once the bus warmed up, I started 
getting some white puffs out of the tailpipe.  With the way my luck has 
been going, I probably have a bad cylinder :-/

...and to add insult to injury, my neighborhood, being adjacent to 
Golden Gate Park, sees a constant barrage of well-running Busses and 
Beetles drive by.

Oh well, I guess it ain't all bad... Giants are playing October 
baseball, and my favorite watering hole still makes a great reuben 
sandwich.

Anyway, my previous offer still stands... if any intrepid Type 4 
hackers in the San Francisco Bay Area feel like spending a day helping 
a Type 4 newcomer, the beer and bbq are on me.

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
