Date: Tue, 23 Sep 2003 23:53:37 -0400
From: Ben <huotx(-at-)videotron.ca>
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Am stuck in a wheel chair (not a funny post and its not

Hey guys,

It as no VW Bus content, it as "driver awareness" content. 2 hour before 
that event i was wondering about taking the VW Bus or the bike, i wonder 
if i had choosen the VW Bus...

Before you read my long post I invite you to look at one picture:
http://www.desert2002.com/crash_moto/moto_crash3.jpg

I got your attention now!

Sad event for me last Friday, it's the nightmare of any motorcyclist. A 
stupid accident 2 miles from my home, under rainy condition, no alcohol 
involves, 25mph and vlannnn....
A direct hit to the side of a car that was stuck transversally!! In 
the middle of a 3 lane boulevard, he was baking out of is driveway, 
instead of baking up in a "turn" like any other normal person would do, 
he went back straight crossing the 3 lanes, he stalled the car, restart, 
saw me coming, he tried to go out of my way forward but... went backward 
at the last instant, he taught he was in first gear...he was in 
reverse??? full blast, 25 feet from me as I was going slowly to pass him 
in the left lane.... I had no escape clause; I only could brace myself 
for impact.

The impact was hard, even at only 20mph, I was scared and taught I would 
die for a second... I did cover my head, which is all I was thinking!!! 
I hit the car on my left side, my head and shoulder hit at the same 
time... no hard shock at the neck, but my lower body hit the lower part 
of the car and twisted on impact leaving me without strength and feeling 
on my left leg, I couldn't move and I was soaked in fuel (my fuel tank 
exploded on impact). To get things worse, the guys move his car forward 
just after the impact???? I just had time to remove my arm from under 
the car, I was in shock and a bit dizzy/dazed. I was mad like hell.

I always taught I was invincible, I've been driving motorcycle for 20 
years, I guess I was lucky... So now am stuck in a wheel chair and stuck 
in my room for at least 4 weeks (and I know am lucky), I won't be able 
to walk on my leg before 2-3 months. I have a broken hip (I hope you 
never get that, it hurt like hell!!!), a fissured knee and a few broken 
tows. Now, what use to be a simple and normal task around the house is a 
new adventure (like getting out of my bed to my wheel chair, 5 minutes)

This is an "inevitable type" of accident, the one you couldn't do much 
about it or won't have remorse because you did all you can when it 
happen. It's a motorcyclist ultimate nightmare, with the "Going trough 
Red light" one.

Am not here to complain, but only to create more awareness amongst drivers.
PLEASE, look carefully when backing up / reverse, be very careful to 
check/look for dead angles when changing lane, be vigilant, and be 
courteous when driving. Especially around motorcycle, we are maybe 
annoying and crazy around you sometime but that is NOT a reason for 
killing us!

Maybe I should have stop all the way and wait that this dumb butt makes 
his mind, I was tired and I couldn't wait to get home, I made a very 
small mistake not fully stopping and I paid the price.

I was scared of dying Friday... because of his ignorance, inaptitude, 
his inattention and his lack of experience. We all have moments of 
inattention when driving, so am posting here so maybe we will have less 
of those moments.

More picture of the sad event:
http://www.desert2002.com/moto.htm

Be careful out there.
Cheers, Ben
http://www3.sympatico.ca/huotx/engine1.htm
ps.: the good news for you guys it that I will have a lot of time to 
update my website, a lot of type4 stuff to come.
