Date: Wed, 24 Sep 2003 19:44:26 -0700
From: High-Tech Red Neck <hitkrdnk(-at-)gte.net>
To: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Electronic ignition - opinions sought

Jason,

I recently (4k miles ago) replaced my points with a Pertronix Ignitor I 
(original version).  I spent a lot of time researching what to put in.  
BTW, I'm running a 1600 dual port with 34 Pic 3 stock carb and a SVDA 
distributor from Aircooled.net.

I wanted to put a Pertronix Ignitor II in but after finally talking to 
the people at the factory (no one else could answer) I found out that 
you can only use the Ignitor II in a 009 dizzy.  None of the other stock 
style, meaning Single vacuum or Double Vacuum, could use anything but 
the Ignitor I because size considerations.  The extra size of the 
Ignitor II would just not fit in a stock dizzy.  In fact the factor 
people said that they did not believe that they would ever be able to 
get the package size small enough.

The only thing that you are losing is the automatically adjusted dwell.  
I imagine that that would have some benefit, but don't know if you would 
gain that much.  Certainly not as much as you would loose by using a 009 
so you can fit an Ignitor II in there.

As to Compufire over Pertronix... I don't have any real solid reason why 
I don't go with a Compufire other than price and more people I know have 
the Pertronix than Compufire and fewer knew anything about the 
Compufire.  They both have about and even percentage of failures.

That's my store and I'm sticking to it.

Take care,
Bob Bueling
Port Hueneme, CA

'73 Panel with Type 1 1600dp
'70 Baja bug in the making
'69 Cal looker project bug waiting it's turn



Jason Thorpe wrote:

> So I thought I would seek opinions here about the virtues of the 
> various competing products out there (I already know the virtues of 
> electronic ignition in general :-)
>
> The one I've heard mentioned the most is the Pertronix Ignitor.  
> Pertronix also has an Ignitor II, but it seems that it is not listed 
> as available for VWs in their compatibility chart.  Aircooled.net also 
> carries one called Compufire.
