Date: Thu, 25 Sep 2003 07:24:25 -0500
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: Brandt Hart <brandthart(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Window Sealant Questions

On Thu, Sep 25, 2003 at 02:54:34AM +0000, Brandt Hart wrote:
> I'm getting ready to put all the windows back in the bus and I'm trying to 
> decide what, if anything, to seal things up with.
> 
> The guy that I just bought my windsheild from said to use silicone spray. 
> And that "as the silicone dries it forms a bond between the body and the 
> seal."  Hmmm, seems fishy.

either this person has not done it before, or didn't quite explain it
correctly. The silicone (or dish soap, or whatever) is a lubricant to
help get the window seated. in a nutshell. the window seal goes on the
window glass. then something (such as a small nylon cord, or someone
suggested weed-eater cord) is put in the channel on the seal that the
body of the bus actually goes into. The glass and seal are put up the
the opening and by pulling on the cord from the inside it will cause
the inner lip of the seal to pull over the body tab and suddenly you
have an installed window. pretty neat. The spray is for lubricant so
that the cord will actually just pull the seal lip out and not
actually tear it.

> Then I went to by my local body shop supply house and found two different 
> kinds of 3M products that seemed appropriate. One is called "Window Weld 
> Sealer" - 08606.  The other ones are urethane based one is called "Fast 
> Cure Urethane" and the other is called "Super Fast Urethane" or something 
> catchy. Then I asked them what to use and they made a phone call, went to 
> the back, and came up with a tube of silicone (the kind that would fit in a 
> caulking gun, not the spray as recommended by the windsheild guy).

Supposedly with a good quality seal and the body surfaces in tip-top
shape you actually shouldn't need any sealant. Your call. I would just
seat the windows as well as you could and see if it leaks first. 

-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
1979 Sportsmofakia 2000cc                        www.fasterlaster.com
1966 Westfalia SO-42 "Butch"
