From: "Gensler, Mike" <Mike.Gensler(-at-)CONCERT.COM>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 25 Sep 2003 11:40:22 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: latex gloves

>Did I miss the orginal post, what are doing with the latex gloves, 
>I'm confused.

I missed the original post on this too.  But for those of you who haven't
ventured into the world of latex gloves for car work, here's what I have to
say about it.

The first thing I do when I go to the garage to do car work is pull on a
pair of latex gloves.  I get mine from SAMS Club in a double-box that lasts
me a couple of years.  They're great for keeping your hands clean - no
grease under your finger nails, no oil ingrained in your hands, even gives
minimal protection from cold and rain if you're working out doors.  I even
keep a few pairs in my bus so if I have trouble on the road I have a chance
of doing the fix, pulling off the gloves afterward, and continuing on my way
without filthy oily hands rubbing all over my clothes and my bus.  And
besides, my 7-year old nephew thinks I look like I know what I'm doing when
I'm walking around with doctor's exam gloves on my hands :)

However,a few cautions should be noted.  Various chemicals like carb cleaner
and brake cleaner dissolve the gloves.  The kind I use have a powder coating
to make them easy to put on, but the powder is also apparently tasty to fire
ants so be carefull where you store them (nothing like putting on a glove
and having 10 fire ants inside of it).  Also don't store them in direct
sunlights because they latex starts to break down and they fall apart.  The
gloves will give you minimal protection from hot things (like warm oil), but
if it's too hot, the gloves will melt and burn the crap out of you before
you can get them off.  And NEVER NEVER NEVER wear them while using a power
drill or grinder!!!  Why?  Because if you touch the rotating part (the
chuck?), it'll grab hold of the glove and yank your hand right into the bit
or disc before you know what's happening.  

Mike g.
Colorado Springs, CO
73 Westy
