From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'tuinstrad(-at-)comcast.net'" <tuinstrad(-at-)comcast.net>,
Cc: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 25 Sep 2003 11:18:50 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] clutch cable replacement?

Gruntings and Salivations, All!

Everything what Richard said...

Plus don't forget to take a peek at the actuating arm lever thingie that the
clevis pin whats-it fits into.  It's very likely to have had the clevis pin
hole all wallered out from years of non-greaseful bliss.  See the good folk
at Bushyphenboysdotcom for a suitable replacement and then get the OE one
welded up and redrilled for the next time you need one...  The B-b.com
replacement is nice, but it's stamped out of flat stock and missing the
little cranked offsets that make reinstalling the assembly so much easier.
YMMV.

Also check the condition of the stamped metal doohickey on the transmission
that the Bowden tube fits into, one time I was looking up there on the '72
and I realized the doohickey was cracked - nothing fatal, but nothing a
quick zzzzzzzzaaaaaaaap! with the migger wouldn't/couldn't cure.

When buying your replacement cable, be "double-extra-secret-probation" sure
that one that is sold is the same "original" length as the one that has been
extracted.  If it's gone bye-bye that may be tough, but my friendly Sikhs at
my VW FLAPS once sold me a correctly marked bag that contained an
incorrectly lengthed cable - "DOH!".  I had to ride my bicycle 5 miles
uphill both ways in a blizzard (twice) to get the right cable, the second
time carrying the old "2-strands-left" cable to verify the length.  And all
I had for sustenance was a handful of gravel and cup of cold poison ;-)
Also be sure to get extra clevis pin(s), AND extra wing nut(s) too.  Check
them at the counter to make sure they fit the cable.  It does you not one
whit of good to have remembered to get the extra goodies for when the cable
goes "Sproing!" and the clevis/wing nut is now orbiting Uranus, and THEN you
discover that either/or does not fit or is mis-threaded.  Don't AMHIK.

That is all.

Jim Hayden
www.savethebays.org
