Date: Wed, 20 Mar 2002 16:53:34 -0500
From: Adam Narraway <Adam(-at-)harbourfront.on.ca>
To: <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Subject: Re: Message to VWoA & MVVC

Hi Guys,
Adam from digest here.
Welcome to corporate branding. While agree that it sux, look at it from the
other side. VWoA has an image, a fragile image at that, to protect. Part of
that is knowing where your name is at all times. Think of these
possiblities:
1) DudesBusShop, you walk into "dudes" (not the shops's real name, but this
is a true story) the mechanics are wearing VW overalls, there's a big "VW"
on the back wall, VW is even on the business cards. This makes you feel a
bit more comfortable at "dudes" because you own a VW, and you would only
trust your VW to someone who knows them. Comfortable is also important
because you are about to get so royally screwed by dude that you will
require a chair to sit in when you get your bill. This little experience, in
addition to other similar experiences is enough to drive you selling your
beloved VW and buying a Chevy. You also call VW to bitch about this shop,
only to find out that "That isn't a VW shop, we have no control over their
service". I nearly bought a 73 from the person in the above story. She will
never buy a VW again, thanks to the few who wreck things for the many.

2) Ernst loves VW's, so much so he decides to put on "The Ernst VW
Bug-OH-Rama", in Ohio. The show goes quite well all in all except the old
couple who mistakenly got into a conversation with Ernst, only to find out
that some of his views are a little too in line with some nasty views
expressed by a now deceased German government official who lived around
thetime of the second world war. "Hi&*#r had many great ideas, this is just
one!!" (you get the point) Anyway, Ernst loves VW's, AND he loves this
particular famous government figure. You guy's aren't blind, you can see
where this can lead. Even a co-worker's initial response to my owning VW's
was one of disgust. Once again, I'm sure 99% of the people who own, drive,
fix, show, pamper VW's are decent folks, who love quirky cars, and aren't
interested in this not so stellar past, but that 1% can wreck it for
everyone. 

Part of owning a trademark, brand, whatever, is protecting that brand. We
used to have a food service department here at work. Our policy was to never
let outside groups bring in outside food for sale, or to give away. Many
thought this was for monetary reasons, but truthfully, its because we'd been
bitten in the ass too many times by people who had gotten sick off this
food, that we didn't make. While in the perfect world it makes sense for
VWoA to not be so anal about their branding, in this imperfect world of
lawsuits, greed, and blame, Corporations must be carefull and responsible
for their identities. By not being so anal, they are in fact being
irresponsible, the consequences of which can be very serious.

By the way, I am only playing devils advocate here. I am actually a believer
in the "de-branding" of north america. But the first step in fighting your
enemy is understanding that enemy.

Adam
 

