Date: Wed, 20 Mar 2002 18:37:47 -0500
From: Jim Mowreader <xpr3(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: Message to VWoA & MVVC

Nemo, the Bus Captain sends:

> It's easy.  They CAN trademark anything they want... beetle, bug, microbus,
> bus, tree, mickey mouse, batman, water, air, VW, ABC, CBS, XYZ or anything
> they want.  The question of whether or not they can defend that trademark is
> one for litigation.  Who is going to foot the bill to defend "bus"?

Not quite. There are some rules.

* They can't mark something with someone else's mark. The local hospital got
in trouble with this a few months ago--actually, it was close to a year.
They named their heart-healthy restaurant food program Operation Heart
Smart. It took less time for the cease-and-desist letter from the national
Operation Heart Smart office to arrive than it did for me to print the
brochures.

* They can't use an "obvious" mark. If you're selling cold water and you
call it "cold water" you can't trademark that. If you call it "Joe's
FrigidAqua" you will be fine.

* They have to be consistent. If you call your cold water "FrigidAqua" this
week and "Kaltwasser" next week and "Purequench" the week after that--and
it's still cold water--they can't expect to get the PTO to buy off on this.
(It is so hard to change the name of something you almost have to sell the
product to another company, who renames it and sells it back to you, or
discontinue it and reintroduce it, to get the name change to pass muster at
the PTO. Example: Crave cat food. Great product. Sells like wildfire. Cats
love it. The manufacturer didn't, mainly because it didn't fit in with the
"one-brand" strategy so loved by consumer products companies. They wanted to
change the name to Whiskas so all the cat foods they made would fall under
the same brand. They literally had to pull the food off the market for a
couple of years before they could reintroduce it as Whiskas.)
-- 

--jmowreader
xpr3(-at-)earthlink.net

Congratulations to Sterling Marlin for winning the Carolina Dodge Dealers
400!

