Date: Sat, 12 Oct 2002 17:27:17 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: Andre Hryn <hryn(-at-)earthlink.net>
Subject: Re: [VB] Upgrading to good heating [long!]

Andre and list...

Here's the solution I came up with to deliver LOTS of hot air to my bus
cab without having to use any extra or exotic equipment:

Basically what I did is replace the existing mess with a continuous
hose, and insulated it along its entire length with closed-cell foam
sleeving, POR'ed for extra durability. Read the results at the end.
Here's the details:

During the restoration, back in 94, I cut out the entire heating ductwork
from the bus, as it was all rusting and the stuff that passed as
insulation was half-gone. I cut out all the metal tubing and ductwork from
the FRONT of the rear cross beam where the "Y" is (on the rear of the
beam), all the way to the point just before where the ducting goes up thru
the front cab floor, where it's still horizontal, leaving about 3 inches
under the floor.

I found the perfect hose as well as matching tight-fitting insulating
sleeving for the hose, in the McMaster-Carr Supply catalog -

The hose:

High-Temperature Silicone-Coated Fiberglass Hose:
- Construction: Orange-red, 2-ply fiberglass fabric with silicone coating.
- Reinforcement: Spring-steel wire helix and a fiberglass cord bonded to
   cover.
- Temperature Range:  -75 to +500 F.

The size I chose fits perfectly into the cross beam holes, and mates up
almost without clearance with the remaining metal parts of the original
ductwork, giving me leakproof continuous airflow. The size and part
number is :

ID = 2 1/2", OD = 2.65", and the part number =  55125K78.

Cost per foot = $11.28 and you need to order in 5-ft. increments.  Ten
feet will just do the long run up front with inches to spare. Back when I
did this, you could order by the foot, and 12 feet gave me about 2.5 feet
spare for the connections to the heater-box silencers. You should order
15 feet if necessary. The stuff isn't cheap, but it is odor-free when hot
(which neoprene hosing is NOT - it outgasses for years! I know).

The Sleeving:

Unslit Pipe and Tube Insulation -

Closed-cell elastomer foam rubber Pipe, Tube, and Fitting Insulation:

ID = 2 7/8",  Length = 6 ft. (I bought two pcs)
Part number = 4463K144  $9.37 per length (6ft)

I sprayed the outsides of the insulation sleeves with POR15 to give added
protection, then starting from the rear crossbeam, I slipped the end of
the hose into the pipe in the beam, slipped on a length of insulation cut
to fit over the hose, then began slipping the hose through the front beam,
then over the front end, cutting pieces of insulation to fit, until I was
at the front end, where I cut the hose to fit, and fitted the last piece
of insulation. Some silicone sealer at each end seals the hose into the
metal pipes. There may be some long nylon ties holding the whole thing in
place here and there.

I did not insulate the short lengths coming from the heater-box silencers
to the metal duct primary points.

How does it work for all the expense?  At an outside temp of 38F, at 60
mph on a high-geared freeway flyer tranny, with a doghouse fan housing,
the entire dashboard is hot to the touch within 15 minutes, if the lever
is directing the hot air up. If it is coming from the lower vents, I have
to turn down the heat after 10 minutes. There's no odor, and the bus has
lots of heat. I haven't tried it in sub-zero temps yet, but it will
deliver all the hot air that the engine is producing up to the front.

The rear ductwork comes directly from the other heater-box silencer, up
into the bus interior. Together the bus receives tons o'heat. Before the
restoration work, the bus froze and had the usual non-heat.

cal


On Sat, 12 Oct 2002, Andre Hryn wrote:

> Question that I have concerns heating in my Bus. As some might already know
heat tube in the rear of my Bus was cut off so I'm thinking now about bringing
it back... does anyone know if I can upgrade
