Date: Sat, 12 Oct 2002 23:27:38 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com,  <cjay(-at-)well.com>
Subject: Re: tamper-proof screws for taillights, etc...

>From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
>Date: Sat, 12 Oct 2002 15:28:37 -0700 (PDT)
>
>Part Number  94062A116
>Drilled Spanner Driver For #8 Screw Sz, 3-1/4" Blade Lg, 8-1/2" O'all Lg

These are the kind that back out real nice by using needle-nose pliers
or snap-ring pliers stuck in the holes.  I've done it on a metal control
panel that was mounted with these screws.

Torx and hex drivers are reasonably cheap these days.  For the "tamperproof"
ones with the pin in the middle of the screw head, you either break out the
pin with a small chisel and a hammer, or try an assortment of flat-blade
drivers until you find one that fits well.  A set of varying widths of
flat-blade bits, or a bunch of 5/16" bits ground to various widths, will
get you into almost any "secure" fastener.   If the head is exposed enough,
a cut-off wheel in a battery-powered Dremel makes any screw take a
flat-blade bit.

For the later big-oval tail lights and (fried egg, (fish, frog) eye) front
turn signals, the lens screws extend all the way in through the body.  Put
a nut and lockwasher, or a nylock nut, or two nuts on the inside of the
screw and it is more difficult to remove from the outside.  I have even
heard of people zapping a MIG bead on the screw to keep it in.

I think you can use the locknut trick on the two screws that hold the
lens on to (wart, nipple, bullet) front turn signals as well, at least
from looking at the early Bentley.  I'm not sure it would work on the
lens screws on early tail lights because they don't appear to come all
the way in to the body.  You might be able to put locknuts on them with
the lamp holder out of the body and then reinstall the lamp holder, but
there may not be enough clearance for them.

"We live in the interface between radioactive molten rock and hard
 vacuum and we worry about safety." -- anonymous

Matt Roberds
