Date: Sun, 13 Oct 2002 01:08:16 -0500
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
From: Kabayo <cabayao(-at-)earthlink.net>
Subject: Back on list w/ a fine(?) vehicle!

Hi folks:

I just resubbed due to my latest purchase:

'65 single cab with a claimed 26,000 miles.  Claimed to have been restored
about ten years back.  Drives nicer than any bus I can remember.  90%
complete and correct.

A few fishy things:

Engine has correct carb, disty, exhaust, etc.  BUT has a universal case w/
no number, and a bug manifold w/ no governor.

Little play in steering, but what play there is 'drags'.  IOW, there is
resistance in the on-center free play, as if the steering box were adjusted
too tightly.

There is a wrinkle which I think may be incorrect in the sheet metal inside
the engine compartment, driver's side, just below the gas tank.  Is has a
bus rear bumper, which almost touches the corners of the body.  So, I think
it must have been rear-ended at some point.


THE GOOD:

Rockers were redone 90% well.  Welded in, but the seams are definitely not
'factory'.  Rockers look good from below/behind.

The whole bottom looks like a 2 or 3 year old bus did in this area
(Minnesota).  About 10% coverage of very mild surface rust, the rest primer
grey.  The heat pipe up the center has the original vinyl sleeve covering
it.

The cab has original paint, dash is shiney and uncut, floor is unpatched
and mostly covered in the original (pearl white) paint.

Brakes work very nicely, pedal high.  No pulling.  Hand brake works
properly, and releases.

Thansmission shifts pretty well.  Seems to shift out of some gears with a
bit of a jolt.  Downshifts well w/out grinding.

6v system works well. Starts easily.  All lights and signals work.  Wipers
work well and park properly.

Kick panels look great (might be repops).

Has new looking genuine cutout VW round ignition key!


THE BAD:

Velour upholstery.  Driver's seatback is about 1" or 2" taller than
passenger seat (anyone know why?  Maybe a bay bus seat?).  Exterior painted
bright red, over numerous small dings.  Chrome hubcaps.  Seller (a dealer)
lost the key to the doors and treasure chest hatches.  A dozen minor dents
in the gates, and a bow in the lower boxed section of one side gate (dented
from the indide, of course).  Needs both door panels (one has 2" x 2" dent,
both have grey vinyl shrinking away from edges).  Battery strap and cover
missing.  Driver's seat incorrect.  Upholstery incorrect.  Washer bottle
missing.  Jack and tool kit missing.  One side hatch lock cover broken.
Wrong intake manifold.  Governor missing.  Wrong crankcase.  Door key
missing, and perhaps should match ignition key?  Incorrect tires (but these
are nice: Kliber 205/75R14).  Needs carb rebuild (accelerator pump seems to
not work).  Overhead vent lever stuck.  Underdash heat/defrost lever
operates improperly - maybe something broken inside the duct?  Vinyl lining
of dash shelf missing (or did trucks even have one?).


THE UGLY:

Lower hinge of driver's door welded on (to door).  Lower front corner of
same door refabricated, mostly out of welding rod.  Door is sprung, closes
the last inch while bending the lower hinge, latch misaligned with strike
plate.

Unfinished oak bed slats left out in the rain, have turned grey and
swelled, are now bowed up 2"-3" between the attaching screws.

Rear bumper from a bus, and missing the overriders and bows.

Has a 1" deep, 4" x 4" dent in the center of the bed.

A dime sized rust hole along the bottom of one rear corner.


BOTTOM LINE:

OK, how much dough did I part with for this beast?  [My wife agreed to this
deal on the condition that she gets a '98 or newer Accord EX V6 before I
can buy another vehicle...]

Seller was asking $6500.  Two weeks of on and off negotiations by my buddy
and myself yielded a $5200 deal.

Opinions please.  How should a 26k bus drive?  Shift?  Steer?  Should I
believe the mileage?  How about the price?  High?  Low?  About right?

TIA,

Kabayo






"Government at its best is a necessary evil; at its worst, an intolerable
one" - Thomas Paine

Check out the Libertarian Party at http://www.lp.org
