From: "VWguy" <pickit(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 14 Oct 2002 01:17:32 -0400
Subject: Re: [VB] camshaft gear trials

This confirms what Jake Raby told me last week when I visited his shop. Jake Raby is a builder of
racing T4 engines for those that don't know of him.

I took my case to him to line bore and we were talking about the aluminum cases. He told me not to
use them. For one thing, he said that they were much heavier than the mag cases and that they did
not expand and contract as well as the mag ones. Apparently, the expansion and contraction of the
case is important in the longevity and overall performance of the engine.

He did have one there that he was going to build-up and test however. He didn't say anything about
how well they were machined but he made a comment that any new case was subject to machining errors.
He balances all the engines he builds and he said he rarely gets in a new case that he doesn't have
to re-machine due to it being out of spec. Some are so bad he has to toss them.

Kevin Bell

.....


another listee (lurker) sent me this the other day... NOT what i
wanted to hear, but good to know:


Craig

My entire summer was literally WASTED doing EXACTLY what is frustrating you
at the moment.  I bought a first-generation aluminum case (#1331), brand new
counter weighted crank, mild performance cam (Scat C-25), new EVERYTHING
(except rods & heads) & then spent every waking moment from May until
September wishing I had just align bored my old case & thrown the old stuff
back in.  I know that Hot VW's did an article about the problems w/ this
case, but I still owe the list a huge write up to explain what it's going to
mean in terms of lost days, weeks, MONTHS out of your life when you buy one.
Unfortunately I'm a very slow typist & it would take me a week to organize &
make readable all of the problems & the anger & frustration that was
involved.  Plus, I'd rather repress the memory until I recover from the
experience.

I also had your problem of the binding cam gear even though I was replacing a
"zero" gear w/ a "zero."  After awhile (too long) it occurred to me to test
my old cam in the new case & it did not bind.  (At that point I decided it
must have been a manufacturing flaw w/ the Scat cam gear, but after hearing
your story I'm not sure any more.)  So even though I don't know WHY it
worked, I solved my cam gear problem by drilling out the rivets on my OLD cam
gear & riveting it onto the new cam, which luckily had a gear which was also
riveted on.  (It took 2 days of driving to specialty tool shops all over town
to find replacement rivets.  That's the kind of thing I wasted my summer
doing.)  It's possible that my case may not have been as out of spec as
yours, because just reusing the old gear took care of that problem.  But that
was only AFTER full assembly & firing up the engine, only to watch it lock up
after 5 min because the cam gear was binding & forcing the crank rearward,
which eliminated end play AT ONLY ONE PLACE IN EACH CAM GEAR ROTATION -- AS
YOU ALSO ARE EXPERIENCING.   By the way, have you checked the clearance
you're going to have between cam gear & oil pump after it's installed?  There
wasn't ANY on my piece of shit case & after the oil pump nuts were tightened
the crank was immovable.  Oh, and the counterweighted crank couldn't make
half a rotation w/out hitting the case.  It sounds like you don't have this
problem, which just goes to prove how variable the machining was for these
things.


sadly, i don't have his option; my old cam gear is a 4-bolter, the
schneider cam is a 3-bolt.
unless i want to ditch the $80 schneider cam and stay stock.

i'm not sure what to do now, tho a trip to a certain vw case
'factory' with a baseball bat comes to mind.

any other aluminum case users lurking out there who have SOLVED the
cam problem????
