From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 14 Oct 2002 10:53:57 EDT
To: hryn(-at-)earthlink.net, cjay(-at-)well.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Upgrading to good heating [long!]

What I've found is some buses blow more heat than others.   I'd try improving 
the stock sytem first- make sure all the connections from fresh air tube 
through muffler to heater boxes to body are snug, no gaps .  Duct tape heater 
boxes to outlet tubes if needed.

Turn the heater knob so the heater would be all the way on, then screw it in 
a tad.  Go under bus and make sure that the heater boxes are pulled all the 
way open.  ADjust if neccessary, using an 8mm wrench (or socket) and a pair 
of needle nose pliers to hold the end of the heater cable so you don't wangle 
it.

Use wd-40 on the thing up front- the early kind slide side to side- the outer 
piece rotating around the inner, the later flip up and down.  You should be 
able to flip it easily with your foot.   after it moves smoothly oil it.  

Turn on bus- do you get increased air flow?  in standards/deluxes heat also 
comes out in the back, so clear any junk from blocking the outlet back there.

You should have heat coming in to the bus.  To increase it, replace missing 
tin or bad/missing seals in the engine compartment.   get a nice engine lid 
seal.  get a wider fan (doghouse) and/or smaller upper pulley.  Block off any 
gaps.  use the round seals around the fresh air tubes.  block off that 
charcoal canister out let at the top right of the doghouse shroud.   when I 
got the last bit in place on my bus the heat air flow increased dramatically. 
The engine was pressurised, as it should be.   Install a thermostat and flaps.

  My 65 has kick booty air flow- I have to flip the lever down or it annoys 
my eyes.  but- the overhead air vent leaks, the cargo doors rattle and 
obviously are drafty, and the front door windows could use new seals.   It 
could be warmer.  

shut the over head air vent off and go for a drive.   Is air coming through 
the over head air vent?   Okay- take it apart and replace the seals, or stop 
and duct tape over the intake vent.   (warning-can be icky on nice paint)  
Are there drafts coming in aroudn the front doors, or in back? ( have a 
friend help find out)   well, fix them!   new seals around body.  get the 
thing at the bottom that the cargo door latch goes into welded up so the door 
stays pulled shut.   new grey rubber as needed.  or replace the messed up 
cargo door mechanism- both upper and lower check rods should move when you 
turn the handle.  Rust holes make drafts.  Insulation and paneling do help.  
I like the shiny bubble wraps stuff.  also been thinking about sound deadening

use a front floor mat and an under belly pan.  replace the seals around the 
pedals.   If you have holes in the front floor fix it properly or even 
temporarily by screw a piece of metal over it.   it does cut down the drafts. 
 Do you have the mats that cover next to the front seats? (1/3  - 2/3 front)

In a message dated 10/13/2002 8:45:22 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
hryn(-at-)earthlink.net writes:

<< 
 This is all perfect if your heating tube is all gone. The one in my Bus is
 nearly perfect... no rust but I was just thinking about investing into some
 kind of a booster fan with a switch.... something I can turn "ON" whenever I
 need extra heat up front. Sounds like a bad idea in the back since heating
 tube comes right from the heat exchanger. That rear tube is completely gone
 in my Bus. It was suggested to me that Kelly (Metwiz) makes these - sounds
 like tomorrow I'll make a few phone calls. I'm not bringing this Bus to it's
 "factory look and feel". I want it to be "My Bus".... as much original as
 possible with a few small, personal changes that would not effect the
 "Vintageness" of it. Now, see? I just created a new word...
 
 Thanks all. Sounds like a plan.
 
 Dre >>
