Date: Tue, 12 Mar 2013 10:42:26 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] RE:looking for advice on a new camper

Here is my two cents - and that's prob all it's worth. ;) Prob more 
details that you're seeking but what the hey - I feel like rambling.

The newer the bus, the more safe it is generally speaking. Also the 
complexity goes up. And the comfort goes up. So does the price tag... ;)

I guess really there is a sweet spot. Really old and it's collectible, 
really new and it still has resale value. Somewhere in the middle is 
affordability as the collectors haven't taken notice yet and they are 
old enough that nobody cares about them. Enter the Baywindow bus....

We have a '78 Westy and I'll be reworking the camper portion a little. I 
think. We have more need to seat and sleep the family than we do to cook 
inside the van - which sometimes makes the interior smell like whatever 
was cooked for several days. I'd rather cook under an awning outside. 
Less chance of fires too. I guess if we lived somewhere with alot of 
wind and storms I'd want to cook inside but maybe we'd reduce our meal 
plans to coffee and/or sandwiches or just add hot water type meals.

I'm considering taking the stove unit out and building a second rear 
facing bench that looks like the rear bench. Then make sure that it can 
be lifted out easily and a stove cabinet lifted in and tightened down to 
the floor using the same hardware as the seat just removed. Just not 
sure. Another option was to leave the Westy package as is and build a 
2/3 width seat that snuggles up to the stove cabinet on one end and the 
sliding door on the other end. Removable. That would add seating for 
two. Seatbelts are required in my opinion. Maybe I'll use two bucket 
seats for that so there is a headrest?

The smog stuff on my van was an EGR valve what leaked plus an EGR filter 
that was long missing. My carbon canister for the gas tank evap is 
intact. The EGV valve was not being reproduced at the time I bought my 
van in '97. I think the EGR filter was. I simply blocked it off b/c if 
it wasn't - it simply acted like a big vacuum leak and the engine would 
not idle. Other vans like the CA versions had catalytic converters and 
air injection pumps too. I have no idea of what you can buy new or used 
or rebuilt for cats or air pumps. I think the idea was to pump oxygen 
into the exhaust and assist the combustion process to continue 
converting smog producing exhaust to CO2.

Engine upgrades: first anything custom you do to your van means fewer 
people (if anyone) will touch it when there is a repair required. Also 
might impact the resale value pro or con. That said I have installed a 
Corvair into our bus. No alterations to the bus itself, can go back to 
VW power at any time. Still not done - see below. The idea was not to 
increase the top speed but not be reduced to 45 mph on the interstate 
hills b/c the modern big rigs around here climb the mtns faster than that.

With an aircooled bus if you want watercooled - you'll need to plan out 
where to put a radiator. It's all been done - and sometimes well. Just 
do the research and find the design that you like best. I'm commited to 
an aircooled engine, and I'm a sucker for a budget flat-six engine so it 
was all Corvair for me. When I get really adventurous I'd like to piece 
together an aircooled flat six out of two VW Type IV engines but I'd 
need to cool it 911 or Corvair style b/c I'm pretty sure the Type IV 
four cylinder cooling system can't do it. That's a pipe dream though.

Other popular upgrades are Subaru engines (watercooled, for Vanagons) 
and Porsche flat-six engines (aircooled, nice, expensive and did I 
mention expensive?). I think before I went after a $5000+ engine upgrade 
like that I would just go talk to Jake Raby for a "camper special" 
aircooled VW engine and/or search for a Porsche 901 five speed 
transmission so you have five gears vs two to climb hills with. Same or 
similar final gear ratios.

Rust: am repainting my bus and the rust is minimal and in all the usual 
places. However I have worked on some vehicles that were badly rusted 
and while they aren't lost causes you better be prepared to either shell 
out alot of cash to pay someone to do it right or learn to do the 
repairs yourself AND buy a MIG welder, air compressor, air tools, 
grinders, paint guns, etc.

I've heard/read some simply staggering numbers (to me) for what people 
have paid for rust repairs and paint jobs. And it's the typical going 
rate. I've paid for two budget paint jobs over the years and frankly I 
can do better myself given the time and the tools. And that brings me to 
part of why my project has taken so long - I got in over my head budget 
wise and it took several years for my finances to catch up with my dreams.

My bus was a cheap purchase and a New Mexico van but the more I worked 
on it, the more I really wanted it to be done right. I could have done a 
six week spruce up job but I've been down that road before. In the end 
the rust comes back, that paint falls apart, and I'm back to where I 
started at. What i decided I wanted was a good paint job and more 
importantly - a proper restoration that preserves the vehicle so - - - 
and this is what I'm doing now - - - the bottom of the van and interior 
of the van needs to be cleaned up and painted too - not just want shows 
standing beside the vehicle. It's easy to see where and sometimes why 
they rust where they rust. I want to keep that from happening. My bus 
had some rust bubbles starting here and there, the paint was letting go 
in the body seams, the paint was coming off under the sliding door 
tracks, the bottom of the passenger door was rusting badly, etc.

I needed to cut out several little spots, make several patches, do some 
welding, sandblast some spots here and there, and shoot alot of paint. 
When this van is done, I have a Beetle that needs more attention than 
that. And I have designs on a third VW after that. I needed a garage - 
what I wanted to do couldn't be done my me at my pace in a driveway. 
Been there, done that. Maddening to pack it all up each time I had to 
break for a parts run or to go to work or do something with the family. 
Otherwise my tools would disappear.

Then the logic turned to: a budget paint job was $1000 roughly. That 
would pay for my air compressor and Lincoln SP-180 MIG welder. The Westy 
bottom of floor painting would easily pay for all my air tools and spray 
guns if I paid someone to do it for me. It took about $3K+ to buy all 
the basic entry level tools that I have now. Good welder, 60 gal 220V 
compressor, a mix of quality and Northern Tools air tools, and the same 
goes for the handtools. That $3K+ was all done with pocket money - the 
last thing on our budget sheet after college, house payments, child 
daycare, kids, family, food, etc. You know how it goes.

The best thing is that we all have the Internet and each other. 
Pictures, techniques, parts swapping, etc. I would have never figured 
out the things these folks here and other places have taught me. Thank 
you to all of you.

Chris in TN
