Date: Mon, 18 Mar 2013 10:36:12 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Michael Howe <dedhammike(-at-)gmail.com>, type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] remote oil cooler

Mike in a Vanagon a 96 plate style fits very nicely in the L behind the
wheelwell, in front of the tailight.  I've done about 6 installs in that
location for autoboxes, and larger engines.  They sell a nice kit with built
on electric/thermostatic controlled fan now days, I used to buy the coolers &
grab little fans out of some 80's Nissans in pick and pulls.  Should fit
nicely there in a bus if you don't have a second batter.
 
Now I've never seen
the need in a bus (in WV where I used to be, and certainly not here in AK)
excepting perhaps an autobox, though they do certainly work so in a warmer
climate probably a great idea.  For the vanagon I tended to just route up
through the tin, with an industrial quality grommet  and over to the cooler. 
This is you MAIN concern in any install, should clamp the hoses TO THE TIN (or
at least to a bracket on the engine which is fairly rigid to the tin, so that
they flex to the body but stay stationary with respect to the tin.  That plus
a good grommet should keep you safe from being cut by the tin over time. 
Generally I just use the oil hose that comes with the kit and barb fittings,
but I've used AN adapters occasionally with better hose.  The nylon braided
"Earls" stuff is nice, works easier than steel braid, has fair abrasion
resistance.  Anyway sawzall/body saw/plasma a cutout for the cooler with heavy
expanded steel mesh (get
 a good little piece at HD or Lowes) under the the cooler.  Even with mild
offroading or in the snow I've not had issue collecting too much mud/snow
there in a Vanagon at least, and wheelwell is about the same.
 
Fan blowing
down is how I've always done it, but I will mention there is probably a bit of
choice about this mounting location.  At speed ram effect is certainly going
to make it a good choice and probably even makes the fan superfluous.  Sitting
stationary at idle, I still feel a good choice as the engine fan probably
doesn't create much relative low pressure in the engine compartment with the
big open intakes up above compared to a relatively restriced path through the
cooler.  But in a situation where you were trying to cool things down,
stationary vehicle, engine say held at 2000 rpm or so, you then would have the
engine fan sucking pretty hard in the compartment, and although preferentially
you'd be sucking from the high cool intakes, without electric fan running, you
certainly might be sucking hot air up from below/exhaust which is a double
whammy of increased temps into the engine fan, and increased temp through the
"cooler."  I suppose if
 one were really inventive they could slit a piece of old inner tube (does
anyone really have old inner tubes today??) into a one way flapper louver and
mount that below the expanded steel, would probably help keep crap out as
well, but again I haven't had an issue, with moderate 2wd offroading.
 
Anyway
in practice I've found it to work just fine, and this to be a good
spot, electric fan keeps air going the right direction, but YMMV.  Just
remember, do something to keep the lines rigidly in position relative TO THE
TIN, or risk them getting cut over time.
 
John
