Date: Wed, 20 Mar 2013 14:16:04 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] RE:looking for advice on a new camper

Here is my two cents - and that's prob all it's worth. ;)

The newer the bus, the more safe it is generally speaking. Also the 
complexity goes up. And the comfort goes up. So does the price tag... ;)

I guess really there is a sweet spot. Really old and it's collectible, 
really new and it still has resale value. Somewhere in the middle is 
affordability as the collectors haven't taken notice yet and they are 
old enough that nobody cares about them. Enter the Baywindow bus....

We have a '78 Westy and I'll be reworking the camper portion a little. I 
think. We have more need to seat and sleep the family than we do to cook 
inside the van - which sometimes makes the interior smell like whatever 
was cooked for several days. I'd rather cook under an awning outside. 
Less chance of fires too. I guess if we lived somewhere with alot of 
wind and storms I'd want to cook inside but maybe we'd reduce our meal 
plans to coffee and/or sandwiches or just add hot water type meals.

I'm considering taking the stove unit out and building a second rear 
facing bench that looks like the rear bench. Then make sure that it can 
be lifted out easily and a stove cabinet lifted in and tightened down to 
the floor using the same hardware as the seat just removed. Just not 
sure. Another option was to leave the Westy package as is and build a 
2/3 width seat that snuggles up to the stove cabinet on one end and the 
sliding door on the other end. Removable. That would add seating for 
two. Seatbelts are required in my opinion. Maybe I'll use two bucket 
seats for that so there is a headrest?

The smog stuff on my van was an EGR valve what leaked plus an EGR filter 
that was long missing. My carbon canister for the gas tank evap is 
intact. The EGV valve was not being reproduced at the time I bought my 
van in '97. I think the EGR filter was. I simply blocked it off b/c if 
it wasn't - it simply acted like a big vacuum leak and the engine would 
not idle. Other vans like the CA versions had catalytic converters and 
air injection pumps too. I have no idea of what you can buy new or used 
or rebuilt for cats or air pumps. I think the idea was to pump oxygen 
into the exhaust and assist the combustion process to continue 
converting smog producing exhaust to CO2.

Engine upgrades: first anything custom you do to your van means fewer 
people (if anyone) will touch it when there is a repair required. Also 
might impact the resale value pro or con. That said I have installed a 
Corvair into our bus. No alterations to the bus itself, can go back to 
VW power at any time. Still not done - see below. The idea was not to 
increase the top speed but not be reduced to 45 mph on the interstate 
hills b/c the modern big rigs around here climb the mtns faster than that.

Other popular upgrades are Subaru engines (watercooled) and Porsche 
flat-six engines (aircooled, nice, expensive and did I mention 
expensive?). I think before I went after a $5000+ engine upgrade like 
that I would just go talk to Jake Raby for a "camper special" engine 
and/or search for a Porsche 901 five speed tra

Rust: am repainting my bus and the rust is minimal. However I have 
worked on some vehicles that badly rusted and they aren't lost causes 
but you better be prepared to either shell out alot of cash to pay 
someone to do it right or learn to do the repairs yourself AND buy a MIG 
welder, air compressor, air tools, grinders, paint guns, etc. I've heard 
some simply staggering numbers for what people have paid for rust 
repairs and paint jobs. That's one reason my project has taken so long - 
I got in over my head budget wise and it took several years for my 
finances to catch up with my dreams. My bus was cheap and a New Mexico 
van but the more I worked on it, the more I really wanted it to be done 
right
