From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Fri, 21 Mar 2003 10:44:54 -0600 (CST)
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RTV and paint damage

Preping the surface properly with the right product prior to any body
work / painting will remove all of the contaminents--but notice I
mentioned --properly-- 
One more note--- 
RTV--silicone wil not cause any rusting,or corrosion of any metal---or
paint damage. 

What WILL cause the rust out of an area because of the RTV, is some wild
man applied the silicone around his window moldings and trapped the
moisture under it---and Yep--this will eat out metal faster than Jackie
Robinson. 

R-Model Mack trucks have an inherent rusting problem around the
winsheilds and rear glass, seen it for years. Well--when I'm done
painting them-- ( and I'm talking 3 day old paint ) I lay a bead of
black 30 year silicone between the black rubber mouldings and and the
channels on the cab---no rust anymore--none--and the silicone sealant
WILL NOT damage any quality paint----period. ( notice I mentioned
quality ) 

There are trucks out there I painted 15 years ago--and while the doors
may be rusting out on the bottoms, but the metal around from glass is
sound-- 

Ths is like anything--if the product isn't used right how could you
expect it to work? 

So forget this witches tale--it just isn't true. 

Later, 

TK 

E-mail message 
Silicone will screw up paint terribly 
I think we may be confusing silicone spray with silicone sealant RTV.
Silicone RTV sealant will damage the paint and promote rust right under
the paint. 
Silicone spray is a dry lubricant that goes on wet and when the
suspension solution evaporates the silicone is left in a dry film which
is very different from silicone RTV. 
I have never seen damage to any surface as a result of silicone lube
spray. 
I didn't mean it would hurt existing paint, but would ruin any new paint
put over it if not removed. BUT - does the danger exist forever or is it
like an oil which can be removed easily by a proper prep? Chris Mills in
TN
