Date: Fri, 21 Mar 2003 15:23:01 -0500 (EST)
From: <topsecret(-at-)beer.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: confusion with vacuum hoses on 73

Yes I have looked all over the website and in the library and in the
archives and I haven't found anything that helps me solve my problem.....
Very quickly I will just say that I bought the bus and it didn't
accelerate very well at all so I checked out the vacuum advance and it was
ruptured.....Only replacing it did nothing for the problem.   It seems the PO did some
things to the carbs to make up for a bad vacuum advance and now I am left
scratching my head......
So I know I have the hoses in the right place from the right ports,  
there is definetly vacuum at the retard side during idle and it works
fine.
But the advance side,  that is different.  I checked the whole line and it
is free,  the connections good,  and the point plate moves when I suck on
the hose.
Now here's the weird stuff.   The advance,  when I check it with the
timing gun,  advances pretty much the same amount when I hit the throttle,
   both with the advance hose on and off.   Hmm......
And to make things stranger,  the vacuum port on the right hand carb is
totally blocked off,  as in no vacuum,  so having a vacuum line hooked up
to it seem silly........so I am assuming that this should be opened up
somehow ,  but I was told by a local mechanic that advance is read on the
left carb,   and if this is so,  why have both carbs hooked up?
So I am very confused.   I know the left hand  carb vacuum port is open
because I can stick a thin nail all the way into it,  but the same test on
the right carb yields a concrete like resistance in the port.......
What the heck is going on?    Oh yeah this is a stock 73 engine dual solexes
and the proper distributor/vacuum advance can.


Mark in Portland

                                                             
----------                                                     
                                                               
Why be boringcat(-at-)badjob.com when you can be beerlover(-at-)beer.com?
                                                               
Sign up for Beer Mail today - http://www.beer.com !            
