From: "Wakanska" <Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 22 Mar 2003 11:28:05 -0800
Subject: Oil additives.. "Moly"

Does anyone know anything concrete about the Lucas brand of
"high-performance" oil and lubricants? My VW FLAPS guy, "Al", swears by
them, so I've gone ahead and taken his advice and put it in the crankcase
and the transfer case.
I was reading the rap about the zinc (on the link that Karl posted), being
used as an anti-scuff protectant when metal meets metal. Years ago, after I
successfully rebuilt my first engine, I got the idea to use a pure
molybdenum sulfide (moly) additive in my crankcase for just that purpose.
Moly particles are structured like a book.. lots of layers assembled like
stacked pages. Under stress (as in between two bearing surfaces), it will
shear and thus take the stress that bearing surfaces would. Some moly comes
with graphite, and graphite is bad news in an engine.. semi-abrasive and
really can gunk up your valve seats.. but it's great for door locks.
Lubricants cannot all be used the same. Anyway, I used a pure moly paste for
the engine assembly and set-up, and I got to thinking that if some was good,
more was better. So, I dissolved about half a tube or so (maybe 2 oz) and
put it in my crankcase oil. That oil was slipperier than snot and I figured
I was set to go. Everything went exceptionally well really, until I took a
long trip up to Yosemite in my '65 splittie. On a hot day, climbing into the
park from the northern end (Modesto area), I began to notice funny things.
For example, I had my heater control open and I noticed that the air coming
off of the dash was rather warm. Then I saw the oil warning light. I pulled
over and checked the oil level and it was too high! A little bit of thinking
and I realized what had probably happened... The moly had fluffed up and
formed a thick, viscous deposit that was blocking the oil passageways in the
crankcase. So, I waited a bit, just until the engine had cooled enough to
handle, but still very warm, and I took a pan that I had on the trip out
under the rear. I removed the oil pressure valve assembly (under the fat
screw at the bottom rear of the case) and out comes all this thick, gloppy
black stuff. The moly was black, by the way. That was it! I let all that
crap out and adjusted the oil level in the engine and had a great trip.
Luckily, I was alert to the signs and this didn't get out of hand.. But I
have to say also that this is what moly is all about. Even if you lose your
oil or the oil breaks down, those little moly particles that are in the
bearing surface area already are going to work to prevent friction and heat
from doing their damage. I would still run a little moly in an engine
without hesitation, although I actually have not bothered in awhile. Just
don't use much. And I would not use it on a new engine except on the
assembly or in small amounts. After all, you do want your rings to seat
also.
I still have that engine. The splittie got wrecked and I took the engine out
and ran it in a bug for awhile. The bug needed other work and finally got
parked, and has sat for many years now. But I know that I had well over
100,000 miles on that engine and it still had great compression and power
right up until I stopped running it. I spent back then top buck on a good
machine shop and parts. Everything was balanced. It cost me $1,000 twenty
years ago to rebuild that engine, but I've still got it and it's raring to
go. I always ran a little moly.. pure moly.. in it, and to me, I think that
is a great way to extend engine life.
But, I was then and still am a novice. I'd be interested in any thoughts or
observations that anyone could offer.
