From: "Marcus Schaper" <mschaper(-at-)gvpt.umd.edu>
To: "'jason antolovich'" <jantolov(-at-)yahoo.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 19 May 2005 10:24:31 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] still not running well and black smoke

Jason,

I finally got my carbs dialed in last week. I did not manage to get it right
until I had:

- 2 Unisyns - it is next to impossible to adjust the linkage with just one.
One is OK to get idle right, but you also need to balance them at higher RPM
(done with the linkage).

- Gunson exhaust gas analyzer. These things are way from perfect, but they
help to get your mixture into the right range

- 9 ft of hose. You need this to place the Gunson as far away from your
exhaust as possible. This way you don't have to move the unit for
calibration and it actually becomes somewhat reliable. John Kolak suggested
this to me - great idea!

I spent days on trying to get my carbs dialed in. Even had the Gunson, 1
Unisyn and a the short hose the the Gunson comes with. But I just did not
get it right. Similar phenomenon - black smoke on acceleration. According to
the Gunson I was lean at idle.

First, make sure that your idle jets are free. Unscrew one solenoid, place a
finger on the opening, have someone start the car, wait a moment. Does your
finger get wet? Good. Still dry? Looks like a clogged jet. Unscrew the jet
and blow the dirt out. Replace jet and solenoid. Do the same thing for the
other side.

Second, replace the gaskets between the carb bodies and the covers, and
o-rings on the adjustment screws. No point in trying to adjust carbs when
you have a vacuum leak (your carb cleaner test). Have you checked the rubber
boots on the balance tube/brake booster tube?

According to Bentley, the volume control screw should be 2.5 turns out as an
initial adjustment. Tuning these carbs by ear is next to impossible - you
need to know what your mixture is like. I aimed for 3 - 3.5% CO.

Set the screws to 2.5 out. Then adjust both equally to get around 3% CO.
Then check for the RPM drop when pulling the solenoid wires. Work the screws
to smoothen out the drop - i.e lean out the side with the higher drop and
enrichen the side with less drop. Make sure that you stay in the 3% CO
range.

You need to get it right. As rich as your bus is running right now, you will
have thinned out your oil in no time and cause permanent damage to your
engine.

Where are you located? If you are around DC or if you are coming to Buses's
Boats you can use my carb gadgets (well, the Gunson is Steve Dolan's, not my
own).

Marcus

Subject: still not running well and black smoke

list,

   In my continual efforts to get my 1974 bus up and
running by the weekend to hopefully make a 100 mile
trip home, I am still running into problems.

 I was able to do most things however,  when I adjust
the volume control screws on the throttle bodies I am
not sure exactly where to put them.

Also, when I pull the wire off the cuttoff solenoids for each carb they RPM
drop doesn't match.
The right carb drops about 75 RPMs and the left
doesn't seem to drop at all.

I think i need a carb rebuild because i noticed that
if i spray carb cleaner on the outside of the right
carb it bogs down.

I don't need it perfect just good enough to drive a
few hours.
