Date: Thu, 19 May 2005 09:52:29 -0700
From: Christophe Guilbert <cguilbert(-at-)picasso.ucsf.edu>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] new tires and wheels

Thanks for the Update Jeff,

I also feel the same way when it come to post a message.
I have not  check the archives since it has been updated , but the type2 
archives is not google search and can be difficult to retrieve info, at 
least for me who spend my life on Internet.  Looking to the archives 
could simple confuse you , they are sometime too many info out there 
when you need a straight answer, especially when you are a  beginner and 
can't make you own judgment.

Some guys have some PMS excess when they reply again and again to the 
same questions ;-)
As far as I know this list is for everyone , pro , beginner  , computer 
geek, computer dummy , ....

I would not bother  asking questions (after a quick  look to the 
archives of course) , people are free to reply. Don't take it badly if 
someone "flamed" you, As you say , this list is great , they must be a 
reason for that !!

As you mention Richard , Ron Scott and  others are great , I trust them  
more than my mechanic !!! :-) those guy are too good and they are 
victims of their success !!! in one hand , we have to give them a break 
by looking the archives first , on the other hand  those  guys are too 
nice and valuable  for not asking your questions straight since you know 
it is going to be the right answer.


Chris

Lawrence J. Bell wrote:

>Hi All,
>
>I mentioned in a previous post that I would report my observations on
>my tire and wheel experiences.  Ill do so but please dont flame me if
>you have had different experiences or have different opinionsthese are
>only my personal observations based upon my personal environment.  Ive
>been severely flamed before and Im quite uncomfortable with it.  I
>remain on the list because of the valuable inputs of John Connelly,
>Richard Atwell, Ron Salmon, Scott Lyons and others.  I am now very
>reluctant to put my two cents in but this may have real value to some.
