Date: Fri, 20 May 2005 13:14:15 -0700
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Pettibon, Jeremy" <jeremy.pettibon(-at-)cingular.com>
Subject: New engine in the bus!

Got the new (rebuilt) AVP 2.0L engine in my 76 Westy last weekend.
Started Friday and drove it home on Monday - what an ordeal!  If I had
it to do over again, I'm not sure I would, and if I did, I would do
things MUCH differently (i.e. label electrical connections, document
vacuum configuration, give myself more time).  But I was able to
eventually get it running and drive it home with only a couple remaining
issues.  The bus runs strong and smooth on flat land, but seriously
lacks power going up hills.  I need to check my vacuum hoses and make
sure everything is correct according to ratwell's VacuumHoses page and
Greg Potts' nice diagram
(http://www.ratwell.com/technical/VacuumHoses.html).  I also need to
tune using a dwell meter, check the advance, and mount the CHT sensor.
I do have a couple of questions if anybody wants to take a shot:

1. I found my EGR filter was missing and the feed from the CC had been
blocked off some time ago, judging from the rust on the welded-on cap.
Decided to eliminate the whole system, so we blocked off the opening on
the throttle body and removed the pipe and EGR valve.  Is it fine to
just eliminate that line from the vacuum system? (DVDA dizzy)

2. Found three wires near the battery that have female blade-type
connectors: solid brown; brown/white; and solid yellow, all together in
a harness running next to the battery tray.  Neither of us remembered
disconnecting these from anything.  As far as I can tell from the
archives, those serve some test/diagnostic purpose and do not need to be
hooked up to anything.  Is this correct?  If not, where do they go and
what purpose(s) do they serve?

3. What is the best location for the CHT sensor (temp sensor II)?  For
some reason, my new engine did not have anywhere to mount this.  Don't
ask how I rigged it to run in order to drive home.  AVP is going to
reimburse me for having a hole drilled and tapped for the sensor.  My
old engine had the sensor in front (front is Front) of the #3 intake -
the engine tin had actually been cut and peeled back to allow for this.
It looks like there is  a hole in the tin where the sensor should be -
between #3 and #4.  Is that where it should go?

Thanks everybody, for all advice before this project and for any info
you can provide now to finish it up!

Jeremy Pettibon
Bothell, WA
76 Westy
