Date: Fri, 3 Mar 2006 10:27:42 -0800 (PST)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: guthrie(-at-)broadcom.com, type2(-at-)type2.com, VWBrain(-at-)aol.com, Will
Subject: [T2]tire broke inward this morning on me 

  HOW DO I GET THAT SWAY BAR BUSHING OFFFFFFF LOL>...
   
  and is there a special way to get that bolt off at the bottom of sway bar .. i got the backing nut off but cant seem to get the whole bolt out...? its not moving but as said i do have the other side  (the nut) off....bolt wont budge though.... afraid of stripping....
   
  i did however get the new/LOL old ball joint out of the knuckle wooohoooo very easily actually couple of wacks with hammer and it was mine ....
   
  if i could get the sway bar bushing and bolt at bottom of it loose then i might be able to get this over with maybe.. or at least be downhill then...
   
  i looked in bentley on page 13 like meghan and dave said but i cant see nothing about sway bar bushing? eeerrrrgggg maybe i am just worn out and overlooking as usual... those pages did help me though with the rest of it with the pics exspecially... usually i can see pics and make more sense along with words... yeah now you all know what kind of books i like to read hehehe.
   
  i was figuring i tapped the little backing on bushing off with screw driver and hammer little by little but didnt want to do that till i knew better....
   
  ok so thats where i am and i went ahead and soaked both in pb blaster which has been helping lots with this job it seems,...
   
   
   
  if you can see the pic from busdepot  this is the part i am having fun with ... any hints....? http://www.busdepot.com/images/parts/211498101A2.jpg ohh and yeah i have remembered how to cuss this morning  neighbors are loving me i am sure...LOL havent thrown nothing yet but that is the key word LOL (YET)
  chai




                                                                 Driving down the road singing a song~!~
          ~ Heading towards the FuLLMoon~
