From: "Denis Dodson" <coocoo(-at-)cox-internet.com>
To: "VB" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <tcb(-at-)freelists.org>
Date: Mon, 29 Nov 2004 14:41:13 -0600
Subject: Wiring harness or What I did Over My Thanksgiving Holiday

Happy Holidays, boys and girls, I spent the weekend ripping out ALL of the
wiring in my '63 bus and installing a new harness from Wolfgang. Thank God
that my brother in law (Mr. Chuck Megasquirt Sirocco Turbo Boy) , the
ex-volkswagen mechanic of 30 years and an incredible auto electrician came up
for the weekend.

First off, the number stamped on the chassis in the engine compartment is
1137791. It's '63 right? Well, learned when I bought my front spindles that
there are actually 3 models of bus in '63. My bus was made into a camper by
Sundial, it started life as a panel (it has additional air vents high in the
side rear). I have the small cargo door and small rear window. But when I was
ordering the harness I was told that there was a difference between the '63
and '64. The '64 has a big light on the left side of the dash for the hazard
light. Well, I have that light, so I needed a harness for the '64, I guess.

I was surprised how easily the old harness came out and the new one went in. I
expected it to be hard to thread it through the channel from front to back,
but it turns out there really is no "channel". The loom goes in to the frame
in two places, in the front over the beam and in the rear over the axle. It is
not so much hard work as it was filthy. Laying on your back, even if you work
to avoid it, 41 years of dirt, rust, sand, dead critters and all fall on to
your face and into your mouth, eyes (goggles!), ears and through your hair
into your scalp. We cut the loom in the front and the back, leaving everything
connected at both ends, then attached a fish (building a house gives you tools
like an electrical fish) and pulled the loom through the channels in two
moves.

I had the easy job at the rear, replacing the engine wiring, the license light
and the taillights. It was more complicated than it sounds. Chuck attracted
all the spaghetti in front. You have to take out the parcel tray and lower the
yoke at the base of the speedometer and then you find all kinds of mysteries,
wires that go nowhere, hot wires not hooked to anything, lights missing (I
swear that the bright headlight indicator light was there and working),
splices, bypasses, crinkled, crumbled and missing insulation and all painted
white by the previous owners.

The most complicated part was the turn signals. Since no one makes a
replacement for the '63 and the vintage ones are way too expensive, I use one
for a later year, maybe a '65, that is much the same except it has extra wires
for a dimmer, if I was working on that end I would have just killed myself,
but SuperChuck figured it out and made everything work. We put in all new
relays and a vintage headlight switch from WayOut Salvage, maybe paid too
much, but having installed and jerry rigged two later model switches that
burned up fairly quickly I decided to go vintage and keep my fingers crossed.

Aside from my putting in the loom backasswards and having to take it out and
run it in right and a small but exciting fire caused because I hooked up the
wire from the points to the coil wrong, we did a pretty good job in one long
Sunday and a few hours on Sunday. The only problem I really have now is that
the license plate light had two wires attached and the new harness only calls
for one and it keeps blowing the fuse. I have removed the bulb holder to clean
it up and make sure that it is not grounding to the body and hope that fixes
it. Otherwise I guess the second wire is a ground.

Now all I have to do is rewire and connect all the accessories.

Piece o' cake.
