Date: Mon, 29 Nov 2004 22:01:12 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Wiring harness or What I did Over My Thanksgiving Holiday

>From: "Denis Dodson" <coocoo(-at-)cox-internet.com>
>Date: Mon, 29 Nov 2004 14:41:13 -0600
>
>Happy Holidays, boys and girls, I spent the weekend ripping out ALL of
>the wiring in my '63 bus and installing a new harness from Wolfgang.

Wow!  I spent it fixing a computer (no fun) and trying to get an old
US Army Signal Corps telegraph set to work (fun).

>First off, the number stamped on the chassis in the engine compartment
>is 1137791. It's '63 right?

It's a '63, but a rather late '63.  Doliwa quotes 1 137 188 (only 603
Buses before yours; right around one day's production for '63) at
27 June 1963.  It seems like some production changes happen just a
little before or a little after the numbers in the books.  I suspect
things like this happened: the new muffler bearings came in, so one
of the engineers went down to the assembly line and made sure the
prototype of VWX 999.5, the new 20.0005 mm longer muffler bearing
installer performed "according to the specifications laid down by the
Volkswagenwerk".  Then he ordered 50 more muffler bearing installers.
Two weeks later, when all the installers were made and "parts of
previous type in stock must be used up", the whole assembly line was
turned loose with the new parts and somebody wrote the chassis number
in the book.  So you get a dozen Buses with the new part, six thousand
with the old part, and then all of them have the new part from then on.

>Well, learned when I bought my front spindles that there are actually
>3 models of bus in '63.

If you want to get really picky, Doliwa lists 44 changes between August
1962 and July 1963, and the real Progressive Refinements could probably
put another dozen on top of that.  So, 50+ models.  Plus, you have 40
years of creative repair parts sourcing on top of that.

>The '64 has a big light on the left side of the dash for the hazard
>light.

My '64 (November '63 production) has it.  I think this officially didn't
start until August 1963, but that was at 1 144 303, only about 11 days
production after your Bus.

>We cut the loom in the front and the back, leaving everything connected
>at both ends,

If the insulation on the wires on the old loom isn't completely stiff,
the hunks of old loom can be a good source of correctly color-coded and
sized wire to fix your other VWs.

>You have to take out the parcel tray and lower the yoke at the base of
>the speedometer and then you find all kinds of mysteries, wires that
>go nowhere, hot wires not hooked to anything, lights missing (I swear
>that the bright headlight indicator light was there and working),
>splices, bypasses, crinkled, crumbled and missing insulation and
>all painted white by the previous owners.

Having worked on more than one Old Car, I am still amazed by how many
things wrong with Old Cars aren't parts that are worn out or broken in
two; it's silly things some previous owner or mechanic did.  Often you
can put the wire on the right terminal, unbend the linkage, and replace
the sheet metal screw with a bolt and nut, and it works just like it did
the day it came off the line.

>The most complicated part was the turn signals. Since no one makes a
>replacement for the '63 and the vintage ones are way too expensive, I
>use one for a later year, maybe a '65, that is much the same except
>it has extra wires for a dimmer, if I was working on that end I would
>have just killed myself, but SuperChuck figured it out and made
>everything work.

Looking at the wiring diagrams, a '66 switch would fit that description.
You could hook it up, wire for wire following the color codes, in a '63,
and it would work.  You might have to add a couple of push-ons to your
existing wires and tape up some unused push-ons, but it would work.
You'd have two brown wires and a blue wire left over.  The two browns
are for the headlight dimmer and can be tucked up out of the way
somewhere.  The blue is for the different hazard light switch in a '66
and would need its end taped up, then tucked away.

>We put in all new relays and a vintage headlight switch from WayOut
>Salvage, maybe paid too much, but having installed and jerry rigged
>two later model switches that burned up fairly quickly I decided to
>go vintage and keep my fingers crossed.

Go vintage, but do the deluxe solder job on it.
http://www.type2.com/library/electris/vw-hauptlicht-schalter.html

>The only problem I really have now is that the license plate light had
>two wires attached and the new harness only calls for one and it keeps
>blowing the fuse.

On my '64, there is a short brown jumper wire from the bulb holder to
a sheet metal screw that goes into the top jamb of the engine lid
opening - screwed into the body, not the lid.  This may be a later
addition, as it's not called out in the VW wiring diagrams until about
'68 -- the original plan may have been for the license light to ground
to the lid metal and through the hinges to the body.  IIRC, which
terminal is which on the license light isn't obvious at a quick glance,
but if you look closely, the hot terminal is the one attached to the
springy brass bit that contacts the bottom (not the sides) of the bulb.

>Piece o' cake.

Good job!

Matt Roberds
