Date: Sat, 16 Feb 2013 22:04:32 -0500
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
To: The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com, vanagon <vanagon(-at-)gerry.vanagon.com>, 
Subject: TCWBC 2013 Trip Report

It's hard to believe it was already a week ago that I was sitting at the 
campfire swapping stories with a few of the local VW crowd, but it's 
true nonetheless.

Get this: TCWBC 2013 set a new record for the number of buses!!!

Unfortunately, it was a record low.

The only bus that made it out was my Dad's 75 westy, which was piloted 
by my brother Brent. My own fleet was grounded at home with minor 
mechanical maladies that work, weather and other life complications had 
prevented me from attending to.

I did consider bailing out. Earlier in the week I was more than a little 
concerned about the weather. As you may recall, the entire northeast 
took a pretty big beating that week and I had even had to take a "snow 
day" on the Friday before camp, as the roads near home were just too 
treacherous for safe travel. But when I awoke the next morning the sky 
was the that awesome Saturday shade of blue and I just knew I was 
destined for camping that day. Bus camp needed to be attended to. If I 
didn't haul the trailer-load of firewood, things would not be pretty.

So we shovelled ourselves out and I borrowed a comfortable all wheel 
drive SUV and hooked up the trailer and stuffed in a gaggle of teenagers 
and their gear and off we went. With stops for food, gas, more food and 
so on, we got to camp around 2:30PM. Still lots of daylight left, which 
was a good thing since there was a tent that needed to be set up.

After we unloaded the camping gear from the trailer we parked it near 
the fire pit, since the remainder of the load was firewood, about 40 
cubic feet of hardwood planks scavenged from a local warehouse. They 
were dry and burn very clean. Once the fire was built up a bit the tent 
got dealt with and the kids went off for a hike.

There were 9 people camping at TCWBC13, and 7 visitors came to join us 
for a while at the fire. Good food and drink were consumed, and although 
the mercury plunged to -23C (-9.4F) on Sunday morning there were no 
complaints about the cold. They say preparation is everything in Winter 
Camping, and they are right. Lots of carbs also help.

What more can I add? I dunno. If you weren't there, you missed out on a 
good time. All ten True Canadian Winter Bus Campouts have helped 
immensely to break up the monotony of a seemingly endless string of long 
cold winter nights.

If you're inclined, put it in your calendar for next year, we'll do it 
the weekend before Valentines at Valens Conservation Area just north of 
Hamilton Ontario.


Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario Canada
197x Westfakia "Bob the Tomato"
1988 Wolfsburg Weekender Hardtop - Inline 4 2L 8V Digifant
Engine conversion blog: http://www.pottsfamily.ca/wordpress/
www.pottsfamily.ca


www.busesofthecorn.ca
