Date: Sat, 18 Sep 2010 13:35:41 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: re: [T2]  '73 Cargo  -  woodstove heat

>Joe Average wrote:
>  Just go for a wood stove... GRIN!

	Joseph was perhaps grinning with pleasure
at the realisation that a small woodstove is a
very good way to heat a kombi, and of course a
good way to cook.
	I'm a woodstove fan & developer of 35 y
experience -  tho' all in houses, none mobile, so
some of my ideas are downright putative.
	New Zealand c.1975-90 nurtured a vigorous
'housetruck' subculture, with some fine works of
artytechture, many of which had woodstoves.  I'll
make inquiries with veterans of that charming
scene (now wiped out by 'technical safety'
requirements  ...
	 At cruising speed the flue will need a
suitable geometry, with a bird-proof cowl; try a
T top, but don't rivet on the horizontal pipe
(c.12" long); just make it a good push fit, with
a big worm-drive clip or similar to clamp it at
any particular place, so as to 'tune' the suction
which I guess will be created at cruising speed.
If you end up with the top pipe along the vehicle
axis, resist temptation to spray in fuel e.g
kerosene for 'afterburner boost'  8-)  You could
even make a V1-type pulsejet, using a rotating
disc rather than the pulsating louvres, but far
be it from me to suggest that you should   :-/ .
This would turn waste heat from the woodstove,
augmented by the sprayed-in fuel, into a valuable
addition to your c.50 bhp.

Mike Benthin wrote:

>Best for the money-$139 cdn The Shanty Wood Stove
>http://goodoutdoors.theshoppe.com/wilderness_shanty_wood_stove.html
>Best tiny stove, period $763, qualifies for EPA tax credit
>http://www.marinestove.com/sardineinfo.htm
>Used in boats whose cabin is no larger than our busses.

	Fugitive emissions from woodstoves are
not always easy to prevent, and can poison the
denizens of the cosy T2 with carbon monoxide.
The cast-iron 'potbelly' in some versions has
been guilty of such leaks.  There is usually a
partial vacuum in the stove while burning, but in
unusual circumstances gases can leak out.
Perhaps take a good look at a dismantled
'Sardine' and copy it in thick welded steel
plate.
	The panel of heat-proof glass is
desirable; might be mounted in shallow slots
welded on the inside of the door, but would have
to be 2-sided not 3-sided slots.
	A fellow GS tchg asst at Berkeley, Jay
Shelton, was the first World Frisbee Champion and
after finishing his Ph.D in that prestigious
Physics dept he devoted himself to improving the
woodstove which is now, like the bicycle, so near
perfect that good current designs are extremely
efficient and there's little 'headroom' for any
further improvement.  Shelton's catalyst on a
grid-plate at the bottom of the flue did not
prove worthwhile, because it can get gummed, and
more importantly poisoned by trace components of
the smoke, e.g  copper, chromium, arsenic.
	Unless you lust to dismantle things (as
many but not all of us do), use stainless flue.
Cut with an angle-grinder (diamond-dust wheel
best, and economical in long run).  Spray indoor
flue with "1000 degree". exhaust paint, which is
matt black and can hack the pace.
	Roof penetration seals of 'wobbly
conical' rubber or flexible plastic, if
heat-rated, are fine.  You do have to lash the
flue firmly onto somewheres, tho'  ...  ;-).
	A helix of several turns of 20mm
semi-soft copper tubing, above the ceiling but
inside the roof, can thermosyphon into a higher
tank c.100 W of hot water.  That thermosyphoning
tank can use an extra pair of nozzles to receive
solar too.

	Electricity is always a very expensive
form of energy, and should not be degraded into
low-temp heat except on very good excuse.  Even
if you slap in a 400 W or bigger alternator, it
cannot hack the demand for hundreds of W of
resistive heat.  If you tune the sides of your
kombi to vague resonance by test, you can get
that mahdrn Boom effect all thru suburban streets
with speakers using < 1 W (mfd pre-1970).
	Them Canucks, and many other folk, have
bulk cheap waste wood which can give the hundreds
of watts to ward off the wintry north.  Then
no-one will have to sing of you "He was jes' a
hunerd miles from Mary Ann'  :-/

	I'm in a hurricane these past 18 h, with
more expected, but it's not cold, coming to us
courtesy of warm Australia.
