From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc.'" <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>,
Date: Sat, 18 Sep 2010 10:41:15 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] Re: rear sway or front sway...

Hey Chris,

Thanks for the tip. I re-read Bentley on this, and spoke with another local
long time VW hobbyist/mechanic.

I did the swap this morning, the old ones definitely looked worn, with a lot
of little shavings from one of them inside the metal hub.

I was not able to get graphite-but had some lock lube-that was graphite in a
spray, supposed to leave a graphite residue. I was about to use this-but
then re-read Bentley.

It says specifically, "CAUTION: Do not coat the rubber bushings with
graphite. It will permit the spring plate hub to turn in the bushings,
resulting in rapid wear. Do not allow multi-purpose grease or other
petroleum-based lubricants to contaminate the bushings since these
substances are harmful to rubber"

I got some baby powder.

The whole process took less than 30 minutes. I probably spent the most time
cleaning the metal covers out, and trying to make the re-install area clean.
I also used anti-seize on the bolts that hold the cover plate on. I figured
it couldn't hurt. I almost got a bit carried away, and was going to sand the
cover plates off, and re-paint them. But they looked ok, and I don't need
the extra work.

I'll hold off on the inner bushings for now-I don't have time for that type
of project.

I'm taking a short road trip today, and I'll let you all know how it
handles. Hoping to get some springs to fix my front seat, maybe an emblem
for the rear, and possibly an ignition.

-Kevin
Jamaica Plain, MA
'69 single cab
'65 Kombi

-----Original Message-----
From: C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc. [mailto:c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net] 
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: rear sway or front sway...

Hey Kevin,

I replace only the outer torsion bushings on my bus for a great improvement 
in driving stability. Easy job. 4 bolts to remove the cover and the bushing 
comes right out. Lube the new bushing with dry teflon or graphite powder and

slide it in.

If you want to replace the inner bushings too, then that is a job. The 
torsion arms need to be R&R'ed.

Chris
