From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'type2list'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <timharding(-at-)shaw.ca>
Date: Sat, 18 Sep 2010 11:03:54 -0400
Subject: re:[t2] 1973 cargo

Ill try to figure a way to explain why insulation can cause moisture to
accumulate on the interior of the bus.

Basically imagine the air inside the bus, it is at a certain temperature
(warm). Then you have air outside the bus(cold). The cold air cannot hold as
much moisture as the warm air. That is why you get dew accumulating on
surfaces, or why you might hear the weather man talk about dew point. That
is the temp when the air can no longer hold the moisture-and it accumulates
in the form of dew. If water settles on the inside of the metal of the bus,
it can sort of get stuck there, and cause rust.

Ok, so back to the air inside and outside your bus. If your blown in foam is
an absolute vapor barrier-no moisture passes through it at all-then you
should be fine. The problem is that not all foams can do this, and those
that supposedly can-do not necessarily do it absolutely, and it depends on
how thickly they are applied. I know that sometimes it is used as a vapor
barrier in houses, but it also blown a lot thicker, which makes a
difference.

Ill try to explain this simply-as I do not know the subject well enough to
get too complicated ;)

If the air is warm inside the bus and cold outside-there is a temperature
change across the thickness of the foam. Let us assume that it is 80 degrees
inside the bus, and 30 degrees outside. Lets say your foam is 1 thick. So
assuming a linear temperature change, if you are = into the foam, the temp
is 55 degrees. The 80 degree air may be able to hold a certain amount of
moisture-and the 55 temp air holds less. So where does the moisture go? It
must settle out of the air. So at a certain point the moisture in the air
will go from vapor to dew, and settle. Unfortunately it can settle on the
interior of the metal. That is what you don't want to happen ;)

Again-if the foam can be applied to the extent that it is a vapor
barrier-that you should be fine. Be sure whomever installs it understands
what you are trying to accomplish-and can assure you that the foam will stay
stuck to the metal, and that it will be a vapor barrier.

I hope it can work. It would be great if I was wrong-if someone out there
can explain my mistake-please let me know-I'd love to do this to my bus. I
had thought of it for my bus. but got too nervous about moisture problems,
and then never being able to get the foam out of my bus.

I'm meeting with one of my foam spray guys this week, I'll ask him to
explain to me again the difference between it, and the "Great Stuff"
available in a can at Lowes etc, and ask if it can be used for a vehicle
insulation


-Kevin
Jamaica Plain, MA
'69 single cab
'65 Kombi
