Date: Sat, 18 Sep 2010 19:46:04 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] vapor barriers & insulation

Hello,
 
Here is my opinion on the matter. Many people have experimented with different
substances for themal insulation and noise suppression. The biggest issue that
people have had is rust. I also live on the east coast in NC and Rust is a
constant battle. I am afraid that packng voids in the bus with closed cell
insulation could trap moisture in all the wrong places. At least fiberglass
home insulation would wick and moisture away to be evaporated.
 
Personally, I would first make sure that there is no rust in the area that you
will be insulating. Most rust will occur on the floor area. I would coat the
bottom half of the area to be insulated with POR-15. I would also make sure
that there are no holes of any sort that could let moisture in. Seam sealer on
seams would aslo be benificial. I would use regular fiberglass insulation in
these areas. I don't think I would use a vapor barier at all. I would be
afraid that the movement of the vehicle and the extreme temperature changes
would cause moisture to collect on the surface of closed cell  insulation and
rust the steel. I would just attach a nice wooden panel over the fiberglass
insulated area. If by chance you spilled water in the bus or somehow the
fiberglass got wet, it would eventually wick away and evaporate instead of
being held against the steel by plastic or rubber. I would want the cavities
to breathe. If you want to lessen road noise, put
 a square of dynamat on the middle of the sheet metal before you put the
insulation in. you don't have to cover the entire piece of sheet metal for it
to dapen the noise. I wouldn't not put it near the seams or corners beacuse I
would not want it to trap water.
 
Personally, I would love to strip my floors , POR 15 them and then put squares
of Dynamat on the the areas over the engine compartment and behind the kick
panesl in the nose to dapen the road and engine noise. I suppose you would put
a square inside of each front door, but they often have rain water draining
inside of them. I would not want to put anything in them that could collect
water. On a similar note, speakers mounted in the door panels is not a very
good idea for the same reason. The speakers become damaged by the rain water
and they rot away the door panels The front doors had a vapor barior from the
factory that also acted as a poorly designed duct work for those little
sliders you see on door panels. If your factory vapor barier are damaged or
missing from the front doors, these little sliding vents are useless. Speaker
holes cut into the door panels ruin the integrity of the vapor barior and let
the panels absorb water. If anyone wants to
 see a pic of these vapor bariers, let me know and I will try to take a
picture of one so you can see how they duct air to the slider vents.
 
Others have found Kool Patch, "Bitchen tape", and other asphault products to
not be worth the effort because of fumes, and possible rust promotion. Dynamat
is made to be adheared to painted steel. I would also stay away from Great
Stuff spray foam as I believe it to also trap moisture.
 
The main way to make sure that your insulation is doing its job is to make
sure that your bus is sealed up tightly. any and all holes will defeat your
cause. Check how well your windows seal. I am replacing my leaky louvered
windows with sliders for that reason. I am also making sure that every factory
hole, rust hole, and seam are sealed. Also check your brake, clutch, and
accelerator pedal to make sure that those holes are sealed. You would be
amazed at how much water, cold air, and noise can enter through a small hole.
When I first bought my bus, I described its sound as being like a dumpster on
wheels. Sealing a bus up is much more effective than layering all the surfaces
with goop, foam, carpet and all sorts of insulation. What helps the most in my
bus is filling it with camping equipment and my family. You wouldn't believe
how much noise a bunch of bodies and sleeping bags can absorb! ;)
 
I will stop rambling.  
 
David Kelly
volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com 

 

From: Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>


Hi Tim,

I am not an expert on insulating buses, but I do deal with insulation as a
General Contractor/Architect. I have been reading a lot about the different
types so insulation, and have used the open cell type on a few projects(as
well as rigid board, ayr-foil, blow in cellulose, and others).

The rigid foam insulation is just that -rigid. I have been told-no
experience here-just been told by guys that install, that the rigid stuff is
super rigid. Your bus will twist and torque way more than a traditional
building. This could potentially cause it to pop off what it has been
adhered to. Again, I have not witnessed this, just been told about this from
a few sources in the industry. Maybe it is not true, and is merely a myth.

As for a vapor barrier-depending on the thickness of the insulation-here is
some info I just recently read in JLC:
"Whether or not foam insulation requires an additional vapor retarder
depends on the foam being used and its thickness, the climate." Closed cell
foam has a permeance averaging about 1.5 per inch, so as the average
temperature goes down, more foam thickness is needed to keep the temperature
inside the wall   or cavity above the dew-point and minimize the potential
for condensation inside the assembly"
