Date: Mon, 20 Sep 2010 09:38:11 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: Spray foam

I'm with Nate here.  Anyone who does body work has run across this at some
point.  It is a royal PITA nightmare to go back and do work later.  If for no
other reason than the fact that when even the residue left after you scrape it
all away burns with noxious fumes.  (BTW, go looking for a true "fire rated"
foam to fireblock your bus/house, they are marginally better only then regular
foams at best.)  And you will be going back to do work later, even with closed
cell foam, rust is going to form.
 
Now as to using reflectix, that is a bit vague as well.  Neat product for
sure.  Even here in AK I've lined my panel style garage doors with it and saw
a real benefit using a thermal digital camera.  But, it isn't truely
insulation is the problem.  In of itself it has little R value.  It derives it
benefit of an "effective" R value by creating an air gap and then in addition
has reflective value. Neat product, but real insulation if you are sitting in
the north.  Not really.  To me as always, closed cell foam with mylar facing
is optimal, but even that is imaginary, because your real loss it out all
of your single glazed windows.  Did they ever make double glazed plastic ones
in bus sizes like the euro vanagon onese?
 
Don't get me wrong, anything will help, but only so much.  As far as
insulation value, undoubtedly closed cell spray foam would be maximal, but the
maximal nightmare would preclude me in any bus I really cared about.  For a
run it in the winter beater, sure I could always just cover the outside with
fiberglass or bedliner later and never worry about the body again.
 
John

--- On Mon, 9/20/10, nate(-at-)aircooledtech.com <nate(-at-)aircooledtech.com> wrote:

While spray foam may be the choice of some, all I can say is that you
had better be prepared to do all your own work on your bus in the
future.  I had a bus in my shop here with a spray foamed interior.
There's no way I'm touching that bus.  It makes the simplest of jobs a
nightmare because the foam gets into everything.  As Murphy's Law
dictates, everything that can go wrong will go wrong UNDER THE FOAM!!
