Date: Tue, 28 Sep 2010 10:05:30 +0200
From: Timo Schairer <timo.schairer(-at-)googlemail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: New engine success story (longish)

Hello all,
here's the complete story of my engine woes and the solution to it to
anyone interested:
Some of you might recall that my bus ('78 with a 2.0liter engine) was
running *way* too hot (DakotaDigital CHT gauge with sender placed
under spark plug no. 3 showing CHTs of more than 400F already at 60
mph on level ground). I've been trying to resolve this issue by
rebuilding and rejetting the carbs, installing a collector style
exhaust along with a wideband lambda sensor, checking fuel pressure
and amount and so on.
Testing the bus on a dyno resulted in only 57hp. Taking into account
that I'm using already larger valves which should get me to around
80-85hp this was *very* bad.
Splitting the case showed that the cam was worn down to a lift of
3.5mm from a 7-8mm spec (carburated 2.0liter engine). This means total
lift was reduced by 50% resulting in extremely reduced valve timings
(late opening, low lift, early closure).
The engine builder offered two quotes, one for a mostly stock rebuild,
and a second one with a bit more power (external oil cooler, better
cam, followers, slightly higher compression, Porsche 914
cylinders/pistons and balanced rods, crank, flywheel, pressure plate
and fan). I've gone the expensive route (6700$) and I am extremely
pleased with the engine. It has no standard oil cooler, but instead a
huge full flow thermostat with heavy duty rubber oil lines that were
routed through special grommets in the cross members to a location
right in front of the front axle and fitted to a huge external oil
cooler. Of course, the all new sheet metal was modified to block the
standard oil cooler opening and all the flaps were removed.
You can see some pictures here:
http://picasaweb.google.com/timo.schairer/NewEngine
Again, the bus was put on a dyno to assure that the carbs are doing a
good job. Revving it up to 5000RPM first resulted in a big bang when
the dizzy finger with RPM limiter disintegrated. LOL. The engine now
has 92hp and man, it is a pleasure to drive the bus. It's a totally
different beast and for the first time in the last 5 or 6 years I'm
truly happy with it: I can drive the bus fully loaded with camping
gear and two persons at 75mph with oil temps of 185F and CHTs of 356F
(on a holiday trip in Italy with outside temps of 80F). Max speed is
around 84mph, but cruising at 70mph feels best. I can rev it up to
5000RPM and leave behind all the diesel vanagons at the stop light :-)
Thanks for all the input to this and happy driving!
Cheers,
Timo
78 westy
84 beetle (bus pics: http://picasaweb.google.de/timo.schairer)
