Date: Sun, 3 Oct 2010 13:11:54 +1300
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] Question concerning timing

Max Bronsema described a successful tuning of his 1600dp, and then asked:
>
>
>With the point gap now proper and my vacuum advance diaphragm working
>well is it safe to add a bit more timing to the engine  ... can a 
>very small point gap lead to pinging?



My approach to these issues is, crudely:

1.  What matters most is when the points open  -  commonly called the 
spark timing.

2.  That timing is arranged at different rpm by your SVDA distributor.


Max was also anxious about dwell meter v.  points gap.:
>  I reset the points on my aircooled.net SVDA to .016 with a feeler 
>gauge.  Previously, I had just used my dwell meter.  Well, my dwell 
>meter reads 42 degrees, not 50 like I expect at a proper points gap.

3.  Given the proper spark timing, the dwell meter is probably better 
than the max points gap as a way of arranging the fraction of the 
cycle during which the points are closed; after all, that latter is 
what the dwell meter measures, and it does so while the engine is 
running, whereas the points gap is a static measurement which can 
take no account of other influences on the dwell (worn dizzie cam, 
loose dizzie drive-shaft bearings, ...).  Our autoelectronics expert 
Jon Syder may chime in here, but I suspect a dwell meter is more like 
an all-or-none device, either working correctly or failing 
drastically; I would trust your dwell meter ahead of your feeler 
guage.


4.  Some experienced mechanics are not primarily concerned with any 
numbers, but time an engine 'empirically' so that it will, barely, 
ping when fed more fuel than it can handle  i.e  the throttle is way 
'ahead' of the rpm.  This test is less easy on our vehicles because 
the engine just purrs away near-inaudibly in the far rear and minor 
pinging may be hard to hear.  An assistant riding in the rear will 
improve ping-detection.   Numbers such as Max quotes are intended to 
bring about that state of spark timing.  Unless you're on some 
ultra-highoctane fuel, you should be able to provoke your engine to 
ping slightly by opening the throttle too far.  If you can do that 
over a wide range of rpm, your spark timing is right.


-- 
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600dp Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
