Date: Sat, 2 Oct 2010 22:58:22 -0700 (PDT)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Question concerning timing

I agree with those, Robert and others, that prefer dwell meters.  I have yet
to see one fail and they can be had for next to nothing from used equipment
sellers.  They are not used on modern vehicles with electronic ignition.  The
main issue with checking the points gap using gages is that the points rarely
come together square, nor are completely flat; so they are hard to gap
correctly.  Round feeler gages help, but there is often some metal transfer
because of the arc.  Old school was to stone the points flat and check for
contact with blue.  Naturally with offshore manufacturing bringing parts costs
down, and current labor costs, that is not done any more.  Still pays to look
and tweak adjust new points until they meet across their full width.  Easily
done before you put them in the dizzy.  I will admit that recent experiences
with FLAPS points have left me puzzeled as to their short life.   I work on a
'79 that has had one complete points
 arm failure, and needs adjustments every 500 miles or so.  I used to get
years of service out of points, with small adjustments and cam lube at
reasonable intervals.  If I had a points Type IV I would do my best to take
John Anderson's advice and seek out a Vanagon electronic ignition set up. 
Mine, in my Vanagon, has been extremely reliable and needs only a timing
check, no adjustments.

I have done the ping test, as Robert describes, many times, and the results
were satisfactory.  It was standard procedure in the generation of (NZ)
mechanics that my father belonged to, and he had a rep as an accomplished
tuner.  However, since buying an adjustable timing timing light, I find that
more repeatable.  It's certainly way faster.  I'm not sure that the oxygenated
fuel blends, that we have to suffer with, are as amenable to the ping
technique either.  That is just a personal observation.  I have used the ping
test more recently, my timing light was in another state, and was unhappy with
my personal results.

I think the knowledge base is so much broader now, and we know where in the
operating regime that timing is critical.  We have reasonably priced equipment
to measure timing and advance curves at those RPM's, rather than just static
timing.  Pretty much a life or death issue with air-cooled engines.  $80 seems
like a good deal for something to make that adjustment easy and precise. Less
than 2 large combo pizzas and a six pack at my local place.
http://harborsidepizza.com/

http://www.sears.com/shc/s/p_10153_12605_00914066000P?prdNo=14&blockNo=14&blo
ckType=G14

jon

"Always remember that you often find outstanding people among those you don't
particularly like." Soichiro Honda
