Date: Tue, 5 Oct 2010 18:03:24 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] Blown wheel cylinder/castellated nut removal

On the fronts, over the years many things proffered (in the manuals) from
actual play settings with a dial gage, to others.  To me you snug a bit snug
to seat things (such that you can't move the washer with mild application of a
scredriver to it) then back off, then snug till the washer just barely floats
under the nut, with a gentle application of a scredriver to its edge to move
it.  On a bus this is easy, you pick it as such and cinch the split nut, on
the rear of most VW and other FWD cars with castellated nuts you have to pick
a spot and split the difference.  I use a good moly based synthetic grease in
fronts myself.  To me low mile quality German, US, or Japanese bearings, far
preferable to E European then to Chinese in that order, so on a bus that
hasn't seen 40k miles in the last 15 years, I wouldn't jump to replace, just
clean well and repack.  Moly greases did not use to be compatible with lithium
based (wheel bearing) greases but more
 so now.
 
Rears are a different matter and a royal, royal PITA to change, and must be
torqued to spec for proper preload.  Presumeably only good FAG or similar
bearing available, but it's been several years since I've done a set to know
availability.  The Vanagon brakes are a good idea, and have me wondering if EV
drum brakes (which I've put on a Vanagon) would indeed fit on a bus, as they
are a tad more area, and do fit in a 14" rim.
 
Hmmn
John

--- On Tue, 10/5/10, Eron Crites <emcrites(-at-)msn.com> wrote:



with a screwdriver to make sure you haven't overtightened the locknut.  I
have
had to replace the rears due to previous owner and bad mechanics(my brother).
Doing a bad job(after a cylinder blowout) on repacking the bearings (my
brother) damaged the bearings and he failed to torque the nut properly, which
caused play in the assembly which wasted the stub-axle.  Needless to say,
