Date: Thu, 2 May 2002 23:02:47 -0400 (EDT)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To:  <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Ohwa tagoo Siam!

So anyhow, there we were, 13 jolmsvikings and assorted hangers-on, naked
as jaybirds, awalkin' down the road to court...  (Oh, wait... wrong
story!)

Anyhow, I have been having this growl going in my trans for a while.
worst at slack throttle, there on deceleration, gone on acceleration and
bad while sitting at a light.  Also growly in the turns, by times.  Now,
except for the growl at the light, these are all pretty classic symptoms
of a dying CV, OK?  So by times I would crawl under the V'gon and shake
'em but felt no real up/down play (OK, a bit, but not bad bad)

At this point I decided, lazy scut that I am, to adopt a "wait and see"
attitude.  First, I don't have time, second, I have a fresh half-shaft and
a freshly rebuilt rear bearing housing in the back of the bus.  It wasn't
going to be a pleasant replacement by the side of the road, but hell, it
just isn't a pleasant replacemnt, and at least the shoulder is paved... my
alley is not :-)

Tonight, I got bit, finally  (after a trip to greensboro (500 miles RT)
and a trip to Atlanta (~1200 RT (came back via Doc Ric's place)) with no
trouble, but increasing noise.  anyhow, I am headed for the local stip
mall and I get a POP as I pull in and cannot shift at *all*!  Can't even
move the shift lever...

OK, time to fix it, whatever it is.....

It turns out the bolt thru the bushing at the front of the trans had
fallen out!!!!

The only thing holding the engine and trans into the car was the shifter
rod!!!!

Anyway, I ran the jack under the trans, jacked it back into place and
stuck a screwdriver thru the hole (I don't know the diameter, but the
length must be 60-70 mm)  that got me home, and i will inspect it further
in the morning.

A *lot* of the buzz went away after that, but I still have some... I may
have damaged the poor trans :-(

Just in case you thought anyone was perfect :-)

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail

