Date: Fri, 08 Mar 2002 11:34:32 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] what kind of battery (for auxillary)

At 06:27 AM 3/8/2002, Theodore Reshetiloff wrote:

>Big batteries are nice but they are heavy as hell, and will take a long
>time to recharge.  AGM's are nice too.

Ain't it the truth.  I love talking about this subject but I'll try to keep 
it short.  :-)  I've always been big on independence, and part of that is 
not having to camp at places that have electricity.  Running an electric 
fridge, lights, computer, etc. for more than one day without plugging in is 
a challenge.

I started out with two of the group 27 RV/Marine "deep cycle" batteries 
(240 amp-hours total), which are a compromise design.  They typically last 
about two years, somewhat longer if they are made by Johnson 
Controls.  Then I tried a pair of 6V Trojan golf cart batteries (220 
amp-hours total).  They have lasted 5 years now and are still performing 
reasonably well thanks to their true deep-cycle design.  I have them inside 
the bus but am careful not to charge or discharge them rapidly without 
having air moving through the bus (they emit fumes).

Recently I bought several AGM (Absorbed Glass Mat, aka starved electrolyte) 
batteries.  Some are Hawker 52 amp-hour and some are Dynasty 127 
amp-hour.  They are ex-telecom UPS batteries and can be found all over if 
you look.  I may use one or more of these in the bus in place of the golf 
cart batteries to eliminate the maintenance and increase safety.  They are 
competely sealed and can be mounted in any position.  The downside is that 
they are heavy.  The Dynastys are 95 lbs each!  Two of them would put out 
slightly more power than the pair of golf-cart batteries but would weigh 
nearly twice as much (this is typical).  I don't care about the weight as 
much as I used to though.  I can hide the AGM batteries wherever I want 
(I'm even considering underneath, between the frame rails) for good weight 
balance and then forget about them.

To sum it all up, there is no perfect solution.  You need to figure out how 
much power you need and then decide which is the best battery for your 
application.  Here is a quick list of advantages and drawbacks of each 
kind, as I see it:

RV/Marine Deep Cycle:
    Pros
       Inexpensive
       Best power-to-weight ratio
    Cons
       Short service life
       Flooded - have to vent when charging and maintain electrolyte

Golf Cart/Forklift (true deep cycle):
    Pros
       Relatively inexpensive
       Long service life
       Good power-to-weight ratio
    Cons
       Flooded - see above

Gel/AGM:
    Pros
       Completely sealed and maintenance free
       Can be bought used in good condition
    Cons
       Expensive when new
       Low power-to-weight ratio

In addition, you should consider the Peukerts effect, which has to do with 
the varying capacity of a battery based on the rate of discharge.  Flooded 
batteries are poor in this respect compared to Gel/AGM batteries.  In other 
words, if you are regularly drawing large amounts of current from your 
batteries (say, running a microwave from your 1,000 watt inverter), flooded 
batteries will produce much less total power than their amp-hour rating 
implies.  If you don't regularly draw more than 5 or 10 amps, it's probably 
not an important consideration (but it's why most electric cars do not use 
flooded batteries).

Some recommendations,
If light weight is of primary importance, go with floodeds.
If cost is of primary importance, go with floodeds or used AGMs
If safety and convenience is of primary importance, go with AGMs.
If you have high-current applications, go with AGMs.

-David

