Date: Fri, 8 Mar 2002 10:05:50 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: stevo <stevo(-at-)efn.org>
Subject: Re: Why can't people fix things right

friday!  (if it was firday i'd be on a chainsaw :) my 68 double cab was
found 500 miles away, in the trash, loaded with trash, rotting. its nose
was smashed in beyond repair. after towing it home i found a rust-free
replacement nose/floor combo and had that cut-off and welded in
immediately. the rear cargo floor was really raw, but time and funds being
what they were, i did a POR15 putty/paint thing. not the preferred route.
my family lives below the financial radar - lots of bartering. then there's
time: we homeschool two children (the oldest sings whisky in the jar, the
youngest is screaming for coffee...nnn-nah), work at a non-profit housing
development corporation, design and sell ceramics, and own and maintain our
house and its in-law rental unit. throw in time at junkyards every week to
keep up with incredible rising rates of incoming-into-crushed buses.  i
figure i can nearly build another double cab out of boxed parts, just bring
me a chassis, or better yet, straight clean gates. stop back in thirteen
years, it'll be half done.

this month, i have my 1.8l in pieces (now waiting to get into the
machinist), but when a rare windstorm comes like it did four weeks ago, i
drop everything to find, haul, cut, split, and stack three cords of wet
oak, because we only have woodstove heat, and there's no space to leave
timber lying around the property because we ripped up the lawn and planted
food! that kind of 'drop everything' happens real often. opportunities
falling on us all the time. ergo pickup truck. then, when there's a break,
and my vw buds don't need me with info i've learned from this blessed list,
i can deal with the rusty rockers and the leaking seam in the pickup bed,
weather permitting. will it be done right?? throughtout this time, i turn
up the dead... doesn't everybody, and my heavens to betsy look at that bus
pilot doing that early truckin' jam thing
http://www.efn.org/~stevo/dad782.jpg.... who has my phil nye to help move
along during rocker repairs? tradja stickers!

>Anyone ever try to bring back a deahhead Bus?

any deadhead quad the value of a bus?  - steve


