Date: Fri, 8 Mar 2002 21:59:31 -0500 (EST)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To:  <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Front Axle Beam - Welds on torsion leaves.

Volks,

Yet another round in finishing the front axle beam installation, with much
grunting and hammering and very little (forward) progress.  So far, the
old beam is off, the new beam is on and the thru-beam stuff (brakes,
shifte, clutch cable, etc.) is back on.  Today was supposed to be putting
the trailing arms and steering gear back together.  Seven hours later, I
have the upper arms on.  Tho they are much more difficult to get off/on
than the lowers, they are usually *not* this kind of a problem.  Read
on...

When we removed the torsion leaves from Jeff Stewart's old beam, the welds
had popped on both sets.  Since John was there with his arc welder, he ran
a bead of weld back across one end of each set.  At the time, it seemed a
wise thing to do.  It certainly made inserting the set thru the center
fixture in the beam a whole lot easier to have all the leaves welded
together Today, however, I ran into a serious down-side to this.  As a
result, in the strongest possible terms, let me say:

If you re-weld the leaves of a set of torsion springs, make *sure* the
weld is confined to the end face!  If you get *any* weld on the leaves,
even a little tiny bit... It is gonna cause you immense grief later!

Because we had run the set of leaves past the center fixture, I thought I
was home free and that the weld was confined to the ends of the leaves.
When I went to put the trailing arms on this proved not to be the case.
Little fillets of weld had crept into the corners of the steps in the
differennt widths of leaves and I could *not* get the trailing arms
started on the welded ends!  There may also have been a tiny alignment
problem, I don't know.  One thing for certain, weld is harder than a
hardened file.  I attacked with a Sears triangular file for half an hour
and made no discernable progress :-(

I finally gave up, removed the torsion set from the beam and replaced it
with the set from the beam I had removed.  The welds on this set were
broken and installation in the beam was, as a reult, a choice slice of
hell but I did get all the leaves thru, eventually.

I am torn.  On the one hand, it is FAR easier to get a welded set into the
beam, on th eother, this does you no good if you can't get the trailing
arms onto them.  I guess I still reccommend welding, but I warn you... BE
CAREFUL!  the tolerances are *very* tight. Grind off the sides and corners
to be sure the end will slip on.  And try a trailing arm for size/fit
before you install the torsion set in the beam!

On a last, and semi-humorous note... the garage I am working in is all of
two feet wider than the bus.  The torsion set is three feet long.  Angling
that set in and out was its own little slice of pain, fersure!

When I speak my requirements in a house, I start with, "Well, a heated,
eight foot tall, two car garage..." and go on from there.  Y'all will
understand.  My non-VW friends, especially the female ones, just don't get
it for some reason :-)

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail

