Date: Sat, 9 Mar 2002 20:00:52 -0500 (EST)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To:  <Deadfoot13(-at-)aol.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Deadheads and engine compartment door

On Sat, 9 Mar 2002 Deadfoot13(-at-)aol.com wrote:

> Since it is no longer Friday, here is my legitimate post: how important is it
> for my engine compartment door (the outside one) to seal completely?  The PO
> was rear-ended and we have straightened it as much as possible but the door
> does not seal tight.  There is a small gap towards the bottom on each side of
> the door (replaced, so it is straight) if you push it shut far enough to
> latch.  Will this affect how it runs?

Tracy,

It would be very nice if it sealed, especially at high speeds (65... OK,
high speed in a bus :-)  Why takes a bit of a history lesson.

Splitties had cooling slots punched into the rear corner sheet metal, with
nothing protruding.  Aftermarket suppliers provided "ram scoops" that
forced air travelling along the bus into the engine compartmnet, where the
fan picked up the now-pressurized air and fed it thru the engine to cool
it.  In an air cooled engine, more air is a good thing :-)

In 1968, VW showed their approval of this idea by incorporating the "ram
scoops" into the sheet metal.  Note that the upper rear corners with the
air collection slots now stick out from the body!

At the same time, anyone who has driven their bus with the rear hatch open
knows that a large area of low pressure develops behind the bus when it is
doing any speed.  If your engine door is open or will not close, then all
the extra air that is collected by the "ram scoops" built into your bus'
body gets sucked into this vacuum zone which means ess air to the engine
and less air is a bad thing!

The seal on the door is there for the same reason as the seal around the
engine, and for a good a reason.  To the maximum extent possible, you want
to seal air into the upper part of the engine compartment until it is
sucked into the fan.

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail


