From: "Forhan, Thomas" <Thomas.Forhan(-at-)mail.house.gov>
To: "'vintagebus(-at-)type2.com'" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, "'type2(-at-)type2.com'"
Date: Sun, 1 Dec 2002 10:38:11 -0500 
Subject: 14 days?

Bryan,

If that is the timeframe, I hate to say it, but take the Passat, because you
are going to want to make lots and lots  of miles each day you are driving. 

If its Indians and Redwoods you want to see, the Redwoods are really up more
toward the bay area, not classic southern cal. 

My initial recommendation included lots of native american sites, both
modern and old, starting around Taos. Someone else mentioned Mesa Verde Nat
Park which is on my recommended route between Durango and Cortez. Also, if
you take  "detour" route west of Cortez you can also visit Hovenweep Natl
Monument, its a little north of the Ismay Trading post at the Utah-Colo
border on McElmo Canyon Road. 

Given your time constraints and adding redwoods o the mix - which is a great
idea- here is my revised routing, all the same until you get to Flagstaff: 

From Flagstaff, take I40 east to Barstow where you pick up 58 west through
the Central Valley until it ends just north of San Luis Obispo. .ake the
short trip over to Morro Bay and Route 1, the coast highway; there are a
couple or three obvious routes, all interesting. 

Head north on 1 toward Big Sur and, as time allows, the Bay Area. 

Coming back, pickup 50 at Sacramento, and take it across Nevada -its called
the forgotten highway. 50 joins up with 70 in Utah, if pressed for time take
it to Denver and St. Louis, where you can start heading south east toward
SC. 

If you still have time though, stay on 50, dropping a little south of I70 at
Grand Junction, and visit Black Canyon of the Gunnison, unbelievable place,
and two orders of magnitude less tourists than Grand Canyon. Continue east
on 50, don't miss the little arts/whitewater town of Salida CO. Once out of
the mountains at Pueblo, think about heading south to pick up I40 whenever
you get bored with 50, which I will bet will be somewhere around Dodge City
Kansas, a good place to say goodbye to the west. 

Good luck

Tom F.
Thomas Forhan
