From: "Forhan, Thomas" <Thomas.Forhan(-at-)mail.house.gov>
To: "'Derek Drew'" <derekdrew(-at-)rcn.com>, VANAGON(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM,
Date: Tue, 3 Dec 2002 14:40:09 -0500 
Subject: RE: [Syncro] Visser From SA to Attend Mid Atlantic Bus Van Fest

This is great news, but I want to make a point of order, as we say in my
biz:

Derek is pulling my leg because he knows very well that the stone walls
around my house are all dry laid stone (no mortar). While I am sure they
would not be much of an obstacle, it is because my mighty syncro would drive
through the walls, not over them! And no, I won't be doing it!

Looks like we will have good representation by all the major food groups:
splitties, breadloafs and vanagon. I haven't heard form any EVs, but lots of
people decide to come at the last minute, which is fine by us.

Tom F.

-----Original Message-----
From: Derek Drew [mailto:derekdrew(-at-)rcn.com]
Sent: Tuesday, December 03, 2002 12:30 PM
To: VANAGON(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM; Syncro(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Subject: [Syncro] Visser From SA to Attend Mid Atlantic Bus Van Fest


This email is to let everybody know that we have a distinguished guest from
South Africa, Jan Visser, planning to attend Tom Forhan's house near
Washington DC this coming Saturday for the Mid Atlantic holiday fest from
1:30 to 5:30pm.

In addition, guests can check out Tom's Syncro with large impressive mud
tires and 6.17 final drive gears. Tom will also be demonstrating how this
vehicle can actually drive over his waist-high stone wall at the event.

I will be driving Jan over and then he has to get back to the airport by
about 3:30 so he will have to leave a little early--probably about 2:30--so
you if you want to pick his brain you may want to show up promptly to this
event, which starts at 1:30pm. 

For anybody on the fence about whether to show up, this is your chance to
mob a real South African expert. 

Jan is one our most knowledgeable syncroists, very sophisticated, and an
impressive writer. 

I will also be making a preview announcement of vital importance to any
owner of a Vanagon or Syncro regarding a technical advance that has been
achieved to strengthen Vanagon and Syncro transmissions and prepare them for
longer life and for use with stronger motors. I should have a full report on
this matter to post to the list in the next two weeks. In my view, after the
implications of this material is understood here in North America, there
will be few owners who would willingly have their transmission rebuilt
without implementing some specific changes inside the box, particularly if
they ever contemplate putting in larger torque motors.  If you are thinking
of having your transmission rebuilt in the next few days, you may wish to
wait before proceeding with that job until you hear the full story. The
applicability of this information is to the rear unit only and does not
affect the front differential.

Please remember that rude or offensive language is not allowed on the Syncro
list. Please try your best to resolve differences privately and keep them
off the list.
