From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 3 Sep 2003 11:46:41 -0500 
Subject: Re: CV joints on VW Bus: changing the allen key 

	Great & Wondrous List:

	Snoopy opined thusly:  "...So anyone know a good substitute for the
grease (something available from Advance) and an easy way to inject once the
boot is already on???"

	Unfortunately, I don't know of a good substitute for grease that's
available from Advance, but some moons (4 years and 60K miles ago to be
exact) I got tired of having all my CV joint grease pretty much running out
like thin sn*t after the 30K service interval.  I took a flier on some of
the Swepco moly grease at about $10-11 a tube from those expensive Porsche
parts suppliers (or was it Kymco?) that all the Porsche peoples pimp, rave
and rant about.  I popped another boot just recently, so I figured it was
probably time to clean and repack the CVs - checking the '72 Weekender's
service record I realized it had been 4 years and 60K miles on that Swepco!
Yikes!

	It was STILL kind of sort of a semi-solidiferous, unlike the
run-of-the-mill FLAPS grease I have used in years past.  The CVs had about
20K miles on them as new, originally lubed with FLAPS style grease, when I
cleaned and repacked them with the Swepco.  All the CV innards were looking
pretty much exactly the way they were at the Swepco repack; no appreciable
wear on top of what had occurred in the first 20K.  One of the advantages of
the Swepco (IMHO) is that it appears to stay stuck to what it is supposed to
be lubricating, so if you pop a boot ALL your grease doesn't go flying away.

	Last time I had my Dad pick some up from the VW-friendly FLAPS he
frequents down in Escondido, CA - sticker was $8.99 a toob!  I've seen it on
the Pelican Parts web-page, and way back when Automotion (bought up by
Performance Products) used to advertise in their catalogs too.  More
expensive than the FLAPS grease, but it gets this bus pilot's Big Thumb Up
(tm) stamp of approval...

	Jim Hayden
	Greasy Fingers Plucking Not-So Shabby CVs
	www.savethebays.org
