From: "aircooled chris" <midwestbass(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: cr(-at-)midwestbass.com
Date: Wed, 03 Sep 2003 15:25:44 -0700
Subject: FS : 76 westy / spare parts / tools/ PICS up

http://shop.vendio.com/ChristopherCS/item/615155281/index.html

This is a 76 Westfalia for sale. I have a literal TON of spare bus stuff 
that can go along with it.

There are a few interested partys, but I nobody has confirmed as of yet, so 
I would like to continue
to get the word out and see who might be interested.

I want to get rid of the lot of it. This means all of the collectible little 
stuff to.

I want $1,000 for it all.

That includes the bus itself, and the following (this is only a VERY partial 
list)

dash clock
wood wolfsburg shifter extension
white vw logo mudflaps
nose mount (rare version that puts the hubcap side facing out!) for spare
brand new sunvisors
brand new driver side mirror (black)
brand new oil cooler
brand new throwout bearing
12V bilge blower to aid in the heat, comes on with regular dash lever
new front door seals (have not been installed on bus yet)
new eng compartment seal
new poptop canvas (gold) and seal (both installed)
locking engine compartment
one key fits all doors, all door and locks working
all original camper equipment, minus childs cot
(table, screen, cabinets/etc)
hardwood floor
Bosch driving lights
and all sorts of spare parts and maintenence items like
6 air filters, 1 oil filter (both mahle) spare plug wires,
new set of plugs (not installed obviousley) new oil screen,
valve cover gaskets. 21 inch SUV jack w/stands. (do have original
jack, but its worthless)
two new tires on the bus already, one brand new spare.
1 year old batter and deep cycle battery. (hella dual batter kit installed)
burg dipstick sender
not installed VDO for VOLT and oil temp
extra accelerator and clutch cable

I think you get the idea. Ive been on this list for 4 years now, and have 
picked up a nice collection of stuff.

I want someone to use this van, I do not want to part it out.
That is why im willing to take so (what I feel) little for what all you get 
here.

It needs body work and the motor is caput. Add to that a boot for one of the 
balljoints just ripped,
and the steering dampner is unmounted (the stupid towtruck did these latter 
two)

PLEASE email me at cr(-at-)midwestbass.com, or make sure to leave the [t2] in the 
subject or I wont
receive it.

Christopher
76 Westfalia "jasper"
