From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu'" <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>,
Cc: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 4 Sep 2003 11:56:14 -0500 
Subject: Re: [T2] cam gear numbers - anyone?!

Mike, Dave, & Esteemed List:

All the cam #s I've ever seen are stamped on the gear - IIRC (and don't hold
me to this) they are on the "non-oil pump" side.  About 2 years back, Bob
Hoover actually penned an outstanding series of articles in (of all things)
VW Trends about checking the cam gear / crank gear backlash.  Again, IIRC
the amount should be something between 0.000 - 0.002"...  If I understood
Bob's articles correctly, the "plus, zero, minus" thing is the method used
to compensate for machining tolerances between the centerline of the bores
for the crankshaft and camshaft by changing the diametrical pitch of the cam
gear teeth.  In a perfect world, we would only need a zero gear, since all
cases would be bored dead-n*ts on the money...Since we don't, the plus and
minus sizes are used to compensate - I'm leaving it at that since my brain
will explode if I get the tolerance / plus-minus thing back-*sswards.  FWIW
- all the T4 cams I've had the presence of mind to seek out the numbers,
seemed to be minus sizes.  YMMV.

	Dave's quickendirty description is the usual method of checking for
those not blessed with a dial indicator.  If at all possible, hang on to the
cam gear which comes out of your core/donor/whatever motor, and especially
so if you happen to be blessed with an un-violated engine; the un-violated
'79 case I used for my 2260cc motor was a -5.  Chances are very good it is
matched system.  Violated engines?  "I don't know..."

	Wasted T4 cams collected at swaps and such for little coin are a
good source of gears, and as was so appropriately pointed out, sources for
new ones are going to be tough.  When cherry-picking gears off said wasted
cams, just watch out for the NON-aluminum ones used on early versions of
T4s, and promise yourself to ONLY use them for checking purposes.  They are
made out of the T1 case mag-alloy, and have been know to self-destruct with
horrible results.  I have one in my collection, a lovely example of the -4
flavor gear, very dark in complexion compared to the shiny aluminum variety.
When I spot faced it, the mag-alloy composition made itself known, and I
"think" it carries a "B" suffix to the p/n, as opposed to the "C" suffix of
the aluminum gears.  Or maybe its "A" and "B" - the point is that the
aluminum gear carries the further down in the alphabet suffix...

	I feel ill everything I think about the worn-out T4 cams I've thrown
out, and even more ill about all the 94mm 2.0L barrels I've pitched.

	Jim Hayden
	Part-time Cam Gearhead ("What's in Yer Junkbox?")
	www.savethebays.org
