From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 24 Oct 2002 11:53:51 -0500
Subject: Sad, Sad Bus Story

	List:

	I hate having to do this, but I need advice from any California
listees with experience (preferably legal) getting a bus back from A Person
who now appears ready to flee the state with said bus.

	Admins: please bear with me, I believe there IS bus content here,
and if I have transgressed, spank my b*tt and call me Charlie...  I mean
people do post stolen bus reports here, and this is about 1 step from a
stolen bus report.

	The story in a nutshell:  I was asked in good faith to front the
purchase price of a '73 Deluxe, with the promise that I would be repaid once
the bus was finished, and This Person sold their M*zd* truck.  I was also
ask to front the costs of much of the initial interior restoration, and the
actual physical work involved.  Approximately, 4-5 months into the project
and about 2/3 complete on the restoration, This Person came up short on
making their rent and other bills, sold the M*zd* truck, used the proceeds
to pay their other obligations, and left me (and my nuts) twisting in the
wind...

	Because the '73 was not really in a place to be ready to be driven
so soon and This Person needed a daily driver, more money had to be farmed
into the project - ultimately becoming quite a nice little machine, if I do
say so myself...  In keeping with the traditional $5,000 bus price as
advocated by The List, I now find myself in the position of having about
$4,000 invested into the '73.  I have endeavored to come to an understanding
with This Person, that I need some kind of guarantee to cover my exposure
here, and discussions over the subject invariably result in foul language
being exchanged, usually WRT to my parentage (or alleged lack thereof).

	This Person has now intimated that they intend to leave the state
for Oregon on a "vacation" to visit some family.  I've have asked for some
guarantee (i.e. sign over the pink, but leave undated...), you know,
something in good faith to leave me with a warm fuzzy that my investment is
not going to disappear into the PNW like DB Cooper.

	I need some solid advice here, folks, please leave the lecturing to
my Dad...  I'm on digest and any advice should probably go off list.  What
LEGAL options do I have here?  Time is of the essence here - the drop dead
departure date is within a couple of days!

	TIA

	Jim Hayden
	www.savethebays.org - see pics (bay window extravaganza) of the VWTs
Charity Cruise at the site
	"I usta be amused, but now I'm just disgusted..."  
