Date: Fri, 25 Oct 2002 10:52:21 +1000
To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
From: Steve  Overmyer <s.overmyer(-at-)uws.edu.au>
Subject: Pre-ignition and resulting carb problems

Hi Guys,

Yesterday I had a rather savage bout of "running on" when I switched off
my '76 Double Cab after a reasonably short drive.
Small bouts happen occasionally,especially in warm weather,when using
unleaded -fuel....but this was an unusually big one.
Normally I alternate between unleaded and the lead replacement
fuel we have here in Oz,but I don't use LRP consistantly as I have found it
clogs up the carb jets...at least on my truck.

Previous to this it has been running beautifully with the carbs well balanced
and literally as smooth under the accelerator as a FI model...

Anyway...after this episode the engine is now running rough and won't idle
at all.It starts OK but will die unless you pump the pedal and continue to
do so.I can drive it...I had to,to get home,but it is down on power and is
inclined to rev and die as I depress or lift off the accelerator pedal.

Symptoms are very much like if one choke is closed and the other is open.
All plug leads are still attached,chokes are both open and wires to them
are still connected...as is all the other tubes going to/from the carbs and
air filter box.Both linkages are still connected to the carbs too.
These were the first things I checked by the side of the road...

So....
I'm wondering if the backfire thru the carbs has stuck one of the floats open
or closed and one carb is flooding...feels like that..or maybe an accelerator
pump is damaged? Sound like somewhere to start?
I won't have a moment to look at this untill Sunday so any suggestions
in advance gratefully received...

The engine in question is a Type4 2.0l with original twin solexes.Also has
Compufire ignition so it can't be a points thing...

TIA...
Steve O
Blue Mountains NSW (currently smothered in bushfire smoke)
Australia
'92 Transporter WBX Kombi
'76 Transporter Double Cab
'68 Beetle
'00 Transporter 5Cyl Double Cab (work truck)
'02 Transporter 5Cyl Double Cab (brand new work truck)
