To: buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org,type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 24 Oct 2002 21:07:34 -0500
From: myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Re: HELP! rear end droning noise-update

very good points, mark. here is the latest...

took the ex with me to get the kids tonight so he could hear the noise,
since you guys cant hear it. anyway, he said it didnt sound like the
wheel bearings, or the CV joints. he said he had heard exhaust leaks that
sounded like that before. ok, when i got rearended in the bug and the
tailpipe rubbed on the rear apron. the thing is, whether the car was
rolling or parked, if you revved the engine, the tailpipe would vibrate
against the body at certain RPMs... this noise isnt like that. sittin in
the driveway, revving the engine, it doesnt make the noise. he also said
it could be out of oil but i just checked and it is fine.

one thing i forgot to mention before is that it has been running rough at
low RPMs lately, like when my intake manifold was loose. i had a loose
exhaust manifold a couple months ago, but it wasnt ANYTHING like this
droning noise... could be why the engine is running so rough and
backfiring a little, but i dont believe (could be wrong, as i dont know
anything) that it is the cause of the droning noise...

well, here is what i did later tonight, without the ex (how much does he
know about VWs, anyway?)
i hear the noise at 25+ now
i was going about 35 or so and let off the clutch... still heard it, just
not as loud. also let off the gas and the noise lessened, but didnt go
away. when i am driving (foot ON gas pedal) it makes the drone, when i
push harder in short bursts, it is loud til i let off the pedal. i think
the noise fades more when i let off the gas than the clutch. what
suprises me about it all is that the droning noise came so suddenly. it
wasnt doing it 15 minutes earlier. a week ago i was hearing a squeeky
sort of noise, like when unlubricated metal ball rolls on unlubricated
metal surface. could be something was dry and now it is giving out... any
thoughts on ANY of this rambling?

first thing in the morning we are going to check out the wheel bearings,
CV joints and the fan obstruction that someone suggested. we will also
check the intake and exhaust manifolds to make sure they are tightened
down and change the oil... it's gonna be a LOOOOOONG day!

thanks everyone for your input, i hope this extra info gave anyone better
clues,
chris
70 westy

On Thu, 24 Oct 2002 17:42:03 -0500 "gratefulphisher"
<gratefulphisher(-at-)kc.rr.com> writes:
> kinda sounds like a rear wheel bearing... except for the fact that it 
goes
> away when you let off the gas.  have you ever repacked the REAR  wheel
> bearings?
> I've never had a CV go out on me, but from what I understand they'll 
make a
> ticking noise around turns when they start to faulter.
> I would think that if you were running super low in gearbox oil and 
did
> damage you'd be making a noise at ALL times and shifting would be 
getting
> difficult, but that's not necessarily true (I'm just thinking out  load
> trying to imagine this noise!).
> Does shifting do anything to affect the noise?  Is the noise  constant
no
> matter if the clutch is in or out?
> Hard to diagnose w/o hearing it first hand!
