Date: Fri, 25 Oct 2002 10:37:27 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: ron(-at-)busdepot.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Aircooled Heat inline fan?

>Other options for improving the stock heater include carefully sealing every
>seam in the heating system and adding insulation (basically making the
>system airtight), which will improve the heating capacity noticably (but
>still not always sufficiently for the coldest weather), or putting a cab
>divider (i.e. clear plastic sheeting ;use multiple layers for better
>insulation) behind the drivers seats during the coldest months and letting
>the heater heat only the cab area (for which it is more than sufficient).
>Of course the latter method can be quite cruel to any back seat passengers.

I was hired by a fellow who owns a nice '95 Saab convertible to do a clutch 
cable replacement the other night. Being that I LOVE convertibles I asked 
if I could put the top down when I drove it home. It was 65 degrees so I 
left the windows up, ran the heater and then I discovered the button for 
the heated seats.

WOW! Very, very nice.

I have seen these seat heaters offered on the aftermarket. You slip them 
under the seat cover and then reassemble the seat. I plan to investigate 
adding these to at least the front two seats. Another option would be to 
investigate 12 volt blankets or heating pads. I prefer the heated seats 
though because with all the padding, the heat would more go (I think) to 
the driver rather than being cooled by the surrounding air like the blanket.

Sources for 12 volt warmers: RV and motorcycle catalogs. The motorcycles 
have very small charging systems so you can be sure your bus would power 
the motorcycle accessories just fine.

The RV style and heated seats could overpower the VW charging system if you 
ran too many at low rpms. Add up the loads before you spend your money.

Before anyone asks - because we cover it annually for the newbies - don't 
spend your money on the 12 volt heaters with the tiny fans. I spent that 
$20 and they are junk. I could not heat myself by blowing it on me alone. 
You can't power much from the cigarette lighter.

Think of it this way - try your hairdryer on low outside in the van on a 
cold day. Now imagine about 10% of this much heat.


Chris Mills in TN
