Date: Fri, 25 Oct 2002 10:39:54 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: In line heater blower

I have heard this: if you put a standard bilge blower in-line with the main 
heater tube to boost the air flow you will have two problems.

First is that the fan is plastic and will melt. In fact it states on the 
box that they are only rated for 176 degrees or so. As Stan mentioned the 
heat is MUCH hotter than that.

Second is that the fan will be sucking on the heaters and pipes. That means 
if it is trying to move more air than the boxes and system can supply (fan 
is larger than it needs to be) it will suck outside air into the boxes 
through the seams or any loose pipes. If there are any exhaust leaks then 
exhaust gets sucked into the system and pushed into the cabin. Carbon 
Monoxide poisoning.

By pushing air through the system like the standard VW OEM blower, any 
leaks in the system will leak air out, and it is impossible to get carbon 
monoxide into the heater system if air is leaking OUT unless the fans have 
carbon monoxide around them on the input side of the fan which they should 
not if your exhaust system is in good shape and if the rubber seals are all 
in good shape.

I looked at the systems sold in the VW mags and then took a ride down to my 
local marine (boat) store. They sell the EXACT same blower for $18. They 
come in 3" and 4" diameters. It is made by Atwood. I took two 3" blowers 
off the shelf, paid for them and brought them home.

I plan to disconnect and remove the OEM VW aux blower and replace it with 
the two bilge blowers.

On the suggestion of a list member either on the Vanagon list or the Type 2 
list I will make one blower a recirculation blower - drawing air from the 
bus interior, and the other fan drawing fresh air from above the engine 
like the stock system.

I may add some sort of vacuum solenoid to move a flapper valve to switch 
the recirculation fan from recirc to fresh.

The system will make good heat if it is tight. My '72 Italian spec Super 
Beetle would cook us out of the car even in 20 degree weather with a 1200cc 
motor. We would go snow skiing in the mountains west of Rome often. When we 
finished skiing I would come back to the car, reach in and pump the gas 3 
times to reset the choke, check to the tranny to be sure it was in neutral, 
pull the heater levers full on, and turn the key over. It would fire up and 
idle fast until the choke began backing off and then idle slower. By the 
time we got in the car (changing our wet clothes up front in the trunk) it 
was beginning to warm the interior.

The car was always hot in the summer and this was because the heater 
flappers leaked. I never disconnected the heater pipe though I should have. 
Retrospect is so clear...

I have driven a friend's '78 Westy which was fresh from Arid-zona. It had 
the full stock heater system in good shape and the U-pipes had the outer 
layer of steel intact (the pipes were originally double layered). It made 
so much heat (even in town) my wife actually complained of the heat and 
asked me to turn the heat down. Now that the outer layer of steel has 
rusted away the heat output is substantially less. IMHO the system needs 
more air flow in town to warm the interior. This outer layer could be 
replaced by splitting a new steel U pipe obtained from a muffler shop and 
welding it on the VW U pipe - using the ridge on the U pipe as a seam to 
weld to. Tack welds would be enough.

Also ensure the all the weatherstripping is in good shape. My '78 had a 
constant breeze from the cowl vents and leaky door seals. If I could get my 
system to make heat, it didn't stay around as it was chased out by the cold 
breeze. My van is all new seals, new cowl vent weatherstripping and is 
TIGHT. The Jalouise windows are a HUGE air leak. I rebuilt them and with 
the addition of new rubber they are tight. A local glass shop had a seal on 
hand that is commonly used in storm doors. It slid right in and was correct 
for the job. Check it out!

Good luck and warm bus rides to you.
Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
