Date: Thu, 30 Oct 2003 19:13:03 -0800
To: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] brake switches/DM

At 04:26 PM 10/30/2003, you wrote:
>ONLY if stamped on the part Made In Germany will I
>believe that and who's to say that it is any better then a part made
>elsewhere.

Just cause it's stamped Made in Germany is not enough. The Henco en Mexico 
clutch disks have Made in Germany stamped in the steel parts made there 
then shipped to Mexico for assembly and sticker placement. They are 
inferior assemblies of superb parts. So sad. The fuel filters made in Spain 
by Bosch under German supervision meet the same quality inspections as the 
ones made in Germany. The difference is not where they are made, the 
difference is who's attitude is in control of results. They don't have to 
be made in Germany, they just have to be verified as meeting German 
standards and only a German engineer or someone who listens to them like me 
can tell the difference, and we all say that German engineered parts are 
the best in the world, and have been throughout the 20th century. It not 
what can we get away or get by with, it's vos ist beste for longest 
reliable use.

Let's set up a wager. Rig a bunch of common off the shelf ball bearings on 
a shaft so that all can be equally loaded and spun at the same high rpm. 
You got bearings from all over the world competing. Lay your bets. Mexico 
is 50-1 it will outlast all the others in this torcher test. Germany is 1 
to 5. The others are spread between. Which one do you thing most of the 
engineers with bearing experience in the world will put their money on. 
What about laymen bets. How many will chose the long shots or one of the 
other wannabees at say 3 to 1.

Another. Fill a crab pot with brake cylinders. Toss them in the big pond 
for a coupla weeks. Pull them out and repolish the innards. Whose rotted 
away the least?? Whose will stand the most weeks in the crap pot before 
dissappearing for existance??

My money is on German in both cases, as I have seen many thousands of parts 
and mostly German and have made educated and experienced inspections of 
them all, and I say German parts are worth 2, 3, 4 times as much as any 
others day in and day out if long range least possible cost per mile in 
street use is the standard of beste. If you just need a motor for the 
summer sand rail season, GEX ist beste. That's what they are designed for, 
and of course also for cheapest way to make the Bus move so you can sell it 
with "new motor" in the ads, not keep and use it. You don't want to beat up 
and abuse the better German engine, you just want giggles for the season 
and a grand finale of ca-chunking the motor. HURRAY goes the crowd, let's 
party.
