Date: Thu, 30 Oct 2003 19:26:57 -0800 (PST)
From: Gary McEachern <gdzilla30(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Van FS

I've sold a bunch of bus parts here over the last few
weeks, and although this isn't air cooled, I figured
I'd get the word out in case anyone is interested.



>I put my Syncro up for sale a week or so ago, and
since  I need to sell the van very soon (this week),
I've decided to drop my asking price to $800 OBO. 
It's in driving condition, and was used as a daily
driver up until a month ago when I got another car. 
The biggest quirk is that it's currently using a 2wd
tranny.  I'm selling it with the rebuildable syncro
tranny, a replacement power steering rack, the
driveshaft, skidplates, and a few other little things
included.  It has just under 150k miles and runs
pretty well for its age.  It's got power locks and AC
(which needs recharging).  I put a pair of pretty good
jensen speakers in the front.  The engine runs well
and has pretty good power, although it is a bit tired.
 The clutch is original and will need to be replaced
soon.  The current steering rack leaks a bit, but I'm
selling it with a good replacement.  There is also a
coolant leak on the "t" pipe (looks more like an "H"
on the syncro) which can be bought new for less than
$50.  It has a little bit of body rust, but nothing
too severe.  The interior is in good condition aside
from needing a sliding door skin.  Over the coarse of
owning it, I've replaced:

The rear wheel assemblies and control arms (including
brake slave cylinders)

Idle stablizer control valve

Idle stablizer control module

rear bumper

front headlamps (installed relays too)

coolant pipe from water pump

all bumper caps

tires (continental contacts)

Many other items


As I said before, I need to sell the van this week
because of space restrictions.  I do NOT want to junk
it, seeing as how it's taken me a lot of miles and
it's still a good car (not to mention the nostalgia of
how I came to own it).  I live 10 miles north of
boston, so closer is better.  If interested, make me
an offer.  I need to sell it very soon, so I'll be
willing to make a deal as long as it's going to a good
home.  Even if you don't need a van, you'd get a
working tranny, a rebuildable core tranny, a working
2.1 waterboxer that's rebuildable, decent tires, all
intact glass and electrical components, as well as
most any other part.  My home phone is 781-942-1452. 
If you's rather respond by email rather than phone,
send to lemech(-at-)comcast.net.

If at all interested, let me know right away, because
it will be gone within a week even if no one buys it. 

Thanks
Gary McEachern Jr 

=====
Exclusive Video Premiere - Britney Spears
http://launch.yahoo.com/promos/britneyspears/
