From: Wil Haslup <wil(-at-)charmfx.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 02 Nov 2003 19:19:10 -0400
Subject: Re: short in our bus

Hi Javabus(-at-)aol.com

On 11/02/03, you wrote:

> In May of this year we finally finished restoring our bus and have
> been driving since. The problem is in July the new battery that we
> had installed would not crank the engine over, so back to NAPA we
> went, they checked it and said it was junk and gave us a new one,
> now November, the bus would not crank again. Back to NAPA, another
> dead battery, they replaced it again but said this was it and to
> look for a short that would be draining the battery to this point,
> so my question is how to find shorts. Someone at NAPA said to hook
> up a volt gauge between either the + or - they could'nt remember
> which one and if everything is off and it shows voltage then
> somewhere there is a drain. 

not sure that made any sense.....

I'm not an engineer or electrician so please double check my following
statements and I make no warranties and am not responsible for damages
or loss of life.

; )

if you connect your voltmeter to the positive battery terminal and
connect the other lead to any part of your vehicle that's
grounded...any frame, body panel, any other part that isn't connected
to the positive terminal it should show you 12 volts. 

Connecting a volt meter to a battery will show how many volts its
designed to output under any circumstances.
That won't help you find a short.

Perhaps they meant to use the ohm meter function of most multitester
voltmeters.  This measures resistance to current flow.

Under normal circumstances if everything is off 
you should have infinite resistance if you connect one lead to the
positive terminal of the battery and ground the other to the frame or
even to the negative terminal but I wouldn't recommend that cause its
safer to make your ground connection away from the battery...won't
spark and/or ignite hydrogen fumes which may be around battery.

With nothing on there should be no path for current to find its way
between the two so the ohm meter should not show resistance less than 
at the high end.  If it does its showing that current is flowing
through a component (or more) and the resistance value is that of that
component.

I would think you could use a variation on this by grounding to
negative side of each fuse in the box to find which circuit the short
is in.

From there its a matter of tracing wires and looking for frayed or
broken wire.

Hey everyone, does this sound reasonable?  If so please reinforce with
your own insights....if not please mention it....

(things have been pretty rough lately and I'm not sure if I'm thinking
straight. (grin))

> How do I find it, and does anyone have a
> good wiring diagram for 72 colored, thanks for the help.


Sincerely,
-- 
--Wil


-- http://www.charmfx.com/ -- http://www.indieguide.com/ --

"I was sad because I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no feet. So I said, "Got any shoes you're not using?""
-- Steven Wright
