From: "jdd" <johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca>
To: <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 2 Dec 2003 21:48:10 -0500
Subject: Starter woes - Did I screw up!!!!

So ... I pulled my starter thinking I would take the solenoid off and clean it
up as it was giving my trouble when it was hot.  I figured it must be the
solenoid because a few taps with a small hammer would always get me going.

So - I pulled the starter - got the solenoid of with an impact driver - no
problem - cleaned it up and cleaned all of the contacts and put it back in.

When I pulled if off I counted 5 wires off of the nut - 5 I counted.  Then
when I put em back on I looked around and cleaned up - i thought - 5 - plus
the two connectors the push on.  So I put the starter in and put the wires on
and ... missed one - a big one.  My wife put the wire on the battery terminal
as I was going to try and start up the bus.  It started but the starter was
wrong - so I ran around back and pulled off the wire to the battery.

I went back underneath and notice a big wire that I missed was on top of the
starter - I'm not sure if it was the wire from the battery or the other big
one.  Damn.

My wife said that when she hooked up the battery she heard a click - hmmm.

So ... I took the wire that I had missed and cleaned up and put it on the
starter and tried again - the solenoid was really really hot hot hot.

So I waited a little bit then tried to start it again.  This time the starter
wouldn't disengage.  I turned the key off but the starter kept running.  So I
ran around back and disconnected the battery again.

So - I think - that the wire from my battery may have been in contact with the
starter body.  I think my solenoid is cooked for sure - but I think the
starter might be OK because it kept running until I disconnected it from the
battery.

My question is - what else could have been damaged.  I am worried, very
worried - not so much about the starter but about what else could have gotten
toasted.

jdd 60 std, 78 westy (less starter)
