From: "Mike Jackson" <mike(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 24 Dec 2006 18:40:39 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] bilge blower heater retrofit - was: Oil cooler as heat

I have yet o installit in the bus, but here's an old post with what I did.

TTFN - Mike Jackson
`77 Bay, "Gertrude"
Casting Fool & Son
Augusta, GA  USA
http://www.cfnson.com

----- Original Message ----- 
From: "Casting Fool" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
Sent: Friday, December 03, 2004 12:25 AM
Subject: Re: [T2] heater

From: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
> Yup,, 2 peices,,,

Picked up a WR1 Kit (starter relay) and a bilge blower today.  I plan on
installing the relay kit tomorrow morning.

I've been working on the blower conversion tonight.  The blower is an
Attwood #1733-4.  It's a 3" bilge blower.  I got it because it was the least
expensive choice and I was down to my last bucks this week.  It turned out
to be fortuosity that I picked that particular blower.

I disassembled the squirrel cage... well, I finally cut the shaft off with a
hack saw.  There was no apparent way to remove the fan from the motor.
Still isn't as a matter of fact.  Want a fan?  With a partial shaft?

The motor was completely shot.  The bearing or bushing at the fan end of the
motor had failed and wallowed out the shaft hole in the plate between the
motor and fan to about 3/4".

I removed the fan (with the hack saw), then removed the motor casing by
taking out the two screws and wedges that held it in place.  That's when
fortuosity hit.  The blower fit the plate exactly.  I'm not kidding.  It's
as if the manufacturer designed that blower to fit that plate.

I removed the portion of the plate inside the circle where the motor casing
(and now the blower) fit.  It's a sort of tri-armed thing.  It's attached to
the rest of the plate by three arms and holds the motor brushes.  I then fit
the blower to the plate and marked where the wedges (that held the motor
casing to the plate) went.  Then I Dremelled out two slots to match the
positions of the wedges.

The marks fell just on the edge of the ridge where flex tubing would be
forced onto the blower (in boating applications).  I carefully cut the two
slots and fit the blower onto the plate.  I installed the two wedges with
the screws.  It fits like it was designed by the factory!  Whoo-hoo!

There's a small gap in one spot, but it's due to the plate's design.  I'll
fill it in with some epoxy putty.

I'm currently soaking the cage in some orange cleaner water.  It's an oily
mess from the previous engine.  I plan on installing the blower cage in the
bus sometime this weekend.  I still have to figure out the wiring.  I want
to use the stock wiring for the original fan.  I'll modify it at the dash
for a switch.

The nice thing is that I can easily add some 3" flex tubing to the intake of
the blower when I figure out how to route it to the cabin.

Does anyone have access to a bus with a BN-4 in it?  I need to know exactly
where the fresh air intake for the heater is in that left rear interior
quarter panel (maybe measured from the window edge or corner).  If there's a
space for the plastic duct from the BN-4, there has to be space for a simple
vent in the interior quarter panel.

I figure that I can add a vent in the quarter panel, then tie into the
quarter panel from the engine compartment for the 3" flex tubing to the
blower.  I'm not really concerned about actually ducting the air to the
blower, as long as I can draw cabin air through the quarter panel.  At least
until someone warns me of some danger in doing so.

I still need to pick up some of that ducting that goes from the squirrel
cage to the motor, too.  I'll try to post some pictures this weekend if
anyone's interested.

I figure that I'm avoiding the melting fan issue by installing the blower
before the heated air.  If this works, we'll be warm and happy bus people.
:O)
