Date: Mon, 25 Dec 2006 19:00:56 -0800 (PST)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
Subject: Thoughts on heaters and boosters

I could suggest a way to have all the heat you need -
I installed a Flex-a-lite Mojave heater and it works
great. It was something like $150 from Summit Racing.
It did however require adding one slightly more
expensive item, but I'm sure you'd like the Subey 2.2
also...(!)

I had no booster fan on my '79 bus so I bought a
massive Dayton squirrel-cage blower from Grainger that
operates on 12VDC and spliced it in. It worked pretty
well, but I didn't know about the one-way valves on
the stock blowers and had some overheating issues
related to that. As time went by, it seemed like less
heat was getting to the front. That was when I added
the Attwood 3" bilge blower to only the most forward
circuit - kick panel and defrosters. It worked
extremely well and had no issue with melting. It was
able to keep the windshield clear in winter
conditions. My only complaint was the noise.
Eventually it did have a failure, but that particular
failure also included both heads, all 4 cylinders plus
the cases; everything got, shall we say, a bit hot!

When I pulled the heater tube out when installing the
coolant piping for the Subaru, I discovered that the
entire heater tube length had no top! It was so
completely rusted out that there was at least an inch
wide opening the entire length. The insulation was
still around it for the most part, and that pretty
much kept the flow headed in the right direction!
Maybe if my heater tube had been intact the Attwood
would have melted - I don't know - but it might not
have been required, either!

Keep in mind when you add a recirculating feature that
the heat increases but so does humidity. It will be
more difficult to keep the windows clear with total
recirculating. Then again, we have all driven through
too-deep water at one time or another, and I doubt
total recirculating would come close to that disaster!
I was hoping the two Attwoods would be superior to the
stock blower - to the extent that the engine cooling
fan could be taken totally out of the heater loop. If
those trap doors were sealed between the fan housing
and the heat exchangers there would be no more instant
saunas in deep puddles!

If comfort in cold weather is important to you and
would mean using your bus year around whereas you
can't currently, the Espar heaters are great. I'm
actually glad I got the diesel version now, as I feel
more comfortable sleeping with a diesel heater running
than I would with a gasoline heater running. I know
it's really splitting hairs as both have the ability
to snuff you out, but gasoline is so much more
explosive! I truly was driving with just normal attire
- blue jeans with no longjohns, tennis shoes and
t-shirt - with the outside temps in the teens and I
was very comfortable. The unit I bought cost me about
$1300 as I recall. It was the second best expenditure
I ever made relative to my enjoying my bus. At the
time it was still an aircooled T4, so then it was the
#1 best expenditure until the Big Experiment! -BaH

'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2)
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
