From: "Michael Smith" <michael.smith(-at-)1upcomputing.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 26 Dec 2006 08:42:40 -0600
Subject: Runs fine until it warms up

I have a 77 bus that was purchased back in the mid summer here in Iowa. Up
until about a month ago it was my daily driver. Since then I have picked up
a strange issue that I cant hunt down. It will run just fine until it warms
up and then it starts popping (just a little) and running very rough. This
will go on for about 3 to 5 minutes until it shuts off completely. After
that happens I cant start it again until the engine cools sufficiently for
it to start again. Now its not getting hot. I can pretty much place my hand
anywhere on the engine and its not hot. The dipstick feels like the engine
temp is somewhere in the mid 100's range for temp. 

 

This bus has a new motor in it. It has about 7000 miles on it since the
rebuild with 4000 of them I put on since the purchase. Shortly after I
bought it I replaced the points, rotor, cap, plugs, wires, alternator,
battery, reground about 95% of the electrical contacts, and set the valves
then timed it. Up until this issue showed up it ran very strong. It got bad
gas mileage, about 12 mpg but still ran very strong.

 

What I've don't to try to address this specific issue is replaced the head
temp sensor. When that didn't work I looked at the cold start injector and
air valve. I checked the connections and they should be fine. I tested the
resistance on the air valve terminals and they fell within spec. ). I've
checked the MAF temp sensor and that also falls in spec. I pulled the wire
off of the 5th injector and then pulled the air valve and blocked off the
ports. Still the same problem. I don't even need to drive it for the issue
to happen. I can just start it in the driveway and let it sit. As soon as it
warms up it just shuts off (within 15 min to half an hour depending on
outside temp). My brother was following me the other day when we were trying
to fix it and he said that at the point that it started running rough it was
starting to kick out black exhaust. What could be causing it to run rich?

 

I've exhausted my limited knowledge of this engine so I'm hoping someone
here can help me.
