From: "Todd Super Bassist" <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 27 Dec 2006 23:58:17 -0500
Subject: Lifters / Rocker Arms - Adjusting?

Hey guys,

    Well, I FINALLY got around to doing it. Just a quick recap... I have a
rebuilt motor, it runs pretty decent, seems to have some decent power, but it
rattles like holy hell. It's especially bad when I first start it up (no oil
circulation obviously), but after a couple of seconds, it seems to quiet down
EXCEPT for what sounds like a "set" of lifters. I hear the most god-aweful
rattling.

Well, I pulled the valve cover off the side of the motor that I THINK the
sound is coming from. I couldn't believe what I saw. The inside of that motor
is absolutely spotless. I mean, it literally looks like it was JUST rebuilt,
and the person doing the rebuild washed his hands before and after every part
was installed. There isn't the slightest spot of dirt under the valve covers.
In addition, there isn't a drop of oil. I mean, there was maybe enough to fill
a coke cap up by about 1/10th of the way (literally not that much). Now, this
is the first VW air cooled I've ever owned. Should I expect a fair amount of
oil to pour out of there? How in the world does the very tops of the valves,
the springs, or any of that, actually get any oil? How did it just drain out
of there? Is this normal?


I've only removed one valve cover. I don't know anything about this motor, but
based on what I can see of the two sets of valves on that one side, the "set"
that's closest to the front appear to be "taught". I can't move them AT ALL
(they appear to be adjusted already), the second "set" that's closer to the
rear of the Bus, seems to be loose. One of them I can literally rock back and
forth about 2/8ths of an inch worth of distance. I THINK these are the ones
that are making all the noise. I'm worried about this because it seems to me
like it's probably worn down a cam lobe (how would I know?), or perhaps a
lifter has collapsed.

What I want to know is, can I just tighten them down to remove the slack in
them?

And, why is it that there is no oil "pooled up" when I removed the valve
cover. I just don't see how the oil actually even gets over to the cyl
heads???



Thanks guys...

Todd
