From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 28 Dec 2006 08:55:30 -0700
Subject: RE: Re: [T2] Lifters / Rocker Arms - Adjusting?

Todd,

Yup, you have some collapsed lifters. You have to replace them as a set.

Here are some (exhaustive) directions.

First, get the motor to Top Dead Center on Cylinder #1 and disconnect the
battery.

You don't need to remove the cylinder head at all, just the valve cover(s),
rocker arm assembly(s), pushrod wire retainers, pushrods and pushrod tubes.

1. Get the motor to TDC on cylinder #1
2. Back off all of the adjustment screws all the way. 
3. Remove the Rocker assembly so you can easily slip them back on the way
you took them off.
4. Pull the pushrods keeping them in order to re-install. (check that they
are not clogged)
5. Pull the pushrod tubes. The pushrod tubes will be a little difficult to
pull out, it takes patience. They dent easily, so don't clamp onto them too
tight. Also, see if you have the green colored pushrod tube seals. If you
don't, add them to your order at GermanSupply or your order house of choice.
6. The lifters will come out with a magnet or a lifter puller tool.

As for bench top bleeding, you can follow the Bentley's guidelines with the
omission of putting a pin in the side bleed hole. To compress the lifter, I
use a clamp with the swivel foot removed (Hacksaw works and then file the
tip to a nice balled point so it wont gouge the lifter). You just
disassemble the lifter, submerge in a square bucket of 30 weight oil (it
takes a few quarts) and put them back together under the oil. 
MAKE SURE YOUR CLAMP, OIL, BUCKET ETC IS FREE OF ANY DIRT AND STUFF!
Using the modified clamp makes it very quick and easy, but nothing makes it
less messy.

Keep all the lifters divot-side up, flat side down, in the oil until you are
ready to install them. When you install them, put the vent hole on the side
of the lifter facing up so it has less chance to leak-down.

Then you reinstall everything and torque to spec. Just use a little oil to
lubricate the pushrod tubes when you reinstall them.

Install each lifter set starting with #1 and then adjust 1 to 2 turns after
contact.
Rotate the engine 180 degrees counterclockwise and that will do #2 cylinder.
180 degrees more will be #3 and 180 degrees further will be #4. Adjust all
as you install.
Then rotate the engine 180 degrees to TDC and check them all again. If you
don't have the cylinder(s) at TDC you will be able to tell by the rockers
being at different heights. Not having each cylinder at TDC will cause you a
lot of problems.

You don't have to worry about breaking in the cam with a new set of lifters
since the cam is already broken in. It won't hurt anything since the new set
is at 0 even wear.

Just take it slow and it will be happily humming along soon!

Glad to help.

Jon Stiles

-----Original Message-----
From: toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net [mailto:toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net] 
Sent: Thursday, December 28, 2006 7:33 AM
To: Jon Stiles
Subject: RE: Re: [T2] Lifters / Rocker Arms - Adjusting?


Thanks Jon! I really appreciate the advice, this really makes me feel better
about the car.
I located the Billsteins on German Supply. I'm going to look in the Bentley
manual, but do you know if there is a way to remove the pushrod tubes
without removing the cyl head? Or is that pretty much a requirement? 

I'm almost positive that it's a collapsed lifter. It doesn't take ANY work
at all for me to completely compress the lifter using the rocker arm (the
way it is now). I'd suspect that that cyl probably isn't even firing
correctly because of it. 

I'm not sure how to bench bleed a lifter. Do I just need to make sure that
I've allowed it to completely fill with oil before installing it? Also, do I
need to worry about potentially wearing out my camshaft by installing fresh
new lifters that aren't broken in? I figure I'll need assembly lube of
course.

By the way, to remove the lifters, I just need to remove the pushrod tubes,
and then I should be able to just pluck them right out using a good
extension magnet or something, right?



Thanks!!!

Todd
