To: buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org,type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 24 Jan 2003 13:47:41 -0600
From: myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com
Subject: 70 westy-front wheel knock

1)replaced inner AND outter wheel bearings on right front wheel just a
couple months ago.
2)tiny boots at top and bottom of wheel, i suppose where the wheel is
supported/pivots... are all torn and have black goo showing through the
tears.
3)long rods (tie rods?) seem to be fine
4)shook wheel, no noise... spun wheel, sounds fine
5)shock is slightly loose top and bottom (rubber seems to be the culprit)
6)it does NOT sound like it is coming from right under me (left wheel),
but i will check that wheel later...

driving home from BBB, noticed that when the road curved to the left
slightly, the wheel would make a real faint, sort of dry grinding
noise... it was hard to hear at first. after a while i could still barely
hear it (cuz i was listening very hard) even when the wheel was straight.
it does seem to go away when i turn to the right.

doesnt always make this noise, it is sporatic (sp?). but now it has
gotten scary. i was coming home yesterday, turned left on an arrow and
after i straightened up i went to change to the right lane... the wheel
started going "clunk clunk clunk clunk" and that scared the CR(-at-)P out of
me! i thought the wheel was about to fall off. it sorta clunked lightly
the day before, but only a little and stopped. by the time i got home i
had forgotten about it. yesterday, it was too cold to investigate, so i
did just now and couldnt find anything that i could determine *everything
i found is listed above*.

like i said, it is not a problem at all times, but when i hear it, it
scares me and it seems to be getting worse. i thought it might be the tie
rods (gerald's suggestion) but i couldnt see anything wrong with them.
the only weakness i could see was these little boots. what are these
covering? i mean, what parts might i need to replace inside those boots?

biggest question is... "what could this clunking be?" and "will it snap
while i am driving?"

waving with frustration, but glad i made it home,
chris
70 westy *throwing another tantrum* <---the bus, not me!!!
