From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Fri, 24 Jan 2003 20:51:36 -0600 (CST)
To: glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com (George Lyle)
Cc: emcrites(-at-)msn.com (Eron Crites), type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Fwd: Re: siping

Ye of little faith---

Bobo the axe man didn't go wild here on my hoops George--

The tire and wheel was chucked up into a pretty neat machine, which cut
a precise line across the face of the tire at a predetermined depth--as
well as distance.

I did check this out prior to giving the OK---

The only reason the tires on your bike wore out fast after you cut them
George is because you were probably running them super soft Carlyle
universals in the first place---then you chopped them up for more
traction in the corner's ---and the rubber really melted--

I doubt that these bowling ball hard Yokos are going to be doing the
same rubber melt off of them--

I'll let you guys know how the traction goes--( if it ever snows here
again-)
and how the wear factor is---

I'll be the first to be screaming if this siping chops my tire life in
half---

I'll keep ya'll abreast of the situation.

Later,

Terry

 
E-mail message   
 
 
On Fri, 24 Jan 2003, Eron Crites wrote: 
I have a set of all-weather performance Dunlop tires on my Passat that
are siped from the factory for improved traction in the ice and snow. In
effect giving me mini 'studs' on a studless tire. 

The key phrase here is "from the factory." Apparently the factory did
the engineering needed to integrate the siping into the basic design of
the tire. 
This is a long way from having Bobo the Tire Guy slice a set of tires
that were not designed for it! 
I'm not saying that siping a tire won't aid traction on ice and snow,
but there has to be a downside in wear or dry traction. I used to do a
lot of artistic things with razor blades to motorcycle tires when I
raced, but with the sure knowledge that the tires would wear rather
rapidly. I certainly wouldn't want to use a sliced tire on dry pavement,
as the same flexibility that aids traction on loose surfaces will ruin
it on dry pavement. 
George
