From: "Robert S. Williams, MD" <rwill(-at-)arkansas.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 25 Jan 2003 05:12:19 -0600
Subject: AVP longblock Rebuild: Head failure(-at-) 15K Miles

Hello again,

I own a 1982 Aircooled Vanagon. In late 1999 I had a AVP Rebuilt Longblock
installed. Since that time, I have only put 15,000 careful miles on the
Westie.

Recently, while starting the Vanagon, I noticed an unusual knocking/ticking
noise on cold startup..this would resolve once the engine warmed up and I
assumed it was a slow-to-pump-up hydraulic lifter.... however the problem
started getting worse and I noticed a drop in power at highway speeds so I
parked the bus and investigated with compression check:

I found the compression was low in #1 cylinder ...25-26 PSI (both wet and
dry) all the other cylinders were 114, 114, 107. So I knew something serious
was wrong with #1 cylinder. I put the engine at TDC and pulled the valve
covers and checked the valve adjustment for #1... I found the adjuster for
the exhaust was at 3 turns preload instead of the usuall 2  turns past
contact.

after adjustment I tested the engine out and the bothersome knock came back
after a few seconds of running.... compression was still low.  Removing the
rocker arm assembly was a bit troublesome because one of the studs unscrewed
from the head and I found the threads were damaged on the nut end. I also
saw tell-tale black soot around the #1 valve spring. After screwing the stud
back into the head and reassembling the rocker arm assembly, readjusting the
valves for #1, I put the valve cover back on and tested it again.......
still no compression.

At this point I searched around and found a garage with a mechanic who works
on VW's.... it was 20 degrees outside and I was sick of my fingers turning
blue while lying on a piece of cardboard out in the parking lot.

The mechanic re-did all my tests and discovered that the rocker arm assembly
stud wasn't just stripping the nut from it's flattened threads....... it was
pulling out of the head itself! He found a previously-installed Helicoil.

Well he replaced the bad stud and stripped nuts and put a new heli-coil in
place but still no compression...... so he is in the process of pulling the
right-side head to get to the bottom of the problem.

Now, I know that AVP only gives 12 MOnth / 12,000 Mile warranty ... but it
seems somewhat "GEXish" to have an engine failure at 15,000 miles  on a
fresh rebuild.

Thoughts? Comments? Advice?


                Robert S. Williams
