Date: Sat, 25 Jan 2003 10:00:54 -0500
From: Jamie <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: "Robert S. Williams, MD" <rwill(-at-)arkansas.net>, type2 List
Subject: Re: [T2] Head failure(-at-) 15K Miles -todays fuel questions

"Robert S. Williams, MD" wrote:

> I own a 1982 Aircooled Vanagon. In late 1999 I had a AVP Rebuilt Longblock
> installed. Since that time, I have only put 15,000 careful miles on the
> Westie.

> I found the compression was low in #1 cylinder ...25-26 PSI (both wet and
> dry) all the other cylinders were 114, 114, 107. 

> Now, I know that AVP only gives 12 MOnth / 12,000 Mile warranty ... but it
> seems somewhat "GEXish" to have an engine failure at 15,000 miles  on a
> fresh rebuild.
> Thoughts? Comments? Advice?



Robert


It is easy to blame the engine rebuilder,, and sometimes that *is* the cause.
I have no first hand experience with AVP, a few of my friends have had very good
luck with them,, and I hear good things on the list about them..... 
Every rebuilder is having the same problems,, and It is not limited to Vw
engines air-cooled... Could it be something common to those engines?? Oil? Gas! 
Air? What else is common?

My opinion on the head problem... unfortunately with out a genuine solution but
with a suggestion or 2:

I worked for an air-cooled rebuild in the Toronto area,, the shop averaged about
30 engines a month, trying to mock what we had seen at the air-cooled rebuild
VWC facility , and was able to give 6 months / 60,000 mile warranty.  [70's and
80's]
I remember one "come back" that was genuine, "I" neglected to check a connecting
rod and turned out to be bent.
The only other complaint we had was a fellow who had put over 100,000 miles in 2
years, never changed the oil, and insisted the rebuild was just done 4 months
ago... the boss took over 2 weeks at nights going through invoices until he
found the proof,, 
At the time there was 3 of us that were racing Score 1/2 1600 , Score Class 5,
and 1/4 mile dirt track oval, F-Vee's, all with air-cooled engines , which aids
the learning curve on how NOT to have broken parts let me tell you.

Anyways, my point is the engines AT THAT TIME era seemed to take a lot of abuse
from owners and still survive

Now,, this story applies to Air-cooled motorcycles, flat head engines, farm
machinery with wisconsin air-cooled, rental stores equipment --are folks I have
talked to that complain of the same short engine life "now a days" with an
engine that put on long hours, and used to last forever!

The world changed,,, mfg.'s of almost everything went to liquid cooled engines,
or diesel.  
Motorcycles, Skid Steer Loaders, Ride on Lawn Mowers, etc. etc.

People pace is faster,, and world is larger,, so the cars are driven faster, for
longer time periods on average

Then came the air pump,  which was a pain to everyone, costly to the
manufacture, didn't last long so the environment people were concerned when it
was removed 

Then came injectors which needed additives to clean the efi parts

Then came CLEAN burning fuels.....  which I am took interest in the OXYGEN
bearing fuels. 
The Gas at the pumps today has additives that are very similar to QUICK START
--- ether--- , benzene

Quick start is very bad on rings,, but blended correctly, it adds HP, makes the
engine START easier, burn cleaner, and puts oxygen in the tail pipe..... no more
need for an air pump!
Plus Bad gas that will not even burn if thrown on a fire, will burn with this
additives

The emissions were not reduced, instead they diluted them,,,, by adding oxygen,
the PPM of the emissions to the oxygen is lowered. It sounds like the emissions
are reduced when the % ppm is lowered 

Back to the point,, failed air-cooled heads

This added HP shows up as HEAT! The fuel propagation is totally different.

The VW world is a cycle, young guy gets Vw, tunes Vw, Drives Vw, Engine dies,
rebuilds engine, and advertises the Vw for sale with rebuilt engine. young guy
gets Vw, tunes Vw, Drives Vw, Engine dies, rebuilds engine, and advertises the
Vw for sale with rebuilt engine.

Thus MOST owners never understand that the BOOK they are tuning the engine to is
LONG OUT OF DATE ,,,,
The tune up part of the book, does not take into account for today's fuel
It is a scary world to step up and start timing your engine by ear, or by a gas
analyzer, and rejetting carbs etc. This is being done by some of the Folks who
have hung onto their Vw for years.
Also, the parts that are being used to rebuild and rebuild and rebuild are
getting work hardened,, 

To summarize this, 
Today's Oils are great! prolonging the Vw air-cooled life span....
Owners still spend a lot of time making themselves feel good by changing the oil
frequently,, way before the oil is too contaminated to necessitate changing
This makes them think they are being careful driving and babying the vehicle,,,
but they really haven't 
If they had a Cyl head temp gauge to watch,, that would be driving carefully! 
Driving by the temp gauge instead of the speedometer is driving [engine]
careful.

Today's Fuels are becoming more of a cocktail of chemicals.  This change has
taken place slowly over about 20 years,,, thus making it slip by the radar of
the owners,,, The owner thinks about SUPER and GOLD blends and hope that will
make their engine run better..  but don't even think about the Benzene and Ether
in the fuel.

The owner does research,, buys books etc. and finds out what the EXACT settings
are!
Carb jet size,
Timing settings,
Compression ratio  etc.
But the fuel has changed properties,, the engine has more air getting in, The
book specs haven't changed.

Oh, and on the tune up topic, OWNERS are more environmental conscience today,
and economical,, so the want the engine to run as clean as possible, as cheap as
possible, and with as much HP as possible.
That leads to leaning out the engine to make the plugs cleaner, making the gas
mileage increase, and feeling that they have the engine tuned to SPECS, that is
must be making as much HP as possible

And unknowingly sets himself up for a problem.  These FACTS were written for the
OLD GAS of yesteryear. Not todays fuel that has additives to make the NEW High
HP fuel Injected Water cooled engines run.


I *THINK* that one solution is to have your engine tuned using a dyno and gas
analyzer which should show the engine is running lean of fuel, and timing needs
to be adjusted etc.

Is this new gas today the problem?,,,  IS this JUST North America or are valve
seats dropping all over the world???

If you look at the scenario,  Vw owner tunes the engine to old gas specs, 
If the gas is different,,,,
jet size might be too small
timing might need adjustment to compensate,
compression ratio might need adjustment to compensate
vehicle speed seems to have increased
duration of driving time

Now after many miles of lean clean burn, the head changes shape enough to
release the seat ,,


What do you think??


Jamie Rivers
Ontario CANADA
