From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Sat, 25 Jan 2003 09:54:58 -0600 (CST)
To: westyvw(-at-)hotmail.com (1970Westy bus)
Cc: Bookwus1(-at-)aol.com, pokey(-at-)vanagon.org, vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.com,
Subject: Re: [T2] POR15 Undercoat

Oh--Boy--

And I have personally repaired / refinished many a Semi where Bondo was
the only thing holding the fiberglass hood, doors, cowls together--the
metal / glass was gone but the Bondo was still there

Is this good?

Sure it is--if this is what you think is right.

I have a customer that has an older 87 R-Model Mack--he drives down here
to O'hare Field twice a week--
The ole truck looks like new and is tighter than a drum--which is
unusual for a unit it's age.

I was replacing a couple of air lines under the cab--and found a thick
coating of a waxy substance under the floor of the cab.

I asked him where this stuff came from---

He told me it was part of a winter insulation package offered by
Mack--along with a thick foam pad under the rubber floor mat.

There is absolutely no rust anywhere on the bottom of this truck--which
Macks are notorious for--especialy one this old with the miles he has on
it.

I say this--

This POR stuff is used nowhere, by any vehicle manufacturer, of any
notoriety, regardless of what shape or form--or for that matter any
professional body repair / refinishing shops. 

If you like it--use the stuff, and get it over with.

Reading other lists / folks opinions , who may not have any professional
knowledge on the application of Turtle Wax, let alone undercoating
procedures / rust prevention / body work / refinishing, other  than what
they might have done in their back yard, under the shade tree to their
Radio Flyer wagon one fine day ten years ago is ridiculous.

Just do it-----and you be the judge of the long term results.


Later,

Terry

 
E-mail message   
 
 POR15 Undercoat 

I read on a Porsche list that one had gone in for major body work, and
they found 
POR15 used on the top and bottom of the floor panels. Then they found
that the 
POR15 was all that was holding the panel together. The metal had rusted
out, leavcing the POR15 the only thing left. 
Is that bad? Maybe, maybe not. 
