From: "John Rogers" <jnrogers5555(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 25 Jan 2003 12:05:49 -0500
Subject: Is my engine doomed?

Gute Volk,

I bought my bus -- 1970 with a dual port beetle engine -- a little over a
year ago from an elderly gentleman in Florida. Its basic virtual; it had no
rust. I spent the first nine months restoring everything except the engine,
which I was told was rebuilt, and did indeed look clean.

The first time I changed the oil I was taken aback by how much grit there
was on top of the cover plate, but I did not know what to expect, so I
passed it off.

A few months after I began driving it, I suffered -- as reported on this
list in November -- a burned #4 piston and discovered the heads on both
sides had not been tightened down properly. I replaced both the #3 and #4
pistons and cylinders, tightened the heads to spec, adjusted the valves,
timed 'er, etc., and now she runs well.

To flush the particles of burned piston from the crankcase I undertook a
series of regular oil changes. It took only two changes to get rid of the
grit.

But all is not sweet and light in busdom.

I have changed the oil three times since and do not like what I see. It
comes with a sort of iridescence, and close examination shows tiny flecks of
bright metal. Also, it has an acrid instead of sweet smell, even though it
has only been in the engine a few hundred miles.

I tried to tell myself this was the last particles of burned piston being
ground and polished to final oblivion, but when I passed a magnet over
flakes that had settled, they stuck to the magnet, indicating steel. I'm
pretty sure the piston was aluminum or other nonferrous metal.

It seems I've got one or more bearings going south, but  I thought I'd asked
more experienced VW-ers on this list if I'm missing something-- if the
particles could be the new rings breaking or something else--before I take
'er out and do a full rebuild.

I hate pulling an engine that is running perfectly but would hate even
more the engine failing on a long trip far from home.

John
