Date: Sat, 25 Jan 2003 11:45:50 -0800
To: Jamie <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RATIONAL INTERVALS, was: todays fuel questions

WOW, superb article, Jamie. I'll try to respond to several of your 
comments, but for now, this:

At 07:00 AM 01/25/2003, you wrote:
>Today's Oils are great! prolonging the Vw air-cooled life span....
>Owners still spend a lot of time making themselves feel good by changing 
>the oil
>frequently,, way before the oil is too contaminated to necessitate changing

How do you KNOW your change interval is REASONABLE in FACT??? The only 
CERTAIN way to KNOW your interval is neither TOO SOON or TOO LATE, ergo 
best TIME/MONEY per MILE, is via PERIODIC INSPECTION IN FACT. Put a drop of 
clean oil on finger and thumb and rub. SMOOOOOOOTH!!! Put a drop off your 
dip stick on there and rub again. AMAZING the sense of TOUCH, how it can 
feel the tiniest particles. If you feel ANY difference, cut your interval 
in half. The detergents in there make the particles soft and cushy. The 
ones you feel are the ones for which detergent is no longer available, re: 
detergent overload.

Hold your fingers to your nose. Do you SMELL fuel??? Verify operating 
parameters and if all is spec, cut your interval in half.  If you SEE the 
color is milky with yellow gorilla snot in the fill cap, change it. This 
many times is the case in short run commuting, overload of the detergents 
with condensate H2O. As regards clean or too dark oil, you will find by the 
sense of feel what degree of darkness is acceptable. And what you will find 
is that black ALWAYS feels gritty cum laude, and not only to your finger, 
but also to your bearings and cam lobes and valve guides and oil pump 
and......... This is regardless your running carbon or synthetic oils.

If you feel grit, your engine just lost a lot metals for some interval TOO 
MUCH to keep the TIME/MONEY per MILE ratio in check.

Another precipitance proof. Take a sample of drain oil, small spice jar, 
and put it on the shelf for a month. Feel it again. Not so gritty any more. 
Pour it out. How thick is the black goo on the bottom??? WOW, FEEL how much 
grit that was not in detergent suspension any more.

Demonstrate the proof with your senses. Application of sensible procedures 
is the only RATIONAL course. All else is rule of thumb at best, and in many 
cases, TOO SOON or TOO LATE to actually obtain best TIME/MONEY per MILE.

For further info on sensible procedures, see DeCarte, Discourse on Method. 
Free in the public domain so no one can claim absence of opportunity here.

RATIONAL inspection is touch and feel and smell and see EVIL in your 
TIME/MONEY per MILE ratio.
