Date: Tue, 28 May 2002 21:01:30 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] How to test engine??

>From: John Baker<jbakerccymca(-at-)springmail.com>
>Date: Tue, 28 May 2002 08:34:34 -0400
>
>Anyway, I put the engine in the 66 to test it but can't seem to figure 
>out how I can start it up. There is no key, no ignition switch, and the
>wiring up front in the cab is a spagetti twisted mess.  [...]  Is there
>a way I can wire the battery directly to the starter or alternator just
>to get the engine started to see if it runs?

Sure.  You don't need the alternator/generator electrically connected
at all to test fire the engine, but you do need the belt on it to turn
the cooling fan.  Make sure you have a freshly charged battery that
matches the voltage of the starter and ignition coil.  Also get several
feet of wire (anything from 12 to 16 gauge is OK), some female push-ons,
some electrical tape, and maybe a test light.
 
First, unhook the battery negative strap.  Go under the car and 
disconnect everything at the starter solenoid except for the fat wire 
that comes from the battery and the wire that goes into the starter
motor.  Tape up each wire you take off individually.  Put a female
push-on on the end of a piece of wire and thread the other end of the
wire into the engine compartment, through the same grommet as the
battery cable.  Plug the push-on onto the male tab connection on the
starter solenoid.  Before you crawl out, make sure that the ground
strap from the transmission nose to the body is still there. 

In the engine compartment, make a note of how the wires are connected 
to the alternator and then disconnect them, taping them up individually.
Find the wire that goes from the distributor to one of the terminals on
the coil.  Go to the other terminal on the coil and unplug everything
connected to it, taping up all wires individually.  Get another piece
of wire and put a female push-on on one end, then plug it on to the
terminal on the coil that you just disconnected everything from.  Run
the other end of this piece of wire over near the battery.

If you want to have an oil pressure light, unplug the wire at the oil 
pressure switch and connect one end of your test light to the switch.
Connect the other end of your test light to the same coil terminal as
your new wire.

OK.  Now you have two wires ending near the battery - one from the 
starter and another from the coil.  Strip the end of the one from the 
coil and figure out a way to securely attach it to the positive post of
the battery.  Strip the end of the wire from the starter and leave it
hanging loose.

Go up front and make sure that the transmission is in neutral and that
the handbrake is on.

Now, hook up the battery negative strap.  Don't be surprised if it makes
a spark - it will do this if your points are closed.  If you hooked up
your test light, it should come on.  Now, touch the bare end of the wire
from the starter to the battery positive post and the starter should
spin, and hopefully the engine should fire up.  As soon as it fires, tuck
the bare end of the starter wire away so it can't accidentally hit the
battery positive post again.  Your test light should go out when the oil
pressure builds up.  To stop the engine, disconnect the battery ground
strap.

You're running the ignition and starter on the battery alone.  You 
probably won't need to run it this long, but the battery should last for
at least a few hours of engine operation.  When you're all done, if you
have a battery charger, take the battery out of the Bus and put it on
the charger - if you don't, the battery will probably charge back up
OK when you install it in a Bus with a working charging system.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds
  

