Date: Wed, 29 May 2002 21:56:43 -0500
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com
Subject: '59 Single Cab....work begins.

Looks like I'll be back into the bus refurbishing again.

I've been working on my wife's bug vert for too long now and still 
have work to do. But I've phased my '59 Euro Single Cab into the 
picture.

  This past weekend I used phosphoric acid to remove the surface rust. 
I bought the truck a few years back from a guy who had got it, 
sandblasted it himself, then decided he didn't want to mess with it. 
So it was in bare metal, and slightly rusted when I got it. It didn't 
get terribly worse of the years as it's very dry around here and it 
has lived under cover or inside the garage most of the time. But it 
still had that oxidezed surface rust thing going on. I got a gallon 
of Phosphoric Acid from "house of chemicals" here in San Angelo. I 
brushed it on and let it work it's magic. I washed it off with soap 
and water and dried the metal and primered it as fast as I could. It 
was hectic, but seemed to work good.

The previous owner had never blasted the bed or the "treasure chest" 
area, so I've decided I'll do that and get some primer on there as 
well. My plan for this bus is to get it covered real good with 
primer, then to move on to the mechanicals. I want to get it actually 
running BEFORE I do the bodywork and paint. In fact, I want to get it 
to a point where I can start driving it daily if I choose. I think 
it'll be more insentive and fun for me that way rather than having it 
sit in the garage waiting the whole time.

The truck is really rough in some areas, but good in others. 
Basically the passenger rocker is toast, and the rear corners are 
dented all to hell. A few other rusted through areas, but nothing I 
can't handle. Won't be a show truck, but will be nice looking. It'll 
be very simular to my '59 Kombi that I just sold, but hopefully a 
little "straighter". Not tons of money thrown at it.

I've got the semophores and they work, so I will definatly have those 
wired up. Also will probably install a set of safari's. I'm gonna 
keep it stock height, but will be installing a big-nut rear-end, and 
probably the front end from a '66 that I've saved in my barn. I 
hopefully will be ordering a Freeway Flyer Rancho tranny from Ronnie 
at oldvolks.com tommarrow. And I will be building and upright T4 
engine for the truck.

The reason I'm gonna build an upright is that I've collected about 4 
complete engines in parts trades and such. (3) of them are 1700cc 
engines and one was a 2.0. My plan was to always use the 2.0 
components and build a big T4 for my 23-window when I get to it. But 
since I've got all those other 1700cc engines there, I figured why 
not make use of the parts. So I'm gonna be installing a set of 96mm 
pistons and cylinders onto one of the stock 1700cc engines....and 
having the machine shop open up the heads a little to accept the 
bigger pistons. That'll get me at 1911cc or something like that I 
think. Then a set of weber ICT's that I've got and I'm set. That 
engine should be plenty for that freeway flyer and for hauling and 
highway cruising in the truck. A good solid get around town bus.

Last thing I'd LOVE to have....but probably couldn't afford is a set 
of the Radar Prototype repros that are being made. You know, the ones 
that look kinda like an iron cross. Those would look PERFECT on my 
truck. But from what I've read they sell for like $1500 a set or 
something. YIKES! If anyone knows a better price and american source 
for these wheels....let me know. I might have to find a way to start 
saving for them.

enough for now. hope to be posting updates here and on my website as I go.
-- 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Check out my VW bus page at http://www.type2guy.com/
Rex Rogers            -'59 Euro Single-Cab
San Angelo, Tx.     -'62 23-window walk-thru Deluxe
rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com
------------------------------------------------------------------------
