Date: Sun, 21 Mar 2010 09:09:28 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "T.P. Stephens" <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] 1970 camper - steering slop

>is this tool pictured reasonable to remove the drag link from pitman 
>arm and swing
>lever?
>
>http://www.thesamba.com/vw/classifieds/detail.php?id=868076

That is indeed the type of tool to use. However, I would verify if 
what they are selling is a copy of the real deal tool designed to be 
cheap, or a qualtiy tool that really will work. The price says cheap 
repro. The finish of the tool in the photo looks to me like the cheap 
equivalent as well. You could likely find the same at HF for half 
that price. Might work for some. But will not do the job on others.

I have the proper German tool like that for the pitman arm. It is 
about 3 times bigger than the same type tool sized for tie rod ends. 
As well, I have a Chinese copy I got in a box of tools at a garage 
sale. Hooked it up once to just see what would happen. The pivot pin 
just bent like cheese.

The cheap tool has no provision for adjustability to a varienty of 
sizes. It's of the "one size don't fit all" type. The German tool 
provides for adjustment to various spans. It will fit properly 
everything perfectly from Bugs to Uni Mogs.

Just a few notes on tie rod ends, pitmon arms, ball joints and other 
taper type joints. Pickle forks and hammers will work, but destroy 
the joint. OK if you are replacing the joint, not OK if you want to 
reuse the joint. Sometimes a few blows will pop it loose. Sometimes 
whole bunches of heavy blows won't budge that sucker.

Whether using pickle forks or the lever tool, leave the nut on the 
threads. Just back it off a few turns, then pop the joint loose, then 
remove the nut.

If that joint don't want to come, try this. Using a peanut hammer or 
equivalent, 2 oz or so, taptaptap the joint some 200 taps per minute 
for several minutes. The tiny vibrations will serve to break the 
bond. This tech works for any type of frozen fastener, and also 
promotes penetration of penetrants. Just an old machinists tech 
passed to me from a machinist who learned it from his machinist 
father who learned it from his machinist grandfather. Has saved the 
day for me many times on the toughest possible joints.

If you have the lever type, and you have applied as much force as you 
think is prudent and it still won't come, just leave it on there for 
a while and go do something else. 10 minutes later you just might 
hear it pop. If it don't, put another 1/4 turn on the tension and 
then give it one big blow with a 3 or 5 pound hammer.

With the above techs, I have yet to need to go to heat. But that is a 
followup if I ever find one that won't let go. 
