Date: Tue, 23 Mar 2010 07:32:10 +1300
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] SVDA

Jules Herr quoted:
>
>You get twice the voltage delivered to the plugs which increases
>horsepower while it improves fuel mileage and those spark plugs will
>last longer too.  For 12 volt electrical systems. Should be use with
>ACC-C10-5842 Flame Thrower Coil."

	These claims go right back to basics of coil ignition, which 
are more obscure than one might think at this stage of history.
	A contemporary of mine, a physics prof involved in auto 
electrics, writes to me that it's a wonder coil ignitions work as 
well as they do.  He reckons they're marginal  -  not on voltage as 
implied in this advertisement, but on energy delivered.  A good case 
can be made out that CDI is the big step forward, on the main 
criteria  -  energy delivered to the plugs, stability of timing, 
freedom from maintenance requirements.
	I suppose it isn't difficult to make an autotransformer 
(that's what these coils are) giving double the output voltage.  If 
that were worthwhile, I believe the proud folks at Wolfsburg would 
have been doing it (i.e  requiring it from Bosch).  I tentatively 
conclude that a stock coil, if up to specs, is OK.
	As for making the plugs last longer, I'd like to see the 
reasoning.  One aspect of the spark discharge is the 'secondary' 
lesser sparks which can oscillate across the plug electrodes after 
the main spark; what those do for completing combustion I'm unsure, 
let alone the spark-plug longevity  ...
	Finally, let me mention that all I have on my '73 1600 DP is 
a beetle dizzie with points, condenser (OK youse young trendies, 
don't try to 'correct' me with this noo-fangled word 'capacitor' :-|) 
and std coil.  The usual claim that these need frequent maintenance 
carries little weight with me; I believe one should be in touch with 
one's engine that often, picking up also minor items that need fixing.

-- 
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
