Date: Mon, 22 Mar 2010 14:46:02 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Window seals and painting, which first?

Zack is 100% here.  Don't even consider doing the seals after the paint if you
have the option and intent to do both.  First, you WILL find rust, even if you
don't think you will.  Plus depending on year you may find some nasty adhesive
to remove BEFORE you paint cause it is going to take solvent and work to
remove and don't want said solvent spilling down new paint.  Next anything
else isn't even worth the painting, really pull everything, glass, handles,
signals, lights, EVERYTHING, mask nothing if you don't have to.  I'd pull the
glass even if I was reusing the seals (and you can kick them out on a hot day
and reuse if you must on a bus, all except the windshield, that one MUST be
cut out (well I got about a 2 in 5 failure rate if I don't myself and try to
pull one.)

In a pinch on a quick flip bus you can do tricks, they have the "cheater tape"
to backtape but that doesn't work on 35 year old rubber.  I also used to take
telephone wire (dad AT&T an all) single strand solid copper insulated 24g? or
so? and I'd lay the wire around under the edge of the rubber to space it out a
hare, then tape it bending the tape edge over the rubber a bit, razor it off. 
But why go through it all, if you are getting rubber, budget for it now, hold
on the paint till you can afford both, and do it right.
 
With any modern catalyzed paint, after a day or two of curing, no damage will
be done on installation, but sure if you can, let it dry a few weeks.
 
John

--- On Mon, 3/22/10, Zack Jarrett <zack.jarrett(-at-)cox.net> wrote:

Also, by taking out the windows and seals before hand you can fix up =
whatever rust you find there before having the paint job done.

Don't worry about damaging the paint with the window seal.  A good paint =
job that has fully cured won't be hurt a bit by installing seals.  It's =
the way that all the auto builders do it (paint first, seals later).
