Date: Wed, 24 Mar 2010 07:10:04 -0400
From: "Pratt, Bob, VBABOST" <bob.pratt(-at-)va.gov>
To: <baybridgesue(-at-)yahoo.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] Re: What have you done for your bus lately?

 I just bought a Lincoln Electric welder. It does mig and wire flux. It's my
first welder as I have never picked up a welder before. I've been told that
this is a good welder for the first timer, but it runs on 220v. I started by
making an extension cord from my dryer to the welder for a time. I needed to
put electricity out to my garage anyway, so when the time came I had 220v
run out to the garage. As long as you wire the extension cord properly, you
shouldn't have any problems with it for occasional use. From what I have
read, unless you are going to do a lot of fine cutting, a plasma cutter is
not needed. The prices of them have come down a lot recently though.

Bob

-----Original Message-----
From: Susanne [mailto:baybridgesue(-at-)yahoo.com] 
Sent: Tuesday, March 23, 2010 6:10 PM
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] Re: What have you done for your bus lately?

Not the van...  but the behemoth is getting a motor and trans rebuild even
as I type.  the comment was "I could almost slide a popcicle stick betweenn
the piston and cylinder wall", so I guess it was about time.  

However, on to
"multicultural" issues - I think this will be the Summer of Rust - I have so
many rust issues on both vehicles, and now that my brother is back in the
area, he's volunteered to teach me the intricities of replacing sheet metal.

I've been eyeballing wire-feed welders (any suggestions before I plop $$$
down) - I'm kinda drawn to the Sears 110 that runs either flux core or
gas... 
I'd do 220 but I want something I don't need to rewire my house for!  It's
only like, if I remember, $300-400...  I've done stick welding (art
projects) but this is totally new.

I was also told I want an air compressor and a plasma cutter...  (!!!???)
Comments?  Do I need something like that for these jobs, or is it overkill?
Would a die grinder work jus as well?  Or am I looking the wrong direction?

[demime 1.01d removed an attachment of type application/x-pkcs7-signature which had a name of smime.p7s]
