Date: Wed, 24 Mar 2010 08:41:56 -0400
From: Kevin H Roberts <kevin(-at-)bopsax.com>
To: Type II List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: problems

Well, me and my neighbor, Al (who has owned a couple of squarebacks and 
fastbacks over the years) have been trying to get my bus running.  We 
did a quick and dirty carb rebuild on Monday and still didn't seem to be 
getting enough fuel flow.  So yesterday I did a complete rebuild.  It 
was absolutely filthy.  I was trying too hard to keep it running and had 
a bad backfire that must have blown a big hole in the muffler as it now 
sounds like there is no muffler at all.  Still can't get it to idle.  
The back barrel of the carb has little or no suction at all so it must 
be a valve problem.  I know you guys told me to adjust the valves before 
getting into the carburetor.  But I don't count that time and (little) 
money wasted as it was so dirty that I'm surprised it worked at all.  We 
also checked and re-gapped the points.  She's firing but won't idle 
steadily.  But by choking it by hand we could almost keep it running.  
Seems to be hitting on all four.  I'm closing on my new (old - I grew up 
in it) house today but hopefully I can do the valve adjustment tomorrow 
and try again.  I've always had backfire problems on this vehicle.  If 
it's running the least bit rich - bam.!  So T. P., you may be right - 
time for a rebuild.  I'm investigating my options.  But with the body 
work it needs, I'm not sure it wouldn't be better to buy another bus.  
I'm a bit discouraged.  I had been planning on dropping a couple 
thousand into the body.  And collecting new stuff to put on her.  Now it 
looks like I'll have to spend quite a bit on the engine.  Don't know 
what yet.  I have to do a little work before the valve adjustment to get 
it back on pavement.  Hard to get underneath it in the  muddy yard.  I'm 
open to suggestions.  (Thanks to Tom Guthrie for the helpful telephone 
tech support.)   Ciao...KR

-- 
Kevin H. Roberts
Chattanooga, TN 
Email:  Kevin(-at-)bopsax.com
Website:  http://www.bopsax.com
