Date: Wed, 24 Mar 2010 13:51:21 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Kevin H Roberts <kevin(-at-)bopsax.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] sodium filled valves

Chances of sodium filled on a bus now is very, very rare.  From the outside of
the engine the only way in the day would have been if OEM valves by the VW
PNs, or if TRW by their part numbers, which are usually just above the keepers
so in a dream might be legible on VERY close inspection.  I'd go to 0.006 with
everything and watch em mostly.
 
Great if you got em, Volks Cafe or someone still had the 2000cc sodium TRWs
they were clearancing out a few years back, but uncommon for most to pay the
money for them.  From the valve face side MOST but not all sodiums have the
little dimple in the center (see a Wilson book.)  I oddly once bought a set of
NOS 1.7 heads that the PO (who had raced fractory sponsored a 1600cc Formula
Vee class based on the T4 engine in the 70s I never knew existed (stock 1.7
stroke, smaller bore)) sold me swearing the exhausts were sodiums.  They had
no dimple, he had an old brown photocopy of a long gone VW parts list stating
the fact which I didn't really believe.  I got a radiology tech to X-ray the
suckers for me, and sure enough, factory sodium filled, no dimple, and I've
never seen the PN in any VW or Porsche listing, ever.
 
Anyway I'd adjust em all to 0.006 with the exhaust a hair on the "loose" side
of the feeler if you like.  I would guess the science is that with the hollow
stem, thereby less metal cross section, plus with heat intentionally
transmitted to said stem by the sodium they are likely to stretch a bit more,
thereby likely to need a bit more clearance.  All guesses however.
 
John

--- On Wed, 3/24/10, Kevin H Roberts <kevin(-at-)bopsax.com> wrote:



exhaust valves?  Chances are that a rebuilt head does not, correct?  I think
Haynes said if you're not sure, go with .008" and they may tap but you won't
burn the valves.  Anybody know how to tell for sure?  Thanks....KR
