From: "vanagonvw" <vanagonvw(-at-)gmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 24 Mar 2010 17:14:46 -0700
Subject: Engine Break In Inquiry

General Conversation about engine Break In.

Everyone does it, everyone says it needs to be done. I won't argue, I only
want to make a point and see what the experts think, and help me understand
something about the process.

I spent a lot of my youth at the drag strip. Had many big and small block V8
engines in various class of cars. When I would blow up an engine, or hurt it
in some way, out it came, apart it came, and in went all new rings, along
with heads or whatever else was bruised, and by the second round, I would
fire the car up, and make my run at full throttle, and never an issue with
max performance from the engine. If the engine lived, it would stay in the
car for dozens and dozens of runs, all at the expected performance levels
(if I was good enough ) Certainly no sign of any lack of power, and
compression test and leakdowns always came up as okay, even after all those
abusive trips down the 1/4 mile without any kind of initial breakin. First
run was the same as all that followed, far as performance went.

So, the question would be, how come one can put a new engine in a race car,
any kind or class of race car, fire it up, and just hammer on it right away,
with no break in process, and records are set, and performance doesn't seem
to be an issue, leak down and compression tests are fine, yet with a street
car, say a Vanagon, there is  consensus that the engine must be broken in?

To stay on topic, what is the penalty for rebuilding a Type IV engine, and
not breaking it in? There are so many opinions as to how to break it in in
the first place, how do you know you are doing it right?

I am quite aware that the last thing anyone should do is take it right on
the highway and cruise at a steady speed all day long as its first run, so
no need to address the problems that would create, but what about after the
initial fire up and adjustments, if you just start to drive the van in
traffic, normally up and down hills, and run on the freeway, avoiding
maintaining a steady speed for too long?

I have a newly rebuilt in my 81, and the only times I have run it, are to
start it up, and move it into the garage for whatever work I want to do,
then I start it again, and put it back alongside the garage. Done this five
or six times. Can't take it on the road until it passses the emissions test,
and it really needs new tires. Is this bad for the engine since it hasn't
been "officially broken in?"

Just curious about different points of view.

Thanks,

John

[demime 1.01d removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of smile.gif]
