Date: Wed, 24 Mar 2010 16:57:45 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vanagonvw <vanagonvw(-at-)gmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine Break In Inquiry

John it is all about ring seating to me, and in fact breakin to me is
something very much like throwing it in a racecar and stomping on it several
times sort of.  All things being equal (which they are not comparing an air
cooled cylinder of dubious SA or Asian origin today and a BBC with a nice
water jacket around it and who knows what type of rings to what type of and
quality of rings) breakin to me is doing a few 15min runs to moderate rpm but
keeping it moving about rpm wise, with long cool downs between, then a
standard ring breakin, "mashing" it to a controlled but high rpm (3500-4000 or
so) then snapping the throttle shut several times runs again with long cool
downs between sessions (like breaks between drag runs.)  Oddly that isn't
really much different from your race car experience in reality, just I'd go a
bit more controlled than full on full power runs (that would be to hopefully
avert the "if it lived" comment,) but is pretty much the
 same idea in reality.  My engines have always been tight, usually 115-120 psi
static compression before breakin, and 120-125 psi after a nice on the stand
breakin, and last well, even with SA pistons and cylinders.  What would happen
if I did differently, I don't know.  I usually do a few more ring breakin
sessions under load when I drive the thing the first time.
 
Course if they don't seat there is always the original SBC solution, a can of
Bon Ami down the carb (really they did it at the dealer in the 50s.)
 
The only REAL thing to consider in todays world vs that world of your not
distant youth is oil and flat tappet cams.  You MUST use a good ZDDP breakin
additive or oil if you want a cam to last today.  All flat tappet cam makers
and regrinders demand the same.  And the T4 cam is frankly a POS to start
with, and the first (and likely only) thing inside the block to ever go.
 
Anyway between baby and stomp if no in between, I'd actually go stomp on it,
for the rings sake, but given the opportunity to do something in between, I'd
go in between.
 
John

--- On Wed, 3/24/10, vanagonvw <vanagonvw(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:

max performance from the engine. If the engine lived, it would stay in the
car for dozens and dozens of runs, all at the expected performance levels
(if I was good enough ) Certainly no sign of any lack of power, and
compression test and leakdowns always came up as okay, even after all those
