Date: Thu, 25 Mar 2010 00:00:02 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] sodium filled valves

David, 914s use the same valves in 1.7 and 1.8, not the 2.0 of course, and its
sodium filled were simply different in head contour behind the face.  I think
all are 9mm diameter, not stocker bug sized or intake 8mm. but I honestly
don't recall for sure on the 2.0 heads, the guides are different I know from
VW, I think still 9mm.  I still like em, they have fallen out of "popular"
favor because they were too stinking expensive and because supply dried up
with time for the T4.  However Audi/VW kept using them in all the high
performance applications into the 90s, the 200 turbos, the 20V 5 cylinder
turbos, even some 4 cylinder GTIs.  I don't know off the top of my head if the
20V 4 cylinders use em or not, maybe not as those are small valves and small
stems.  Look to requirements for ultimate reliability, most piston aircraft
engines still often with sodium filled (though admittedly also with massive
stem diameters.)  Jake and others eventually
 pan them as "not necessary" and perhaps with thermal barrier coated
combustion chambers, and valves, and exhaust runners, maybe true, but in stock
parts, they were worth the money in the day and probably still are.  Just they
don't exist anymore, and even toward the end you didn't want to pay for them,
I know the last Automotion catalog I had that listed the 914 2.0 versions were
up to $98/valve in early 90s money.  They could be reground safely as well, I
know several people with full tilt race prepped 914s that would grind sodium
filled 2-3 times for each seasons rebuild and would never have considered it
with a stock or stellite exhaust.

My experience has been different, I've had stainless stretch and fail, despite
looking real pretty, so it is hard to say.  Sodium were only ever in stock
sizes anyway, not much for performance, and are again, mostly long gone.  I do
still have a 1.7 and a 2.0 set, I will eventually use them happily.
 
John

--- On Wed, 3/24/10, David Schwarze <dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net> wrote:


the stems are also weaker since they are hollow.  Porsche 914s had
sodium-filled valves, but lo and behold they had fatter stems, presumably to
make up for the fact that they were hollow.  I bought a set of the skinny-stem
VW sodium-filled valves many moons ago and ran them for about 10K miles. 
Noticed that the face
