From: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>
To: "Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 14 Nov 2001 16:58:41 -0500
Subject: Power Cam!

As some of you may have been keeping up with my carburetion / cam odyssey
here is the next installment :)

I ordered a Brazilian stock cam from my FLAPS to keep the torque in the low
part of the powerband, box said "Power Cam" :) hee hee...  Before I had a CB
Performance custom camshaft similar to an Engle 100.  Upon looking at the
cam lobes head to head with each other it was fascinating to see how the
ramp varied between the two cams!  The stock "Power Cam" had such a smooth
ramp up and down compared to the sharp angles of the CB, even with a "mild"
grind.  

I will drop the motor in probably tomorrow, but I suspect this "Power Cam"
will be much better suited for the busses needs with a single carb.  The CB
cam ran great with dual Weber ICTs, but was very poor with the single center
mount carb (30PICT-3).  I think the quick ramp speed on the CB cam did not
provided enough suction time for the single carb to breath properly at low
RPM...  I am sure there is a technical engineering term for this that I am
unaware of :)   

Also the "Power Cam" was much thicker on the lobes than the CB grind.  I
imagine the CB was a regrind of a stock VW cam thus making it smaller on the
lobes.  Kind like the old principle of having higher lift with a smaller
lobe.

It was nice to break open the case and see how the engine was wearing
though.  Very well I might add with minimal wear on any part yet.

I tried the old school thread case sealing technique and will report back on
how well that works in the future...  The case was very dry before, but
wanted to see how this "old school" trick works.  I have a feeling the
thread will be a benefit.  The only caveat is that I could not find silk so
I went with rayon, which should be okay.  Just do not use cotton thread.


Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Westi "Biscuit"
1979 Porsche 911 SC "Cochise"

On the gravytrain to biscuitville!

