From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 14 Nov 2001 15:34:59 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] cb performance sump filter

If you look at the CB filter sump it has a bypass valve in it just for this
reason (thick oil). Then of course if you use a multi grade oil, you should
have no problems to begin with. I will be posting a link tonight to describe
oil viscosities and HOW multi grade oils work. This link also tells the pour
point and the burn point and also tells you zinc and sulfur content and
there uses in motor oil. It list at least 10 different brands of oils, so
you can decide which is best for you. I personally use Valvoline racing
which is good for the way I drive (high rpms and abusive) and learned that
this is the best for me, but looking at the chart it is not good for the by
the book, shift at 2000 rpmer's.

ronnie     trying hard to blow one up

-----Original Message-----
From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com [mailto:VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com]
Sent: Wednesday, November 14, 2001 3:07 PM
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] cb performance sump filter


In a message dated 11/14/2001 7:57:04 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
Apillow(-at-)manh.com writes:

<< My theory is that VW did not incorporate a regular paper oil filter 
because the engines would die from other causes before small crud particles 
would eat it away to fail.  Also with oil changes at every 3,000 the oil
will 
remain very clean.  >>

Hi Adrian,
VW did offer in thier accessory catologs a partial (Non-Full Flow.) oil 
filter in the early 1960s for 40HP and later engines.
 
 <<Personally I like the Maxi Pump 3:
 http://www.cbperformance.com/catalog.asp?ProductID=197
 Off of this you can run a normal oil filter adapter with SS hose...  And no

it does not leak oil like other filter pumps.  The only downfall is that the

gears are aluminum and will wear somewhat quickly compared to stock steal 
gears. >>

We have been using Vintage EMPI oil filter pump with great success.  Huge 
differance in rod bearings in only 10,000 miles!  Have also been using CB 
(Made by Shradek) oil filter/pump with no leaks, no hoses to worry with, and

steel rather than aluminum or steal gears.  P-)  The only problem with the
CB 
oil filter/pumps is one has to cut to angle slightly downwards and have 
rewelded the neck between the pump body and the filter to allow the filter
to 
clear the heat riser tube coming out of the stocker muffler on the left
side. 
  While the sump filter may run OK on warm only climate VWs and/or at near 
sea level we would be nervous trying it in the high mountains where you are 
going to just get less vaccum in very cold weather when the oil is way too 
thick.
  As always a really thick shake will be impossible to suck through a straw,

but one can easily blow through the straw all the way down to the bottom of 
the thick shake.   Eric&Barb

---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: vintagebus-unsubscribe(-at-)type2.com
For additional commands, e-mail: vintagebus-help(-at-)type2.com
