From: Thom Fitzpatrick <thom(-at-)calweb.com>
To: Apillow(-at-)manh.com (Adrian Pillow)
Date: Thu, 15 Nov 2001 08:50:04 -0800 (PST)
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, thom(-at-)calweb.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Still, WTB, 58-61, Taillights

Adrian Pillow wrote:
> One question for you...  What axle assembly are you using to get the wide
> fives to fit on there?  

This has been one of those snowball projects...

At the last Bug-O-Rama I bought a home made utility trailer that
provided the spring assembly and axle for this project.  Someone
had taken an early American car axle and welded early bug spindles 
to it.  The rest of the trailer was a POS, and I started to try
to fix it, but gave up and started from scratch.  I cut the springs
and axle of the first trailer and welded them into the new one. 

So basically I'd bought a set of 15" bus wheels and an axle,
and threw the rest away.

I roughly modeled it after a westy trailer I saw at KP, but I
thought it would be cool to make it a little bigger.  It came out
26" high, 45" wide, and 5' long  Hmm.  Then I ran into an issue where 
the sides are too high to load anything heavy, so now I'm engineering 
a tailgate for it.  I have a set of Westy-style reflectors for it, and 
I wanted to use the 58-61 lights to match the bus.  I also have an NOS 
Hella trailer connection setup for it, and will re-engineer a bus jack 
to serve as the holdup for the tongue.

The metal for the new trailer ran me about $80, the plywood was
another $100 for the nice sanded stuff.  I still have to buy another
sheet of wood for the lid, and a couple more pieces of metal to
finish the gate.  

I'm going to sand the wood a little smoother, then coat it with the
plastic resin used for fiberglass, to seal the wood.  After sanding
that down, I'll paint it to match the bus.  I'm also going to coat
the inside with resin as well, to provide abrasion resistance.

It's actually pretty light, and after putting new wheel bearings in it,
it rolls very smoothly.

Thom
--
Thom Fitzpatrick 
thom(-at-)vintagebus.com - http://www.vintagebus.com
