Date: Fri, 25 Jul 2003 14:54:58 -0500
To: Benoit Huot <huotx(-at-)videotron.ca>, type2 main e-mail
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] R: [T2] Trash into oil

At 01:59 PM 7/25/2003, Benoit Huot wrote:
>Wait and see! maybe not in your life time but one day, our children will have too pay the price!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

OH MY GOD, THE SKY IS FALLING!!!!  :)

>>>>do you ever drive alone in your bus?<<<
>Just for testing! i feel it's a waste of fuel, energy and space otherwise!

Really?  Didn't you drive your bus thousands of miles last year?  If you really feel that strongly about being wasteful, sell your bus and drive your Civic to Mexico next time.  You can sleep outside in a tent!  You will be helping the environment!

>Well David, am not here to argue whit anyone, if you don't understand my point, what can i say!

Oh I understand your point completely - I just don't agree with it and I think you are being hypocritical and naive.

>I fully agree that our westy are pollutant, but my Civic is 3 time less pollutant than your SUV

My SUV is 100 times less polluting than your bus.

>,  I don't care if my friends and neighbor have bigger, nicer and more powerful car/truck.

You will when you have a head-on collision with one.  Mass = safety, that cannot be argued against.  What is more important to you, saving gas or saving your life?  How about the life of your girlfriend?  You know the answer, and if you say "saving gas" then I think you are being hypocritical again.  We bought the SUV because it weighs 5,500lbs and when some drunk in a little 2,500lb car hits it, their family will be the one picking out grave markers, not us.  I do what I can to protect my family, and if that means buying a big heavy vehicle that does not get the best gas mileage, then so be it.  

> When i travel for business or pleasure am always amaze too see the number of Ford Crown Victoria, Mercury Grand Marquis and Lincolm Town Car...... with one guys inside, so it's my right also to NOT agree with what i see!

Sure it's your right.  But you're being hypocritical.  Heck if you REALLY care about the environment, trade your Civic in for a Civic Hybrid or Honda Insight (~1.5 or 2x as efficient as your Civic, respectively).  If you REALLY TRULY care about the environment, sell your bus and ride a bike!

>Now do you follow me or you need further explanation of how we are spoilling our environment!

I'm not going to spend any more time trying to change your mind.  But I don't like it when people get on a soapbox about saving the environment while they drive around in a 30-year old polluting, inefficient dangerous vehicle.  You can't stand on platforms like that while driving a bus.  Just suck it up and admit that driving a bus (or a Civic, or anything with an Internal Combustion Engine) is more important to you than saving the environment, and admit that others have the right to do the same if they please.  If you don't like the laws of your country, then move or contact your government and start lobbying to have your freedoms taken away.  Don't let the door hit you on the way out.

-David
