Date: Fri, 25 Jul 2003 15:48:54 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>, Benoit Huot
Subject: [T2] Trash into oil

Oh I just love these enviro-arguments! <grin>

Can we really compare a big Ford SUV to a Honda whatever and say the Ford 
is automatically more wasteful? What if the Honda burns 500 gallons of fuel 
in a year and the SUV only 250? Is the SUV still more wasteful? What if the 
Honda owner buys a new car annually and the Ford owner (due to the HUGE 
price tag of his or her Suburban Assualt Vehicle) changes vehicles every 5 
years? Who's more wasteful? Who contributing to more industrial waste here?

My only point is that not every SUV is automatically more wasteful than an 
economy car. Depends on what the driver does with them. Yes the same trip 
could be made in the Honda by the SUV driver and save some gas.

I feel like my little family is pretty clean. We are wasteful. We buy 
things that last and consequently purchases at my house my stick around for 
a couple decades versus the annual turnover of gadgets some of my 
acquaintances do.

Anyone that wants to spout about conservation ought to start leading by 
example first. Start investing in solar or ground-loop heating, solar 
power, or wind power. Ditch your old VW and buy a tiny 1.3 liter something 
or another. Move as close as you can to your employment and shopping district.

Don't worry so much about how much gas people are burning because when the 
economics of the internal combustion engine are played out and the maximum 
amount of money has been extracted from the investments of the fuel corps 
and car corps we'll see a sudden switch to other types of power plants or 
transportation. Look at Europe. They're already there is some parts. It is 
no longer economical to operate a vehicle is some parts of the continent so 
people rely on busses and trains and bicycles. As that happens in the US 
our suburban sprawl will begin to collapse and more folks will live closer 
to work and school and the grocery store. I don't know when this will 
happen but it will I'm sure. I can assure you if my 7 minute drive to work 
suddenly costs me $5 I'll be bicycling the family back and forth! <grin> 
I've got family who think nothing of running two late model V-6 vehicles (1 
an SUV) to the city and that takes half an hour at 50-70 mph. How quick do 
you expect they'd give that up if gas went to $5 a gallon?

I don't think any of us can drive a 20 or 30 year old vehicle with a carb 
and point our fingers at too many people. Want to switch to late model 
(2000+ model) fuel injection with a cat, then maybe the finger pointings 
can begin. The greenies love to point at old cars and tell the media how 
polluting our antiques are. Over course probably few of our antiques get 
15K miles put on them annually like the current fleet of commuter cars. 
Which is causing the most harm - an old VW travelling 7K miles a year or 
anything current running twice that much?

I like how the car corps measure everything parts per million, but not the 
total volume of pollution a vehicle makes in a trip of a certain length or 
type. <grin> So a big SUV is as clean as a tiny car.. Well not if you 
consider how many more millions of parts a big SUV puts out in the same 
trip as the little car... <grin>

People like SUV's for a reason. They are useful and currently not too 
expensive to operate. People always have and most likely always will drive 
things that cost them more than it should - when they could get by like a 
doctor acquaintance I know who has and can afford Jags and Mercedes but 
chooses to get around during the work week in his Geo Metro. He tells us - 
why wear out a $40K car when he's got the ability to run 70 mph with a/c or 
heat and get 40 mpg? No sexy, not cool, but cheap. That's why he's rich, 
makes alot of money and hangs onto it.

Maybe one of these days folks will discover the sports wagons that the rest 
of the world drives and leave the SUV parked in the garage next to the ski 
boat for the weekends.




Chris Mills in TN
