Date: Fri, 25 Jul 2003 21:15:45 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: My rebuilt engine started "Clanking" today!!!!! :o(

Hello List,

This is not a happy day. I went outside to tinker with
my rebuilt 914 engine. I put about 5.5gal of gas in
the tank and fired the engine up. It is still a hard
start when the engine is cold but I did get it
running, and running strong. I started to notice that
the engine noise became louder. I am not that
experienced with engine noises but it sounded like a
lifter slapping back and forth from a valve that had
come out of adjustment. I did not cut the engine off
immediately and continued to fine tune it. Within a
matter of 5 seconds, the noise became louder and
turned into a loud clanking noise!!! I turned the
engine off immediately and did a visual inspection of
the motor to make sure that a screw driver or
something had not become caught in the fan belt. I
turned the engine over a few more times and the noise
was there, louder than before. I turned off everything
and came back inside.  I am hoping that the problem is
a rocker arm assembly has come loose or one of the
push rods has freed itself. I fear that the rebuilder
did not torque everything to speck and things have
gone ballistic inside the engine case. Tomorrow I plan
to take the valve covers off and see if something
simple has come loose. I will then do a valve
adjustment. I don't know. When I reinstalled the
rocker assemblies, I torqued everything according to
Bentley! 

I have been working on my bus since 1998 and have
never driven it! This engine has 0 miles on it and I
had everything installed. The engine was broke in and
I just needed to change the oil, bleed the brakes and
reinstall the break booster hose and my bus would then
run and stop on its own. I have been spending so much
time trying to get my bus on the road! I am just about
exhausted with it! I am not complaining, really. If
anything has come undone, it is my fault. I'm just mad
in general....:( Any way, thank you for tolerating my
rant. Wish me luck tomorrow! May be it will be ok.

Thanks!

David Kelly
volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com
