From: "Gary G. Martin" <gmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: "Greg Potts" <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 26 Jul 2003 21:04:01 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] engine pops on deceleration

From: "Greg Potts" <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
To: "Gary G. Martin" <gmartin(-at-)coin.org>
Sent: Saturday, July 26, 2003 11:21 AM
Subject: Re: [T2] engine pops on deceleration
> Hi Gary,
>
> I agree that exhaust leaks should be repaired ASAP.
>
> But if the engine tin and seal are properly installed the exhaust
> should not be able to get into the engine compartment. The engine
> compartment draws air from the scoops on the side of the bus, not from
> below the engine tin.

from GGM

Hello,

you are correct in that the engine compartment gets air from the high side scoops. And
all the exhaust should be blowing out underneath the engine and  blowing away. However,
that is all theoretical. I have never seen a perfectly sealed up tin air system . I see
exhaust leaks all the time and the tin gasket that I have always found with huge gaps in
it is the engine - body gasket. That is the gasket surrounding the engine tin, that
separates the engine tin from the body, and is supposed to seal the engine compartment
into a top portion and a bottom portion.

The problem with exhaust leaks is that they are often completely odorless. And  exhaust
gas contains the poison Carbon  Monoxide (CO) . The problem with CO is that it just
takes a very  little bit to kill you. If CO is in the air you breath and the CO is only
in the air in small parts per million, It can still kill you. CO has at least a 20 times
greater affinity  for hemoglobin than does oxygen and CO really sticks. Please forgive
the basic biology lesson here, I just want to make a very important point very
understandable. If you breath clean air, the oxygen in the air gets into your lungs and
leaks into the blood vessels in your lungs and then it leaks into your blood cells . In
your blood cells the oxygen from the air finds a great big molecule called hemoglobin.
The oxygen knocks Carbon Dioxide off this molecule and sticks in its place. Carbon
Dioxide is a  used up by product that you don't want. The oxygen sticks to the
hemoglobin until the oxygen is used by some cellular machinery somewhere. The oxygen
gets turned into Carbon Dioxide. Carbon Dioxide jumps onto the hemoglobin for a ride
around in your blood until it gets into the blood in the lungs. In the lungs Oxygen
knocks the CO2 off . You breath out CO2 gas and you breath in air with O2 gas , but you
keep the O2. Oxygen sticks to hemoglobin better than does CO2. However, the poison
Carbon Monoxide really really likes to stick onto the hemoglobin. CO sticks 20 times
better than O2. CO knocks off O2 and sits in its place. CO knocks off CO2 and sits in in
its place. So if there is a very little bit of the poison CO in your air,  then you
accumulate CO more and more and more, even if you are breathing in O2 in your air. It is
very very hard to get rid of the CO, so after a while the CO has taken over your system
blocking any O2 from getting in. The poison kills you by stopping all the cellular
machinery that needs O2 as fuel. CO kills your brain cells first, CO also kills the
muscles that make you breath. In most CO poisonings that have gone very far, it is
better to be dead than survive a severe poisoning. If you survive, the CO leaves you
brain damaged. i.e. blind, deaf, paralyzed, stupid, or a vegetable in a coma.

Now, VW busses are not death traps if you properly maintain the exhaust system and the
"fresh air" heater boxes. V'dubbers are not getting CO poisoning right and left. CO
poisoning is really tricky to survive because at first you get disoriented and you
probably can't think well enough to realize something is wrong and know enough to
escape. If you are sleeping, you'll never wake up.  Over a long time period, super small
quantities of CO led to a lot of problems. Such chronic CO poisoning is very hard to
diagnose and most doctors will tell you , you have the flu. All the while you are losing
more and more function.

I was just trying to be helpful about your deceleration back firing problem which is
usually caused by
1) too rich fuel mixture
or
2) exhaust gas leak (with air getting into the exhaust system sometimes) and then
exhaust gas leaking out of the exhaust system sometimes.
bye
GGM
