Date: Sun, 27 Jul 2003 07:44:42 -0700 (PDT)
From: Steve Elms <selms(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Hot Start Problem

Ah, the eternal hot start problem, as has been mentioned many times in the past a new starter might only temporarly solve the problem. For sure the starter must work pretty well or a hot start relay won't help, but usually if you can short between the battery cable and terminal 50 on the starter solenoid and get the starter to work, then the starter's okay.
 
( WARNING!!!  WARNING!!! if you're lying under the bus and engage the starter while it's in gear you will get run over, resulting in SERIOUS INJURY and possibly DEATH, so DON'T DO IT. Jack the bus up so the rear wheels are in the air and support it with professional jack stands, NOT those cheapo little ones made out of split exhaust tubing.)
 
The basic problem is insufficient voltage at terminal 50 (the small wire) on the solenoid. This is caused by resistance in the circuit somewhere. This circuit starts at the battery and proceeds through the cable to the starter and then into the main voltage supply wire going to the front of the bus. Then through the various connections at the fuse box, Etc. to the Ignition switch, through the contacts inside the switch and eventually back to the starter solenoid's terminal 50. From there the current must travel through a parallel circuit through two separate windings in the solenoid. One of the windings is the "hold" circuit. This winding develops a weak magnetic field and is designed to just hold the solenoid plunger in the engaged position. It finds it's ground through the body of the solenoid, starter, transmission case, ground strap, frame, battery ground cable, and finally back to the battery. Remember the battery, thats where this circuit began. The other branch of the parallel
 circuit is to the "engage" winding of the starter solenoid. This the high current draw part of the solenoid windings and really the root of the hot start problem. The "engage" winding finds it's ground through the starter motor brushes and windings, so it ceases to be a complete circuit as soon as the solenoid load switch suplies voltage to the brushes. So this "engage" circuit is only active long enough to pull the plunger into it's engaged position. This extra resistance will prevent sufficient current flow to operate the solenoid. Thats why doing anything to increase the voltage supply to terminal 50 will enable the solenoid to engage. The problems that limit the current flow probably are at several places: any of the connections in this long, complicated circuit, resistance in the wiring harness itself, resistance inside the ignition switch, ground strap, battery cables and connections, Etc. As well as the added resistance of the starter components themselves. Obviously this
 system worked when all of this stuff was new, 20 to 40 years ago, and if you renew all of it, the system will work again. However, most of us are willing to just install an additional relay close to the starter that is engaged by the origional starter circuit to connect the battery cable at the starter to terminal 50 at the starter. This usually cures the hot start problem. So that's all I know about that. I would welcome any questions, comments, arguments, Etc. on this subject, as there's seldom a day goes by that I don't learn something.
Steve Elms
Yet another old volks guy
 
<snip>My van (2 litre aircoooled 1982 manual) has a starter problem.  Plenty 
of
battery, the solenoid clicks when I turn the key, I think I can hear 
the relay
clicking, but the motor does not turn.  I have tried a (tested) new 
motor with
exactly the same results. The motor turns when shorted direct to the 
battery.
This happened very suddenly - first sign was a faint glow of the red 
light on
the dash.
