Date: Sun, 27 Jul 2003 12:10:13 -0500
To: Rob Carpenter <brnagn7(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] windshield tips

At 11:12 AM 7/27/2003, Rob Carpenter wrote:
>what would be considered lots??
>2-3?

The more the better, but two would be a good start.  Tell them to keep their palms open, fingers extended and try to distribute pressure evenly across their hands instead of just pushing with the base of their wrists.  Tell them to apply firm, steady pressure.  NO tapping, thumping or other jarring movements!  And pressure needs to be applied across the *whole* windshield, not just the area where the cord is being pulled.  Otherwise one area will go in easily because another area will be pushing out.  The windshield must always remain centered in the frame.  Do not try to angle it in from the top, bottom or sides.  If you have two people outside, have one apply pressure to each half of the windshield with both hands and when you are pulling the cord, have them use one hand to push in that area as well.

>1/8" diameter, something like twine?? or thicker?

Nylon cord is good because it is relatively slippery.  1/8" is the size I use also.  Don't use something coarse like twine.

>Do you set the bottom seal in first then have the
>string start from each lower corner working into the
>top center of glass??

I don't think it matters too much where you start - the bottom center is as good as anywhere.  If you have trouble with that though, try starting at the top.  I only overlap the string by about 6", or just enough to get the seal started on the inside of the lip.  Two times around might be better but I have never needed that.  It almost always takes me more than once to get it installed correctly though.  Patience is critical!  If it doesn't look right, remove the windshield and start over rather than trying to force something and risk breaking it.  When you have it right, the outer surface of the seal should be bowed in slightly towards the center.  You will have to pull very hard on the cord - gloves are a big help.

Good luck,

-David
