Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Zack Jarrett <zack.jarrett(-at-)cox.net>
To: Paul Ogren <phogren(-at-)yahoo.com>
Date: Fri, 20 Nov 2009 17:03:15 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Thinking of selling

You've made a good start by mentioning it here.  If I were selling a
bus I'd post it on Craigslist for my area (and any nearby cities) as
well as on The Samba classifieds.

I think Craigslist is probably a better bet than The Samba though,
since just about everyone knows about Craigslist and not everyone
knows of The Samba.  I don't know anyone who uses the newspaper for
classifieds anymore but you might try that too if you don't mind
dishing out cash to place the ad.

As to price it's up in the air.  I bought my '79 bus (practically no
rust, a smattering of dings and dents) in not-so-good-running
condition (it had a weber carb on it then) for $1800 four years ago.
My friend sold his non-running-because-the-wrecked-engine-is-sitting-
on-the-floor-inside-the-bus bus for $850 seven or eight months ago.
The body on that thing was practically perfect in every way though.
If your '68 is in good mechanical shape and the body is mostly decent
then I think you could get at least $2000 for it, and perhaps more.
Of course, the bus is worth exactly what you sell it for... in which
light it's clear that you don't know what it's worth until someone
buys it.  The parts bus also adds something to the equation.  You can
get at least a few hundred dollars for it on it's own as long as it's
in towable condition.  If you have the time and will power and space
to part it out you can wring even more dollars out of it but it seems
like a lot of work for little gain.

Check out the Bus Buyer's guide on ratwell.com and evaluate your bus
as if you were a purchaser.  That should give you some idea of what
other reasonable folks will be offering (assuming you're reasonable
folk to begin with).
http://www.ratwell.com/technical/BuyingGuide.html

Also see if you can track down any sales of buses made lately in your
area.  See what they're being offered for on Craigslist and price it
accordingly.

Good luck!

Zack

On Nov 20, 2009, at 4:33 PM, Paul Ogren wrote:

> Any suggestions on method and price?
