Date: Tue, 24 Nov 2009 20:13:13 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: t2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: [VB] DP intake gaskets

Greetings to Canada!

Believe me, I lose sleep over it too!

I'm in the double dilemma that I pulled my engine to install new oil
seals and rebuild the carbs, but both places that ordered carb rebuild
kits for me fell through, so I had to temporarily put the manifolds
back on with the old gaskets!

That is really nerve wracking. They are the OEM style metal, which you
know are supposed to have a "crush" to them to make the seal.

Well, after hearing Walter's story, I think a lot about how cardboard
is softer and can fill in imperfections better, where it seems there
is a limit to how much a metal "crush" gasket can seal. It seems to me
that they are engineered to compensate for any angle that might be
generated between the two surfaces, but depend on perfectly smooth
surfaces to seal.

In my case, thinking about how you are not really supposed to reuse
these gaskets, I made the decision to use hi-temp RTV silicon sealer.
I could not find the copper impregnated kind, so I used the 400 degree
red formula.

First, I know you should not use RTV, at least not on air-cooled
heads. So, I've been watching things as best I could while awaiting my
carb kit. What to watch for?

1) Using the LM-1 Air/Fuel Ratio meter. It shows good AFRs in the 11:1
to 12:1 range. Still, this is worrisome because a tail pipe reading is
an average of all four cylinders.

2) Next use a calibrated and reliable Cylinder Head Temperature (CHT)
gauge like the Dakota Digital.

http://tinyurl.com/yzvp9cs

This is still troublesome if you don't have the experience to know how
an intake leak affects the temperature. If you check the archives, we
have just had a long, in-depth discussion in which we learned that
Exhaust Gas Temperatures (EGT) are a better indicator than CHT, and we
looked at a graph in which EGT went into the danger zone while CHT
remained steady.

The other thing is that you are monitoring one cylinder. If you are
worried about a leak, you have to rotate the sensor between the four
cylinders. Some of the more ambitious have talked about installing a
sensor on each cylinder and using a switch, manual or digital, to
switch between them.

3) Use the old fashioned lo-tech method of watching your spark plugs.

My final analysis - my CHT is running about 20 degrees higher than it
should, and my spark plugs are running in a color range between normal
and hot, so my conclusion is to drive carefully and get the carb work
done as soon as possible.

John
- Hide quoted text -

On Tue, Nov 24, 2009 at 7:07 AM, SQUID <sydclarke(-at-)shaw.ca> wrote:
 John, hi from here in canada!  I have two types with the rebuild kit I
 bought..the "opera glasses" ones, and the thin metal ones, that were
 reccomended from my local VW guru..which I installed..now I am wondering if
 I will loose sleep over which to use?  Cheers
 SQUID
