From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "Vintage List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 28 Jul 2003 07:50:36 -0400
Subject: not such a good day

Not a very good day Saturday...I was taking a bunch of my friends golfing
for this bachelor party...I had just given my bus a tune-up earlier in the
week. 

It had no problems all week...so we are on the way up a long hill, when I
see some smoke in my rear view mirror, and my oil light come on. So I pull
over, and see the valve cover on the passenger side is leaking all over the
heater box...so I am thinking I must not have put the valve cover on
properly, or maybe a bad gasket...

I jump around grab my tools and replace the gasket, and add some oil. Oil
level now is at the low mark of the dipstick...gas station is about 7 miles.
so I figure I can make it to the gas station and add more oil. We are
chugging along, and the engine doesn't sound quite right. Not sure what it
is, kind of like a knocking noise...but I am thinking just a couple more
miles, and the oil light is not on...

Then the bust sputters a little, and my friends in back say the smell gas,
then the bus stop all together... so I pull over...check the engine-and the
brass fitting on the fuel pump has come out, gas all over the engine
compartment. I think=no big deal, this happened with my squareback...I rough
up the edge(kind of like knurling)...and tap it back in. It feels nice and
tight.

We continue again. The bus still doesn't sound right, but if I just make it
a couple miles, I can let it sit and have it towed back to my house later in
the day.(BIG MISTAKE)

Then I get a loud boom/bang noise, and the whole bus jerks a little...felt
like someone grabbed the rear wheels. So I am totally lost now.

I open the engine lid, and see a chunk of the engine...sitting on top of the
engine...it looks like a chunk of the engine case. I now realize I screwed
up big time. I should have stopped at the first signs of trouble...I believe
I did what I have heard as "throwing a rod"...not really sure though.

So I need a new engine...luckily I have my squareback-so I have a backup
car. And someone who owes me some money has a baja bug or dune buggy I
forget...with dual port heads. I can't remember much more about it. I may
see if he'll give me the engine in lieu of some of the money he owes me.
Will this engine work? I am thinking a short term solution while I work on
making an more ideal engine. 

What I don't understand is how the problem could have happened, considering
how much time I spend babying this thing...regular tune ups, added an oil
filter/pump...synthetic oil...constantly checking the thing out, and
aargh...it is frustrating. I am wondering if I had stopped at the first sign
of trouble, would it have been able to save the engine? Or did it probably
need a tear down anyway....

-kevin guarnotta

'65 kombi
'71 sqbk
somerville, ma
