From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 28 Jul 2003 11:51:43 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: awning/portland trip report (long)

we decided to go on saturday and camp near portland so we could wake up 
Sunday morning near the show/swap/drag races Sunday morning.   Bruce and I left Sat 
aftenoon after a lazy day, during which the awning was sorted out.  Yessir, 
after being in the blazing sun last weekend and looking longingly at other's 
awnings and tents, and rigging up a kinda crappy thing with a blue tarp,  it was 
time to get serious about the cabana action. 

  I have this orangey yellow awning in a similar style to a Riviera of some 
such, that came from a junkyard splitty some years ago.  It has a bead at one 
side to slide into the channel on the bus, the other side has a pocket for 
poles, and it has little strings at the corners to tie around poles, and little 
hoops to hang the sides (not included) from.  The edges hang down a it past the 
poles, scalloped.  I'll put some pictures up, any info about it is welcome.   
A channel was attached to the side of the roof rack, and stylish OEM German 
PVC pipe was hose clamped to the ends of the roof rack.   aluminium poles 
donated by a friend who had an incomplete set for a free standing non VW awning  fit 
perfectly, after sorting through for a while for the right sizes.  Set up it 
worked!!!  Takes maybe 5 or 10 minutes to erect.  We colour coded the poles 
with tape to make it easy to assemble next time.

In about 90F heat we headed down I-5 in the green/white 65 westy to the 
Longview exit, into Longview, and crossed the Columbia River on a rather impressive 
bridge.  Took hwy 30, which goes along the Oregon side of the Columbia River, 
and it was nice and shady.  Stopped for dinner at the worst Chinese 
restaurant.  The decor was cool in a funky kind of way.   Marblized gold diamond 
pattern tuck and roll naugahyde chairs, with black naugahyde edging.  Comfy too.  
Think Las Vegas.  Truly amazing, I wanted to take some home.  But have you ever 
had a vodka tonic come with whisky in it?   That's something you order that 
you think they just can't mess up.  Oh well.   I thought implements like 
knives/folks or even chopsticks came standard with meals?  anyway, the quality of the 
furnishings (nothing hanging on walls, but o my goodness those chairs!) made 
everything funny.   

Camped out near the river, under the stars as the bus was too packed with 
stuff.   It was plenty warm and comfy.  Got up in the morning and had coffee and 
danishes at a gas station that had seats by the window.  Decent coffee too. 

 The flyer had said the gates opened at 8.30, we got in line at some time in 
the morning, and soon the line started moving.  Secured a swap space and set 
up the cabana, and the chairs under it.  excellent.  Spent the day in the swap 
area, chatting and stuff.  Mostly we sat under the cabana, in the shade.  Ah.  
The cabana was admired, to my surprise, as I was thinking comfort, rather 
than style.  Only bought one thing, a speedo for my 65 (dated 2/65, version D.  I 
think my bus is 5/65 so even the date is good) , it has a pretty face and the 
one in the bus is well, okay.  Met a guy with a westy tent he had on his 
kombi, and watched the set up and took some pics.   I still want one of those, but 
they seem to be rare and too pricey when you find them.   I prefer aluminium 
poles anyway, much lighter.   Saw a nice 70? bay window dormobile with a 
different westy interior than usual, think it's the bay version of SO-44.  neat.  
Anyway, nice little show, larger swap area than I expected, lots of nice people 
there.  

Suddenly got hot around 2 or so.   eventually packed up and left.  On the 
drive home I was on the sunny side of the bus and boy was it hot,   mid 90s?  The 
air felt warm as I breathed in.  The air felt warm if I stuck my hand out the 
window.  used the air conditioner (mister bottle) a lot on the way home.  I 
was a tad sunburned on my arms, particularly left arm, when I got home.    The 
bus ran, as always, nice and cool, has 6v (small) gen pulley.  Oil temp 
hovered around 90C on the way home, or a tad over.  It was 270 miles round trip.  
20mpg loaded.  drove ~58mph (3K rpms)
