Date: Fri, 16 Jun 2006 13:54:20 -0700
From: "zach drew" <zachula(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Pivot Pin Replacement pitfalls

OK so I think I am going to bite the bullet and replace my pivot pin this
weekend.  I am 99.9% sure thats where my steering play is coming from.   I
had my girlfriend sit in the cab and pretend like she was driving (you know
when you sit there and move the wheel side to side like you did when you
were a kid? :-)  Crawled under the front end and watched the swing lever
move up and down before "catching" and engaging the rest of the steering
linkages.  I am taking all the caps off next time to see if the pivot pin
really is moving.

The PO purchased a replacement pin kit and it is complete so I figure why
the heck not.
Heres why I am writing, I have a 75.  I am at work at the moment so I can't
read the part numbers off the bushings to make sure they are the correct
part or not but I know they aren't the brass type that you see on these
pages:
http://66.34.72.138/howto/pivot-bushing/index.html
http://www.dualport.com/bustech/swing.html

Also, there is no grease nipple that I can see on the front where I could
easily grease my pivot pin.
Should I put one in or just pack it full of grease when I put it back
together?
What kind of grease should I use?  The bentley manual doesn't specify in the
section what kind (haven't dug through any indicies though)

Lastly I am planning on using the procedure outlined in the muir book or if
I can't find a suitable object I plan on making a contraption out of
allthread a couple of nuts and some washers as I don't really feel like
renting a tool from BB and waiting for it, worrying about breaking/damaging
it , etc.  Any tips from the folks that have done this before?

Lastly, I don't think there is a steering damper on my bus.  Is this
necessary?  I haven't really looked into a replacement because I wasn't sure
if this was a problem or not.

Thanks again T2 gurus!

I'll post the part numbers from the bushings when I get home....they are VW.


-Zach
75' Riviera "Mater"
