To: type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Date: Fri, 16 Jun 2006 18:27:40 -0700
Subject: Words of farewell, and thanks

To all on the type 2 list:

This list has been a major part of my life for almost ten years. 
Sometimes I posted far too often, and other times I just lurked. But 
always I shared with most of you the cantankerous pleasure of owning 
and maintaining a hunk of iron from another era.

In the end, though, it became a liability that I had to jettison. 
Yesterday, I gave Peregrine away and in a couple of days I will 
unsubscribe from the list for the foreseeable future (I won't say "for 
good," because who knows?).

Even as I was packing Peregrine to be taken away, I saw that I had 
exaggerated in my own mind the work that I still needed to do to have 
the bus back on the road. Yes, the body was rough, and yes it would 
have taken some work to get it right. But I wanted a perfect bus, 
wanted to do it all by my own hands, and in the end the mismatch 
between what I wanted and what I could do finally became obvious to me.

Over these years, though, I've had an awful lot of fun with this list. 
The only people I ever met in person were David Schwartz (we went part 
picking in Chula Vista and had burgers at In-and-Out Burger) and of 
course Andrew the pharmicist. I sort of met Karl at the Classic once, 
but I didn't know who he was yet, and he didn't know me.

All the rest of you have been virtual friends, and the list is far too 
long to go into.

Then there's that guy in Georgia who thinks I'm the antichrist, and 
probably a few people who have agreed with him over the years but kept 
their mouths shut.

But the finest thing that happens on this list, year in and year out -- 
the thing that happened to me and happened to many of you too -- is 
that moment when, with lots of help from lots of people, someone gets 
their bus to start, and then to run, and finally to go out for a drive. 
Over and over again, that has happened.

And that's the best thing. Everything else is a footnote

Mark
