Date: Sun, 18 Jun 2006 21:32:04 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] CHT Wows and Concerns

--- Wayne <mga60(-at-)optonline.net> wrote:

> Today was the first time I've taken my bus (79
> Westy) for a long ride since
> installing my CHT gauge and it was a very hot day
> here in Connecticut -
> upper 80s to 90 degrees.  So, seems to be working
> well until I start
> climbing long hills and the temp reading starting
> going up and up - to and
> slightly above 450 - at which point I got off the
> gas.  From everything I've
> read in the archives, this is not a good thing.
> 
Wayne, you don't say how you installed your gauge. Is
it a standard VDO CHT gauge?
Are you using the under-the-sparkplug sensor?
Are you using it in #3 cylinder?
Where EXACTLY is the connector end of the sensor?
What is the temperature at the location where the
connector end of the sensor is?
What is a comparison temp of say, #1 cylinder head?

Without answers to these questions, that 450 may be
400 or it may be 600 and you, I and those who think
I'm crazy cannot tell what that temp is!

The VDO gauges are apparently calibrated such that the
connector end of the sensor leads is assumed to be at
about 75 degrees Fahrenheit. If that exact spot is 25
degrees hotter than 75, the gauge reads 25 low. If
that spot where the connector end is, is at 50
degrees, the gauge will read 25 degrees HIGH.

Everyone knows I recommend a quad (4 cylinder) CHT
gauge, but since you have already invested in the VDO,
it will tell you a lot more if you add at least a
second sensor to #1 spark plug. The idea being to
monitor the "hot" one, #3, and have a toggle switch to
switch over to #1 for reference. On your '79, if all
is stock, #1 should run almost exactly 50 degrees
cooler than #3.

If you do choose to add a sensor to #1, you can
connect the common leads of the two sensors and just
run a new wire up front for the (+) lead, put a toggle
switch in a handy spot, then you can switch from left
bank to right bank at will.

Why do this? From the reference I told you of 50
degrees difference, you can determine (theoretically)
if there is something wrong specifically on the left
bank. This really is important because if your oil
cooler is partially blocked, you will not get adequate
cooling air to #3 cylinder and it needs immediate
attention!

Other things to look for: if you disconected the
factory heater blower or replaced it with something
that does not have check valves (flaps) in it, you are
loosing cooling air. If the tubes that run from the
blower to the heat exchanger(s) is/are missing, you
are loosing cooling air. If any of the tin is missing,
including the bottom pieces and the front pieces that
enclose the area between the heat exchangers and the
engine case, you are loosing cooling air. If the
covers that screw on to the joint between the main fan
housing and the heat exchangers are missing, you
guessed it! Even if the heater boxes that regulate
heat flow into the cabin OR direct it back via the two
extra little pipes that look like louvered exhaust
pipes... if all the components aren't hooked up
properly, it will affect the cooling. For instance,
when the heat to the cabin is turned off, the hot air
goes out those two lovered pipes. There is a certain
amount off back pressure engineered in to that
circuit. If they have been removed, there is less back
pressure, less resistance to air going through the
heat exchangers, so some of your prescious cooling air
is gonna go there instead cuz there's less resistance!

Now to climb back on my soap box, but I've already
explained the advantages of a 4-cylinder CHT gauge...
There are rotary switches available so you can switch
to any of the 4, using your VDO gauge. OR you can make
a little switch plate with 4 toggle switches on it,
one for each cylinder. Inexpensive and easy to do.
This can be used for comparison between cyls. Note
that 2&4 on your '79 should run identical to each
other and be about 50 degrees cooler than #1, but one
of mine ran 25 degrees cooler. If everything is
working as designed (no cooling loss anywhere) as you
really work the engine hard, all 1,2&4 will come in
dead even, with #3 still running a bit hotter. As you
crest the hill and start down, they will scatter
again. If you want #3 to run exactly like #1, after
you make sure the oil cooler is perfectly clean, hone
#3 cylinder about a thousndath to a thousandth and a
half looser and it will run dead even with #1!

When will you achieve melt-down? Monitor it closely
and keep notes so that we will have a precise answer
for the next guy!

Oh - BTW, if you really want to get into this, buy a
cheap digital thermometer at the local hardware store
and extend the wire with some similar 24 gauge or
whatever they use, to locate the sensor right where
your CHT sensor lead connectors are. Just zip-tie them
together. Leave it there for one full year, then you
won't need it anymore. Watch the trends of hot days /
cool days/ summer / winter and you will be one of only
a handful that really knows what the numbers on his
CHT gauge really mean!

Here's more preaching: since you have a 25% chance of
having the gauge hooked up to the cylinder that
ultimately has a problem - if ever one does - chances
are you won't be using the gauge as a warning
indicator that something is wrong, but rather as a
diagnostic tool to help figure out where something is
wrong once you somehow sensed that there's a problem!
If somehow you know it's too hot, you can switch
between cyls and figure out which one(s) are hot and
which one(s) are normal. For instance, if all 4 are
really hot, you probably have a rag or the neighbors
kitten in your cooling fan.

Now, what might trigger you to flip switches and see
whaich one is hot? If you don't want to run 4 seperate
CHT gauges or a single quad gauge that can actually
alert you when there is a problem as it is developing,
then you might want to add a second device that CAN
alert you that one of the 4 has a problem. That would
be an EGT gauge, placed where it will sense all 4
exhausts. Here again, there is no magic number, but
after you run it awhile, you will become accustomed to
its patterns. If it seems to be running a tad warmer
than usual, flip through your CHT's and see if one
head is running hot. If it is, it could be a vacuum
leak close to that cylinder, like an intake runner
boot loose, or an injector loose, but you will know
and be able to shut down and save your engine.

The magic numbers? I don't know. I had one engine that
saw 600 degrees on almost every freeway hill! It ran
for about two years. I tweaked the FI to be able to
adjust it richer on hard pulls and that helped
considerably. I always intended to add water injection
at the EGR port of the plenum (removed internal
plumbing first!) Instead I tore the engine down and
lowered the compression ratio from 10.92:1 down to
about 7.5:1 and that solved the high temps! It didn't
get up to 100mph nearly as quickly though! (79 camper
bus) -BaH

'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2)
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01
