Date: Sun, 18 Jun 2006 22:40:24 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] brake upgrade on a '72 westy

hey folks.  Another really long post.  Sorry.

This is a reply to a post from 3 years ago, that applies to my
situation.  So, I had that issue with the locked-up rear wheel a couple
of weeks ago, and that got me thinking about my brakes.  I've been
stopping fine, but I haven't really gotten into the front (disk) brakes
to see what was up.  With a plan to go camping next weekend, I thought
it wise to replace the pads or at least see how the old ones looked. 
After wrestling the driver's side pads out, the piston on the
inner-side won't go back.  If that was the only issue, it wouldn't be
so bad.  The disk has a lot of rust on it, and the rubber boot on the
piston is torn up.  I figured I could take the disk to a machinist and
get it fixed (unless its too hosed), or I could just acquire new
not-rusty parts.  I thought the same of the calipers - you know what
you have if its all new.... this backstory gets me to my reply to this
3 year old thread below.
First, Paul, if you're out there, did you change your brakes from '72
to '73-'79?  From looking at the busDepot offerings, they consider the
72-79 backing plates the same, and I can't find a reference for a
spindle.  I figured that the caliper and rotor needed to be the same,
but perhaps the other 2 items were not needed for the '72 upgrade, but
necessary for a non-disk to disk upgrade.  Lyle?  Anyone? 

My thinking:
- my rotors probably can't be machined true - the damage is too great,
and the rust is too severe.
- I can stay '72 with new rotors ($60ea) and rebuilt calipers ($80ea)
for $300 or upgrade to '73/9 new rotors ($50ea) and new calipers
($100ea) for $300.

Basically, I'm out $300 either way I go, and I'd replace the rubber
lines in the front while I had the system open.  I figure brakes that
had the benefit of more engineering are probably better if the price
truly is the same.  The real question is:  do I really need more than
the rotors and calipers?  Any stories or issues on the rebuilt calipers
for the 71/2?

I really appreciate your help, and I'll miss your posts, Mr. Hineline.

Paul Manning
Lake Oswego, OR
1972 Westy (hapy)

the old thread:
> the '72 and I think '73 front brake calipers and rotors are becoming
harder to find and the '74-'79 are everywhere and half price.  Can I
switch to the larger calipers and rotors from the later buses without
changing out the hub and backing plate that is currently on '72?

The hard-to-find ones are '71 and '72.  After this, VW responded to the
complaints of too-frequent pad replacment by designing thicker pads.
these required a thicker caliper.  This required more wheel clearance,
so the spindle was redesigned to move the caliper inward.  This changed
the centerline of the disk, so the disk is now different.

In short, you need the caliper, spindle, disk, and the backing plate to
do the conversion.  You will not feel any difference in braking
ability, but the pads will last longer.

Early pads will fit late calipers, but not the other way around.
