Date: Wed, 28 Mar 2012 10:05:12 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Lourd Baltimore <lourd_baltimore(-at-)yahoo.com>, type 2
Subject: Re: [T2] Pair of 40D's available - Dellorto Carburetors

Well I certainly don't mean to scare people off, the DRLA is IMHO the best
carb, and actually one of the best performance induction systems you can buy,
and I love FI , built my first Megasquirt back in '03 or so and am a long fan
of L-jet of course.  Just more my caution is for someone looking at Joel's or
any set, better be sure you are roughly starting with something sized about
for what you want to put it on, or you will be dissapointed with performance
and/or be investing $$ in parts.  And generally as 40 DRLAs were sold for more
performance minded applications, they are sized for nothing stock.
 
CB and
others still have stuff over here as well, but when I went to rebuild last
time (just cause they had been sitting), a good Italian rebuild kit had gone
from about $20 to about $45 per carb, and really you don't get much in a DRLA
rebuild kit, so seemed a bit outlandish.  A full CB update kit to horizontal
discharge tubes is $70 a side which does get you new vents and jets as a
matter of course, but doesn't inlcude needle valve, pump diaphagm, etc in the
"rebuild kit."  So just more a warning to bear in mind if one didn't start
with something sized for application you are probably looking at $200-250 per
set to get to where you want to be...  If the set is sized for your
application, you are probably good to go with only $80-90 in rebuild kits if
they have been sitting a bit, or might even get lucky as is.
 
But since a set
of "real Spanish" IDF's will set you back $750-1000 I'd take the DRLAs any
day, even without upating them to the horizontal discharge tubes, etc.
 
John
----- Original Message -----
From: Lourd Baltimore lourd_baltimore(-at-)yahoo.com
 
Just before John's comment about production scares you off.
Eurocarb Ltd over
on this side of the pond has DRLA (and other Dell'orto and Weber carbs)
spares.
They can also provide advice on jetting and do a bit of VW work.
