Date: Thu, 20 Mar 2003 01:47:06 -0500
From: Type2Guy(-at-)aol.com
To: General(-at-)OldVolks.com, brooksdj(-at-)earthlink.net, type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] What H4's is everyone using in ther Buses?

I checked a little on the bulbs and had plenty of warnings or reports from some that stated their switch got hot, wiring got hot, etc. etc.  

I definately did not want to burn my wiring up, so after installing, I checked them out in a few ways.  I took a few drives, increasing the distance and times, with the high beams on.  The final test was the drive to Havasu, which I checked and ran my high beams for approx. 3 hours straight.  I felt the switch and wasn't even warm.  It never got warm with sealed beam lights either.

I have run the bus during the day for approx. an hour or more with high beams on, and checked the wiring from switch to dimmer to lights and never felt a wire that was remotely warm.

A good friend of mine told me his switch gets pretty warm under extended use...so YMMV.

Another note...the wiring and elec. system in the EZ was one of the first things I noticed when I got this bus.  It's had some of the brightest lights I've seen on a bus, and everything elec. works top notch.  I beleive this has a lot to do with my results with the 100W H4s.

As for quality...I picked up my housings from Ronnie late last year.  Mine fit nice and tight, with no issues.  I had a great light pattern with my sealed beams....and was not expecting a lot of improvement.  Boy was I wrong.  I have a better light pattern than my wifes new Nissan, and my dad-in-laws Lexus.

basically put....your mileage may vary.  As for me, I am a happy customer with excellent results.

Beto
63EZ
Winchester, CA

In a message dated 3/20/2003 12:37:30 AM Eastern Standard Time, General(-at-)OldVolks.com writes:

>  Be careful with the 100 (highbeam) watt bulbs, they WILL overheat your
> wireing and could melt down the highbeam switch. No problem with the 55
> watt. Most H4 headlight bulbs come with 55/60 or 65 bulbs.
