Date: Thu, 20 Mar 2003 21:35:45 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: What H4's is everyone using in ther Buses?

>From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
>Date: Thu, 20 Mar 2003 13:00:10 EST
>
>Installing relays for the headlights will not improve/fix to the full
>function of the other electrical parts in your bus!!!

This bears repeating.  Even with stock headlights, it's still a good idea
to go through the headlight switch and fuse box, cleaning up and soldering
connections.

If you install relays for the headlights, they should have their own power
feed straight from the battery -- you should run a new wire from front to
back.  Even so, the stock wiring is still powering the tail lights, turn
signals, brake lights, wiper, horn, etc., so it's good to work over the
stock parts as well.

>So before you install the H-4s we suggest checking your wiring system
>from the back at the battery all the way forward and then back to the
>engine and starter solinoid with a voltmeter for any voltage droppage.

To explain this a little more: Put the red probe of your meter on the
point that's electrically closer to the battery, and the black probe
on the terminal that's electrically further away.  Use a low DC V range
on your meter: 2 V, 4 V, or so.  Ideally the connection would have no
resistance and your meter would read 0 V.  In practice, the connection
has some resistance and the meter reading is the voltage drop across
that resistance.

You'll need an extension wire for your voltmeter to do a couple of the
checks.  It can be small-gauge wire - it only has to carry the current
of your voltmeter, which is around 0.05 milliamps for most analog
voltmeters and around 0.001 milliamps for most digital voltmeters.

For the headlights, you might do it like this.  Turn on the headlights.
Take readings as follows:

Item: Red probe -- Black probe
Main battery cable: Battery positive terminal -- Starter stud with battery cable
Red wire from back to front: Starter stud with battery cable -- Two red wires at rightmost fuse
Red wire from fuse box to headlight switch: Two red wires at rightmost fuse -- Red wire at headlight switch
Headlight switch: Red wire at headlight switch -- White/black wire at headlight switch
Wire from headlight switch to dimmer switch/relay: White/black wire at headlight switch --  White/black wire at dimmer switch or dimmer relay
Dimmer switch/relay: White/black wire at dimmer switch/relay -- Yellow wire at dimmer switch/relay
Wire from dimmer switch/relay to fuse box: Yellow wire at dimmer switch/relay -- Yellow wire at fuse box (the side with one yellow wire)
Low beam fuse: Yellow wire at fuse box (1 yel side) -- Yellow wire at fuse box (the side with yellow and yellow/black wires)
Wire from fuse box to headlight: Yellow wire at fuse box (yel+yel/blk side) -- Yellow wire at left headlight

So now you have a bunch of voltage drop readings.  If you have a high
reading for one of the wires, clean and tighten the connections on both
ends of the wire and see if it improves.  If not, you may need a new
wire.

For any wire that connects to the fuse box, also check the rivets that
hold the fuse clips and wire terminals together.  These can loosen up
and create resistance.

For the headlight switch, consider the repair E&B and I wrote up in the
Library.  For the dimmer switch, a new switch is probably indicated.
For the dimmer relay, you may be able to take the cover off and clean
the contacts -- if not, new relay.

For the fuses, wire-brush the fuse clips and make sure that they hold
the fuse securely.  Consider using Buss GBC fuses with the glass tube
and larger contact area on the ends.

You probably won't be able to get the voltage drop to zero, but you
should try to minimize it as much as you can.  The spec for the stock
6 V headlights says you should have 6.20 V at the headlight terminals
for low beam and 6.10 V for high beam to get the rated light output.
For the stock 12 V headlights, it is 12.80 V for either beam.

I'll answer your wire-size question in the next message.

Matt Roberds
