From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 18 Aug 2009 12:31:00 -0400
Subject: sngle cab swap...?

I am looking to the list for some advice.

I have a '69 bus out in CA. I had left it there with a friend to watch-as I
thought I was going to return a few months later. The project I thought  I
was going back to changed, and I ended up not returning. My friend has been
watching my bus.

Now I would really like it out here (MA) for work. It is a great '69 single
cab with a fresh/decent paint job, nice strong engine, and more.I had done
some work on it, and generally enjoyed driving it. It could cruise with
other cars on the highway-no problem. It did ride a little stiff, but I
think that was due to the stiff shocks the previous owner had but in. He had
put disc brakes up front, I'm not sure if that is standard on this year or
not. The engine was strong, and I think it had compression ratings around
170, which I thought to be really high. So basically no problems vehicle,
looks nice, drives nice...only problem is that it is 3000 miles from me.

Anyway now that I contacted my friend about sending it back-they want to buy
it from me. So shipping costs about $1000. I figured if I could find a
similar vehicle here, for a similar price maybe I would do it, and save the
~$1,000 shipping costs, and know my truck was going into good hands. 

I like this truck, but had only really owned it for about 5 months before
handing it off. I did do some work on it while I had it, this is usually
what gets me attached to a vehicle-the amount of work, or amount of trips.
Generally the thing needs no work-except maybe some cosmetic stuff-new
upholstery, headliner.etc. So I don't have a huge attachment to the vehicle

So I checked out thesamba, and found a restored '67 about 4 hours from me.
It looks pretty nice to me, and I do like the older body style(although the
bay window was starting to grow on me). At this point I can't take on
another 'project car' as I am fully spending any free time on my '65 kombi,
and have another project lined up after that. So if I get a single cab, it
cannot really need work.

One general question-how do these drive compared to a '65 or '69? My bus
here is a '65 with RGB's and doesn't go super fast on highway. That works ok
for me now, and I think it is ok for that.  I don't think I want another bus
that goes that slow, do the '67's have RGB's standard? How do they go on the
highway, should I expect the same performance as my '65 or closer in speed
to my '69.

Any suggestions or things I should look for or think about before this sort
of 'trade', I call it a trade, as I would basically be swapping a '69 for a
'67 with a small price difference. I am trying to figure out all the
questions to ask the seller of the '67 before I spend almost ten hours
driving there and back for something that I should have asked before I went
to look.

I hope that makes sense, and I appreciate any advice...

Thanks,

-Kevin

'65 kombi
'69 single cab
Jamaica Plain, MA 
