From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 24 Aug 2009 17:18:58 -0400
Subject: re:cargo door plate...

Well some good news and bad news.

 

It is possible to replace the cargo door plate without drilling a hole in
the frame! After much wrangling with 19 gauge steel wire I was able to pull
the plate out of the hole again. I found the best thing to do was to put a
flashlight on the ground under the weep hole. Then fish from above and
below. This helped me get the plate out. My knees are currently in some pain
;) Total time-about 4-5 hours. 

 

Once you get the plate out-the 2nd problem is to get it back in properly,
without dropping it-I did drop it twice! But you eventually get better at
fishing it out.

 

To replace the plate you put a wire through one of the holes in the plate
about 1.5". Then bend a loop in it. Then extend the wire a bit further-say
4-5 inches, and put another bend in it. Then slide this up the tube of the
bus, then back down where it needs to go. 

 

At this point  the wire is in the top hole of the bracket, you line up the
bottom hole, and put a screw in it.

 

Then pull the wire out, you may need to stick a small screwdriver in the top
hole to move the wire a bit to be able to pull it out. Remember you were
only supposed to put a single bend in it, so you should be able to pull the
wire out.

 

Then put the 2nd screw in.

 

I'm sorry I did not take pictures, if it happens again-I'll take pictures.
I'll try to make a sketch of what I did and post to the samba.

 

The bad news, is that while doing all this poking and prodding around there,
I realized my rocker panel was very rusted out on the inside/underneath
area. I ended up needing to cut a chunk out of here. While I have it open I
plan on putting some anti-rust paint in there. Then I'll patch it with a
piece of metal, a couple screws and some seam sealer. I figure this way I
can open it up if I need to check and make sure the rocker panel is not
getting worse, or to clean it out etc.

 

-Kevin

 

'65 kombi

'69 single cab

Jamaica Plain, MA 
