Date: Thu, 27 Aug 2009 07:53:47 -0700
From: "Thomas J. Tarka" <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Installing Brake Drum  - Secrets?  Tips?

Thanks for all of the insightful replies on this thread.

The knowledge that for other people the brake drum just slides
right on was enough to get me to put down the hammer and poke
around a lot more.

In response to some of your queries, I did have the e-brake off
and the stars backed out all the way.  In addition, there was no
fluid in the line, so the wheel cylinder (WC) (a new one) could
move freely.

Here's what I did/found:

1) Installed shoes still slightly cock-eyed (flaring
outward closest to the wheel, inward at the backing
plate) due to a continued deformity of the backing plate. 
Removed it again and hammered it out more.  This fixed
the non-alignment issue but the drum still wouldn't slide on.

2) Took the dust caps off the new WC, then assembled the 
brakes again and tried to fit the drum on.  Still wouldn't
fit.

3) Examined the shoes closer and with the dust caps removed
from the WC could see that the ends of the shoes weren't both 
seated all the way into the WC notches when assembled.  After
much futzing, I realized that this was due to the e-brake
cable engaging the brakes somewhat.

4) Realized that when removing the backing plate to hammer it 
back into shape (it had been completely deformed when my drum 
cracked) I had removed the e-brake cable.  When I pushed the
cable back in during re-install, it didn't seat all the way
down and gave some extra tension to the cable.  Fixed this
by tapping it gently into place with a punch.

5) E-brake still slightly engaged and shoes not quite seated,
so I backed off the the e-brake cable lock nuts to lengthen
the cables (the cabin end of the cables were rusted into place 
and needed to be tapped with a punch to be freed).  Backed
the cables off a fair bit until e-brake is completely disengaged.
Drum slid on easily.

6) Re-adjusted e-brake cables as per bentley.  Ended up having to
tighten them to get both to engage. Does this mean I'm going to 
have a slight rubbing until the shoes wear down?

7) Bled and somewhat flushed brake system with new fluid (it's
been a couple of years).  Had lots of pedal pressure until the
first drive this AM when I must've freed something up and don't
have quite the same pressure as before (still stops fine).  No
leaks, will investigate but it may just be how splitty brakes feel
(or so I've been advised previously).  May not be any different
than it was before I had to fix the brakes (and I do remember 
having this realization before), so....we'll see.

Question (for those of you who have made it this far): for splitty
rear brakes ('67, drivers side, rear), are the shoes the same size
or is one smaller than the other?  One of the shoes I had on the
rear was smaller than the other and I wasn't sure if it had just
gotten deformed during the drum failure (!!!) or if this was
how they were supposed to be...

Thanks again volks!
 
Cheers,
  Tom
  1967 Freedom Camper, Lily
  1971 Weekender (sorta), with TurboDiesel currently hung but not wired

On Mon, Aug 24, 2009 at 01:27:13PM -0700, Thomas J. Tarka wrote:
> Ok.
> 
> Every time I refresh my brake drum pads, I have a devil of a time lining everything
> up so that the drum goes on.
> 
> It always seems to require cursing, cajoling, beating upon, inadvertently-nicking-
> brand-new-pristine-brake-shoes, and generally a lot longer time than I thought
> it should have taken.
> 
> At three am last night when I was out in the garage trying to perform this, 
> what-i-thought-to-be-a-fairly-rudimentary task, I thought to myself:
> "Self: There's gotta be a better way to do this.  There's gotta be an easier
> way.  I know that mechanics who get paid by the hour aren't sitting there
> wasting their time trying to jam drums onto wheels like this.  But I can't
> figure it out...what the h*ll am I doing wrong?"
> 
> And so while it might have been my sleep-deprived brain that was making me
> miss something simple, or perhaps the slight bend in the backing plate that
> I had missed when hammering the damn thing out (after the brake drum
> failure 2 weeks ago - and yes, I'll be taking it off and hammering at it
> again, although if anyone near PGH, PA has a spare left rear backing plate, I'm 
> all ears), I thought I would inquire as to what other people do in these
> situations.
> 
> Do you, oh glorious grease-monkeys and cajolers of VWs, have any secrets in this
> realm?  Or you, SOP, WOT drivers, have any amusing tricks of the trade (or just
> stories to keep my brain amused after too few hours of sleep) to share?
> 
> Help a dubber out...
> 
> Cheers,
>   Tom
>   1967 Freedom Camper, Lily
>   1971 Weekender (sorta), with TurboDiesel currently hung but not wired
> 
> ---
>   "You realists can stay the hell out of our office" - David Dudas
