Date: Thu, 27 Aug 2009 12:22:22 -0700
From: "Thomas J. Tarka" <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
To: John Yust <yust(-at-)comcast.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Installing Brake Drum  - Secrets?  Tips?

John,

> The rear shoes are supposed to be the same size. Some vehicles do use 
> different size shoes for the leading and trailing shoe, but not a bus.

Thanks for confirming this.  

I had a spare set of new shoes (which I installed) and they were
both the same size.

	<snip>

> the block. The pedal should be nice and high with very little "give" to 
> it when you put on the brakes. If it changed a lot on the first drive I 
> would take a good close look inside the drums before I headed out across 
> the country. There must be a reason for that change. 

This is what I had thought, but the last two times I have futzed with
the brakes on my '67 I've had the same thing happen: I've been able to
get it nice and tight in the garage when I adjust it and bleed them,
but it changes on the first drive.  I initially thought it was the MC
(letting some air in somewhere) but changing to a new one had no
effect.  (flex hoses, wheel cylinders, etc. have all been replaced 
since I got the bus, as well)

I've put probably 20,000 miles on the brakes since the MC replacement
and have not lost any fluid or experienced the brakes getting any worse
over the time period.  I'm usually pretty anal-retentive about this stuff
but after trying again and again - and hearing from some other folks this
was ... if not normal, a thing that they had experienced - I just kinda
gave up on trying to get them nice and real tight.


> Try adjusting them 
> again too. Maybe the end of one of the shoes wasn't seated quite right 
> and it moved on the test drive. If one side needs a lot of adjustment 
> that could be why.

I took a good look at them and give them another adjustment: the fronts
could probably use an adjust regardless and maybe that's the issue...I'll
recheck the fluid level too...

Cheers,
  Tom

---
  "You realists can stay the hell out of our office" - David Dudas
