From: "Bill Bowman" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
To: "List - Vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, "List - Vanagon"
Date: Fri, 28 Aug 2009 08:40:28 -0500
Subject: one week to go...

The Rangers say the group campground at Mark Twain is is ready for everyone's
arrival and they are excited that we'll all be there soon, so throw that last
minute tune-up on your old VW, pack your camping gear and come hang out with
all of us for the upcoming Labor Day holiday weekend, lots of VWs and nothing
else (well, a huge lake, friends, good outdoor cookin and cold beverages,
etc., etc.).

Come one, come all!

to the upcoming B.N.N.T.A. - "Buses Nowhere Near The Arch #24"

When: Friday Sept 4th thru Monday Sept 7th, the entire Labor Day holiday
weekend.

Where: in the group campground in the Indian Creek Recreational Area located
right on Mark Twain Lake in NE Missouri. We have again leased the ENTIRE
campground so we can host an all VW camping weekend. Only Volkswagen vehicles
will be admitted...any year and model of VW...but it must be a VW.

Our group campground is a beautiful, heavily wooded location for our event,
built lakeside by the Corps of Engineers, features quite a few sites with
access to electric, two nice buildings with restrooms (one with nice hot/cold
showers), a playground, a covered pavillion, a nearby boat ramp into the 22
mile long Mark Twain Lake, a nearby marina, etc.  Bring your bicycle and
water
toys!  Individuals and VW clubs from all over the Midwest will be enjoying
each others company for the long holiday weekend.

There is NO pre-registration available, just check in with us upon arrival
and
we'll quickly fix you up for the weekend.

On Saturday we'll run a caravan over a scenic route to historic Hannibal, MO
to enjoy the sights of the childhood home town of Samuel Clemens (aka, "Mark
Twain"). Enjoy the towns' historic landmarks and sights and then return to
the
BNNTA event at your leisure. Later in the afternoon our event participants
will stroll around the campground to visit and vote for their personal
favorites for awards given out during our awards ceremony later that evening.
On Sunday we'll relax and enjoy the lake, and most will be heading homeward
on
Monday.

Be sure to use your creativity to decorate your VW campsite, both for the fun
of it and to compete in our campsite decoration contest (both individual and
group decorating).

Please feel free to bring along any VW related items that you'd like to
donate
to the growing door prize give-away during the award ceremony on Saturday
evening.

We've kept the event and camping fee as low as we can, lower than pretty much
any other similar camping weekend. The total fee per VW is only $30 for the
"entire weekend" regardless of how long you stay with all of us.

Visit our simple event website for basic info at http://www.bnnta.com where
there is a Mapquest link with directions (Yeah, one of these days we'll spice
the site up a bit more!).

So there you have it! If you've been thinking about joining us, take
advantage
of the long holiday weekend and start packing up the Bus to join us for all
the festivities. It's never too late, and there's always room for more around
our VW campfire! We'll look forward to seeing you!

Bill & Kathryn Bowman
