To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Tue, 11 Nov 2003 15:12:49 -0800
Subject: Major electrical problem

Sigh, I seem to have a disproportional amount of bad luck...

On Sunday, I ran a couple of errands in the Bus:

	* Picked up a friend at San Francisco airport
	* Took some stuff left over from last year's bathroom remodel
	  to Ohmega Salvage in Berkeley

Between these two errands I noticed my turn signals were flashing kind 
of fast, so I asked my wife to make sure all the bulbs were working... 
yup, okay.  Bus seemed to run fine otherwise, so I figured it was just 
my imagination.

While running the second errand, I noticed the flasher relay would buzz 
at me when I revved the engine (while e.g. pulling out of a 
parallel-parking spot).  The radio would also power-cycle when this 
happened.  The symptom went away when I was about 1/2 back across the 
Bay Bridge.  I mentioned this in the context of "leaky windshield seal" 
the other day.

The Bus didn't get driven at all on Monday.  Now today, I went out to 
start it up and move it to a different parking spot.  I crank the 
engine over, and it cranks for about 10 seconds (I haven't had a chance 
to deal with my cold start problem yet).  Near the end, I notice the 
warning lights are blinking.  I turn the key off.  I turn the key back 
on, everything looks normal, then to start -- nothing.  Turn the key 
off, back to on, nothing - no warning lights, radio does not work, etc.

Initially, I think I just have a dead battery.  Annoying, but the 
battery is pretty old, and I guess it's to be expected.

Luckily, a friend is staying with me this week, and he and I start in 
to further diagnose the problem.  Check battery voltage by connecting + 
on my VOM to + on the battery and - on the VOM to chassis ground.  12.7 
volts.  Low, but I should at least get warning lights and hear the 
solenoid click.

So, I turn the key to on, and check voltage at the coil - nada.

Now I think "ok, my ignition switch isn't working".  I expect to see 
voltage on one of these wires, but nothing.  I open up Bentley to the 
wiring diagram, and I don't see where battery voltage goes to the 
ignition switch :-/  The diagram shows 5 connections (which matches the 
wire count on the connector):

	50 - heavy R/BK to 50 on the solenoid (through connector T8)
	SU - thin R to 85 on ignition key warning buzzer
	X  - heavy BK/Y to X on light switch
	30 - heavy R to 30 on light switch
	15 - medium BK to T8 where it appears to connect to the instrument
	     cluster

I'm a little confused and frustrated.  I will note that we had our 
first really heavy rain on Saturday (the day before the problems 
appeared), and as noted previously, I did have a windshield seal leak 
(which I have since patched with black silicone).  But it has been dry 
for the last few days now, so if I did have a water problem in the 
dash, I'd expect it to have cleared up, not gotten worse.

Does anyone have any suggestions?

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/
