Date: Tue, 11 Nov 2003 19:40:55 -0800
From: High-Tech Red Neck <hitkrdnk(-at-)gte.net>
To: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Major electrical problem

Jason,

This symptom sounds very much like a little bit of "fun" I had Labor Day 
Weekend.  I pulled the negative lead off the battery and it looked 
clean, but I cleaned it anyway.  Tried to start it again and it cranked 
for a second and then everything went dark again.  Pulled the positive 
side and it had a lot of corrosion on the inside, outside looked clean.  
Cleaned up that lead and the van started up and ran just fine... until 
the next stop.  I came out from the store and the same thing happened.  
I tweaked on both connections again and hooked them up. 

This time as I was connecting up the negative lead I got the usual 
little tiny spark, but not at the terminal.  It was about three inches 
down in the woven cable.  Aha! Bad cable! 

That's when I discovered the kludge job of a cable installation that a 
evil previous owner did. He had run a webbed cable from the negative 
terminal on the battery down to a bolt on the frame rail, then back up 
to the ground point on the bulkhead 6 inches from the negative terminal 
on the battery.

Anyway, I replaced the negative cable and all is well.  In fact, the 
starter seems to run faster (to my ears).

Anyway, there's another vote towards checking those battery cables.

Good Luck!
Bob Bueling
Port Hueneme, CA

'73 Panel
'70 Baja in the making
'69 Street bug in the waiting



Jason Thorpe wrote:

> The Bus didn't get driven at all on Monday.  Now today, I went out to 
> start it up and move it to a different parking spot.  I crank the 
> engine over, and it cranks for about 10 seconds (I haven't had a 
> chance to deal with my cold start problem yet).  Near the end, I 
> notice the warning lights are blinking.  I turn the key off.  I turn 
> the key back on, everything looks normal, then to start -- nothing.  
> Turn the key off, back to on, nothing - no warning lights, radio does 
> not work, etc.
