Date: Thu, 13 Nov 2003 11:37:44 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Fitting Heat Exchangers to new heads?

Great & Wise List:

I've been following this one along from it's inception...  Yes indeed,
that little bracket tends to wander off, one of the reasons I was real
happy to buy my '72 Weekender - 99% of the stuff that I have learned
from The List that tends to wander off?  It was all still there :-)

Using one's cunning, native craft and ability, I don't think it would be
TOO terribly hard to make one from some flat stock in a metal of your
choice, should your dealer start laughing and pointing...  On the '72,
the upper portion bolts to an 8mm bolt on the impeller housing - using
one's mind's eye, follow straight "back and up" from the heater box
flange, the lower end bolts to the middle of the 3 bolt flange on the
heat exchanger for the '72-'74 heater boxes.  Originally, it sort of
hangs straight down, maybe with a slight bend to hook everything
together.  Not having seen the post-'74 style exhaust attached to a
motor, I can't comment with authority - but I would "imagine" it's a
similar configuration.

I have continued to use it supporting the modified Vanagon 49-state
heater boxes on the 2260 T4 motor I'm presently running in the Westy - I
had to bend it a little bit more to meet up with the 3 bolt flange - the
V'gon 3 bolt flange seems to be a little more RiR than the OE flange.  I
wound up locating a set of the Vanagon heater boxes for cheap, and
concocting my own version of the '79 49-state bus heater boxes, using
some left over 411/412 preheater box tin-work to tie the whole mess into
the '72 impeller housing.  The kewl thing about having the DIY '79 bus
style boxes is that I can detach the "mini-connectors" and pull the
impeller housing w/o disturbing the heater box exhaust port flanges.
Oh, the things one thinks of when setting about to improve on a
design...

Jim Hayden
'72 Westy Weekender - left-side bracketed
'73 Deluxe - denuded of bracket
www.savethebays.org
