From: "Thor C. Conley" <tconley(-at-)sfmidaho.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 13 Nov 2003 11:56:11 -0700
Subject: VW SAUSAGES in WALL STREET JOURNAL

Perhaps this is more for Friday, but I wanted to send it out. 
VW History Buffs and General Knowledge.


VW's Mixed Grill :
An Assembly Line
Turns Out Sausages
Car Maker's Wurst Sideline
Keeps Its Workers Well Fed
By NEAL E. BOUDETTE 
Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

WOLFSBURG, Germany -- At its massive headquarters plant here, Volkswagen
AG made 515,000 cars last year. But cars aren't the factory's
highest-volume product. "We make 1.5 million currywursts a year," boasts
Klaus Labersweiler, head of the car company's meat department, while
giving a tour of his white-tiled facility. "That's more wursts than
cars."
In fact, Europe's largest auto maker is expanding its sausage production
and extending the line. Its butcher shop, located in a corner of its
assembly plant here, supplies about two dozen company plants and offices
in Germany and hopes to reach VW cafeterias across Europe.
In Wolfsburg, employee canteens have added soup made from the company's
best wurst. Soon there will be VW currywurst spread, for smearing on
bread at breakfast. Still in development: VW currywurst ragout and a
microwavable two-wurst package suitable for vending machines.
How Volkswagen built one of the auto industry's strangest sidelines is
an unusual tale of industrial history. It dates back to the Wolfsburg
plant's origin as a Nazi government project before World War II.
 
When construction was started in 1938, Wolfsburg was little more than a
castle and a few hundred people. For the thousands of workers who built
the first "people's car," the plant had to provide housing and food.
During the war, the plant employed slave laborers. Afterward, the
British army restarted production, and again the plant had to provide
many basics for its employees.
For a time, the plant kept its own cattle and vegetable gardens, but
that ended long ago. Remaining from that era are the VW greenhouses that
provide fresh flowers for executive suites and special events. The
greenhouses turn out memorial wreaths whenever a current or former
Wolfsburg plant employee dies.
The butcher shop might have passed away, too. In the 1950s, it produced
meats that have been German staples for ages -- bockwurst, liverwurst,
beef sausage and suelze, a meat-and-gelatin loaf that is sliced and
served cold. Currywurst was concocted right after the war, and by the
early 1960s it had become a favorite of the legions of laborers
rebuilding Germany, especially in northern cities. The tangy new sausage
also sparked a feud between Berlin and Hamburg, with each claiming to
have invented the dish.
In 1962 or 1963, VW butchers, amused by the Berlin-Hamburg dispute,
decided to try making this newfangled wurst. After about six weeks of
experimenting with different combinations of curry, spices, pork and
beef, they had a sausage that workers loved.
One of the men working in the VW butcher shop at the time was an uncle
of Mr. Labersweiler's. The man encouraged his nephew to take up the meat
trade, noting it would be a good way to get a job with the car maker.
After an apprenticeship with a local butcher, Mr. Labersweiler joined
Volkswagen in 1967, at the age of 17. In 1976, he became a master
butcher. In 2000, amid the mad-cow disease scare, he helped reformulate
the recipe to use only pork.
Today the public can enjoy a grilled VW currywurst for the equivalent of
$2.88 at soccer games at Wolfsburg's VW Arena, or a plate of two wursts,
smothered in spicy VW ketchup, at the restaurant at Autostadt, the
plant's theme park for car enthusiasts and customers. Another option is
Autostadt's Ritz-Carlton hotel, which features VW currywurst on its
room-service menu.
Next year, the butcher shop will install additional equipment needed to
obtain a European Union license to export currywurst to VW plants in
Spain, Belgium, England and other countries.
VW regularly hears from stores and grocery chains interested in carrying
its currywurst, but the company puts the brakes on those ideas. VW's
corporate chef, Nils Potthast, says VW probably could do a good business
selling its wurst in stores. But, he adds frankly, "From a corporate
image standpoint, I'm not sure it makes sense to have the VW name on a
meat product."
Mr. Potthast was hired two years ago to add tastier and healthier food
to cafeteria menus. Currywurst is such a favorite among employees that
he started to experiment with new variations, like the soup. He's nearly
done with the currywurst spread but is still tinkering to get the color
just right. "It's not red enough," he says.
Top management supports the effort and sees no reason to outsource
sausage production. Indeed, VW currywurst is often served at board
meetings. At one gathering last year, the brass sampled the new
currywurst soup, which was served in espresso cups. Currywurst, says
Chief Financial Officer Hans-Dieter Poetsch, "is part of VW culture."
The currywurst recipe is actually one of the company's most closely
guarded trade secrets, known only to Mr. Labersweiler and three or four
others. Even Mr. Potthast, the chef, is out of the loop, although a
local company that provides VW's mix of spices is in on the secret.
"They've signed a nondisclosure agreement," Mr. Labersweiler says. "The
main ingredients are curry and pork. I can't say any more than that."
Mr. Labersweiler is willing to say one of the secrets is keeping the
sausage relatively lean. "The fat content is only 25% to 30%," he says,
shouting over the roar of a stainless-steel meat grinder. "Your average
wurst is 50% fat or more." Another key is fresh ingredients. Four days a
week, VW receives a shipment of two tons of pork, which is almost
immediately fed into the grinders. "We use the just-in-time method," Mr.
Labersweiler explains. "No preservatives or filler. Everything we get,
we turn into wurst that day."
One part of VW isn't clamoring for more currywurst: Audi AG, the premium
car division, in Bavaria. Audi has a butcher shop of its own that makes
its weisswurst, a mild Bavarian specialty made of pork, veal and milk.
Asked which is better, Mr. Potthast says you can't compare them. He
prefers weisswurst before noon with sweet mustard and a beer. Currywurst
is good any time of the day, with lots of ketchup of course, he says.
"They're totally different products," Mr. Labersweiler adds. "It's not
like comparing a McDonald's hamburger and a Burger King hamburger."
Thor Conley
VW enthusiasts
