Date: Tue, 26 Jun 2012 17:13:05 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Pressing out balljoints - it isn't hard with the right tools

Just an update. I'm reworking the front suspension of our 198K mile '78 
Westy and it needed balljoints. A couple boots were torn, one of the 
balljoints was loose and I figure why not replace them now while it's easy.?

Around the web some folks are removing the balljoints from the control 
arms with a torch heating things up and a big hammer. I can't comment 
one way or another except that I know enough about metallurgy to say 
there is alot of stuff that I don't understand there. I don't know 
enough to say it's okay or not. So I referred to my trusty Bentley 
manual and it says to press them out cold.

What if I did something wrong and a spindle came loose later on the 
highway and somebody got hurt? Maybe a torch is okay, maybe it's not. 
I'm sure there are thousands of buses rolling around with once heated 
spindles and no problems.

So I started hunting high and low for the tools that I need. I have a 30 
ton press here at work. Access to that is easy. I tried pressing them 
out with no special fixtures and I couldn't get a good grip on them. So 
I looked around the web for the right tool. There are pictures out there 
but nobody sells the tool that I could find.

German Supply does rent it though and that's what I did. I also bought 
four new South American balljoints to press back in.

Everything arrived in good order and this afternoon I pressed the old 
joints out in less than 30 minutes.

I have no idea how much pressure it took to get these joints off b/c our 
press here was once a calibrated press used in a Quality Control 
department. It has a pressure dial that goes up to 5,000 psi. What i did 
this afternoon went a far piece beyond that.

All of the joints were somewhat rusted to the control arms. The first 
joint was the worst and just about the time my 24" pumping bar started 
to require some real effort the joint let loose. BAM! I about pee'd my 
paints!!! The second joint went BAM and I still jumped. Third and Fourth 
weren't much different but my nerves were prepared... GRIN!

Remember that 5,000 psi dial indicator? The needle fell off... ;)

I used a piece of solid aluminum stock that was handy between the 
balljoint and the press. Once the initial BAM let loose then I backed 
off the press and used a big 3/4" drive socket that was handy to finish 
the job b/c my random piece of stock wouldn't fit through the control 
arm hole.

Anyhow I'll sandblast the control arms tomorrow and squirt some paint at 
them before reinstalling the new balljoints. Save the two balljoints 
with concentric adjusters on them. Looks like a simple task for a gear 
puller to remove those or put the old balljoint shaft into a vise and 
roll the adjuster until it lets loose and the balljoint can be removed. 
Is is aluminium I wonder?

Anyhow that's my story. If you live nearby and want to press out the 
ball joints, get the tool (I'll be sending it back soon) and give me a 
holler. Free help!

Chris in TN

'78 VW Westy 2.7L
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L
'97 VW Cabrio Highline
'99 CR-V AWD EX 234,000 miles and still kicking
Brenderup 1205S
