Date: Sat, 30 Jun 2012 13:45:01 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: YMMV - 2" air disc grinders

Hey just a quickie:

Maybe this was obvious to everyone else but I found out something and 
wanted to share.

I bought a 2" 90 degree air grinder from one of the franchise hardware 
stores this spring. It was the house label but it is a Campbell-Hausfeld 
in disguise. It's been fine. For our shop at work it wouldn't last a 
year but around here it ought to be fine for many years b/c I don't use 
it that often. The cheaper import tool stores prob have a cheap option 
that would last a good amount of time in a home shop if you were gentle 
with it.

I also picked up a little sanding disc assortment for ~$15 or so from a 
big box hardware store.

I discovered it is my new favorite tool and I love the speed at which a 
tool like this (any brand) will strip paint and rust off of steel. You 
can buy little sanding discs and you can buy these Scotchbrite type pads 
as well. The assortment had a few of each. The Scotchbrite pad doesn't 
cope well with grease or undercoating but it does great on paint, rust 
and general dirt.

However at those prices it's an expensive tool to use - - - unless you 
visit one of the online auction sites and buy the sanding discs 100 or 
250 at a time for cheap. Like $20 for 100 vs $15 for three sanding discs 
and three scotchbrite type pads from the big box retailer.

Another option: check out your local Mom 'n Pop autobody supply store. 
There I can buy the actual 3M Scotchbrite pads but instead of 2" in 
diameter, they come in 3" sizes. What a tool now! The obvious benefit is 
that the edge of the pad is rotating faster, flings more debris off of 
the pads vs sticking to the pad, and you have that much more pad to use 
up. A better buy in a few different ways. They are just down the street 
from my workplace and they've helped me with alot of amateur questions 
for my hobbies and work both so I'll keep buying some things from them. 
I bought five, did a bunch of work this morn and the pad shows very 
little wear..

FWIW the 60 gal compression (remanufactured C-H but sold by Northern 
Tool with a Morgan sticker on it) stays ahead of the little air 
grinders. No cutting and waiting.

1978 Westy 2.7 update - front axle is stripped and painted, all the 
collateral parts are painted and ready. Balljoints go into the control 
arms tomorrow. Still need to get under it and strip the floor and 
chassis of paint and debris. Just wanting to conqueror the rust before 
anything significant sets in. Everything looks great to me. Love seeing 
all those clean, painted parts.

Chris in TN
1978 Westy 2.7L
1965 Beetle 2.0L
1997 VW Cabrio Highline
1999 CR-V AWD EX - 234K miles
Brenderup 1205S
