Date: Fri, 6 Jul 2012 10:14:46 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: running in

  I have received a number of queries from
readers regarding running-in a new or rebored engine.
It seems that the old idea that if you do five hundred
miles at 25 to 30 m.p.h. you have run-in your engine,
is dying slowly.  The man who practises this and then
turns up the taps is asking for trouble.
It has to be realised that during the ^ve hundred
miles of ambling the engine has never had any real work
to do ; the bearing pressures will have been low and
the engine will probably never have operated under high
temperatures; the internal stresses in the engine com-
ponents will not have had an opportunity of relieving
themselves, i.e. the components will still not have
overcome their inherent tendency to distort, and, in
addition, the actual rubbing surfaces will not have
bedded down.
The crux of the matter is that running-in involves
giving the engine a steadily increasing amount of work
to do.  We start with low revs and no collar-work --
the engine turning over smoothly and lightly-and we
gradually increase the amount of work until at the end
of the appointed distance the machine is running up
to the desired capacity.  Given this progression as re-
gards bearing loads and pressures, we are near what is
generally looked upon as the ideal.

			-  'Torrens'  column Workshop & Open Road :  Part 159
				The Motor Cycle  July 8 1937  p.32


	I agree with this advice.
	My buddy who is one of NZ's most senior
motoring journos summarises: "you run it in fast,
you get a fast motor".
	To put it more fully: let the motor rev
as it becomes able, more & more over the first
hundred miles or so.  Otherwise it may never get
run in properly but instead settle on a plateau
of impaired power, fuel & oil consumption.
	It's not revs but lugging that will cruel
your motor.  When in doubt, change down.  Don't
keep the throttle 'far ahead' of the revs for
more than a few s.

	I once found myself for an hour or so in
the middle of a convoy of Subaru Leone light
stationwagons being delivered from the assy plant
at Waitara to points north.  (This long-gone type
was the de facto  standard of the NZ hang-gliding
team on account its light weight and 4wd grip
made it a good cheap vehicle to reach seacliff
takeoff points across rough country far from good
roads.)  I noticed they were slowly but steadily
speeding up, which I took to be implementation of
this running-in policy.  I hope their sump oil
was promptly drained after that run  ...  there
will be some swarf, grit etc in that oil, and
much of it will be removed if the oil is drained
while still hot.  The oil re-refinery in Auckland
used to make a special running-in sump oil,
containing less additives and therefore more oil
...
	After preliminary local short trips to
detect any gross blunders, it's best to run in a
motor by taking a run of at least scores of
miles, in steady conditions & light traffic.
Settle onto a slow cruising speed, say 45 mph,
and check that all signs, gauges etc are steady,
within normal ranges.  Then 'let' the motor
gently speed up, but staying clear of wide
throttle, to near the normal cruise, watching for
overheating.

	I don't think this approach to running-in
is contentious; I do think it's too little known.


Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600dp Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
