Date: Sat, 7 Jul 2012 23:14:24 -0700
From: Andy McKinley <airhedz(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Kevin H Roberts <kevin(-at-)bopsax.com>
Cc: Type II List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: [T2] brakes

Hey, Kevin. Long time no see. Please, people,, don't shoot me down for
typos. I can't find my glasses; Apparently I need 'em to see 'em.

Before you next move your bus, mark the center line of a wheel and the van
itsel in the middle of the rear bumper. Check the fluid resovoir and add
fluid to the fill line. Pump the brakes several times to encourage any
leakage. When you move the van, look for brake fluid on the ground. You can
measure the x~y  coodinates using the marks you made, transfer those
measurements to the van, and localize any leaks. Might save you some time.
If you see fluid on the ground, clean it up and skip the next step and
procede to paragraph three.

How does the engine run? Any changes in RPM or stumbling on accelleration
that began at the same time? If so, look for a vacuum leak. To check the
booster and associated vacuum lines, disconnect the brake booster line
(something like 11 or 12 mm, I think) that is connected to one or both
intake manifolds and disappears through the front left engine tin. If there
is no change in the way the engine runs, you have a vacuum leak. Could be a
hose, the steel line, or the booster. To find the leak, start at the
booster. Pull off the vac hose and put your thumb over the end of the hose
going to the engine (while you are at the booster, check for fluid leakage
around the master cylinder and bottom edge of the booster. Leakage here is
definitely the master cyliinder). Change in RPM indicates a bad booster
diaphraghm. No change, pull the hose from the steel line, lather, rinse,
and repeat, alll the way to the intake manifolds.

Sounds to me like one of the dual hydraulic circuts has failed. That would
explain why there is so much travel in the brrake pedal, yet continued
operation (to some degree), and the sudden onset suggests a catastrophic
failure. What I'm getting at is there should be quite a bit of brake fluid,
and you should be able to see it pretty easily, if this is the case.

If the bottom of the van is rusty, the steel lines might have rusted
through from the outside. I have not personally seen this, but then I have
beem blessed living in warm climes, and have no experience with cars that
don't share my good fortune.. Could also rust through from the inside if
the fluid has been contaminated with water.

Look especially around any areas that may have been exposed to really high
temps. I once had a brake line fail on a '50 Chevy PU (stock single
cylinder hydraulics) fail. Yeah, Whee Ha! Thank ranchers for long expanses
of wire fencing! The failure was caused by welding in a motor mount for a
V8 on the opposite side of the frame. The high temps destroyed the zinc
coating, and after exposure to the salty air of the NC Outer Banks it
rusted through. Thanks, Flatlanders in Norfolk, VA.

While you're under there, check the inside of the wheels. Look for wetness
leaking out of the bottom edge of the rear drum brakes. Check the rubber
line that goes from the chassis to the backing plate.

In the front, again, check the rubber line. Check the caliper. Any leakage
at the caliper should be obvious.

If you don't see anything obvious, pull the rear wheels and drums and have
a look. If the wheel cylinders are bad, and you can spare the time, find a
vanagon and rob everything, springs, adjusters, backing plate and out. It's
not so much more work to swap it all for like parts on your van, and voila,
you now have self edjusting brakes. You might not even have to buy new
cylinders/shoes. You had better beat me to the boneyard, 'cause I'm doing
exactly the same  thing on my next brake job.

That is the order in which I would check things based on your description.
Let us know what you find.

Andy McKinley
'79 Kombi, Cali emissions
Alameda, CA





On Saturday, July 7, 2012, Kevin H Roberts <kevin(-at-)bopsax.com> wrote:
> Yeah, I forgot to mention the model and I took my description out of my
> signature as

-- 
Andy McKinley
airhedz(-at-)gmail.com

Love your country, but never trust its government.
-- Robert A. Heinlein.
