From: Ed Hintz <ed(-at-)hintz.org>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 10 Apr 2002 09:06:51 -0700
Subject: PCH road trip (LA to Crescent City)

Got the following this AM from Littljessica(-at-)aol.com, headers don't show
whether they sent it to the other AIRS folks or not. Regardless, I figure
there may be a few folks 'round hereabouts with interest. And in case the
other AIRS types didn't get a note, it serves as a heads up that they may
be crusing through...

-=-

dear friends of A.I.R.S.

the RedWoods are, for us, an opportunity to explore spontaneously back into 
nature and away (for a short time at least) from our burdening city life.
lately, the clock-governed stresses of living in a largely populated arena of 
 "responsibilties and obligations" have been taxing our hearts by driving us 
apart from each other, our focus inward to survive amongst one another behind 
shields of apathy and suspiscion is dominating our abilities to stop and 
actually appreciate the world we are striving to preserve....

i personally have never seen the RedWoods, and it defies my imagination when 
people tell me their stories of the enormity of them.  Right now there is a 
nomad inside of me that is in desperate need of leaving for a few days and 
seeing something new.  So, withing the next 24 hours, me and some friends 
intend to embark on what hopefully will be a truely "soul-cleansing" journey.

on Wed. 10 April around Noon-ish (the clock will not be our enemy here) we 
will leave Corona, Ca.

my friend Jessica (who owns the 1970 VW campmobile in which we are 
travelling) showed me the http://www.type2.com website, to show that in the 
event of a difficulty we could find help through A.I.R.S.

we are not in trouble (and hopefully wont be anytime in our near future) 
however the gesture provided by those involved found a little part of me 
somewhere inside already in the peace i hope find to the north...and for that 
i would like to extend an invitation to those participating in A.I.R.S. (and 
anyone else who is in need) to join us, either by driving along side us or 
vicariously through corespondense, in our journey.

this trip is completely spontaneous in nature, in that we have no real 
schedule to burden us.  We put everything together at the last minute, which 
seems to feel right, and with luck others will join.  we intend to "mosey" to 
our destination, slow down and actually be a part of where we are going (and 
maybe be a better part of where we are now)....so this means we are totally 
free from obligation to anything but relaxing....

REMEMBER....i have never seen anything like the RedWoods before, this 
exploration is something i need to do, and this experience would be all the 
more rewarding if it could be shared with as much of the world as possible.  
i will be seeking a new look at things, and my friends likewise have their 
own insights to find...

we feel there may be others who need this too...they should all join us....

what we are driving: 1970 VW microbus campmobile, white,
                                     with Van Gogh's "Starry Night" on the 
passenger's side
                               and -the nomadic Group "W" Bench 
                                        Tree Observance Committee- behind the 
driver's door.

our intended route: 55 fwy ---> Newport Beach --->turning North on PCH (1 
fwy) ---> and from there all the way up to Crescent City

when: leaving Corona, Ca (-at-) Noon Wed. 10 April 2002

to contact us: (on the "spontaneous road-trip hotline")
                        (909) 733-6657 -it's a cell phone so we'll be 
listening
                        ask for either Jessica or Craig
it would be memorable to have as much participation as possible from the 
world.....
thank you very much for the time....

i hope to see everyone and everything....
(please spread the word...remember spontanaity is our aim)

Littljessica(-at-)aol.com

-=-

Peace,

Edmund A. Hintz              **|**     "You may say I'm a dreamer,
Mac Techie, Unix Geek,      *  |  *      But I'm not the only one...
Mac/Unix Consultant        *  /|\  *     I hope someday you'll join us,
<ed(-at-)hintz.org>              */ | \*      And the world will live as one.
'78 Westy                    *****      Imagine."
                     http://www.hintz.org



