Date: Wed, 10 Apr 2002 22:58:20 -0400 (EDT)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To:  <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Jack Stands

My take on lifting a bus and keeping off the ground is as follows:

Ramps - They are nice IF the bus is running.  pushing a dead bus onto
ramps is the sort of thing I would not wish on my worst enemy (OK, well...
maybe my *worst* enenmy :-)

Jack stands - I have used  them for years.  Never had a problem with those
that have *cast* supports.  The ones with a tube-in-tube design with a
sheet metal saddle are *JUNK* and should be banned!  At the same time,
John Anderson has had the saddle on a set with cast supports crack on him,
so the final answer is probably...

BUY HIGH QUALITY!  Whatever style you choose, do not scrimp on this, as
you will be trusting your life to it.  A "lifetime warrantee" does you
damn all good when it fails and drops the bus on your chest.

On what to jack with...  I hate the stock jack.  I have had the bus slide
to the side or roll forward or backward too many times to ever trust it.
I keep mine on board to level the bus while camping and that is it.  I use
a standard hydraulic from  Kmart.  Barry Burneskis bought a long reach
hydraulic at Wally-world that is wonderful looking and this will be my
next jack.  Botle jacks are OK, but they usually are not tall enough to be
useful and the pad is way too small to be safe.

On "where to jack," I tend to go for the lower shock mounts.  They are
plenty strong and low enough to get the bus way up in the air.  The only
real problem is that you have to remember that the suspension is
compressed and when you remove the jack, that wheel is going to drop 6" or
so.  Where the jack stands go depends on what I am doing.  In front, if I
am doing axle beam stuff, I use the junction between the jack points and
the frame rails.  If not, I put the stands under the lower torsion tube.
In the rear, again, I usually use the torsion tube, but occasionally use
the jack point/frame rail junction.

One important jack accesory for me is a 12"x24" piece of 3/4" plywood to
put under the jack. With the standard hydraulic jack, as you lift it wants
to roll forward to stay under the arm.  If the jack can't roll, it pulls
the bus back which can pull it right off the chocks.  A clean flat
rolling surface removes this problem and you lose a whole 3'4" at the
bottom of the under seat compartment (on a Westy, which is all I have at
the moment)

                          Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail


