Date: Sat, 3 May 2008 14:54:58 -0700 (PDT)
From: Jammy <damhippiekustoms(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: tcb(-at-)freelists.org, type2(-at-)type2.com, buskatiers
Subject: car show this sunday 

the shop I work at tossing a car show this Sunday (-at-) white rock lake in Dallas, Tx  it is at a city park so sorry no alcohol here's the 411 


Website: http://www. kipmotor. com/abcd. htm



Join us for our annual celebration of British and European vintage motoring. Bring any British or European car or motorbike, driver or show vehicle over 25 years old to compete for trophies determined by popular voting. This is a fun, family friendly day relaxing at the park, picnicking and visiting with other antique vehicle aficionados.


Rain or shine, we'll be there. For weather forecast at White Rock Lake Park click here.

Don't forget to bring your chair, sunscreen, and umbrella!

This event benefits Shoes for Orphan Souls, a humanitarian outreach program of Buckner Orphan Care International. Well be collecting new shoes for orphaned children all around the world. Plus, our proceeds will be going directly to SOS to help cover the cost of shipping containers full of shoes to countries like Russia, Romania, Guatemala, and Africa.
For more information about SOS, visit their website at www. shoesfororphansouls. org.



When: Sunday, May 4th, 2008
Show field opens at 10:00 A.M. (Last year, we were rained out three times). A few of us showed up on June 17th and it rained cats and dogs. We had fun anyways...


Where: White Rock Lake Park - Stone Tables
White Rock Lake Park in Dallas, Texas. Entrance to the grassy show field is off of Lake Highlands Drive and Buckner Blvd. Click here for driving directions and interactive map.



.


Vehicle Classes:
Alfa Romeo ~ Austin Healey ~ British & European Motorbike ~ German ~ Italian ~ Jaguar ~ Lotus ~ MG ~ Mini ~ Morgan ~ Rolls/Bentley ~ Standard/Triumph ~ Other British ~ Other European

Awards:
Each class will have 3 winners - First, Second, and Third. Only antique vehicles qualify for the class awards. Any car, new or old qualifies for the Best of Show award. Vote counting begins at 3:00 pm. Award presentation starts at 3:30 pm and owners must be present to win.



Car Clubs
Clubs are encouraged to display their member information. If your club wants a special display area including canopy, chairs, and table, please email to reserve your space. Reserved club areas will be within the appropriate class.



Entry Fee:
There is a $10 entry fee at the gate for each vehicle plus a pair of NEW shoes or donation for Shoes for Orphan Souls. Our goal is to fill up a BIG convertible full of shoes (youth - teen size)! Spectator admission is free and open to the public. Donations of new shoes would be appreciated but not required.



Pre-registration:
Click here for fax back PDF Registration form!

Refreshments:
Marshall's BBQ is the approved food vendor providing chopped beef-on-a-bun as well as 'pulled' chicken sandwiches, ice cold drinks, and chips (sorry, no fish n' chips!). As always, you are welcome to bring picnic baskets and coolers into the park (no alcoholic beverages permitted, please!).



Parking
Parking in the display area will be open only to registered entrants. Tow vehicles, spectators and non-display vehicles may park on the shoulder of E. Lawther Drive or designated park parking areas.



Participating Clubs:
Italian Car Club of the Southwest, Jaguar Owners Association of the Southwest, The Jaguar Club of North Texas, Lone Star Alfa Romeo, Metroplex MINI's, Mini Owners of Texas, Morgan Motor Car Club, North Texas Austin Healey Club, North Texas Lotus Car Club, North Texas Norton Owners Assoc., North Texas Section Mercedes Benz Club of America, Red River Triumph Club, Rolls Royce Owners Club, Team Healey Texas, Tex Mets, Texas Region Sports Car Club of America, and the Texas MG Register.



Sponsors:
Jaguar Club of the Southwest & Kip Motor Company
For Information and Club Reservations contact:
Kip or Debra Lankenau
(972) 243-0440
(972) 243-2387
(214) 477-3224 Cell



Amenities:
Concessions from Marshall's BBQ ~ Bounce House for the kids ~ Port-a-Potties!

Keep it Aircooled,
   
          Jammy Thomas
     Dam Hippie Kustoms
       { uber groovy }
   
   
                      P.S.  Those arn't rust holes that weight reduction!!!!!!!!
