From: "Gene Cornelius" <mizamook(-at-)starband.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, "Buskatiers" <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>
Date: Tue, 25 May 2004 21:13:35 -0700
Subject: Trip Report N. Cal/Oregon/Shasta (long)

Well, we made it, with few problems, and it was good!

We left our home in Whitethorn (1.5 hours south of Eureka) at 7:00 am,
instead of the wee hours, but that was OK.  Straight up 101 through Eureka,
and got to Patrick Creek in the Smith River area at 11:40.  Our standard
campsite was taken by a person who was at the time sleeping on a mattress on
the side of the creek with her cat, so we headed further up the road to see
what was there.  Followed this steep, bouncy, dirt/rock road (Holiday Road)
up and up, not sure of the elevation, but it was quite the climb.  Spent a
bunch of time foraging amongst burn areas for morels, but found none.  The
burned trees next to firebreaks and not-burned trees were quite surreal, and
the weather was really interesting, especially since we were alternately in
clouds (not fog) and bright sunshine.  The road itself was a lot of fun, and
there was a good deal of bouncing and jouncing going on.  I found myself
being very glad that we had new heavy-duty mud and snow tires...not only for
traction, but for resistance to sharp rocks!

After descending from Holiday Road, we found a groovy campsite near the
confluence of Patrick Creek and a couple other creeks.....lots of rushing
water...cold water...as I found when I waded into it to retrieve a $4 lure
that I had gotten snagged.  Coming down from the bumpy road, I was hearing a
klunk sound, so I got out my tools, jacked up the bus, and lo and behold!  A
loose linkpin!  So I tightened it, checked the others, adjusted the front
brakes to try to get rid of the pulling, and re-greased the front end.  Ate
corn on the cob, cooked in the husk on the fire, and some other yummies,
drank some wine, and went to bed.

The next day, ate breakfast, and headed out to the Smith River proper, where
we spent some time fishing at the campground by the Middle Fork Bridge, made
some more cowboy coffee, and finally headed north to Oregon.

At 11:15, in Gold Beach, I let a cheerful Oregonian pump gas for me, and
then we struck out in an eastward direction on that nice little road that
goes from Gold Beach to Grant's Pass.  What a road THAT was!  Stopped at a
spot that I had been before, and trekked into the woods to try to find and
record a nice little stream...the forest was a jungle of poison oak, and the
stream was dry, but I recorded wind anyway.  It's amazing that I don't have
a case of the itching rash!  The road itself, after getting out of
civilization, was perfect bus driving....barely any other cars at all (I
think there was one or two), and whoever it was that painted the stripes on
the road was in a funny mood....sometimes, the right edge-stripe ran right
down the middle, and if you were to try to stay in your "lane" you'd have to
be on a two-wheeled vehicle!  Wierd.  Michele got a kick out of that!

Somewhere up in those mountains, the road was closed, so we had to take a
gravel detour that wended its way eastward on the south side of the
mountain.  We saw some snow, and if it weren't for the intense fog, we could
have seen for many many miles.  Searched for morels up there, too, but found
none.

The strangest thing we did see on that road was a "Shoe Tree".  A huge
spreading oak, I think it was, with hundreds (I'm not kidding) of pairs of
shoes adorning it, from the lowest branches to some that must have been 40
feet up!  We took pictures, but since we liked our shoes, we left nothing.
Out in the middle of nowhere!

We had lunch up there, and finally descended into Merlin, and then onto I5
southbound at 3:40 p.m.  Not a hard drive!

I had some problems on I5.  Had to do with the wind and the suspension.  The
bus seemed VERY sensitive, and scary at 65 mph, so I kept it down.  It was
pretty stressful.

We had decided to skip Crater Lake, and instead head to Mt. Shasta/Castle
Lake, and spend some relaxing time there.  We pulled into Mt. Shasta at
6:07, and fueled up, and after getting accosted by a strange friendly person
who liked to talk a lot, we headed out to check out the campsites above Lake
Siskiyou.  Now those campsites are all free, interconnected by rutted,
holey, rootey tracks, and we were bouncing around down there, looking for
possibilities, when two things happened at once:  A pair of very
hippie-looking hippies came out of the bushes, ambling towards us with
leers, and my clutch pedal went softly down to the floor....and stayed
there.  I think the hippies were joking when they said "We're so glad you
came along!  We've been trying to hitch a ride here for days!".  I didn't
stop to chat, but grabbed my tools and crawled underneath.  Turned out that
the cable was fine (I do have a spare), but the lever that pulls it was
stripped out, (where the cable attaches) and the metal gave way, so I pulled
the actuating lever out, and reversed it, and that seemed to work just fine.
I'll have to remember that, though, before I go on any more long trips!

We decided not to camp there, mainly because of the presence of a large
number of "Rainbow People"...we are camping for the solitude and peace...not
the "Peace, man!"  So we went to another area, and finally found a large
meadow campground-looking place, where there was only one other vehicle,
selected a remote spot, and made camp.  Another fine evening of corn,
cheese/tomato/mustard on rye cooked over the fire, wine, cello
playing....and finally, sleep!  The only problem with that particular
location/timing was that it was Saturday night, and the road that ran by
thew campground was on the way to the local party spot...many locals went
by, but were no problem, until one decided to make his way over to us in a
large, rumbling 4x4, to see if we were buddies to hang out with.  That was
sorta wierd, but they turned around and left after driving all the way over,
and shining their headlights on us!

The next morning, we went up to Castle Lake...it was incredible!  There was
snow around, but also dry earth, and signs of spring.  We went fishing for
several hours, and fished at different spots along the shore.  I almost
landed one after quite some time, and finally got another.  Michele came
over to me with a trout, and we went back to her spot, which was where we
had the most fun, watching the fish literally swarm around the bait!  There
was even HUGE trout that we could see...I hooked him once, but he got away.
We came out of there with four nice trout (Michele 3, Gene 1) packed in
snow.

Then we decided to go for a hike up to Heart Lake, which is above Castle
Lake.  The weather and views were incredible, and we had a lot of fun.  I
made my way all the way to the top of the crags above Castle Lake, took some
video, and then came down.  I regret not taking my cello up there...that's
one of my dreams....to play by a beatiful little alpine lake.
Unfortunately, Heart Lake was barely unfrozen, and although it was a neat
cold blue surrounded by snow, it would have made for uncomfortable playing!
I'll do that another day!

We camped that night at Castle Lake campground, which we had to ourselves.
The night was chill, as were all of them that we spent out, but this one was
definitely the coldest.  We ate fish (and then some), and rice, and didn't
have room for popcorn, unfortunately, but at least we got our fish!  We were
visited by deer, but no bears....bummer (or not).

The next morning, armed with a nice breakfast and some chewy cowboy coffee,
we went back to the lake, where the fish were definitely not interested, and
then began our trip home.  The road down from Castle Lake was an interesting
drive, as thousands of dumb but pretty butterflies, and I had to take
drastic swerving measures to avoid them (many died, though..)  Saw a nice 61
or 62 black beetle...the ONLY vintage VW seen on the entire trip!  (She
waved)

We took Old Stage Road, which goes from Mt. Shasta to Weed, and from there
followed the Shasta Trip in reverse, and got to see some really beautiful
country that I've seen only in headlights....and covered with snow.

At Scott Summit (5401ft), Hwy 3, we stopped for lunch at a crossing of the
Pacific Crest Trail, and did some fun driving on the access roads, and took
a little hike, got some pictures (but no morels).

From about 4:50, leaving Scott Summit, to 8:13, Ruth Lake, with a stop in
Weaverville for gas, we drove.  The drive was pretty, but was tinged with
pre-post trip woe.

We stopped at Ruth Lake for dinner, and threw in a line to catch the last
hope of a fish, but there was none.  Dinner was good, anyway, and it was fun
holding a rod while leaning against our trusty bus!

We got back to our neck of the woods at 11:37, after experiencing brake fade
for the first time in a bus.  There is a really steep, curvy downhill
section before getting to Garberville, and I must admit, I was trying to get
there faster, and was using brakes less prudently than usual.  Brake fade is
scary stuff!

Got home with freshly-bought ice cream at 12:42, and watched Kill Bill, Vol.
1.  Howz THAT for a topper?

Total miles:  Only 1210 (excuse...many of those miles were on single-laned
mountain roads)

Average MPG:  18.23 (1776cc DP, single 34PICT, 009 w/Compu-fire, new M/S
radial 195/75R14 tires, 4:12 R&P diff.)

Fun...good!  Drive'm buses!

Gene Cornelius
mizamook(-at-)starband.net
