From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 27 May 2004 21:47:48 EDT
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] RE: oil temp.

Hi Jim,
Definitely head, piston and cylinder temps get hotter before the oil temp 
because that is where the fuel is being burnt!  So if one really pushes the VW 
engine like in a drag race the head temp is going to much sooner the changes, 
but if one is keeping a steady cruising RPM oil temp is fine as long as you do 
not have too much oil cooler.  Personally we want to run both because each 
shows important info on the operation of the engine.  We have not yet figured out 
a satisfactory way to mount the sender for the head temp without welding in a 
place for the sender.  As for the oil temp sender we have had it mounted in an 
"T" fitting at the oil idiot light sender and checked this against a vintage 
Porsche German made by "Stork" mechanical oil gauge and dipstick sender.  
Readings between the both were exactly the same, and we use this mechanical gauge 
to test other engines and oil temp gauges.  We are getting ready to build some 
engines soon and have done one engine case with oil temp sender drilled and 
threaded into where the passage plug on the upper left rear end of the engine 
case that ends the oil galley that goes by the idiot oil light.  The other 
place we have considered is in the plug that the oil galley from the oil sump pick 
up tube ends in the lower right rear end of the engine case.
  As for cooling the engine better we modified the doghouse cooler shroud to 
fit the type 4 cooler which is 40% bigger both inside and outside than the 
stock doghouse cooler.  Figuring this cooler was used by VW it should be not too 
much cooler for the engine and no oil lines/hoses to worry about!  With too 
much oil cooler you can cook the engine oil into a non-lubricating sludge 
without ever noticing it is happening on an oil gauge.  Then we worked on getting 
more cooling air through the entire engine like:
Making sure to use a 35mm (inside measurement) cooling fan.
The largest lower stock pulley, a smaller 356/914 Porsche generator pulley 
and non-stock belt for more fan RPM.  More air through the engine means cooler 
oil, head, and P&Cs temp!
Cleaned out all casting flash out of the cylinder and head fins and even 
drilled the heads for better cooling.  See the VW 63-67 Bus Workshop manual for 
some info on this done to 40 HP heads, which we adapted to the 1500 and later 
heads.
Radiused sharp edges in the cylinder chambers and sanded smooth the exhaust 
passages to reduce surface areas to lessen the heat getting into the heads.
Worked on improving the engine tin to seal out better the air under the 
engine from getting sucked into the engine compartment.  IE the front engine tin is 
really badly designed where it meets #3 head cylinder near the engine case!
Yes, jetting of the carb and timing effect engine temp as so does compression 
ratio.  Though the latter if one lowers the compression for a cooler engine 
HP/torque output is lessened and thusly more RPM is needed for some volks, 
which in turn can cause overheating.
Eric&Barb
