Date: Sun, 31 Mar 2002 01:14:00 -0500 (EST)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To:  <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Tie Rods - Tips and Request for Tips


OK, so I am still farting around with the poor '73 front end... shoulda
been done weeks/months ago, but I am a lazy scut and it is definitely a
secondary vehicle.  Anyhow...

Todays task was to get the tie rods back on.  Now some tie rods come with
castellated nuts and a hole drilled thru the stud.  These are a doddle to
return to service.  pop the tie rod on, tighten nut, insert cotter pin,
done.  Most modern tie rods, however, come with nylocks (aka stop nuts).
In *most* applications, nylocks are fine.  A bit hard to get on, but not
more than 20 ft/pounds and nothing a normal person cannot handle.  The
problem with using them on tie rods is that the stud is free to rotate and
applying 20 ft/pounds of torque is *certain* to make the stud rotate,
frustrating your efforts.  With ball joints, all the civilized
manufactureres cut flats into the bottom of the stud so you can get a
wrench on and hold the stud from turning.  With tie rods, ther is no way
to hold the stud, as far as I can tell (and I *looked* today!!!)

Now used nylocks go on much more easily than new ones, but you really
really do not want to reuse nylocks on tie rods!!!  Especially on the drag
link!!!  I used to reuse them, but was taught a severe lesson late one
night in PA when the nut dropped off one of my tie rods.  Cost me $60 for
one nut and I regarded that as a bargain!  One really nice thing about the
steering geometry of a bus is that if you lose one tie rod, you can still
drive *forward* and you can still steer.  It is not a happy ride, but you
will survive.  The same cannot be said if you lose the drag link!  You may
survive, if the road is straight and you stop quickly, but you will have
*NO* steering at all!!!

SO... I went out and bought 6 new nylocks.  For the archives information,
the size on these is M12x1.5, a large fine thread that is common to many
European/Japanese cars.  They are not hard to find at any decent FLAPS.
You have no excuse, OK?

Now, back to the original problem... holding the stud...  My first course
is always to give the tie rod end a couple raps with a hammer.  This will
*sometimes* seat the tapered shaft to the point that you can crank the nut
on.  If that fails, I have a plain M12x1.5 that I can crank on.  That
*usually* pulls the stud down firm, remove plain nut, crank down nylock,
done.  Once in a while (on two studs this time around) neither technique
will seat the stud.  On one of these, I had a third option that worked
out.  The right hand side inner stud was being a problem, but fortuantely,
the stud points up.  I put the hydralic jack under the tie rod end and
applied a bit of pressure, forcing it into the arm and got the nut on.
Not pretty, not good for the relay arm bushings, but it worked.

The last nut... a real problem child... is the rear nut for the drag link.
As described above, this is critical and I will not reuse a nut here.  As
a result, I need help.  Mark, Tim, anyone... HOW????

I have a pair of castellated nuts off an old tie rod (my plain nuts for
initial snugging) so one thought is to pull the drag link, drill for a
cotter pin and use a castellated nut.  I worry that the stud is hardened
(hell, I *hope* the stud is hardened!!) so this may not work.

My second thought involves marring the taper on the stud with a vice grip
so that it strongly engages the female taper.  Again, a hardened stud
would defeat this.

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail

