Date: Sun, 31 Mar 2002 19:31:57 -0500 (EST)
From: "Eric W. Bradway" <eric(-at-)bradway.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] braking with your engine?

> Click & Clack had a thing about this and said that modern cars do not
> need to  save the brakes by using the engine compression.
> But I disagree, if you are going down a long hill. Engine compression

I'm usually not one ot disagree with Click & Clack - but in this case I
whole-heartedly disagree. I don't even think modern cars have enough
cooling on the brakes or sufficiently sophisticated materials in the pads
to prevent overheating. In the Porsche world I came from you were always
dealing with boiling your brake fluid on the track. Nothing is scarier than
heading into a sharp turn at 140mph and feeling the brake pedal touch the
floor. The same thing can be said for taking a bus down a 10-mile 6% grade
and finding the floor with the brake pedal half-way to the bottom.

The best thing to do for your safety and the safety of others on the road
is to maintain a low speed and keep the brakes cool for emergency stopping.
This is done best by using the engine to maintain speed during descent.
Usually at the top of these kinds of grades you'll see warnings for the
truckers to use lower gears - using the engine to maintain speed. My
experience so far with the bus is that the weight to braking power ratio is
VERY similar to a fully loaded semi. I try to follow the same warnings as
the truckers.

Another option is to upgrade the brakes. I've heard of people using the
brakes off a Porsche 944 on a bus. I would suspect this would result in
very civilized breaking. If you went so far as to vent your brakes (either
with proper rims or some way of deflecting airflow across the rotors) you
could just wail on the brakes through almost any descent.

If you must brake, the best idea is to brake HARD before turns, slowing as
much as possible (I'm talking 20mph here!). And letting gravity take you
through the turns. This gives the brakes a chance to cool between
applications. The people behind you will hate you, but that's just par for
the course for driving a bus!

However, if you are just driving in traffic, I would recommend using the
brakes as opposed to the engine. Brake pads are cheap compared to piston
rings!

-Eric




---------------------------------------------------------------
/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign                 Eric Bradway
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail                 www.bradway.net
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail                Linux on the server
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail                  Irix on the desktop




