Date: Mon, 01 Apr 2002 14:46:49 -0800
To: Tom <turtlebus(-at-)netzero.net>,
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] 1st it got hot then oil pressure started going down!

At 07:13 PM 3/31/2002, Tom wrote:
>I didn't realize 8 to 10 PSI at idle is
>acceptable.

Depends on who you talk to.  Mine has been that way for ~95,000 miles and 
six years.  It's lower than I would like, but certainly enough for the 
engine to remain lubricated at idle.  25psi at speed under load is marginal 
though and 20 will risk scoring your bearings.  Whatever you do, stay out 
of the throttle at those low pressures until you get it fixed.

>During the rebuild I tried to be meticulous on all measurements. All 
>clearances
>seemed well within tolerance. Not 100% sure on clearances of the oil pump
>though didn't seem worn though. Hardly perceptible backlash on the gears and
>end play in tolerance. Is there anything else I should have looked for?

Sounds just like me when I rebuilt mine.  Someone on the list recently was 
having similar symptoms and fixed it by swapping in a new oil pump.  That 
would be the second thing I would try.  The first thing is in the next 
paragraph:

>I am thinking about checking the oil pressure relief valve. If the spring is
>weak would that cause low pressure at idle? How can I check the strength 
>of the
>spring, should it exert x Lbs of pressure when compressed x distance?

Couldn't hurt to check, but I doubt that's your problem.  Are you sure your 
cooling flaps are opening properly?  The engine could simply be 
overheating, despite what your gauge reads.

Since you are the rebuilder and there is therefore no warranty, I'd start 
by checking the flaps and replacing the oil pump.  If that doesn't help, 
you could do what I did and tear your engine completely back apart and 
recheck all the clearances.  You might then find as I did that everything 
was to spec and you still don't have lots of oil pressure when the engine 
is hot.  In that case, I would switch to a heavier weight oil and gently 
drive the bus a few thousand miles until it gets fully broken in.  Brand 
new engines tend to run a little hotter than broken-in ones.  After the few 
thousand miles, switch to a good synthetic and stay with 15-50 or 20-50 or 
straight 40 if temps are always above 50 degrees.  Hopefully by then you 
will have found the problem or the pressures will have come up to 
acceptable levels.

-David

