Date: Tue, 21 Jan 2003 20:23:41 -0500 (EST)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: "Terry K." <CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] re: Tire twist

On Tue, 21 Jan 2003, Terry K. wrote:

> Discount Tire is a pretty big nationwide outfit--and I don't think thy
> would be setting themselves up for a class action BS litigation by
> sawing up some tires--

I'm sure that they have themselves covered.  Siping is just another "pack"
that they add on to make more money.  I have no doubt that it's effective
in increasing traction in snow and ice, but I don't think that it is as
good as they say.

Look at it this way, if the manufacturers could easily improve performance
and make their tires run cooler without affecting other tire qualities by
adding siping, they would do so in a heartbeat.  Passenger tires have
ratings for traction, temperature, and wear, so any inexpensive operation
that would increase these qualities would be immediately done.  I don't
see many tire makers doing this, so there must be a downside to it.

> They offer this service on brand new hoops--not just older one's.
> And actually in cutting the tires will offer longer tire life by
> allowing them to run cooler---the sipes will disipate heat quicker--

Well, that's their story.  I don't see how that can be unless they
actually cut a clearance groove.  Slicing a zero-clearance groove will
promote friction and heating as the blocks rub together, not reduce it.

> What you ought to do is get on-line and quiz them about this service
> they offer--

No, I have learned that if something sounds too good to be true it
invariably is not true.

> You might learn something new--( or old stuff rediscovered )
>
> Or if you want--let me know where abouts your at--I'll hook you up with
> a phone number to a close by store--you can talk to them in person, and
> get an exact explaination of the cutting theory, and it's
> merits--downfalls.

I doubt that they sell much siping down here in SoCal.  Even if they did,
I've learned that tire experts seldom work in tire stores.  I've had these
so-called "experts" recommend passenger tires for my bus, tell me that a
195/75R14 "superceded" the 185R14 that "wasn't made any more" and a myriad
of other fairy tales.

> Or the next time it snows here in the Windy I'll take my Westy out from
> under it's cover, and take a blast in the white stuff and report on my
> findings---

That will be interesting.  However, I belive that it will be even more
interesting to see how those siped tires wear.  A set that my Dad had done
(at Les Schwab in Washington state) didn't do so well.

George Lyle
