Date: Wed, 22 Jan 2003 10:50:07 -0800
From: Nicholas Palmer <nicholas(-at-)slackers.net>
To: Kendrew Pape <kendrewpape(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Snow tires...was[T2] re: Tire twist

> I've yet to try these out on my bus, even though there's lots of snow 
> up here in Toronto.  Unfortunately, some kindof FI problem is 
> resulting my fuel mixture being too rich... and that's keeping my bus 
> off the road until I fix it.


You didn't ask for this, but I thought I would give it to you anyway. 
Hope it helps get your bus on the road so we can all hear how those 
tires do in the snow!

Here is what to do to fix your mix:
1) Make sure the problem is not with basic engine operation by doing a 
basic tune-up including:
    1) Ignition - Check timing, including advance and retard, ignition 
components and spark quality
    2) Electrical - Check battery condition and connection, alternator 
and voltage regulator
    3) Air intake - Check air filter, PCV and crankcase connections, and 
for a loose oil filler cap or dipstick. (Can cause lean condition. Not 
your current problem, but you don't want to reset the mix with these 
loose, and then cause it to be rich again when you happen to push the 
dipstick in properly in the future. The vapor canister can cause you to 
run rich by admitting fuel vapors into the intake via the purge valve.)
2) Check the temperature sensor. 68F 2000-3000 Ohms. 176F 250-400 Ohms.
3) Check the air temp sensor. Same ranges as above checked between 
terminals 6 and 22 (for most years I believe, but check the diagram to 
be sure.)
4) Check the cold start valve for leaks, and the thermo time switch. You 
can check the thermo time switch by putting a test light in series with 
one of the connectors. It should go on for 2-5 seconds when you turn on 
the car depending on ambient temps and then turn off.
5) Check the other injectors for leaks.
6) If a throttle switch is present on your year, make sure that the 
throttle is adjusted to hit this switch at the right times.
7) Check the fuel pressure. It should be about 30psi (2 bar) with the 
car idling. Next diconnect the vacume line to the intake manifold and 
close it off. Presure should rise to about 35 psi.
8) Check that all pins onthe AFM have infinite resistance to ground. Any 
other reading, and the AFM is bad.
9) Figure out which two pins on your AFM are the resistance track, and 
check that the Ohms change smoothly as you move the flap. The actual 
values matter less than a smooth change with no drop outs.
10) NOW and ONLY now that you have verified that it isn't some other 
problem you can adjust the mix. If it is still there remove the metal 
plug over the adjuster screw. Ideally you want to set this with a CO 
meter, but you can get pretty close by adjusting the mix for the leanest 
setting that gives a smooth idle, then enrich by 1/4 turn. Test drive 
the car and watch for surging at part throttle. If it exists, then 
enrich 1/4 turn at a time until this disapears. Once this is all done 
you can take it to a smog place to verify you have the mix set right, or 
jsut run it and hope for the best.
11) If the mix screw bottoms out before you can get it adjusted 
properly, it may be time to adjust the spring in your AFM. This is done 
by poping the black cover off. Inside you will see a clock type spring, 
with a screw in one corner that holds the gear it is attached to in 
place. What you do is losen this screw while holding the gear. Turn it a 
couple of clicks tighter, and tighten the screw. Try to adjust the mix 
again. If you are still bottoming out, lather rinse repeat until you get 
it right. I adjusted mine about 10 clicks total before I got it to a 
place where the mix screw was not totally bottomed out when the mix was 
set right. By tightening this adjustment you are giving more pressure to 
close the flap, which was lost over time due to wearing of the spring.

Let me know if you have any questions or problems. Do yourself a favor 
and consider getting the Probst book. It puts the Bentley to shame when 
it comes to the FI system!

-Nick
'77 Riviera
'71 Project
