Date: Wed, 22 Jan 2003 19:13:28 +0000 (GMT)
From: wallace.bob(-at-)btinternet.com
To: Dean.Landi(-at-)noaa.gov, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Turn Signal/CV Joint

 Hi Dean,

> 1)    I was just wondering how much damage I did when I snapped off one
> of the bolts while tightening down the drivers side CV joints.
> Unfortunately, it was the last one I tighted.  It's also the side that
> connects to the tran.  Will I have to take it off and tape the broken
> bolt off and reinstall or will it be fine?

How difficult depends on where along the bolt its broken - the closer to the head the easier to fix.
Remove the drive shaft by undoing all the other bolts (both ends) and the joint should slide over the remaining bolt; then just use a pair of vice grips to wind the bolt out.
Of course it is broke right down at the drive flange of the transmission you will probably have to remove the drive flange and get the stub of the bolt removed professionaly.
CV joint bolts are a use once item, and boot kits (over here anyway) come with a new set. These things should only be done up to 25ft.lb. for a six bolt joint or 32ft.lb. for a four bolt joint so either you were applying excessive welly or the bolt has done you a favour by breaking 'now' rather than somewhere out on the road and it being months before you know about it.


> 2)    This morning on my way to work my turn signals wouldn't work for a
> right turn.  Then I noticed that when I turned my head lights off it
> started to work fine.  Is there a short or some wires touching in the
> dash.  Or could the wires be touching in the steering column?

I'm not sure of the exact wiring of a '72 as I've always had later vans. But I would look for a earth point shared between the indicator and the headlight. If this was not making good contact to the body then the indicator may be earthing through the headlight back to the fuse box then to the earth point at the other side headlight; of course when you turn the headlights on they have 12 volts present so this earthing route is not available so indicator does not work. If that's the case then your dipped beam on that side may well be earthing through both sides main beam!!!!


> 3)    Just last week I noticed it was hard to shift into the gears.  It seems
> that once it's run for a while, it gets harder to shift.  A couple years
> ago I put in a new pressure plate and clutch plate.  Should I have
> someone look at it first or adjust the clutch first.  I have never
> adjusted the clutch, so any help would be much appreciated.  I am
> willing to drop the engine, but thought I would ask if I need to.

"Adjusting the clutch" is one of the steps you would have done when you put in the new plate a couple of years back, subsequent adjustment would only compensate for stretch in the cable, but stretch in an 'old' cable may well be the first indication that your clutch cable is about to fail i.e. some wires of the cable have broken its now a bit longer and poor separation of the plates makes changing gear harder. If thats the case then it should be easier to select a gear while you are stationary with the engine off and you will have to press the clucth pedal further before it begins to feel hard.
It could also be that the coupler between the shift rod and the gearbox is going bad. A quick search of the archives will show you that almost any gear selection problem can be caused by a bar rear shift rod to gearbox coupling.
Hard shifting can also be caused by insufficient or old gear box oil, when was the last time it was changed and or checked?

All this (except for removing the drive flange from the transmission) is reasonably basic DIY wrenching so its likely that you will not need get it shop fixed.

Good luck
Bob Wallace
Bristol UK
1998 T2
[...] 
