Date: Wed, 22 Jan 2003 14:06:13 -0800
To: "Young Hippy" <ant_man28(-at-)hotmail.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] I need a bug Help ne1?

At 12:35 PM 01/22/2003, you wrote:

>Hey everyone,
>
>I know this is a type 2 site but i need some help finding an old Bug.  I 
>am looking for 1969 bug that is not restored has a running engin and . So 
>if anyone has ....one for cheep but in good condition please let me know.


WAHHHHH-HA-HA-HA, Join the club. There is no free lunch. If you buy a 
poorly maintained or poorly restored example you pay a cheap price and will 
have great difficulty justifying the cost of proper restoration. You will 
be money ahead paying 5 times the money for an example truly needing little 
time/money/skill/effort to have true original reliable functional value.

The quality example you demand, cheap but full of value, doesn't work. If 
good value is represented in the vehicle, then of the many people who know 
of it, the current owner will have standing offers. If he/she wants to sell 
it, a bit of word of mouth and it sells, and at a price you likely would 
not consider cheap, considering your fairy tale wants and needs. If it was 
junk it would sell cheap, if it has good value, it won't sell for less.

I know of a 67 T-I that was a factory attitude restoration. I mean, every 
fastener on the thing was factory hardware. Black on Black. He was out of 
pocket some $12,000, with many hundreds of hours of high level DIY skills. 
He's was offered $14500 at the first show he took it to.

How many trips to see possible candidates are you willing to make? How many 
close by, in your region, will not have rusted pans?? Also, if you limit 
your criteria to only 69, you better extend your range if you want to 
actually find one, that needs very little effort to restore.

If you spend a great deal of effort looking at many long distance 69's, you 
might get lucky enough to find a seller that thinks his 69 is of less value 
than you know by experience and study to be a true bargain at that price. 
You are allowed to take value from such fools as you find.

A great deal depends on your definition of "won't be that hard to restore". 
I consider restore to mean, function nominal and in spec. This is the only 
place where I place value in fact.
