From: "Phillip B. Rose" <phillip(-at-)technostate.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 22 Jan 2003 15:50:28 -0800
Subject: Smog

Hello again, 
 
I am trying to get my 76 camper to pass smog and have a few questions I
hope I can get help with. After taking it to a smog place and then to a
mechanic the cost to pay the mechanic was far out of my price range so I
decided to try and fix it myself.  Now I desperately need some help.
The first run of my smog check revealed the following problems that
won't let it pass:  
 
Failed EGR valve has no function.
Tac duct hose is missing.
Evap hose to air filter box is broken.
Failed Emissions.
 
Here is a list of what I have done and where I am at now.
 
1st  EGR valve:  What I have done with this is first I noticed the
vacuum hose itself was clogged, so I unclogged it.  Then I began
following the instructions for testing the EGR valve that my manual
suggests.  I tested the throttle valve switch and determined it is
functioning as the manual suggests it should.  I could not find the
double relay so I didn't check that.  Took off the EGR valve and
components and cleaned it and sucked on where the vacuum hose goes and
noticed the valve does open.  I replaced the EGR valve and components.
When I pull the vacuum hose off of this part the car according to my
manual is supposed to stall or slow down.  What happens to mine is that
it the engine speeds up.  Does anyone know what is going on here? 
 
Tac duct hose:  I have no Idea what this is and have tried finding some
reference to it in my manuals with no success.  Can somebody please help
me identify this or lead me to somewhere with diagrams.
 
Evap hose to air filter box:  I duct taped the broken part of this hose
as a temporary solution and will pick up a new one when I figure out
what the tac duct hose is.
 
Failed Emissions:  The co part of the emissions test passed. The HC part
of the emissions was way high.  The catalytic converter that was on my
VW was totally broken.  I bought a new one and installed it.  
 
The mechanic also told me he needed to adjust the air flow meter and
that it could possibly need to be replaced.  This is another problem
that I have not been able to find referenced in my shop manuals.  
 
I would really appreciate any feed back that will possibly help me to
complete this task.  Also I live in the Santa Cruz area and I am a
really good cook.  If there is anyone out there that would help me I can
guarantee that they would be well fed after any ventures we took
together.
 
 
Thanks,
 
Phillip
