From: "Bart Daugherty" <badaugherty(-at-)msn.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 18 Jul 2004 12:23:15 -0500
Subject: Re: [VB] Sundial!

I recieved an email from John's wife, Paula.  Lot's of good info here, so I 
had to share it with the list.  It is also posted on the site.  Email 
follows.
-------------
Dear Bart,
I was delighted to find all the stuff about Sundial!  I'll give you a quick
history.
We got married on July 17, 1960.  In Jan. '61, John's sister Mary, then
Blankenship, and her husband Ben were EZ Camper out of Concord, CA.  VW had
their own campers at that time but the layout left a lot to be desired.
Mary asked John to come up and learn the business and be their So. Cal.
representative.  So we did.  Three months later we came home, and worked out
of the garage.  Then John rented a building in Homegardens, outside of
Corona, CA.

Mary and her husband split.  So Mary, her accountant and her husband, and
John and I started up American Camper.  Then Mary went back to her husband
and wanted to take the new business with her.  We knew they wouldn't stay
together, so the accountant and her husband  and we, changed it to Carousel
Camper.  They manufactured the parts and sent them down to us to be sold and
installed.  John wasn't happy with the quality of the parts so he had to
keep buying machines to fix them himself.  Finally we agreed to split the
company and they kept the No. Calif. area.  That was the beginning of
Sundial Camper. All of this took about a year to happen.

VW wanted to move their vans so they required the dealers to buy a certian
number of van and Kombis to be able to buy their cars, so the dealers were
delighted to have a way to move these vans.  John would take the precut
parts to the dealers, cut out holes for the windows, install the new
windows, paneling, insulation and everything and then go on to the next
dealer.  On some days he did three camper installations at three different
dealers.  Long days. After quite a while the powers-that-be required all
installation to be done in the shop.

John was always inventing new ways to make thing better.  He did all the
upholstery, wood parts, and awnings. (Someone was questioning the awnings.
We always made our own, plus the Pent tents on the roof racks. I haven't
seen those mentioned.)  I made a lot of the curtians.  I was John's go-fer,
getting the parts he needed so he wouldn't have to get out of the van to get
them.  John did all the designing until the busness was sold in 1975.

Little by little we would hire new people and we bought a skating rink in
Edgemont, on the outskirts of Riverside, that our son Jeff mentioned for our
new shop.  That was the fastest way to get into a big enough building.

We always had a display at the LA County Fair.  A reoccurring comment I
heard was, "Isn't that the cutest little thing?"  One year VW had a
mysterious new design of the van.  The dealers hadn't even seen pictures of
it.  We wanted one for the fair, so John's sister that lives in Germany got
one for us and flew it over.  The guys went down to get it in our covered
truck.  While unloading, they dropped it!.  It had to have body work on it
before John could design the new interior.  He had 10 days to get it
designed, installed and in the fair.  He did it.

Then the "chicken terriff" and other governmental problems came up which
made vans hard to come by.  First we could mostly get Kombis, then VW
decided they wanted  the camper market for themselves and vans were
extremely hard to get so we began doing the American vans and then
mini-motorhomes.  John even designed a beautiful Class A motorhome shortley
before the gas crunch.

We finally sold the company in 1975 after the disasterous gas crunches.  We
have absolutely no idea how many vans we did over the years. Thousands?  We
had over a hundred employees those last years.

Then we moved to Auburn, CA and began a small van business, Kalidoscope. A
talented Sundial employee,  Charlie Gregory came up with us.  Kaleidoscope
was very successful, and soon outgrew our location.  We leased a new
building that was just set up for us, and we had just achieved full
production when the next gas crunch came up.  We just closed the business.

I was in real estate and noticed a small portable toilet business on the
market.  I thought it might be a nice change for John to be able to drive
around the beautiful countryside instead of being inside a small room
designing all the time.  He built that business up to about 500 plus
toilets.  He built many toilets himself over the years, until we switched
over to plastic.  Next thing we knew it was 23 years later.  We just sold
that business Oct. of last year.

We will be moving to --------, this year where our grandsons are waiting
for us.
We don't know what we will do next.  John hates to sit around.  His hoby was
desert motrycycle riding.  .  He was in the same races as Steve McQueen (and
beat him) and James Garner.  He and one of his employees ran the Baja 1000
in a car John built.

John's work ethic is a family affair.  Another sister started Joy Camper in
Maryland.  She began by buying units from Sundial before she made her own.
Hope this all helps.  John feels like he doesn't remember much more that all
this, at least off hand.

Sincerely,
Paula Nixon
-----------------


Bart Daugherty
