Date: Tue, 20 Jul 2004 09:46:52 -0500
From: "Graue, Chris" <Chris.Graue(-at-)benham.com>
To: "VB \(E-mail\)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: Sundial!

I drive my 66 Sundial nearly every day, too, and I agree, it's so cool to hear
the history of the company that made it a camper. There is a photo section
linked to Bart's page, and since there seem to be so many variations between
the remaining campers, I think everyone who has a Sundial needs to take pics
of their bus and the cabinetry inside and post it. See, my spice rack door
hinges from the bottom and when open, looks like a table... whereas most
others I've seen hinged from the side like a door normally would. My rear
storage cabinet door slides open, but I've seen others that hinge just like
the Westy cabinet. My water resevoir is under the jump seat (walk-through
style bus) but my friend's is behind the icebox and yet others are on the
side...

I am missing the small shelf on the back wall (the shelf that westies don't
have), but I know it had one at one time... my friend in L.A. is missing the
spice rack on the door and the tabletop on the other door... so I know people
lose parts of the cabinets, often times it's missing when they buy it... so a
more extensive photo gallery would really help those looking to
replace/manufacture their missing pieces. I am also missing all the curtains,
and don't know exactly how the originals were installed. I've seen enough
pictures of the shelf to possibly be able to fabricate one, but I can't see
what kind of cord held the curtains up... or that curtain across the middle...
is it REALLY mounted on a spring??? It's things like that which we need better
pictures/info on, if anyone can help with that.

BTW-does anyone know where I can find some of those lamps that they put on the
wall between the windows in the Sundial? It would appear mine had them, but
not anymore. Oh, and Bart, can you ask if they ever installed AC units in the
back of their campers where the headache rack would be? I'd like to know if
mine was installed before, during or long after Sundial made it a camper.

Thanks again, Bart, for sharing the letters!
Chris~Tulsa, OK
66 Sundial "Serenity"

-----Original Message-----
Date: Mon, 19 Jul 2004 17:36:16 EDT
From: Jonrobere(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Sundial!

Howdy,

               I drive my 65 Sundial every day.  It was really great getting
all of that info on my daily driver.  Thanks!!

Jonnystiffneck

This E-mail and any attached files are confidential, and may be copyright
protected. If you are not the addressee, any dissemination of this
communication is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in
error, please contact the sender immediately and delete/destroy all
information received.
