Date: Wed, 28 Jul 2004 12:25:01 -0500
From: "Graue, Chris" <Chris.Graue(-at-)benham.com>
To: "VB \(E-mail\)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: SUNDIAL!!!

I know this isn't a mechanical question, and probably should be a Friday post,
now that I think of it, but I just couldn't wait to tell someone! I just found
out that no one else in the whole state of OK has "SUNDIAL" on their plates,
so in about October, it will grace my beautiful bus!!! WAHOO! I figured with
sundials being trendy items, surely there would be someone out there with this
plate taken, but I lucked out! I'M SO HAPPY! Now everyone will know from the
outside that my wonderful bus is a Sundial! I can't wait to get it and put it
on the bus!

Oh, to make it an official daily post, to those with Sundials, where is your
water resevoir and fill spout? Am I the only one with it under the jump seat?
I need to get some film for my camera and get pictures of the inside of my
bus. It's so weird how it fills behind the driver seat, stores under the jump
seat and a tube goes from that, under a panel on the floor and to the back of
the icebox unit... very odd. I should probably replace the tubing and fill it
up to see if it works... as a daily driver, I've had to remove the icebox
because I have kids and it was just in the way, so I'll have to put it back in
to test it and take pics. Who can I send pics to in order to add them to a
Sundial database? I don't have a website of my own, either.

Chris (doin' the happy dance)
66 Sundial "Serenity" (soon-to-be OK Env. Awareness plate: SUNDIAL)
85 Cabriolet "Fawkes E. Cleopatra" (OK Env. Awareness plate:FOXY_VW)
"Not all who wander are lost... some of us are just looking for the next VW
campout"


This E-mail and any attached files are confidential, and may be copyright
protected. If you are not the addressee, any dissemination of this
communication is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in
error, please contact the sender immediately and delete/destroy all
information received.
