Date: Fri, 30 Jul 2004 13:36:35 -0500
From: "Graue, Chris" <Chris.Graue(-at-)benham.com>
To: "VB \(E-mail\)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: SUNDIAL!!! and the mighty power of the old VW

I know that very few people, even in the VW community, will know that my
plates refer to the bus... but that's ok... when someone who DOES know sees
it, that's what makes it worth it. Oh yeah, and great state of OK? HA! You've
never been here, have you? LOL

My friends can't get over the attention I get when they ride in my bus,
either, and how it doesn't phase me a bit... it's just amazing. When my
daughter's dad is with me, I'd wave to some VW or someone would wave to me and
I'd return the wave... and he used to ask me if I knew them... "no", "then
why... oh, nevermind." I think he doesn't like riding with me too much because
it messes with his head, lol. I even get alot of attention when I'm in the
Cabriolet... but then again, I guess alot of guys just like girls in
convertibles or something...

I love my bus! Can't wait to get my SUNDIAL plates!
Chris
66 Sundial "Serenity"
85 Cabriolet "Fawkes E"
65 Euro Sunroof Beetle "Sonne" (formerly spelled Sunny)

-----Original Message-----
From: Curt Conklin [mailto:CONKLINC(-at-)lawgate.byu.edu]
Sent: Wednesday, July 28, 2004 4:40 PM

Chris,

Hate to burst ur bubble, with even with those plates, VERY few people
will know ur bus is a Sundial.  BUT, at least we'll know what and who
next time we go crusing thru the great state of Oklahoma and catch a
glimse . . . !

One of the reasons we drive our busses is their uniqueness.  This
morning my daughter had the Continental so I had to take muh Luvly to
the hairdressers to be made more luvly and then pick her up hours later.
 Then this afternoon I had to take her to physical therapy and back.
She just doesn't ride in my Bus much, lets say never.  She was amazed at
the stares, the looks, the thumbs up and the peace/victory flashes.  I
told her that was half the reason I drive her.  These two  trips were
shorties, only 3 miles or less here in town.  I think she's coming
around!  We drove a Bug all through College and had one in the 90's as
our second car for the boyz too.  She didn't drive it much in the 90's.

Keep driving, keep smiling, keep explaining what a Sundial is.

Best,

Curt
'66 w/'63 23 window rag top, dd

This E-mail and any attached files are confidential, and may be copyright
protected. If you are not the addressee, any dissemination of this
communication is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in
error, please contact the sender immediately and delete/destroy all
information received.
