To: VW - Type 2 mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Chris Slaymaker <nurofiz(-at-)knology.net>
Date: Mon, 12 Dec 2005 18:26:40 -0500
Subject: Lurch has done it again

Whilst traveling home from a camping trip to the mountains (some of 
which I can't remember - which is prolly best) I felt a drop in power 
and at the same timeI heard a change in the sound of the engine.  A 
quick glance at all the gauges showed nothing major, so I drove on to 
the next exit (I needed gas).  Slowing down on the ramp, the odd sounds 
became more distinct.  While waiting at the light, it sounded like 
there was a header leak right at the cylinder.  I pulled in to the BP 
and got out and looked underneath.  A big puddle of oil was forming 
underneath #1.  There was a trail of drips along the pavement.  Lurch 
was a quart low so I put oil in.  I pulled the valve cover off, 
thinking the oil leak was from there.  Nope.  I turned the engine over 
a couple of times and my buddy said that the pulley looked warped.  I 
told him to turn it over while I looked.  There was so much end play I 
couldn't believe the thing was even turning over (broken crank?).  I 
have almost certainly thrown a rod.

While completing the trip (the last 45 miles of a 300 mile round trip) 
in a rollback truck, Jamie and I sat in the back of Lurch watching 
where we had been through the windshield while playing Backgammon.

Thanks for hanging in so far.  What to do?

Option 1:  buy a complete new engine (about $2500)

Option 2:  buy a new long block only (about $1500) (everything I have 
top-end wise is in pretty good shape)

Option 3:  get yet another rebuild with a spare case I have in my 
garage (about $1000) (I figured with the oil leak, I have a hole in the 
case)

Lurch is my daily driver and I don't have the luxury of time.

This engine lasted about 40,000 miles, so I REALLY don't want go back 
to the same rebuilder.


Chris Slaymaker
Knoxville, Tennessee
1971 Westfalia  "Lurch"
"...at least I'm enjoying the ride."
