Date: Mon, 12 Dec 2005 15:50:54 -0800 (PST)
From: Matthew Brooke <artntek(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: ezgruv(-at-)cox.net
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Exhaust Swap

Hi Eric

> changing my stock '77 exhaust to a '72/'74 steup.

I just did this with my '78 (same color as yours, only
more rusty).
I bought the heat exchangers and muffler from Bus
Depot - they had original German left-side heat
exchangers, but not right side - that one was Dansk.
The German one is definitely worth getting, if you go
that route.

In addition to those parts, here are the other parts
that didn't fit from my '78:

1) The tinware that fits between the heat exchangers
and the bottom of the engine case (the plates that
cover the pushrod tubes). I just hit mine with a big
hammer, drilled assorted holes and made it fit. If
you're more concerned about looks, you could see if
you can get used '72-'74 versions.

2) the tubes that join the rear of the heat exchangers
to the flapper (heat control) boxes (both sides). My
local junkyard had a right-side one from a '79 that
fits, but I couldn't get a left-side one, so I
extended mine with sheetmetal and clamps

3) the riser tube that exits the top of the right-side
heat exchanger at the rear, and goes up thru the
tinware (this is where the pipe from the heater blower
connects) - again, I got a '79 one from the junkyard.
(It seems the exchanger tinware on the right side of
the '79 motor is pretty much the same as the '72-'74,
but note that the left side of the '79 is definitely
not the same)

4) The EGR filter (may not be a problem for you - are
you in California?) - is 3" too short (you also ensure
you get a muffler with an EGR flange). I might end up
welding an extension to my old one.

As for other resources - I read an email in the type2
archive from Ron Salmon about this, and I also
*thought* I saw the details of this conversion on
Richard Atwell's website (http://ratwell.com/), but I
can't find it now - any pointers, Richard?

In summary - it was quite straightforward, and the
results are excellent - much better than the
multi-piece, multi-jointed, multiply-leaking
monstrosity it replaced ;-)

Good luck!

Matthew
Santa Barbara, CA
'78 Westy - daily driver
'77 convertible Beetle
