Date: Mon, 12 Dec 2005 22:16:56 -0700
From: "Bronsema, Max" <MBronsema(-at-)albertson.edu>
To: "type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: engine decided to stop turning - WAS cannot get engine to crank

"Without disappointment you can't appreciate victory."



Name the movie the quote came from and feel good about yourself. Here is
the story.

Recap: Engine just completely rebuilt. Installed in van. Had a hard time
starting it yesterday. Went to finish today and this...





I checked the grounds, cleaned up the tranny ground strap, everything
grounded, no shorts. I then try to crank it over, a little better but
not enough to get it firing. Stumped I decide to jumpstart it. I roll
the car outside in neutral and use a diesel truck to try to jump-start
it but still nothing. Not wanting to be out in the cold 15 degrees or
so, I have my helper role the car back inside the shop. I pop off the
distributor cap to check that I can get an arc between the points when I
open them and see the points are open. No biggie, I put the wrench on
the generator just as I did yesterday and earlier today but this time I
cannot get it to budge. I assume the starter has hung up so I put it
into third and heave ho the van back and forth. Not much happened. I go
and try to move it again, nothing. I crawl under the bus and undo the
starter but it did not seem to be hanging up on anything. I take off the
valve covers and check that nothing is awry, nothing is but I loosen up
the rocker arms anyway. Still cannot get it to turn. The only two things
I can think of are that either something is in a cylinder and binding it
or the oil pump has bound up somehow. It was all working yesterday and I
have oil pressure. I am a bit stumped as to what to do next. I plan on
taking the spark plugs out and trying to look down the holes to see if
anything is in there. I am truly miffed. I am guessing I will have to
pull the engine, tear it down, and try to find something wrong. I would
guess a bearing would seize but it does not make sense considering it
never got hot, the engine has yet to run. Any thoughts, whims, or ideas?



Thanks,



Max Bronsema

'71 Westy 1600dp
