Date: Thu, 15 Dec 2005 11:27:56 -0500
From: mccomas(-at-)intercom.net
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: awisniewski(-at-)comcast.net, ratwell(-at-)mac.com
Subject: [T2] bus accident

I think the advice given on this topic is generally OK, and I say that as a guy 
who bought a Chicago body shop circa 1980 as one symptom of his carahol (esply 
VW) addiction.

If you brought your bus to our shop at that time, the manager might write up an 
estimate for you, provided he wasn't very busy.  With older cars, the chance of 
getting the job is small... insurance estimates for crashed vintage vehicles 
are not a good investment of time on shop management's part.  RAtwell is spot-
on when he says, "...most of these shops were only interested in insurance 
claims. My advice would be to wait until the adjusters give you a large figure 
before you go to any more shops."

We did have one "program" for restoration work on customer cars.  While the 
principal business of the shop was insurance collision repair, we always had a 
couple of cars in the corners of the shop for fill-in work: things to do when 
time would otherwise be wasted.  I would meet with the owner and we would agree 
on what was to be done, and for how much -- not the complete job, just the next 
phase, when the parts were on hand.  In most cases the car owner would furnish 
the parts.  Then when we were nearing completion of that phase, the owner would 
come in, pay for progress to date, and we would go on to the next phase.

If you are gutsy, i.e., cool in the face of the unknown, this kind of scheme 
can work very much in your favor.  We billed labor at salary plus benefits plus 
10%... pretty cheap in those days, relative to retail repair charges.  Of 
course, you would need to have some kind of acquaintanceship with the shop 
owner if you are going this route.  

We have already talked about getting the max cash payment from the insurer.  If 
your docs say there is no prospect of future injury symptoms, you have little 
bargaining power... others have dealt with that already in this thread.

If you can find a sympathetic body shop owner, someone who actually likes older 
cars, you may find a route that would work out for you.  Best of luck!

Glenn

------------- REF ---------------------

Date: Wed, 14 Dec 2005 20:29:05 -0800
Message-ID: <8002914.1134620945560.JavaMail.ratwell(-at-)mac.com>

On Wednesday, December 14, 2005, at 08:02PM, Alex Wisniewski 
<awisniewski(-at-)comcast.net> wrote:

>PS. No news yet from the insurance company on my bus. The
>local vw/import repair shop doesn't body work, they sent
>me to another shop but no one is answering the phone and
>voice msg's go unreturned...

When I was looking around for a shop to do the bodywork on my bus (traditional 
bus rust issues) I had a really difficult time finding one. They would look at 
it and then decided they wouldn't be able to find the parts for it. I would 
promise to provide all the sheet metal but they still refused.

One shop told me they didn't work on VW vans and after I left the office, I 
went around back and saw an aircooled Vanagon up on the lift.

I came to the conclusion that most of these shops were only interested in 
insurance claims. My advice would be to wait until the adjusters give you a 
large figure before you go to any more shops.



------------------------------------------------------
This message was sent using Delmarva Online's Webmail.
http://www.dmv.com/
