From: "Craig Ayres-Sevier" <n7cas(-at-)gbis.com>
To: "Vintage Bus Post" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 7 Nov 2001 20:41:43 -0800
Subject: Re: [VB] Loyalty and Reality

I'm not sure I can address this concern correctly.

Except to say that but another purpose of the list is to not ruin a business
for the sake of a mistake (a potential as opposed to a trend), or several
mistakes, but to serve as a wake-up call for all concerned -- bus drivers
AND shops.

Nonetheless, You have  a good point, sir. As explanation,  I am only not
naming them right away on the list (I have named them in p-mail) because, as
immediate as this is, I have yet to apprise them also of their failings, as
I'm just now discussing it, although I shall shortly do so (apprise them).

And though the result of their handiwork was all-encompassing,
all-catastrophic, in, I guess, my small world, I am more than willing to
give a certain time frame for rectification: they either are or aren't major
suckage, irrespective of my own personal dilimma (how do you spell that?)
and I but suspect the former.

Like I said, I realize it wasn't intentional; I was just lulled into an
expecation of  far better service, and at far less personal expense outside
of my bank account and chilled appendages. Whose fault is that?

I am merely awaiting their response, upon being informed, of their failings
that will predicate public disclosure. They're not bad people, deserving of
unemployment -- but people deserving that their claim to being a VW bus shop
being absolutely ludicrous.

They couldn't even replace the windshield wipers.

Just waiting to see what their response is, before proceding with this.
Myself, although I may occasionally forget to feed the cat in the morning,
aat that moment a curr,  -- if that's the case I always, always come home on
my lunch break and >correct< that oversight. Voila -- not such a curr after
all.

Lissen, if their attitude is, oops, we honestly made a mistake, say, three
times over, that would automatically intimate that they will have already
have felt the heat. And mistakes I make every day, and all day long.

But lissen again:

Trust me. Have no doubt.

If their attidude is,not, so what, whatever, but, oops, you came to us, so
what --  then, yes, don't worry:

It is my mission in my finite life to post the name all over the Internet.

It's one of those "cautious use of force" things. While one should endure
human nature, I respect professionalism.

But, if you knew me, you would trust me -- those who do, know that I will
easily deploy, if required, as much information that is required. With a
vengeance.

Not bad for being discreet, eh?.

Craig.

