Date: Mon, 28 Jun 2004 09:09:42 -0400
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Chris Chubb <cchubb(-at-)codegurus.com>
Cc: msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu
Subject: Re: misfire question

>From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
>Ok, so I just changed out my points for a compufire and the engine is
>already running better, however, I *still* have this strange misfire.
>It does not seem to have a pattern.. just kinda random thumps.  It's not
>horrible, but I want to get this enging running smoooooooth and I think
>it is possible.

With the compufire we can assume that it is triggering reliably and this is 
not a points problem. So, the next things to check are:

1) The rotor. Check for cracks and the right resistance. Smooth the end or 
replace if it is pitted or burned.
2) The distributor cap. Again, look for burning on the terminals, cracks or 
carbon tracks in the cap and clean connections on the topside. Get some 
water in the cap and it will start to act hinky. Overlubing your 
distributor will cause a grease sheen to develop and cause carbon arcing.
3) The plug wires. I don't trust testing resistance on the wires because it 
won't read the same at the microvolt your meter puts out as at 20,000 volts 
that your coil puts out. A visual inspection is best. Clean with a damp rag 
and check for cracks. I just replace mine every 3-4 years. You may be 
getting an intermittent spark leaking through the jacket. Also make sure 
they are clipped to the plugs really well. I know, that sounds dumb, but on 
the front plugs with tight new boots it can feel connected when it is 
really laying against the connector, not actually connected. Use dialectric 
grease, just a dab, on each end of the plug wires.
4) The coil. Coils fail rarely, but they do. More usually you can get a bad 
connection at the coil if there is grease or corrosion on the terminals.
5) Check for constant 13.5 volts at the coil + . I had a problem once where 
the engine would almost die from time to time, especially if I hit a bump. 
It took me months to track it down, but it was the wire going to the 
reverse lights that had frayed and would ground when I hit a bump, 
effectively grounding the ignition + at the coil for 1/2 second. I don't 
know what year you have, so it may not run the reverse light from the coil+.
6) Replace the plugs. You can't really check them and if you haven't done 
it recently, it is $8 well spent.  While your plugs are out, make sure they 
aren't fouled. Double check the plug gap. Sometimes you can shrink the plug 
gap a few thousandths if you really want to run smooth. But you should not 
have to do that with a compufire.
7) Compression check?
8) Fuel pressure check? Not usually a problem at idle, but sometimes the 
pressure regulators can be sticky and you get a fluctuating pressure. This 
was the problem on a friends Fastback and it was a bear to find.

The best thing to do is to track the spark back from the plugs and make 
sure that every thing is within spec every step of the way. Don't discount 
simple things like the plug connection or the wires or power to the coil.

Chris 
