From: "Phil Parker" <phil(-at-)pagenumberone.co.uk>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 24 Dec 2005 16:06:50 -0000
Subject: Fw: [T2] Clutch Bowden tube "sleeve"

I can't remember what my cable looked like but I also had a hell of a job
removing it and re-installing the new one.

The trick I came up with was to stick the cab end in an electric
screwdriver. One person then keeps he cable rotating on its axis and the
other feeds it gently into the tube. With a load of grease this works pretty
well.

Hope this helps someone.

Phil

'71 - Ashley
----- Original Message ----- 
From: "George Lyle" <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>

Decided to check out the stiff operating clutch on my bus and found a worn
clevis pin and clevis.

Rather than have it fail on the road, I decided to replace the cable and
pin.  The fact that it was 83 degrees out and I'm looking forward to a
trip to Nevada next week prompted this decision.

Anyway, had a heck of a time pulling the old cable out.  Things slid
easily for the first foot or so, then the end of the cable caught on
something and wouldn't move either way.  I finally unbolted the Bowden
tube from the tranny and gave it a hearty pull, dislodging the Bowden tube
from the cable.

Further examination showed a plastic sleeve pressed into the front (FIF)
end of the bowden tube that extended into the clutch tube under the bus.
The inner diameter of that tube was distorted so that the threaded end of
the cable got caught in the sleeve and could only be dislodged through
considerable force.  The sleeve was a tight press fit in the inside of the
Bowden tube, but I finally twisted it out.  The sleeve extended only two
inches (tightly) into the Bowden tube, but extended about a foot (loosely)
into the metal tube under the bus.

The sleeve didn't really look like it belonged there, so I tried a
reassembly without it.  The new cable came with a short plastic sleeve
installed on it that seems to sit in the same place as the one I removed,
but which was much smaller in diameter.

In any case, all lubed up with synthetic grease, the clutch works almost
spookily well.

I'd like to poll the group wisdom on the sleeve I removed.  It might be a
modification from a PO or it might be leftover part of an old cable.  If
it's truly something that should be there I will replace it, but things
seem to work smoothly without it.

What do y'all think?

George


-- 
Internal Virus Database is out-of-date.
Checked by AVG Free Edition.
Version: 7.1.362 / Virus Database: 267.14.1/206 - Release Date: 16/12/2005
