From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 29 Dec 2005 23:45:35 -0700
Subject: Seized engine now cranks over! I like this product!

I'm not one to do product endorsements but I found something I want to share
with the list.

A couple of weeks ago a generous friend of mine bestowed 3 new projects on my.
I now own 3 motorcycles that have not been starter since 1992! All of them
supposedly ran fine when parked. All are now suffering from the typical things
that a non preserved vehicle suffers from when left to the elements. One of
them has a gas tank full of varnish/gum gunk and a rust hole in the tank.
taking that tank to local radiator shop tomorrow for hot tanking and welding.
Probably give it a dose of Por15 when I get it back. Also need to de-gunk the
carbs. The second one fortunately has leaky fuel petcocks so all the gas
leaked out before the gunk set in but the carb gaskets are all dried out now
and leak a lot. but the engine runs great!
The third one was the worst until tonight. The pistons were seized in the
cylinders. A sad thing for an engine with less than 7000 miles on it! I
suspect a thin coating of rust in the cylinders was not allowing the rings to
move along the cylinder walls.

Following the wisdom of this list I flooded both cylinders with de-rusting
chemicals. I tried Liquid Wrench, no help. PB Blaster, Got a slight movement
of the pistons. Marvel Mystery oil, no change. Tonight I found some Sea Foam
at my FLAPS. The first time I have seen it on the shelves around here. Thought
it was too expensive but bought it anyway because someone on the list said it
was good stuff. Flooded both cylinders with the stuff and waited maybe 10
minutes. Looked through the spark plug holes with a flashlight and noticed the
stuff was leaking out somewhere. The other products I had tried would stay in
the cylinder for up to two days before I could tell that some had leaked into
the engine. Could it be that this stuff was already loosening the rust enough
to allow it to leak past the seized rings, I wondered. At this point I gently
applied foot pressure to the kick starter. At first there was no movement, so
I applied a little more pressure. TICK, then movement! I only let it rotate
maybe 1/4 revolution. Looked in the cylinder with a little scope I made and I
can now see shiny clean metal below where the top of the piston was before it
moved. Re-flooded  both cylinders with Sea Foam then stuck the scope back
through the plug hole. I could see the crud that was above the piston now
beginning to slide down the cylinder wall. Let it sit for maybe 10 minutes
then flushed both cylinders with sea foam till it came out the plug holes in
an attempt to get the crud out of the cylinders without the pistons scratching
the cylinders all up. Used a large plastic syringe with some vacuum hose stuck
on where the needle would go to suck out all the crud I could.

Gently applied pressure to the kick starter and cranked the engine slowly. No
scraping sounds, hurray! :~)  Left the plugs out and pushed the bike around my
yard in 4th gear to crank the engine over. Stopped after each lap and fogged
the cylinders with more Sea Foam. Managed to get 4/10th of a mile on it before
I got bored of pushing it. The bike now cranks over nice and easy with out the
plugs in. Tomorrow I'll do a compression test to see if things are alright to
try to start the engine.

The moral of this story is; If you buy a yard bound bus with an age seized
engine, try Sea Foam first, if you can find it. I know the other things I used
may have loosened up the rust and the Sea foam just washed it away but from
what I could see going on in the cylinder I'll give the credit to the Sea
Foam. No, I don't sell the stuff & I am in no way associated with the
manufacturer of Sea Foam. I just believe it does what the label says it does.
Worth the higher price.

P.S. I sprayed it on a couple of rusted fasteners on the oldest bike before I
called it quits tonight. I'll see if it works well at loosening those
tomorrow.

Tom
75 bus "Turtlebus"
80 Westy "as yet unnamed"
Bus-ted minds want to know
