From: Wil Haslup<wil(-at-)charmfx.com>
To: vanagon(-at-)yahoogroups.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 09 Nov 2003 17:23:52 -0400
Subject: still have ? on testing aux. air valve on '80 aircooled

Hi,

I appreciate those of you following my plight/quest for the 'won't idle
cold bug' in my
Vanagon...

I did borrow a friend's Bently repair manual and found it much more
thorough than my Haynes.  I ran through its checks on the AFM harness
to make sure everything was reading right....it was.  I have performed
virtually all the checks it recommends with the exception of the
checks on the fuel regulator and deceleration valve (because I don't
have a fuel pressure guage and no help for the checks that require
someone to crank the engine).  Still, I never suspected fuel as a
serious consideration since the van runs okay if I keep my foot on it
until it warms up.

After all this I returned to suspecting my aux. air valve which tests
out at 30 ohms electrically as it should.  On removing it and looking
through it I can see the valve is open/can see light but maybe its 
only partially open.  I can use a screwdriver to push the spring back 
and open it much wider.

The Bently manual says the valve is supposed to be all the way open on
cold start and close slowly.

This makes me suspect this valve.  I tested my theory by bypassing the
valve and connecting the hose that comes from the 's' hose to the
valve and pluging it into the air distribution port that the hose on
the other outlet of the valve usually plugs into.  

Starts and runs......hmmmm.  Is this it?  Can it be?
This tells me that while the valve may allow some air through it isn't 
allowing enough.

Its a $65-70 dollar part so I'm hesitant and need reassurance.  I tend
not to eliminate potential problem parts buy throwing money at the
problems....until I'm pretty certain.  (I could tell the recently
replaced temperature sensor in the head was bad because its resistance
was obviously way off spec so even though it didn't fix my starting
problem I'm glad I found that.)

Does this aux. air valve seem the likely candidate to those of you with 
experience with this type of problem?



Sincerely,
-- 
--Wil


-- http://www.charmfx.com/ -- http://www.indieguide.com/ --

"I stayed up all night playing poker with tarot cards. I got a full house and four people died."
-- Steven Wright
