Date: Mon, 10 Nov 2003 21:40:51 -0600
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: Riomelillo(-at-)aol.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] hyd. valves

On Mon, Nov 10, 2003 at 09:25:53PM -0500, Riomelillo(-at-)aol.com wrote:
> I am getting ready to adjust my hyd. valves I warmed up engine to
> operating temp before tearing down the rockers, tubes, seals, push
> rods, etc. thinking I was going to just put it back together the
> same day.  However, now it's been two weeks sitting since I found
> other things to do and had to wait on parts.  Here I am wondering if
> I am going to have major problems with the lifters if they bled down
> and adjusting from that point, etc.?

OK I have to admit this is a huge peeve of mine. With setting the hyd
valves. I have no idea why anyone is concerned about lifter bleed down
when setting them. Here is why. The lifter isn't just a body of oil
under pressure. It also contains a heavy spring. How heavy? pretty
durn heavy, which anyone who has manually pumped them up can attest
to. So the lifter is already in it's "extended" position at all times.
This spring won't hold up to pushing a push rod without the hydraulic
effect of the motor oil, but when setting valves this isn't what we
need. Bentley says 2 turns from point of contact. That's all you have
to do. you should be able to tell when it contacts the lifter. I have
always just turned the adj screw by hand untill the rocker no longer
rocks. then turn it in 1.5-2 (depending on your preference). Since we
are not concerned with the pressure the lifter exherts back and only a
distance we compress it, this procedure is just fine.

I believe that most of the reason people worry about pumping up the
lifters for checking the valves if from the procedure for checking
compression. In that case, yes all the valves should be pumped
completely up (and really the engine should be at operating temp)
Enjoy.



-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
1979 Sportsmofakia 2000cc                        www.fasterlaster.com
1966 Westfalia SO-42 "Butch"
