From: "James Jackson" <firesong4ng(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: wfp3(-at-)lycos.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 06 Oct 2003 14:17:06 -0600
Subject: Re: Interior roofing

>Sweet lord in heaven, I picked a bad week to give up snorting drano.
*-Umm well don't let me disuade you from your chosen past time ;)

>You're saying, I believe, that you're gonna "hot glue" some 2x4 drop tiles 
>to the ceiling of your bus?
*-That's what I said!
>
>For god sakes man, why? I'm sure together we can brainstorm some 
>alternatives with more attention to aesthetics, function, reversibility for 
>future owners.

-Why? Well, Actually they are very sweet looking (not that they are intended 
to be seen. Almost a lava-esque appearance. Function: perfect for the job. 
Both insulating and provide a vapor barrier.  Reversable.. very easy. Most 
hot glue (stuff I use) is very sticky and when dry, flexible and can be 
moved with a hair dryer or heat gun.  I have thought that part over.

>
>Furthermore, drop tiles crack easily, I doubt they could tolerate the most 
>minimual curvatures of the bus roof. Although hot glue is persuasive.

Not sure which tiles your used to but this stuff is super flexible and 
curves very very easy to the contours of the roof. Another big plus.

>>At a minimum, at least lay in a ceiling framework for the droptiles. Then 
>>you could come in later for HVAC or lighting upgrades, perhaps some 
>>cubicles.

I think you didn't catch my initial need from the first post.  The tiles are 
there for the insulation and vapor barrier.  I need to cover them with 
something and that is what I need ideas for.  The original has this ugly 
plastic fabric stretched over the edges. Something I'm not sure how to 
repeat or if I want to.  What have other bus owners done?

As for lighting thats another thing I have considered doing.  Using the 
panels actually would be beneficial to more lighting.  I have some neon 
lights I wouldn't mind setting up to put in a false starry nite sky.  ie :
Panels glued, Cut thin white board to fit across as the actual roof. Cut 
crescents, stars and stuff into the white board. Cover the cuts with clear 
panels from pholescent light covers( come in neat patterns) and then use 
neon 12v lights from either computer components or car stuff to provide an 
instant on/off look.

Anything constructive would be appreciated, although the idea of draino.. 
naa sorry ;)

J
