Date: Tue, 07 Oct 2003 11:25:44 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scmills21(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Polishing Aluminum

Summer is over so naturally I'm busy with projects. Heat and I don't mix 
well but I love the Fall, Winter and Spring. Always busy then.

I'm polishing some aluminum and got some questions. The assembly in 
question is a Porsche 911 replica cooling fan for my Beetle. My Beetle 
sports a Type IV engine versus the old Beetle engines they came with from 
the factory. In theory I could say it's a Porsche engine (as the the 
Porsche 914 came with these) but mine is tuned like a bus engine (small 
valves, low compression, etc.) When the budget catches us with the project 
I'll buy better. It's no race car but a something to drive. It's fun with 
twice the HP (at least it was way, way back when I last drove it prior to 
marriage, first born arrival, car payments, etc. etc. etc. <grin>) of a 
stock Beetle.

Anyhow this fan was banging around in my shed as my Beetle has been off the 
road for years and the engine in pieces stored in my shed. I decided to 
polish it and then store it in the house until later. This fan was $$$ back 
when I was single and poor but with fewer and smaller bills so I want to 
preserve it...

I cleaned it with Lye. Unfortunately I had to rush off to class (toured the 
local TRW airbag factory) and did not get the Lye off before it made a mess 
of the aluminum. All of the mess wet sanded off and now I have a 
wonderfully clean but dull assembly.

The fan is die cast and polished wonderfully. Looks like chrome. The fan 
surround is very soft low-pressure cast aluminum and this is what I need 
help with. All I can generate is black on this piece! <grin>

My polisher is an old electric motor with a polishing wheel (white cotton?) 
on the end. My polish is some clay stick like polish for aluminum in 
various grades of coarse, medium, and fine.

My polishing wheel is at this point black. I have tried cleaning it with a 
screwdriver and a handsaw blade. These came up with very well polished 
edges and the wheel marginally cleaner. Should I reverse the wheel rotation 
(flip it around)? Am I pushing too hard or not hard enough? Sometimes the 
clay like polish (rouge is it called?) leaves a build up on the aluminum 
that requires a liquid polish/cleaner to remove. The aluminum is smooth at 
this point but what will it take to get past the black? I used to think 
that I wanted to polish my Porsche wheels for this car but now I'm thinking 
it might be worth painting them instead! <grin>

The fan should be done tonight but the fan surround I dunno. Help!

Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
1972 Hodaka Wombat 125cc moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
wife, kiddo, dog, and various slightly used cats
