From: Shad <shenderson(-at-)thegeekgroup.org>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 07 Feb 2007 10:06:47 -0500
Subject: It Lives!

Hi All, 

Actually, I got my bus running again 2 weekends ago, but I've been
putting around in it to assure the Significant Other that it won't just
puke the motor for no reason.  *sigh*  

Pictures here:

http://s159.photobucket.com/albums/t140/ogberi/

Back in September it spat out #3 spark plug, so I pulled the motor and
replaced the heads.  #3 already had a timesert, and I figured I'd step
up to the bigger valves while I had the chance.  I also decided to
sandblast and paint the engine tin, and replace things that needed
replacing.  Fuel lines, vacuum hoses, etc, etc.  Also replaced the 009
with an SVDA (and love the hell out of it!).   

Still some things to do to the bus, but they're fairly minor.  

Ordered a Dakota Digital CHT gauge to replace the crappy VDO gauge in
there now.  Should get here Friday, and honestly, after dropping a
substantial amount of money on heads, the $154 for the gauge and 18'
wiring harness isn't that bad.  It's worth it for accurate CHT
readings. 

There is a rattle in my motor, and the local VW mechanic believes it to
be the distributor drive gear. It's noisy, but not critical.  I'll just
keep an ear on it and if it gets louder or changes, then I'll drop the
engine and split the case.  (heck, I just got it back in there!)
 
She runs strong, and the SVDA got rid of the pinging on hard
acceleration.  Temps are a tad higher, but I have some holes to plug up
in the tin, and I have yet to seal off the fan shroud outlets to the
heater boxes.  The PO gutted the heating system, so there's no point in
wasting the airflow ;)   For right now I just putter back and forth to
work in it (about 6 miles, round trip).   Saturday, the 18th, we'll be
making the 300-someodd mile roundtrip to Daytona, so I'm trying to get
everything ready for that.  Should go smoothly.  

I'm just damn happy to be driving my bus again.  Despite a better sound
system, A/C, and better acceleration, I still prefer the bus to the
wife's Mini Cooper. 

Shad H. 
