From: "gil hayes" <gilhayes(-at-)midsouth.rr.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 17 Jul 2003 14:58:03 -0500
Subject: 86 Syncro - water leak

WEll, at 126,000 it could well be a leaking head gasket.  I had an 84 water
cooled and learned to work on VWs that way. I hope it's not, but that's a
possibility from what you've said about spotting water while on the road.

You should try torqueing the heads first, maybe that would seat the gaskets.
Be certain to start in the middle and work your way outward, that way you
are pressing out the seal as you come to the ends.

If it is the heads, on the 84 you could remove them with the engine in the
bus. Just make certain that you tie up the pistons when you pull the jugs
off, or if the jugs stay with the heads you will wind up with that problem.
You then put the jugs back on over the piston rings using the Muir trick of
two large hose clamps that are failry wide or an official reing compressor.

The engine seal on the 84 watercooled was like a tupperware seal on both
sides. A plastic slit sealed in the middle that ran around the edge of the
block, etc.

You also, unless you just want to, do not have to do both sides. I would
start with the leaking side and then do the second if that doesn't fix it.

One major question is...do you have water bubbles in your coolant expansion
tank while the engine is running. With a leaking head or even a leak in the
closed cooling system air will get sucked into the system. That air will
appear as bubbles in the expansion tank. Also, air will accumulate in the
system, circulate around and if the air pocket is large enough when the air
passes the cylinders, the engine will show a spike in heating. When you have
mostly air in the system if you keep driving, you will have a very bad day
with warped heads or a seized motore.

Finally, if it is the head gasket, at 126,000 miles y ou may want to just go
ahead and rebuild the engine or put new rings on both sides...

You can definately do this by yourself, just get a manual, the muir manual,
and the vanagon Haynes manual.



LO luck
