From: "Tor" <apophasis(-at-)kitcarson.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 17 Jul 2003 23:12:36 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] Driving a bus

  Pet peeve: lugging the engine.  I've met more people with Japanese cars
who "don't want to hurt it" by revving it above 3K RPM...  Little do they
comprehend that those little Japanese motors have a "powerband," a specific
rev range within which they make horsepower and torque efficiently, and it's
not even beginning to happen at 3K.  Moreover, applying throttle below
healthy operating RPM results in pinging and detonation.  Not good at all.
  Little motors tend to want to be revved up a bit, making more horsepower,
whereas big displacement motors want to grunt along at low RPM making more
torque.  Please, if you drive a small-displacement motor, rev the little
baby up and drive it as it was designed to be driven.
  Bus content:  Our motors are quite small, and make neither much torque nor
substantial horsepower.  Therefore, please do rev them up enthusiastically,
wind it out to redline when necessary, and so with no regrets, as our
Germanic jewels are built to not only take it, but love it, and in fact,
especially here at 7000ft, require it to maintain uphill progress.  Yes,
compared to most other vehicles, it's loud.  I shift at 50 MPH to 4th gear
whenever going uphill or attempting to accelerate.  30,000mi on a good stock
rebuild, oil and valves every 2000, starts first crank, runs cool.
  Rant off.

Tor
'71 Mystery Highroof "Mo"
'00 Cannondale "Lefty"

PS- To paraphrase (loosely) St. Muir:  Neither lug nor overrev, and long
will be the days of you and your Bus in the Kingdom of Motoring.  Or the
Buddha:  The paths of revving and lugging are delusion.  The Middle Way of
proper revolutions in their time will lead to enlightenment.  Or even
Crowley:  Do what thou wilt, but harm no motor with excessive nor inadequate
revs.
  Yaay, it's Friday!  Oh, wait, my clock's 50 minutes fast...

> > I have read the Muir section on driving a bus and was wondering how many
> > follow that advice to the letter? It seems kinda nutty to drive in 3rd
gear
> > above 45mph...in my '71 the engine sounds like it is turning to fast in
3rd
> > gear at 45mph...or is that just because I am use to driving jap cars?
>
> If anything I would have thought Jap cars like to rev high :-)
