From: "Russ Neithammer" <rneithammer(-at-)mlea.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com>
Date: Fri, 18 Jul 2003 08:03:26 -0400
Subject: CHT Wiring

Better late than never for me to respond to this, I suppose, but I've been
busy.

Anyway, I too ran into the same issue when installing my VDO CHT gauge a
couple of years ago.  I extended the supplied wiring to reach my gauge pod
located on top of the dash.  And, for my purposes, it works just fine and
has been since I installed it.

I am well versed in how thermocouples work, it's part of what I do for a
living and I agree with all that has been said regarding thermocouples and
reference junctions, etc.  However, I reasoned my extension is OK, as
follows:

1.  I used the same (or similar) gauge wire as was supplied with the VDO
unit - 16 gauge IIRC.  I needed about 4 feet.  I soldered and heat shrinked
the connections for reliability.  Even when dealing with millivolt level
signals, that additional resistance is negligible, IMHO.

2.  From what I could tell, the VDO supplied wiring was standard 16 gauge
(or metric equivalent) stranded copper wire.  In my experience with
thermocouple extension wire (used in industry to wire thermocouples to
remote reading devices), it is always a solid conductor, not stranded, and
at least one of the wires in the pair is not copper colored.  A far cry from
what VDO supplied (stranded, copper colored wire, looks just like what I
added).  So, even if what VDO supplied is not technically correct
thermocouple extension wire, my lengthening of the supplied wires does not
make things any worse.

3.  The VDO unit has a plug connector in line between the thermocouple and
the supplied extension wire.  In my industrial experience, such connectors
require contacts made of special metals that are thermocouple (or capatible)
material, so as not to introduce additional dissimilar metallic juntions.
The VDO supplied plug connector appears to have nothing more than standard
brass contacts in it.

4.  I'm going out on a limb somewhat here, but, I'm not convinced that
intermediate junctions in thermocouple circuits add significant error
anyway, as long as both connections at each intermediate juntion are at the
same temperature (which would likely be the case given that they are located
right next to each other).  My reasoning is that the voltage introduced on
one leg at the intermediate junction is cancelled by an equal (or nearly so)
and opposite voltage on the other side, again, as long as both connections
of the intermediate junction are at the same temperature.  I'd be interested
in hearing any facts or opinions in support or to the contrary.

I suppose I could dunk the thermocouple in boiling water to check it's
accuracy, but it's kinda low on the priority list right now.  I'll post
results if/when I get to it.
