From: "MICHAEL TURNER" <airmike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Date: Fri, 30 Jan 2004 12:46:47 -0800
Subject: For your info and some questions (a bit long)

Hi Everyone,
Thank God it's Friday! After surviving "doom" and another work week (house
painting)  I'm looking forward to the weekend!
My bus is forty one years old tomorrow!
First I wanted to pass along some information I received on those heated
windshield panels for
split window busses. Someone posted a message about them (sorry I didn't get
the name) yesterday.
Their sold by "the bus station" in Great Britain.  They replied to my inquiry
with the following:

"I am not insured to sell in the USA. In addition to this, I would not be
happy sending glass airfrieght to the US.
If you wish to find an agent in the UK, I'll be happy to send there.
The screens are made in Europe and are marked for EU regulations. They wire in
parallel to the electrics either
directly or through a relay, which we can supply."

Anyone interested in pursuing this can go to
http://www.thebusstation.co.uk/index.html

About my busses 41st birthday. I'm hoping someone might be able to answer a
few questions for me.
My bus is a 1963 hardtop deluxe. It has walk-thru seats. It's configured as a
seven seater (2/3 middle seat)
The data plate shows the date of manufacture as 31 01 3 which means (if I'm
correct) 31 January 1963
However when I wrote to Volkswagen asking about production history of the car
their records show a production date
of 6 February 1963. The delivery date is 11 February 1963 with the point of
delivery shown as Portland, Ore. USA
The difference in those two production dates is confusing to me.
I'm wondering, how long was the production cycle for the bus? Is it possible
the date on the data plate is the date
assembly was begun and the 6th February date the actual roll out date?
Another mystery is an M-code shown on my data plate. It's M-145 wich David
Eccles (among others) shows as
an option, sliding door safety latch. I'm wondering if that might have been
punched in error. M-code 146 (one number
different) is the option for a seven seat bus, with right hand cargo doors.
All in all it's a "first water mystery" to me. Oh well it's friday....
Thanks all,
Mike Turner
