From: "MICHAEL TURNER" <airmike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Date: Mon, 2 Feb 2004 23:44:07 -0800
Subject: just wondering...(a bit long again)

Hi Folks,
I was going thru some back issues of the "old bus review" (I'm a NEATO guy
also) and came across a story about
a fella with a 65 double door walk-thru panel van. He bought this guy in some
small town in
North Dakota. In the article he mentions that he was able to get a complete
title history on his bus from the North Dakota DMV.
Wow, thats kinda neat I thought. I'd love to be able to get that sort of
history on mine. Past owners, where it lived before,
and all that jazz. Does any one know if you can do that here in Washington
state. If so how is it done?
Also for anyone interested I've attached below a copy of a letter written by
Lind Bjornsen who writes for "old bus review"
He's been to the Bad Camberg event. I wrote him asking about M-codes and
production stuff on the spit window bus. The following is his reply.
Interesting reading....the Steffi he mentions is the lady that signs many of
those production "birth certifcates" you get from Volkswagen, after you write
seeking information on your bus. Her full name is Mrs Steffi Grundel. She
signs lots of these letters. I was asking if anyone has ever met her. I
suspect she may know where the "bones" are buried on a lot of this stuff.
respectfully
Mike Turner

Mike,
   researching this is always fun.  especially when not all of the
information out there is correct.  you have noticed what a lot of other
people have noticed, that VW doesn't always get the birth certificates
right.  one friend of mine had to send in twice because they had
obviously screwed up the first time.  I am not sure how the actual
records are kept, but I would assume that most of it is human error when
transcribing the information.
   on the M-codes, there were several things going on.  they overloaded
the M-codes in that sometimes the same number would be used for entirely
different options on different models.  I also suspect, but haven't yet
been able to prove that they used the same number for different options
at different times on the same model.  the first M-code on the plate
refers to a bundle of options which we most commonly see the USA spec
bundles.  I have figured out which options were on some of the early
ones in the 300s, and some of the ones in the 400s have been deciphered
by other people, but these are largely undocumented hypothesises.  the
factory has yet to come up with a complete listing of all M option numbers.
   it appears to have taken about two weeks to build a bus.  the M-code
plate was the first part of the bus.  I need to do more research into
the dates of M-code plates versus production dates as listed on the
birth certificates.  I have done some research along simmilar lines with
early karmann ghias.  the evidence there shows that cars did not come
off of the production line in perfect numerical order.  on early ghias,
the body numbers are very consistent with the karrosserie numbers, but
the chassis numbers would bounce up and down by a few hundred units.  of
course Karmann was a different factory with differnt production methods,
but the principles are somewhat simmilar.  VW was in the buisiness of
building cars on a large scale.  the numbers were not there for any
higher purpose than inventory tracking and identification.
   the destination on the birth certificate was only the port of entry
which was usually a regional distributor.  portland being riviera motors.
   I haven't thought about talking to the people at the factory, but I
might have to see if Steffi is available to answer some questions next
time I go to germany.  my overall feeling about the volkswagen
corporation is that they really care very little about their heritage.
they have a museum and a theme park in wolfsburg.  I have been to the
museum twice and I have not been to the theme park.  at the museum,
there are some hideous paint-job cars that they call restorations.  a
1950 bus with 15" rims, a doublecab that is obviously a '67 but the
display says it is a '64, etc.
   --lind
