From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: MICHAEL TURNER <airmike(-at-)verizon.net>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 3 Feb 2004 07:29:03 -0800 
Subject: RE: [VB] just wondering...(a bit long again)

  When I got my 15 window deluxe from Kansas I had a problem with the
paperwork. MVD here needed something, I don't remember why, so I had to
write to Kansas DMV and get the history on it from them. What I got was a
list and copy of every registered owner on the bus since it was in Kansas.
It appeared to be have lived it's whole life there and one of the first
owners had bought it back at one time in it's life. It was a cleaners bus
that was sold then bought back by the same cleaners. Even though it went
through a few owners the original logos had never been painted over or
removed.

ronnie

-----Original Message-----
From: MICHAEL TURNER [mailto:airmike(-at-)verizon.net]
Sent: Tuesday, February 03, 2004 12:44 AM
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Subject: [VB] just wondering...(a bit long again)


Hi Folks,
I was going thru some back issues of the "old bus review" (I'm a NEATO guy
also) and came across a story about
a fella with a 65 double door walk-thru panel van. He bought this guy in
some
small town in
North Dakota. In the article he mentions that he was able to get a complete
title history on his bus from the North Dakota DMV.
Wow, thats kinda neat I thought. I'd love to be able to get that sort of
history on mine. Past owners, where it lived before,
and all that jazz. Does any one know if you can do that here in Washington
state. If so how is it done?
Also for anyone interested I've attached below a copy of a letter written by
Lind Bjornsen who writes for "old bus review"
He's been to the Bad Camberg event. I wrote him asking about M-codes and
production stuff on the spit window bus. The following is his reply.
Interesting reading....the Steffi he mentions is the lady that signs many of
those production "birth certifcates" you get from Volkswagen, after you
write
seeking information on your bus. Her full name is Mrs Steffi Grundel. She
signs lots of these letters. I was asking if anyone has ever met her. I
suspect she may know where the "bones" are buried on a lot of this stuff.
respectfully
Mike Turner
