Date: Sun, 09 Sep 2001 03:46:30 -0400
From: Doppelkabine <chrhobbs(-at-)mindspring.com>
To: Vintage Bus List <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: [VB] Labor Day Weekend - VW style (long)

"The underside of a VW bus is good for the inside of a man"
   --adapted from Confucious (or some other philosopher)

Spending my working days inside at a desk with a computer, I find great
satisfaction in those times when I can use my hands to accomplish some
big mechanical or homeowner project on my time off.  In the VW bus
world, I am not yet up to complex tasks like rebuilding an engine or
welding in new body panels, but I take great satisfaction in those
smaller tasks which exercise the long-dormant automotive skills learned
in my youth (when most cars could actually be repaired in the home if
one chose to).  So it was with my project to fix the problem with the
front wheel bearings on my '67 doublecab.

I had sidelined the truck for about a month, when I first detected that
tell-tale grinding sound coming from somewhere up front.  I stocked up
with brake parts cleaner, bearing grease to repack the bearings, and one
complete set of bearings via mailorder in case replacement was needed.
Finally, the Saturday of Labor Day weekend, I had time to do it.  In
spite of a backlog of homeowner tasks, I had the wife's blessing as she
knew I needed the change-of-pace that working on the truck provided.  So
with the Bentley manual propped open, and copies of recent list messages
on the subject, I began.

Once the truck was moved to the carport (a place of honor normally
reserved for the wife's Beetle), the front end was up on jackstands, and
the wheels were off, I started with a good greasing of the 13 zerks up
front.  First time I had used a grease gun in...25 years?  (Yeah, I
know, I should have done it the first week I got the truck 3 years ago.
My bad, as they say...)  Uh oh, one zerk missing and one...soldered
over??  That damn first owner, again!  I put those zerks on my list to
fix ASAP.  Then on to the bearings.  I took off the passenger side wheel
first and quickly realized that THERE was the source of my grinding.
Didn't need a bearing puller, thank God.  I carefully beat the old races
out of the brake drum with a hammer and punch, and cleaned out all the
old grease.  Then used the old races to carefully beat in the new ones.
Now how much is 80 grams of bearing grease, anyway?  After a trip to the
kitchen and a check of two cookbooks, the wife and I figured that 80
grams was about ONE-THIRD OF A CUP.  (When she wasn't looking, I
borrowed a measuring cup and went back outside.)  In went the new
Mexican inner and outer bearings, fully packed, and exactly one-third of
a cup of grease in between them.  (Hee, hee.)  Carefully used a set of
needle-nose Vice Grips to hold the inner locking nut on the spindle
while I tightened the outer one.  Checked for the correct tension on the
thrust washer, and I was done!  Spun the drum and--yippee!--grinding
noise all gone.  Then I thought--dummy!--I should have bought 2 sets of
bearings and just done both sides.  Luckily, the Manassas (Virginia) Bug
Out was the next day.  Certainly someone there would have bearings for
sale (yes), maybe even zerks (no).

Sunday was the perfect complement to a long Saturday afternoon working
on my truck--a big VW show in perfect sunny weather.  This Bug Out was
actually one of the best I had attended in 2 years.  Lots of every type
of VW, not just mostly Beetles as is ususally the case.  There were even
a couple of aircooled trucks, paired up (yet again) with the Rabbit
pickups as the Bug Out folks like to do--damn!--I wish I could have made
it a trio of aircoolers.  Armed with a second set of carefully inspected
bearings (one German, one USA), I headed home ready to complete my
project the next day.

On Monday, armed with my experience in doing the first wheel, the
drivers side wheel was a welcome breeze.  Took my time and made a
relaxing afternoon of it.  After cleaning out the old bearings, I
discovered that the PO had let the truck sit for so long (many years in
a garage, in fact) that imprints of the roller bearings had formed in
the old bearing races.  Once I had the front end back on the ground, I
figured that I might as well take a look at the rear end, too.  I put it
up on the stands and rechecked the oil levels in the RGBs and the
tranny.  Everything was still fine there (in this case, I had already
made sure long ago).  I was sincerely praying at this point that I
didn't have to tackle the RGB bearings yet.  I had read enough to know
that this task was at least another order of magnitude more difficult
than what I had just accomplished.

Finally, the test drive.  Got the shock of my life when, after one
block, what turned out to be a loose spark plug blew out of its hole and
the engine commensed a loud clattering!  I quickly headed back to home,
where I discovered that two more plugs were also loose!  Fixed that
problem, then back on the road and--ahhhh!--grinding noise all gone.  So
that was how I spent my holiday weekend, VW-style.  Went back to work on
Tuesday quite stiff and sore from many hours of crawling under and
around a VW truck (my mid-forties body wasn't used to this), but with a
bigger sense of accomplishment than I had known at work for quite a few
weeks.  Anyway, thanks for reading this far, and for those of you who
have contributed to recent discussions on front wheel bearing
replacement, an extra thanks.  Your comments and tips helped give me
confidence when I wasn't sure I had the tools and skills to do the job.

--
Chris Hobbs and family, Leesburg VA
'67 Type 2 DoubleCab (stock)
two '74 412 wagons
'79 Beetle cabriolet

