Date: Mon, 10 Sep 2001 02:36:46 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)home.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Smoke from directionals

>From: "Craig Ayres-Sevier" <n7cas(-at-)gbis.com>
>Date: Sun, 9 Sep 2001 16:39:15 -0700
>
>Suddenly there's that wonderfully attention-getting eletrical smell.
>Nanoseconds later, I notice the smoke spewing out of the directional
>housing of my '67.  I pulled over immediately, the left blinker still
>blinking even though the lever was in the center position, and doused
>the thing with a couple of shots of well-aimed fire extinguisher. [...] 
>I disassembled the housing: one wire is fried.  [Planning to replace
>switch wiring] In this scenario, how likely / unlikely would it be that
>anything else has been affected

Probably fairly unlikely, if a cautious eye cast over the rest of the
wiring indicates no other damage.  The only item of interest is your
statement that the turn signal was still flashing despite the lever
being "off".  This would seem to indicate a problem with the contacts
inside the switch, which replacing the wiring wouldn't help.  Some
folks have reported success with spraying electrical contact cleaner
(NOT WD-40) into the switch and working it back and forth a few times.

You can test out the system while the turn signal switch is disconnected
to check for further damage.  Look at the '67 wiring diagram in your
Bentley or at www.vintagebus.com/wiring .  If you jump the 54Bl wire
to VR, VL, HR, or HL, and turn the key on, the turn signal on that
corner should flash.  (vorn, hinter, rechts, links)  If you jump the
54St wire to VR, VL, HR, or HL, step on the brakes, and turn the key
on, the turn signal on that corner should light up steadily.  Turn on
the headlights and jump the two brown wires (31 and S) together and
your high beams should come on.  If you're paranoid, use a jumper wire
with an 8 A fuse in the middle for these checks.  If all this checks
out, then the burnt wire you found is likely the only problem.

For the sanity of yourself and others, please don't use all the same
color wires if you replace all the wires to the turn signal switch.
However, you can do a decent job with some black wire and some white,
green, blue, red, and yellow electrical tape (5-packs of these colors
are commonly available).

Good luck!

Matt Roberds


