Date: Fri, 13 Sep 2002 22:05:22 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: RaisenRabt(-at-)aol.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] I smell like exhaust fumes

Are the engine seal and the engine door seals in good condition.

I can't think of a single clamp that would let exhaust into the vehicle - 
only exhaust leak out where the fan might ingest it and send it through the 
heaters.

Also sounds like your flappers aren't working if you are getting air flow 
from the engine to the interior.

Switch mechanics or find a friend. Somebody needs to give your VW a gander 
before you hurt yourself.

I'd buy a Bentley manual and start inventorying the engine and engine bay 
to ensure everything that is supposed to be there is. This way you don't 
rely on the dubious abilities of this mechanic and you learn alot at the 
same time.

Lastly I would question the condition of the heater boxes. Internally they 
may be failing and leaking exhaust versus this break in the pipe.

Where exactly is the break?

Many of the clamps can be replaced with hardware store varieties just fine.

Good luck!


>Hello all- I have a 69 bus. I had my muffler replaced recently and the
>mechanic told me that he didn't have the right clamp to go between the
>muffler and the heat exchange. He used epoxy to seal it, which broke loose. I
>had a couple exhaust free days, but now am back to having excessive fumes in
>the vehicle. Can anyone tell me how to find this "special clamp" or how to
>have one fabricated? The mechanic says to his knowledge there is no
>substitute for the clamp, and it is specific to 68-72 Buses. Fall is coming
>and I will have to ride with my windows up... not sure I can do that without
>asphyxiating myself. Thanks! Tammy in Pittsburgh.

Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


