From: I973Thing(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 14 Sep 2002 09:47:56 EDT
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: VWoA strikes again!!!

Hi all-
   Forwarding this from the dbg bus club list.    This is getting ridiculous. 
  Now they went after a guy for selling 15 total coffee mugs!!      Is there 
anything we can do to stop the insanity?!?!
    FWIW- I WAS gonna buy a new Eurovan.....that was cancelled long ago 
because of this nonsense.
     Forwarded message....

        "Well it has happened.

Volkswagen has just sent us a certified letter saying they are suing us
for copy right infringements regarding Lrae's hand painted mugs.

At this time if you have any direct links to "mugshots" or any other
Volkswagen related site with pictures Lrae and I have sent please
dissolve them as soon as possible.

Jackie I know you worked hard on the dbg site, but we need it off right
away. This includes any pictures of me or my family with any volkswagen
product, apparel, ect. ect.

Tom I also need my web page taken down on your Vanagon conversion page.
I am sorry for any inconvenience.

As of today I am no longer going to associate my self or my family with
Volkswagen. I just got off the phone with the attorney representing
Volkswagen and they are coming after us.
It turns out two of the fifteen or so we sold went to two different
private investigators employed by Volkswagen.

I will no longer attend any corporate/dealer sponsored events.
From this day forward I will only own/drive older Volkswagens and attend
only after market or club sponsored events.

Our order on a  2003 Jetta TDI wagon has been canceled from Northwest
Arkansas BMW Volkswagen in Rogers AR. Thank you for your understanding
and your prompt help on this matter.

We wash our hands of VW.

Please make note of my new e-mail address to contact me, as volksman, an
address I've had for over six years will  no longer be in effect.

inthestix(-at-)centurytel.net

Be careful! You may be next!
Just like a nasty divorce!
My first and only love with a car company for over 22 years has turned
on me like a rabid dog.

Why would anyone want to patronize a company like this?


Rob

Feel free to pass this along to anyone you feel it may help."
