Cc: bus list <ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Fri, 26 May 2006 12:30:51 -0400
To: The Bug Pack Pack <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Loud pipes save lives

Pardon me? ... Speak up, I can't quite hear you!

OK ALREADY, NO NEED TO SHOUT. I'M NOT DEAF.

Ahem....  At least not yet.


Hi Volks,

I just thought I'd drop the list a note about the new exhaust I had  
made for the westfakia. I am a big fan of the 72-74 heat exchanger  
and muffler system, but for some reason I still haven't been able to  
keep my bus as quiet as it should be. Maybe my heater boxes are  
leaking somewhere. So this spring I started looking around for  
alternatives.

Two weeks ago I found a cheap and simple solution.  I took a pair of  
1975-78 exhaust manifolds to a local muffler shop and asked what they  
could come up with that would fit. They guy behind the counter didn't  
have anything there at the shop, but he said he should have something  
suitable at his other location in West Hill, and for me to call at 5PM.

So I called at 5, and he gave me directions. It turns out the shop is  
at his home garage, where he does custom motorcycle work. He does a  
bit of digging in the back and comes out with a pair of Genuine  
Original Harley Davidson motorcycle mufflers... heavily chromed and   
the perfect diameter to slip neatly onto the manifolds. They are  
pretty much brand new... Most HD owners ditch the stock pipes for  
something louder the minute they get the bike home from the dealer.  
He names a price too good to pass up and I come back in an hour to  
pick up the finished product:

http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia/HDMufflers.JPG
(lots of smudges in the pic, but the chrome is fine)

I installed them on Wednesday night, along with a rebuilt alternator.  
(Ararat Automotive in Scarborough did a great job and turned it  
around in less than a week.) One pipe sticks out about 1.5" further  
than the other, so I will get another set made with both pipes made  
short and swap out one pipe so we wind up with a second pair that  
will be perfect to install on Franklin, Dad's baja project.

The pipes aren't a lot quieter than a leaking VW muffler, but they  
have a much better tone to them... You might think it was a a bike if  
you closed your eyes at low idle. Engine temps are down 50 degrees,  
probably due to the fact that the heat is ducted further away from  
the intakes with these pipes than with the stock heater boxes and  
muffler. It's also gotta be at least 50 lbs lighter than stock.

Cabin heat will also be down because there are no heat exchangers any  
more... I will definitely have to get a gas heater running by Fall.


Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.busesofthecorn.com
