From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "Walk-Thru KO" <wko(-at-)iname.com>
Cc: "vintagebus vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 30 Oct 2003 09:54:07 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] Electric Heat?

----- Original Message -----

> I am thinking of trying a mini ceramic electric heater in my bus this
winter for supplemental heat. I have tried a 12 V electric heater like this
before and I ruined my generator due to the heater overloading it!

I personally feel electric heat is a bad idea, it is very inefficient. Lets
say the heat from a hairdryer is 1200 watts. That's about the equivelant of
22 stock headlights on high beam. That's a whole lot of draw on the
electrical system for that little heat. Then figure if you have to drive at
night with the headlights on, with the wipers on. It just isn't meant to be.

A huge difference in heat can be made if you insulate behind all the
interior panels. When I did this last winter, the stock heater would keep it
warm inside while driving on the highway at night in 25 degree weather.
Driving around town, it was still pretty cold. But still better. I think I
spent $9 for insulation at Home Depot, and was more than enough for the
whole bus. Plastic for a vapor barrier is cheap too. I also wrapped another
layer of insulation over the heater tube underneath the bus to help with
heat loss from that. I'm still not keen on pulling down the headliner and
insulating up there, because headliners SUCK to install and look perfect. I
have the headliner. I've had it for two years now. I just don't even want to
go there right now.  :-)  I'm sure it would make a pretty big difference
though. The stock insulation isn't super great.

I would recommend, if you drive your bus in really cold weather, buy an
el-cheapo beat up southwind gas heater and get it working. It only takes
labor to get it torn apart, and cleaned up. Someone provided a link to
someone selling parts for them, and the prices from what I could tell, were
very reasonable. Ductwork can be time consuming depending on how/where you
mount it. 20,000 BTU's with a 9 amp draw is tough to beat. It was 32 degrees
this morning, and my bus was almost hot inside after the heater was on for
about 10 minutes.

Eric Allred
64 Bus
