Date: Fri, 31 Aug 2001 08:35:47 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: "Fitch, Dustin" <Dustin.Fitch(-at-)TheMentorNetwork.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Front Axle/Engine Seal Bonanza

At 09:19 AM 08/31/2001 -0400, you wrote:
>
>y'll might be able to help me with....am I really going to need the tool
>shown in the Bently to "press out" the drag link?  I've got a pretty good
>set of tools ready to roll but I'm wondering if I really really need
>anything "special", or should know anything particularly special that would
>get me thru this a little easier over the   two  days I have to complete
>this work. 

A quality two arm puller will do, along with several minutes of tapping
with a 3oz hammer (not hammering with a five pounder) to loosed the
intimate bond of the taper with tiny sharp frequencies, then perhaps heat
from a propane torch and one sharp rap with a 3 pound hammer. 

You definately cannot use Chinese pullers. Give those to your enemies if
you want to be cruel.

>  Do I really need the pressing tools to
>press in the two seals? 

With great skill, the flywheel seal can be sometimes pressed in with the
thumbs. The pulley seal needs the special tool or a workable substitute.
Buy three for that end if you attempt it without the tool. If you ruin the
first two trying to hammer it in with a pipe manually, then get the tool
and install the last one saved for that purpose. 

 Do I really need the "flyewheel dog doohicky" to
>hold flywheel steady during removal of the bolts? 

You can use a big screwdriver near a lower bolt held between two teeth on
the ring gear to loosen the bolts on the T-IV flywheel. A bit difficult to
do without a third hand, but possible in light of the mother of invention.
You can also drill a piece of angle iron to fit two adjacent clutch bolt
holes and bolt that to the flywheel for leverage.

 I imagine that I should
>have the "puller" to pull the fan hub off to get to the crankshaft seal on
>the fan end.., right?....

You can duplicate the fuction of the tool with high grade steel plate cut
to size and standard 5 grade metric bolts. You need something for the ends
of the bolts to bear against so they won't damage the case. Several minutes
of tapping with the peanut hammer works as well to break the taper bond here. 


T.P. Stephens
Doktor Tim's

