From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>, "Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail)"
Date: Mon, 19 Aug 2002 08:56:21 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] Pulling RGB bearings

  2 things you can do. 1 is to get some long bolts that will fit in the rgb
bearing cover with a 2 bolt puller and pull the whole rgb cover off with the
bearing, or rent (borrow) my expensive bearing puller (shipping to and fro
would cost more then 2 bolts). If you are going to replace all the bearings
anyway the first method is the way I would go.

ronnie

-----Original Message-----
From: Adrian Pillow [mailto:Apillow(-at-)manh.com]
Sent: Monday, August 19, 2002 8:40 AM
To: Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail); Dave Easterwood (E-mail 2)
Subject: [VB] Pulling RGB bearings


Hi Everyone,

Well it was a great weekend overall!  My daughter Susan (16 months old) and
I went to SC and got a small nut rear end from a really cool VW dude.  He
had a very nice collection and knows his stuff to restore them right.  He
has a big project '59 double cab, and I wish him the best luck on that one.
A '67 doormobile and a nice '67 Westi.  Loads of other random busses as well
and a oval beetle being restored for the wife.

So to make a long story short we made it home and Sunday I started pulling
the tranny apart.. Well trying to.  It seems that I need a long bearing
puller to get the lower ball bearing out before the RGB outer cover will
pull off.  Right now I can get it about 1/4" but then it stops cold, and I
refuse to pound or pry on it and break it.

The Bentley has these very nice pullers shown in the book... But of course
those are not available to normal folks.  So what do you all use to pull out
the ball bearings?  

The tranny is serious toast with metal frags falling out the oil drain :(
But the RGB bearings look perfect (need closer inspection of course) and I
would hopefully like to reuse them if possible..?  Maybe the bearing puller
destroys them for all I know.

Thanks,
Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Microbus Westfalia "Biscuit"
1967 VW Microbus Standard/Westfakia "Dino" - For Sale
1979 Porsche 911 SC "Cochese" - For Sale 


   


