Date: Sat, 22 Nov 2003 07:35:42 -0500 (EST)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: Tom and Thanh <tom.loan(-at-)rogers.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] CV Bolts

I am sorry to take so long answering this.  I've been a bit busy
elsewhere.

On Tue, 18 Nov 2003, Tom and Thanh wrote:

>  I recently removed my axles. The CV's were fine but no doubt could use new
> grease and boots. What do you think of the rebuilt axles out there for
> reasonable prices?

I have no experience as I have never used them.  Many CVs are rebuildable
without replacement. The remanufacturer is probably counting on this as a
profit center.  How much are these rebuilt units?  If it is less than $120
then they are not buying new CVs.  Your choice depends on your willingness
to trade getting greasy for money.

> I think there's somewhere that regrinds the CV joints and puts in
> oversize balls, greases them, puts in new bolts, and you basically
> just bolt the axles on right out of the box.

If this is truly what they are doing I would run away fast.  Manufacture
of the balls and races is a high precision operation and after broaching
and polishing they are hardened.  Regrinding the races would remove the
hardened layer and the resultant CV would not last for any length of time
at all.  You may have seen different diameters of bearings in different
CVs but this is not regrinding. Different manufacturers use different
sizes of bearings which is why you cannot interchange parts of different
CVs.

> I've read a couple of posts from people that've said they were pretty
> much trouble free. Would you recommend this, or should I source the
> new boot kits and regrease my used and partially worn joints? I would
> wonder if the new axles that are out there use Brazilian joints, in
> place of my original German ones?

Remove and clean your current CVs.  Are they burnt?  pitted?  If not, I
would regrease and reuse (for my personal bus).  If they are pitted or
burnt then they need replacing.  Use the CVs you can afford...  German,
Spanish, or Brazillian.  If you wind up after cleaning with two dead CVs
and are in a betting mood then stick them both on one half shaft and
exchange it for one "rebuilt axle."  After you have had it for a while
report your experience.

> Second question- I read a post on here a couple of years ago where VW had a
> service bulletin advising to omit the lock washers and up the torque on the
> CV bolts to 28 ft/lbs. Comments?

I am not familiar with that advice. VW still sells the lock washers and
the boot kits I see have them.  I use them and would recommend that you do
as well.

> Third- My original CV bolts came out clean, no stripped heads. Could I reuse
> them or should I replace them on general principles?

You can reuse the bolts without problem.  You can reuse the washers most
times but sometimes they will slip.  If you are willing to recheck them
every once in a while, that is not a problem.  If you want 30,000 miles
between services then use new washers.

This is whole topic is a matter of playing the odds.  With brakes I will
NOT shortcut because failed brakes can kill you.  A failed CV will not
kill you and thus risks can be taken.  Can that dodgy CV be regreased?
Sure, if you are willing to pack a long a spare!  Can those washers be
reused?  Sure, if you don't mind retorquing by times!  Even the 8.8 bolts
can be used for a while.  Just understand that you are betting and what
the costs and benefits are.  I am not at all religious on CVs and regard
it as a safe place to experiment if you have the time.

                             OOK!

Litera Scripta Manent
