Date: Sat, 22 Nov 2003 08:47:23 -0500 (EST)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: Michael Knight <vwdormer(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] ECU :What is the Difference?

On Thu, 20 Nov 2003, Michael Knight wrote:

> So here is my senario. I have a '77 Westfalia Deluxe, AUTOMATIC TRANS. I
> want to replace the aftermarket carb. with FI. In regards to year and type
> of transmission how compatible are the different year/transmission types. I
> am looking at a system from a '78 with a manual tranny.
>
> Questions:
> 1. Will this FI system work on my bus?

yes

> 2. Will the majority of it work, minus the ECU?

no, all FI systems require the presence of an ECU :-)

I think you mean to ask if the majority can be used with a different ECU
and you should read on to see that the answer may still be no.

> 3. Am I just going about it the wrong way and should stick to finding the
> exact year and type tranny?

no

Any complete VW L-jet FI system will run any stock volkswagen engine of
the correct displacement.  The system off the 1800cc 1975 will run lean on
a 2L but other than that any complete system will work.  The problem comes
when you begin to mix-n-match parts from various years.  Some will run and
some will not.  Most notably in the early vanagon systems but in all years
there were differences. Some of the double relays has different numbers of
pins and different pinouts.  Some of them had the resistor packs for the
injectors built into the ECU.  Some did and some did not have provision
for an O2 sensor. Some had and some did not have full-throttle enrichment
switches.

All in all if you transplant a complete FI system with all parts from a
single year then your engine will run.  It may not run as efficiently as
it ought but it will run.  The auto and manual transmission differences
were minor and there is no connection to the transmission so it ought to
work.  If you mix-n-match then you are on your own in a potential mine
field.  It may work.  Many combinations will.  It may also not.

As a final note to show how complex this subject can get...  the fan that
sits over the engine?  On a 1978 that fan is part of the wiring for the FI
system and you will need it. For some drug-induced reason volkswagen ran
part of the FI wiring circuits thru the plug in the back of the fan.

                             OOK!

Litera Scripta Manent
