Date: Sun, 23 Nov 2003 13:18:09 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: ncbus <macbus(-at-)mindspring.com>
Subject: 1968 Camper for sale in NC.

1968 VW bus/camper for sale in North Carolina. See link below for pics.

http://www.mindspring.com/~macbus/fs68bus/

Have the best of both worlds : 5 passenger seating with all the fun 
and  flexibility of a camper! This 1968 bus was purchased at the VW 
dealership in Frankfurt West Germany in 1968 by an American tourist. 
After a tour of Europe the bus was shipped to Long Beach, CA and 
converted into a Camper by Adventurewagon.

Current condition

Body Electrical
None of the usual bus nonsense - everything works!  I have gone 
through everything and fixed it properly. The turn signals, emergency 
flashers, parking lights, brake lights, back up lights, headlights 
and high beams all function correctly. The dash lights, gen light, 
oil pressure light, highbeam lights, turnsignal lights and fuel gauge 
are in good working order! Sony AM/FM/CD player installed with 
speakers in stock dash location and wiring run to the rear for 
speakers.

Interior Driving/Camping
The stock rear VW seat has been retained and is in good condition. 3 
sets of VW rear seat belts are installed. The front seats are stock 
68 bus and are usable but will need recovering in the future. 
Mounting points for middle seat and seat belt anchor points are 
intact if you want to add more seating capacity. New Birch paneling 
has been installed recently and looks very nice! The stock headliner 
in fair condition. The floors have been treated with POR 15 in areas 
where there was surface rust.

The stack rear seat quickly folds forward to allow a very comfortable 
camping bed to be easily deployed.  The bed is full width and has 
almost new 4" foam. This bed is much more comfortable than any 
Westfalia bed I have ever slept in! Also included is a Westfalia 
child's cot over the front seats. this also deploys quickly and makes 
a great place for the kids to sleep as well as store gear in the bus 
while you are camped.

The bus has a fused 110V outlet as well as additional camping lights 
in the bus. A full set of curtains was custom made 18 months ago and 
they hang from Westfalia curtain rails.

Because the sink and stove were done away with there is more room in 
the bus for people and gear. In fact the set up makes the bus ideal 
for weekend runs to the home center for lumber, plants, yard 
equipment etc.

Motor and transmission
The motor is a 1600 single port dual relief unit and that was  built 
about 2 years ago and has less than 5000 miles on it. The motor was 
built from scratch using a new AS41 case, all German internals, new 
single port heads, doghouse oil cooler, stock German tin, and correct 
German bus exhaust system. The carb is a new 30 PICT and the 
distributor is a stock 205 vac advance unit. Included are a spare 205 
and a 009. VDO oil pressure and temperature senders and gauges are 
installed.

The transmission is a stock unit. The shift rod bushing and coupler 
were replaced about 2 years ago. The transmission shifts well and 
does not pop out of gear. Current gear oil is Redline MT90. All four 
CV joints were replaced 3 years ago and are in good condition.

Wheels, tires and brakes.
The wheels are stock VW wide fives that were blasted and painted 
about three years ago. The tires are Yokohama Y356 14R185 load range 
D and have less than 10,000 miles on them. The spare is a matching 
Y356 that has never seen the pavement. The brake system was redone in 
2001 including the master cylinder, all wheel cylinders, metal and 
flexible brake lines and the drums were turned.

Body,

There is some old damage to the right rear corner that shows. 
Otherwise the bus is fairly straight. The rockers, doglegs, frame, 
crossmembers, outriggers and jack points are solid and straight. The 
floors have already been treated for surface rust and are in good 
order.

The bus sat for a few years the mid 90s. There is some rust in around 
the belt-line rain gutter. I suspect this is from sitting under a 
tree and collecting leaves and pine needles.

The fiberglass high top is in good shape. It was removed about three 
years ago and rebedded with 3M 5200 marine sealant and fastened with 
stainless steel screws. The crank windows in the top are really nice 
for camping as well as a top vent. There are no leaks in the top!

Overall this is a great bus! Fun to camp in and really useful as a 
daily driver or weekend work vehicle.
