Date: Sun, 23 Nov 2003 14:05:49 -0700
From: Tom <turtlebus(-at-)netzero.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: help with fasteners, installing westy back seat

Never trust the tech manual! Always double check everything before 
cutting or drilling! Leave the line on the piece you keep! Measure twice 
cut once! My metal and wood shop teachers are back to haunt me.

I'm installing a back seat/bed out of a 70 westy in my 75 bus, or at 
least trying to. There are 4 countersunk phillips head bolts on the 
rearmost brackets of the seat. these brackets are bolted to the top of 
the engine compartment. of the donor 70 westy had nuts welded inside the 
gas tank compartment so the bolts could be removed from the brackets and 
the nuts would stay put. I thought a suitable substitute would be some 
hardware named threadsert. These are little nut devices that work 
similar to pop rivets. drill a hole, insert the threadsert, tighten a 
bolt/washer into the threadsert and the device gets shorter and fatter 
to bind it in the hole. Great little device for when you cant get to the 
other side of the sheet metal.

The trouble is when I bought them from Copperstate Fasteners I asked 
what size hole was needed for the 1/4-20 threadsert. The counterman said 
lets see what the manufacturer specs. He looked it up in his manual and 
said, "25/64 is what the book says!" I even bought the drill bit from 
him so the job would go smooth and quick. After positioning the seat and 
marking the locations for the 4 holes, I drilled all 4 holes Dropped the 
threadserts in and started tightening the first one. Or should I say, 
Tried to tighten them. Turns out the hole is slightly too big! *&%#$%&! 
The threadsert does not fall through the hole, The lip is large enough 
to keep it in the hole but immediately underneath the lip is a knurled 
area that is supposed to bite into the sides of the hole to prevent the 
device from turning while you tighten it. It cant bite into the metal. I 
think small problem, I'll open the lid to get into the gas tank 
compartment and hold the threadsert with some pliers. Removed 6 screws 
inside the engine compartment and 2 from under the bus. After lots of 
pulling and cussing i got the bottom of the lid to let go. The top of 
the lid will not pull down enough to get past the lip that holds it in 
place along the top. Too much stuff in the way. After about 2 hours of 
frustration I stopped before my temper got out of hand and I did 
something more stupid than drilling without measuring.

Does anyone out there have any ideas to resolve my predicament? I don't 
want to have to open the gas tank compartment any time I want to unbolt 
the seat. I'm going to have to remove it later for reupholster it. The 
next size larger threadsert is larger than I would like to use. Don't 
know if the gas tank compartment lid can be removed without removing the 
engine. Engine was out when this cover was last removed.

Frustratedly yours,
Tom
