Date: Sun, 23 Nov 2003 16:52:08 -0500
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <Doyt(-at-)NWOnline.Net>
Subject: Starting problems-76 2 liter

PROBLEM: Engine won't start. I get one of two scenarios: (1) Turn key to 
position one = red battery light, fuel gauge displays correct fuel level; 
turn key to crank, get single click....or, (2) "nothing" at any key position.

BACKGROUND:I have the original 2 liter FI engine in my 76 Westy, owned 
since new. The engine has about 500 miles on it since a very thorough 
overhaul by an experienced mechanic, and a final adjustment by Bill at Der 
Wagonworks in Lorain, Ohio.

Bill had the engine humming like new, so I chanced a trial run to a city 60 
miles away, just to check the reliability of everything.

It ran flawlessly to the city in about an hour, started after a brief 
layover, and on the way home the following peculiarities appeared:

On the highway at about 60 miles an hour, suddenly some red lights came on, 
indicating a battery problem. At the same time, the fuel gauge fell to zero 
from about 1/3 tank.....instantly.  I had the headlights on, and I shut 
them off at once, thinking I had thrown an alternator belt and would have 
to run on home on the battery.  Engine still humming along flawlessly.

I ran that way for about 30 minutes, hoping it would last until I got in 
the driveway.

Then, the battery light went out and the fuel gauge came back up.  OK, my 
silent prayers had been answered and the assumed-thrown alternator belt had 
fixed itself by some miracle. I had no intention of stopping to find 
out....bus was still running fine and I kept going until I landed in my 
home driveway.  No red lights, fuel gauge working.

So, I shut it down and ate supper and had a good nights sleep.

Next day, tried to start the bus and got a single click, then nothing. I 
should mention that it had a new starter as part of the overhaul. And the 
battery is an Interstate, about a year old.

Suspecting a low battery, I put a charger on the battery, and the charger 
showed the battery wasn't charging at a setting of 40 amps. I put a volt 
meter on the battery and got a reading of 12.75 volts.  I checked the 
electrolyte levels and all the plates were covered by electrolyte. Looked 
like a good, fully charged battery. I took off the battery connectors and 
verified that they were clean and tight.

I went over all the wires that I could see and touch, looking for loose 
connections. Found a few questionable connectors and replaced them. Then I 
tried to start the engine again.

This time, turning on the key to position one didn't get a typical red 
battery warning light, and the fuel gauge didn't move from zero. Usually, 
the battery warning light goes red to show that the light is working. 
Something wrong here. Maybe bad ignition switch.

I tried it a few more times and got the same result. Then, I let it sit for 
about 10 minutes and tried it again. This time, at position one, the red 
warning light came on and the fuel gauge came on. I turned the key to kick 
over the starter and got a single metallic click from somewhere toward the 
rear of the vehicle. I switched off the key (to lock) and repeated the 
testing process.  Nothing....no red light, no fuel gauge, no click.

To summarize, I tried starting the engine a few more times, and got one of 
two scenarios: Red light, fuel gauge up, starter click....or, nothing. 
Waiting for 10 minutes between trials did change the result.

I do have a Bentley, but I don't read the electrical diagrams with much 
confidence. I'm following starter troubleshoot on page 9 of electrical 
systems, "Problem 1- test and probable cause."

Bentley sez connect a jumper between starter terminals 30 and 50 and se if 
starter runs.  Are those the two main threaded connection bolts on the 
starter?
Do I just push a screwdriver blade up there between the two threaded 
terminals, with the gears in neutral and the ignition off?

What next, if the starter kicks over?     (Bentley sez "   if starter kicks 
over, cable 50 to ignition switch or cable 30 to lighting switch is faulty, 
or ignition switch is defective."   Where are cables 50 and 30?  How do I 
tell if it is a faulty ignition switch?  If the switch is bad, I think I 
better tow it to Wagonworks and let Ill replace it.  If some wires are bad, 
or connections are bad, I want to try to fix those myself.

I suspect the electricals in the ignition switch.   Please, help me out 
with some suggestions, if you have time.

Doyt Echelberger
Huron, Ohio, USA 
