Date: Tue, 18 Jun 2002 01:12:26 -0400
Cc: "Eric W. Bradway" <eric(-at-)bradway.net>,
To: Access Systems <accessys(-at-)smart.net>
From: Tom Tarka <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Tennessee to Vermont in July


On Friday, June 14, 2002, at 12:43  AM, Access Systems wrote:

> On Fri, 14 Jun 2002, Eric W. Bradway wrote:
>
>
>> Any recommendations on routes through Maryland, Pennsylvania, NJ, NY? 
>> I'll
>> be staying with family in Massachusetts and friends in Burlington. I'd 
>> love
>
> come up US 15 Va/MD/into PA spend the night in Harrisburg area, Follow 
> 11
> out of Harrisburg up the Susquehanna river to Mifflinville, jump onto 
> I-80
> east for about 30 miles to rt 93 South to Hazelton, Near Jim Thorpe PA
> grab US 209 North through the Delaware Water Gap into New York.

I used to take US 209 on my way home from University to avoid holiday 
traffic.  It's a great route with lots of places to stop and enjoy the 
scenery.

After the 209 brings you into New York state, you can do a number of 
things.  If you want to speed things up a bit and get on the interstate, 
you can jump on I-84 east for 50 or so miles, then hop on the Taconic 
State Parkway (just east of the NY Thruway) and head North on the TSP 
for 50 or so miles until you hit route 23 headed into Massachusetts.  
The 23 goes straight through Great Barrington (a neat little town) and 
then meanders through the Berkshires for 20 or 30 miles before linking 
you up with the Mass Pike (should you choose to hop back on the 
Interstate) or whichever.  This is the route I took last Friday on my 
way from Pittsburgh (ish) to Boston.  The TSP is always a beautiful 
drive, but it also moves along at 55-75 mph.   With more time on your 
hands, you might want to take the 209 all the way to the 23 in NY (a 
cursor look at mapquest shows them meeting up) and/or take a more 
northernly route across massachusetts.

For what it's worth, route 7 in western connecticut is a nice drive 
north through that state and into massachusetts and may be worthwhile, 
although at times it's less scenic as it passes through every town 
center in SW Mass (or it seems like it does).  In general, if you're 
crossing Massachusetts from the western border, I've found that any 
non-interstate route across the western and central areas of the state, 
especially veering a bit north in the central region, will result in a 
beautiful drive.  It's basically "pick a road and go".

Neat towns you might check out:

New Paltz, NY:  home of the Shawangunks (great rock climbing, hiking and 
biking) has some non-				metered campsites (read: dirt 
roads people camp on) and is about an hour north
				of Newburgh, NY and I-84

Amherst, MA:  classic college town, neat to walk around, get a good bite 
of food or look for used books

New Hope, PA/Lambertville, NJ:  woodsy/artsy town just across the river 
from a slightly more refined 			town of great restaurants and 
galleries, it's about an hour (?) north of Philadelphia and
			a wonderful drive

Kent Falls, CT:  somewhat interesting waterfalls in Northern CT on route 
7.  Last I remember there's no
			swimming though...


etc.  some of these regions will experience holiday traffic, but I'm not 
familiar enough to give any more insight on where and when that may or 
may not occur.

hope this helps,
	tom
	71 bus
	1400 miles last week, 1500 this week (if I get off my butt and go 
to bonaroo -- anyone need a ride 									or want to carpool?)

