Date: Mon, 17 Jun 2002 22:19:31 -0700 (PDT)
From: Mike Charnoky <noky(-at-)nextbus.com>
To: type2 VW mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: 1st time head replacement

Hi All,

Well, after a crazy year and the birth of my first child (it's a girl!),
I've finally managed to find some time to replace the head in my ailing
'79 Westy.  I've been reading through everything I can get my hands on,
including list archives, but it has been hard searching all the old posts.
Although I feel comfortable doing the job, this will be the first time
I've pulled the engine to do this kind of work and the entire path is not
clear yet...

Basically, the story is this: #3 intake valve seat is collapsed and now
ol' Dandy needs a new head.  The folks at Griffin Motorwerks here in Berkeley
recommended that that I replace BOTH the heads (using new ones from AMC -
$$$), install a Melling oil pump, put in new lifters, and replace pistons
and cylinders.  Now, I don't want to do a half-ass job and am not afraid
to spend a little extra money to make my engine last...  Still, I don't
want this project to drag on for more than a month.

So it all boils down to: how much should I do and what parts do I really
need to get?  I realize there is no right answer and there is a wide
spectrum of what I COULD do here.  Some specifics: Does it help to replace
BOTH heads at the same time?  (I'm reading 110 PSI compression for all
except #3, where compression is 0.)  How do I tell a quality head?  A
nearby FLAPS in Albany (Small Car World) has Brazillian heads for $140,
Bus Depot sells heads for $190, and I'm told that new AMC's will run about
$450 each!  What should I be looking for?  Also, do I need to replace all
the valves, or does a rebuilt head already have new ones installed?

As for pistons and cylinders, how do I tell if these need replacing?  Is
it worth getting new ones?  Can they be remachined?

Any last words of advice?  I plan to replace all the fuel lines (I've
learned at least that much from the list) and check the clutch plate for
wear while I'm at it.

Thank you all!  While I've done a lot of work on this bus (including
removing the gas tank while on the road to remove gunk obstructing the
fuel line), this is by far the most ambitious thing I've ever done.  My
wife, daughter, stepson, and I are looking forward to some Westycampin'
really soon!


noky


