From: "Vanagon man" <vgonman(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Mike Charnoky" <noky(-at-)nextbus.com>,
Date: Tue, 18 Jun 2002 07:14:34 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] 1st time head replacement





.  The folks at Griffin Motorwerks here in Berkeley
> recommended that that I replace BOTH the heads (using new ones from AMC -

Good idea, but buy the heads from Boston Bob.  www.motorworks.com they may
cost you a little more, but you do not want to do this job again.  He does
extra work to new heads to ensure the seats don't collapse.  Call him the
number is on the website.

> $$$), install a Melling oil pump


Questionable.  If you really, really wanted to upgradee from the stock
pump( although the stock one works fine) i would use a blue printed 30mm
pump from either aircooled.net or gene berg.


, put in new lifters, and replace pistons
> and cylinders.


Now here is some more shaky advice.  You are getting to the point here where
the sum of the parts is getting up there probably around $1000 at your
costs.  For another $1000, you can have a quality rebuild from the likes of
Boston Bob or AVP.  This will ensure that your internal tolerances are
correct.  But, if money is tight and you need to avoid using the plastic,
here is what i would do.

New pistons and cylinders.  Rebuilt rods from boston bob....be sure the big
ends are done.........new rod bearings.  Check endplay before you do
anything during the teardown...........that would give you a fairly good
indicator of what your main bearings are all about.

I would tend to lean away from the new lifters on an old cam.  Once you pull
the old lifters, use an egg carton to keep them marked ewhere they came out
of.  shine a light down the lifter bores and see what the cam lobes look
like.  Lots of times you will see serious wear, and if this is the case, it
would be foolish not to split the case and install a new cam. Also, be sure
you use the correct barrell shims and NO head gaskets per the vw tech
article in the early 90's ( i have a link to it if you need)

I hope you are up to the task.  If you do not feel you are or have a lack
the precision tools (torque wrench, micrometers, etc) let the PROS do it
like Boston Bob. Not to put down your local shop guys, but they gave you
some shaky advice, and that tells alot about the way they would do an
engine.............no doubt you could do as well or better than them.

You can buy the bug-me video on rebuilding the type 4 engine....Jake Raby
does the work in it.and since you are in California, you have access to good
machine shops..........Why not split the case and do it all?  It is
surprisingly simple in there.  Once you have all the parts and the machine
work done, You could easily do the rebuild in a few nights.....really taking
your time to check and double check.  You could even have the machine shop
balance the internals of the motor to make you have an even smoother ride.

Adam P
81  Westy "The Brick "
70 Single Cab "Whitey"
74 Beetle "Ol Yeller"
73 Transporter (STILL at paint shop)
1988 Vanagon Wolfsburg
75 Campmobile "for sale'
Used Vanagon Parts for sale (mostly aircooled)

