Date: Tue, 18 Jun 2002 07:31:38 -0400
To: Mike Charnoky <noky(-at-)nextbus.com>
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <Doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re:1st time head replacement 

Date: Mon, 17 Jun 2002 22:19:31 -0700 (PDT) Mike Charnoky wrote:

Hi All,
Well, after a crazy year and the birth of my first child (it's a girl!),
I've finally managed to find some time to replace the head in my ailing
'79 Westy. I've been reading through everything I can get my hands on,
including list archives, but it has been hard searching all the old posts.
Although I feel comfortable doing the job, this will be the first time
I've pulled the engine to do this kind of work and the entire path is not
clear yet...
Basically, the story is this: #3 intake valve seat is collapsed and now
ol' Dandy needs a new head. The folks at Griffin Motorwerks here in Berkeley
recommended that that I replace BOTH the heads (using new ones from AMC -
$$$), install a Melling oil pump, put in new lifters, and replace pistons
and cylinders. Now, I don't want to do a half-ass job and am not afraid
to spend a little extra money to make my engine last... Still, I don't
want this project to drag on for more than a month.
So it all boils down to: how much should I do and what parts do I really
need to get? I realize there is no right answer and there is a wide
spectrum of what I COULD do here. Some specifics: Does it help to replace
BOTH heads at the same time? (I'm reading 110 PSI compression for all
except #3, where compression is 0.) How do I tell a quality head? A
nearby FLAPS in Albany (Small Car World) has Brazillian heads for $140,
Bus Depot sells heads for $190, and I'm told that new AMC's will run about
$450 each! What should I be looking for? Also, do I need to replace all
the valves, or does a rebuilt head already have new ones installed?
As for pistons and cylinders, how do I tell if these need replacing? Is
it worth getting new ones? Can they be remachined?
Any last words of advice? I plan to replace all the fuel lines (I've
learned at least that much from the list) and check the clutch plate for
wear while I'm at it.
Thank you all! While I've done a lot of work on this bus (including
removing the gas tank while on the road to remove gunk obstructing the
fuel line), this is by far the most ambitious thing I've ever done. My
wife, daughter, stepson, and I are looking forward to some Westycampin'
really soon!
noky
 >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
I started rebuilding the 2 liter engine on my 76 Westy three years ago. I 
faced the same issues and made some serious mistakes that kept my bus on 
ice for 3 years. It may get running this week.

I had an experienced VW mechanic pull the engine, and I then transported 
the engine to an equally qualified rebuilder in a nearby city. He took it 
apart and used a micrometer to measure wear on the parts that you are 
questioning. After the evaluation on his bench, we decided to replace the 
cylinders and the pistons, because the cylinders were out of round and 
couldn't be honed back to specifications. Same general answer for pistons. 
We kept the rods and crank and replaced all the bearings and the cam shaft 
(it was scored badly.) Tjese were not mistakes.

I elected that he rebuild my heads, because MY heads were in excellent 
shape compared to the VAST majority of heads available on the rebuilt 
market, many of which have been recycled several times and contain welds 
and cracks between valve openings. Using my own heads was a good idea.

With the engine apart and at the shop, I cleaned up and repainted all the 
tin, and did the same for the engine compartment. I washed everything with 
kerosene first, including parts of the fuel injection system. Some of the 
stuff was very greasy on the outside.  This was a big mistake. Keep the 
fuel injection components in a clean box and don't change them in any way 
if your engine runs good before taking it apart.

Do the tin cleanup somewhere else, and the fuel injection components in a 
different place.

Be really careful in removing all the vacuum hoses and all the electrical 
connections as you take out your engine. Don't damage them, and evaluate if 
they are deteriorated or if they can be reused. TAKE PICTURES of everything 
before you dismantle or remove anything.....an put LABELS/TAGS on every 
wire and every hose and every component. Take LOTS of pictures, from every 
angle. This isn't a simple system. and when you go to put it back together, 
you will be very thankful for EVERY photo. This was my big mistake and my 
big oversight. The engine was out of the bus longer than I expected, 
waiting for parts and waiting for them to get it back together. I didn't 
personally know about most of the relationships of the many components. I 
had hired a VW mechanic to take my engine apart, and I expected him to know 
how to put it back together.

It didn't go that way. He moved to another state, and another mechanic had 
to put the engine back in the bus.  He knew less about doing that than the 
original mechanic. And nothing was labelled. Just a bunch of boxes of 
parts.....clean repainted tin that was a mystery about where it went. Lots 
of components, all pretty unusual and strange to a guy who mostly did 
watercooled engine repairs. PICTURES and LABELS would have been invaluable, 
priceless.

It is three years later, and I'm still struggling with what I missed out on 
buy employing experts to take my bus engine apart for rebuilding.

But I am learning....slowly, and making daily progress, with incredible 
amounts of help from a big crowd of fine people on this list.

I'd advise you to keep a journal, and to take lots of pictures, and make 
more labels than you think you will need. Get a Bentley for you vehicle, 
and study it, and learn everything you can about your bus. You are probably 
going to become its best mechanic. And talk to everyone who will listen 
about how they solved similar problems. There is a VAST amount of 
information out here.

And that's my story. It is still being written and will be different tomorrow.

Doyt Echelberger
76 Westy in Ohio, USA


