From: "John Connolly" <john(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: <safetybike(-at-)yahoo.com>,
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 19 Nov 2001 10:36:11 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] New Pistons ?

Higher compression does NOT necessarily increase engine temps. Compression
must be matched to the cam duration, which for most of the guys on this list
are stockish busses, which means no more than 7.5:1 IMO. However, I have
built many engines where 8:1 was too low, and it resulted in HOT running
engines (experience). Moving compression up to 9, 10, and even 11:1 cooled
the engine down.

I get a LOT of flak for these statments, since it is contrary to the "Blue
Book". However, basic thermodynamics (Thermo I) shows that you are
converting energy into mechanical motion. The more we convert, the less
leftover heat we have. After all, how much compression does a furnace have?
Does it run cool? Why not?

Increasing compression LOWERS engine temps, PROVIDED (this is almost never
followed) that you optimize the ignition timing. Some of our engines run 20
degrees FULL advance, and run quite cool (less negative work with less
advance). One more thing; increasing compression brings you closer to
detonation, and once you get there, parts break FAST, so it's not a free
lunch.

I just wanted to point out that low compression ain't a cure-all, not by a
long shot. If you want an inefficient engine that runs HOT and is difficult
to tune, with low power, build a 6.5:1 semi hemi engine and there ya' go.
You have to run 38 degrees of timing so it gets out of it's own way. :-)

The engine is a combination of components, and one change often requires
changes elsewhere. "low compression" doesn't necessarily give you a cool
running engine.

FWIW, we are in the midst of designing pistons (high swirl) that should
allow 12-13:1 on pump gas aspirated, and 11:1 with forced induction. These
are designed to squeeze more mechanical energy out of combustion, which
lowers EGTs, engine temps, and exhaust noise (no combustion in exhaust
system) to a whisper.

John
Aircooled.Net Inc.

