Date: Mon, 7 Apr 2008 02:36:33 -0700
From: "Nikki Elko" <nix5149(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Wendelin's new chapter

I never could get confident with her, she'd bring me right down a few
notches. I recall happily composing in my head my first ever trip report
when a deer landed between my headlights.

When I bought Wendelin in 1999, I paid $2200 and was handed the keys. I had
to figure everything out on my own. The first thing I did was take her to
the local VW shop and spend $500 on having her gone over and brought up to
speed (VW joke, hah!). I think my first post was something like, "What's
that clicking noise when I turn on the key?" (The electric fuel pump.)

For the past few years, between my burgeoning cat population (I'm involved
in rescue now) and a mysterious ailment (turned out to be something called
fibromyalgia), she's sat, moving just enough to (mostly) keep the city of
L.A. from towing her. When I moved out to Banning to rent a house from my
mom, she got her own off-street gravel parking pad installed behind the
garage and has been started from time to time, but put out to pasture. In
the past couple of weeks, Mom has gone from supportive and caring (in cats
and VW buses) to demented mean old landlady who thinks the city is going to
write her a letter demanding cement instead of gravel (/sarcasm"oh the
shame"/end sarcasm), so Wendelin was ordered "out in 30 days."

I posted her on thesamba for $1500 and sold her in three days to a nice
young couple with two little kids in Bakersfield. I cleaned her out (sob),
gathered up all the spare parts from unfinished projects, took her to the
shop, and spent about $500 getting her roadworthy (including a new battery
and wiper blades). I drove her afterwards (sob) on Friday to show her to my
vet, who is coincidentally named Wendelin (ain't that a hoot? we also have
the same middle name, Rae). Benny picked her up early Sunday morning, and I
did a complete walk-around (with a list) showing him all her features,
idiosyncrasies, and what I'd dreamed of fixing up on her. Then I hit the
sack with a migraine.

Benny called from Pasadena to let me know that an ominous rattle and oil
around the dipstick had sidelined him. He's very cool about it--he said she
was cruising like a dream up till then--but I'm just devastated. I tried to
get everything right. Over to you, Steve, you get to bail her out of a tough
spot yet again!

Yep, a bus has a lifetime warranty be a bus. And she is quite the bus.

The funny thing is, everyone, from my best friend to my vet to the guy next
door's friend, urged me to renege: "Don't sell her! She's so cool!" Maybe
they knew something I didn't. LOL Well, the die is cast.

Nikki

P.S. I'm not completely busless. I have a step-bus, my boyfriend and former
mechanic's '59 Crew Cab. (He thinks Wendelin may have a stuck oil pressure
valve, but he's not anywhere near Pasadena.)

-- 
"No matter how much cats fight, there always seem to be plenty of kittens."
-- Abraham Lincoln
