From: Shad <shenderson(-at-)thegeekgroup.org>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 08 Apr 2008 08:55:40 -0400
Subject: It Lives!

Hi All,

  Well, Frau BlC<cher is back on the road.  Only get to drive it for a
week, then we're off on vacation to Jackson Hole, Wyoming.  No, we
aren't taking the bus.  Not on a fresh rebuild, and assuredly when it
has *no* heat....  Lows it the upper 20's/ low 30's is gonna be a shock
for this Florida boy who is used to lows in the 50's/60's.  Brrr...

I haven't completed the teardown of the old engine, but it was well on
it's way out.  Crank endplay was a joke (visible movement and "thunk" of
crank back & forth), half-assed work by the DPO, and the
crem-de-la-crem, I found a freakin' tinscrew in one of the sump plates.
Along with chunks of timing gear teeth, brass dizzy drive teeth, and
assorted shrapnel.  That explains the god-awful clattering when the
engine was running.

So I bought a dirty, dirty, filthy GE code engine and rebuilt it from
the ground up.  New bearings & seals throughout.  New cam, new lifters,
(oil pump was well within spec, believe it or not!).  Had the rods
checked & done.  Only things I re-used were my heads (from HeadFlow
Masters, about a year old), and my P&C.  New rings & retainers.  Because
I changed the cam, and went to big valve heads, I opted to go with dual
Kadrons instead of the stock EFI.  I'd like to try the megasquirt
system, but simply don't have time to tinker with it.

So far, the problems are not that bad.  I'm having difficulty getting a
consistent idle at ~1K RPM (it's closer to 1400-1600), and #3 piston has
low compression (~85 lbs) vs ~150-156 for the other 3.  I'm hoping that
the rings will seat in soon and that'll come up.  Otherwise, I'll have
to do a leak-down and possibly pull the head & jug on that cylinder.

I have a few minor oil leaks to address.  One is the sump plate by the
timing gear (my fault).  That'll wait for the next oil change.   The
other *seems* to be at the dipstick boot, though you all know how hard
it is to pinpoint a leak on these things.  That damn fan blows
everything everywhere in a real hurry. :)

I also need to clean the bus out.  There's the makings of almost an
entire engine in it now. Ran outta space in the garage while I was
working...

but above all, *WOOT!*  SHE RUNS!!! SHE DRIVES!!!   It's damn satisfying
to sit waay up there, sawing away at that big 'ole steering wheel as I
futz along holding up traffic and staring over the tops of all but the
largest SUV's.   Not to mention the thumbs ups, peace signs, and big
goofy grins when I roll up next to people at the red light.  Not even
the new Mini commands that sort of attention.  It took awhile to get her
rebuilt and running, but I took my time, was anal about the assembly and
fit of parts, and it's a good feeling to cruise down the road at 65mph
and barely be able to hear the engine over the road noise, vs the
previous engine, which OSHA would have sited me on for excessive noise
at any RPM greater than zero....

Now... time to wash, wax, and clean the bus!

Shad H.
