From: Type2Guy(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 22 Jan 2004 13:47:06 EST
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: BBB---Finally home! (long)

Howdy folks,

Well, we are finally home from an extended BBB trip.
Here is brief summary of the past few days.
Friday-
Met up with Matt&Katie and cruised out uneventfully.  Left at 930am (PST) and 
arrived at 330PM (PST).  Easy driving, mostly 65mph and a few stops.
Able to set up camp before sundown (sweet) and decide to hit In & Out Burger 
instead of waiting in line for tacos.  Good thing...they ran out..  Shoot the 
chit for a bit then hit the sack.  Pretty chilly....no heater but definitely a 
few blankets.
Saturday-
Circled the wagens..myself, Mike Alcorn, Ellis, Matt &Katie, and Lisa&Todd.  
Ended up being a sweet deal....or a lucky campsite....in the top 20 awards on 
Sunday Mike A's Sundial, Matt&Katie's DD, and Todd&Lisa's DC won an award!
Basically mulled about, catching up with old friends, meeting new faces and 
just enjoying some excellent weather. Had a great dinner with everyone.
A lot colder Sat.nite.....ran the propane heater for most of the night...nice 
and toasty.
Sunday-
Community breakfast....yum, then spent the rest of the day walking around, 
raffles, cleaning, packing and watching the kids play.  I think the kids had the 
most fun, the grass field kicks ass!
Finally packed up, said goodbyes and hit the road at about 1-2pm (PST).

Headed east on I-40 and made our ways to Flagstaff to visit the Fabulous Fu 
Familia....great drive.....passed up the ABQ caravan, then watched them pass by 
as we pit stopped in Seligman, AZ.
Made it to Ricky's just shy of nightfall and settled in for a few days.
Had fun with the family, saw the beautiful new Fu addition, and surprised by 
a bunch of snow.  Snowed from Monday afternoon until we left Weds.morning.
Had a great drive back, cruised the I-40 at mostly 70-75.  Came back through 
Havasu/Parker and 29 Palms.  Pegged the bus at 80mph for awhile on the 62.
Even with 2 or 3 stops...we made it to Murrieta from Havasu in well under 5 
hours.

Only one bus breakdown, rear cargo door mechanism took a dump, but Ronnie 
hooked me up with another.

Once again...a top-notch show put on by the LBB....the best show of the year 
IMO.
Your efforts are much appreciated by all of us!

Was great seeing everyone...now trying to decide if we will do Jerome this 
year...then again, I'll worry about the short term and clean up the bus for Big 
Bear snowboarding this weekend and OCTO the following...

Beto
63EZ
73Thing
Murrieta, CA
