From: "jdd" <johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca>
To: "Matthew J. Ramsey" <ramsey8(-at-)charter.net>
Cc: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 24 Jan 2004 04:06:37 -0500
Subject: Re: [VB] chain saw blade oil undercoating

I recently undercoated my 60 with bar and chain oil.  I used a shutz gun and
a compressor and I blew that oil everywhere - I used about 1 1/2 gallons.  I
was able to get the nozzle of the gun into all of the nooks and crannies - I
did a very thorough job for about $30.00 Canadian.  First I rolled my bus
onto a huge sheet of polly so any run off would not go on the ground.  The
windows are out of my bus as I am halfway through painting it.  I'll finish
in the spring.  Since the windows are out I can't drive it.

I recently took my 78 to Krown.  They're guys who spray an oil stuff on
vehicles to protect against rust.  The Canadian Armed Forces get their
trucks sprayed by Krown.  It cost my about $130.00 Canadian to get it down.
I'm not sure that they did it as thoroughly as i did my 60.  But they do it
day in day out so ... I would assume that they are very good at coverage.

If ya plan on getting under your bus to spray it with bar and chain oil keep
in mind - you will get that oil in your hair, face, eyes, and ruin your
clothes.  It is really really messy.  I would do both again.  I think though
that unless I'm concerned about saving a few bucks I would just go to Krown.
But .. if I couldn't drive a vehicle for what ever reason I would do it
myself.

I started a thread on this topic ... maybe 4 or 5 months ago - I got some
amazing testimonials on the protective nature of bar and chain oil.

Here in Eastern Canada cars rust out really quickly.  I have an 89 jetta
that is ... bad ...  rust holes thru all of the fenders - I only drive it in
the winter and I have very little pride ;)  But every once in a while you'll
see a car from the 80's or even 70's that has a series of stickers from one
of the oil undercoating places - like Krown or Rustcheck - and they look
amazing.


JDD 60 std, 78 westy
