Date: Sun, 25 Jan 2004 18:50:23 -0600
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com
Subject: '59 Single Cab...work starts on it again

I started work on my '59 Single Cab again. I've had this truck for 
quite a few years now and have just worked on it here and there. It 
hasn't seen much regular attention...especially over the last year or 
two.

Last time I worked on it was to remove the main shift rod...which had 
rusted to the tube. I used heat to get it loose and have a 
replacement rod.

I walked around my shop for a little while trying to figure out where 
to start on this thing. It's hard when you've been out of the loop to 
get going again. I pulled out the Rancho tranny I had ordered for it 
back in 2002. It was still in the box it came shipped in. I pulled it 
out and decided on thing I could do was get it set up with a 
nosecone. I found the one I've got set aside for it. It had a wobbly 
shifter so I figured I'd change out the bushings. I had 2 new ones 
I'd ordered when I did the tranny swap on my Double Cab, so was good 
to go.

Had a lot of trouble removing the old ones. Basically I just stayed 
at it for about 2 hours with some screwdrivers and a hammer gently 
working them loose. Eventually got done. Both were much thinner than 
the new ones. I installed the new ones and tried out the shifter. 
Nice tight and smooth. So I cleaned up the nosecone and painted it.

I installed the nosecone on the tranny and moved to the next phase. 
This would be to fabricate a front tranny mount on the truck. This 
truck had a splitcase tranny and the front mount was different. I 
wanted to keep the rubber mount so decided against the adapters that 
are for sale.

Back when I lived at the ranch I had cut and removed the original 
front mount on the truck. So that work was done and it was out of the 
way. And to my surprise when I unboxed my tranny I found a 3 inch 
wide 1/4" piece of flat stock steel that Ronnie at OldVolks had stuck 
in there for me to use for my new mount fabrication. Thanks dude! 
Better late than never I guess.

I cleaned up my rear carrier and repainted it. Next mounted the rear 
mounts and carrier to the tranny. I also installed the front rubber 
mount to the tranny.

After that I installed the tranny in the truck to see how things 
would need to go. It appears that the 1/4" flat stock is just thick 
enough to fit between the rubber mount and the torsion tube. So I 
guess I'm gonna do some fab work and weld it up. Before I do that I 
gotta clean out the shiftrod tube and install the main and rear 
shiftrod. Have to order a few parts first.

I'll keep at this phase of the truck while I can. Probably will clean 
up the underside of the truck and then work on rebuilding the Big Nut 
Reduction Gear Box set I've got for this truck. Then I can bolt up 
the transaxle and move to the front-end.

This truck needs EVERYTHING! Bodywork, paint, electrical, suspension, 
brakes, engine, tranny, ect., ect. ,ect. It's a big project but I'm 
gonna try to keep it simple and learn along the way. Should be a fun 
project for the most part.

http://www.type2guy.com/59sc/59SC.html
-- 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Rex Rogers           San Angelo, TX
VW bus page at http://www.type2guy.com/
-'59 Euro Single-Cab Truck
-'61 Double Cab Truck
-'61 Double Door Panel Bus
-'62 23-window walk-thru Deluxe
------------------------------------------------------------------------
