Date: Mon, 14 Jun 2004 22:43:11 +0000 (GMT)
From: dworkin <dworkin(-at-)everybus.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 3 topics... fuel lines, VW bus weight, freebsd/apache

Volks,

Real quick, as I am just about dead from overwork at work..

Fuel lines...  As everyone said, replace 'em.  I have never used more than
a push and twist to get new lines on.  I would use glycerin if needed, but
would not use a silicon lube (Sorry, Barry).  Be *SURE* to buy and use
metric lines!!!! (thank you for buying the metric hose for the '76, Barry
:-) "Almost the right size" american hoses from a FLAPS are THE WRONG
SIZE!!!!  They are just too tight or just too loose and will split or
leak, honest.  VW dealers will sell you the right diameter fuel line for
an arm+leg or I *hope* Ron/Bus Depot or other VWFLAPS will sell it at
reasonable prices.  For the Vanagon, that stiff plastic line is still
available from VW for the usual arm+leg prices, but it is all low-pressure
and I am still running it in my '80.  I know I shouldn't, but I do FWIW.

VW bus weight.... If you are connected with the military, great!  Use a
base as Barry recommends, by all means.  If you are not or are not near a
base, every trash dump in the country charges commercial garbage trucks on
and in-an-out weight system and a trip to the dump can net you a vehicle
weight.  Many truck stops also advertise scales, tho I have never used
one.  At a dump in Oregon during one of my Xcountry jaunts, a quick weigh
fully loaded was ~4700 on my '80 Vgon.... but I travel like Charles
dodson's white knight as anyone can tell you :-)

freebsd/apache... As I posted earlier in the week, I had a catastrophic HD
crash on the everybus machine.  I still have the files for the web sites,
but lost all the configuration files.  I have been working as I can to get
sendmail and apache working again.  As of tonight, I have sendmail working
(I think) (w/o spam filtering, I KNOW :-( and I have apache working in
single-site mode.  I CANNOT get "virtual domains" working, however, which
means that www.busesofthecorn.com is still not working (it takes you to
everybus.com).  If anyone out there knows diddly about virtual domains
under apache and/or freebsd, please, Please, PLEASE get in touch!!!!  I am
desperate and willing to pay as much as a full 6-pack!!!! (Greg may be
willing to double that :-)

Steve Dolan
