Date: Tue, 15 Jun 2004 02:39:07 -0400
From: Jeff Strickrott <jstric01(-at-)cs.fiu.edu>
To: Type Two List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Small fire in my 82 Westy :-(

Hi All:

I had something funny happen tonight while driving.  We had just started 
the van and gone about 2 miles with a cold engine when we smelled 
something burning and pulled over on the side of the road. At that point 
the van died.

I opened the engine access (behind the license plate) to see if the 
engine was on fire. I did not see anything but we could still smell 
something burning. We looked around  but saw nothing. We then moved all 
of the junk off of the engine access hatch and removed the cover. At 
that point we could see that the insulation was scorched and that we had 
had a real fire, but nothing burning anymore.

The wires near the cold fuel injector, oil pressure sender and cold air 
valve were melted. The rubber insulation on the #1 Bosch plug wire was 
melted off exposing the conductors. The plastic vacuum lines to the 
distributor and fuel pressure regulator had been melted in half, and the 
plastic hose to the deceleration valve had large holes in it. Loss of 
vacuum was what killed the engine. The gas lines on the cold start 
injector were scorched but had held (otherwise I would be really unhappy).

Now to my question:
Before the fire all wires were in great shape (high temperature 
insulation and only 1500 miles on them) and did not look like they had 
melted due to a short. In fact the fuses to that portion of the system 
had not fused open. We had no gas leaks and my hoses were brand new. As 
far as I can tell there was no other source for an open flame. So what 
started the fire?

When I felt the engine/distributor they seemed hotter than normal for 
the small amount of time we had the engine on (not more than 5 minutes). 
Engine oil temp was still below the scale, but the sensor wire had also 
melted and was shorting the signal so who knows what the real 
temperature was.

My engine has about 1500 miles on it. It is a rebuilt from Fast German 
that was poorly done. It works well enough that I can't yet return it 
for warranty reasons (hot oil pressure near 4 psi at idle, >200F), but 
not well enough that I take the van on long trips as I expect the rod 
bearing to go in the next 5,000 miles.

Could my fire have been caused by the rod/main bearings heating up just 
before they fail? But oil pressure was still above 50 psi. More likely 
that the engine was hot near the fire because it had been heated up by 
the flames.  But that again leads me to wonder what started all of this?

I will strip everything off and inspect more tomorrow, but I am puzzled. 
Anyone heard of this and had something similar happen to them?

Regards,
--Jeff Strickrott
82 Westy, South Florida

P.S. Has anyone ever wire a smoke detector up in their engine 
compartment? could it handle the heat and still report a fire?

As long as the engine is below <200F we have ok oil pressure

The
