Date: Thu, 25 Jan 2007 19:13:47 -0800 (PST)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: torsion arm work notes

I wrote this up in August, and I never sent it.  I just sent these to
someone over on the Samba, and I figured I should get off the snide and
post them to the list.  I hope its accurate.  I wrote what I could when
I could as I did it.

----
Boy, this was a PITA.  The Gensler instructions were generally correct,
and I have a few things to add.  I also learned a few things that I
didn't see in the library nor in the archives.  68/9 torsion arms are
only different in one way: the lower shock mount on the 68/9 is 8mm. 
Starting in '70, it was remained the 10/12mm all the way to the nut.

minor correction:
on removal step 12: the nut on the bolt that hold the sway bar: 17mm
(not 15mm)

Add to the parts to have before you start:
2 Torsion Arm Stop Clips (pn 211 401 279)
2 211-405-319U  Eccentric Bushing, Used from bus-boys ($2 ea)
the upper and lower snubbers are now available at CIP1, if you need
them.
2 sway bar bushings -OR- a new sway bar kit (bus-boys has a kit with
bushings, etc.  I think GermanSupply does too).
4 brake retaining plates (pn 211615231 5.12/pair at BusDepot) if you
don't have them.  If you aren't sure, you probably don't have them.

Add to tools list: 
small piece (4-6" long) of 2x4 or 4x4
masking tape

the re-install instructions were a little thin, so here's what you do
once the arms are in hand. It doesn't matter if they're your old ones
with new joints or new arms from bus-boys (what I did).

1) verify the springs
Check the leaf-springs sticking out of the tube.  Are they all clumped
together and shaped roughly like a square?  Mine weren't, and chances
are yours aren't either.  wipe the end with a rag and tape the springs
together so they form a square, or at least as close to a square as you
can.  Round won't cut it, nor will triangle, nor trapezoid... you get
it.

2) install upper torsion arms.
Slide and wiggle the arms on so they kinda click in.  There is slight
tension on the springs at this point.  Pick a side, and crank the arm
up with a prybar.  tape the short section of 2x4 to the top of your
sledgehammer and use that muffled hammer to bang the arms on.  Do not
use an unmuffled sledgehammer.  The arm should move a little with each
whack.  If it doesn't, double check your springs (1 above). If they
hang up a few mm from the grease seal, double-check your springs (1
above).  The only thing that should be slowing your progress is the
friction on the pry-bar and the tension on the springs.  Any other
resistance means your springs need a re-check.  Once it sets against
the bar, do the other side.  My RHS went in nice and easy, but the LHS
was a bear.  YMMV.  Put on the set screws (8mm Allen, I think) and lock
nuts (13mm?).

3) install lower torsion arms.
Remember to have the ball joint pointing down (threaded end pointing
towards the ground). Slide and wiggle to the click, then press them on.
 You might need asome light banging with the muffled sledge, but
nothing near what you needed for the uppers (no tension on the springs
is why).  Put on the set screws and lock nuts.

4) sway bar.
I got a thicker one from bus-boys, but the process is the same: get the
bar up there, and attached with the bolts, then get the clamps on.  The
rectangular sliding bit slides on from the front (FIF).  Holding the
clamp together with channel-lock pliers works well.  Some folks found
this to be the hardest part.  I thought it was pretty easy, once you
get the orientation down... and I had all kinds of trouble with my
torsion arms, so maybe perspective is the key.

pick a side.
5) attach lower ball joint to steering knuckle.
This should be relatively easy.  Thread the shaft of the ball joint
through the steering knuckle, and put on the washer and nut.  Hand
tighten, and then, using a jack, put pressure on the knuckle to seat
while you tighten the nut.

6) attach upper ball joint to steering knuckle.
The hardest part here is getting the threaded end of the ball joint
into the knuckle.  First, take the eccentric bushing and thread it onto
the ball joint.  Making sure that the dimple on the top of the nut is
pointing toward the exact front, tape it in place with a short spot of
tape.  Don't go crazy with the tape, only use "just enough" to hold the
bushing onto the ball joint for a couple of minutes.  Use a prybar to
get the torsion arm up while a helper (or your foot) guides the
steering knuckle underneath the ball joint.  Once you're aligned
(pretty much), remove the pry bar.  Put on the brake-line holder, then
the washer and finally the nut.  Tighten as much as you can by hand,
and then use the jack again to help seat the joint while you wrench it
down.  Use channel-lock pliers to hold the eccentric bushing so it
points directly forward.  The more careful you are at this point about
that dimple, the more likely you will be able to avoid the alignment
shop when you're done.

repeat 5 & 6 for the other side

7) attach brake backing plates.
I used new bolts, and painted the plates flat black (hi-temp was all I
had around).  install is pretty straightforward.  Remeber that the side
with the lip near the center faces out, and the side that's really
flat/plain faces towards the center of the bus.

8) perform wheel bearing maintenance.
There's lots of documentation on this out on the web.  Getting the
races out is kind of a PITA, but they come out.  I couldn't get my
grease seals out before I went to work on the races, and they popped
out with the races.  Coulda saved some time by not bothering to try
getting the seals out.

9) put the hubs on.
It seemed like no matter how much grease I put inside the hubs, I could
have put more.  I got the hubs on and pulled the outer bearings, and
shot more grease in there with a gun.  I torqued the nut down, then
removed the hub and put it back on.  This seemed to force the air
pockets out so I could get a little more grease in.

10) grease front end.
As long as the front end is in the air, and you've opened the torsion
arms, you probably need more grease in there.  I cranked a good 25
times on the gun on each fitting.  This also gives you a chance to see
if your fittings are good (I needed to replace a couple).

11) Wipe down your tools, and change your gloves.  this ends the greasy
portion of the job.

12) put rotors on.
s/b straightforward.  Uses a 6mm allen wrench.  IIRC, it s/b torqued to
no more than 15 ft lbs.

13) attach brake calipers.
careful to thread the hose through the holder, and thread the bolts
through.  torque to (check Bentley) using 19mm.

14) brake pad retaining plates, pads, retaining clips, pins
If you have the pad backing plates, slip them in first.  I don't have
them, like most folks, and I haven't noticed any big deal about it. 
Some think these are a really big deal.  If you have them, use them. 
BusDepot had them on back-order, so I didn't put them in during this
step myself.  Put in the release spring thing and drive the pins in
with a framing hammer from the inside.  Last, set the hose to the
holder with the clips.

15) put wheels back on.
pretty straightforward.  Torque to no more than 94 ft lbs.  You'll have
to take the bus off the stands for the final torquing, but you're done
with it in the air anyway.

16) install upper snubbers.
Others have said to put the snubbers on much earlier in the process. 
You could, but its more work.  Once the wheels are on the ground, the
upper torsion arm rises off of the steel bar and the upper snubber can
easily set into place.  You have to get on your back and all, but
slipping it between the torsion arm and the steel bar thing is easy. 
Slide the stop clips as far as you can, and drive them in with whatever
is handy.  I used the side of the head of my framing hammer.  Worked
dandy.  You'll have to whack it, though, just wiggling with pliers
won't cut it.

17) install shock absorbers.
Slide the lower end on first, then push the bolt through on the upper
mount.  The nut for the upper mount goes behind, so you'll be working
blind, but setting a vice-grip or crescent wrench onto the nut works
for torquing.  19mm for both upper and lower.  Once the upper is
torqued down, do the lower.

18) hubcaps, test drive.
hammer on the hubcaps with a rubber mallet and take a test spin in a
relatively confined area.  Remember, you just had your steering
completely changed, so the handling will be different, and potentially
unpredictable.  If the bus wants to go careening in one direction or
another, and pointing the bus in the right direction is more of an
effort than it used to be, take it to an alignment shop, and get the
alignment done. 
---

Almost 6 months later, the front end is still nice, and I haven't had
to take it in to get aligned or anything.

Paul Manning
Lake Oswego, OR
1972 Westy (hapy)
