Date: Fri, 26 Jan 2007 09:59:11 -0500
From: John Rogers <jnrogers(-at-)verizon.net>
To: kevin(-at-)bopsax.com
Subject: Re: [T2] New VW Design Chief

Kevin H. Roberts wrote:
> I was just wondering how well our busses sold compared to other brands in the day?  
>   
Volkswagen pioneered and created the van market. US bus sales peaked in 
1970 at well over a quarter million units, big by any standard including 
today's, but the Chrysler van with more power, comfort, handling and 
amenities ate into VW's market share after its introduction.  VW of 
course did continue to compete, producing buses through 1979 and 
Vanagons in the 1980s. Vanagons got more power with the introduction of 
water-cooled engines in 1982-1/2/1983. Even so in style and performance 
they lagged Chrysler. The Eurovan that followed is a beautiful machine 
but by now the price tag for making it had sky-rocketed, and more vans 
were now becoming available not only from Chrysler but from other 
makers, notably Ford, and today the big Japanese manufacturers.

In addition, strength of the Euro against the dollar hurts VW's pricing 
ability which had been among its strengths in earlier years when the 
dollar was strong and European currencies undervalued..

VW has run the numbers and concluded that with today's labor costs -- 
German autoworkers are the highest paid in the world -- and projected 
sales volumes a new VW bus simply isn't doable.

That said VW's success with the new Beetle does suggest a market for a 
new Bus.  Trouble is, whereas the new Beetle is simply a beetlesque 
design plopped atop a Jetta, a new Bus would have to be created more or 
less from scratch and without any similar economies of scale and 
manufacture.

VW of course does continue to manufacture buses in Brazil.  In December 
they switched from the traditional air-cooled power plant to a 
water-cooled engine, in part because of Brazil's policy to make all 
vehicles happy drinking ethanol.  These can still be equipped with 
camper-like interiors. It is my understanding that Brazil buses continue 
to be imported into Great Britain where many are camperized.  Trouble is 
they are not importable here.

There are several companies here and in Canada that do make pretty sweet 
campers using GM, Chrysler and Ford vehicles, prices starting in the 
high $40,000 and quickly going up. 

It's very hard to see where VW would be able to reenter the North 
American market given these constraints and realities.

Finally there is the mystique of the original VW bus itself which would 
be hard to duplicate.  The original beetle was a nose-thumbing gesture 
at Detroit at a time when the Big 3 had something like 93% of the US 
market; the bus was its big cousin. Many people bought beetles and buses 
in part as a political statement.

The original bare-bones Beetle -- the early ones didn't have gas gauges 
-- is not the kind of car for which today there is a market today. VW 
began mass-producing low-cost cars for a Europe that in the late 1940s 
for a Europe that was just getting back on its feet and welcomed Spartan 
economy.

And so all the dynamics are wrong for a successful new VW bus.

Hold onto what you have and be glad. You may never see its like come 
'round again.

John
