Date: Mon, 29 Jan 2007 18:48:52 -0800 (PST)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: kevin(-at-)bopsax.com
Subject: Re: [T2] troubles

Any chance you've got water in the tank? Autozone pump
ticking away tells me you're not running FI so it is
more susceptible to a drop of water now and then
(continuous flow keeps water suspended better.) Hows
the cap and elbow? -BaH PS Is it icing up?

--- "Kevin H. Roberts" <bopsax(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:

 Well, the Bopmobile tried real hard to let me
downtoday.  She's been running great and the last time
I put oil in it was last month in Gulf Shores.  I did
 accidently over-fill it by about a half quart.  So
 this morning it was really cold, low 20's.  I had
 trouble keeping her running long enough to rev it up
 enough to where it would idle without dying.  Well,
 she finally wouldn't start at all.   So I figure
 I've flooded it.  Don't know that I've ever had that
 much trouble getting her started.
 
 So, I let it set for a while and try again.  Started
 right up.  So I let her sit and idle for a while to
 warm up.  Loaded up my dog and hopped in.  Just down
 the street it's like she's starved for gas.  So I
 check the fuel pump and it was softly ticking away. 
 This Autozone pump has outlasted any other I've had
 and it's extremely quiet.  Then I checked the fuel
 filters which had not been changed since I had the
 tank removed and boiled out a couple of years ago. 
 I have checked them periodically, however.  One did
 look like it didn't have much gas in it so I changed
 it.  Started her up and same trouble.  After several
 tries I got her limped home at which point she
 starts running perfectly.  I guess I hadn't run it
 enough to fill the new fuel filter.  What's weird is
 that it is the filter on the outbound side of the
 pump that clogged up.  
 

'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Seattle Area, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
Access over 1 million songs.
http://music.yahoo.com/unlimited
