From: "Bill Bowman" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
To: "List - Vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, "List - Vanagon"
Date: Wed, 22 Aug 2012 15:47:51 -0500
Subject: the upcoming 27th BNNTA VW camping weekend...

Hi everyone,

Well, its less than ten days away and I thought I'd remind you all that we'd
love to have you and your VW join us for all of the fun.  Here's what is
happening...

"Buses Nowhere Near The Arch #22 (B.N.N.T.A.)

when:  Friday August 31st thru Monday September 3rd, 2007

where:   the entire "group" campground at the Indian Creek Recreational Area
located right on huge Mark Twain Lake, which is about 30 miles west of
Hannibal, Missouri.

Any and all VW's are welcome to enjoy this BNNTA family-oriented camping
event. Featuring VW camping on a 22 mile long lake, an informal VW Bus show, a
fun and highly competitive best individual and best group campsite decoration
contest, a scenic countryside caravan on Saturday over to discover the sights
of historic Hannibal, MO (the childhood hometown right on the Mississsippi
River of Samuel Clemens, a.k.a. "Mark Twain"), show awards and door prizes,
campfire activities, slow drags, etc.  Our campground is lakeside, so bring
your watertoys (canoes, kayaks, etc.).  BNNTA is held in a beautiful Corp of
Engineers built/managed campground with very nice facilities, clean bathrooms
and nice shower facilities, a playground and a huge pavilion for our sole use.
We restrict access to the campground to only VWs, so you won't wake up in the
morning staring at the side of a motorhome, just the beautiful sight of VWs of
all types sprawling off into the distance!

The "total" event/camping fee for each VW for the entire four day weekend is
only $30.  Yep!  A total of only $30!  Oh! And if you have something VW
related that you want to donate to the door prize stash, please bring it
along.

You can check out our simple web site for more details and info:
http://www.bnnta.com

The trophies, dash plaques and window decals have already arrived, and the
event t-shirts are on their way.  Thanks again to fellow Bus freak Tom
Janiszewski for more of his great graphic artwork for this years event
goodies!  The weather is very nice again in Missouri, and we hope it'll stay
that way!

Thanks again for your time, and we hope that you and your VW can join all of
us for the long holiday VW camping weekend!


Your hosts,

Bill & Kathryn Bowman

p.s.  Please feel free to pass this e-mail on to any of your VW friends or to
your VW Club forums, Lists, newsletters and sites.  The more that come to
play, the merrier!
