From: "Bill Bowman" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
To: "List - Buskatiers" <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>, "List - DBG"
Cc: "Bowman, Bill" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
Date: Sun, 26 Aug 2012 10:20:11 -0500
Subject: BNNTA event only six days away!

Hi all,

We are just under a week away from the Volkswagen camping festivities at the
27th BNNTA event! We have most of our personal and event gear ready to go, the
trophies and dash plaques have arrived and the t-shirts are on the way, and
I'm packing up our three Transporters for the adventure.  I'm getting lots of
eagar messages from attendees, and a few questions.  So here are some updates
for next weekends "27th Buses Nowhere Near The Arch" VW camping weekend.

As always, we do not offer pre--registration for the event.  Don't worry!  I
lease the entire "group" campground for the entire long holiday weekend and
there is plenty of room for everyone at BNNTA!  All you have to do is pack up
your VW with family, friends, camping and recreational goodies, good "vittles"
and the beverages of your choice!  Then have a safe and fun drive over to Mark
Twain Lake.  Follow the directions and map link at our website www.bnnta.com
and upon your arrival in the Indian Creek Recreation Area "group" campground
we will take all of a minute or two to get your registered!  Real easy!  All
types and models of Volkswagens are welcomed to register and attend inside the
campground!

Although the event begins on Friday, Aug 31st at noon, we usually get a few
eagar folks who arrive in the area early and usually need to camp at the
nearby "main" campground until the gates to the "group" campground are opened
on Friday at noon.  The Rangers from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers have
once again graciously offered to open the gates to our venue a day early at
some point on Thursday for anyone arriving early.  This helps those
participants from having to set up camp at the "main" campground and then
break down and move to the "group" campground on Friday.  For those of you
taking advantage of this offer, all you'll have to do is visit the entrance
gate over at the at the "main" campground, tell 'em you're camping at the VW
event in the "group" campground, then pay the daily fee for "Thursday night
only", receive your camping receipt and then head over to the "group"
campground and set-up your campsite for the festivities.  Please do this, so
that I don't get "in Dutch" with the Rangers!  They will check and do a count
of cars.  Also, remember that campsites 11, 12, and 13 are reserved for our
event registration area.  Otherwise there is no pre-registration available,
you'll register with us for the weekend when we arrive and set ourselves up on
Friday.

One slight inconvienence for the weekend, courtesy of Mother Nature and this
past summers hot weather and drought, there is a ban on any open fires during
our stay, so to cook, bring your camping stoves as most do anyway.  See the
Rangers note below, and thank you for your co-operation and understanding!

It's not too late to plan to join us during the long Labor Day weekend!
Please have a safe and enjoyable ride to the BNNTA camping weekend!  We'll see
you soon!

Bill Bowman



Classification: UNCLASSIFIED

Mr. Bowman,

Unfortunately due to the heat and lack of rainfall since early spring, the
Corps of Engineers has implemented a fire ban which states no firewood or
charcoal fires are permitted.  You can have gas grills and stove top cookers
as long as they are attended to at all times.

Thanks,

Chris Coe
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Natural Resource Specialist
Clarence Cannon Dam and Mark Twain Lake
20642 Highway J
Monroe City, MO 63456
phone 573-735-4097
