Date: Mon, 27 Aug 2012 20:15:36 -0700 (PDT)
From: Joel Cort <joel_cort(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Shameless Plug for Westies at Watkins 11

Shameless Plug for Westies at Watkins 11 
Sorry for cross posting.B 
The
countdown is here again and less than a month away! I hope that Watkins is on
your calendars!
Please join the Empire VW Camping Club on September 21-22-23
2012 in the beautiful Finger Lakes region of New York State for the 11th
annual Westies at Watkins camping event.


Discover the beauty of the Watkins
Glen Gorge and surrounding Finger Lakes Region of New York. Come and relax in
this area and enjoy the area by hiking the gorge, biking, antiquing, shopping,
going to museum, wine tasting, and group activities around the campfire.
Any
and all VW vehicles are welcome to participate but a Westy campers are a nice
comfortable option.


NO RESERVATIONS ARE REQUIRED
We have our own private
(Onondaga Village) camping loop for the VWs in the Watkins Glen State Park.
The cost will be around $20/night for this event. Pay the Park Service when
you show up and we should be able to double up per site to fill this loop.
Electricity at sites is NOT available in our loop but warm showers and clean
bathrooms are.


Full Moon Bus Club style - Breakfast burritos will be served
Saturday Morning for everyone b Contributions are accepted by the Empire VW
Camping cooks.


Pot Luck Sat. Night - bring a dish to share.
B 
Event
T-shirts will be available along with 50/50 raffles and door prizes.

Sellers
and swappers welcome!


Optional Racetrack events on SUNDAY September 23rd. -
$15 for 3 laps on the world class Watkins Glen International Race Track
http://www.theglen.com


We will be able to drive our VWs on the racetrack for
a few laps for some FORMULA bWb racing. (Formula Westfalia) Come on the
track or in the grand stands to watch.
For directions or more details and
information on the campout and race track events contact Joel at
jcort(-at-)rochester.rr.comor (585) 690-8145 cell
Checkout the website for more
info: www.westies-at-watkins.org


B 
Happy Camping,
Joel Cort
Rochester NY
B 
jcort(-at-)rochester.rr.com
B (585) 690-8145 Cell
B 
89 Syncro Westy (VanGo)
87
Syncro Transporter (Stella)
73 Westy Campmobile (Agent Orange)
B 
Western New
York LiMBO RepresentativeB  www.limbobus.org
Founding member of the Empire
State VW Camping ClubB  www.empirevwcamping.org
Westies(-at-)Watkins XI is planned
for September 21-22-23, 2012 www.westies-at-watkins.org
