Date: Sat, 28 May 2005 06:52:10 -0500 (CDT)
From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
To: Cliff Rhoton <commodore97210(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: Fwd: Re: [T2] Tune-up Freq with Bruck 205; Bosch Qual Decl

Cliff,

This is crazy!  I see why you are stumped!

Cliff, I didn't include your original answers but looked at them while 
writing this.  Please don't take the questions personally as I am going to 
re-ask some basic installation questions also.

Assuming you haven't changed anything yet,

1.  What is the dwell when it doesn't run well.
2.  Where is the timing when it doesn't run well.

You say that changing the spark plugs makes the most difference, yet you 
also say that they look virtually new?...this is just wrong...even after 
1500 miles they should have *something* on them...means you are either 
running incredibly lean, or incredibly hot....

3.  What are the spark plug gaps on the spark plugs that you take out?
    Cliff, tell me that when you put new plugs in that you don't put 
    anything on them like wd40 or anything else.  WD40 on spark plug
    ceramic parts will "posion" them.  They will fail in weird and 
    unusual ways if you do this.  You do check the gaps before
    installing them?

4.  When you take the plugs out, where they still tight in the heads?


Re: the accufire.  If it made everything work in the 5,000 to 10,000 mile 
	range, then it tells me that your problem is the points.  See 
	question #1 above.  

5.  Do you grease the standard points rubbing block on installation, and 
    if so, with what??  As someone already mentioned, no grease and a 
    rough cam surface will cause the rubbing block to fail very quickly.

6.  What do the points that you take out look like???  Pitts, "Blued" 
    ends?(from heat).  Burned though?

7.  Cap rotor cupric oxide?  On the inside?  How about the contacts
    where the plug wires go in.  The rubber boots should work well
    in that spot unless you pressure wash your engine a lot.

8.  Forget the aux fan situation for a while and stick with one thing at a 
    time.

9.  Measure the resistance on failed parts between the rotor center and 
    the tip.  Between the inside contact on the cap and the end of the
    spark plug wire where it would go on the spark plug.

You say that you have a new Bosch blue coil and it *is* wired correctly.

Forget the ECU...as everyone on the list will tell you, it is the 
generally the *last* part to fail and has *nothing* to do with your 
ignition parts.


10.  What is the voltage at the coil(+12v side) when at idle and when 
     running down the road?  Clip the leads in and have someone watch it
     while sitting in the back seat.  What is the battery voltage at the 
     battery under the same conditions?


Cliff, if the accufire got you the much better tuneup intervals, why in 
the world did you ever take it out?....or not put in another 
electronic unit?

Hope I helped some, dave


-- 
-------------------------------------------------------------------
"I'm more interested in getting it right, than being right"....dave


On Fri, 27 May 2005, Cliff Rhoton wrote:


>      
>      
>    
> In the last 5 years, have replaced Air-Flow Sensor,
> injectors, cold-start injector, fuel hoses, heads,
> gaskets always are replaced, and the hydraulic
> valves are stable, having been tightened 2 revolutions
> after first touching.  Oil changes, air filter, fuel
> filter are religiously changed.  New muffler.  New
> Bosch Blue coil.  We have confirmed the coil is wired
> correctly.  Even the fuel injection harness has been
> replaced.  The replacement FI Harness was used, but
> was replaced nonetheless.
