Date: Wed, 18 May 2005 08:54:23 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com,  ron(-at-)busdepot.com
Subject: new bus depot sink faucet may not fit certain buses and

So, I purchased a new sink faucet from bus depot:

http://www.busdepot.com/details.jsp?partnumber=231070802A

It's really nice and pretty, but there are a few minor mods that you 
might want to make so that it operates a bit more smoothly.  First, 
unscrew the handle and then grind the base of the handle (the part you 
hold on to, not the stem sticking up out of the faucet!) on a sander to 
shorten it's height.  The reason for this is because the stock length 
will bottom out when you tighten it and then mar up the chrome.  I guess 
it might keep you from overtightening it, but it hasn't been a problem 
so far.  You can also unscrew the assembly below the handle (unscrew the 
stem all the way up first) and add some plumber's grease in there to the 
threads and o-rings.  If you don't unscrew the stem and then try and 
unbolt the bottom part, the stem will turn and make it difficult to pull 
out the bottom piece... you'll see what I mean.  Anyways, after doing 
that, the action of the lever is real smooth.

The other problem you might run into is the sink faucet height.  If you 
have a sink that doesn't have a lid, then your fine with ron's faucet 
as-is.  However, if you have a sink/stove unit like I do with the lid 
that comes down (78 deluxe), the spout on the faucet is too tall!

To fix that, I took my old leaky faucet (which has the shorter spout) 
and unscrewed the part directly underneath the spout (where the pump 
water comes in).  Then I flipped it over and found a socket that fit 
perfectly into the hole and sat nicely on the flange of the spout tube.  
I put an extension on the socket and then with a few quick taps with my 
hammer, the spout tube comes right out.  You'll notice that there is a 
ring pressed in around the tube that holds it in.

Now do the same on your new faucet and then you're ready to put the old 
spout on the new faucet.  First you'll want to put some plumber's grease 
on the rubber o-ring to get a nice seal.  Then put the faucet unit in 
it's normal orientation on a vice with the jaws open.  You'll want to 
tighten it a bit so it doens't move around.  Next, you'll take your 
spout and press the spout tube back into the faucet.  For this you can 
use a blunt tool and tap it all around the ring until it finally 
settles, or you can make a half-circle shaped tool like I did and press 
on it with the vice like a press and shove it in there.  The nice part 
about making the tool is that it will allow you to push it below flush 
with the faucet unit.  This is also a good way to take out the play in a 
spout that moves around too much.  Then don't forget to put that little 
plastic ball (check valve) back in and screw the bottom piece back on.

Anyways, hope that helps some of you.

Mike
