To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Lawrence J. Bell" <jeffbell(-at-)siu.edu>
Date: Thu, 19 May 2005 09:21:02 -0500
Subject: new tires and wheels

Hi All,

I mentioned in a previous post that I would report my observations on
my tire and wheel experiences.  Ill do so but please dont flame me if
you have had different experiences or have different opinionsthese are
only my personal observations based upon my personal environment.  Ive
been severely flamed before and Im quite uncomfortable with it.  I
remain on the list because of the valuable inputs of John Connelly,
Richard Atwell, Ron Salmon, Scott Lyons and others.  I am now very
reluctant to put my two cents in but this may have real value to some.

I bought my last bus (1976 Westfalia) about a year and a half ago.  It
is now nearing completion of an extensive restoration (but not
everything is OEM).  When I bought the bus it had 15 inch wheels with
215R65 15 Goodyears.  While the ride was fairly smooth (KYB GR2s on the
front and KYB Gas-Adjusts on the rear) and the tires were fairly quiet,
I elected to replace them with the original wheels and Hankook RA08
tires.

I fill them to 30PSI front and 40PSI rear as recommended by the
original tire pressure placard on steering column.  The first thing I
noticed was how easily the bus would steer in parking and tight
maneuvering.  Obviously the original steering linkage and steering-box
gearing was based upon the narrower tires friction coefficient and,
therefore, isnt as effective with wider tires even when they are of
the correct diameter.  The second thing I noticed was the buss
tracking on straight and level highways.  It now has little, if any
tendency to wander and, as a result it is more relaxing to drive.  As
others on the list have mentioned, the stiffer sidewalls may be the
major contributor.  Perhaps it is a bit counter-intuitive since the
tread width is about an inch less than previously, but it is also
slightly less sensitive to wind buffeting.  Last, but certainly not
least, it appears thus far (one tank of gas) that mileage has improved
by about 10 percent.

On the negative side, the Hankooks seem to transmit potholes, seams and
other road irregularities (Southern Illinois has some of the worst
roads I have ever seen in the U.S.) into the chassis more readily than
the wider, softer Goodyears.  Again, I suspect this is a result of the
stiffer sidewalls.

In summary, I think the new Hankooks may be the wisest 350 dollars Ive
spent on the bus to date.  Im very happy with them (as I am with my
beloved westy).

Jeff
