Date: Tue, 27 Sep 2005 06:37:26 -0700 (PDT)
From: sam Josovitz <samuelvw(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Porsche drops after Buying 20% of vw more info 

NEW YORK - There's a concern that nostalgia may be
getting in the way at Porsche (pedants and polyglots,
take note: correct pronunciation "Porsh-uh," not
"Porsh"). The company has always boasted a close
relationship with Volkswagen (otc: VLKAY - news -
people ) beyond its family ties--the first Porsche
roadsters used many VW Beetle components and had
air-cooled motors that were essentially sharpened VW
engines. 

Yet Porsche's (otc: PSEPF - news - people ) designs to
buy 20% of its alt ally have left some scratching
their heads. The luxury automaker's shares tumbled 10%
on Monday, a day after it said it would honor those
family ties--and ward off any potential hostile
takeovers by investors "who do not have the long-term
interests of VW as their aim," according to a
statement by the Stuttgart-based Porsche. 

Sentimental stuff--but analysts gave the move a cool
reception, saying it was a poor use of the company's
pocket money. A few even saw the move as crushingly
reactionary: "This deal is depressing confirmation
that the old ways of German capitalism die hard," one
analyst told the AP. 

Bernd Pischetsrieder's VW welcomed the move, as did
VW's largest shareholder, the German state of Lower
Saxony. VW, whose profit margin is less than 1%, is
seen to benefit from Porsche's well-regarded
management and image. And Porsche is more than just
its four model lines--the Boxster, the 911 models, the
Cayenne sport utility vehicle, and the Carrera GT--as
it also sells watches, luggage, and tennis rackets
bearing its name. 

Porsche and VW recently collaborated on the Cayenne
SUV and VW's Touareg and also announced that they were
forming an alliance to develop hybrid engines. Could
the acquisition provide security for the joint
venture? Perhaps, but $3.6 billion is a handsome price
to pay for that security.

Update 3: Shares of Porsche Dip on Raised VW Stake  
AP Press
09.26.2005, 12:17 PM 

Porsche AG shares plunged 10 percent on Monday, a day
after the luxury automaker said it planned to raise
its stake in Volkswagen AG to about 20 percent to ward
off any potential hostile takeovers. 

Shares in Porsche, which had held less than 5 percent
of VW, fell by as much as 11.3 percent before
finishing the day at 607.64 euros ($731.05) in
Frankfurt. 

VW shares, which rose last week on talk that a large
investor was building up a stake in the company,
gained more than 1 percent before closing down 0.6
percent at 51.51 euros ($61.97). 

Stuttgart-based Porsche said Sunday its move was aimed
at securing ties between the two companies and warding
off any future hostile takeover of Volkswagen by
investors "who do not have the long-term interests of
VW as their aim." 

Porsche and VW, Europe's largest automaker, worked
together to develop Porsche's Cayenne sport utility
vehicle and Volkswagen's Touareg. They recently
announced that they, along with Audi AG, were forming
an alliance to develop hybrid engines. 

A hostile takeover could arise if the European Court
of Justice rules against a German law that effectively
keeps any VW shareholder's voting rights at 20
percent. 

Analysts were cool toward the move by Porsche, noting
that it appeared to be a poor use of the company's
excess cash. 

"This strikes us as a lot of cash up front for a
highly uncertain benefit: even were such a deal to
happen, it would be unlikely to threaten existing
joint ventures," said Stephen B. Cheetham, a European
autos research analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. 

"The recent surge in VW is now explained, but this
deal is depressing confirmation that the old ways of
German capitalism die hard," Cheetham said. 

Germany's financial watchdog, BaFin, said Monday it
would examine the increase in value of VW shares last
week ahead of Porsche's announcement. The Berlin-based
agency said the investigation was routine and that no
charges of wrongdoing had been leveled. 

VW's management welcomed the move, as did the state of
Lower Saxony - VW's largest shareholder, with an 18
percent stake. 

The automaker is in the midst of a cost-cutting drive
aimed at shoring up its earnings amid criticism from
investors that the Wolfsburg-based company is
inefficiently run. VW said this month it will reduce
its work force in Germany, complaining that its
factories have "several thousand" surplus employees,
despite rising demand for its cars. 

The company has recently denied rumors that it was
considering closing down its SEAT unit or planning to
buy back some of its own shares. In addition to
Spain-based SEAT, VW owns the Czech Republic's Skoda,
Italy's Lamborghini and Bugatti, Britain's Bentley,
and Germany's Audi. 

Porsche, meanwhile, said earlier this month that its
sales for the year ended in July were up 6.8 percent
and that it had posted its 11th straight gain in
profit. 
