From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 27 Sep 2005 20:36:57 -0700
Subject: Leaking egr valve, rough idle

After returning from Jerome Jamboree I've noticed my idle slow down and get a
bit rougher. Thought I would replace the spark plug wire just 'cause they were
old and poke around a bit tonight to see if anything obvious might be causing
the rough idle. Pulled each plug wire in turn while at idle, all seemed to
drop rpm same amount. Did the same with each injector connector with similar
results. Hmmmm. Looked over all the vacuum hoses, no cracks or hissing noises
when moved around. I was considering pulling the dizzy cap and checking the
points but they were new about 600 miles ago. I'll do that tomorrow anyway.
Just before I was going to give up for the night, I grabbed the throttle shaft
and gave it a slight turn. PFFFFFFFFFT. OH MY, where's that dreaded hissing
coming from? Pushed the throttle shaft in all directions with no hiss, good!
Touched the lever that activates the EGR valve when the throttle is turned and
SSSSSSSST. Ok, maybe I'm on the right track. When I replaced the engine I
machined a plate to block off the pipe that feeds the exhaust to the EGR
'cause I had no EGR filter and didn't trust the bent over pipe affair the P.O.
had on there. Now I'm thinking I should have removed the whole valve and
linkage and blocked the hole left in the intake.

The valve is leaking air around the lever that is pulled when the throttle is
turned. The more the throttle is turned the louder the hissing. I think the
diaphragm inside has torn or just fallen apart with age? Would this leak cause
the rough idle? Oddly enough cylinder head temps have been fine, between 300
and 375 depending on speed and load. Doesn't a vacuum leak normally cause
higher head temps?

Looked at how the EGR linkage is attached to the throttle with a mirror. Seems
to be a round washer pressed on the linkage instead of the C clip I expected.
Any advise on removing the EGR linkage from the throttle without removing the
throttle would be great. As I remember the gasket between the throttle and
plenum was kind of hard to find and a little pricey so I would rather not
remove the throttle if I can help it.

Sorry for running on so long but I'm bushed from a long days work and the
brain is in a weird mode. Thanks for reading and any advise would just make my
day. If you have a non leaking EGR you would be willing to part with I might
be interested. Someday Arizona might make us folks in the north end of the
state do the dreaded smog inspection thing.
