Date: Sun, 08 Sep 2002 23:21:16 -0700
From: Westfalia <swharris(-at-)adelphia.net>
To: Vintage Bus Post <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Filter pump evaluation

When I built my motor last year I wanted to run a filter.  I though that
a filter pump would be an easy way to do it and not have all the extra
hoses to deal with.  With that in mind I procured one from CB
performance at the suggestion of Ronnie.  

Last week we had a bit of warm weather (105 one day and high 90's the
others).  After about 30 minutes on the fwy the temps start to creep up
to where the Berg temp a stick starts to flicker.  The VDO says 205-210.
 No sizzling on the spit test, but getting close if I kept driving it. 
On cooler days she stays well under 210...usually around 190-200.

After almost 10K miles on my new, built by me, motor (sp1600 stock
exhaust) I have an observation about the filter pump made by CB
performance and how I'm running it.  

1.	Nicely manufactured seems to work fine.  I never have any pressure
issues even when hot.

2.	Needs clearancing on the external fins cast into the body to clear
the crank pully/tin

3.	They do NOT tell you that the pump WILL NOT WORK with a stock exhaust
with out modifying either the pump (Eric & Barb suggest 	cutting and
rewelding the neck of the casting down aprox 45 degrees...I could find
no one willing to do this and I don't have a TIG machine) or the exhaust
(the heat riser tube must be cut and re routed to give the filter
room...not an easy task either!).  This is the way I went.

4.	If rerouting the heat riser tube about the only filter you can use is
a short small diameter BMW 2002 filter.  Small I know, but hey it works
just fine for the BMW.

5.	Once you have the pipe re welded, you have a very limited space (I'd
say 1/8") between the side of the filter and the pipe itself.  I've used
some turbo heat shielding and wrap a sheet between the filter and the exhaust.

6.	If you run a real Westy hitch, you have to remove the left side wing
to get the filter out (not a big deal I know).


7.	The filter is directly in the path of the out flowing air immediately
after it exits the left side cylinders.  The curved under cylinder tin
angles the air right at the filter.


My question is this:  Could the combination of higher than normal
outside temps, coupled with the proximity of the filter to the exhaust
and the heated 3/4 cylinder air hitting it be causing my temps to go
up??   I stuck my hand up there after I got off the freeway and its like
a hair dryer on steroids blowing right at the filter.  I forgot to
mention that I have a doghouse cooler but not running a T4 or the tight
finned T3.  Suggestions?

Thanks.

Steve
