Date: Sun, 18 Oct 2009 08:01:35 -0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Jealousy, questions, motivation

Hi Paul,

Looks like you are off to a good start in getting your bus ready.

You've asked a lot of questions. I suppose jealousy is a natural human
emotion, but it calls for some reflection on values and what you want
in a bus.

Yes, money can make your bus sexy. Is that what you want? Do you think
your friend is a better person because he has a fancy car? Will you
feel better about yourself if your bus is pimped out? Will your
self-esteem be less if you don't have an equally fine car?

Those questions aside, from an artistic point of view, in Humanities
101 we were taught to break works of art down into the expressive
elements. So you have to ask yourself, what were the factors that made
that bus look so nice?

If you think about it, some of it is going to be in the selection of
upholstery and panel materials. If you take a close look at what was
done, you can discover how it was done and duplicate it yourself. Of
course, you have to realize that you don't want your bus to be a clone
of his. So the next factor is art direction or design. It takes an
artists eye to know how to create something beautiful. Of course all
of us have an eye for beauty and can create beautiful things with our
own hands, but it takes an experienced professional to really know how
to create that extra degree of pizazz.

On the engine and hardware side, you can also get extra bling with
custom and billet components by spending a lot of money at places like
CB Performance (well, not sure they do Type 4, but you get the idea
from browsing their site as to what can be done). I'm sure the Berg
engine is nice. There's also a lot of reading you can do at Jake
Raby's site. He will talk to you personally on the phone to determine
your needs and custom build an engine for you. He has a camper special
engine, but can also do a performance engine especially for your bus.

As for whether a big engine is worth it, it depends what you want in a
VW. Do you want to zip around or take your time and enjoy the classic
VW leisurely pace? I can say for myself that I had an oversized
Porsche engine in my bus for a while with dual Dellortos and Mallory
distributor, and that it was the first time I had ever driven a bus
that felt like it had the zip of a modern car. But you pay for that
with fuel consumption.

Hope this helps.

John

On Sat, Oct 17, 2009 at 2:39 PM, Paul Hummer <paul(-at-)eventuallyanyway.com>
wrote:

  My buddy is finishing up his 12 year project, Bugzilla (see
 http://www.bugzilla.com/chapter14.html).  He has just left after bringing it
 by to show me.  It is the epitomy of sexiness, and I would be lying if I said
I
 didn't feel a bit jealous that he's finishing up his project.  I'm still
 working on mine, and have at least a year's worth of work to do on it.

  Anyway, he had some toys that made me wonder, and so I thought I'd ask here
 about them.  I've slowly been convincing myself that I want to do all the
work
 myself, but after seeing his car, I'm rethinking that.

  He paid for a Bernie Bergmann engine.  It looks like it's worth the money.
 Anyone here have some experience with him?  Mike (my buddy) said he was
 awesome, and had considered a turbo engine.  If I sprang for a turbo engine,
 would it be worth it?

  The Bugzilla interior is amazing, but it was also costly.  Anyone have
 experiences with interior guys, maybe in or near Fort Collins, CO?  I don't
 want to spend too much, but I would like it to be nice inside.

  His guys used pool lining on the engine compartment.  Has anyone else done
 something like this?  Does it mitigate sound? (Yes, I've read the article on
 rust and sound, but it didn't cover anything like this.  I'm going to
Dynamat
 the passenger compartment heavily around the engine, but if I can find
better
 ways to mitigate sound, I'm all for it.

  I'm willing to spend the dough if I can feel confident about my Marley (see
 http://www.flickr.com/photos/theironlion/sets/72157612425183906/).  If I can
 make people feel even a tinge of the way I felt looking at Bugzilla, it'll
be
 worth it.  :)
