Date: Sun, 18 Oct 2009 08:31:57 -0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net
Cc: type 2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] emergency brake cable & brake servo?

That's your vacuum assisted power brakes:

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vacuum_servo

Bus is pretty heavy to stop without power brakes, but it can be done
if you don't mind the extra pedal pressure required to stop. It could
be a safety issue if you have an emergency situation and cannot stop
fast enough.

Plastic lining on the ebrake cable is to keep dust out. Replace cable
housing if concerned about it.

Normally rotors have minimal wear unless brake pads are not replaced
before you get metal to metal contact. Of course, after enough time,
they do wear down anyway.

On Sat, Oct 17, 2009 at 8:30 PM, Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net> wrote:
 Still more questions that came up while trying to get the front and rear end
 back closer to original.

 I noticed while removing the boomerang plates from the rear axle-the
 emergency brake cable housing right near the rear wheels is cracked. It
 looks like a plastic coated metal tube that the cable goes through. This is
 cracked clean through on both sides in a couple places. Does this housing
 come with the emergency brake cable, or is it something separate? Ie what do
 I need to be ordering for this part?

 I was also wondering what a brake servo does, and if I am supposed to have
 one on my singlecab. The PO put a new adjustable front beam in, along with
 disc brakes. While reviewing things in the Bentley, it looks like the buses
 with disc brakes front and drum brakes rear are supposed to have a brake
 servo. I don't know what this does exactly, if I need it, why I might need
 it etc.

 Could it explain why my front disc rotors were shot, and needed to be
 replace? I don't think the bus has that many miles on it since the new front
 beam was installed.

 Anyway my mechanic said he could install a servo, if I thought I needed it,
 but I don't feel like installing one unless there is a real reason to do so.
