From: "Mark Reed" <tabithamark(-at-)windstream.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 20 Oct 2009 12:53:13 -0400
Subject: RE: tracking down clacking.....

I believe I am chalking it up to excessive cam gear backlash once the engine
warms up.  The case expands just enough when warm to make center to center
distance between the cam and the crank great enough to allow a slight amount
of backlash.  And as the cam rotates, the cam pushes the lifter, opening the
valve, then the lifters crest the high point on the cam lobe and on the way
down the lifters push on the cam causing backpressure on the cam and the cam
gear, to the gear on the crank.  The back and forth clatter at idle of the
backlash going to and from is the noise we're hearing.

Probably better for AVP to error on the side a little backlash when warm,
which is annoying but ultimately harmless, than potential interference,
which would be a big problem.  VW apparently has cam gears in different plus
or minus sizes from nominal, and it is a fit to get the right zero backlash
at engine assembly time.

YMMV

Thanks for all of your help.

Mark

-----Original Message-----
From: Mark Reed [mailto:tabithamark(-at-)windstream.net] 
Sent: Monday, October 19, 2009 6:23 PM
To: 'type2(-at-)type2.com'
Subject: tracking down clacking.....

Hi all,

GE engine, 2.0L, Cali upright conversion into a 68 westy.

I have a thread on the samba right now, explaining my exploits in trying to
track down a clacking sound in the motor.  I thought I would post here as
well, just to get a different take.

It happens at temperature, at idle, an annoying clak a clak clak clak clak a
claka clak clak.... Compared to timing light, seems valve train related.  I
thought it was a stuck lifter on #2 exhaust.  I pulled that lifter, cleaned
it up, bench bled, long story short, it was not it.

I did a little further investigation and using the long screwdriver pressed
up against my ear, checking around, the sound seems to come from around the
area where the distributor drive gear would be. Screwdriver on the case at
the base of the distributor around the clamp, in that area.  (I am getting a
little worried about how deep I must go to find the cause). 

A little more background on the engine. It is an AVP rebuild, about 12 yrs
old, with less than 17K miles on it. I do not recall having to install the
dist drive gear, but I may have. That was a while back, and my tools,
skills, workspace, was, well, on a much lower level of experience. Maybe the
drive is not shimmed properly? I recently went through and disassembled and
cleaned / lubed / checked the distributor. It seems in very good working
order. No slop in either direction. At idle timing / dwell is super steady.
At 3500 rpm, timing jumps a couple degrees here / there, but doesn't seem
too crazy to me, for everything that is going on. 

It seems to have made this noise all along, it isn't any worse than or
better now, but it is there and it is not right. I have not ever noticed any
debris in the oil, although I have never dissected a filter. Oil has always
been changed due to the new camping season rather than the mileage put on
the engine. Crank end play was good when installed, so I assume it is still
good. Cam thrust play has never been looked at by me. 

I guess my question is, what can I investigate now to dig deeper into
finding the cause of the clak - a - clak? I was thinking pull the
distributor and the drive gear, look down there, see if anything jumps out
at me? 

Thanks in advance for your help.  

Mark

68 Westy
92 Jetta
99 EV
