Date: Tue, 6 Aug 2002 17:48:19 -0400 (EDT)
From: david raistrick <keen(-at-)type2.com>
To: Todd Snyder <toddle(-at-)punkmusic.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Shift Coupler

On Tue, 6 Aug 2002, Todd Snyder wrote:

> Where can I find this thing?  It's apparently under teh car
> somewhere...hm, I've looked in the Bently's and I think I might've
> found it but I'm not sure.  And how do I know if I need to replace it?
> And also the only method for replacing it I've found is pulling the
> whole engine/tranny out.  Is there another way?  Please let it be
> easier than that....


Crawl under the bus.  Look at the front-most end of the transaxle. (front
is front.)

You should see the a mount (which I shant describe here since I dont know
the year of your bus...), and also in that area you'll see a small shaft
that sticks out of the nosecone, towards the front.   It may be shrouded
in rubber boots.

If you have a helper, have them run the shifter through the gears while
you're looking at the nose of the transaxle.  You'll soon see the coupler.
It'll be a metal and rubber box(assuming 1968+).  It will connect from a
long rod to a short rod.  The long rod runs to the front of your bus, just
below the shifter, through a tube.  The short rod sticks out of the
transaxle...

A good coupler will transmit every movement of the long rod directly to
the short rod without any slop.  As it wears out, it will get more and
more slop....to the point where the rubber bushings in the sides of the
thing will entirely fall apart....this creates a LOT of slop.

If you're is bad it is replaceable (assuming 1968+) with the engine and
transmission in the car.  There is an 8mm-head square head screw that
holds the coupler to the transaxle shift rod.  This screw should have a
length of safety wire installed that goes through a hole in the head of
the screw, and up over the rod/coupler assembly.  this is to prevent the
screw from coming entirely out and getting lost...and if correctly
installed should help prevent the screw from getting loose at all.  I'll
let you refer to the Bentley for more information on installing the safety
wire.


The other end of the coupler unbolts from the front shift rod...but the
method of attachment escapes me at the moment.  It should be obvious from
looking at it and the Bentley.

Unbolt the coupler, slide the transaxle shiftrod into the transaxle (or
start the removal in 1st or 3rd gear), slide the front shift rod
forward...remove the coupler.

Installation is reverse of removal.  Dont forget that safety wire.


Now, if you need to replace the rod bushings...the ones that run inside
the tube from front to rear...you have to remove the transaxle and engine.

Another, often overlooked bushing (and source of shifter play) is at the
very front of the front shiftrod...it has a small bushing pressed into the
end of the rod, where it rides on a pin.  You can seperate the frontmost
part of the rod near the front axle...when that is out you can replace
that small bushing.

good luck.

...david

--
David Raistrick  '66 SO-44 Westy		keen(-at-)type2.com
/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign 				in Orlando Fl
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail          http://www.expita.com/nomime.html




