Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2002 18:12:22 -0700
To: toddle(-at-)punkmusic.com,
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Keeping a bus from being stolen

At 03:21 PM 8/6/2002, Todd Snyder wrote:
>I was wondering what do you guys do to keep your busses from being stolen?

As someone who has had their bus stolen (and recovered fortunately), I have 
some comments.

>  I was thinking of making it use a push button starter that could be 
> hidden in the bus somewhere, like behind the seat, or something of that nature.

Don't bother -  they will most likely cut your ignition wires and hot-wire 
the bus anyway.  Unless you completely remove the existing wiring, it won't 
even slow a pro down.

>Also a kill switch that will do something like shut off power to my 
>distributor or something like that.  That would hide back in the closet, 
>and I would only use it if I was parking my bus somewhere for a while, or 
>somewhere I didn't trust.

This is a better idea, but I wouldn't put it in the closet.  Put it 
somewhere where you will use it every time, otherwise the one time you 
don't use it will be the time your bus gets snatched.  :)

>Any ideas, suggestions or criticisms?  I love my bus but I know old VWs 
>get stolen a bit since they're easy to steal and a source of free parts.

The most important thing is not to leave anything of value visible from the 
outside.  This includes a fancy in-dash stereo.  Some people will steal 
your car just so they can strip it at their leisure.

A "club" is also a good idea.

A kill switch is also a good idea.  If you have an electric fuel pump, make 
your kill switch shut off the pump.  If you have carbs, ground the coil 
instead.  If possible, disguise the kill switch by using one of your stock 
switches, such as the rear window defogger switch or rear lightswitch to 
trigger it.  Try to make the wiring look stock too - go to the junkyard and 
get some original bus wire.

The last resort is to remove your rotor, but if you have a spare inside be 
sure and remove it too!

All of these things help, but of course the old saying holds true that if 
someone *really* wants your bus, they will find a way to take it.  The only 
way to fight this is to not leave your bus anywhere questionable.  Let 
someone else drive, rent a car, whatever.

I leave my bus unlocked all the time now, but with the club attached.  If 
someone tries to steal my bus again, I'd rather they spend their time 
destroying the club (or my steering wheel) rather than the 
windows/locks/body trying to get inside.

-David

