From: CooperJ123(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 18 May 2002 22:42:36 EDT
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Bus powered up for first time!

I just applied electrical power to my bus for the first time since I have 
owned it.  It is a '74 station wagon with 1800cc dual carb engine and auto 
trans.  A previous owner had cut through the entire wire harness  between the 
front and rear of the bus and jury rigged a second starter and key switch as 
well as other frightening "splices" and speaker wire primary etc.  Much work 
has gone into repairing this mess and I thank all of the people who have 
taken their time to put the excellent color coded wiring diagrams online!!
  Luckily I seem to have gotten the new ignition switch installed correctly 
and all of the wires spliced correctly as almost everything works.  I had to 
replace a couple of burned out bulbs and clean a ground connection but it is 
better than I had expected for the first power-up.  NOW for a couple of 
questions:
1: The backup lights do not work when the shift lever is placed in reverse.  
Is the switch that controls the lights in the automatic transmission or is it 
in the shift lever housing?   This is quite frankly one of the wires that I 
"guessed" at when I rewired so I probably have it hooked up wrong or 
something.
2:  On my dashboard there is a pull type switch just to the right of the 
headlight switch where on some models there is a fan switch.  I don't have 
these fans as far as I know but the puzzling thing is that this switch is 
labeled "EMERGENCY."   The switch for the hazard flashers is on the other 
side of the steering wheel and it works fine so what is this switch for?  I 
can't find reference to it anywhere in what I have read.
  Also the amber indicator between the clock and the speedometer on the panel 
lights up when the brake pedal is depressed and the brake lights come on but 
there is no engine installed yet so I am not too worried about this yet.
Any help would be appreciated!
Jim
'74 Transporter  "Das Kucheplutze"  Soon to be roadworthy 
