From: "Sean Bartnik" <seabar(-at-)rcn.com>
To: "Type 2 Mailing List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 19 May 2002 22:34:23 -0400
Subject: alternator replacement in a '79

Hi everybody,
I am finally home from California so I finally got to spend some quality
time with the Bus and replace the alternator that died on the way back from
EveryBus so long ago.  The Bus has been sitting since then.

Last it ran I drove it from Rich Macensky's parents' house in Middletown, CT
up I-91 to Springfield, MA.  The alternator was dead and I was running on my
freshly charged battery which Rich had hooked up to the charger the night we
stayed at his parents' place.

When I got home, there I parked it, packed my stuff and flew out to
California.  That was on April 22.

Now I'm back home :-)

Today the weather was good so I spent the day removing the old alternator
and putting in a rebuilt unit I got from Bus Depot.

I HATE replacing the alternator in a Type 4 Bus.  I started disassembly at
about 1:30 PM and didn't finish the job until about 6:30 PM.  And I've done
it before.

The hardest part for me was (and always is) getting that lower mounting bolt
through.  I always have to wiggle the alternator around and curse and swear
and push on the bolt and bang on it and sprinkle the blood of a newly
slaughtered lamb to get that damn thing to go through.  Today was no
exception.  I don't know what trick I'm missing but I'm missing something.
Anyway somehow I finally got it in :-)

Put everything back together and fired it up.  Crossed my fingers that the
new one was good, put the voltmeter on and....13.8v at idle increasing to
over 14 when the engine was revved.  Woohoo!

Oh BTW besides this battery having been discharged repeatedly on my trip
back from EveryBus, having driven from Middletown to Springfield with no
alternator charging and sitting for a month, it started the Bus right up.
Didn't even crank slow.  Alternator light went out immediately.

That new Bosch starter really kicks that thing over.  Used to take a few
cranks to start, I think that must have been the old starter spinning the
engine too slowy, it fires right up now.

Anyway I took some digital pics so I'll do some kind of write-up for the ol'
webpage.

Sean Bartnik
Springfield, MA
http://www.type2.com/~bartnik

