Date: Wed, 14 Apr 2004 12:37:10 -0400
From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
To: coerver(-at-)mindspring.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] one more ( i promise ) gas tank question

New senders come w/new seals...but if the old seal looks ok it should be okay.  I guess you could put sealer on if you like.   
Sender is held on by 8mm(?) hex screws.  Important thing is undo the ground wire to the roof of the engine compartment and pull off the wire to the sender push on before pulling the tank.   WHen putting the sende rin the new tank, you will find the holes are not evenly spaced, so the sender has to be oriented right for them to line up.


Other things to check..
engine to body seal
new fuel ine
axle boots
gear oil (change? top up? depending on how long/dirty )
rear brake hoses easy to get to now ...how old are they?  
bleed rear brakes

I tend to leave engine compartment paint alone.. but tend to give everything a good soak with simple green and go to the pressure wash every so often so it'd clean in there.

oh.. grommets on engine for metal fuel line/acceraltor cable hoder.  grommets for wiring on bus?  

tube around accelerator cable over tranny?   you can use old fuel line.. 


When putting tank in, get the seal around the neck in place right **before** tightening down the straps holding the tank in place.


In a message dated 4/13/2004 10:06:09 PM Eastern Daylight Time, coerver(-at-)mindspring.com writes:

>   Last gas tank question ( heh heh ).  The fuel sender: does the seal need to be replace ( does it go bad? ) when replacing it or the fuel tank.  I can't really tell - are the bolts hex?
>  Anything else I should check when replacing the gas tank? ( my front engine seal is in good shape and the T/O bearing and clutch was the the one thing the PO did prior to my ownership. )  Since the gas has already leaked out on my workplace's parking lot - should I need to feel guilty about replacing it in said parking lot this weekend? Maybe a little PO-15 or 
> paint for the engine compartment?
>    
>    thanks
>     -rob
