From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 15 Apr 2004 14:37:47 EDT
To: lowco(-at-)bellsouth.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Perhaps a dumb questuon

Depends on whether how much maintenance you plan on being able to do.   
Pulling a motor out of a splitty is very easy.  Tranny pulling isn't tricky either, 
but more work.   $200 for a tranny swap sounds really reasonable to me 
though.   personally my advice is to do it yourself.   If you can swing a deal with 
the guy to 'tutor' you guys through it... that'd be ideal.   

If you soak the engine compartment, under the engine, and around the tranny 
and the RGBs with simple green, let it soak in a while, then drive it to the 
pressure washer and give it a good wash, it'll make tranny swapping much 
pleasanter.   watch out for paper hoses with the pressure washer, and don't hit the 
distributor either. water in the distributor cap makes it not run (dry out w/ 
clean dry rag if needed)

Also, while the engine is out, I'd check a bunch of maintenance things, such 
as...

engine to body seal
new fuel line
fuel sock in tank
axle boots & new gear oil 
new rear brake hoses & any new brake parts needed (they'll have to come off 
when changing the axles anyway)
how old are the main & oil cooler seals?
engine compartment wiring in good shape?
new tranny mounts

grommets on engine for metal fuel line/accelerator cable tube.  grommets for 
wiring on bus?
pull shift linkage and replace shift bushings. (tranny MUST be out for this)

tube around accelerator cable over tranny so the cable doesn't cut the 
tranny?   you can use old fuel line.. 

My record for from driving the bus (bumper on) to tranny out and bare of 
axles is I think 3 1/2 hours (by myself, not rushing, but no problems) but that 
doesn't include any other things like fuel line swap. etc.  So knowing that 
you're learning, and there may be snags, and the bus will need more than the 
straight swap (like the list above) plan at LEAST a weekend.  If you feel like 
cleaning & painting the axle tubes... maybe plan two weekends so you don't feel 
rushed.  especially with doing all the other stuff that is easier or only 
possible with the tranny& engine out.

Do read the Muir book... it 'll work for pulling the engine and tranny.   If 
you don't have one, buy one.

 For pulling the axles, read the Bentley book.   you can use a regular 17mm 
wrench for the engine nuts/bolts.   Tools fro the pulling the motor... nothing 
special needed... you do want a rolling floor jack.  For pulling the tranny 
you want a 27mm socket and you need a 46mm for the rear drums (or the whacker 
tool).  The RGB bolts are 17mm or 19mm...( i've seen both sizes)  I'd get a 1/2" 
drive 19mm socket... useful also for lug nuts with a breaker bar.  You also 
want a 17mm allen for the tranny drain/fill plugs.

I take the drums and brakes and outer RGB covers off when the tranny is still 
in the bus (break the 27mm and RBG bolts loose before lifting the rear of the 
bus off the ground)

If you are replacing the inner RGBearings, you need the 42?mm for the inner 
hidden nut under the plug, and the plug issue is tricky.

Someone mentioned to me that I must have confidence in my bus to drive out in 
the boonies a nearly 1000 mile trip... but I have replaced all these worn 
parts... so while my bus is 43 years old as of 4 days ago, the running gear is 
all in good shape.   And all the little stuff will take some extra time... but 
makes the bus better and more reliable/safer.  and I am sure wouldn't be 
included in the $200.  Then agian... the first time I pulled a motor, a friend who 
had done it before was there... which made it much easier... otherwise I would 
have been really confused.


In a message dated 4/14/2004 12:15:13 PM Pacific Daylight Time, 
lowco(-at-)bellsouth.net writes:
My son's 66 bus is popping out of 4th gear. My local VW mech. said to take
it to the gentleman who rebuild it
awhile back.(This is not a warrenty issue) We are friends, but he laughed at
me when I asked him if he would pull the engine and trans and reinstall them
later after the trans is repaired. "It is so simple why don't you and your
son do it?".He even showed me what to do on a dune buggy, we were leaning on
while "discussing" this issue. I have average mech. skills (my son zero)  Is
it really that simple??Do we need to get a book and do it ourselves? I have
a set of tools metric and SAE but nothing fancy. I often see chatter about
some special 17mm wrench, trouble with seals,etc,etc. My buddy finally said
if I insisted he would pull both, store the bus and reinstall both for $200,
since this shop is his livehood, it sounded resonable to me.
Advise more than welcomed
Tom
So.Ga.
