Date: Sat, 17 Apr 2004 22:34:11 -0700
To: VB list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: phx bug show

got there about 10, walked eric around the swapmeet, met my friend 
lewis and watched him drag (66 mph, slower than the guy who caught 
fire), bought some stuff. mainly a 'torque dude,' the knockoff of the 
T-meister. $50, which beat paying $150+ for a crap-ass harbor freight 
torque wrench that would go past 350 ft/lbs. met ronnie oldvolks, who 
when he realized i was the crapcase dude  looked like he was worried 
i'd hit him or sumpin.... he asked if i'd driven the crapcase-powered 
bus to the show; i laughed and said no, the motor is on the garage 
floor, pooling oil; as far as i can tell, it leaks THROUGH the metal 
pores. i took some photos, i'll post em later.  he told me everyone 
else has built ones that went 75K and don't leak, etc .
(dude, it took many busses   DECADES to go 100K - you know guys who 
have driven a motor 75K they built LAST YEAR?????).   he was selling 
some whored-out splitty and told a tirekicker that he had a serious 
offer for 50K. i offered to sell him my bay for 6 gees and he could 
turn it for 18. he didn't look amused. jim ellis sez he's seen pics 
of this bus on the samba, so mebbee there's a reason someone would 
offer that much - i mean, besides crack abuse - but that one at 
barret-jackson looked nicer.   to me, its the difference between 
say, the one on the cover of vwtrends this month, vs shite like this:
http://www.jimmy540i.com/bmwnightmare7.htm
beware: severe eye damage possible.

had to buy a bug shifter knob that had 'volkswagen' in an iron cross 
because eric threw it. he threw it more at home and cracked it. sure 
hope it was a repop.
bought a neat 'hardy boys meet wolfsburg' looking book from melissa 
jess; 'alarm im werk' lots of interesting line drawings of the vw 
plant and town, as well as depictions of vw paperwork used as clues. 
book even came from the volksschule!   succumbed to the volksrags 
tshirt booth on the way out; he really does make nice shirts!  i  got 
the one that depicted transporters on a stamp.

all in all a pretty fun day - eric even enjoyed the drag racing, 
which i wasn't sure would appeal to an 18 month old... in fact, he's 
been running around all night yelling "VROOOOMVROOM."  his last words 
before falling asleep: "vrooom."
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
