From: "Christian Figenschou" <fig(-at-)zebrasafari.co.za>
To: "Vintagebus List" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 20 Apr 2004 11:58:40 +0200
Subject: Restoring roof rack

Hey Volks

Some of you may remember the original VWSA accessory
full-length roof rack that I scored a couple of months ago.

I had been cleaining it up a little here and a little there,
before going all out and finishing it in time for my Easter
road trip.

When I got the rack it was rust free, but had no wood slats
and was very bent, apparently from having been on a bus in a
collision.

I started out by straightening all the obvious bent bits by
using my main breaker bar and judicious leverage. That
quickly had all the bent legs and other bits straightened
out. But it still looked funny. A quick measure of the
diagonals from corner to corner showed the rack was
parallelogram shaped.

I tied one long side of the rack to a tree, using four ropes
tied at different points along that long side, while I did
the same to the other long side, but tied the ropes to a bus
jack that I had tied to a stake in the ground. Then I pulled
it straight with the jack.

This pulled it square again, but introduced localised
warping in other parts. Out with the breaker bar again, as
well as a bit of careful use of my body weight between
points resting on bricks, and I soon had the rack almost as
straight as new.

Then I sanded it and treated the surface rust before
spraying it in primer. How the hell did they paint these
racks when they made them? It's very wasteful spray painting
something that is mostly nothing with lots of space in
between. After using up nearly two litres of primer to get
it all covered I decided on a change of strategy, and went
for coach paint for the top coat. Coach paint is cellulose
lacquer specially formulated for brush application. I
managed to get one solid coat of black on and dry before
hurriedly attaching the new wood slats, unvarnished, just in
time to leave for my Easter road trip.

Now that I'm back home I'll remove the slats and varnish
them, as well as wet sanding the rack and applying more
coats of coach paint.

I will post pics of the rack on my bus with my trip report
to follow.

fig
Johannesburg, South Africa
1957 Kombi
1959 single cab
1961 panelvan
1963 Dormobile
1975 Fleetline panelvan x2
1975 Fleetline Kombi
www.zebrasafari.co.za
www.bigskyadventures.com
