To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: magic67bus <magic67bus(-at-)comcast.net>
Date: Fri, 29 Jun 2007 13:44:33 -0400
Subject: RE:vapor lock

I went nuts with a 66 bug back in say 84. It ran great- stock with much
rush and extractor exhaust.
Listen -we would stop and shut down for a few minutes, in summer in NY
State. Say a mcdonalds stop. Then we would start right up and drive
maybe a mile. Suddenly the car would stall.
If we sat a couple of minutes it would start back up and off we went
with no problem.
I was working at a vw only garage (actually I recently left) but I
stopped over for lunch and told the guys about this problem.
One of the guys had recently been to a "factory school" not sure which
company. He said that an issue exactly like my problem came up and was
even highlighted by the
instructors. He said fuel foaming could be the problem. The way I
understand this, is that the gas in the carb (or maybe fuel pump) gets
extra hot after shut down (for a few minutes) then the car is started
and slowly takes off and gains speed. the needle lets in some fuel and
the temperature difference can cause a temporary foaming which results
in a very rich condition. Actually gas just getting dumped down the
pipe. So it stalls. (a rich condition is mistaken for a lean one)
(maybe the froth entered the air passages). But it would start up
almost immediately. I thought about this for a long time and especially
with the vw temps it could be valid. I could duplicate this stalling
condition with some regularity. But with a small time window due to the
temperatures. Sound crazy. I even saw the written memo/tech bulletin. I
have seen "vapor lock" cited for many problems but cant say I have
actually proved it with any certanty. Frank- when I worked as a
mechanic I was hell bent on finding the cause of problems and failures-
Not to criticise here. I think many parts replacers do just that, over
and over.
I hope this helps. I did nothing for that great sunroof and its
stalling problem, I felt it was just a situation caused by design.
