Date: Fri, 3 Aug 2007 12:38:24 -0400 (EDT)
From: 'Avocado Tom' <tommy(-at-)roadtrip.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: No Fire on #2 and #4?

Greetings all!

I have an interesting...uh, problem that I'm trying to diagnose.

I recently pulled the fairly fresh 1600SP* out of my '67 to torque the 
heads, check the endplay, etc.  The engine has about 10k miles on it 
since the rebuild, I only re-torqued the one head after the rebuild (due 
to time constraints), and I had to pull it anyway so i figured it was 
time to check on things.

The heads were a little loose, so retorquing was a good thing.

I put the engine back in, slapped on a new carb (bad throttle shaft on the 
old one I think) and get her to idle, but she still had some problems 
warming up and idleing below ~950 rpm, so I went into debug mode.

One thing I did was a "Poor Man's Compression Test": pulling each 
spark plug wire out of the dizzy cap to see if the RPM changes, i.e. see 
if that cylinder is firing.  When I did this, there was no noticable 
change on cyls #2 and #4, making me think that they weren't firing 
properly.

Things I've done/checked since then:

1) Verified valves were adjusted properly
2) Verified that there is spark from the dizzy to each wire (there is)
3) Tried different spark plug wires (no effect)
4) Changed the plugs on those cylinders (no effect)
5) Done a compresison test: all cyls come in around 122-125
6) Verified that the wires are going to the right cylinders
7) Watched that valves appear to open and close with the rocker assmbly

So: I've got compression, I appear to have spark to the wire, but the 
cylinders do not appear to be firing (or at least not as well as #1 and 
#3).

I'm thinking that I don't have fuel or that fuel is somehow not getting to 
the cylinder?  But that seems odd because it's a single port... and the 
other cylinders on the respective sides *are* firing fine.

I'm pulling the engine again now (pressure plate went, methinks) but I 
think after I get it R&R'd my next steps will be:

1) re-check the spark plug wires and/or replace with new ones
2) try a different dizzy cap
3) maybe try a different dizzy?
4) Re, Re-verify the valves?

I really don't think it's an electrical problem from the dizzy side since 
I can see a spark going from the hole in the dizzy cap to the wire when I 
hold it a half inch out of the hole...

Any thoughts on this perplexing problem?  Am I crazy to think that 
something is wrong because I don't see any drop in RPM when I disconnect 
a cylinder?  Maybe it's a valve problem and I've got an intake valve 
that's sticking?

Thanks all, and happy friday!

 	-tom

* Engine Specs: 1600 single-port, Bocar H30/31 Carb, dual-vacuum 
distributor from a '71 with the retard port not in use, CR ~6.9-7:1.

---
  "We are MoTown. We are professionals. We're here to get the job done"
