From: "Joe Fournier" <joe(-at-)volks.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 20 Aug 2001 05:19:58 -0700
Subject: Re: Retorquing Heads

In the beginning were the engineers, who used science to design and develop
your VW engine and associated parts, including your heads. They developed
standards for putting together a quality product. This was documented by the
Tech Writers at Volkswagen and later published by Robert Bentley & Co. Over
the years, a few improvements were made. Many of these were likewise
documented. Later, after the engineers were out of the picture, there were
some who used what I can only think of as Voodoo magic to determine the
engineers were mistaken. HOWEVER, the general scientific principles of
torque and heat and the interplay between these and the stress on your
magnesium case have not, to my knowledge, been overtaken by Voodoo magic.
And I can't for the life of me see where having aluminum heads, which we all
have, could save us from these scientific principles.

One of the improvements that came about through science was the advent of
case savers, which allowed for slightly higher torque and prevented some of
the damage done to cases by overtorquing and the natural stress on threads
in the magnesium case. The whole point in torquing and retorquing is to put
an even stress on those threads and specific parts of the case. You should,
as you are attempting to do, follow the specs. I would check to see if you
have case savers (metal inserts) and check the torque spec on those. If it's
not 28, then back off a little and retorque to the proper spec.

There's plenty in the archives on this science, but basically, when you
torque to spec, as the engine gets hot, the torque increases dramatically,
to like 100 ft-lbs or something (I really have no idea as to the actual
numbers, but I recall that Bob Hoover once posted them to the list). When
you overtorque, the effect is exponential, so if an initial torque of 23
gives you 100 ft-lbs. at 210 degrees, then an initial torque of 28 might
give you 140 ft-lbs at the same temp (again I DON'T KNOW the actual
numbers). So, if you overtorque your heads, you're setting your case up for
failure. If the net effect of overtorquing was only the 5 lbs, they could
probably take it, but it's not. It's much greater than that.

DO NOT ever retorque only the lower bolts. ESPECIALLY IF YOU HAVE TO
RETORQUE often! You should only have to retorque once, maybe twice at the
most. Check again every year or six months, or whenever you drop the engine
for something else. When you have to retorque often, as one listee says, it
could be because the threads are weakening and you are on your way to
loosing the threads or the insert...?or you might have a stress crack in
your case that's expanding? I don't know. If I had to retorque often, I'd
start sleuthing the cause before the stress popped a hole in my case.

If you're retorquing only the lower bolts, then you are gambling that your
upper bolts are always perfect...and if you're wrong, you're necessarily
putting more stress on the lowers and assuring earlier failure of your
engine.

Thanks! Joe

