Date: Mon, 20 Aug 2001 08:10:40 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Neat Finding


>
>Any idea who actually makes these? As with most of the "branding"
>going on now - I have a K-Mart insulated shirt that has a "Coleman"
>label - I wonder if these aren't just overseas manufactured and the
>end of the assembly line adds the appropriate label.


You are correct Tony. In some cases you get a better product with a better 
brand (Michelin versus Wal-Mart Deluxe tires) but many times you can just 
as easily get the same product at a lower price under a different name.

For those that don't know and are interested:

Sears is a good example. I was hunting pretty hard for a nice table saw. I 
have a list 10 feet long of large projects for our house - new kitchen 
cabinets, entertainment (wall unit) center, deck, sun room, etc. etc.

I bought a NICE 10 inch Delta table saw. No longer will I have to borrow 
time on some else's saw. I don't expect to out grow this saw ever. Now I 
can start redoing the cabinet laminate in our '78 Westy. If any of you are 
near me and want to do some sawing, holler and we'll set up a time.

Went to Sears to scope it out and KNEW that their saws were made for them 
and then labelled. Took a couple days but was able to confirm that their 
saws are Ryobi. Most of the time their sales folks either don't know or 
won't tell you what brand their tools REALLY are.

My 3 year old Craftsman tractor is a 'Rallye' brand. Their trimmer (which I 
did not buy there) was a Ryobi and some were WeedEater brands. All could be 
bought cheaper if you bought it without Sears in the mix. However, the 
Sears warranty has always been good, and parts availability is good (as 
long as you aren't in a hurry! <grin>)

Another example - Dewalt is a division of Black and Decker -- I have a 10 
year old electric palm sander that is now sold as a Dewalt. I paid about 
$30 in 1991. It was then labelled a Black and Decker Professional. Been 
very good. Now have a Porter-Cable random orbit too which is much faster.

Porter-Cable is a division of Delta I think I found.

I think even Craftsman wrenches are made by the same company that makes the 
wrenches for Lowe's or Home Despot. Someone explained it to me but I have 
forgotten.

Most of these big factories will make large batches to order for a retailer 
- be it food, tools, or clothes. They will also box it and label it and 
send it to the retailer's warehouse. Few retailers can support a 
manufacturing location by themselves. I worked in a food processing factory 
for a few months one summer and they packaged food for most of the fast 
food joints - except Mc Donalds.

I have a 1912 (?) Sears mail-order catalog which explains how Sears made 
most if not all of their merchandise back then to ensure quality, and 
availability. Very, very impressive. Huge scale manufacturing.

One side note - I also heard this - can anyone confirm - that some 
retailers can and will specify lower quality items under the same label. 
Example that I heard was: K-Mart and Wal-Mart and Lowe's all order riding 
lawn tractors with Briggs and Stratton 14 HP 'Commercial' engines. At first 
glance all engines are identical - same labels, same colors, etc. However 
the engine going to Wal-Mart (example) is lower quality than the other 
because it has connecting rods that aren't as perfect and the engine has a 
plastic camshaft (they do run these in some B-S motors). Other details 
cheaper too. The other two have better parts in all categories. Of course 
Wal-Mart gets them at a cheaper price and they either can sell at a lower 
price or higher profit ratio.

Part of the proof (I'm told) is in the fact that when you go for parts, the 
parts guy has 39 (or more) different engine model numbers for the same size 
engine - each number relating to different retailers. The replacement parts 
are all the same and all fit but the part may be better than the very basic 
original part - a steel camshaft to replace your nylon camshaft...

It seems a little off the VW topic BUT we are all buying tools and we all 
rely on getting the most for our money. If you can buy an item of equal 
quality but a generic brand name from a local retailer (not slamming the 
parts folks on this list - Bus Boys, Bus Depot, etc.) and accomplish more 
for the same money - wouldn't you? It's saved me some money! Of course 
patronizing our VW suppliers ensures that they will be around when you need 
a part that you can't get anywhere else.

I was mostly talking about tools and supplies.




Ciao!

Chris M. <Busbodger>
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE: 	'72 Hodaka Wombat, I'm hunting for a clutch, can you help?
		Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing, otherwise complete (make 
offer)

