Date: Mon, 17 May 2010 16:29:46 -0700
From: Max Bronsema <max.bronsema(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Michael Rule <manikmike(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Interior Restoration

Hi everyone,

Thanks for the feedback, The number one question was in regards to the sound
proofing material I used. The product is called R-Blox<http://www.rblox.com/>,
I picked it up a few years ago on the auction site and have it used in my
MGB as well. The material is easy to cut and work with. The box mine came in
also had a small wooden roller that helped even it out after initial
application. Driving without my camper interior definitely is louder than
without. Just installing the material and knocking on the body it gives a
satisfying thud compared to the echo without it. My guess is that it helps
but I did not do any scientific testing before or after.

The second most common question has been about the floor. I used a plywood
sub-floor sprayed with water sealer, and I had to make two sections. On top
of that I placed a thin sheet of masonite to give the vinyl floor a smooth
surface to stick to and by assembling it opposite the plywood I was able to
make a solid floor. For some reason the floor is a little taller where the
table sits and lower where the jumpseat goes, I am not sure why, but that is
the only issue I had. The vinyl textured wood came in a single pack of 30
from Lowes, peel and stick.

Third, the wood I used on the panels is Honey Maple also from Lowes. It is
the correct thickness and comes pre-finished. I wanted to use Baltic Birch
like the original but I couldn't figure out how to make the 5'x5' sheet work
for the driver side interior panel.

As for tips, measure a million times and cut once, I found transferring
measurements to be difficult for me. It also really helped to have a second
pair of hands while installing the sub-floor and the rest of the interior.

Thank you again for the feedback.



>
>> I see that you installed a lot of dampener on your sheet metal. Did you
>> notice a significant difference in cabin noise?
