Date: Wed, 19 May 2010 11:22:14 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Hot-air Paint Stripper - the long and winding

I think the wood varnishes and paints get soft with heat applied. 
Vehicle paint hardens with heat to a point where I think you'd risk 
warping a panel before paint was soft enough to scrape off. If you want 
to scrape paint you're going to have to rely on chemical paint 
strippers. I've done that and don't like it much. Makes a mess and I 
worry about the strippers causing paint inside doors and seams to do 
weird stuff.


I'd suggest investment into an electric rotary palm sander and $30 worth 
of sanding discs. Don't forget a dust mask too.


The palm sanders that just vibrate back and forth are okay but very, 
very slow sanders. I have one. Tried sanding a panel with it. Slow. Like 
hours long slow. I have a rotary Porter-Cable sander and was able to 
rough sand my passenger front door in about 30 mins. The sanding process 
was controllable by pressure on the sander and the grit of the sanding 
discs. I wanted to see if I could go through the most recent layers of 
primer and paint (now nearing ten years old) to the previous burgundy 
color. Was pretty easy to control that.


One example very similar to mine: (just Google it)
Porter-Cable 343K 5-Inch Random Orbit Sander Kit - Hook & Loop Pad by 
Porter-Cable
There is a more expensive version of this that has speed controls and 
other fancy features but I don't need those.


This is the SLOW sander I mentioned:
DEWALT D26441K 2.4-AMP Heavy-Duty Orbital 1/4-Sheet Sander with Cloth 
Dust Bag
Mine is nearly 20 years old and works fine but it is better suited to 
wood surfaces than metal.


It LOOKS like DeWalt has purchased Porter-Cable or vice versa b/c there 
appears to be Porter-Cable and DeWalt versions of the same sanders.


I know the auto shops buy air tools but for us weekend shadetree types 
the electric tools work well enough.


I would strip it with the rotary sander (never sand with the edge of the 
wheel, you will gouge the paint, always sand flat panels flat), and then 
follow that with a long sanding block - by hand. Then start working your 
way back up with primer and hand sanding.


I do my hand sanding with something like this:
3M 9248NA Sanding Block Kit, 2.75 in x 5.25 in ($6). For a big flat 
panel vehicle like a VW bus I'd suggest a sanding block even longer. 
Maybe twice as long.


This: Ingersoll Rand IRT315 Heavy Duty Air Twin Piston Straight Line 
Sander - 2-3/4-Inch x 17-1/2-Inch Pad
would be ideal if you had a big air compressor to run it with for stripping.


I just bought a big air compressor:
Morgan Series Reconditioned Stationary Vertical Air Compressor  60 
Gallon, 240 Volts, 11.5 CFM, Model# RE5660A
...but expect another $100 worth of misc stuff to set it up. Air lines, 
circuit breaker, special outlet, air dryer/filter, air line couplers, 
etc. (The hidden costs)
Its the same as a Lowe's Hardware Kobalt brand and made by 
Campbell-Hausfield.

A big tool like that is worth the purchase if you plan to continue 
working on old cars or doing HD carpentry. Not necessarily for single 
time use. GRIN!
Dunno if it would run a long sander like that all day without pauses to 
catch up.
My Dad has painted many hot rods with a much smaller hot dog compressor 
with excellent results but he has to pause often to let it catch up. It 
is something similar to:

Campbell Hausfeld VS5006 15 Amp 2 Horsepower 20 Gallon Oiled Wheeled 
Single Tank Compressor

I think his is a used Sears Craftsman compressor from about 1982. Note 
that both our compressors are piston compressors. Not oiless rotary 
compressors. Don't think they are as durable and perhaps not capable of 
putting out the volume of air necessary for air tools or painting? 
Anyhow he paid about $150 for his.

Hope this was useful info for you.

Chris in Cookeville, TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L
'65 Beetle 2.0L
'97 VW Cabrio
'99 CR-V EX AWD (197K on the original clutch!)
Brenderup 1205S

>
>> Can a hot-air paint stripper be used for removing paint off a bus?
>> Or are they limited to housing interior applications?
