Date: Wed, 19 May 2010 10:47:24 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Hot-air Paint Stripper - the long and winding 

Chris as usual with some sound advice.
 
But...  I'd suggest (as I long have, see the type2.com library) considering
VERY carefully ones need to strip any car/bus anyway and what you hope to
achieve.  FWIW on a bus (and this is something I don't ususally do) the bulk
of the panels are probably best chemical (aircraft stripper) stripped as the
lower part of a bus is IDEAL for this method.  It is an unholy toxic mess, but
not as bad as it seems if you lay down poly first, then "bag up all the
remains."  I would only do the sides this way, but it is the optimal way. 
Good for the roof as well, but that leaves questions about dripping down the
window areas, which could be a nightmare, plus if you start F'ing with the
little gutters, and want to really do em right, you are going to need to blast
em when it is said and done.  I've blasted, sanded, and chemical stripped many
a car, bus, vanagon.  Hell I just bought a 175cfm commerical compressor
(jackhammer size) and blast pot taller than me to
 do the log house with walnut shell, and I've been eyeing the SC with the
thing, but all in all folks, be very carefull with what you want/hope to
achieve in stripping a whole bus.  $40k concourse resto on a splittie, by all
means.  Otherwise heavy grit on an air powered DA (you need a real compressor
anyway, just do it) just of the areas you need to do bodywork, seal the rest
with DP40 after a good hand or DA scuffing, and leave it alone volks.  And
like my library article says, WASH IT 2-3 times before ever touching it with
sandpaper, and degrease it with Acrylliclean or whatever, before you ever
touch it with sandpaper, nooks, crannies, jambs, everywhere.  Even if you
think it hasn't been waxed in 20 years.  BEFORE YOU START any work.  Then
countless times after/during with the Acryliclean of course.
 
I've painted a lot of busses, just my thoughts.  9 out of 10 times an
ameteur (or even a pro if it ain't a $40k job) will regret going to bare metal
on any project, particularly one the size of a bus.  Stabilize it so you don't
have incompatability issues, and leave it alone.  Now if it is a rattle can
job or latex you got another story...
 
John

--- On Wed, 5/19/10, Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net> wrote:



I think the wood varnishes and paints get soft with heat applied. Vehicle
paint hardens with heat to a point where I think you'd risk warping a panel
before paint was soft enough to scrape off. If you want to scrape paint you're
going to have to rely on chemical paint strippers. I've done that and don't
like it much. Makes a mess and I worry about the strippers causing paint
inside doors and seams to do weird stuff.
