From: "Chandler Thompson" <chandler(-at-)prestigefarms.com>
To: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 20 May 2010 17:11:34 -0400
Subject: Fw: [T2] Vacuum Line Kit Source

Thanks, can you explain the low voltage from alternator bit?  Now that I think
about it, a lot of the problems I'm having now started right after I changed
the alternator belt.  I don't think I have it tight enough, but I don't know
enough to know if it would cause the issues I'm having.  It's not loose enough
to cause the alternator light to flicker though.
Basically after running for 10 or 15 minutes it acts like it's starved for
fuel.  I've done what I do best, throw parts at it.  Swapped coils, spark plug
wires, dist. cap, and fuel filter since I had them all on hand.  I have
electronic ignition (compufire I think).  Spark looks strong everywhere and
the idle and timing is spot on (when it's running right).  Fuel pressure reads
in the mid 40's so I guess my FPR might be bad.  I read somewhere that if you
pinch the vacuum portion going to the FPR that the engine should stutter, mine
does nothing.
It is acting exactly like it did when my fuel filter was full of junk, but my
tank was removed and re-sealed less than 3000 miles ago. I've played around
with the ignition while it was running bad and that doesn't seem to do
anything. I could type for an hour on what I've tried to no avail.
So, quick rundown and maybe somebody can point me in the right direction -
1978 stock fuel injected automatic.  Starts right up, runs great for 10 or 15
minutes.  This is my daily driver and I recently returned from 2 separate 300+
mile trips w/out issue, so no old gas issues or the like.  If I'm at cruising
speed it will run fine until I have to slow down.  Shutting it down and
immediately restarting it seems to make it worse.  It basically barely idles
and hitting the throttle does nothing but make it run worse.  Sometimes it
will idle fine and then die when I put it in gear.  Usually if I let it sit
for 20 minutes or so I can start it up and get where I need to go as long as I
don't have to come to a stop (that makes city driving more exciting but not
fun).  I'm going to test my fuel pump output tonight to see if I'm getting any
blockage, but I'm curious if a vacuum leak can cause those symptoms?  I don't
see anything obviously wrong with any of them (but they are held together
mainly w/ duct tape) but I haven't removed them all yet to inspect.  As
mentioned earlier applying my brakes lowers the idle speed but even if I block
off the booster I still have this same issue.
Sorry for the long note I'm just at my wit's end and hoping someone can
provide a magic answer before I give up and take it to a real mechanic.

Thanks,
chandler

----- Original Message -----
    From: airic
    To: Chandler Thompson
    Sent: Thursday, May 20, 2010 3:19 PM
    Subject: Re: [T2] Vacuum Line Kit Source


    If the boosted line is plugged back at the motor, it wouldn;t be loosing
vacuum when you hit the brakes. it could be low fuel, a shorted wire when you
hit the brakes, or a drian on the electrical circuit, or even low voltage from
the alternator. or something plugging up the hole in the tank.  Weird one.

    ----- Original Message -----
    From: "Chandler Thompson" <chandler(-at-)prestigefarms.com>
    To: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
    Sent: Thursday, May 20, 2010 1:36:24 PM GMT -06:00 US/Canada Central
    Subject: [T2] Vacuum Line Kit Source

    Also, can someone tell me what would cause my bus to run rough when I push
the
    brakes even if I have the booster unhooked and capped at the motor?  I
think I
    have a leak in the booster line somewhere but I'm not sure how applying
the
    brakes could affect the engine if the booster is plugged up.  It runs bad
    enough to stall it out if I push real hard.

    Thanks,
    Chandler
