Date: Thu, 13 Dec 2001 11:55:22 -0600
From: al brase <albeeee(-at-)home.com>
To: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Oil light flickers on new rebuild.

David, Doc Ric:
Pretty good advice there. I'd also agree that you don't need much oil pressure at
idle. Or anywhere, really.
Did you ever look at an old Chevy 6, pre 1952? They used little scoopers to dip
into troughs for each rod as it swung thru the bottom of its stroke. Now
admittedly the 216 Chevy only had specific outputs and psi bearing loads about
1/4- 1/2 of what our antique air-cooleds have, but jeez, scoopers could't
possibly put more than 5-10 psi  pressure on the rod journal oil at ANY speed.
I rebuilt my brown 87 Vanagon about 4 years ago. It had spun a rod bearing. A
waterboxer is a motor inspired by a type 1 engine, with a type 4 type crank,
heavier rods, and a Subaru inspired crankcase all cooked up by evil geniuses
related to Dr. Frankenstien. When assembled correctly and the moon is in the
right phase, they work very well indeed. The 2.1 models also have  a 2 switch oil
pressure monitoring system that blinks a light and sounds a buzzer if the oil
pressure at 2000 rpm does not close the second switch (about 25 psi).
I always take apart my oil filters to examine for debris and swarf (metal bits).
At initial run in, there was a LOT of aluminum bits in this filter and it
continued thru a couple of oil changes. Also, the buzzer/ light would come on
when warmed up. I'm sure I did something wrong, maybe dropped a machine screw
into the oil pump or left a burr on its gear or something. If it had been a
customer's car it would obviously be unacceptable, but I am my ONLY customer, at
this point.
After just suffering the harrowing experience of assembling this thing, I decided
to just ground the wire to the second lite and put 40w oil in it and drive it.
That was 40,000 miles ago. Those 40,000 miles were hard miles. Unlike David I do
not lift off for ANYTHING unless it's safety related. On one of my trips I towed
back a Quantum with a towbar. At 75-80mph. Thru the Apalacchian mountains. (The
Quantum DID run, at least I wouldn't have to walk!) There was also another 3000
lbs of stuff in the Vanagon.
I am happy to report that the situation has not got any worse. There is snow on
the ground today, so the 40w oil has to go soon. I MAY just try synthetic, but
I'm not  a great fan. It sure works good when the temperature is low, however.
MY point of all this is that with most of these rebuilds we are just buying time.
If I can get a couple of more years out of this thing, I'll be quite pleased,
EVEN THOUGH I KNOW I MADE A MAJOR MISTAKE! I always say you usually learn more
from your mistakes than from your successes, though it's nice to have successes
once in a while!
Al Brase
69 double cab, 80 westy, 2-87 vanagons, 82 vanagon diesel

David Schwarze wrote:

> Not sure, but you *don't* have great startup pressure.  50psi cold is a bit
> low IMO.
>
> <snip>
>
> My advice to you, if you're absolutely certain about the bearings and oil
> pump, is to triple-check your cooling system (flaps, fan, airflow
> obstructions, seals, etc.) and then drive it gently until it is broken
> in.  Change the oil at 50 miles, 300 miles, and 3,000 miles.  At the 3,000
> mile oil change, if the exhaust is clear, blowby is minimal and power is
> good, put in synthetic oil and then just drive it.  That's what I did, and
> if your engine is like mine, your oil pressure will be adequate.  I still
> saw below 25psi on occasion, but those were special occasions like fighting
> 30mph headwinds in 100 degree temps in the Mojave desert, or pulling
> 3,000ft grades on warm days.  When that happened, I slowed down, geared
> down and backed off the throttle.  My motor survived and yours will too.
>

