From: "doc ric" <docric(-at-)preferred.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 5 Sep 2001 22:25:52 -0400
Subject: =?iso-8859-1?Q?Over_heating_continued:_today's_work_LONG?=

Over heating continued: today's work LONG

I know this is getting old, but need more input. I decided that I needed
additional professional help with the overheating 69 camper. Short history:
really overheated the motor coming home from Everybus. Put in an idle (2
years) engine from a 71. Only part reused was the carb. Put on temp gauge.
First trip of any length was about two weeks ago and got to 240 on flat
interstate at 50-55 mph. Pulled off to cool. Adjusted timing and carb at
campout, and stayed hot on the way home. Up to 250 in the mountains in
third.

OK, today I boiled some water on the camp stove behind the bus. The dipstick
sender was about 5 degrees off so those 250 readings may be 255. Close
enough. I did adjust for altitude.

I took a spare 34 PICT 3 to be rebuilt last week. Today I went to the shop
with the bus. This is an independent mechanic with some VW experience. On
the trip DOWN the mountain on a hot day, I reached 235. This was really a
down hill drive with the last few miles being rolling hills.

In the parking lot, I noticed the bus idle go down all at once. Did not
think much about it. I was out of the car waiting at the time.

The first adjustment was the 009 dizzy. The timing was about 28 max advance
degrees but seemed to advance slowly. I thought this was a normal 009 thing
as I always have a flat spot with these dizzys.  We took it apart and found
only one return spring. Is this normal? It looks like there is a place for
two springs, but it appears to only have one from the factory. By the time
we finished messing with it, we had stretched the spring. That dizzy is
history for now. We then put on the new carb and a vacuum advance
distributor I had with me.

He set the max advance to about 30 degrees. Then he tried to adjust the
carb. The idle was set to 1000 RPM, then when the engine speed was
increased, it would only go down to about 1200 rpm. After a few minutes, the
idle would suddenly drop to about 800 rpm (liked what happened in the
parking lot before we got started?? ). He worked for a long time on the
adjustment, but would continue to have the same symptoms.  We had the engine
hooked up to his machine which showed all cylinders firing, good coil
function, normal spark, good vacuum. Dwell at 50. At idle in the garage, the
temp was reading 190.

We finally gave up and went for a drive. The bus seemed to be a bit more
strong at higher rpm, but the flat spot continued if not a little worse. The
engine temperature got up to about 220 around town. By that time, the
temperature outside (six hours later) had dropped 20 degrees. The trip home
in cool conditions (mid 60s?) was uneventful, but reached 240 or more going
up the hills. TOO hot for a cool evening.

On the way home I stopped for a drink and left the bus running. A guy came
up to talk to me about the bus and again the idle suddenly went way down
while were standing there talking. His thoughts were a fuel pump problem.

Other info: The generator is making a whine. I was afraid to tighten the
belt too much but did it anyway, as I was concerned with some slipping. Made
no difference. I had intended to change it out today but found that the two
I had here were too short. It appears that the size changed around 1970.
Bummer. Could a bad bearing add significant heat/ drag on the engine?

In addition, the bus seems to really use a lot of gas. We ran it on and off
all afternoon, but used about 3 gallons?

If anyone has read all this, thanks! All input appreciated in advance!


Ric Jablonski
Roan Mountain, TN
http://pages.preferred.com/~docric/oktoberbus001.htm

