From: "Jeff Kitterman" <kittman(-at-)neartowntech.com>
To: <edtheobald(-at-)starband.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 6 Sep 2001 14:56:47 -0500
Subject: Re: Air Flow Meter problems...

Ed-

Thanks for the description. I've also received a picture of someone's virgin
AFM and now see how it should be.

The "temporary caretaker" was to blame for that AFM molestation. Daisy was
totaled out due to the flooding in Houston in June. Due to all the other
problems associated with the flood (house and other VW's flooded too) I
opted to take all the insurance money and not buy back Daisy for scrap
value. Well, since that time, everything started coming together. I've
finally found a contractor to fix our house and the money situation is not
as dire as it looked back when I let insurance take Daisy. Obviously, I
almost immediately regretted that decision, even though we were able to buy
a replacement car on the insurance proceeds. I did follow her up until the
auction; even the guy I bought her from in 1998 tried to buy her at auction.
But someone else outbid him, and she disappeared... until Labor Day. My wife
and I stumbled across her in front of a junkyard in a part of town we
normally wouldn't have been in. (A "short cut" that went wrong..) She was
complete, no one had raided her for parts or anything. I went in and
immediately asked if she was for sale... Yup. I got her back cheap, and had
her towed home. I was told they did some work to get all the water out of
the engine, etc, and they got her running, but the AFM was bad. It was fine
before the flood.. so when I took a look I found the AFM had been screwed
with: the arm bent like that and the set screw was loose. I'm just glad they
hadn't got around to the dreaded "carb switch". Other than that, the FI is
complete. She still needs her tranny flushed and brakes gone through.

I regret I didn't buy her back directly from insurance. Apparently though
she is meant to be our bus. And we sure don't mind. :)

Jeff
'76 Type II
'73 Type III
'73 Type IV
-----Original Message-----
From: Ed Theobald [mailto:edtheobald(-at-)starband.net]
Sent: Thursday, September 06, 2001 7:01 AM
To: kittman(-at-)neartowntech.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Air Flow Meter problems...

Jeff,
Yes, that little arm is bent way out of whack. That metal arm is used to
keep the contacts in the lower right quadrant of your picture 'open' when no
air is flowing thru the meter. This cuts current to the fuel pump to keep it
from running if the bus is not running. (This is a safety interlock).
Engaging the starter also forces the pump to run - thus bypassing the
contacts in the AFM.
This bent arm should not cause a problem with your AFM - it will just keep
your fuel pump running whenever your ignition is on.
Who was the Neanderthal that did this to your poor little AFM?
Good Luck,
Ed
'77 Westy



