From: "Robert Wallace" <Wallace.Bob(-at-)btinternet.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 7 Sep 2001 00:03:47 +0100
Subject: VANFEST 2001

Hello all,

So what's VANFEST?

Those of you who have been on the list for some time will know that VANFEST
is a show for VW Transporters organised by the 2000+ members of the UK based
VW Type 2 Owners Club. OK that means that most listees can't get there but
as its VANFEST time again I thought I would write a bit about it.

Each year since 1994 the third weekend in September has seen VW Transporter
owners of all years (but mostly 70's air-cooled) gathering on the show
ground at Malvern for what has become Europe's biggest show for VW
Transporters. Although most people attending come from the UK there is
always a good smattering of friends from continental Europe; this year the
clubs furthest flung member is coming all the way from Australia to visit
the show (but not in his van); and our furthest travelled van, ever, came
from Pennsylvania USA.

VANFEST is all about having fun in your VW and keeping it on the road. There
is camping on the show ground, VW related exhibitions, cooking in a camper,
lots of parts traders, kiddies entertainment in the day and live musical
entertainment in the evenings.

In the past we have done two large scale displays - "The Big VW" and "The
Big Bay" which are recorded on the shows web site. Find out how the show
survived FLOOD, FAMINE, and PLAGUE (otherwise known as torrential rain, a
petrol strike, and this years Foot and Mouth Epidemic)

This year we are putting on the "Bay Tripper" a convoy of up to 150 VW
Transporters through the scenic Malvern Hills; of course it's debatable
which is the most picturesque the Malvern Hills or the rows and rows of VW
vans, especially those in the show and shine.

This years show promises to be HUGH with over 400 vans pre-booked, more
traders then ever before and interest via the web site and leaflets going
through roof. If all that interest turns into punters we won't know were to
put them!

So for any UK listees who don't know about VANFEST (what planet have you
been living on for the last 8 years?) point your browser at our web site
quick before you miss your chance to join us for the weekend of 15-17
September at with what promises to be the biggest VW Transporter event of
the 21st Century (so far). Every one else can have a look at what they are
going to miss too:-)

Ah well, that's enough for now, any one not going to VANFEST will have to
wait for the post show reports and web site pictures.

Visit us at www.VANFEST.org and www.VWT2OC.org.uk

Bob Wallace
Bristol UK
1998 T2








