From: stephanie.barnes(-at-)convergys.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 7 Sep 2001 10:14:56 -0400
Subject: New to This, Need some Advice.

Hi all.   On August 25th, I got my first bus - a 1974 Westy. (okay begin
laughing) Now, I've never really been mechanically inclined, mostly because
I've never had the desire to be. But I've always wanted a bus and well it
seemed like the right time. Anyhow, not knowing much about busses, I
decided to take it to a mechanic in my area (Cincinnati) who's been working
on VW's since '56 and let him have a look. They came back with a massive
list of things that needed to be fixed and me in my infinite wisdom (and
low, very low, budget) decided which parts they should fix.  But they did
say the engine looked grand and a few other things as well.

They did stuff like : Upper and Lower Ball joints, steering damper, fuel
lines, oil pressure switch and one of the idle jets. They told me I've got
dual carbs (yes, I didn't know it before they told me - I admit it).

Here's what wasn't done that they said needed to be: Tie Rod Ends, Outer
Axle Boot - right rear, front brake pads, front shocks, rear brake
adjusters and screws.  Oh and the replacing of the carbs (they said it
wasn't imperative at this moment but that I should really think about it).

Now I've got a some people around here who are much more mechanically
inclined and I'm armed with four manuals...So I guess the question is:  In
the above list, considering at this moment I couldn't tell you what a tie
rod end looks like (I can hear your laughing from here), should I even
bother trying to get up the gumption to this by myself (with some of those
more mechanically inclined individuals) or should I just suck it up and pay
the mechanics?  I really would like to learn how to do these things, but
I'd like to walk before I sprint. :) If they would be a good learning
experience then I'm all for it. (end laughing)

Thank you for all your help in advance.

Stephanie

--

NOTICE:  The information contained in this electronic mail transmission is
intended by Convergys Corporation for the use of the named individual or
entity to which it is directed and may contain information that is
privileged or otherwise confidential.  If you have received this electronic
mail transmission in error, please delete it from your system without
copying or forwarding it, and notify the sender of the error by reply email
or by telephone (collect), so that the sender's address records can be
corrected.


