From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 23 Oct 2005 10:53:53 -0700
Subject: Altitude observations

Made a trip this week from Flagstaff Arizona (7000 Ft) to to North Phoenix
Arizona (2300 ft) in my 80 Vanagon. The adventures I have had trying to tune
my 75 and 80 here in Flagstaff have been interesting at best and frustrating
at worst. I now have at least some insight as to what is happening with the
fuel injection systems of our busses relative to altitude.

Before leaving Flagstaff I did a complete tune up including checking C.O.
level at the exhaust test port ahead of the CAT and muffler with a Gunson
Gastester. Ok I'm putting on my flame suite here, I know the short comings of
the Gunson but it's all I have for now and plug readings seem to verify
testers "relative" accuracy. I set all tune up parameters according to the
factory sticker except for C.O.%. This is where I did a little experament. I
set C.O. to 6.5% according to a chart I found in the water cooled digijet
section of my Bentley. Yes I know, I'm driving an air-cooled, AFC system, but
bear with me. What I am after is, what happens to our engines with large
changes in altitude. I also have a vacuum reading of 12 in/hg.

After driving to Phoenix I let the bus cool overnight and then took a 10 mile
drive in Loop 101 to simulate the same warm up I did in Flagstaff before
checking C.O.%. The Gunson now says I have a C.O.% of 2.6%. It seems the chart
in the Bentley is accurate! My vacuum reading is 17 in/hg. I assume if I drove
to the west coast I would have a C.O.% around the ideal 1.0% +/- 0.5%
mentioned in the Bentley for air flow controlled systems.

This bring up 2 questions. 1. How lean would my engine be running if I
followed the Bentley while tuning up in San Diego Ca. and then driving to
Flagstaff without adjustment? 2. Was there ever an optional barometric sensor
for this 1980 federal fuel injection system and how was it installed? I know
I've seen one on the electrical schematic for my 75 but not for the 80.

Well, enough insight for now. It's time to go replace my sluggish starter.

Tom
75 bus "Turtlebus"
80 Westy "as yet unnamed"
Bus-ted minds want to know
