From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Courtney Hook" <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>, "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 23 Oct 2005 22:25:43 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] My 77 is a leaker.

In a word, yes. To ID leaks I clean the engine as well as posible. in the 
case of suspected leaking pushrod seals, make sure you remove the tin from 
the bottom of the engine first then spray with degreaser around seal area. 
Let it soak, then rinse. Once it air dries, take it for a short drive. Just 
long enough to get it to operating temp and allow the oil to leak a little. 
Inspect for the source of the leak. If the leak is obvious, fix it and your 
done. If you have a hard time locating the leak, blow baby powder or 
preferably corn starch that was run through a blender, on the suspect area. 
(baby powder often has talc in it, not good inside your engine.) This stuff 
sticks to oily metal well. If it's still not obvious where the leak is 
coming from you can use low pressure air to blow the excess powder away, the 
oily areas will hold the powder as long as the air stream is not too strong.

If you find the push rod tubes leaking, try rotating the leaking tubes 
without removing them. this sometimes stops the leak. If this doesn't work, 
remove valve covers, rocker arms, and push rods. keep ever thing in order so 
it all goes back where it came from. As you remove the rocker arm assemblies 
take notice of the wire retainer that keeps the pushrod tubes in place. Make 
a drawing or take a picture. Believe me, when you go to put this wire back 
in place it looks like it could fit a dozen different ways, but will only 
work in the correct position.

Now, make a list of all the cuss words you know! the push rod tubes often do 
not want to budge without the use of foul language, muscle, and sweat. Turn 
the tubes while at the same time pulling them toward the head. Avoid using 
vice grips or pliers of any kind if possible. You don't want to dent or tear 
the tubes. One of those rubber strap wrenches might help but I have never 
had to resort to that. the Viton seals are the way to go!

Make sure the areas where the seals go on the tubes and in the engine is 
spotless before you replace the tubes and don't forget to oil the seals well 
before you install them.
Good luck
Tom
75 bus "Turtlebus"
80 Westy "as yet unnamed"
Bus-ted minds want to know




> Thanks for the info guys, but can I remove them while the engine is still 
> in
> the van??
> Courtney 
