From: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>
To: "Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 14 Jan 2002 13:25:23 -0500
Subject: Baywindow to Split MC conversion fluid reservoir notes

After rummaging through the local pull-a-part I have found that not only can
you use a VW Rabbit (Not Golf) master cylinder fluid reservoir for the dual
circuit baywindow master cylinder conversion, but you can use a Porsche 924
unit as well.

The Porsche 924 unit will have "ATE" on it and be vary similar to the Rabbit
unit except that it holds more fluid (bonus) and has better separation
between the front/rear fluid chambers (bonus).  More fluid is always good
for numerous reasons so I will not go into that.  The chamber separation is
really what sold me on it, IF you blow a front or rear line or drum cylinder
this separation will ensure a bit better that fluid stays in one or the
other chamber and not drain the whole reservoir.  The chamber separation is
present in the Rabbit reservoir, but not nearly as much safety margin as the
924 unit.

Also in looking around the Audi 5000 reservoir could possibly be used, but
has a slant to it when installed that I did not look into as the affects
from a horizontal application like the VW bus.  You may want to research
this alternative if you have one handy (free)?

Does anyone know what Weber carburetor was used on the Fiats?  Also it
seemed that many of the Japanese cars had progressive carbs that could
possibly fit right onto the Weber progressive intake mounting, mostly
Nissans and Toyotas.  I know Bob Hoover ran a Toyota progressive on his bus
and really liked it.  Of course many people do not like the Weber
Progressive because it was tuned for a 2.0L Pinto motor where as one of
these Japanese carbs are probably tuned for 1.5-1.8L motors depending on
application.

...  I know I should leave the carb situation alone, but I figure I will try
them all before I am done :)  I wish they still made the Holley bugspray :(


Actually I am picking up a '74 Westi and extras this weekend which has a
Weber progressive so we will see how the tuning of that one goes :)

Happy Journeys,
Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Westi "Biscuit"
1979 Porsche 911 SC "Cochise"

On the gravytrain to biscuitville!





