From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "surfdoc99" <surfdoc99(-at-)aol.com>, "Vanagon734" <Vanagon734(-at-)cs.com>, "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 14 Jan 2002 18:12:2 -0800
Subject: Bus Centerpin Success!

well, i did my first bus centerpin today. it went exceptionally well. 
as i said, i would give the results of the german metric reamer i purchased
to do the job. stamped into the reamer is "24 H7 HSS" and on the label on
the tube is:
"Made in Germany" and another label: "DRHa   0/4   Hand-Reibahlen   Form A
geradegenutete   DIN 206-A - 24- HSS"
i figured that it met the specifications set out in the service manuals, so
i'd give it a chance. i also got very lucky and found a new vw131a, driver
for the bus centerpin bushings. i needed a large "C" clamp, so i went to
harbor freight and bought an 8" "C" clamp, which i had to modify slightly
to fit between the shift rod and the spacer i had to use on the top of the
swing lever, because the pin sticks out of the top of the swing lever when
compressed.
anyway, the old bushings came out just fine, and the new ones went in
smoothly. i accidentally drove the top one up too far the first time, so i
drove it out completely and started again, with success the second time.
the bottom one went in flush, and then it was time for the reamer. after a
few turns i realized i needed a glove to protect my hand from all the
falling brass shavings (they HURT when they get imbedded!!). with gloved
hand and a 21mm wrench, i gently turned and pushed the reamer upwards,
until it spun freely, its cutting work done. still turning it in the same
direction, i pulled it downwards and out of the bushings. success! clean
cuts, no chatter marks.
i put the top white seal on the axle, and then put the pin, washer, thrust
washer, cap, and o-ring on the pin, and then put the swing lever on. after
a few trips to the bench grinder to modify the "C" clamp, i clamped the
swing lever onto the pin so the groove lined up with the bolt hole in the
swing lever, put the bolt with new locktab in, and torqued to 70nm, then
bent the locktab to complete the job. 
smooth, even without greasing it yet. no more wiggle. no more slop.
one thing i did notice was that the bolt supplied with the german "PM" kit
was not good--the non threaded part that fits in the groove of the pin, was
not long enough and the threads were actually in the groove, so i cleaned
and used the old, original bolt. i have not checked the febi/bilstein kit
yet to see if it has the same bolt problem.
overall it was a very simple and easy job. alot easier than i thought it
was going to be. nothing to be scared of anymore.
the cost of evrything: reamer $95, bushing driver $30, "C" clamp $8,
centerpin kit $30
by the way, if anyone is interested in purchasing a similar reamer, i can
order one, and shipping is included in the $95 price. 







