From: "John Kitsmiller" <john_kitsmiller(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "SplitWindows Rule/LagWagens Drool" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 15 Jan 2002 22:58:59 -0500
Subject: Venting a bit <long>

<vent>

I haven't been in the bus scene in a while, but it seems it has changed a
bit.  My last busses were about 8 years ago when I had a 58 Deluxe Hardtop,
a 62 Kombi and a 63 Westy.  I got rid of them due to having kids and
persuing a career and that kind of stuff.

I recently bought a 66 Deluxe Hardtop with the plans of daily driving it
again.  I also joined this list with the hopes of talking with others with
the same passion about VWs and specifically Type IIs.

Well a lot seems to have changed.  I have noticed a lot of posts on here
about people wanting outrageous amounts for busses now and people that have
busses or VWs just because it is cool or because of who knows what.  It used
to mean something to be in the VW Club of America (I am sure some of the
folks I have run into don't even know what that is).  Don't get me wrong,
even though I personally don't like the customizing of a VW, if you enjoy a
VW because it is a VW, then cool.

I also have noticed that it is not as much a community as it used to be.  Oh
sure people are on this list and there are lots that offer good advice and
help, but there are others that it is NOT about VWs and the people that
drive them.  There are still a lot of people that are passionate about
busses and the people that drive them and more power to you!  But there are
"the others" too.

Case in point, I am searching out some parts to finish getting my 66 ready
to get on the road and have had two different kinds of experiences from
people on this list.  Here is a snip from an e-mail I got from one guy, this
is what I enjoy and wish more were like

"John, it may be worth more but I have so much to try and sell I'd rather
> > pass a good deal onto you and gt rid of it. I don't have much bus stuff
>and
> > I would be happy if it is something you can put on your ride."

On the other hand I made a deal with a guy to get some glass.  I waited a
couple of weeks while he packed it up so he could give me a total with
shipping.  All the while I told him I really needed so I could get things
going (in hindsight I should have just taken another offer, but I figured I
could wait and heck...).  Almost three weeks later I got a total from him
and sent him a money order.  He got the money order today and sends me an
e-mail that there was some misunderstanding on the deal (I offered $23 plus
shipping, he thought I meant $23 plus shipping plus a couple of church
keys).  He just says he is going to send the money order back.  The bitch of
it is he knew I needed this for this weekend and reading through the e-mail
we both obviously misunderstood what the deal was.  I offered to send him
the keys since I was sort of desperate for this glass now, but he already
sent the money order back.

I guess it is naive of me to think that people in the VW and specifically
the Type II community are looking out for each other, but I wish it were
true.  I wish it were at least true of this list.

Hey, I have a suggestion.  If you are passionate about VWs and you are like
the first guy I quoted God Bless You.  If you are not then go sell your
parts on E-Bay!

I will jump off my soap box now, and you can call me crazy, but that's the
way I remember it.  Thanks for listening and sorry if I wasted any of your
bandwidth.

</vent>

John
66 Deluxe Hardtop
