Date: Wed, 3 Jul 2002 09:49:43 -0400
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
To: ChancesOur(-at-)aol.com
From: Tom Tarka <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] carb question


On Wednesday, July 3, 2002, at 08:57  AM, ChancesOur(-at-)aol.com wrote:

<snip>

> First, my electric choke seems loose. I dont mean the wire to it, I 
> mean the unit itself. Where the wires connect. I dont see any screws to 
> tighten it. Can this be done? Does it need it?
>
> Second, my electro magnetic cutoff valve seemed loose too. I tightened 
> it by hand. How tight is this bugger supposed to be?
>
> Third, and I guess most importantly. I only have one wire. Just the 
> wire that does from the choke to the cut off valve. No wire from the 
> cut off valve to the coil. Two questions here. First, where is this 
> wire supposed to connect on the coil. And lastly for what purpose?
>
> Maybe if I had noticed these before hand I wouldnt have bought a new 
> carb. Regardless though, I have to have the wired correctly to 
> reinstall the new one.


Melissa,

The loose cutoff valve will cause a vacuum leak.  It should be hand 
tight, maybe a little bit (1/8th a turn) more than
that if you can get a wrench on it.

The missing wire from the cutoff valve to the coil will cause your bus 
to not idle.  Wire that puppy up to the
left hand side (the ignition wire and reverse light, aka 12V side) of 
your coil and you should be back in business.
The purpose of this wire is to power the cutoff valve, which, when it's 
powered, allows fuel to flow, I expect to the
idle circuit.  This prevents your carb from "running on" after you shut 
down the engine.  It'll also keep your
carb from idling if it's not hooked up.  Basically, when the valve is 
powered up, it's open.  If you put your head
in your engine compartment and have someone else turn the ignition to 
"on" you should hear an audible
"click" of the valve opening when the key is turned (i.e. when it gets 
power).

Regarding your choke:  there should be a metal ring around the choke 
that holds it tight to the carb body.
this ring has three screws in it that you tighten down to keep the choke 
in place,  If this is missing, you
can always wire the choke in such a way that the butterfly valve is open 
as a temporary solution.  Especially
given that it's summertime.

Good luck, and keep poking around your engine compartment and figuring 
things out.

	-tom
	-71 bus

