From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: "Thomas J. Tarka" <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 17 Oct 2003 08:39:55 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] Building Engines

1. NEW single port heads are unavailable (as far as I can find) and very
expensive if and/or when you find them. It's cheaper now (and better) to
rebuild a set of late model original German single port heads in todays
market. 

2. 88 cut ins are great

3. Why buy a BERG 69 CW crank? DPR nad/or DeMello are just as good at half
the price.

4. Use NEW rods

5. Cam can make or break your new engine

6. No problem with single carb

7. Balance, balance, balance, that will help longevity and smoothness

8. AVOID!!!!!! any NON VW manufactured head. Long term results are in on
Auto Linia and other non VW manufactured heads. Under heavy use (note I said
heavy use) they are known to drop valve seats. This has been happening in
the 30,000 mile range and as low as 16,000 (on an engine run hard). I have 6
documented cases, including my own test engine, with a little more then
16,000 miles. On my genuine VW (Brazil) single port heads I have 63,000
miles and the only problem I have seen is cracking between the valve seats.
These are also big valve heads I had made with 40mm intakes and 35.5 exhuast
used in a 1776. These pobaly wouldn't have cracked if I used stock size
valves.


ronnie  old volks of az
www.type2parts.com

ps. A lot of todays aftermarket engine parts are not built to last. The
manufacturers have the idea that nobody drives their VW more then a couple
hundred miles a month and only on weekends. Given these factors it would
take years before enough miles are put on the parts (engine) before a
failure would occur and that most people will have sold the VW off before
this would happen.


-----Original Message-----
From: Thomas J. Tarka [mailto:tommy(-at-)slackers.net]
Sent: Friday, October 17, 2003 7:21 AM
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] Building Engines


Ok all you engine builders out there, now's your time to speak up and give 
your $0.02.

I may sound like I'm on crack here, but I'm beginning to start "purchasing 
parts for my first engine", so I thought I'd ping the list to get some 
opinions.

I would like to build a 1600 SP (I prefer the SP heads) with a new case 
and stock, center mounted carb and vacuum advance distributor.  I'll be 
tapping the case for full flow, mounting a dog-house oil cooler 
(modified to use the type-IV style cooler), and adding cool-tin to my 
heads.  I know that the dog-house thermostat might be a little tricky 
with the SP heads, but I'm not too worried about it.  Also, I'll be 
getting a counterweighted crank from Berg and more than likely, having 
everything balanced as well.

My primary question is that I've read a lot about 88mm P&C's -- that they 
have thicker cylinder walls which help in cooling -- and that they give 
you a little more OOMPF.  Is it reasonable to run 88mm P&C's with a single 
center-mounted carb -- either a 34-Pict-3 or a 30-Pict-X -- or is that a 
silly prospect because the fuel throughput won't be able to keep up 
with the additional displacement?

The tendancy is to leave well enough alone and just go stock -- the 
thought being that going SP instead of DP will already help with my head 
temps and that I should be "just fine" withough making additional mods 
which bring me farther from stock.

Also, are there recommended manufacturers for SP heads?  I know the price 
has gone through the roof, so I'm wondering if it's more worthwhile to go 
with someone like Berg or just go standard new heads from busdepot.

Looking forward to hearing your thoughts on this....
	
	-tom
	-71 bus
	-67 kombi
