Date: Sun, 19 Oct 2003 16:56:03 -0000 (GMT)
From: farmer(-at-)orangeburgcomputers.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 68 Baywindow : A Fruitful Day

Hiya folks,

  Yesterday was a good day.  I went over to a friends house and we took
out the gauges to see why the fuel gauge quit.  After fixing a wire that
might have been grounding it out, we finally came to the conclusion that
the problem is in the tank unit.  Bluck.  But on the bright side, I'm
having the engine removed within the next two weeks anyhow, so fixing it
then will work out okay.

  The engine is coming back out due to the throw-out bearing still
screaming.  I am plagued by the worry that things have gotten worse back
there.  It is very hard to start it with the clutch pressed in now.

  The other mission yesterday was to figure out why the horn only worked
sometimes.  I tried to take the steering wheel off, but not having a
puller I couldn't "Snatch" it off, nor could my husband.  So I went to
the netherworld under the bus.  I accidentally pulled of the ground wire
to the horn that goes up the steering column.  Ooops....   Hmmm... 
Okay, so I am removing the pan that shields the pedals et. al.  Now I
can see where I need to plug that bugger back in.

  I toyed with the idea of disconnecting the steering box so I can remove
the column, I suspect that the wire going down that shaft is grounding
out.  Nope, don't want to do it.  I don't have enough spare cotter pins
to replace all those nuts with.  So I concede it may take another
strategy.  I begin to replace all the stuff I've removed.  As I am
reassembling I have a "Light Bulb Moment", what if those Chowderheads
that worked on it last tightened the spring screws down to tight??? 
Yup, after some playing around I have a horn that works all the time.  I
like easy solutions.

  Since I had that darned pan off already I decided to straighten out my
steering wheel once again, ala the drag link method.  So now my
crossbars on the wheel are at nine and three, thank you very much.

  I wish I understood the front end alignment process better, she is
pulling to the left a bit.

  Please tell me how to access the archives, and also where I can find the
components to re-gasket my gas tank and replace the sending unit.

Thanks a bunch,

Jennifer
