From: "Tom and Thanh" <tom.loan(-at-)rogers.com>
To: "George Lyle" <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 19 Oct 2003 17:16:58 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: re Pitman arms and retrofitting steering boxes

<Could you elaborate on the interference?  Is it the "neck" of the box
interfereing with the hole in the frame member, or is the box hitting some
other item?

As time goes on, early bay boxes will become even more rare, and they won't
be any more robust than they are now.  Eventually, we'll have to make the
late box fit!

George>

True enough George. There were several fit issues I ran into. The box neck
wouldn't go through the frame, in spite of miking out at exactly the same
maximum size, although the early bay box tapers smoothly from smallest to
largest, while the late box is different, with a raised ring a few inches
from the seated position. I ended up having to grind metal off of the wide
part of the new casting to get it to even start into the hole. I went around
and around with my bench grinder, reducing the diameter of the raised ring a
few inches out on the main shaft that goes through the frame.  Finally I got
it to go through the hole, as far as it would go, which was not all the way
down. The splined shaft for the steering coupler was I feel not lined up
right  to receive the steering column, only 1 of 4 bolts would thread in.
When I tried to turn the box to line up 2 other holes that might have lined
up, the box hit the sheet metal enclosure of the body, not allowing it to
rotate further. I was prepared to drill new mounting holes, but the box
wouldn't even fit all the way in, there was daylight between the hole in the
casting and the frame.  It was like trying to put the wrong muffler on a
car- you can bash things to death with a BFH, and dent things enough to make
it fit up. I didn't want to bash my bus. There is a steel plate on the new
box that sticks out in the wrong spot, it interferes. It was quite clear
that the later bay was quite different in this area. If I'd had more time to
mess with it, it might have gone further, but I had to pull the engine and
trans this weekend(which I just did) preparatory to storing the bus for the
winter this week. If I had it to do over, I'd get the Bus Boys rebuilt box
for the early bay.
Tom


On Fri, 17 Oct 2003, Tom and Thanh wrote:

> Sorry to report, I have given up on fitting a later model steering gearbox
> to my 70 bus. There are too many issues regarding fit to resolve, in my
> opinion. Aside from the bolt holes not lining up, the body of the box
> interferes with the body of the bus enough to prevent it from fitting in
> properly. I was very disappointed after buying a new TRW box, a Pitman arm
> and a new Pitman arm nut, but I have faced reality and shelved the
project.
> My original box is now back in, torqued in and finished.

Could you elaborate on the interference?  Is it the "neck" of the box
interfereing with the hole in the frame member, or is the box hitting some
other item?

As time goes on, early bay boxes will become even more rare, and they
won't be any more robust than they are now.  Eventually, we'll have to
make the late box fit!

George
