Date: Tue, 19 Oct 2004 23:13:05 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com,vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, "buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org"
From: Jamie Auch <airhead(-at-)acvw.com>
Subject: John Brown's Buses

Well folks,
John Brown's Buses 2003 has come to an end.  My plans were to be at the KOA 
by noon, but that never did happen.  I arrived around 3:30 (my mile or so 
drive).  It was raining but I knew that we were suppose to have a good 
weekend.  With Emma my 3 1/2 year old daughter and Charlotte our 13 year 
old beagle awaiting in the bus, I entered the office to check in.  I got my 
site and found that The Cook family and Dave Slycke from Emerald Isle, NC 
had already arrived.  I had to fix some of the reservations that the KOA 
had goofed on and the I went to my site.  I found a pop-up camper in the 
spot that I had reserved for The Potts of Canada and had to go back to the 
office to find out what was going on.  Too make a long story short, we 
switched some sites around so that The Auchs and The Potts could be 
together.  I go back and start to unload.  The next thing I see is a huge 
5th wheel pulling into where we were assigned.  By that time, I was almost 
ballistic, soaking wet, and ready to strangle my poor daughter.  I finally 
got that mess straightened out and set up, ready to greet the buses. In 
rolled in Ronn Dunn, Dave Parsons, Jeff Stewart, Casey Gittings, and John 
Duerr. The Potts arrived around 6:00 or so in their maple leafed red and 
white Westies and it was wonderful to see them.  I finished up my site as 
Greg Potts erected the "Blue Sky" for The Canadian Pavillion. Taco were 
prepared for dinner and we settled in for a wet, damp night.  Buses kept 
rolling in as the rain stopped about 11:00. There was no sign of Mark 
Dearing and The Troll by midnight, I knew something had to gone 
astray.  Mark was leaving Salem by 5:00 and it was about a 4 hour ride.
It was a crisp dry morning as folks started to creep out of their 
buses.  The Canadians put on a wonderful pancake breakfast for 
everyone.  Most of the morning was catching up with old friends and making 
new ones.  Folks kept following the sun in order to stay warm, that was 
quite a sight.  More folks started to roll in and found out that Mark 
Dearing had troubles with "Bubbles"  The splittie got a ride home with AAA, 
and Mark, his wife and Bill arrived in Bill's Vanagon.  Folks spent the day 
exploring Harpers Ferry, the local country side, and there were a few 
partakers of the slots at Charlestown Race Track. We had a day visit from 
Access Bob, and we actually had a Steve Dolan sighting.  It was good to see 
both of them.  Saturday after dinner, we gathered aroound the Canadian 
Pavillion for door prizes.  I had the help of my oldest daughter Casey in 
picking the numbers.  The youngest camper was awarded to Ronnie Pugh's 
little boy; the oldest bus was awarded to Skip in his '59 (?) split.  The 
long distance award went to the Pott's of Canada.  Afterwards, folks went 
back to their own campfires and made visits between the various 
sites.  Sunday morning arrived too early and we started to make the famous 
Fullmoon Bus Clubs breakfast burritoes.  I want to thank Ian Janes, my 
wife, The Potts, and anyone else who lent a hand in the preparation and 
clean up of breakfast.  By 2:00 everyone had said their good byes and 
packed up.  I finally got myself together and was the last to leave to 
close John Brown's Buses 2003.  Thank you so much to those that 
attended.  There were 25 buses in total, compare to the 12 last year.  Some 
one stated that JBB was the fastest growing camp-out in the US ":0)  Hope 
to see you all next year and welcome anyone who has not experience John 
Brown's Buses.  JBB 2004 will be the weekend after Colmbus day.  Some pics 
can be seen here
http://www.kookymathteacher.com/JBB2003/JBB2003-1.htm
Thanks again and now it's time to crash!

Joy Thru Air,
Jamie Auch
Kooky Math Teacher
http://www.johnbrownsbuses.com
