Date: Mon, 20 Oct 2003 11:41:23 -0700
To: <trgesell(-at-)compuserve.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Brake Job Questions

At 07:51 AM 10/20/2003, you wrote:
>1) I'm replacing all the hoses (front & back). I've think I heard there are
>braided hoses available. Is there any benefit to braided over OEM rubber,
>other than firmness?

The very sleight cushioning of pressure that the stock hoses provide means 
far less chance of locking up a wheel in an emergency stop. The only 
benefit of harder pedal from braided lines is for a highly skilled racing 
driver in a racing machine in a race.

>2) I'm doing rear bearings as well, using the busdepot kits. Any other parts
>I should maybe have handy?

New cotter keys for the axle nuts. Most can be reused several times. Not 
every flaps will have them that big so add those to your order either as 
replacements or spares.


>3) Rear slave cylinders are pretty cheap...should I replace them as a matter
>of course even though they don't leak. I suspect they are original...

If they are original they will have the Ate mark cast in. Clean them off, 
verify. If they are German originals, take them apart, clean and inspect 
them. If the seals are supple enough to remove, clean and replace, then 
such an overhaul of a German cylinder is far better than anything 
aftermarket. If the seals are poor but the pistons and cylinders are 
serviceable, either try to find matching seals for replacement or, buy the 
cheap junk cylinders, take out the seals and rebuild the German parts and 
throw away the junk metal. German cast iron is superior, use it anyway you 
can. When German seal sets for rebuilding were last available, they cost 
more than the whole cheap wannabe cylinders complete. But I have used 
generic seals to rebuild German cylinders. It's less compromise than 
replacing with 3rd world iron, whatever time/money it takes to do it that way.


>4) Should I replace all the metal tubing too?  Is this a PITA, and is it a
>good idea even if nothing leaks?

Before you start, flush fresh fluid through the system. If the brakes are 
safe, use it for a week, then flush again. That will act as a solvent and 
flush out the lines. Then, the only thing to verify as to the metal lines 
is that there is not any heavy pitting from rust on the outside and there 
is no restriction to flow. A little rust on the outside is not to worry, 
just wipe it with some oil/grease from time to time during routine 
inspections, a thin film, to help seal it from atmospheric humidity and 
stop progress of deterioration..


>5) How likely is it that my drums will need to be resurfaced?

Zero chance of that. If they are not worn oversize and the surfaces look 
nice after breaking the surface with 120 grit, reuse them. Anything 
different, replace them. If you turn them it will guarantee poor mating of 
the shoes with very fast and unbalance wear. Very easy to confirm 
non-concentric arcs. Hold the shoe against the drum. How nicely conforming 
is it?? Does it rock back and forth a bunch or very little?? It should be 
none at all with new shoes and drums. For a used drum, pinch the shoe 
lining against the drum on one end. Measure how high the other end of the 
lining is sitting above the drum surface. I say more than 2mm and you will 
have high rate of wear and poor brake function.

In the olden days most brake shops when they turned drums would reline the 
shoes themselves and then grind the matching curve onto the linings. When 
that became unfashionable, some manufacturers actually made oversized 
linings to be used with turned, oversized drums. There are a few people 
around that still can do these things, but it has become a rare specialized 
craft of value only for an early antique or other very high value vehicle 
where parts are not available at any price, so custom rework of existing 
parts is the only solution for restoration of proper function.
