Date: Thu, 24 Mar 2011 15:40:31 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Question about O2 sensor in Vw "flat 4" FI system

On 3/24/2011 3:06 PM, John Anderson wrote:
> Or as an unheated sensor is all of $15 or so (narrow band) you could install
> one in each side and just monitor one side at a time, or even one in each pipe
> if you were feeling all weld happy.  Now wide band sensors are quite pricey of

This will tell you that you're rich or lean.. not much more.  A 
narrowband sensor is somewhat useless unless you have an ECU that is 
capable of closed-loop fuel control.

> course.  Personally I'd install a sensor where VW installed it, somewhere
> after the J (Y) tube comes together, which means the out side of the J tube,
> or the in side of the cat or extension pipe or whatever you have there.  But

The problem is that Bob doesn't have any junctions like that before the 
muffler.  The 72-74 exhaust keeps all the runners separate the whole 
way.  I guess Bob's muffler hooks straight onto the output of the heat 
exchangers which would mean there isn't a collector other than the 
muffler itself.


> it does go to mention that it is a pretty cool location that far down, so
> consider a cheap 3 wire heated sensor ($35 or so), or if you are going
> wideband I believe it doesn't matter.  Narrow band sensors do give good info,
> cheap, but only very close to stoichiometric, so you have to be in the

The problem is that they tell you if you are on either side of stoich, 
but they will never stay at stoich, so unless you're mixture is just 
around stoich and causes the sensor to hop back and forth between rich 
and lean, it's gonna stay either lean or rich because the sensor's 
output curve is so steep around stoich.

Just for those wondering how modern ECUs utilize a narrowband, the ECU 
richens the mixture until the narrowband sensor reports a rich mixture. 
  The ECU then leans the mixture until the sensor reports a lean 
mixture.  The ECU then richens the mixture until rich is reported, then 
leans until lean is reported and I think you get the idea.  What happens 
here is that the averaged air/fuel ratio is stoich (14.7:1), but that's 
not because the sensor is actually measuring stoich, it's because the 
sensor's voltage output is so steep around stoich and the ECU is 
constantly trying to get the voltage to swing back and forth which will 
keep the mixture at stoich.  This measurement is usually used for cruise 
conditions when the fuel system goes into closed loop mode (meaning the 
narrowband is telling the ECU how to adjust fueling).

Beyond that, the values reported by a narrowband sensor are pretty 
meaningless (I've tried) and it won't help you much other than to tune 
for cruise.  While wideband O2 controllers aren't particularly cheap, 
they're an amazing diagnostic and tuning tool.

Mike
