From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 27 Mar 2011 15:47:34 -0400
Subject: ignition swap....ignition pods not interchangeable

Hey guys just an update on that ignition/rekeying thing I was trying to
accomplish with your help.

 

To recap-I started with treasure chest locks, which were the most difficult
to find. They were R-profile keys. I know my bus originally was L-profile,
but I had no ignition, just a hole in the dash pad.so I needed to match
R-profile with everything else, to achieve one key for my truck. I began the
journey.

 

I went searching on the samba.I picked up some door handles(r-profile).

I got an r-profile engine latch.

 

Then I got a ignition pod and switch all together, r-profile. It was shaped
somewhat differently, but the bolt pattern looked the same.

 

I took everything sent it down to Steve Sandlin. He got it all rekeyed to
match. He did a pretty quick job, and was very reasonably priced.

 

Yesterday I put the locks on the treasure chest back in. Then the door
handles in-turned out there was a leak in the plastic on one of my door
panels-so I'll need to address that.

 

Today I figured I'd tackle the steering column/dash pod thing. I had bought
a steering wheel puller last year-as I know there was no way I was getting
this off any other way. I got it to work, although it was quite a tight fit
getting around the steering column. The noise it made when it finally came
off was quite frightening. I thought I broke something it was so loud. But
the wheel is now off.

 

Next I wrestled with all the wires on the turn signal to disconnect it, of
course some wires break while I'm digging around behind the dash. So I've
got to put new connectors on.this keeps me busy for a bit.

 

The final piece I try to get the dash pod in, and it turns out the holes,
which looked like they lined up from one '69 pod to a '70 or '71 pod, do not
line up at all! Damn Damn Damn.I really need my bus for work  tomorrow. Got
to try to get it all back together with the old pod.

 

So the lesson for the day - ignition pods are not interchangeable, even
though when lying on your back, and looking up at them they may look the
same.

 

And question of the day.is there any way I can get this to work? Any
suggestions? I already looked a parts book to see if I could use a later
different steering column bracket-but that does not look like it would work.


 

 

-Kevin

Jamaica Plain, MA

'69 single cab

'65 Kombi - EZ-Camper
