From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Thu, 3 Aug 2006 22:51:34 -0400
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>, list vintage bus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
Subject: Buses Of The Corn 2006... T-Shirt info now available.

Hi Volks,

If you need more info about Buses Of The Corn, here it is.... Note  
that I'll be on vacation from noon Friday until Saturday August 11th,  
so if you send me an email I might be a while responding.


WHEN AND WHERE:
The Sixth Annual Buses Of The Corn will be held August 18th to 20th,  
2004 near Whitby, Ontario Canada. That's about 25 minutes NE of  
Toronto, and within 2.5 hours of the border crossing at Buffalo.  The  
gates open Friday at noon, and we have to be off the site by noon  
Sunday.


WHAT'S GOING ON:
The "Great Canadian Bug Show" is a distant memory now, but you can  
still get your used-parts needs met at the swap meet on Saturday  
morning's agenda at BOTC. Other events will include a repeat of last  
year's very popular Tie-Dye Workshop, an authentic Full Moon Bus Club  
Burrito Breakfast, our 9-hole Frisbee Golf course, the popular Bus  
Driving Skillz Challenge, a Bocce tournament, kids scavenger hunt,  
Corn Roast and pot-luck dinner, and campfire. We're also setting up  
the "Teen Zone" in order to make those at the "awkward age" feel more  
welcome at a family event.


WHO CAN ATTEND:
All years of VW bus are welcome at the event. Factory original or  
home brewed, run-down beater or trailer queen... bring it on in! We  
have room for over 100 buses on the site. Kids, adults and well- 
mannered pets are welcome.


COST:
Preregistration is  now closed. Camping fees will be $25 for the  
weekend, or $15 for a one-night stand.


T-SHIRTS:
My buddy Adam at Suburban Design Core did a great job once again. You  
can see the shirt here:
http://www.busesofthecorn.com/T-shirts.html
Even though I'm on vacation, the T-shirt orders will be taken care of  
by the capable staff at Suburban Design Core.

REGISTRATION:
If you're planning on attending and haven't pre-registered, it would  
be greatly appreciated if you could drop me a line and let me know  
you're coming, when you're arriving and how many people are coming  
with you. Thanks!

FACILITIES:
Did you ever that phrase "You get what you pay for"? BOTC is proof of  
this statement. In order to deliver a campout as fun as BOTC for such  
an amazing low price, we cut a few corners. We have pit toilets, the  
kind without the flush. There are 4 coin-op shower stalls that  
thankfully do have hot water. Speaking of water... Thanks to new  
water regulations in Ontario, we have to bring our own drinking  
water. We keep coming back to this location because it's a nice quiet  
campsite well away from main roads, trains, airports and nosy  
neighbours. If numbers make it necessary I will bring in additional  
porta-potties to keep things sanitary.  Rules of the facility  
prohibit alcohol, firearms, fireworks, unleashed pets and loud noise  
after 11PM. As long as we keep it cool and follow "Red-Cup" protocols  
everyone will have a good time.


BOTC VS OTHER CAMPOUTS:
Really, it's not a contest. Campouts are places to have fun, relax,  
and enjoy the company of other VW owners.  It's about 16 hours  
driving from HCBF to BOTC, No big deal at all if you have a week to  
get there. A bit long for one trip. AMHIK. The short route from Dixie  
Bus Gathering is less than 8 hours, but there's no rule that says you  
can't make it longer. I think some day I'm taking the long way around  
Lake Michigan, just to say I did. Your milage may vary.


CANADA? IS THAT BORDER STILL OPEN?
Yes, the world's longest undefended border is still open and it is  
not at all difficult to cross. For most people these few simple rules  
apply:
1. Bring Photo-ID. Passports are not required for US Citizens, but if  
you already have one it can't hurt to bring it. A drivers license and  
birth certificate is fine. Children do not need photo-ID.
2. Leave your guns and non-prescription drugs at home. If you need to  
bring a prescription drug with you, be sure to bring the  
prescription, too.
3. If you are bringing a pet, be sure to bring proof of rabies  
vaccination within the past 12 months.


WHAT ABOUT SARS AND MAD-COW DISEASE??
1. SARS is officially extinct in Canada. China has a few cases, but  
there are NONE here.
2. Mad Cows are prohibited from the campground. No, really... you can  
bring your own burgers if you think it's a problem. (But it isn't.)  
You will need to make sure there's no beef in your cooler for the  
trip home though.


THE WEBSITE
http://www.busesofthecorn.com with more details, pics of previous  
camps, etc.

If there's anything you need to know, want to donate (Door Prizes) or  
have to say about Buses Of The Corn, please email me at  
Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca

Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.geocities.com/busesofthecorn
