Date: Wed, 7 May 2003 11:37:36 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: "Heath, Raymond E" <raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com>
Subject: RE: [VB] oil temps

On Tue, 6 May 2003, Heath, Raymond E wrote:

> I stand corrected in my terminology, not in the amount of heat the aluminum block retains.

If we're talking heat retention, the specific heat of magnesium is
about 1050 J/kg K.  the specific heat of aluminum is 900 J/kg K.
A mass of magnesium can hold a bit more heat for a given temperature
change than alumimum.  However, since magnesium is only 2/3 as dense as
aluminum, a given volume of magnesium will hold a bit less heat than the
same volume of aluminum.  In any case, the difference is relatively small,
and really only affects warmup time.

Once the engine is up to temperature, the heat capacity of the case ceases
to be important (whatever heat it stores will just stay there until the
engine is shut down) and the thermal conductivity determines how much heat
is lost throught the case.  The oil cooler also comes into play, so the
case becomes a secondary player in the heat loss game.

There are so many variables (materials, thickness, texture, oil/metal heat
transfer, metal/air heat transfer) that it is difficult to draw any
conclusions for all but the simplest geometries (smooth flat plates!)
without doing actual testing.

If I wanted a case that would _really_ transfer heat quickly, I'd make
it out of rough thin silver.  However, I would probably be disappointed in
the results because the case material is only one of the factors that
controls heat transfer  The convective and conductive effects of the oil
and air on either side of the case material overshadow the conductivity
effect of the case.

The True Path to oil cooling is devices that are made to do just that.  VW
recognized this and put oil coolers on all their engines rather than
trying to make the case do double duty as a heat exchanger.  Running the
hottest oil through multiple thin aluminum or copper tubes with forced air
cooling is a far more efficient method than letting the hot oil sit in
the sump and hoping that ambient airflow will move the heat away.

George Lyle
