From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 7 May 2003 23:41:04 EDT
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Fuel line clamps, valves, etc.

In a message dated 5/6/2003 9:33:03 AM Pacific Daylight Time, 
jclark(-at-)supernet.net writes:
> I like E&B's idea of using a reserve tap - wish I'd thought of that when I 
> had the tank out & was replacing the filter anyway. 

Hi Joe,
It still is not too late!  The hardest part is you need to now drain the fuel 
tank.  Next disconnect the battery since you will be working right next to 
the starter exposed electrical connections!!!  No sparks = no BOOM from fuel 
vapors that will be draining from the tank!  Then lying on your back under 
the bus unthread the outlet watch out cause there will be a tad bit of fuel 
drippage at this time.  The new reserve switch you will notice that it has a 
collar that is both left and right threaded inside.  This allows you to hold 
the reserve switch still in position while turning the threaded collar to 
pull the reserve switch and tank together.  Putting some never sieze on these 
treads is a good idea.  Suddenly you need never to dread replacing your 
flexable fuel line or do an engine removal!  Good idea to also replace any 
old gaskets that seal the outlet tube/reserve switch to the tank and also the 
fuel filter brass sock to keep any larger floating debris in the tank from 
clogging the outlet tube/s.
  We also pull out the shorter brass tube so as to allow the water and gunk 
in the bottom of the tank to be sucked out.  The carb has a simular water 
trap that can be far easier to drain than the tank if need be!
  Lastly Remember if you want the fuel reserve to work in both positions 
(Reserve and  normal positions) you need to flip the switch every couple of 
months for at least a few minutes.  Otherwise the fuel trapped in the unused 
port in the reserve swith can and will when given enough time turn into solid 
jelly kind of stuff and clog that port off.  Of course if you only use the 
reserve switch for reserve position and the off postion this will not be a 
problem and even a improvement for some.
Eric&Barb
