To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: Matthew_Russell(-at-)ziba.com
Date: Fri, 9 May 2003 09:37:42 -0700
Subject: [VB] why i drive 'em (friday-longish)

of course i think the really trick, and perfect ones are very cool, but i 
would never be able to spend that kind of money (20k+)

i've been into vws for only about 3 years, my first one cost me $600(74 
baywindow, daily driver). then i caught the fever, i liked the people, i 
liked the cars, it seemed to fit in really well with who i am.
i'm not rich, i'm not poor. life has it's challenges, and for me my 
volkswagens are just part of the equation.

if you look at human nature, you see that everyone wants some, they all 
kinda flock to and fro from one to the next in little groups or big ones, 
they come and they go. there are allot of people out there right now who 
aren't all that well off (financially) and there's a big group of them 
that have the "get rich quick" mentallity. then there are the people who 
are just keeping it real, doing it because that's what they've done, 
that's what they love, for richer or for poorer.

my second vw (a 63 15 window colander), i paid $1450 for, a year later i 
traded it for a 66 beetle daily driver (straight accross, still my daily 
driver). my fourth vw was a 81 rabbit that i bought from a towing yard for 
$50, i got it home and spent some time getting it running, then i sold it 
to the highest bidder for something like $150, an awesome learning 
experience even though i lost money. my fifth vw was a 74 baywindow 
automatic, a running parts bus that i bought for the engine, i took the 
engine and tranny out, sold the tranny to make back some of my money, kept 
the engine, and gave the rest away to the first person who came to pick it 
up. i paid $350 for that bus. my sixth vw is a 67 fastback, not perfect, 
but a daily driver. i paid $500 for it, spent another $500 or so making it 
road worthy and now it gets driven every day by my wife (it's her car, i'm 
just the mechanic). my seventh vw is a yard sale find, my son spotted it 
at a yard sale around the corner from my parents house, i picked it up for 
$135. i spent a couple days giving it a tune up and changing oil and such, 
tires, checking brakes....etc.etc...then took it on a 180 mile drive home, 
it ran fine the whole way. my point is not "look at all the vws i've owned 
and the ones i have, aren't i special" but it's simply this, there are 
good honest deals out there, some you get what you pay for, some you pay 
for what you get. i like the perect show cars, but i'm allot more 
impressed with the ones that are driven to shows, to work, to the store, 
on vacation, for life...perfect or not, they're all good, they serve thier 
purpose and you can have fun with 'em too...

i don't know if this is true or not, i'm just repeating what i've heard 
and only to make a point. i heard that seinfeld has like 100 porches or 
some thing like that, why? what is the point in that? you couldn't 
possibly drive them all in even a year....i guess i'm different, but i 
thought that was why i got into vws in the first place. for the simplicity 
of being able to afford, fix, drive and enjoy the road, my car, my family 
and life...

-matthew

--> diversified vw enthusiest <--
