Date: Tue, 01 Mar 2011 22:17:57 +0100
From: Erik Meltzer <ermel(-at-)ermel.org>
To: Type2 Mailing List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Another VW Bus Concept Vehicle

Hi Volks!

Adrian Livesley wrote:
>   I want to sit down with the head managers of VW and say:  "look guys,
> this isn't complicated.  Get yourself a hotshot, young, hip designer.
> Tell him or her to design a modern Splittie keeping the SPIRIT and
> personality of the original.  Like they did with the BMW mini.  Modern,
> hip, retro 50's surfer microbus.    With a two piece windshield."
> 
> And.....it should not end up looking like some hideous, futuristic troop
> transporter.

The problem is the front-engined-ness of all modern VW platforms.
They did consider a rear-engined microcar family (called the "Up"),
but that got transformed to front-engined too, to cut cost.  Shame --
that might have become the basis for nice retro-Splitties and
even retro-Bugs sometime.  Currently, the only non-front-engined
platforms in the extensive conglomeration of car makes that is
Volkswagen are: the Audi R8, the Porsche Boxster/Cayman, the
Porsche 911, various Lamborghinis, and the Bugatti Veyron.  None
of which seem terribly obvious platforms to build a new Microbus
on. ;-)

And front-engined doesn't go with the proportions of a VW Bus proper
(Splittie, Bay, or Wedge).  Even a rear-engined one wouldn't be
easy to do these days, what with modern crash safety requirements.

A split windshield would be a major turn-off for "normal" customers,
whose taste needs to be catered to since they are where the money
is.  Producing a whole new car model for just a few thousand 
enthusiasts, of whom an unknown (but probably low) percentage will
actually buy it, is not how VW became one of the most successful
car makers lately. :-)

So, if there ever will be a "new Microbus" or whatever it'll be 
called, better settle for something like this study: a thinly 
veiled people carrier of standard modern layout, be it based
on the Caddy, Touran, Sharan or Eurovan platform.  Anything that
goes further is nice for eye-catching on auto shows and sparking
huge discussions on mailing lists, but it will not be a 
realistic option for actual production vehicles.

That said, a Caddy microvan with roof-edge glass, painted beige
grey over sealing wax red, maybe with round headlights and 
without a prominent radiator grille (sort of like this Bulli
concept), a bit of chrome, a huge cloth sunroof, and a nicely 
retroed interior -- why not?  Certainly this would be much more 
appealing than the ulitarian box on wheels that the Caddy, 
regardless of trim level, is today:
http://de.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Datei:VW_Caddy_Facelift_1.6_TDI_BlueMotion.JPG&filetimestamp=20101012190100
And with the Caddy being a really rather cheap microvan, the
resulting Bulli (or whatever) might still be less pricy than
a Eurovan, let alone a Eurovan-based retro van.  As for space,
the long wheelbase Caddy is comparable to the Splitty, easily.
Seats seven, too.  Not a bad car at all.  

Damn.  Now I want a Caddy-Bulli like that.  ;-)

Airhowlingly yours,
   Ermel.
-- 
"Thank you.  If you enjoy the tuning so much, I hope you will
 appreciate the playing more."
	-- Ravi Shankar, after premature applause 
	   at the beginning of a concert
