Date: Wed, 2 Mar 2011 13:09:47 +0100
From: Martin Mikush <martinmikush(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Erik Meltzer <ermel(-at-)ermel.org>
Cc: Type2 Mailing List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Another VW Bus Concept Vehicle

Helllo

VW is not what it was in the post-II war era. back then engineers and
designers had the word, now is all marketing. No wonder why this ugly
concept car made it through to the car shows.
Talking on marketing & taking the best from the past:
nothing can match the compactness , usability and simplicity of VW t1/t2.
Considering what we are faced as civilization we should rather take the best
from similar cars and develop a open source design concept for a real
"VolksWagen" which will be easy and cheap to produce, possibly could be
based on a popular platform (which t2 is such with the millions made so far
and existing facilities to continue production) , will use variety of fuels
have a modular interface between the main components ( engine-trans; trans -
suspension; suspension - frame or body etc. - just like PC design).
Making durable cars which will last and cars which could undergo conversion
to diferent fuels or energy sources could save us billions of tons of CO2
emissions in making new crap , such as the "Another VW Bus Concept Vehicle"
With my girfriend we are 5th month on a trip throughout Italy , volunteering
on organic farms and we travel with our two dogs. Our 1970 1600cc is packed
with all we need plus basic tools. I did use the tractor sheds and tools of
two of the farms to make some repairs on the bus - muffler, steering ,
changing oil , cleaning filters etc. How much will cost me to get a new car?
how much CO2 will be unleashed throughout the production cycle for a new
car? Can I maintain some i-pod oriented fully electronic wired without
staying in the slavery of the corporations and paying $$$$ for burned
electronic elements ? can I use let say olive oil for my air filter of the
t2 - maybe yes! how much is the eco-footprint of a air filter of a modern
car till it gets replaced in my "modern" car?

My point is : we live in usecure and changing world and the "pushers" of the
modern green are trying to convinced us in the rationality of new and green
, of cool and i-podish future, which for me is not the future!
The future is now and we have to learn to recycle and give more life to any
piece of equipment.   And we have to learn how to travel less - for example
two bikes on a t2 bus could provide for short daily trips and the bus could
be your caravan - what else I need - ahh yes - more time to enjoy the tuscan
landscape, to walk my dogs in the forest, to plant vegies in teh garden , to
contemplate sitting under the tent of our bus while holding a glass of
Chianti made with teh help of my two hands ...

Thank you guys from all the help by sharing knowledge at this forum !

Peace and prosperity !
