From: Zack Jarrett <zack.jarrett(-at-)cox.net>
Date: Wed, 2 Mar 2011 15:52:29 -0700
To: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Bus for Sale - Tucson, AZ

Well, the bus was sold today.  I thought I'd share the cool story about it.

This morning a real nice guy gave me a call and came over to see the bus.  He
told me that he'd sold his '78 eight or nine years ago and regretted selling
it ever since.  We swapped bus stories back and forth, as is usually the case,
and got to know each other a bit.  I could tell he really did love his old
bus.

After the test drive and checking it out and seeing the parts that came with
the thing he decided to buy it.  A couple hours later he was back with cash
and I had the title all ready to go.

After getting everything all loaded up he and I stood around chatting.  He
asked whether my bus had ever leaked from the gas filler into the engine
compartment.  I didn't know what he was talking about but he said he'd had
problems with that in his old bus and, as a way of dealing with it, installed
a baja/racing style filler neck inside the bus (through the deck above the gas
tank).  My eyes grew wide and I looked at him in amazement.  My best friend's
bus, which he had purchased 8 or 9 years ago and sold a couple years ago, had
had just such a filler neck!  I hated that modification, but that's besides
the point.  It was the SAME BUS!

When my friend wrecked his engine and sold the bus to a guy who was planning
an electric conversion I salvaged the fuel injection system off of it and
replaced my crappy weber carb with the full, working, FI system.

So it turns out that this guy sold his old bus to my best friend 8 or 9 years
ago, I salvaged the whole FI system from that bus 2 years ago and installed it
on mine, and now he just bought my bus, which means that he's now rolling part
of his old bus!  Amazing coincidence!

Only in Tucson, the weird small town with one million people.

Thanks for all the help over the years, Type 2 List.  It's been a great run.
I'm going to miss my bus, but it was great to see the guy drive off with an
enormous ear-to-ear grin.  I can tell he's going to love it.

Best Regards,
Zack Jarrett
