Date: Wed, 2 Mar 2011 20:20:31 -0800 (PST)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Scott Busby <swbusby(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Converting a 1974 westy from carburetion to fuel 

Hi,
 
I actually did this to my old 74 bus. I replaced the dual solex carbs with
F.I. If you do this,  I would recomend that you switch the 74's 1700cc engine
with a 2.0 L engine. The F.I. would make the 1700cc run a little rich. If you
are reusing a used F.I. system, I would recomend checking and cleaning each
part before you install them. This will help save you a trouble shooting
nightmare later. One important part that you should check is the cold start
valve. This is suppose to squirt some raw gas into the plenum when you first
start up. The new ones are suppose to fail in the closed position. old ones
can fail in the open position, pumping gas into the engine when you don't want
it to. I when ahead and replaced my old injectors with new ones when I
installed mine.
 
You might also have some issues with the old molded  vacuum hoses. Check them
closely for leaks. I made new ones with radiator hoses and PVC elbows. Don't
laugh, it worked.
 
I would also recomend getting a F.I. gas tank. I used POR 15 gas tank renew
kit to renew the one that I bought. I highly recomend it. If you want to get
out cheaper, I have heard that you can use the origional 74 gas tank and use a
"T" on the return line back to the the gas line from the tank. Do NOT use one
of the vet lines on the gas tank for the return. This can be dangerous and
will cause too much turbulance in the tank.
 
I also had to buy a new fuel pump for mine. Don't run your used pump dry to
test it for more than a sec or two. It used gas as lubricant. You don't want
to burn it up.
 
One last important thing, when you have everything hooked up and you cannot
figure out why it does not run, make sure that you have the signal wire hooked
up to the neg side of your coil. It took me a week to find this out! It will
never run without it. If you have any questions, I will do my best to help.
 
Good Luck!
 
David Kelly
