Date: Sat, 20 Jan 2007 13:22:29 -0800 (PST)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Paul and Kathy <pa.ka(-at-)verizon.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 77 bus shift rod bushings

hey paul honestly the 2 bushings inside the tubing there might not need to be replaced....
  those are the two you have to take the tranny and engine out for.
  the front bushing is under the gear shifter but you will need to crawl under the bus and take front pan off and look up at your bottom of the shifter and see where the rod is and there should be a donut looking bushing there at some point in the rod.
  if there isnt this is ok to just replace it either way ....
   
  also...
  check your shift plate up top that has two 13mm nuts ... just pull your boot up and give it a look dont loosen it if anything just make sure it is still tight and hasnt came loose...
   
  and finally... check your shift rod coupler that is located at the nose cone on the tranny..
  if the shift rod coupler is at the least bent or so then you could be having a easy fix...
   
  i would replace and check all that before thinking about a engine or tranny removal...
   
  good luck to you..
  chai
   
  check the type2.com website for richard atwells page... on this very topic and he even has some detailed color pictures if i remember right.. 
  do you have a bentley? the bentley and the type2 website is the best place to start before you touch anything.
  again god luck
   
   
   
  

Paul and Kathy <pa.ka(-at-)verizon.net> wrote:
  Hi folks,

I can't seem to find answers to my exact questions in the library or
archives so I've come to you for help.
The shifting in our 77 was getting really sloppy and needing attention and
parts. I've got a kit with all the new bushings but the Bentely manual says
that you have to remove the rear shift rod to replace it's bushings, and
that you need to remove the engine/transmission to get the rod out. Well I
don't have a garage to work in, and the temperatures are in the 20s with a
howling wind. I really, really don't want to drop the drive train if I can
help it. So I ask, is there anyway possible to replace the 2 bushings on
the rear shift rod without removing it from the vehicle? If not, would I be
wasting my time to just replace the bushing at the front of the forward
shift rod and the coupling at the transmission?
I'm anxiously awaiting all tips, hints, tricks, magical
incantations, and advice you can send my way.

Paul A
Huntington Station, NY
71 westy 
77 passenger bus



                                                          1976 HighTop 
  1968 Beetle 






























 
---------------------------------
Don't pick lemons.
See all the new 2007 cars at Yahoo! Autos.
