Date: Sun, 2 Nov 1997 13:16:55 -0700
From: Charlie Ford <cford@mindspring.com>
To: type2@bigkitty.azaccess.com
Subject: The Check is in the Mail!!!

Yesterday afternoon I recieved a message from Don Noizer, a family friend
back in Georgia, stating that my Mother had called them saying she had
recieved a check from Colorado for me.  This news made me very happy
indeed, yet at the same time sad, becasue I will have to wait three more
days for it to get here.  I think I can live with that.

Now, at least on Tuesday, I can finally head out of Ohio and proceed toward
New England.  I hope the weather will not hamper me in my travels, but if
it does, I guess I will just have to deal with it as best I can.  You can't
reasonably complain about the weather, thats a sign of being a true fool.

After hearing this welcome news, I went immediately to a phone and called
my Mom, and Don and Bonnie Noizer, to make arrangements for having the
money sent too me overnight, the way it was supposed to be sent in the
first place by the State of Colorado, at least according to Matthew it was.
The check in question will reach me on Tuesday, Don is sending it on
Monday.  Thank God for good friends and reliable people, life would not be
the same without those folks that keep their word.

After getting that arranged, I finally talked Eric O. into riding to
Walmart with me so I could get some of the advised "items" that have come
from the Winter Preparedness thread on the list.  I purchased a can of Lock
De-Icer, which I placed on the outside of my bus so it is convenient.  I
also purchased some food, a spotlight, some Rain-X anti fog, and other
assorted odds and ends.  I still am in need of some tire chains but maybe I
can get them somewhere as I get closer to the area where I will need them.
I figure the northeast will be very well prepared for whatever happens so I
am not that worried.

I am also considering installing a 600 watt inverter in  the Mothership.
Has anyone had any experience with these things?  I would love to be able
to run my little electric heater, or computer, or other electric items
while driving or sitting still, with or without electricity.  What do ya'll
think?

The more I look at the map in reference to where I am trying to get to,
Grand Manan Island, I see that there are not many highways and roads that
take you directly there.  I plan on stopping at Tom Goody's in Montpielier,
VT. on my way.  Tom, Imma comin' man!

The route I take will be a factor in that I have to consider whether or not
the "blue highways" will be cleared as well as the interstate.  Any
Maine'ers out there wanna comment?  I may just have to stick to interstate
highways as much as I hate to say that.  They would certainly be the most
clear, and as I understand it, any driven route through New England is
pretty.

Tentative plans are to take I-90 east, to just below Montpielier and cut
northeast from there.  Through Bangor, Maine and on to Grand Manan which
sits just off the norther most Atlantic coast of Maine, right dead in the
Bay of Fundy, the goal of the trip to begin with.  I had a second grade
teacher tell me about 'Fundy' in grammer school.  She told that the waves
would come crashing in to the funnel shaped bay so big and fast that you
couldn;t outrun them, I said then, one day, I will see that Bay.  She made
it sound so mystical, so wonderous.

Patience is a problem right now.  I have to keep reminding myself that the
frustration that has come with aquiring this check has to mean something
else, something "BETTER" is in store for me.  I have to remind myself once
again of the saying my Grandmother said, "God has three answers.  'Yes',
'No', and 'Wait".  This was my turn to "wait".

While waiting here in this part of the country, I have met many nice
people.  I first met William Claspy, who I will see again sometime.  I met
Neil O'Donnell, his wife Lori and their two chldren Colleen and Katie.  I
renewed my meeting of Eric O'Brien one helluva nice guy.

Eric and his girlfriend had a cosume party on Friday night at which there
were about 40 or so people.  it was a good party but I wasn't much in the
partying mood.  I think being on the road so long has made me somewhat
selectively social, in other words I prefer one or two people, as compared
to many people.  I retired to the Mothership around 12:00 midnight and
slept like a baby.

I'd like to thank Ohio for the hospitality.  Ted Finesman was the original
host, and a very gracious one at that.  Believe it or not, life has been
good here, although at times tougher than I would have liked.  I think my
mood has been has been somewhat down as of late.  it may be the fact that
fall has arrived, it may be the fact that I am realizing the tour is
growing shorter, maybe it is simply because I ate that damn northern
Barbeque.  Whatever the reason, I am glad things are looking much better,
and my feelings reflect that positive increase.  Life is growing better,
slowly but surely.  But then I guess it always does, doesn't it?

When I made the frantic turn south from Toronto, about three months ago
when the weather was warm, I felt the heaviness start.  For some reason I
knew I was heading into a lull, I could feel it like "it" was real and of
substance.  One thing is for sure, after driving as many miles as I have
alone this year (16,500 so far), you get to know exactly how you are
feeling.

I will keep you guys posted on the ramblings.  Thanks for all the good
advice on winter driving.  I can't offer much in way of motorhead
conversation, but I will continue to let you folks know the reality of
traveling the country, in a Bus, on a barebones budget.  In my opinion,
barebones, is how it should be done in a Bus.  It is all about having
enough, not too much, not to little.........just enough.  Then there is
balance.

Thanks for tolerating my ramblings,
Charlie Ford


"79" Transporter, dressed for the road
The Mothership

 The"Turning 40 Nostalgic VW Service Tour, and
Search for the Beginning of Wind".

http://www.slurpee.net/~keen/charlie/charlie.html

"Wider still and wider.....shall thy bounds be set"


