Date: Fri, 24 Oct 1997 09:34:01 -0700
From: Charlie Ford <cford@mindspring.com>
To: type2@bigkitty.azaccess.com
Subject: A Cold Cleveland Afternoon

It's amazing how the events of ones life tend too generate thoughts of
depth.  I can see now how "Jack Handy" of Saturday Night Live fame, could
come up with those deep thoughts.  He must have had time on his hands.  The
events themselves may even be good ones, but the offspring they give birth
to tend to be of such substance they can be taken either way, bad or good.
I guess it's according to the frame of mind of the one thinking them.

I guess thoughts of the future should always be considered good.  But
knowing that fact doesn't really console.  The person thinking them still
has to agonize with the entire process, and those logistics are always
difficult.  It is almost like work, fruitful yet tiresome.

Over the past three weeks, my life has been no less a turmoil than it was a
year ago when I was still deep inside the machine.  In some small way those
things and thoughts that drove me to take this journey still re-enter my
mind.  They still serve to consume me. They also tend to remind me of the
sad reality, that my journey is three months from being over.  I am torn
between, not wanting it to end, mainly because of fear of the "grind", and
knowing that it has too.  I think the latter is because I have this need to
see if 'because of the trip', the "grind" will be different.  Hoping for
easier.

When I left Bill Bowman's three weeks or so ago, I was rested.  Ready for
all that was to happen in  the near future.  I headed toward south central
Kentucky, stopping at Darrell Boehlers for a couple nights, to do an
AmeriCorps job that would net me around $1000.00, at least three quarters
of which I could save.  I also had scheduled for the next week the job in
Denver, that would almost double that amount.

With this work under my belt, I could make it the remainder of my journey,
and any odd job work I assumed, would be nothing but icing on the cake.  I
see this as a great way to finish this year of traveling.  I would dearly
love to actually pull back in to Hazlehurst in January, with more money
than I left with.  All in all, this year, my total take of wages would
range around $8000.00.  Not bad for one heck of a years adventure vacation.
: )  But then that goals is yet to be attained.

I flew back into Cincinnati from Denver on Sunday morning.  I took the
early flight out so that I could arrive back in time to pick up Gus, and
settle back into the bowels of the Mothership.  Her innards have become my
sanctuary, and really do seem to have a calming affect on my psyche.
Pretty amazing that 12.3 square foot of floor space could be so damn
pleasing.  Amazing!

On Sunday night I once again stayed at Tony Moore's 'ingredients' lab.
That night I called an old friend of mine.  Greg Shivers is a preacher
friend of mine that more than once has helped me get along when life got
thick, as it does with all of us.  Of course he is much more learned in the
biblical teachings than I, but nevertheless, he tolerates my wicked ways
and me.  We are not as much "flock and shepherd", as we are "brother to
brother".  Although sometimes, we do tend to flip-flop, according to which
is the need.

That night I slept with many dreams.  I dreamed of terrible things, would
wake up, only to fall back asleep and dream of peaceful things.  Gus
dreamed about chasing bigger dogs than he I believe.  he ran them away in
fear and was the ruler of his domain.  Such are the dwarfed dreams of a
midget dog, every bit a full 'sized' in personality, only cursed to be so
short.

The next morning Tony and I went to breakfast and talked about his music
and the band he plays with "The Marshwiggles, all of you really need too
hear these guys play, they will 'soothe the savage beast' in each of you.
It is some of the most peaceful music I have heard in a while.  If they can
keep the "muse" in tact, they will make gold for sure.  But I guess that is
the dream of a musician anyway.  Or is it the "truth in the music", and the
creation of 'it', that is the dream?  Maybe both?

On Monday night I moved from the lab over to the urban park in Cincinnati.
Winton Woods Park and Campground is located in a "Greenbelt District".  It
sprawls over about 400 acres, and is registered officially as a 'natural
area'.  I guess as close as you can get to "natural" being in town and all.

I secured my campsite close to the bath house, and among the RV's, as I
have so many times on this trip.  Gus also set up, and tore out the toys
that Kelly, Tony's sister had donated as his travel gear.  He and I were
still getting to know each other for the second time since his
incarceration and rescue from the "big house" for canines and kitty's in
Carbondale, Illinois.  It has been a good reunion. That night once again I
slept good, and so did he.

The next morning, Tuesday, I rose early and readied the bus for going
north.  I dropped by Tony's lab on the way out of town and said my final
good-byes.  Hopefully in a few months I will see him again.  I think a lot
of him, he is a good and peaceful man, with the virtues of a good and
peaceful man.  I consider him a brother, as I do so many others I have met
in this year.  Of course there are many sisters as well, all of them
holding equal endearment in the scheme of things.

They would include Christa, and Bobbi, Ginger, Jan, Debbie, Kathyryn, Ann,
and Melanie.  Women who are friends with men, yet at the same time,
independent, and demanding of strong respect for their nature.  I like that
a lot.  I remember a time when I only saw them as someone to get naked.
Such is youth you know.  Young, dumb, and full of the slang term for
testosterone.  : )  I hope one day I find someone that shares all of their
good traits, the perfect woman she would be.

On Tuesday I drove to Columbus where I stopped at Ted and Sue Chaney's
home.  I dropped in totally un-announced and they welcomed me with open
arms and some good coffee.  They insisted that I stay the night, so I did.
I had met Ted and Sue at Busses by the Arch.  More specifically, I met them
at Bill Bowman's house on the Monday that BBTA all ended.  Ted, at that
time, invited me to drop in.  He is an avid VW guy and the both of them are
pleasant to be around.  Good people they are.  I do wish I could have spent
more time with them.  I maybe should have.

That night I neglected Gus a little more than I should have.  He was in the
bus, and decided he would somehow gain the attention he wanted and needed
and deserved.  He had the call of nature, and instead of waiting for the
surroundings of the great outdoors, he went in the floor of the Mothership.


Believe me, the bus was already smelling a little from him taking
occupancy, and the last thing she needed was a big ole doggy mine stinking
the insides up.  I cleaned it up while cursing, but all the while knowing
it was my job to walk him, and I was the one that had failed in my duties.
What can you say?  It was the truth.

On Wednesday I awoke around 9:00 AM, and once again prepared for the road.
Since according to the weather, I would hit some pretty cold weather around
northern Ohio, I took off the front spare tire, removed the front grill,
and wrapped my plastic screen in tin foil.  I did this last year as it cuts
down on the draftiness inside the Mothership as I drive.  At about thirty
degrees, you need all the warmth you can generate, and all the prevention
from the cold you can create.

I said my good-byes to Ted and Sue, got back on Interstate 71, and headed
north doing a hurricane speed of 65 mph.  Gus crawled up on his seat,
watched the road for a few, and then as usual, fell asleep. I talked on the
CB and found some fun conversation with the trucker element of the highway.
the trucker is your friend, at least most of the time, there is good and
bad to be found in that population of driver.

I stopped at the Akron exit just before entering Cleveland road-space.
Isn't that what you call it...."Road space"?  I mean we have air-space,
floor-space, and outer-space, why can't we drivers have "road-space".  The
wind was blowing me around a bit so I needed some terminology to describe
all the highway I was taking.  Truckers were asking me if I was impaired, I
think if I would have said yes they would have asked me to pull over so
they could also suffer the pleasure.  I explained the truthfulness of the
problem to them.  I think they were disappointed.

The reason I stopped was so that I could get me a bite to eat.  I went in a
Shoney's hoping to find a marvelous buffet with all the trimmings for a
low-low discount eatery price.  That was just not to be, so I settled for a
club sandwich and a bowl of warm soup.  That tremendous meal ended up
costing me $8.50, and although I had plenty of money on me, I still had to
comment on how proud they were of their food.  I re-mounted in the drivers
seat, Gus re-mounted in the co-drivers seat, and off we went on our
appointed rounds.  Linear rounds anyway.

I drove to the south side of Cleveland and picked up Interstate by-pass 270
east.  I drove it until I got to I-77 North and turned up.  I had received
an E-mail from a fellow here that said I could crash at his home.  I looked
forward too it.  I have some time too kill because I am waiting on the
Denver check to arrive this next week.  I don't want to go across the
border into Montreal until I have that money in hand.  It's almost
$2000.00, and that is the rest of the trip, and hopefully some beyond that.

As I headed up 77, I decided it was time to make the call and get in touch
with William Claspy.  I had met William at the Columbus show but could not
remember very much of him.  I knew that he was one of the guys that was
hanging out at the Mothership, and I knew he was one of them that had a
small daughter that was playing inside with the child of another guy
hanging out at the Mothership.  I exited at the Grant Avenue exit, the only
one without a gas station, or convenience store.

I decided that since this was the case, I would try one of the corporation
front offices, sometime they have pay phones and there were plenty of them.
I chose Seaway Foods.  I walked in and asked if I could use a phone,
explaining that I was just arriving in town, and was needing to get in
touch with a fellow I knew here.  I didn't bother to explain how well, or
how little I knew him.

The middle to late aged lady sitting behind the counter pointed me to the
pay phones.  I thanked her.  She was looking at me a little suspicious at
first but as time went by we connected and started talking about all sorts
of things.  At first it was about the Indians being in the series, then it
moved to the Indians and the Braves 'Series', then it moved to the shape of
the economy and the roads in Cleveland.  We spoke about winter, and Vegas,
and Saint Augustine.  This was beginning to be quite nice.

She then asked me if I had this guys number.  I told her yes and she then
asked me what the first prefix was.  The started looking it up in the book,
but to no avail.  I looked up William's number and found his address right
off beside it.  Duh!!! learn something new everyday don't we, even if we
already have learned it.  She gave me directions to Cleveland Heights, I
thanked her, she wished me the best of luck, and I headed out.  Gus was
waiting patiently (asleep) in the bus, constantly on guard of course.  He
is so vicious.

An hour later I pulled into William's driveway he came out to greet me.
The first thing he said is "Hey, we don't allow any outlaws around here!".
I laughed and pulled into the back after he told me where the level spot
was.

The snow was peppering down and the wind was so cold it was freezing the
outer shell of my leather jacket, which I had dug out of the clothes box,
it was nice to see it again.  I love my leather jacket.  It smells so damn
good, and serves it's purpose well.  No other piece of clothing can give a
person such pleasure and good aroma, all at one time.

William, his wife and child, and myself had some good conversation, a good
meal, and watched part of the series.  During one of the pitches I asked
William how long I might crash for.  He explained that he expected one
night.  I understood, although I must say I was hoping for more.  That
check will not be here for a few more days, and it would make the cold
weather much more comfortable to be in the comfort of someone to talk VW
and things about.  But, I truly do understand.

I was fed, and kept warm for a while, that is all anyone can expect from
anyone else.  You don't complain about the length of time, you just
recognize the goodness while it happens.  That is the rule.

I slept soundly all night, got up this morning and pulled out.  I hope I
meet William again someday.  I would like to talk to him  more, and learn
more about "things" from him.  Everyone has there take on "things" you
know, each take is different.  Understanding those takes is just another
one of my goals.

Now, I am set up in Punderston State Park just outside Cleveland.  The
temperature is hovering around 45 degrees Fahrenheit.  I arrived here this
morning and after finding me a really nice campsite on the lake, fell back
too sleep.  Gus decided he would do the same.

We both rose again for the second time today, at around noon.  I walked
down and paid my fee, let Gus take a "nature call" the right way, and
headed out to buy some groceries.  I think I might stay here until the
check arrives.  Why not, cold here..........cold there........what is the
difference.  There is a little grocery up the road, a little cafe beside
it, and the coffee is hot.  There is even a little lounge in case I need a
drink, I doubt it though.  besides I still have some "Charlie Ford Special"
left, courtesy of Tony Moore.

The people in the campground are friendly, but all of them are RV'ers so
they, as always tend to be a little weary of this big biker looking VW
driver with the short vicious Basset hound.  The weather is cold, about 40
degrees right now, but the snow appears to have missed us.  The expected
low of tonight is 36 to 40 degrees with lonely light rain starting
tomorrow.

Gus and I took a walk around the park which we both fully enjoyed.  I fed
and myself.  He dined on "Puppy Chow" (as sold in stores everywhere), and I
dined on People Chow, (ham sandwiches and crackers, also sold in stores
everywhere).

Life is good, although very solemn, quiet, and thoughtful.  I hope the
plans I make from all this deep thinking will work out, but I guess they
will somehow.  Only time will tell, time, and my drive to make them happen.
One thing I have learned, its is up to me more than anyone else to make
the good happen.

Thanks for tolerating the ramblings.

Charlie Ford


"79" Transporter, dressed for the road
The Mothership

 The"Turning 40 Nostalgic VW Service Tour, and
Search for the Beginning of Wind".

http://www.slurpee.net/~keen/charlie/charlie.html

"Wider still and wider.....shall thy bounds be set"


