Date: Fri, 12 Dec 1997 20:55:42 -0700
From: Charlie Ford <cford@mindspring.com>
To: type2@bigkitty.azaccess.com
Subject: In Memory of Craigs "Cow Bus"

I personally met "The Cow Bus" when I was in Seattle.  A fine bovine (2.0
litre) she was.  I actually saw her in and around Seattle before I even met
Craig.  Little did I know that the driver/trainer was a "brother" whose
aquaintance I had not yet made.

For those of you that didn't know already.  The Cow Bus was painted the
colors of a fine Holstien Milk Cow.  Her markings drew positive attention
and brought a smile to many a face.  Like all busses of the split or
bubble-window naturally do.

She stood high on the hoof like a good "Cow Bus" should, KYB Gas shocks I'm
sure.  Craig always spared no cost, and nurtured her himself.

She strode down the by-way with a little sway, as is the case with any good
breed of Holstien, or cared for VW Westfalia.

Her utters, (exhaust sytem) were utter, and her moo, (or horn) was smoothe.


I am sure your life will not be the same without her, at least in getting
from point A to point B.  Don't worry though, great things are in store for
your future.  These are things I know.  If I can do anything to be of
service to you in your quest for that new bus of destiny, just drop me a
line and I will be at your service.

When I get back to Seattle I will drive you around in the Mothership if it
takes it.  Mike has that 78 transporter sitting in his garage, maybe that
is an option for now.  At least it would suffice and keep you in driving
practice until you could get another bus to call home, and raise up as your
own.

I hope you find another bus as good as she was, you will know it when you
do.  Maybe she will be a gift, maybe a rescue, or maybe a dream come true.
whatever she I hope she will fill the void.

The Cow Bus will be thought of often the loved ones she leaves behind.  : )

My friend, this rambling is for you and the Cow Bus that was.

Charlie Ford


"79" Transporter, dressed for the road
The Mothership

 The"Turning 40 Nostalgic VW Service Tour, and
Search for the Beginning of Wind".

http://www.slurpee.net/~keen/charlie/charlie.html

"Wider still and wider.....shall thy bounds be set"


