Date: Thu, 9 Jul 1998 20:37:14 -0700
From: Charlie Ford <cford@sysnet.net>
To: type2@bigkitty.azaccess.com
Subject: The DBG/MOFOCO Mesquito Massacre II

Yes ladies and gentlemen since I am living in Wisconsin for the summer I am
once again going to put myself through the pain of listening to the rocket
car scream down the track; enjoy the pleasure of viewing the bugs and
busses (the only agony here is dealing with the showcar mentality owners
who truly are a wimpy anal bunch), and swatting viscious Cheesehead
Mosquito's that I believe actually work, or have worked for the Red Cross.
They have about three quarts of my blood already and I have only been here
a few weeks.

This year should be a special event or damn sure better be simply because
the show cost rendered by MOFOCO (the parts company as they like to call
themselves) is upwards of about $12.00.  

This show will come complete with drag races and silicon babes bikini
contest for those of you that enjoy women that could stiffly fall face
forward and bounce back simply because of the rubberized breast recoil.

The expected "most special part of the weekend" will be the Der Busbesitzer
Gruppe (DBG) Campout at Earl Paynters Farm.  This farm is destined to be
the Yasgars (The Woodstock Farm for you younger volks) of the VW show world.

For those of you that might be able to break away and make this show here
are some directions.

>From the North:
Head to Milwaukee on 94 south, get off at Highway KR about 20 miles south
of the city, turn West.  That will take you directly to the dragstrip.

>From the South:
Go through Chicago and proceed on Northward on Interstate 94 toward
Milwaukee.  Bring tons of toll money because they want to act like they are
paying for the roads in Illinois although they are in awful shape.  

Get off on Highway KR West, or the one you love, and there is the dragstrip.

>From the East:
Drive in on Interstate 43, or 90 and toward Milwaukee.  Pick up Interstate
94 and head south to Highway KR and head West again.  You'll also see the
dragstrip.

>From the West:
You can't get here from there if you con't have a Kubelwagon. Lake Michigan
is just not good on a bus or bug.

The Further Festival is also being held up here this Saturday and so the
campout promises to be filled with busses and some really colorful people.
Andy Soiney has dyed his hair orange specifically for this event, at least
I think it was for that.

Drop by the Mothership and see Gus and I if you lumber up this way.  Don't
forget Mosquito Repellent.  

Remember Friday night we will be camping at the Wildlife Refuge and
listening to the DBG travel band Fungus Garden Reverb.  We welcome any
enthusiasts who wish to have a good time.  Camping is allowed there for a
marginal fee of $5.00.  If you want to get there follow the above
directions and the ones below.

Pass Great Lakes Dragaway on Hwy KR and proceed a mile or so until you hit
HWY 45.  Take a right and proceed into Union Grove.  At the first set of
stoplights take a left onto HWY 11.  Proceed approximately 3 miles into
Kansasville.  You will run into HWY 75.  Take a right and go about 1/8
mile.  The Wildlife Refuge will be on your left.  It is a big white house
with black shutters.  The number there is 414-878-4766.  You can ask for
Matt or Andy Soiney if you have questions or problems.  We should be there
around 5:00pm.

Hope to see you there.

Thanks for tolerating the ramblings, 

Charlie Ford.
Charlie Ford	
cford@sysnet.net
(912) 375-3651 (Leave Message)
www.tiora.net/~keen/charlie/charlie.html
"The Search for the Beginning of Wind"
"You ride through life on the horse the Almighty gave you.  Go easy on the
whip."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------
To leave the list, send an UNSUBSCRIBE message to TYPE2-REQUEST@TYPE2.COM
-------------------------------------------------------------------------


