Date: Sun, 18 Jan 1998 21:32:52 -0700
From: Charlie Ford <cford@altamaha.net>
To: type2@bigkitty.azaccess.com
Subject: Tracking The Dead Man

This is an essay I wrote a few days ago about an old man that ran from the
nursing home here in Hazlehurst.  I hope you don't mind the post, but the
Mothership became known because of this incident.  I am once again accepted
in this small town, only now they know me as a professional tracker that
drives the only VW in our small town.  : )


--------------------------------essay starts
here-----------------------------------

I didn't know Mr. J.C. Bryant, but I kind of wish I had.  To me he was just
an old black man of 62 years of age, that had taken off from the nursing
home here in Hazlehurst, Georgia.  All I was too him, was a volunteer
trying to assist in finding him.  Hopefully alive.

When I first arrived to help on Sunday afternoon, the first thing I noticed
was that all the black folks, mostly family, friends, and excitement
chasers (black), were standing at one end of the parking lot.  The white
folks, mostly the rescue team, and other excitement chasers (white), were
standing at the other end of the lot.  Things still change ever so slowly
in south Georgia, even for something as serious as a lost old man.

Also when I pulled up everyone noticed me.  I drive a 79 Volkswagen bus and
all heads turned to see what hippie might exit the vehicle.  I think it put
them at ease when they saw that my hair was short, and they heard my south
Georgia accent.

Someone made the statement that day that "This is probably the most family
to visit this old man since he came to live in this place".  The sad part
is that what that person said is most likely accurate, and could be said
about most of the "old folks" living in the home.

Mr. Bryant had never been more popular than now, he was the talk of the
town.  But he wasn't there to enjoy this burst of popularity.  He was lying
alone in a pine thicket some three hundred yards away from the, all of a
sudden, attentive crowd.

After I arrived on Sunday, all of us stood and patiently watched and waited
while the area was searched using technology.  each time the radio would
come to life everyone quieted to hear the hopefully 'good news".

At dark the helicopters with infra-red stayed and continued the search, but
most everyone else left and went to the warmth of their homes.  No foot
search today.

On Monday, permission was given by the Chief for three other men and myself
to walk through the woods across from the nursing home.  To be honest I was
just glad to finally feel like I was actively trying to help find him.  I
was finally doing something.  There is nothing worse than volunteering and
feeling useless.

The trees in the woods were maybe 8 to 10 years old and stood about 15 to
20 feet high.  They were planted by machine, so of course they were laid
out in rows.  I only wish the trail I had chosen to follow had been laid
out in a row.  But no, it wove back and forth through briars and bramble,
taller than my head.  I got tangled and cut a few times.  Not to mention
the fact that for the first 100 yards or so, I was walking in about a foot
of water.

Eventually the ground rose high enough for there to be dry land.  My feet
were already wet so it didn't matter much.  I kept listening for the
others, but I could hear no one.  Pine trees have a way of muffling sound.
I found what looked to be an animal trail and followed it.  Maybe, just
maybe this was the way he came.

I kept following the trail, making mental note of the general direction it
was taking me.  It intersected with another trail, and that trail led to a
clearing.  Mosquitoes swarmed around my head and I began to think it was
summer.  Mid January and the Georgia State Bird is out in force.

Altogether, I guess I walked about 300 yards into the forest.  The trail
then turned and cut through thick brush once again.  I had sufferd a belly
full of briars, so I scouted upland trying to site a place to cross without
getting tangled and cut.

I saw a clearing ahead so I cut my own trail up to it, pushing through the
brush.  On arrival, I stopped, lit a cigarette, thought a little about the
beauty I was standing in, and walked on.  The clearing went quite a ways
and I decided I could travel it and cover more ground.

I walked ahead maybe 50 more yards and stopped again, listening, thinking,
and adoring.  This had been my first time in south Georgia forest in five
years and I have always loved this land.  It's the greenest place I have
ever been, especially in mid-January.

While standing there, I saw yet another trail that led out to some young
pine saplings that bordered the older trees I had been searching.  I turned
onto the trail, walked about 30 feet, and there lay Mr. Bryant.  He
surprised me, as much as I "didn't" surprise him.  I started yelling for
the others.

I heard someone yell back and I knew that others were on the way.  The
helicopter, that had just arrived for the search, was hovering overhead, I
waved my arms in the air so they would mark my location.  after everyone
was signaled I stood there alone, in a pine thicket, with a dead man laying
a few feet away.

While there I had to wonder what he might have thought as his last few
breaths squeezed from his body.  I wonder if he was afraid.  I wonder who
he might have thought about, or what he might have seenas he passed away.
Was there a light, or was there just darkness, then nothing?

There was a reasonable speculation made by a fellow that Mr. Bryant might
have known his death was eminent, and he may have just walked away
purposely to be alone to die.  I guess I think spiritually enough to
believe this could happen.  But you see, there was also speculation that he
left because he wanted a drink of whiskey.

Mr. Bryant was alone when he died, no matter what the reason.  I would
speculate that he was pushing himself pretty hard when he left the "home"
that day.  Being an old man he may have gotten dis-oriented and afraid, and
laid down, thinking someone would eventually come for him.  He may have
just sat down to try and catch his breath, and resting he calmly fell
asleep, never to wake again.

I heard from someone that Mr. Bryant had spent most of his life working in
the woods.  If this is true, I figure all in all, a stand of Georgia Pine
trees wouldn't be a bad place to take your last breath.  They do have an
aroma that is undeniably pleasant.

I wish I had known Mr. J. C. Bryant.  I wish I could have heard him tell
the stories about when he was a child, or how to skin a pine tree so that
the sap runs down to the tin with accuracy.

I wish I could have told him about the feeling you get when you see the
Grand Canyon for the first time, or see the Giant Redwoods of Northern
California.  If he was a woodsman he would have liked that I think.  Who
knows, he may have stayed around the nursing home to listen and tell old
stories.  Old men love to do that you know.

Thanks for tolerating the ramblings,

Charlie Ford


"79" Transporter, dressed for the road
The Mothership

 The"Turning 40 Nostalgic VW Service Tour, and
Search for the Beginning of Wind".

http://www.slurpee.net/~keen/charlie/charlie.html

"Wider still and wider.....shall thy bounds be set"



-------------------------------------------------------------------------
To leave the list, send an UNSUBSCRIBE message to TYPE2-REQUEST@TYPE2.COM
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

