Date: Sat, 13 Sep 1997 18:25:50 -0700
From: Charlie Ford <cford@mindspring.com>
To: type2@bigkitty.azaccess.com
Subject: Legal as an Eagle


On Monday I got stopped, ticketed and informed that my liscence were
suspended.  On Tuesday I found out why.  As I explained in my first post of
this week, I had gotten a ticket in Florida a couple years ago, and
although I had sent the money in for the ticket somehow it never got
credited to the ticket.

The cost was $87.50 late charge and all, which I sent out Federal Express
on Tuesday evening.  On Thursday I recieved a D-6 Clearance form from the
City of Clearwater Florida stating thaat the ticket in question had been
paid.  I immediately turned that around and sent it directly to the
Commissioner of Public Safety's office in Georgia.  On Friday I called the
Georgia PS office at around 1:00 PM, and sure enough I had been reinstated
as a legal clear driver.  Life is good ain't it?

The week was a rush of all sorts of business.  But all in all it was easier
to clear up than I thought it would be.  I actually am glad in a way that
it happened.  First off it couldn't have happened at a better time,
secondly it couldn't have happened any better, and thirdly, it didn't cost
me that much money.  All in all, phone calls included roughly $220.00.  The
machine shop I am working at will net me that much plus some, and I have
some AmeriCorps jobs coming up in a couple of weeks.

While the Mothership was in drydock I got a lot done on her.  She now has a
new set of shocks.  Is the torque setting on shck bolts really only 43 foot
pounds?  She has a new set of shiny chrome painted rims that make her look
like a lot shorter and taller for some reason, and she has a straighter
bumper thanks to the expert body work of Bill Bowman.

Today I took her out on the christening run.  It felt really good to be
able to drive down the highway knowing that all was fine with the ride, and
the driver.  I passed three cops and waved a hearty wave.  Somewhere deep
inside I think I would have liked to have encountered a liscence check or
something, just so I could hear the words come from the officers mouth,
"please proceed Mr. Ford, all is fine with your world".

It has been a week of realization.  I have realized that the trip has
created good changes in my psychy.  I have learned a little more about The
Mothership and her operation.  I have found that folks, even government
agencies that are made up of folks, will work with you if you talk nice to
them and make them laugh.

This would be the end of this little saga in the "Search for the beginning
of wind".  As time goes by I am sure there will be more things come up to
write about.  I still have about three months to go along with maybe 2000
more miles.  I will not be able to leave for Nova Scotia, the third corner,
until mid October.

Thanks to all of you that sent messages offering assistance if it was
needed.  Also thanks to all of you that wrote just to say you enjoy my
post.  It reittereated the fact that this listserv is a true community.  if
I can help any of you in any way please don't hesitate to call on me.

Thanks for tolerating the rambling's.

Charlie Ford

"79" Transporter, dressed for the road
The Mothership

 The"Turning 40 Nostalgic VW Service Tour, and
Search for the Beginning of Wind".



<a
href="http://www.armory.com/~y21cvb/charlie/charlie.html">http://www.armory.
com/~y21cvb/charlie/charlie.html</a>



"Wider still and wider.....shall thy bounds be set"

