Date: Wed, 10 Sep 1997 21:10:24 -0700
From: Charlie Ford <cford@mindspring.com>
To: type2@bigkitty.azaccess.com
Subject: Fitness and the Mothership


As many of you already know after BBTA I decided to stay at Bill Bowman's
home in St. Charles, Missouri.  Bill and I had met at the Columbus show and
his gracious offer of hospitality, just like so many others along the
route, came to fruition in the by and by.

Over the past couple of days I have been grounded.  the Mothership, because
of the ticket and suspended liscence, went to drydock for some much needed
and not so much needed sprucing up.

Since being here at Bill's home I have had the privilege to get to know he
and his wife Kathryn much better.  Kathryn and Bill both are Stewards on
TWA flights out of Saint Louis.  they each have been with the company over
20 years, with Kathryn being there the longest.  You oughta see them in
their uniforms, they look sharp as tacks laying on a floor while you're
barefoot in the dark room where they lay.

Kathryn is probably one of the better cooks I have ever met.  She can whip
out a meal in short order and make it pleasing to the pallet.  Garlic is
one of her favorite ingredients, and to be honest it is also one of mine.
They say garlic has strong healing powers, that is for you, the person that
smells your breath after you eat it is not so affected.  I just like the
taste of it in my food.

I remember when I taught Mentally Retarded adults in Tennessee (Appalachia)
in the late 70's.  Many of the clients were sent to the activity center
each day with a clove of garlic around their neck on a string.  Now you
must keep in mind that this was a "mountain" culture and they still
practiced the "root and herb" healing processes.

These people thought as many folks still do, that garlic wards off demon's.
In their minds, the kids were retarded because they were demon possessed.
Tradition is a hard thing to shake, it just takes time, and new lessons I
guess.  Mountain folks are good people, not so modern, but very good
people.  I can appreciate their simplicity.  But then I lived with them for
five years back then.

Anyway, over the past few days Bill, Kathryn, and myself have shared a few
meals together and each time a little or a lot of garlic was used.  Good
atmosphere, good food, good company, good conversation, and good chewing
gum for desert.  Life is good at "abode Bowman".

Bill is quite a VW buff.  He has one of the most impressive collections of
VW vintage paper and parts I have ever seen.  I don't mean just a
collection, I mean some serious memorabilia and a hell of a lot of it.  Not
only has he aquired an impressive collection of paper, but he has also
aquired a pretty vast understanding of the Volkswagen.  Ask him a question
and if he can't answer it, which he usually can, he will immediately look
it up.  Not because he wants to show off, but because he wants to know for
himself.  VW is his hobby, and like all "great" hobbiest, he is good at it.

He also has a corral of very nice vintage and modern VW's.  They are all in
great shape and one is in the process of getting that way.  The flood bus
is a hit.  Nice split window conversion that went through the big flood a
few years ago.  It belonged to a duck hunting club and was completely
submerged in the waters.  It is looking great to date and runs like a
dream.  Bill and his partner Tom went in on the restoration.

Another thing he is good at his "getting things done".  I have to admit
that over the past 8 months on the road, I have become quite relaxed, and
quite lazy in many ways.  I don't want to imply that I am slothful, or
oozing along like maple syrup on a snow pack, but I do take a much easier
approach than I did a year ago.

Like the ticket of the other night.  Last year this time, I would have
reacted with more stress and because of that, more irrational thought.
Life in the tin box had done it share of damage, and I was tired of being
there.  Folks, trips like this work wonders, do one if you need to, it
don't take guts, it just takes a need to find solutions.  I am certainly
not free of all that encumbered me, but I am as Thom Cerniak says, I am
more liberated.

When that event happened the other night, I immediately started thinking
about how to reach resolve.  I thought about it with calmness and
structure.  Well...as much structure as one can muster when one finds out
they have just driven 15,500 miles on a susupended liscence.  I slept good
anyway.

In any case, instead of rushing to react, I approached it easily.  I just
hope I can maintain this new found methodology.  You see now, there is the
proof that the lesson is learned, don'tcha know.  heheheh.....Next time I
something abd happens I will probably raise hell and high water, then look
back at this post and feel like a total fool.  hahaha

But back to Bill and the adventure of the past couple
days............................

He and she have taken me and The Mothership in with unbridled welcome.
First Bill assisted me in putting in the snaps for my new mosquito net in
the rear hatch opening.  I insist on sleeping in my bus as much as possible
so I think he wanted to ensure that I was comfy.

The net was a gift from Ted Finesman, the snaps were a gift from Tony
Moore.  These guys are my Cincy Brothers.  By the time this trip is over
the Mothership will be totally rebuilt, anybody gotta spare paint job
laying around anywhere?  hahahahahaha.  I say that in jest.  : )

Next Bill and I, mostly Bill, went to work on the wheels.  We scrubbed them
down, sanded them and painted them a nice chrome silver.  With the hubcaps
shining like new penny's and the rims as their backdrop, she looks like
well.........a better looking Motherhship.  I mean hell, she was beautiful
in my mind's eye already.  We just made her look a little more beautiful.
: )

Then this afternoon we went to work on the rear shocks (another gift from
Ted), and the bumper.  The Mothership came with that part.  We replaced the
rear shocks with no problem at all.  Then dropped the bumper, Bill got out
his collection of body tools and banged out the dings.  He did a damn good
job.

While he did that the "apprentice" namely me, finished the rear wheels with
their coat of primer and chrome paint.  It sounded like a body shop in this
neck of the nieghborhood.  Bill and Kathryn live on a quiet street, in a
quiet neighborhood, in a quiet town.  I bet the housewives were irritated
today.

The ticket situation is working right along.  I said on Monday night when I
got the ticket that I was going to shoot for having it straightened out by
Friday.  I think I will make it.  this being the case after several phone
calls to first Florida and Georgia to find out what is what and so forth.

I called a friend of mine in Georgia that helped me track down the reason
for the suspension.  Then I called that reason and aquired explanationas to
what i needed to do to rectify it.  I sent the money to rectify, now I
await a thing called a D-6 Clearance form, in triplicate I am sure.  I will
take this D-6 Clearance form  and mail or fax it too Georgia where they
will process me through the system and spit me out as once again being
legal.

I did contact the Commissioners office in Georgia and have a contact with
the upper level management rather than the lowly frontline state office
worker.  I tell you, you want something done slow call the regular office.
You want something expidited, call the boss!

The final cost will be somehwere around $200.00.  Bill loaned me the amount
until I get paid from some work I am doing.  A fellow I met at Busses by
the Arch offered me a part time postion in a Machine Shop.  man have I had
a blast.  I have made all sorts of high dollar pieces.  I have found the
machinery and the automation of it all to be astounding and enlightening.

The guys that work there, Kurt, James, Tony, and Ernie are good people.
All of them are under 35, make pretty fair money, and enjoy a good laugh.
James is a world class turkey caller.   Now if your not a hunter you may
not appreciate such hobbies, but it's an art that has been around much
longer than even VW, I hate to say.  I heard him call, and he is good,
sounds just like a turkey, but then I don't guess he would be world class
if it didn't.  ; )

Life is good, even though I am still illegally smiling.  The Mothership is
looking better.  My belly is full and there are no demons around to speak
of.

Thanks for tolerating the rambling's.

Charlie Ford

"79" Transporter, dressed for the road
The Mothership

 The"Turning 40 Nostalgic VW Service Tour, and
Search for the Beginning of Wind".

http://www.armory.com/~y21cvb/charlie/charlie.html
"Wider still and wider.....shall thy bounds be set"

