Date: Fri, 14 Aug 1998 14:00:30 -0700
From: Charlie Ford <cford@sysnet.net>
To: vintagebus@type2.com
Subject: The HooverCraft

I have been scanning this thread for the past couple days and just couldn't
sit any longer without adding to the dribble both sides have already poured
upon my reading ears.

I too had a bad first experience with Bob Hoover when I became a bus owner,
and joined the list.  To be honest, I still don't know what I think of this
fellow.  I do know this, until I meet him and talk to him, and look him
straight in the eye I will not take away from what he offers, nor will I
name him my VW GURU.  

I will pointedly say this.  Hoover is not a God, a Superhero, or someone I
will call friend, but I would refer to him as an internet aquaintaince.
Bob's cyber personality does raise some questions for me, as do most folks.
 When I meet someone, internet or not, that appears to be angry, crusty,
grizzled, and otherwise pissed off at the entire world I have to wonder
what made them that way.  

Me, I am just the opposite.  I am an easy going talkative southern idiot
that enjoys sharing just about anything I have with whoever might want it,
or take the time to read it or listen to it.  I guess there really are
differences in people after all, it's our expecations that appear most
similar.

The normal person's expectations require, or at least "request" that an
answer to a question be given with prudence, patience, and proper
personality.  The "proper" being a gentile enough form of communicae that
not only answers the riddle or question, but also soothes our souls and
allows us to gain confidence in applying the answer.  

Still with this expected "norm" it is very evident that not everyone smiles
like a mule eating briars through a picket fence around other people, and
it's clear our expectations are the culprit here.

So what if Bob might an angry old piece of cow-dung that believes his shit
doesn't stink, and his underarms smell like roses and the corns on his feet
taste like fine herbs grown in a garden toiled by love, sweat, and tears.
So what if he answers e-mails as if he doesn't ever want to recieve them.
It just doesn't matter!

Voltaire said something like this,  "I may not agree with your opinion But
I will fight to the death your right to speak it."  I might would add, "in
whatever way you want to convey it."

You guys that voice your dislike gotta learn to expect that Bob might piss
you off if you e-mail and ask him for advice.  Then what you gotta do is
bite the dog as hard as he bit you if that is what transpires.  

Let's not throw the baby out with the bath water.  Bob has benefit on the
list just like trip reports do and those ever present repeating threads of
what size tires to use on your bus.  

Bob is just another "joe" with an e mail personality that probably doesn't
reflect the total man, but then...... it just might reflect it
perfectly......Who knows?......Who cares?......Read the stuff or delete the
stuff. 

The key to this delimna is to reach out and find other people to try and
make your advisors.  Seek out Dave Easterwood, Brian Wittling, Jon
Christensen, Josh Rogders, Sean Bartnik, and me if you have to find out how
to go three days without bathing and still smell fair.  Thats about all I
am good for.

Most of all drive your bus with the utmost need to learn all about it and
work on it.  Enjoy the damn thing and the list.
  
By the way, I have relocated again to where I hope I will live.  I am in
Saint Louis and working at Archway Imports.  I will not encumber you guys
with trip report dribble anymore than I feel the need to, if you have
complaints about it write me, I will explain why I feel travel reports are
important to the list.

Thanks for tolerating me and my ramblings,

Charlie Ford
"I listen to the wind, to the wind of my soul.  
Where it takes me well I think only God really knows."                
						Cat Stevens

www.tiora.net/~keen/charlie/charlie.html

The Search for the Beginning of Wind



------------------------------------------------------------------------------
To leave the list, send an UNSUBSCRIBE message to VINTAGEBUS-REQUEST@TYPE2.COM
------------------------------------------------------------------------------


