Date: Wed, 8 Sep 1999 21:43:13 -0400 (EDT)
From: Charlie Ford <cjford@altamaha.net>
Subject: The Big Black Horse

Last week Mr. Ed Wilson announced the closing of the doors of one of Jeff Davis Counties finest businesses.  Wilson's Hardware shut it's doors after 94 years of serving the residents and businesses of Jeff Davis County and Hazlehurst.  To me, it is sad to see this icon go away.  Wilson's Hardware was probably our communities oldest business.  It was also one of the few old-time hardware stores left in the entire State of Georgia.  

When I was a kid my Grandfather, Mr. Charlie A. Carter owned a barber shop located two doors down from the hardware store.  The building the barber shop was in was owned by the Wilson's.  Because of this I feel a special love for the business, and for the building that housed it.

During my youth I would each day leave school and walk to my Grandfather's shop.  I would do a few chores for him such as sweep up, run errands, or fill the refrigerator with soft drinks so the customers could have something cold to drink.  While I took care of my appointed task the barber shop was alive with activity.  

Men, or women who had brought their kids into town to get their weekly haircut would be talking about politics, the new minister, or whether the crops were going to fare well in the summer heat.  Always there was fellowship.

Upon the completion of my various jobs I was able to go out and visit my favorite places in the downtown area.  As I would walk out the Barber shop door into the hot summer sun, there were an array of sounds that might be heard.  

James Hunt, the bicycle/appliance/toy asembler of the Western Auto would be whistling a tune across the street as he worked.  The customers of Hazlehurst Auto Parts might be talking while standing behind a pickup truck about that transmission that just seemed to not be acting right.  

The ladies of Iris's or Ollie's beauty salons might be commenting on their latest hair styles.  The smell of hair spray and permanant solution would permeated the air if their doors were open.  It seemed to smell pungent compared to the sweet smells of Tootle Brothers Bakery and the fresh batch of Washington pies or donuts Mr. Tootle had just just taken from the oven.

Inside the wide open front doors of Wilson's hardware there was a frenzy of activity.  Mr. Preston Thompkins, a local plumber would be chatting with Ed Wilson about some plumbing supplies he was needing.  Mr. H.D. Wilson would be showing a lady some of the fine new cookware the store had recently brought into stock, and Roosevelt, the large easy going black man that worked for the store would be loading some paint into the paint shaker so that the proper mix could be aquired.  

I would walk in and be sure not to interupt either conversation or activity.  Roosevelt was always good for a hello, or short conversation but Mr. Ed and H.D. were conducting business, and an interruption was totally out of the question.

The TV's that sat in the front of the store always caught my attention first.  But then they did most everyone.  You could not help but notice the new models because all of them were on.  The sound was set at low volume, but the picture was plain, and in those days black and white.  I remember watching Joe Torre, the manager of the Yankees play catcher for the Braves.  He was always good a for a home run or two but the Braves of then, as opposed to now, always seemed to lose.  it didn't matter though, it was simply fun to watch the baseball game.

When the game was over and the boredom overtook me I would go wondering around the store.  I would look at the new baseball gloves, or radios the Mr. Wilson's had just gotten in.  I wanted a catchers mitt just like Joe Torres but I never got one.  Baseball, as much as I loved the game, never became my sport.

Somehow I would always end up at the back of the store staring up at that big black horse.  His mouth was taped together, his tail was wiry feeling and not like hair at all, but he was the most marvelous horse in the world.  He just stood there in all his glory.  The representing icon of Wilson's Hardware Company.  

On good days Roosevelt or Mr. Wilson would help me get up on his back.  I would sit tall in the saddle and pretend I was the Lone Ranger, or Roy Rogers even though they both rode horses of a different color.  It didn't matter though, imagination takes a child a long way, and colors are no barriers to the strength dreams.  The horse was my steed, my transport to hero land, my galloping statue that took me nowhere, yet everywhere.

He would take me far away and place me in the desert chasing indians, or riding up to save the maiden that had been acosted by the villian.  He and his wiry mane blowing in the wind would fill my dreams, even though rugs and plumbing supplies were being sold not ten feet away.  

Eventually, after my hard days ride was done, I would get down from the horse, my good deeds completed.  I would walk around to his nose and pat him on the head.  At least the part I could reach on my tip toes.  I would turn and walk away only to look back at his still glaring black eyes fixed in their sockets.  I would ride him again one day soon, I knew I would.

Wilson's Hardware closed its doors on August 31, 1999.  Thank you Mr. Wilson for allowing me to grow up at least part of the way in your store.  it has been years since that old horse has taken me to untold places but his memory will live on and on.  I am sure there are others who have those memories too.

Good luck to you and your family.  Happy trails to you and that Big Black Horse.  I will miss you both.

Charlie Ford
(912) 379-1371
----------------
A.I.R.S. Website
http://www.type2.com/rescue/main.html
The Search for the Beginning of Wind Website
http://www.type2.com/~keen/charlie/charlie.html
----------------
Its so hard to come by that feeling of peace.....This friend of mine said "Close your eyes and try a few of these."  I thought I was flying like a bird, so far above my sorrow, but when I looked down I was standing on my knees.
					JB


