
From cford@primary.net Wed Jan 27 17:03:32 1999
Date: Tue, 26 Jan 1999 01:48:14 -0600
From: Charlie Ford <cford@primary.net>
To: keen@finally.atlasta.net
Subject: Joshua's Lament

In the past two weeks we in these United States have endured huge amounts
of news, innuendo, and propaganda.  The battle in DC rages with a fervor
never seen within our boundaries as a nation.  

One Senator implied that we are quickly approaching violent stages of
thought and one where people of one belief system might take to the streets
to win out over others that may think differently.  People are speaking of
"stoning" and physical violence to their perceived oppressors of right.
When is balance going to be attained?  I think this is the question all of
us ask ourselves in these trying times.

Meanwhile across the oceans our troops.  Young men and women from hometowns
around America are in harms way trying to sway the methods of a madman that
lives in riches in Baghdad.  'Riches, while his people suffer in poverty
and endure sanctions he brought upon them with his strong arm,
power-mongering ways. 

The world is a smaller place these days, and the talking heads bring it
right into our living rooms.  We are forced in many ways to become involved
in all the wrong things and that takes our focus from all the right things.
 Like neighbors, friends, and even acquaintances that might need some of
our attention.

I am one that enjoys thinking, listening to, and forming opinion about such
matters of national or international proportion.  I like to believe I think
deeply and strategically about the aforementioned, but I cannot say for
sure.  I seldom run into folks that have the urge to discuss issues like
that for pleasure, I believe that is where the conversational rubber hits
the road.  Conversation is where present opinion is challenged, and newly
formed opinions emerge.  We learn as we go.

I guess many folks believe in the old rule that says 'Never discuss
politics, sex, or religion in mixed company'.  I don't necessarily disagree
with that, but I believe the times allow for an expansion of the boundaries
in which critical thought is embellished.  

Where do you discuss such things if not "in mixed company"?

Then suddenly comes that a buddy, a colleague, has died by his own hand,
and of his own choosing.  It shocked me!  It seemed surreal and nothing
more than a bad joke when I first heard it.  My rational mind then took
over and made me know that surely no one would joke about something as
serious as that.  I went immediately to my phone and called to confirm the
awful news.

Two of Josh's friends went to his house to check on him last Monday
Morning.  They knew that he and his wife had suffered some changes of late,
and that Josh was struggling to deal with those changes.  Isn't it amazing
how fragile even the toughest of us appear in the face of love's woes?

As the situation unfolded it became evident that their friend, and many of
ours, had died.  It didn't matter how he had died; it only mattered that he
had.  

At that point all the news of CNN, Fox, CBS, NBC, and ABC drifted somewhere
so deep into the mind that it became a simple speck that couldn't even cast
a shadow.  The essence of life and living became the thought, and Josh's
was the one focused upon.

The questioning of the dead begins.  How did this happen?  How could he?
How do I face this situation?  How am I gonna make him live again?  Do I
know CPR?  What's the number for 911?  Why did he do this?  Why would
something affect someone so happy?  Why^Å. Surely he's faking?

Then the truth probably became more evident as the emergency vehicles
arrived. Maybe you stand there in some sort of cold surreal world that
seems so much like a bad dream you want to wake up.  A light sheen of sweat
breaks on your brow as you're trying to decipher the mystery of loss that
is lying before you.  

The anger starts to emerge and so begins the rapid-fire shift that all of
the emotions your body and mind can express.  The neurons fire back and
forth across the hemisphere's like warriors firing their weapons on a
battlefield straight from hell.  

Your brain has become a pinball machine and nothing but time can calm the
noise and shooting thoughts.   You want to cry but for some reason you
can't.   

The frenzy of activity inside and out is causing your thought to scramble
from one side to the next and then suddenly you realize, He is dead, he is
really dead!  

Then whole new sets of questions became evident.  "Should I call his wife?
Where is she?"  Etc^Å
 
I arrived in Ponca City on Thursday morning.  I departed Saint Louis in the
Mothership on Wednesday night 12:18 AM, drove three hours and slept cold in
a rest area along 44 west.  On Thursday morning I finished the drive
arriving in town about 12:00 noon.  

My calculations were that I did 449 miles in 8 hours give a take a few
minutes.  The Mothership breezed along at 65 mph; I sat there and tried to
recall conversations I was privileged to share with Josh.  It's amazing how
the simple details come back on certain things, and others are lost forever.

He was a happy fellow!  I don't believe there was one time I saw him when
he wasn't happy and gleeful.  He had teeth as white as a sheet, and eyes
that would stun you when they met yours.  He was a gentleman to no end and
carried himself as such.  A smile for the guys, and two for the ladies.

His friends told me that Josh enjoyed socializing, and from time to time,
most of the time enjoyed a beer or two or three. He was not terribly fond
of liquor but did partake of a little every now and then.  Josh was a
trooper in the party world.

Chad Cantwell told me that if all of them went to bed or passed out and
Josh was left alone around the fire, he would just amble to wherever in the
campground he saw lights or people standing around a fire.  He would simply
make new friends to talk with about whatever.  

Chad said that every time they went camping, by the end of the first day,
complete strangers from around the campground would come walking up and
call Josh by name and start talking to him like they had known him all
their life.
 
The funeral was a nice, as nice as they get anyway.  The flowers abounded
and the colors were happy.  There was one that was made in the VW Logo, and
others that were the more traditional look.  The casket was oak and looked
rich, as he deserved.

Rick Taylor, Rob Dalghren, Bill Keating, David Pierce, Mike Gensler, Art
Long, Pete Sutnick and myself were in attendance from the list.   We like
all the others sat silent as the Minister gave his account, and comfort to
the family and the rest of us.  He was a young man, maybe 25 or so, but
there was a sincere air about him.  

The film was good.  It portrayed Josh as he was I think.  The mix of Elvis
and Steppenwolf offered the bounds of perspective that reasonably matched
Josh's personality.  He purveyed both those styles.  

There were five VW's in the procession, one beetle and four busses.   The
rain was cold and the wind was blowing all of it sideways.  It seemed very
fitting to have so many of us there to mourn death.  The day certainly
suited the occasion, sad, dismal, and lonely.

The wake was actually a lot of fun.  I think Josh would have wanted it that
way, and that was the general consensus throughout the mourning group.
They all must have known him a lot better than I did; in fact I am sure
they did.  There was no doubt that we were there to celebrate life, rather
than suffer totally the grief associated with the death of this friend,
this colleague, this "forever-young" man.

Josh has some great friends left in Ponca City.  I pray that each one of
them deal with this episode in their life in stride.  Understanding
something like this takes time and the full reasoning will never be known.
The one thing we that knew Josh Rodgers have to commit to is to try and
make sure it never happens again.  

If you have a friend or acquaintance going through a tough time, give them
a little of your's.  Something as simple as a smile can move people in
mysterious ways.  Be of service to one another, and do it with an active
mind and heartfelt intention.

The drive back to Saint-Louis was smooth and easy.   I hummed along at
about 65 mph and thought about what a nice time I had in Oklahoma.  All the
while I kept feeling like it might have been much better if Josh had been
there.  He and I had talked a few times about doing the sand rail thing at
the Little Sahara, but I don't guess that will happen now.  Chad, Steve,
and I will go one of these days and do it in memory of Josh.  

In Memory Of:
Joshua James Rodgers
May 4, 1973-December 14, 1998

Thanks for tolerating the ramblings.

Charlie Ford

(314) 772-8197
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Truth, honesty, and integrity are easy to say, but hard to actively
practice.  They are virtues more precious than gold, and worth a lifetime
of effort to attain."    C. A. Carter
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
"79" Bus, "The Mothership"
http://www.tiora.net/~keen/charlie/charlie.html
All writings are Copyrighted and belong to me.


