Date: Thu, 3 Jul 1997 17:02:05 -0800
From: Charlie Ford <cford@mindspring.com>
Subject: Down to the Mile High City

I left Casper the next morning and headed out to Denver.  Ginger and her
hubby had to help me get my bus started.  The starter has been acting out a
little bit and since I have to get to Denver by Wednesday, and here it is
Monday I needed to hold on to all the cash I could.  A new, or should I
say, re-built starter, has been quoted to me at a price of $105.00.  I
figure I would beat on it and push it off until I can raise the money to
buy a good one.  Tapping seems to work well right now.

First we tried to push the bus back up the hill so I could get a good
running start and pop the clutch.  On the Mothership it doesn't take much
at all to push start it.  All you have to do is get her rolling, jump in
without falling or catching a foot under the front tire, Slip her into
first, turn on the key and pop the clutch.  Starts right up without any
problem at all.  Of course it does come down to what a person "considers" a
problem.  All that pushing can take the breath right out of a fat man like
myself.  For now I will have have to tolerate the excercise.  I tried
tapping and it worked the first time.  Elivis left the building, and
Charlie left Casper.

The drive from Casper to Denver is pretty basic.  From Casper you hit
Interstate 25 "slugslab", and put-er in the wind.  I passed through even
more grassy prairies and was met on the road by morning wind coming from
the west.  Pounding gusts hit my passenger side sometime moving the bus a
foot or so.  But it wasn't anything to strong so I just settled in and
drove.

In the process of driving I started to think about what type workshop I
needed to do with these AmeriCorps Members.  The Sheridan family Resource
Center AmeriCorps program is considered one of the best in the country.
The members work with school children and do some work in literacy training
for adults  I figure it is more my privilege to be with them, rather than
their privilege to be with me.  These people do direct service everday, and
in me that breeds some respect.

>From the early research I have done by phone and e mail over the past
couple weeks, the members are having some "getting along" type problems.
generally speaking of course.  From what I hear it is not the end of the
world type stuff.  I am sure I can help them get past the problem.  At
least I better be able to, if I don't I am wasting money.

AmeriCorps programs bring people of different cultural experience and life
experience together, and then try and help them work as a group.  This
effort is compounded by the shear fact that none or few of the people know
each other at all, and eventually a member finds out that there are some
they want to know more than others.  They also discover that yes, there are
some they don't want to know at all.  This scenario is what potentially
creates discord among the ranks of serving individuals.  This discord, if
the group doesn't overcome it festers to the point of destruction for the
team.  Kind of a shame that it happens, but all groups do it, and these
kids are no different from any other.

I decided I needed to find out more facts about the program, the community
it serves, and the member dynamics at work to "get things done".  That is
half the fun of doing what I do.  I have the opportunity to see the group
from one angle before I ever get to see them in person.  They are sometime
so totally different from what the leadership describes that when you first
see them in person you are once again at a total loss as to what exactly to
do.

Facilitation is a "build the plane as you fly it" type profession at times.
Not always, but very often the case.  You are one person stepping into a
room of people, and you are going to assist them by playing a neutral
party, or mediator, to produce a product they all can live with.  Consensus
building.  Everyone likes it and everyone lives with it.  I wish congress
could learn to do that.

But anyway......................  This is the VW list and I have enough
problems justifying my post to you guys anyway.  About all I say in
reference to VWs is that she, The Mothership, is running good.  Other than
that the only other reason is too ask ya'll for help.  So back to the trip
report.

The bus is still running great and smooth.  In fact I think the engine is
running better now than before I left Seattle.  The Mothership seems to
love the road.  This is the second trip she has taken around the country in
the past five years, so I think she may have found her niche.  I hope she
will get me back to Seattle after the trip has ended.  It is their that she
will begin her resoration and re-build.

I got into Denver about 2:00 in the afternoon.  I drove 55-60 mph most of
the way and stopped only a couple times to see the scenic 20 foot overlooks
along the "slugslab" running through south eastern Wyoming.  I came up with
that name for the interstate while having nothing else to think about,
which in this part of the west is easy.  After thinking so much you
eventually have to search for things.

I think "slugslab" works.  It doesn't matter how fast you go on an
interstate, it always seems like your going nowhere.  Until of course you
get to where you are going, then your somewhere you wanna be, or possibly,
don't want to be.  I kind of figure a slug feels that way when it's
slithering it's way across a sidewalk, which "is" the slugs "interstate".

I stopped at a convenience store and made a call to the program office.  I
set up a meeting for the next afternoon.  I asked the director where I
might find a good campground.  She explained that she knew very little of
such matters, but if could get on the south side I would be closer to the
program location.

I looked at my atlas and saw a couple of places I might find a temporary
home.  I saw Cherry Creek Campground to the south of town and another that
was closer.  I thought I might check on the both and make a choice from
there.  the days was young and time was not a factor.  I hadn't seen any of
Denver yet.  Not that this city has ever been that appealing, but hey, I
was here so why not.

Denver is a confusing city to drive in.  At least to the first time
tourist.  The interstate doesn't seem to give you any indication of where
to turn off to get into downtown or anywhere else.  It just sort of seems
to point to street names and such.  After weaving my way and seeing the
city, it was a much less romantic skyline than all the professionally made
tourist photo's made it out to be.  One I saw showed the mountain slopes
dropping right into the backdoor of the city.  This does not happen, it is
a fake.  The mountains are quite a ways to the west of Denver, and you can
barely see the bottom slopes.  Maybe on a clear day with a pair of
binoculars.

I decided that since it was 90 degrees and the bus had pushed me a few
miles over the past few days, I would go on to Cherry Creek and settle in
there.  It was a state park and I knew that it would probably be just fine.
Jim Arnott and I agree "you can't go worng with a State Park".

I arrived after confronting a ton of fast traffic.  I think the speed limit
signs in Denver must just be "speed suggestions".  Everyone was in a hurry.
They flew past me doing 80 and then crossed three lanes to make the exit
they were aiming for five miles back up the road.  It was just plain
"stupid driving", and what made it worse, there were so damn many of them!
I was beginning to feel I might get pulled over for going to slow.

I made it to the campground and settled in.  Cherry Creek State Park is
located on a reservoir just south of Denver.  The lake is not to big, but
big enough I guess for the yuppie types that come out from town to drop in
their Ferrari boats.  You know the type that will do 0-150 in 3.3 seconds.
Talk about "keeping up with the Joneses".

Jet skis dot the lake like little water bugs that are found in the edge of
a fish pond.  They hum around like bees and you sit, watch, and
wonder......"Why don't they ever hit each other?, the sad part is that
sometime they do.  They are going so fast and driving so close!

I know I would hate to be on one in this lake in anything.  I would
especially hate to be a fish in this lake.  That would be kind of the fish
equivalent of a human smoking.  I don't think fish could live in Cherry
Creek, it is part of the city water supply.  At the next store I will buy
me a couple gallons of Evian I think.

The first two nights at the Campground were somewhat uneventful.  The
Mothership, as usual, looked dwarfish compared to the RV's the size of
houses that surrounded me on all sides.  But a stalwart and strong dwarf
she is.  As nimble as a cat compared to them.  And in my opinion much more
beautiful.

The workshop on Wednesday went well and the members were an inspiration,
each one thanking me for coming to work with them.  I am still not quite
sure what I did, but it succeeded.  They were experiencing growing pains,
just like any other group or team does.  Nothing serious, they were all
loving the service they were doing and all planning to use the scholarship
to go to college at the end of their term of service.  As long as that is
happening and people are focused on the purpose, a program is fine in my
opinion.  Doing service is never easy.

We had a chat, played some games and set up some things for them to do to
maintain each others spirit.  I told them of the concept of being their
brother and sisters keeper, and they understood it.  I will see them again
in the fall for another workshop.

The third day is when things started to fall apart.  I came in from doing
the AmeriCorps workshop at about 11:00 PM.  Someone had stolen my campsite.
Maybe "stolen" is a bit harsh.  "They had taken it!"  After checking with
the camp host and informing him of my dilemma, we decided it would be fine
if I slept in front of the office that night.  The folks that had
mistakenly assumed my position in RVville were in yet another "ocean going
vessel", complete with all the comforts of home.  I drove the Mothership
around, crawled in the back and went to sleep.  about two in the morning a
Park ranger came by to check on why I was there but after I explained my
fate he said "I'll keep an eye on you.  Goodnight Mr. Ford."  I said the
same and fell asleep.

I will have to say I missed my little campsite.  I had a tree, and in this
campground they were at a premium.  Lots of short ones, but not many the
size of my tree.  I would just have to 'let it go".  I'll probaby dream
about it one day and write an essay about it.  NOT!!!  : )

The next morning I got it all worked out, at least I thought I did.  It
seems that the problem I presented, had upset the girl in the office.  She
didn't know how to handle it and she had rented me a reserved site in
replacement. The park ranger came and gave me my money back and announced
that because we had the problems they would give me an electric site for
two more night s for free.  I told them that would be fine and proceed to
smile and move my home once again.

The Principal of the school where the AmeriCorps program is located and I
hit it off pretty good.  We had a lot in common and she and I just sort of
Gee and hawed.  That evening we went out, had some dinner, and a walk
around Denver.  I had a great time with her and plan on seeing her again
when I can.  Who's Judy?

The next day while laying around the campsite resting from the events of
the night before.  I saw emergency vehicles come in to the campground.
They sped up to an RV across in the next section but about 100 yd's from me
and jumped out and ran to the door.  I jumped on my bike and went to see if
I could help.  I am certified and hey, if there is anything I can do I try
and do it.  Its what I believe in.  The officer said "thanks, I think we
got it, but stay close until the other emergency folks get here".  I said I
would and they proceeded to do their job.

They ran in and out of the RV getting different stuff from their cars, then
the pace of their "getting" slowed t a crawl.  Hmmm.....I said to myself.
Something has changed in this situation.  Either the person in need of aid
has gotten better or lots worse.  it was worse, she died.

The elderly lady was 93 years old.  she was living in the RV with her
daughter and son and law, and now widowed husband of 90 something also.  I
sort of checked and analyzed my remorse gauge and too my surprise I felt
very little.  I mean sure, there is a person here that has just died, but
on the other hand she was 93.  This age is much longer than I or most
people I know ever expect to live, and something else, she died camping.
Man what a way to go.

Now mind you the location of the death camping site could have been better
and more pristine, but all in all "she was camping".  I thought of thing's
she may have seen in her life.  The depression, both world wars, the Korean
and Vietnam conflict, The Roosevelt presidency, both Roosevelt's, the
coming of age of civil rights, an actor become President.  I'll bet that
one shocked the hell out of her, it did me!

But all in all she died after a long life.  My only regret is that a child
wasn't born in that campground that day.  But you can rest assured that one
was born somewhere at the exact minute she gave up the ghost.  Death and
re-birth, it's the nature of things.

I went back to my bus and lay down.  The sun beat down on the roof and the
inside turned so hot stripped down to my shorts and lay there.  I didn't
have anyplace to go so I decided to take a nap.  I drifted off with her,
this anonymous lady that died on my mind.  Her body was dead but her
presence was still felt by someone that didn't even know her.  I wish I had
known her.  I bet she was nice.

That night another exciting event brought blue and red lights to the
campground.  Acyclist riding on one of the long lanes decided that 10:00 at
night was a good time to ride his bike fast without a light.  he came to a
dead still stop when a cable stretched across the lane caught his frame
just above the front tire and threw him for a looper.  Wouldn't want to pay
a quarter for that ride!  he scrathced his head up some, but all in all he
was fine.  Still we had two ambulances, two fire trucks, a sherriff, and
the paramedics to watch while they put on thier overwhleming display of
caring.  All that attention will be paid for of course by the person
injured while being foolish.  Best lesson:  Put a light on your bike if you
don't have one.

The next morning I left the Cherry Creek Campground.  My stay in Denver had
been quite fulfilling, enlightening, and relaxing.  Also a bit more
exciting than anticipated.  I met a few more great friends and said
good-bye to one I didn't even know.  I am on my way to Hays Kansas now with
all intentions of driving throughout he morning to beat the noon day hot
sun.  And by the way, The Mothership is running good, but she ain't
cranking worth a damn.  A new starter is definitely on the horizon.

Thanks for tolerating my rambling's.

Charlie Ford


"79" Transporter, dressed for the road
The Mothership

 The"Turning 40 Nostalgic VW Service Tour, and
Search for the Beginning of Wind".

http://www.armory.com/~y21cvb/charlie/charlie.html

"Wider still and wider.....shall thy bounds be set"
