Date: Thu, 30 Oct 1997 13:52:11 -0700
From: Charlie Ford <cford@mindspring.com>
To: type2@bigkitty.azaccess.com
Subject: Time and Money, Patience and Preparedness 

"Gloom....Despair....and agony on me.  Deep dark depression, excessive
misery.  If it weren't for bad luck, I'd have no luck at all.
Gloom....depair....and agony on me."

The money didn't come again today.  Anybody in Denver wanna pick the damn
thing up and deliver it halfway to Cleveland, I'll meet you at Kansas City.
: )  We would probably beat the damn mail system.

You know when the government wants your money they want the damn stuff
yesterday.  When you are supposed to get money from them, they tell you
they will send it "day after tomorrow".  Sometimes makes you wonder if
thier office is in China or Tiawan or someplace like that.

Now given the circumstances I am under here I don't anything to do but
"grin and bare it".  The contact in Denver says the check went out last
Friday, but given the blizzard Denver was hit with, then they ain't no
telling when the thing might come.  Hell...it might come tomorrow or three
weeks.

The fact is, I have three things against me.  The fact that a Government
office is the one sending the check, the fact that Denver got its ass
kicked by a shitload of snow, and that yet another Government run enity is
in charge of getting it to me.  Now given those facts, I can only summize
one thing, one lone fact emerges from those two.  That lone fact is that
"there are two of those three facts that I can complain about, the first
one about government, and the third one about government.

Now please don't take me as some "survivalist type malitia dude", because I
am certainly not one of those type folks.  In my feeble minded opinion, all
those guys can go to hell.  Our system provides a perfectly "legal system
of rights" by which one citizen can take action and be heard.  The
non-violent way.  The last I heard, complaining about it and writing down
those complaints were not illegal.  So on I RAVE!

I have done my work for Colorado, and that "work" was good.  The
evaluations were all high numbers and most of the comments made were even
more positive.  I, and my Partner, Jen Stark worked our asses off to make
sure that those AmeriCorps members walked away with a solid product
generated by "good energy" and "lots of learning".

Damn!!!  The Governors contact in Denver told me that he would overnight it
as soon as it got cut.  Right now I am not in any quandry concerning money,
but I am in a quandry concerning time the weather of New England can be
bad.  If the wait continues longer without check in hand, then I will be
severly "quandered' in both.  Promises are promises, I wish government
would learn to keep them, of course, couples and lawyers need to learn that
lesson to.

I must lose this rage, and proceed on with the goals I can attain, the ones
that are in my control.  I can "spic and span" The Mothership and prepare
her for travel in the worst and most treacherous of conditions.  I can sort
through and re-arrange all of the gear I have with me so that she will be
packed with efficient retreval in mind.  Warm stuff on top

I can write in my diary, and smoke cigarettes, and drink water.  I can play
with katie and Colleen, Niel and Lori's most beautiful children.  I can
lounge around and dream of what the future holds on the road.  I can sing
and try and learn to play my harmonica (of course, after I smoke) I breathe
so much better.  I know.....I know, I need to quit.

I can pet Gus, and try to make him understand that life is about patience,
and he mustn't bark constantly while I am away.  I love him, but dog
ownership is a tough one to get back with after four or five years out of
dog ownership.  One assumes a new role when a dependent is aboard.

Both of us living out of The Mothership doesn't make it any easier.  I have
to learn my new way as 'partner with him, and he the same.  Slowly, as
experience passes, we are understanding one another.  I know he loves to
eat and fart, he is good at both of those little talents..  But if he could
type, I wonder that he would say about me?  Probably essentially the same
things.  hehehehe

The Mothership got cleaned this morning.  I also shifted my passenger seat
and drivers seat.  that is one thing about the type 2, it is one of the few
vehicles that one can rotate the seats at the same time you rotate the
tires.  I think it will make them last longer.  I would love to find a set
of vanagon captains Chairs for her, oooh...the feeling of an armerest, that
would be a good thing.

Now on to the questions growing from the anticipation of once again moving
toward my commissioned goal:

The weather in New England is harsh as hell and from what I have been told
a snowstorm can close me down and make me really cold in the process.

I need to ask any of you that read these things what kind of gear I might
need in a blizzard?  I already have a heater, propane and electric.

I have...............
emergency food
blankets
sleeping bag
Sterno stove
Candles

For The Mothership...........
battery charger

Where can I purchase (at as cheap a price as possible)?
A set of tire chains
An oil heater (diptstick type)
And whatever else I might need.

I have driven in a little snow but anything over twelve inches gets a
little hairy for me.
What do I need to watch out for on the road, any advice from any of you
seasoned snowbirds out there.

What about blizzard precautions and recomendations?  Tell me about the "big
snow blues and the frustration it can bring to ones life.  I guess some of
that discussion might fit on the list.  Post what you think is necessary to
instigate a good winter time preparedness discussion.  Other than that send
me private mails.  :  )

Thanks, allowing me this time and post space has helped me to vent my
anguish and frustration and spread it amongst a more powerful body than I,
our listserv community.  Thank you all for driving this most "bridging
vehicle".  It creates good in all of us except of course when it breeds
frustration, then I hope it is learning we reap.  I also hope Government
one day gets its ass and promises in order so it can apend more time
providing better "service" to the people who's 'best interest' it is
"mandated" to serve.

Ya'll complain all you can about aything government does out of sync from
what they expect from us.  I carried out my end of the bargin, they need to
carry out theirs.  Dammit!!!

Thanks for tolerating the rage, and the ramblings,

Charlie Ford


"79" Transporter, dressed for the road
The Mothership

 The"Turning 40 Nostalgic VW Service Tour, and
Search for the Beginning of Wind".

http://www.slurpee.net/~keen/charlie/charlie.html

"Wider still and wider.....shall thy bounds be set"


