Date: Mon, 8 Dec 1997 22:44:11 -0700
From: Charlie Ford <cford@mindspring.com>
To: type2@bigkitty.azaccess.com
Subject: Sick in NYC

As Stephen has already informed all of you.  I am sick.  Now I am wondering
if it is the air around here.  I mean 20,000 miles and now I get sick.
Come on.

I have lost my voice and for those of you that have already met me, you
know this bothers me greatly.

I have the flu, and have had the flyu since last Thursday.  John Britenbach
here in NYC has provided me with the utmost in comfort and hospitality.  I
am not out in the cold, I am in a warm house with cable TV and a bed.

I have coughed so much that I have no voice left at all.

My head is suffering from extreme sinus pressure, my chest is clouded with
confusion, and my drive for life is energized with over the counter cold
medicines that bring one a certain peel your face off feeling when taken in
enough quantity.  (Now don't any of you retentive types out there start
telling me about the dangers of Nyquill and shit like that.)

Probably just as in the Keruoac post something in here is misplaced,
miscombobulalted, or otherwise deficient, but right now I could give a
damn.  The Mothership is fine, Gus is still able to fart and suffer large
bowel movements in non-discriminate places, and I am sick as wino drinking
coffee.

The "innaccurate" trip reports from the "Search for the Beginning of Wind
Tour" are on hold at the present, as is my mind and body.

VW Content:
Would it help you breathe better while sick and driving a bus, to fill the
heater vents with Vicks Vapor rub, or would this stir up the f**kin
asbestos in the heater boxes so badly that you would just keel over and die
from the noxious dust?

Please use laymens terms to answer.  Ah hell, there is always that techno
geek that chimes in so uuse any terms you need to answer the damn question.
But it is a silly question so you might not want to answer it anyway.  Wait
am I rambling, oh sorry.  I forgot Im sick.

(Thats the best I can do for now)

Thanks for tolerating the ramblings coming from my drugged up head.  I am
going to bed right after I drink some more fluids.  They say that is good
for a cold...all it seems to do right now make me struggle to stumble to
the john a three AM to ake a leak.

Later Volks folks,

Charlie FGorde


"79" Transporter, dressed for the road
The Mothership

 The"Turning 40 Nostalgic VW Service Tour, and
Search for the Beginning of Wind".

http://www.slurpee.net/~keen/charlie/charlie.html

"Wider still and wider.....shall thy bounds be set"


