Date: Tue, 18 Feb 1997 22:12:18 -0500
From: Charlie Ford <cford@mindspring.com>
Subject: Tips for Trippin'

The following is an on the fly list of tips I have either picked up or
developed during the past month on the road.  One thing not listed is AAA,
BUY IT!  it is worth it's wieght in gold.  Go ahead and buy the Plus or RV
membership, this way they will tow you up to100 miles and other premium
services are provided as well.

If any of you have any others to add, please feel free to do so.  Also
email me a copy so I can add them.  I am on the digest and don't always get
to read all the post in full.

So with that said, here goes nothing:

1.  Fill up with gas before the 1/4 mark.  If it gets to the red you reduce
your choices on price and quality.

2.  Visit yard sales along the road to find extra odds and ends.  The folks
doing the yardsale just love to hear of your travels and often times will
offer you something to drink and eat.  Some may even tell you of great
campgrounds along the road.

3.  Wave at cops as you drive along.  Most of these guys and gals are good
people.  They seldom have drivers of any sort offer them the "waving hand
of fellowship".  This is a way to make them know they are recognized for
the jobs they do.

4.  If you are passing through a rural area and a cop seems to be
salivating because a VW "hippy" bus is driving through his turf.  Pull over
and ask him for directions, yes even if you know where your going, this
helps calm him down and let him know that you are just passing through and
then moving on.  Besides that they know where all the good and safe
campgrounds and parks are.  Plus it just freaks them out when you pull them
over and greet them with a smile and a need for there service and advice.

5.  One of the best places to find chat when driving alone is a parts
store.  They are always fun to browse through and the folks behind the
counter are usually always friendly.  They love to talk VW's.

6.  The trucker is your friend, especially the Walmart truckers.  I have
spoken with several of these guys and gals while on the road and the
Walmart drivers are the most cordial and friendly.  I had one give me a
running tour of west Texas, he was well informed and very helpful in
breaking the boredom.  The size of their vehicle also helps to block off
some of the big winds in the flat lands of the west.

7.  If your camping each night, take a urinal in the bus with you.  When
it's chilly outside you don't always want to open the door and walk to the
woods or the campground bathroom.  I think they also make female urinals.

8.  Pack light.  I mean put a flashlight in each compartment.  Get several
different sizes.  keep one ion the tool box, the foodbox, the clothes box,
the glove box, and if you find one to hook to the urinal, attach it.  The
worse thing in the world is fumbling blindly in the dark trying to hit a
small hole.

9.  If you smoke, buy cigarettes by the carton.  Get em' as cheap as
possible.  The further west you go the higher the price climbs.

10.  Lock your doors, take your keys, not only is it your bus, it's your home.

11.  Check the oil each morning.  Check the oil each evening.

12.  Take a computer, it keeps you in touch with this listserv.

13.  Sleep in the bus, even when at someones home.  Changing your sleep
areas changes your sleep movements.  Cricks in the neck are not fun and do
not add to the driving pleasure.  I am thinking about selling my Serta when
I get home.

14.  Save as much money as possible prior to leaving, but don't forsake the
trip once you set your depart date, leave no matter how much you have.
Traveling the country is a spiritual experience whether you want it to be
or not.  If your constantly worried about the almighty dollar then you are
less apt to have as much of that kind of experience.  For me money has been
a hinderance and a blessing, but I think more of a hinderance because of
worrying about where I was going to get more.

15.  Take some good reading materials.  Travels with Charley, Blue
Highways, Let's Go America, The Bathroom Reader, and copies of local
newspapers are all part of my library.

16.  Have several different ways to chronicle your trip.  I have a writing
diary, my computer, and a micro-cassette recorder for daily logs and
reminders.

17.  Carry as many knives as you do flashlights.  They are always helpful
to have laying around as long as you have no small children around.  Safety
First.

18.  Talk to strangers, as much as possible.  People are friendly but
sometime it takes you saying something to them to bring out that friendly.
Try and develop a gift of gab and be friendly and outgoing.  maybe you'll
make someone smile for the day.  Besides everyone I have met has found it
interesting and enviable that I was traveling around the country.  Maybe
your example will entice more folks to see our nation.

19.  Take your time and drive no faster than 65.  Most busses will not go
much faster than that anyway, but conciously practice it.  Pretty soon your
system will slow down along with your speed.

20.  Take the backroads, the tough way.  Go across mountains and through
valleys, travfel route 66, or highway #1 west or east.  This is what
America once was, and you can see it in the shells of the old buildings.

21.  Know and tell jokes as often as possible.  Ten years from now folks
may still talk aout the day you visited their town.  Folks need to laugh,
and if you can help them do that then you are being of service.  God looks
favorable on servitude.  I think he probably enjoys a good laugh as well,
look at all the jokes he has played on me so far.

22.  Get up early and go to bed early.  In a campground there is not much
excitement after nine.  So hit the sack, you will rise well rested to a
beautiful sunrise and a great new day of adventure.  "Early to bed, early
to rise, makes a man or woman healthy, wealthy, and wise."

23.  Partake of local food.  Foods in America change with region.  This is
another part of the journey.  Don't eat at McDonalds unless absolutely
necessary.  You don't have to spend a lot to eat good, besides hopefully
you are cooking in camp at least four days a week, and eating maybe two
meals out per week.  The rest of the time you fast, it makes the system
good and the food better.

24.  Stock up on Ramen Noodles.  These little freeze dried noodles can fill
a hunger like nothing else that involves boiling water.  Plus they come in
various flavors and are much more tasty than vienna sausage.

25.  Keep the faith.  life is hard, but it is harder living in a tin box in
a tin town.  On the road there is always new things to see just around the
corner.  Go and see them!

Thanks for tolerating my ramblings,
Charlie Ford


"79" Transporter, dressed for the road
The Mothership

 The"Turning 40 Nostalgic VW Service Tour, and
Search for the Beginning of Wind".

www.armory.com/~y21cvb/charlie/charlie.html

"Wider still and wider.....shall thy bounds be set"

