Date: Sun, 5 Jan 1997 15:47:05 -0500
From: Charlie Ford <cford@MindSpring.COM>
Subject: Losing my Virginity

Today I took a very large leep forward into VW ownership.  I strode bravely
into the engine compartment and removed the alternator from the Mothership.
The idiot light came on a couple of days ago, I had it checked and sure
enough it was bad.

I went and priced one at NOPI, they explained to me that it would cost me
about 170.00 bucks to get a new one.  I explained to them that that made me
sad and depressed.  : (

I checked around Hazlehurst and believe it or not found an auto electric
shop from the old school.  You know, where stuff is laying around
everywhere, and the only place that is really clear is where the guy does
the work.  The owner, a Mr. James Lewis said that he could rebuild the
thing if I could get it out.  He said he had owned a Square Back a few
years ago, and knew enough about them that he didn't want the problem of
extracting it.  I believe he ended up with the better part of the bargin.
But I needed the experience, so last night I read up on it (Haynes), 5
times, and dreamed of alternators.

I got up this morning, put on the grease clothes, got out my tools and
proceeded to scrub for the surgery.  The patient was willing and ready,
although I did have to jackstand her rear passenger side to get at a few of
the bolts holding the tumored part in place.  She didn't seem to mind.

I had on hand the Haynes Manual, which by the way gives great instructions,
but no pictures, so I got out the latest issue of Playboy so I could have
some pictures to look at while working.  not exactly the right kind, but
still extremely stimulating while doing mechanic work.  Now I know why all
the shops you go to have those highly cultured Snap-On Calendars.
Hmmmmmm........: )

It took me about an hour, but finally I disconnected the bowel (power
supply), and pulled out the part.  Hey!, it was the right part, and I was
pleased that now I would not have to shell out 170 bucks to NOPI but could
pay only a cool 35.00 to have it rebuilt by James Lewis.  What a
celebration I had.

"Life is good" while being greasy.  Hopefully the install will go as
smoothly as the extraction.  I haven't done any work of this sort in quite
a while.  This is the sort of satisfaction that only comes with scratching
a knuckle or two.  Happiness reigns in South Georgia.

Just thought ya'll might be interested in the further adventures and exploits.

Take care,
Charlie Ford

"79" Transporter, dressed for the road
The Mothership

 The"Turning 40 Nostalgic VW Service Tour, and
Search for the Beginning of Wind".

www.armory.com/~y21cvb

"Wider still and wider.....shall thy bounds be set"

