Date: Fri, 14 Mar 1997 02:45:58 -0500
From: Charlie Ford <cford@mindspring.com>
Subject: My Work Week

This week has been a pretty good one, I have worked my buttocks off, and I
just don¹t have as much of that body part as I used too.  Soon it¹ll look
like I have rental property in the seat of my jeans.

Manpower Temporary gave me what I asked for.  A job in a warehouse that
allows you to push some physical limits, sweat a bit, and make what at
times seems like Œnot enough¹ money to do it.

Last Friday, Chris, a woman from Manpower in Milbrae (just north of San
Mateo) called and said she had a job for me, but only for one day.  I asked
if it was better in atmosphere than the last gig they sent me out on, she
explained that this would be a good place with good folks around, she
promised this.  I said ³O-TAY!

She gave me the name and address and some instructions on how to get there.
I was to be there Monday morning at 8:00 am.  I had a job for a day and
that was a good thing, not really great, but good.  These days I find
myself thinking in terms of tanks of gas, not how many payments I have to
make.  I figure I am operating while on the road at around twenty dollars a
day at bare minimum. That is a tank of gas, and some food.  With one day I
can travel close to three days, barring no unforeseen circumstances that
would impede that progress, like a breakdown.  I need all I can get, and
you guys know that.  : )

On Monday I showed up in my best worn out jeans, knowing basically what I
was going to be doing and worrying more about the fact that I hadn¹t done
it in so long.  The questions that created that little bit of Œnervous
anticipation¹ were cycling in my brain.  What little I have.

I was worried that my body just wouldn¹t respond well to the weight it¹s
muscles were about to address and overcome.  I moved bravely to the front
door and into the office sporting a glistening layer of ³stress sweat² on
my forehead.  I have to admit, ³I was nervous² and I wondered how I would
cope with physical labor to come.  I met a lady in the office and she
introduced me to the warehouse manager, Jim.

He immediately moved me toward the warehouse moving at a good clip and
explaining in detail as he walked. He quickly introduced me to the other
folks around about, none of which I immediately remembered their names and
filled me in as we went along, working our way toward my first task.  The
details were not to technical so I was able to retain them each and
everyone with reasonable accuracy.

I was too, ³unload these 22 lb. boxes from this trailer that is 60 foot
long, and while doing that sort them into two different styles on these
pallets stacked by the door².  ³Pull them inside the warehouse and further
instructions would be given when I was finished with the trailer².  He
smiled, walked away, and I started stacking boxes.  Still feeling the
nervousness of being in this unfamiliar setting.  But all the while wanting
to satisfy by doing a good job.

they say the first phase of behavioral dynamics is the forming stage.  The
shrinks mostly associate this to groups.  I think it happens in
individually as well.  When a person, at least in my experience, is thrust
into a new setting of almost any sort their is a tendency to try and make
the best impression they can as rapidly as they can.  We then tend too move
to the storming phase, norming phase, performing phase, and in most cases
an adjourning phase.  Each phase has its own personality and a person
portrays certain behaviors according to each.  But this was no time to be
thinking about such psychosis pertaining to human behavior, of which I have
been a student of most of my life.  I just like that stuff and I have a
name for being good at it I am proud too say.

I stacked one pallet, and as I was about to walk out of the trailer for the
pallet jack sitting just inside the door, and Jim came out onto the loading
dock with a tall skinny guy with brownish red hair, a pale complexion, and
a face as sharp as that of Abe Lincoln.  He introduced Paul, the Œother guy
from Manpower that would be doing basically the same thing as I. After
giving, even more brief instructions, to Paul, turned and walked away,
disappearing into the darkness of the warehouse, leaving me to fill in the
details.  Paul looked at me.  I told him what I thought we were supposed to
do. He turned and started stacking boxes on two pallets according to style.
We talked as we worked.

Paul is from Ireland.  I don¹t mean of Irish descent, I mean from Ireland,
Dublin to be specific.   He has been in this country four years.  He speaks
in a very soft but strongly accented Irish tenor voice, and sometimes
speaks so quietly you have to ask him to repeat the statement.  He has been
doing warehouse work a good portion of the time he has been in America. He
has been doing assignments for Manpower for at least a couple years.  That
is how he makes his living, by doing temporary labor jobs.  He is one of
the best I have ever labored beside.  We seem to both enjoy working as a
team with good purpose in mind.  I like that kind of partnership and
teamwork.

In fact everyone in the warehouse works as a team.  Jim (the warehouse
manager), Canaris (the lead warehouse technician), Craig (second technician
with tenure), Paul, and Darlene (the pricetag technician) are all great to
work with.  They astound you with their knowledge of this concrete
catechism filled with loads and loads of cardboard boxes.  They are a small
but tight group that work together for the company, the community, the
state,  nation, and the world.  At least that is how I see it.  : )

The first day Paul and I unloaded three regular size trailers, and one
shorty trailer of goods.  The goods are shirts that are made overseas and
sent back here for distribution to stores such as Mervyns, Target, and
Walmart.  The owner of the company has the stuff made all over the world,
like Bangladesh, India, Burma, and other countries where cheap labor can be
secured readily.  I don¹t care much for that fact, I would love to know it
was all made here, but I guess there are some valid reason¹s why it is not,
like maybe the rising cost of labor in America, and the descending cost
abroad, but I am not in the questioning mood at the moment.  I need to
raise a stake, and this is my opportunity to do that  Even if just for a
day.

Paul and I worked hard and unloaded the first truck in one hour and twenty
minutes.  We shared the load and matched each other stride for stride.  I
think I was driven by that will to compete that I have had most of my life.
there is no damn way anybody is going to outwork me.  It is a matter of
pride, and although I don¹t have much of that deadly sin, I don¹t give in
easily when it comes to work or play.

I think this may be why that now as I sit here and write this I feel like
every muscle in my body is stretched to it¹s limit.  It is now Thursday and
the soreness is pain and pleasure all at the same time.  I feel pumped, not
to be mistaken with buff.  I still have a bulge around my midsection that
would rival many, but I feel invigorated and tired all at the same time.

The first day we had two other guys come in from Manpower.  They were not
to efficient, they walked around and looked as if they were ³Lost in
Space².  I am sure one of them was, he must¹ve burnt him one on the way.
He smiled the whole time we were sorting the unloaded pallets.

Paul and I were asked to stay on through the end of the week and maybe
through Monday, the other two guys were released after their first day.
Paul and I unloaded a truck in approximately an hour and one half.  These
two guys unloaded one in two and one half hours.  They were nice enough,
but seemed to have very little initiative about them.  They would wait and
get the instructions when they came rather than seeking the out.  Paul and
I just impressed the hell out of the boss, so we got the bonus round.

After Monday there have been only two more trucks to unload.  Other than
that we have been graduated up to sorting and as of late to pulling orders.
The boss says that we are the most efficient help manpower has sent to
them.  I took that as an extreme compliment.

Damn, for the past four years I have sat on my derriere in front of a
computer and stared at a screen.  That or in some leather chair trying to
act like I was a bearucrat with power.  Now I was making the grade as a
warehouseman. This week I have worked hard enough that my body reminds me
that I have worked.  It is just as much a workout, as it is ³work that
produces².  In this case the product is money.  I had forgotten what it
felt like to feel this good.

I am not a person that tends their body like it is sculpting.  When I was
in college I weighed in at roughly 300 lb..  For the past several years I
have hovered at my most comfortable weight of 260-275.  I am 6.4 and carry
it fairly well but have started the slow middle aged process of sagging
here and there.   Nevertheless, this week I have worked out, and have
regained some of the muscles long since lost to the comfort of the easy
chair.

Physical labor doesn¹t pay much.  may wage for this workout is $6.50 an
hour.  You get two 15 minute breaks, and a half hour for lunch.  These go
by all too quickly as you only have time to drink a coke at break, and
sough down your food at lunch.  Paul and I have both agreed that a 45
minute lunch would be much more in order.  A person could eat and have time
for it to settle and return to work soon enough to avoid the after lunch
blahs that are associated with the last 15 minute period.  At least that is
the theory.

The sorting we are doing for me is the most boring part of the job.  We
pull boxes off pallets and stack them on other pallets all laid out
according to style number.  Often during the day we get to break away from
this required boredom, to enjoy the rush one gets from loading a shipment
going out to one of the customers, many of which are in small town America.
By coincidence I ran into a shipment going to Blanchard, Oklahoma, one of
the more interesting little towns I visited but have never posted to the
list.  I will one of these days, I have it written down.

To sum it all up, I am enjoying my new career as a temp laborer.  it will
all to quickly come to an end sometime next week and I will start to
prepare for my departure.  I have had the pleasure to meet Dan Kane,
another listy, and one who did the Inuvik last year.  In fact I have met
his wife and his children as well.  We all sat and had Kentucky Fried
Chicken together the other night.  I have enjoyed his company in this new
world, although I think I have talked his ears off.  : ) I tend to do that
these days for some reason.

I am planning on driving to Hollister for the Comet watch next weekend and
look forward to meeting several more of you.  It will be good to sleep in
The Mothership again.  She is enjoying a good rest, and all seems to be
running very well.  I did have a temp sensor problem and have since rigged
a cure until I can afford to buy another.  I would also like to attend the
³swapmeet² in Santa Cruz coming the first of April.  There is not a whole
lot I need, but I could get some extra stuff.
I may or may not be here for that.  I am starting to feel the urge to move
on and continue my adventure.  For some reason listening to my feelings on
this trip have worked so far.

On this trip I have tried to be guided by impressions and feeling more than
appointments.  Every now and then that traveling fever has overtaken me and
told me to move on with inquisitive notions about the next sleeping spot,
or little town.  Wanderlust.........what a wonderful thing to be guided by.
It makes you feel a little like Woody Guthrie must have felt.  I am poor
as hell, and wonderfully refreshed.

The products of the week:  The satisfaction of doing my job well;  the
easing of stress;  new acquaintances to appreciate; new stuff for my diary;
re-kindled skills; and making several new friends that share the same
traits as I do.  It¹s been a helluva week at sea.  At the moment I only
have ten dollars and some change, in a week I get paid and am expecting
more money to come in the mail from a car I sold.  hehehehe, man look what
I¹m gaining satisfaction from these days????  I am broke and gaining in
every way possible.  Life is good here in San Mateo!

Thanks for tolerating my rambling¹s,
Charlie Ford





"79" Transporter, dressed for the road
The Mothership

 The"Turning 40 Nostalgic VW Service Tour, and
Search for the Beginning of Wind".

http://www.armory.com/~y21cvb/charlie/charlie.html

"Wider still and wider.....shall thy bounds be set"
