From: <rtourand(-at-)telus.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "'Jack Hattaway'" <jack(-at-)law.utah.edu>
Date: Sat, 11 Dec 2004 22:29:13 -0800
Subject: [T2] convert automatic to standard 

Hi Jack,

I converted my 73' auto bus to a standard, years ago, love it and have no
regrets. And yes, it IS entirely feasible to make the conversion - in fact
saying its not feasible is a rather silly statement.



If you have a donor bus, the main parts are all there - tranny, axles,
shifter, shifter tube, clutch pedal, gas pedal... I did the entire
conversion with electric tools. The clutch pedal is a bolt in - I swapped
out the gas pedal - used a brake line tube to run the clutch cable - and
Yes, it was a lot of work, not just a Saturday project, but it is entirely
feasible to do and if you want to get rid of your auto - which IMHO makes
the bus run like a slug - then I would recommend you do it.



Rob Tourand



'66 Samba

'73 Campmobile

'73 Loaf

'84 Vanagon





 >>>It's not very feasible, but there are some who have done it...





I'm one of them.  I converted my 79 Westy from an automatic to a standard

roughly 6 years ago.



>>>>None of the linkages from the auto tranny are there, and neither are

>>>>the

>>>>holes they pass through or the mounting points they bolt to



Not entirely true, much of the stuff is already there (at least it was on my


79!)  For example, the holes to bolt the clutch pedal/assembly to are

already there; the mount for the front of the shift rod is there, it just

needs to be bent into place; uses the same tube for teh shift linkage etc.



Ok, here goes:

Assuming you already have a standard donor bus, you'll have most everything

you'll need. It is a time consuming project, getting everything just right.


Most of the parts from the standard will just bolt in to the automatic bus,

as it seems the automatics got most of the mounting holes etc. as the

standard did. (my guess is it was probably easier for VW to just make all

busses have all the mounts etc. rather than having seperate production lines


for auto vs. manual busses; but who knows)



The biggest 'fabrication' issues would be the clutch cable tube. There will

not be any on a factory auto bus.  I ended up using copper plumbing tube as

I forgot to cut the one off my standard donor bus before I sent it to be

scrapped :(



The other major issue was for the front shift rod mount. Its the front most

guide for the shift rod, actually just in front of the shifter. A little

plastic/rubber guide ( part F in this picture

http://www.bus-boys.com/shifter79.html ) sits in the bracket. Now the

bracket was actually included in both auto and standard busses. Its was cut

out of the 'frame support rail' (or whatever it might be called)and bent out


into place for the standards and not bent into place for the automatics (it

would get in the way of the automatic gear selector) so you have to bend out


that piece and tack weld it into place like the factory did.



The clutch pedal assemply bolts right in.  For the shifter, you will have to


use a nut and a bolt. (from the factory, the manual busses have the bolt

welded in, so you would just screw in the 2 bolts, autos didnt get the

welded in bolts so use you own, weld them in if you like).  The accelerator

pedal is different, but the manual will just swap into the place of the auto


one.   And there is a little issue with the accelerator cable at the engine

end, but I cant remember it off hand, I think you need to make a little

guide, kind of like the bowden clutch cable tube on the trans; but I can't

remember exactly right now.



I've been driving my bus without any problems (well none do to the

conversion anyway) for about 6 years now. Though as a side note, in

retrospect, I wish I'd just stuck with the automatic.  In fact, Ii have a

pretty big oil leak (rear main seal) so I'll be dropping the engine soon.

While its out I think I might switch back.
