Date: Sun, 12 Dec 2004 20:55:49 -0700
From: Joseph Broach <joseph.broach(-at-)umontana.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Fun with Gauges (long)

Well, the CHT and OP senders and gauges are in and "functioning," sort 
of as I expected from VDO.  Basically, after many hours and many 
dollars poured into installing them, I'm scared out of my wits.  
Otherwise pleasant drives are spent waiting for #3 to drop a valve seat 
and for some important oil seal to burst.

OP is installed with the NLA  VDO hose kit, purchased from German 
Supply.  I had been warned by Richard and others about the hose 
threads, but maybe I got lucky.  The male end of the adapter hose was 
metric threaded M10x1 (tapered, I think), identical to the new sending 
unit's thread pitch.  The female end appears to be 1/8" NPT, but the 
included adapter makes that end M10x1 (tapered?) as well.  I used 
liquid teflon sealant on the threads.  I was very cautious at the case 
end, but it threaded in quite easily by hand to start.  Tightening 
further was a bear due to the location.  I eventually removed the 
distributor and was able to finagle a couple more turns with an open 
ended wrench held almost vertically.  I'm looking for a short handled 
offset 9/16" box wrench to check things properly, but I haven't had any 
luck so far.  I may have to cut the longer Craftsman wrench in half 
(how tough are wrenches?) for room to turn.

The VDO kit is not permanent.  I think some sort of short pipe from 
case to hose would make things easier wrt tightening the bugger.  I 
dread having to change that hose, but so far it's sealing fine at the 
case and certainly didn't feel like it was damaging the threads.  I 
also like the idea of an M10x1 (non-tapered) adapter for the case, and 
then just using a grease gun hose.  It still makes me nervous with all 
those threads showing, even if the seal seems fine!  The adapter might 
also get the height up enough to make tightening easier without a pipe.

The CHT was actually easier if still a little frightening tightening 
down under #3.  I tried machine oil on the threads after reading about 
it in the archives.  Guess I overdid it.  Some oil must have made it to 
the electrode.  No fire, and scared me to death for a few minutes.  
Cleaning the plug solved that.

Temporarily, maybe permanently, I routed the sender lead through the 
middle of the rubber spark plug tin seal, snug alongside the bakelite 
extension, and then out through the firewall via the fuel pipe grommet. 
  I routed it (and the OP and one extra wire) as directly as possible 
through some zip-ties conduit, and the harness wires just reached my 
mounting spot under the hazard switch/cig lighter.  I at first got no 
reading, but reversing the wires (black to positive) fixed that.

Now, on to those blasted readings.  OP I guess I can live with, but it 
seems high.  The engine has about 20k on it (reman. by VW Canada).  Oil 
is Mobil 1 10w30 synthetic.  Cold start gives a reading around 55-60psi 
at 30 degrees.  Warm running hangs around 50, warm idle 40 in cold (30 
degree)  weather.  It dropped to 30 at idle after a hard highway run on 
a 50 degree day, and that's the lowest I've seen it.  Are these high 
enough to be worrisome, or is my engine just that spectacular?  Ha!

The CHT is the gauge giving me fits.  I understand the cold junction 
temp problem, but I'm still running awfully hot by the gauge.  I went 
fishing yesterday during a local heat wave (45-50 degrees F).  Here are 
my readings with rough temp adjustment (~-25 degrees).

Situation                                      CHT  /  Adjusted for 45 
degree cold junction
---------------------------                  ------     -------------
Idle after initial warmup            340   /  315
Puttering around town              360   /   335
Flat road 55mph                        425   /   400
Flat road 60mph                        450   /   425
Flat road 65mph                        450   /   425
mild hill at 60-65                       475-500  /  450-475

Either the gauge is off 50 degrees or more, even after the temp 
compensation, or my engine should already be toast right?  I've driven 
it a lot harder than this through the Cascades without a gauge and 
shudder to think what the readings would have been.  The engine runs 
very strong, has a working thermostat, and shows no other signs of 
running too hot.  I don't have the equipment to check precisely, but 
the plugs don't show lean running, fuel mileage is about right (~18mpg 
driving hard).  There are no other signs of overheating (I can grab the 
dipstick, OP is fine).  I don't know.  I'd like to blame the gauge and, 
in hindsight, should have tested it in frying oil.  It behaves 
suspiciously, though.  For instance, it hits 200 (~170 actual) within 
30 seconds after startup on a cool day and is at 350 (~320) after about 
a minute and a half).  It's sitting there now at slightly over 100 
degrees, cold engine, 30 degree night.  In other words, it thinks its 
about 80 out.

Seals are in place, etc, etc.  Something that might help me is knowing 
the trends of other FI busses with CHTs.  That is, what's the range you 
see from idle to around town to easy highway to hard highway?  This bus 
is getting frustrating, and I haven't even had a serious electrical 
problem yet (discounting my instrument light goof)!  I knew the gauges 
would bring worry, but I hope in the end they pay off.

best,
joe broach
missoula, mt
'78 Sunroof w/ '79 2.0 FI, no cat, O2, nor EGR
