To: "Sidney White" <swhite(-at-)lhb.org>, "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Miles Erickson" <miles(-at-)mileserickson.com>
Date: Sun, 12 Dec 2004 21:45:25 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] 1971 Buying advice

p.s. I forgot the "what to look for" part.  Here goes.

You need two books: "How To Keep Your Volkswagen Alive, A Guide for The
Complete Idiot" by Muir and the official service manual from Bentley.

The Muir book has a decent section on how to inspect a used VW.  Not a bad
read for someone in your position!

There WILL be things wrong with this Bus that you're buying.  It is the
consensus of the Type 2 list that "Previous Owners" are, collectively, the
worst people who ever walked the face of the Earth.  It is a sure thing that
the POs of your new Bus have committed unforgivable sins of ignorance,
neglect, and even poor taste.  It will help you to get a sense of how urgently
these things need fixing.  If you don't know what needs fixing, it's best to
figure that part out before you buy.  For the most part, no matter what is
wrong, you will be fixing it yourself.

Let me repeat: when it comes to just about anything that might be wrong with
your Bus, you will be fixing it yourself.

Few professional mechanics can do good work on your Bus.  A lot of the ones
who can are subscribed to this list.  Even if you do find the best VW
specialist ever, unless you're rich, it's generally not economical to depend
on someone else to maintain your Bus on a day-to-day basis.

Why?  Your Bus will probably always want more money than you're willing and
able to give it.  When you do your own work, buying parts at their real price
and not spending money on labor, you'll get three times as much done as if
you're buying marked-up parts from a mechanic and paying him install them.
You'll only fix what really needs fixing.  You'll do more research and select
higher-quality parts than someone who's concerned about his bottom line.  In
the long run, if you make use of the amazing body of knowledge and experience
that surrounds this list, you'll make better decisions and do better work than
99% of the people who would charge you $80 an hour for the privilege.  Even if
you don't start out with mechanical inclinations.  I guarantee it.

The only catch is that your heart's got to be in it, and you've got to have
the time.  You've got to *enjoy* maintaining your Bus.  You have to look
forward to the satisfaction of a job done right.  You have to love the thrill
of having finally solved that annoying problem.  If these sorts of things
don't appeal to you, you might end up disappointed.  If you live for this sort
of thing, you're in for the time of your life!

Cheers (again)!

- Miles
