From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 23 Feb 2003 01:52:20 EST
To: djohnson1(-at-)snet.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] windshield seal failure

Hm were you using the tar to lube the seal?   I paint/smear a thin layer on 
the bottom edge and corners of the windsheild metal area, but not actually on 
the seal.

I've ripped the seal when installing too.   To prevent this, go slow. and 
careful, and the friend who is applying gentle pressure with spread fingers 
of both hands on the glass should press only gentley.

Then the breakthrough idea! oil the channel for the string!  After the seal 
is on the glass, I use the squirt can and with my little finger run the oil a 
gentle squirt every so often, all the way around.  this makes it easier to 
get the string in the channel, and easier for the string to slide past the 
lip (or the lip past the string) when you pull the string.   yes, a warm seal 
is more flexible. 

Yes, it'll be safe to drive to the DMV with a split lip.  In fact, It'll 
probably be safe to leave it like that, though it'll look funny.   Just as 
long as the split isn't on a corner.

In a message dated 2/22/2003 8:18:41 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
djohnson1(-at-)snet.net writes:

<< Today I trashed my new passenger window seal trying to install it.  I 
 had read tons of posts, and thought I had everything set.  The tar 
 alone apparently did not lubricate the cord and inner lip of the seal 
 enough, as my 2mm (.080 inch) round weedeater wire I had laying around 
 started slicing through the seal about half way through.  Nice clean 
 slice about 3 inches long.  I know Bentley recommends 3-4mm wire,  so 
 I'll try switching to that, and also lube it up with some dish soap.  
 I'm also considering using a blow dryer to heat up the rubber as I go 
 around, as I'm doing this in the garage in 45 degree weather.   I take 
 total blame for today's setback, as I know I was rushing.
 
 Is it feasable and safe to reuse and try to reinstall this damaged 
 seal, just to drive to DMV to get the bus registered?  I will order the 
 new seal Monday, but I was really hoping to get this thing registered 
 on Monday as well. >>
