Date: Sun, 23 Feb 2003 19:37:28 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Tool organization

>From: rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com
>Date: Sun, 23 Feb 2003 11:47:49 -0600
>
>Tell me about your tool organization and what works best for a
>cheapskate with tons of hand tools.

The main thing I've had trouble with is finding the right socket.
Those "socket sticks" (long metal bar with hoop spring clips) work
pretty well for that.  If you buy the nice ones, they'll have vinyl
hand grips that are different colors for the different drive sizes.

If you can, try and keep the packaging that the tools came in.
Craftsman has plastic molded holders for some of their socket-only
sets that work pretty well and are especially good in a toolbox.

One thing that doesn't work (for me) are the flat pegboards for
sockets that are meant to go in a tool chest.  It's a flat plastic
board with a grid of holes and little pins you stick in the holes
to set your sockets over.  The pegs fall out and the sockets fall
over and roll around.

At the university, the cars should be all-metric but they've had
various additions done with inch size fasteners.  Some people know
the difference, and some people grab the first socket that almost
fits and end up rounding off bolt heads, etc.  What I did there
was to gather together all the inch tools (sockets and wrenches)
and spray-paint them.  I did the sockets while they were on the
socket sticks, and I laid the wrenches on a piece of cardboard and
sprayed a stripe down the center.  Just one coat -- enough that you
can easily tell them apart from the metric tools and can still read
the sizes.

I haven't made room for a peg board at home, but there is one at
school and that seems to work pretty well.  The sockets, wrenches,
and "popular" screwdrivers hang on the board.  Each peg has all of
the wrenches of that type and size that we own.  (You have to use
two pegs for double open end wrenches.)  The ratchets, extensions,
and left-handed security Torx screwdrivers are in a roller tool
chest.

When I was living in an apartment and couldn't do anything to the
garage walls, I made a frame out of 4.5 2x4s - two vertical ones
for "legs", two horizontal ones, and half of one vertical in the
middle for extra support.  I nailed pegboard to the top part,
leaned the top against the wall, and put the legs in cinder blocks
to keep it from sliding around.  Worked pretty well.

If you're really into it, get a pegboard and live with it for a
while until you have the tools arranged the way you want.  Then
get a marker and draw around the outline of all the tools, so you
can tell where everything goes and if anything is missing.

Matt Roberds
