Date: Mon, 14 Mar 2005 21:02:18 -0500 (EST)
From: Jonathan Farrugia <jfarrugi(-at-)umich.edu>
To: "Mark L. Hineline" <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Sandblasted

okay to bring this back onto topic lets talk about sand blasting.  most
of the monument companies i have seen and used use black beauty or silica
as their abrasive of choice.  their normal work is cutting stone or glass
which is generally harder than most metals.  while i have had things
blasted at these types of places you should know what you are getting into
and what the finish quality is going to be like.

my personal opinion is that black beauty and the grades of silica that
monument companies use are too course.  generally for my automotive work
where i am trying to get a long lasting finish i blast with #10 glass
bead.  the problem with black beauty and the like is that it leaves to
many peaks and valleys.  the peaks are sharp and that makes them difficult
to cover with coatings.  even when you cover them it leaves areas of very
thin coating compared to the rest of the surface.  this contributes to
coating failure over time.  it is true that with fairly flat pieces or
pieces with easy access that you can help address the issue by hand sanding
once you receive the piece back from the blaster.  on items such as wheels
where there are places that are difficult to hand sand such as the seams
where the metal comes together its going to be difficult to smooth the
peaks out.

for a lot of people this isn't going to be a concern because most people
don't keep their vehicles for long periods of time and if you never drive
in the rain or snow it will be less of a problem.

for fun here is the abrasives page from the local company that i buy my
glass bead from.
http://www.trinco.com/media_data.htm

here is a long list of the type of blasting abrasives available.
http://www.abrasives-of-atlanta.com/abrasiveterms.shtml

on the cost side of things it really depends on what kind of equipment he
is running and how good of a blast you are getting.  if its a guy in a
shed with a giant pile of black beauty doing a decent job that price
sounds a little high for around here.  i paid 45 to have a full size truck
hitch blasted about a year go at such a place.  i feel part of the price
was due to only having one piece,  more pieces should equate to a lower
price per piece in my opinion.  if the guy you took your stuff to is using
a better media and a true blasting system with recovery and filtering then
that price might be more in line with that type of operation.

jonathan

On Mon, 14 Mar 2005, Mark L. Hineline wrote:

> I took the wheels to a guy who does glass etching and general
> sandblasting on the side. He charged me $40 a wheel. This strikes me as
> excessive. Should I go shopping for the next two wheels?
