To: type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Date: Mon, 14 Mar 2005 18:34:08 -0800
Subject: Roof treatments

This message consists of three parts: (1) the problems I have to deal 
with on the roof of my bus; (2) what I know I'm going to do; and (3) 
some ideas for finishing it off. I'm interested in additional ideas.

1. The problems and initial conditions.

Here's a shot of the roof of my bus:

http://www.ocotillofield.net/transporter/roof.jpg

This mess was created by the DPO; it's essentially as it was when I 
bought it. I purchased a poptop to cover it all up (and to have a 
poptop). The poptop is the earlier style (slopes down toward the front.

As I get farther along sanding this, I'm finding that it's an ocean of 
waves. So my theory is that something was stashed on top of it (a heavy 
boat, for instance) leaving scratches. Somebody sanded the original 
paint off, down to metal, but didn't do any filling. Then they hit it 
with primer-filler (which is adhering quite well). Then they set it out 
a block from the ocean for a few years (that much I know for certain).

2. What I know I am going to do about it.

The nasty part is the high part of the roof, back about six inches or 
so from the gutters. The area between the high part and the gutters has 
original paint, with much less surface rust (but some).

In the high area, which is hidden from exterior view by poptop and 
luggage carrier, I'm wheeling off all the scale, then doing the 
complete POR-15 treatment (marine clean, metal-ready, POR-15, and POR 
primer).

On the edges, I'm grinding out all the pitted rust. I'll fill, prime, 
and sand with guide coat. Then I will paint this section with acrylic 
enamel to match the rest of the bus above the waste.

3. Some ideas for finishing it off.

A. My favorite idea is to create a thin teak deck just inside the 
canvas, to cover the sheet metal completely. I have no idea yet how 
thin you can plane teak. I'd want about 1/8", 1-1/2" wide planks 
running fore-and-aft, with a finished coaming around the opening 
through the roof.

B. Second favorite idea is similar: cover the area inside the canvas 
with thin Baltic birch, urethaned both sides.

C. Third favorite idea is to put down the same "canvas" I use for the 
canvas, using contact cement.

D. This leaves the sections of the higher part of the roof that are 
outside the canvas. My favorite idea here is marine deck paint, with 
won't show the waves.

E. This is where I run out of ideas.

Anybody have any?

Mark
