From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "vintagebus vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 3 Apr 2003 17:15:33 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] survey: testing cooling etc [VB] was side scoops 

----- Original Message -----
> Yes, if the engine compartment seals are perfect, what we would look for
> is a possible increase of engine compartment air pressure, with or
> without, say scoops.  Do scoops help?  What's going on in there?  If we
> could increase the perfect engine compartment's air pressure this would
> help cooling and carburation, if the air was cool and fresh!  Gary Gibson

Increasing pressure would only be possible with some sort of  scoop. Are the
general scoops that are on the market are enough to do that? I personally do
not think they are, but, I do think they may help to bring that vacuum down.
I haven't been able to test them, so do not know for sure. The
hose/colored-water test would show if the scoops did anything to the engine
bay vacuum or not. If somone on this list is running scoops, and could do
back to back tests, with and without the scoops, that would be great. I've
heard many people that have ran scoops say that yes, thier engine did run
cooler. I hear some people say they restrict, and make the engine run
hotter, but none that I have heard that from, have actually run the scoops.
Back to back tests would settle it.

Having as little vacuum in the engine bay, the better (actual pressure would
be fantastic!). Ever notice how baja bugs don't have cooling issues in
general? It's not because the engine is out in the open, well, not in the
way you might think. All the extra air around the engine does not do
anything for cooling (well, kinda, but stay with me on this one). The air
that does the cooling is the air that is going through the shroud. So why
does the engine run cool? Because there is no vacuum present in the engine
bay.  Uh, because there is no engine bay. ;-)  Same with the boys that run
thier bugs without engine lids. A beetle with a closed lid has vacuum in the
engine bay as well. Unfortunatly, we can't leave our engine lid open, or the
hot air would recirculate due to the bread-box back end of the bus.

Without any vacuum present, the cooling fan has can pull more air through it
than if vacuum were present. Our cooling fans are not perfectly efficient.
They will cavitate if you starve them of air. You can put a notebook on the
back of the fan, and the engine will still run, in fact, you will actually
gain a little horsepower since there is no power being lost on pushing air.
If our fans were more like superchargers, then it wouldn't be much issue.
Superchargers (except the new ones modeled after the turbo) will not
cavitate because they are mechanical pumps (like an oil pump), and not fans.

That's why i'm all for finding out what combonation creates the least amount
of vacuum in the engine bay. Can scoops actually create pressure? Doubtful,
but would be cool as hell if they did.

Done rambling.....
:-)
Eric Allred
64 Bus
