Date: Thu, 3 Apr 2003 23:20:22 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: claralw(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: survey: testing cooling etc [VB] was side scoops

>Anyway, now I have to develop a lab project for this academic quarter,
>to start next week.  [...]  Anyway, maybe I could get suggestions for
>some useful thing to check.

Cooling and airflow stuff:

There are different ways to measure things.  The home heating and cooling
people do a thing called a "blower door test" which is kinda like a
cylinder leak down test, but for a house.  They replace your front door
with one that has a blower and a pressure gauge mounted on the outside.
Then they fire up the blower.  Houses that are well-sealed will develop
a higher pressure than ones that are leaky.  On a Bus, you might be able
to seal off one side's engine vents and apply a similar rig to the vents
on the other side.  This is probably a "static" test - engine off, Bus
not moving.  Even so, you could make changes to the engine compartment -
take off engine/body seal or bits of tin - and see how the pressure
changes.

Some fuel-injected cars derive airflow from temperature and pressure
data (Type III/IV) but some measure it directly (Type I).  The direct-
measuring ones have a flap in the intake that gets pushed open by the
incoming air.  The flap is hooked to a variable resistor, so the
resistance varies with the angle of the flap and hence the air flow.
Another way to do it is called a "mass airflow" sensor.  This has a
small heater and a temperature sensor right next to each other in the
intake air.  You turn on the heater to heat up the temperature sensor,
and then as the air goes by, it cools the sensor.  You adjust the current
through the heater to keep the sensed temperature at a constant value;
the amount of current through the heater is then a measure of how much
air is flowing by the sensor.  You might be able to rig it so that the
cooling air to the vents passes through one or a pair of these so you
can directly measure the airflow into the engine compartment.  You
could probably even do this while driving.

You can measure temperature at different points on the engine by
epoxying thermocouples to places of interest.  If you only have a few,
the passenger can plug each one in turn into a thermocouple-capable
multimeter and take readings.  If you have a lot, it helps to have a
data logger (fancy multiple-channel multimeter) with thermocouple
input channels.  Change the cooling (seals, tin, different weights of
oil, etc) and see how the temperatures change.

A non-cooling-related experiment you can do is to find out the
coefficients of drag and of rolling resistance for your Bus.  The
directions are in the Bosch Automotive Handbook (p. 331 of the 4th
edition).  You have to know the front cross-section of the Bus - this
can be measured directly, photographed and measured, or derived from
technical drawings.  You also need to know the mass of the Bus in the
as-tested condition, like from the scale at a truck stop.  Your
speedometer needs to be reasonably in calibration and you need a stop
watch.  After you get used to making the measurement in the "baseline"
condition, you can make changes (open vent wings, open popouts, put more
air in tires, readjust wheel bearings, different oil in gearbox, more
mass in Bus, stuff on roof rack, etc) and see how the coefficients
change.

You can also do fuel consumption tests.  You can measure the MPG in the
usual way over long distances.  For short distances, the way I have most
commonly seen this done is to pump all the fuel out of the tank, put a
known quantity of fuel back in, run the car, and then pump out and measure
the remaining fuel.  You can measure the mass and temperature of the fuel
and convert to volume, or you can measure the volume directly with a flow
meter on the pump you're using to pump the gas in and out.  On a Bus it
may be hard to pump all the fuel out of the tank, but if you can convince
yourself that there's a constant level of fuel remaining in the tank
(among other things, this means that the Bus is level when you're adding
or subtracting gas to or from the tank) then it can work just as well.
Again, once you're used to making the readings, you can vary a lot of
things (timing, carb adjustment, windows open, more mass in Bus) to
see how they affect the consumption.

The Bentley shows a nifty thing that you can hang on your window and run
three (!) fuel lines along the outside (!!) of your Bus, back to the
engine, so you can measure how long it takes the engine to consume a
known amount of fuel.  I don't know where to get one of these or if they
are still even available.

The "motor vehicle dynamics" chapter in the Bosch handbook has more
descriptions of things you might be able to play with: center of gravity,
braking and acceleration, response to crosswinds, body roll, lateral
acceleration, etc.  Some of these I'm not sure how to measure; for some
of them you need a skid pad; some might require a wind tunnel. (I bet
Ray Heath knows where a wind tunnel is.)

Some of these things might fall more into the category of mechanical
or automotive engineering, but they all are based in physics.

One important thing is to have an assistant to either drive or take
measurements.  Don't try to drive and operate a stopwatch, laptop,
meter, etc at the same time.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds
