From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "vintagebus vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 4 Apr 2003 09:22:39 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: survey: testing cooling etc [VB] was side scoops

> an oil cooler brought it right down, nothing complicated or expensive.

Cooling the oil is NOT cooling the engine. If you run both a head temp gauge
and an oil temp gauge, you can see that the two are not as closley related
as you might think! Head temp goes up more with engine load, and oil temp
goes up with higher rpm. Cool the oil all you want, you can still overheat
your engine (I've done it).


> There are different ways to measure things.  The home heating and cooling
> people do a thing called a "blower door test" which is kinda like a
> cylinder leak down test, but for a house.  They replace your front door
> with one that has a blower and a pressure gauge mounted on the outside.
> Then they fire up the blower.  Houses that are well-sealed will develop
> a higher pressure than ones that are leaky.  On a Bus, you might be able
> to seal off one side's engine vents and apply a similar rig to the vents
> on the other side.  This is probably a "static" test - engine off, Bus
> not moving.  Even so, you could make changes to the engine compartment -
> take off engine/body seal or bits of tin - and see how the pressure
> changes.
>

This would actually do little for us, as our needs are completely different
than a house. A house needs to be as air tight as possible, since the air
only recirculates with a central heating/airconditioning unit. Our engine
bays would be more like a house with a swamp cooler. Close up all the
windows and make it air tight, and the air just isn't going to flow until
you open some windows. And opening one window isn't enough, the more you
open, the better.

Measuring the louvers on my 64 bus, I show about 105 square inches of
opening (taking into account the tapered ends of the louvers). Just a little
bit more than the equivalant of a plain white sheet of paper. That is how
big the opening is to let in fresh air. Anyone with access to a bay window
want to measure thier intakes to see what they come to?

Measuring the surface area of the front tin, leaves me with just a bit more
area than the stock louvers provide, effectivly doubling the avaliable
airflow to the engine bay. Hmmm. Must be why it runs so much cooler on the
highway than when I had that piece of tin in place. I'd be willing to bet
that I have very little, in my engine bay with that much intake area for the
fan to pull from.

The stock louvers may have been enough for small motors with small cooling
fans, but putting in larger engines, with larger cooling systems will find
the stock designs limits.

Eric Allred
64 Bus
