Date: Sat, 5 Apr 2003 08:15:02 -0800
From: "Heath, Raymond E" <raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Aluminum block, the saga begins

Ok Guys and Gals,
So Cal Imports wasted no time cashing my check and sending me my new Aluminum
case, 3 days no less! Out of the box it was a pretty sight. I haven't seen a
clean block such as this since I ordered my replacement block for my Vanagan
in 86. I've been working with dub engines since 67 and the only time I saw a
new block was at the parts house, just out of reach of my pocket book.

Well, it was Christmas, I was grinning from ear to ear. Then the candy canes
turned sour. The block is #4141, not a bad thing yet from what I've read so
far. But as I got to inspecting it I started finding the aforeto mentioned
defects and sand problems everyone has been complaining about. Flipping the
block upside down I found grains of sand in the threads of the pressure relief
tubes and loose casting sand packed in some of the case cooling ribs. I
decided not to even crack it open until I took it down to my machinist, Jerry
at North West Connecting Rod in Seattle. He had also mentioned that out of the
dozen blocks he has worked, most of them also needed a 1-3 thousandth align
bore because the main ribs were slightly out and the cranks were getting
pinched. Also, the blocks are nice and beefy adding many more years to use,
but that extra thickness retains heat and is a clearance problem for low buck
CW cranks. This block is going to be punched for 90.5 but later I may opt for
94 X 82 just to test the longevity. It's nice that it is a universal block but
the bell housing lip is really cut weird. I have updated my trike engine page
with a page button for just this case. When it is uploaded Monday I will slip
in the address.

67 Single Cab, DP 1641cc 34 PICT-3
71 Trike 1776cc Dual T-4 34 PDSIT-3
VolksAir 1585cc 31 PICT
Ray, Kent WA
Bernoulli Interval: Do I really have enough data to draw a valid conclusion ?
