From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: "'Douglas and Lori SWENSON'" <dasbus_1(-at-)msn.com>, "'type2'"
Date: Fri, 20 Jul 2007 19:09:44 -0600
Subject: RE: [T2] Cooling Flaps

Yikes! Lucky you found it. Probably not any damage, just bad mileage and
nasty plugs.

Chris at BustedBus.com has the parts to get you back to normal. You won't
need to pull the motor to get the thermostat and flaps back in play, just a
bunch of tin. Also trace your cooling system on Richard's site and check if
your other cooling tin and non-return flaps are there!

The brown wire is to hook up your turbocharger. :) 

Jon Stiles

-----Original Message-----
From: Douglas and Lori SWENSON [mailto:dasbus_1(-at-)msn.com] 
Sent: Friday, July 20, 2007 4:57 PM
To: type2
Subject: [T2] Cooling Flaps

Hey all,

I replaced the dipstick boot this afternoon (thanks again for all the
suggestions) on my '76 Westy with the stock engine and FI when I removed the
tin under the 1 & 2 cylinders to access the boot I noticed the thermostat
cable was missing. The thermostat looks to be shot as well, it's springy not
tight like it should be when it's cold. When I started investigating what
was
going to be involved with replacing the thermostat I realized it looks like
a
PO had removed the cooling flaps. The linkage is gone. Assuming I can locate
another set of flaps does anyone know if the flaps can be replaced without
removing the engine?

On Richard Atwell's site he mentions that the Type 1 thermostat can be
converted for the Type IV engine but I couldn't find the link. Since it
appears the Type IV thermostat is NLA, I likely will have to buy a Type 1
unit, what's involved with the conversion?

I don't drive my bus in the winter (it will never see salt) so hopefully
there
hasn't been any kind of permanent damage from the missing thermostat/flaps.

There was also broken wire lying in the sludge in the tin, a tan wire with a
90 degree female connector. Any idea what this might be? The Bus runs good,
so
it doesn't seem to be affecting anything.

Thanks,

Doug
Minneapolis, MN

'76 Westy ?45k "Peapod"
'80 MB 300SD 160k "Phoebe"
'96 MB E320 138k "Dixie"
'87 BMW K100RS 101k
