Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Mon, 23 Jul 2007 13:00:50 -0400
To: "Gerry Donathan" <gerrydonathan(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] ridiculous engine pulling question

Hi Gerry,

What year is your son's bus? If it's a 68-71 you don't need a jack,  
you can rest the engine on a solid object and roll the bus away from it.

If it's a 72-and-later, you will need a jack. I usually balance the  
T4 engine with the jack positioned just slightly rearward of the  
circular cover plate.  It helps a LOT if you use a dolly jack with a  
large (6" or better) diameter lift plate on it.  It's certainly do- 
able with the 2" diameter surface found on the typical $30 walmart  
dolly jack, but it's much, much easier when you have a larger surface  
to work with.

Another support option is to use a motorcycle/ATV lift like this one:
http://www.discountramps.com/mcImages/BW0101-motorcycle-jack-1.jpg

Harbor freight also sells a similar item at a good price

Safety shoes might also be a good idea, just in case....


Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/77/79 Westfakia "Bob The Tomato
www.pottsfamily.ca
www.busesofthecorn.com



On 23-Jul-07, at 12:42 PM, Gerry Donathan wrote:

ok, so I am giving up on my 72 westy for the time being and just  
gonna fix my sons bus, as he turns 16 next month. anyhow the question  
is this:
Having not pulled an engine in a bus I am wondering about the balance  
point of the motor. I am struggling to figure out how to do this the  
best and easiest way by myself, not having what I would prefer to  
have in the way of a jack. i just have two big floor jacks, but in my  
experience pulling motors in beetles, it is just too much of a pain  
to balance them on the jack, and clearance under the vehicle becomes  
a problem. Anyone use a cherry picker to remove their engine through  
the top access cover? I am thinking of buying one and giving it a  
try, just not sure if the balance point would be too far to the rear  
to make it work, or should I just go buy some sturdy steel beams and  
jack the car up a good 4 feet? Looking for some practical knowedge  
before i unbolt everything and drop the damn thing on my foot.
thanks
Gerry
