Date: Tue, 02 Jan 2007 14:50:42 -0500
To: "Paul and Kathy" <pa.ka(-at-)verizon.net>, urban(-at-)yaic.com
From: "John Rogers" <jnrogers(-at-)verizon.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] RE:Looking for an engine- AVP?

I can't speak to longevity with respect to an AVP rebuild -- I have only  
had the engine in my bus a few months and about 2,000 miles -- but here is  
my experience so far.

Nice and tight -- My old engine shook and vibrated.  This one runs  
amazingly smoothly, even at evry high revs. Seems to be well belanced.  
Valves very quiet.

Gas mileage not so good -- my old engine would give me up to 22 mpg on a  
trip; this one seems to be getting about 17-18 on the highway.  This may  
be a temporary function of its being new and tight.  During the first few  
hundred miles, during break-in, I was only getting about 12-13 mpg, so the  
trend at least is in the right direction.

Good power -- especially at high revs.  In theory I am not in favor of  
high revving a 1600 dp but this engine responds more like older British  
4-cylinder sports car engines.  It will cruise and hold grade at 60-65  
mpg, and more than once I have found myself tooling along the Interstate  
well above 70mph. Its best power and performance seems to be at the high  
end, strangely enough.  In 4th, it will accelerate modestly from 40 to 50  
but more rapidly from 50 to 60, quite the opposite of my older engine.

Runs very cool -- although not in the beginning. During the first few  
hundred miles it ran scarily hot, but after about 300-500 miles it cooled  
down, and now when I pull into a rest stop even after two or three hours  
of highway driving the negine compartment is cool and the dipstick barely  
warm to the touch,

I hope it holds up. It's smoothness is a pleaure.  The bus no longer seems  
to be straining above 55.  And it's nice to hear an engine so happy in its  
wotk.

All this said, no two rebuilds are alike.  The main variation is the  
case.  If you are luckly you will get a good case with minimum  
distortion.  I took a chance with this one and so far I am very pleased.

If I recall correctly AVP engines come with a 12-month, 12,000 warranty  
but to be valid the engine must be installed by a licensed mechanic.  Hope  
this helps.

John
