From: "Michael Smith" <michael.smith(-at-)1upcomputing.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 4 Jan 2007 19:23:38 -0600
Subject: Was rich & low idle now rough running

Thanks to everyone that has helped me so far. The timing issue was my fault
for using the Haynes manual for my only source and not looking for a second
source for the timing information. I set it back to 7.5 degrees BTDC. My
distributor has only the one vacuum tube going to the vacuum advance. This
gave it a bit more power and also took care of the idle and rich running
issue.

 

 I think that I'm almost there but there is one last issue to knock out.
This is how things happen now on my 77 with fuel injection.

 

It runs as it should when its cold. A little lumpy. This doesn't last long
at all a couple minutes. I expect this, I removed the cold start hardware.
After this smoothes out it runs nice and strong. I get out on the interstate
and runt it at 70 for 3 -4 miles and I start to feel the surging issue
again. It feels like its got a cylinder dropping out at random. Its hard to
describe but the best I can do is say that it comes and goes ( the surges )
every second to second and a half. Theres no pattern or certain cadence to
the surges and seem to be at random. This will hast for another mile or two
and then it stays running rough after that. No more surges just run rough
now. Sounds like a lawnmower. I can park it and let it cool for an hour or
so and then hop in it then the same story as I stated above all over again.
Starts out strong, somewhere in the middle there is a transitionary phase
between running good and running crappy and it cant make its mid up what it
wants to do, and then finally it runs crappy until I shut it off and let it
cool down. 

 

What the surging issue feels like to me is an ignition issue ( could be
wrong ). It feels like one cylinder is coming and going. I'm new to these
volkie engines so all I have to go off of are v6's and v8's and rotarys.

 

Thanks for all the help.
