Date: Thu, 4 Jan 2007 18:14:56 -0800 (PST)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: Michael Smith <michael.smith(-at-)1upcomputing.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Was rich & low idle now rough running

Could be a number of things, of course! One to check
is grab hold of every vacuum hose in the compartment
and feel that it is snugly attached and not crumbling.
The formed hoses often appear to be connected when
they aren't.

You have already confirmed that the head temp sensor
is within limits (2400 ohms at about 68 degrees F.)

You removed the cold start injector so that is not an
issue and the air bypass valve is also removed, so it
is not an issue.

If this is a high mileage unit (aren't they all?) it
is possible that your resistor circuit board inside
the airflow meter could be badly grooved. It usually
doesn't behave that way though - it usually produces a
dead spot smack dab in the middle of no-load cruising
speed.

There is an item that, if it were my bus, I would
check for because of the symptoms... I would do a
compression check. Actually, I would do 2 compression
checks. Here is the technique I recommend: With the
engine cold, remove all the spark plugs and do a
"normal" compression check. Put a little oil or WD40
or such on the threads and put the plugs back in but
when they're tight, back them out a quarter turn. Now
run the engine and get it up to temp - preferably to
where it starts acting up. Now do another compression
check.

Fairly common to these engines is heat damage to the
heads such as dropped valve seats or cracks in the
heads. The symptoms that I have experienced with these
conditions are that it runs pretty good cold but when
it heats up it runs very rough at low RPM but nicely
at high RPM. It is almost impossible to start when hot
unless you hill start it at a high engine speed. If
these symptoms don't fit, it's likely not the problem.

Another item that is popping up a lot lately is loose
or corroded connections withing the FI wiring harness,
especially within the plugs that the double relays
plug into.

Shame on me for not inquiring about the fuel filter! I
assumed you changed the fuel filter previously - if
not, do so now. If you have a fuel pressure gauge,
there is a test port on the left side fuel rail
between #3 & #4 cylinders. Pressure should be about
35psi with no vacuum at the pressure regulator and
about 28psi with normal high vacuum.

Related issues: deteriorating fuel lines that have
partial blockage, something in tank that partially
blocks (rare with constant flow syatem though) and
here's a favorite of mine: the fuel inlet where you
refill your tank with gas - reach a finger in there
and carefully feel around for a rip or hole in the
rubber elbow. In winter, rain water runs in there and
you get water in the gas. With the constant flow, it
remains agitated and in suspension so rarely cuts out
completely. In summer the problem goes away after a
few tankfuls in dry weather.

Keep us posted as to what you discover, please. -BaH
--- Michael Smith <michael.smith(-at-)1upcomputing.com>
wrote:

> Thanks to everyone that has helped me so far. The
> <SNIPPED>


'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Seattle Area, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
