Date: Tue, 17 May 2005 09:54:58 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>, Type2 Bus List
Subject: Re: [T2] painting a bus w/ a pattern

Inquire about fine line masking tape at the paint supplier store - it is really line a plastic pinstripe found at the FLAPS. We used it to create the boundry between the red lower and white upper portions of my bus. You can apply it with two hands (1 finger tracing the path of the tape that you want, stretch it slighty as you apply it) and get nearly any shape. On top of that we put the masking tape. The Fine Fline did the fine work, the masking tape did the rest. Paint, let the paint set it up for a little bit and remove all of the masking and tape. 

You could use an overhead projector. I'd practice doing it freehand with a grease pencil on the bus directly. 

Another option would be to go to a sign shop and have them make vinyl graphics for you. Paint the bus one of the colors and then use vinyl for the other colors. I used to work for a sign shop and we did the stripes/insignia/lettering on alot of commercial and law enforcement vehicles. 

They have different grades. Compare prices and expected durability (thinking 5 years here for exterior use, longer if garaged). When it finally begins to peel you'll have ghosts of the graphics if you want a guide for applying the next round, or if you want to apply painted graphics. You can ask them to apply the graphics for you or they can give the graphics to you with the transfer tape applied and the backing paper still in place. Use LOTS of alcohol/water mix in a basic spray bottle (hardware store sells 'em) so you have a few seconds to get everything positioned and get the air bubbled pushed out. Water/alcohol will evaporate making the graphics permanent. Ask for several of the plastic squeegies. Thy are not liek the squeegies you clean glass with but more like a putty knife for applying Bondo. 

Chris
'78 Westy 2,7L
Cookeville
