Date: Tue, 17 May 2005 23:10:50 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: 6 V starter solenoid wanted

All,

Anybody got a 6 V starter solenoid for sale or trade?  The particular
starter I have is a Bosch 0 001 310 007 - VW 311 911 021 - 6 V - 0,6 PS;
the rebuilt replacement is an SR11X.  The solenoid is marked "SHSM -
241SZ - 6 V".  Probably anything for a 6 V Bosch starter would work.

Story: I'm pretty sure that the one that's on my starter has been giving
me trouble.  Specifically, sometimes the starter runs like "rowr...(pause)
...rowr...(pause)...rowr..." and sometimes it turns over great, like
"r-r-r-r-r-r-".  This is with brand-new battery ground strap, battery
positive cable, and transmission ground strap.  At first I blamed it on
a discharged or bad battery, but then I charged the battery all the way
up, load-tested it, and charged it again, and the starter still did the
"rowr...(pause)" thing... _most of the time_.  Sometimes I would hit the
key and it would spin real great.  But, up until a couple of days ago,
it either ran slow or ran great repeatedly when I hit the key.  A couple
of days ago, it started to change its mind in the middle of the
sequence: hit the key, get "rowr...(pause)...rowr...(pause)...! r-r-r-r-r-
r-r-r-..."  This got me thinking about the solenoid contacts.  I tore
the starter partway down: the brushes and commutator look good, but the
solenoid contacts look fairly crummy.  I would try cleaning them up, but
I managed to bust one of the battery cable studs on the solenoid.  So,
I'm looking for a solenoid.

If anyone else is doing their own starter teardown, note: the
countersink-head slotted screws that hold the solenoid onto the starter
were TIGHT! on mine.  Screwdrivers alone couldn't budge them; I had to
apply heat from a propane torch to the casting and the solenoid housing
(watch out or you'll melt the wire varnish) to get them out.  Second,
the nut that you see on the battery cable stud after you take all the
cables off just holds the stud in; you don't have to take it off to get
into the solenoid.  Instead, unsolder the two thick wires (solder joints
visible on terminal plate of solenoid) and pull the terminal plate off.

I am aware that rebuilt SR11X starters are available for $100-$140, and
one vendor even lists a (new?) solenoid for it at $40.  I also know that
doing half the job means that my starter will crap out just when I stall
the engine and the only thing I can see in the mirror is a big chrome
RENILTHGIERF.  Right now, the economics say that I either replace just
the solenoid, or park the Bus.

Let me know.  Thanks!

Matt Roberds
