Date: Thu, 19 May 2005 00:07:50 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: 6 V starter solenoid wanted

>From: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc." <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
>Date: Tue, 17 May 2005 21:18:50 -0700
>
>Been there, done that.  Check your starter bushing before you go any
>further!! Had those exact symptoms and needed a new bushing.

I looked at it tonight and there is a bushing in the hole, but I can't
speak to its condition.  The end of the starter shaft that rides in the
bushing has some markings on it; none of them are up to the level of
grooves that catch your fingernail, but you can see that it's been
turning inside something else.  The bushing is also not perfectly
smooth; there are some marks on it but I can't tell how deep they are.
The bushing is relatively firmly in the hole; some experimental prying
with various equipment didn't dislodge it.  Bentley shows a nice gauge
which I don't have; anybody know the ID of a new 6 V starter bushing?
Is there some other way to check it?

Bentley also mentions an extractor for changing the bushing with the
engine in place.  I have used a slide hammer that had two tiny hooks
you could screw onto the end to remove a bearing with a similar small ID
on a S(-at-)z(-at-)ki truckette and something like that might work.  The archives
also say you can thread a tap into it and when the tap bottoms out the
bushing will be pushed out... anybody know what size tap might be good
to try?

>And hey, if you just busted off the stud, why not drill and tap a hole
>and put in a bolt to hold the ring lug.

I may do this.  The stud appears to be all copper or possibly all brass
(it's one piece with the contact inside the solenoid) so I'm not sure
how well cutting threads in it would work.  There is still a little stud
left sticking out above the plastic piece on the end of the solenoid;
what would fix it right is a long metric nut: one end screwed down on
the stub and against the plastic to hold the contact in, and a metric
bolt in the other end to bolt down the battery cable.  Hmm... I could
buy a long inch nut (much easier to get) and drill out and tap one end
metric...

>I think a 10-32 might work if not a 1/4-20. Save lots of dough.

I am fairly sure the stud is an M6 so an 0.25" bolt is too big.  #10 or
#8 might work though.

>From: "gns.wagnon" <gns.wagnon(-at-)verizon.net>
>Date: Tue, 17 May 2005 21:25:07 -0500
>
>I was just looking into the Hard Start Relay's today to see if that might
>help the situation and was going to post that question to this list for
>tribal knowledge.

My Bus came with a hard start relay when I bought it.  I did clean up
the wiring to it somewhat, but as far as I can tell, it's working.  My
theory is that if the solenoid wasn't getting enough voltage or current,
I would either hear nothing at all, or that "cluck" and then nothing,
or maybe that "bap-bap-bap-bap-bap" you get when the solenoid tries to
pull in, can't quite make it, tries to pull in again, etc.  There doesn't
seem to be a problem with the solenoid throwing out the gear and making
it engage the flywheel; the gear teeth on the starter don't have a funky
wear pattern.

I guess I could have an intermittent problem in the solenoid or starter
windings, but I intend to chase the starter bushing and maybe the
solenoid contacts first.

Matt Roberds
