Date: Thu, 19 May 2005 08:41:13 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Cc: VB list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: oil coolers, heat and etc

i've been listening to the oil and heat threads with half an eye (my 
life has been too half-*ssed lately to pay full attention), and i had 
a couple of thoughts.

arnaud, what is your compression ratio? i saw someone (gns?) was 
running 9:1 in a 1776 - WAAAAY too high for a bus motor in my 
opinion. i know, all the bug guys will tell you they build motors 
(sorry, engines) like that all day long w/ no problems, but how long 
do they last?  do they put them in  a bus? do the ones in their bugs 
need external coolers?  i would say 7.5:1 is as high as i would go in 
a bus - but that's me. i run 7.0:1. YMMV. But if you have that high a 
CR and you run hot, i'd say you need to examine the logic behind 
those numbers.

second, external oil cooolers can help, but they also can simply help 
mask the REAL problem. if your oil is too hot, there is a reason for 
it... you don't cure jaundice by getting a spray-on tan! as has been 
pointed out, oil and head temps don't exactly correlate, but there IS 
a relationship. eric a. toasted a head with perfectly comfy oil temps 
- tho i forget if he ran an extra cooler - and arnaud is saying that 
his heads are cool but his oil is hot.  the lesson seems to be that 
in an a/c engine the two heat by slightly different methods; the head 
from combustion, and the oil mainly from friction and some percentage 
of combustion heat.
the main contact between oil and combustion heat takes two forms: oil 
splashed along the cylinder walls and pistons by the rods, and oil 
flung from the rockers... the rocker oil splashes against the valve 
cover and is cooled (unless you have a chrome cover!) and returns to 
the sump a tad happier; oil from the cylinders simply dribbles back 
to the sump: this is the primary combustion-related heat load to the 
oil.  there is, of course, some convection (and radiant) heat load to 
the case and thus the oil, but i'd say it is nominal up to the point 
where the heads go tropo and start to fry. THAT will put heat to the 
case reet quick. oh, and >blow-by<  will add heat. but again, that 
means something should be FIXED rather than PATCHED.

so if your heads are cool and your oil is not, that leaves two 
situations: there is an excess friction problem (oil pressure or FLOW 
too low, tight bearings, etc), or a COOLING problem. if you don't 
know the condition of the cooler, you can get a pressure tester for 
like $8, and a shop should be able to (carefully) boil it out for you 
to check for congealed dinosaurs lurking in the passages. a new 
cooler is spendy but a good start on eliminating it as a culprit. 
and when tightening it down, not TOO tight! what is the spec, like 12 
lbs or less? cranking it up will NOT solve or prevent a leak, but 
WILL constrict flow as the seals swell. the T4 idea is a really good 
idea, tin mods notwithstanding - or get the early T3 coolers with 
more fins, which fit with no mods. there is a LATER T3 cooler with 
LESS fins, which made me wonder about the logic of  the 'early 
version' being better (after all, why go to LESS fins on the newer 
one?), but ronnie f pointed out that the later T3 fan system had been 
redesigned to be more efficient, allegedly allowing a 
less-expensive-to manufacture cooler to be used.

also, your tinwork could be letting air bypass the cooler (missing 
hoover bit, bent-up cooler shroud on the doghouse, etc). or it is 
simply letting the heated air get back  to the fan somewhere.  which 
brings us back to coolers: the poster who stated his cooler is 
'hanging from the top of the engine compartment' and still gets too 
hot  - bingo. this  is like running a hair dryer at 1500 watts in 
there;  you will NEVER get a cool motor with that cooler in the 
engine bay! like those horrible coolers that fit over the front of 
the fan... shudder.  the hot air needs to go OUT of the engine bay - 
vw didn't put the doghouse exhaust where it did for fun.  if you want 
or need an extra cooler, and don't want long hoses, bolt it by the 
rear apron somewhere.


if your cooler is fine, than flow is the problem - oil is not 
following  der deutsches methode somewhere. perhaps the oil passages 
deep in the case are clogged... i was losing a #2 rod due to a 
restriction in the oil gallery feeding it once. the dual-relief cases 
can have the pressure piston stick, dumping much of the oil straight 
to sump and thus bypassing the cooler. but a gauge should show that. 
your oil pump could be tired - try a new one.


as far as not wanting hoses for full-flow ala b&e, do what i did: i 
full-flowed the motor, and bought an-8 hoses. like $100 for two hoses 
and hardware (and measure thrice... mine are 2" too long and dangle a 
bit more than i like), but they will NOT rot or blow. te main problem 
with hoses is that length and fittings will restrict total CFM flow, 
so you do want them as short as possible. my oil filter hangs just 
behind the left rear wheel well, protected from debris but still in 
flowing air. if you have a moustache-bar bay (68 - 71), you can NOT 
use the pump/filter combo, btw.

oh, and gauges - if your 'head is cool but oil is not,' i'd 
double-check the cht somehow. buy a new sender at least. my first 
sender started reading low due to fraying connections. also, is it 
under the plug, or under a bolt?

the aluminum crapcase motor i have is fullflowed, berg pressure 
relief 28mm pump, 1679cc, 7:1 CR, early T3 cooler,  my oil temp 
sender is IN the oil cooler, where the T3 pressure sender would go - 
this gives me the temp of the >cooled< oil, berg 'shorty' dipstick 
sender in the T3 blockoff hole (the one to right of oil pump),  vac 
adv dizzy, 30/31 carb, all seams in the tin caulked up, hoover bit, 
etc.  after i got some jetting issues under hand, the heads generally 
run the 'normal' 350 - 400 at speed, and the oil stays below 220 
(this is in phoenix, az). i did run it high, hot and hard on a long 
highway trip, just for fun - 75 mph, 4200 rpm or so. max head temp of 
425, and the  semi-syn oil crept towards 240. slowed down then. now, 
the aluminum crapcases HOLD heat much longer than the mag/al factory 
cases, so the itself case runs MUCH hotter than stock; i had to 
adjust the berg sender unit so that it wouldn't go off so soon, as it 
was picking up heat from the case. i went up a 6% grade mountain, let 
the heads hit 425+ and the oil temp hit 230 or so, and adjusted the 
sender till it JUST went off in that condition.  seems to have 
eliminated the heat-soak effect, yet still lets me know the oil is 
too hot.

when i had the engine torn down this month (leaky seams and 
unbalanced piston), the oil looked dark of course, but the heads, 
cylinders and bearings all seemed to show no damage attributable to 
heat... no varnish, no discolorations, no lean-looking chambers.

the moral? none, really. my motor is far from perfect, but seems to 
have no real heat problems (besides heat retention by the case 
metal!). it got that way because i read the archives, read hoover, 
wilson, and about 12 books on my shelf ranging from vintage 
sport-tuning to exhaust design, read up on the composition of modern 
vs 60s era gas, factory manuals, etcetcetc. i made decisions based on 
eliminating heat at all levels i could think of, and went from there. 
when i had a problem - too lean, temp sender going off too soon, etc, 
i found the problem and fixed it. it has taken 2 years, and been a 
real freakin nightmare, but the problems i have with my motor seem to 
stem from the abomination we call aluminum T1 cases, and not heat 
issues.

i've been writing this in between toddler meltdowns, so excuse me if 
it is disjointed!
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
