From: "Karl" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: "Everett Barnes" <everettb(-at-)thesamba.com>, "Vintage List"
Date: Sat, 21 May 2005 21:22:31 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] re:speaking of oil

From: Everett Barnes

 From reading the flash point data on the link you posted:
 http://www.repairfaq.org/filipg/AUTO/F_oil_facts.html#OILFACTS_006

 The flash point of Castrol 20w/50 (as an example) is 440F.

 So assuming I understood everything correctly, unless you have a point on
 your engine where the oil is hitting 440F (maybe head temp?), the oil is not
 breaking down.  440F is a pretty high head temp.

 ---------------------------------------------------------------------

You are confusing 2 different things.

Flash point:  the temperature to which a combustible liquid must be heated to give off sufficient vapor to
form momentarily a flammable mixture with air when a small flame is applied under specified conditions. (ASTM
Designation D 92.)

212 degrees is when the plastic polymers in oil break down and the multi-grade becomes the lower single grade.
This is NOT flash point. This is VII breakdown, Viscosity Index Improvers.

Polymers:
A substance formed by the linkage (polymerization) of two or more simple, molecules, called monomers, to form
a single larger molecule having the same elements in the same proportions as the original monomers; i.e. each
monomer retains its structural identity. A polymer may be liquid or solid; solid polymers may consist of
millions of repeated linked units. A polymer made from two or more similar monomers is called a copolymer; a
copolymer composed of three different types of monomers is a terpolymer. Natural rubber and synthetic rubbers
are examples of polymers. Polymers are commonly used as viscosity index improvers in multi-grade oils and
tackifiers in lubricating greases. They are additives that increase the viscosity of the fluid throughout its
useful temperature range. Such additives are polymers that possess thickening power as a result of their high
molecular weight and are necessary for formulation of multi-grade engine oils.

If you want to read an interseting test, go here: http://www.ducatimeccanica.com/oil.html
and scroll down to Relative Viscosity Retention Comparisons Among Five Brands of Automotive and Motorcycle
Oils.
Scroll down to the section where he maintains the temp to NO higher than 99C!!!
"As temperature has a strong effect on viscosity, I had to make certain it was carefully controlled for the
experiments. Using a laboratory temperature control chamber, all measurements were made at 99 degrees Celsius
(error factor of plus or minus 0.5 degrees), which is about 210 degrees Fahrenheit. This is the most common
temperature used for oil viscosity measurements. It usually took about 15 minutes for each sample to achieve
equilibrium within the chamber."

Hmmm.... keep this in mind when bus owners say "my oil temps are 220" and higher.

In the link I gave before, you cannot mix #5 and #6. 2 totally different things:)
 http://www.repairfaq.org/filipg/AUTO/F_oil_facts.html#OILFACTS_006
