From: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 4 May 2005 13:04:38 -0400
Subject: Bus Rust....

Hey guys, 

     I was tooling through the junkyard last weekend and was picking parts off of a 72 or something VW Bus. As I stepped INSIDE the bus.... my foot went through the floor scraping my leg on the support beams. (no worries... I had a tetnus shot last year).

Now... my Bus DOES have a permenant place in the garage. It's so permenant actually because the springs on my garage door broke so I haven't opened my garage door in almost a month and I'm still redoing my wiring in the Bus so it's not running right now anyway. My wife also painted a mural of hippies, flowers and all kinds of other communist stuff on the cement wall right next to the Bus. (to make it feel at home). She's the Democrat, I'm the Republican.. we have an interesting household!! hehe (I'm totally kidding, I mean no disrespect at all...)

But... this brings me to the point.  I REALLY REALLY want to keep this VW forever.. if possible. It doesn't really have very much rust... but there is a significant build-up of surface rust on the bottom. It looks like the bottom had been undercoated at some point. The entire underside of the Bus seems to have this layer of hardened plastic and / or rust. The entire underside though is a dirty BROWN color. I really have no idea where to start. Since I'm in it with this Bus for the long haul, I want to make sure I do it right. I've done part of the front, but I'm really not sure how I should go about doing the intricate part of the bus in it's mid section where all the cross-members and whatnot are.

Has anyone done this? Is there a writeup somewhere?

The Bus will always have a place in the garage, but with the humidity here in Florida... the rust will only continue to grow unless I take care of it.

I'm probably making it sound worse than it is... but I just don't want what happened to that Bus in the yard to happen to my Bus. (which my wife has named "Skipper").


Thanks!

Todd
