Date: Thu, 5 May 2005 05:40:30 -0700 (PDT)
From: leftcoaster <magicbus1974(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Thanks! (upgrading)

Well thanks to all for the well thought out answers to my query!
wow! no flames! :-)
  I like the idea of just going to a 76-79 tranny for a little more
top end... I could stay with this engine and upgrade from carb's to a 
megasquirt or Miller's FI system which is stand alone and requires
no ECU to speak of. The exsisting carbs are tired and I havent seen
an aftermarket carb setup that I like..(yet)..
  As to the lowering.. my theory behind that is a more stable ride
on the fwy due to a slightly lower profile and a lesser ground effect.
This is only a thought and not something I just have to do. Rebuilding
and adding to the exsisting suspension and steering would be the first
order.
  I have had this bus for a while now.. 12 years or so.. and it is 
for the most part, stock.. down to the new mech. fuel pump.. I do run
pertronix and have modified the heating system.. the enterior was not
complete when I bought it and I have custom built it for camping.. 
it has hauled baseball teams.. soccer teams.. Boy Scouts.. etc.. my
oldest
graduates from Gonzaga U and my youngest graduates from HS and is off
to
Gonzaga at the end of this summer.. my desire for a off roader has
diminished... and I would like to have a bit more performance on the
urban streets. This whole thought process comes from some "suggestions"
that I sell and buy a newer more practicle car.. notice I didnt say
more reliable? I feel that with a MUCH smaller cash outlay I can do
some things to my bus that would make it as good.. if not better.. 
than anything new I could find.. for my needs and wants that is.
  Besides.. I am way to attached to the da... opps! darn thing! :-)
  Thanks again to all that offered up ideas and opinions!!! Al positive
and well thought out.

Dan Simmons(-at-)Seattle


		
Yahoo! Mail
Stay connected, organized, and protected. Take the tour:
http://tour.mail.yahoo.com/mailtour.html
