Date: Tue, 1 Oct 2002 15:16:18 -0500
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: Elsquared(-at-)aol.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] confused about oil weight

Here is some information I am typing exactly as it appears in one of
my old Ag Engineering courses:

the apparent viscosity of engine oils at low temperatures is measured
using a device called a cold-cranking simulator. It consists ofa
motor-driven cylintrical rotor immersed in oil in a stationary
cylindrical container. The oil whose viscosity is to be determined
fills the small space between the rotor and the container. The motor
is a universal type electric motor whose speed veries with torque
load. When the motor turns the rotor, it's speed depends on the
viscosity of the oil: thei higher the viscosity, the lower the speed.
Thus through use of a suitable calibration curve, the oil viscosity
can be tetermined by measuring the rotor speed.

The viscosity of oil declines as its temperature increases. Each oil
is identified by an SAE number. The numbers are part of a
classification scheme for the viscosity of motor oils developed by the
Society for Automotive Engineers (SAE).

The SAE classification scheme for viscosity is summarized in Table
13.1 (which isn't ASCII so not here) An SAE number with a W indicated
that the viscosity was determined at a low temperature using cold
cranking simulator; historically the specified low temperature was -18
degrees C (0 deg F), but now a range of low temperatures are used
depending on the viscosity class. SAE viscosity grates without the W
are measured at 100 deg C (212 deg F) using a viscometer. The lower
temperatures approximate condition sin the engine during cold weather
starting, while the higher temperature is typical of conditions in the
crankcase of a fully wam engine operating under heavy load. The SAE
viscosity system was first established in 1911 and has been revised
several times since then. The "Borderline Pumping Temperature"
indicates the lowest temperature at which the oil can be pumped by the
lubricating system when the engine is being started in cold weather.

...

All this from "Engine & Tractor Power" by Carroll Goering

On Tue, Oct 01, 2002 at 02:15:38PM -0400, Elsquared(-at-)aol.com wrote:
> Would like to change the oil in my '71 Bus, but all these different weights I 
> must admit are confusing me.

-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
"Two wrongs don't make a right, but 3 rights make a left"
-Cosmo
