Date: Tue, 01 Oct 2002 21:01:30 -0600
From: dgrauer <dgrauer(-at-)sasktel.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Filler neck replacement

Ok all.

Im doing this from memory (about 10 years ago), but Im
pretty sure this will give you 75% of the job.  I do
know that on one saturday afternoon without special
tools (I couldnt afford any!)and this will sound easy
but it was really frustrating, and im pretty sure I had
to bend a screwdriver to get the inside clamp loosened
and tightened. Gas fumes were getting in the cab with
my newborn baby (who is now in grade 6!)

In a nutshell it is only held in place at the top with
the screws you see when putting gas in, and a clamp
around the tank filler tube.  So here we go...

By the way it is probably better to do this outside in
a well ventilated space .  A good breeze might be nice
too.

First you take the gas cap off and carefully remove all
the screws inside the gas cap inlet.  Save them all and
keep the round ring piece. You will need to pry the
ring off the rubber.

Then on the inside of the engine compartment you need
to disconnect the battery cables (negative first
please) and remove the FI computer from its regular
resting place. You should disconnect and put it inside
the van.  I wouldnt want you to smash it in a sudden
frustrated rage! You will also need to remove the air
intake filter etc.  You might need to remove the AFM
and the intake hose down to the throttle body. 

On the wall frame up behind the air filter bracket
there is a round metal panel that is pressed into the
right bulkhead.  Pry it out.  You will now be able to
see your target through the hole.  Really. No?? Try a
mirror and a flashlight. Try looking from through the
top hatch with the mirror.  yeah there it is....

It seems to me that the clamp screw on the tank neck
was not placed well to loosen (wrapped around the back
between the filler and inside of the body) So be
prepared to modify a spare phillips screw driver to get
it out that first half turn.  The good news is that if
you work from the filler side, you may get it from the
top. If you reach in you will feel it, even if you cant
see it.

It seems to me that I got the clamp screw loosened that
first half turn from the gas cap side after I removed
most the rubber filler neck (is was so brittle it just
came right apart when I pulled). Just try not to drop
too much of it down the tank tube.

If memory serves, you can position the old clamp so
that it is very easy to get to from the round panel
opening.  Feed the new one in from the filler side and
work it around to get it in the right orientation.  I
think I pre-tightened the clamp slightly so that it
would stay in the correct oreientation during
assembly.  I used a drop of liquid soap wiped on the
outside of the tank tube to make it easy to place.  In
retrospect a piece of masking tape would do the same
thing and the clamp could be looser (easier to place).

Then just put everything back where it was.  This kind
of fix is (in a way) fun to do, because if you took it
in somewhere the labour would far outwiegh the part
cost :-) (Anyway just keep telling yourself that!) And
even if I didnt get all the details exactly right, let
me say that if I could do this (and I did!), you can
too.

So dear readers and flamers, does that sound close??

Cheers
Logan
