From: "Duke Geren" <duke.geren(-at-)attbi.com>
To: <wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 1 Oct 2002 23:16:43 -0700
Subject: Kermit comes home.

Well,  after lots of searching and tons of time waiting for the loan
check (don't ever take out a loan on your 401k, it takes forever) I
finally drove Kermit home to Vancouver WA from Seattle tonight.
Fortunately I made it past of Olympia before the sun had completely set
as I hate SeaTac traffic at night.  Made a few stops at the rest areas
along the way.  I didn't want to push it as the camper is new to me and
I still need to get used to the quirks.  He drove pretty well.  Kept up
a good steady 65 the whole way (again, not pushing it), with no unusual
noises to worry about.  The only thing that slowed me down was first and
second being a little tricky to find (again, more probably with the
camper being new to me than anything to worry about mechanically but
I'll have it checked out just to be sure) and the steering had a little
play at highway speeds that made staying in the middle of the lane a
little bit of work.  No problems with it a slow speeds but when a log
truck passes you like you're standing still it was a little hair
raising.  I plan on taking it to Always V-Dub to have Steve check it out
more thoroughly than my inspection but I'm not expecting to find much
that I didn't already suspect.  I think the only other hiccup was a few
missed signatures on the title transfer.  I think that was mostly
attributable to me be so excited that I was nearly shaking and not
thinking very clearly.  I plan on heading to the DMV to find out exactly
what I need as this is my first purchase from a private party.

 

Hopefully if all goes well, I'll be able to hit Oktobugfest as my first
event.  Many thanks to those on this group that provided me sage advise
on my purchase.  Now it's time to dive into Muir and Bently to see what
I can do on my own and what to leave to the pros until my experience
improves.

 

Duke

 

'78 Westy "Kermit"

 

Wow it feels good to finally add that sig for good.
