Date: Wed, 02 Oct 2002 08:03:47 -0700
To: "Bus Gypsy" <busgypsy(-at-)msn.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] ball joints?

At 06:24 AM 10/02/2002, you wrote:
>Had a few electrical issues, and found out when it went to the shop, that 
>it needed upper, and lower ball joints.   My bus has been layed up over 
>there for nearly a week.  Fryday, he was supposed to have started work on 
>Fryday.  Here it is wenesday, and they are still not done.

This is a sure sign of bad management. 1.) They think every vehicle that 
drives up to the shop is their client, so they agree to do work outside 
their experience, competence.

>
>  I am wondering if anyone knows the flat rate on this job?

Don't have my books here at home, but I would expect something in the range 
of 3 to 5 hours, including complete alignment. Add an hour, not more than 2 
to regrease the a-arm bushings/pins. Add another hour to replace the 
bushings if required. I would typically tear it down one day, order parts, 
and install the next day. But I'm on an island and always need a day to get 
parts in hand.

>  I mean, should these take this long?  Every time I talk with them, they 
> tell me it will be done tomorrow.

Sure sign of bad management, lying to themselves and you. Sure could be 
aftermarket parts issue. I've seen aftermarket ball joints that simple 
could not be installed in this application due to very rough castings that 
would not allow full range of movement. I would be sure to get proof of the 
brand of parts being used.

>Getting a little fed up with the place. Have done ball joints on domestic 
>cars at a shop I once worked at.  Are VW ball joints that much more time 
>consuming?

No, not at all difficult compared to other designs if quality (spec) parts 
are used. Somewhat easier than most applications. Keep in mind that 
efficient suspension work requires better than middlin' experience.

Hopefully, they will get the job done right, not overbill you for the 
excess time, take it in the shorts, and thereby learn to refer VW's 
elsewhere for services in the future. Sounds like many shops that just 
always overbook their schedule then shine on their failure to produce with 
excuses.
