From: David McCracken <folkswaggin(-at-)gmail.com>
Date: Tue, 11 May 2010 13:59:21 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 1970 camper - engine replacement

Hello.  I have some questions while progressing with the repair of my 1970
camper.  As a brief Summary: engine blew, took it out and apart and see
large hole in piston 1.  Found rebuilt engine I was told was a bus engine at
Everybus for $500.  Have had some issues.

Tin is different from mine.  I notice the front tin shroud is smaller - not
as high.  Believe that tells me this is a bug engine - tin doesn't have the
welded (riveted?) larger area added.  So I will use my older piece of tin.
 One question here is my old engine had oil cooler in front of fan shroud -
with tin ducts that go through front shroud.  Making sense?  The new engine
has oil cooler inside fan shroud. Its front tin shroud had no rectagular
hole for associated fan duct work.   Should I block off this rectangular
opening in front tin?

The new engine number under generator tells me 1967.  The old engine that
was in the bus has a core that has no number and on bottom side reads Brasil
something.....  So I guess the old engine was replaced at some point - not
sure about heads/jugs but the core at least is Brasilian replacement?
 Neither of these engines are the dual port engine that should be in the
1970, correct?  Any additional thoughts about using what I have?  My
plan/hope is to install this rebuilt engine into the bus and use it for a
year while rebuild the older engine to my best ability.  Then swap out
again.  So there will be many questions along that route.

other questions for now.  While removing the old muffler from old engine
some studs broke on intake manifold to muffler side.  Tried to "easy out"
them with no luck.  Bought new bus muffler.  Put it all together and plan to
attach muffler to new engine tomorrow.  There are 2 tasks needed prior to
that.  1) replacing tin.  I mentioned the front shroud.  However the breast
plate and rear plate under pulley are different between engines.  Actually
newer engine had no breast plate included.  The rear plate attached near
pulley on new engine has smaller flat parts than my old engine so that has
to be swapped too.  I got a fly wheel lock and crank pulley puller and
removed 2 pulleys and rear tin plates.  Will swap out.  Also my old breast
plate has large preheater tube hole - while this new engine doesn't have
that tube so I blocked that hole.

Replaced engine compartment seals.

The rear engine mount bracket situation is different per engines as well.
 My old engine had a bracket installed over oil pump gasket.  New engine has
no such bracket.  Beetle engine then eh?  Bought new bracket.  the bracket
comes with replacement (flat) oil pump cover and longer studs.  Studs are
larger than the oil pump cover studs existing in the new engine?

So what do I do.  I searched 7 auto places for longer M6 studs 1.25 thread
(2" long) to replace with no luck.  I wonder if it's best to have those
holes re-tapped for M8 stud placement or if I should find longer M6 studs
and find a spacer to place on the M6 threads to keep replacement oil pump
cover and engine bracket from rattling around.  Ideas?  Is this even making
sense?  I know my terminology as total newbie is likely non standard.
 Thanks for your hand holding.....

So my hope is replace oil pump cover studs appropriately, then install rear
engine mount bracket, swap out tin, install muffler/gasket set etc (hope it
fits well) put the engine in and see how she does.  Plan to do this all
tomorrow.

Im on the road touring just about all the time now and only have 1 free day
every 9 days so trying to maximize my time.

More questions forthcoming in all likelihood...  :)  Thanks and happy
volksing,

David McCracken
folkswaggin(-at-)gmail.com
