Date: Wed, 12 May 2010 15:34:23 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Baker <busvwzen(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Vicki <vpurnell(-at-)tampabay.rr.com>, ovt
Subject: 10th Annual VW Buses n Boats Ohio Camping Event!!

Here it is, the long-awaited info for the "10th Annual VW Buses 'n Boats Event
in
Morrow, Ohio (near Cincinnati)May 21-23, sponsored by the Ohio Valley Tribe of
the Full Moon Bus Club.  As always, the event will feature VW camping on the
banks
of the beautiful Nationally Designated Scenic Little Miami RIver.  There will
be an optional canoe trip on the River Saturday morning, followed by a
Cincinnati-Style chili (for those not familiar think "Skyline" or "Gold Star")
dinner on Saturday evening. I will be crafting the chili, so feel free to
bring some fixins to go with it like:  Spaghetti noodles,
Hot dogs, buns, SHredded cheese, moonshine, or whatever you like.

All the info you need can be found at the website
http://www.busesnboats.com  (A HUGE thank you to Jamie "Kooky Math Teacher"
Auch for hosting and creating the event website!!)
Canoe Rental and River info can be found at http://www.littlemiamicanoe.com
Come on out and enjoy some good ole OVT midwestern
hospitality.
See you on the river!!"

Additional Info:
Camping fees: $10 per adult per night (children under 16 FREE)Register and pay
with John Baker at the Campsite, NOT the Canoe rental office.

Canoeing Fees (optional): $14 per adult paddler includes all transportation,
life jacket, paddle, etc.

Unfortunately there are NO electric or water hookups at the campsite (CLEAN
port-o-lets are located througout the area), however there are Hot showers and
flush toilets located at the Canoe rental office which is only about a 400-500
yard walk away. But the natural beauty of this site is well worth the
trade-off!!

50\50 Split the pot raffle drawing:  There will be a SPlit the Pot Raffle
drawing with proceeeds going to the Firewood fund (that stuff ain't cheap!) so
make sure you buy a ticket or 10!!

Saturday Morning Canoe Trip (optional):  leaves the Canoe office at 10:30 am
on Saturday Morning.

Saturday Evening Dinner:  I will be making a big pot of Cincinnati Style
Chili, so bring something to go with like Spaghetti noodles, Hot dogs, buns,
Shredded cheese...whatever you like!!

BIKE TRAIL:  The Little Miami Scenic Bike trail runs directly through the
camping area, so bring your bike. I guarantee you it is one of the nicest
rails-to-trails paved bike paths that you will find anywhere!

DIRECTIONS:
Little Miami Canoe Group Camping area is located in Morrow, Ohio, about 32
miles north of Downtown Cincinnati.

FROM Interstate 71: 
Take Exit #32 which is the Ohio Route 123 Lebanon\Morrow exit.  Go south on
Route 123 toward Morrow (AWAY from LEbanon).  Take Route 123 down a winding
hill and into the village of Morrow. Just as you enter Morrow, you will go
over a bridge crossing the Little Miami River. Immediately after the bridge
you will turn LEFT onto Hamblin Rd (The Canoe rental office will be on your
right, but the group camp area is to the left).  Just after you turn on
Hamblin, you will turn LEFT again into the Group Camp Area (look for the BnB
sign pointing you).  FOllow the long drive back into the camp area, crack a
beer, and begin to RELAX!!

From Interste 75:
Take Exit #29 the Ohio Route 63 Monroe\Hamilton Exit.  Go East on Route 63
(toward Lebanon).  Take Route 63 into the town of Lebanon.  In Lebanon, Route
63 turns into Route 123 (no turns or anything, just stay straight).  Take
ROute 123 out of Lebanon toward Morrow.  A couple of miles outside of Lebanon,
Route 123 crosses over I-71.  Continue on Route 123 down a winding hill and
into the village of Morrow. Just as you enter Morrow, you will go over a
bridge crossing the Little Miami River. Immediately after the bridge you will
turn LEFT onto Hamblin Rd (The Canoe rental office will be on your right, but
the group camp area is to the left).  Just after you turn on Hamblin, you will
turn LEFT again into the Group Camp Area (look for the BnB sign pointing
you).  FOllow the long drive back into the camp area, crack a beer, and begin
to RELAX!!

John Baker's Cell phone #(513)383-5075 , Just in case you get lost!!


PEACE!
John Baker


"...So we got in the red VW microbus with the
shovels and rakes and implements of destruction and headed on toward the
police officer's station..."
