Date: Wed, 12 May 2010 17:50:29 -0500
From: Gerald Livingston <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: No idle after warmup

1970 Campmobile

Single port engine (1500 or 1600, I know it's a rebuild but no idea of
the piston/lift)

If the PO of the motor is to be believed then there are about 4000
miles on the rebuild. Roughly 800 by me in the last month or so.

Bought the motor 6 years ago and stuck it in storage for future use.

When I brought it out to put in the Westy  it got:

New plugs
New wires
New rotor
New coil
New condenser
New fuel line
New fuel pump
Fresh oil 
(fresh oil again at 120 miles and fresh oil again at 800 miles)

Thorough cleaning of the 30/31 PICT carb

OK,

Maiden voyage was 60 miles each way to a relative's house for Easter
weekend. It hiccoughed a couple of times under acceleration probably
due to crap in the gas tank. It's never done that again.

Next major drive was 320 miles each way to the Texas VW Classic in
Fredericksburg, TX. On the way HOME I started having issues with it
dying at stop lights unless I kept a foot lightly on the accelerator. I
assumed it was an electrical/ignition issue due to the fact that most
of the wiring to the aftermarket ignition switch was still
"twist-and-tape" and the problem happened when driving at night, in the
rain, with everything electrical turned on (lights, wipers, etc). the
problem appeared to lessen when I had either the lights or the wipers
off --- or maybe that was my imagination.

I just finished installing a 3 gauge VDO pod Oil pressure, Oil temp,
Volts. I needed to test the install. I have the front pedal pan off for
paint and tools scattered about so it was a "carport test". Crank it
and let it warm up a while.

The gauges work <applause>.

It idled fine right after I started it. Including after I kicked the
choke off.

But, as it warmed up the idle speed started to drop. Before the oil
temp gauge even started to register I was having to keep a foot on the
pedal to keep it from dying. The VDO oil temp gauge has a low end of
120 F. Using the sump plate sender so actual internal temp is probably
a bit over that before it starts to move.

Why would it do that only after it's warmed up? Ideas?

Thanks,

G2

-- 
I am on the email list. Unless you are sending information which should
not be shared with everyone else please reply to the list, not directly
to me.
