To: ljevans01(-at-)hotmail.com
Cc: baillybusbarn(-at-)juno.com,accessys(-at-)smart.net,type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 14 May 2010 18:39:18 -0700
From: baillybusbarn(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Hippy shaker: Kombi is 60

Since I'm on the VW kick right at the moment (winding 
down from a week of difficult field work), I was wondering
where I might find some local VW events.  Since my last two
kids are graduating next month, my wife an I think we might 
actually have some "free" time this Summer!

We live in Snohomish, Washington State.  I drive a slightly 
ratty '75 Rivi (Orangish/red) with '79 Running gear.  This is my
daily driver.  We have been working on a '74 Super Beetle that I got
for free about 15 years ago that we hope might get completed this 
year as well.

Various ramblings:
I have never paid more than $300. for a Bus or Beetle in the last 
40 years.  Most of the buses I have owned had dead engines and many
were given to me for disposal.  I have a LOT of parts, but haven't 
had time to sort through them or offer them to others. I have never 
"owned" an early Bus (Splitty or Early (1600) Bay).  Baillybusbarn came
about as at the time I got my first password for the Internet, I
owned 6 Buses, three running, three parts.
   
I spent 30 of the last 31 years as a VW/Porsche/Audi mechanic for 
a several well known import repair shops in the Bellevue/Eastside area.
I am now out of the car business working for a Geotech firm as
a shop manager, but also help with field work when needed.
I have been a Contributing Editor for ImportCar magazine (Babcox
Publications) the last 10 years.

So what I am looking for is a place or event to drive to, share some 
VW times, maybe sell some parts and just get back into cars and the 
people who drive them. 

I just got back from a two week trip to Haiti.  Its even more of a mess
than usual.  But I still love the people.  Saw one Wedge and one bug this
year
both will never run again.


Larry................back at the barn
When do you want to go to Haiti?  I can make it happen.
