To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
Date: Fri, 12 Apr 2002 23:00:02 -0700
From: Stephen Diercouff <sgd(-at-)tfm.com>
Subject: bay window "blueprints" and engine stands


Hi folks.

I haven't posted much here yet, so maybe it's time I introduce myself
(at least my VW self) a bit at first.

I have a '74 westy hardtop, first bay window I've owned.

Years ago I owned a '65 splitty then a '67 splitty, and had a partner
with a '69 bug, so I'm not a newcomer to VWs, but certainly am to bay
windows. 

Anyway, I got this bus just after the first of the year and 
plan to completely restore it, but not necessarily to completely 
stock condition. The sink/ice box and stove were missing when I got it,
and I'm not really all that thrilled with the original layout of the camper
gear in the '74 Westy, so I'm planning on building my own custom camping
gear. I wonder if anyone has an autocad or other vector graphic drawings
of a bay window, and it would be a lot easier to design the cabinetry 
using some CAD software. I'd rather not reinvent the wheel if this has
been done.

On another note, I recently picked up an extra 1.8l engine which I plan
on rebuilding. There's been a thread on the list regarding engine stands,
and consensus seems to be that the best way of working on an engine is to
get a cheap engine stand and mount a bell housing on it. I already have
an engine stand, and looking at things, it seems I can just put a couple
10x1.5 bolts about 75mm long in the upper engine mount holes with a nut
on the back and using those and the studs on the bottom make some adapter
plates to mount directly to the engine stand. Is there something
fundamentally wrong with this idea? It seems like somthing I can put together
in a half hour without having to go get a bell housing to mount on the stand.

I know that if I get a bell housing I can mount a starter and do compression
tests on the stand before installing the engine, but for now that's not
really a concern -- I need to disassemble and rebuild before I test.

Oh, if anyone in Eugene would like to get together and talk busses I'd love
to hook up. I haven't owned one since I lived here, and don't know any
of the local VW folks. 

--Stephen

--
Stephen Diercouff, tfm associates, Eugene Oregon          voice: +1 541 461 8928
Internet:  sgd(-at-)tfm.com                                      fax: +1 541 461 8929
Snail   :  P.O. Box 2086/Eugene OR 97402-0031 USA

They that can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary
safety deserve neither liberty nor safety.  -- Benjamin Franklin
