Date: Sat, 13 Apr 2002 08:40:49 -0400 (EDT)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To:  <ChancesOur(-at-)aol.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Gas and lights

On Sat, 13 Apr 2002 ChancesOur(-at-)aol.com wrote:

> Its been awhile since I've posted. I've been out of the country for a while
> and just got back home and to my camper. Before I left I had the engine on my
> 71 westy rebuilt and she was running great. I knew it was running a bit hot,
> but I was at that mark to have the valves readjusted and did that yesterday.
> I was just wondering if I should have been using a lead additive in my gas
> this past hundred miles or so.

Nope.  No VW engine built since the 50s requires lead.

> The rebuild is fresh, and I used no lead
> additive. I was once told if you rebuild, you can get away with a low octane
> unleaded fuel, but I'd like the wisdom of the list members.

See what I just posted for Matty.  87 octane below 5,000' with stock dist
and timing is fine for stock engines

> Also, before I left I noticed my headlights were running dim, so I removed my
> housings and reground all the lights, replaced the fuses. Now I have bigger
> problems. My headlights come on when I start the bus. My turn signals work
> when they want to. My brake lights don't come on when the pedal is pressed,
> but I have rear lights. No reverse lights at all, under any circumstances. I
> looked in the archives, but found nothing useful to me. How did I screw this
> up?

Melissa,

Each of these lights is on a separate circuit and each will have to be
checked separately, but the general  rule is to get a VOM, turn the dial
to 12VDC, attach the black probe to the body (ground), then start probing
with the red, start at the battery and go 'til you stop seeing 12VDC.

For the reverse lights:

The reverse lights take power from the coil, run it thru an inline fuse in
the engine compartment down to a switch on the left forward side of the
transmission and then back to the bulbs in their holders.   From the bulbs
it then goes to a ground on the body.  OK?

First, take the black wire of your VOM and attach it firmly to some shiny
piece of metal in your engine compartment.

Take the red probe and touch it to the positive terminal of the battery.
Got juice?  If it does not read ~12V, then the black wire is not attached
correctly.  wiggle it a bit until you get a positive 12V when you touch
the + terminal of the battery.

Turn the bus on, but don't start it.

Touch the red wire of the VOM to terminal 15 of the coil, the one with the
black wires (*not* the one with the green wire to the dist).  It should
read ~12V.  Yes?  If it does not, then the bus won't start/run.  If it
does read 12V, fine.

Now look at the black wires attached to the coil.  One of them runs toward
the front of the car and has an inline fuse holder built in.  See it?
Take the fuse holder appart, inspect the fuse and test for 12V on  the
coil side of the holder.

Insert the fuse in the holder and test for 12V on the exposed end of the
fuse.

Close the holder and crawl under the bus.  On the forward end of the
transmission, left side, near the nose cone is a switch with two wires
coming off it.  Pull these wires off and test both for 12V.  One will and
one will not have 12V.

put the wire that had 12V back on the switch and check that it still has
12V.  Check the other terminal and see if it has 12V.  crawl out from
under, go up frront and shift the bus into reverse.  Back under and check
the switch.  at this point *both* terminals of the switch should have 12V.

Go back to the tail lamp housings and check for 12V on the lowest bulb
socket.

Somewhere in there, you are going to find a break, when you do, fix the
break and your lights will work, honest!  The same thing has to be done
for each circuit, headlights, turn signals, brake lights, etc.  It all
works the sme way, power flows from the battery, thru a fuse, thru a
switch, to the device, and on to ground.  Get the wiring diagram from
vintagebus.com or in your Bentley's and have at it!

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail



