Date: Sat, 13 Apr 2002 08:08:36 -0700
To: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: SnakeOyls

Responce to Terry K., Re: [T2] Gas and lights

At 04:19 AM 04/13/2002, you wrote:

>Why would you think that a lead additive would be beneficial?


Back in the 70's when the switch to low lead/no lead fuels, when the valve 
seat recession problems began raising their ugly head, Porsche studied the 
issue to their satisfaction with regard to their products. Their conclusion 
was, the valve seats in 356A, and all subsequent Porsche production, were 
found to meet a hardness specification that exceeded the specs being called 
to resolve the current problems being had by most other manufacturers 
around the world. A study by BMW in essence concurred with regard to their 
early valve seats.

The only difference between Porsche 914/4 valve seats and T-IV VW valve 
seats is the inspectors. Porsche inspectors monitor the production and 
inspect the parts at various points and at the end of the production 
process. VW likewise employs inspectors to report on the production of 
every vendor. If you are having valve problems, don't blame it on no lead. 
A lead additive will not do a thing for you. 100% chance of no value at all.


>I use a pint of Marvel Mystery oil in my gas, each fillup---

You obtain very much the same benefits from 2 cycle oil at the rate of not 
more than a pint per tankful. The Maestro (Guru MIT engineer God of 4cyl 
Porsche air-cooled tech) advises 2 cycle oil in the fuel during running in 
of a new engine. His research data from actual inspection of hundreds of 
broken motors and the argument for his conclusions convinced me to follow 
this procedure.

With regard to using snake oyls in your crankcase, it is unnecessary waste 
if the oil change interval is reasonable. In this case, reasonable means it 
always gets changed BEFORE it gets dirty. Such an engine will never let 
carbon/varnish build up from overload detergent get started, so no attempt 
to "clean-up" the engine is ever needed. In this case, all the money should 
be reserved to change your oil more frequently rather than adding snakeoyls 
to push the oil past it's reasonable service interval.

Sometimes if you add an extra solvent/detergent package to a very heavy tar 
and residue contaminated engine, the mass of crud released will clog your 
oil filter and grind the engine to a halt with chunks sent through the 
bypass. You will just enhance the rate of wear to point of failure in short 
order.

Note that standard motor oil is a better lubricant specifically designed 
for your crankcase and name me just one team of automotive engine designer 
world wide that advises the use of any additive to their crankcase. Snake 
Oyls that are either ultra thin or honey thick will for sure alter 
viscosity index of your crankcase mix. For that reason alone virtually 
every owner's manual for every maker advise either no additives whatsoever 
to the crankcase, or only their own particularly (tested) additive for 
specific special conditions of use.


>Great stuff to lubricate, the valves and guide's-----especially during
>the hot summer month's----

Be very careful about your viscosity. 20/50 oil diluted with snakeoyl is 
not 20/50 anymore. For  Pheonix, AZ, summer use I would compare drain time 
through a small orifice of 20/50 with your mix of a higher index base oil 
with your low-viz snake oil. If you match the drain times of equal 
quantities through a common path you have at least an indication of 
matching factory viscosity specs.

Note as well that a snakeoyl just might actually reduce valve guide wear 
rate, but at the same time increase the wear rate of cam lobes. There are 
many different types of friction interfaces in your engine. The current 
spec, off the shelf, name brand dyno oils are designed to address the whole 
lubrication requirements with no extra additives at all. Todays standard 
dyno oils are a very very much better lubricant than the standard in play 
when your T-II was produced. This is one of two reasons later model engines 
are lasting much much longer than they did in earlier decades. The other 
reason is they are very much leaner and cleaner burning which means a lower 
rate of lubricant detergent overload. This is what your earlier engine 
lacks. In excellent running order your 70's era engine is not as clean 
burning as the newer, higher tech engines. Along the same vein, a 79 FI 
T-IV is a very much cleaner running engine than any earlier carb tech.

Bottom line, ignore all testimonials for all snakeoyls. Only use an 
additive that you can find independent test results on. Do not rely upon 
the snakeoyl manufacturers research, either their in-house or for hire 
'independent' contractor. The engineers at VW know at least a hundred times 
more about VW engine lubrication than the engineers at Marvel.

You can buy a NAPA brand fuel injection additive off the shelf for about 
$3.99 retail, $1.99 spezial loss-leader discount. 8 oz, 1/2 pint of pure 
100% kerosene. That would be $32 per gallon or the super discount price of 
$16 per gallon for kerosene typically available at less than $2 per gallon, 
$0.25 cents for 8 oz. compared to $2 to $4 for exactly the same thing. Read 
the labels of any bottle you pick off the shelf. If the ingredients are not 
specified, put it back on the shelf. If they are specified but you don't 
know what they are, put it back on the shelf. If they are specified and you 
know what they are and they are available at 1/8th the cost elsewhere, put 
it back on the shelf.

Put the money saved from waste on snakeoyls into improving routine 
maintenance by inspection. Your results will be far better insured at less 
cost per mile for extended safe and reliable life.

And just to show for every rule there is an exception, manufactures data in 
some cases is valid. Consider that Dupont spent millions of dollars on 
determining the acceptable applications of Teflon and concluded that it 
should NEVER be used in automotive crankcases, yet it is sold every day 
based upon testimonials primarily, pages and pages and pages of "Works 
great, I'm sold!!!" A. Acme, backed up by highly biased research data and 
conclusions funded and directed by the sales staff at WIZBANG, Inc.

And know of a certainty, a half-hour infomercial of constantly repeated, 
canned applause and "OOOOHHH"'s and "WOOOOWWW"'s proves nothing but the 
gullibility of ignorant consumers funding the rich life for charlatans.

T.P. Stephens, aka Doktor Tim

