Date: Sat, 13 Apr 2002 14:49:14 -0400
From: Q35mm(-at-)aol.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] Re: so we got in the red vw microbus

sorry about thins being on saturday but I just had to jump in.  

I live in Chicago, but I live in the area of Chicago where mostly everyone drives a l*xus, or a big ass SUV...except for my family, my mom has never owned a car that was not some type of a VW, (she currently has a 67 bug convertable). The police around here arent too open minded if you know what I mean.  And anything out of the ordinary they hate. I own a 1978 Westy in good condition.  It has one spot of rust the size of a quarter and that is all.  It does have some Dead stickers which the PO had put on and I just dont have the heart to take them off...plus I like the Dead.  Anyways...I have had the bus for a year or so and have been pulled over at least once a week...that is until 3 months ago.  The reason for being pulled over was always the same, "we had a report of some kids smoking pot in a VW and had to check up on it".  Now I admit, I am 18 years old and in no way do I look a day over 16 except for my shaggy, but not long, hair, so I do fit the description of a "kid".  Well every time my bus was searched, and the police came up with nothing, b/c I am clean, they would get very angry and write me some obscure ass ticket, such as my windshield was a little spotty(always thrown out in court).  Then I talked to my uncle who is also a Chicago Policeman, I told him how I was constantly getting pulled over and asked if it was legal.  He told me I could refuse a search of my bus.  But what he didnt tell me was how they could get a search warrant and tow the bus down to Area 2 for the search.  Well that actually happened...twice.  I guess what I am trying to say is that I think it depends on where you are...if your local law enforcement has nothing better to do that catch kids who are out after curfew then yes you are going to get pulled over, A LOT.  But if your local police units have real problems on their hands you will not be hastled.

Brennan
78 westy champagne edition.
