From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Sat, 13 Apr 2002 22:20:57 -0500 (CDT)
To: doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com (Doktor Tim)
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: SnakeOyls

Persona observations, and engine longevity is proof of the pudding, Mr.
Tim----

I've seen your constant plea for atomic data in the past-----and this
may be in regards to any subject matter--not just oil.

The "data" plea seems to arise whenever the cat has got your tongue---(
here I go with the cat thing---)

Molecular analysis isn't needed here Tim--just plain common sense and
pure longevity figure's in this instance are adequate---

Throwing data figure's is like pissing in the wind, if an actual real
world experience, isn't appreciated.

If you interested in mileage figure's, and zero down time due to lack
engine failure's, attributed to the use of Marvel Mystery Oil, I have
plenty----

As I stated in my prior posting, I have been a believer, and user of
Marvel Mystery Oil for at least 35 year's, and never have had any lifter
failure, stuck rings, galling or excessive valve stem, or guide failure,
nor not one pounded out bearing in any engine I have ever owned---

And I am a pedal to the metal kind of guy----not a tea totalling, stick
at 60 mph, mope---- life in the express lane is the way I drive--- 

The stuff works for me--and I'm happy I found it many moon's ago--it has
saved me money, aggravation, and down time.

And for that I'm happy, and I will continue appreciating the benefits of
it's fine lubricating qualities  ----

This is not in any way shape or form a infomercial, by Ron Popeal,or
Dion Warwick--it is my own personal findings, using this product, for
long period of time---with superior results--that all.

Please take a moment to read the side of the can of Marvel--it's
interesting and informative--

Later,


Terry

 
E-mail message From Doktor Tim

And your data, please??? Your response is just a testimonial, with
citings
of other testimonials. 
At 09:59 AM 04/13/2002, you wrote: 
While the Doktor has many opinions regarding many things, I responded to
this question presented on the list from my own personal experience,
through year's of hand's on use of Marvel --no guessing games here--no
hypothetical garbage I've read somewhere. 
So you must have data??? Did you put engines through hundred hour
torture testing with and without the snakeoyl having weighed all the
bearings both prior to and after testing to determine precise wear
measurements???? Give us your observed bearing clearances on a
particular new assembly, then the maintenance schedule for life to
failure and the observed bearing clearance upon teardown, with the hours
and milage of operation. You see what I mean. The factory engineers have
so much more real data than you or any of us that you look rediculous in
comparison. My only opinion is, that they know more than you, so do as
they direct if you expect to get the kind of results they expected. 
I have used Marvel Mystery oil in a broad expanse of many vehicle's, 
Show me your broad expanse of data. Extends beyond the factory data??? 
Nor have I ever had any rings seize in their grooves, or lifter's
fail,or stick------period. 
The same can be said of spec motors with adequate maintenance and no
snakeoyls at all. What does this prove?????? 
Snake Oil? 
I don't think so --- 
The product has been around since God created earth, and has been
forever a well regarded product by many--- 
So has sin. 
Marvel Mystery oil is in no way, shape, or form, a substitute for
regular periodic maintenance, nor will I implicated that. 
So how would you know if the proper maintenance alone was not
responsible for good results?? 
However, for older air cooled engine's, that were designed to run on
leaded fuel's, and hardened seat's, and updated valves weren't used, it
most certainly will help in preventing valve and seat failure due to the
lack of tetra ethyl lead. 
The German seats NEVER had a problem with no-lead. Overheating from poor
maintenance and adjustment is the foundation of most valve failures. 
re many different types of friction interfaces in your engine. The
current spec, off the shelf, name brand dyno oils are designed to
address the whole lubrication requirements with no extra additives at
all. Todays standard dyno oils are a very very much better lubricant
than the standard in play when your T-II was produced. This is one of
two reasons later model engines are lasting much much longer than they
did in earlier decades. The other reason is they are very much leaner
and cleaner burning which means a lower rate of lubricant detergent
overload. This is what your earlier engine lacks. In excellent running
order your 70's era engine is not as clean burning as the newer, higher
tech engines. Along the same vein, a 79 FI T-IV is a very much cleaner
running engine than any earlier carb tech. Bottom line, ignore all
testimonials for all snakeoyls. Only use an additive that you can find
independent test results on. Do not rely upon the snakeoyl manufacturers
research, either their in-house or for hire 'independent' contractor.
The engineers at VW know at least a hundred times more about VW engine
lubrication than the engineers at Marvel. You can buy a NAPA brand fuel
injection additive off the shelf for about $3.99 retail, $1.99 spezial
loss-leader discount. 8 oz, 1/2 pint of pure 100% kerosene. That would
be $32 per gallon or the super discount price of $16 per gallon for
kerosene typically available at less than $2 per gallon, $0.25 cents for
8 oz. compared to $2 to $4 for exactly the same thing. Read the labels
of any bottle you pick off the shelf. If the ingredients are not
specified, put it back on the shelf. If they are specified but you don't
know what they are, put it back on the shelf. If they are specified and
you know what they are and they are available at 1/8th the cost
elsewhere, put it back on the shelf. Put the money saved from waste on
snakeoyls into improving routine maintenance by inspection. Your results
will be far better insured at less cost per mile for extended safe and
reliable life. And just to show for every rule there is an exception,
manufactures data in some cases is valid. Consider that Dupont spent
millions of dollars on determining the acceptable applications of Teflon
and concluded that it should NEVER be used in automotive crankcases, yet
it is sold every day based upon testimonials primarily, pages and pages
and pages of "Works great, I'm sold!!!" A. Acme, backed up by highly
biased research data and conclusions funded and directed by the sales
staff at WIZBANG, Inc. 
And know of a certainty, a half-hour infomercial of constantly repeated,
canned applause and "OOOOHHH"'s and "WOOOOWWW"'s proves nothing but the
gullibility of ignorant consumers funding the rich life for charlatans.
T.P. Stephens, aka Doktor Tim 

---------------------------------------------- 

