Date: Sun, 14 Apr 2002 00:47:52 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: SnakeOyls

At 11:06 PM 04/13/2002, you wrote:

>Tim,
>
>In closing I would like for you  to remove your blinder's and look to
>the right as well as the left---

My blinders are acquetely adjusted to reduce the glare from bullshit going 
on about the periphery of rational thought at center.


>I was introduced to this product by an old timer, who had been twisting
>wrench's, before I was a mere twinkle in my daddy's eye----

Much better reference than the factory, I'm sure.


>He finished his carrer working for Universal Oil Products labs here in
>the Chcago area.

Supervising which test procedures?????


>He passed on this information to me --I  disbelieved also---

Did he pass any data along with the info???


>I gave it a shot and it performed just as he claimed----

Here we are yet again with claims. Claims mean NOTHING to any responsible 
engineer. If it did they would all be advising use of infomercial products 
in the crankcases of the world.


>I always enjoyed paying attention to an older, much wiser, been there,
>seen it, done it, kind of guy---

So do I, but I ignore any bullshit out of him as well.


>This is how one learns in life, and I did, I have, and still probably
>will---

Mankind advanced from the Age of Enlightenment via SCIENCE. Independantly 
verified repeatable proof. The kind of stuff they do day in and day out at 
the factory.


>No hypothetical data, can ever replace experience----

To turn observations into science, you must record the data. Without data, 
there can be no proof. I have no interest whatever in "hypothetical data", 
whatever that is. Sounds like more bullshit. Independantly repeatable data 
is the only type they work at at the factory. That's why I accept what they 
say as best evidence of proof. They are so much higher an authority than 
you and all your mentors it's just no contest, and I won't even pay the 
price for a ticket.


>Believe what you may---think what you may, but it is a fact of life,
>that MMO is a fine product, which just happens to work very well, and
>again, this is no infomercial--it is a reality, and it has performed
>very well for me---

If you repeat your beliefs enough, you certainly will come to accept them 
as the truth with no need of proof.


>Just try the stuff for God's sake,and be a bit more open to suggestions,
>than the Rock of Gibraltar--it just might work and shock the hell out of
>you----Don't read the can though--it might cause coronary arrest

To hell with proof, for God's sake. What a concept. Just try it so your 
belief can be validated by someone else who will repeat the testamonial as 
to the truth of the bald claims. I think it works, so it must work, or else 
I'm a fool. Naaaaaaa, I'll stick with real evidence where ever I can find 
it and ignore cries for validation of unsound, non-rational thinking.


>Sometimes I believe you are stuck in the everglades, with 4 bald tire's,
>no 4 wheel drive, and are just "spinning" your wheels.

Haven't had a flat tire in over 25 years, running 2 or 3 vehicles at all 
times. Never broken down either. Quit using all snakeoyls in crankcases 
after researching the FACTS on Slick 50. If my rear wheel starts to slip, I 
get out and improve traction. I don't dig myself into a hole, like you have 
done trying to demand that I agree with you. I have no problem with you 
believing anything you want. I just won't allow you to suggest I am 
required to follow suit, cause you say so and need to be validated so bad, 
it hurts.

Are you really so nieve to go head to head with a bone headed Neandereer??? 
If so, the ball is in your court. Just be advised that a rationalist is 
always skeptical of claims.

But before you go on answer these questions. If snakeoyl in the crankcase 
actually had any value at all, why wouldn't every engine manufacturer in 
the world approve it's use in their engines? Why isn't it factory fill if 
it actually will make the engine last longer??? Don't you think Ford would 
try to scoop Chevy with such an obviously grand idea of pouring viscosity 
reducer in the oil pan if it improved things as remarkably as you believe?? 
Think about that rationally for a few minutes before you respond.


