Date: Mon, 27 Nov 2006 15:55:17 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Shad <shenderson(-at-)thegeekgroup.org>
Subject: Re: [T2] Cleaning, waiting on parts

Shad wrote:
> My questions, 
> 
> Since I'm going to bigger valves, I'm assuming the mixture will need to
> be tweaked, as it'll run a tad lean.  How do I go about adjusting that?

I could be wrong here, but just because you're going to different 
valves, you're still injecting the same amount of fuel.... However, you 
would be sucking in more air... ..  .so yeah, I guess it would change 
things.... but that's a total guess ;)

A WB02 sensor would be your best friend here as it'll tell you your 
exact mixture... or just go all the way and put a MegaSquirt in there 
and ditch the stock EFI so you can actually tune your engine. (I bet 
everyone saw that one coming ;) )

> I'm scrimping and saving pennies so I can ditch the 009 an put on an
> SVDA from the Bus Depot.  Any special "gotchas" related to that?  I

Give yourself a big hug for giving up the 009.  way to go!


> recall discussions of a washer that'll fall into the case if you're not
> careful.  Can it be fished out?  How do I check if the PO dropped one in
> there?

You check by looking in there and seeing if it's still there!  As long 
as your distributor drive gear is installed correctly, then you 
shouldn't even have to pull it out to check.. so in other words, start 
with the TDC and alignment procedure below and then decide if you need 
to pull it out.

Btw, my friend has a 74 and a 009 and I noticed that the distributor 
sits 90 off from where the stock vacuum advanced distributor sits. 
Tripped me out for a while, but I verified it correct and it runs with 
the spark plug cables offset 90 degrees.

Anyways, you might have the same issue so don't be surprised if the 
spark plug cables hook up different with the SVDA.  You will want to 
verify that the rotor lines up with #1 at #1's TDC firing position. 
This can be done by watching the valves and lining up the timing mark at 
0.  If you don't know how to do this, here's a quick rundown.  Spin the 
crankshaft such that the distributor rotor spins clockwise (remember, 
firing order is 1432).

Looking at valves for #1 (passenger side, towards front of car, also 
marked on tin as #1.  Exhaust valve is towards the front of the car), 
rotate the crankshaft until both valves are closed.  Keep turning and 
watch for exhaust to open (pushing out exhaust), keep turning until 
intake opens (sucking in gas), keep turning until intake closes (bottom 
of compression, keep turning until timing mark at 0* (I think that last 
turn from intake closing to 0 tdc is about 180 degrees).  The whole 
cycle takes up 720 degrees (two full crankshaft turns).  You now have #1 
at tdc firing position.  Rotor in distributor should line up with the 
line on the SVDA which denotes plug #1.

Without turning the crank, you can also look at the angle of the 
distributor drive gear and make sure it's the proper angle according to 
the bentley - I think it's 12 degrees or something like that.  Also, 
make sure the shaft where the distributor drive dog fits has the offset 
to the correct side, according to the bentley.


> the jug shims? I don't have the proper ring compressor to reinstall the
> jugs if I pull them.

I don't know the problem w/ the head gaskets, but you are supposed to 
ditch them and replace with shims.  The ring compressor is like 2 bux. 
Get a pair of vice grips, or a helper and you'll have those things on 
and off in no time.


> I'd like to paint the cooling fan.  Is it necessary to disassemble it?
> Any gotchas involved in doing so?

I didn't.  But while you're at it, get it balanced, along with your 
flywheel and pressure plate and anything else that spins.  Makes a big 
difference.


> The bus originally had air conditioning installed.  PO removed it (and
> the compressor)  There was the small pulley rattling around behind the
> cooling fan.  Because I don't have an AC system to install, I plan to
> remove that pulley and keep it in the "spare parts" bin.  Do I need to
> shim anything? (doesn't look like I have to, but I want to make sure)

Ummm... Not sure on this one, but I think there is a shim on mine in 
place of the pully... but can't remember.  I'd just leave it there.


> The hoses on the fuel injectors look good.  Supple, no cracks, not
> brittle.  Should I bother changing them?  Looks like a PITA to get the

They're a pain to change, but if you can't verify them good, change 
every single hose on that bus, including ALL of the vent lines so you 
don't end up a statistic on the side of the road.  Now is an excellent 
time to do so.  Refer to Richard Atwell's diagram to find all of the 
vent line hoses.

> hose off the injector itself.  (and yes, I'm buying the smooth clamps to
> secure the hoses)  The seals on the fuel injectors were shot, btw.
> Crusty, dried, crumbling.  Ugh.  

simple enough..


> The local VW mechanic recommended that when I install the pushrod tubes,
> that I use new seals and build up a "slope" on the head side with RTV so

got me on that one.  I'd just be afraid that it would get dislodged and 
then travel around the engine..


> To get the motor back in, I'd like to drop the rear of the transmission
> so I can get the motor mated up easier.  Can I just loosen the front

For removing the engine, I remove all the bolts on the hanger bar, the 
ones that hold the transmission to the chassis shock mount (not the 
mount to the chassis!), and the 4 that hold the engine to the tranny. 
Lower as a unit.  Don't have to take off CVs either or loosen the tranny 
mount at the front.  Installation is reverse of removal.


> The PO used liberal amounts of silicon to seal the oil cooler tin piece.
> I'll be replacing that rectangular seal (at $17, ouch!).  How can I
> check to make sure it's sealing well to the oil cooler?  Are there any

When you screw it down it presses on there.  I don't think you'll have 
much of a problem with that.
