From: "RD Robertson" <rdr(-at-)austin.rr.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 29 Nov 2006 16:00:14 -0600
Subject: Re: getting rid of points

I could recuse myself from this discussion, but I'll just say up front that 
I sell Hot-Spark electronic ignition conversion kits. But I'll try to be 
objective here.

When using "electronic ignition" or points replacement conversions, dwell 
angle and timing don't deteriorate, so the engine always has that "fresh 
tune up" feel to it - ignition-wise, anyway.

With air-cooled VWs, ideal dwell angle with a new set of points is about 49 
or 50 degrees. Dwell angle with some of the solid state points replacement 
modules or "electronic ignition" units ranges from 52 to 60 degrees or more. 
The extra dwell time before the coil fires allows the coil to build up a 
bigger charge, resulting in a hotter spark at the plugs.

I installed a Pertronix unit in my bus in 1995 or so. It still worked 
perfectly when I removed it to test a Hot-Spark ignition module about a year 
ago. I'm still running the Hot-Spark unit. Electronic ignition provides 
quicker starts, smoother idling, better gas mileage and a bit more power 
than breaker points ignition. With electronic ignition, dwell and timing 
don't drift and deteriorate.

I've heard VW purists say that points work perfectly well; it's no problem 
to keep them adjusted, etc. I say fine, if you like adjusting points and 
timing, well, there are worse hobbies to have, I guess. Some also say that 
electronic ignitions are not reliable; they fail, leaving you walking. 
Almost always the problem is that electronic ignition units burn up because 
the installer hooked them up backwards, i.e., reversed the polarity. I've 
installed Compu-Fire, Pertronix and Hot-Spark. All three have been very 
reliable. We did have a problem with the Compu-Fire "distributorless" 
system - The coil-pack (four coils on one board) had a high failure rate. 
But the Compu-Fire Hall sensor/triggering unit was very reliable.

You can always keep a set of points and a condenser in the glove box if it 
makes you feel better.

Compufire and Pertronix ignition kits for VW cost about $60-70; the 
Hot-Spark electronic ignition conversion kit for VW costs about $40. They're 
all available in versions for stock vacuum-advance dizzies or in a version 
for 009 or 050 centrifugal-advance distributors.

www.Pertronix.com

www.Compufire.com

www.Hot-Spark.com

Roy
'79 Transporter



 Date: Wed, 29 Nov 2006 08:56:22 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
 From: JnOK <o_sconet(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: getting rid of points
Message-Id: <a04320403c1936a857a69(-at-)[66.81.18.133]>
I read yesterday in some FAQ

 "So you've bought a CDI or Pertronix or upgraded your ignition system
 and this has increased your mileage."
> the same article says it could go from 16 to 26 mpg!
>
> I'd be happy to increase it a few mpg!  does installing an electronic
> system really help and if so, which is recommended?  And the cost
> woudl be about $180. (I thought it would be about $100) Also, do I
> need to get replace my distributor, the lobes have worn down.
>
 Thanks

John K
