Date: Sun, 8 May 2005 18:12:30 -0600
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Finally! The end of the loss of power saga!!!

Oh.
My.
Gawd.

What a bus!!

There's a hill by my house that ever since I got to Colorado I
couldn't take over 40mph in 3rd. A few minutes ago I took it at 47 in
4th! From a dead stop at the bottom!!!

I bought that fuel pump that was listed on eBay. Nobody else bid so I
ended up with it for 99c plus $9 shipping. Too bad the seller's
getting a neutral... It arrived in the Pierberg box that was shown in
the pics. But it's NOT a Pierberg. It's an even worse Chinese knockoff
of a knockoff. "Motomedic" or some such crap. (I didn't bother trying
to read it until after it was installed.)

Installing a mechanical fuel pump in a Type4 bus is a uniquely painful
experience.

To start with the bolts are torx/triple square (whatever). Luckily I
had the bit I bought for my CV boots and it fit perfectly.

Then one of the bolts is absolutely impossible to get to. The cooling
tin that pushes air to the front of the #1 cylinder at the head blocks
it perfectly. And, of course, the 3 screws are nicely rusted into
place.

Once the tin is removed, the bolt is still invisible for all but my 2
year old who can fit her head in the cavity left by also removing the
heating flapper. (No, I didn't use her, but I was tempted...) So
trying to get the bit in there while lying under the bus and
contorting my arms into angles they were never meant to be contorted
into is just a blast.

After all of the above, I finally get the "new" pump in. Shouting a
WOOT of success I turn the key. Fires up then dies. Happened a few
times before I got suspicious of that pump. So I crawl underneath and
what do I find?

THE NEW PUMP LEAKED LIKE A SIEVE!!!!

After retrieving my keys from the bushes across the parking lot where
they landed after flying out of my hand (ok, I threw 'em), I get a
flathead screwdriver. Every single screw on the (-at-)#%^ thing was loose.
Got 'em all 1/4 turn past snug and fired up again.

PURRRRR!!!

I let it idle for 15 minutes to make sure Murphy didn't pay a visit.
Luckily he's still hanging out in someone else's car today. So I went
for a test drive.

Absolutely amazing! The bus hasn't run this well since I left
California! Apparently the pump has been going bad for a long time.
I'm going to do an autopsy later to see what exactly failed, but I've
gotta say I'm completely stoked by the results.

Thanks for everybody's patience and suggestions while I felt my way
through this mystery. And if this one dies you'd better bet I'll be
putting an electric in. Never ever EVER dealing with that thing again!

Oh, and the eBay seller? I haven't contacted him yet. But it's pretty
obvious this pump leaked, so he got a Pierberg and put this one in the
box his replacement came in. I can't wait to tell him all he had to do
was tighten the screws. =)

--
Don
