To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Miles Erickson" <miles.erickson.type2(-at-)gmail.com>
Date: Mon, 9 May 2005 16:26:15 -0700
Subject: Brake help in Seattle area?

I think there's something wrong with my Bus's right-front brake: it's pulling
to the left whenever I step on the pedal.  The harder I brake, the harder it
pulls.  The problem does not get better or worse after heavy or extended
braking.

I know virtually nothing about brakes or front-end work, but would like to
learn.  What could cause this?  Air in the brake line needing to be bled out?
Some sort of problem with the master cylinder?  Or an unrelated suspension
issue?  I don't think I'm leaking any brake fluid.

I'm very hesitant to take my Bus to a shop, because that tends to put me out
hundreds of extra dollars, I learn nothing, and it usually causes immense
frustration later.  And it's those "professional" shops that cause problems
like nuts that have been overtorqued with an impact wrench and can't be
removed without one, or heater boxes have brazed to the muffler, or...
arrrrgh, I'm sure you've been there too.

Is there anyone around Seattle who knows enough to help out with this?
Perhaps we could swap out the steering gearbox at the same time.  I'd be very
happy to trade for an extra hand with your next engine drop, or whatever you
need help with.  Or, if you'd prefer a different sort of trade, I also design
web pages (including currantridgecabins.com, masanga.com, susiehansen.com),
and I'm very proficient with MS Access databases and VBA.

As for the VW stuff, I'm no expert, but I've been through a few engine drops,
the Meximotor setup and installation (thanks again, Chuck!), alternator
conversion, carburetor swap, fuel line replacement, throttle cable
replacement, all the tuneup stuff, etc.  I have tools but no garage or
workspace.  (When I work solo, I use the family garage all the way up in
Blaine.)

Thanks in advance,

- Miles


Miles Erickson
'71 Dragon Bus

please send personal replies to myfirstname(-at-)myfullname.com
