Date: Mon, 9 May 2005 17:50:43 -0700
From: "< Arnaud >" <turbo2cv(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Miles Erickson <miles.erickson.type2(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Brake help in Seattle area?

Miles,

Is it pulling to the left while you brake and to the right while you
release brake pressure ? Can you feel the pad dragging on the disc
when the wheel is off the ground ? Is the right side rim hot after a
freeway drive while the left side is normal ?

My bus was doing that. Here is what I would do

0) change all 4 brake lines if you are not sure that yours are less
than 10 years old
1) adjust front wheel bearings (maybe it does something -not sure )
2) check front brake pads wear
3) check that each piston in each caliper moves freely in and out
4) if not (and I bet you'll get there soon) either rebuild the caliper
or get a new caliper

If one piston is stuck, it's pad will likely have a weird wear
pattern, either way more worn than the others or not worn at all.

/Warning\ you have a 71 and these calipers are one year only. The 72
and later versions are wider caliper and will not fit.

You can either get a caliper with one bleeding valve at the top of the
caliper or a caliper with two bleeding valves. Do not buy a caliper
where the bleeding valve is at the bottom only. That would be the
wrong side caliper and you'd have to unbolt the caliper every time you
need to bleed it. The piston cutouts should be at the bottom of the
caliper. It took me 6 or seven orders with several vendors before I
decided to turn the pistons myself so that the cutouts would be at the
bottom. If you order online, give them a call to triple specify what
you need.

This fixed the BIG pulling to the left I had. Now because the front
right caliper is new the bus pulls to the right a little when braking.
The best would be to rebuild/buy both sides at the same time.

Many people told me to hold onto a good brake caliper core and have it
rebuilt, rather than give it back to get the core charge. Same applies
to rear brake shoes.

Good luck with the Dragonbus

- Arnaud
