From: Anton Ross <antonross(-at-)mac.com>
Date: Mon, 9 May 2005 23:22:16 -0400
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] 3 Liter Type IV

I just had to jump into this discussion...

My wife and I both drive Subaru Outbacks (hers is an Outback, mine is  
the WRX-looking Impreza Sport) because of their reliability, AWD, and  
sportiness. Especially mine. I used to drive nothing but  
Saabs...heavily modified with aftermarket parts from Group 6  
performance. My last Saabie, a turbo I bought in 94 and spent good  
money on go-fast-stick-to-pavement gear, was insanely fast, and a  
total stealth Porsche-eater on the 5 and 405 in So Cal. PCH as well.  
And the 57. And occasionally Ortega HWY when I was feeling brave.

It was a very different breed of cat, and I miss that beast.

There was nothing more thrilling (well, catapulting off carriers,  
maybe) than sneaking up behind a new Porsche, flashing my fog lamps,  
and watching him try to hastily accelerate away, only to have me  
stick on his tail like Mako on Yellowfin. And before "Arrested  
Development" came to Newport Coast Drive, I used to see just how fast  
I could get from PCH up and over into Irvine. I usually crested the  
hill at about 120 MPH. Dangerously fast, but I was younger and more  
prone too foolishness then. But WOW...better than Disneyland on a day  
where everyone stays home. Fun times, before PCH got all clogged up  
between Laguna and Corona Del Mar.

That being said, the notion of taking WRX running gear and power  
plant and stuffing it into an old Splitty of any flavor is  
tremendously appealing. The security of AWD (for driving in the  
monsoonal rains of the Low Country) would be great to have, and the  
face-peeling acceleration of 300 HP would leave me with a perma-grin.

Is it practical? Heck no.

Is it reasonable? Again, heck no.

Would it be fun? You bet your chrome nerf bars!

It would be a very different breed of cat, to be sure, and something  
to talk about...if it could be done.

So, as soon as I win that PowerBall lottery worth $96 Million, you  
can rest assured that I will try and make this happen for the sake of  
making it happen.

Until then, I am quite happy with a new MexiMotor in my old '69 and  
an interior I proudly did myself. And my Subie, of course.

Yeah.

Anton Ross
69 Westy Hardtop
Konrad the Tiki Bus


On May 9, 2005, at 10:37 PM, Miles Erickson wrote:

>>
> I'm with you there -- *but* I sure don't mind reading about the  
> adventures and
> exploits of the folks who *do* upgrade their Buses' engines!
