Date: Mon, 09 May 2005 23:33:09 -0500
From: "gns.wagnon" <gns.wagnon(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)lenti.type2.com>,	"Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Found Busses - one of 'those' stories

Volk-a-maniacs,

Well, we have all heard a story like this some guy claims to have a bus or
many busses hidden away somewhere and they have been sitting for years.  Each
of us drool a little at the possibility for finding a 'treasure'.  Here is my
latest story like this that actually kinda came true this afternoon.

My Sister-in-law's boyfriend works with a guy that claimed to have a family
farm that has some kind of VW busses in the back 40 that had been there for
20+ years.  This last weekend, the family pulled them out of the bushes and
mud along with about 30 old SAAB's.  I get a call at work today to come check
out the busses with my father-in-law and sister-in-law's boyfriend.  I haul
butt to a little town off HWY 99 and up into the hills.  Well, there they
were: 4 busses pulled from the bottom of a gully fully of weeds and mud.

I posted pictures on TheSamba gallery here:
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/album_search.php?search_author=gns.wagnon
If the link doesn't work, search for pictures from 'gns.wagnon' in the 'Rusty
Busses' category

The 4 of them were pretty messy.  One was actually not in too bad a shape, its
a '67.  The other 3 have bullet front indicators, so they are 61 or earlier.
I have VIN from the '67, the chopped up one (modified for moving fruit
crates), and the Orange one (Panel).  However, the white one with the rear
corner windows (all glass in great condition) is missing the seat back and the
engine compartment area where the VIN would have been.  We may have to search
on the license plate to get the data.

The plan is to pull the '67 out and restore it.  For the rest, unless we can
drag these off in large pieces for swap, we will have to chop for swap.

Oh, and also, then are about 30 really old SAAB cars there too.  In some of
the pictures you can see them.  If anyone knows of a SAAB club or group that
might like them, the guy who owns the place is just going to crush them and
send them off to the Steel recycling center if no one wants them... pmail me
if you know anyone who cares.  Personally, I don't.

Have a day, I did.
Greg
- 59 SC Truck (I love those bullets!!)
- 63 Panel/Camper conversion

Father-in-law
- 67 Standard

Sister-in-law's Boyfriend
- 1966 Camper
- 1966 Camper
- 1967 pulled from the mud
- 3 x 1961 or earlier mud busses
