Date: Sat, 19 Apr 2008 14:53:11 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vanagon(-at-)gerry.vanagon.com
Subject: NEW AAZ 1.9 diesel FS for conversion

Folks, this is for a conversion I will never get around to,
   
  I have a factory new on the pallet 1.9 IDI AAZ (or equivalent code can't recall and it is in WV) longblock for sale.  It is a complete bare longblock.  Also has a new AAZ style injector pump, not remanned with boost LDA, a new AAZ style vaccum pump, 4 new turbo injectors, diesel timing tool set.  I purchased it over 10 years ago from a well know vendor.  The setup cost me $3500 at the time in '96ish dollars.  All is factory new VW, stored in dry storage on the crate as it came, ready to install.  This is perfect for T2 bus folks that would want to duplicate Dave's recent turbobus conversion, and the 1.9 IDI is good for quite a bit more HP than a 1600, especially if intercooled.  It would also be a seemless bolt in into a diesel vanagon, or great for a conversion.  A certain well know *bay vender in Montclair CA wants $3000 BIN for these pulled used from "low mile" cars, the guy in NV wants even more for at least new longblocks that are from T4's.  This engine is bolt in
 for Europe or Canadian early 90's golf/jettas with the IDI engine.  It is about bolt in to anything using a turbocharged 1600.  It is a pretty trivial retrofit to anything using a NA 1600 as well with some more parts.  I DO NOT have intake/exhaust/turbo/acessory mounts or drives/hoses/etc it is a bare longblock with the parts I've mentioned.   I am asking $3750 for the longblock, pump, vacuum pump, injectors, etc.  I do not want to separate anything.  It is in Clarksburg, WV about 2 hours from Pittsburg, 4.5 from DC or Baltimore local pickup is preferred but I can get my dad to take it to a shipper of your choice if you make ALL of the arrangements and ship the pump/injectors/vacuum pump USPS.
   
  I will also include the realistic possibility to obtain whatever you want off a '83 diesel vanagon, mounts, the low ratio tranny (just a 4 spd 091), hoses, resevoirs, whatever you can pull in a single day for an additional $150, a local guy in Clarksburg owes these to me and would probably still honor the deal I traded him for them but you would have to pull everything you wanted in a day at most in relatively rough field conditions with hand tools (bring a jack and a sheet of plywood hand tools and an 18V sawsall sort of thing.)
   
  Anyone interested pmail me only of course.
   
  Thanks
  John
