Date: Sun, 28 Sep 2003 10:11:52 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Jamie Rivers" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: <grrr8ful(-at-)msn.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Adaptor for AFM wire harness

Hi Ryan

I am terrible at searching the archives.. but I can't seem to find any
reference to "westy syndrome" relating to VWs sputtering and stalling 
with an AFM adapter ...

I would be interested to read the articles if you still have the links.

Because you mention AFM, I am assuming you have a Fuel injected Vw
Type2.... the Westy part has nothing to do with the platform it was built
on.

I am pretty new to EFI, but being around VW's for a long time, I have come
to realize,,,, looking at things with your eyes isn't going to help
anything.

And if you want to keep your Vw working well,, and not pay a mechanic ,,,
then YOU need some tools.

You need a Bentley --section 10 for Late Bay Buses
Volt-ohm meter
fuel pressure gauge
dwell / rpm meter
timing light
vac gauge

Best thing you can do is start again..  even if you have just done a step,
at least check it again

Adjust valves
Measure your Temp 2 sensor resistance
look under the air dist and make sure the ground wires are clean and tight
look at the resistor bank, and make sure the ground is clean and tight
look at the battery neg cable, and make sure it goes to the body and the
engine
check the points dwell angle and make sure it is steady
check the vac level and make sure it is steady
measure the resistance of the AFM

one of the hardest things to prove is the ignition coil, if your voltmeter
shows 12 volts steady at the coil and your dwell is near 50, and steady,
then try another coil,,

Give us the results of the tests you have done,


Hope that helps

Jamie Rivers



Ryan O'Rear wrote:
>
> I was doing some searching around on the archives and read about something
> called the "westy syndrome" relating to VWs sputtering and stalling
etc.. Then
> it went on saying that there is some adaptor that is placed between the AFM
> and it's harness. First, does anybody know what I am talking about? AND
Do you
> know where I can find this adaptor?
