Date: Sun, 28 Sep 2003 10:14:30 -0700
From: Sheldon Krasowski <sheldon(-at-)cinsa.ca>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 1979 VW Westphalia For Sale: Victoria BC

    Hello everyone,

    I have recently moved and must sell my 1979 VW Westphalia which is
parked in victoria, BC, Canada. This Westy is in excellent condition. The
only rust is near the rear bumper where the van must have been in a fender
bender at some point in its history. The interior has been completely
re-done, and the westphalia parts are complete. Victoria is beautiful in the
fall, and this Westy is ready to travel.

    The van ran well when I bought it but leaked a fair bit of oil so I had
the seals replaced and had everything checked over when the engine was out.
It doesn't leak any oil now, gets great gas mileage, and runs smoothly. A
recent compression test in the Spring had #1 -135 #2 -140 #3 -135 #4 -145.
The fuel injection is in great shape, and I replaced the muffler, starter,
and bought a new battery this Spring.

    As far as i can tell the van has been on Vancouver Island for at least
the last ten years, with most of the maintenance done at Bavarian Motors in
Nanaimo. The only work I did not get a chance to finish was the heating
system. I recently purchased excellent original equipment heater boxes to
replace the current rusty ones which still need to be installed, and the gas
heating system needs to be checked out and probably overhauled. The odometer
currently has 84, 600 kilometers which is only 16,000 kilometres since the
engine overhaul. 

    I have photos, receipts and more information about this westy on a
website that can be viewed at http://www.cinsa.ca/msb

    If any listees are interested I can send photos, and for anyone in the
Victoria area I can send the address where it is parked in case people would
like to check it out. I intend to list it on ebay, but if anyone on the list
is interested they can email me directly.

    many thanks!

    Sheldon Krasowski
    '79 Westy "Magic School Bus"
