Date: Sun, 28 Sep 2003 15:37:38 -0400
To: farmer(-at-)orangeburgcomputers.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
From: ncbus <macbus(-at-)mindspring.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] 68 Baywindow Progress

Hi,

You are probably referring to the drag link.

I think you know the tune so let's all sing along!

The steering box is connected to the pitman arm,
The pitman is connected the drag link
The drag link is connected to the swing arm
The swing arm is connected to the tie rods
The tie rods are connected to the steering knuckles
and that make bus turn!

tune mode off.

So what you have are a bunch of connections between the steering 
wheel and the road wheels. Play in any of the connects can cause 
unsightly steering slop. To the above tune you will want to consider 
correct setting of the wheel bearings and the ball joint wear. The 
ball joints are what the steering knuckles rotate on. If there is 
play in them nothing will help but replacement which is not easy. In 
fact is may be better to have rebuilt knuckles with torsion leaves 
attached to replace everything.  See Bus Boys et al.

The drag link is cheap to buy but not so easy to replace. You will 
really need a proper tie rod puller designed for old VWs to make the 
job easy. As you noted it is adjustable but the adjustment is for 
length fore and aft not tightness. The drag link has tie rod ends on 
it and if they beat then replace the drag link. When the steering 
geometry is correct the drag link can adjusted to get the steering 
wheel oriented correctly.

Another point of slop that is often overlooked in T2 Transporters is 
the connection of the steering column to the body of the bus. Look 
underneath your steering wheel and you should see four screws or 
small bolt heads that connect the bracket on the column to the 
bracket that is attached to the dash and the front of the bus. Make 
sure these are all present and tight. Follow the bracket forward to 
the front of the bus and you will see it is help in place by a single 
13mm (maybe 12mm) bolt. Make sure that bolt is nice and snug.

Good luck.
Chris
'68 bus




>At 5:31 PM +0000 9/28/03, farmer(-at-)orangeburgcomputers.com wrote:
>Took the cowling off of the stearing mechanisms.  Don't really know what
>to do about all of that stuff.  I'm still studying it.  I see that the bar
>that runs from the stearing box to the tie rods seems to be slipping
>around on it's stern side.  I see a set-type screw on the thing but it's
>frozen in place.  Super Blaster is working on that now.
