Date: Sun, 28 Sep 2003 22:52:59 -0400 (EDT)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)everybus.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Throttle body gaasket (and a lot of other things) (*really*

Volks,

This a wrap-up long enough to demand an exectuive summary :-)

                      Executive Summary

 o The original throttle body gasket (022 133 073A) was available at VW as
   of Friday.

 o L'shanah Tovah!

 o I'm not subscribed!

 o My brother-in-law and the hurricane

If none of the above interest you, push delete and move on.

                          The full text

 o The original throttle body gasket (022 133 073A) was available at VW as
   of Friday.

OK, so we've been havin this discussion about the gasket between the
throttle body and the air distribution box.  Richard said his VW dealer
said "NLA" but offered the substantially identical gasket from a late
waserboxer.  I was not sure. I last installed one a couple years ago
during the rebuild on the '80 and VW is NLA'ing parts left, right, and
sideways :-(  I went to my VW dealer and asked for a gasket for a '78 and
it was listed as NLA. I asked for a gasket for an '83 and it was listed as
available! I ordered one and it came and it is the same as the '75-82!
Sooo..... the secret (other than to hurry!) is to ask for an '83 aircooled
gasket.  I made a page of the new gasket I picked up on friday and it is
at:

http://www.everybus.com/dworkin/throttle_gasket/index.htm

I compare it to an old gasket from a ?78? that I saved as "possibly
reuable."  Same casting marks and all.

 o L'shanah Tovah!

On Friday, what with this, that, and t'other, I did not get a chance befor
I headed off to the synagogue to wish all of you that you should be
written, inscribed, and sealed to a good, healthy, and prosperous new
year. Shanah tovah, y'all!

 o I'm not subscribed!

Gentlevolk,

I am not at present subscribed to the type2 (or any other) list.  I am
deep at work rehabbing my house and having a new house constructed.  I
*hope* to be back in the spring.  I am not pissed off at anyone, I didn't
leave in a huff, and I am not dying of anything except overwork (life is
uncertain, tho... stay tuned :-)  I *hope* to get back on in the spring
from my new house.  In the mean time, whenever the addicition gets too
strong, I do read the list on the web  and make subversive comments :-) If
you want advice or help, tho... p-mail!

 o My brother-in-law and the hurricane

This part is really sad.  No human tragedy, but sad none the less.  My
brother (who earns a living as an A&P mechanic, but who's profession is
"waterman"[1] has a house right on the Chesapeake bay.  Last week they
got 4' of water thru their Bowley's Quarter's home.  I have been up with
them as much as possible helping with the cleaning and drying.  He has
*SO* many tools!!  all ruined :-(  Some can be replaced (snap-on,
craftsman, etc.) but the front end loader appears to be toast :-(
I have never handled so many ruined tools that I lusted after... very sick
making!


                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail


[1] It's like your profession was "musician"... just because you don't
make money, doesn't mean it isn't your profession :-)
