Date: Mon, 2 May 2005 16:52:34 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Hal Sullivan <tristessa(-at-)frys.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] EFI compatibility

--- Hal Sullivan <tristessa(-at-)frys.com> wrote:
> Paul, if you really want EFI for Hapy, I've been finding a few FI
Bays and Vanagons at the wreckers in the area .. I'm sure everything
could be rounded up fairly easily, not sure about the cost though.

Oh yeah? Hm... I'm thinking about FI for a few reasons. Balancing dual
carbs without an access hatch is a headache (in more than one way!).
The Weber I have now seems prone to leaks (or something), causing my
performance to vary too widely... or maybe the Weber just sucks :)
Seems like every change in the weather is another guessing game for how
it'll handle. For example, weather: 50 degF w/light rain: runs ok.
50degF just after light rain: runs crummy. Humidity / dew point / air
temp / wind speed / road grade matrix = hairy mental gyrations taking
the fun out of the ride.

Lemme know when you're making another wrecker run for whatever you're
needing, I'll help pull your stuff for a hand on the EFI-side. Heck,
you can have my old Weber for the help (of course, that's not really
payment, now is it? Ha!). So far as costs go, maybe I can offset that a
little by selling some stock carb stuff.

> Gotten anywhere with the interior?

On the interior, I've got most of the McMaster/bQuiet noise-killer in.
I need to get a few last bits down on the p-side (sliding door
tonight/tomorrow) and the floor, and I'm ready to start putting stuff
back in. Work-work kinda chewed up my early Spring, but I'm coming back
with a vengence. I think I've past the point of no return now that I've
cut "the precious" in the d-side to put in the grey-water vent. Do you
know anyone that would want the old interior? You've seen it. I don't
want any money for it if it can be useful for someone as it is. I could
sell the hinges, latches and sell the bed & sink, but I'd rather see it
go to someone that would install it or use it for a pattern to making
new stuff. You said you knew someone that might be making cabinets.
Maybe they'd want it. Thanks for asking. Did you get your exhaust
pieced back together?

Paul Manning
Lake Oswego, OR
1972 Westy (Hapy)
2000 Jetta TDI
