To: "Jason Lukjanenko" <jamail(-at-)optusnet.com.au>, "Type 2 List"
From: "Miles Erickson" <miles.erickson.type2(-at-)gmail.com>
Date: Mon, 2 May 2005 21:56:02 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] newby

Hi Jason, welcome to the list.  What year is your Bus?  What model?

Unless your engine has hydraulic lifters -- and it sounds like it doesn't --
you should check your valves at least as often as you change your oil.  Some
people say to check them only every 3000 miles, but in my experience, if an
exhaust valve decides to tighten up, it doesn't take anywhere near 3000 miles.
I recommend checking your valves every 1000 miles, or whenever you have a
chance to spend 15 minutes getting your hands dirty, whichever comes first.
Waiting for 3000 miles isn't worth the risk of (oops!) accidentally destroying
your engine.  You do not need to change your oil every time you check your
valves.  I set the intake valves to .06 and the exhaust valves to .08.  Muir
has a good procedure to check and adjust the valves.  Remember to do it when
the engine is cold.

There are lots of different opinions about oil.  I use Mobil 1 full synthetic
10W30 in my newish (installed in 2002, less than 10K miles) 1600DP Meximotor.
Synthetic oil makes your engine last longer.  Disadvantages are that it's
expensive and it finds leaks that you didn't know you had.  You should not
rely on synthetic oil manufacturers' claims of longer oil change intervals.  I
still change mine every 3000 miles.

When I first switched from dino 10W30 to synthetic 10W30 and started the
engine for a test run, oil started dripping from a valve cover (where I had
reused an old gasket that wasn't leaking before), an oil hose connection
(leading to an external full-flow oil filter -- turned out the hose was slowly
working its way off), the bottom case seam (turned out I needed to retorque
the case studs), and even around the edge of the oil sump plate (the
extra-gentle-extra-careful amount of torque I had been applying when I used
dino oil wasn't enough to keep warm synthetic oil in).  Some people would say
that synthetic oil is therefore a pain, but... if I hadn't switched to
synthetic, I would have been driving around with my case studs too loose and
an oil hose ready to blow off.  So, I see the synthetic oil's tendency to find
leaks as an added benefit.  Your mileage may vary.

Exhaust smells in the cabin are a big deal.  Don't go around breathing carbon
monoxide!  This can be caused by heater boxes that have severe rust on the
inside (as you're suspecting?), by the use of a two-pipe Bug muffler as Muir
recommends (unfortunately, this type of muffler doesn't properly send the
exhaust into the slipstream), etc.  If you choose to go with non-stock exhaust
parts, think about whether you'll still have cabin heat.  New Bus heater boxes
are still available, see busdepot.com.  Mexican Beetle heater boxes are also
an option for buses with Type 1 engines.  I didn't even consider buying
"reconditioned" heater boxes when it was time to replace mine -- breathing
exhaust is really the last thing I ever want to do while driving.

Cheers,

Miles Erickson
'71 Dragon Bus

please send personal replies to myfirstname(-at-)myfullname.com
