Date: Tue, 3 May 2005 15:40:03 +1000 (AUS Eastern Standard Time)
From: "Jason Lukjanenko" <jamail(-at-)optusnet.com.au>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "Miles Erickson"
Subject: Re: [T2] newby

cheers for replies, my bus is 1975  originally an 8 seater but i have
stripped the seats and customised the interior a bit

how does this look then? http://cgi.ebay.com.au/ws/eBayISAPI
dll?ViewItem&item=4546625177&rd=1&sspagename=STRK%3AMEWA%3AIT&rd=1

Troy might take you up on that offer of pic hosting so i can get a couple
pics of my bus up for viewing

will give the synthetic oil ago as well ...but i know i have a slow leak so
will look into that one
but its coming up to winter here........and although the average day is
still around 20 degrees celsius will be colder than usual here and at night
so might go lighter weight



-------Original Message-------

From: Miles Erickson
Date: 05/03/05 14:58:49
To: Jason Lukjanenko; Type 2 List
Subject: Re: [T2] newby

Hi Jason, welcome to the list.  What year is your Bus?  What model?

Unless your engine has hydraulic lifters -- and it sounds like it doesn't --
you should check your valves at least as often as you change your oil.  Some
people say to check them only every 3000 miles, but in my experience, if an
exhaust valve decides to tighten up, it doesn't take anywhere near 3000
miles.  I recommend checking your valves every 1000 miles, or whenever you
have a chance to spend 15 minutes getting your hands dirty, whichever comes
first.  Waiting for 3000 miles isn't worth the risk of (oops!) accidentally
destroying your engine.  You do not need to change your oil every time you
check your valves.  I set the intake valves to .06 and the exhaust valves to
.08.  Muir has a good procedure to check and adjust the valves.  Remember to
do it when the engine is cold.

There are lots of different opinions about oil.  I use Mobil 1 full
synthetic 10W30 in my newish (installed in 2002, less than 10K miles) 1600DP
Meximotor.  Synthetic oil makes your engine last longer.  Disadvantages are
that it's expensive and it finds leaks that you didn't know you had.  You
should not rely on synthetic oil manufacturers' claims of longer oil change
intervals.  I still change mine every 3000 miles.

When I first switched from dino 10W30 to synthetic 10W30 and started the
engine for a test run, oil started dripping from a valve cover (where I had
reused an old gasket that wasn't leaking before), an oil hose connection
(leading to an external full-flow oil filter -- turned out the hose was
slowly working its way off), the bottom case seam (turned out I needed to
retorque the case studs), and even around the edge of the oil sump plate
(the extra-gentle-extra-careful amount of torque I had been applying when I
used dino oil wasn't enough to keep warm synthetic oil in).  Some people
would say that synthetic oil is therefore a pain, but... if I hadn't
switched to synthetic, I would have been driving around with my case studs
too loose and an oil hose ready to blow off.  So, I see the synthetic oil's
tendency to find leaks as an added benefit.  Your mileage may vary.

Exhaust smells in the cabin are a big deal.  Don't go around breathing
carbon monoxide!  This can be caused by heater boxes that have severe rust
on the inside (as you're suspecting?), by the use of a two-pipe Bug muffler
as Muir recommends (unfortunately, this type of muffler doesn't properly
send the exhaust into the slipstream), etc.  If you choose to go with
non-stock exhaust parts, think about whether you'll still have cabin heat.
New Bus heater boxes are still available, see busdepot.com.  Mexican Beetle
heater boxes are also an option for buses with Type 1 engines.  I didn't
even consider buying "reconditioned" heater boxes when it was time to
replace mine -- breathing exhaust is really the last thing I ever want to do
while driving.

Cheers,

Miles Erickson
'71 Dragon Bus

please send personal replies to myfirstname(-at-)myfullname.com

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of IMSTP.gif]
