From: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 3 May 2005 10:27:45 -0400
Subject: Bus VW Emblem.... size?

Hey guys,

	Strange painting question....

I've got a 1973 Volkswagen Transporter. I'm really not sure what the original paint scheme was as the car was repainted
when I got it. From what I understand though, the body itself was painted Neptune Blue (now it's painted a lighter blue).
The roof, I assume was originall white (now painted GM Arctic White).

When I got the car, the wheels were black, and the bumpers were matching blue. I've managed to get several spray cans of
the original GM Arctic White and I've repainted both bumpers to match the roof (which I assume is original matching scheme).

I'm in the process of painting my wheels, and have two done already (thanks guys for the advice). I've painted the 
wheels a color that matches the blue paint on the Bus iteself. I probably should have asked, but the wheels ARE supposed
to be painted to match the body, right? Or... at least, was that an option?

My MAIN question however is in regards to the VW emblem. I know this is such a silly question to ask, but I really want
my Bus to look stock / original, and I've kept that in mind as I've been restoring it.....

My Bus originally had the spare tire mounted on the front. It was removed and the holes filled before I got it. I want to install the big VW emblem. I ordered it a long time ago and already have it. My question is... has anyone ever installed the HUGE VW emblem on the Busses that have the large turnsignals next to the front vent? I forget which year has that..
but the turn signals that i have on my 73 Bus. Anyway, I have the huge emblem, and I wanted to make sure that if I install it, it won't look totally out of place. It requires me to drill into the front of the Bus so I want to make sure that I do it right and that I'm totally happy with it. I'd rather be out $30 bucks for an emblem and be happy with a replacement than have a huge emblem and have it look stupid. 

If anyone has any pictures of a Bus that looks like my 73 but with the huge emblem, I'd apprecaite it.

Also, what color is the emblem supposed to be? The one I have is chrome (polished aluminum). Is it supposed to match the bumpers, or my door handles and side mirrors?



Thanks!!!!!

Todd
