From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: "'Type2'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 3 May 2005 10:46:21 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] Type 4 exhaust manifold tips

To those that fight the exhaust fight,

I have seen the snapped stud/head/heli coil ritual over and
over again.  I now find myself with a backfire issue when I
leave the bus in gear and take my foot off of the gas.  I
believe it to be an issue with the seal to the head.  This is
also likely because last fall I had a new right HE put on the
bus.

With this topic coming up as often as it does,... should live
in fear that I'm going to snap the stud? strip the head?
This will be my first venture removing exhaust oriented parts
from an air cooled vehicle.

  I have however, run the full gauntlet of exhaust issues on
vehicles with radiators and I find it to be extremely dirty,
make you cuss like a sailor work.  Everything oxidizes,
everything seizes, and it's a battle whether you are removing
or installing.  My experience with other vehicles tells me to
be very afraid.

So,... should I expect to pack the implements of destruction
when doing this job?  I am aware of how dirty that location
is, and the accumulation of humidity while cooling, and the
creation of vapor while a motor is warming up, and what those
factors do to the distant memory of what used to be a fitted
part.  Just how pessimistic should I be?   As it is, when I
find myself doing a catalytic convertor, exhaust header, or
muffler job on a radiated vehicle, I won't even start it
anymore without three sizes of hammers, a torch, a variety of
hacksaws, a coal chisel, and some type of high velocity cutter
(flammables permitting).

  Just how ugly on the average is the air cooled exhaust
battle compared to the water cooled exhaust battle?  Should I
live in fear of busting my studs?  Some practical experience
from those that have made this journey more than once would be
greatly appreciated.

Seann Stafford
1976 T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
1976 T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
