Date: Tue, 3 May 2005 10:46:06 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] EFI compatibility -> stopping the racket

--- "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net> wrote:
> Have you driven your bus with the McMaster Carr Quiet pads? 

A little perspective first: I got a '78 interior, and pulled the
original '72. It was kinda loud before, but without the interior stuff
it was unreal. Bought some bQuiet. Bought some McMasterCarr stuff after
someone onlist said they'd tried it and it seemed economical.
McMasterCarr'ed the interior of the verticle in front of the engine and
over the wheel wells. It has made a difference, but it doesn't sound
like driving a fancy new car now, or anything. I've added more sound
killer since I last drove it, so its probably even better now. I'm
using the bQuiet sparingly: engine lid, inside of doors, inside of
outer skin behind driver seat, and only covering 50% of the steel. I
expect to use more of it inside the engine bay and the front cab area.
I'm using the McMasterCarr stuff for the larger areas like the floor,
and over the engine (inside). Seemed like a decent balance.
It took out lots of clatter and high end squeak/whine stuff. The doors
(including the slider after last night) sound more solid, and the ride
is definitely quieter. My hope is to get the sound volume down to where
it was before I pulled the interior so when I put in the new one it is
almost like driving a non-air cooled vehicle in terms of noise. (hey, I
can dream)
Honestly, the biggest volume reducer was adjusting my valves after I
discovered that the PO installed hydraulic lifters. Second to that was
re-gasketing my exhaust so the exhaust noise now goes out the tailpipe.
What a concept.

> I have a decibel meter I will loan to anyone that wants to do a
> before and after measurement to share with the list. 

A decible reader would have been a great idea. I wish I'd at least
videotaped driving around, and trying to talk to the camera over the
din before I started. The contrast to what it will become could have
been kinda entertaining for a home video. I guess I'll just need to
baseline the sound in someone else's stripped ride. 

Paul Manning
Lake Oswego, OR
1972 Westy (Hapy)
2000 Jetta TDI
