From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 28 Oct 2001 8:58:3 -0800
Subject: Thanks To All...

(I'm sorry if this should be a Friday thing.)
I'd like to say thanks to all who helped Rachel and me during my problem
filled trip to get my posessions and my '59 Westfalia back from Albuquerque.
 Ronnie in Havasu, who let me keep my bus at his house, who suppiled some
parts during the engine swap, and who burned up some cell minutes, and for
the pizza, and the shower after the engine swap.
 Roger Nang, who als burned up cell minutes, and was of great help getting
info-even without the use of computers. Also for his high quality
shrink-wrap job of parts on the way back.
 Sam Williams (?)(Clara's dad), who was gracious enough to load up his bus
with my large posessions and brought them back to CA, all without question.
He also brought Rachel back home so she could get to work.
 Khalil in Jerome, who took my first frantic phone call and crazy ideas
when my bus was broken down and I was having a nervous breakdown.
 Jake Armour, who brought my large items to Jerome, and then hauled some
back anyway!
 Lou and Liz from Havasu, who withou them, Rachel and I would have maybe
never made it to Jerome at all. They were nice enough to feed us, let us
shower, and then gave us and my parts/junk a ride to Jerome in the back of
their single cab. I cannot thank you two enough!!!!
 JP Henriksen, who pretty much fell in line with the original plan, but at
the end wound up buying a '57 truck in Havasu and then trailered my '59 to
Havasu from Albuquerque to save wear and tear, as well as gas. I really
appreciate you housing me for the 3 weeks I was in Albuquerque.
 Rachel Hollis, who supported me mentally during my 3 weeks of freakouts
and crazy ideas.
 I know I have probably forgotten somebody, but you know who you are if I
did. I could not have made this trip/recovery without the unquestioned help
Rachel and I received during this time. I must also say that the help was
almost overwhelming, but much appreciated. I just hope that if anyone out
there has the same troubles, they can count on the help of people as nice
and generous at the people who helped us. I just hope we can help someone
in the future as much as we were helped.
 My thanks to all!
  Jon Furst






