Date: Mon, 29 Oct 2001 16:07:28 -0500
From: Kathryn Bowman <BussesBytheArch(-at-)compuserve.com>
To: "VintageBus List (msge)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Horn problems...

Hi all,

Okay, today I'm trying to fix one of the last not-functioning electrical
components on our '59 Double Door Panel that we recently re-activated aft=
er
37 years in storage.  I've tried to search the archives under "horn test"=

but didn't come up with anything relevant.  My problem:  Horn still doesn=
't
work.

While preparing the Bus to return to the road, I went through the
electrical system and wiring bumper to bumper to clean up all electrical
junctions and connectors.  I carefully used a Dremel drill with the small=

wire wheel to buff all the brass screw connectors and all the wiring ends=

to a clean, bright contact surface.  Then I hooked them all back up and
most everything works well.  I remember using a test light to verify that=

there was power to the horn at the end of the power wire from the fuse bo=
x.
 There was power.  I seem to remember using a multimeter to check the
ground wire from the second wire terminal on the horn up through the
steering column to the end of the wire at the horn button.  Continuity wa=
s
good on that length of wire.  Using the multimeter,  I checked the horn
itself by checking the continuity across the two screw terminals on the
horn.  The needle barely moved, but it did move.  Is this normal?  I
checked two other spare used later horns (spade connector type) and they
reacted the same way, with little needle movement.  I'm pretty sure the
contact surfaces on the horn button and the inside bore of the steering
whell hub are clean and fine, but I'll make a point of checking that out
again.  I can even install an NOS Bus horn button just to check that
component out.

Any of you Bus electrical nuts (Matt Roberds, Eric & Barb) have any ideas=
,
or can someone point me to a thorough diagnostic article on checking/
repairing the entire horn circuit?

Thanks as always for you help.  =


Bill Bowman
NEATO
