Date: Tue, 30 Oct 2001 00:09:28 -0500
From: Kathryn Bowman <BussesBytheArch(-at-)compuserve.com>
To: "VintageBus List (msge)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: More horn diagnosis...

Hi all,

Okay, today I'm trying to fix one of the last not-functioning electrical
components on our '59 Double Door Panel that we recently re-activated aft=
er
37 years in storage.  I've tried to search the archives under "horn test"=

but didn't come up with anything relevant.  My problem:  Horn still doesn=
't
work.

While preparing the Bus to return to the road, I went through the
electrical system and wiring bumper to bumper to clean up all electrical
junctions and connectors.  I carefully used a Dremel drill with the small=

wire wheel to buff all the brass screw connectors and all the wiring ends=

to a clean, bright contact surface.  Then I hooked them all back up and
most everything works well.  I remember using a test light to verify that=

there was power to the horn at the end of the power wire from the fuse bo=
x.
 There was power.  I seem to remember using a multi meter to check the
ground wire from the second wire terminal on the horn up through the
steering column to the end of the wire at the horn button.  Continuity wa=
s
good on that length of wire.  Using the multi meter,  I checked the horn
itself by checking the continuity across the two screw terminals on the
horn.  The needle barely moved, but it did move.  Is this normal?  I
checked two other spare used later horns (spade connector type) and they
reacted the same way, with little needle movement.  I'm pretty sure the
contact surfaces on the horn button and the inside bore of the steering
wheel hub are clean and fine, but I'll make a point of checking that out
again.  I can even install an NOS Bus horn button just to check that
component out.

Hi all,

Thanks for the initial replies on my horn dilemma.  Here's a little more =
on
the horn problem.  After posting earlier this afternoon, I went back at i=
t
and with an analog multi-meter I checked the following:

There is power in the wire from the fuse box to the horn.  I set the
multi-meter to the DC-volts range of the tester.  At the "hot" wire end
that mounts to the horn I read six volts.  While still in the DC-volts
range, when I connect the positive lead of the tester to the other screw
terminal on the horn (the one that the ground wire from the horn button
attaches to) I only read about one volt.  That seems weird to me.  Does i=
t
matter which of the two screw terminals on the horn that the power wire
from the fuse box is attached to???  Could that be my problem?  I also
tried to ground the horn to see if the horn would sound, but nothing
happened.

Then I moved on.  There is definitely continuity (no resistance, a good
wire) from the other screw terminal on the horn up through the steering
column to the end of the wire that attaches to the center screw connectio=
n
on the horn button.  No resistance at all, seems fine.

The used horn button when depressed completes a connection according to m=
y
multi-meter.  It seems to be fine, but I broke out my NOS Bus horn button=
,
tested it the same way and it reacted the same, completing the connection=
.

With the multi-meter I then checked the continuity of the grounded inner
cast surfaces of the steering wheel (where the horn button attaches and
where the brass wire of the horn button makes contact with the inner
surface of the wheel) by connecting one multi meter lead to the inner
surface and the other lead to another known grounded screw that holds the=

dash shelf to the body under the dash.  The steering wheel inner surface
seems to be well grounded.  =


I then tested the mounted horn itself for continuity (no resistance) by
touching a multi-meter lead to each of the two screw terminals.  The anal=
og
multi-meter needle moved very little, but it definitely moved while both
leads were connected.  (I did this again to two other used horns I have a=
nd
they both reacted exactly the same way, slightly moving the needle when
connected to the multi-meter.  Is this a normal reaction when testing a
horn?  Could someone out there test a known working or NOS horn for
"continuity" and see what your analog multi-meter needle does?  Does it
move a little, or should it move all the way across the dial to show full=

continuity (no resistance)?

Finally, I set the multi-meter to measure DC-volts and then touched the
tester's positive red lead to the ground wire from the horn right where i=
t
connects to the center of the horn button.  When I touched the negative
lead to the inner cast surface of the steering wheel (well grounded) I
measured about one volt.

Anyway, I hope my descriptions are clear enough for you electrical wizard=
s
out there to figure out where my problem(s) are.  I'm starting to think
that maybe I have three bad used horns.  I wish I had a new horn here to
test.  So what do you think, what the hell gives here anyway???  What els=
e
could it be, and what else can I try?

Thanks for your help!  I'd sure like to fix and understand more about thi=
s
last little bugaboo on this old Panel Bus.

Bill Bowman
