From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Mon, 8 Jul 2002 00:01:40 -0500 (CDT)
To: jb(-at-)nv.net (Jackson Burgess)
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: Oil Cooler

Look at the big picture---

Take any air cooled VW engine, that was primarily designed to propel an
Bug around, and stuff in into vhicle that resembles a 4x8 sheet of
plywood.
The engine works three times as hard attempting to maintain any given
speed, the heat factor is going to be a problem.

Oil cooling is a good resolve to this inherent problem.

It most certainly won't hurt anything--

I installed an oil cooler in one of my Wasserleaker's---as well as my 74
type 2.
The temps have not dropped big time, but at least they remain a constant
longer when pushed--- oil temp---220--230 degrees (-at-) 90--95 air temp (-at-) 70
mph.

And I think this is the key issue here --being able to maintain a
constant temperature for a longer period of time without frying the
engine.

Later, 

Terry


 
E-mail message   
 
The type 4 engine is really well suited for hot climates if everything
is 
working correctly. I for one have off roaded VW's since the early 70's
and 
have found the only time a person has a problem is when they start
adding 
the extra stuff!! 
Thanks for the input, Rick. I must admit this same thought has been
nagging at me. I wondered if any others out there have operated a
stock-cooled type 4 camper in very high temps over long periods of time.
Obviously, the way I phrased my inquiry, every response but yours was
aimed at which was the best cooler. All my previous bus experience was
with a 62 stock 40-horse camper, and I put about 200k miles on that
without a major failure I could trace to overheating, keeping it in
perfect tune and the tin in good shape at all times. I also completely
rebuilt a '75 1.8 914 engine into a 2L and ran it for over 50k miles in
Kauai (as an aside, I did install hydraulic lifters--what a knuckle
saver on the 914!). The only mods to that oil system was a stronger pump
and a full-flow filter system, and that never had problems either. So
why am I worried? 
Well, I just recently bought this camper, and frankly it just doesn't
seem to have the guts I would expect from the 27 horses over my old
40-horse camper. It actually <feels> to have about the same power. Of
course the 914 just jammed with the 2L, but it weighed next to nothing.
I have read that the ASI conversions are lighter than the Westies, but I
really have no proof of that, and the cabinet material seems heavier to
me. The little dining table alone must weigh over 30 lbs. So I am
concerned that, fully loaded, the power-to-weight ratio is going to end
up in overheating problems after I pull the 1.5 qt sump installed by the
PO. On the other hand, the oil light has never flickered, and I've had
it out to El Cajon several times hauling up long hills at temps over 90.
The motor is stock and in good tune with good compression readings. It
has a head temp guage, which has remained constant in all conditions--up
about 20 degrees inland from beach-area temps. 
Still, even though as you say this is an air-cooled engine, it is
actually the oil that the air cools and that cools the engine. Anyhow, I
started out worrying about overheating in the 100-110 temps in Baja and
thinking I'd need a cooler for a margin of safety, so I posted my
original question. List members lie yourself have been very responsive
and helpful. But looking at how I'd have to install the cooler and
remote filter under the frame, I'm beginning to worry just as much about
damage to the exposed hardware and plumbing. So now I'm thinking, hey,
UPS delivers to Mexico. Maybe I'll just go stock and worry about it if a
problem develops. I wouldn't drive on a solid oil light, so it would be
drive and cool, drive and cool (you don't drive Baja at night) until I
could reach a place I could effect repairs, then have the cooler flown
in. 
So that's my thinking for now. Sorry this was so wordy. All input on
this subject is very welcome. 
Jaxon Burgess
San Diego
'79 ASI Conversion 
---------------------------------------------- 
=A0=A0=A0=A0=A0=A0=A0=A0To UNSUBSCRIBE send any e-mail to:
type2-unsubscribe(-at-)type2.com =A0 =A0 To email the admin for list help
only: type2-admin(-at-)type2.com 
=A0=A0=A0=A0=A0=A0For additional commands send any e-mail to:
type2-help(-at-)type2.com Donations help keep the list going.
http://www.type2.com/donate.html 
---------------------------------------------- 

