Date: Mon, 8 Jul 2002 07:17:25 -0400
To: Bob in Houston <perring(-at-)pdq.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
From: ncbus <ncbus(-at-)mindspring.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Oil Temp Sender

I have the same GB sender. I used it in my 67 with and old motor and 
watched it like a hawk. If I was lugging it in the mountains it would 
flick. For instance doing 40 in 4th up a steep grade would cause it 
to flick. Backing down to 3rd and doing 35mph it would go out. More 
revs= more fan speed, cooler oil flowing faster and a happier motor. 
Doing 60 or 65 on the interstate on a grade would cause it to flick. 
Backing down a little on the  throttle caused it to go out.

Sometimes it went off when I was sure it should not. One cause was 
low oil level and another was a vac leak (that will make you heads 
and subsequently your oil get hot) due to a loose carb to manifold 
connection. Once it went off and I found the wire to the OP switch 
had rubbed through on the pulley causing it the bare wire to bounce 
around and make ground on the pulley.

The GB sender is now in the 68 with the new 1600cc SP motor built 
ground up from a NEW Brazilian AS41 case. I have driven the bus in 
mountain and highway driving on some hot days and it has not gone 
off. I got a little spooked after two hard hours in the hills and no 
flick. I had a friend rotate the sender to make contact while I 
watched the light and it went off like it should. What can I say but 
Mark Dearing builds a fine and dandy motor.

I am installing a VDO oil temp sump sender and dash gauge as well as 
oil pressure sender and gauge. The GB will remain in the same 
location. Hopefully they will keep each other honest. Cylinder head 
temp might be next for kicks.

Bob, check a few things on New Bus.

Is the engine seal intact and in good shape.
Is the engine door seal in good shape (this is more important that many think)
Are you running a vac dizzy? I think they run cooler than 009s do.
How is your oil pressure?
Check for vac leaks. Vac leaks kill motors.

Good luck.
>


-- 
Chris
'68 A-wagen
Greensboro, NC
www.mindspring.com/~ncbus/
