Date: Mon, 05 Jan 2004 10:11:56 -0600
From: Chris Mills <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Trans-vair update (for the archives)

Well real progress occurred over the holidays on our '78 Trans-vair 
project. Got a Jan 15th deadline when I need it to be at least able to do 
around town work.

Wayback: (couple years ago)

Bought a '65 110 HP Corvair motor + parts with 3.55 4 speed gearbox. Also 
bought NOS Trans-vair kit from friend in CA.

Over holidays: (hurry, hurry!)

Worked alot of 12 hour+ days to clean and paint my Corvair engine. Engine 
is/was a dirty 65K mile engine. No evidence of damage beyond some bent push 
rods believed to be caused by somebody before me trying to roll engine over 
by hand while valve train was stuck.

Very dirty engine...

Removed everything including heads and cleaned and painted my way back to 
complete engine. What an education!!! Neat engine though. Not difficult 
with some pics for guidance. Luckily I belong to the local Corvair club and 
have been able to buy, trade or have been given the dinky things that seem 
to disappear from all aircooled engines (baffles, strange hardware, 
springs, etc.). I'm about $500 into the project not including the $150 for 
the kit, and $100 or so for the engine and tranny. The remainder of the 
costs should be less than $100.

I recommend buying and trading Corvair parts for a while to gather up a 
pile of spare parts just like I've always done with VW engines which are 
also rare in this part of the boonies... This method has allowed me to 
gather multiples of carbs and heads and whatever so I can rummage for parts 
when I need to. Nice to have spare carbs and alternators and pulleys and so 
on...

Unfortunately my kit is/was for the early baywindow so the moustache bar 
expects early baywindow rear mounts and the front tranny mount expects the 
early front tranny mount. Had I bought a new kit I could have specified a 
late baywindow and received a Trans-vair kit with all the right parts 
without the required MacGyver maneuvers I'm doing now... <grin>

I've got old rear mounts for the early style moustache bar so that problem 
is solved. I've also got a plan to utilize the late baywindow front tranny 
mount  so that problem is probably solved too.

Time:

Kit instructions says this conversion can be done in a weekend. I do think 
it can be done in a weekend if your donor Corvair engine and tranny is 
ready to go right now. I like to clean and paint everything while I can. Of 
course I also had to rebuild the carbs ($20 for both kits) and will have to 
make new few lines and such... The bolting in should truly take a weekend 
but the collateral work takes ALOT of time. Even longer if you find seized 
exhaust bolts, stripped holes in aluminum, etc.

On source for Corvair parts among many is: http://corvairpitstop.com/

I have not done business with them but their website offers prices to 
consider.

I also have 3 local club members that deal in used parts

http://corvair_club.tripod.com/uppercumberlandcorvairclub/id9.html

So if you decide to do this project too here are some great sources of info 
and parts.

www.corvair.com

Clark's has the kit. Be sure to sit down before you check on prices!!! <grin>

I wanted to post this for the archives b/c when I got started the info was 
far and few between. Luckily a few hardy souls here and on the VirtualVairs 
list guided me to answers.







Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
1972 Hodaka Wombat 125cc moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
wife, kiddo, dog, and various slightly used cats
