From: "Joel Bidinger" <JoelBidinger(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "buslist" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 15 Sep 2001 19:45:39 -0700
Subject: bus this and bus that

Hi everybody,
Good news from Hood, California: bus and I made to Alaska and back
with fifty bucks and a quarter tank of gas left over. 8500 miles of
style and comfort, waves and smiles. Without a doubt, bus makes road
tripping better. I never got such a reception in my last car, many
folks were really excited to see the bus. A couple of non-English
speaking German tourists came up to me, pointing and beaming at bus.
Yeah! Even customs agents, normally pretty suspicious of me, were
right friendly. Turns out the US agent at the Alaska border has a
single cab and a 50's Westy, and was much more interested in what was
legitimately in the engine compartment than what might be secreted
about the bus. The US agents at the Washington border were interested
too, and used my bus as a demonstration to some new agents as to
common places of secreting contraband on a bus. I don't know if they
appreciated my comments of "no that's only on the 68 and on bus..."
but anyway they didn't search me either.
Surprisingly little went wrong. Not even a flat tire. The high beam
indicator lamp burned out. The passenger side wiper arm fell off. I
lost my driver's side vent wing window to flying gravel on the Alcan.
But nothing actually stopped the bus until about 3000 miles into the
trip, when maybe 50 miles from Anchorage my generator seized up. The
generator was the first thing I bought for the bus when I bought it in
March, so I am a little disappointed in Bosch Brazil. And no, the belt
was not too tight. So I am stuck by the side of the road (no spare
generator, and no running without a fan) when a couple of real sweet
kids, making it four years in Alaska now no electricity no phone, pull
up and save my ass. They just bought a 71 singlecab for $25 the day
before from some folks who have a mobile car crushing operation and
are working in Sutton, 20 miles up the road. They say there are a
couple of splits destined to be crushed, and rush me down the road to
this lot on their way into Anchorage. Sure enough there are two
Kombis, neither really salvageable, but both loaded with good parts. I
find a good looking German generator, but oh no! my 1/2" drive flex
handle, my only 1/2" driver and necessary to use the big socket to
remove that fan nut, is missing! Distraught and defeated I start
hitching back to where the bus has died. I guy picks me up and I tell
him my sad story. How long will it take you to pull it? he asks. I say
half an hour and he pulls a U-turn and drives me back to the lot, puts
a 1/2" ratchet in my hand and says go to it. I am so impressed by how
kind and helpful Alaskans are. Bus repaired, I return the next morning
and grab two vent windows (replace my broken one) and a couple parts
that Anchorage listee Carl needed. I could have spent days pulling
good parts, especially that gas heater that was on one of the busses,
but I had to rush to Anchorage to pick up a couple friends who were
flying in from the east coast. Still I am kicking myself for not
getting that heater, but after the ordeal of the generator I was just
too drained.
On the way home I stopped in Washington to meet the illustrious Clara.
What an awesome lady, despite all her own projects she found time to
teach me to rebuild and tune a carb, service a wiper motor and a whole
bunch of other stuff. And what a nice collection of busses; I don't
need a deluxe but that early fifties semaphored acid rain bus really
rubbed me right. While at Clara's who should swing by but Philip and
Catherine in a great double-door camper like one of those old southern
dogtrot houses I like so much. A very fun couple in the middle of an
epic bus-powered adventure that makes mine look like a quick spin
around the block.
Shortly after leaving Washington I run into trouble again, and in the
middle of the night to boot. My bus, already running too rich, is
belching black out of the tail pipe and running really rough. Having
recently been messing with the carb I assume this to be the problem. I
adjust it again like Clara showed me, if anything I'm making it worse,
and I am wondering what she's got that I don't (a dumb question, but
remember I'd been up all night). I mess with it for hours and hours
but to no avail, eventually deciding something major must be wrong. I
get out the compression gauge and start pulling spark plugs. 1, 3 and
4 are a lovely grey-brown, but number 2 is a powdery black mess. A few
minutes and one new spark plug wire later and the bus is back on the
road and home again a dozen hours later. So of the three hundred
dollars of spares I bought and brought I actually needed and used: one
spark plug wire, cost about $5 and available at any auto parts store.
Well that's about all the bus content I have got. The trip was great,
I would recommend it to everyone. Glaciers, bears and wild blueberries
were some of the highlights of the trip for me. I never made it to the
arctic circle, but I made it within 50 miles. I didn't realise before
the trip that my gas tank was only 10 gallons, I had to run out twice
to figure that out. I would have had to carry a bunch of gas in cans
to make it to the arctic and back on the Dalton, and it didn't matter
enough for me to want to stink up my house on wheels that way.
Hey, thanks to everyone who helped make this trip possible for us,
Joel and the '64 Sundial
(maybe naive peacenik who believes that only love can conquer hate)

