Date: Sun, 14 Jun 2009 09:46:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: becka(-at-)eastlink.ca
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] compression testing

This is what I used to do - think about it and decide if you want to do the same...

Pull all the plugs out when the engine is cold. Ground the coil wire or disconnect power to the coil. Use your favorite means of propping the throttle plate wide open.
Test methodically: Do each cylinder in order and write down results each time. Crank the engine over until the needle rises no further.

After this first set of numbers, squirt about, say, a teaspoonful (or so) of oil into the cylinders. (Could be more - not a big deal) Do the complete test again.

Put a little anti-seize compound or at the very least some WD-40 on the spark plug threads and srew the plugs in until snug, then back off a quarter turn (or so). Drive the bus until the engine is thoroughly warmed up as in how it would be in normal driving.

Carefully remove the plugs - they will be hot. Prop the throttle open, ground the coil, and do the test over again. No need to do the oil test again.

First test gives you a baseline.
Second test tells if there is a problem with rings not sealing or broken - that is, if a cyl is low in the first test and high in the oil test, it is a ring problem or wear problem rather than a head / valve problem.
Third test is the critical one in my opinion. If you have significantly lower compression on a cylinder (especially #3) in the hot test, you likely have a head crack or valve seat problem.

Write all these down and the date and mileage and tuck them away with your Bentley manual or maintenance records. If you drive your bus a lot in "normal" commute type driving or worse, test every six months (or so.) This way you always have a "condition report" and a "benchmark" to refer to when something changes suddenly. I often used compression testing as my first step in diagnoses as it would lead me directly to something major if it existed and likewise would ease my mind eliminating something major before I proceeded with "normal" troubleshooting!

BTW - I bought a used engine once from a wrecking yard. I knew the boys at this yard were a bit unscrupulous at times, so when he came walking out of the shop with the compression gauge, I watched closely. He was putting the plastic cover back on the gauge! I watched for a glimpse of whether the needle went to zero - especially after the first cylinder was 240psi! They were all very high and close to each other and the engine sounded good, so I did buy it. Oh, and yes, the needle was about 90 degrees from zero at rest!

I currently have a very good compression gauge that was giving me readings of 250+ on my Subey and now is giving me readings like 0-10-5-0 but the engine is strong and pulls hard. I think my very good compression gauge may have some kind of fault but since it's a relatively simple and direct mechanical device, I can't quite decide what path to follow... -BaH

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
