From: "Mike g." <mike.gensler(-at-)comcast.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 14 Jun 2009 13:39:34 -0600
Subject: Bus Stuff For Sale or FREE in Colorado

Hi all,  I've been away for a long time and don't have either my buses
anymore.  What I do have is some left-over stuff that I'd like to pass along
to someone who can use it.  I will not ship this stuff!  If I wanted to mess
with shipping I'd be selling this stuff on an auction house.  This stuff is
located in Monument, CO or I can take it up to the south end of Denver.  I'm
moving on June 27 and want this stuff gone before then.  If nobody can make
arrangements to pick it up by then I'll have to pack it and move it and
after I do that it's not going nearly as cheap anymore :)  Here's what I've
got:
 
Drive-away tent from my 73 Westy.  Excellent condition with all original
poles, bags, and even most of the original ropes and stakes.  I've seen
these go for ridiculous prices over the past 10 years.  Here's your chance
to have one for a reasonable price if you can pick it up in the next 2
weeks.  $300.
 
Eiberspacher Heater BN-4.  I bought this about 10 years ago to install in my
73, but never did.  It's complete with all ducting, wiring, thermostat, etc.
It's very clean and the guy I bought it from said it was bench-tested and
ready to use.  Again, I've seen these go for a lot of money and I paid
nearly $300 for it.  Come pick it up and it's yours for $125.
 
Pair of Jalousie windows.  One needs a minor repair, the other is good
as-is.  Free for pickup.
 
Rear stabilizer bar for loaf bus.  Brand new with all bushings and mounting
hardware.  Planned to put this on my 73, but it wouldn't clear the 5-sp
tranny conversion.  Again.  Free.
 
AC system for bus including under-dash blower unit (very clean and very good
condition) along with the condenser, dryer, compressor, and hoses.  I bought
this from a list member many many years ago and never used it.  Yours for
free - just come and get it.
 
Bus dash in excellent (perfect?) condition.  Removed from a 74 bus about 20
years ago.  No cracks or gouges.  Free for the taking.
 
1 Box of Misc. Stuff.  If you come to get any of the rest of the stuff
listed above you can have this too.  Some goodies, but nothing
earth-shattering.
 
Please email me if you can use any of this stuff and can get it picked up by
6/27/09.
 
Thanks and take care.
 
Mike g.
former owner of 58 single cab "Zorm"
former owner of 73 Westy with 5-sp tranny :)
