Date: Thu, 18 Jun 2009 17:45:59 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Tranny rebuild kit

Jon, this is a tough thing to say yay or nay, most would say nay.  In the day
it was impractical cause you need the jig for setting the shift forks, and
measuring pinion depth.  I picked up the Matra tools myself 10? years ago
right at the inception of ebay when no-one knew what it was and deals were
good, back then a set would run you $500-1000 unless you got lucky like I
did.  Now days I think repro jigs are sold for fairly reasonable, but you
still need them to do the full job.  You might get by doing syncros with
careful marking of the shift forks if you were lucky, etc, as long as you
don't have to replace the pinion bearing or anything that needs adjustment
jigs there.  You will need a pinion nut socket ($60-70 last I looked) and some
other things regardless though.  Parts you should get from Weddle or Long, I
actually like Long a little bit better, they actually will/did tell you how to
attack it, and I think have a good www site I
 recall.  http://www.longenterprises.com/  I see now days they sell their
rebuild hints, some/most of the 091 stuff will apply to your 002 box, just
detail changes unless your 002 is very early before the screwed pinion side
adjusters.  Regardless they used to be very good to chat with on the phone. 
I've done about 10 since getting my tools, including 2 4wd syncro boxes.  If
you are smart, if you got a press, good hand tools, some good quality pullers,
most of the special tools you can figure a way around except for the jigs and
pinion socket.  Having a lathe to turn some custom tooling here and there
helps or just a wide assortment of sockets and stuff to use to press with. 
Have a look at Long's site and give em a ring.  In the end it would likely be
cheaper to get a good rebuilt from Long, AA, Weddle, whoever, much cheaper to
chance a mid quality one (Rancho or others in the day, I'm out of touch.) 
Like everything you might blow $6-700 in
 jigs and parts, and end up no better than you started, or you might do a fine
job.  To do only one, probably not practical, if you ever figure on doing
another, might be, if you can share tools with someone (if you are in AK, stop
by) more practical.  The biggest problem you will have is deciding what is OK
and what is not, what to replace, what not to, Long will help with suggestion,
but you still risk coming up with a nonfunctional "box of bolts."
 
John

--- On Thu, 6/18/09, Jon Lockwood <jn_lockwood(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:



I have rebuilt engines in the past, but never tackled a trans overhaul. For
those who have done this, please let me know if I should attempt it or not
worth the trouble and just get a rebuilt.  I have read Ratwells info on the
