To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)shagadelic.org>
Date: Sun, 17 Oct 2004 18:06:47 -0700
Subject: Fabric for gold late bay Westy curtains

Folks...

While hunting for suitable fabric for making replacement curtains for 
my sage green Westy, I stumbled across some fabric that has a similar 
weave as the original and comes in a gold color that is VERY close to 
the gold thread in the green Westy plaid.  It may be a suitable fabric 
for replacement curtains for Westies that came with gold curtains.

Manufacturer: Fabricut
Pattern: Ghent
Color: Tumeric

Retail price is $27/yard for 54" width.

In the San Francisco Bay Area, you can get this stuff from Discount 
Fabrics -- I found this particular fabric in a swatch book at the store 
on San Pablo (-at-) Ashby in Berkeley.  The price will be lower if you buy 
it from Discount Fabrics.

I have swatches of the Tumeric and Lettuce (very close match for the 
light green thread in the green Westy plaid) coming in the mail.  When 
I get them, I will try to get a photo of the Tumeric next to an 
original gold curtain and take a photo.

Sigh, unfortunately, Fabricut doesn't make Ghent in a color close to 
the green Westy curtains.  I did, however, find a fabric made by 
Kaufman Fabrics that is almost exactly the right color ... in their 
Kona line, color Avacado.  I am going to be contacting Kaufman to 
inquire about other patterns in this color, so stay tuned.

Here's a question for Ron Salmon -- Do you know if the curtain material 
was made by the same manufacturer as the plaid upholstery material?

...and finally, in case anyone was wondering, it is really fun shopping 
for fabric while carrying with you a green Westy plaid top-bunk cover 
... every fabric store employee I spoke with today absolutely LOVED it 
:-)

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
