From: "Jason Z Upper" <jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 18 Oct 2004 14:12:11 -0400
Subject: OOPS!  Hard starting, strange idle - HELP!

Hi Folks

Now that I have my Bus running again, I've been dealing with starting and 
idle issues, and I was hoping The List could help out.

First, starting: Sometimes the engine attempts to fire and dies, and 
requires a second start to get it to run -- mostly when hot.   Sometimes the 
engine will fire up but the idle is very low (<700rpm) until I open the 
throttle and bring the idle over 1,000rpm, after which it will idle normally 
-- hot or cold makes no difference.  Sometimes the engine will fire up and 
idle very low (<700rpm), but pick up to normal by itself -- mostly when 
cold.  Sometimes the engine fires right up and idles around 900rpm, but this 
is the exception.

Second, idle: Once the engine starts, idle is normal until I begin driving, 
after which it idles between 1600rpm and 1200rpm.   It idles higher when the 
engine is cold and the Aux. Air valve is open, and idles lower when hot, but 
seldom idles below 1000rpm on its own.   If I switch off the engine and 
re-start it immediately, it will idle normally -- until I open the throttle 
and close it again, then it's back to a high idle.  At normal idle, ignition 
timing reads 8*; at high idle, ignition timing reads 16*; at low idle, 
ignition timing reads 4*.  Total advance is 40*  in all cases.

Background: GD-series (1977) engine, 2.0 FI, rebuilt heads, 25k on bottom 
end.  Dynamic timing set to 8+ACo- BTDC, idle set to 875 75 per OE sticker 
on engine lid.  Idle mixture (at AFM) set by feel.  New plugs, wires, cap,  
rotor, 25k on Pertronix ignition.  New fuel filter , gas in tank (tank 
drained).  Distributor points plate oiled , moving freely.  No vacuum leaks 
per WD-40 spray test , double-checking all connections.  Before rebuilding, 
this engine would idle normally when cold and idle around 1200rpm when hot.  
During rebuilding, the Bus sat outside for 6 warm-weather months.

I believe the hard starting and idle issues are related to fuel/air, as the 
electrical system is fine.  Bad cold-start valve?  Bad thermo-time switch?  
Bad aux. air valve? Bad distributor?  Bad owner/mechanic?

Thanks in advance for any help or suggestions.




Jason Z Upper
Universal Circle Music
1979 Westy "Sweet Pea"
Asheville, North Carolina
