From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org
Date: Tue, 16 Jul 2002 12:33:06 -0700
Subject: My weekend shop tours/long

   Last weekend I spent in Cali, mainly to do Pomona and also to take care
of some business there. 
   My first stop was at Old Buses (aka Rich Yost) to see what was going on
and to look at the work he is doing. I was very impressed. His shop has come
a long way in the last year. He had just finished up a 62 Panel, had a 59 23
window ready to go together, had a few more 21 windows in the works and 1
deluxe on his AWESOME rotisserie. The rows of Barndoors was cool to look at
also and the other 25 or so splits in his yard. 
   I spent Sunday night there and slept in a Syncro Westy Vanagon that
belongs to Francis Ford Copala (spelling) that he is going to restore for
him! Lots of good vibes in this bus being it's the one he camps in to write
his books and screenplays in.
   Sunday was the Pomona Swap, it's really going downhill now or maybe just
because it's summer?, then back to Old Buses where they were even working on
buses Sunday.
   Monday I was off again, first stop  Rancho transmission to talk to Sam on
gear ratios. We decided to build me a 3.44 r/p trans with a 1.28 3rd gear
and a .89 4th gear. This combination will give me a little higher final
drive then I already have with the 3.88/77 4th gear but with a lot less of a
drop between 3rd and 4th like I have now. I should be able to take 3rd to 60
mph now and cruise it at 3800 rpm's at 50 mph (hill climbing)  I should have
it this weekend and in the DD in a couple more to test. It should work
really good with my 1800 type 1 engine. Then off to Beard seats to see there
operation, pretty impressive.
   Off I went to West Coast Classics (Lenny Coop?) to see what was new, what
he's finishing and what was done. I must say it's impressive. I show up
there every couple and there is always new things there. He had a beautiful
Single cab he had just finished, a 23 window For Sale 20 g's that was
beautiful, a 21 window they were just finishing the headliner on, a couple
more 21/23 windows and a double cab to do still. For you BAY owners he also
had a original owner mid 70's  Westy that is also getting a full resto.
   Next a short trip to a couple vendors I deal with and then to ISP WEST
(aka pimppride on E-bay) to see what Alex had going on. He also had a
beautiful single cab they had just finished and numerous 21/23, ghias etc in
the works. I got to see the new SC/DC bed panels he is making, saw a set
installed and am VERY IMPRESSED on the quality and the correctness of these
parts. 
  He also had the coolest Vanagon Syncro DC there. It has a full exterior
roll cage, winch, off road lights. It's called the Hunters Special or
something like that, but just a very COOL bus. He also had a right had drive
Brazikian bus there, way cool
  My summery of my shop tours was that they all do nice work and it's good
to see buses brought back to life. I just wish I had the money to send my
1960 DC to one of them to have the final body and paint done, but alas I
will have to do it myself!

Ronnie
   
