From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 18 Jul 2002 11:32:31 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 53 w/dim 6V lights

I'm doing the last minute rush to get stuff together for vintage meet.  well 
actually I'm drinking coffee and typing instead of, but whatever.  Anyway the 
dim lights on the 53 are unsafe, and useless for night driving, and what 
really worries me is that the switch and wires by the switch get really warm, 
well hot.

so yesterday I started by taking the headlights out, and cleaning up the 
connections them- from plug to light, to those connections that take the two 
wires together with the screws, taking each screw out, brushing it clean, 
cleaning the wire end and assembling with 'bulb grease'.   One of the front 
running light bulbs is out, but just that was enough to make the lights 
brighter, white rather than dim yellowy!   yay! 

 still only got about 4.5 V,  while got about 6 or just under at the fuse box 
on the right.   After playing with the headlights, the bus wouldn't start, so 
I put the battery on charge, and noticed the corroded + battery cable 
terminal.  well I guess they don't last 50 years, so I got a new end for the 
wire, and cleaned up the corrosion, baking soda et all, and installed that.  
Okay, seems the light switch doesn't heat up as much now, or as quickly, but 
still gets warm.

    Speedo light didn't work, but got 5.95 V, so I replaced the bulb and it 
worked, but very dimly.  (Hm- should add one for temp guage.  uses blue for 
dash light, not striped red/white like later splitties.)   In contrast, the 
cab roof light is nice and bright. Brighter than in most 12V buses.  Now to 
go clean all the connections under the speedo, and hope that helps.  it does 
lose about .4 V across the dimmer switch, but the in wire to that the screw 
is nagered and wont undo.  maybe if I stomp it a bunch of times it'll get a 
better connection across the switch.  

Is that foamy battery terminal cleaner good to use on wire ends to clean up 
corrosion?
