From: "David Mayes" <mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 18 Jul 2002 08:59:19 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] 53 w/dim 6V lights

I think all head light switches get hot... even in newer cars... like my 93
ev.

To clean electrical connections, I'd simply use hot water, soap, and small
toothbrush to clean up those wire ends and screw terminals.  Things like
switches can be carefully wire wheeled but be careful not to chew up the
bakelite bases.  Wire wheels do big damage to wire insulation.  I actually
prefer using a sisal wheel (or hemp or other natural fiber bound wheel) to
clean up delicate parts like switches and the like.  That's how I did my
speedo recently
http://www.vintagebus.com/gallery/image/2000390.JPG

My friend that does electronics says that coin collectors prefer to use
Worcestershire sauce to clean old coins as opposed to vinegar.  That foamy
stuff is designed to neutralize acid on a lead post.  Your copper wires and
terminals only need cleaning of dirt and the small oxide layer.  Once you
cinch down the screw terminal, the cutting action between the screw and the
wire breaks that oxide layer and produces a gas tight seal.  By the way, as
far as I can tell, wire ends for screw terminal connections are either
tinned (soldered) or use the small copper barrels that slip over the wire
end and then into the screw terminal.  Note that these metal ends are not
usually soldered (but you could just for that added help in reducing
electrical losses).

Loosen the dimmer switch from the floor and spray some electrical cleaner up
into the switch and work it a bit.



David



Clara *beamed*:

<snip>
so yesterday I started by taking the headlights out, and cleaning up the
connections them- from plug to light, to those connections that take the two
wires together with the screws, taking each screw out, brushing it clean,
cleaning the wire end and assembling with 'bulb grease'.   One of the front
running light bulbs is out, but just that was enough to make the lights
brighter, white rather than dim yellowy!   yay!

 still only got about 4.5 V,  while got about 6 or just under at the fuse
box
on the right.   After playing with the headlights, the bus wouldn't start,
so
I put the battery on charge, and noticed the corroded + battery cable
terminal.  well I guess they don't last 50 years, so I got a new end for the
wire, and cleaned up the corrosion, baking soda et all, and installed that.
Okay, seems the light switch doesn't heat up as much now, or as quickly, but
still gets warm.

    Speedo light didn't work, but got 5.95 V, so I replaced the bulb and it
worked, but very dimly.  (Hm- should add one for temp guage.  uses blue for
dash light, not striped red/white like later splitties.)   In contrast, the
cab roof light is nice and bright. Brighter than in most 12V buses.  Now to
go clean all the connections under the speedo, and hope that helps.  it does
lose about .4 V across the dimmer switch, but the in wire to that the screw
is nagered and wont undo.  maybe if I stomp it a bunch of times it'll get a
better connection across the switch.

Is that foamy battery terminal cleaner good to use on wire ends to clean up
corrosion?


