From: "Martin Jr., D. Michael" <martinm(-at-)montevallo.edu>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 30 Sep 2008 11:36:18 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] por-15 "feedback" - anyone?

My personal favorite is Master Series...
http://www.masterseriesct.com/

(Please note the picture of the split window bug on the web page.)


I've use it for years and it is self-leveling, durable, requires no prep (just
remove the loose material).  You can even paint over bondo and fiberglass
(although I would seal the medal, then keep the bondo to a skim, and then seal
with the Master Series over since bondo typically will suck up any moisture if
any breaks occur in the paint surface of anything in the future.)

They use it for bridges and overpasses everywhere.  You can even use it to
seal gas tanks.  It's tough.  If I am going to paint over the area (which is
typical), I use the MasterSeries Silver as a Primer and then do my priming and
painting directly on that (usually a high build primer...the yella
stuff...then a sealing primer...then the paint, with the necessary sanding and
prep in between).  You can spray (if thinned with Naptha or MCT 101 Thinner)
MasterSeries or brush on.  They also make a Chassis Coating Black which is
also great as a top coat.  Just be forewarned...cover any part of your body
you don't want to be painted on for a while.  Thinner will sometime cut it off
your skin if you get it soon but after it dries you will have to exfoliate.
:-)

There is a great Rust Prevention Product Testing thread on TheSama at...
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/viewtopic.php?t=131753&highlight=master+seri
es

The thread lists all sorts of products including POR15, Rust Bullet, Master
Series, and many others.  If you do a search on TheSamba you will find all
sorts of opinions as well as pictures using all of these products.  Overall,
from my research, the MasterSeries seems VERY comparable to the Rust Bullet
(which I would like to try sometime).

Hope this helps,

Michael Martin
Montevallo, Alabama
