Date: Wed, 1 Oct 2008 14:15:59 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Fw: Re: [T2] por-15 "feedback" - anyone?

Since every one is weighing in so wonderfully on POR-15, I will say a couple
things.  I've used their products for 15+ years, countless times the regular
POR-15 paints, also their high temp stuff, also their gas tank sealer.  I've
used the Bill Hirsch? stuff as well, which used to be their prime competitior,
but has lost it's following a bit.  I've used Eastwoods high temp stuff.
 
It needs to be said on ANY of these that POR-15 is no replacement for real
metal repair and good body work.  It is amazing what it can preserve, I do use
it, just got a Triumph TR-4 with floorpans too good to justify real repair,
but needing more than just a good etching primer, and I've done the requisite
POR-15 after only moderate prep work.  I expect that will hold me a good long
time, I do not expect it will hold me as well as real metal repair.  You got
to understand the limitations and if you are paying for work, want to
understand what you are paying for.
 
I've actually always been UNDERWHELMED by their high temp stuff.  Have done it
8-10 times, always on freshly blasted metal, sometimes with sometimes without
etching metal prep, always a brand new can, mostly on bus/vanagon pipes.  In
WV with its moderate winter salting, POR high temps never lasted me more than
2 seasons, flaking off after only one, I actually had better luck most times
with the VHT aerosol stuff.  Eastwoods high temps were a bit better.  I've
tried the black, silver, and cast iron gray, all about the same, last time was
about 5 years ago though.
 
In the day the real POR-15 was NOT to be used as a topcoat with UV exposure or
it wouldn't last worth crap, don't know if that is still the case, not often
that you would do that anyway, but worth mentioning.  As for the gas tank
stuff.  That is a mixed bag, it is real hard to truely get a tank clean
without having it professionally boiled.  Hoover had great words on this and
some suggestions.  I've done it myself with the POR product and maybe those
buses are still on the road without it all ending up in the carbs and filter
and pump 5 years later, maybe not...  In WV it was pretty reasonable to have a
good radiator shop boil and coat themselves and not mess with it, only about
double what the POR cost...
 
Anyway some ramblings.

> I have used a few of POR 15's products and have been
 > very pleased. I stripped my engine compartment to bare metal
 > and replaced the battery trays in my old bus. I used the
