Date: Fri, 16 Nov 2001 10:46:17 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Theodore Reshetiloff <TReshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Brown Dash

Yep - just means that you had a bus with chrome bumpers, rubber strips on 
the bumpers, brown vinyl dash and steering wheel and little touches like that.

I have the EXACT same bus.

Doesn't mean anything is different mechanically.

Was just a trim package.

We called the brown Champagne Edition the "Cow Poop Edition" because there 
was so much brown.

Not a bad thing, just lots of brown.

Our exterior was already re-painted a dark purplish burgundy and needed 
paint so we went to a VW Red called Tornado Red with white on top. The dash 
was a bit faded and we are changing the interior from a WELL worn brown 
vinyl door panels, green plaid seats, and PO installed dark beige carpet to 
new colors.

The dash is now black on top (metal portion nearest the windshield and the 
edge where the grab handle bolts in) and is dark grey on the lower 
portions. I have to do the steering column this weekend. My dash also has 
added instruments and the PO modified the hole for the stereo so mine is 
far from original. It's a work in progress.

If your bus is original (no alterations) and in good order (and you like 
the colors) I'd keep it that way because it certainly is one of only a few 
I've heard. But - - I doubt this would translate into a higher resale value 
like what the "Shelby" name did for early Mustangs.

Take care!

At 10:06 AM 11/16/01 -0500, you wrote:
>My 78' Westy has a brown dash and steering wheel. I was wondering if there
>is anything significant about this. I had heard it meant the bus was a
>"champagne edition". Is this true? Does it mean anything? All my older
>busses has black dashes. Thanks for any help.

Ciao!

Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE:       Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing and exhaust 
- make offer
                 5 Beauty rings for 13" wheels, very nice, no dents, packed 
ready to go, $40 (was my cost)

