From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 23 Jan 2004 00:20:09 -0600
Subject: fire caused by sharp hole in tin

snip ...
>The primary culprit is the rubber line that goes from the fuel tank to the
>front tin, and the metal [fuel] line that passes through the front tin.

>Both of these are directly above the #3 exhaust pipe, which can run red
>hot, plenty hot to ignite fuel.

snip..

>The metal line is subject to cutting by the tin if the rubber grommet
>deteriorates.  I replace mine with a strip of heavy inner tube rubber
>wrapped around the metal line and pushed through the hole.  Much tougher
>and failsafe.
>
>The bad thing about the metal line being cut is that the fuel dribbles on
>both sides of the tin, so you can't put the fire out.  You can put one
>side out, but the other side will reignite it.

For too many years to count, I have used a much better solution for the
problem of the metal fuel line going through the tin.

The origianally designed "protective" rubber grommet is a stupid idea. I
don't use a grommet at all. I have always found the factory parts gromments
to be very thin at the actual rubbing surfaces between the tin and the metal
fuel lines. There is usually a nice big flap on the grommet to hold it in
place on the front and back side of the tin, but a useless limited lifetime
fragile thin edge that is suppossed to protect the metal fuel line. This
thin edge of the grommet wears out really quickly and then the metal fuel
line has a hole cut in it by the engine tin through rubbing caused by normal
engine vibrations.

Instead of a grommet I remove the sharp edge of the tin. I make the original
sharp edged hole into a dull no-edge tunnel. I take a big hammer and a
couple of carefully selected sockets and use them as metal forming dies to
shape the hole into a tunnel. One socket is the tapered "male" that changes
the hole into a tunnel. And the other socket is a little larger and acts
like a receiver. I put the big socket over the hole on one side and I put
the smaller socket on the other side and I hit the smaller socket with the
hammer. The sharp edges of the 2 dimensional hole get rolled over and
elongated into a 3 dimensional tunnel. I get a really nicely shaped smooth
walled tunnel that cannot cut the metal fuel line. I then glue a long piece
of rubber fuel line over the metal fuel line where it passes through the new
tunnel to act as a vibration damper. I have never had the rubber over line
cover get cut because there are no sharp edges to do any damage. And of
course, if the rubber cover is not even scratched, the metal fuel line it is
covering is not even scratched. Most modern vehicle wire and fuel line
passageway "holes" are now made as formed dull no-edge tunnels instead of
cut as sharp edged holes. But not all of them, unfortunately, some idiot
designers still mandate cutting sharp edged holes that need limited lifetime
protective grommets or protective bushing. I suppose that is called planned
obsolecense when the inevitable failures occur.
