Cc: 'type2(-at-)type2.com' List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Fri, 23 Jan 2004 11:30:28 -0500
To: Chris Mills <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] fire talk

Hi Chris,

On 23-Jan-04, at 10:03 AM, Chris Mills wrote:
> Any "normal" car has the tank behind and below the engine. Any leaks 
> spray out under the car with only the back bumper or the rear axle to 
> wetted with fuel. Also I don't think most modern cars will spill the 
> tank of the fuel if the line if ruptured since the lines come out of 
> the top of the tank.

The Ford Focus my employer provides me for business has an immersed 
fuel pump in the tank, with collision sensors to disable the pump in 
the event of a crash. At least VW put the bus tank in a safer location 
in terms of serious collision damage.

The fuel lines in a modern car come out of the top of the tank and 
continue to rise until the fuel enters the engine. Unfortunately, the 
relative position of the engine and fuel tank of a bus make this much 
harder to implement. And even if the lines came out the top... if they 
immediately run under the tank to the stock filter and pump location 
you will still be subject to a siphon effect that would drain the bulk 
of the fuel before the siphon failed.

Perhaps a 75-79 bus tank could be converted to use an immersed pump... 
I will look into doing this for the upcoming FI conversion on the 
westfakia if it seems practical. This could also be applicable to 
non-FI buses if a low-pressure immersed pump were available.

Problem: the entry point of the fuel rail and the exit of the fuel 
pressure regulator in a bus are both below the fuel level of the tank, 
so a siphon effect is not impossible to rule out if a line ruptured.

An immersed pump would probably stop the fuel flow when not running, so 
it would at least be OK on the supply side. The fuel return line would 
need to be plumbed flush into the top of the tank in order to rule out 
any possibility of siphoning from that line.

QUESTION:
Would the result of this would be an increase in fuel vapor in the 
tank? Would that matter? How is this handled in other FI vehicles, or 
is it a non-issue???

'NOTHER QUESTION: What kind of fuel filter is used with an immersed 
pump?  How is it changed, and how often??  On the way to EveryBus2002 
both of the Potts' fleet were stranded in upstate NY due to bad fuel, 
and I don't want to see that happen again.

My employer provides ALL of the maintenance on the Ford, so I only ever 
lift its hood to add wiper washer fluid.

> Neglect. Most of our beloved VW's have been owned by folks who either 
> did not do their own work or did no repair work at all and just drove 
> their VW's into the ground. Either way there seems to have been alot 
> of least-cost-to-repair people out there. Rube Goldberg repairs, parts 
> that don't directly contribute to the engine running being left off 
> (tin for example), and alot of backyard repairs by people who probably 
> couldn't spell their name.

Agreed. At times I've implemented such repairs myself, but I'm treating 
my buses nicer since I learned better. Cheap repairs just aren't cost 
effective in the long run.

> If I was going to redesign the bus system it would be based around an 
> electric fuel pump. It would either include a loop of fuel line that 
> goes up into the elephant ear and then to the engine to stop gravity 
> fed leaks or an in-tank pump with fuel takeoffs on top.

I have an electric pump in the westfakia now, to feed the dual solexes 
that keep its 2L running. On my first outing I had one of the jet caps 
fall out of a float bowl and the engine died... but the electric pump 
carried merrily along continuing to keep the (leaking bowl) filled with 
gas. I was lucky to determine the problem and be able to get the family 
out and shut the ignition off before anything bad happened... there was 
raw gas spraying straight onto the engine tin on the drivers side. Once 
I let things cool down I put the plug back in the float-bowl and 
everything was fine. I am soon going to wire the electric pump to a 
relay on the alternator output, so the pump will not operate with the 
engine off. This will also save the pump from burning itself out if I 
run out of fuel.

I had planned on converting the Westfakia to FI before Everybus but at 
this point it looks like I will be making one more trip on carbs, and 
will be installing the FI in May when its warm outside. But having seen 
Chris's bus, I will be putting that relay in before the bus goes 
anywhere.

> As I am not going to totally redesign my bus system, I am either going 
> to add a normally closed solenoid valve, a cable operate ball-valve, 
> or a motorcycle vacuum controlled valve (GREAT idea) or 2 combination 
> of the two.

Personally, I don't want to see any more electrical mods added to my 
bus than absolutely necessary. But putting a relay on the fuel pump 
seems like a simple conversion and will make the bus a lot safer. A 
collision sensor could easily be added to this circuit of someone 
wanted one.

Since I have to replace the fuel tank anyway to do my FI conversion, I 
will definitely put some thought into converting to a top-feed system, 
and document the process as it occurs.

> I am really enjoying this discussion. Learning lots.

Amen!

Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**
1977 Sunroof Automatic
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.geocities.com/busesofthecorn
