From: mikeprather(-at-)att.net
To: type2(-at-)type2.com (Type 2 list)
Date: Fri, 23 Jan 2004 18:25:16 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] fire talk

Greg wrote:
<snip>
>I am soon going to wire the electric pump to a 
> relay on the alternator output, so the pump will not operate with the 
> engine off. This will also save the pump from burning itself out if I 
> run out of fuel.
<snip>
> Personally, I don't want to see any more electrical mods added to my 
> bus than absolutely necessary. But putting a relay on the fuel pump 
> seems like a simple conversion and will make the bus a lot safer

The only catch is that gas can still flow through a dormant fuel pump thanks 
to gravity. Thankfully I found this out without a fire. 
Shortly after I joined this list I was inspired to change the fuel lines that 
had been in my bus for at least the 5 years I had owned it at the time. And 
yes they were ready for replacement! At the time I was running one of those 
noisy square fuel pumps installed by PO. Since the ignition and engine were 
off I didn't think I needed to worry about gas leaking from the line 
supplying the carbs. To my surprise, gas flowed as if I'd opened a drain 
valve, forcing me to scramble for something to plug the line. 
With a broken fuel line or a loose carb fitting, fuel would still feed the 
fire after the engine and fuel pump had shut down. 
A solenoid such as Richard Beckers mentioned could be wired with a relay. 
Perhaps both solenoid and and electric fuel pump (where applicable) could be 
powered by the same relay.

With FI, I wonder if you would be able to start the bus without the fuel pump 
running.

As far as near-catastrophes wrt to leaking carbs. BTDT twice!! Each time it 
was the little brass nipple on the left hand baby Dell. Yes, I plan to use a 
couple feet of safety wire on that junction when the engine goes into the new 
bus.

My $.02
--
Mike Prather
Sacramento CA
72 Westy Freebie-still in pieces, 
I will drive a bus again someday
85 Suzuki GS700 -Dinosaur bike
95 Toyota Tacoma x-cab 
