Date: Fri, 23 Jan 2004 16:37:45 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re:  Cost Effectiveness of Points Replacement Conversions?

Courtney, Billy, Richard and all the ships at sea...

With new and improved long-chain polypeptide content (that's meat to
you, Beavis), y**r h*mbl* a*th*r spakes thusly (and William, your check
is IN the mail.  Visalia, right?)

In a nutshell, what I was trying to say (in my limited grasp of the
Anglish Languish), is this:  with all the multifarious conundri and
angst-filled pondering out there about whether the points replacement
conversions are worth the expense for the destitute bus-pilot, I submit
for your dining and slam-dancing pleasure the fact that a GOOD set of
points and condenser recently set me back about US$15 in small change.
A GOOD points replacement conversion is going for what - US$50, 60 these
days?  By applying my equally limited grasp of mathamatics
(intentionally mispelled, see?) that's around 3.5 to 4 sets of p&c that
just get the boot when kilt, so the money might be better spent on the
points replacement conversion - the days of $5 p&c sets and $100 p.r.c.s
are long gone, and the future doesn't look happy/shiny for points and
their ilk.  How many times a week does The List get questions from
befuddled bus-pilots claiming significant issues with points or
condenser issues?

My bus is a driver, and like the Pertronix ad says "I just LOVE to spend
all MY free time cleaning and adjusting points..."; get with the late
20th Century and go Hall cell and be happy, instead of being a slave to
the yoke of early 20th Century oppression.  There's none of the
unpleasant bending, endless incremental adjustments/rechecking with the
dwell-meter, or poodle-wrestling that accompanies forking around with
points anymore...  If you thought cleaning, adjusting and generally
futzing with points on your bus was a good clean afternoon's fun - try
it in a 914...  For you see, there's not just ONE air-cooled motor
vehicle in the Hayden family stable, there's a '73 Deluxe, a '73 914,
now the wife's '69 Karmann Ghia...  Oh the horror!  And the creeping
dread, that "might" accompany tune-up time.  And don't get me started on
about why I prefer hydraulic lifters to solids either...

It's all kind of moot anyway, the money you spend on the points
replacement conversion is money the smart dude or dudette would be
socking away for a CDI box.  Other than being a time and/or labor saver
(and since time IS money - come to think of it, so is labor), the p.r.c.
really doesn't do all THAT much for mileage anyway.  My humble
experience has shown a 20 - 25% improvement in mileage with a CDI box,
so the ROI is pretty darn quick!  Right, Beavis?

And now a shameless plug for a fine Canadian product I asked about here
a year or so ago.  Courtney - that Porter Electronics points replacement
thing is working very well indeed on the Ghia, although it does not
appear to be a CDI as it was advertised (not enough connections).  It
does appear to have some variable dwell function, somewhat akin to the
Pertronix II that doesn't seem to fit in our dizzys, but maybe I
misunderstood the moaning about that.  The wife loves in the Ghia, but
she was used to points and an 009 - added to a '74 Beetle single vac
dizzy it was doing a nice job in service.  The only thing I DON'T like
about it is this - while the points replacement part of it sure "looks"
like it could function in a stand-alone configuration, but it doesn't...
I thought I may have inavertently killed the other morning, but it was
just a matter of some inattentive fool not snapping the dizzy cap clips
back on when his, errr, their work was finished - Doh!

Thank you for your time, and wishing you-all and your-all's a happy and
pleasant weekend!  Huh-huh-huh-huh...

Jim Hayden
"Uh, stage my cam followers, Beavis..."
www.savethebays.org
