Date: Fri, 23 Jan 2004 15:42:10 -0800 (Pacific Standard Time)
From: Courtney Hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com, type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re:  Cost Effectiveness of Points Replacement

Jim, believe it or not, I haven't installed my Porter system yet, it is
about the last thing I will do before I fire up the big 2276CC engine. I am
really pleased you got one and installed it, cause now I can pick your brain
 :-) You mentioned it has some dwell adustability? Hmmm, sounds interesting.
I was planning on putting it in my SVDA dizzy for my dual webers to enjoy,
but unfortunately my Webers have no vacuum advance, and I have neglected to
send them off to John Connolly to vacuum port them. My next trick is to put
the Porter system into my ancient but gorgeous all mechanical 010
distributor, but there lies the rub, as it is an old cast iron dizzy and
someone told me it won't fit.
My question to you is: TELL ME EVERYTHING ABOUT YOUR INSTALL!!! :-) 
I'm thinking that people told me it won't fit, because the old 010 uses the
two piece points from 36HP engines that have an integral pin in the dizzy to
mount the points on. If I recall correctly, the Porter system just puts a 
donut" around the dizzy shaft doesn't it? The rest of the box and goodies go
outside the dizzy?? Could you enlighten me? My Porter system is buried under
about 4 Rubbermaid bins of parts waiting to be assembled.

Thanks,
Courtney   
 
-------Original Message-------
And now a shameless plug for a fine Canadian product I asked about here
a year or so ago.  Courtney - that Porter Electronics points replacement
thing is working very well indeed on the Ghia, although it does not
appear to be a CDI as it was advertised (not enough connections).  It
does appear to have some variable dwell function, somewhat akin to the
Pertronix II that doesn't seem to fit in our dizzys, but maybe I
misunderstood the moaning about that.  The wife loves in the Ghia, but
she was used to points and an 009 - added to a '74 Beetle single vac
dizzy it was doing a nice job in service.  The only thing I DON'T like
about it is this - while the points replacement part of it sure "looks"
like it could function in a stand-alone configuration, but it doesn't...
I thought I may have inavertently killed the other morning, but it was
just a matter of some inattentive fool not snapping the dizzy cap clips
back on when his, errr, their work was finished - Doh!
 
Thank you for your time, and wishing you-all and your-all's a happy and
pleasant weekend!  Huh-huh-huh-huh...
 
Jim Hayden
"Uh, stage my cam followers, Beavis..."
www.savethebays.org

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of IMSTP.gif]
