Date: Fri, 23 Jan 2004 19:24:35 -0500 (EST)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Barry Wright <bdwright(-at-)cableone.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] engine fire sermon

On Fri, 23 Jan 2004, Barry Wright wrote:

> >The primary culprit is the rubber line that goes from the fuel tank to the
> >front tin, and the metal [fuel] line that passes through the front tin.
>
> This quote comes from Bob Hoover, his solution to the problem is V. neat
> indeed. If you have the sermons it is called engine fires. Bob uses a
> piece of threaded bronze tube  to protect the steel bit of the fuel line
> from being cut. I bet that lasts longer than a hot grommet!

Actually, it's a bit more complex than that.  He uses threaded brass tube
that is commonly used in lamps.  He puts nuts and washers on both sides to
secure it to the tin, then pushes the fuel line through the tube.

Personally, I think that this is a bit "rube goldberg".  If one of the
nuts loosens you will soon have the tube come out and the fuel line
sitting unprotected against the tin again.

An easier and (IMO) better solution is to get a rubber strip about 2" wide
(inner tube rubber works well) and wrap it around and around the fuel line
until its OD is a bit larger than the hole in the tin.  Then squeeze
it in and slide the whole works along the line and through the hole,
leaving about an inch on both sides.  There's no way that this will come
out (rubber has to compress no matter which way it moves) and it provides
a large bearing surface and vibration isolation for the line.  If the tin
starts to cut through it, the cut ends will hold it in place, though I
have two of these that are approaching 10 years old that show no signs of
deterioration.

Inner tube rubber is available along the shoulders of your favorite
highway.  Trucks occasionally blow their tires and the truckers generally
leave the tubes where they died.

The nice thing about my method is that it can be applied without removing
any fuel lines or hoses.

George
