Date: Sat, 24 Jan 2004 19:52:49 -0600
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: Chris Walker <toph(-at-)tophu4u.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 79 Transporter FI having trouble starting and idling -

On Sat, Jan 24, 2004 at 07:10:46PM -0600, Chris Walker wrote:
> When we had our first cold spell she would not start for me cold.  I
> would have to turn her over and then let her sit for 10 minutes and then
> she would start right up. 

My first suggestion is that you have a vacuum leak. the fi engines are
very fickel about leaks. if you did a top end work then you disturbed
quite a bit of "plumbing" that air flows through .very easy to create
a new leak. With the engine running (very carefully) squirt some wd-40
at a joint in the air stream. if the rpm of the engine changes then
you have a leak there. continue until you can find no leaks.

> This has been going on for almost a month.  I
> am still having trouble getting her started and now she is having
> trouble idling.  Once she gets hot she runs well. 

she might run well when hot, but with a leak it will be running lean
and a lot hotter. BTW what do you plugs look like?

> I had the battery
> tested and it came out with flying colors.  The dwell is set at 42
> degrees and the timing is at 7.5 BTDC.  I have hydraulic lifters and
> have them adjusted at zero clearance.

dwell on these engines really likes to be closer to 50 degrees. I
suspect it wouldn't create the problem you are having, but it could
help with gas milage. I assume the hyd lifters are adjusted at zero
plus an extra 1.5 - 2 turns of the adjuster screw per Bentley?

> Would a new coil make a difference?

I kinda doubt it, but if it makes you feel better pick one up, never
hurts to have one known good coil in the pack if you ever need it.
  
> Shouldn't the cold start valve kick in when it is cold?
 
yes it should. have you confirmed that it's not working? but if there
is a good vacuum leak the cold start valve can't compensate for the
extra air getting in the system.

> Why does the engine start after it sits for 10 minutes after an intial
> turnover with no firing?

I haven't the slightest, but VW's are quite strange creatures :)

-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
1979 Sportsmofakia 2000cc                        www.fasterlaster.com
1966 Westfalia SO-42 "Butch"
