From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 25 Oct 2002 18:03:05 -0500
Subject: Sad, Sad Bus Story Fry-day Update

	OK Folks!

	Thanks to all who responded to me personally - I'll give you mad
props in a later communique...

	The little bird who was attempting drive out of state has now been
allegedly grounded by her doctors.  Oh dear, did I just say "her"...  Oh
well - I guess it's out of the bag now.  She was supposed to meet me this
afternoon and deliver the pink, the papers and the bus in exchange for an
undisclosed amount of cash.  I know that sounds pretty bl*w-y and s*ck-y and
the same time (paying to get yer own property back), but I would have had my
bus, and the party would have exited stage left on the Greyhound to northern
climes.  That particular deal is off now, because of the alleged
grounding...

	I need intel here, friends - anyone in the Pasadena / San Gabriel
area, specifically in the vicinity of Valley Blvd. and Del Mar Ave. in San
Gabriel...  The bus will likely be roosting in that neighborhood.  I would
greatly appreciate it if'n you could drop me a periodic p-mail if you see
this bus floating around.  Don't do ANYTHING to spook the driver, in fact I
encourage you to be totally friendly, wave, hi-5, peace-out, nice bus, etc.
Just let me know privately if you see it...  I have other things up my
sleeve, so PUHLEEEZE just be cool to the driver.  If you choose to converse,
just don't let her talk you out of any money -m'kay?  You've been warned :-)

	It's a cream/beige '73, sporting gold-painted MBZ alloys, lightly
tinted windows, beige/tan interior, stoopid droopy chrome eye-brows, and a
Brazilian-style horizontal louvered front air vent (kinda like a v'gon
water-pumper radiator grille), with dark tint turn signals and tail-lights.
If that's not good enough, I can dig up a link or two to some pictures, just
not right now.

	STB stickers for intel, amigos!  Drop any sightings you may have
over at www.savethebays.org at the e-mail link, it will be easier to get you
a sticker.

	Sincerely and a big TIA

	Jim Hayden
	www.savethebays.org
