Date: Thu, 16 Sep 2004 05:36:25 -0700
From: "LilBlauWagen" <wades_wagens(-at-)qwest.net>
To: "craig" <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>, "VB list" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] LONG 1st jerome trip, The other side.

    .....And with that somewhat negative report, i thought id add one to help balance it out.

 Jerome 2004 was as it always is: Never the same. You cannot tell someone how it will be because it
always changes. It depends on who you go with, what year it is,  where different strangers park in
relation to you, wether you get stuck parking next to the crapper, the stage, or the rocket, and
wether your there to get blitzed and pass out or are just interested in winning the raffle bus. This
year was no exception, and I wouldnt miss it for the world.
    We tried to leave at 6 am to hit the cruise at 8am, but with trying to meet up with different
people at different spots, we arrived at home depot at exactly 8:14 am. Son of a%$#(-at-), i woke up
early just to try to make it, so we didnt even exit the freeway, but instead drove on by the caravan
rendevous point with not a bus in sight. I figured we'd be right on their tail and at least catch
the slowest bus in the cruise, so we hauled ass trying to catch up. but I would find out later that
the cruise had not departed at 8am as the flyer said and we had driven right by as they sat around
in the home depot parking lot waiting for.. late people like us? (cant see them from the freeway)
    We stopped at Sunset point, and i was immediately informed that one of the women in our cruise,
driving a oval beetle, had engine problems, and that It was my job to take care of her since all my
other friends seem to be of the "drive it till it breaks, then find someone who can tell them how to
fix it" school.  No biggy, while we were waiting for the cruise to get there, ill just give her
engine a once over and check it out. The short list was as follows: see thru cracked yellow dizzy
cap, Rotor that wobbled 360 degerees, Flooding carb due to the last guy not installing the washer
under the float valve, locking up starter due to overheating engine due to timing set at 30 DEGREES
at idle, crazy adjustments on her carb, etc. So i fixed all that and then we registered at the
*obvious* place, the lady with all the paperwork sitting in the middle of 30 bus people!
We made it to the next stopping spot with no problems besides one person in my cruise running out of
gas due to the fact that he seems to act like his bus runs on air and is gas cooled, if you know
what i mean. Found the albertsons raffle and stood there with only 5-10 other people while the
numbers were read , one of the guys won a grip of tickets, and i saw him win lots of stuff thru the
weekend with those tickets. Had to wait on a person in our group when everyone left, so we got
seperated from the cruise again.
    Stopped on 89a when i saw a stranded 61 green/white kombi. Turned out to be a couple of samba
members from cali. They had been hearing some popping noises or some stuttering so i checked out
their engine and everything was nice and true. Figured on alititude change from cali, bad gas, etc.
Something carb related. While i was checking everything out a couple of people stopped including one
guy who said nothin much more then " well this looks out of my league" and took off. i didnt turn
around to see who it was. Cleaned adjustments etc everything i could without disassembling the carbs
internally, and then my new friends started up their kombi and it seemed to run ok so we all headed
out, another bus in our cruise. 89a is not friendly to lowered buses and a couple of friends in our
cruise were complaining of rubbing tires on the corners. I dunno what the problem was, my stock
height bus didnt flinch =)

    We made it up the hill ok, but my friend and his g/f in their 61sc didnt make it up the hill
without running out of gas on the very top which then caused a domino backup effect and caused craig
to slide and almost hit my friends' squareback behind him. Neither him nor his 'teeny-bopper' friend
were teenagers (both around 30). You may have got the evil eye possibly,  but they didnt mention
mention "insulting you all weekend" craig. Slight exagerration perhaps? I could be wrong. You are
right though, he likes to tailgate.

     We decided not to camp near the rocket area this time, as i wanted to be close to the stage for
once.  Camped with clara, greg noble, everett, and my crew of other friends. We had fun, but i did
think this years jerome was super mellow compared to others, and yes i was up all night meandering
around to different campfires to catch all the action, including the "jump the fiiiireee!" bon fire
spot below the rocket, that craig was stirring up =). My $50 in raffle tickets won me a "its not a
car, its a volkswagen" oval plate and a KFC tub  that goes on your antennae. Better luck next time!
I was however 3 numbers away from winning the Dual kardons, so to the guy who cut in line in front
of me saturday when i went to buy tickets, and then WASNT THERE when his number was called for the
kadrons, you suck! heh.
    Dont know who was bitching about it being too hot, was nice to me, just had to stay out of
direct sunlight for extended time so you didnt get burned. My wife actually wanted a coat on
saturday night. I wondered if she would be the only one in the state of arizona with a coat on
during that time. But she resisted. Had a drunk guy wander into our campsite about 1am and down a
bottle of rum we had sitting there that nobody would drink. He then proceeded to ask a girl in our
camp if she wanted to make out 20 times or so, which was followed by hell no. Then he turned to a
few guys sitting by the fire who will remain nameless, and asked them if they wanted to make out!
hah. Jerome is always what you make of it.
      It started pouring on our way down into cottonwood sunday afternoon, and we got off the road
to cover up some single cab cargo. 2 of my friends were complaining of stretching clutch cables, but
after inspection and adjustment, they decided they would be ok for the trip home. My friends
squareback didnt make it back to phoenix though. This was a 65 squareback I had pulled out of a
field a year or so ago, one owner original paint  car from berlin with original engine, and was its
first time on the road since 1987. I sold it to him because type3s suck. He put new rings in it and
cleaned up the engine. ran great all the way up and 90% of the way back. He heard a ticking noise
and decided to pull over to check it out. That was it, the motor was locked after that. Used my AAA
gold, and had him towed home.

Good times, thanks ABC!

-Wade






----- Original Message ----- 
From: "craig" <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org> Snips

 >i had no idea who to pay, where we
> were going, etc.

> found a disabled bus and stopped with some others, but it had dual
> dells or somesuch. outta my league - travel on!

> found the camp, and was right behind a singlecab (driven by a nice
> couple whose names i never got) which ran out of gas RIGHT at top of
> hill. as i was still ON the hill, this was a problem; my tires would
> not bite on the gravel. then i popped outta 1st and damn near slid
> into a squareback - for which crime i got glares and insults all
> weekend from the driver and a teenybopper w/ her belly hanging out.
> pfah - kids, don't stop so close behind a stick on a hill!

> camped below the missile. interesting spot. uncrowded on friday, but
> the scene of quite a party - those who claim friday was quiet must
> have been passed out!

> would i go again? dunno - i found most of the crowd standoffish and
> cliquish - but i find most people in phoenix are like that.

> and if the abc
> has it later in the cooler part of the  month, my wife might even
> agree to  another year!
> -- 
> Craig K
[...]
