Date: Thu, 16 Sep 2004 13:35:33 -0700
To: VB list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: jerome

judging by my inbox, you are either with jerome or against it ;)

i didn't think my report was negative, just mixed. honest account of 
my time there, nothing more. i wasn't disparaging abc or the event or 
(most ) of the people. i even noted that i will likely go again, and 
further trips might even include family.  but some clarifications:

i do think abc does a good job...  and i know how hard it is to do; i 
booked punk and jazz shows for 20 years - ranging in size from one of 
the cowboy junkies' first us shows (they were a blues band then; 5 
people showed up) to a 2000+ punk street fair in which i did 
everyhting myself - you always have to look at the mistakes of the 
last event and plan for the next.  jerome is, frankly, middle-aged as 
far as events go; if it wants to be a concert event, a family event, 
a party event, a strictly vw event etc it needs to plan on how to 
achieve that and keep it interesting. i personally would resist the 
temptation to turn it into a music fest, or at least keep it to cover 
bands that won't attract a crowd more interested in the music than 
the bus event. it sounds like enuff trouble is had keeping the 
heshers out!

i personally am not bothered by the 24 hour party people - i was one 
till personal finances declared an end to 6-tequila-bottle weekends. 
one of the reasons i was bummed about jerome is that while i am 
nearly 40 and have 1.5 kids, i prefer not to hang with that crowd; 
i'd rather listen to punk and shoot sh*t with people who share a 
similar worldview (let me put it this way: jim ellis is WAY more 
conservative than i am!). sadly, that crowd sees an old codger with 
long hair - one who didn;t show up with booze for all, to boot - and 
says... well, nothing; which is what i did to old farts back in the 
day LOL!

i was really sad i didn't have my son with me on friday night because 
he would have loved the spectacle! so yeah, there i was, missing my 
kid (not my wife - she would have hated sleeping in the van while 7 
months preggo!), watching several hundred people having a good time 
while i nursed a warm beer solo. i have had better times. not the 
fault of 'jerome,' just my feelings.  saturday i didn't bring eric up 
because my parents wanted to spend time with him (it was his 2nd 
birthday). once the fire twirlers packed up and the fights were 
defused sat. was dull anyway. i went to bed early (3 am).

now that i have met some folks, next year i will hook up with them... 
eric can play w/ their kids, and when he goes to sleep i have some 
people to trip over tent wires with as we stumble around.
we'll see if they invite me back to their camp the following year :)

wade kinda made it sound like i bagged on the broken bus - nope, i 
stopped to help, as i carried a spare of EVERYTHING. except dual 
dellortos. or whatever they were; i have no clue about em. i left 
because the situation seemed well in hand, and over 6 other cars had 
stopped to help. i was just in the way.  i >would< like to apologize 
to one of wade's friends: rereading my first post, the comment about 
'teenybopper w/ her tummy hanging out' referred to her lowcut shorts 
and tank top, the britney look sorta thang. but it could be read as 
my disparaging her physical appearance, which was not my intent. i 
dated a bulemic for 6 years; i DON"T insult women based on anything 
but personality.
   however, she DID insult me, and didn't have the courage to say it 
to my face; i was not 20 ft away when she said something to her 
friends along the lines of "there's the idiot who nearly ran into us; 
when you take off the ebrake you need to make sure you're in gear 
moron." i had actually felt REALLY bad about almost mowin' em down, 
and would have apologized if she said that TO me and not AT me. i saw 
the squareback driver several times and almost went up to apologize 
to him, but he would glare at me, so i chickened out !   anyways, i 
hope they don't have any permanent hard feelings. and wade, your 
friends in the lowered singlecab? i thought they were very nice, and 
wanted to talk to them more, but only ran into them once or twice 
during the weekend. maybe next year.

anyways, schedules willing, i will be back next year; jim ellis 
posted a photo of me and my kid on the samba, so you all can know 
what i look like - either say hi or chase me off with a tent pole. i 
can take it either way =)
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
