From: Beto Pina <type2guy(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 16 Sep 2004 18:15:38 -0700
Subject: Re: Re: [VB] jerome trip

> We had the pleasure of hosting Rachel, the Piqa's, JP, Greg Mogle and Tom
> Buese on Thursday. Rob Laffon flew in to PHX and arrived at camp on Friday
> nite.

What the hell is a Piqa?  lol

Anyways....I'm also a firm believer that Craig's experience would have been much more pleasurable had we met up on Friday rather than Sunday.  Shows like that have never been a whole lot of fun for me when solo.  Only over the past few seasons I have actually gone out and met many of these people in internet land.  I have always been somewhat of a loner, and stuck to a relatively small circle of bus people up until a few years ago.

Honestly I had great time at Jerome.  I still enjoy BBB the best, due to the site and weather, but then again, I usually have kids with me, so I am biased.  I did notice one thing this trip, my personal view is that for me these shows have now become more about the people, rather than the buses.  I maybe made a few passes the entire weekend through the sites.  Supposedly to look at buses, but mainly just to stretch my legs and take my girls for a walk.  I look forward to seeing friends I havent seen in months, and meeting up with new faces.

Yeah it was hot at dusty at times.  Loud some, quiet others.  It's Jerome and we look forward to it all year.  Make the drive, get there open up the door and get swarmed by friends.  Step out in the heat and dust then wonder what the hell am I doing here.  Settle in, set up camp, eat, shoot the chit, see a bus get won, then pack up and head home.  As we bake while crossing the desert, we say that no way am I making this hot ass drive again next year.  But once all the dust and grime makes its way down the shower drain, we forget all the bad things and look forward to next year.

See y'all in January.....

Beto
60Std.-finally unloaded the roofrack today....
Murrieta, CA
