From: "Big Bus Mike" <cobuskatier(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 17 Sep 2004 07:37:55 +0000
Subject: Jerome Trip Report pt 2 (long) 

Part 2

After setting up camp, I decided to walk around and see who all was there. I
bumped into the Colorado VW Bus Club contingent (funny story about bumping
into people...ask me sometime). I made the rounds, met some cool people,
said hi to friends I haven't seen in a while, and came back to camp and
noticed how mellow the whole event was compared to the past couple of years.
As the sun went down, more VW's of all shapes and sizes rolled in, making it
increasingly difficult to find our campsites. (the beer didn't help either)
We met some extremely cool people who could Jam on the guitar, and we had a
good 'ole time playing Skynard, Tom Petty, The Beatles, and various other
artists mixed in... We were all kinda messing around when this girl from
Cornville (next town over from cottonwood) sat down and started jamming to
some Sublime songs. She had so much talent she made us look like chumps. (no
offense guys!) It was about that time that our friends Ray, Jen, and her son
Dalen Rolled in. (here comes another one of those "dont try this at home...)
Drunkenly running across the campsite in the complete and utter darkness, I
ran to Jen's bus, guiding them into our campsite. As they set up camp, I
chatted with them for awhile and then we proceded to wonder around from
campsite to campsite, hanging out with people from VTO, The Last Resort, the
ABC, The Co Bus Club, and our fellow buskatiers, Lisa Boyd, Richard & Dawn,
Lou & Liz, Jmma, and Rob Lafoon. Just about the only place I didn't end up
was with the Terrible 2's, who were unusually quiet (comparatively)  for
some reason. I turned in at sometime around 2am, only to be awoken by the
gargantuan 3 cyllinder engine in the mining museum on the hill backfiring
(seems to be tradition with me...)

Saturday was full of the traditional Jerome happenings. Slow drags, Raffle,
Auctions, Mine Tours, B.S. sessions, meeting new people, making mental notes
who NOT to camp next to next year (something not right about the people on
both sides of our camp... someone back me up here)
Others have gone into detail about the actual happenings of the Jerome
Jamboree, so I'll leave that part up to them... Saturday night brought more
raffles and auctions, along with a new happening for Jerome... a live band.
Don't get me wrong, I am a fan of almost every type of music. The funny
thing about the band at Jerome was they really didn't fit the ambiance of a
vw bus campout. They were more of a acid trip, huge bonfire, screaming mimi
style band, which didn't really mesh with the campout's groove. I think
mabye they broke down on the way to burning man... anyway, the band was
talented, but pushed more people away than it drew closer, except for a
select few...you know who you are! (aaaaaREXcheeeewwww) Rumors began
circulating about pouring sugar into the gas tank of the generator... but
alas, the band played an encore to all 10 people still watching... oh well.
The funny thing is, besides a few exceptions, they were playing songs that
really weren't popular when they were popular. To each their own. I wondered
away from the cerebrial assault and torwards the warmth of a welcoming
campfire. I stood around the firepit that VTO had assembled for awhile,
meeting many a cold, drunk stranger, wondering torwards the fire like a moth
to light. Somewhere inbetween the sun going down and my passing out I recall
being chased by a gang of children trying to take my glowsticks, and in the
process, having a coming together with Darell P. of the Colorado VW Bus
Club. (<-- Yet another "don't try this at home...)  After making sure Darell
was okay from my linebacker style tackle, making sure again, having Liz, a
RN check him out, me following darrel around the rest of the night to make
sure he didn't have any reprocussions from our get together, and Darell
repetadely claiming he was okay, I decided to take it easy and pass out
before I could do any more damage. I recall chatting with JP from
Albuquerque about how he thinks I look like an idiot but my emails suggest
otherwise... (I try) Shortly there after, I was walking around looking for
something to do and someone to hang out with, and noticed that almost
everyone was asleep or passed out. I decided it would be a good idea to get
some rest, so I climbed into my steel refuge, spread out the blankets, and
passed out.

Sunday morning came all too soon, as the sun was already beating at my
curtains, paitently raising the ambient temperature inside the bus to more
than comfortable levels, waking myself up out of discomfort. I awoke to a
beautiful day surrounded by friends and people I care about for the last
time in awhile.

Sunday is always a hard day. It is common knowledge that by mid-day you will
all be heading different directions, wishing for just one more day, one more
hour to be spent with each other. For some this isn't that big of a deal, as
they see each other every couple of months at diffrent events or shows, but
for most, Jerome is a once a year coming together of east and west, north
and south, for a unique campout in a unique setting. I've said it before and
I'll say it again. Its not the scenery or even the buses that keeps me going
to these shows. Its the friendships that are made, the relationships that
are forged over two and a half days in the desert sun that keeps me coming
back. I truly enjoy and miss each and every person that I have made friends
with over the years, and for those three days, everything comes back
together. Everything falls into place...it clicks. Those I'm referring to,
you know who you are, and you should know that you are loved and missed!

The finals for the slow drags were held on Sunday, and VTO's organge
singlecab, on which I was weight ballast, went on to acheve 3rd place
honors. Sensing the return trip, I decided to check my bus over once again.
I went back to the bus, adjusted the valves, reset the timing, and played
with my fuel mixture a little bit, during which I heard the Show trophies
being announced. I heard Jerry Jess call Lou and Liz for best restored Split
Camper, a very deserving bus indeed! I finished up with the valves, and
walked back up torwards the stage to congratulate Lou and Liz. Lou attempted
to hand me a trophy, which I declined to take, due to my hands being greasy
from the tune-up. After telling him I didn't want to get grease on his
trophy he said, "its yours" ........ WHAT??? I won a trophy ??? With my
P.O.S.???? and I didn't even have to cheat or pull any "friends voting in
large group" strings? WIERD! I took the trophy...greasy hands and all, and
admired its beautiful simplicity glistening in the hot desert sun. My bus
won 2nd place in the "unrestored late bus" category, which was quite the
accomplishment seeing the vast competition. I have convinced myself that my
bus is special and beautiful because it is the apitomy of what a bus should
be... Used! Trailers are for boats, and my bus definately doesn't show up to
events on one. It wears its rock chips with pride, and every scratch in the
paint tells a different story.  It definately has a personality not seen in
super restored trailer queens. After the awards was the grand finale, the
Raffle Bus. Each year the Arizona Bus Club dontates a Restored or very
original Split window bus to be raffled off and the procedes going to
charity. This years bus was a Dove Blue 1960 ez camper, all original,
complete with rock chips and paint scrapes. The raffle tickets are a
whopping $0.50 each, so you can imagine how many tickets were sold (and
money raised) The time for karma, blessings, luck...whatever... was RIGHT
NOW! They call out all six numbers one at a time. The process is if you have
the first number to go up and touch the bus. Then the second number is
called, and people w/out that digit peel off, and so on and so on until
there is only one person still touching the bus with the winning ticket. The
first go-round of this procedure claimed no winner, but had two ladies that
had 5 of the 6 right. The very next ticket pulled out had the same first 5
digits, so the afforementioned ladies got another shot, with one bringing
home the gold this time! She was so excited it made all of us excited and
happy for her. After the winner is chosen and confirmed, everyone tosses
their bunk tickets into, around, and all over the raffle bus. They are going
to be spending MONTHS cleaning the tickets out of that one...

After the raffle, the campsite emptied out faster than a college party being
raided. We all made the rounds, saying our thanks and goodbyes, pledging to
do it all again next year. I didn't want to leave, but the long drive home
was urging me to head out, so I packed up, said my goodbyes, "kicked the
tires and lit the fires"

The trip home was rather uneventful. I caught up with Mike Viscut from Cali
heading north on hwy 89a, and cruised with him from Sedona to Flagstaff. At
I-40 we parted ways, honking and waving our buses saying "see you next time"
in their symbolic gestures. The haul from Flagstaff to Albuquerque went
smoothly, with more power and speed than coming out, due in large part to
having my valves and timing adjusted correctly (the tailwind didn't hurt
either) I stopped in Painted Desert / Petrified Forest N.P. to admire the
scenery and catch up on my reading (Edward Abby's "Monkey Wrench Gang")
Nothing like reading a book about Arizona / New Mexico in Arizona / New
Mexico... Headed out of the N.P. around dusk, as I had a goal to make...
Albuquerque before midnight. I rolled into the west side of Abq. just after
10pm, and called Shawn, who I had been text messaging previously. He invited
me to spend the night there, which I did. I really appriciated the hot
shower and nice soft guest bed. Thanks Shawn and Cynthia! We all stayed up
and watched "the punisher" a movie inspired by the comic hero... I'm not
much on movie reviewing, but I wouldn't spend any of my money on that one...
but thats just me. Shawn cant comment because he fell asleep halfway
through...

Monday consisted of waking up, eating a wonderful breakfast (thanks
Cynthia!) and cruising around with Shawn while he attempted to get the final
detailes for Buses & Balloons (www.aaavwclub.com)  ironed out. We found a
couple of sweet looking rust free original paint bay windows on an obscure
road in Abq, and Shawn left a note. I can see it now... Shawn rollin in an
original paint Green / White '71 deluxe!  Gotta work on that suspension
though...SLAM IT!!! (hums the lowrider song in his head) Mabye Gilbert will
pimp the other one... but I digress...

Left Albuquerque around 3pm, cruised all the way home with no problems.
Driving through Denver at approx 1am, I noticed a fleet of police cars
coming up fast. I thought I was going to get hassled by the man for being a
long haired Tye Dye wearing, vw bus driving, greasy dirty hippy, but they
just buzzed right on past. Then another flew by... then another... and
another. In total I counted 15 cop cars passing me in one heck of a  hurry.
At 38th ave & I-25 I found out why. There were cops EVERYWHERE on both sides
of I-25 and at least one on each on ramp, most with spike strips and
shotguns in hand. Some looked at my bus with a marked curiousity, and a
burning look of desiring to pull me over, while others didn't notice my
presence. I assumed there was a high speed pursuit coming up behind me, and
I decided I didn't want to be anywhere near that many cops when it was all
over, so I just drove on through, and didn't let the morbid curiousity get
the best of me... I stopped at Johnsons Corner to play "Big Game Hunter"
(another wierd tradition I have) I spent my $0.50, was satisfied, and went
home.  I rolled into the driveway around 2am, shut off the bus, went inside,
fell face first onto my bed, and fell fast asleep.

Thanks again to everyone who made this trip possible, memorable, and
unforgettable. I look forward to doing it all again next year.

Laters
Mike Hanson

_________________________________________________________________
Express yourself instantly with MSN Messenger! Download today - it's FREE! 
hthttp://messenger.msn.click-url.com/go/onm00200471ave/direct/01/
