From: "Dorinda & Mark" <witwicki(-at-)telusplanet.net>
To: <Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 22 Sep 2004 21:09:03 -0600
Subject: Re: [VB] Powder coating parts a home??

> The problem is to do the powder coating right you need to sandblast the
> parts first to give the coating a roughness to grip.  Otherwise the 
> coating  will
> peel off easily.
Actually we have powder coated over polished chrome and have excellent 
results. It is true that sandblasting is the best prep but you can sand or 
wire brush the parts as well with good results. We have coated all the drive 
train, suspension and undercarriage on a 73 super with great looking 
results.

>  If the parts are an exterior item getting them first Marine  Zinc 
> Primered
> is a must before the color coating.

Never heard of that being recommended, eastwood does have a primer powder 
for first coating if needed


 Powdercoating is
> only supposed to be good on the shelf for  about 6 months, after that the 
> powder
> cakes up badly, but this shop has figured  out how to repowderize it!

What? ....its powdered plastic. If the powder is caking up someone isn't 
storing it properly.
I have powders that are at least 5 years sitting and have never seen it cake 
up.


>  So far over 30 rims we have PCed and none have had air leakage  issues!
The powder is very smooth when cooked so it should be a great seal, I think 
those guys just didn't want to do the work.

As far as the powder coating process goes it is the same as painting. its 
all in the prep work. We have always stripped the parts(chemical/abrasive) 
and if we could, it was put in the sandblast cabinet to give it the "tooth" 
for the powder to cling to. The parts then get wiped down with acetone and 
hung up.
   The coating process is easy, you clip the electrode onto the part and 
spray (a monkey can do this part) the powder is charged as it goes thru the 
gun and it is attracted to the part. It will actually wrap around to the 
back of the part all by itself. You can see the powder sucking on to the 
part. Unfortunately it can also attract hair and other static dust buddies. 
After that it goes into the oven and bakes for approx 20min. After you take 
it out of the oven and the item cools you can use it .
  There are so many color combinations with the powders it boggles the mind. 
Luckily the wife only wanted black on everything we did on her car. i have 
more colorful plans for the bus.
Mark 
