Date: Fri, 17 May 2002 10:28:10 -0700
To: "Phil Gowdy" <philgowdy(-at-)sympatico.ca>,
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Rebuilt Motor Won't Accelerate!

At 08:12 AM 5/10/2002, Phil Gowdy wrote:

>This am I fired it up for the first run up. Started good and after 
>adjusting timing and idle and checking dwell I go to take it for a spin. 
>Slight hesitation in first gear, shift to 2nd and It's like hitting a 
>wall! I feather the gas but the engine doesn't want to take it.
>If I floor it, it sounds like it will back fire through the carbs. Can 
>only get about 15-20mph in second.  don't know what to proceed with.

Sounds like the idle circuit is working and perhaps the accelerator pumps 
too, but not the main fuel circuit.  Will it accelerate beyond 20mph if you 
pump the pedal continuously?  That would be a hint that the accelerator 
pumps are working.

I'm assuming the stock Solex dual carbs here.  There is no easy way that I 
know of to test that the main fuel circuit is working.  What should happen 
is that vacuum in the venturi should pull fuel through the the hole in the 
nozzle assembly that sticks out into the venturi.  You might be able to 
verify it visually by removing the covers from over the carb throats and 
looking down into the carbs while you open the throttle (significantly) 
with your hand, engine running.  Of course, this could get you into big 
trouble if the carb backfires, so I would wear goggles and do it a few 
times without your head over it first and see if you think at that point 
that a backfire is likely.  You should see fuel coming out of the little 
nozzle (not the thin brass one but the wider one which opens downward that 
is blocking your view of the lower throttle plate).  If not, suspect a 
plugged main jet or empty float bowl.  If you go as far as removing the 
carb, you can take the top off of the carb and with fuel in the bowl, shoot 
a little compressed air up through the nozzle in the venturi and you should 
see air bubbling up from the main jet in the bowl.  Again, wear goggles and 
proceed cautiously.

-David

