Date: Fri, 17 May 2002 11:04:49 -0400
From: Michael LaBarge <mlabarg(-at-)uoft02.utoledo.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>,
Cc: jeremy hughes <yinzsjagoffs(-at-)hotmail.com>,
Subject: Re: [T2] Acceptable speeds

lets be realistic your gonna do what every one else on the list has done
ME INCLUDED!!

I  got my bus while I was still collage, (1998)
 and when ever I would go "home" (about 200 miles)
I'd run it wide open, (usually runnin the "front door"
for some trucker trying to make time)
"DA-BUS" was/still is a stock '78,
the previous owner had removed the fuel injection,
replacing it with a Weber "dune buggy carb"
lost the CAT, and put a "MOZNA BIG BORE" muffler on,
he was an idiot but that's another story, any way
70 MPH or higher was my rule of thumb on good old I-75.
and I was haven a blast, running joke with the boys,  was if
we did a road trip in DA-BUS I'd cover gas but every one
would have to pichen in for the case or two of oil I'd go through.

then on one fateful day (visiting mom in Cinny) I went to back on
to my "work" ramps so I could do ________ I forget exactly what now
and "pop" yah that quiet so I figured hay the bus is still running I can
make
it bake to Toledo (200 mi) well we, DA-BUS & I, made it about 170mi
on our own (-at-) 55 -60 mph. that's when she started smoken......
I was young and stupid, so I said she'll make the last 30 mi. if I just keep
it
at 45-50.

well we all learn at some point.. she made it another 17 mi. before
she dumped the oil, and I called the tow truck to get us home.

She sat for a year, (remember I was still in collage no $), and when
my (then girl friend now wife)'s car started to die (like all water coolers
do)
we did the math  and  went for parts...
I spent the next month learning how to take apart and rebuild a T2 engine

Two months latter we drove (Toledo, Ohio to Boston, MA) to my best friends
wedding, That's when I turned in to my Mom, we drove 55 the whole way,
and it now takes me 4.5 hours to get to Canny from Toledo, but I do it for
the
love of the Bussen life!

basically I said all that to say this,
you  cant really appreciate the "COST" of hot roding in your bus until
you spend a few nights under around and over your engine dismantling it and
rebuilding it because the valve you dropped  smoked the head and destroyed
the piston.
then and only then do understand the damage that is caused by somthing the
sise of a baby spoon.

in closing my davice is this. if you must roll at 65-80 MPH, go ahead,
do it, have fun, and enjoy your self, but have an extra $1,000.00 in the
bank
to pay for membership in to the  "ben there done that club" that all long
term Bus
oweners belong to.

good luck!

Mike and Adrienne LaBarge

and of course:
                        DA-BUS



