To: "Bryan \"bc\" Castles" <bc(-at-)version3.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "Theodore Reshetiloff" <TReshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com>
Date: Fri, 17 May 2002 12:55:16 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Acceptable speeds


     When you start hopping up a type 1 you have to consider all the other
increased stress loads. This is where balancing helps. I used to run an
1835 in my 66 in the 80's. I didn't have any guages on that bus but I put
75k on the motor before a caddilac  t-boned me at an intersection. I ran an
external oil cooler to keep the temps low, but I often wondered about head
temps. Perhaps others have had more experience with the type 1. I generally
stay as close to stock as is reasonable, which is why I went with the type
IV.
     How much $$ are you looking to spend on a motor? That will sort of
determine how far you can go with modifying a type 1. To go big in type 1
may be more costly then a stock type IV. But you will have to get the
mother in the bus which I have never done.
     If you build a bigger motor you should think of where you want the
power. I sometimes get this one mixed up but generally if you increase the
stroke you will get more tourque which equals better acceleration. If you
go bigger bore you will gain more top end. It sounds like you are looking
for highway cruising so I would look at bigger bore and maybe slightly
larger crank. Think about cams. If you go with big valve heads you may want
a higher lift cam to open those puppies up. Perhaps a higher ratio rocker
set up too. Get case savers and have the motor drilled out for full flow
oiling and  an external cooler. I am not a big fan of extra sumps because
it just gives you more oil to get cool. If you look in the archives I think
there are a number of worksheets for calculting displacement and then
determining the right cam. I would start with displacement then decide on
heads, a cam, carbs, exhaust. Hydraulic lifters may be the way to go but I
have heard people complain they can float at high rpms. I have never had
hydraulics so I couldnt say for sure. You may also be limited in the types
of cams available for hydraulic lifters.
     Maybe you should ask the vintage list guys. But surely there are some
of you guys out there running sooped up type 1's in your 68-71 Bays? Lets
hear about it!!

Theodore Reshetiloff
Cambridge Associates LLC
'78 Westy Possum
treshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com



                                                                                        
                    "Bryan \"bc\"                                                       
                    Castles"             To:     <type2(-at-)type2.com>                      
                    <bc(-at-)version3.        cc:                                            
                    net>                 Subject:     Re: [T2] Acceptable speeds        
                                                                                        
                    05/18/02                                                            
                    12:19 PM                                                            
                                                                                        
                                                                                        




David Schwarze said:
> Then I'd recommend a well-built type1 that is designed to run all day at
> 4000-4500rpm.  That probably means a warm cam and counterweighted
> crankshaft at a minimum but someone smarter than me would need to give
you

Do you think switching to hydraulic valves will give me more life in this
type of use?  I don't really like adjusting valves anyway.  :-)

Then Theodore Reshetiloff said:
>That said I would consider building a mild type 1 motor. >Maybe 1776 or
>even 1835. External oil cooler (full flow of course) dual >carbs. Good
>balancing, mild cam, good heads. Probably can be done >for $1500. The list
>is probably your best resource on motor tips. If you  >really want to go
>fast though you don't want a bus you want a sports car

I've heard people say bad things about an 1835 in a bus...  that it will
overheat more, true?   I figured building a decent T1 over the stock bore
would help me out a lot, but I don't want one that overheats a lot.
I don't really want to "go fast" I just want my bus to cruise on the
freeway
pretty well.

I've thought about it some, and I was steering toward a dual carb setup
before my original post.  I really don't want another VW FI setup ( I have
had some trouble with my square already).  I was thinking that building a
little stroker would be good...   but not sure what cam to pair up with it.
Not sure what head options to look at.  There was that build up articles in
one of the VW mags at the end of the year, anyone remember that buildup
being a good design?

Bryan




----------------------------------------------------------------------
  To UNSUBSCRIBE send any e-mail to: type2-unsubscribe(-at-)pon.type2.com
  To email the admin for list help only: type2-admin(-at-)pon.type2.com
 For additional commands send any e-mail to: type2-help(-at-)pon.type2.com
 Donations help keep the list going. http://www.type2.com/donate.html
----------------------------------------------------------------------






