From: "David Mayes" <mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com>
To: <jwsmith(-at-)globenetworks.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 20 Jan 2002 07:13:37 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] thanks group

Hi John,

I read your message and several things came to mind.

1. Gas in oil.  When I drained the oil from my 67 tipper for the first time,
I had the exact same experience.... the oil was as thin as water.  The other
item I notice was that my #4 cylinder spark plug was completely fouled while
1-3 were ok but did have a bit of carbon.  I told this to a friend and he
instantly said it was a bad choke element and the choke was staying closed.

2. "In the tearing down stage".  I don't mean to sound like a vulture or
some crazed fanatic but if your intent is to make it back to a daily driver
and not use the original parts, please still take your time in the
disassembly and then send me all the old parts :-)  No seriously, any usable
nut, bolt, washer, seal, grommet, etc. etc.  Even the shocks and steering
dampner.  If they have a VW stamped on them, SAVE IT!   I started my 59
double cab resto with 'daily driver' in mind and later changed.  I was lucky
in that I have a hard time throwing stuff away so when I decided to go
overboard, I still had a lot of the og stuff to either restore or at least
use as a reference.


my 2 cents.... but I always pay good $$$ for og stuff :-)

David
http://www.dsquared-dev.com/davem/myvws.htm
(soon with an overhauled web site...)


John S. struck the keys in this order:
>>hi group.
I have been reading the posts for about a month now.  I was lucky enough
to find a '56 double door panel van and am now in the tearing down
stage.  i have been filing all your thoughts and messages so that as my
problems come up, i have answers.
i am havng a problem with my '70 bay window, and was wondering if i
could ask about gas in the oil.....i've been smelling gas recently and i
changed the oil today...couldn't believe it....what would cause this?
even as i was draining the oil, i just watched what appeared to be gas,
continue to drip out....any thoughts?
well thank you and i enjoy reading all your posts.

