From: "David Mayes" <mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 20 Jan 2002 10:42:08 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] 59 dc/sc gastank divider screws and strap pads

Most that have respond to the gas tank divider fastener quest say a phillips
screw.  I think later busses used a machine screw and a nut welded to the
backside.  The 59 double cab requires some form of sheet metal screw.  I
should look at the 67 tipper and verify the later model thing.

So, I'm in need of any og screws that anybody may have.  I think I have some
gas tank felts coming already but as usual, I won't stop the quest until
they're in hand.  Too many times stuff comes and it's either not correct or
never does show in the first place :-(


David

Clara wrote:
that may be one of the cases where they changed teh fasteners used.  yes,
they did that.  On the wiper motor some where installed with the slotted
macheine screws, some with the 10mm hex bolts (same size threaded part, just
the top changed)

Or is this like the splash pan unde rthe pedal of the bus, where some of the
fasteners are one kind (reg screws) and some another (machine screws)

from my original post::<< ok, ar question #2476453.... I put my gas tank in
the dc last night and
 started thinking about putting in the divider panels.  I counted 6 screws
 needed for each panel and then went to look in the parts manual to see what
 size/type fastener should be used.  The manual states a hex head screw but
 in the work shop manual, it shows a guy removing the panels with a screw
 driver and if you look real close, they appear to be a phillips head.
Also,
 there appears to be a washer but it's unclear.  So I got to my sheet metal
 screw bucket and I definitely do not find 12 matching screws. :-(

 Also, from the pics in the workshop manual, there appear to be some form of
 pad that goes between the tank strap and tank... info please!

 So, can anyone tell me what is supposed to be there and then next, I guess
 I'm looking for screws, possibly washers, and some original tank strap
pads.
 Top dollars paid or trades.... you know the drill.

