To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 26 May 2008 09:26:19 -0400
From: mbjeeper(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Strange (to me) engine problem

When I bought this '77 bus, there was no compression on #1 cylinder.? I tore it down, found a collapsed valve seat, and ordered a rebuilt head from Bus Depot.? (The rebuilder was actually in CA--Can't remember the name).
While the engine was out, I re ringed it, new cam and lifters(stock) and all bearings and seals and etc.? Cylinders were really good, looking like a very recent top end job before it was parked in a garage for a decade or so.
The engine has dual Dellortos and an extractor, otherwise all stock.
The problem is that it is not firing on Cylinders 1 and 2.? Cylinders 3 and 4 are great, and will actually pull the bus around.? The engine starts easily and revs OK, so I am ruling out things like the cam timing is off, or has bad lobes.? There is also no blowby when the engine is running.
First thing I checked was spark on 1 and 2.? Good spark at the plug.
Fuel was good, too.
Checked the valve lash.? Correct at .006.
Compression shows 130# or so on each cylinder.? I made a leakdown tester of sorts out of my compression tester and put 50 psi into the cylinders at TDC.? I got what I would call minimal leakage from the crancase vent, and no discernable leakage from the exhaust or up thru the carb.
When the engine is running, I can put my palm over the velocity stacks on the 1 and 2 side and there is NO vacuum at all.? None.
Pull the #1 and 2 plug wires when it is running and there is no change in RPM.
It is apparent to me that the problem is mechanical and has nothing to do with fuel or spark.

The valvetrain looks OK, pushrods are all in place in the rockers, movement looks good.
The only thing thatI can come up with is that the valves are sticking in the guides, but if that was the case, surely I would have lost a pushrod by now, wouldn't I?
Obviously there is something wrong here.? But what?? What have I overlooked?
Thanks,
Greg
3 type 2s
10 type 1s
