To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 27 May 2008 11:02:37 -0400
From: mbjeeper(-at-)aol.com
Subject: More strange to me engine problem; update

When I bought this '77 bus, there was no compression on #1 cylinder.? I tore it 
down, found a collapsed valve seat, and ordered a rebuilt head from Bus Depot.? 
(The rebuilder was actually in CA--Can't remember the name).
While the engine was out, I re ringed it, new cam and lifters(stock) and all 
bearings and seals and etc.? Cylinders were really good, looking like a very 
recent top end job before it was parked in a garage for a decade or so.
The engine has dual Dellortos and an extractor, otherwise all stock.
The problem is that it is not firing on Cylinders 1 and 2.? Cylinders 3 and 4 
are great, and will actually pull the bus around.? The engine starts easily and 
revs OK, so I am ruling out things like the cam timing is off, or has bad 
lobes.? There is also no blowby when the engine is running.
First thing I checked was spark on 1 and 2.? Good spark at the plug.
Fuel was good, too.
Checked the valve lash.? Correct at .006.
Compression shows 130# or so on each cylinder.? I made a leakdown tester of 
sorts out of my compression tester and put 50 psi into the cylinders at TDC.? I 
got what I would call minimal leakage from the crancase vent, and no discernable 
leakage from the exhaust or up thru the carb.
When the engine is running, I can put my palm over the velocity stacks on the 1 
and 2 side and there is NO vacuum at all.? None.
Pull the #1 and 2 plug wires when it is running and there is no change in RPM.
It is apparent to me that the problem is mechanical and has nothing to do with 
fuel or spark.

The valvetrain looks OK, pushrods are all in place in the rockers, movement 
looks good.
The only thing thatI can come up with is that the valves are sticking in the 
guides, but if that was the case, surely I would have lost a pushrod by now, 
wouldn't I?
Obviously there is something wrong here.? But what?? What have I overlooked?
Thanks,
Greg

Thanks for all of the suggestions.
Here's where I am this morning.
Checked the head torque.? The head is not loose, properly torqued and tight.
I took the carb and manifold off of #1/2 side.? Saw no evidence of leakage at the gasket surface, no manifold cracks or warpage.? With a mirror and a flashlight I watched through the intake and watched the intake valves lift off of the seat.? I wasn't able to measure them, but they appeared to be fully open.? Reinstalled manifold (new gasket), ran the engine on #3 and?4 with the carb off of the 1-2 side.? Great vacuum at the top of the manifold on both cylinders at idle.? Reinstalled the carb.? Now I have so so vacuum on #1, nil on #2 at idle, throttle plate closed.? Cylinders still not firing.
I went around the gaskets with propane, and was unable to find any evidence of a vacuum leak.
The carb is working properly by all appearances, acc. pump functioning, good spark at the plugs, throttle plate opening as it should.? No obstructions in the carb or manifold.? Good compression, leakdown shows proper valve seating.? I have changed out spark plugs with known good ones.
I initially finished this engine in December and broke the cam in, then I had back surgery and it sat until Friday of last week.?Although I didn't specifically check, I don't think that I was having this problem then because when I initially started it I found out that the #4 idle circuit was plugged and the engine would have then been idling only on the #3 cylinder, and it was running too good for that.? I fixed the idle circuit, ran the engine for a half hour or so with no apparent problems, and it had been sitting since.

This is not my first engine and I'm embarrassed to say that this one has me stumped.? I am overlooking something, but what?

Greg
mbjeeper(-at-)aol.com
