Date: Wed, 28 May 2008 07:59:11 -0500
From: David Schwarze <dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net>
To: Type2List list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] rpms

I don't know the exact answer to the RPM question but it is almost 
certainly between 3500 and 4000 rpm.  In my opinion, your oil pressure 
is very good considering how hot the oil is getting.  At 260 degrees, I 
think you should be running synthetic oil once the engine is broken in. 
  I'd try to keep the oil temp below 240 until that time.  Once the 
engine is broken in I'd expect those oil temps to drop though.  Your CHT 
sounds okay to me if the sender is at the spark plug.  Overall, I think 
your engine sounds like it is in good condition, just running a little 
warm due to tight clearances.

But, it also might be worth checking your cooling flaps to make sure 
they are opening all the way, check tin sealing, fuel pressure and 
anything else that could potentially make the engine run hot, just to be 
sure.  Many years ago I rebuilt a 1.8L engine and after installation 
found the oil pressure to be very low an oil temp very high.  I took the 
engine back out and tore it down all the way, rechecked the bearing 
clearance, etc. and did not find a problem.  After reinstalling the 
engine I realized I had not set the flaps/thermostat correctly the first 
time and the engine was simply running hot because of that.  What's that 
old saying?  "Some things you have to learn the hard way".  Yup.

-David

Jeremiah Stutte wrote:
> i'm running a 75 FI automatic 1.8 liter bus.  on a straight away at
> 60-65mph what rpm's i would be seeing?  trying to get a feel for my
> newly rebuilt engine and i want to know if my oil pressure is where it
> should be.  also, to see if the oil temp gauge is reading too high.
> with a loaded bus, some camping gear, me and three kids, i was seeing
> oil temps maxing out at 260* F.  oil pressure hung out around 40psi
> sometimes 35psi when i was cruising at 60-65 mph. the oil is 15-40
> dino.  head temps where around 400*-450* the whole time according to
> the VDO gauge.  from what i've read these are fairly inaccurate and if
> i read ratwell correctly too high.
