From: "Joe Luther" <jluther(-at-)alfons-haar.us>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 29 May 2008 07:58:19 -0400
Subject: new guy with a line routing question on 1.8 FI engine

Hey listers;
 
I just purchased my first air cooled and first type 2 since approximately
1993.  I've been working on watercooleds, mostly diesels, since then but
decided to look for a bus for various reasons.  I found that they are a
little more popular (read expensive) these days.  
 
Best thing I could come up with locally was a 75 bay window with the 1800 FI
engine that someone bought non running, thinking it was going to be as
simple as an upright, and they gave up after tearing a few things apart.  I
know a little about FI from my watercooled CIS days with VWs and Volvos so I
thought I'd give it a shot even though my air cooleds were uprights.  It
came with a Bentley and it seems to be all original and the Bentley should
match so that's some help.  I've sorted through a number of things that
could have been a problem and gotten everything back together except for a
few vacuum lines and that's where I need some help at the moment. I know CIS
is very touchy on vacuum, I've bought non running cars before and replaced
vacuum lines to drive them home, I assume this FI is the same way.   
 
I see in the rules that attachments are not allowed, I didn't see anything
against including a link to a photo so I trust that's ok.  The photo = 1000
words thing seems to always be true.  
 
http://img.photobucket.com/albums/v505/jluther888/DSC02857.jpg
 
The Bentley calls it the intake air distributor, I believe. I thought it was
a charcoal filter for gas fumes.  Each side has a larger diameter line on
the bottom and a smaller diameter line on the top, four total lines. The
drivers side top line is missing (open nipple), the pass line is there but
disconnected at the end away from the canister. Hard clear plastic line, not
broken off, I just can't figure out where it goes. I was thinking airbox for
the pass side but I can't find an open port in range of the line. The EGR
valve on the driver's side has an open nipple on top of the housing but I'm
thinking a test cap goes there.  

Can anyone help me out as to where the upper smaller diameter lines go??

Thanks

Joe
