Date: Fri, 30 May 2008 22:13:33 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: That's the breaks (brakes)

Yep, that's the breaks. Sooner or later, no matter how
much we work to avoid it, we gotta work on brakes. I
would say that I don't procrastinate, but this
brand-new master cylinder has been in an un-opened box
on the shelf for easily 10 years. I sure hope it was
well coated inside when assembled!

I got the cooling system all cleaned out and a
spanky-new radiator in place and even installed my new
Bubble-Eater contraption I built to eliminate air
bubbles in the engine cooling jacket.

All that and the brakes were mis-behaving. I still had
to disassemble the right rear and repair the damage
when I allowed the adjustment to get waaayyy too loose
and one of the shoes actually turned sideways. Yes, I
did that. I hate to work on brakes. Furthermore, I
forgot that I had parked it with no brakes and drove
it to work the next day. What a dummy! Made it within
about a half mile of work before I even remembered!
Took the freeway, too. I don't use the brakes much -
mostly because of how much I hate to work on them.

After getting everything squared away and the brakes
adjusted properly, there wasn't much pedal. I bled the
backs, starting with the right - didn't really get any
bubbles. Tried it the next day and the pedal was
normal. A few miles later and it was near the floor -
still had some pedal, but not at all confidence-
inspiring!

I tweaked this and adjusted that, and bled some
more... had a problem with the bleeder screws, for
one. I finally got a good stream of bubbles out of all
4 corners. Pedal was good. Drove to work. About half
way, checked brakes and the pedal was almost gone.
About an inch of good firm pedal. On my way home that
afternoon, pedal was normal again. I checked the
pushrod clearance and loosened it a half turn just to
be safe. Nope.

I finally decided that it must be that time that I
cannot put off replacing the master cylinder any
longer. Climbed under there tonight and drained the
reservoirs, popped the main one loose, the brake lines
and switches came right off, got most of the fluid to
land in the pan, even. Cleaned the stuff up and
reassembled with the new master cylinder. Elapsed
time? maybe an hour, tops. I barely got my hands
dirty. Why do I hate it so much?

Tomorrow morning I will start out early in an attempt
to have the system full of fresh new fluid and clear
of air bubbles before the day gets too hot to work
(about 70 for me!) I just know that this is the part
that will make me suffer. It will be the same old
story - the fronts pump up fine, but the rear circuit
won't even pump fluid with the line disconnected or
the switch off. Either that or the back will just work
out beautifully but the fronts won't pump up. I'll go
back to the store for another quart of fluid - shoulda
bought the gallon in the first place. Ah, well, wish
me luck! 

If you've stuck with me this far, here's a reward for
you: I use a cheapie check-valve type bleeder adapter
and I attach a vicegrip to the brake pedal arm
underneath the bus. I tie a rope to the vicegrip and
that way, I can pump the brakes while lying under the
bus watching the bubbles go through the tube. The
check valve keeps the air out. The vice grip needs to
be finessed a bit to get just the right angle of
dangle, but it sure works slick. I only have to crawl
out to refill the reservoir with fluid. -BaH
