Date: Sat, 31 May 2008 19:53:46 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Just as I suspected (brakes)

Yup. Got out there at 7AM and started the 5 minute job
of bleeding the brakes. Came in a bit ago, at 7PM and
still had no pedal. I guess it's what I was expecting.
Throughout the day I did things like bleeding the
master cylinder and then the proportioning valve. I
ran approx. 3 quarts through with the symptoms
remaining identical to air in the lines. I did pull
the new master cylinder off and open it up, only to
find that it is (was) immaculately clean inside, the
seals and cups are all nice and supple with
appropriate edges. The servo came off also and got
lubed up a bit - it was just like the day I installed
it some 15 years+ ago. I even pulled a wheel off and
watched the wheel cylinder work the shoes. Everything
works - it just won't exert any pressure on the shoes
and calipers. Yup, I got a bunch of foam and bubbles
out and continued on well after it was pure clean
fluid coming out. Started right rear, then left rear,
then right front and lastly, left front. Hopped in and
pushed the pedal all the way to the floor. Uh huh.
Yes, I did re-adjust the rod and at rest, the clevis
pin just slides in or out with no pressure whatsoever.
I think I did everything I could do. I sure couldn't
think of anything left undone!

Next step is probably to get a repair kit for the new
master cylinder and give that a try.

This is why I have been putting it off for so many
years! I've put on new wheel cylinders and been
through two sets of calipers (didn't like the first
set much, but they still work -just unevenly.) Anybody
who has an idea - anything will be entertained at this
point!

BTW- What is the proper method of disposal of brake
fluid? The cans just say as per local laws, but my
local laws hazardous waste pamphlet basically says to
dispose of it properly!

One accomplishment today - while I was under there I
noticed my front shift rod bushing was bushed and so I
replaced it successfully. Yee-Haw! Day not a total
loss! -BaH

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
