Date: Tue, 30 Mar 2010 23:08:00 -0400
From: Kevin H Roberts <kevin(-at-)bopsax.com>
To: Type II List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: valve adjustment

Hey, guys.  Well, the valve adjustment ain't nearly as easy for me as it 
is for most of you guys.  I wasted a lot of time getting set up to work 
, moving a bus that won't run, figuring out the remote starter, valve 
covers, etc., and by the time I got to actually adjusting valves, I ran 
out of time (previous engagement) and had to hang it up.  I'm going to 
get back on it tomorrow.  Part of the problem is that I didn't remove 
the spark plugs as recommended and I killed the battery turning it over 
trying to figure out the valve movement.  That's the first thing I'm 
going to do tomorrow. 

OK, what's the trick to the valve cover clips?  I ended up popping the 
end of out it's hole on the passenger side.  The big clip was so tight 
that I had to remove it to get the valve cover off.  The valve cover 
practically fell off when I did and the seal looked good.  Everything 
was clean on the inside.  But I thought I'd put it back on until I get 
back to it tomorrow.  I couldn't get anything up in there to give me 
enough leverage to pry it back on.   I know there's an easier way than 
what I was trying.  What's the secret?  If I pull it all the way down, I 
can get the clips in the holes, but I can't get anything in there to pry 
it back in place.  There's little room to work with the heat exchanger 
right there.  I even tried it from the top.  If I put the clip in one of 
it's holes and center it where it holds the cover, I can't figure out a 
way to get it back in the other hole.   I know that clip is just 
supposed to slide down over the cover and pop it loose.  Or is it up?  I 
tried both and had no luck.  I'm must be more mechanically challenged 
than I originally thought as I got frustrated and then mad over the 
situation.  And I was almost late for my engagement. 

I only got the number 1 set checked before I ran out of time and 
battery.  Intake: .006, Exhaust: .008!  I figured Exhaust needed to be 
set to .006 too as I seriously doubt that I have the sodium-filled 
valves.  But at least that set was close enough for jazz.  (Inside joke 
there for the list musicians.)  One of the things I love about this bus 
is that I can understand it.  But I have a ways to go before I'm there 
mechanically.  Argghhh...

-- 
Kevin H. Roberts
Chattanooga, TN 
Email:  Kevin(-at-)bopsax.com
Website:  http://www.bopsax.com
