Date: Fri, 2 Apr 2010 13:00:36 +1300
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] valve adjustment and spark plugs

Mike Soultanian featured:
>
>   just be aware that you'll be adjusting your valves in reverse 
>order (4-3-2-1) as the engine cranks over clockwise when you're 
>looking at it from the back.  If you do it using the alternator nut 
>(which is probably the way most people do it), then you can spin it 
>counter-clockwise and adjust the valves in the order 1-2-3-4.

	I'll use this as an excuse to plug anew for restoring the 
good old-fashioned crank handle.  My '73 Devon has an alternator (I 
think as early as any country got that advance) but no slot to poke 
in a crank.  I miss it, and hope to restore it.
	Among the arguments for this method to turn over the engine are :-
		1.  Sometimes the battery will be so low that it 
can't turn over the engine thru the starter motor, but if  that huge 
shunt is not connected, the voltage (>?10V?) available to the 
ignition system suffices to make a half-decent spark which it could 
not do if 'shorted' by the starter motor.
		2.  Some places are sadly bereft of hills - or so I 
understand from e.g. that pretentious 'Zen & the Art of MotorSickle 
Maintenance' which I've never finished.  Absent any hill for a 
rolling start, a suitable vehicle is not always on hand to tow you on 
the flat till you can switch on the ignition at c.10mph, drop the 
clutch in 3rd gear (arguably 2nd; please, not 1st), declutch as soon 
as the motor fires, and then change into neutral when the engine gets 
going.
		3.  There are times, is what I'm trying to say, 
therefore, when you want to start the engine with the crank.  Indeed, 
in some circumstances, your only chance of starting the motor will be 
the good ole CRANK handle.
		4.  And once you have that facility, it's a nice easy 
way to turn the camshaft (adjusting valves in the order 4-3-2-1), 
with no need to remove any spark plugs.
		5.  Some of us oldies harbour a decent nostalgia for 
the early era when crank handles were normally the only way for the 
plains-dwellers to start their engines.  That is not my only reason 
for starting  -  sorry, launching  -  this campaign, but it is a 
reason.
		6.  There are further reasons for the crank.  IMHO 
correct maintenance is encouraged by starting the engine that way at 
some chosen interval; you get a vague contact with the state of the 
ignition & fuel systems, which may go further downhill without your 
noticing if you always sit 12' away using the starter motor.


         I make no apology for my 'bring back the crank' campaign. 
Could it go global?  Could it go viral?  Let's hope not postal  ... 
Should I try for endorsement by S. 'Reload' Palin, Lush Rimbaugh, or 
other opinion-leader?  <:-|

	Anyone socked suitable slots in a '73 or thereabouts, and 
found a ramped nut to replace the useless 30mm hex which I have on 
the rear of my crankshaft?  What years had a sensible nut, with a 
recessed centre and 2 (preferably 3 or 4) 'verticals' with 'ramps' 
between them?  I could of course take off that nut and lean it 
against my bench grinder   ...  could I possibly leave it on and wade 
in with my favourite tool, angle grinder? :-|
	Hold the phone :-[ why not just slap a 31mm hex socket on the 
end of the crank handle?  The traditional 'verticals & ramps' 
face-cam is, I guess, a protection against arm harm from kickback; do 
we need that protection, if we hold the handle aright (not wrap the 
thumb around it), etc?

	As I contemplate the layers of metal I'll have to puncture to 
thrust in the crank handle, I have to admit that, properly, one ought 
to make removable plugs for the new holes in the tin platform, at 
least.

	Whud'yz reckon?

	Cranks of the world unite!

-- 
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
