To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Date: Wed, 2 Feb 2005 06:18:58 -0800
Subject: The full report (long)

Yesterday was a hair too long for my taste. I awoke determined to have 
a finished crankcase by the end of the day. That much, I accomplished.

It was too early in the morning to turn on the compressor when I 
started; I would wake the neighborhood. So I "warmed up" by polishing 
my distributor vacuum can. First, a good cleaning with soap, then with 
a little cleanser. I followed that by clamping a drill in a vice, 
sticking a buffing wheel on it, and polishing with rouge. The results 
were fairly gratifying, but the can is too far gone to look pristine.

After that, it was time to chase down a few remaining pockets of dirt 
and dry case sealant in the business half of the case. I also had to 
make a decision about the gallery plugs. Adrian pulled the old plugs 
behind the flywheel a couple of weeks ago, tapped the ends of the 
gallery, and put it a couple of aluminum plugs. There wasn't any sealer 
visible when I picked the case up, and I hadn't thought to ask him 
whether I should take the plugs out, clean up, and then seal them. I am 
still ignorant about this NPT stuff. I feared that I might spoil the 
work if I took the plugs out to inspect. That's the decision I had to 
make. I decided on a compromise. If I put the wrench on a plug, and 
found it tight, I would leave it alone. But if it loosened without much 
effort, I would take them out, clean, and seal them up.

But I didn't have a 9 mm Allen wrench, and I would have to get one. 
Midway through my cleaning, I also cracked the tip of my waterpic. I'd 
need a new one of those, too.

So midmorning I went shopping. The Allen wrench was easy to get, but 
waterpic tips were nowhere to be found. I tried four drugstores. Found 
one at the fourth, but it was the wrong size; it was for a type 4 
waterpic, and mine's a type 2. Oh well.

The plugs were loose. So I clearly made the right decision, and I 
started to get spooked about what would have happened if I'd made the 
wrong one. Gave the galleries a final clean, gooped the plugs, and 
snugged them down.

Following a bit more cleaning, each case half got a final turn in the 
dishwasher. My wife is in Boston for a few days, so I don't have to 
explain why I've been so keen to empty the dishwasher and put the 
plates away.

Out of the dishwasher, I blew each case half out with compressed air. 
Then I should have taken fifteen minutes to clean the rust off of the 
various studs in each half. Cleaning parts in the dishwasher is a great 
way to create a surface layer of orange rust on steel and iron parts. I 
didn't do it, and now that's what I see when I look at all the pictures 
I took.

Inexplicably, my skull decided that this was an optimal time to give me 
one of those intense headaches around my left (front is front) eyeball 
-- the kind of headache that lasts six hours and is untreatable. 
Cripes, I haven't had one of those in two or three years. My son 
happens to have something for migraines that he gets. He gave me a 
dose, and I waited. After an hour or so, the headache subsided enough 
that I chose to work through the residue.

Next, studs. I removed all the head studs from the case for deep 
cleaning. Now those had to go back on. Not too hard; a lot easier to 
put on than they were to take off.

With the business half bolted up to the stand, I started building. 
Pressure relief valve and distributor drive shaft first:

http://www.ocotillofield.net/dizdrive.jpg

Then dowels:

http://www.ocotillofield.net/dowels.jpg

Followed by bearings, crankshaft, and camshaft:

http://www.ocotillofield.net/shafts.jpg

The bearings seated nice and easy, even though I neglected to scribe 
them. But when I lined up the dots on the gears, the distributor drive 
pointed the wrong way. Now I spent a tense hour or so trying to figure 
out what went wrong. Could the cam gear on the crankshaft be installed 
incorrectly? Not possible; a woodruff key decides where it goes. Could 
Wilson be out of his mind? Possibly, but I doubted that was my problem. 
I spent a half an hour searching my e-mail for a message from a listee 
with hints and tips about getting things lined up. Couldn't find that.

Having had such easy success seating the main bearings, the last thing 
I wanted to do was take them up again. So I decided to push the 
distributor drive up, move it a tooth, and bring it back down. That 
solved everything.

Meanwhile, Fedex had delivered my Loctite. I opened the box and pulled 
the bottle out to read the instructions. Instructions were in German. I 
looked for an English translation on the internet, but couldn't find 
any. Then I remembered that Ratwell said I could call Loctite. Another 
damned decision. I hate using the phone.

A picture on the bottle shows the sealer being applied. Looks like 
working with wood glue. I decided to squeeze a bead and not sweat it.

Now the halves went together. Not happily; things didn't want to line 
up and I could have used a couple more hands to hold the cranks. But it 
eventually went together. I torqued the bearing bolts, and then went 
around the perimeter with the smaller bolts. As I worked my way across 
the bottom, bad news. The oil pickup was cocked in the case.

This made me unhappy. By now it was 8 pm. I'd been at this for 13 hours.

I chose to loosen up all the case bolts and see whether I could tap the 
pickup into place. That worked, but whether I did any damage to the 
Loctite seal, I won't know for a few weeks, when I test run the engine. 
I don't think the halves moved.

Torqued the bolts once more, and I was done. I had wanted to put the 
pistons on without rings, and slide the cylinders into place. But I had 
had enough for one day. I went to bed wondering whether the cap behind 
the camshaft had seated properly.

I'll know soon enough; it's another day.

http://www.ocotillofield.net/casedone.jpg

Mark
