From: "Arnaud -" <turbo_2cv(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 03 Feb 2005 17:55:43 +0000
Subject: Oil leak

Hello,
Ever since I got my bus in November 03, the engine has been leaking oil. The 
leak is observed when I stop the engine: about 15 drops on the right and a 
bit less on the left. It makes two parallel lines, one on each side of the 
crankcase. On its trip to my home, it used about 2 quarts for 2200 miles, so 
I believe that it is not burning oil but mostly leaking it.

I had a look down there and it *seems* that most of the oil leaking from 
between the case and the cylinders. Pushrod tubes looked soaked too. So here 
comes my usual list of questions to the experts :)
- Is that a common leak place ?
- What it the cure? Torque the heads. What else could it be ?
- I have a 1600 dp, can I torque the heads without dropping the engine ? I 
saw the torquing sequence in bentley, amazing... I wonder how many people on 
earth remember the sequence by heart..

Some info:
- engine was rebuilt 22k miles ago. I am pretty sure that PO never went 
through the very hardwork of bringing the van back to the shop after 500 
miles (like the rebuild receipt says) to have the heads retorqued after the 
rebuild.
- One head was changed at rebuild
- All exhaust valves were changed at rebuild, apparently not intake valves
- On the side with the biggest leak (right) compression is at 88psi on both
- On the left side compression was at 105 and 110psi.
- Valves have not been adjusted in a a long time. I know it is *way* overdue 
and I will not drive again before I do it. Can that explain part of the low 
compression ?

I originally received the Haynes manual from PO and had no opinion about it 
since that was the first repair manual I saw for the bus. After reading 
about Muir and Bentley I decided to get them (ebay 7$ and amazon 29.29$ 
respectively). Now I understand the difference. These two books are great 
and complement each other really well.

On the brake side, i got the rebuilt caliper, four brake hoses and other 
brake stuff from bus depot yesterday. Looking forward to break my nose in 
the windshiled and hopefully brake straight after the installation that 
should happen over the week end.

cheers

- Arnaud
