From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: <stonemanvt(-at-)adelphia.net>, "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 11 Jan 2005 21:37:55 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] to install thermostat? yes - no - maybe

You are correct on the operation of the thermostat. Regardless of the air temp
that the bus is run in the thermostat should be retained. Air cooled engines
appreciate being at proper operating temp ASAP. The engine was engineered with
the expansion of the metals it's made of in mind. The perfect engine is not at
its' proper tolerances until it's warmed up. The faster that happens the
better. The 1.7L engine has solid lifters and the valve lash is set with the
idea that when the metals the cylinders, heads and studs are made of reach
optimum operating temperature the final lash setting will be correct. Bad
things happen when lash is too tight. Imagin the idea that when you thermostat
is removed your engine may not reach optimum temps unless you always take long
drives and never take a short jaunt to the market to replenish the liquids in
your fridge before the big game on TV.

It's also important to get your engine warmed up quickly to prevent build up
of condensation in the crank case, better known as the mayonnaise syndrome  If
condensation collects in the crank case, it gets whipped to a frothy foam as
the engine runs and takes on the consistency of a tasty condiment. Good on
sandwiches, not good in engines. The best prevention is to warm your engine
quickly so the condensation can evaporate.

I haven't yet heard a story about a malfunctioning thermostat doing immediate
harm to an engine. The system is designed to fail with the flaps in the open
position. Your concern about the t-stat getting full of gunk is valid but if
you look at the design the gunk will only prevent the bellows from
contracting. This would only prevent the flaps from closing. The easy remedy
for the gunk situation is an occasional spray of degreaser and a good hosing
down in the driveway. If you do it right over the oil spots on you drive it
will help clean them while you're at it.

Above all, if you feel compelled to remove the t-stat, do not remove the
flaps. They have the vital function of directing air through the oil cooler.
This is a big deal on type II engines.

On a final note; VW engineers designed the bus and bug engines to be low cost
and efficient. I don't believe anything went into or onto these power plants
that didn't need to be there. I say, Why second guess wisdom? Or, If it ain't
broke don't fix it, (only inspect it :~)




  Dismantilling a 1.7 type 2 and am wondering how effective the thermostat
will
  be later on when it gets full of gunk and such. Help me on the principle of
  the thermostat. When cold is it contracted ,which keeps flaps closed, then
as
  it warms up it expands which opens air flaps. Is this correct? Seems that
if
  Bus is used only during warm weather it could be used with thermostat
  disconnected? Thanks Michael
