From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: <jbaley(-at-)mail.wsu.edu>, "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 11 Jan 2005 23:49:41 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] to install thermostat? yes - no - maybe (reply is

Jamie,
Need a little more info to figure this out. I'm assuming you have the T-stat
installed and working correctly and you are still getting mayo?
Do you normally change the oil before the trip?
Do you know what your oil temps are?
Is it typically cold and damp at your coastal destination?
IS your crank case vent hose properly connected from the vent at the top of
the case to the "S" tube between the AFM and throttle body of the fuel
injection. If you are running carbs, I don't know where the hose should go. My
only experience with carbs is on water cooled American made stuff. On these I
found it worked best if the vent hose was routed into the air cleaner, then
elbowed to dump the vent immediately above the edge of the throat of the
carburator. Some some experimentation was always needed to find the best spot
so as not to disturb airflow into the carb, yet still get a little vacuum on
the crankcase. If rings were in good shape we could often get away with taping
a port directly into an intake runner but the carb would need to be jetted to
handle the extra air in the combustion chamber. In the pre-smog days many cars
would use a road draft or pitot tube to draw a vacuum on the crank case.

I think you can tell from my questions what I am getting at.
1. It's important to change oil on a regular basis not only to prevent
breakdown of the oil, but to remove persistent condensation trapped in the
oil.
2. Oil temps need to be maintained high enough to evaporate volatile residue
and moisture from the oil yet not hot enough to break down the oil. I've heard
180 to 210 deg f. is good but you will get some debate on the ideal temp. I
have seen desert buggies in Phoenix Arizona 110 deg. summer with Mayo syndrome
from running monster oil coolers without t-stat bypass valves. It would
usually show up in August or July during the monsoon season when humidity was
high. These guys would argue that they were running there engine all out in
roasting conditions. None had oil temp gauges. I would say that monster cooler
is like doing jumping jacks in a freezer naked; kinda hard to break a sweat!
We would install the t-stat valve before the cooler and the mayo would quit
forming.
3. Crank case must be properly vented to allow the evaporated brew in the
crank case somewhere to go lest it just recondense in the engine when it cools
off after running.

There are probably more ideas on how to rid your engine of the condiment
malady, but these 3 points usually clear thing up.

Sorry I got so wordy on this subject but I think thermostats and flaps are
important! This comes from a guy who's first experiences with vw was hyper
desert beetles in the deserts of Arizona. Temp control is good!


  ----- Original Message -----
  From: Jamie Baley<mailto:jbaley(-at-)mail.wsu.edu>

  So what is the remedy for the mayonnaise syndrome?  I don't drive my '79
  westy too much in the winter; however, I do notice the mayo on the valve
  covers or oil cap the few times I drive to the coast in the winter and
  decide to check/adjust my valves for the 600 mile ride home.  I don't
  see these symptoms in the summer.  Whad up with that?
