Date: Sat, 26 Feb 2005 00:49:35 -0700
To: VB list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: phoenix guru needed

ok, i'm looking for the impossible: a RELIABLE phoenix az-area engine 
guru... who is flexible on money... who makes housecalls! LOL!!

seriously though, folks - the Dreaded Aluminum HellCase is out again, 
due to oil dripping, flywheel-seal eating, vibrating and in general 
pissing me off.  i also need to lighten one piston, which hopefully 
will take care of the vibration. i know one piston is 5g heavier than 
the others; it was a replacement (thanks again, ronnie!).

my dilemma is that , while competition engineering or karl's kustom 
are happy to take my torn-down motor and build me either a short or 
longblock - and both persons i spoke with were well-acquainted with 
the happy times from aluminum blocks - their (reasonable) price of 
$500-600 aint in the budget.  not only that, but i want to SEE what 
they find out is wrong, not just hear about it. fer instance, 
nwconrod CALLED me when they worked on the case 2 years ago, and drew 
me a diagram of what problems they found, and what fixed it. had i 
lived in seattle, they would have gladly shown me.

steve at bap had kindly agreed to do something along these lines for 
me, and then bap sh*tcanned the motor dept. steve now hustles 
building motors for a living, and no longer has the luxury of doing 
charity work for bottomfeeders. the shops mentioned above have a 
time/money thang going that me hanging around would mess with.

so yeah, i need a guy or gal with a solid rep who is willing to come 
over, watch me tear down as far as necessary, and watch me build back 
up. no greasy hands need be had. money can be negotiated, or they can 
root thru my 36hp stash for NOS parts. what a deal! :) i could travel 
with the motor to their house, but unless it was a weekend 2 toddlers 
would be along.

barring this magic genie popping out of the woodwork, i am gonna 
start a tear-down and post pics to the web and torture you guys with 
more posts about this stupid motor.

(actually, if i can iron out these last few bugs, the motor isn't ALL 
bad. made it up i-17 mountains in no lower than 3rd gear, ran 65 
whole way, head temps of 400 max and oil 250 (semi-syn) for one 
stretch before coming back down. that was with it running lean, so 
never have temp troubles now that i've adjusted).
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
