Date: Fri, 21 Jan 2005 08:33:45 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: dash switches

>From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
>Date: Thu, 20 Jan 2005 22:23:31 -0500
>
>The switches on my dash(which I believe are in the original location) from
>left to right...  Windshield wipers (steering wheel) head light, emergency
>flasher.

My '64 has this same order.

>There is a red light above the windshield wiper switch...which I never
>understood.  Why isn't the emergency flasher switch under the light?

By "modern" standards, the user interface of a splitty is a little
lacking.  The emergency flasher switch has a red knob, but the headlight
and wiper switches are unlabeled and have identical knobs.  On the other
hand, most of the time, it does not damage anything to figure out what
the knobs do by experiment.  It might be a little harder to discover
what that anonymous knob on the seat pedestal is for... twisting it with
the Bus shut off (or even idling) probably won't tell you much.  As you
noted, the warning light for the hazards is nowhere near the switch, so
you're not sure what it's for until you turn on the hazards.  An
advantage of not labeling the knobs is that the production people don't
have to remember to put the right labels on, an important consideration
when your market speaks at least five different languages.  You can just
put the knob functions in the manual, which is cheap to print and change.

The warning lights in the speedometer were apparently originally
designed on the theory that "any light showing up on your speedometer is
something you need to know about".  They were three different colors, to
help you tell them apart.  Later, the theory changed to "green is OK,
blue is information, yellow is warning, red requires immediate
attention" so the oil light turned red and both lights got labels so you
could tell them apart.

The theory also changed to include "no one will read the manual, so
everything has to have a label."  On the other hand (again), there is a
competing theory that states "if you have to put a label on it for it to
make sense, it is not designed correctly in the first place".

One of the problems of "everything needs a label" and lots of languages
is that you start trying to put graphics on everything.  If there's only
a few, you can usually figure out what the symbol means, but if there
are several, forget it.  A co-worker occasionally does some work on the
ranch his parents manage.  One week, he was digging ditches and building
dams with a newish backhoe.  About four days into it, he discovered that
a cryptically labelled button in the cab was an RPM holder - push it and
the engine will throttle up or down to maintain constant RPM.  He said
he wished he had known about it on Monday.

A good book on this topic is "The Design of Everyday Things" by Donald
Norman.  Another name to Google up is Henry Dreyfuss - one example is
http://ndm.si.edu/EXHIBITIONS/hd/exhibition.html .

Matt Roberds
