From: "Gene Cornelius" <mizamook(-at-)starband.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 31 Jan 2005 07:10:35 -0800
Subject: Re: [VB] Distributor Choices

Eric&Barb,

When I started and ran the engine I am to be using when it was still in the
other bus with the big exhaust on it, the 205 dizzy, and the 30/31 carb, it
was loud due to many exhaust leaks, but when I revved it, the whole engine
really torqued sideways...felt like lots of power available.  I didn't road
test it though, and it also had a bigger air cleaner on it.

Now it is in my double-cab...I road-tested it with the same carb, a stock
exhaust, and the 205 dizzy, and it didn't have as much power as my old
engine.  I put the oo9 on, and suddenly I had the same responsiveness as the
old engine (which I removed because of loads of copper in the oil).  I am
using a bastard 40horse air cleaner, and the stock exhaust.  My stock
exhaust system is pretty messed up.   The tailpipe has fallen off before,
and then I welded the brackets back on, and the rust has attacked the
tailpipe connection, so (ick, I'm sorry!) I welded the tailpipe to the
collector.  I was thinking of removing that attachment, and welding the
flange from the big exhaust system onto the stock collector so I can use the
bigger muffler.  Is this a stupid thing to do?  The pipe diameter on the
non-stock muffler is twice that of the stock.  Note:  While the bigger
muffler was on the engine I am now using, the exhaust from cylinders 1 & 3
was still passing through stock heater boxes.  Wierd...the exhaust from 2 &
4 was going into bigger pipes already.  I think it should be balanced.  When
the tailpipe fell off a couple years ago, I did notice an increase in power,
so I am thinking that the bigger muffler would make for more, but I am
concerned about backpressure and mixture.

As far as the dizzy goes, I do like the 009,  but the 205 (connected to the
same vacuum part of the same carb) may not have been set up right.  At idle,
I noticed that when I pulled the vacuum line for timing that the idle
dropped.  This means that that vacuum port may be the wrong one?  I was told
to remove and plug the line for timing, but also that there shouldn't be
vacuum when at idle.

Any suggestions?

Gene Cornelius
mizamook(-at-)starband.net


Hi Gene.
Could be!  Could also be you need to take the distributor apart for a good
cleaning and regreasing.  Our 113 905 205T distributor was cruded up this
way so
it did not fully advance or even drop back down very well.  As for the
smaller exhaust affecting accelleration, you might be running too high of
RPMs for
the engine.  Borrown or buy a tach and see where 3,000 RPM (-at-) what MPH is in
1-4th gears and 1,500 RPM is (-at-) what MPH in 2-4th gears.
Eric&Barb
