From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 3 Feb 2005 10:28:02 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Distributor Choices

In a message dated 1/31/2005 7:11:27 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
mizamook(-at-)starband.net writes:
>>> When I started and ran the engine I am to be using when it was still in 
the
other bus with the big exhaust on it, the 205 dizzy, and the 30/31 carb, it 
was loud due to many exhaust leaks, but when I revved it, the whole engine 
really torqued sideways...felt like lots of power available.  I didn't road test 
it though, and it also had a bigger air cleaner on it.  <<

Hi Gene,
torquing sideways could be softer, loose or even going bad tranny mounts.  
Only a road test would tell before and after results.  
>> Now it is in my double-cab...I road-tested it with the same carb, a stock 
exhaust, and the 205 dizzy, and it didn't have as much power as my old engine. 
 I put the oo9 on, and suddenly I had the same responsiveness as the old 
engine (which I removed because of loads of copper in the oil).  I am using a 
bastard 40horse air cleaner, and the stock exhaust.  My stock exhaust system is 
pretty messed up.   The tailpipe has fallen off before, and then I welded the 
brackets back on, and the rust has attacked the tailpipe connection, so (ick, 
I'm sorry!) I welded the tailpipe to the collector.  I was thinking of removing 
that attachment, and welding the flange from the big exhaust system onto the 
stock collector so I can use the bigger muffler.  Is this a stupid thing to do? 
 The pipe diameter on the
non-stock muffler is twice that of the stock.  Note:  While the bigger 
muffler was on the engine I am now using, the exhaust from cylinders 1 & 3 was still 
passing through stock heater boxes.  Wierd...the exhaust from 2 & 4 was going 
into bigger pipes already.  I think it should be balanced.  When the tailpipe 
fell off a couple years ago, I did notice an increase in power, so I am 
thinking that the bigger muffler would make for more, but I am concerned about 
backpressure and mixture.  <<
You really need to figure out what RPMs you are needing to operate in.  In 
other words tach your engine.  If you insist to drive well over 4,000 RPM then 
you might need a bigger than stock muffler.  About 4,000 RPM or below, go with 
a stock muffler.  The reason you noticed a power increase with less back 
pressure could even be you have the carb jetted waaaay too rich and having less 
back pressure leans out the mixture in the cylinders.  Better to jet the carb 
properly and use the correct muffler for the RPMs driven as a norm.  Jetting is 
also affected by changes in air cleaner/s, muffler, engine comparment, etc....
>>As far as the dizzy goes, I do like the 009,  but the 205 (connected to the 
same vacuum part of the same carb) may not have been set up right.  At idle, 
I noticed that when I pulled the vacuum line for timing that the idle dropped. 
 This means that that vacuum port may be the wrong one?  I was told to remove 
and plug the line for timing, but also that there shouldn't be vacuum when at 
idle.  <<
Idle is at what RPM?!?!  If set too high, then there is going to be more 
vacuum.  Thus the big reason for just removing the vacuum line to time it.  Plus 
one has to hook the the vacuum to the proper place on the carb.  Our 205 is 
connected on the left side of the carb, and works great with no hesitation 
starting off from a stop, as we had with the German 010 distributor.  All on a 1641 
SP CW engine with 40 HP air cleaner, stock 1500 and later bus muffler, 3.875 
FF tranny to keep RPMs between 1,500 & 3,000 RPM and cruise all day at 60 MPH.
Eric&Barb
