From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 11 Feb 2005 10:28:01 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Clutch cable

Hi Leon-Niel,
You need to adjust the clutch cable properly so you can feel by hand the 1/2 
to 5/8" play at the top before you start to feel the extra pressure of the 
springs in the clutch pressure plate.  Too tight and you will have the clutch 
slip letting the engine rev up when in gear with little or no acceleration, 
damaging the clutch disc and pressure plate due to heat friction and wearing out 
prematurely the throw out bearing because it is always engaged.  Too loose and 
the clutch stays partly engaged, damaging syncros and gears when you try to 
shift.

  Get a copy of the "Idiot's Manual" by John Muir, and the Bentley reprint of 
the "Workshop Manual Volkswagen Transporter".

  First you need to find out why the clutch pedal will not come up all the 
way!!  Undo the clutch cable at the rear.  Or you can use two pieces of wood (on 
the forward end of the cable just before it goes into the clutch cable tube) 
with a vise-grip to clamp the cable with the clutch pedal in the pressed down 
position.  Doing this will give you the slack in the forwrd end of the cable 
you will need.  With the pedal free of the cable pulling it up, see if the 
pedal will come up by itself by pressing it down and releasing it slowly.  If it 
does not come up all the way or at all, then either the pedal spring is broken 
and/or the pedal pivot is rusty/crusty.  Either way you will have to take the 
pedal out.  Pre-1961 buses that have a grease zerk fitting for this pedal 
pivot, so if the spring is unbroken you just need to grease the fitting.  If you 
just need to replace the spring grease up the pivot while you are in there.  
For post-1960 buses you could drill and tap to put in a zerk fitting, just make 
sure to place the zerk fitting to allow for the splash pan installation.  We 
have had to take apart the pedal in our 1963 SC twice and next time will add 
the zerk fitting.

  If the clutch pedal comes up all the way by itself you need to check the 
rear return spring on the clutch arm (to make sure it is not broken) that the 
rear of the clutch cable goes through and possibly will need to remove the 
engine and the clutch throw out bearing arm for a good greasing or replacment.
  Eric&Barb
