From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: <gtilby(-at-)zigzagtees.com>
Cc: "vintagebus vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 30 Jun 2003 12:11:18 -0600
Subject: Re: [VB] Single vacuum advance distributor advancing too far

----- Original Message -----

> I followed some advice and static timed it at about
> 7 degrees but now the full advance is close to 38 - 40
> degrees which is way too much for a bus engine, right?

No, that's about right. The distributor advances according to engine LOAD,
not speed. Your timing will only be that high under light load cruising. WOT
will not show as much advance. The vacuum distributors give the engine what
it wants. A centrifugal distributor only has one advance curve, while the
vacuum advance has a timing curve depending on engine load.
>
> 1. What would make the distributor advance this far?
Throw out all beliefs concerning 009, 010, and 050 distributors. This is a
whole other game.  :-)
A centrifugal distributor is set for its maximum advance, because if you're
floored at 3000rpm going up a steep hill, anymore than 30 degrees, and
you'll be detonating. But doing 3000 rpm on flatground, your engine actually
wants more advance.  This is why 009's (and others) are set for 'worst case
scenario' situations.

> 2. Is there any way to alter the amount of advance it
> gives?
You honestly wouldn't want to. It could be done, but you would ruin a
perfectly good distributor. The advantage of a vacuum advance distributor is
not only give you instant advance off the line for better driveability, but
to also provide more ignition timing when there is a light load on the
engine for better fuel economy.

> 3. When I static timed it, I rolled the engine through
> all 4 firing points and it ended up firing anywhere
> from 4 to 9 degrees before tdc depending on which one
> was firing.  Why would this be and how do I fix it?

#3 cylinder is retarded about 4-5 degrees on non-doghouse engine's to help
them run cooler. Installing a points replacement unit would fix this. If you
aren't running a doghouse shroud, I would leave it as is.

Also, if you have modified a 34pict distributor to work well with a
centrifugal advance distributor by filling in the hole in the throttle
plate, you are best to replace the carb, or repair the throttle plate. Also,
when installing a vacuum advance distributor, you can usually run smaller
jets for even better fuel economy. (you have to run rich to eliminate the
flat spot that a centrifugal distributor gives you).  With an SVDA
distributor, I ran 45 idles, and 120 mains  in my Kadrons. With my current
34pict, I'm running a 50 idle, and 122.5 mains.  My SVDA distributor, static
timed at 7 degree's, goes up to around 45 degrees full advance that i've
seen revving it and watching it with a strobe light. Engine runs under 220
temps fully loaded doing 4000rpm for hours on end. 30 miles to the gallon to
boot also. 009's or the like will not perform like that.

Eric Allred
64 Bus
