Date: Wed, 2 Jul 2003 19:19:46 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Odd Turn Indicator Problem

>From: Taylor & Amber Nelson <nelsonsvw(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
>Date: Wed, 02 Jul 2003 08:11:03 -0700
>
>Here's what *would* happen:
>I'd flip the switch, the indicator in the dash pod would blink once,
>then not again.  I could still hear it clicking.  No idea if they were
>blinking on the outside.

With a stock turn signal flasher, this most likely means that one of
your outside bulbs is burned out or at least not making contact.  The
pilot light is not simply wired in parallel with the outside bulbs;
there is a separate contact in the turn signal flasher for it.  This
contact only closes if there's enough current flowing to the outside
bulbs.  If one of the outside bulbs burns out, comes loose, has a
broken wire, or is a lower-watt bulb than stock, the pilot light will
not behave correctly.

Check the outside lights when this happens - chances are one of them
will be out.  The rear lights are usually the culprit.  Even if the
hot wire seems perfect, a flaky ground connection can still cause
the light to go out.  Stock, the lights ground through little barbs
on the reflector that poke into the body.  Adding a ground wire from
the reflector/bulb holder to a screw or bolt that goes into the body
can help.

>Also, I don't know if they're related, but my 4-way flashers will get
>the knob to blink, but not the lights.

This probably isn't directly related.  Stock, it would probably be
either the wire between the hazard switch and the 9-prong box, or
maybe in the turn signal switch.  However, if your turn signal switch
is broken enough for the hazards to not work, it probably wouldn't
work for the regular turn signals either.

If your Bus is US-spec (probably 95%+ of the Buses in the US are) then
it would have originally had the "nine prong box" for the hazard and
turn signal flasher.  It's possible to replace a 9-prong box with a
"standard" turn signal flasher and possibly some relays, but DPOs don't
always get this wired up right.  Put your turn signals on and follow
your ear to the clicking noise - if you have a metal or plastic box
with 9 prongs on it, you have the stock setup; if you have anything
else, then it may be the source of your hazard-flasher problems.

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds
