From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 3 Jul 2003 09:06:48 EDT
To: paul_f(-at-)ntlworld.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Parcel tray full of water and dodgy speedo backlights

In a message dated 7/2/2003 4:21:49 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
paul_f(-at-)ntlworld.com writes:

<<
 but tonight I had a long drive at 60mph in driving rain.  When I reached my
 destination I found that the entire dash tray was full of water, about half 
an
 inch deep.  I dried this up okay but I need to find the cause of this 
problem.
....
I live in the pacific northwest I share your issues with sogginess.   In Oly 
we get about 60 inches a year.  To fix the problem of sopping dash tray,  
which leads to the problem of flintstone floors, you must reseal the windows.  

So remove the glass and old seals, 

then clean up the windsheild area so it is smooth.  This may involve welding, 
or merely wire wheeling off old rust, and re primering, spot putty, paint to 
get a new smooth painted surface.   a few vehicles just need cleaning of the 
metal with a soapy cloth, but those tend to be desert buses.  You can't tell 
till you take the windows out, though.

I like the polish the windsheilds, which helps get rid of the blurs from road 
grime.  use engine oil as a lube when putting the new seals on the glass.  I 
use a thin stripe of roofing tar on the lower windsheild edge and corners of 
the windsheild ledge. Cleans up with rags and WD-40.  Plan a weekend to give 
time for paint to dry.    Next go round and do the rest of the seals.    Get the 
heat working as well as possible for drying out the sogginess.

Put the windsheilds in my 65 westy 5 years ago and the stuff on the dash tray 
stays dry.  More details are in archives.
 
----- -- - - - -  -- 
 On a kind of related note, since driving it in the rain a couple of weeks ago
 I now find that my speedo back lights do not function correctly - they began
 flickering on and off however they are now permanently off.  The fuel gauge
 light works fine, and if I remove one of the bulb holders from the speedo and
 earth it separately it works fine - therefore I must have an earthing 
problem.
 Thing is I don't know where the speedo should be earthed - is it just through
 the two mounting screws?  If so I guess these need replacing - is it possible
 to remove these without removing the dash tray?
 
 Thanks
 Paul >>

well, rather than replace I'd look at this as a corrosion issue.   sometimes 
wiggling connections helps a bunch.  there may be corrosion wher ethe bulb 
holder plugs into the speedo.  Or  where the speedo is held on.  So try loosening 
the screws holding the speedo in (one at a time) and wiggling it back and 
forth then tightening it down again. You could take it out and clean it and under 
the head properly, and enjoy threading the screw back in if you like.   Using 
dielectric grease would help keep connections clean.   Repeat with other.  
hmmm,  go ahead and repeat with all the connections in the entire bus for 
brighter lights and better electrics.  
