Date: Mon, 29 Oct 2001 08:32:50 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: typE2(-at-)TYPE2.COM
Subject: Trans-Vair install questions

Hey folks - I know there are a few of you out there that have done one of 
these transplants and I hope you could clarify some details.

I received a NOS Trans-Vair kit from a Corvair list member yesterday and I 
spent a few hours last night going through the instructions and parts.

If any of you need a copy of the instructions or a picture of a particular 
part let me know... This kit has everything in new un installed condition. 
Ask now because the kit is going into storage until I can finish the VW and 
rebuild my Corvair engine. At my speeds this could be a long, long time... 
I don't want to dig all that stuff out again anytime soon!

The instruction pictures are about useless as they are far, far from decent 
quality.

Anyhow...

I am going to install this kit in a way that my bus is not altered so at 
anytime int he future I can go back to VW power. Our VW busses are not 
getting any more common these days and I hate to hack up a great bus for an 
engine swap.

The instructions mention beating the sheet metal or cutting it on the sides 
of the engine, and over the starter.

Also they mention altering the belly pan under the front, cutting the 
shifter rod I think (it was getting late), and altering the clutch cable tube.

I don't want to alter anything that I can work around. I am leaning towards 
a hydraulic clutch system anyhow. I think I can work around the shifter too.

Any experience out there?

The engine seems to be as good as the VW in stock form (clean up the heads 
- sloppy fin castings) and more durable. I priced my parts last night and 
even if I have to rebuild the engine completely the cost will be comparable 
to VW Type IV parts. The design is similar and the gas mileage is similar. 
I have two engines so I am sure I can get one good core engine that only 
requires bearings and rings, etc.

I've been 'researching' this for some time -- I've been a member of the 
Corvair list for about 2-3 years now.

I love the Type IV motor (I put one in my Beetle) but am not satisfied with 
45-50 mph on the interstate climbing the mountains in our Westy with 70 mph 
traffic passing me.  I'm not impatient or in a rush but I at least want to 
keep up.

I'd love a Raby or Boston Bob engine but I'm not that rich!! <grin> Oh and 
while I'm dreaming, add a Porsche 901 tranny...

Thanks all.

Ciao!

Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE:       Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing and exhaust 
- make offer
                 5 Beauty rings for 13" wheels, very nice, no dents, packed 
ready to go, $40 (was my cost)

