Date: Sun, 24 Jul 2005 15:41:57 -0600
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: VW - Type 2 mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Sunburned head and feet!

Yesterday my cueball head got sunburned. Today I decided it was too
hot for shoes and wore flip flops.

My feet haven't seen the sun since last summer. At the beach. And I
was in the water 95% of the time.

So now that my feet are glistening with 3 branches of my Aloe Vera
plant, here's an update on my power loss crapola.

Since the wife made plans for me at church tonight (and I'm waiting to
be struck down the minute I walk in there...) I needed to finish up by
4pm. So an earlier start than I wanted was called for. Yesterday I put
10 minutes of heat gun on the stud and JBWeld monstrosity each hour
until 10 pm. This morning I started up again at 6:30am and continued
until 1pm. Which is when I ran out of butane.

I put the carb/manifold back on with new asphault impregnated paper
gaskets. Everything, including the repaired stud, torqued down nicely.
Hooked the linkage back up, double-checked all my nuts (yes, those
too) and fired it up.

After a warm up to check mixture and timing I hit the road. Same crap.
Arrrggghhhh...

While I was out I picked up a can of carb cleaner. Time to put it to
work. Checked the intake gaskets, but they were fine. Started working
my way around the engine compartment and when I hit my left carb, the
one I rebuilt a few weeks ago, the idle shot up. Doh!!!

Tried tightening all the screws. No difference. Great. Off comes the
carb. Luckily I still have lots of gaskets from that generic Walker
rebuild kit. I went ahead and stripped the carb and pulled the jets.
Hmm... Bottom one looking a bit restricted. Rusty colored tarnish.
Sprayed the heck out of it with carb cleaner and the thing came clean
and looked much more open.

Reassembled with more new gaskets, double checked the screws and the
cutoff solenoid, fired it up.

A few more minutes to adjust mixture and I hit the road again. NO POWER
LOSS!!!

I accidentally stalled it at a light. Didn't want to start! Took 4
minutes to get it started again. Once it was running everything was
perfect like before.

Well, I'm pretty much outta time so I'll check it out later. Just
wierd how it starts right up when it's been setting a while, but takes
forever cranking if it was just shut off.  (Yes, starter cranking
speed is same as always.)

--
Don
