Date: Mon, 25 Jul 2005 15:09:08 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com, tom.loan(-at-)rogers.com, dh96003(-at-)c-zone.net,
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Fan belt issues

Thanks for the help, everyone.  It's days like
these that make me consider buying a new Corolla
and giving up on the pretend-shadetree-mechanic
thing.  

I did check the bolts on the fan shroud where the
alternator mounting thingymawhichie attachs. 
They were still tight.  I mentioned in the last
post that the alt strap was ok.  I was thinking
alt bearing, but I noticed that I could freely
spin the alternator hub with no noise.  And it
didn't seem to have any play.   (This is a new
Bosch alternator only a few months old.)  

Then I notice that my old stock fan pulley has a
wobble to it when it spins.  (Hard to see that on
the side of the road with nothing but a
flashlight.)  I think I may have messed it up
while attempting to remove it a few years ago. 
It was before I had the three armed/two armed
puller.

Any way, I had a new stock Mexi fan pulley (the
goldish kind, I think it came from AC.net) in the
spare parts box.  After putting it on, I noticed
the fan belt still seemed too long.  Checked the
measurement of the crank pulley again.  It surely
is a stock pulley.  Tried 6 shims anyway and sure
enough it tightened down fine.  

I did not use the screwdriver jammed into the
pulley method to tighten it down, just slowly
turned it clockwise and occasionally held the
pulley a little.  Is this the right way to do it?
 

The fan belt SEEMED way too loose, but I measured
it to a fraction less than 1/2 inch.  I must have
had it very, very tight and been tightening the
pulley halves down onto the sides of the belt. 
It's riding more down in the pulley, so I expect
my engine will run cooler since the pulley will
be turning faster.   

No pulley/belt/fan noise now. 

Anyway, I feel pretty stupid.  I guess I had no
idea how to do this correctly....  sigh.  Makes
me wonder whether or not I should be getting near
my bus with a wrench.  I keep telling myself that
I should be happy with my progress given that I
didn't know how to check my oil when I bought my
first bug.  Being self-taught allows for quite a
few critical gaps in education however.  

Of course, the whirring of my bus today brings a
smile to may face and makes me forget the errors
of my ways.  :)  I even got a wave from another
bus pilot on my way to work today.  All is well.

 

Happy bussin'
Ray

Nemo, the Bus Captain
http://www.geocities.com/nemobuscaptain
Not affiliated or associated with VW, VWOA, or VWAG.
