Date: Mon, 25 Jul 2005 18:31:33 -0400
From: Joseph Broach <joseph.broach(-at-)umontana.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: trip update (5000 miles and counting)

Rachel and I are having a blast camping the country in our '78 bus 
since June.  Don't have long, but I thought I'd give a quick update on 
the bus's performance (short story: it's done great!).  The bus has a 
'79 FI engine with hyd. lifters and was rebuilt by VW Canada about 25k 
ago.

We came across on backroads from Missoula, MT to the Eastern Shore of 
Maryland.  Then it was up through NY state to Maine.  Then we headed 
down through the heat to the Smokies in Tennessee and North Carolina 
and are currently holed up in Maryland again hoping for cooler air to 
take us back to Montana.

Amazingly, we've only had 3 "have to stop the bus" problems and the 
only time the engine quit we had just parked at our campsite!  1)  one 
of the PCV vac hoses popped loose and the bus wouldn't idle; easy fix 
the next morning!  2)  one of the front shock bushings gave out and it 
sounded like the front end was about to explode over every bump; fixed 
with a few wraps of tire inner tube 2500 miles ago.  3)  tranny making 
horrible noises; turned out to be a shot front linkage bushing, which 
wasn't allowing the selector to slide into place;  I still need to see 
to this one, but I'm nervous having never had the linkage apart.

Other observations:  Mobil 1 10w30 gave good pressures until temps hit 
80s in the midwest.  Then, idle pressure stayed fine but running 
pressures dropped to 40psi (from 50 cold).  I changed to a 50/50 mix of 
10w30 and 15w50 and have been very happy with the results even in the 
south.

VDO CHT gauge on #3 spark plug averages about 425 at 60mph and 70 
degree ambient on the flats.  Steep hills push that to 450.  Temps rose 
a bit as we came east and lost elevation, as expected.  Ambient temp 
definitely affects the gauge, but it seems fairly linear (I hope!).  
Anyway, nothing's blown up yet.

Brazilian Bosch points were severely pitted after only 5000 miles.

Fuel mileage has averaged a touch over 20 mpg with a range of 17-23.  
With a few exceptions, we run 60 mph when it's cool and 55 when it's 
hot.  A few times we've had to run 65-70 for safety reasons, and the 
bus handled it fine, but head temps climbed about 25 degrees per 5mph 
and fuel econmy dropped about 1mpg per 5mph.

The hydraulic valves are nice.  I've been across the country adjusting 
valves along the way, and it's not my favorite rest stop activity!

The bus has started "popcorning" slightly on deceleration.  I'm looking 
for exhaust leaks but nothing obvious.  For now, I guess I'll ignore it 
if nothing turns up.

The bus gets compliments everywhere we go.  Seems to make everyone 
happy/nostalgic.  It's a shame to see so few on the road these days.  
They're great travelers!

Thanks so much to the type2 admins and Richard's site.  It's such a 
great resource on the road!  We'll try to do something to help out when 
we're back home, and this bus goes up for sale.  We're hoping a lister 
will buy it and get it back on the road soon.  It loves the ramblin 
life!  Any further questions, ask away.

cheers,
joe and rachel broach
USA
