Date: Sat, 22 Sep 2007 20:14:21 -0500
From: "Abraham Palmer" <abepalmer(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Oil coolers

I have a 1977 Bus with the stock (california) fuel injection. My old engine
burned up, I assume because it overheated. To reduce the possibility for a
repeat I'm trying to add an aftermarket oilcooler.  Boston Bob, who is
producing my engine, recommended the one sold by Bus Boys.  I talked to
Walter at Bus Boys on the phone, and he suggested part number # ZAP-11700 (
http://www.bus-boys.com/oilcoolingremote.html<https://mail.bsd.uchicago.edu/e
xchweb/bin/redir.asp?URL=http://www.bus-boys.com/oilcoolingremote.html>).
They suggest mounting the oilcooler over the transmission.

Bob had recommended a model with an electric fan, howeve ZAP-11700 has no
fan.  BB can special order one with a fan, but it wasn't clear at what
temperature the fan cycles on and off, nor was it clear whether that
temperature was adjustable or not.  An alternative or is ZAP-11780 ("Oil
Thermostat. Opens at 175: F.  Bypasses Oil Cooler Below 175: for Quick
Warm-Up").  This addresses a somewhat similar problem, it could be used
instead of the fan, or in addition to the fan for a truly elaborate system
with 3 states (bypass when cool, oil cooler but no fan when warmer, oil
cooler and fan when warmest). Clearly the fan increases the Max cooling
capacity of the system.  Another possibility would be to wire the fan to be
on whenever the ignition is on, but if the cold start bypass was installed
then the fan would only be cooling oil when above 175 deg due to the low
temp bypass.

Other questions arise in my mind, including whether these parts fail in the
open or closed position, and where there are good places to install both
temp sensors.

I like the idea of oil cooling, but hate to create a complicated system that
might be troublesome or prone to failure.  What are your thoughts and
experience? driving would be in Chicago, more often in warm weather than in
cold, but I'd hate to feel unable to drive in the winter.

Abraham
