From: "gns.wagnon" <gns.wagnon(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)lenti.type2.com>
Date: Wed, 23 Jun 2004 06:53:40 -0500
Subject: Re: ...and brakes

Volk-a-maniacs,

Thanks all for the brakes suggestions.  I tried the following thus far and
will have to dig into it more on Friday evening... finals week.

I took off the wheel/drum to check out the dry grease on the bearings
theory, and it was still pretty gushy in there with grease, so that one on
is off the list.  Whilst there, I cleaned off the brake pads with brake
cleaner as well as some of the misc grease/pad dust grime.  I also checked
bearings while out and being cleaned.  They appear good to go.  (This squeek
is only when I press on the brakes, not just generally when moving so I
think that might be off the list too.)  I re-greased all the moving parts
and put it back together.  Drove to work (a whopping 4 blocks away) and it
pulled and squeeked at every breaking session... grr I say, grr.  At lunch I
did a little adjuster screw star action while rolling the bus back and forth
in the parking lot to release the passenger side brakes more than any
other... Theory being that if they are not close enough to engage, then they
are not going to squeek... it still pulls, but feels more like it snaps
tight and jerks the bus to the right when I reach a certain braking point -
dangerous.

To answer a question, I believe it is a single circuit MC.  No modifications
that I can see.

I'll take things apart again on Friday and check the retention spring/clip
thingie that Ronnie meantioned.  I know they are there and remember seeing
them, but don't know if they are engaged/bent down enough to actually do
anything.  I'll also check for air in the lines (there is a little bit of
pump twice to get rid of the sponge-y-ness to clean up anyway), and check
brake shoe pitedness vs. smoothness, check for bearings too tight and
generally anything else I can dream up while there.

Thanks again for all your help and I will see you on the roads soon... I
hope.
Greg

'63 Panel camper convert "Annie"
