From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 24 Jun 2004 21:25:39 EDT
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] bus radio info

In a message dated 6/24/2004 9:07:20 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
Chris.Graue(-at-)benham.com writes:
>>  Just wondering if this info is good for 66 bus, also. 
Do you know of any after market modern radios that are small enough? If not, 
is there a retrofit device for mounting a radio elsewhere? I really don't want 
to hurt my dash, but I hate not having music.
Thanks,
Chris  <<
Hi Chris,
Yes, that radio dash opening info is good from late 1955 up to 1967 when Vw 
finally changed the radio opening in the dash of the KG and bus to the same as 
1958 and later bug.  There was a modern Radio Shack radio that was 
discontinued just a while back that did fit.  In our 1960 walk thru panel camper 
conversion we put back the radio block off plate, set a Alpine radio with cassette 
player on the package tray, and ran that for many years.
   You could always get a stock radio for your year bus, have a radio repair 
shop fix it, and if need be convert it to 12 volt.  They can also easily put 
in an adapter plug so you can plug in a MP3, CD, or other portable player into 
the radio.  This will work well for most bussers because VW bus is not a 
symphonic hall, even if you spend alot of $$ and time sound insulating for the 
least amount of road and drive train noise.  Plus thieves most likely will not 
hack up your dash to steal an old AM or even AM/FM VW radio!  A Sapphire IV which 
is the AM/FM your year bus could have been originally equipped from the 
dealership for $106.85.  Blaupunkt radios were a better option in our opinion 
though, because they just sound better.  For your year the Blaupunkt, Frankfurt & 
New Yorker models were also a VW dealer accessory items.  Which not only were 
AM/FM, but had an additional band (SW?) listed on the radio as band "M".  There 
was even a Blaupunkt Derby model, underdash mounted base portable radio that 
came stock with input jack to connect other devices into it!!!   All the 
original VW dealer radios seem to us to have alot better reception abilities than 
most modern day radios.  
Eric&Barb
