From: "gns.wagnon" <gns.wagnon(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)lenti.type2.com>
Date: Fri, 25 Jun 2004 22:57:15 -0500
Subject: Finally... and brakes

Volk-a-maniacs,

Well, here it is Friday night and the great brake clean up, repair is now
complete.  I bought a new set of front brake pads (NAPA ~$18) as a
precaution before I dug into my squeeky and pull issue.  All I get into the
passenger side wheel, I don't see anything wrong.  Maybe a little warpage
and some ruts in the pad... maybe that was my squeekyness.  I replaced the
shoes and regreased the bearings to utter goopyness.  I put the weel back
on, adjusted the star thingie to 4 notches from tight, top and bottom, and
moved onto the other side.

O MY GOSH!  Where is all the grease?  Drivers side bearings are bone dry and
what little grease there is has been filled with particles for way too long.
This looks bad.  I get the wheel off, the outer bearings loose and start
cleaning up the crud.  The inner bearings seem to roll ok.  The outer loose
ones... fall apart on me.  NOOOOOOOO.   After cleaning them up to metal
only, I see that the bearing rollers are pitted and slightly tarnished.
That middle thing that holds the bearing rollers on the cage appears to be
in the same shape.  NOOOOOOOO, I say again.  Let me see here, how do I get
all these little bearing roller peices back in the cage, and then the middle
thing back on there?  Well, try once, twice, get smart and start to use
grease as my semi-glue-like substance to hold things in place... ah ha.
There we go.  I got the shoes replaced on the driveres side and everything
back as it should be.  I lubed, greased and packed that thing with as much
as I could stuff without it gooping out all over my tire.  That ought to
take care of things until I can get a new set of bearings.  I adjusted the
star thingie on this side to match the other... 4 notches from tight.  Top
and bottom.

Test drive!  Wow.  I stop now.  No pulling anymore!  I still get a bit of a
different sounding squeek, but I think with some breaking on the new pads,
it will wear in soon enough.... I hope.

I have a 150-ish mile round trip tomorrow morning through Sunday.  I'll let
you all know how I fare with the breaking and the bearings when I get back.

Thank you all for your suggestions and support.
Greg

'63 Panel camper convert "Annie"
It took me a year to get her to go, then a week to get her to stop.   :o)
