From: "Jamie Auch" <jamie(-at-)kookymathteacher.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Tue, 29 Jun 2004 21:23:37 -0400
Subject: A.I.R.S. Rescued!

Hi Folks,
 
    I had opportunity this weekend to experience the kindness of the bus community.  I was headed to Niagara Falls on Friday.  The
wind was picking up about 50 miles south of Erie, PA on Route 79.  Instead of being pushed side to side in my hightop, it felt like
the whole bus was rocking back and forth.  I pulled into a rest stop and saw that the rear driver's side wheel had quite an angle on
it.  The drum itself was hot and the wheel when pushed at 12:00 moved in 2 inches.  Knowing I was screwed, I call my wife to get me
a list of A.I.R.S. members in the area.  The first number I dialed, I received an answer and Nik and Ruth Bajorek showed up in their
Sage Green westy.  There wasn't much to do at 9:00 that evening but Nik said he'd come by at 8:30 am and take me to his local VW
guy. I had a few calls of concern from my Canadian friend's which was a comfort.  I gently moved the bus to the far area of the rest
stop and Otto ( my miniature Dachshund ) and I settled down for the evening.
      Nik arrived promptly at 8:30 and we headed off to  Hoovler Volkswagen Repair in Greenville, PA.  Luckily they had Saturday
hours, and Tom Hoovler was expecting us.  Tom had everything I need to repair the bad rear bearings.  While we we there Troy
Thrasher (another A.I.R.S. member showed up in his '62 Panel.  Troy gave me his cell and said if he could do anything for me, just
call his cell.  Nik, Otto, and I headed back to the bus to give the repair a shot.  After getting the drum off, It was a apparent
that the bearings were toast.  Pieces of the outer bearing fell out.  
After various trips for tools and supplies, we came to the conclusion that the inner race of the bearing was seized on the axel.  We
tried to beat the axel loose with a 20 lb sledge with no luck.  Throughout the day Troy checked in on our progress.  Around 5:00PM,
I threw up the white flag and surrendered.  Nik called Troy to tell him the situation.  Troy said to get the bus towed to Hoover's
and he would give us a hand.  AAA arrived promptly and we were on our way.  
    Troy was waiting for us and we started to take apart the left rear wheel.  We beat on the axel once more and still could not get
it to budge.  Tom Hoovler showed up to see how are progress was going.  With superman strength, he beat the axel out in 4 whacks.  I
was in awe!.  To make a long story short, my bus got fixed even though Troy missed time spent with his son, and Nik spent from 8:30
AM until 10:30 PM right by my side!  Thanks again to Nik, Troy, and Tom for all their help.  I made it to the campground in Niagara
falls by 2:00 AM Sunday to a greeting by three of my Canadian friends, Greg Potts, Dave Ireland, and JDD.  The rest of the
contingent had passed out from far too many blender drinks.  I got to thank Nik once again the next day when he brought his family
up for the June Jitter Bug.  This is definitely a WONDERFUL community!
 
Joy thru air,
Jamie Auch
The Kooky Math Teacher
60 DD Panel
71 Deluxe Hightop convert "Chinky"
72 Deluxe "Pooh"
http://www.johnbrownsbuses.com <http://www.johnbrownsbuses.com/> 
