Date: Sat, 27 Mar 2004 20:26:11 -0700
From: Tom <turtlebus(-at-)Netzero.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Long block web site?

Some time ago, someone posted the list about purchasing and installing a 
long block from Bus Depot (AVP). I don't remember who it was but I think 
they said they were going to take some pics and post them on there web 
site. Does anyone know who this was or if the site was posted. I am 
thinking of doing the same thing and I would like to learn from someone 
else's experience before I shell out the bucks for the long block.

I spent today stripping down the engine and cleaning parts from my 80 
Westy. What a chore! The cleaning is my least favorite part. Oh for the 
good old days when all the flaps had hot tanks for cleaning parts. I am 
so tired of scrubbing.

Enough of that.

I found the cause of the ills in the motor of my Westy. After stripping 
off all the tin from the engine I found that the oil cooler was so full 
of dirt and burnt on oil that NO AIR could possibly pass through it! I 
guess the P.O. didn't know the importance of spraying some high pressure 
soapy water up there every few months. Here in the deserts of Arizona 
its important to keep the dust off the engine lest it bake on to an 
impervious ceramic like layer! I soaked the oil cooler in Berrymans 
cleaner for about 6 hours then blasted the fins with HP water. Got most 
of the crud out of the fins but I'm letting it soak overnight to break 
down the rest.

Took a look down the intake ports. It's no wonder the valves in cyl. 1 
and 3 seemed to leak and low compression in those cyls. Seem the seats 
have been pushed a little ways into the intake port. Probably a result 
of running hot all the time.

Does anyone know how long a cold thermostat should be? Bently gives the 
spec for the length of a hot thermostat only. If I remember right, the 
thermostat on my 75 was totally compressed at 20deg F. The thermostat on 
the 80 seems to be expanded more than I think It should be. The temp 
today was around 60deg f and the thermostat was about 1/4" shorter than 
the bracket. Does this sound right? After cleaning it up I put it in a 
zip lock bag and put it in the freezer to see if it will contract more 
when cold. I'm not too concerned for now but the winter temps at 7000 ft 
here in northern AZ. can get bone chilling and oil solidifying. (almost 
:) )

Thanks for letting me ramble. As always, I really appreciate your advice
Tom
