Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Sun, 28 Mar 2004 14:37:28 -0500
To: The Bug Pack <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Subject: 76 FI Ignition Issues

Hi Volks,

I got a call last week from someone who acquired a 76 Auto Westy last 
fall. Suddenly it won't start.

He turns the key but gets no dash lights. The headlights, flashers, etc 
all work fine. The starter was wired with a relay, and the dash had a 
push button wired into the steering column to operate the starter 
motor.

It's an extremely clean vehicle, pretty near perfect except for the 
starter wiring and a missing heater blower.

I tried manually jumping the solenoid, but the starter either refused 
to turn or turned very slowly. When I removed the nut holding the 
wiring on it broke away from the starter, so the bus now has a nice new 
Bosch WR-17X starter installed. But there were still no dash lights and 
nothing happened when I pushed the starter switch.

The coil does get power when the key is turned, but I don't hear a 
click at the double relay, and nothing at the fuel pump, either.

So I pulled out his haynes manual and had a look at the current track. 
(My Bentley having been left at my brother's place while working on our 
project bus)  It seemed to me that if I connect the oil pressure switch 
wire to the coil it will power the dash lights. At that point  I was 
able to get a click at the double relay from the key, and the van 
started and ran fine.

I ADVISED THE OWNER NOT TO DRIVE THE BUS LIKE THIS. It was only a 
diagnostic patch, designed to test the bus wiring and to get the 
vehicle off the street so his neighbours would stop calling the local 
parking enforcement department. Driving without an oil pressure warning 
light is taking more risk than worthwhile.

So it seems to me that the ignition switch is the likely culprit. The 
owner would be quite happy to get rid of the ugly red wires hanging 
below the steering column, so it seems to me that this is the best way 
to go. The starter is working perfectly without the add-on relay, so if 
the wires inside the column aren't too badly messed up it should be an 
easy fix.

QUESTION: How do I make the tool required to get the plastic ignition 
housing apart?? I seem to remember reading a description of this 
process recently but now that I actually need the info I can't remember 
where I saw it. I did check the type2 library, but there is nothing 
there to help with the late-bay ignition housing.

THANKS!!

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.geocities.com/busesofthecorn
