From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: "Access Systems" <accessys(-at-)smart.net>, "Lazy Lightening"
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 29 Mar 2004 06:36:26 -0800
Subject: RE: [T2] disabled bus

Hey folks,

I have a family member in a chair.  He has been disabled for the
last 25 years or so.  In that time I have seen him go through many a
vehicle.  Cars and vans.  He much prefers the vans.  I would think
that a bus would be just as preferred, so long as it was reliable.

In the van setups I have seen him in, he has always made certain
that he had an automated lift.  He drives with hand controls just as
I've heard you both describe.

Things that I have seen him get repeatedly frustrated with are
usually electrical.  Usually a short in the lift or some kind of
trouble with the level release on the ramp itself.  So watch that
wiring on those lifts 'cause I've seen several get shorts and other
troubles after only a few years of use.  He always has to lower his
head when he backs into the van, off of the ramp, so that he doesn't
crack the back of his head on the roof.  If you as a quad havn't
experienced this yet,.. don't worry, everybody does it at least
once, ask me how I know.

His last van had one thing that the one prior did not have.  A
hydraulic drivers seat.  I bring this up because it's functionality
is similar to a VW Swivel seat in a bus.  The downside being that
you have no vertical adjust on the VW swivel seat.

I have helped him repair many a system on his rides, and I have to
tell you,... square inch for square inch,.. the interior of a bus
appears much more suitable, spacewise, for such applications.  I
just wouldnt get anything with a bulkhead on the drivers seat.  That
swivel would have to be a necessity from what I have seen.

I must concur on the accessibility for an individual in a chair.
The engine is actually accessible for somebody in a chair.  This is
almost unheard of for such a large vehicle.  Most things on the road
these days have their engine either too high up, or require said
individual to possess an extendo arm for getting to those hard to
reach areas.  Even the stock jack/tube is right at a reachable
height for a chair.  In fact,.. in the typing of this email I am
wondering why I havn't tried to sell him on the idea of a bus
already,.....*kick self*...

Anyway, I'm assuming that you are using mechanical hand controls and
not electronic.  I am familiar with and have installed mechanical
hand controls and if the ones you have are like the units I have
installed they should mate up fine with your accellerator/brake
setup.  As far as getting a crazy strong grip driving a bus without
power steering, well... If you are anything like most of the chair
folk I know, you already have a skull crushing grip anyway from your
day to day active stuff anyhow.

If it were me and I were in a chair, I would definately try to add a
parsel tray under the dash or at the very least put some pockets on
the doors.

This sounds like a great idea,.. please keep me posted on how your
ride progresses.

Seann Stafford
76' T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
76' T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
