Date: Mon, 29 Mar 2004 11:28:25 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re:  Thanks

Kurt, and The List at large...

Let me be one of the first to express my condolences - Kurt, we "spoke"
privately about the isolator/alternator/voltage regulator, and as the
victim of several break-ins and one "almost gotcha" on my old '65 Type 3
Variant S w/sunroof, you MUST be on your guard with these vehicles, and
do what you MUST to prevent this sort of nonsense...  I'm going to
assume that the authorities have been notified?  Who knows - you may get
lucky, and it will be recovered...

Don't kid yourself with the old "Hey, it's justanoldbus..." - the sad
thing is that the folks that have perpetrated the deed KNOW exactly how
much that old "justanoldbus" is worth, and hence why it's no longer
sitting in your driveway.  Look around you - the signs are there, they
are becoming more valuable as each year passes by.  Install the
necessary electronic devices, use the necessary mechanical devices, and
if at all feasible, have the necessary electronic device signal output
attached to another electronic device that can alert you privately via
electromagnetic frequencies - this is an especially attractive option if
you park your bus anywhere near your domicile...  and if it starts to
make some noise at 2:37 a.m. - out of the domicile you go, prepared with
whatever tool or tools you happen to have handy.  Large pieces of wood
commonly used in a certain sport are nice, although the ardent fervor of
those attempting deeds most foul wilts most rapidly when faced with
certain other manner of tools that may or may not be allowed in your
locality.  One of my favorites makes a very distinctive sound when
prepared for use - the sound alone has been well documented over the
years to have caused many types of nefarious criminal activities in
progress to cease and desist - YMMV...  In my local area, the police
department takes a very dim view of this kind of miscellaneous criminal
activity - even being caught with the tools of the car theft trade on
your person after dark, while being detained by the owners of a vehicle
is sufficient to cause your rights to be read to you, as well as
spending a few days as a guest of the city while charges are filed
against your person.

Perhaps even saddest of all, is the fact that in my local area there is
a semi-organized group of individuals who specialize obtaining new
ownership for older, nicer, restored buses.  I've been told that their
modus operandi is to most thoughtfully wait until your project is
completed, and then relieve you of ownership under cover of darkness...

Jim Hayden
"Saving Bays is not just a slogan, it's a way of life..."
www.savethebays.org


E-MAIL CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:  The contents of this e-mail message and any
attachments are intended solely for the
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or legally privileged
information. If you are not the
intended recipient of this message or if this message has been addressed to
you in error, please
immediately alert the sender by reply e-mail and then delete this message and
any attachments. If you
are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination,
distribution, copying, or
storage of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited.
