Date: Mon, 29 Mar 2004 13:04:02 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Powder Coating your TIN - anyone?

Was queried WRT coatings for tinware...

Warning - the following methods are very much a DIY approach cribbed
from the old Sermons files - but if it is good enough for St. Bob...

I've been having success using the old Hoover-approved method of dunking
the offending bits of tin into a vat of toilet bowl cleaner (for the
phosphoric acid content) which strips the rust and phosphates the metal.
For a while, toilet bowl cleaner could be purchased at my local chain
hardware store for about US$16 a gallon - I laid in a few gallons of it
and dunk my tinware in a Rubbermaid (tm)  wardrobe box, smaller items
get dunked in a smaller box.  Being able to completely submerge the item
sure seems to make the phosphating process go much more rapidly; out in
the air it seems to dry out too quickly.  When done phosphating - the
stuff gets recycled back into the gallon jugs for the next time.  Then
nail it with some of Eastwood's self-etching rattle can primer and let
dry according the directions on the label.  I've also found that keeping
the rattle cans in a pan of warm water seems to help keep the paint
flowing well in cooler weather.  After that, what ever flavor of rattle
can paint that floats yer boat, and if using the high temp stuff, it's
necessary to cure the paint in the oven at 150-200 F or whatever you can
get away with, without stinking up the house too much for too long.
Keep the doors and windows open, too!

Black for any tin that will see engine oil (valve covers and push rod
tubes), else any other color that you can dream up.  Read the directions
very carefully on the recoat times - I just did the impeller housing on
my 2260 Type 4 using one brand of high temp / clear coat - shorted the
"recoat after" time by about a day ('twas over for normal but short for
that brand of high temp), and it lifted the paint in a couple of places.
Sigh!  Sand and start over over...  I even bake the non-high temp stuff
too, as it seems to help it dry/cure to a more durable finish, albeit at
a lower temp.  I'd posit that those who have used the high temp stuff
without the oven session are the some ones having it wash off with rain
water ;-)  I just did a set of vented valve covers for the wife's 1776
using the above mentioned method - the paint was barely marked up by the
bails as they were snapped in place.

Someday when I grow up and get a real job, a real house and a real
workshop, I'll have the space to do my paint up right...  In the mean
time, I'll have to dunk 'em and hit 'em with the stuff I can lay my
hands on quickly and easily.  It's probably pretty chicken-sh*t for some
guys, but it sure beats the heck out of watching it rust away while
waiting to get the goods to do it right.  Rust is yer enemy - use
whatever tools you have in the arsenal to keep it at "bay"...

Jim Hayden
www.savethebays.org


E-MAIL CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:  The contents of this e-mail message and any
attachments are intended solely for the
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or legally privileged
information. If you are not the
intended recipient of this message or if this message has been addressed to
you in error, please
immediately alert the sender by reply e-mail and then delete this message and
any attachments. If you
are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination,
distribution, copying, or
storage of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited.
