From: mikeprather(-at-)att.net
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 18 Mar 2002 09:33:17 +0000
Subject: My "new " bus

Hey volks,
I am pleased to report the recent aquisition of 72 westy 
project bus. This would not have been possible if not 
for this wonderful list.
My current 72 Westy runs ok, only about 40k on engine. 
The body otoh, is in sorry shape. The nose and rear 
apron were smashed in an accident less than 6 months 
after I bought it. It already had an amatuer patch job 
on the right rear corner. I figured someday i would have 
$ for bodywork. 6 years later still can't even think 
about it.
Last year in a fit of good intentions I replaced the 
engine seal and the alternator bolt with no nut on it's 
rounded off tip. Getting the right rear tin out of the 
way and past the caved in rear apron required a bit of 
mangling. I tried my best to straighten the tin piece 
and stuff the new seal but it's been running hotter than 
what i know as normal ever since. Since it's winter the 
lack of sealing maybe offsets the recently discovered 
lack of thermostat(only took me 6 years:-))
For some time I have dreamt of of buying a bus with dead 
or no engine. I was even willing to "settle" for a 
passenger bus. As mine is a single income family, iswas 
somewhat of a pipe dream.
Until, one day a little over  month ago list member 
Chris Jackson posted that he had a  running stripped 72 
Westy he wanted to be rid of. I consulted my wife and 
received approval for undertaking this project. By the 
time I got back to Chris, listmember Britt Grannis(owner 
of Road Cow), had spoken for it. He had planned to 
rebuild the engine and use the shell as parts donor. 
Chris told Britt that someone else was interested in the 
bare body so britt decided to let me have it. he even 
delivered it to my driveway.
body's not perfect but light years ahead of current 
runner. All I have to do is come up with one good bus 
out of the two sitting in my driveway. 
Thanks to Britt and Chris. Thanks to the list admins for 
creating and maintaining the resource that made this 
possible. Thanks to all on the list who've responded to 
my posts and helped rekindle my bus passion. Rest 
assured I will be back with questions as I become mired 
in the project. :-)
--
Mike Prather
Sacramento CA
72 Westy aka Farthur
72 Westy-(currently barren,will 
receive massive parts transplant
from farthur)will be known as Freebie
85 Suzuki GS700 -Dinosaur bike
