Date: Fri, 6 May 2011 16:20:20 -0700 (PDT)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: earthshelterman(-at-)gmail.com
Cc: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re:Vanagon engine install

Hi Tom,
I R&R my air-cooled Vanagon engine last winter.  I used the Harbor Freight
hydraulic transmission jack as recommended by the list.  Best $130 I ever
spent on the van.  You are able to wiggle the engine around using the caster
wheels, and tilt it with the platform adjustments.  I was able to get it in by
myself with a bit of pulling, pushing, and grunting.  Not always in that
order.  I had a floor jack under the trans and was able to work the two jacks
together to align things as well.  I had a safety chain under the trans hooked
to the body just in case it got off the jack or I let it bleed down too far. 
Didn't want to overextend the axles.  A 12" square piece of 1/2" plywood on
the platform helps to stabilize the engine.  You need the rear of the van up
on ramps to clear the engine and jack. I had not disassembled the clutch so my
alignment was good.  If you have put a new clutch in, you will need to use an
alignment tool to get things lined
 up before the grunting starts.  I never put a nut on a thread or a screw into
a case without anti-seize.

Once you get the big mechanicals in, I highly recommend going over every
electrical connection with a scrubber (small wire brush, or scotch-brite pad)
especially the sneaky FI grounds under the plenum.  Spray every contact
including the multi-pin pugs and sockets with DeoxIT, it's expensive but worth
it. Take great care when bending the loom.  I really try hard to avoid doing
that.  Most wiring that has spent a lot of time in a hot space i.e. engine
bay, gets pretty brittle. I try especially hard to lay out, or assemble, the
electrical wiring early on, i.e. before I stitch all the sub assemblies onto
the long block.  If you get the fuel injection on first it is real easy to end
up with no room to place the loom without stressing it. AMHIK.  A broken wire
or short inside the harness can be a real bear to diagnose. 

The correct FI clamps and NEW, FRESH, metric FI-rated hose are essential. 
Several suppliers have them.  It is a good time to replace all the fuel hose,
including all the hose on top of the gas tank.  There are kits for that too.

I learned most of this from this list, and thank them for making my install go
really smooth and my van safe from fuel fires.

jon

http://store.caig.com/s.nl/sc.2/category.188/.f

http://www.harborfreight.com/800-lb-capacity-transmission-jack-3185.html

snip>
I have not installed a Vanagon air cooled engine in over 15 years. trans is
in the van. what would be the best way to lift/hoist the engine back in and
get the trans shaft back in the clutch?  all views would be appreciated.
thanks

You only really own those things you can carry under both arms at a dead
run... (Robert A. Heinlein)
