Date: Sat, 7 May 2011 00:00:34 -0400
From: jules <jules.herr(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: AIRS Shout-out: Broken down on US6 (-at-) OH/IN border

Howdy,

I'm temporarily sidelined in Edgerton OH, on RT6 on the Ohio Indiana state line.

I'm in the middle of a cross country trip, and as the fates will have
it, it's the unexpected thing that's gone wrong.

Pulling out of a parking lot after dinner and shift into second - wait
- where's second its nowhere to be found. Checked all the simple
stuff, shifter adjustment, shift coupler, verified none of the screws
that connect the various portions of the shift rod had come undone.
Then attempted to manually put the bus into second by moving the shift
rod with a vice grips, and I was able to finally get it into gear -
but then I lost 1st gear. OK a bit more devling, it seems the coupler
is loose, so into the parts bin and replace the coupler. Replaced
coupler doesn't solve anything. Fiddle with the shifter adjustment
some more, and some more, realizing that now I only have 3rd and
reverse.

I'm thinking the problem is in the shift mechanism inside the nosecone
- but having never been inside a nosecone, I'm really just guessing. I
can't get in there without removing the transmission, can I?

Your thoughts are appreciated. Any one been there - done that?

I found an AIRS list member, Rob in Syracuse Indiana, will likely get
towed the 50 miles there in the morning, unless I can find a shop or
another list member closer. Anyone have any suggestions?

If you're anywhere close and can lend a hand - it would be helpful. I
have tools, a bentley and plenty of time and some money. Anyone around
here have a spare transmission? Of course, I've got a nice fully
working one on the shop floor at home in Troy NY, maybe someone can
lend me one and I can ship one back to you when I eventually get back
home?

Feel free to call my cell phone if you can offer help five-one-eight
four-two-one six-five-zero-two

peace
jules
'75 westy
on the side of the road, edgerton ohio
