Date: Tue, 10 May 2011 15:18:37 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] puzzling stoppage

	When your engine suddenly stops (with a flare from the 
discharge lamp before all is quiet), and you can't even switch on the 
emergency 4-way flasher, the sudden lack of power from the battery 
may be due to some PO's idea of how to connect extra wires.  The 3 
pix I've slapped on TheSambe show how mine appeared when I traced the 
fault  -  not luridly bodgieish when viewed from one side, but more 
obvious from the other side.
	I believe the reason why this trouble developed after several 
y in my ownership may well have been an interrupted attempt by some 
criminal to tamper with my wiring.  The connection block and all 
surrounding wiring had been pulled down from under the dash  ...

	The proper fix is to crimp or solder the new wire for the 
extra device onto the brass lug.  Short of that, a quasi-bodgie fix 
is to jam the loose wire under the brass  ...  strictly a 
get-you-home 'fix'.

http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/album_page.php?pic_id=805489


The scenario, then  -  inferred from circumstantial evidence  -  is:-

1.  PO adds clever analogue burglar alarm (switch on the dash which, 
if turned 'on' while the key is not, sounds the horn continuously). 
S/he wires this arrangement by pushing multi-strand wire into VW 
terminal block.

2.  PO also wires new radio/cassette in dash by similar method (power 
on all the time  -  not thru ign sw).

3.  Would-be thieves of radio/cassette, or of whole camper, pull 
wires generally down from behind dash; are interrupted (perhaps by 
horn sounding continuously).

4.  Nothing is immediately disconnected, but on a later night one or 
more of these bodgie connections gives way.  Engine stops, and 
everything else needing the battery; discharge lamp glows brightly 
during the few s. while engine is stopping.

5.  A minute or two stopped is, by an unusual fluke, enough to 
restore 1 strand of wire into temporary service.

6.  I jam wires into terminal block, telling others how to do it properly.

7.  I send claim of victory to T2 List, little thinking that the 
fault may be elsewhere and all the above not the solution to the 
puzzle of the stoppages which may set in anew on some dark night  ...


	I've made 3 pix: the innocent-looking terminal block from one side
		               "                  "          " 
"        " the other side
			one of the rogue pseudo-connections, pulled 
out to reveal  ...

So, if you've nothing better to do on a vehicle of obscure PO, do 
pull down terminal blocks from behind your dash, watching where wires 
come loose from  ...  inspect connections, and if they look like my 
pix, fix 'em.


-- 
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600dp Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
