Date: Wed, 11 May 2011 23:41:37 -0500
From: Jason Foster <jkfoster(-at-)chibardun.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: How far/long can you drive with no charging system?

Message-id:<4DCB18BA.4020401(-at-)verizon.net>

Well a lot of it is going to depend on how good your battery is to start with too.
On my honeymoon I drove from Greenwich CT up through Vermont ..into Canada..across and back into Western Wisconsin with the bus only charging in 1st, 2nd, 3rd or neutral. It turned out to be an easy fix...but it sure made things interesting.
It was not a problem in the day...we drove without any problem, but at night when headlights were needed we started looking around desperately for a place to camp. Sometimes we would climb a hill a I would pop it out of gear so it could charge on the way down.

Anyway if you have an extra battery maybe a charger and for sure jumper cables I would not worry to much
about four hours. As I recall I drove most of the day without my battery charging through large parts of Canada.
Nothing like a bus adventure!/(hmmmmmmm I've heard it said adventure is a romantic name for trouble)
/
Jason




Red alternator light glowing with charging voltage not rising.  Put in
new regulator today (Bosch from Spain) and then light would not come on,
no charging. Tried that new regulator in daughter's bus, light came on,
and it did charge.  Found an old used regulator, the light does glow
with that one- why not with the new one? So alternator is bad or
something in wiring is not right.  Is there a way to test the alternator
output independent of the regulator?
We have two spare used alternators- is there a way to test them before
installing?
     We had planned to go to Granny Grose's campout this weekend- and I
don't have time to switch oputy the alternator. Can one drive 4 hours
(180 mi) on just the battery and a spare if the lights are not used?  We
can use a charger once there.  Or I could take the daughter's hardtop
and use a tent- but I hear it can rain this weekend.
