Date: Sun, 12 Sep 2004 18:14:57 -0400
From: mccomas(-at-)intercom.net
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: joebartoli(-at-)sbcglobal.net
Subject: How hard to replace metal brake line from master cylinder to

Joe,
      Part of the answer depends on whether your Bus has a belly pan.  Can you 
see the chassis rails in the midsection, under the floor?  Or is there a rather 
smooth expanse of sheet metal?  In the former case, the answer is "not 
difficult;" but in the latter, "some ingenuity may be required."

First off, go someplace like Horrible Freight and buy a tubing bender suitable 
for brake tube.  This is a $5-10 item, always nice to have.  Remove the old 
tube as 'conservatively' as you can -- saving any bends so you can duplicate 
them.  You may or may not be able to hit the exact length, but as you say, your 
FLAPS guys are able to sell you fittings that will enable you to combine, say, 
two (maybe three) lengths to make the one long run you require.

You will be the best judge of whether the other lines should be replaced... and 
after you get handy with the bender you will know how easy it is.  My feeling 
is that Indiana salt is no friend of brake lines, any more so than of body 
sheet metal.  In any case, give the lines a good coat of rust prevention 
product of some kind.

If you get really sophisticated you can buy a double-flaring tool, but I have 
to say these don't seem easy to come by.  If you find one someplace for a 
reasonable price, let me know...... Glenn

======= REF ========

Date: Sun, 12 Sep 2004 12:16:35 -0700 (PDT)
From: Joe Bartoli <joebartoli(-at-)sbcglobal.net>

..The dripping brake fluid showed me exactly where the leak was... the metal 
line that runs from the master cylinder to the rear "t" fitting.  It's leaking 
right in front of the big tube in the rear, right where one of the mounts holds 
it to the chassis.
 
Three questions:
 
1.  How hard is it to replace this line?  It looks to be pretty well exposed, 
but the bends on either end look to be kind of a pain.  
2.  How long is this line?  I found the lengths of several other lines online, 
but not this one.  My local FLAPS carries generic brake line sections in 
different lengths, so I could splice several together if necessary.
3.  Thoughts on replacing all the metal lines?  I plan on doing a brake job on 
the bus in the near future anyhow (rubber lines, front wheel cylinders, etc.) 
but hadn't planned on replacing the metal lines unless I mess up the threads or 
the connector upon removal.
 
Thanks!
 
Joe Bartoli
Hope, IN


------------------------------------------------------
This message was sent using Delmarva Online's Webmail.
http://www.dmv.com/
