Date: Sun, 12 Sep 2004 22:15:38 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Booster update and obscure Brake reservior hose question

The recent thread on Pagid pads reminded me of something.
My brake booster recently started showing signs of failing again.  Lack of 
boost after first press, excessive vacuum loss, etc..  Only occasionally, 
but once was enough for me to take action.

For those who may remember, this booster is the one that I had repaired at 
H&R Booster about Eight years ago for a very reasonable price, and after I 
posted the info to the list, many people have had similarly good 
experiences at H&R.  By no means am I wanting to retract my good comments 
about H&R - the rebuild lasted a long time and when I brought my badly 
rusted booster in there, I was prepared for them to tell me it was beyond 
repair, but they were able to get it going again.  I think I have traveled 
at least 80k miles on that booster since the rebuild so it was well worth 
the money.

Anyway, I put in my spare booster which was actually in quite good 
shape.  It is also not an ATE booster (like the original) but a Bendix.  It 
is physically larger and of slightly different shape than the ATE.  It 
provides a bit more power assist, but because of its larger size it butts 
right up against the frame rail - no clearance.  I have since decided that 
I like the additional boost and that I don't care that it's touching the 
frame rail.  I got this booster out of a parts bus long ago - perhaps a 
later model?  Anyway...

I removed, disassembled, inspected, cleaned and reassembled the master 
cylinder while I was in there (had a bit of crud floating inside, but 
otherwise okay).  When I went to reattach the hose from the upper reservior 
to the lower reservior, it didn't "fit".  The hard, clear plastic line was 
expanded at the end to the point that it was considerably larger than the 
nipple on the lower reservior.  At first I thought it had stretched out, 
but the original factory-looking plastic clamp over it was the same size 
and could not have worked if the diameter of the tube was smaller.  To take 
up the space, there was what appeared to be a short section of thin rubber 
hose, or gasket.  This piece tore when I removed the hose and I could not 
get it to seal again.  I had to use another piece of thin plastic hose I 
had lying around and force the assembly together - it is not on there well 
enough that I would be comfortable with it in the long term.

So my question - Is this little rubber "spacer sleeve" thing a factory 
part?  Or is the plastic hose not factory?  I'm confused, and want to get 
this fixed reliably.  Anyone been there before?  Richard Atwell 
maybe?  This kind of obscure reference ought to be right up your alley.  :-)

In any case, I need to state that I am very pleased with the braking 
performance of my bus these days.  Pretty much all new factory parts front 
and rear, adjusted and working as designed (except for the booster, which 
seems to be better than stock).  I have no problem tipping over at will 
whatever I may be carrying in the back of the bus (welder, buckets of 
nails, boxes of cat litter, groceries, etc.).  I have challenged a friend 
of mine with a Mustang to a 60-0mph stopping contest and I think he is 
scared to take me on.

-David ('73 Safare highroof - 208,000 miles of fahrvergnu"gen)
