Date: Mon, 13 Sep 2004 08:30:25 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] lowering a bay window bus

What are you trying to accomplish - the "look" of full fenderwells (my goal)
or the "look" of the chassis being closer to the pavement (I like) or the
physics of lowering the CG?

Bajabus.com was the full fender look on an unaltered (raised or lowered) bus
with 15" tires. I've got the wheels, just have to rob a bank for the $400 set
of Michelins... 205/70-R15 or 205/75-R15 take your choice. That is my goal -
shorter sidewalls, stiffer sidewalls, filled up fenderwells. Only 205mm width
tires, so only 3/4" more rubber on the road than stock. (205mm vs 185mm,
25.4mm = 1 inch). Will certainly change my gear ratios but my 2.7L drivetrain
is all different than the VW so I've got a totally different set of problems.
Dunno if I am going to have to switch from the 3.55 gearbox to the 3.78 (?).
Prob not, several folks told me the 3.27 Corvair gearbox was fine, so maybe
the 3.55 with the larger tires will still be okay...

Closer to the pavement? Bajabus has a couple articles about that too. AVIS
(AVUS?) adjusters front, adjustable spring plates in the rear(?) Check your
alignment afterwards.

Better handling through lower CG? I recommend 15" wheels, GOOD tires, and sway
bars first. That way you do not loose any wheel travel. My Beetle is lowered
with dropped spindles in the front (2" drop) and rear trailing arms that have
been adjusted 2 notches lower (1" drop). It look(ed) good, and drove good put
still leaned like crazy ('65 Beetle on a soft suspension '69 IRS pan). It was
also a challenge to get into and out of parking lots with steep entries. The
worst were those entries with a big bump/lip and fast traffic rushing me off
the road. Tough to get slowed enough to not slam the nose on the pavement, and
still fast enough not to get run over. That car has basketcase status needing
a paint job and reassembly, but once I get it back together it gets 1 notch of
altitude in the back, and swaybars. My lowered Beetle also had front tire
rubbing problems at full lock which could be an issue with the bus - I dunno -
and the engine (with a 1.5 quart sump) was dangerously low to the ground.
Speed bumps were a serious hazard. My exhaust flange rubbed the asphalt often.
Add to it a passenger, or two or three or cargo, and the rear suspension
needed an adjustment up. Being a family man now, once it gets back on the
road, I will have to add adjustable spring plates or coil over assist springs
to allow me to travel with a full car. I have Avis adjusters for the front
beam so I can adjust it up a bit if I need to leaving the car at stock height
unloaded and sitting "just right" when everyone is in it.

See ya!

Chris
'78 Westy 2.7L - "Dharma"
'65 Beetle 2.0 -"?"
'97 Cabrio Highline - "Gabby the Cabby"
'99 CR-V EX AWD - "Bonnie"

wife, child, and various slightly used critters
