From: "Roberto" <vwforever(-at-)cantv.net>
To: "Lista T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 13 Sep 2004 20:33:24 -0400
Subject: No trip report and CV Joints

Hello Volks

I am so sorry not to be able to make a trip report as I want, but instead I
will relate another kind of road tale.
I decided to make trip to a friends farm about 250 miles from home just to
enjoy the outdoor life with the family and some friends, but about 50 miles
after we departed my 14 years old son started to shout at me, Dad there is a
clacking soung coming form the well, at that ponit beleive it or not I could
not listen the sound thanks to the heavy rain that comes with hurricane
Ivan.
I made an emergency stop to identify the sound and realized that was a CV
joint. So I head to my parents house just 12 mile away on my path, when I
get there It was to much rainy to work on the bus (or may I said, under the
bus) and I let the task for the next day.
What I found was I did not have any allen wrench in my tool box (I forgot to
put then in the bus) so I decided to buy a socket wrench to do the job after
too many hours I changed idea and got a 6mm allen one.
The job was pretty simple using the workshop book instruction, the only
problem was I toke apart a CV joint to packed of grease and in the rush I
put togheter in a wrong way ( it is amazing how hard is to make a new CV
joint move in comparsion with the old ones), I made my self to redo the
thing an after a few hours of a very stept learning curve I put the bus on
the road againg but unfortunaly we have to back home due to the heavy rains.
At the end of the story a few things comes up, first always keep a 6mm allen
wrench with you (I thougt is one of the fews you wiil need in a VW bus),
after cleaned I inspected the olds joint and found that perhaps the terrible
sound that they made I think they can last longer if you are far of a safe
place to work (I would like to hear from you on that point).
This situation made me think in what could happen if I keep the bus rolling
with the CV calcking, and after it is fall apart could the bus still rolling
just with one side axle working?
Thank guys for be pattient with me and my poor english, and keep enjoy your
rides.

From the not to sunny lands (by know) lands of Caracas Venezuela.

Roberto
1977 Westy European style 1600DP T1 engine.-
