From: "Marya Cable" <maryayaya(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 13 Sep 2004 18:49:11 -0700
Subject: Latest on my bus...

Hi All -

For those who remember my bus story and are interested in knowing how it's 
going (1970 Riviera that belonged to my grandpa, recently became mine, and 
hasn't been driven or even started in years), here's the latest (and only!) 
on it:

First of all, "his" name is now "Willardo."

I decided that since my intention is to keep the bus, the biggest priority - 
even bigger than starting up the engine - is to treat hidden-away rust, so 
further damage will be prevented.  Also because I don't know when I'll have 
money next.  Ahem.  When I can next afford it, I'll deal with the exterior 
body.  So I FINALLY washed it (it hadn't been washed in 6 or 7 years) and 
also the dash area - talk about dusty!  Around the controls, I had to use 
Q-tips and these really skinny things that are like mini Q-tips (yellow) 
which I found at an auto body store.  Don't know what their purpose is but 
they worked great for such areas.

Am I boring you guys???

The next day (yesterday) a man I met on thesamba.com came over and for a 
very reasonable price, removed all the furniture and paneling (putting 
screws & such in ziplock bags and labeling) and inspected for rust.  We 
pushed the bus out of the garage and stored the furniture in the garage.  He 
couldn't get the flooring up because of some deeply imbedded & rusty screws 
(he'll bring a more powerful drill later).  With the exception of a couple 
of holes under the sliding door windows and under the floor that eat 
straight through (near the sliding door, where the seals were shot around 
the windows), everything else in the bus looked very good.  Just a few 
surface spots of rust.  So I'm very happy about that and will soon clean it 
from top to bottom, after which he'll come back to treat the rust (I'll 
help) before putting back the furniture.

Also, I will be buying some extra Riviera furniture, in the next couple of 
weeks (if all goes well).  I don't really *need* it but their upholstery and 
wood appears to be identical to mine, only has no tears at all.  Since my 
interior is all still original, I thought I could use it comfortably - esp. 
with toddler - and have the other stored away so the bus's overall value 
will be higher, many years from now.  Imagine, in say the year 2020 (am I 
optimistic or what!?), a vw camper with all original interior that isn't 
ripped!  But my fridge's interior is more or less garbage and the one I'm 
buying isn't (though theirs is a different color - same style).  I wonder if 
I could use their fridge (cooler, I mean) and put my front/face on theirs - 
but still use the inside of their door...?  Anyone know about that?

Well thanks for reading chapter 2!

Marya

p.s. Though the exterior of the bus clearly needs some body work (maybe one 
or two quarter panels replaced even), has some rust and could use a nice new 
paint job, it's amazing how good it feels to have washed it and to see all 
that nice "lotus white" under there! :-)  I could swear my next door 
neighbor's scowl has over night become more a look of....slight curiosity.  
Not anticipation, mind you.  That will come later.  Much later.
