Date: Thu, 19 Oct 2006 15:14:05 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Kevin H. Roberts" <bopsax(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "< Arnaud >" <turbo2cv(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] scary situation

Thanks for all of the sage advice, guys.  But it turns out I have  the most common of VW bus problems...ground!  I guess in Bavaria  all roads lead to ground.  I've been all over town trying to get  the right sender, 24mm not 1-1/16, a thin-walled deep-well socket, to  the usual suspect discount parts stores, to my least favorite (but  only) foreign-car parts store, to Lockhart VW to ask Jim's advice,  etc.  Now I have all of the above except the socket.  But I'm  now convinced that even my sender is good.  Somehow, in all of my  jingling wires, plugging and unplugging the sender, etc., I fixed the  problem.  And to boot I fixed my VDO oil temp gauge with the  sender in the taco plate. The one that hat I've cursed a dictionary of  unsavory language at.   Well, I almost fixed it.  Now I get  good readings that agree with my turkey fry thermometer and it works  with the lights on.  Unless I hit a good bump, then it goes to  max.  Before it always read temps too high and would
 go to max  when I turned the lights on.  Since then the pressure light has  only come on when I turn on the switch.  After a second running,  nada.  But every once in a while, I'll still see an intermitant  flash.  So the problem is not really solved.  The engine  purrs like always, never ping one.  So how the hell do you chase  down a ground problem like this?  
  
  In know you guys think I'm crazy for not checking the pressure but I've  looked all over town for one of those manual pressure guages and tried  to figure a way to adapt it to where the sender goes in.  I've  come up with nothing. Pep Boys and all of the others don't even sell  manual pressure guages.   Could you use a compression  tester?  Even with the electrical, dash-mount types, you'd still  have to pull the sender, correct?  I still don't have a  thin-walled 24mm socket to do that (but after a lot of digging, at  least I now know where to get one).  You've convinced me to put in  a pressure guage.  That and a head temp guage are going in  next.  And I'm going to be extra careful to ground them  properly.  But boy what a pain in the rear I've been through over  this.  Fricking grounds.  Dagnabbit.  Grrr....KR
  
"< Arnaud >" <turbo2cv(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:  Kevin,
Listen to the list's wisdom... oil pressure gauge should run ~10$ at
pep boys. Only when you hook it up will you know the real health of
the engine.
- Arnaud
