Date: Mon, 14 Apr 2003 00:06:02 -0500
From: "The Johnson's" <bugnbat(-at-)swbell.net>
To: Buskatiers <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>, Vintagebus
Subject: Wiring gremlins

Just when you think you have killed the last gremlin another little one
pops up like in that annoying ground hog wacking game that used to be in
the arcade where you had the big hammer and a grid of holes in front of
you.  Anyway, this one doesn't involve Clementine, her issues were
resolved long ago (except for the reverse lights, which I just have to
figure out if there is an existing wire in the harness to connect to
that crazy reverse switch on the speedo)  this gremlin involves the
triton (which I've taken to calling humpty-dumpty) I am currently
chasing wiring issues which like in the bus involved some PO cutting and
splicing makeshift connections but with the added difficulty of them
being a different nationality.  I believe the language you speak effects
your thought patterns, so I'm wondering if I will have to practice a new
language before I will be able to figure out what in the hell they were
thinking when they hacked the harness to pieces.  If anyone has
experience with european thought patterns or Eriba's in particular let
me know.  I'm sure it's nothing that a bottle of whiskey and a match
couldn't fix.

Bus content:  I have built a custom splitty tow hitch (with my dad's
help--his welding machines) which I can post pictures of if anyone is
interested.  This hitch if not for the faint of heart, however, as the
thing weights around 70-80 lbs.  My bus would rip in two before this
thing broke.  It mounts to the same place on the frame where the bumper
brackets bolt to and then drops its own angle iron supports to a 2-3
inch heavy walled crosstube to which a receiver is attached.  It works,
I foolishly hauled my dad's 16 foot trailer (his own construction-so
it's heavy--about 1200 lbs.)  onto which I loaded 1180 lbs of brush,
which was weighted at the dump, so I'm figuring about 2300 lbs I pulled
with my little girl clementine.  It's a whole different world with
Humpty, which weights in at 1500 lbs total with it's own brake system, I
don't even realise it's back there.  I will try to get pictures of
Clementine pulling Humpty if anyone is interested, it's a funny site to
see.

Tim Johnson
  at home on the funny farm with issues
Clementine
  saddled into doing my bidding
Humpty
  just happy to be part of the team
