From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com, Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 14 Apr 2003 08:22:03 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] tow hitch, was Re: [VB] Wiring gremlins

  I think bolting it to the torsion really depends on the weight you plan to
pull and the style of hitch you have. 
  I have had my hitch bolted off of the frame rails only for over 4 years
and 50,000 plus miles, always pulling a fully loaded 1 wheel trailer, no
signs of cracking, bending, stress etc. I wouldn't tow another bus with it
though, but good for 600 or so lbs.
  I reinforced the bumper brackets and also use plates on the inside of the
frame rail to help reinforce that.
  I also have one of those aftermarket angle iron bumper/hitchs it has you
drill new holes through the sides of the frame to mount it.
  Navy dave made some EXACT repo's of the original VWoA hitch and it just
bolts to the frame only.
  My new (yes NOS) westfalia hitch will be here very soon (customs has
decided they need to X-ray my container that has been in the port since 2
Fridays ago) and I will see how it mounts up.

  People have asked why I do not make hitchs for buses and I do not want the
liability associated with someone towing using a hitch I made.

ronnie

  Sometimes more metal isn't better, proper mounting of the hitch is the
most important asspect when installing one. If you look at some of the
hitchs on todays car you would not believe how they are mounted to the
chassis (unibody with no real frame) like a Camero or Firebird.

-----Original Message-----
From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com [mailto:VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com]
Sent: Monday, April 14, 2003 7:48 AM
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] tow hitch, was Re: [VB] Wiring gremlins


In a message dated 4/13/2003 10:09:18 PM Pacific Daylight Time, 
bugnbat(-at-)swbell.net writes:

> My bus would rip in two before this thing broke.  It mounts to the same 
> place on the frame where the bumper brackets bolt to and then drops its
own 
> angle iron supports to a 2-3 inch heavy walled crosstube to which a 
> receiver is attached.

Hi Tim,
More than likely you will have a chunk of your bus rip off from that hitch.

The area you have it bolted to is only sheet metal and will soon fatigue
from 
pulling that kind of load.  You really need to U-bolt the hitch to the rear 
torsion bar tubes to have enough strength!!!
Eric&Barb
