From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "vintagebus vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 14 Apr 2003 18:10:42 -0600
Subject: 1435 miles, and one traffic stop later....

......we made it back from Phoenix.

Ended up driving non-stop for 14 1/2 hours to Phoenix with a headwind from SLC
all the way to Flagstaff. From Flagstaff to Phoenix, it was all pretty much
downhill, so if it were windy or not, I dunno.

But, thanks to the wind down in southern Utah we got pulled over by a real
super trooper. I was following my boss in his RV and trailer when a semi
passed us and weaved me over the white line. I didn't notice, but apparently
there was a cop behind us (looked like a regular pickup to me). After the semi
passed us, me and the wife put out our cigarettes just as my boss said
something to us on the walkie-talkie. So we're scrambling to find the
walkie-talky and that's when we got pulled over.

Apparently, from what it looked like to the officer, we weaved (under the
influence), spotted him behind us, put out our 'joints', and started hiding
our stash. Pretty funny actually. Watching him try to casually fit his head
through the door window to catch a wiff of weed or something. He let us go
with a warning, and gave us something to laugh about the rest of the way to
Flagstaff.  We thought for sure he was going to search the vehicle, and who
knows how long that would have taken with all the gear we had packed.

Bus ran good the whole way, oil never got over 220, even floored into a
headwind for ump-teen hours at a time. All i'm running is a simple tube & fin
style oil cooler with no fan, and the stock cooler removed from the engine. I
guess GB was wrong about that combo, haha. It was a gutless slug with that
headwind the whole way there, that's for sure LOL. Luckily, we either had a
tailwind or a side wind on the way back, and got us home 2 hours quicker than
the drive down.  Ended up going a different route to get home, going through
Las Vegas. It was 45 miles more driving than the way we had come, but was
mostly interstate. Worked out great for us.

Jetting still needs to be tweaked, got 18 miles to the gallon with the
headwind, and about 22 miles to the gallon with the tail/side wind.  Jetting
is getting closer than it was, but not quite there yet.

Eric Allred
64 Bus

P.S. Beto, you were totally right when you said you need every bit of space
when traveling with little ones! We were loaded to the gills! LOL
