Date: Mon, 14 Apr 2003 21:50:04 -0500
From: "The Johnson's" <bugnbat(-at-)swbell.net>
To: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>, Vintagebus
Subject: Re: [VB] tow hitch, was Re: [VB] Wiring gremlins

Towing the big trailer was a one time ordeal.  The eurocamper has an extremely
light tongue weight, doesn't weight much, and has it's own braking system.

Therefore no downward stress on the frame, I don't accelerate that fast, and
when I stop the trailer takes care of it's own inertia.  I feel that bolting
onto the frame rails (with an additional angle iron support) will work
adequately for my needs.  However, I agree with ronnie and any pictures I post
are for entertainment value ownly and should in no way be taken as an endorsment

for any particular style of tow hitch, I can sleep at night with what I have
done but do not want to worry about anyone else's decisions.  I'm sorry but I
forgot to take pictures today and spent my time foolishly instead showing my
house to potential buyers and having fun with my family.  However I will forsake

them tomorrow to get the photo's
 Tim Johnson
    and
  Clementine



OldVolks General wrote:
I think bolting it to the torsion really depends on the weight you plan to
pull and the style of hitch you have.
 I have had my hitch bolted off of the frame rails only for over 4 years
and 50,000 plus miles, always pulling a fully loaded 1 wheel trailer, no
signs of cracking, bending, stress etc. I wouldn't tow another bus with it
though, but good for 600 or so lbs.
 I reinforced the bumper brackets and also use plates on the inside of the
frame rail to help reinforce that.
 I also have one of those aftermarket angle iron bumper/hitchs it has you
drill new holes through the sides of the frame to mount it.
 Navy dave made some EXACT repo's of the original VWoA hitch and it just
bolts to the frame only.
 My new (yes NOS) westfalia hitch will be here very soon (customs has
decided they need to X-ray my container that has been in the port since 2
Fridays ago) and I will see how it mounts up.
People have asked why I do not make hitchs for buses and I do not want the
liability associated with someone towing using a hitch I made.

ronnie
