Date: Fri, 14 Feb 2003 10:37:29 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Nick Romaniello <shaggybus72(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Possible help in Pitsburgh

>1. It has a 1700 GEX engine that I had put in less than 10,000 miles ago 
>which is in good shape but badly out of tune.  Other than the standard 
>tune up proceedures, Is there anything extra I should do becase it has 
>been sitting so long?

Hey Nick! I've dealt with alot of cars that have sat for 2 or 3 years with 
fuel in them (my bus is currently one of those!). The VW bus poses a few 
special situations that should be addressed. 1st replace the whole fuel 
system. By that I mean all of the rubber hoses. I expect that's $20 for 
your bus or less. A couple hours of work. It's a big deal to me because if 
there is a break in a fuel line the tank will empty by gravity alone. If 
there is a fire then the fire will be fed with gasoline until the tank is 
empty and your bus is ruined. While you are replacing the fuel lines also 
replace the gas tank vent system. It has several rubber connections that 
rot just like the fuel lines. Current gas seems to be very hard on rubber! 
Lastly check the filler neck. I do not know how the filler neck is 
connected to the gas tank on your model. There is generally a 2" hose 
between the filler neck and the tank itself. Mine was cracked and rotted 
and leaking. NAPA has a suitable replacement I think. Tell them it is for a 
gas tank.

Expect to replace a few gaskets. I've had a few carb gaskets leak like 
crazy after sitting for too long. Wait and see. Also check to see if the 
float valve in the carbs are working properly. Clean out the idle circuit 
well. Change the oil in the engine and tranny. I would service everything 
and carefully inspect (flush and fill with new fluid) the brake system. 
Probably replace those flexible rubber brake lines.

>2. it has been sitting with probably about 3 gallons of gas in it for all 
>that time.  Should I put anything in the tank like dry gas of a fuel 
>system cleaner or should I just fill it up with fresh gas

I've always filled it with new gas and kept going. I seldom get the engine 
tuned right until the old gas + 1 tank of new gas is gone. Tune it but 
expect to tune it again (at least the mixture and idle speeds). You can 
adjust valves, timing, dwell, set the spark plugs etc regardless of how bad 
the gas is...

>3. Since I dont have the money to have other people do my work for me 
>anymore, I was wondering if there was someone in the pittsburgh area with 
>experience who may be willing to come and show me the proper way to do a 
>full tune up (valve adjustment, set timing, ect)  I know the proceedures 
>but would just like if someone who knows how would keep an eye on me and 
>make sure I'm doing it right.

Buy some decent shop manuals if you don't have any. Bentley is good, and 
Muir is a good one if you don't know a spark plug from a coil. Bentley is 
where the heavy duty facts are.

If you want to come to TN I can help. <grin>






Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
