Date: Fri, 14 Feb 2003 10:56:51 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: warren baity <warrenbaity(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] suicide doors - no BUS

>Here is a random Friday question. Does anyone know how much it would cost 
>to get suicide doors, installed, in a bug? Now i know that this isnt a Bug 
>list, but im sure that there are people who know people, if they havent 
>themselves, who have suicide doors in their bugs. What about any drawbacks 
>to them?? Let me hear some feedback from people and what they think of them.

I've worked and driven and owned a few old cars with suicide doors.

Pros: look cool. Certainly different.

Cons: can open with the vehicle in motion, catches the wind, flys back and 
beats itself against the body. You really ought to install safety pins that 
you can slide forward locking the door shut (beyond what the door latch can 
do) mechanically. Walk around at the Hot Rod shows and you'll see what I 
mean. When a car twists and flexes the door latches (some designs are worse 
than others) will let go of the door latch pin. I flexed a '66 Moostang 
enough one time that it's door popped open. No damage, it just popped open. 
On a 1935 Fordor Ford Sedan Deluxe (think gangster car) we had when I was 
about 12 year old, we were just leaving the driveway (15 mph) when I 
realized the back door where I was sitting was not latched properly. I 
never gave it a thought and opened the door with the intention of slamming 
it harder. The wind caught it and ALMOST pulled the door open and me out of 
the car. Any faster and I would have been out on the road! Dad had to stop 
because I could not close the door with the wind.

Friend had a street rod that had a suicide door open at speed. Wiped out 
the entire door, the hinges, and the rear fender. $$$ to fix. Car looks 
good today. He forgot to set the safety pins I mentioned.

Method 1: You can take the right side door hinges and have them grafted 
into the door jamb on the left side rear. Left door hinges moved to the 
right side rear. The bad: the hinges are visible. The good: cheaper to the 
tune of a few hundred bucks.

Method 2: Buy hinges from street rod / hot rod catalog that are designed 
for this project. The good: not visible when the door is closed. The bad: 
several hundred bucks.

Method 3: Fabricate your own. After you've seen a few sets you'll realize 
that they are simple bent steel. Will require some welding and some bending 
of heated steel.

Cost: I dunno. Check around for your area. It may more or less expensive 
based on your region of the country. Check with custom shops, body shops, 
etc. They need to be able to show pics or cars that they have done to prove 
to you that they've done this before and not going to learn on YOUR car.

Good luck and let us know what you find out.


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
