Date: Sun, 20 May 2007 09:44:26 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: Robert Meyer <dustbusterblue78(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Mystery diagnosis....Please help!!!

Yes, battery is too low. May be shot if it sat that
way for any long period of time.
When you installed and set the points, did you:
Thoroughly clean the surface of the breaker plate that
the points attach to.
Wip the points with isopropyl or spray with electric
points cleaner, both the bottom where they make
contact with the mount plate and the points surfaces
themselves (hold open and allow to dry before allowing
to close)
Did you distrub the ground wire inside the distributor
that grounds the breaker plate to the distributor body
(necessaty because plate moves)
New points came with new condensor, right? Did you
clean the condensor and the surface it mounts to?
Did you attach the points / condensor wire to terminal
#1 on the coil along with the WHITE wire that tells
the injectors when to fire?
When you adjusted the points, I assume you did not use
a dwell meter (that's the easy way and only accurate
way) You made sure the rubbing block was at the peak
of the point cam it rides on and measured with a
feeler gauge, then tightened. Did you rotate and try
again, double checking your work on at least one more
point cam lobe?
Did you apply the grease that came with the points to
the point cam / rubbing block upstream from contact
point? (I find it best to just smear a very thin coat
on the cam with my finger. Part way 'round is fine)
Did you accidently get some of that grease on the
electrical contacts?

Did you properly gap the spark plugs?

What else did you disassemble? Anything with wires
attached?  Hope this checklist helps. I think that if
it ran before the tune-up then it's a simple
fundamental boo-boo that you will catch if you go
step-by-step. -BaH
--- Robert Meyer <dustbusterblue78(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:

<<SNIP>>
  The first thing I did was change the points,
 and I was quite certain I did everything correctly,
 but apparently, whatever I did, the car didn't like
 it.  It wouldn't fire, only turn over, and
 eventually the battery became run down from trying
 to start so much.  It did start once, but only after
 I jump started it, and only for a very short time
 before it stalled out again.  I was quite baffled by
 this, because I am certain I did everything
 correctly:  I installed and set the points the
 proper distance, I attached all the wires and made
 sure everything was snuggly in place, I even found
 where tdc was and set the points accordingly.  I
 also checked the spark to make sure that the coil
 was functional.  The spark plugs
<<SNIP>>

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
