Date: Sun, 6 Nov 2005 21:21:14 -0700
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Fuel pumps and flaps and exhaust OH MY!

I installed a yard pump that I picked up. Looked good. Didn't want to run
the engine to test it until I got the other stuff done...

So I went to put my cooling flaps and thermostat in today (yay!) I'd
forgotten I had to drop the HEs to take the fan shroud off without bending
the HEs up. Sigh. Annealled the gasket rings while I was at it since I had a
fresh bottle of propane calling my name.

I didn't want to mess with taking the rear plate off the alt and unhooking
the wires so I looked for a convenient place to hang it from with a length
of wire. And I looked. And I looked some more. WTF? There's nothing! Flipped
a bucket upside down (it WAS my seat. Sigh.) and rested the alt there. No
tension on the wires.

Shroud and tinwork out. I started with the backflow flaps on the bottom. One
of them had been replaced at some point. It was all shiny, while the other
was oxidized. (Remember, I had gotten all the flaps and such off a 73 I
found in a junkyard). I wonder why it was replaced. *shrug* Anyway once that
was done I tackled the big flap assembly up top. Luckily I had just recently
done this with Troy's bus, since I didn't pay attention when I pulled these
off the junkyard bus. I greased the heck out of everything, snapped the
assembly in place (including the tabs inside the left side opening) and
thought I was done. Hah!

Once I got the shroud back into place, the linkage was too stiff. there's no
way that little thermostat I got from Raby would do anything. Pull
everything back out and see why... The left flap has a "C" shaped bit of
linkage that has to be set just right. Wrong one way and the flaps are too
stiff to move. Wrong the other way and they only open an inch. Just right
and the right flap has full travel, and the left one seals and opens
properly. It took a couple hours to figure that one out.

So I get it back in, install the thermostat and bracket, and try to hook up
the cable. I was happy to see the little grommet for the cable was still
there and in decent condition. I hadn't thought to grab that bit at the
junkyard. I go to hook up the wire... Not gonna happen. Even with the flaps
full closed it will only barely reach the clamp. If I hadn't had my 3rd hand
surgically removed, I could have made it work. But not with only 2 hands. So
I pondered. Finangled. Pondered some more. Ah Ha! Unscrew the cable from the
thermostat, hook it to the clamp, then screw it back on! Worked perfectly!

Reassemble everything, including dealing with a helicoil repair I had made
in the past that popped loose (!). Fire it up... FUEL EVERYWHERE!!! Quickly
shut off the bus, and find that the pump was dumping fuel out of the vent
line. Lots of fuel. So I went back to my original Mechano Brazillian pump.
The problem with my mechanical pump was the outlet pipe was loose in the
body of the pump. Grrr... That took WAY too long to diagnose. About 2 hours
total, including trying other yard pumps that each had some flaw. :( But
JBWeld came to the rescue. Sealed up nicely. I wish, though, I had thought
to do the safety wire thing like I did on the inlets to the carbs. Maybe
next weekend (assuming the pipe doesn't pop out again before then). Of
course, it was getting dark by now.

I finally got to start it and get it running. Yay! Everything working as it
should. After a few minutes I could see the thermostat start to open up. I
didn't wait for it to open fully since my dinner was getting cold. =)

I worked from 10am to 6:30pm, without a real break. Just pauses to smoke a
cig every so often.

Back hurts. Need alcohol.

=)

--
Don
http://www.donimages.com/gwb/
