From: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>,<type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 7 Nov 2005 8:16:12 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Modern day CD player into our Bay windows??

Interestingly enough, the stereo opening for the Bay Bus is basically about as perfect as you could make it. All modern half-din stereos have that size and shape. 

If you go on to www.crutchfield.com, they sell speakers that will fit in the stock 6"x9" location. I don't know if I'm confusing myself with my 81 TransAm... so someone please correct me if I'm wrong, but the Type-2 DOES in fact have a 6"x9" speaker grill in the dash, correct? Or am I completely out of my mind?

Anyway, crutchfield DOES in fact sell a speaker that goes there. There is a large 6"x9" cone which acts almost like a subwoofer, and then it has two smaller midrange speakers that are actually built into the larger speaker. They are angled slightly to direct the sound to the left and right of the cabin. These individual speakers function as the stereo speakers. The lower frequencies will not be in stereo (but past a certain point, the human ear cannot distinguish "location" of lower frequencies), but the upper frequencies are in stereo.

It's pretty inexpensive too.. the whole speaker setup costs about $120 bucks, and it's well worth the money considering how good it sounds. I have one in my 81 TransAm... I am not currently using it in my Bus.

In my BUS however, I got a set of door panels from the junkyard, and using a large hole saw, I made a perfect hole in the panel for a speaker.

I wanted to keep the older "theme" of the car and not make anything in the car look too modern, so I used a set of door speaker grills from a Volvo 240 Station wagon. They look kind of "70s" and they aren't that big. (I could fit 4.25" speakers in them).
For rear speakers... since there is a large area under the rear seat, I installed a subwoofer box with a couple of mid-range speakers. You can't really see it, and it's easy to remove. 


I'm very happy with the way it sounds.

I ended up going with a fairly inexpensive stereo. It has 4x25watt channels (100 watts total). 
I don't really drive my Bus all that often, so the brand eludes me.... but what I really liked about it is that it has an auxilary input on the face. The input is in the form of a headphone jack.... so like, for example: if you had a portable MP3 player, or a portable XM radio, you could plug it right into there and use the car's stereo. Otherwise, it's just a normal CD player.


For most of my speakers and stuff (except the one I got from crutchfield), I usually look around on www.uBid.com until I see one that fits the dimensions I want. They usually have really good prices. I got a complete set of Cerwin Vega speakers for my 1987 Fiero from there. I paid less than $25 for each pair.. ($50 total)... brand new in the box.



Todd
