Date: Sat, 16 Jun 2007 12:09:04 -0500 (CDT)
From: Darren Evans-Young <darren(-at-)bama.ua.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: FI vacuum lines and hoses

I did a thorough taking apart and cleaning of my FI system last weekend.
I put in new injectors with seals, resistor block, intake manifold
gaskets, cold start injector, and engine compartment seal.

Several of my hoses are in bad shape. However, I bought some silicone tape
at Wally-World and wrapped the hoses to seal any leaks and add structure.
Works like a charm. This "tape" sticks to itself and stands up to the
heat. Just make sure your hands are free of oil or it wont stick. Also,
make sure you use the Duck brand.  I tried using another brand because it
was cheaper and thicker than the Duck brand and after about 10 mins, the
stuff fell apart and left a sticky mess. I'm told there is a company in
town that makes industrial hoses and they will be able to find suitable
replacements for the engine hoses. I'll try them soon....after I fix my
944S so I have another vehicle to drive.  Which brings me to my next
suggestion...

Last year I replaced all my vacuum hoses in my 944S with 5/32" silicone
lines. I just realized yesterday that I had a couple feet leftover. I
decided to replace all the bus vacuum lines with silicone lines. The
current vacuum lines dont handle the heat well and I wind up having to
replace them every year. I imagine the hard lines are brittle by now too.
The silicone lines will probably outlast the bus. I kept the original
plastic T's. One set of lines go from distributor vacuum canister and T
off to the throttle body and the air filter box. The other goes from the
fuel pressure regulator and T's off to the decel valve and the plenum (I
think that's what it's called). I bought my silicone vacuum lines from
Lindsey Racing. It's $1/ft and comes in red, blue, or black.

http://www.lindseyracing.com/mm5/merchant.mvc?Screen=CTGY&Store_Code=LR&Category_Code=944VACUUMLINE

I'm just a satisfied customer and the stuff works.

Darren Evans-Young
Tuscaloosa, AL
1979 Federal FI 2.0L
