Date: Sat, 16 Jun 2007 11:10:47 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Jeffrey Hendery <henderyj(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Valve Adjustment

Jeffrey Hendery wrote:
> Ok so first time adjusting the valves myself.  I'm reasonably certain I've
> found TDC for cylinder number one.  The distributor rotar points reasonably
> close to cylinder 1 and the factory mark found on the crankcase pully lines

Ok, it should NOT point at cylinder 1, it should point towards the 
right-rear of the bus.  Remember, the spark plug wires for 1 and 2 are 
crossed.  So, this is the orientation of the wires on the distributor:
3          1
  \        /
   3  2   /
       \ /
        X
       / \
   4  1   \
  /        \
4          2

numbers in the center are the distributor, numbers on the outside are 
the cylinders.  Assuming you have a later model bus, the cylinder 
numbers are stamped on the tin.  If you have a vacuum advance 
distributor with the vacuum can on the side(not 009), then there should 
be a line on the rim of the distributor (when the cap is removed) that 
denotes firing position one.  Point the rotor pretty close to that and 
you can adjust the #1 valves.  move it 90, 180 and 270 degrees from that 
point to adjust 2, 3, and 4.  Stop occasionally for sanity checks ;)

> with the seam from the engine case.  For cylinder 1 when I wiggle the first

I have no idea what engine you have, but you shouldn't have to worry 
about the seam of the engine case.  As long as you are close to firing 
position for #1, then you're fine.  The valves are closed for a good 
number of degrees around the firing point.

> rocker arm from left to right that rocker arm moves.  Although the second
> rocker arm does not have any movement.  When I pull the first valve up and
> down it has a slight movement.  But the second valve does not have movement.

Yeah, you might not be at the right firing position, or your valves just 
need to be adjusted ;)  Get everything adjusted, and then check all the 
valves one more time.  Make sure the car is COLD!  Best when you let it 
sit overnight.  If the car is slightly warm (even after 6 hours), it 
will affect the adjustment.  I'm also assuming you have solid lifters. 
If you have hydraulic valves (78 and up), the adjustment is different.

> I'm following the valve adjustment guideline from here that suggests both
> valves and rocker arms should have the same movement when TDC is found for
> cylinder 1.  I understand the movement suggests the valves are closed.

They will have the same amount of play given that they're both in 
adjustment.  Do you have a bentley manual?  It has instructions for how 
to do this as well.

> I'm going to have a second look confirming cylinder 1 TDC.

To do this, you're going to need to watch the valves.  Here are the 
instructions as quoted from the "librarian":

"Unless you are Superman or otherwise possessed of X-ray vision the only 
way to determine when a long-block or other unknown engine is at TDC for 
#1 is to remove the right-hand (passenger) valve cover and rotate the 
engine until you see the #1 intake valve close (intake valves are the 
inside valves, exhaust are the outside valves - cylinder #1 is on the 
passenger side, towards the front of the car).  Once you have seen that 
valve close then rotate the engine another 180 degrees and align the 
timing mark with zero and you will be close to TDC for #1."

> PS.  When I adjust the crankcase pully to other positions that second rocker
> arm for cylinder 1 moves.

Just start with #1 and then spin the crankshaft so that the distributor 
rotor spins counterclockwise and you can move from 1 to 2 to 3 to 4, 
adjusting as you go, and then check it all one more time.

There are a few other tricks to adjusting valves, but we won't get into 
that yet ;)

just remember, when you're looking at a head, the two outside valves are 
exhaust, inside valves are intake:

E I I E

Btw, what year is your bus?  Kinda makes a difference...

MIke
