Date: Tue, 06 May 2003 11:22:47 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] paint jobs

At 08:17 PM 05/05/2003, you wrote:

>A whole roomful of DIY mechanics here,
>and nobody wants a decent paint job ?!!!

Not all Bus owner's want the same thing, and some of them want nothing at 
all to do with DIY beyond oil changes and washing and vacuuming. The beauty 
of the Bus is it can serve all needs for so many different characters. I 
know danged well many with the where-with-all look at a new EuroVan, then 
the price and say, "Sure wish I could get a new Bus." I wanted those types 
to know, you can expect to have just that for 1/3rd the money. With fine 
warranties of all major components and our maintenance inspection 
requirements met, you will have something that will give trouble free 
reliability as good as new, but with far fewer bells and whistles, better 
reliability, dozens fewer things to fail in or out of warranty. And 
considerably less time to service and maintain. T-IV oil filter=2 minutes, 
EuroVan oil filter=10 minute with a lift, danged near impossible without, 
and 3 times the cost of the T-IV filter. It's just a no brainer which will 
have the far lower cost per mile. One third the cost to buy, two thirds the 
cost for maintenance all around, far fewer switches and relays and do dads 
to fail in the long haul and most designed to last through warrantee only.

Another example. T-IV coils, lots and lots of them 30 years old and 
200,000+ miles still function nominal and cost $30 if it does finally 
submit to corrosion from lack of maintenance. EuroVan coil, half life of 7 
years, $100+, and half the time it goes foul because of a foul module or 2 
at $500 and $150. Guess which system takes far more knowledge and skill and 
time to diagnose????? Without accurate diagnosis, throwing parts at it gets 
big time spendy. So you do the diagnosis to insure you don't spend $500 on 
something not needed or spend the $500 because that is in fact the source 
of the fault and only that will fix it.

But, back to paint, to have a NEW Bus the paint is the largest single cost 
in the process IF what you want something that approaches show room factory 
new fit, finish and reliability, and it comes first. If you want to 
guarantee no issues from old paint being hard and new paint being flexible, 
and not have sheets falling off when it gets hit by a lawn dart, you must 
go bare metal. If you put new factory paint over 20 year hard factory 
paint, no matter how your prep it, 5 or 7 or 10 years from now and a bump 
and a chunk falls off. I can certainly guarantee that is not factory 
results, even if beyond warranty. But many of the candidates will have all 
kinds of different re-paints applied. You can't overcoat it and expect no 
failure and you would be a fool to guarantee no failure, no bubbles, no 
cracking, no peeling.

In any case, whether you're going to use as is or restore to new, the first 
rule is STOP DETERIORATION. Wire brush the rust, hit it with rust 
converter. (A quart of OSPHO will do 10 typical unrestored Buses) Dry it, 
and I mean hit the seams you wick the converter into with a hot air gun or 
overnight in warm and dry air. Then brush off the powder residue if any, 
sand with 120 to put a tack in the surface, paint with zinc primer, see 
label for drying time, sand with 220, seal it with a quality Brand Name 
enamel, the $7 per can as opposed to the $1.99 junk. Now you can use it for 
as long as it takes to budget a complete restoration or use it as is 
without the rust progressing.

If it's not going straight into the shop for the full banana treatment, 
patch all breaches in the paint or metal with spot fixes to maintain the 
value of what's left. Continue driving and fix one corner at a time on 
weekends re-seal it. You can DIY a coupla thousand worth of pro body work 
over the course of time if you make the time, and have that expense paid 
for before a complete strip. All of a sudden that $7000 paint and body work 
bill becomes $5000 for strip and paint only, no body repair added.

Biggest misnomer in Bus For Sale ads is RESTORED. In most cases they are 
talking oversprayed paint, and that is NOT restored. That's just very much 
like "new motor" to describe a GEX assemblage of used parts. Whether the 
lie is innocent or contrived, it's still untrue, and will cost you if you 
pay for value there.   
