From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Tue, 6 May 2003 23:26:19 -0500 (CDT)
To: harmony(-at-)buszen.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com (type2 list), ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com (bus
Subject: Re: [T2] A painting accident that turned out good...

John,
You must have had the throttle WFO on that econo gun to get the
unreduced paint out of the nozzle---

The reason to reduce the paint is to accelortae the drying time, and
cause the paint to flow smooth--vs an orange peel special.

The PPg Concept urethane I've been using for the last year ( since PPG
discontiuned Deltron ) calls for a 4 parts paint, to 2 parts hardenr, to
1 part reducer--

I called the PPG labs in PA. and asked them about over reducing the
paint mix--because I am not using a HLVP gun--I still am using my 30
year old Binks # 7, and it isn't really a high solids gun--so the paint
flowing out of it has to be reduced a bit more--
I reduce it with a 2 parts reducer formula.

Well--they told me "why not", and the finshed product is a smooth as
glass, due to the over reduction--

How you got a satisfactory flat, high gloss finish using no reducer
eludes all my thoughts on the painting process.              ( epecially
with that 15 dollar gun--)
( you must have blown the paint on at 90 psi at the gun )
It almost for sure has to look like a rolling orange--right???

Later,


Terry

 
E-mail message   
 
On Sunday I really wanted to get my old 72 bus painted. All the prep had
been done and I was afraid if I didn't get to it that day, then I'd have
to go back over it with the cleaning, etc. So, I rushed to get
everything ready to paint this bus. I'd painted about 4 other buses in
the past, so I thought I had it under control. I was going to use the
same brand\type paint as the other times (single stage paint with a
hardener added). The only variable was a new paint gun I bought for $15
at an auction a couple of weeks ago. After rushing everything together,
hooking up the compressor, etc. i started painting. right away I noticed
something different, the paint seemed to cover a lot more easily and
smoother than my previous paint jobs, I had no runs or anything. I
naturally gave credit to the new gun, but then after the first coat:
D'OH!!!! I realized that I had forgotten to add reducer to the paint
mix!! But... The first coat went so well, that I decided to skip the
reducer on all of the remaining 4 coats. 
Last night I pulled off all the masking paper & tape and WOW!! This was
a good looking paint job, FAR better than anything I have done in the
past. Smooth, even coverage, and absolutley NO RUNS!! It actually looks
like a semi-professional paint job!! Leaving out the reducer made all
the difference! it makes me want to strip and re-paint my daily driver
71 westy using this same method. 
Anyway, this is one of those accidental good-karma things that sometimes
happen, I have a great looking paint job. Total cost: Primer $30,
Sandpaper $5, Automotive paint $75 gallon, new auction paint gun $15,
masking tape\paper $5, total = $130. 
===== 
Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1972 Deluxe
http://www.buszen.com 
"So we got into the red VW microbus with the shovels and the rakes and
the implements of destruction and we headed on to the police officer's
station..." 
----------------------------------------------
