From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Mon, 27 Aug 2007 23:31:31 -0400
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: re: [T2] Busses, Grease Monkeys, and Dreams

Hi Charlie,

I was SO hoping to meet you at HCBF this year. Unfortunately my bus  
wasn't co-operating. (Is that sufficient OBC?)

 From what I know of you through the list; I think you want to help.  
And one thing I have learned over the last 43 years is that "no good  
deed goes unpunished". But the fact that you are venting this in a  
public forum tells m that you are on the edge, looking for  
encouragement.

The way I see it,  there are two questions to consider: Who will be  
hurt if you run for mayor, and who will suffer if you don't???  Once  
you can answer those, you will know what to do.

Damn the torpedoes, full speed ahead!!!  Or to put it more simply, as  
my skate-punk, 68-westy driving buddy Adam says.... "Giv'r!!"  Or  
step aside, and avert the hurt.

You gotta make that call on your own, sir.


Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/77/79 Westfakia "Bob The Tomato
www.pottsfamily.ca
www.busesofthecorn.com




On 27-Aug-07, at 9:18 AM, Charlie Ford wrote:

Last night I dreamed dreams that I haven't dreamed in a while.  It  
was all that is in this title and this morning I thought about how  
far my life has spiraled since returning from the trip I took oh so  
many hundreds of years ago.

In 97 when I boarded the Mothership and headed out on my travels of  
America I felt so released from all of the minutia and now find  
myself standing in the middle of it all once again.  Sitting still  
can create such ya know.

I am actually thinking seriously about running for the Mayor of the  
small town I am from in south Georgia.  I have been asked oh so many  
times to do this by the most common of folk in this small but good  
little town.

In that past ten years my involvement, and the impact made by that  
involvment has moved me to some amount of perceived leader in some  
peoples minds, yet in my own I don't really feel I belong there.  Its  
amazing what me standing for something creates.

God I wish I had the Mothership running.  I wish I had the freedom of  
driving the open road.  I wish I had a bean burrito from Taco Del Mar  
from Freemont in Seattle.  I wish I could wake up wondering about how  
far I wanted to drive today, or whether I would at all.  I wish I  
could roll over in my bunk and drift back off for that second easy  
sleep.

I could wind this race and know how to do what it takes after  
winning.  I could create change in this sleepy little town that needs  
better governance so badly.  I know I could grow things back to where  
it is no longer biased toward color, creed, and national origin.  But  
the question remains, do I really want too?

That is one I will answer for myself in the next three days.

Thanks for tolerating the ramblings.  At least those of sleepy dreams.

Charlie Ford
(912) 539-7688
