From: "Bill Bowman" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
To: "List - Vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, "List - Vanagon"
Date: Mon, 27 Aug 2007 23:29:53 -0500
Subject: VW Camping this weekend...

Come one, come all!

B.N.N.T.A. - "Buses Nowhere Near The Arch #22"

When:  this upcoming weekend, Friday Aug 31st thru Monday Sept 3rd, the entire
Labor Day holiday weekend.

Where:  in the group campground in the Indian Creek Recreational Area located
right on Mark Twain Lake in NE Missouri.  We have again leased the ENTIRE
campground so we can host an all VW camping weekend.  Only VWs will be
admitted...any year and model of VW...but it must be a VW.

Our group campground is a beautiful, heavily wooded location for our event,
built lakeside by the Corps of Engineers, features quite a few sites with
access to electric, two nice buildings with restrooms (one with nice hot/cold
showers), a playground, a covered pavillion, a nearby boat ramp into the 22
mile long lake, a nearby marina, etc.  Individuals and VW clubs from all over
the Midwest will be enjoying each others company for the long holiday
weekend.

There is NO pre-registration available, just check in with us upon arrival and
we'll quickly fix you up for the weekend.

On Saturday we'll run a caravan over a scenic route to historic Hannibal, MO
to enjoy the sights of the childhood home town of Samuel Clemens (aka, "Mark
Twain").  Enjoy the towns' historic landmarks and sights and then return to
the BNNTA event at your leisure.  Later on participants will stroll the
campground to visit and vote for their personal favorites for awards later
that evening. On Sunday we'll relax and enjoy the lake.  Slow drags will also
be hosted.

BNNTA event T-shirts will be available and the first 100 VWs will receive an
event dash plaque at registration.  Be sure to use your creativity to decorate
your VW campsite, both for the fun of it and to compete in our site decoration
contest (both individual and group decorating).

While it's been hot lately, the latest weather forecast now calls for
excellent weather this weekend! A cool front moves in on Thursday and the
forecasts for the weekend are calling for clear skies and daytime high temps
of only 85 degrees!  Any you'll enjoy your sleep with nightime lows in the
mid-60's!  Perfect camping weather!!!

Please feel free to bring along any VW related items that you'd like to donate
to the growing door prize give-away on Saturday evening.

We've kept the event and camping fee as low as we can, lower than pretty much
any other similar camping weekend.  The total fee per VW is only $30 for the
entire weekend regarless of how long you visit.

Visit our site for basic info at http://www.bnnta.com  where there is a
Mapquest link with directions (Yeah, one of these days we'll spice the site up
a bit more!).

So there you have it!  If you've been thinking about joining us, take
advantage of the long weekend and great weather forecast and start packing up
the Bus to join us for all the festivities.  It's never too late, and there's
always room for more around our VW campfire!

Bill & Kathryn Bowman
