Date: Tue, 28 Aug 2007 06:34:24 -0600
From: "Curtland, Terry" <tcurtlan(-at-)ball.com>
To: "Type2List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] '78 2.0 won't start

Actually, I thought that this could be the case, so I added 3 gallons to
the tank (wouldn't be the first time that a fuel gauge was reading
wrong) - with no change.  Then when I removed the fuel pump to check it,
at first I didn't get the hose clamped tight enough and gas was flowing
out of the hose from the tank - so I believe that I don't have a fuel
blockage in the tank.  Also, I don't have points anymore due to a
Pertronix "pointless" system.  I checked the vacuum lines (as was
suggested), and none were loose.  I re-checked the cable connection
going into the AFM - no change.  I replaced the spade end of the white
wire going to the coil (from the brain box harness) - NO CHANGE.  I put
a fuel pressure gauge on the fuel rail, and I am getting 35 - 38 psi
readings.   WHAT AM I MISSING?  Is it one of those "you're too close to
the situation to see the answer" kind of things???  Anyone in the Denver
- Boulder area available to help out?

Terry


-----Original Message-----
From: Busahaulic [mailto:busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com]
Sent: Monday, August 27, 2007 9:00 PM
To: Curtland, Terry
Cc: Type2List
Subject: Re: [T2] '78 2.0 won't start

9 times out of 10 this scenario is solved by adding
gas to an empty gas tank and nobody ever talks about
it again! Do you hear the gas flowing through the
lines when you run the pump? Other than that, possibly
ignition points were on last leg and finally gave up?
If it starts with start fkuid, that discounts that
theory. I'll stick with "out of gas." What do I win?
-BaH





This message and any enclosures are intended only for the addressee.  Please
notify the sender by email if you are not the intended recipient.  If you are
not the intended recipient, you may not use, copy, disclose, or distribute
this
message or its contents or enclosures to any other person and any such actions
may be unlawful.  Ball reserves the right to monitor and review all messages
and enclosures sent to or from this email address.
