From: "Devin" <Snowhugger(-at-)Comcast.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 29 Aug 2007 17:05:30 -0600
Subject: CV joint replacement

1st time doing this.  The archieve said it was time consuming and messy and
boy was that the truth.  I only did the left side and it took at least 8
hours.  I am hopefull it was done right.  Joint seemed to move smoothly before
reattachment and drove good on the short test drive.
What I learned:
Have more paper towels handy.  Make sure you jack the side you are working on.
I know that seems obvious, but I didn't think it would make a difference.  I
jacked her up on the right side because I was parked close to a shed and
wanted more room to work.  when it came time to put drive shaft back I could
not for the life of me get it connected to the tranny.  I could get one bolt
in, but no more.  Seemed to be just mm off.  After hours of frustration even
taking it off the hub and trying it that way I took a break.  Arms tired!!  I
decided I had to have more room to work and thought jacking up the left side
would give me a bit more height to work with.  Low and behold the drive shaft
slipped right in to  the tranny!!
I found that sticking a bit of grease to the new balls helped me insert them
into the cage.  Yes I did the beginner mistake of turning the bearing too much
after I attached it to the drive shaft and I lost my balls.  Luckly I only did
it once after reading about the danger of turning the bearing too much.
Thanks to the type 2 archives.
Also did a complete tune up and the bus sounds so good.  When I get home I
will check the timing and set the idle.  After new plugs, wires, air filter &
condensor & points she sounds really good!  Finally truly understand the high
and low lobe on the distributer after using a mirror to take a look  and hand
turning the engine (all the years I have been setting the points I have
realied on a bit of luck and doing it till it was right.  Know I understand!
Anyways whanted to share and thank the list for the information I have gained
from it!
