From: "Devin Dutcher" <snowhugger(-at-)surfbest.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 31 Aug 2007 00:57:47 -0600
Subject: Problems with 78 after new points

Well my excitment has turned to frustration.  Yesterday after replacing left
side cv joints and giving the bus a tune up she stalls when you give her gas.
Before changing the points I confirmed with a test drive that things were ok.
I replaced: condensor, air filter, 4 spark plugs (properly gapped), new wires,
distributor cap, rotor.  I test drove (only up the hill) to make sure things
were good and to make sure if I had a problem I could trace it to the point's.
Changed point's set with feeler gadge.  The first time nothing.  On the second
time after turning the engine by hand and making sure the points were open I
set them again.  This time she started right up and sounded better than she
had in a while.  Today I went to check the timing.  After warming the engin up
I set the idile and discovered my timing light doesnt work I borrowd my uncles
(which is a old plug in type) it didn't work either.  Well I figured it
sounded so good I didn't need to adjust the timing.  Tried to go on a test
drive.  COuldn't get out of drive way.  Stalled when I gave her gas.
Really behaved like a vacume leak.  I have triple checked the hoses, air
filter, oil cap (will check again tommorrow). (they are kind of old) I checked
that the fireing order and plugs were in order.  They were.  When I would give
the bus gas it seemd like she was missing on a cylinder.  I pulled plug wires
one at a time, but didn't notice any worse than the others  I had a new AFM
around (from another problem I misdiagnosed) and since the tracks looked worn
and the bus died when I moved the dial I figured I would put the new one in so
I could at least rule that out as the cause.  New AFM in bus starts and
idiles, but as soon as you give her gas she sputters and dies.  Does not sound
very good either.  Any  ideas as to where I should look.  I will use the water
spray method for looking for a leak tommorrow or on Sat.  I am confused as to
how new points has caused this?   Thanks!
