Date: Fri, 23 May 2003 21:14:10 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
Subject: Re: power converter sources.

>From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
>Date: Fri, 23 May 2003 16:10:02 -0500
>
>The power converter i'm looking for isn't the inverter type (i.e. 12
>volts to 120 volts) but the battery charger style (also called a
>rectafier). So that I can keep my battery topped up as well as run
>assorted 12volt stuff while camping if I actually had a land line.

Ah.  I misunderstood; you want to go the other way.  Some bay-window
Westies had such a power supply, to help run the 12 V stuff when "shore
power" was available.  One possible source is a ham radio shop; they
sell beefy power supplies designed to run ham transceivers.  You can
get one that will put out 25 A continuous for $150 or so.  Note that
these supplies will often have a higher "ICS" current rating.  This
means "Intermittent Communication Service", usually a 50% duty cycle.
Go by the "continuous" rating for best results.

Also note that the supply voltage has to be higher than the battery
voltage in order to charge the battery.  If the supply puts out 12.0 V
exactly, it won't work - it needs to be 12.6 V or more.  Most of the
"ham radio" supplies are set for a 13.8 V output and should work just
fine.

A plain old automotive battery charger will also work OK.  You'd
probably want to replace the alligator clip outputs with a more
secure connection to the battery.  The battery charger will probably
have an ammeter, so you can see how much juice the battery is taking.
A voltmeter from the car parts store (or a slightly fancier panel-
mount one from Radio Shack) will also let you keep tabs on the
battery.

Power supplies and battery chargers are usually designed to be used
in a place with a little air circulation.  If you stick yours in a
cabinet or something, it's good to add a vent and maybe one of those
4" square 12 V fans to help cool things down.  Most good power supplies
will cut back their output and finally shut down to protect themselves
as they overheat, but not all battery chargers do this.

Matt Roberds
