From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 25 May 2003 11:44:18 EDT
To: icculus22420(-at-)yahoo.com, type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] need help with bodywork 65' Splitty in CT

what sort of body work doe sit need?  rust or dent repair?

1) buy a copy of the 63- 67 bentley and study the body diagram with the lines 
where the pieces were welded togetehr to form a bus.

2)  find people with buses and walk around their buses and google at them.  

3) go to VW shows and ask people and look at buses.  

One things is an eye for how to fix it, like how it should be,  and the other 
is the skill (and tools) to fix it.  Rumor has it that east coast buses have 
bad salt rust and need lots of bits cut off and welded on.  Most of the work 
in welding is prep work, cutting out the bad old piece and fitting the new 
piece.   Get good ear and eye protection.  Wear sturdy clothes.   Learn the fine 
art of using a grinder.  :)

Body work is a pain.  I'd not want to do it for a living.

In a message dated 5/21/2003 9:41:23 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
icculus22420(-at-)yahoo.com writes:

<< Hi everyone, well I am now a proud owner of a 1965 Splitty. :-) My only 
problem at the moment is the bodywork. It needs a Ton of it, and I've never done 
much bodywork before. I have a basic understanding, and I want to learn, and 
want to try to do it myself, but I don't want to mess it up. I am looking for 
someone who is willing to help me with this project, but I don't have alot of 
money, and realize this may make things difficult. I am willing to work out 
payment reimbursment by working it off in some way ( anything from yardwork, 
cleaning up shop to providing mechanical work that I can do ), or providing beer, 
or almost anything someone can think of. I don't want to just drop it off, 
and have someone else do the work, I want to help and learn from the expierence 
as much as possible. If there is anyone out there that can hook me up, and is 
willing to help me out, that would be so awsome. :-) I know that this maybe a 
long shot, especially living in CT, but there's gotta be someone out 
there.................. thanx in advance,Tracy85' GL "Ripple"65' Splitty
