Date: Mon, 26 May 2003 19:59:06 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: higway speeds

>From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
>Date: Sat, 24 May 2003 12:41:44 EDT
>
> does a 12V tach work on 6V?

The little analog Actron/Sunpro "tune-up" ones I have used seem to work
fine on 6 V (my '64).  These have two connections, signal and ground.
I put some longer wires on mine and hung it on the dash so I could
watch it while I drove and its readings seemed to be consistent with
the trans, RGBs, and tires I have.  On one hand, these may be designed
for 12 V like everything else, but on the other hand, since only older
cars need a tach-dwell meter on a regular basis, it may well be designed
to cope with 6 V.

Sunpro seems to specify "12 V, negative ground" for their pretty tachs
that are meant to mount on your dash.  VDO says the same thing.  Whether
they would _work_ on 6 V depends almost entirely on their internal
circuitry.  If a tach doesn't want to work on 6 V, it "should" be
possible to put a simple circuit on the signal wire to make it work, but
I've never tried it.

I have a nifty Mac timing light that also has a tachometer in it.  It
has an inductive pickup that goes around #1 spark plug wire, and two
alligator clips that are supposed to go to the battery.  I can't power
it from the 6 V battery in my Bus, but if I power it from a small 12 V
gel cell and put the pickup on my Bus' spark plug wire, it works just
fine.  I know I've seen some dash tachs that have inductive pickups;
they still want 12 V power but a small converter/inverter would work
for that.

I once used a fancy "automotive" DMM with a tach function and it also
worked OK on my Bus.  I have another DMM with a general frequency-
counter function that couldn't deal well with my Bus or a BMW motorcycle
with 12 V breaker-point ignition.  Once I put an oscilloscope on the
signal, I could see why...it's very noisy.  Tachs are designed to cope
with this, but generic frequency counters may not be.  (If you poke
a 'scope at your ignition, start on its highest volts/div setting.
Because of induction, you will get brief spikes to 300 V or more on the
6 V / 12 V side of the coil.)

There are little hand-held tachs that either have a roller on the end
or an opto-sensor.  You can hold the roller against any rotating part,
or stick a bit of reflective tape on a rotating part, and read the
RPM directly.  This isn't too practical for driving, but works OK for
maintenance, or calibrating a tach on your dash.

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds
