Date: Fri, 12 Aug 2011 21:27:06 -0700
From: Christophe Guilbert <cguilbert(-at-)picasso.ucsf.edu>
To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Dual battery setup using Hella single relay kit.

Sorry for the questions , I already spent many hours on Samba and Type 2 
archives.  I know now the theory but would like some enlightenment about 
the best practical way to install an aux battery on my 1983 vanagon 
camper with the hella single-relay kit.

Here are my questions:

So my aux battery will be behind the driver seat,

1) Where is the best emplacement to  put the relay  (more practical 
using less wire), engine compartment , next to the battery , under the 
sink, dash board ... !?
2) The red wire which trigger the relay (red wire from terminal 86) 
should go to the blue line after the regulator , where is it ?
3) What about having the wire above close the relay with something under 
the console ! what would trigger it ?
4))  I guess if you install the relay near the battery, the fridge , 
light , and water pump should be cut and rewire easily, however I would 
like to ability the keep the original wiring system for the accessories 
with the option to switch them to the aux battery.  I know people tried 
that with a battery switch .  Did any one tried that in the list ? , 
this is a pretty obvious to me theoretically but in practice ... I don't 
know what is the best option , should I install the switch (and a new 
aux fuse box) and rewire the accessories under the dash board , or 
should I place the switch under the sink and rewire every there.
5) Concerning the battery itself , what battery would you recommend me 
in term of fitting the compartment behind the passenger seat, any 
recommendation ?  I red about those deep cycle fancy battery but the 
only way for me to buy one would be to starve my kids for one full week, 
too dangerous for me ...;-)  I heard about a deep clycle battery in 
Cosco for $75, any input on  that  ?
6) What do you use to secure the aux battery ?


Sorry for all those question  and thanks

Chris
