From: Neithammer(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 13 Aug 2011 21:45:23 -0400 (EDT)
To: type2-digest-help(-at-)type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Timing and mpg 

I've just been dealing with some timing/ignition issues (71 Westy, stock  
1600 DP with stock 34PICT and stock DVDA dist., points).  It started with  my 
tachometer acting up like it did when I first installed it (tach needle  
floats around erratically and generally reads way high), before I added the  
diode in the trigger line.  The diode (of an unknwn type and  unknown PIV) 
that had been in there for several years and thousands of  miles had failed 
(high leakage current under reverse voltage).  I put in a  new 1N4006 (800V 
PIV) diode and all was well for a few hundred miles, and then  the tach 
started to act up again.  At the same time, I noticed that my  engine would 
occasionally miss, mostly noticably under  acceleration. There seemed to be 
noticably more  hesitation than "normal".   The bus also became  
uncharacteristically hard to start - lots more cranking before it would finally  catch and 
run.  I was on vacation and not in the mood for too much bus  wrenching, so I 
disconnected the tach trigger wire, and the  miss/hesitation/hard starting 
continued until I got back from my 1000+ mile  vacation trip.
 
At first, I suspected carburation, got a rebuild kit and was all set to  
install it today.  But when I pulled the carb apart, everything (especially  
the acclerator pump diaphragm) looked pristine and the acclerator pump was  
pumping just like it should - well, maybe just a little dead spot at initial  
throttle opening.  I cleaned all passages and reassembled the carb with all 
 of the old parts - now the accelerator pump was pumping perfectly.  Note, 
I  had the throttle shaft holes re-bushed at RIMCO a few years ago, so this  
carb (a German Solex) is tight like brand new.
 
I next checked dwell angle, and it was about 8 degrees higher than when I  
had set it before the trip, and the timing was, as a result, retarded from 
where  it was supposed to be.  The points/rubbing block looked fine - plenty 
of  grease on it and no noticable wear.  But the points and condenser had 
been  in there for a loooong time.  I put in my (used) spare condenser, filed 
the  points and reset the dwell and timing.  Checked the diode and it was 
good -  no leakage current.  Hooked up the tach and the bus fired right up, 
just  like it used to. Tach was behaving normally.  Test drive showed it to be 
 running well - no miss.
 
So...I think my old condenser was in the process of failing (If I am not  
mistaken, a completely failed condenser would cause the bus to not run at  
all).  The erratic behavior of the tach was my warning that this was  
happening - wish I had figured out sooner what it meant.
 
Ordered new ignition parts from Bus Depot tonight - gonna put in  all new 
stuff before the next trip.
 
I have not checked effect on MPG before and after, but I record all  fuel 
purchases and milage so, once I get a few tanks with the new condeser on  
board, I can report on that.
 
Rusty
