Date: Mon, 15 Aug 2011 10:45:03 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: "mike g." <mike.gensler(-at-)comcast.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] FW: Gravity-type Fuel Pump:  A trav'lin Story

On 07/25/2011 12:21 AM, mike g. wrote:
> When all was ready
> I had my wife hold the bottle upside down with a towel around the neck (the
> bottle's, not hers) and poke a little hole in the upside (bottom) of the
> bottle.  I cranked up 'da bus' and drove with gravity-fed carburetors 7
> miles to the nearest parts store where I was able to obtain a replacement
> fuel pump.  My friends thought I was a god and still talk about it whenever
> we get together.
Sounds like a good idea to fab up a fuel bottle for this exact emergency 
purpose since fuel pumps are hard to source at the store these days. 
Yes, or keep a spare pump along. Or both in case your aged spare fails too.

My vote is to take one of those aluminum camp stove bottles (for the MSR 
campstove types or the pump Coleman types) and simply make up a cap that 
accommodates a brass shutoff valve (or plastic Briggs&Stratton for ~$6). 
Store this bottle somewhere on board. Perhaps make a coat hanger wire 
hanger so you can hang it in the elephant ear vent from the vent itself. 
If your fuel pump dies, get out this camp bottle, unscrew the original 
cap and screw in place the custom valve/nipple, attach the fuel line and 
hang it in the elephant ear vent and drive on. Refill as necessary.

I love your solution. Don't love laying on the hot ground with the fire 
ants. Really don't love the police attitude. He apparently didn't 
subscribe to the "serve and protect" motto that I foolishly believed for 
all those years... ;)

http://www.rei.com/product/783963/msr-fuel-bottle-with-crp-cap-30-fl-oz

http://www.amazon.com/Briggs-Stratton-698183-Shut-Off-Selected/dp/B0038U3JKM

I'm sure everyone can source items like these locally.

Cut off the plastic loop on the fuel bottle cap, drill a hole through 
the cap just slightly smaller or larger than the barbs on the valve 
depending on your tool selection, epoxy the valve into the hole using 
something like JB Weld. Better would be a valve that you could thread 
into the cap. I don't like the idea of the valve falling out because the 
epoxy failed. Better yet, epoxy it from both inside and outside of the 
cap. Anyhow, source a second cap to keep the bottle closed otherwise.

Create a backet under the back seat to hold a couple of these bottles. 
Wonder how far a 30oz bottle of fuel would take you? Change out the fuel 
in the bottles occasionally. Watch the caps and O-ring seals for 
degradation. I have some that are 15+ years old and the O-ring is 
starting to crack. Easy to fix. Cap is still good.

Make a hanger for the bottle by wraping a steel coat hanger around the 
neck, run it up the side of the bottle to the bottom of the bottle and 
around the bottle again. Perhaps epoxy or braze the wire together where 
the wire running up the side meets the wire that you ran around the end 
of the bottle. No fuel in the bottle - okay? Then make a triangle over 
to the other side of the bottle where you epoxy or braze the wire back 
to itself again.  Or just make a hook instead.

What? You can't find a wire coat hanger? I keep spares around for the 
garage. They are hard to find. Welding rods also work well. Especially 
the stainless variety which don't rust...

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L (mutt)
'97 Cabrio
'99 CR-V (222K miles, original clutch!)
Brenderup 1205S trailer (double height sides, ABS top, bike racks inside)
