Date: Mon, 15 Aug 2011 19:06:51 -0700 (PDT)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Christophe Guilbert <cguilbert(-at-)picasso.ucsf.edu>
Cc: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Fw: Re.Dual battery setup using Hella single relay kit.

Hi Christophe,
                     The aux battery should be under the drivers seat.  That
space is vented to the outside, and the correct size.  I meant put the wiring,
fuses, and controls under the cabinet.  I already have a "new in bag" hella
relay kit from many years ago. :0)  You could put a larger battery in the
cabinet, but venting issues would be a PITA.  I don't like flooded batteries
near flame sources.  The propane fridge burner would be right next to it.

I have been investigating 70 to 90 watt solar panels for my westy.  One would
fit on the top bed behind the folding part. Same, or less, thickness than the
mattress. Wire it into the  house battery through a charge controller.  Plug
it in when stopped, via a heavy-duty, polarized, plug.  One could also mount
it flat, up on the front luggage rack at a cost to solar efficiency.  Still
keep the battery topped up pretty nicely.

The ACR  'IS' the "splitter".  If you get the Blue Seas "add a battery kit",
just put the second battery under the drivers seat, wire the two together
(directly at the batteries) using the ACR and combiner switch in parallel on
the plus side (1.0 gage cable), ground both negatives to the chassis with
proper sized ground straps, add a small sense wire from the ACR up to the
start terminal on the ignition key switch, and you are good to go. 

Normal operation has the ACR charging the aux battery when there is voltage
available to do it (>13.0 volts for 2 minutes).  If you need the two batteries
directly connected, so high current can flow both ways at any voltage, you
move the combiner switch to on. Only do that for emergency starts, see MDW
reference. Otherwise it is set to off, and the ACR does its thing without any
help.  The extra wire to the start terminal dis-connects the aux battery
during starting to protect sensitive house loads, e.g. inverter powered
computers, ipods, gameboys, etc., from starter induced transients.

Wire off the aux battery terminal on the ACR to the blue seas fuse panel and
rewire the house loads via that panel.  Nice clean install with easy
separation of house circuits for diagnosis.  A few extra fuses for new systems
are a plus.

jon

You only really own those things you can carry under both arms at a dead
run... (Robert A. Heinlein)

-


  

    
  
  
    Hi jon ,


    Was expected your email jon ! ;-)

    I have a hella relay kit for sale , interested ? :-)

    Thanks for the answer , the ACR is definitely the way to go and it
will charge the aux battery faster , I may stick with the driver
    seat
battery emplacement though,  because with 2 kids and wife, I
    need any bit
of space available ... however , the cabinet have more
    space and will
allow me to install a more powerful battery !   humm
    need to think about
it. I won't have time to do it before we go to
    Lawson park anyway (after
tomorrow).


    Where do you connect the AUX battery Jon ?   in the engine
compartment after the regulator ?, where is the best emplacement for
    that
? what kind of spliter would you  recommend me ?
