Date: Wed, 17 Aug 2011 08:59:48 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "Neal F. Jarvis" <njarvis(-at-)leaders.org>, "type2(-at-)type2.com"
Subject: Re: [T2] Fuel hose from Gas tank

Neal,
 
I'd imagine someone was overdoing things with the filter, putting a
pre pump filter in.  Not a bad idea strictly if the tank was real rusty/cruddy
at one point, but the mechanical diaphragm pump is pretty stinkin dureable and
won't be damaged very easily compared to the rest of the system unless big
bits of crud.  Oddly I don't know if the hoses were OEM clamped or not, all
I've seen are, you'd have to look in a parts manual or ask someone smarter
than me on upright engine buses.  Recently when I replaced a '66 vintage hose
on my Triumph which was hidden on the frame from POs for 45 years, that had no
clamps it occurred to me that in reality the system is always under suction
not pressure, and the friction fit with German braided hose which I used on
the Triumph (and you should be using on the bus, not parts store crap) was
exceptionally tight so???  But it won't hurt to put clamps, which is what I
eventually did on the Triumph.  Some tanks the
 fitting isn't even barbed, just straight, not sure when that changed.  As has
been said 1000 times, you really should have some sort of real bulkhead
fitting through the firewall, Hoover's sermons (which are out there on PDF
somewhere still free I stumbled across them a month or two ago) have quite a
treatise on doing so on the 1600 upright, but I leave that up to you to decide
what is sufficient.  Again mostly I'm a T4 FI guy and do what I do for them
through the firewall.
 
John

----- Original Message -----
From: Neal F.
Jarvis njarvis(-at-)leaders.org
: [T2] Fuel hose from Gas tank

Two nights ago I
smelled gasoline when I stepped outside my front door.
I discovered that gas
was dripping from my 71 Bus.
It appears that the fuel hose from the tank to
the metal line at the engine
was leaking where it goes thru the firewall tin.
Fortunately I found the leak without a fire and am thankful.
At 10:15pm I laid
under the bus and removed the fuel line and drained out what
was a full tank
of gas.
For some reason there is a fuel filter in the line before it comes
thru the
fire wall.
