Date: Wed, 24 Aug 2011 05:07:45 -0700 (PDT)
From: Joel Cort <joel_cort(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Vanagon_List <vanagon(-at-)gerry.vanagon.com>, Syncro List
Cc: "Emp_VW_Camping_Club(-at-)yahoogroups.com"
Subject: Shameless Plug for  Westies at Watkins 10

The countdown is on and less than a month away! Hopefully this is on your
calendars!
Please join the Empire VW Camping Club on September 23-24-25 in the
beautiful Finger Lakes region of New York State for the 10th annual Westies at
Watkins camping event.
Discover the beauty of the glaciated area of the
Watkins Glen Gorge and surrounding Finger Lakes Region of New York. Come and
relax in this area and enjoy the area by hiking the gorge, biking, antiquing,
shopping, wine tasting, and group activities around the campfire.
Any and all
VW vehicles are welcome to participate but a Westy campers are a nice
comfortable option.


NO RESERVATIONS ARE REQUIRED
We have our own private
(Onondaga Village) loop for the VWs in the Watkins Glen State Park. The cost
will be around $20/night for this event.. Pay the Park Service when you show
up and we should be able to double up per site to fill this loop. Electricity
at sites is NOT available in our loop but warm showers and clean bathrooms are
Full Moony Bus Club style - Breakfast burritos will be served Saturday Morning
for everyone b Contributions are accepted by the Empire VW Camping cooks.
Pot Luck Sat. Night - bring a dish to share. 
Event T-shirts will be available
along with 50/50 raffles and door prizes.
Sellers and swappers welcome!
Optional Racetrack events on SUNDAY September 25th. - $15 for 3 laps on the
world class Watkins Glen International Race Track http://www.theglen.com
We
will be able to drive our VWs on the racetrack for a few laps for some FORMULA
bWb racing. (Formula Westfalia) Come on the track or in the grand stands
to watch.
For directions or more details and information on the campout and
race track 
events contact Joel at jcort(-at-)rochester.rr.com or (585) 690-8145
cell
Checkout the website for more info: www.westies-at-watkins.org 


Happy
Camping,
Joel Cort
Rochester NY

jcort(-at-)rochester.rr.com
joel_cort(-at-)yahoo.com
89 Syncro Westy (VanGo)
87 Syncro Transporter (Stella)
73 Westy Campmobile
(Agent Orange)

Western New York LiMBO Respresentative www.limbobus.org
Founding member of the Empire State VW Camping Club www.empirevwcamping.org
Westies(-at-)Watkins X is set for September 23-24-25, 2011
www.westies-at-watkins.org
