Date: Wed, 27 Feb 2008 10:44:29 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: towing 83 Vanagon

Not to knock Mike here as he is a good smart guy, but folks I would be VERY careful about relying on althread, particularly heated then bent allthread for any long towing without a well doubled up system, and or/safety chains.  Same goes for Kevin's thoughts about his brackets, even though Grade 5 hardware.  Althread is often Chinese made cheese steel nowdays, perhaps not even Grade 2 in properties, and bending it will introduce stress risers and the heat will kill whatever little bit of zinc or cad is plating and stopping rust on it to boot.  Now using 1/2" or 5/8" you got some margin, but how much, I don't know, do you?  As to Kevin's rig, strictly speaking the Grade 5 stuff is I'm sure more than up to it, but...  With the long bolts through that much semi compressible structuure, things may well loosen up with vibration in tow.  I would personally use a Grade 5 nylock as the top in the double nut, AND chains.  And then for 30-50 miles, yeah, I'd do it, for 500, I don't
 know.  If I put a good safety chain around from my hitch safety chain holes looped back over the lower A arm on both sides, I'd feel a whole lot better.
   
      If you loose that rig at anything over parking lot speed folks, and it hits whatever is behind you, you are going to regret it from either an insurance standpoint, or really, really regret it if you say crush a minivan full of a mom and little kids (see a recently though the courts woodchipper incident around Pittsburg 3-4 years back.)  Other reasonable safe option is to have a driver in the towed vehicle if it has brakes and steers, at least you got some control that way.
   
  Just some thoughts anyway.  Renting a good tow dolly usually doesn't cost that much, or if you are in AK, I have a really nice one to sell 8-)
   
  John

Mike Benthin -MUTS oboe support <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net> wrote:
  I see you picture my BayWindow bus bar fabrication to hold a Beetle towbar.
The pics showing the 2 brackets holding to the Vanagon front bumper tell 
me it would be easy to fit the pipe to those brackets (or between the 
brackets if you use the allthread inside the pipe design)so it can then 
hold the beetle bar.
