Date: Thu, 28 Feb 2008 16:37:20 -0500
From: Mike Benthin -MUTS oboe support <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
Cc: Type2List LIst <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Smooth quiet engine-hydraulic lifter adjustment

(Richard's adjustment technique copied below)
Comment one: Re warming the engine to pump up a soft lifter before 
adjustment- That involves too much reinstalling the of valve cover, not 
fun. I don't like working on hot engines- invariably touch some hot 
exhaust part!  When doing an adjustment on hydraulics, I agree it should 
be pumped up at least 6 hrs to the night before.  If a lifter feels soft 
(test by yanking the rocker from the top and trying to compress the 
lifter) I loosen the adjustor locknut, and on my engine, spin the 
adjuster backwards with a screwdriver- Back it off until you are no 
longer touching the piston and then (usually by hand for me) spin it 
clock wise and you can FEEL when it is just touching the piston -if not 
sure, I memorize the slot position and spin it back  and forward again. 
That is the point from which I go in 1.5 turns. If it does not spin 
freely, then there is dirt somewhere!

Comment 2- after a hydraulic adjustment you mention resetting the air 
fuel ratio- how do you do this on a fuel injected engine without playing 
with the AFM spring?
------------------------------------------------------------------------
 From Richard's site:
"Over time through research and experimentation, I realized that it's 
best to adjust them with the engine warm (VW even says that a solid 
lifter engine can be adjusted up to an oil temperature of 50:C/122:F).

The steps I prefer to follow are:

    1. Change the oil and filter
    2. Run engine for 5 min and let it cool for 5 min
    3. Perform a valve adjustment sequence. For each valve...
           * Record # of turns that keep the screw is in contact with 
valve (save for comparison later)
           * Perform leak-down test on each cylinder with no tension on 
springs (record state of valves)
     * Adjust valves to 1.5 turns
    4. Run engine for 10 minutes and watch vacuum gauge (17" is ideal at 
7.5 BTDC)
    5. Do compression test
    6. Tune-up (dwell, timing, spark, vacuum, idle rpm)

What this does is a) make me aware of the current state of adjustment b) 
check that the valves are sealing c) verify the dynamic compression will 
allow the engine to run correctly. When the last two conditions are 
true, you can attribute running problems to mixture, fuel delivery, 
ignition, etc unless you hear an obvious noise coming from the lifters.

It's very important to do a complete tune-up afterwards even if you've 
done one recently. To be 100% thorough, don't forget the air fuel ratio. 
If you skip the last step you can put yourself in a position of 
wondering why on earth the engine runs worse than before you adjusted 
your valves when you didn't adjust anything else. This is not a 
hydraulic issue: you are having to reset the AFR from point of 
compensation to the correct setting for a tuned engine.

Keep in mind that after an oil change and adjustment it can take 10 mins 
for the lifters to re-adjust completely. This is because oil related 
problems are not instantly cured by an oil change due to the fact that 
you cannot remove all of the oil from the engine. Contaminated oil will 
take some time to recirculate and dilute in the new oil.

Remember that when turning the adjusting screw on the engine you are 
working against the valve spring if the lifter is full of oil. You can 
test this by pressing on the knurled base of the rocker arm with a 
screwdriver. If there is any movement, then the lifter is soft and your 
adjustment will be compressing the spring inside the lifter instead of 
moving the valve spring (normal). If this happens, you should run the 
engine with a 0.006" (0.15mm) clearance on that lifter for 10-15 minutes 
then re-attempt a hydraulic adjustment when the hot valve cover cools 
enough for you to work on it again. This advice comes from direct from 
Boston Bob (see references)."
