To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Tim Frank <timros(-at-)netspace.net.au>
Date: Fri, 29 Feb 2008 23:23:36 +1100
Subject: Water injection

Have just installed water injection on our 76 bus (2.0 l with stock  
dual carbs)
followed Robert Manns drawings -- thanks Robert!! -- though with some  
slight
differences due to what I had available.

Mounted a 3 litre plastic milk container under the spare wheel well,  
next to the
second deep cycle battery.  Used 6 mm clear plastic tube (all that I  
had at home
at the time) connected to a 'Y' piece from an old set of air horns.

Used 2 x 1.0 mm (or so the box said) OD needles from syringes given to
drug addicts ( & no, I'm not) purchased from friendly local  
pharmacist who was
most intrigued when I explained my reasons for needing them.

One needle was inserted into the vacuum hose near to the carb on the  
passenger
side (sorry, drivers side for the northern hemishere) & siliconed  
into place, while t
he other one was fitted into the drivers side carb at the location  
where the vacuum
hose would be fitted if there was one for that carb.  I simply  
drilled a 1.0 mm hole
in the carb body, inserted the syringe & used silcone to seal &  
attached it to the carb
body.

By happy coincidence, the plastic end of the syringe that supports  
the needle is
the exact same size as the internal diameter of the fitting for the  
vacuum hose.

The other end of the plastic hose was inserted through a hole drilled  
into the side
of the milk container (as the container lays on its side, the hole is  
actually at the
top of the bottle).  The plastic is stiff enough so that it stays at  
the bottom of the
container without weights.

Total installation time was about 1 hour.

Took the bus for a run of about 20 kms.  Took about 15 kms of that  
for the water to be
drawn across to the far carb.  Did notice a slight improvement in  
power coming up
a short steep rise on the way home which may be wishful thinking or not.

Haven't had a chance to take it on an extended run yet to see how it  
goes & holds
together with vibration, etc and whether there is any improvement to  
fuel consumption
and any change to oil temps.  Can't comment on head temps as don't  
have a guage
for that.

Will let  the list know how it performs over the coming months.

We will be heading off for out annual trip to mainland Australia  
(covering about
5000 kms in 3 weeks) to see grand children, children, friends,  
family, etc at the
end of May so hope to get some longish trips in before then to test  
how it goes.

Will be able to provide more definitive results after the longer  
annual trip so will
let everyone know how it goes.

If the ease of installation and first results are any indication I  
will regret not fitting
this system earlier.

Thanks again Robert for your simple schematics and directions.

Tim & Ros
76 Poptop
Hobart
Australia
