From: toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 29 Feb 2008 14:55:44 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] Smooth quiet engine-hydraulic lifter adjustment

Hi, I kind of missed the earlier part of this thread, but thought I might share my experiences in case it might be helpful to someone. I had problems with my hydraulic lifters consistantly for the first 3 years I owned my 73 VW Bus. If I didn't drive my bus at least once a day, the lifters would leak down and cause all kinds of clatter the next time I started the car. I mean, it was some MAJOR clatter. There was nothing I could do to get them to stop. I let it warm up, tried bliping the throttle off and on to try to build pressure in them, and it wasn't until after I drive for like 10 minutes, that they would finally pump up. They would clatter like all hell. I even tried re-adjusting them about 3 or 4 times (both sides). 

When it ran, and they were all pumped up, it ran well. But I was just tired of the noise, the hassle... it made the Bus sound and feel like a piece of crap. 

I bit the bullet and bought a set of brand new Febi hydraulic lifters from Bus Depot. They ARE really expensive (at least as far as I can tell compared to lifters for a small block Chevy). They are $24.90 each, so of course you need 8 of them. That comes to a total of about $200 bucks. While I was at it, I also bought new pushrod tubes and seals. I knew that by removing them, I ran the risk of damaging them. They are pretty damn cheap, like 3-4 dollars each or something, and the o-rings were also cheap. 

I bled the lifters of air by taking an old pushrod from an Oldsmobile 455 big block I have (cleaning it), and putting all the lifters in a clean coffee can filled with a 50/50 mixture of ATF and 40 weight oil. I then stood each lifter on end, and let them sit for a few days. I would go out to the garage and literally see little bubbles occasionally escape. I went out the Friday night before I planned to install them (that weekend) and pumped all the lifters with the pushrod I had. It forced all the last bit of air left into the lifters. When I was done, I could not depress the lifters myself (they were completely bled). I then installed them, like that into the engine one at a time. I used engine assembly lube on the flat part of the lifter as I installed them.

FYI, I used a drywall screw to remove the old lifters, I would carefully insert the screw into the opening, and try to lodge it into the pushrod tube slot on the lifter. I was then able to get it to jam the screw in the hole and I could easily pull the old lifters out. 

So, after getting it all back together, it looks good, and runs awesome. I just took my VW Bus out last weekend, I literally hadn't even started it in over 5 weeks, it just sits in the garage.  I started it up, and it was already smooth. It didn't need to "pump up" or any of the other crap I had to deal with on the old set of lifters. 

I'm REALLY REALLY happy with the Febi lifters.

For what it's worth, the old lifters I had were supposedly brand new lifters too, as the motor had just been rebuilt less than 5k miles before I bought the Bus. 

Anyway, it really really makes the Bus just that much better to drive. It's a pleasure now... it used to be really stressful, noisy, and all that crap. I've found that the closer I return the Bus to stock (everything), the nicer it drives and feels. When I got my Bus, it had a Pace Setter dual exhaust system (like for a Porsche 914), it was loud and obnoxious. I installed a brand new year correct muffler (with the exit on the passenger side) from Bus Depot. I plugged the air tube on the drivers side (not sure what it was supposed to connect to anyway), and the Bus runs smoother, and sounds better too. And now with the new hydraulic lifters, it just runs awesome. I also sprayed all the interior sheet metal (roof, behind the panels, etc) with rubberized undercoating & sound deadener additive) and the Bus is awesome now...

I really enjoy driving it now. I've just got to work on my brakes, it doesn't stop like my Pontiac Solstice or Porsche 944 does, and that seems weird to me.

Hope that helps!  
