From: toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 29 Feb 2008 15:22:45 +0000
Subject: Brakes, what's normal? 

Hey guys,

      Over the past couple of years I've been working on bringing my Bus back up to speed. I've pretty much done everything so far, with the exception of the brakes. They worked so I didn't bother messing with them (although that probably should have been the first thing I looked at). 

Almost everything on the Bus looks original, with the exception of a few things. The calipers are new (well, they're 6 years old now, but they have less than 10k miles on them), the brake hoses are also 6 years old, but same mileage, about 10k. Other than that, everything else looks original, including the brake hose. 

I'd like to go through the entire braking system, and I've got a couple of questions. 

1) the brake calipers are covered in a lot of surface rust, they look nasty. Have any of you guys painted your calipers? I'm not looking to do anything that looks flashy or tacky, I just don't like the idea of the calipers being covered in rust. Would a good black engine paint do well?

2) What size (interior diameter?) of vacuum hose should I have going from the engine to the brake booster? 

3) How do I know if I should replace my brake booster? As far as I can see, it's original. It's covered in surface rust, and it's nasty looking.

4) I haven't taken a really good look at it yet, but I bought all the parts I need to replace the top-end stuff (fluid reservoir, etc). Is there anything else I shoudl know? Any tricky areas that people typically end up having to deal with?

5) What is normal stopping distance? I drive a little sports car every day, so I know that's an unfair comparisson, but I also drive a Crown Victoria from time to time. All of my cars have 4 wheel disc brakes (funny enough), so I'm not sure what I should expect. When I get my Bus going, and I'm coming up to a stop light, it takes quite a distance for me to stop. The Bus doesn't pull to any direction, but it just seems to take a longer distance that I feel it should.


Thanks guys,

Todd
