Date: Wed, 30 Aug 2006 08:48:43 -0700
From: Western Canada CORSA <westerncanadacorsa(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Live a little! - All AIR COOLED Car Show - BC & WA

Hey there,

My name is Joel Rushworth, and "No" I don't have a ton of money stashed away
in Nigeria that I need you to help me with.  I know I've already posted a
very brief message to this list about the show already, and this will be my
only other generic posting.  Thank you for the bandwidth, and taking the
time to read this.

I'm with the Corvair Club in Western Canada. We are about to hold a most
unique car show, and we'd like to extend an invitation to all of you to
attend.  I wanted to tell you about it one more time, in case some folks had
missed it the first time, or that my initial post was too brief.

This year, and this year only, Western Canada CORSA is putting on an All AIR
COOLED Car Show in beautiful Victoria, B.C. the weekend of September 15th,
16th and 17th. This will be a unique event, attended by cars of all marques,
the usual suspects, VW, Porsche, Citroen, Corvair. We've also gone to great
lengths to bring out some of our more obscure air cooled brethern, Tatras,
Franklins, Cords, Piaggio, Issetta, Fiat, Subaru, Morgan, and the list goes
on.

In brief, what have we got planned for you.....
On Friday, we're planning an Air Cooled Invasion of a local cruise-in night
(that has a live band). It'll turn some heads among the muscle car and hot
rod crowd to be sure!

If you're a workin' stiff, and from out of town, that means Saturday and
Sunday. On Saturday, we're getting started with a BBQ at around 4:00 in the
afternoon, followed by a cruise . Oh yeah, your $15 registration fee for the
show covers the BBQ too. Plenty of time for a leisurely drive up from WA or
from the lower Mainland. Sunday at 8:00am starts the main event in a
picturesque park right on the ocean. A week ago I would have said "we think
about 100 cars", but our registration and info page has seen over 600 hits
in only one week! So at this point, who knows! Besides canvassing the net,
we've also done serious promotion all over Vancouver Island, placing over
200 posters, which we expect will bring a strong turnout by the general
public.

For more infomation, please go to our events page...
http://www.westerncanadacorsa.com/Events/2006CTD/CTDInfo.htm

And please feel free to contact me if you have any further questions. Please
pass the word!

The only regret you have, is missing it!

Regards,
Joel Rushworth
westerncanadacorsa(-at-)shaw.ca
