Date: Wed, 30 Aug 2006 15:11:24 -0700
From: "John Peters" <jpeters(-at-)smud.org>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Idle problem

Hey gang,

OK, I'm at my wit's end with this idle problem on my 71 camper.  I'm hoping
someone out there will have some good ideas on what to check next.

Here's the problem: my engine, basically a stock 1600, won't idle.  It'll
start up pretty easily, and every time I take my foot off the accelerator, it
dies.  After spending many hours over the course of a month and a half on it,
I finally caved and brought it to a local mechanic.  I was able to drive it
there, just restarting it at every stop, but besides the idling problem I also
noticed that the engine hesitated over about 40-45mph.  Otherwise, it seemed
to run OK.

Here's what I've done to try and fix it:  replaced the stock 34 pict-3 with a
new 30/31 pict (Brazol model?).  Replaced the fuel pump.  Replaced all the
visibly old vacuum lines in the engine bay.  Replaced the points, cap, and
rotor.  Checked the timing.  Seems I need to advance the timing slightly to
get it to run well (i.e. if I time it exactly to the notch at the split in the
case, it hesitates quite badly, so I advanced it statically some number of
degrees - since it won't idle, I can tell exactly how far I've advanced it,
but I'm guessing maybe an additional 5 degrees).  I've removed the brake power
booster and plugged it at the intake with a spark plug inside a short piece of
correct hose w/screw clamps.  I've plugged all vacuum lines from the carb and
the associated vacuum hoses.  Still won't idle.

Mechanic can't figure it out either - so far he's basically double-checked my
work and told me the compression is fine.  I was hoping to take it camping for
Labor Day, but my hopes are quickly fading as we get closer to the weekend.

I'm stumped.  What worries me is that the mechanic is stumped, too.  That
doesn't really make me feel any better.  I want to be able to smack myself on
the head and go "Of course, why didn't I think of that? I'm an idiot!"  I'd
love that right about now.

So does anyone have any ideas??  Um, besides taking it to another mechanic...

Thanks so much,

John
