Date: Thu, 31 Aug 2006 22:36:02 -0400
From: "Ken Dunn" <kennydunn(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Updated UPDATE: Re: Vacuum leak check

I got the bus home from work tonight and replaced the fuel filter and
fuel line (the old one was worse than I thought!).  I also set the
points with a feeler - at the FLAPS I set by eye since I wasn't
expecting to NEED to replace them earlier in the day - they were
pretty close for a visual setting though.  I greased the distributor
shaft and I also checked the decel valve by removing the hose to the S
tube, plugging that hole and operating the accelerate by hand to check
to that it actuate.  It seems fine by this simple test.  I also found
that the alternator belt was loose which led to me finding that the
lower alternator nut had vibrated OFF.  I found a spare nut in my bus
nut bucket.  Unbelievably, I got the first nut that I tried on in the
first try!  I was dumbfounded.  Of course it took a half an hour to
get it tight but, I expected that much.

On trying to start the engine, it wouldn't fire.  I had to take that
hose off at the fuel rail and run the fuel pump for a second to get
the fuel line primed. and to get it to start.  This is the second time
that I've had to do this.  After getting it started, I took it for a
test spin.  Performance is much better now - pulling power shifting in
to 2nd - thats what I like.  I'm going to take it to the shop tomorrow
and have them put it on the exhaust analyzer.  Hopefully, that will
get us tuned up right.  I do still have a small backfire when shifting
when slowing down while downshifting to a stop.  Likewise, I have the
issue that I've had since I've owned this vehicle which is that it
starts better in cold weather than in warm weather - this one seems
bizarre to me but, I'll figure out.  The thermo-time switch is reading
33 ohms.  As soon as I have the money, I'll replace that.  But, that
doesn't really explain why it starts fine during cold weather.

All in all, it runs several times better this evening than it did 2
days ago.  Thanks, all,  for your input.  If you have anything else to
add, don't hesitate.

Take care,
Ken
