Date: Fri, 1 Sep 2006 11:58:46 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Kevin H. Roberts" <bopsax(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Homeland Security Chief Warns of Bus-bomb Threat

Since it's Friday and in case you missed it....or lost it like Tony...
  
  Homeland Security Chief Warns of Bus-bomb Threat
    Copyright 2006 Disassociative Press
    
    Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff today issued a warning  that the FBI has received information about a possible al-Qaeda plot to  commit terrorist activities across North America using vintage  Volkswagen busses as weapons of mass destruction. He said that due to  the large number of bus gatherings that occur each year and the large  numbers of people attending such events, significant damage could be  done in terms of destruction of property and even loss of life.  
    
    The FBI believes that vintage VW busses, especially campmobiles, were  chosen because of their history of reliability and ease of use, their  roominess and functionality, and their reputation as icons of the peace  movement.  It is thought that suspicious vehicles may be hand-painted  with 60s-era symbols such as peace signs, marijuana leaves, and  possibly even the logos of the Black Panthers or other now-defunct  radical organizations.  These vehicles would easily blend into a crowd  of VW enthusiasts and not raise suspicion, making them a very dangerous  threat, added Mr. Chertoff.  It is also thought that they are  attaining financing for the operation by using some of the busses as  mobile methamphetamine labs.  
    
    Several VW enthusiasts were contacted to assess the viability of the  threat.  Richard Atwell, one of the countrys leading technical experts  on VWs said that the VW bus was a perfect vehicle for terrorists  because of its ability to provide power, both AC and DC, its  accessories such as stove and refrigeration, and its ability to  conceal the users activities with its curtains, pop-up tent, and even  a large, external adjoining tent.   If I wanted a mobile bomb or  methamphetamine lab, I cant think of a more perfect vehicle than a  Volkswagen Type 2 (the VW factory and aficionados chosen term for VW  busses).  He added that in a VW bus one could literallly live and  operate for years,virtually unhindered, in places such campgrounds,  parks, beside streams, in the mountains, and Walmart parking lots.  
    
    Arizona residents Melissa and Jerry Jess said they feel especially  vulnerable because their state, due to its arid climate, has the  largest, per-capita number of operational VW busses anywhere in the  world.  The state also has the largest number of VW gatherings as the  moderate temperatures allow these activites to go on year-round.     They have started a lobbying effort and have asked Arizona Senator John  McCain for help in attaining additional Homeland Security funding for  their state.
    
   The department has asked the moderators of two  of the most popular web sites of VW bus enthusiasts to provide their  membership rosters.  Both of these sites, Type2.com and TheSamba.com  have refused citing the need to protect the privacy of their members.   George Lyle, moderator of the Type2.com mailing list, said that while  the members privacy and protection against government intrusion are  paramount, he would inform the FBI of any suspicious activity.  But he  added, I dont think Type2.com is near the threat of say TheSamba.com  as we dont tolerate discussion of anything but technical issues.  I  dont think many Islamic terrorists really know much about the  technical side of VW busses.  
    
    Calls to the posh headquarters of TheSamba.com were un-returned but the  secretary referred calls to their lawyer, Howie Cheatum.  Mr. Cheatum,  a recent graduate of the University of Phoenix On-line School of Law  and part-time ACLU volunteer, was unavailable for comment as he was in  court representing an Arab-American anesthesiolgist who claims he was  racially profiled when his turban was searched during an airport  security check.  
    
   Volkswagen of America refused to comment on the matter  but warned against using the VW logo or proprietary images of its  vehicles in any departmental publications.  They did say that the  company foresaw the possibile illicit use of these vehicles and ceased  production many years ago and that they have no plans to produce  anything comparable in the future.
    
   The department is advising  VW bus enthusiasts to be on the lookout for any suspicious activity at  upcoming events.  Things to look for are suspicious-looking people who  congregate to themselves and who don't show interest in VW-specific  activities. Be especially leery of busses that have the tents and  curtains closed at all times, even during daylight hours.  They will  probably arrive at the events early in order to achieve the most  central parking spot, usually near a pavilion or place where campers  congregate for communal meals, games, and seminars.  Mr. Chertoff did  advise against focusing on Arab-Americans or other people of Arab or  Middle Eastern descent.  The recent events in England show us that  this type of Islamo-fascist terrorism has clearly crossed ethnic  lines, he said.  
    
    Karl Aufever, the worlds foremost authority on VW parts and  accessories said that he didnt think they would be hard to identify as  they would probably not be using factory-recommended parts on their  vehicles.  One thing he advised to look for was improper tires.  I  would think most of these clowns would be running passenger car tires.   The proper tires are 185 R14 with a reinforced sidewall.  Anything  other than that should raise a big red flag. Mr. Atwell agreed saying  that he would be suspicious of anyone in a parts store who didnt  request Bosch or other OEM parts for their bus.  Most true VW  enthusiasts wont be buying the cheap-o Chinese crap sold in most  discount parts stores.  
    
   Ron Salmon, owner of the Busdepot, one of the  largest vendors for authentic and OEM VW bus parts, said that after an  extensive marketing campaign he has yet to ship anything to people from  any of the countries known to harbor terrorist groups.   They just  dont call or buy from us, he said.
    
   Another bus owner and  Tennessee transplant Billy Price said that he thinks you could easily  eliminate any suspicious bus owners by asking probing questions such as  "What's better, SVDA or 009?" or "Can't you just drop a 2.0 FI motor in  a '64 splitty?" and observing their facial expressions.
    
   It is  thought that the threat may affect Canadian bus owners as well.  Greg  Potts of Toronto said that while he didnt have any direct information  regarding collaboration between the US and Canadian authorities, he did  see several members of the RCMP suspiciously mingling among the crowd  at the recent Busses of the Corn, one of the largest Canadian events.  
    
   Other VW owners  discounted the threat.  Tony Roman of New Jersey said that he thought  the information was just part of a government conspiracy to improve the  Bush administrations approval ratings and help get Republicans elected  in the fall.  Professional Oboist and musical instrument accessory  manufacturer Mike Benthin, also of New Jersey, said that he wasnt the  least bit concerned.  I havent had one pan-flute player ask to sit in  when we play music around the campfire, he joked.  Tennessee jazz  musician Kevin Roberts ignored terrorism questions altogether simply  asking, Whens the jam session, man?
    
   All vintage VW bus  owners are advised to report any suspicious activity to the new FBI  hotline at 1-800-BUS-BOMB.  And if it doesnt help to cry about  something, you might as well find something to laugh at.
