Date: Mon, 18 Mar 2002 20:50:07 -0500 (EST)
From: "Eric W. Bradway" <eric(-at-)bradway.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Living in a Bus

OK. I'm going to risk getting banned from this list, but I think this is
worth it. Last year the dot-com I was working for, which specialized in ACH
bank transactions folded when our customers bolted due to security concerns
after 9-11 (you think most people live one or two paychecks from the street,
you ought to see the books on most companies!). By October 1 I was
unemployed, broke up with my girlfriend (who I was living with) and started
living out of my '86 Porsche 911. I commented on some of the 911 lists about
living out of the car - no one seemed to believe me. I never actually had to
sleep in the car - I am blessed with many friends (many of whom I've given
couch space to when they were unemployed). Three months and about 15K miles
later - no job prospects - had to sell the Porsche. I wanted to stick with a
oil-cooler and ended up with my '74 Campmobile courtesy of Adrian Pillow
(who, also being a 911 owner, saw my post about selling my car on the 911
list). I was able to buy my Westy for the profit I made selling my 911. I
had put a new clutch in it (I must say after helping Adrian put the Type4
back in my Westy that except for the weight, the 3.2l flat six is much
easier to reinstall) as well as a bunch of stuff.

Now I've seen other less interesting threads continue longer on this list.
Heck, aren't we still seeing posts about Yellowstone NP and other parks in
the area? I'd like to see this thread continue because it is pertinent to
the bus. You can delete the emails if you don't want to read them and no one
seems to be rude enough to post attachments so it's really not costing that
much in bandwidth.

I'd personally like to see a thread about how to best handle roadside
breakdowns when you're living on limited bread. Sure, AIRS is the first line
of defense, but what should you do when you are stuck on the side of the
interstate 50 miles from nowhere with no cell phone coverage (even I have a
prepaid cellphone - not having one is just plain stupid - for that matter, I
have friends who'd give me $20/mo to keep my cell phone active just so they
can call me - but as I said, I'm blessed with great friends).

Also, my best advice for Matt: try to remember all of the manners your
mother tried to instill upon you. Friends and distant relatives usually
don't mind if you visit - but make sure you hang up the towels in the shower
(and maybe clean the shower while you're in there). If you stay more than
two days, tell them you feel like a louch and ask if they need any help
around the house - and do it! If your bud has a wife who isn't so keen on
your presence, remember you're walking on egg-shells. Make sure you don't do
anything that agravates her - especially if it doesn't make any sense.

As far as what to do next: heck, you've got a good ride and a place to live
if you need. There are lots of places where you can trade work for room and
board and maybe some life-enrichment. Personally, I'm learning to become a
yoga instructor and will probably spend a week in the Berkshires this summer
at a yoga center. In trade for 40 hours in the kitchen, I get food, a bed
and whatever yoga training I can fit in.

In the 80's Porsche ran an advertisement saying that their cars were 'more
than a way to get from point A to point B'. The bus is the same. It is a
vehicle that can transport your life as well as your ass!

-Eric

---------------------------------------------------------------
/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign                 Eric Bradway
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail                 www.bradway.net
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail                Linux on the server
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail                  Irix on the desktop




