Date: Mon, 15 Oct 2001 23:18:02 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org (craig k)
Subject: generator rebuild questions

I recently found I needed to rebuild my generator... symptoms were a slight
drop in voltage output (new reg) and a persistent and growing bearing
knock.

Discovered that if you go off-roading in the Navajo Sandstone Formation
(goes from Texas to California... Panhandle, Four Corners,  Grand Canyon,
Zion, etc), you need to tear down and clean ALL the motor! In addition to a
nice deposit of red sand dumped on the cylinder fins, the bus generator was
STUFFED with thick red dirt and grease - no wonder it was hard for the belt
to turn.  When I got the thing apart, in fact, the rear bearing was
actually discolored due to the heat caused by the resistance to the
armature turning.

Had a set of bearings (SKF 6202), so went to the local machine shop to
press old ones  off - tho we munged one of the spacers a bit. Put it all
back together, and I'm not sure I like it; the armatures don't spin freely,
but take a bit of a twist to spin, won't freewheel (no brushes in, btw). I
have a bug one that spins like the dickens with one flick of the wrist.
Hmmmmmmm.  Grabbed my spare generator and disassembled it - well, the front
bearing was seized, but the back turned freely.
Grabbed a bus generator that was recently rebuilt, and the guy who had it
hooked it up wrong and fried the coils, and checked it out. Rear bearing
turned freely, but when put together, it took some effort to spin the
armature.
 Looked at the new bearings, some old bearings, and some in-between
bearings - it LOOKS like the new bearings are quite stiff, and maybe they
wear in a bit? Questionable, as that bug gen that spins like topsy is a
recent rebuild... all shiny in there!
Anyone got a generator to spin :)?

If the things ARE supposed to spin freely, what is binding here?
I know the New In Box bearings wouldn't freewheel out of the box, so I'm
hoping this is like CV joints, which are stiff as a board when new, and
loosen up... but I don't want to put the motor back together and find out
the hard way it ain;t so!

Also, I am curious about any tests I can do with typical garage equipment
to see if these things are good - I mean, I can use a volt/ohmeter to test
for shorted coils and armatures, but am wondering if I can do anything else
with it (book shows things like bridge resistance doodads and what nots).
Matt Roberds, I am looking in your direction ;)

Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen


