Date: Sun, 16 Jun 2002 12:00:00 -0400
From: Bob <rehaufler(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type 2 Mailing List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] brake question

I have a '72 that has the same brakes as the '71.  I have messed with the
calipers many times.  Right now, I await, and have been awaiting, for a set
of rebuilds for more than 1 month.

I do not understand what you mean about retaining pins.  There are two pins
that hold on the pads, but there are 2 bolts that hold the calipers to the
steering knuckle.  Once these are removed, the calipers should come right
off.

I would expect all the brake fluid to drain from the reservoir when you
remove the flexi brake lines.  I would inspect all brake components.  There
may be a blockage somewhere.  I recently removed and replaced the master
cylinder and removed the cleaned/painted the vacuum booster.  I removed both
reservoirs and cleaned them.  There was a lot of sediment in both
reservoirs.  I have replaced/refurbed everything but the metal brake lines.
I guess there is something to be said about having to wait on parts, I
otherwise would have likely not taken the time to do all this.  All fluid
will drain if the system is open, as far as I understand/have experienced
things.

I have rebuilt the calipers before.  It was no fun.  I could do that again,
but it was so unpleasant that I opted to purchase rebuilds.  The hardest
part is getting the pistons out.  They need to be blown out with air.  When
I did this before, one piston shot out and up into the air and came down on
my head.  I originally ordered them from Advance Auto Parts, but those did
not fit.  Now I am stuck waiting for some I ordered on-line.  I still do not
know when they will get here.  I will probably give up waiting and rebuild
them again.  On this bus ('71 and '72 are the same), rebuilt front calipers
are hard to obtain, apparently, at least for me.

> I have two questions:
> 
> First, when I removed the brake line, no fluid came out. OK, maybe like a
> drop, but that's it. Shouldn't there have been more fluid in the line? Is
> that an indication of something else, or normal for lines in that bad of
> shape? 
> 
> Secondly, I can't get my darn calipers off! The retaining pins seem to be in
> there for good! I put rust penetrating oil on it and let it sit overnight
> last night, but no avail. Any ideas? 

