From: "LivingLight" <livinglight(-at-)wildmail.com>
Date: Sun, 16 Jun 2002 11:36:27 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: broke down;(

Hi all..road trip report here;
made it all the way from oregon>midwest! 
But.........lost her, 2hrs from home;(
the rear end started groanin up in montana, when 
i would let off of the accelerator goin down 
hill in 4th. but the groan would go away when i 
would swerve to the right, and would get louder 
when i turned to the left.?.?. 
also if i pushed in the clutch and let out 
slowly, the groan would go away, until i let off 
of the accelerator again.?.? 
got myself all the way across S.dakota, and 
started hittin the backroads home, when she 
finally gave up. 
i started to take off from a stop, and i could 
here some type of grinding noise with no 
acceleration. after babyin the accelerator i was 
able to get her up to 4th again. just tryin to 
get as close to home as i possibly could. 
but any form of load on her, and she started 
slippin. until finally, no more;(
now....my engine is fine. and my problem is some 
where within my drive train. i have that figured 
out. because she starts with no problems. and 
runs amazing cool and strong. 
but when i put her into gear she does nothin. 
the engine keeps runnin while i'm in gear. but 
it's like there's no tranny. 
SO......i pulled my engine on the side of the 
road. checked my clutch assembly, but saw no 
problems there.?.? 
with the engine out, i pushed the bus, watching 
and listening to the tranny in all gears, and 
heard no abnormal noises. the drive shaft turns 
freely in neutral, and rotates when being 
pushed. 
but when my girl was towing me to the next gas 
stop, to pull the engine, i was hearing on and 
off groaning.?.?
so that's where i'm at now. with our bus 
stranded in Yankton, S.Dakota. 2hrs from my 
homebase. loaded with all of our gear. 
i'm plannin on pickin up a truck and trailer 
tommorow to go get her. 
but any advise that u all can pass our way, to 
get her up and runnin again, will be much 
apppreciated, of course. 
i'm suspecting that my problem might be within 
my shift linkage, possibly.?.? but i'm not sure. 
maybe even something to do with my clutch.?.?
well....i guess that's all i have for now. 
thanks for your time and attention. 
*Still Shinin* -Chris w/a busted 70westie




"Sendin good vibes into circulation, to 
see who they'll find" -SCI
Will nuclear waste be transported through your neighborhood?
Speak up! http://www.Care2.com/go/speakup
