Date: Mon, 17 Jun 2002 06:47:00 -0700
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
To: RHBOLLNGER(-at-)aol.com
From: Phil Houtz <phoutz(-at-)earthlink.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] How to best clean Westy top?

My top used to be a dingy brown-gray and fibers were showing in all the 
inside curves. So here's what I did. I tossed a step ladder in the back 
and drove down to the local self-serve car wash. I parked under a shady 
tree, set up the ladder and squirted Soft Scrub (or some other  type of 
kitchen bleach agent with a mild abrasive) all over the top. Then I took 
my Black & Decker ScumBuster with a coarse plastic scouring pad and 
scrubbed the whole surface fore and aft.

Next I dragged the ladder into one of the cleaning bays, drove the bus 
in and gave the top a full-force power wash. That left me with a nice 
white top with a dull rough finish. At home I hauled the ladder out one 
more time. As soon as the top was good and dry I applied Star Brite 
Glass Cote from my friendly local marine store. The guy there told me 
that the other leading product (name escapes me, starts with a "P" I 
think. Not POR-15. Something else.) would protect the fiberglass but it 
would leave it off-white with a dull finish. I've heard others rave 
about that product so maybe he didn't know what he was talking about.

Glass Cote is a Urethane product, UV protective. It goes on very 
smoothly. Simply "paint" it on in smooth even strokes, using an old 
white t-shirt. Less is more when you do this process--you don't want 
drips, streaks or ridges. Wait fifteen minutes and apply another coat, 
in a direction perpendicular to the first application. It took me four 
or five coats and it leaves the top shiny and glassy, almost as good as 
the original gel coat. If you don't like it you can always remove it 
with acetone.

On Sunday, June 9, 2002, at 01:02 AM, RHBOLLNGER(-at-)aol.com wrote:

> Hello all... I'm pretty much a newcomer to the list...  I bought a '76 
> Westy
> (my first) about 7 weeks ago... The pop top and luggage carrier are 
> pretty
> grungy and I was wondering what you all would recommend for cleaning 
> them - I
> think some of it is oxidation and then a lot of it is just dirt and 
> grime...
>
> Thanks in advance,
>
> Rob Bollinger
> Austin, TX
>
--Phil Houtz
downWrite Creative
--------------------------
Proud sponsor of the Whirled Cup since June 13, 2002
--------------------------

http://www.downwrite.org

