From: "Christopher Sheridan" <csheridan(-at-)virtual-consulting.net>
To: <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 18 Apr 2002 09:31:51 -0700
Subject: Woe Is Me

>And he proceeded to list the following "known" problems:
>
> 1. Throttle linkage wears out and creates a vaccuum leak on the dual
carbs.

Well yeah its true, but you can go a long way by removing the carbs and
putting
new gaskets between the manifold and carbs. In fact, YOU should buy gasket
material
and create gaskets for all the spots from the carb base all the way down to
the
heads where there is any old gaskets. Replace with factory gaskets with
replacements if
available, make your own if you have to. Replace/install hose clamps on all
vacuum lines coming off the carbs. The Mechanic won't take the time to do
this, he'll just say the throttle shafts
are too worn to get around the vaccuum issue, but you can usually get the
vacuum down to a manageable level. one thing I did was disconnect the carbs
from each other completely in terms of vacuum, to remove potential leak
spots - plugged them up good to make them act as two single barrel carbs
independent of each other except for the throttle linkage of course, then
synched
them and tuned/adjusted them independently. Helped me.

>
> 2. The engine is hard to access and therefore work on.

Boo Hoo. Mechanic sounds like he doesn't like to work on his knees.


> Question #2, exhaust leak near the head on the driver's side. It doesn?t
> look like its the head itself so I suspect the heat exchanger is cracked.
> The question is, can this be done engine in the bus or do I need to yank
it.

Remove and Replace with the engine in. remove lower tin and spray with WD-40
several
times until soaked each time. Use 6-point deep socket 3/8" drive rachet with
short extension
after studying to confirm your turning the right way, rock clockwise a bit
then crack
counter clockwise - be careful - any one of the four could strip or snap off
and extend
the job. Replace the copper gaskets and make sure the new box is seated.

Chris
72 bus
70 fastback

