Date: Fri, 19 Apr 2002 08:48:09 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Door speakers/headlight relays/FRS radio

I'm working my way through my '78 Westy wiring. I have some comments and 
some questions.

I've about finished the headlight relay upgrade. By the way the Radio Shack 
$5.99 30-amp relays are the very same ones as the relay I've gotten in both 
my Hella 500 kits.

I've run new hot wires for the relays, and I am using the original hot 
wires from the original VW toggle relay (high beam/low beam relay) to 
operate the new relays. Sounds complicated but isn't. If anyone wants 
details I'll post them. I've also moved to H4 headlights with the standard 
55W-65W bulbs. This morning before work I made the last connections and 
tested them. They seem to be brighter with engine off - just on the battery 
- than my friend's often driven '78 Riviera is with the engine running. By 
the way my engine has not been run and the battery not charged for a couple 
months now so the fact that these lights seem as bright or brighter is 
promising. Hoping I'm right. Total cost? $8 for a new aux. fuse panel 
(Advance Auto - Napa wanted $25 for the very same thing, very same brand), 
$5 for wiring and connectors, and $12 for the relays at Radio Shack. Or you 
can go to the local junkyard and get relays - I did not have time...

Anyhow tonight is wiring night for the stereo and CB. I'll simply run a 
dedicated wire from the fuse block I have installed in the engine 
compartment. I need to run speaker wires out to the door panels.

Can folks that have done this either post or p-mail me on what methods 
you've used?

My father used those fancy little spring loaded contacts for the power 
windows on his hot rod but doubts they are suitable for speakers (might 
create static as the door flexed when the vehicle was moving and the 
contacts rubbed against each other). He has also used a small piece of 
rubber tubing as a conduit on another car. I've used just plain wire with 
decent results but I expect that it would only last a year or so from 
constant bending.

FRS radios. My wife and I share the car ride back and forth to work at a 
university (www.tntech.edu)
We are both taking classes and go through a routine where some days she 
picks up our child at day care and meets me after class or I pickup our 
child and then meets her after class. There have been days when we have not 
been able to find each other due to schedule changes. A solution would be 
cell phones but the monthly fees on one is too high for our needs - let 
alone two - to enable communicate when we are mobile. So we bought a pair 
of cheap Motorola FRS radios.

I'm going to have to brag on them b/c they are wonderful. Other brands are 
probably too. Ours will communicate about a mile or a little more in the 
neighborhood. They'll go across our campus here. And have seem to be the 
perfect tool so we can locate each other when our routine is altered by a 
cancelled class or a class that ends early.

If you need a caravan radio or a radio to call back your little Indians for 
dinner on a camping trip I recommend these radios. There are fancy and 
plain varieties. The fancy ones will scramble the audio and electronically 
minimize interference. The plain variety we have has 6 custom tones or 
jingles when you are trying to get the person on the other end to sit up 
and take notice that you're calling. Automatic squelch with a 1 button 
override. 14 channels. Earplug or headphones jack. The fancy versions even 
have digital scrambling and voice activated transmit with a headphone/mic 
combo.

And some are cheap - the Bellsouth versions I saw at the local 
super-hardware store are less than $20 each and the Motorolas are about 
$50-$60 a pair for the basic ones.

Lastly - do any of you know what frequency these radios operate on? I've 
got a scanner and like to know stuff like that. And finally - do different 
brands of FRS radios communicate or are they brand specific - do you have 
to have two of the same brands to communicate?

Don't think I will give up my CB though b/c the truckers who offer valuable 
road conditions and cultural insight don't use FRS radios.


Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


