Date: Fri, 19 Apr 2002 08:58:51 -0700
To: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Custom motor ratios



Little bits of refinement throughout your motor design each add a fraction 
to improvement of flow and when all carefully done without violating basic 
proportional ratios for int. combustion gas engines. Other refinements on a 
typical custom motor design with your criteria follow.

clean up the intake manifold. Use a gasket. scribe the gasket int dia on 
both carb and head flanges. use a grinder to taper an inch or so to the 
reference scribe. Polish the intake manifolds internally to about a 320 
grit. This will help in most cases to give more volume. Additional 
refinements would be to mount and drill to set register pins so the port 
match will be more precise. Also, the manifolds can be balanced for air 
flow on a bench. Abrasive slurry technology can flow the manifolds and 
heads bolted together and massage the whole flow to perfection, leaving the 
proper matte finish to insure no condensing of fuel. Porsche added teflon 
to one of their manifolds to prevent condensation and found a nice 
improvement to flow therefrom.

Consider the exhaust must be improved in harmony with the ratio of stock 
flow rates, intake and exhaust. If you measure cf/min going in and coming 
out, carb throats and exhaust, and see a ratio of 1/2, then you want to see 
the same 1/2 ratio in your modified motor. You might be amazed how your 
vacuum would come back if the exhaust valves/pipes were enlarged to the 
same verturi ratio modification, as well in your case the larger intake 
valves.

See how much the vacuum jumps when running with the muffler removed?? 
Without tossing the stock muffler and putting on something much louder you 
will never get 33% hp boost and keep reliability around. The exhaust system 
must be upsized and tuned to take advantage of the other modifications.

Keep all these proportions in harmony;

stock venturi/modified venturi
stock port dia/mod port dia
stock valve size/mod valve size, both valves
stock exhaust pipe size/modified exhaust pipe size
stock displacement/modified displacement
stock cam lift/mod cam lift
stock duration/mod duration
stock flow rate/modified flow rate

Keep the stock ratios by increasing flow of all variables in a balanced 
fashion.



