From: "Bryan \"bc\" Castles" <bc(-at-)version3.net>
To: "Christopher and Kellie" <midwestbass(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: "type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 21 May 2002 22:29:20 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] bus stereos / how much power?? [Long Reply]

It's a relative question... what sounds decent or good.  Most of the
problems can be overcome with some middle of the road equipment, and good
installation practices.   You are on the right track up front...  I'd go
with separates.  The door panels should be a good fit, and not really be
loose anywhere.  Your midrange driver would work good at around the 5.25" to
6.5" range.  You can run some co-axials up there if you want, but they will
still suffer greatly from leg muffle.   Anyway, you don't have to amp these
if you don't have a real need.  I ran a set of Rockford Fosgate separates up
front off of my Kenwood head unit for a long time.  What you really want to
do is get the best seal against the door that you can.  I'm trying to avoid
a lot of fabrication junk, so locating your speakers where they were will
work as long as everything fits tight.  Try putting lots of Dynamat or High
Temp Mastic on the door skin, and the door under the door panel.  It's
always good to take a square of it, and cover your speaker hole.  Then, use
a razor knife to cut the circle back out.  This will give you a better seal
hopefully, and cut down one some vibrations.

Unless you are a bass freak, or just like it really loud (see previous
alternator thread discussing annoying stereos) the one 10" sub should do
just fine.  Just a decent sub in a quality box should pick up all of the
lows that most people would care to hear.  The back has endless
possibilities.  You could mount the speakers in the overhead as you
mentioned, but I would not recommend it because a) it isn't sealed off, and
b) if it is in good condition someone else might be looking for that thing
unmangled.  Take it out and use it as a template to create one like it
optimized for speakers.  Just put some coaxials in it.  I'd just run them
off of head unit power again unless you don't like the performance.  The
only trouble with installing them this way, is that they will be facing
down, and you'll lose a lot of the rear when sitting up front.  I'd
recommend building some kind of little "pod" to go into the corners at the
back of your bus.  You can build these 50 jillion ways, what every suits
your taste, but basically locate them near or slightly above your ear level
in those rounded corners.  I'd also put some High Temp Mastic behind these
pods to cut down on vibration.

Now the other requirement you listed is really a whole different
subject. -Road Noise.
You'll have to decrease it if it's really giving you trouble.  You can
overcome some of it with the volume knob, but rather spend lots of cash on
amplification, just make your bus a happier environment by making it
quieter.  Methods to do this include covering every square inch possible
(behind panels) with High Temp Mastic.  I use 2 layers minimum on this stuff
with about 70%-80% coverage.  The down side is this is a big project in a
bus.  The other thing I like to do is use an undercoating product to further
cut down on the noise.  This is a good place to point out that I am not
suggesting that you use this undercoating to seal the interior of your pans,
but only as a sound deadening agent.  If you need to seal the pans, please
check out the POR-15 and similar products before tackling the sound
deadening process.  Anyway, any kind of rubberized coating will work for
this step.  I personally like to use the cheap rattle-can spray in truck bed
liner.  It will dampen vibration, add lots of mass to the panels lowering
resonance and you can get good coverage out of it.  You can put a few layers
on like this.  You'll want to test the fit of any panels during this process
to make sure you don't build it up so far that you can't replace things.
Once you have a nice coating (and it's all dry) replace you panels, and
you'll probably find that your van is a much better music listening
environment.

As a side note to that section, if the situation allows it, drive the van
while you have the whole interior out.  You'll get a feel for how loud
things are, and as you move through those steps, you can witness the
results.  It will get a great deal quieter when you get the interior back
in.

So that only leaves the battery question.  I actually have really good luck
with the stock generator and a small amp to drive my 10" sub.  Some people
may have had different results.  I was running an Interstate battery, and
the stock generator like this for a year before my engine just started
giving me trouble and I stopped running it this way.  I would think that you
could eliminate the extra battery, and run off of the stock system.  That is
of course unless you have other equipment requiring the extra battery, in
which case you should have ( I hope ) outfit your bus with the correct gear
to charge multiple batteries.

This is the type of setup that has worked for me...  and believe me, my van
was plenty noisy when I first got it.  I have applied the same sound
deadening technique to my Square, I just haven't finished with it yet.

Hope this helps,

Good Luck!

Bryan Castles
Arlington, TX
USA
'70 Bus (Ex-Westy)
'73 Square
www.version3.net <http://www.version3.net>




