Date: Wed, 22 May 2002 11:21:57 -0800
From: Paul and/or Deanna Sinfield <plaidbus(-at-)attbi.com>
To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
Subject: Re: Seat belts for kids in a bus

--------------080000020106030809050905
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii; format=flowed
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

    
I agree that lap belts work just fine with child safety seats, and can 
be easier to work with and possibly as safe as 3 point belts.  Why? 
 Because lap belts, once adjusted to the right length, are going to stay 
that length until you readjust them.  The problem with 3 point belts is, 
every time you take the seat out (and you may think you won't, but if 
you've got kids, situations are constantly arising in which you've got 
to move their seats for one reason or another) when you put the seat 
back you've got to re-tension and re-fit the 3 point belt, take up the 
slackness, etc.  Sounds easy, but with a million other things on your 
mind, there's an opening for user error.

Also, think about this: the 3 point belts in my new car work like this - 
you buckle the kid's seat in, then pull the belt out of the top reel all 
the way, then let go and sort of pull/tighten the "lap" part until very 
snug.  This way, no more belt will come out of the top reel unless you 
unbuckle the belt and start over.  But, in my experience, most older 
style 3 point belts in cars even only a few years old don't have this 
feature.  What the belt coming out of the top reel does, right, is stop 
playing out when you slam on the brakes.  Problem is, if you pull the 
belt out gently, the belt just comes sliding right out of the top reel, 
and your kid seat never really gets tight.  This is my experience, anyway.

All that being said, remember that there are a couple of different types 
of kid car seats.  My three year old Liam still uses the type of car 
seat which is buckled in semi-permanently (the straps buckle over his 
head between his legs), but five year old Ella has a "booster seat" in 
which she sits, then the three point belt gets buckled across her body, 
holding in her and the booster seat both.  For older children, I think 
this 3 point setup might be the safest.   Remember a younger child in a 
seat where the straps go over his head then buckle between his legs has 
that added upper body belt protection, even if his seat is held in place 
with a lap belt.  An older child in a booster seat won't have that upper 
body protection if the booster seat and the child are simply held in 
place with a lap belt.

So I think both seat belt configurations have advantages, depending on 
the ages of both the belt setup and the children.

Paul Sinfield
plaidbus(-at-)attbi.com
Los Angeles, CA
1969 Transporter (in which I am not allowed to transport my kids, not 
because the rear and middle seat belts are lap belts, but because my 
wife says so...Oh, well.
________________

An '81 Westy originally had seat belts in the back seat.  So=20
> does my '79.
> True they are only lap belts but better than nothing.


Lap belts are easier to work with when installing a child safety
seat.  Funny, this guy's selling his for the exact same reason that
I bought my wife her 79, to ferry kids around.  I was a strictly type 1
person until the need presented itself (the wife refuses to drive
a mini-van or SUV, something about being called a soccer-mom ...) =20



--------------080000020106030809050905--

