From: "David Maurio" <david.maurio(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Date: Wed, 22 May 2002 18:27:34 -0400
Subject: RE: type2 Digest 22 May 2002 20:00:00 -0000 Issue 972

I've removed all of the cabinets so there's no sink or 
anything now. The electric to the 110 socket by the sink was cut 
when I bought the van (looks like it was a replacement cabinet job 
since they were in such good condition) the only wire actually 
connected to anything was a 12v cigarette lighter type socket which 
was installed next to the 110 outlet. That was connected directly 
to the bus strip, so that was pulled when I removed the cabinets.

Today I noticed that my lighter on the dash was disconnected with 
the wire just hanging there, I replaced the entire lighter socket 
with a new one and attached power (from the hazard lights relay, 
that's where it was originally connected) and grounded it to the 
body. I also removed all power from my radio which had 2 power 
lines connected directly to the fuse box (one was constant power and 
one was powered only when the vehicle was on) I don't think the 
radio can drain that much power, even on the constant line (just to 
keep the clock going I'm thinking, since none of the controls or 
lights on the radio worked when the ignition was off.)

I tried to start her up again today, but I think my Prestone "Jump 
it!" was a little too drained because she almost started, then died, 
then just cranked slowly and wouldn't turn over... so since I don't 
have anyone available for a jump, I'm charging the Prestone unit to 
give it a go in about six hours or so. I never gave the batteries a 
chance to fully charge after removing the charger and switch, so 
maybe that's why it wouldn't start again last night... I hope... 

I picked up a test light today too... lol, I went around testing 
every wire I could find with the "Jump It!" hooked up, everything 
that is supposed to be getting power is... I think... again, just a 
beginner at this... Also I removed the Aux heater line (the inline 
fuse and wire that runs in front of my fuse box, down through the 
drivers seat base and out the back,) I just unhooked the inline fuse 
and stuck it under the seat so now it's not connected on either 
side. I did notice that this is receiving constant power even with 
the ignition off... is this normal? I'll get some pictures stuck 
up on my web page of everything I'm talking about in about 15-20 
minutes, take a look if you can ( 
http://members.bellatlantic.net/~vze3t2qs/bus/bus.htm )

Thanks to everyone for all your suggestions and help... hopefully I 
can get this worked out soon!

D
'76 Westy


