Date: Thu, 23 May 2002 10:44:56 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org (craig k)
Subject: seat belts in a bus / child seats /etc

funny, i was just going through this with my 70, as i will soon need a
child seat; i posted about late seatbelts in an early bay, and only got two
replies, so here is my addition to the thread :)

first, if you wish to replace your seat belts, you are not limited to the
jc whipme ones or the vw lap belts; there are also retractable reel models
out there - but PRICEY.
i went to the wrecker and found a nearly-pristine 1990 vanagon (and i mean
CLEAN - he'd backed it into a pole and popped the rear hatch and bumper,
and so >totalled it< for the insurance cash. nothing else was wrong with
this bus, and had the wrecker been willing to sell it, i would've taken it
home. it was the wolfsburg limited edition, too!!), and pulled ALL the
seatbelts and ALL hardware from it, front, back and jump seats. cost me
$150, less than the price of two new front belts.
make sure the bus you pull from has NOT been in a serious wreck, or a fire!
those seatbelts would be no good in my opinion.

the front belts are a doddle; i used the retractable reel on a stick (from
one of the jump seats) for the middle seat. the two side reels will need a
bracket to hold them upright; you could fab some from angle iron, but
george lyle pointed out that the brackets from a late beetle will work -
you attach the long part of the bracket through the original seatbelt bolt
hole, facing the bulkhead at an angle.  then you bolt the reel to the short
side, with the reel pointing straight up. on mine, this left the little
positioning prong on the reel exposed, so you can either cut it off or
cover it up. i left it, as i'll use it when i get around to custom-making
an angle iron bracket that takes up less space. i'm also considering
removing my bulkhead  air channels  here, as they interfere a bit with the
belts, and those coupled with the reel will seriously limit your
behind-seat access.

for the third-point mount, i used a longer bolt, and put it UNDER the
bracket from the beetle... this allows you to use the little loop that
holds the belt in the correct alignment.

the second mounting plate goes up and behind the seat, on the door pillar,
like normal. i used some steel spacers to bring the belt holder out from
the wall some, as there is a body seam here. i just tightened it down at a
45 degree angle, but if you space it out more, you could have it swivel.
the latches: for the center seat and passenger side, i used the long
wire-rope mounts, as they have to go fairly far below the seat to attach.
the drivers side is one of the ones on a short belt, bolted in to the
normal hole.

the back was a bit harder.

first, i used the non-takeup reel lap belt for the middle seat; i used a
longer mounting bolt, as i have a zbed, and it makes it easier to open and
close that way.
the latches for all three belts were just the normal ones, again with
longer bolts.
the third-point attachment was not really a problem, tho not perfect: the
belt attaches to a flat steel bar with a hole in it; on the vanagon, this
went to an attachment hole vertically placed next to the seat; my 70 has
only the horizontal seatbelt bolthole, near the top of the wheel arch. i
simply used it, and turned the plate flat along the wheel arch. to be
correct, i could again make a right-angle bracket, but i don't think its
necessary... tho i presume the stresses might be different than designed
here, so i'm still pondering.

the HARD parts are the reel mount, and the second attachment points.

the reels aren't too bad if you don't mind holes drilled in your bus!  the
vanagon has cutouts in the body, and the reels go into these, behind a
cardboard panel; on my bay, i simply drilled 3 mounting holes right where
the flat sides meet the curve behind the wheelwells - this is just at the
rear of the side windows. you can put the bolts in by reaching in though
the engine compartment and up the air scoops. as this is just sheetmetal, i
plan to cut a piece of steel to size, drill it, and place it here to help
distribute any loads on this panel in an accident, so the mount doesn't
tear out from the panel.
now, as this mounts the reels mirror-image from their original positioning,
you are gonna need to doctor the belt to get the second mounting point to
work properly: pry off the top cover from the reel (NOT THE SIDE COVERS!!!
LARGE COILED STEEL SPRINGS INSIDE! HARD TO PUT BACK! AMHIK!!) and unwind
the belt; at the end is a plastic pin holding the belt to the reel - take
it out, pull out the belt. DON"T let the reel spin back! i put a
screwdriver in it to hold it.
next, slide all the plastic bits off, and slide off the second-mount
attachment. maybe if you lube it real good you can just slide it off, but i
ws forced to take an exacto knife and >CAREFULLY< trim the plastic here to
get the end of the belt through it. just trim enough plastic off to get the
belt out, don't cut so deep you expose metal that can chafe the belt - and
don't cut the belt up!
now you have to put all this stuff back on, but BACKWARDS from the way it
was.  sounds hard, but it really wasn't. once you have the belts in your
hands, all this becomes clearer.

now, the second attachment point is the worst. i noted a recent post here
that mentioned the two phillips-head plugs just behind the rear seat...
DON'T USE THESE!!  there is an engineering standard for 3-point belts that
states that the second attchment point                 >>  M U S T <<   be
above the shoulder by a certain amount of inches! if the attachment is
>below< the shoulder, the belt will force your collarbone and ribs down in
an accident, shattering them and possibly puncturing your lung, or worse.
one of the singlecab splitty guys over on Vintagebus dug this up, and i
can't stress it enough. you will NEVER see a 3point belt mounted any less
than a few inches ABOVE the shoulder, so be sure to take that into account
whatever setup you use!

on the vanagon, there is a mounting point just behind and above the rear
windows, just forward of the hinges. i didn't have this, so i'll have to
fab something: i punched a hole in the inside rear window pillar, just
before the scoop area, and i am going to have a shop WELD a big-ass
mounting nut here and screw the attachment bolt in through it; though not
perfect, this pillar is comprised of many folded channels welded together
and is VERY strong. properly welded, the nut will NOT come off in an
accident; what should happen (and does, i have seen it on other vans) is
that the pillar will bow inwards, and absorb much of the strain without
failing, and the belt will take the rest of the strain.
alternately, you could open up the metal from the outside and add some
attachment points that way, but then you have to do all the bodywork; this
way, i'll just need to redo the header cloth. which i have to do anyways.

i'm taking some pics and making a web page; i'll have it up later tonight!

ask me for any clarifications, and i'll add em to the page.

Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen


