Date: Sat, 17 Aug 2002 00:23:03 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Rogelio Palomera-Arias <rpalomera(-at-)attbi.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] bringing a vehicle from the US into Canada

But importing to the US a car older than 25 years (now models 77 and older) 
is relatively easy.
I brought my European spec bus from Mexico (where importing a car is a real 
PITA, the bus was
never authorized to travel inland without special permits) last september 
and here is the story:

The bus was bought in Switzerland by my parents 25 years ago and brought to 
Baja 20 years
ago. Somewhere along the way the title was lost and all I had was the 5 
year old expired registration.
Before registering the bus I went to the Customs office here in Boston and 
filed  the form 3299 (Declaration
for Free Entry of Unaccompanied Articles). The customs official told me 
that it was all I needed to register the car. When I tried to register the 
bus in MA, the RMV lady wanted me to get a letter from VWofA stating that
the bus met all the DOT and EPA requirements (yeah right!) before I could 
register it (that in addition
to notarized translations of the few documents I had). I went back to 
Customs and the Regional supervisor
got really mad at the RMV and wrote them a BIG note on the form. She told 
me that if they gave me any
more trouble they should call her and she would deal with them (what a 
strong character!). Basically the
note said the following:

"This vehicle is over 25 years old and does not need to meet EPA and DOT 
standards. This applies to ANY
vehicle over 25 years old. Once Customs clears a vehicle and have made the 
determination , you need not
require anything further from the importer"

Now the bus is legally registered in MA and I even got a clear title. And 
it didn't cost me a dime besides the
usual RMV fees.

I know this might not apply to Canada, but I thought it was a fun anecdote 
(and it's still Friday somewhere int
the US)

Happy busing and have a good weekend.



>b) it may require expensive modifications in order to bring it into spec
>with an equivalent Canadian version for that model year and this may cost
>more than the value of the vehicle.  This is a possibility for a newish
>vehicle and the likelihood increases as the vehicle gets older (e.g. age of
>a bay window bus).
>
>A friend at work unfortunately drove a Jetta down here from Canada and
>discovered after he got here that the necessary upgrades required to meet
>emission standards would cost more than the price of the same used us model
>car here.
>
>The main reason for this seems to be that the importing/modifying business
>is based around importing gray market sports cars from other countries. The
>conversion cost is minimal compared to the price of a sports car, but can
>easily cost more than the price of a used car unless it's exotic or a rare
>collectors item.
>
>I wish the US had a site like this before I moved:
>
>http://www.riv.ca/

Rogelio
'69 "la Vebe"

