Date: Tue, 21 Jan 2003 20:41:32 -0500
From: Type2Guy(-at-)aol.com
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, ChrisGeorge999(-at-)netscape.net,
Cc: Jonrobere(-at-)aol.com, matt_and_katie(-at-)mchsi.com, Vwtyp2man(-at-)aol.com,
Subject: BBB7 Report (very long)

Damn, damn, damn...what a fuggin weekend.

I haven't been this tired in a loooooong time.  I'll have to second Ellis' comment on this being one of the most enjoyable trips in a long time.  Always good to see old friends and make new ones.

Here's the lowdown...sorry if I ramble.

Listee Ricky Fu and familia head in Thurs. night and we chew the fat and get up early Fri. for the caravan out.  We head out around 10am to the grocery store and get back to my house to see 4 pearl white campers lined up on the curb at my house.  Pulled mine in to make 5.  We all headed out a hair behind schedule around 1245pm and get about 20 minutes out to hear Matt and Katie were on their way.  So we gas up and wait for them.

Hit the road and travel uneventfully....(other than some bad gas making the EZ run like crap up the hills) till we gas up in 29 Palms.  As Ricky fires up his Westy to we hear Bang! then pop..pop..pop.  Spark plug out.   They carefully thread in a fresh one and head on out.  It gets dark and I try out my new 100W H4 high beams while in the lead.  All I can say is SWEET!  These thing are one of the best upgrades yet.  

About 40 miles east of 29 Palms...the CB crackles with "Ricky's down" so everyone pulls over.  Mind you this is desolate desert and pitch black.  I have to head up a few miles to turn around then backtrack a few more to turn around again.  Another blown sparkplug.  As Ricky and Chris Cross work on disabling the #4 cylinder they hit a snag...rocker assembly stud is stripped out and wont tighten or loosen.  All this after at least an hour of work in the dirt.

At the next campfire ask me about the people that walk up out of the darkness looking for a ride...hehe

Out of the 5 or 6 cellphones, amazingly Scott McWilliams has signal and we get AAA to head out to tow the bus to Havasu.

Scott stays with Ricky and we all load up and head to Havasu after splitting up in Parker.  We roll in around 9pm with Ricky, Scott and the tow truck about 30 minutes behind us.

Shoot the shiznit around the fire with Chuck Notmeyer till the wee hours and finally crawl in the bus to sleep.

Wake up to lots of buses and GRASS (not dust!)  If you've had kids at a AZ bus dustfest then you know how nice this weekend was!

Had a great dinner Sat. night...lots of help and lots of fun.  Same goes for Sun. morning.  Didn't get to make the rounds like I wanted but still had a great time.

it's a whole other story regarding Ricky's motor....but with alot of help from listees and others, the raffle motor made it's way into Ricky's bus Sunday night.

I know Ricky will repeat..but many thanks to P&C, Havasu Lou, Ronnie's shop guys (forgot the names), and many more.  The whole weekend was a blur and so much help poured in that it was hard to keep track of it all.  You all know who you are.

My daughter and I headed back Monday around noon after saying goodbyes and picking up a few parts from Ronnie's shop.  At about 7pm we rolled in to the house.  The EZ is still loaded in the parking lot at work right now.  I might get to it tonight.  I've had about 10 people ask me why I have 2 bikes on my rack =)

All in all one of the best shows I've been to.  Though I've got a "Non Hippy Bus" sticker on the EZ...there was a helluva lot of good karma this weekend.

Kudos to the London Bridge Bullis for a helluva weekend and one bad-ass campground.  I'll be there next year with bells on...

Adios compadres,

Beto
63EZ
