From: Scott Soehlig <ssoehlig(-at-)gfd.com>
To: "'tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com'" <tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 27 Jun 2003 09:22:39 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] Ok, ok... how about this?

Todd,
 That would work but, why go through all that trouble? Is that you want the
watercooled motor? If that is the case there is Toyota conversion (cow
bus)out there complete with a "how-to". If you are just looking for
bodyparts they are had quite cheaply at places like Busted Bus, Bus Boys and
The Bus Depot. 
 I am like you in thinking that it would be awesome to drive a watercooled
vintage style bus but, is it really worth the cost of going to Mexico to get
one and the RISK of crossing the border? If it has to be done, personally I
would use the Mexican National idea...that makes sense to have some Jose to
drive it across into the US, give him some money for his bus, time and send
him on his way...

How about if I buy a hapless case of a VW Bus, maybe something from the late
70s (or would I need something pre-74). It would need to have a very
straight and clean body.. but everything else would be shot. Heck.. even
then....

I could go to Mexico, buy a VW Bus that's in good shape (there's gotta be
ONE out there), bring it to the US, and take EVERYTHING off of it, and put
it on my donor Bus? That way, I wouldn't be swapping VINS. I could take
everything, INCLUDING the water-cooled VW motor (I think that's awesome as
hell). I could basically make my OLD Bus, look like a NEW bus. I'd even snag
the doors from the new Bus. 

THAT.. would be legal, wouldn't it? So long as I kept the headlights and
windows from the old Bus? I mean, all I'd be doing is basically taking a
SHELL of a 70s American Bus, and swapping every good part from the NEW bus
onto the old bus, including things like suspension parts and whatnot.

You know it's ashame I don't live out in the country and have a massive
backyard or a barn to store cars in. If I did, I'd be buying stuff up left
and right. I SOO badly want to get a squareback (the station wagon looking
thing) and I promised Erica we'd get a Kharmann Ghia RIGHT after I get a
67-68 Porsche 912. :)
