From: "Forhan, Thomas" <Thomas.Forhan(-at-)mail.house.gov>
To: "'CTOnLine(-at-)webtv.net'" <CTOnLine(-at-)webtv.net>, dbeierl(-at-)attglobal.net
Cc: Vanagon(-at-)yahoogroups.com, wilden1(-at-)juno.com, Syncro(-at-)yahoogroups.com,
Date: Fri, 27 Jun 2003 09:56:26 -0400
Subject: Stop this Thread Now!

There is no reason to personally and publicly  attack any listmember. Please
read the following from the bottom of every syncro list message:

"Please remember that rude or offensive language is not allowed on the
Syncro list. Please try your best to resolve differences privately and keep
them off the list."

Tom F.
Moderator, your friendly syncro list.

-----Original Message-----
From: CTOnLine(-at-)webtv.net [mailto:CTOnLine(-at-)webtv.net]
Sent: Friday, June 27, 2003 7:40 AM
To: dbeierl(-at-)attglobal.net
Cc: Vanagon(-at-)yahoogroups.com; wilden1(-at-)juno.com; Syncro(-at-)yahoogroups.com;
Vanagonair(-at-)yahoogroups.com; type2(-at-)type2.com;
Vanagon-Westfalia(-at-)Yahoogroups.com; VWVans(-at-)Yahoogroups.com;
vwvanfulltimers(-at-)yahoogroups.com; WetWesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Subject: [Syncro] Re: [vanagon] R-12 alternative Update


David,

I have no idea whee your buying you "stuff" but I find another dealer.

Yea , it is getting real boring alright--especially when the bookworms
of the refrigerant info world have not one iota of any practical , hands
on experience, and dribble all this eureka  expert type knowledge.

I was not Dr. Doom on the propane , butane, methane, products----back up
a couple of weeks--read and discover whats actually transpiring here.

I never expounded upon the merits of any one of them being
explosive----which was mentioned time and time again , by innumerable
expert celebrities------

Autofrost is a blend of 3 components--and the last one on the bottle
causally mentioned  is "BUTANE"--which allegedly is flammable--along
with PROPANE AND METHANE.

They are all in the same family---REMEMBER???

I personally don't care what fairy tale your twisting around to suit
your rant---but any alternative refrigerant , that is provided for sale
here, or in Europe that would cause public harm would not be available
here or anywhere else.

They are not black market products--they wouldn't be available, nor
would they be publicly advertised in ANY periodical publications
--PERIOD.

When's the last time you stuck your nose in Hemmings Motor New's, for
instance--??
I believe this a well read monthly automotive publication-- and all of
the Voo doo products you mentioned that are in the Napalm family are
openly advertised, and available there, and  don't believe their legal
department would warrant purveying any sort of bomb construction type
materials.

Oh My God---!!!
Lions and tiger's and bears !!


Now Lets get to the root of this--

Please --Publicly ---tell every one of the folks out there in Bus and
Vanagonland--how much experience you have in any type or sort of
refrigeration and recharging process-- how long have you been servicing
any type of rolling stock of any fleet of automobiles, trucks, tractor's
or whatever, and when did you pass your last certification test to be so
knowledgeable, and furthermore---
HOW DOES THE AC WORK IN ANY OF YOUR NON AC VANS WHERE YOU HAVE GAINED
ALL OF YOUR VAST PRACTICAL EXPERTISE ? 

Oh--I'm sorry--you don't have any AC in any of your vehicles--this
qualifies you--absolutely--no questions asked--

Another expert fairy tale--and let me be the first to thank you for the
VERY entertaining  BS STORY.

Get out of the books--find yourself a  junk vehicle, with some sort of
chiller, or refrigeration unit in it--- go spend some of the bucks you
have stashed on some AC tools--and I don't mean from Wal-Mart--and
practice, practise, practise---spend some quality time with the tools
and vehicles to allow you to gain some real world know how--  
Get some practical experience as well as knowledge--and then you can
blow some smoke --

Until then, stifle yourself Edith---you just don't know what in the hell
your talking about---besides passing on some BS propaganda that you have
located on the internet, which does not give you one ounce of expertise
to expel any of your twisted info.

Your still doing the Hokey Pokey here--no doubt.

Nice try--

TK---

 
E-mail message   
 
This BS is getting tiresome.  Correction, it got tiresome a long time 
ago.  Autofrost is one of the several brands of blended refrigerants
that 
are made of R414A, also known as GHG-X4 or HCFC blend Xi.  The brands 
include Autofrost, GHG-X4 [sounds like the invention of our old friend 
George Goble at Purdue University, doesn't like to wait for his charcoal
to 
light and thinks 60 pounds of charcoal and a gallon of LOX isn't too
high a 
price for 20 pounds of perfectly lit coals in ten seconds or so.  And 
drives a Hummer.  A real one, not the recent Yukon/Tahoe abomination; 
probably would be a cool Vanagon guy -- anyway...] MotoCool Chill-it,
414-A 
and maybe others.
It is perfectly legal for use in new or retrofit auto air conditioning, 
subject to the conditions imposed on all blend refrigerants and 
additionally subject to the installation of barrier-type refrigeration
hoses.
It is one of at least six legal blends containing propane or butane in 
small amounts, in this case 4% -- the same as three others, and more
than 
the rest.
It is not flammable.  None of them are, or they wouldn't be 
approved.  Guess what -- that's why there wasn't a FLAMMABLE label on
the 
canister.
It is legal.
The Canadian stuff is highly flammable.  It is not approved by the EPA
for 
automotive use -- no flammable refrigerant blend is approved for that 
use.  As far as I know it's not approved for any use, but that's
beside the 
point -- no doubt it could be for some uses.  It is not Federally
legal to 
install an unapproved refrigerant in motor vehicle or motor vehicle-like 
air conditioners except *possibly* under highly specialized conditions 
which involve the re-conversion of a system that has already been 
legitimately converted from R-12 to R134a, and it is completely illegal
to 
do so under any circumstances in several states.  It is Federally
illegal 
to vent *any* automotive refrigerant into the air, it must be removed
using 
properly certified recovery equipment.
*WHY ARE YOU BEING SO STUBBORNLY DISINGENUOUS ABOUT THIS???*  Nothing
I've 
said here is news to you, or should be.  Nobody doubts that the
methane 
stuff works extremely well, much better than R134a. Nobody has said that
it 
is insanely dangerous, only that it might or might not pose an
acceptable 
risk in various people's personal opinion.  IN THE PERSONAL OPINION OF
THE 
EPA, BECAUSE IT'S FLAMMABLE IT'S OFFICIALLY TOO DANGEROUS UNTIL SOMEBODY 
PROVES OTHERWISE, SO IT WILL NEVER BE APPROVED UNLESS/UNTIL SOMEBODY
COMES 
UP WITH THE EVIDENCE, WHICH PROBABLY MEANS NEVER.  Personally, if I
were 
you I wouldn't advertise on publicly searchable mailing lists that I'd
been 
installing the stuff, and I certainly wouldn't be urging people to use
it 
without pointing them to the legal side of it.
That's it, I'm done.
david


If you would like to modify your subscription settings (including
unsubscribing), visit:
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/Syncro
Please remember that rude or offensive language is not allowed on the Syncro
list. Please try your best to resolve differences privately and keep them
off the list.













 

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/ 
