From: <thom(-at-)calweb.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com (SplitWindows Rule/LagWagens Drool),
Date: Fri, 27 Jun 2003 12:15:11 -0700 (PDT)
Cc: matchka(-at-)earthlink.net
Subject: P & C in Minnesota (fwd)

----- Forwarded message from Philp & Catherine -----

From: Philp & Catherine <matchka(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: thom(-at-)calweb.com
Subject: P & C in Minnesota

Not sure who has gotten which story so:
The Pine River Librarian took pity on us and took us home.  We set up in
her barn.  We had to buy a floor jack but the engine came out easy.

With the engine is out we found the problem is the t/o bearing shaft - the 
inner snap ring sprung and came off allowing the shaft to slide sideways
and only allow part of the bearing to contact the clutch.  The t/o bearing
appears to have taken the worst of it with a new angled surface.

Have new t/o bearing but looks like we will need a new inner snap ring
retaining clip as it will not stay in place.  We  tested it and a dozen pumps
on the clutch pedal and it pops off again.  We have romoved the shaft and
Philip has gone into town to see if he can get the snap ring or a shaft.

We are concerned the trans got wiped in the process but it looks like it
will be ok.  No leakage and we reset the end seal.

Have to see about the clutch - the center bearing surface is a little
lopsided with the pressure on one side but with just some finger pushing it is
almost back flat.  It is a heavy duty kenedy so we are hoping it will
spring back.  Surfaces look good.  Any idea on that?  We are a ways from parts
in time and miles but we might consider replacing it. 

Looks like we got away easy again on this one but stay turned and keep
those transmissions and clutchs handy just in case.

Thank you for all of the offers of help and trannys.  Nice to know so many 
folks are out there to help.

P & C 
camped out in the librarian's barn on 40 acres near Pine River, MN

----- End of forwarded message from Philp & Catherine -----

Thom
--
Thom Fitzpatrick 
http://vintagebus.com
