Date: Mon, 19 Jan 2004 19:46:31 -0500 (EST)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>,  <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: BBB VIII quick trip report and pix

The Save the Bays contengent met at the Pines on Pearblossom highway for a
hearty traveler's breakfast.  We hit the road with six buses (1 in tow,
since Mike didn't quite finish his megamotor).  The trip went without
incident across CA 138 through Littlerock to CA 18 through Adelanto and
Victorville onto I-15 through Barstow (gas at the Pilot station) and
onward on I-40.  We cruised at 58MPH or so the whole time.  We crossed the
Arizona line, drove a few more miles, and turned south on AZ 95 toward
Mecca...er...Havasu.  The Havasu street department seems to be active this
time of year as they had a considerable part of the main drag torn up for
repair, but this was the only construction delay of the entire trip.

The event was fantastic as usual, with lots of stuff to see, talk about,
taste, etc.  Mike wanted to get his megamotor running, so he went to work
on that.  I wandered the swaps a bit (bought some rubber bits and a cool
VW solar panel to keep my battery charged) and settled in for the Saturday
raffle.  I managed to win a tie-dye shirt for my daughter and a shop apron
for myself.

After the auction was under way, they paused for the Save the Bays trivia
contest.  We did our best to come up with good brain-twisters and
assembled some pretty good prizes.  This year we collected $75 for the
Burnt Bus fund.  The top prize (a gas heater) was won by VW guru Karl von
Salzen who later donated it to the Burnt Bus Auction.

Sometime on Saturday was held the Traditional BBB Polar Bear Thong Swim,
in which about 15 people (they kept darting about so I couldn't get a good
count) donned red thongs, ran down the beach, gingerly tiptoed over the
rocks, and entered the rather frigid water of Lake Havasu.  This event is
proof positive that people should have to pass a test to wear thongs!

Mike finished buttoning up his engine and decided to fire it up.  Fire up
it did, with a roar from the open collector!  The engine developed a few
teething problems, though, with rockers galling on their shafts so Mike
decided to put off further work until he got home.

Sunday dawned beautifully, and the breeze that had been a minor irritant
Saturday was gone.  We cleaned up around the camp a bit and wandered over
for the final raffle and auction.  The raffle got under way and the prizes
just flew off the stage, unfortunately none in my direction!  We paused
for the auction, and several hundred dollars were raised for the Burnt Bus
Fund.  The hot item (literally) was a custom-made BBB firepit complete
with VW emblems that went for $200.00!

The raffle continued and got down to the big prizes. The tranny and
longblock went to numbers not even in the same universe as mine, but the
turnkey engine was another matter.  I missed it by only 12 tickets!  :)

The trip back home was pretty much a repeat of the trip out, except that
our later start led to the adventure of driving highways 19 and 138 at
night.  Not terribly fun!

Many thanks and kudos should go to the crew at London Bridge Bullis whose
tremendous efforts lead to a great event!  The site is wonderful,
everything ran smoothly, and a great time was had by all!

Trip statistics:

Total distance 587mi
Average speed 52.4MPH (while moving)
Maximum speed 63.8MPH

For a few photos, see:

http://f1.pg.photos.yahoo.com/ph/lyle2357/album?.dir=/BBB+2004

George Lyle
