To: Type Two List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Mon, 19 Jan 2004 21:28:40 -0800
Subject: Need definitive timing spec for early '76 FI

Hey folks...

Well, after a failed attempt to install the Pertronix kit that my wife 
gave me for Christmas (more on that later), I re-installed my points 
today, and did the usual timing exercise.

I'm pretty good at remembering the orientation of the distributor when 
I pull it out, and plopped it in the same way as it was last timed by 
my mechanic (engine had recently been in for 300mi 
required-for-warranty check-up and oil change).

So, aimed the strobe where I thought the timing mark should be, and 
nothing.  I was expecting to see it around 5 ATDC, but instead saw it 
at 7.5 BTDC.  Sure enough, Bentley says "76 with FI - 7.5 BTDC, vacuum 
hose on".  But I have an early '76, with vacuum advance *and* retard, 
so the "75 with FI - 5 ATDC, vacuum hose(s) on" entry in the table 
seems a better match.  This is frustrating, because there is not a "76 
with FI - ... hoses(s) on" entry in the table, and so none that exactly 
match my engine.

I recall asking about this on this list before, and still being 
confused by the answer.  So, I decided to jot down the part # for my 
distributor and post it here, hoping that Karl can provide me with 
suitable data to put on a sign inside the engine lid that will be easy 
for the mechanic to see the next time it goes in (two more 
warranty-required oil changes to be done by the shop).

	Bosch - 0 231 181 012
	VW - 022 905 205 AB

I believe that 5 ATDC is the correct timing spec for this distributor, 
since it has the vacuum retard that is going to be engaged at idle.  
That is what I set it to today, going on the assumption that retarded 
timing is less damaging than too-advanced timing.  I then took it for a 
spin along CA-1 from San Francisco down to Half Moon Bay and back (with 
an espresso break in between :-), and it ran great... maybe a little 
sluggish on hills, but then again, those heavy Westies are always like 
that.

As a footnote: I should have suspected something was up; when I last 
got it back from the shop, it was idling *really* fast, maybe 1200-1300 
RPM.  I had to crank down the idle bypass screw to get the RPMs 
in-range for timing... of course, I had to back it way back out again 
once I retarded the timing to 5 ATDC.

Many thanks...

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
