From: "El Senor Capitan" <dasbuspilot(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "Type2(-at-)Type2.Com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "Wetwesties"
Cc: "stlvwannnabe" <rclyde400(-at-)charter.net>, "Darren Smisko"
Date: Mon, 19 Jan 2004 23:29:21 -0800
Subject: Beautiful Bus Needs New Home (Located in Vancouver, BC)

Dear Friends-



I am moving soon, and sadly am losing my vehicle storage space. As such, I am
offering my beloved '73 Campmobile for sale. She started out as a restoration
project, and became my daily driver. She purrs like a kitten, looks fantastic,
and is very reliable. Within the last year, she has had a new clutch, rebuilt
carbs, newly upholstered front seats (bed, and jump seat also in great shape),
new Pertronix coil, spark plug wires, new vacuum lines, new fuel lines, new
heater control cables, new clutch cables, new shift bushings, new Michelin
tires, ect, ect, ect. I have spent hundreds of hours, and not a small amount
of money bringing my baby up to standard.  Both the engine heat system, and
the gas heater work well. (Yes, you can finally drive in the nude all year
round!) There is minimal rust, and she turns heads. You turn the key, she
starts.  Period. Want to go camping? Just add ice.



"Jumping Jehosaphats!" You say. "I'll write you a check right now!"



But wait! There's more!



 Not only will you get a vehicle guaranteed to make you feel taller and
younger, make members of the opposite sex swoon, and make children smile, this
Westy comes with it's very own '74 Kombi parts bus! Imagine having a free auto
parts store in your own garage! The parts bus has a running (just add battery)
2.0l engine and tranny, and another working gas heater with all the ducting!
In addition to the new tires on the '73, there are also 6 more wheels, 4 with
nearly new tires! (You will not be buying tires for a decade!) Also included
are a whack of other spare parts, manuals, and very useful bits.



"Wow!" You say. "What an opportunity! Will you take my house in trade?"



Uhhhm, no. But I will adopt out all of the above to a good home, for $3500
Canadian ($2700 US). Both are located in beautiful to visit Vancouver, BC.



Email me for pics or more info, or give me a call 604.279.0604.



Cheers,

Matthew
