To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 20 Jan 2004 08:01:48 -0500
From: Todd M Jaspers <toddjaspers(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Burnt bus fund

Hmm, well.... I hope I don't end up being on everyone's hate list..
but...  I was actually thinking somewhat of the same thing that Mat
Nardone had said. Now, I understand we all have our little
eccentricies... me with buying cars in general (I've got like 7
projects.. only half of them run and / are registered). So, I can
understand that owning a Bus as her only vehicle is kinda fun, and I'm
sure the kids loved it too. I also realize that people do make mistakes
and that she should have had a fire extinguisher in her Bus. But, we all
learn from our mistakes. I had a Fiero catch fire once, and didn't have a
fire extinguisher. I'm going to kick myself for having said that... Fiero
owners don't like to admit that their cars ever catch fire. But, it's
actually only the 84 models that used to catch fire. (or were fire
prone). But.. since the VW Bus has lots of fire issues too, you guys
won't bash me too hard about it. In any case, I was able to save the car
by throwing dirt on the motor from the side of hte highway. But NOW, I
carry a fire extinguisher. She'll probably do the same from now on. 

I WOULD like to see her in the VW Bus, and.. as far as I'm concerned,
call me cheesy or whatever, but you're appart of the Bus community if
you're bitten with the bug.. and present ownership is not a requirement.

Having said that, I WOULD feel more comfortable knowing that the money I
donate is going towards an inexpensive GOOD reliable daily driver like a
Chevy Corsica, a Grand Am, or even a newer used Ford Focus. Yes, the VW
motor is a durable engine... but with ANY old car... it requires lots of
work and maintenance. A good reliable, bare bones no optioned 4 cyl
econobox would be a great car that she could rely on getting her from
point A to point B. Then she can worry about getting another Bus. (And I
understand she wasn't asking for money in the first place).


I still haven't gotten an answer yet. I have a checkbook sitting RIGHT
here on my desk, and I can't seem to find the address ANYWHERE that it
should be mailed to, to help this lady. Can someone please tell me where
I can send a check? 


Thanks,

Todd
