Date: Tue, 20 Jan 2004 08:07:17 -0600
From: Chris Mills <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Harry Hoffman <hhoffman(-at-)ip-solutions.net>, "type2(-at-)type2.com"
Subject: Re: [T2] Rust around the window (and how bad is surface rust)

>How bad is surface rust? Is it best to sand and use a "rust-reducing" based
>primer, ala 3M? Lots of ppl thru the archives indicate the a regular 
>primer may
>be just fine.

Etching primer I believe is the proper primer. Kills the rust as I 
understand. Maybe Terry K. will jump in as that is his specialty (paint 
that is).

>How long can only primer stay on? I've got lots of little rust spots all over
>the roof and "rain-gutter" rails. And how is it that little rust spots 
>form all
>over the roof. It's almost like raindrops hit the roof and turned it 
>immediately
>to rust.

My theory is the paint gets chipped and spot rust starts. Maybe aided by 
lack of washing and waxing. Anyhow the rust lifts the paint around it and 
those new edges rust and it continues from there. Thus the roughly round 
rust spots. Sand or sand blast followed by etching primer, regular or high 
build primer, then paint is my theory. I'd run that recipe past a real 
paint pro though. Should be enough information to start the conversation 
though.

We pulled our windshield long ago to investigate some rust discoloration on 
the paint around the seal. Had rust through in several places in the lower 
part of the opening. I got out the grinder and wire brush wheel. Got the 
rust out and patched the holes (none too big) with metal impregnated filler 
(which is waterproof). Treated everything else with a rust converter and 
paint. This of course led to a whole bus paint job which it is STILL 
recovering from years later (have gained better job, house payment, wife, 
child, etc.). Will be back on the road in a couple weeks or ELSE as we 
finally need it as a second daily driver. No rust yet and the bus has sat 
outside for 3(?) years now.

Good luck! Nothing like a clean, shiny bus.


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
1972 Hodaka Wombat 125cc moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
wife, kiddo, dog, and various slightly used cats
