Date: Tue, 20 Jan 2004 10:48:20 -0600
From: Chris Mills <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Hal Sullivan <tristessa(-at-)pon.net>, buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org,
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: [BSKA] Update on the BBB burned bus

>To add further fuel to the fire (so to speak), I'm of the opinion that a
>fire extinguisher is a very good thing to carry in *any* car.

I was looking for some brass fittings this weekend at the local home 
improvement store for my remote oil filter setup on my Corvair engine. 
Found everything I needed but also found some nice little brass ball valves 
for less than $10.

How about installing one in the fuel line right under the gas tank and 
connecting a generic choke cable allowing the driver to shut off the fuel 
flow in case of fire. A more elaborate version would be to use a power lock 
solenoid to do the same job.

The whole idea being to shut off fuel to the engine where the fire is. 
Further advantage would be theft prevention. With a carb'ed engine, the 
vehicle could be hot wired and driven a short ways before the carb ran out 
of gas (valve closed) and the engine stalled. I'd bet a thief would bail 
rather than try to troubleshoot this vehicle.

Whole project should be under $25 for the valve and the choke cable.

Question: anyone aware of a tool that would allow me to flare the ends of 
the metal line on the bottom of the gas tank so I could add ALL steel fuel 
lines to the fuel system?

In each bus fire story it the source has been the same: rubber lines that 
have rotted, popped off, or the little brass inlet popping off. There is 
alot of damage done thanks to the gravity feed design of the gas tank.



Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
1972 Hodaka Wombat 125cc moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
wife, kiddo, dog, and various slightly used cats
