Date: Tue, 20 Jan 2004 12:52:37 -0500
From: scott lyons <slyons(-at-)netrover.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] A focused question regarding charging batteries

On 1/20/04 12:10 PM, "James Jackson" <firesong4ng(-at-)hotmail.com> wrote:

> I have seen this but it doesn't really differentiate between the use of a
> relay to an
> isolator. They are talking about the 15 amp relay, but not really explaining
> what happens
> if you use something rated higher (ie 90 amp relay or isolator - will it
> draw more or too much for instance).  Small wire vs large (gauge).
> 
> Also where to hook it up to and why (in the whole electrical system)
> 
> J

James,

I am not an expert on wiring, but I will give you my personal experience
with 2nd battery circuits.

I am not sure why you would need an isolator. I am not saying you don't want
or need one, just that I don't know why you would. To be honest, I don't
even know what an isolator does, exactly.

The original system in a westfalia with two batteries is very simple and
works well. It is not an isolator, afaik, it is a relay which connects the
two batteries together when the alternator is putting out enough voltage to
extinguish the dashboard charging light. When the bus is stopped, the two
batteries are not connected together, so there is no chance of draining the
starting battery with the 2nd battery loads (i.e. refrigerator), unless you
change the wiring of the bus. The wires to the 2nd battery are smallish, I
think 10ga. The "2nd battery kit" which is sold at online vendors is very
similar to the factory wiring. I think this is the way to go. The 2nd
battery circuit can be created with a common relay and some lengths of wire,
you don't even need to buy a kit to install the battery and have it charged
when you need it to be.

When I bought my '79 it had the factory 2nd battery wiring installed, but
non-functioning. It was very simple to repair the charging circuit with a
new relay (which I got from a parts box, a bosch 30A relay used in the power
door lock circuit of a volvo, if I recall) and the right connections.

We have done thousands of miles of road tripping in our camper with the
original 2-battery setup and never had any difficulties of any sort.

Scott Lyons
Purchasing Manager
germansupply.com
Canada's Online VW Parts Specialist

http://www.germansupply.com
