From: "El Senor Capitan" <dasbuspilot(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "James Jackson" <firesong4ng(-at-)hotmail.com>, "Type2(-at-)Type2.Com"
Date: Tue, 20 Jan 2004 10:05:19 -0800
Subject: Re:[T2] A focused question regarding charging batteries

Hey James-

I promise to answer all of your electrical questions if you will help me
with my computer ones! I live on a sailboat on 12v, and have been generating
my
power through solar panels, and a high-output alternator for years while
travelling so I know of what I speak.

(Snip)Concerns : Drawing to much current from the alternator and burning it
out
from making it work to hard.

To start with, don't worry about drawing too much current from your
alternator. You cannot feed more amperage into your battery than it will
accept. A small battery such as is found in our busses even deeply
discharged cannot draw 90Amps for more than a few seconds. As soon as this
happens, the battery voltage immediately rises, and your regulator cuts down
the amperage, fast. This is assuming that your alternator is even capable of
putting out this much power, and is spinning at a fast enough rate.

Often what happens when people "burn out" an alternator is that they simply
have incorrect belt tension, not that it has been electrically overloaded..
When the Alt comes under high load, the belt slips, generating heat at the
front of the alt. The fan blows this heat back, the bearings heat up, the
grease in the bearings gets displaced and stops lubricating, and then we all
know what happens when we don't lubricate our shafts.

(Snip)I have read that simply changing the gauge of the wire to a higher
(smaller wire) gauge will
reduce what can get to the isolator. Is this an accurate and measurable
thing?

While it is true that a smaller wire (larger gauge) does increase the
resistance, Do not, Do not, Do not, use undersized wires. The increased
resistance generates heat, and is a major fire hazard. This is what your
regulator is designed for. Don't trust it? Get a new one, and always use
big, high quality (marine or good automotive, not household) wire.

(Snip)Different question:
When hooking up a relay or isolator why do they want you to re-route wiring
from the alternator to the isolator and then hook up both batteries to the
isolator?  Why?  If I just want to change another battery shouldn't running
a wire through a relay or isolator to the one battery be fine? Just leaving
the other battery hooked up as it was originally.What makes it different
than simply running a wire from the main battery,
through a relay or isolator to the other battery. It will only take a charge
from the battery when the switch is open.

The Isolator allows both batteries to be charged, and discharged
independently. This insures that should you stay up too late watching
movies, ect, that your bus will still start in the AM. If you connect the
isolator the way you suggest, they will both charge, but current can be
drawn from the starting bat to feed load on the aux bat through the
connection on the alternator. Net result: Longer movie, but your bus won't
start. To make the isolator work, both bats need to be connected.

Hope this helps.

Cheers,
Matthew
