Date: Tue, 20 Jan 2004 13:29:27 -0600
To: "James Jackson" <firesong4ng(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] isolators and regulator info - Thanks Guys!

At 12:24 PM 1/20/2004, James Jackson wrote:
>I've got it , I understand now whats shaking.
>I will go pick up a relay and do the deed.

James,

First of all, listen to Senor Captain, he has good info.
Second, the answers to all of your questions are in the archives at type2.com.

Now on to some personal opinions about this subject.  I would NOT use a 
dinky 30-amp relay.  Drain your battery good and dead and use thick wire 
and it will fry.  Not to say that you shouldn't use thick wire - you 
absolutely should.  The problem is related to what the Captain said - when 
your aux battery is very dead it will draw a huge number of amps initially 
when it is connected to the starting battery.  Easily 100 amps or 
more.  This will taper off within a few seconds to ~30 amps and within a 
couple minutes to around 10 amps (assuming a standard group 24/27 "deep 
cycle" RV/marine battery).  That initial current surge will eventually fry 
your buck-and-a-half 30-amp relay.  Maybe not this month or even this year, 
but eventually it will go.

You need a high-power relay, which looks similar to a starter relay.  It's 
cylindrical, metal and has two large terminals and one small one on 
it.  Hookup is trivial.  One large terminal to the positive side of each 
battery and the small terminal goes to your fuse box to a place where there 
is 12V when the key is on.  NOT to the coil!  Reason being that you do not 
want the relay to be energized while the engine is cranking.  This is a 
small difference that probably wouldn't matter much in real life but gives 
you a little extra margin of reliability.

I have had one of these high-power relays in use for about 15 years and am 
on my 2nd alternator in that time (first one was used, with unknown history 
and lasted ~10 years, and I have TWO spare batteries).  Available at most 
RV stores.

I used 4-gauge cable to wire my relay.  Same size as the heavy starter 
cables.  The nice thing is that you can have a simple switch to energize 
the relay manually in case you ever need to jump-start your starting 
battery from the aux battery.  Can't do this with an isolator, and can't do 
it if you use 14-gauge wire for your relay (aaaaaaahhh!  Please don't use 
14 gauge wire!).

-David 
