To: Type Two List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Tue, 20 Jan 2004 11:36:45 -0800
Subject: Pertronix installation help

Hey folks...

I'm having trouble with the Pertronix Ignitor that my wife gave me as a 
Christmas gift, and am hoping that someone here can help me out.

For background, I have the following distributor on my '76 FI:

	Bosch 0 231 181 012
	VW    022 905 205 AB

The rotor that is installed is Bosch and marked 1234 33 2215 R5 (1 234 
332 215 R5 using the standard Bosch number grouping).

The Pertronix kit I have is 1847V, the model for vacuum advance VW 
distributors.

The issue is basically: the sleeve does not seem to go far enough down 
the shaft to allow the rotor to fit.  In fact, it does not go down far 
enough to even line up with the sensor.  The kit includes a spacer 
plate which can be used to increase the height of the sensor, and 
installing it makes it line up with the sleeve.  But that still leaves 
me with a rotor problem.

Here are some photos that show the problem:

http://www.shagadelic.org/VW/pertronix-1.jpg
http://www.shagadelic.org/VW/pertronix-2.jpg
http://www.shagadelic.org/VW/pertronix-3.jpg

The first and second show the alignment of the sleeve in relation to 
the sensor.  Note how the sleeve is higher than the sensor.

The last one shows the rotor installed without the sleeve.  Note how 
the rotor encroaches onto the area required by the sleeve.

It really almost seems as if the point cam is just too tall.

If anyone out there has encountered this problem before, I would love 
to hear how you solved it.  I've tried tapping the sleeve down with a 
deep socket, thinking that I just wasn't pressing hard enough.  But it 
slips down easily onto the point cam (actually, it doesn't really fit 
the point cam very tightly).  If I trim the rotor as much as would be 
required, I don't think I'd have any of the grounding plate inside the 
rotor left.

Of course, I guess I could just be SOL with using a Pertronix in this 
distributor.  I plan on calling Pertronix to see if they have any tech 
support there, and if all else fails, hopefully RMMW will allow it to 
be returned.

Thanks, folks...

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
