Date: Tue, 20 Jan 2004 16:13:47 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] A focused question regarding charging batteries

Volks:

Oh boy, once again into the fray!  If you all want a sweet
isolator/combiner device for your buses like what the big boys use, and
aren't afraid to spend a little more money than the average RV style or
P*p B*ys diode isolator, go here:

www.hellroaring.com <http://www.hellroaring.com >

I just checked their pages and they are still alive and kicking in
beautiful Polson, MT, in the US of A.  Tech support was great when I
bought mine a couple years back, and DO spend some time checking out the
whole site - I guarantee you you'll come back with some GREAT ideas for
improved camper electrics.  Pay special attention to the "How to put
your starter battery in full isolation" dilly-oh; it's VERY easy to do
on a bus, provided you first take a look at the wiring diagrams and make
some sketches before you start in with the wire cutters and other
implements of destruction...

After your wallet has done puckering up over what a good isolator will
set you back, up the ante once again and ditch the nasty ol' stock Bosch
voltage regulator in favor of a more modern one designed to work with
modern batteries; you know, the ones that need a higher charging voltage
than what the nasty ol' stock Bosch VR wants to let the device crank
out...  I believe David S. (Hi David!) recommends something made by
Wells, but the hard-core types will want to pony up for a marine
3-phase VR, like a Balmar ARS-4.  Check out your FLBMS (friendly local
boating and/or marine stores) what Balmar is doing these days.  There
are probably other makes out there, Balmar was what I turned up when I
did my charging system re-work a couple years ago.

The stock alternator is capable of doing great deeds, but it is very
ham-strung by the nasty ol' stock Bosch VR, ESPECIALLY if you start
running modern batteries instead of the old school wet or flooded
batteries.  Something in between the Wells and the Balmar would be an
adjustable VR, but I could never find a retailer of such things, and the
"dumb" adjustable version of the Balmar was only like $30 less than the
3-phase, pre-programmed for 5 different battery styles, fully user
tunable, rompin', stompin' ARS-4.  $180 2001 US dollars and it's still
going great in the '72, I tried running it on the OE 27-year old Bosch
alternator to see if the 3-phased VR would kill it (it works the
alternator a "bit" harder than nasty ol' stock), and gave up after a
couple seasons.  The top of the line Balmar was $250 in 2001 - I had to
draw the line somewhere ;-)  In the end, there are no extra buttons to
push, or switches you have to remember to set, or anything else to futz
with.  Put the key in the ignition, and go, set up camp when you get
there, and enjoy life.  IMHO and humble reading experience, doing
anything with a poorly thought out rig using less than stellar parts
will cause more trouble than one can shake the proverbial stick at,
especially as the system ages...  Which is probably another good reason
you may want to give some consideration to using "marine quality"
components when you concoct a system fit for a true "land yacht" :-)

Jim Hayden
www.savethebays.org
