From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org, "vintagebus(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 20 Jan 2004 15:05:10 -0800
Subject: RE: [BSKA] pics of chris' bus

  Below is a post from Chris the girl who's bus burnt. By now I am sure
anyone who cares has seen the pictures posted to the SAMBA. I am very
pleased of the outpouring of help for her from the bus community. I have
been promised a couple more checks in the mail and have taken some credit
card donations over the phone. There is 910 dollars in the fund now and I am
expecting more money in the mail. As you can see in Chris' post below she
will be willing to travel to pick up the right bus. We are looking for a
69-71 Westy in any color but white. If you see, hear or know of anything
that is FAIRLY priced please pass on the info to me, Chris or even the
buskatier list.
  We would like to see Chris in another bus by the spring summer camping
season.


thanks to all that have helped, prayed and/or has thought of Chris and her
bus

ronnie

-----Original Message-----
From: Graue, Chris [mailto:Chris.Graue(-at-)benham.com]
Sent: Tuesday, January 20, 2004 11:18 AM
To: 'buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org'
Subject: RE: [BSKA] pics of chris' bus


Well put, what the bus community has done is more than I ever imagined
possible... and I too never thought this would happen to me... it totally
takes you by suprise. I was so unprepared... I kept thinking "this can't be
happening" and "make it stop!". Perhaps that is what is helping me deal with
it... denial is a wonderful thing sometimes... which is why I hope not to
get another white early bay westy... it would remind me of her too much. I
have come to realize she was never happy. After all the love I gave her in
the 2 short years I had her, it just wasn't enough to make up for the 13
years she sat all alone at the lake. She was depressed and I couldn't help
her with that. My beetle has moods. I can tell when she is happy or being
stubborn... but the bus never ever felt happy. 

Pete kept me informed of messages he was getting, either on something like
the vanagon list, or sent personally to him because people knew he has
contact with me. I don't know what I would have done over the weekend
without knowing what was being done to help us. I probably would have just
been crying all weekend, not knowing what to do... but hearing every day
that others were helping us get back on our feet gave me such hope. I just
wish I had known sooner that a bus had been found for us to make it to the
campout in... I would have liked to go ahead and be there and not have the
trip end so abruptly.

Gotta go or I'll start crying again, thinking about everyone's kindness...
and the fire, too. I feel like I can never thank you all enough or that you
can't know how much I appreciate every little thing everyone has done. Even
the smallest action is appreciated, because I know I have been in situations
where I can't help out as much as I would have liked, but every little bit
helps... obviously, or there wouldn't already be over $900.

Thank you all and see you this camping season,
Chris

-----Original Message-----
From: A. Long [mailto:ncbusguy(-at-)bellsouth.net]

Glad to see you back online!! When I first heard about this, my thought was
of disbelief. I have never had a vehicle go up in smoke and hope I never do.
When I heard that you and your kids were safe and sound, I was relieved!
I know that you are a strong person and will bounce back, and yes, it is
great to be associated with a great group of folks that are on this list. I
have always said that it takes a special kind of person to drive a bus and
after the last few days, I think the point is well proven.

Art Long
NC Buskatier
