Date: Sat, 13 Sep 2003 11:25:52 -0700
To: Bookwus1(-at-)aol.com,Type2(-at-)Type2.com
From: Scott Fraser <kn6f(-at-)dolphinsci.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Chipping?

At 10:50 AM 9/13/03, Bookwus1(-at-)aol.com wrote:
>Hiya All,
>
>   I had made some remark that the VW engines could be built to
>considerably higher horsepower.  He replied that it used to be that one 
>could "chip" a
>Porsche engine.  But nowadays they were so built that one could no longer
>"chip".  I had no idea what he specifically meant by "chip" and so, not to 
>look like
>a complete idiot, I smiled and comiserated with him.
>What does he mean by "chipping" an AC engine?  Anybody out there familiar
>with this term?


Mike,
chipping is the term used to describe the process of removing the "chip" in 
the car's fuel/ignition control computer and replacing it with a new chip 
that has the performance characteristics you desire.

These chips are also known as ROMs  (Read Only Memory) and are memory chips 
that have been permanently programmed.  The only way to change the 
performance is to swap the chips.

I'm working on a GM ECM project for the Corvette engine that I'm putting 
into my Jaguar and when all is said and done, the ECM will have the 
equivalent of four chips, each selected at startup with a key switch.
1. Stock                -keep it smog legal
2. Valet Mode           -max RPM lowered, max speed really lowered
3. Daughter Mode        -we'll keep her fairly stock with rev limit lowered 
a tad
4. Dad Mode             -gotta have some fun sometimes :-)

Now later versions of the ECM (Electronic Control Module) replaced the ROMs 
with chips that were a little different process.  They are still a type of 
ROM but are programmable while on board (Flash ROM or EEPROM).  Given the 
proper connection, new configurations could be downloaded via the 
diagnostics connector into the chip.  This requires a bit more equipment 
than just swapping out the "chip".

With respect to current Porsche engines, I'd guess that they are using the 
Flash ROMs, but do not know if there is ready access to reprogramming 
them.  I would assume that there has to be in some form since Porsche had 
to program them in the first place.

With respect to our vintage AC engines, (Type IV), the control module is an 
analog computer and does not have a control ROM to "chip out"

Now the 80's & early 90's porsche AC engines, that may be another story and 
may be the engines he (or more likely) others were "chipping".

Hope that helps & I didn't confuse the issue further.

Scott
'60 DC
