Date: Mon, 13 Jun 2005 11:40:46 -0500 (CDT)
From: Darren Evans-Young <darren(-at-)bama.ua.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: rough idle / hard starting

I've had a few interesting weekends working on my bus.
Seems like everytime I "upgrade" my bus, it runs worse.
Prior to any work on my '79 FI engine, here were my symptoms.

Engine cold: Starts right up...after running for about 10
seconds, starts to die. Hit the accelerator and it idles
barely.

Engine warm: Crank for 5-8 seconds, no start. Accelerator
pedal all the way down, crank again, starts right up. Idles
barely. Sometimes a 3rd cranking is required.

Engine hot: Cranks and starts right up. Idles ok.

Now, the first upgrade I did on a weekend was replace all
fuel lines. Now when engine is cold, starts ok, but idles
rough and then dies. Won't hold an idle until engine is warm.
Engine warm, same as before. Engine hot, same as before.

Now I add guages: Dakota Digital CHT gauge & sender, new NGK spark
plugs, VDO oil pressure sender and gauge, VDO oil temp sender and gauge,
VDO Tach.  Start bus to test gauges. Lights on gauges work, gauges work,
after about 15 seconds I hear a pop and alternator light comes on.
Turn signal, gas gauge dont work. Instrument lights work (new and old),
new gauges work too. No fuses blown...or so I thought. After careful
inspection, fuse 12 blew. It was on a circuit I didnt even mess with. I
replace fuse and its been fine since. Fuse was really really old...like
late 1980's. Alternator light is out now. I believe the alternator was
still charging the battery ok, just that fuse for the gauges blown caused
it to come on.

Bus runs like crap..hard to start, wont hold an idle at all until fully
warmed up and then barely stays running. Drives ok though. I must have
knocked SOMETHING loose while messing around in the engine compartment. I
look and look, nothing...except I notice the rubber elbow going to the aux
air regulator is split on the regulator end and has slid off a couple mm.
I push it back on. That was the only thing I could find out of place.

Bus now starts good and idles smooth. I still have the hard to start when
warm symptom. I'll be ordering a new aux air elbow soon.

Darren Evans-Young
1979 FI Bus
