To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: Conrad Klahn <conradk(-at-)mac.com>
Date: Sat, 8 Nov 2003 23:06:55 -0600
Subject: My "find" today

Hi,

I was down in South Texas today and stopped by a shop that had some bay 
windows out front - and asked the guy if he knew where I could find a 
back bumper for my 65 bus. He pointed me over to a '68 bus, which I had 
to politely declined. I asked again and he told me to "grab that 
machette in that bucket" and go through the back of the shop, through 
the trees - there was probably something earlier back there. The 
machette was either for weeds or snakes, on a hot day, it would have 
been for both. The spiders and webs were way nasty though.

Several rusted out late-50's kombis (one factory sunroof, rotted out), 
oval window beetles (hardtop and converts, cushmans, fiats, a Morris 
Minor convertible), and there in the way back, a barndoor panel. 
Unfortunately, the front had been taken out by a tree (probably about 
30 or more years ago), there is a 20+ year old tree growing out of the 
engine compartment.

There are some parts in there that I'm sure somebody on this list 
needs, good sheet metal (uncut rear wheel wells), the cargo doors and 
front doors are there, but unfortunately have some rot on the bottom, 
the rear quarter and sides are still good though. Roof is incredibly 
very good. Transaxle looked OK too. I could see a steering wheel, etc. 
in some areas I was not prepared to root around in.

Well, I was happy and sad at the same time. I've never found a 
barndoor, and this is probably going to be it for me. But sad to see 
that at one time, this would have been a real find, and instead it has 
rotted away for some 30+ years (or more) undiscovered.

I am going back over Thanksgiving week to get a rear bumper - maybe 
take out some metal if I can find any. So, if you need any glass 
popouts, icepick door handles, front turn signals, etc. please mail me 
off list.

For the record: The guy doesn't have a phone at his shop, not even a 
sign out front, I know his name is Bill and that's about it.  I am 
tired of parts whores, so I don't want to divulge the location so I can 
get a "reasonably-priced" bumper. That's probably selfish - but I'll 
take pictures and post the location after i pick up the bumper.

Conrad
