Date: Tue, 11 Nov 2003 00:18:59 -0700
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: craptacular case update # 652

it recently STOPPED being 103* here in phoenix (oct 23rd, after three 
straight days over 100!), and the bus was running kinda noisily, so i 
decided to do some tune up...
all the valves were out to .008 or so! they had been put at 
.006e/.004i back in september - when the temp had been near 100; the 
drop in temps recently had shrunk the case quite a bit.  IIRC, 
bentley says to set the valves when it is 72* outside... set all the 
valves at .006 (a hotrod buddy had suggested 'splitting' the valve 
lash to get more power, but i never noticed any).

of course the bus now ran like crap, so  i attacked the rest of the 
tune up; timing was now at 2* btdc :P dwell was 52. retimed it to 
7.5* btdc, but it still ran a little rough, so i moved it to 9 or 10 
and it idled nicely and accelerated crisply. TOTAL advance came out 
to 38*, a little much, but i have a vac dizzy (74 MT beetle) and a CR 
of 7.0:1 so i haven't heard any pinging. yet.

changed the oil, in some part to clean up  leaks from the sump plate 
- bad gasket. ran it around the block and damned if there wasn' t oil 
on the ground again! nothing from the sump or acorn nuts... some from 
the front, so i assume i have a leak at the f/w seal, but not too 
bad. some oil dripping from the oil filter (crappy american-made berg 
filter mount :)  ), some from the lower seam towards the rear.... 
tightened up the nuts on the bottom seam - i am NOT sure they aren't 
pulling from the shitty aluminum case, as they always seem to be 
loose :P

  but the WEIRDEST thing is a patch of oil on the bottom ribs, just 
forward of the oil  piston (FIF). it measures about 3" x 3" and has 
no visible source. i cleaned everything up and drove around again; 
patch came back. while pondering this, i flung some spit around on 
the case bottom to see how hot the case was. it didn't sizzle 
anywhere EXCEPT: where the patch was appearing, and ONLY after a 
moment or two. now, if the CASE was hot, the spit should have sizzled 
immediately. hmmmmm.
however - if hot oil was seeping out from the METAL due to a porous 
casting, it would answer both symptoms; the oil accumulation with no 
visible source from elsewhere on the case, and the spit bubbles after 
a bit because the hot oil comes out of a pore and heats up the spit 
to boiling after a short while.
i'm not saying this is FOR SURE happening, but i'm having a hard time 
finding any other explanation. and with all the bullshit involved in 
this aluminum crapjob, it wouldn't surprise me if it has a casting 
flaw.
i need to devise some way to isolate the area from the sump plate , 
from seam drips and the leak from the f/w, and any possible spray 
from a leaking oil hose when under pressure (about the only thing 
that - might - also explain the patch... but not the weird boiling 
thing). if it keeps happening, i'll know for sure. if it doesn' keep 
happening, i have more sleuthing to do :)

i have the carb fairly well dialed in, but every once and a while it 
will hunt at idle, so i have a phantom intake leak somewhere. engine 
has a sweet spot at 3200 rpm where it runs real smooth and quiet - 
too bad that is only 55 mph :P  oil temp is below 125 as it comes out 
of the cooler, pressure is 60 psi at 3000 rpm; head temps tend to go 
to 350 and stay there at 60 mph, but climb if i go faster... and 350 
is 25* hotter than my last 2 motors ran at, so i'm not too happy 
about that. what i need to do is drop the motor and run it on a test 
stand for an hour or two... any phx listees wanna babysit for a day 
and loan me a driveway ;)
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"Guard against the impostures of pretended patriotism." -- George Washington
