From: "Chris and Kell" <midwestbass(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 4 Jan 2002 12:09:48 -0800
Subject: starting issues....

happy friday listmembers.....

so I have been having a little trouble getting my 76 westy started recently
and it has finally gotten a lot worse.... instead of just needing to give it
a few more cranks than usual, and hearing it go a little slower each time -
now it is just not turning over fast enough to fire up, and dies after only
a few tries...

obviousley the battery isn't getting fully charged, because I can jump it
off of the watercooled VW and it will fire right up. I drive it all the way
to work, hoping the drive will charge up the battery, and it must to a
certain point because I get a few more tries out of it when I come back to
it again, but it dies trying after just a few cranks. Thankfully I can park
at the top of the back lot with enough runway space to pop it into gear
going downhill and get back home.....

Are all signs pointing to the alternator? I was going to order a new (or
rebuilt) one, but really don't have the money to guess wrong right now. At
first I thought it was the starter, because my headlights are actually very
bright at first, and it seems to have enough juice, but when cranking it
just turns so slowly and after a few times around it just clicks and stops
trying....

I took the bus to sears about a month ago when this started, and they said
the battery was fine and it just wasn't fully charged...  I was
contemplating on getting a new battery, or maybe a battery charger to see
what would happen if I started out with a full charge, could the westy then
hold a charge if it started out at least full?

I did the starter and soloniod tests, and they seemed to check out fine, but
when I got to the list of tools needed for the alt test, I don't think I had
any of those tools available to me....


on a side note, the house has aquired another bus. this one is a 74
adventurewagon, and the thing is in literally immaculate shape.. I plan on
taking a lot of pictures this weekend and putting them up for all to see and
help us identify what's what......


Any comments/tips/suggestions are appreciatted.....

Christopher
76 westy "jasper"
