From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: "Sean Harris" <my72kamper(-at-)hotmail.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 4 Jan 2002 19:31:25 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] Just Kampers

> Has anyone here in the states purchased anything from Just Kampers in the
> UK? I'm interested in their 3-point replacement seat belts for
> the back seat and was wondering how the overseas shipping went.


We are the the U.S. representative for Just Kampers, and stock many of the
items in their catalog (not always under the same part number as they do,
but nonetheless often found on our website or in our print catalog).  Those
items that we do not carry, we can get for you, as we receive regular
shipments from them.  This will be at a much lower cost than ordering
directly from the UK yourself, because you will only pay shipping from
Pennsylvania to you, not from the UK.  Typical lead time can range from 3-12
weeks depending on how soon our next shipment is leaving. We can also
arrange to have them dropship directly to you via air mail (or have them
airmail it to us, and then UPS it to you from here), but the cost is very
high. There is not only air freight to consider, but also customs brokerage
fees and import duty.

However, I have been reluctant to carry their seat belts for legal reasons.
They are not U.S. D.O.T. approved and the manufacturer does not have a U.S.
presence. Therefore all liability would be ours. What if someone mounted
them into their bus, and they failed to prevent a serious injury or death?
Not long ago, a jury awarded a huge judgement against Volkswagen of America
because the factory-installed rear lap belt in the owner's Vanagon failed to
prevent a serious injury.  The lap belt in the Vanagon met all U.S. safety
standards at the time of manufacture. But apparantly the jury decided that
since VW offtered a 3-point seatbelt in two other countries, they were
negligent for not having offered it here, and handed the family a
significant award.  The award might have been pocket change for VW (or their
insurance company), but it would have put me out of business.  So I am
reluctant to offer seat belts, and some other products that might be more
readily available in a less lawsuit-happy country.  I just don't want to
risk my business and my livelihood just to sell a pair of seatbelts. Blame
our litigious society.

On the other hand, please feel free to let me know if you are looking for
other Just Kampers items that you cannot find on our site or in our catalog.

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  (215) 234-VWVW
  www.busdepot.com

