Date: 5 Jan 2002 07:57:25 -0000
From: "George Lyle" <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Matty Kirk <bustedbreadloaf(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] rear end hangs low! (no, not mine!)



> hello,
> 
> when i bought my westy not too long ago, all four
> shocks where beat. thus i had all four of them
> replaced with KYB Gas-A-Just's. now however i see that
> the rear end of my bus seems to ride lower than the
> front. whats the deal? i had a local shop order and
> install these, do you suppose they might have put
> front shocks on the back? how would i check this? any
> input will be greatly appreciated!

All buses sit a bit high in the front when unloaded, so don't let that 
fool you.  The reason is that the first 150-400 pounds of weight will 
probably be right over the front wheels as two people climb into the 
driver and passenger seats.

Also, don't be fooled by the inability to see the horizon directly 
behind you through the inside mirror.  My bus is correctly adjusted 
and I still can't see the horizon through the inside mirror.

One rough way to check for correct level is to put a driver in the 
driver's seat with the bus on a level surface and then have someone 
put a bubble level in the sliding door opening, pointing fore and 
aft.  If the bubble is reasonably centered, you are OK.

If the bus has sagged, new shocks won't cure it.  You need to readjust 
your spring plates in the rear suspension.  This is a weekend job 
unless you are a real whiz.  It isn't hard, but you do remove the 
spring plates so there are some big bolts involved.  See Bentley and 
the archives.

Hints:
Put penetrating oil on all the fasteners for several days before 
starting.

Avoid the urge to put "just a little extra" preload in the torsion 
bars.  Your bus will handle funny and eat CVs and CV boots if you do.  
Adjust to specs!

You can do the job without removing the bearing carrier from the axle 
or backing plate.  It's a bit tight, but it can be done.  Have some 
stout wire handy to hang things from.

Be sure to mark the position of the bearing carrier on the spring 
plate so you can put it back where it was.

George Lyle
