From: "Gene Cornelius" <mizamook(-at-)starband.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 3 Nov 2003 21:41:00 -0800
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: Auxillary battery (Rant)

This rant means more than you think....the kids that dull their creative
abilities by letting the corporate media do their thinking for them will not
have any desire to continue with the preservation of crusty ol' buses, nor
will they have the ability to do so.  Corporate sponsorship has infected
almost every major video production you'll see.  Don't think just because
there are no "commercials" that you aren't having your fancies tickled.
Most movies ARE commercials!

Make them use their brains!  We remember our Lincoln-Logs, our Legos, our
Erector Sets, etc. for a reason!  Puzzles, writing, drawing,
singing....parental involvement!  And if they MUST watch videos,
documentaries, like The Shasta Video, are much better than silly garbage!

Also, brainwashed people are more likely to help money-grubbing,
materialistic politician types make it harder for us to keep our buses on
the road.  The big car companies, who have lots of money and political
clout, do not want people "recycling"!  It seems to rub their accounts the
wrong way when we don't have to buy a new car every 5 years because the
classics are worth rebuilding, and those with courage, honor, creativity,
wit, dedication, etc. keep doing just that.

My apologies for any who are offended.  I'll go back to lurking now.

Besides, I've got a new '66 SO44 Vevet Green beater bus to work on!

Gene Cornelius
mizamook(-at-)starband.net

*snippo*
<rant>
I think maybe your problem is not electrical.  From 1885, when cars
first existed, to about 1985-1990, when it became economical for
people to have a TV and VCR in their cars, kids took long trips in
cars without the benefit of video.  They took part in now-obscure
pastimes such as looking out the windows, playing "I Spy", reading
road maps, coloring in coloring books, and even reading.  Now, I
see minivans with local tags, that appear to be carrying kids on
short trips in town, with the LCD deployed in the back seat.  WTF?
Just because you _can_ have the kids in front of the TV whenever
they're not sleeping or in school doesn't mean you _should_.
</rant>
*de-snippo*
