From: Type2Guy(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 4 Nov 2003 01:39:25 EST
To: mattroberds(-at-)cox.net
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: Auxillary battery

Disclaimer......one year shy of 30 and 2 kids (4yrs. and 20months)

One key thing you are forgetting, is back in the day...kids weren't strapped 
in mandatory car seats.  As a kid I remember laying in the back of our station 
wagon playing board games with my sis or wrestling with my bro in a camper 
shell covered pick-up bed all the way from Texas to Wisconsin.

Try having a 3 year old strapped in a car seat for 10+ hours, then try to 
have them juggle with crayons and a coloring book....been there?  nope, thought 
so.  Brainwash schmainwash...it's a simple task of trying to keep our kids 
happy.  Just wait...you'll see,if you are ever so lucky to be blessed with kids.

I've made several 10+hour trips in my 63EZ with no TV and games and other 
roadfun.  One other thing,  I can vividly remember wanting to strangle my parents 
forcing me to play these stupid ass games with them when I was a kid. 

Bring on the TV/VCR/DVD combo for me.  I'll have the mini DVD/TV combo 
plugged in my 12v ciggie socket on my way to Havasu in a few months. Ask me how 
pleasurable the trip was when you see me.

Beto
63EZ
Murrieta, CA

In a message dated 11/3/2003 7:49:08 PM Pacific Standard Time  
mattroberds(-at-)cox.net writes:

Disclaimer: I am 30 years old and don't have kids.

<rant>
I think maybe your problem is not electrical.  From 1885, when cars
first existed, to about 1985-1990, when it became economical for
people to have a TV and VCR in their cars, kids took long trips in
cars without the benefit of video.  They took part in now-obscure
pastimes such as looking out the windows, playing "I Spy", reading
road maps, coloring in coloring books, and even reading.  Now, I
see minivans with local tags, that appear to be carrying kids on
short trips in town, with the LCD deployed in the back seat.  WTF?
Just because you _can_ have the kids in front of the TV whenever
they're not sleeping or in school doesn't mean you _should_.
</rant>
