From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "vintagebus vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 4 Nov 2003 13:12:50 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] Oil cooler question

----- Original Message -----

> I have been replacing or putting back the rubber seals on the doghouse
> tin and also gluing back on a foam strip on the back of the cooler to
> help seal and keep the tin from leaking air.
>

?
No, it's not a matter of leaky tin or something that is the reason for low
airflow. It just doesn't flow much air past the cooler period. There's no
problem to fix, this is just how much airflow VW designed to have go past
the oil cooler.

Check it out for yourself, if you can safley have someone hold the engine at
3000 rpm while you crawl under to feel the air for yourself. It's just plain
not a lot of air.

I've actually removed my stock doghouse cooler alltogether earlier this
year. Just put a block off plate on. The only oil cooling my engine gets is
from the external oil cooler with a fan on it. A thermostat to turn the fan
on at temp, and also an oil themostat to keep oil from going to the cooler
until it reaches 180. I know Gene Berg said that anytime he removed the
stock cooler, no matter if it had an external oil cooler on it, the engine
ran hot, but I think it's phooey. My engine won't even trigger by berg
dipstick. Head temps are reasonable too. Pedal to the floor uphill doing
65mph, heads are 350. Pedal to the floor, lugging it up an even steeper hill
at 40mph (still in 4th), heads hit 365 ish.  Oil stays between 180 and 200.
Not winter temps, 90 degree day this summer when I checked temps.

During these tests (I was testing some parts we were looking to sell), I had
the thermostat in the oil thermostat fail, stopping all oil from going to
the cooler. Funny thing was, the berg dipstick only lit up when I was
floored. I could still do 55-60 without running hot. Heads were still
running cool, just oil temp went up. I was able to drive 3/4 throttle with
no problem though. This leads me to further believe, oil and head temp are
not related even more, and if head temp is in check, you don't need very
much in the way of oil cooling to keep oil temps in line. People that run
over 210-220 oil temps with external oil coolers really need to check thier
head temp. I've overheated an engine with oil temps never going over 200
degrees because I just stuck on a huge oil cooler with a fan on it. Cool oil
can be a false sense of security, i'll tell ya that.

Oh crap. I'm rambling again. Sorry bout that.........
Anyway, the oil doesn't (shouldn't) need that much cooling if the engine is
setup right and VW knew that. I think that's where I was going with
this........

Eric Allred
64 Bus
