Date: Tue, 4 Nov 2003 18:16:25 -0800 (PST)
From: jim <jiminwis(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: solar panel battery?

>>From: 61 singlecab <sealingwaxred(-at-)yahoo.com>
>>I won a solar panal battery that plugs into your cig

lighter.
>>What are they used for?

Matt responded:
>Recharging your battery at a very low rate.  

>This doesn't apply in your case, but it's expensive 
>juice, too.  JC
>Whipme lists a few solar cells on their Web site.  
>Assuming that they
>put out 15 V at their rated current, and that 
>electricty from your power
>company costs 10 cents a kilowatt hour, here's a 
>comparo:

and Matt made a nice table comparing costs, using JCW
prices, and therein lies the problem.  There are
better and cheaper PV panels (solar electric panels)
available, and they are more practicle than you might
think. I am thinking of adding more to our system that
provides some (along with a wind generator) of the
power to our home, shop, and garage, and prices for
120 to 160 watt PV panels is now in the range of $3.50
to $4.00 per watt of rated output.  Some of our
existing panels are 21 or 22 years old and show no
signs of failure, so I don't know what the actual life
of the panels will be.  Newer ones have better sealing
materials used in their construction, so should last
longer. In places like California, the state rebates
and incentives are so good that it makes a lot of
sense to use PVs even if you are connected to the grid
and don't have batteries, but use all of your power as
it is generated.  For people like me, it is great to
be able to count on having power available even if the
grid is down, and the neighborhood is without
electricity.  By the way, we do have utility (grid)
power too, but had lived at another home for 12 years
with only our wind generator and PV panels.  The
current place is bigger, in town, has more buildings,
different heating system, different well set up, and
other things that require more electricity.

Oops-I seem to be digressing.

Just wanted to say that PVs can be practical now,
especially if it would cost more than a few thousand
dollars to hook up to a utility.

Jim, 
in Western Wisconsin, with the 65 double cab in the
shed for the winter
