Date: Wed, 05 Nov 2003 20:09:06 -0800
From: Jim Arnott <jrasite(-at-)eoni.com>
To: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] compressor size question

Okay... before someone gets their pud knocked into the mud....

Caveat!!!!!! If you have any quesieness at all about working with 
electrons or any doubt about your ability to do the job, hire a 
professional.  Mistakes can at best burn your house down and at worst, 
kill you.

Basic:
First,  Look at the line coming into your house.  Three wires?  If so, 
you have a 220 service.
Next, carefully remove the cover off the main breaker panel.  If you 
have any klutz in you, you'd probably be wise to throw the main breaker.
Then look at the guts of the panel.  Here's what you should see:
Red wire to one bus bar. Black wire to the other bus bar and a white 
wire to neutral bar.
If it's a fairly modern panel, the breakers contact alternate legs as 
you count down.
To install a 220 circuit, get a ganged (tied together) 2 pole 20a 
breaker for your panel. There are at least half a dozen different types 
of breakers, so make sure that you get the correct one for YOUR panel.
String the appropriate sized Romex (I'd use nothing smaller than 12/3) 
for your breaker and connect the red wire to one pole of the breaker, 
the black to the other and run both the white wire and the bare ground 
wire to the neutral bar.
Install the outlet then install the breaker.
Turn the juice back on and you should be ready to rock n roll.

Caveat!!!!!! If you have any queseyness at all about working with 
electrons or any doubt about your ability to do the job, hire a 
professional.  Mistakes can at best burn your house down and at worst, 
kill you.

Spend a bit of time Googling electrical wiring, how to and get yourself 
educated.

There are any number of ways to get the power where you need it and 
while many are perfectly safe and legal, many are not.  Ask lots of 
questions and get the entire picture fixed in your head before you pick 
up any tools. Like I said before, one might be wise to hire a pro.  If 
your house burns down, the couple hundred bucks that it would cost will 
seem cheap.

Next, it ain't as simple as plugging a 110 motor into a 220 outlet.  One 
needs a dual voltage motor and one needs to move wires inside the motor 
to make it one voltage or another. Typically 5 hp and better motors are 
dual voltage.  It will say on the motor ID plate.  x amps at 110v, x/2 
amps at 220v.

PAY ATTENTION. THIS IS IMPORTANT! I tell you three times.

If you have any queseyness at all about working with electrons or any 
doubt about your ability to do the job, hire a professional.  Mistakes 
can at best burn your house down and at worst, kill you.  If you eff up 
the wiring and burn the joint down, don't expect a lot of cooperation 
from your insurance company. That's why electricians have to be licensed 
in many states. Fire hazard. The national electrical code is maintained 
by the National Fire Protection Assoc.

Jim Arnott
Licensed Electrician



George Lyle wrote:

>On Tue, 4 Nov 2003, VWguy wrote:
>  
>
>18 cfm with a 110v compressor? I don't think this is possible is it? I defer
>to the experts.
>
>Can't you _make_ a 220v circuit using 2 110v circuits? Isn't a 220v circuit
>just 2 110v hot leads, one going to the hot side and the other 110v going to
>the neutral?
>  
>
>
>If you have both sides of the line going to your house you can do this,
>but some houses only have one side and the neutral.  Some poking around
>in the fuse box with a voltmeter might be instructive.
>
>George Lyle
