From: "Gene Cornelius" <mizamook(-at-)starband.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 5 Nov 2003 20:25:20 -0800
Subject: New Bus---suspension questions

Greetings!

I have a new bus.  It is a new old bus, and her name is Penelope.  Penelope
is a nice bus.  She is a '66 SO44, and the term that describes her condition
best is "beater".  She is Velvet green.  Pedal pan still in place.  M-Codes
state that she should have a dual-circuit master cylinder!  The wipers park
in the middle of the windows, due to the fact that she has a baywindow wiper
motor.  ??  She has a solid battery pan, rusted front floors, one non-rusted
but dented rocker (in and out), one rusted AND dented rocker (outer).  She
has a solid cargo floor.  Many dents, rust spots, scrapes, etc. mar her
hide, and there are extra holes in many places for myriad reasons.  She was
owned for many years by a local (N-Cal.) guy, who was "asked" by his wife to
sell her after she drove her, and found the suspension/steering to be the
classic floppy/loose/scary type.

I loved driving her home.  She has a great vibe.

I was staring at the front, with a good view of the front tires, and I
noticed that the wheels are cambered funny.  That, and the very loud kingpin
clunking and the strange feelings one gets when steering lead me to want to
replace lots of things.

I already have a center pin kit, tie rods, drag link.  I am thinking I will
need rebuilt spindles, rebuilt steering box maybe, shocks, and some time.

Do spindles encompass both king and link pins, and if I sent mine in, and
got rebuilt ones back, is there anything else I should look for or get?

I've never done suspension stuff like this before, and I need to get into it
so I don't fear it anymore.

I would love any and all suggestions, recommendations, etc. that y'all may
have for me!

Also...does anyone know that Velvet Green L512 is different?  I was told
that the two shades (one from the fuel filler flap, and one on the ashtray)
that I took to a paint guy are both the same color, by the book, but they
changed the formula.  In keeping with "beater" bus-osity, I do NOT want to
repaint the whole thing.  Just touch up where necessary (although that's
almost everywhere, but not really), and keep her from rusting.  Clues?
Thoughts?

Thanks for everything!

Gene Cornelius
mizamook(-at-)starband.net
