From: "Joel Bidinger" <JoelBidinger(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "buslist" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 7 Feb 2002 20:41:22 -0800
Subject: Is there life after bus?

I ditched that extractor exhaust, bloated ugly thing, ripped it off
the bus like an offending stray hair. The stocker makes such a vibrant
sound and doesn't fill with mud when we slide backwards into a ditch.
A trip to Havasu, maybe 2000 miles, the engine ran surely, but maybe
just a bit rough? I am listening keenly to my lovely new exhaust. Carb
jetted for the big exhaust, I figured that was the problem, so
saturday I pull the sparkers, just to take a look...
Sometimes, like now, I wish I hadn't.
Saturday:
#2 sparker was black black black, I've changed that plug and wire so
many times before, wire goes tick tick tick, plug looks like it has
been sparking. Better retorque those heads, check those dp manifold
boots. Pull engine, pull fan, pull manifold, pull tin, retorque heads.
Not confident that I am really addressing the problem, but what is the
problem?
Sunday:
On reassembly notice much black on #2 side of dualport intake end
casting. Uh, what does this mean? Write to list. Listees mention
possible valve issue. Sounds good to me, I've had a go singleport itch
for a while now. Tear it all apart again, pull the heads and #2 is
crudded up bad, thick with it. But the rest look great!
Tuesday:
Take the afternoon off work, borrow a car, drive to Sacramento, spend
lots of money on new singleport heads. I had wanted to buy the tool to
remove valve springs and see what's up with my old dualport heads but
I am broke instead. Lovely evening spent filing all the excess metal
flashings off the new heads and the skin off my fingertips.
Wednesday:
Take another afternoon off work, excited about putting the engine back
together and having wheels again. Should be a breeze, I have
singleport tins and singleport manifold already on hand in
anticipation of this happy day. Heads, heaterboxes, exhaust all slip
into place and I think I am on the home stretch when the lesson that
singleport tin is not singleport tin is not singleport tin is dealt
upon me. What is this stuff? 36hp? 40hp? Bastard 40hp?! That's how I
feel about it. It would take a mighty big hammer to make that stuff
fit, and it was a temptation. What to do now, I don't think the bug
shop even sells singleport tin? So maybe I did wrong, and I think
maybe I am being punished for it: I went on a little midnight raid on
a front end crashed '68 that hasn't moved in the three years I've been
here and probably much longer. By the light of the moon, weeds up to
my waist, coyotes singing and rabbits running, I liberated the
cylinder covers. It can be done, engine in bus, but it isn't the easy
way. I'm glad it was dark and I couldn't see the spiders.
Thursday:
Forget work, I've got to get this done. I'm out of shampoo, toilet
paper and I am running out of food, I need my bus! Changed a drippy
front oil seal, check the endplay, bolt on the tin and it is about
noon when I reach for the intake manifold. Hmm, best check that heat
riser... Oh yes, plugged up good.
Seven hours I worked on that heat riser (I have other words for it
too). Compressed air, solvent, coat hanger, broken speedo cable on the
drill, nothing. drilled holes in the elbows and tried from there,
nothing. Propane torch, mapp gas torch, oxyacetelyne torch, nothing
but burnt fingers and a really smokey barn. Seven hours and nothing,
nothing, nothing. Six days and nothing, nothing, nothing.
If I had gone to work instead I would have made more than enough cash
to buy a new one, which is what I am going to have to do.
So I ask all of you who may be better informed than I, is there a
world outside the engine compartment, is there life after bus?
Joel and the Ratwagen



