From: "Heath, Raymond E" <raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com>
To: "'Adrian Pillow'" <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>,
Date: Fri, 8 Feb 2002 08:22:18 -0800 
Subject: RE: [VB] CYBERBULBS - OT Friday Fun

Now, if they were using Linux instead of Windows XP, they wouldn't have
those kind of problems. The light would have been changed before anyone knew
it was out.

If they were using BEOS, the light would seem to be flashing because the
programer would be continually swapping the bad light module with the good
light module to verify that the bad light module was indeed bad, and not
just intermittant.

If it was a MAC, you wouldn't have a lightbulb, you would have a hundred
year LED and the point would be mute.

If it was OS/2 WARP, the light would still be out because there are not
enough programers around that can write a light bulb module.

If it was DOS, all they would have to do is take Windows back to the command
line, because windows is a program running on the top of DOS anyway, and
then bring up BASIC and edit the program to take out the bad character which
made a lighted bulb dark.

67 Single Cab
71 Trike
VolksAir
Ray, Kent WA
The water is boiling, the frog just doesn't know it yet


-----Original Message-----
From: Adrian Pillow [mailto:Apillow(-at-)manh.com]
Sent: Friday, February 08, 2002 8:09 AM
To: Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail); Type2 List (E-mail)
Subject: [VB] CYBERBULBS - OT Friday Fun


A little levity to our sometimes heated online discussions :)

CYBERBULBS 

Q: How many people does it take to change a light bulb in cyberspace? 

A: 1 to successfully change the light bulb and to post to the mail list that

the light bulb has been changed. 

14 to share similar experiences of changing light bulbs and how the light 
bulb could have been changed differently. 

7 to caution about the dangers of changing light bulbs. 

27 to point out spelling/grammar errors in posts about changing light bulbs.


53 to flame the spell checkers. 

156 to write to the list administrator complaining about the light bulb 
discussion and its inappropriateness to this mail list. 

41 to correct spelling in the spelling/grammar flames. 

109 to post that this list is not about light bulbs and to please take this 
email exchange to alt.lite.bulb. 

203 to demand that cross posting to alt.grammar, alt.spelling and 
alt.punctuation about changing light bulbs be stopped. 

111 to defend the posting to this list, saying that, "We are all using light

bulbs and therefore the posts **are** relevant to this mail list." 

306 to debate which method of changing light bulbs is superior, where to buy

the best light bulbs, what brands of light bulb work best for this 
technique, and what brands are faulty. 

27 to post URLs where one can see examples of different light bulbs. 

14 to post that the URLs were posted incorrectly and to post corrected 
URLs. 

3 to post about links they found from the URLs that are relevant to 
this list, which makes light bulbs relevant to this list. 

33 to collate all posts to date, then quote them including all headers and 
footers, and then add "Me Too." 

12 to post to the list that they are unsubscribing because they cannot 
handle the light bulb controversy. 

19 to quote the "Me Too's" to say, "Me Three." 

4 to suggest that posters request the light bulb FAQ. 

1 to propose new alt.change.lite.bulb newsgroup. 

47 to say that this is just what this list was meant for, leave it here. 

143 votes for a new list: alt.lite.bulb. 

38 votes proclaiming the advantages in using vintage light bulbs.


Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Westi "Biscuit"
1979 Porsche 911 SC "Cochise"

On the gravytrain to biscuitville!


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: vintagebus-unsubscribe(-at-)type2.com
For additional commands, e-mail: vintagebus-help(-at-)type2.com
Donations help keep the list going. http://www.type2.com/donate.html
