Date: Mon, 5 Jan 2009 18:48:12 -0800 (PST)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Washington DOT's HOME BREW de-icer

Here's the deal:
   " The mix consists of molasses from a local supplier, calcium chloride and
brine donated by a local dairy company. Mr. Simonsen had been experimenting
with the right proportions and ingredients for several years, blending them in
a 1,000-gallon vat and dispersing the liquid with the same salt trucks. He
first used it last year on a busy mountain pass in southwest Washington."

   " This season, the statebs department of transportation has been
spreading the solution throughout 11 counties, up from one last winter, with
the help of a new automated system that can churn out 5,000 gallons of it in
an hour. It has come in handy during a particularly heavy winter."

AND...

"WSDOT continues to limit corrosion to vehicles by using less corrosive
inhibited products on our roads and bridges. The new anti-icer is 77 percent
less corrosive than straight salt, exceeding the PNS standard which is 70
percent. WSDOT thoroughly trains all maintenance work force on the correct use
rates of anti-icing chemicals and uses the latest technology and equipment to
ensure accurate equipment anti-icer calibration."

AND...

"WSDOT continues to strongly recommend that drivers who drive on roads treated
with anti-icer, wash their vehicles to prevent build-up which could cause
corrosion over time. We continue to find that chloride levels are well below
regulatory guidelines or standards. For example, in a study of water quality
in Peshastin Creek along US 97, the Blewett Pass Highway in Chelan County, the
typical level of chlorides in the creek was between one and five parts per
million (ppm). The standard for your drinking water is 250 ppm. Annual
precipitation, including melting snow provides adequate dilution to prevent
build up."

I guess that's it, then. Install a bigger reservoir and an electric pump!

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
