Date: Fri, 14 Sep 2007 10:02:22 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Friday topic CLEAN '59 vert in AK solid and cheap

OK, off topic so I waited for Friday but I'm going to mention this to the group.  Mostly because if you are interested in such a thing, chances are you won't consider one in AK and you should.  And yes it is is ANCHORAGE ALASKA.  I have nothing to benefit from this and it is killing ME not to buy it as it is a nice car, I have the cash, but I have a new house, a new baby, a new job, and too many projects, and frankly I just have never owned nor really wanted to own a bug.  People who know me from the day on this list know I'm a straight shooter and rather "particular" to say the least.  The seller seems a honestly good solid guy, no BS, just he is getting out of VWs into other stuff for his business and personally (obvious by his yard.)  Here is the add on Samba for most specifics.
   
  http://www.thesamba.com/vw/classifieds/detail.php?id=482569
   
  I will say this, a lot of great stuff here.  Original Anchorage car, probably only summer (short summer) driven.  Most importantly a complete restored GORGEOUS southern matching '59 vert pan, to which the VIN of the car has been seamlessly TIGd.  I mean this pan has no patches and needed none under the battery or anywhere else.  Epoxied then POR'd black.  The cars pan itself was probably quite salvageable BTW with just pan sections.  As it sits, needs the L side vert support rail (included) installed, a bit of the L fron heater channel, and put on the new pan, and just dent and minor rust work here and there.  The guy the seller bought it from rebuilt the 36hp, German stuff, including gorgeous NOS muffler, etc.  It has not been fired though and has sat over 10 years though, in the dry, turns freely.  Top frame appears there, wood is not of course, all sheet metal in my cursory glance aside from dents in decklid and L fender you see in the pics is pretty much straight and
 rust free excepting as mentioned above.  Interior is brick red/white and complete but '59 vintage condition.  All vert parts, wheel, rearview, visors, seem to be there but I'm no bug guy, the seller is and claims they are with some spares and I believe him.  Probably a complete extra set of all knobs, handles, pulls, off a '59 sedan.  Couple of '59 swing axles including the original.  It is sitting in a dry but dirt floor shed, but is not getting any worse.  I can not say but guess he'd take even $3000 or a hare short of that for it. I'd figure the pan and engine alone are worth the better part of $2000.  You can throw the body on the pan, toss in the engine and probably drive it for a long time before doing a thing to it.  HE IS NOT interested in selling/arranging shipping as he's sold it twice to the 48 only for people to realize the cost.  It could potentially get to Seattle for $1500 or so in a conex, but I don't think he'd even entertain trying now.  If you want it,
 and know me and trust my opinion, you need to ask him for detailed pics, and fly up here, rent a UHAUL (the whole thing an parts would fit in a short one) and hit the Alcan, you probably got about 2-3 weeks before the snow starts falling too heavy on the road.  Or CruiseAmerica RVs sometimes has great one way deals out of here this time of the year because they want units moved south, that an a rental trailer would be an option, or I'll give somebody a good deal on a fairly solid RV and great tow dolly ($4500 for the whole combo) and you can strap the pan on the roof and hit the road as well.  If you want an early vert, this is as nice a car as you'll find in CA for the same money, and can be an AK/Canada adventure vacation as well, maybe a lot of adventure depending on the snow...
   
  John
