Date: Mon, 17 Sep 2007 14:17:27 -0400 (EDT)
From: Adam Narraway <adoom(-at-)rogers.com>
To: the_bug_pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com, type2(-at-)type2.com,
Subject: Her nose is painted pepper-sunlight - BusQuinox07

Just a reminder, 
This weekend coming is BusQuinox07!

Pasted below are the usual details that you've probably already read, but if you haven't... then I guess you will be pleasantly surprised.

See you there, van willing!
A

The 3rd Annual BusQuinox Camp-out.
Come celebrate the last weekend of the summer.  

Details, Details, Details:
Location:
Valens Conservation Area, Cambridge. ON.
1691 Regional Road #97 - ASPEN COVE Campsite
http://www.conservationhamilton.ca/Asset/iu_files/map_valens.gif

Date: SEPTEMBER 21st
We have "ASPEN COVE" from 2pm FRIDAY, until 1 pm Sunday. When you arrive, please mention "The Bug Pack". When they look at you like you're crazy tell them the reservation is under "Narraway". If they still look confused, tell them "Aspen Cove" and that should clear things up.

Cost:
$26 + tax at the gate (per night). Also, I have an overhead of $53 which I will be splitting among all vehicles. The more people, the lower the cost.
Count on $5 each, but I hope for lower.

Activities:
We'll be having a lawn chair sitting skillz competition

Saturday morning is the |ber popular "FMBC Burrito Breakfast". 
Everyone loves a burrito, so I am, as always, hoping that everyone will chip in by bringing a contribution. I'll also bring the Tums. In the past it would seem that we get a lot (I mean A LOT) of shells, but a little lean on the bacon (no pun intended) and eggs. Please remember, a breakfast burrito without the tortilla is huevos rancheros with a side of bacon, but a breakfast burrito without the bacon and eggs is just a plain old shell. 

Saturday night we will be having a fire. Feel free to bring a donation of wood! Also, the Equinox has special meaning to pagan folk...so..errr... feel free to dance naked 'n' stuff. If you have an instrument (musical) please feel free to bring it. If you like you may also play it. 

The annual "what time will the organizer show up?" pool will also be available for those looking for some gambling fun.

Sunday we will be doing pancake breakfast. Don't be a mooch, and bring something to contribute! Kiwi & Banana pancakes rule the universe with total abandon, but don't let me influence you. 

Valens has lots of cool stuff to explore, I encourage everyone to bring a towel and hit the beautiful beach, or bring a bike, or shoes, and hit some trails. Or since you brought a towel, feel free to take a shower. 
More info is available at
http://www.conservationhamilton.ca/parks/visit/valens.asp

This is meant to be a relaxing camp. There are no awards or door prizes, unless I change my mind at the last minute, or if there are a bunch of door prizes awaiting me when I get there! 

Who likes Rules?:
Valens is a "dry" campsite. We have never been given any trouble by following the Red-Cup rule (per the Everybus Convention Act of 1998). Please lets continue this tradition, and keep your "recreational beverages" concealed, and your behaviour family friendly. If you are unsure on how to hide a beverage, we will be holding a workshop on Saturday called "Red Cups and Their Impact on Modern Camping Societies". For a nominal charge, Greg Potts will have a Keg of Red Cup Ale on site for your drinking pleasure. There is a fee for this pleasure, but it will be less than a 6pack, and I can guarantee that it will be more than 6 beers worth. If I see you with an open bottle, I will take it away, I will drink it, and I will dispose of the evidence. 

If you choose to bring a pet, please keep that pet on a short (under 3m) leash, and clean up after it. Monkeys included. If you've ever had the pleasure of stepping in the mess of a pet that "never wanders away...this is the first time really!" than this is the best thing you have read...ever. 

Leave your "world's loudest sound system" at home. I like bass as much as the next guy, but the neighbours might not like your music "mash-up" of Manilow vs. DJ Shadow as much as you and the Grateful Dead sounds best through a set of stereo headphones, or so I'm told. 

For more useless rules, details, and yammering, P-mail me at adoom(-at-)_my pants_rogers.com  (remove _my pants_ before sending)

Adoom
 
Subject line stolen with complete disregard to copyright from Jane's Addiction: Summertime Rolls. 
