Date: Thu, 30 Jan 2003 12:26:35 -0500
From: Benoit Huot <huotx(-at-)videotron.ca>
To: type2 main e-mail <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: I have the AIR list! But!!!

Hi volks,
If you have a small place beside your house for me to camp or/and wanna 
show me around your town or/and have some place to spare so I can work 
on the Bus in case I have some BIG trouble, I would appreciate... a lot!
Not really to save camping money, but it is always pleasant to meet 
local people, especially VW owners!!!

I will be heading down south departing from Montreal, Canada next 
Monday, I have decided to go south as fast (Fast is relative at 55mph!) 
as possible (due to risky weather until I reach VA) so I will be 
following the east coast all the way to Atlanta or Jacksonville FL (I 
don't want to cross the Appalachian mountain!), after I will head to 
Louisiana crossing GA, AL and MS, spend a few days there and head to 
California slowly across TX, NM and AZ. Final destination! Baja 
peninsula! On my way back, Grand Canyon is my only real destination, 
even if half of it is still close in March!
Overall it's a 10 to 12k miles trip.

Don't worry, I have all the parts you can imagine, including spare 
heads, alternator, starter parts, thermostat, all spare cables 2 rebuilt 
carbs and much more... All fuel line are new, spare electric pump with 
intern regulator also. + all normal tune-up parts; oil filter (4), air 
filter (2), all spark plug wiring, distributor cap and rotor, spare 
rebuilt distributor, plug, coil and 8 point!!!  

Many have already offered some help on the Vanagon mailing list (well, I 
still have an 84GL, he he he) so am asking the type2 list!
It is easier to call / e-mail someone who as already offered some help 
then to call someone on the AIR list that you never had any contact with ;-)

Am a smooth and honest men and I don't want to bother anyone for 
nothing, but just in case I have some heavy trouble. I will be traveling 
with my girlfriend, she is a French teacher, she is perfectly trilingual.

This was a dream of mine for as long as I can remember! Hitting the road 
in an old VW, yea baby!

I've set up an hotmail.com e-mail for my trip, I will check this one 
once in a wile, it begin with the same one as my current e-mail: huotx 
(AT) hotmail.com
I will take my e-mail at my current e-mail address until next Sunday.

Check my page for more info (and a picture of me and Carolyn):
http://www3.sympatico.ca/huotx/engine1.htm   

Cheers and thanks a million.
Yours truly, Ben
