Date: Thu, 30 Jan 2003 19:39:50 -0500
From: Benoit Huot <huotx(-at-)videotron.ca>
To: type2 main e-mail <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re:[T2] I have the AIR list! But!!! (tank you)

Well, i don't know what to say (Many many many p-mail), will a big 
thanks do?
Am just finishing reading most of those reply!!!!
I hope I did reply to all of you guys who offered help or other stuff, 
if I did forget some am very sorry! I will get through the rest of those 
tonight, well, it's tonight (he he he)

I am very impress with all the nice words of encouragement I've receive, 
well not true, am not so surprise at all about the generosity of my 
southern neighbor, many other country don't really understand the 
American, they just don't know, that is all!!!! you need to be Canadian 
to fully appreciate and understand how American citizen are nice big 
hearted folks, in my pass trip to the USA I always met great people, 
never had troubles of any kind anywhere.

In 1990 I (and 3 bikers friends) was stuck in SC with motorcycle engine 
problem, a nice couple from Florence NC came out of nowhere and help me 
out getting parts, a place to camp for the night and a dam* good dinner 
with there family, sadly I lost track with those nice folks :-( , 
anyway, this is only one story of many good one I had in the States!!! I 
did travel a lot in Europe, a lot!
I still have, and will always have a high esteem / respect for my 
southern neighbor.

If any of you guys ever come to Montreal, be prepare to have some fun at 
my place!!!!!
Place to sleep, to park, to eat, to clean and to have a few Canadian 
beer, I said a few! (he he he)
I also know much about the Maritime Provinces, if you ever need help on 
NB, NE or PEI, am the men!

I'll drink to that!
Sincerely, Ben
Gentlemen's, start your engine, vvvrrrrrrrrooouuuum...
http://pages.infinit.net/eurokit
http://www3.sympatico.ca/huotx/ben.htm (picture of a cooled blooded 
Canadian... at 25C / -18F ready to leave this cold country, only in 
winter time)
