From: "Mike" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 31 Jan 2003 17:32:23 -0500
Subject: Just got my second T2 in 20 years

Hi All,

My name is Mike Jackson, and I recently acquired a 1972 Transporter.  The
body's solid and needs a little work, but the interior needs extensive work.
I'm having problems getting it to start, but I'm picking up a manual
tomorrow and will strive to have it running by Monday.

One thing that I'm going to work on is figuring out why the previous owner
bypassed the fuel line and installed an electric fuel pump.

In the past I've owned a Beetle and another Type 2 Transporter.  This time
around I'm setting the van up for use as a business vehicle, to transport my
wares to trade shows in the miniatures gaming circuit.  Basically removing
the seats from the back, and leaving the back area open for equipment and
wares.

I do custom casting in resins (see my sig for info), and two of our lines
are reproduction parts and lenses for older and antique vehicles.

For example, the T's side door was stuck shut until I managed to get it open
far enough to remove the slide widget and arm assembly from the van (the bit
that slides down the side of the vehicle when you open the door).  The arm
was rusted into the slide bit, but a lot of WD and some judiciously applied
propane flame freed it up for repairing.

Unfortunately, in the process of freeing the door, I broke the plastic door
handle completely off of the inside door mechanism.  In the past, I'd have
kicked myself and then headed off to the junk yard for another handle.  Now,
I just gathered the broken bits up into a container and will cast a new one
to replace it.

I got into reproduction lenses when a client inquired about our producing
tail light lenses for 1943 A-C farm tractors.  Weird set of lenses, a red
cylinder-shaped one, and the other a "normal" clear lens; both lenses
fitting into the same bulb housing.  Neat, but definitely weird.

Since then we've received commissions for Toyota, Altima, Audi, and a few
other lens jobs.  For the record, CF&Son will never knowingly violate
another individual's or company's copyright.  And if we discover that we've
inadvertently done so, we destroy the molds and the remaining product in
stock immediately, and offer a sincere apology to the owner.

So, sometimes it can be quite a chore to verify that it's okay to reproduce
the lenses.

My T's lenses are intact, but show hairline cracks inside of the plastic.  I
was going to cast replicas of them in the event that I might need
replacements later, but I was concerned that the lenses may still be
available (from Mexico?) and do not want to get into legal wrangling over
copyright.

If I might ask three questions:

1. Would anyone here mind letting me know of any sources for new replacement
lenses?

2. I need to replace both front seats.  I picked up a pair of used, but in
excellent shape, captain's seats from an American van, only to find that
they will not fit into the T.  Is there a source of replacement seats that
won't run me an arm and a leg?

3. My other T had an engine just like my Beetle, with the fan shroud.  But
this T appears to have what I've heard called a "pancake" engine.  Why the
difference, and is this a good thing?

Thank you!

Sincerely yours,
                            Mike Jackson

        "A jester unemployed is nobody's fool!" - Danny Kaye

Casting Fool & Son
PO Box 16143
Augusta, GA 30919-2143
USA

Website: http://www.cfnson.com
Phone: 706-651-0617
Fax: 706-651-0544
Email: jester(-at-)cfnson.com

Join the "Mold-eNews" newsletter to keep up to date on the happenings at
Casting Fool & Son: http://www.cfnson.com/mold-enews.html

"Because of my great love for you, I will never leave you alone
or forsake you." - God (Hebrews 13:5b)
