From: "Eric Allred" <eaallred(-at-)lvcm.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 16 Oct 2002 21:56:59 -0700
Subject: Another bus catches fire.......

It's bound to happen sooner or later, and this morning, it happened to me.

Blistered the paint pretty bad all over the driver rear corner, black soot
everywhere, and blistered the paint all over the engine bay and cooling tin.
Even burned a hole in a blanket I had over the engine bay.

It appears to be electrical.  Fuel lines still look fantastic.  The plastic
fuel filter looks like it was on fire/melting, and if that would have burned
through, it could have been chaos.  Probably got the fire out just in time.
It's hard to tell which wire for sure was the culprit, since most of the wires
in the engine bay are melted and covered with everything else that was plastic
and melted.  From my best assumption, it looks like the wire that goes from
the coil to the idle cutoff solonoid might be it.  That's the only wire where
ALL the insulation is burned off.  Both wires are still connected to either
end, so it doesn't look like it was caused by a wire that just 'popped off'
its connector.  Maybe rubbing the throttle cable is my only guestimate.
That's the only thing close to it that it could have been.

So, i'll have to re-wire the engine bay, and replace everything that was
plastic like the heater hoses, spark plug clips, etc, etc.  It could have been
so much worse, so i'll look at it that way and feel lucky.

One bad part about it was, I finally tweaked my cruise control to the point
that it finally worked without shutting itself off and all that stupid crap.
Held 60mph for 200 miles yesterday (Horray!).  The cruise unit is fried and
melted now.  I can still see the little DIN switches (what's left of them) in
it, so I 'should' be able to buy another, and do a direct replacement so it
will work the same.  I've been figgiting with this cruise unit off and on for
the last few months trying to get it to work 'correctly' before I showed
anyone how everything was hooked up, and what pattern the cruise module was
set for.  I can say I finally got it working 'perfectly', but then this
happened. LOL.

I thought it was a fuel fire when I saw flames coming out of the louvers on
the driver side, and opened the engine lid to a welcoming solid wall of flame.
I could make out the 'bitchin' chrome alternator pulley behind the fire.  It
was really 'neat' to say the least.  :-I

It's amazing how some things fare in a fire.  All the paint is blistered, but
the good german fuel lines look untouched, same with the bosch plug wires.

It probably won't look as bad after I wash all the soot off of it.  No worries
though, the bus will survive without any permanant damage.  When I get around
to repainting it, you shouldn't be able to tell.  Woo hoo!

Eric
64 bug
64 delux
http://www.geocities.com/eaallred
