Date: Thu, 17 Oct 2002 07:11:27 -0400
From: Snoopy <vwsnoopy(-at-)fullmoonbusclub.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: Sunshine <vwbusgirl(-at-)kc.rr.com>
Subject: Help needed in Colorado Springs, Co

I am forwarding this for friends.  If you are in the area and can help it
would be appreciated...

Sunshine wrote:

I am writing on behalf of David Bennett, whom hosted Indigebus 2002 (East
Meets West) this year.

He broke down here in Kansas on his way home, luckily he'd stopped by to say
hey and we checked out his engine (since I'm not familiar with the upright
type engines) and then we saw he was not going anywhere...I got his bus
towed on my AAA+ card and his bus was sent to the VW Dr.
I got my favorite mechanic
(DAVID AT VEE VILLAGE AUTOMOTIVE IN Shawnee, KS **PROPS TO DAVE AND STEVE
THE OWNER**)
to put him ahead of my transporter (Buddy) who needs work and has been there
for a week now they are so busy and many other buses in the lot so he could
get HOME......they fixed the bus in record time, it was his oil cooler seals
that were blown.

Well finally he gets the money wired from his older bro to pay the mechanic
and make it back with his bus to pack up, he gets a fresh start and heads
out towards Colorado planning on going through Pueblo, CO and on home to
Cali......

BUT I just got a call, it's midnight here Kansas time.
He called collect saying that he's broken down AGAIN (NOOO!) in his bus in
<<COLORADO SPRINGS right off of
HIGHWAY 24 heading towards Pueblo, CO>>

He has called four people off of A.I.R.S. for help or a place to
crash/mechanical help in Colorado Springs but he's gotten ahold of nobody I
gave him the numbers to as of yet, perhaps in the morning.

He's off of Hwy 24 near the Conoco, Econolodge and Best Western, ANYONE IN
COLORADO SPRINGS, CO. WITH A PLACE TO CRASH AND MECHANICAL KNOWLEDGE/TOOLS,
Dave could really use some help.

He's not sure what the problem with his bus is.
I will post a number of his hotel room if he calls back but for now anyone
can write me and I'll get you in touch with him or explain where he
is......Shawn and him don't have a computer so this is why I was dawned to
write this message for him. :o)

David Bennett is driving a 56 Turquoise Splitty Panel "Delivery Van"
Bus.....
He's got a roof rack on top, easy to spot him.
.......
Dave just called me back.
He is now in a Super 8 Motel
Room 211
You can reach him at ALL HOURS OF THE NIGHT he says at 719-597-4100
He's at the corner of Hwy 24 and Peterson Rd.
in Colorado Springs, CO

PLEASE HELP KYND FOLK!
(a special thank you to Karl first for your kyndness and second for the
quick and speedy email and willingness to help anyone in need)

Peace,
Sunshine
'74 Transporter "Buddy"
'76 Hardtop Westie "Cassidy"
