From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 17 Oct 2002 10:27:37 EDT
To: VOLKSVAN12(-at-)aol.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] generator differences

There are differences.  The 66 (and 65 I think) 6V gen is the same diameter 
as the 12V gens, and take a dif regulator than the small ones. The little 6V 
gens come in different amperages (or is it wattage?)   If you look at yours 
near where the gen goes into the tin by the fan shroud, what kind you have is 
stamped in there.  It has to match the regulator, you see.  SO with that info 
you can buy a new or rebuilt gen.  It'll probably say 7V 180W etc etc etc.  
there are also 160W and 130 W.   there are VW and Bosch p/ns there i think, 
and a date code as well.    


If the problem is that the commutator is worn uneven, but other wise the gen 
works you could either
1) ignore the gouges, keep a spare set of brushes in the bus.

2) remove gen, take the central part out of the cylinder (look in you bentley 
for details- you have to take off fan, pulley, undo the two long screws, then 
pull it apart.

3)  either take the piece to be turned professionally so it is flat, or 
carefully knock the ridges down.  You can use rough sandpaper (80 grit) in a 
strip and keep moving where the strip polishes, then switch to finer stuff.  

4) taking apart generators can be fun if you have the time to play with them. 
 I have made them work simply by taking apart, cleaning, and reassembling.  I 
suggest removing the brushes, and installing them after the gen is back 
together.  Make sure the brushes are in good shape, they are easy to change 
when the gen is off.

5) don't forget to polarise before turning the engine on.   Polarising it (no 
belt please) should make the gen turn like a motor. if it doesn't, there is 
something not working.  It also reminds the gen which way is which

In a message dated 10/16/2002 9:25:52 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
VOLKSVAN12(-at-)aol.com writes:

<< I am in the process of replacing my generator in my 1960 kombi.  There is 
some severe wear on the windings where the brushes touch.  Almost like a 
gouge.  There is alos alot of pink like dust around the generator that 
appears to be coming from within the generator.  Are there differences in 
generators (6v) between say 1960 and 1966? (dimensions, output, length ect.)  
Would I be better getting a rebuilt generator from one of the parts houses, 
or having mine rebuilt locally?      
 
 Thanks >>
