From: "incynr8" <incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org>
To: "'Heath, Raymond E'" <raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com>,
Date: Thu, 17 Oct 2002 22:33:27 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] re:minnowfish

I got responses, after about a week or too, the owner (forget name, on
site) wrote me. HE was fairly ignorant of email, and sent me two empty
mails before figuring out text. If he owns the patent on the Fish carb
(if it is even still active) he must be VERY old. I think the shop they
have produces a SMALL amount, and are still only available in UK. He
HOPED to get a distributor to import a small batch and sell in the US. I
think they are having problems in producing a run of enough carbs to
move them here. Seems as if they might be built in an old tradition by
only a few workers.
I don't think you were particularly ignored, but I wouldn't plan on
getting one, and agree with your statement the site shouldn't make it
seem like you could.
The theory seems sound behind them, but the mileage and power claims I
do not believe. If so, simply adding fuel injection would produce
similar results, and perhaps it does already.
Small scale versions of this carb might be great for engines like
lawnmowers, in an effort to reduce emmisions and increase effeciency
some. I know the Predators are used on engines that hang out mostly at
WOT, which is where this carb design seems to be most effective.
What shocked me, searching for FISH carbs I actually found an airplane
running these, wish I saved the URL.
I can't find anything (cars) running one of the american 50's fishes
though.
Al




I tried to get one too after hearing about it months ago. I had went out
to the site and read all the flowery statements but after no response to
any of my e-mails I finally sent them one last angry e-mail telling them
that they should include the words "for information only, not for sale
at any price."


I tried to get one, then gave up after about a month. Also, you can't
use the oil bath cleaner, according to them. If you do searches for FISH
CARBS, you willl find some vintage articles about them. Someone
described (I think they are on this list) having one on a Datsun years
ago, and got goo dmileage and crisp throttle response. Can't be as good
as CIS though. The hours labor/price point doesn't seem to matchup,
that's a good point. AL
