From: "incynr8" <incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org>
To: "'Vintage List'" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 18 Oct 2002 08:28:51 -0400
Subject: VWBOB engine -Strattanville PA -engine update.

First off, a thinks to Ronnie for saving my old girl with a new mill on
the way.

Still no luck trying to get anything for this wasted engine from VWBOB
(of PA) . I have now reported him to the BBB, and the Attorney General,
which my complaint was centered around the fact that his webpage
advertises restoration quailty german engines. That would entail no
Brazillian parts, which mine had, and also restoration quailty would
entail the engine was built in adherence to original specifications, so
I might have something there, as the BBB and Attorney are after
deceptive business practices and misleading advertising primarily. I
don't expect much help here.

I am about to enter into the possible complete waste of time of small
claims court, if even for the principle. Any advice about having this
motor 'blueprinted (HA!)' or checked out by a third party mechanic, or
other things I should prepare would be helpful. I have never entered
into a suit before, bascially because no one has ever screwed me in
business like this. I expect he won't show or I get the pleasure of
winning, then he won't pay, I get to drive back out to western pa, do
the questioning in court for assests, which he'll have protected by then
with the wife, then I get to place liens on his land, which I will never
get the money for, as he'll never leave his junkyard. Not very
uplifting.

I hope the bastard shows up at the next super jam, that might be some
fun for me. Perhaps I'll bring the engine for others to examine...

Well, this is my last post about this beat topic until I get some cash,
will will probably be never. Onto newer and better things, like the
killer motor on the way to make my old girl purr like she should. THANKS
RONNIE!

A Friday thanks to all that got me this far in the last year, to those
I've shared good camping with (Full Moon crowd), and hope to meet more
of you in the future.

And a big rm -rf /home/luserz/engine/builders/pa/strattanville/vwbob !

Good weekend to you all! Happy Friday!
AL
