From: "incynr8" <incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org>
To: "'Stan Wilder'" <wilden1(-at-)juno.com>
Cc: <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 18 Oct 2002 10:10:35 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] VWBOB engine -Strattanville PA -engine update.

He lives off building DPs engines for buggy guys on the west side of PA.
They don't expect long engine life due to rough conditions, lack of
engine tin, big tires, and open body engine bays, so he gets to make
high compression engines that they are replacing often. We'd have
squeeze the local crowd out somehow to hurt him bad.
The other thing he specialises in is rusty beetle parts, stuff the west
coast crowd would crush. I even met someone who got  a worse piece of
bug then what they cut off to replace!
He kept claiming that around July/August of last year, you simply
couldn't get SP heads new (and in the same sentence said they were 150 a
piece?). This is an example of the contradictory crap I get from him.
Even if they weren't available (doubt it), a good rebuilt set could have
happened, instead of junkyard crap! Can't wait to borrow a digy and take
pics of this for all to gawk at! Bent fins (welded badly), blown up
spark plug boss, incorrect depth of helicoil inserts, flycut differently
(almost visible to the naked eye!). I'm going to cc 3 of head chambers
as #1 is kinda leaky due the plug boss being blown apart.
We surmised last night the plug in #1 went in so shallow due the crappy
helicoiling that in was recessed, causing some nasty detonaton, which
ultimately chucked the plug nearly out of the insert, and blew the wire
of the spark plug top! That chunk of metal hit the oil pump, scroing
that up, and then circulated through the oil system. DOA.
So, I'm basically left with a AH case and crank/flywheel that could be
saved for furture machining, everything else...Smoked. Well, maybe
pistons/cyls, but they are cheap in the total scheme of a rebuild.
Al

Stan wrote:
Don't quit posting about this.

Get your complaint well documented in the archives in Vintage Bus, Type2
List, Vanagon List and Wet Westies. If you want to shut this guy down be
sure you kill all his future sales to list members. Even if the list
members numbers might seem small, there are many non-members and
lurkers that rely on list members for recommendations.
...

ANYONE< feel free to cross post this to warn other PA/NY/OH type2
drivers, as he's got baywindow stuff mainly in bus parts. Also, I'd
really worry about him even looking at a t4 mill!
