Date: Mon, 21 Feb 2005 16:35:18 -0600 (GMT-06:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: west coast loafer <magicbus1974(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] wiring... last post

I've got a few issues with wire nuts but none terminal... <grin!> 1st that they take up alot more space than a crimp or solder repair. The other is that generally unless the nut is sized just right, a sharp object could get inside the nut with the wires and short it out. I see nothing to get into a tizzy about. This isn't like fuel system fire safety or brakes that may or may not work. If it fals you're walking or you have a vehicle wiring harness meltdown... Maybe a fire. 

Anybody know if the reason the OEMs don't solder wiring is because of cost/time? Those crimps are pretty fast. 

I see lots of similarities between our old busses and marine applications: moisture/corrosion (though not as fast), vibration, bumps (waves), and the need for a solid wiring system that doesn't strand you far at home (out to sea). 
Yeah the cost of the marine stuff is expensive but if done right the first time (quality tools, quality parts, quality techniques - you choose), wiring is something that does not need revisiting for years and years. FWIW a good crimp - good crimp connector (not FLAPS) and good crimping tool is strong. I check mine by pulling on them after making the crimp. It fails if it comes apart. MUCH easier to spend $12 or so on the good crimping pliers (mine are Kleins from Lowe's Hardware to replace the Kleins I got when I was a Navy Electrician - those were the brand crimpers we had in our department). 

I'm enjoying the discussion or debate - whatever you want to call it. I am glad to see a bit of perfection come into the hobby, but hope it does not kill the discussion. If this list was all about show and shine (Taiwanese "showoff" parts - thinking over chromed engine with zero quality, see through distributor caps that fail every 3K miles, and engines that have an expected lifespan of 10K miles) - then I would not be here. I have joined and left several of those lists. Frankly I'm a fan of function (durability, reliability, engineering improvements) over form (chrome out the wahzoo, air bag suspension systems, cars that are unsafe at 30 mph... <griN!>). 

Keep talking. 

Chris
'78 Westy 2,7L

Chris
