Date: Mon, 21 Feb 2005 18:53:28 -0500
From: Timothy Woenker <multipang(-at-)kconline.com>
To: Type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: Dave C. Bolen <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>, Richard Atwell
Subject: Re: CHT revisited

I find Dave's results to be VERY interesting.

Some of you may remember my whining to this list periodically over the 
past year about my high cylinder head temps, as read by my new (last 
May) VDO gauge running 500 degrees at 60 mph.   I've got a smooth 
running completely stock engine ('79 GE Cal emissions) properly set up 
with 7.3 : 1 compression ratio, all seals and tin in place, no vacuum 
leaks, air/fuel mixture verified using the O2 sensor/voltmeter etc. 
etc. etc.

  Still, 500 degrees at 60 mph.

I took readings of the head at #3 spark plug where the CHT sensor is 
located using a quality infrared thermometer.  When the CHT gauge read 
nearly 500 degrees, the IR thermometer read 420 to 425.  This is pretty 
close to Dave's results.  Some said my IR results were suspect due to 
thermal emissivity (or reflectivity?) of the aluminum head or another 
said that I was merely reading the surface temp of the head, not what 
the sensor was seeing embedded between the head and the spark plug.  
Conventional wisdom was that I was running too lean, had a vacuum leak, 
improper timing etc.

I even installed a variable potentiometer between temperature sensor #2 
and the ECU to fool the ECU into enrichening the air fuel mixture.  
This did bring the indicated temp down to the 400 degree range, but it 
resulted in a very high idle, misfire upon acceleration at lower engine 
speeds and incredibly bad gas mileage.

The one thing that I never got around to doing was to test the 
calibration accuracy of  the CHT setup since I could not get the sensor 
out of the engine without dismantling a bunch of stuff.

So now, it would appear that my original hunch was correct.  The VDO 
setup is not accurate, at least the way I have it on my engine.

Does anyone know of a more accurate CHT system with a gauge the same 
diameter that would fit in the same rubber mount as the VDO gauge?

Tim Woenker
'79 Westy,  2.0L CA emissions
