From: "Sean Bartnik" <seabar(-at-)rcn.com>
To: "Type 2 Mailing List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 31 May 2002 17:01:06 -0400
Subject: Bus on vacation

Hi all,
I just returned from a great trip in the Bus.  Last week my girlfriend and I
left Springfield MA in the '79 Westy for a week's vacation in Nova Scotia.

I had replaced the alternator from the EveryBus Incident and the Bus was
happy.  We drove from Springfield up through New Hampshire and into Maine,
finally arriving in Bar Harbor about 7 hours after we left.

We camped in Bar Harbor that night and the next morning we boarded the CAT
high-speed ferry between Bar Harbor and Yarmouth, NS.  It is a catamaran
ferry that travels at about 55 mph on the water and makes the journey
between Bar Harbor and Yarmouth in about 2 hours 45 min.  Nice ride.

When we got to Canada we had to go through Customs.  The Customs officer
asked if I had any alcohol or tobacco as well as the other usual questions,
and I said that I didn't.  We planned to buy all ours in Canada, go exchange
rate!   That must have seemed suspicious because we got selected to go off
to the side to have our declarations verified :-)
The very curteous and professional Canadian Customs inspectors gave the Bus
a quick look-through to make sure we weren't hiding beer & cigarettes and
sent us on our way.

The next 6 days or so were spent roaming all around Nova Scotia and Prince
Edward Island.  We took in the sights and camped in a different spot each
night.  We got to see a lot but unfortunately we didn't even get to see the
eastern part of Nova Scotia because we simply ran out of time.  Well, we can
always come back :-)

Yesterday we returned to Yarmouth to catch the CAT ferry back to Bar Harbor.
When we got back to the U.S. we had to go through U.S. Customs of course.
No problem.  The inspector was very friendly, asked us the basic questions,
took a quick look around the van through the windows (didn't search or open
up any doors) and sent us on our way.  We drove from Bar Harbor back to
Springfield and got home around 2 AM.

The weather in NS was fabulous, I thought for sure it would have been cold
but the days were very comfortable with jeans & a sweatshirt (no coat
needed).  We had great sunny days and no real rain until about the last day
so it all worked out.  During the whole trip we put just under 2000 miles on
the Bus and it performed flawlessly.  The new alternator and starter have
made it a pleasure to road-trip once again :-)

The currency exchange rate is quite favorable, a $40 CDN ATM withdrawal came
out to $26 US on my bank statement.  We didn't have to visit a currency
exchange house, the magic of ATM cards and Visa check cards has made
currency exchange obsolete, at least for me :-)  We had enough U.S. cash to
get there and then just pulled CDN cash out of the ATMs once we were there.
Pay for gas and food on the check card and it's converted automatically.
Only weird thing is the ATM asks me if I want to take the money out of my
"chequing" account.  WTF? ;-)

If you do travel to Canada make sure you contact your insurance company and
get your Canadian proof of insurance card before you go.

The scenery in Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island was fantastic and the
people were very friendly.  I found the main highways to be very
well-designed with services on exits generally clearly marked.  The main
highways were in very good shape however some of the small back roads were
pretty beat.  The highways were almost always traffic-free.  I loved that
part.  Oh yeah and the locals all drive a lot faster than the speed limit
:-)
My '79 Westy has a small kilometers per hour scale inside the miles per hour
scale on the speedometer so that wasn't a problem.

And after hearing the listmember Canadians rave about it so much, we had to
stop off and sample the Tim Horton's.  For those northeast US folks on the
list, Tim Horton's is basically the Canadian version of Dunkin Donuts.
Anybody that lives in the northeast knows that in the morning Dunkin Donuts
is packed with folks getting coffee and donuts and Dunkin Donuts are all
over the place.  Same way with Tim Horton's.  Except Tim Horton's has a nice
sour cream glazed donut that I like :-)

Anyway, it was a great vacation and a great trip.  The Bus did great and the
only battle scar was that I broke the rear fog light :-(
Was on a dirt road and came off a sharp drop.  I had the rear fog hanging
below the rear bumper, and as the Bus dropped, the rear fog made contact
with the ground, and was driven up into the bumper which broke the plastic
lens.  So gotta find a replacement for that.  I took a lot of pictures but
none digital.

Maybe one day I'll scan some of the photos in.

Sean Bartnik
Springfield, MA

