Date: Sat, 01 Jun 2002 21:53:03 -0400
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <Doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com>
Subject: Fuel injection question about 76 two liter

I finally got my overhauled 1976 2 liter to run for more than 10 seconds. 
Had the work done last year by a professional engine rebuilder/ex-high 
school auto shop teacher. He built and raced beetles in his youth, and was 
delighted for the chance to overhaul my 2 liter.  I took it into his shop 
in the trunk of my car, in pieces, and six onths later collected the 
finished engine.  Hired a VW line mechanic to install it in his home 
garage, after his regular stint at the dealership. Took another 6 months 
with him getting to it when he had some free time. He changed dealerships 
and moved away and I towed the almost finished Westy home, to complete the 
job. It ran, but only for 8 seconds at a time. Then it would die, and could 
be restarted agin, endlessly, running 8 seconds, then just sputtering to a 
stop, like someone had put their hand over the air intake.

Being curious, I took off the air filter and peered into the opening that 
took filtered air to the next device. It was sealed off by a thin springy 
metal plate. I pushed my finger against the plate and it moved. I asked my 
wife to crank over the engine, while I pushed on this springy metal 
plate.  The car started, and ran really well as long as I held the plate 
open and adjusted it with finger pressure.  The wife had other things to 
do, so I used the handle of a small paintbrush to replace my finger, 
wedging open the springy thin metal plate. I am guessing that this is a 
sensor plate to detect how much air is entering the engine.....but I'm only 
guessing at what to call it. Need some assurance here.

The engine then started and ran strongly, with me in the driver seat. There 
was some backfiring and sputtering momentarily. After some readjustment of 
the brush handle, holding the thin plate about a quarter inch open, I could 
drive the car around the yard, although it would die if I tried to let it 
idle at it's own rate.

OK, now I need to know how to adjust that thin metal plate to stay open far 
enough to let the engine idle, and I need a less crude way to keep my 
engine running at different speeds and under different loads.

I think the plate is associated with an electrical wiper that controls the 
mixture.....a potentiometer module, perhaps. Is there a web site with some 
diagrams and explanations, where I can come up to speed on this thing? Need 
basic vocabulary for what I am looking at (almost round silver metal box 
about 4 inches across, with an electronic module and wires on the curb 
side. Air enters this unit from the air filter and exits out of it through 
a round opening, into a short rubber tube of about 2 inches cross section, 
connecting to another box downstream. I'd like to know if this is a 
situation that can be fixed and adjusted somewhere, or if I am headed 
toward replacing this fuel-air metering thing. I suspect that it either 
works or is broken.

Point me in the right direction. At least I know the engine overhaul was 
successful. The engine runs pretty well, even with this jury-rigged device. 
All relies will be cherished.

Doyt Echelberger
76 Westfalia  Ohio USA


