Date: Mon, 05 Mar 2012 13:32:35 -0600
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] re:Welding class

Probably a dead horse at this point but:

Yeah fluxcore welding is a MIG welder without gas. The machine might 
have the attachments to add gas or not.

  In the center of the wire is a flux much like the flux on the outside 
of a welding rod for a stick welder that takes the place of the MIG gas.

Upside?

Cheaper welding equipment and more importantly you can weld in a windy 
place.

Downside is that you need to chip/wire brush the slag off of the 
finished weld just like you do with a stick welder. Another downside is 
that because the wire is a minimum of .035 (in my experience) it takes 
more heat to get the weld started i.e. (in my experience) which makes it 
unsuitable for bodywork. Regular MIG wire can be bought in the .025 and 
.023 diameters and take less heat to weld i.e. less heat put into the 
weld and your patch panel and less warpage.

You can weld heavier materials like on a trailer just fine with flux 
cored wire but not patch panels for rusty quarters. You CAN weld on your 
trailer but if the welder is a real budget machine then the duty cycle 
may be so low that you can't get much done with it before it shutdowns 
via a thermal limit switch. My budget welder didn't have an internal 
fan. Depending on outside temps I might weld for a few mins and then 
need to wait longer for the machine to cool. If the machine was cold I 
had some welding time ahead but if it was already hot from working the 
duty cycle dropped precipitously.

I did eventually take the side off (don't touch anything inside when it 
is on of course) and aim a desk fan at it. I was planning to add a 4" 
muffin fan to it when I finally got frustrated with it for the last time 
and gave it away just like the guy that gave it to me.

MIG welding with gas is worth the added cost if you are able to swing it 
b/c it is much easier to clean up the weld. A refill bottle of gas is 
only $20 or so here and the bottle is $80 new with the first fill of gas 
included. Buy the bigger bottle though if you plan to weld often. I have 
the middle size bottle here at work and we run through a bottle every 
couple of months welding here and there. No production, just maintenance 
and teaching folks.

The very entry-level welders are okay but I find them to be irritating 
when their shortcomings surface like cheapo wire feeding mechanisms that 
slip or jam - - or very, very low duty cycles. My little Italian welder 
(Harbor Freight sourced) was a challenge to love b/c not a single weld 
ever happened without some sort of glitch that needed to be coped with. 
Also it had very little ajustability on the heat. Basically high and low 
on two temp settings yielding four settings I suppose. My Lincoln SP180T 
has about seven and the Lincoln 180C has infinite temp control. The 
little welder didn't even have a temp chart on the inside of the door 
like the better welders so it was always a guessing game. I was just 
getting started learning to weld and not being able to guess what temp 
to set plus the machines quirks multiplied my frustration.

I haven't had the pleasure of finding a mythical cheap welder that was 
good like those cheap $20 Northern tool airtools that are good but not 
necessarily durable.

My el-cheapo air grinder has been good but it is clear that it isn't 
going to last for years and years if I use it often which is fine b/c I 
use it so infrequently it'll last a long time. The similar $50 air 
grinder (Kobalt brand aka Campbell-Hausfield) lasted only six months at 
work and some of that is b/c folks didn't keep it oiled up. We bought a 
better grinder this last time. So far it's outlasted the Kobalt. It cost 
alot more too.

I suspect Hobart might be as close as one ought to get to the mythical 
good and cheap welder that is good enough for regular home use. I steer 
wide of any welder with too much plastic in the wire feeder as the 
Italian welder I used had a very flexible wire feeder that bent/warped 
over time and quit feeding the wire reliably without a wood clamp put in 
place to brace it all up.

Chris in TN
