Date: Wed, 18 Sep 2002 11:51:47 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Josh Rodgers Memorial Campout trip report

All,

The Josh Rodgers Memorial Campout was another great success this year.
It was held this past weekend at Keystone State Park, on Keystone Lake,
just west of Tulsa.

I originally wasn't planning on going as I thought it was in Turner
Falls (south of Oklahoma City) and I had guests from out-of-town at
the house.  However, the guests left on Saturday morning and I set
about my plans to attend the local club's "cruise-in" on Saturday
afternoon with my newly road-worthy '64.  When I got there, a couple
of people mentioned the "campout at Keystone Lake" to me and I started
to think about going out there -- I still didn't realize it was the
JRMC.

The drill for that particular cruise-in was that we were going to meet
at a Quizno's on the east side of town, hang out, and then cruise over
to a Sonic on the west side of town that has a general hot-rod cruise-in
on Saturday nights.  I hung out and started cruising to Sonic with everyone
else, but having had dinner at Quizno's including a bucket of Coke, I
found I needed to make a pit stop at my house, about a mile from the
Sonic.

So I did that and proceeded back towards the Sonic, when I got my very
first "profile" traffic stop!  Yay!  (You know, everyone with long hair
and a '64 Bus is carrying 50 kilos of pot in the back.)  I did have a
right running light out and the cop was cool about it but implied I
should go home right then and fix it.  I went to the next parking lot
over and fixed it, but I was rattled from the traffic stop.  I decided
that the best possible course of action would be to get some "beer"[0],
go to the campout, and drink it.  So I did.

The camp site was easy to find and as soon as I pulled up a couple of
folks checked out my '64.  There were about 20-25 people in attendance
with about 15 Buses I think.  4 Splitties, a bunch of bays, and a couple
of Vanagons.  One of the bays had the slightly non-stock addition of a
turbocharger, running ~5 PSI boost.  It was a CB Performance kit but
apparently CB was reluctant to sell it for a Bus install.  The owner
of the Bus had done a lot of work on the install and it looked very
slick.  Several of us encouraged the owner to submit photos to the
VW mags as it is definitely at the magazine level. 

I quickly made my way to the campfire and implemented my plan.  There
was lots of good talk around the fire and Leo VanDelft serenaded us
with his guitar (and nifty portable amp).  At one point I mentioned
that I was thinking of going to the JRMC but I didn't go and was
informed that I was there already. :)  At 11 PM we all took a moment
for the memory of Mr. Rodgers.  In case you don't know, Josh was a VW
nut from Oklahoma and a big part of his legacy is here:
http://www.type2.com/library/library.htm .

I was reminded of why I bought a Bus when I simply crawled in the back
of mine and went to sleep.  No tent poles, no stakes, no fooling around...
just open the pop-outs and sleep.  I don't have a camper and I did decide
that I need more padding than just some carpet on the floor, though.

Rick Taylor pulled his Scamp down from Kansas and had the kitchen set up
in and next to it.  On Sunday morning he fixed pancakes and eggs for all,
while some other folks cooked bacon.  I had some breakfast and then came
on back into town.

Thanks go out to Rick and everyone else who organized this campout and
made it a success!  I liked the Keystone Lake location, not least because
it's 30 minutes from my house.  :)  

Matt Roberds

[0] The stuff that passes for beer in Oklahoma is 3.2%.  This is what
    you get at the grocery store, quick mart, etc.  You can get 5%+ beer
    but only at a liquor store and they aren't open late.  You can only
    get hard liquor at a liquor store.  Fscking Protestants...


