From: "David Mayes" <mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com>
To: <SusanSMS(-at-)aol.com>,
Date: Wed, 18 Sep 2002 14:48:05 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] Grounding Tail Light Bucket - Not Metal?

Normally grounding actually works well if it's all put together nicely with
good parts.  The ground path goes from the light bulb to the metal bucket,
and then to the body of the bus.  Yes, the metal bucket is some form of cast
metal which is non magnetic but that doesn't affect it's ability to conduct
an electrical current.  If you look at the bucket carefully, you should see
a raised point on the outer rim of the bucket.  This little point should be
located such that it goes in the small hole of the rubber seal... look at it
carefully and you will see the hole.  After making sure the point is aligned
with the hole in the seal, make sure you clean the inside surface of the
metal where the point should make contact with it... i.e. no paint, dirt,
etc.  Then, put it all together and tighten the screws up making sure the
outer metal ring is straight or you will bust the lens (don't ask me how I
know this...).

If you're set on running a separate ground wire, drill a hole in the metal
bucket and screw/rivet a wire to it that hole, and then run the wire to
ground someplace... like the screw that holds the taillight to the body
(again, making sure the wire has good contact with bare metal).  I would
hesitate to run a wire all the way back to the negative post of the battery.


Good luck

David
(in the middle of wiring the double cab myself)

Sue asked:
Help! I'm trying to ground my rear tail lights on my 60 Single Cab as you
suggested. Trouble is, the bulb holder doesn't seem to be metal--or at least
not the kind that a magnet will stick to! Is it potmetal? It is the early
round style light.

Where and how do I attach a ground to the bucket? Do I solder? Rivet? Bolt?
How will it ground if it isn't metal to begin with? I'm planning on running
thr ground wire to the ground for the neg. battery terminal. Any advice
greatly appreciated.


