From: "Rich Van Baalen" <rvanbaa1(-at-)tampabay.rr.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 19 Sep 2002 07:02:05 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] rust on windshield frame

Gene;
Been there done that last winter (right around Christmas).  I used JBWeld (a
two-part epoxy-type substance you can pick up at  any FLAPS) to plug similar
size holes; it actually took a couple of coats to build up enough matter to
fill the "larger" ones.  The important thing was to get all the rust out (I
cleaned it out and hit it with Naval Jelly to make sure everything was
nuetralized), then sand/prime/paint.  After going thru a rainy summer in
Florida all 7 windows I did are dry as a bone.

Another thing to consider as you put the rubber back on is to use roof tar.
I used it to coat the lip where the rubber and the bus come together as well
as in the channel where the glass goes into the seal.  This helps with
making sure you get a good seal and the roofing tar on the metal lip will
also keep rust from forming in the future.

I did both windshields (removal, fix and replace) over the course of a
weekend; it would have been quicker but it takes time for the JBWeld to set
up.

Check the archives from Mid December thru early January for more tips as
there was quite a discussion about this and using roofing tar as a sealant.
Good luck!!

--Rich



-----Original Message-----
From: Gene Tilby [mailto:gtilby(-at-)yahoo.com]
Sent: Wednesday, September 18, 2002 10:37 PM

Hi all,
We had our first big rain storm since I bought my bus
a couple of days ago and lo and behold... the
windshield leaks.  It was pretty bad so I went down to
my local store and picked up some new rubber, pulled
out the window, wire brushed down through the rust and
ended up with a couple of holes that go right down
into the inside of the double walled section at the
front of the bus.  I need some advice on how to fix
the holes with my limited knowledge, I don't weld.  I
had heard about some POR15 patch that I guess is for
this problem, has anyone used this and what can I
expect?  Thanks for your help.

If this is something that absolutely needs to be fixed
by a body shop, (cut out and new section put in) how
much should I expect to pay for such a service?

There are two holes, one is no bigger than a pecil
lead and the secon one is about 1/8 of an inch at the
widest point.


