From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com, ''67 Transporters' <otherbox(-at-)mindspring.com>, 
Date: Thu, 19 Sep 2002 08:55:40 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] Double Cab Floor Mat

The number off of my ORIGINAL mat out of my 60 DC 610 055 April 1960 is
*265 863 731 VW followed by a VW enblem in a circle and there is a star
before the numbers, the number is on the edge in the middle against the
bulkhead and you would be looking at it upside down if in the rear seat. Of
course I can't really verify that this is the original mat to the bus, but I
did by it from the second owner who never drove it because he had started
the restoration as soon as he bought it. The best part of this deal was that
when he started to restoe it he bought all the parts needed to do the job,
including NOS glass (all of it) from the dealer, all of the rubber (most
NOS), tailights assemblies NOS and all the little stuff. The cool thing was
that most of the parts were bought from the dealer or WCM when they still
had all the OG rubber.


ronnie

ps. According to my parts manual this is the correct number for the mat
in my DC

-----Original Message-----
From: David Mayes [mailto:mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com]
Sent: Thursday, September 19, 2002 5:47 AM
To: ''67 Transporters'; vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [VB] Double Cab Floor Mat


I've looked into this for my 59 double cab... Ronnie at oldvolks claims to
have a mat from his 60 or 61 that has a number.  I bought a mat from a guy
from "an early" double cab that has no number on it and I recently pulled a
rear mat from another 59 double cab in a junk yard that also has no number
or symbol what-so-ever on it.  Go figure.  I was once told that rear cargo
bus mats had no numbers or symbols on them if they had no cut outs for seats
or anything... but have never been able to substantiate this.

Anyone else?


David
http://www.dsquared-dev.com/davem/interior.htm




Roger asked:  I'm currently pursuing a rear double cab floor mat.  The
seller cannot find
a part number on the mat, but he does find a vw symbol.  I woudl expect the
mat to have a the correct 9 digit part number somewhere on the mat.

