Date: Thu, 19 Sep 2002 14:46:32 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: More Electrical Mysteries

>From: SusanSMS(-at-)aol.com
>Date: Thu, 19 Sep 2002 09:54:34 EDT
>
>1) When I step on the brake with tail lights on, the right side stays lit as 
>a tail light--does not get brighter like the left side does. With the tail 
>lights off, the right brake works okay.

If the ground is really good, is the bulb in backwards?  Take the bulb
out and notice that the two little pins on the side are not the same
distance from the glass.  It's supposed to only fit one way in the
socket but it is possible to get it put in the other way.

The reason it's only supposed to fit one way is that there are two
unequal filaments in the bulb.  The brake/turn filament is 18 watts
and the tail filament is 5 watts.  If you have the bulb in backwards,
and the tail lights off, you'll see the 5 watt filament when you step
on the brakes, which will make you think all is fine.  When you turn
the tail lights on with the bulb in backwards, the 18 watt filament
will come on.  When you then step on the brakes, the 5 watt filament
coming on is sometimes not bright enough to notice.

The bulb is OK, right?  If you're not sure, swap the bulbs left-to-right
and try again.  If the fault moves to the left side, get a new bulb. 
Make sure the left and right bulbs have the same type number stamped or
inked on the base.
 
>2) Still no turn signal at right rear. Right front blinks fast fast fast.

It is maybe possible that one of the contacts in the right rear socket
is shorting to ground.  Disconnect both feed wires from the right rear
socket and don't let them touch one another or anything else.  If this
slows the RF blinker down to sane rates, then there's a short in that
right rear socket.  If not, it might settle down once you get the bulb
connected correctly.  If the bulb and socket are in order and it still
flashes fast, you might have a short in the harness or turn signal
switch.
 
>I checked the directional switch with a test light and that is working
>fine. 

If this is what you already have done, then disregard, but if not, do
this:

Go up in the cab with your test light.  Ground one side of the test
light.  Turn on the parking lights and probe each of the connections
in the 5-way connector for the turn signal switch.  If the light comes
on for any wire, you have a short in the switch or in the harness.
Turn the parking lights off.

Note that all colors below refer to the colors on the _turn signal
switch_ side of the 5-way connector.
 
Flip the turn signal to "left turn" and probe all 5 wires.  The white
stripe and yellow stripe wires should make the test light flash.  The
other 3 should not light the test light.

Step on the brakes.  Now the white and yellow stripe wires should make
the test light flash, the green stripe wire should not light the test
light, and the red and orange stripe wires should light the test lamp
steadily.

Step off the brakes and flip the turn signal to "right turn".  The
green stripe and orange stripe wires should make the test light flash.
The other 3 should not light the test light.

Step on the brakes.  Now the green and orange stripe wires should make
the test light flash, the white stripe wire should not light the test
light, and the red and yellow stripe wires should light the test lamp
steadily.

If that's all in order, then your turn signal switch is indeed OK.
If it's not, you have problems in the switch or the harness.

>I have not hooked up all my wires to the speedo yet--does the one for
>the signal need to be hooked up for the right rear to work?

No.  Not having the speedo indicator hooked up should not affect any
of the exterior turn signal lamps.

>3) Hooked up license plate light. Works fine with engine lid in "up" 
>position. The minute I start lowering the engine lid it goes out and
>stays out. Connections are clean and tight at the fixture, and the
>ground is good. 

Is it just grounded to the engine lid, with the little sheet metal
screw next to the lamp?  Go ahead and run a longer ground wire back
to the battery negative strap.  The engine-lid ground depends on the
hinges to complete the circuit and if they are either very well oiled
or very rusty they may not have contact anymore.

Matt Roberds


