From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "Vintage List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 19 Sep 2002 18:46:14 -0400
Subject: productive day...accelearator linkage question

fairly productive day...

started witht he simple stuff-lubed the front end. i think there are
something like 17 little nipples to feed.

then....

i needed to replace the shift rod bushing. i heard-via the list archive and
ronnie at oldvolks, that this is usually very difficult to take
apart-requiring torches, and maybe hacksaws....anyway mine came right apart.
i had squirted penetrating oil on it twice in the last week in anticipation
of the removal. then since it came apart so easily i figured i should clean
it up a bit. i sanded the rust off(there was just a little surface rust).
then marine cleaned, then primed and painted. looks pretty good for the
underside of a bus. i did the same to all the brackets under the
shifter-these were actually quite rusty beyond surface rust. actually the
whole area around the hole for the shifter was pretty bad so i por-15 the
whole area. then i sanded and primed and painted the shifter. one more coat
tommorow. i noticed the boot where the rear and front shift rods connect was
basically not there-so i ordered a new one. as well as a new spring for
under the shifter-as mine was quite rusty. any suggestions on putting this
back together appreciated.

i also drilled out and tapped all the holes(save one) for the splash pan
that covers all this up. so now when i finish i should be able to replace it
properly.

then i looked at the accelerator pedal linkage-the tab on the bus was bent
in an unusual position. so i took it apart-bent it back to how it should be.
but now putting the linkage between the pedal and the angle bracket which
goes to the accelerator cable? which direction should this linkage go...it
is basically S-shaped. now the lower part could either face the driver or
the passenger. i think it should face the passenger, but it was originally
the other way-i guess this could explain the bent tab.

next i fixed the horn wires-they had become quite corroded, and my horn was
no longer working. i found out one of the wires had a lsice in it, so i
fixed that, put new connectors on the end of one of the wires, polished all
connections-and wow what a loud horn. i dont remember it ever being that
loud. but then again i pretty rarely honk it.

then on to the brake return spring. i am still waiting for a new one, but i
thought i would take the old one out. i noticed the master cylinder was very
rusty, so a quick wire brushing, then slap some por-15 on it(since i was
painting some other stuff at the time). I guess these always get rusty-i
just don't like any unneccesary rust. It appears that the installation might
get a little tricky...any suggestions? Also the boot on the front of the
cylinder didn't look to be in great shape-can you replace just the boot, or
do you need to replace the whole thing?

then i went back to my headlight woes...i picked up some new headlight
connectors while in canada, i hooked one of these up, and no difference.
just more wires.

well i appreciate any suggestions on the aforementioned projects. as for the
lighting thing-i think i will revisit the previous postings on this, and
take another stab at it. I am pulling the engine soon to retorque the
headsand install a new clutch return spring-and plan on checking all the
wiring back there.

thanks for listening

-kevin
somerville, ma
'65 kombi
'67 sqbk



