Date: Thu, 29 Jan 2009 14:45:56 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Boston Engine status, and Bergman?  WAS [T2] Speaking of

Speaking of which, does anyone know an update since Bob passed, are they still
putting them together as they planned.  Website still there, but content is
same as ever.
 
My $0.02 on Bergman, a lot of people have always thought Bernie is an ass,
I've talked to him personally and thought the same at times, other times had
good useful conversations.  Another group love his stuff.  Like others my
contact is mostly with torn down stuff I got for nothing.  One engine in
question with welded stroker (fair quality, as good as Mark Stephens used to
be or anyone else) bottom end nicely done, obviously balanced.  Old engine in
the day with 96mm NPRs, seemed bad at the time, as it ends up almost great
compared to current stuff, head failed, #1 exhaust, probably 40k miles but
driven hard in a bus, perhaps no better than one would expect.
 
I have also had him do a counterweighted waterboxer crank and counterweighted
stock 2.0 T4, both came back very nice, both easily 8-10 years ago now though,
so who knows today.  A lot of others have come and gone with those nice glossy
adds though, Bergman is still there (is Bernie actually or is it jsut his
name?)  And I've personally had similar bad head experiences several times
with AVP, Stephens in the day, and others.  I used to put together 4-5 T4s a
year, not commercial but more than most people here, the only heads I would
use at the end were new AVP with new seats by Bob Donalds, I imagine there
might be others but I knew those would be good, reliable, and last (oddly I
did get screwed on an old core Bob did once, cost me a 1500 mile trip with no
bus to show for it at the end but I ended up with a mint side tent instead so
who cares, but I don't hold it against his memory, was one of the last old
cores he probably did before stopping doing
 used.)
 
YMMV
John
 
--- On Thu, 1/29/09, Accessys(-at-)smart.net <accessys(-at-)smart.net> wrote:

if you can afford it get an engine from Boston Engines (if still in
business)
