Date: Sat, 31 Jan 2009 08:57:43 -0800 (PST)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Up In Smoke!

Yes, I'll admit it - it's one of my favorite movies, too, but I'm writing about a burning van and I'm the dope! (It all ended well, BTW!) My hazard warning light switch has been defective for years. Whenever I used it, the turn signals would fail to flash afterwards unless I slammed the switch in really hard. I made an effort to replace it years ago. There were none at any of the wrecking yards I frequented so, seeing (ACdotnet) had them in the catalog, I ordered one. I always respected John, still do, but after a month, I inquired as to why I had received nothing and heard nothing, and was quite nastily chewed out because apparently I should have known that he only got them in once in a while... That's John, but he's good at everything but communicating, I guess!

The hazard warning light switch was well wrapped and seemed to only have that one fault, so I did not go shopping for another (had a bad  feeling about buying one, I guess.) So, last week, after all those little things that needed attention in my previous post, and getting "stranded" at the post office at night with no fuel pressure... Oh yeah - I didn't tell you guys about that one! I got my mail, came out and started the bus - it spun over and attempted to start running with a chug here and a chug there, but would not stay running after releasing the starter. I checked for anything obviously hanging loose in the engine compartment; there was nothing. I did, however, shine the flashlight on the fuel pressure gauge and it was bottomed out! Just a couple weeks ago I had checked it and it was running at 36 and holding for hours, so what could have changed so suddenly, at the end of an hour+ drive?

I changed clothes and got the tarp and trouble light out. I got my fuel line clamps out of the toolbox and partially clamped off the return line after the regulator. Nuthin'! I clamped it all the way tight - nuthin'! So, I dug in the spares bin and got out the old fuel pump that I got at a wrecking yard twenty years ago and has been dry ever since [THIS THING isn't gonna work!!] and began devising a plan to change it out. I had forgotten I had an electrical multi-meter stashed away in a cabinet. I did look at fuses, so chalk me up a credit for that! I was underneath the side and looking at where I would put my clamps, what tools I would need, and I pulled on one of the rubber boots that covers the wire connectors. It simply fell off! - wire included! I plugged it back on the terminal, pulled it off again (came off hard this time!) and decided that this could be the problem! Sure enough, it started right up, but rougher than heck (still had the clamp on
 the return line - pressure gauge was pegged at somewhere over 100psi!) 

Back to the hazard warning light switch - I drove to work, up over the hills to avoid the freeway, and there is one especially bad hairpin turn with steep downers on both sides, out in the middle of nowhere - and it was a sheet of black ice! As I continued on, I flashed my hazard warning lights at oncoming cars to warn them of the hazard ahead. Each immediately applied their brakes, so it was a duty well done! After the second one, I could not get the turn signals to come back, so I hit and twisted the hazard warning light switch until I gave up. Shortly thereafter, I smelled smoke - that nasty, electrical wiring smoke! It was pouring out from under the dashboard in a plume about eight inches in diameter - a real gusher! I pulled off the road and shut the engine down and lights off and tried to figure a course of action. There was nothing available to do! I sat there until the smoke started to die down and eventually stopped.

I was only 100 feet from a fire station but never thought of that - and I'm glad I didn't cuz I wudda really had a mess!

I had "lucked out" in that everything that was gonna burn, did burn and my bus was still intact! I decided to see what still works (I know - very risky!) and was able to drive back home without dash lights or turn signals. I got a replacement hazard warning light switch from Ken at The Bus Company in Duvall after work and proceeded to tear into the dashboard.
Upon removing the panel, there was one lone frazzled wire - the gray/red for all the instrument lights (and the light inside the hazard warning light switch.) I pulled that loose and was delighted to see that the little instrument light holders simply unplugged from it! I had a hunch and went in the tent to look at Bus2 and there it was, right out in the opening in the dash all by itself, a nice, new gray/red wire, as if to say, "Here I am!" I took it and plugged it in and hooked the battery back up and the dash lights did not work. Bummer! (This was after plugging in the replacement hazard warning light switch - the old one WAS NOT going back in!) I checked circuits and the rheostat was burned out on the headlight switch. Since Bus2 had suffered a similar electrical fire under a P.O., I decided there may be a new headlight switch as well, and lucked out again! Hooked everything up and it all worked!

So why wasn't this just another cruel hit on my by Fate? How could I be the Dope? I never realized, in all these years, that the headlight switch and the hazard warning light switch are "keyed" against a small nub in the dashboard so that they cannot rotate. This was done to keep their open wire connections from shorting out. Makes sense, especially considering that my twisting of the hazard warning light switch is what caused the fire.

It was such a helpless feeling sitting there watching it burn! With my super sized Group 27 battery and a deep-cycler at that, it would have juice to feed it forever! My inverter cables at the battery meant that even if I had time to get the toolbox out from under the back seat and find the 13mm, by the time I got the terminal loose, easily another five minutes would have passed, and if it was serious, the battery could have exploded as well! Before the bus hit the road again, I had installed a battery cutoff switch at the battery. I had already installed one as well as a super sized fuse for the inverter cables. I also made certain that all the switches were secure and aligned to their keyways.

3 things to take from this: A fuel pressure gauge permanently installed is a good thing (on FI engines!); Align those switches and secure them!; and finally, a battery cut-off (I think) should be mandatory! I put mine on the battery negative terminal, but a more sensible place would be to make it accessible from outside the body - in case of a fuel line rupture type of fire, you would not want to open the engine door but you need to kill the battery connection to stop the fuel pump from running! On Bus2 I'll likely add a hinged cover like a fuel filler door to conceal the battery switch. -BaH


-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
