From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 3 Feb 2009 10:47:56 -0600
Subject: Fuel system safety suggestion

Hello folks - - - 

We are all aware of how fragile our VW fuel systems are and how disasterous a 
failure can be (complete vehicle loss). 

For some time I have been looking for a cutoff valve. That hunt led me too all 
sorts of obscure sources - even overseas. 

The answer was right in front of me. 

Get out your favorite non-VW hot rod catalog and look at the nitrous section. 
Those nitrous kit suppliers also offer gasoline rated solenoid valves. I just 
looked at some in Jegs and at the SpeedwayMotors websites. They are easy to 
come by and relative to the value of our vehicles - cheap... 

They could be mounted to the chassis next to the electric fuel pump. I thought 
about welding tabs to the bottom of the gas tank but two problems - might not 
be able to remove the gas tank later, might also cause a vibration of a 
relatively heavy thing on a fragile bracket that could lead to cracking of 
the gastank, a leak, and then a fire. Just depends on how good the bracket 
was. 

I want the distance from the tank to the solenoid to be as short as possible. 
I also plan to look at screw on lines ala drag cars also available from these 
types of catalogs. We'd have to weld in female fittings on the bottom of our 
gas tanks to make this work but to protect a very expensive bus (in man hours 
and plain dollars) it would be worth it. 

Fuel injection users will need two solenoids, carb guys just one. Wire them to 
the + side of the coil so they open when the ignition switch is turned on. As 
I haven't done this first hand - the amp draw might be too much for your 
ignition switch or circuit meaning you'd need to run them to a 12 volt relay 
that is controlled by the + side of your coil. The relay is a generic relay 
that costs about $5. 

If you have a fire simply turn the key off. If the fire advances and you don't 
notice you'll lose the fuel supply as the wiring is fried and the solenoids 
close. I suppose a person could add some sort of lead strip that melted at 
some high temp across the top of the engine compartment too. It could be 
wired like a tell-tale light on a Navy ship where the warning would light on 
the dash only when there was a fault and the strip melted. Of course the fact 
that the engine wouldn't start would say alot... VBG!

I plan to buy solenoids, weld-in threaded fittings, braided hoses, a relay, an 
inline fuse (or see if my aux fuse panel has a spare circuit) and make this 
mandatory on any vintage vehicles that I own now or in the future. Sure, the 
gas tank won't be 100% original after this but if it protects my investment 
or my family then it is worth it. 

Chris in Cookeville, TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L (Corvair implanted)
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L (Type IV implanted)

...and various low mileage critters...
