From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 3 Feb 2009 12:25:18 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] Fuel system safety suggestion

On Tuesday 03 February 2009 11:51:07 you wrote:

> I don't think the VW's fuel system is fragile at all.  I think old fuel
> lines are very fragile.  If you keep the system in top shape, you won't
> have fuel leaks.  Many people, however, don't change their lines and
> that's when you have a problem.

I agree that the lines are the problem. I renew my lines much more often than 
the original 25 years that the OEM lines lasted before I replaced them the 
first time. I've never had a leak nor a fire. Fingers crossed. 

What bothers me is a gas tank above and in front of the engine. If that one or 
two fuel lines rupture or leak then gasoline is gravity fed over a 
potentially hot and electrified engine. If the lines break for any reason 
then potentially a whole tank of fuel is dumped on the ground (or into the 
slipstream) with no way to stop it. This much is the same for any vehicle of 
that era or before. 

An alternate solution I think the list supplied once upon a time was a vacuum 
activated valve similar to a motorcycle. Engine stops, valve closes. Better 
suited to a carb powered bus. Anyone ever get the parts figured out? My 
motorcycles always had something that was difficult to adapt to an automobile 
gas tank.

I had a friend whose '70 model caught on fire twice. Old line leaked once. The 
second occasion the brass inlet nipple popped out of the carb. Both were 
caught in time and the only damage was smoke and the fire extinguisher 
chemical. It was scary though because that was his both his primary vehicle 
and the destination for alot of his spare money. Yes, the inlet nipple 
stopped feeding gas when the engine stopped but not before the engine had to 
run the carb bowl dry. What - about 6-8 ounces of gasoline?

Don't want to lose my 'ole bus to a fire after all the blood sweat and tears. 

Added benefits: you could interupt the solenoid power with a hidden kill 
switch for theft prevention. A $5 upgrade. Yes, it would introduce another 
potential failure point in the bus but then my bus has plenty of those built 
in thanks to age. VBG!

I ultimately want to be able to kill both the power and fuel supply at the 
flick of a switch when the van is in the garage or shed. Same for my Beetle. 

Also protects the house that is connected to the garage. VMMV.

Ciao! 
Chris in Cookeville, TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L (Corvair implanted)
'65 VW Beetle Heinz-57 Edition
