Date: Wed, 4 Feb 2009 09:56:47 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Zack Jarrett <zack.jarrett(-at-)cox.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Lower Warm Air Ducts

Zack the '79 CA exhaust is significantly different, in some ways one year, one
state, in some ways like the CA vanagon.  The most obvious difference will be
a big ole catalytic converter (MUCH bigger thant the little thing between the
J-tube and muffler on an earlier one) tucked up under the drivers side
adjacent to/below the rocker box cover.  This is a BIG converter about same
size as a later water cooled vanagon (I think in fact interchangeable giving
opportunity for 2 O2 sensor ports), probably 5-6in diameter and darn near
10-12 inches long where the earlier one is 4-5in diameter maybe 5inch long
with some tubes attached.  The exhaust on that side does some weird stuff, R
side just like others excepting it is square port so heater boxes look like
'72-'74 but have square port connections, but has a header tube out of the L
head that faces backwards from the '75-'78 style, and fits square port
heads, its own crossover, its own L heater box that is
 identical to air cooled vanagon in exhaust connections but connects to the
bus heater/fan shroud connections.  I guess the other exhaust pipes are
actually maybe used on air cooled CA vanagons as well, but the heat exchanger
is one year one state (I have a brand new one if you want BTW) and that tin
you are looking for is perhaps one year, perhaps fits vanagon as well, I
figure it does.  If I'm wrong on this someone correct me, I'm a bit foggy,
had/have all these parts for a project but haven't looked at them in 10
years.  If anyone is interested I do have a nice solid crossover for this
setup, a new heater box (and a couple new air cooled L CA vanagon boxes) and
the rest somewhere that Nikki Elko got for me years ago.
 
To tell what you have though, the cat is the key, you can NOT miss the big cat
on the L side below the rocker box cover.  The L heater box is I think (from
the foggy memory) then outboard of the cat.  All the exhaust actually goes
through the L heater box after merginng at the Y/J at the end of the crossover
and all going through the cat.
 
CIP used to have some good diagrams on their www, not sure if they still do
and restricted from work here.
 
John

--- On Wed, 2/4/09, Zack Jarrett <zack.jarrett(-at-)cox.net> wrote:


Lastly, does there an exist an archive anywhere that shows exactly what tin
is
needed per model year?

Thanks a million for your help.
