Date: Mon, 26 Aug 2002 22:46:46 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: Frank E Biffath III <fbiffath(-at-)mailingsolutions.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Checking Fluid Levels



On Mon, 26 Aug 2002, Frank E Biffath III wrote:

> I am new to this vintage era, how do I go about checking the fluid levels in
> my transmission and umm, the differential??

Frank,

The whole assembly, including the center section, axles, and reduction
boxes is called a transaxle. The center section is your transmission,
technically. To check the fluid levels, park the bus level, and obtain a
17mm hex key wrench (Sears has one with a 1/2" square drive, or you can
search out a real hex key), or in a pinch, I'm told a 17mm bolt
and a pair of ViceGrips will work - use the Grips on the threads, and
place the bolt head into the socket of the filler insert, which is on the
left side of the tranny center section, about halfway between the axle
and the nose.

Fill this section with GL-4 rating, 85-90 W gear oil ONLY, not GL-5;
Sta-Lube brand makes it in a neat bottle with matching (available
separately) pump that makes this job much less of a mess, and you can
refill the bottle/pump from a larger sized bottle, (also available
separately, buy a funnel too). Fill until it just overflows from the hole.
When it's getting close to full, slow down on your pumping and let it
settle, to get an accurate fill. When totally empty, this section takes 85
oz. of gear oil, or about 5.3 pints, or almost 3 quarts.

The fill holes and inserts for the reduction boxes are located on their
top sides, and check for oil levels up to the bottom of the fill hole. Try
and have the box at operating level when checking or filling (remove tire
and jack it up - yeah, then the whole bus lifts up,etc... I know!). When
empty, these take 0.53 pints, or 8.5 oz. BAsically, they are also fed from
the tranny, through the axle tubes, so usually if things get confusing,
just make sure there is a high level in the boxes, and that the center is
filled.

cal

