Date: Sun, 11 Jul 2004 20:11:57 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Andy P." <kombi1976(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Fitting IRS from a '76 Bay on a Splitbus

As far as the IRS kit goes your best bet is to get the
kit made by Wolfsburg West(I think these guys are the
ones?). It's a clamp on and can be easily removed to
convert back to swingaxle should you wish to revert
back to the original suspension and transmission. 

Should you convert to IRS the best transaxle is the
1303 "L-Bug" 'box. It's almost as strong as a 091
transaxle(2.0l Bay Bus transaxle) and has the highest
ratios. It'll get the most out of any hot engine you
fit, be it aircooled or the GM 2.0. Don't throw away
the swingaxle box though. You'll need to bolt the
nosecone onto the 1303 box for it to bolt up to the
original front tranny mount.

If you want to convert to a ball joint front end just
buy a 68-71 front end from one of the many shops that
already has adjusters and the rise in the suspension
can be easily fixed.

One point that concerns me. If this GM 2.0l is only
going to give you 70hp you may as well build a hotter
aircooled engine. It's less hassle to fit, you won't
have to find an effective place for a radiator and the
bus will be more authentic. If you must go a
watercooled engine try an Ecotec or a Ford Pinto
or even a twin cam Toyota. But at the end of the day
all of these are a lot of trouble. Unless you'll get
at least 100hp by converting to watercooled give it a
miss. Furthermore, remember that while these engines
can outrev a VW engine they may not like revving for
an extended time which aircooled transaxles are prone
to make an engine do at higher speeds, even though the
1303 is better than most. You may have overheating
problems as effective radiator mounting is
problematic. Basically buses weren't designed to run
radiators.
My suggestion, and I think the majority of this list
would agree, is to go and get a good replacement
engine, say a 1776cc or 1835cc from a well reputed
engine builder and fit it rather than muck with the
whole watercooled business. But then I'm biased. I
think there's nothing better than hearing a flat 4 up
around 4000rpm as it pushes you up through mountain
curves or idling at the lights while other drivers sit
in cars that sound like a cross between a kazoo, a
dentist drill and weed whacker ;o)
:o)
Cheers & God Bless


=====
Andy P
http://geocities.com/kombi1976

Club VW Southern Tablelands, NSW, Australia
http://www.geocities.com/clubvwsouthtable
