From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 14 Jul 2004 12:16:14 EDT
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: trip report . . . Boise & back

86505   left ~8 am Friday in the 1961 red Vee Double Yew microbus. Picked up 
Greg at the Portland airport a bit after 10am.   Nice to have help driving.   
Polarised sunglasses show up the lines in the tempered  windsheild.   they are 
pretty colours, muted purple and green and orangey.  They change when I 
tilted my head.  groovey, like a light show.   Hot out.  Wish I had installed the 
drivers side safari.  Stopped to look at junk shops and windsurfers (doood) and 
to pick flowers.

~5 or 6 pm arrived in La Grande, OR at the aMayes-ing abode.  Thanks for 
dinner and the hospitality, Dave and Anna.   did some garage saleing Sat morning.

87126 Union, OR. just before the gas station saw a vanagon westy going the 
other way, they waved, I honked the horn.  Gas station guy said that was the 
Arnotts out for a camping weekend. (They & the Wetwesties should write a book, 
"Camping in a VW" by Arnott et al.) 

87 279    Lind's shop in Nampa, Idaho. Adjusted the shifter, as I had been 
made to realise that there was a trick to shifting that I had subconciously 
adopted.  If Greg didn't do it just right, it'd grind into 1st or reverse.  Ouch!  
 Adjustment evidently made it more standard.  Various people arrived, 
including Adam in his 60? mango standard who had just hit a deer and the previously 
perfect nose was impacted, somewhat marred and one headlight mostly missing :(  
 He was bummed.  The nose was mainly straightened out, the head of a rubber 
mallet was lost to the maw of the bus.  Went to Boise and was shown the sights. 
  Went to a party at Ej's.   P&C arrived!!!  cool!!!   ate very yummy pizza, 
went blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. blah blah blah.   there was this 
excellent advertisement picture of 7 (9?) people and a red deluxe.... the womens' 
hair was so cool.... all piled on top of their heads mid / late 60s style, 
narrow skirts with matching jackets.  I want to dress like that for a show one 
day, but who can do my hair?   Watched some of a movie of a great Led Zepplin 
concert.  People (not me) were giving themselves electroshock therapy with a 
vintage electroshock box.  These Idaho folks are kind odd.  Back to Lind's shop 
for the night.

Sunday  went to breakfast... met more folks there for the pre show breakfast. 
  went to car wash.   went to show (started at noon)   show was mellow... hid 
in shade.  went out for lunch with 6 others in a green 7 seater.  Never been 
in a full of people microbus before. I guess middle seats are useful.    after 
the show more sights... saw a pretty green deluxe, and went to scope out this 
guys enormous parts stash.  he saw my Pioneer Supertuner (it's the top of the 
line) and we started talking 8-tracks.   Do you have any, I say.  ya, Black 
Sabbath Paranoid?  ya?   YA!!!!!    omi-god!!!!! Finally!!!!!  I have Black 
Sabbath Paranoid on 8-track.    
WOOOO-HOOO!!!!     It's a loan, though, and kind of worn, so I'm still on the 
look out.  I've been keeping an eye out for this for years!!!!  So 
psyched!!!!     Back to Nampa with the stereo on full blast.
"GENERALS GATHER IN THEIR MASSES
JUST LIKE WITCHES AT BLACK MASSES
EVIL MINDS THAT PLOT DESTRUCTION
SORCERERS OF DEATH'S CONSTRUCTION........"   (it's actually somewhat 
political)

Monday  woke up and made coffee.   I had left the propane bottle for the 
campstove in my carport, so used the mapp gas torch to boil water for the Melita.  
 futzed around and hung out installed a windsheild in Lind's bus.  Lind & 
Greg were getting stuff ready on Lind's bus for their epic bus adventure across 
the country.  went to breakfast at noon, left about 1pm

87 348 filled up in Nampa, ID
stopped at the rest area just inside Oregon and scoped out maps... to go 
north then west, or west then north?   decided the latter.  A guy came round to 
say he had once had an old bus years ago,   he wished me good luck.. I thought 
that odd... kinda damned with faint praise, like I was in need of it, though 
I'm sure he didn't he mean it that way.  I think on the most part that people 
make their own luck.   I kept my sunglasses on and nodded at him.  he went away.
87 511 stopped at the safeway in LaGrande.. airconditioning is nice.  bought 
lemonade
very hot... upper nineties... maybe 100 out.  got gas.  A guy in a vanagon 
cruised into the gas station to say 'nice bus' .  out of La Grande the oil temp 
was getting above 210 unless I kept it to about 55-58.  took the 30 which 
avoided the hills and was more scenic and better for the bus as much as possible.  
 Wish i had installed the driver's side safari, and brought the 
airconditioner (aka mister bottle)
took a side road between Pendleton and the Columbia River...  windy and slow 
went along the Umatilla River... stopped by a cliff (shade) and scoped out the 
map, collected rocks and sage brush (Artemisia), then stopped again by the 
River to wade and hang in the shade. 
    714  got gas in Hood River.   sun going down.  I'm on the west side of 
the mountains, and it's finally cooling down (like under 90*) the bus is 
sounding a bit happier.
crossed the river at the Bridge of the Gods ($1 toll)
    880  sign on the freeway says 12:20 am and 70*F in Olympia
87886   I'm home   12:30 am 

1172 miles.  averaged 21.6 mpg.   (not counting the last tank, as I'm not 
sure how much was eaten) 
there are some pics on the samba.  search for pics I've posted with "Boise" 
in the title.  Might put more up later.

.  
.......................................................................................
http://home.comcast.net/~sunrisebus/sunrisebuswerk.html
