Date: Wed, 14 Jul 2004 23:45:51 -0700
To: VB list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: VW VD and other tales

<in best cheech and chong voice> are you tired of the steady drip 
drip drip of VW gonorrhea?

while discussing something else, i mentioned to another listee that i 
had dropped the motor THREE TIMES july 4 to fix an oil leak. to no 
avail.  i thought i'd enliven everybody else's evening with another 
tiresome and pointles saga of aluminum motor hell..........


>Geez, three times? Where is the leak?


quien sabe?
got a big puke up of oil on the driveway one day...
i  originally thought bad main; dropped engine. main seems fine, 
replaced it anyways; lubed seal lip with white grease. there is a 
dent in the cam plug ( my 2 yr old thwacked it w/ a screwdriver while 
'helping') and one oil galley plug looks leaky. reloctited galley 
plug;  guys at BAP vw shop say a dent should actually make the cam 
plug tighter. ok. besides, the big fillet of brown permatex i brushed 
in the groove there looked dry. motor in.

huge leak. grrrrrrrr. engine out.  bits of orange rubber in bell 
housing. GGGRRRRRRRRRRR... replace main seal again; lube. add some 
more permatex to cam plug just in case.
engine in.

drive to grocery store. no leaks!  drive home. LEAKS!!!!!!   i have 
no clue.  i assume something is heating up, and leaking oil when 
tolerances go up; or the main seal is seeing so much pressure at 
speed that it weeps. my gauge shows 45 - 50 psi  at cruise so seems 
unlikely.  that cam plug could b the culprit, but i saw NO evidence 
of oil on the case seam; oil contamination from the oil galley plug 
was obvious, as was the main seal leak.

don't even ask me about the oil piston plugs, or the sump, NEITHER of 
which will seal - and i put GASGACINCH on both gaskets, the strainer 
AND the sump plate!  it even drips at the studs, apparently following 
the threads. plate is flat, not warpy from use.  if i find $30 to 
p*ss away, i might even try the scat billet plate - maybe the steel 
sump plate heats up at such a different rate than the aluminum case 
that it causes problems. maybe i am grasping at straws!!!

   i have tried several different crush sealing rings on the oil 
piston plugs... newer, skinny ones, older fatter ones, some copper 
ones from another car of some sort  - even, on the suggesting of ray 
heath - nylon washers. dripdripdrip.  i've tried different plugs, 
german, mexican and wherever the shiny gold ones are from. i suspect 
the sealing surface is not ground true vs. the bore, ie at an angle. 
so it will be tight at one point, loose 180 degrees opposite.

i have NEVER had an engine leak this much - except for the  motor 
bought with the bus that had actually pounded the 3/4 head off of the 
cylinders, and would weep oil onto the heater boxes. even that one 
never soiled the drive... just a lil smoky when running :)

i'm sure i will get emails chastising me that 'everyone' else with 
these cases has no problems. bollocks.


<cheech and chong> rotten motor, rotten motor, rotten 
mooootorrrrrrrrrrrr.......


i drove the bus across town the other day, and it did sorta ok in the 
110 heat... my berg oil temp sender unit (a shorty in the t3 blockoff 
plate) kept going off, yet my head temps were 350 or below, and my 
oil pressure was 30 - 45 at cruise, 15 at idle. i suspect the 
aluminum case - since everyone says it run hotter than the mag - is 
to blame. i'll need to ask berg how to adjust the cut-in temp. i 
never went above 50 mph, so no idea how hot thing s would get on 
highway. for whatever reason, the temp sender in my oil cooler 
stopped working, so i don't know what temps the oil was actually at. 
really need to fix that, since it showed temp of oil going to the 
bearings. would usually stay at 120 - 150, but would go up to 180 
after a long, fast run followed by a traffic stop.

fan has a problem i need to track down - odd buzzing sound at certain 
rpms. might be a cracked hub.

after being parked, it did NOT want to start up the first time or 
two. never had that happen before, either.
i guess i can't really blame heat soak on the aluminum case, but 
hell, why not? throw it on the pile...


i know the magnesium cases are easy to burn at campfires... trying to 
remember what sets aluminum on fire!  i recall in the falklands war, 
an exocet missile set an aluminum british destroyer ablaze. if anyone 
has an exocet, i will HAPPILY fire it at this motor this jerome!!
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
