Date: Thu, 15 Jul 2004 10:23:58 -0700
From: Philip & Catherine <matchka(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Vintage bus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,  buskatiers
Subject: Trip Report BPA Family Reunion, Boise ID

Last weekend we attended the 10th annual Bus Pilots Association (BPA)
Family Reunion in Boise, ID.  Anyone who can get to this meet and passes
is foolish.  They are missing a great meet.

In our usual style we arrived on Thursday after a night at a BLM
community gravel pit in Oregon.  A call to James, in charge of the web
page for BPA, and he drove down in his early customized beetle to meet
us.  We were greeted eagerly and offered a place to stay at his place in
Meridian, just outside Boise.  James had an appointment but he woke up
Gene who loaded up his family in his 67 deluxe and came down to guide us
in.  We joined them for Krispy Kremes then spent some time cruising town
and stocking up on low supplies.

That evening we drove over to Shawn's where an all night party was
commencing to put his freshly painted custom early beetle back together
for the show. Parts like the carburetor and stereo were going on but the
seats were no where to be found.

The next day we wandered over to Gene's and had lessons in silk
screening.  We spent the day silk screening the special 10th anniversary
BPA T-shirts.  As the last T-shirt came through the drying heater it was
time to head to Rockies for burgers.  We then gathered up the troops or
rather bugs and busses, about 25, and headed for downtown.  We spread
out to all of the lanes, slowed down, and cruised the downtown loop
twice.  Definitely held up traffic but folks in the sidewalk cafes
seemed to appreciate us.  We regrouped and some folks headed out to
Parma for a drive-in cruise-in to see Garfield and Harry Potter.  With
the show starting just before 10 pm (it is still light there at 9 pm) it
was the wee hours of the morning (3am-ish) before the tired movie gores
  returned home.

Saturday starts with an 8 am swap meet hosted by Phil at the Wagon Works
in Boise.  We scored a few models and a turn signal peanut for the Baja.
   The show stopper was the engine blow.  This engine has used a quart
of oil for the last 3 miles it ran.  After a false start (electrical
problem) it ran for over 3 minutes before it puked number 3 rod and rod
bearing and then it sped up for it's last gasp.

Next we met at the RailRoad Depot and started out on a navigational
rally.  Of course not knowing Boise we had to perform our own
navigational course to get to the depot.  We were under a handicap for
the rest of the event.  Other competitors were locals, called mom for
information, and one car completed the rally via the phone book and a
cell phone.  The winner was Ej and Brooke in a silver streak bay.  Nice
to see them outrun those beetles.  Looked like a mini gumball rally.

Well the ending point of the navigational rally was the start of the
next event.  More folks gathered and we all prepared for a float trip
down the Boise river.  Chris and Jeff came through and made sure we had
a paddle. (Hated to be up the creek without one.) Thanks to some
coordination and the large volume of people and gear you can get in a
bus we car pooled up to the put-in point.  Chip was not rafting but he
piled a bunch of folks and gear in his bay panel and drove us up anyway.
There was a problem with getting a rental boat for James and his family
but Shawna came through with extra gear and another paddle was lent out.
  After a short pause to air up the boats with free air provided a the
put-in point we were soon on our way down river.  With a little guidance
we were able to stay in the raft through the falls and rapids.  The only
ones who went swimming were the folks who wanted to.  Thanks to Benny
who pushed us left when it was posted 'stay right' we got one of the
best rides of the run.  The water went over Catherine then over Philip's
head.  Deep hole.

By the end of the run it was 8 pm and time to unwind.  We were invited
to Ej and Brooke's for a pizza-in.  We walked into the back yard and
found Clara (see her trip report) and Greg Noble.  Surprise.

Lind remembered our need for a well worn cargo door striker plate and
had brought it to the party.  Our new door seals were making it hard to
impossible to close the driver side set so we replaced our nice plate
with Lind's worn one until the rubber molds in.

It was late and we considered our drive back to Meridian but the offer
of the drive way at Jill's, Ej and Brooke's neighbor was too tempting.
She also offered up her shower which was an adventure.  It was a claw
footed tub with a suspended shower curtain enclosure and intricate plumbing.

Show day started at 8 am with breakfast for the volunteers plus some.
By 10 am we were on show site and helping to set up the tent and arrange
parking.  With his reputation from BBB8 Philip was but in charge of
parking. He grouped them and lined them up for some great pictures.
(see the BPA web page http://www.buspilots.com)  He also provided an
added service of opening their doors.

Not sure of the number of cars there but with a split window, several
ovals, the bugs were well represented.  Bays outnumbered splits about 15
to 13 but there was a split single cab and a 21 window.  There were also
3 vanagons and 2 water-cooled cars.  A couple of things, one ghia (guess
who got the award), and a line up of dune buggy's finished out the show.
  There was also one grandfather had built family heirloom street rod.
Check out the picture on the show site.

By 5 pm the crowd had dissolved, the grounds were packed up and picked
up and we headed over to the local favorite pizza show for a post show
wind down and thank you for the workers.  There we were presented a
plaque with the BPA logo and a thank you.

We stayed an extra day to recover from the weekend and tie up loose
ends.  Wonderful thanks to all of the incredible hospitality and
friendship.  Anyone looking for a very FULL and FUN weekend should
definitely attend next years show.

WE'LL BE BACK  :)  (thanks to our governor)

P & C
