Cc: list vintage bus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, The Bug Pack
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Fri, 16 Jul 2004 11:06:42 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: CONFIDENTIAL CAMPOUT PLAN

Attention internet bus drivers,

I am seeking reliable and honest bus drivers who will be capable for 
this important transaction.

I am Mr. Greg Potts, of Toronto Ontario Canada, Manager and Promoter of 
Buses of the Corn.  There is a surplus of Corn in our province during 
the summer and I have been entrusted to assist in its distribution 
during the weekend of August 6th - 8th, 2004. In order to transfer out 
these vegetables I require your urgent assistance.

For the reasonable sum of only $8 Canadian Funds I will establish a 
campsite designated with your personal account information at the Buses 
Of the Corn event. If I am not urgently recieving of these funds before 
the 31st of July the fee at the gate must be increased to $10. This  
way I can be assured that the corn will be properly distributed and the 
balance of the fun will belong to you. Payment can be sent through mail 
or by using the services of our trusted paypal system. If you are in 
need of a commemorative T-shirt we would be most honored and pleased to 
assist in meeting your needs for a most reasonable $10. Additional 
charges for shipping may be required for those not attending the event.

At the conclusion of our transaction you will be entitled to the full 
benefits of attending Buses Of The Corn. The Burrito Breakfast, the 
Swap Meet, the Tie Dye Workshop, the Frisbee Golf Course, the Bus 
Driving Challenge and so many other Capitalized Activities can be 
delivered directly unto you at our location near Whitby Ontario Canada.

Your assistance in this endevour would be most graciously appreciated, 
particularly if you could pass the word to your bus driving friends.

If you are needing of any further additionnal information, please be 
visitng our 419-free website: http://www.busesofthecorn.com, or reply 
to greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca

Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.busesofthecorn.com
