From: "ronnie chase" <ronniechase(-at-)worldnet.att.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 16 Jul 2004 12:24:41 -0700
Subject: new panel, loud rgbs.

back ground:
 there's been a 57 dd panel in the area i wanted for ever(don't know why, it's
a seriously ugly and hacked bus. it just feels right). it was always just
sitting in spite of the money the owner spent on the running gear. well, the
front wheel cylinders gave out from sitting, and she installed the battery
backwards so the bus quit running, so she was finally ready to let it go. i
pick it up for what seems to be a song. take it home, replace battery,
polarize generator and vrooom it runs. out of tune, but runs strong. tune up
will be a new hassle for me later as it has dual webbers, which i know nothing
about. take it for a spin around the block and it's making a sound like knoby
tires rubbing a fender, only nothing is rubbing. take another list member for
a ride and he immediately says reduction boxes. big bummer as it's a 67 german
transaxles built tranny with only 2,800 miles on it, and a major factor in
agreeing to the purchase price.


problem:
ok funky noise from the rgb's. i put it up on stands. pull the drums, all
brake hardware is where it should be. try to wiggle the lower axle around,
push/pull, seems fine. turn the lower axle by hand and get a dull sorta click
sound like a rubber mallet pulled slowly across a wash board.  remove the fill
plug on the rgb and there isn't enough oil to get my finger wet. light coating
on the gear, with little puddles in the V like it's picking up oil from the
bottom, but there isn't enough to cover the gear. spin the axle a few times
with plug out and the box quickly fills to over flowing. same story on  both
sides. wtf?
the only thing i can think of is that the shop (no name garage for those in
the eugene area) who installed it only filled the center section, and with the
fill plugs still in the boxes, air pressure wouldn't allow enough oil into the
box.
whatever the cause, my new to me rebuilt tranny has run 2800 miles with low
oil in the boxes.
adding to the problem is that the bus is 30 highway miles from home at a place
i'm house sitting. i'm out of time to work here and have to take it home.
could those 30 miles do the boxes in completely?

also, i've considered rebuilding the boxes my self but after looking at hazet
guy's pictures of a rebuild i'm thinking it may be out of my league. any
novices on the list done them successfully? should all the bearings be
replaced even if the lower still seems ok? ideas on bearing cost? i called
german transaxle and they said they could do it for $400(which i don't have,
but was lower than i expected), which would also require me to pull the tranny
and drive it over to bend(ugh).
