From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 16 Jul 2004 16:52:01 EDT
To: ronniechase(-at-)worldnet.att.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] new panel, loud rgbs.

Congrats!!! I'm a frim believer in the' feel right' bus factor.    

if the stub axles don't wobble, odds are the RGBearings are okay.   when you 
pull the drain pull you shouldn't see oil.   that's just how it is.   the 
habitrail system works... center section is open to the axles.  the puddles in the 
V and oil when you turn it sounds okay.  

the click when turned may be from the Fplate area at the crown gears and axle 
spades... those wear on buses.   did you hear a thunk when you suddenly let 
off the gas (driving, in gear)... it would indicate bad slop at the fp area.

maybe I'm miserly, but when I redid my big nut RGBs in the 61 a few years 
ago... I just replaced what was bad.

you could also jack up a rear wheel, place on jack stands, block front 
wheels,  turn engine on and bus in gear... walk back and listen for noises... unless 
you have a limited slip dif this is fine with one wheel off the ground, or 
you can do both at once.

 In a message dated 7/16/2004 12:25:38 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
ronniechase(-at-)worldnet.att.net writes:
back ground:
there's been a 57 dd panel in the area i wanted for ever(don't know why, it's
a seriously ugly and hacked bus. it just feels right)....
... take it for a spin around the block and it's making a sound like knoby
tires rubbing a fender, only nothing is rubbing. take another list member for
a ride and he immediately says reduction boxes. big bummer as it's a 67 german
transaxles built tranny with only 2,800 miles on it, and a major factor in
agreeing to the purchase price.


problem:
ok funky noise from the rgb's. i put it up on stands. pull the drums, all
brake hardware is where it should be. try to wiggle the lower axle around,
push/pull, seems fine. turn the lower axle by hand and get a dull sorta click
sound like a rubber mallet pulled slowly across a wash board.  remove the fill
plug on the rgb and there isn't enough oil to get my finger wet. light coating
on the gear, with little puddles in the V like it's picking up oil from the
bottom, but there isn't enough to cover the gear. spin the axle a few times
with plug out and the box quickly fills to over flowing. same story on  both
sides. wtf?
the only thing i can think of is that the shop (no name garage for those in
the eugene area) who installed it only filled the center section, and with the
fill plugs still in the boxes, air pressure wouldn't allow enough oil into the
box.
whatever the cause, my new to me rebuilt tranny has run 2800 miles with low
oil in the boxes.
adding to the problem is that the bus is 30 highway miles from home at a place
i'm house sitting. i'm out of time to work here and have to take it home.
could those 30 miles do the boxes in completely?

also, i've considered rebuilding the boxes my self but after looking at hazet
guy's pictures of a rebuild i'm thinking it may be out of my league. any
novices on the list done them successfully? should all the bearings be
replaced even if the lower still seems ok? ideas on bearing cost? i called
german transaxle and they said they could do it for $400(which i don't have,
but was lower than i expected), which would also require me to pull the tranny
and drive it over to bend(ugh).

..............................................................................
.........
http://home.comcast.net/~sunrisebus/sunrisebuswerk.html
