Date: Fri, 16 Jul 2004 23:18:25 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: vintagebus Digest 16 Jul 2004 12:00:00 -0000 Issue 3669

> From: "John Flowers" <flowersj(-at-)grics.net>
> Date: Thu, 15 Jul 2004 22:09:03 -0500
>
> I took the distributor end of the coil wire and held it 1/8" away from 
> the intake manifold while my wife turned the engine over...no spark from
> the coil wire.

A bum condenser can cause a no spark condition - I had this happen on a
'74 Bug.  One test you can do: pop the distributor cap off and unplug
the points wire from the condenser wire.  Also disconnect the
distributor wire at the coil.  You should have the condenser still
screwed to the distributor, and a long wire coming off the condenser
with a male push-on in a rubber block in the middle and a female push-on
(or ring terminal) at the end.  Now, turn the key on and put one end of
your test light to the hot wire at the coil (the one you didn't just
disconnect) and put the other end of your test light to ground (engine
case).  The test light should glow - this proves you have juice at the
coil and a working test light.  Now, keep one end of your test light on
the hot wire at the coil and connect the other end to that long wire
coming off the condenser.  If the test light illuminates, your condenser
is shorted and is likely the source of your problem.  If the test light
doesn't go on, it doesn't automatically mean the condenser is good.
Try swapping the condenser from your Bus temporarily.

> I reattached the wires to the installed coil and now I have no power
> in the car at all. No power to the coil,everything seems to be dead.

Like, no headlights, nothing?  Start with the test light directly across
the battery positive and negative terminals.  Then try between the
transmission case and the battery cable at the starter.  Then, up in the
trunk, between ground (like a non-painted bolt that goes into the body)
and the fuse box terminal with all the fat red wires on it.  Basically,
chase the fatter red wire (30) of the two that come from the starter
until you find the broken place.  The wiring diagrams at
http://www.vintagebus.com/wiring can help - note that Thom has Bug,
Ghia, Type 3, and Type 4 diagrams too -- not just Bus ones.

Matt Roberds
