From: MIKEMELBROOKS(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 17 Jul 2004 16:13:25 EDT
To: glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] fan width

In a message dated 16/07/04 20:02:31 GMT Daylight Time, glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com  
writes:

On Sat,  3 Jul 2004 MIKEMELBROOKS(-at-)aol.com wrote:

> Ok the fan width I had was  32mm I have obtained a 35mm one, I have  also
> cleaned out a good  quarter of an inch of grime a mix of oil and dust from  
inside
>  the fan housing . I am going to replace the themostat flaps which   the
> previous owner left out. I have a type 4 oil cooler and was  wondering  
about
> upgrading to this?.

Some have done this  with good results, but it requires modifications to
the tin.  There is  also a close-spaced type III cooler that fits in the
stock tin which you  might consider.

> I also have to check the fanbelt dimensions as a  long  belt will
> make the generator larger diameter in affect  causing the fan to turn  
slower,
> and I have been using no shims  to tension the belt.  Any  more 
suggestions? Mike

I don't  think that the variation in effective pulley diameter will make a
great  difference.  The output from the fan is in a "choked flow"  condition
at cruising RPMs, so spinning the fan faster won't flow any more  air.
However, if you have used up all your shims it may well be time for a  new
belt!

The most important thing to do is to minimize all the gaps  where air can
leak through the tin, particularly those that allow hot air  from under the
engine to return to the engine bay.  All the airflow in  the world won't
help if the air entering the fan is already hot!  I've  lost count of the
times I've stopped to help a VW person overheated on a  summer day and
found gaping holes around the missing hot air or heater  tubes.

George



Hi I went ahead with the type 4 oil cooler conversion. What with this and  
cleaning out the fan housing and the wider fan I found I could cruise at 65 all  
day long and it wasnt untill I got up to 75 that the warning light started to 
 flicker. before it was 65 mph and as slow as 45 up hill when the warning  
light started to show. All the tin ware is in good condition with the correct  
rubber grommets around the heater tubes. I will play around again with the  
ignition timming now I think I can probably advance it a little more. I  have 
blancked of the heat risers as before the engine ran so hot carb icing was  not a 
issue. Next step air scoops any body know any plans for them online? 
I see bugpack sell a 37mm fan. 
Mike    
