Cc: Type2 Mailing List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Thu, 9 Sep 2004 14:53:55 -0700
To: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] No new Type II

On Sep 9, 2004, at 1:36 PM, George Lyle wrote:

> I don't think that VW (at least in the us) is capable of thinking in 
> these
> terms any longer.  I guess I'll just have to get another 30 years out 
> of
> my '71!

I got to thinking (I know... dangerous! :-) a little more about this 
thread today while I was walking down to the gym...

Basically, the epiphany I had was this: You can hardly blame the car 
companies for the current situation.  They react to market demand, 
after all...

Now, I'm 31.66 years old... I was an impressionable kid during the 70s 
(bus content: I very vividly remember seeing Star Wars for the first 
time at a drive-in theater, sitting on a stool between the front seats 
of my parents' brand-new VW Bus).  One of the impressions left on me 
during that time was how people seemed to see utility and good value as 
virtues... We had a President who put on a sweater rather than turn up 
the thermostat, and lots of people drove very sensible cars such as the 
VW Bus, Beetle, and Squareback... not to mention the other sensible 
imports: Honda Civics, Datsun 510 wagons, and the small pickups of the 
day like the Mazda (w/ rotary) and Chevy LUV (made by Isuzu).

...then the 80s happened.  The values that drove car choice in the mid- 
to late-70s were now totally out of fashion.  One was supposed to 
display their wealth, even if they didn't have any (going into 
overly-burdensome debt was OK, as long as you had that that sweet new 
Saab 9000 Turbo or the cute new BMW 325i convertible!).  Now, not 
everyone was like this, obviously... plenty of people continued to buy 
e.g. Volvo 245 DL wagons -- very utilitarian automobiles[*]!  But even 
Volvo made the migration from utility to "luxury utility" during this 
time.

[*] I'm leaving out American cars on-purpose... My observation at the 
time was that American cars made during the 80s fell apart about 2 
blocks away from the dealership, making them neither sensible nor 
utilitarian -- Probably a major reason why my folks held onto their 
sensible late 70s cars.  Compare that to the Volvo 245 DL ... my 
father-in-law has an '83 with > 350K miles on it that, until very 
recently, he used as a daily driver for his commute (first in the 
Houston area, now in the LA area)... while it is on its second 
transmission (a used one pulled from a wrecked 245 in a junkyard), the 
never-rebuilt engine still runs great, and doesn't leak any oil.  The 
doors still make that very satisfying Volvo "thunk" when closed.

Even during the recession of the early-90s, it never quite got turned 
around.  Then the economy recovered, and the Boom happened.  By the 
mid-90s, I was living in the San Francisco Bay Area (working at a gov't 
lab rather than taking my company with no sound business model public, 
unfortunately :-), and I have to say that there were an awful lot of 
brand-spanking-new Mercedes, Audis, Jaguars, and Porches seen on the 
Bay Area's freeways.  This is when you started seeing those "luxury 
SUVs".  Trucks with interiors so nice that you wouldn't dare let 
mud-covered kids climb into them after soccer practice.  Ridiculous.

To get back to my point, the reason that no auto makers are selling 
cars like the Bus anymore is because for the last 20 years, no one has 
wanted them.

...except for maybe a few thousand folks who are willing to spend 
countless hours (and, sometimes, countless dollars) to keep their old 
ones running.  I wonder what Freud would have said about us :-)

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
