From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Paul Deatherage" <deatheragepaul(-at-)yahoo.com>, "Type2"
Date: Thu, 9 Sep 2004 21:36:07 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] No oil pressure! Pump?

Paul,
Sounds like a NASTY problem. Looks like some good possibilities have been
pointed out by others. The thing that comes to mind for me is, Did you install
the O-ring on the end of the oil pick up tube before you installed it in the
block? Might you have damaged this ring during install?

Did you install threaded plugs instead of the press fit plugs in the oil
galleries? I'm not experienced with the engine in a 73 but I just looked at a
stripped case from a 75. There is a large plug just below and to the right of
the oil pump. It looks as though the passage leading from the sump to the oil
pump could be blocked by installing a threaded plug too deeply into the
gallery.

I have installed several used oil pumps (Not all in VWs) and never had one
perform worse after re-installation than before the rebuild. BUT, one more
idea. Did you replace the O ring inside the oil pump. I suppose this ring
could dry out and crack if it is still the original.

To prime an installed pump I have had success with forcing oil under pressure
into the pressure switch hole with a very large plastic syringe I bought at a
local feed store. the barrel of the syringe was about an inch in diameter and
about 8" long. The end where the needle would be attached was the ideal size
to plug into the hole where the pressure switch would normally be installed.
With no oil in the case and the drain plug removed I forced oil into the
gallery until I had oil coming out the drain. This I consider as an indication
that the oil galleries were full. Then I pushed in a couple more syringes full
for good measure. Took a while and my arms got real tired of pushing that
plunger! I installed the drain plug and pressure sensor, then filled the case
with the proper amount of oil. when I cranked the engine I had instant oil
pressure!

Not at all sure this will help but I figure it's food for thought,
Best of luck,
Tom
  Subject: [T2] No oil pressure! Pump?


  Hello, list. So, we were getting ready to start up my 73 the other day, for
the first time since the engine has been back in. We decided to crank the
engine until we could achieve oil pressure.
