To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Fri, 10 Sep 2004 01:05:46 -0400
Subject: re: [T2] No new Type II

Hi Jason,

It's Friday, so 'd like to contribute to the history lesson:

In the early 80's, interest rates were raised to insane levels, as a 
way to combat inflation. This had some long-reaching effects on the 
transportation and manufacturing industries:

1. Parts inventories were trimmed to the bone, and then some. It became 
cheaper to ship parts piecemeal than to ship them by the rail-car load. 
  This begat "Just-in-time" manufacturing, and computerized inventory 
management was developed to support it.

2. Since parts weren't being manufactured by the rail-car load, rail 
traffic plummeted. This begat a tremendous increase in 18-wheeler 
traffic.

3. "Just-in-time" manufacturing makes it possible to shorten production 
runs and offer a lot more variety to the public, and to get it into 
production a lot quicker. Which means that the marketing people get a 
lot more say in what goes to market.  This begat more models with more 
options. Innovation is king, says the manufacturers. Cost is 
irrelevant. Fuel Economy is irrelevant.

<RANT MODE>

QUESTION:
Now that interest rates are near all-time lows, why is no-one going 
back to true "mass-production"??

ANSWER:
It's because all manufacturers fear that their competition will 
innovate their market out from under them. That isn't  an unreasonable 
assumption, since that's what that industry players have been doing to 
one another since the turn of the last century. And no manager wants to 
get caught off-guard with a warehouse loaded full of pinto tail-light 
housings if they can help it. Besides, our rail network couldn't handle 
it if they did, because their rolling stock and track have been 
neglected for decades.

IF I HAD A BILLION DOLLARS:
I'd like to see an open-source initiative developed to re-invent a 
utility vehicle like the VW bus. Design it with interchangeable 
suspension and powerplant components and interior configurations to 
support passenger and commercial uses. License manufacturers to produce 
compatible components and let the end-user determine the configuration 
they want to buy. You could buy a suspension from BMW and a motor from 
Audi and a body from VW and know that they would fit together. Get 
Westfalia to build your interior if you want a camper. Or get Karmann 
to build a convertible.  Freeze development of suspension and body 
component designs in 20 year increments, but allow for continual 
refinement of powerplant to improve economy and emissions ONLY. Force 
the government and military to use them wherever possible. Parts 
availability would be like nothing we have ever dreamed of.

Would this be the perfect car for everyone? Maybe not. But innovation 
on models like the original Bus, Beetle and Mini tells me that a lot 
can be done with a simple basic platform. And this would offer economic 
and environmental advantages that the free-market manufacturers are 
NEVER going to offer us.

But seeing as I don't have a billion  dollars, I'll continue to drive 
my bus. ;-)

</END RANT>


Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.busesofthecorn.com


On 9-Sep-04, at 5:53 PM, Jason Thorpe wrote:

> Basically, the epiphany I had was this: You can hardly blame the car
> companies for the current situation.  They react to market demand,
> after all...
> SNIP
> To get back to my point, the reason that no auto makers are selling
> cars like the Bus anymore is because for the last 20 years, no one has
> wanted them.
