From: "Thomas" <vwmicro1974(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 10 Sep 2004 04:39:15 -0400
Subject: Bay Window vs. Splitty

aHHH Insomnia!!!

Just sitting here wide awake at 4am thinking about the past year with my
Baywindow.  I've owned at least fifteen VW's since '89 when I was 15 years
old.  One was a near mint '79 Westy with original paint, upholstery, etc...
The others consisted of early stock Type I's, '64 KG, a '55 Single Cab, '66
Deluxe 13 Window and now a '74 Micro.
About a year ago I began to think about leaving my job, cutting expenses and
trying to figure out what I REALLY what to do in life...I'm turning 30 next
week!  So, last year I decided I should by a Baywindow with the following in
mind:

1) I had plenty of money at the time to restore virtually anything
2) Baywindows are easier to find parts for on the road and I wanted to
travel.
3) I love air-cooled VW's and this somehow fit perfectly with my plan on
leaving my job.

A year has past and I now have about $10K in the '74 performing 95% of the
restoration myself.  Granted some of this money was spent on 1000 watt stereo,
DVD, alarm, paint, etc... Looking back over receipts I have to wonder if a
Baywindow was the right choice?
The value on Baywindow is obviously lower than an early bus.  Aesthetically I
think *most* people prefer Splitties, however the Bays definitely have their
own charm... What am I trying to say here??? My 74' is great, I love it, I
really do!  But, for instance... I've just been to brake hell and am slowly
starting to see the light of day again.  I really wanted the brakes to be done
right by my local guru, so this is one of the things I paid someone else to
do.
The brake system on the Bays is obviously superior, as are most mechanical
improvements to the vehicle, however these new innovations cost so much more
than the Splitties.  I believe I will have nearly a thousand dollars in brakes
alone!  I've replaced everything due to the bus sitting for 10+ years in a
field.  The brake booster, all hoses, pads, master cylinder, everything!!  The
brake booster was the most expensive part, however I just spent another $225
today on new calipers.  The shop is going to install these tomorrow and I am
not looking forward to seeing the labor bill (I am looking forward to surfing
while *they* are doing my brake work though).
Anyways, the '74 is definitely been an experience... It helped keep my sanity
and drive to keep my job for the past year and now I have a virtually new bus!
I did in fact leave my job about a month ago and I am much happier now!  The
bus makes at least 10 people smile everyday when I drive it around town!
Lately there has been a commercial advertising QVC, has anyone seen this?
It's a guy in the Quality Control division stating how he likes things that
last...the camera pans out and he is standing in front of an original
mid-seventies Baywindow, Dove Blue!!  This could be my bus!
Okay, I need to stop rambling now and go to bed.  I love air-cooled VW's, I
love Baywindows, I love Splitties, I love everything... Hmmmmm that should
protect me from any flames?

Zzzzzzzzzzz,

Tom
