From: "Eric Shook" <eric(-at-)scurvymonkey.net>
To: <ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 10 Sep 2004 08:53:30 -0400
Subject: Dual Carb Problems

Please bear with me. this is not my bus and I can take very little
credit for helping hook it up.  My friend from out of town is trying to
get his new dual carb setup to run.  The bus is a '78 with a 2.0.  The
carbs are EMPI Dual 40mm Solex very similar to the following:
http://www2.cip1.com/ProductDetails.asp?ProductCode=C13%2D43%2D4500
 
He took it for a test drive last night and lost power and stalled a few
blocks from my house and was able to limp it within pushing distance.
Nothing seemed out of place after taking a look.  After fiddling around,
he tried it again and it took off fine.  A couple laps around the
neighborhood and he was confident it was ready to leave this morning.
This morning brought with it the starting/stalling problems.  Sometimes
he could get it running (sounded okay) for a few seconds and then it
would die.  We eventually ran the battery dead.
 
Before he tried starting it the first time, he attempted his own
variation of a vacuum test.  He fabricated solid (no hole in the middle)
cork gaskets to fit between each carb and the manifold.  A hand-pump
brake bleeder was attached to the line going from the carbs to the brake
booster.  Upon applying ~10-15 lbs of vacuum, the needle would return to
0 lbs in about 2-4 seconds.  Would this indicate a vacuum leak since the
vacuum did not hold?  He is also curious if carb icing could be the
issue.
 
He has business to attend to this morning but will be back around 4:00pm
today, Friday the 10th.  If anyone having knowledge of this setup would
be willing to receive a phone call to discuss it after this time, please
p-mail me your phone number.  If anyone in the Columbus OH region is
within driving distance and would be willing to lend an ear/hand, I have
Killians Irish Red and Bud Light cold and will fire up anything you want
on the grill.  Of course any and all emails are welcome and greatly
appreciated!  I'll try to answer what questions I can, but he's really
to one that knows what's going on... well, okay maybe he doesn't; it
would be running if he did!  :-D>  TIA!!
 
Have a good one,
Eric Shook
