From: "Michael Edwards" <medwards1(-at-)triad.rr.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
Date: Tue, 28 Sep 2004 22:05:24 -0400
Subject: Emission Control Continued.... RE RE (long)

<I am curious about your muffler. What kind is it?? I notice that the holes
are oblong rather than a one-to-one fit. ...The oblong hole on the strap that
is attached to the engine is a weak point. That strap may quickly break. I am
sorry; WILL quickly break. >

The muffler is http://busdepot.com/details.jsp?partnumber=352000 from
BusDepot. The quality seems good, thick metal, etc. but the fit is atrocious.
Both flanges will not attach to the heater boxes at the same time.

http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/album_page.php?pic_id=89862

I actually had to cut the right pipe in two at the weld to get the remaining
portion to attach.

http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/album_page.php?pic_id=89863

Even then the strap is maxed out with no more play and only by using longer
bolts and tightening down could I get the left side flush. The muffler touches
the fan cover and the tailpipe points downward reducing clearance. I'm
probably going to cut a flange off of an old system to space the left so the
muffler wont touch the fan cover anymore, weld in a spacer pipe to reattach
the right side so it will reach, and cut and reweld the tailpipe to the proper
angle.

But that's a different story..


<Does anyone have an suggestions on how to strengthen that strap area??>

Reweld if it breaks or beef it up from the start with more metal.


<I am sorry, but your EGR VALVE looks to be a bit distressed (POS). You simply
cannot just attach everything and expect your EGR system to work.>


Any suggestions on how to test? Once I find the linkage just rev the engine
and watch for action? I guess just because the arm moves doesn't mean it's
working properly. How about the internal condition? Anyone know where to find
a new one? I didn't see anything on some of the major vendor sites.


<the missing piece off the muffler is an EGR FILTER. Check the vendors for a
new one. Pricy, but needed since the exhaust carbon will quickly clog up your
EGR VALVE (which is probably clogged anyways, as most of them are clogged)>

Got one on order. From the picture looks like it will fit between the muffler
and the engine compartment with no additional linkage.

<If you buy and attach an EGR FILTER, and you remove and perfectly cleanup the
EGR VALVE and you get the MISSING LINK from the EGR VALVE to the throttle, you
STILL must clean out the tube(s) that are in the intake manifold. This is NOT
a simple feat. It is something that you do as you watch the football games,
and then the basket ball games, and then the 2006 winter Olympics, and then
the TV rerun of Terminator IV, starring the then current secretary of state
[now, what's his name?? Cute wife, though...]>

Anyone have any suggestions on how to clean out carbon? I recently gave up on
trying to clear the heat riser tubes from an old carb intake manifold. The
only plausible suggestion I've heard recently was to heat red hot with a
torch, dip in cold water, smack on concrete, repeat, repeat, repeat. In theory
the expansion and contraction of the metal might allow the carbon to break
free. If you can get enough clearance you might be able to try the braided
cable in a drill trick, but those are some sharp 90 bends, tough to feed. I
dunno.

<This, of course will increase the value of your VW da-nada, and similarly the
performance; i. e., cooling the engine temp by xyz degrees because you are
feeding noncombustible exhaust gases into the pistons, which is then
maintaining the high compression ratio, but burning the lower combustible
mixture at a lower temp. think about it. What do you think would happen to
your VW engine if you ran JP5 fuel?? Wouldn't you burn it up pronto?? Now you
are putting in exhaust gas - air-fuel ratio is the same, but there is another
10% of unburnable exhaust fumes there to allow the air-fuel mixture to
compress higher, but less of it. Like running a 1.7 engine inside a 1.8
engine, I guess.
Of course the EGR VALVE cuts this exhaust gas at idle (why choke the engine)
and at full throttle (you are running at full throttle for a reason, and you
want the most power available) so this is just cooling your engine during
normal driving...>

I hope there are some performance enhancements. Otherwise my environmental
conscience is starting to wain.
