From: "Rob Henley" <robhenley(-at-)baywindowbus.com>
To: "ChaMoon" <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 28 Sep 2004 23:23:58 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] bad fuel filter (LONG)more problems

Hey Chris,

You say:

"try to tighten it and it wont tighten down all the way but gets snug... 
with effort the dizzy can still be moved...not forcefully but just effort.."

This isn't good and will make the bus "jump timing". Don't forget there are 
2 nuts on the dizzy retainer...the 13mm that holds the retainer down and a 
long 10mm nut to tighten the clamp. Make sure they are both tight. If this 
doesn't work I have a spare retainer I can send you.

"changed the dipstick boot and found it to be as aggrivating as they always 
are... it was dry rotted a bit if i squeezed it i could see the cracks 
throughout it.... after 7000 miles from rebuild how long do those little 
pissers last anyways.(grins)...?"

I have found that there are 2 types of dipstick booties...a hard plastic 
feeling one that is a bugger to get on or off. These last longer, but you 
will cuss your Mother trying to install one. The other is the much more 
pliable one that will dry rot, but should last more than 7000 miles. I keep 
2 or 3 of these on hand all the time because I like the softer ones for ease 
of installing. Don't forget that booty is pretty close to your exhaust and 
the road so it won't last forever. I haven't had a problem with leakage 
though even with an older one.

"looking to replace this (rear main seal) now.... gotta be what it is or 
telling myself thats it...?"

I agree that is what it is. The symptoms sound right. It's either that or 
the oil cooler seals. The only other things are the dipstick booty, oil 
pressure sender, oil filter arm or the oil pump. I think once you have the 
fan off you will see the source. Don't pinch the new rear main seal...if you 
do throw it out and start over. It needs to be banged flush with a rubber 
mallet or similar, making sure it is even all around.

"now how to pull the fan without to much trouble and without having a 
puller..? i know i can use the three bolt holes from the fan screen 
(protector).. but what about grabbing ahold so when i tighten down it pulls 
evenly on the fan it'self./.?>?"

When I emailed you previously I guess I wasn't clear about the trick I was 
telling you about. The trick I was describing was for the fan HUB. Not the 
fan itself. The fan will come off pretty easy. Just pull the screen and the 
3 bolts holding the fan on and then utilize a screwdriver to pry it evenly 
around the fan to get it off. I have a small pry bar with a hook on it that 
I use on stuck fans. It will come out just keep going all around it until it 
pulls off. Sometimes the tin under the fan will be in the way and you have 
to push down on it while pulling the fan out and up, but the fan should come 
off pretty easy, especially since it hasn't been on there long in your case.

I have pmailed you better instuctions on the fan and the hub.

Good luck and let me know if I can help,

Rob Henley
www.baywindowbus.com
