From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <medwards1(-at-)triad.rr.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 29 Sep 2004 07:59:06 -0500
Subject: cleaning EGR tube carbon, cleaning heat riser tube carbon crude

>anyone have any suggestions on how to clean out carbon? I recently gave up
>on trying to clear the heat riser tubes from an old carb intake manifold.
>The only plausible suggestion I've heard recently was to heat red hot with
>a torch, dip in cold water, smack on concrete, repeat, repeat, repeat. In
>theory the expansion and contraction of the metal might allow the carbon to
>break free. If you can get enough clearance you might be able to try the
>braided cable in a drill trick, but those are some sharp 90 bends, tough to
>feed. I dunno

I have had very good luck cleaning out the heat riser tube, on the intake
manifold of upright engines. I think this method will work the same way with
the EGR valve tube. I use <twisted strand> wire rope, not "braided", as a
Rotor-Rooter. I start with a very short piece chucked into a variable speed
drill. The piece of wire rope should be just long enough to barely reach in
to touch the start of the carbon buildup plus 1/2". I run the drill in the
direction that will NOT unwind the wire strands if the tip of the wire rope
gets stuck dead still in the carbon gunk. The trick is to use wire rope in
progressively longer and longer pieces to go deeper and deeper through the
clog. If you try to use too long a lead, the wire rope will be too flexible
to push into the tube and it will flip around and make a big loop outside
the tube. If too long, it can also whip out and hurt you or double back and
get stuck on itself. I cut lots of pieces of wire rope depending on how
tough the carbon block is, sometimes I have to dig through using 1/2"
increments; sometimes the tunneling goes better and I can make the stages of
wire rope 2" longer at a time. I turn the heat riser tube upside down so it
will hold diesel fuel as a lubricant and carbon gunk crude dissolver. I
clamp the intake manifold in a vise to give me better control. I wear
goggles. I make a big mess, but I get a clean clean clean tube.

I have tried the oxygen-acetylene torch heat method to help loosen really
hard carbon gunk deposits. I just heat the tube almost "straw yellow" (way
less than cherry red) and let it cool slowly back to room temperature. I
would never dunk it in cold water because of perhaps causing stress cracks
or making it too brittle. I don't know to what, or even if, the intake
manifold is tempered to a certain stiffness, but heating to straw yellow and
slow cooling should not change it. 
