Date: Wed, 29 Sep 2004 18:16:10 -0700
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type_2_list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] thoughts on converting FI to carb

Not with busses, but...

I had a 1976 Datsun 280z. Came with FI (L-Jetronic, IIRC) from the
factory. I was young and stupid, and replaced the system with triple
Weber side drafts. I also had more money than sense since I was
single... heh

After screwing around with trying to get 3 carbs balanced properly, I
finally gave up and took it to a shop: Z Experty. They dialed 'em in
as is and recommended smaller jets since I was running a very mild
cam. I drove it for a while and after fouling plugs weekly, agreed.
Had them rejetted. No more fouled plugs, but there was zero seat of
the pants power increase. And they were a (-at-)#$(-at-)#%& to work on.

Since then I've had a Saab, a Volvo, 2 Nissans, and a matched pair of
VW GTI's with various Jetronic flavors, and they were all awesome.
Simple to work on, easy to understand, and great performance.

The biggest key to FI: SEAL EVERYTHING!!!

I remember spending 2 weeks trying to figure out my Saab's problem.
Wouldn't run for squat. Just happened one day. Turned out the intake
boot had a tear on the underside. I couldn't see it, spraying carb
cleaner couldn't find it either. Only when I started pulling every
piece of rubber off one at a time for inspection/replacement did I
find it. Cost me $25 to replace.

With FI, 90% of the catastrophic failures are vacuum leaks. FI powered
vehicle running like poop? Check for vacuum leaks first. Then
electrical connections, then fuel pressure. That's it. Have the
injectors cleaned (NOT BY JIFFYLUBE!!!) every 5-10 years and replace
fuel lines and vacuum lines and intake lines about the same time
frame, test the relays, and that's it.

No rebuilding carbs. No delicate adjustments. No trying to balance two
sources of barely controlled fuel leaks. FI will outlast your engine
easily. My Volvo is on its second engine and I've done zero to the FI
other than repair vacuum leaks in the 2 years I've had it. The FI has
over 300k miles on it, and the hard parts are all original.

Hope I've helped!


--
Don Tuleja
1973 WasaWestyNowaHiTop
http://www.donimages.com/1973bus/
