Date: Sat, 19 Jan 2008 22:25:25 -0500
From: Chris Hobbs <chrhobbs(-at-)mindspring.com>
To: andy <andy(-at-)pon.type2.com>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] shipping a bus

I've shipped my doublecab twice so I have a little experience in this 
subject.  I assume that you're asking this question because you have 
already ruled out any towing arrangement on your own.

Keep in mind that many auto shippers, for example many of those that 
advertise at the big Internet site for auto shippers, www.movecars.com, 
don't own the trucks.  They just broker the job, often with gypsy 
truckers of unpredictable quality or reliability (or intelligence).  
That's how they get the costs down low.  And even with the same company 
you never get the same trucker twice, so consistent quality is hard to 
guarantee.

The first question is whether your bus has a paint job that needs 
protecting.  If yes, you want to think seriously about the extra expense 
for covered auto shipping.  Use uncovered auto shipping with a gypsy 
trucker, and expect your bus to arrive covered in dust, diesel soot, 
and/or hydraulic fluid (the worst) from the dripping pistons that work 
the numerous platforms on a car carrier trailer.  The first time I 
shipped my bus, I had to spend hours hand-rubbing the paint with rubbing 
compound to get out all the stains in my original 1967 paint job.  The 
second time I paid an auto detailer to do the work.  Either way it will 
need to be done.

Other points to consider:
2.  Don't expect the auto shipper's big rig to come right to your 
doorway.  If you live in an area with tight streets, plan ahead to bring 
your bus to some location where the big rig will fit (and where federal 
highway regs will allow it to travel).  For example, a pull-off on a 
4-lane highway or a mall parking lot.
3.  You will be required to have a certified check to give to the 
trucker when he picks up your bus.  Yes you will get a valid receipt.  
Don't be surprised if he asks if you can pay in cash so he has money for 
fuel.
4.  Packing stuff in your bus for the trip can be dicey.  I was told 
that federal trucking regulations are strict about internal cargo in 
shipped vehicles.  A good trucker will tell you that your bus could get 
tagged and pulled off his rig and left at some truck inspection station 
if he gets caught.  A gypsy trucker may not care, or not know, or may be 
planning to avoid the stations anyway (like when his license has 
expired!).  So be discrete about loading up the bus, or at least be 
aware of the regulations before your trucker arrives.  (I was good at 
hiding a lot of cargo in the hidden area under the doublecab rear seat.)
5.  Are you squeamish about having a stranger who may or may not speak 
good english, who may or may not be familiar with the VW stick shift 
pattern, driving your beloved bus up into the bowels of a car carrier 
with mere inches of clearance between vehicles in front, back, on top, 
and bottom?  The second time I shipped I actually had to HELP my trucker 
get the bus up onto the carrier.  I drove the bus onto this tiny 
platform that was tilted at an insane angle while he gave me hand 
signals.  Very scary business and I'm sure not covered by anybody's 
insurance policy. 

All that having been said, whoever you pick is probably irrelevant--most 
likely you will get a couple of estimates, go OUCH, and then sign on 
with whoever can get you a rock bottom price.  Your bus will make it OK, 
just don't expect it to be as clean as you left it.  This ain't the 
world of squeaky clean car carriers that you see gliding by on the way 
to your local auto dealer with brand-new F**ds covered in white 
cling-wrap.  It's dirty and greasy and grimy, and you probably DON'T 
want to know how your bus gets to its destination.  And don't be 
surprised if it doesn't show up on time either--car carriers will gladly 
divert for extra stops if they can move some more cars along your 
route.  Whoever you phone, ask lots of questions if you have any qualms 
about any of this.

        Chris Hobbs
          Oviedo FL
             1967 Doublecab
             1974 412 wagon
             1979 Beetle

andy wrote:

i didnt pay much attention to all those previous threads and now its my
question.

I might want to ship the 64 from miami to NC.
Suggestions appreciated. Carriers, DIY thoughts etc...

Im relocating north so Ill see a lot of you at campouts soon.
PTfreakingL.
