Date: Tue, 29 Jan 2008 15:47:16 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Finding Leaks, Keepin' it Warm

> From: 'Avocado Tom' <tommy(-at-)roadtrip.net>
> Date: Tue, 29 Jan 2008 12:56:12 -0500 (EST)
>
> It's winter time which means that other than thinking about oil
> weights (mostly after the seal blows out of my oil filter),

Don't use Fram filters.  Fwoom on down to NAPA and buy a Wix.

> As a result, I've resigned myself to looking for air leaks (there seem
> to be couple of drafty spots up front)

The home HVAC people do what is called a "blower door test" to look for
leaks.  Basically they open and/or remove the front door of the house,
and install a panel that has a blower bolted to it.  The panel is sealed
to the door frame, and the blower is turned on to suck air out of the
house.  You can then either measure the vacuum in the house (more vacuum
= better sealing; think sucking on a bottle vs sucking on a straw),
and/or go around and look for drafts.

You could do the same thing on a Bus with your average $20 box fan and
some plastic sheeting.  First make a giant tube out of the sheeting, and
tape one end to the outside edge of the box fan.  For the other end, if
you don't have a cherry paint job, you could just tape plastic sheeting
around (say) one of the pop-out side windows.  If you do have a nice
paint job, you have to figure out some other way to seal the plastic to
the Bus body.  Maybe you could open a front window slider and tape some
of the plastic to the fixed glass.  Or, get a spare pop-out frame, and
install a piece of Plexiglas in it.  Cut a hole in the Plexiglas for the
exhaust duct, and install that pop-out frame to test.  (Careful; I
understand the pop-out hinge screws are often rusty.)

Another way to do it would be to use the stock heating tube as an
exhaust.  Crawl under the Bus and take off the flex pipes that connect
to the heater boxes.  Seal off one side of the Y and plumb the other
side to your exhaust fan.

Anyway, once you have the fan set up, you can prowl around the Bus
looking for leaks.  If they are bad enough you can feel them; otherwise
use smoke (as you mentioned), a candle flame (careful!) or maybe
something like a small strip of paper to look for drafts.

Keep in mind that it doesn't take much of a hole to leak a lot of air.
Assuming no back pressure, a 1/2" hole on the front of the Bus will leak
about 7.2 cubic feet of an air in a mile. (0.25 * 0.25 * 3.14159 * 5280
* 12 / (12 * 12 * 12)).  Per VW, the load space + luggage compartment of
a split is 5.6 cubic meters; I'd guess adding in the cab would bring you
up to around 7 cubic meters or around 250 cubic feet.  This means you
could cause a complete air change in the Bus by driving about 35 miles.
In reality it will be slower than this, but maybe this gives some idea.

Matt Roberds
