Date: Thu, 7 Feb 2008 18:56:28 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: starting bus?

> From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
> Date: Thu, 7 Feb 2008 14:12:15 -0500
>
> Today I hooked up the battery to try to start it, and it doesn't want
> to start.

Don't hit me, but... are you sure you hooked *everything* back up?  It's
easy to think "Hey, I'll be extra secure, and disconnect this other wire
as well" and then forget about it 5 months later.

> The lights in the speedo pod(oil & gen) do not even light when I turn
> the key.

If your headlights and wipers work, that's somewhat odd.  On the other
hand, it could be that the points are closed (just because of where the
engine naturally came to rest the last time you shut it off), and the
load from the ignition coil is too much for the battery.  If you want to
experiment, pull off the thin wire (6 V, not thousands of volts) that
goes from the distributor to the coil, and go up front and turn the key
on again.  If your warning lights then work, this suggests that the load
of the coil is too much for the battery.

> I tried shorting the solenoid, and also get nothing.

Going across the two big posts should make the starter spin but not
engage the flywheel.  Going across the big post that has the cable from
the battery and the little connection that goes to the ignition switch
should make it spin and engage the flywheel, just like turning the key.
If neither of these things work, my first three or four suspects would
be the battery, followed by the starter.

> I checked the battery, and it has a decent charge - 6.2V.

As has been mentioned, test it under load if you can.  Turn on the
lights and wipers and check it again.  If it's below 6.0 V, it needs a
charge.

It is possible to have a battery fail such that it appears to work and
has decent voltage under moderate load, but fails totally when you try
and crank the engine.  I had one in a Ch-vy (2.8 l V-6) that did this.

> The headlights and wiper work.

This suggests that that fat red wire that brings all the juice from the
starter up front is reasonably OK.

Did you try leaving the headlights on when you twist the key?  If they
go out, then charge the battery; if they stay on, then chase switch and
relay stuff.

> I pulled the ignition switch to short the connection, as suggested by
> muir, and get nothing.

Jumping the two red wires at the ignition switch should make it crank.
(It won't fire unless you also jump those two wires to the black wire,
but at least it should crank.)  If you know you have juice at the red
wire connected to terminal 30 of the ignition switch, and jumping the
two red wires at the ignition switch doesn't make it crank, investigate
the hot start relay and the starter.

> Oh yeah-I have installed one of those starter relays, as I had the hot
> start problems since I bought it. I checked the fuse on it, and it is
> ok.

You might give the relay a couple of well-calibrated thwacks with your
finger if you haven't already.  Also, wiggle the wires at the starter
solenoid that go to the relay, and check that the relay ground wire is
tight.

BTW, the penny thing goes back to when house fuses had threads just like
the base of a light bulb.  If a fuse blew, you could unscrew it,
*carefully* insert a penny into the socket such that it bridged the
center contact and the side threads, and screw the blown fuse back down
on top of it so it would stay there.  This was a leading cause of house
fires back in the day.

On a stock split-window Bus, all the fuses can be blown or missing, and
the engine should still start and run.  It's not safe to drive as you
won't have brake lights, a horn, etc, but it should run.

Matt Roberds
