Date: Mon, 21 Sep 2009 10:49:12 -0700
From: Peter Steckhan <peter.steckhan(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Accessys(-at-)smart.net" <accessys(-at-)smart.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] fuel pump/double relay issue

Does the engine crank with the key too?

I'm also having intermittent problems with that same connection and/or that
part of the double relay - the bus won't start if it's sat long enough for
the fuel pressure to go down, but if I "prime" it by opening the AFM flap
with the ignition on, it starts fine.

I don't have the FI troubleshooting flowchart in front of me.  Have you
checked for power at terminal 86a when cranking with the key?  When you say
you "hooked up a wire to 86a", I assume you mean you applied power to that
terminal on the wiring harness.  If the engine cranked when you applied
power to 86a, there's nothing wrong with the wire from terminal 50 on the
starter to 86a on the double relay.  Terminal 50 on the starter powers the
starter solenoid - when it has power, the starter goes.  Terminal 50
normally gets its power from the ignition switch.  Since 86a is connected
through the wiring harness to terminal 50 on the starter, you powered the
starter using terminal 86a.

I've done the same thing, proving to myself that there's nothing wrong with
the wire in the harness between the double relay and the starter.  I'm
pretty sure that my fuel pump doesn't run when cranking.  If I jiggle the
connector on the double relay (which is a little loose) or tap the relay
itself, it sometimes works.

I also occasionally have a bad connection at the fuel pump itself when
starting - the boots on the connectors are in bad shape.  This one I can
tell because the fuel pump doesn't run even if I open the flap.  To fix that
one, I just pull the connectors of the fuel pump and put them back on.

Peter
'77 Bus

On Mon, Sep 21, 2009 at 10:29 AM, Accessys(-at-)smart.net <accessys(-at-)smart.net>wrote:

>
> so far so good. but I hooked a wire up to 86a to see if it would run
> if pump was turned on "Manually"
> but instead the engine cranks??? still doesn't start but it cranks??
