Date: Mon, 21 Sep 2009 12:08:19 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: "Accessys(-at-)smart.net" <accessys(-at-)smart.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] fuel pump/double relay issue

Accessys(-at-)smart.net wrote:
> the floww chart says break in wire from term 50 on starter to terminal
> 86a on double relay.

So, deflect the AFM flap and see if the pump starts.  If it does, then 
we can make a reasonable assumption that the line from the AFM to the 
double relay and the line to the pump is good.  And also that the pump 
is working

> so far so good. but I hooked a wire up to 86a to see if it would run
> if pump was turned on "Manually"
> but instead the engine cranks??? still doesn't start but it cranks??

You can't hook it up that way.  If you look at the wiring diagram, 
you'll notice that you're bypassing the diode that was specifically put 
in place for the reason you just found out.  Imagine if you deflect the 
AFM and there was no diode - you'd start the pump running, *and* the 
starter would crank!  +12v is supplied to the AFM, and then sent back to 
the double relay, but that diode stops that +12v from making it back to 
the starter.  The whole purpose is that either the starter circuit can 
send +12v to the pump, or the AFM can send +12v, and it doesn't matter 
if you send +12v through the AFM backwards, but you can't send +12v back 
to the starter.

> shouldn't a wire work both ways if no electric comes from starter no
> electric should go to starter??????

yes, unless there's a diode ;)

> now am really scratching my head. any ideas why that should work. and
> still not start....

Test to see if the pump runs with the AFM deflected.  If it does, then 
see if the pump runs (or a test light lights), while cranking.  If so, 
then we'll have to look other places.

If you don't have an extra hand to crank while you're watching the test 
light for the pump and want to test that starter-to-double-relay wire, 
then disconnect it at terminal 50 on the starter and touch it to +12v 
(the hot terminal on the starter) - the double relay should click and 
the pump should run.  Even though the starter shouldn't run, I haven't 
thoroughly checked all the wiring so to be on the safe side, I would 
actually remove the wire from terminal 50, run an extension, and then 
touch it to +12v while I'm out from under the car so as not to get run 
over - be careful regardless of what way you do it.  Make sure you have 
the ignition key on (not start) or the pump won't run.

If you're lucky, the pump will not run during these tests and it will 
make it MUCH easier to diagnose where the break is.  Trying to find 
something that's failing intermittently is so much more difficult to 
track down than something that's stuck in fail-mode.  If that's the case 
(total failure), be happy you're where you're at.

I had an intermittent mini spade connector in my double relay plug and 
it was driving me bonkers.  I finally noticed it when I was in the 
engine compartment and had the ignition on and brushed against some 
wires.  I heard some fast clicks (injectors firing because the 
megasquirt fires the injectors when you first power on the unit).  I 
played with the wires for an hour before I found the culprit, and I had 
to move each wire individually until I found one bad wire... and it had 
to be moved in just the right way to make it fail - but it was so 
difficult because it only took a very slight pressure for it to fail and 
in just the right direction.  I eventually had to cut the wire and crimp 
on a new connector.

let us know what you find!

Mike
