From: "Al Lalumia" <alalumia(-at-)surefit.net>
To: "Ronnie Feitelson" <Ronnie(-at-)OldVolks.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>
Date: Thu, 2 Aug 2001 07:52:10 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] Holy dirt batbus

This conversation topic has been of great concern to me, as I am prepping
for this task myself. I was vacilating between different options:
1) Blasting (highly discounted as a good idea right now)
2) Lots of wire wheels and time
3) Phosphoric acid/zinc chromate treatments
4) POR/Extend/Corroless/Coroseal, blah....

A combination of 2,3, and 4 seems the right move, mechanically removing as
much as possible, then spraying and flooding the enclosed areas and exposed
areas with metal ready or Oxysolv, etc.

I am then considering a salt neutralizing rince, since using any of the
above requires rincing, the only step I am despising, cleaning metal with
water. A really good drying cycle ala air is then required. I am trying to
come up with another solvent that doesn't contain O to get the acid salts
off and neutralized after this step..Any ideas?

Right now I am stuck on Corroless from eastwood, no ICIs, more sprayable,
not UV delicate, and less likely to simply crack and trap moisture in, like
I have heard with other coatings. The corroless is supposed to be a
conversion product as well, to disable the microrust and macro rust left
behind by a wire wheel assualt and phosphoric. This will also be litterally
pumped into the channels and rockers, with the drain holes repeatedly opened
to allow for continued drainage.

My bus has primarily surface or no rust under there, so this might be a
valid solution.

Al
66, almost to the improvement, reassembly stage...


-----Original Message-----
From: Ronnie Feitelson [mailto:Ronnie(-at-)OldVolks.com]
Sent: Wednesday, August 01, 2001 7:05 PM
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: 'buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org'
Subject: [VB] Holy dirt batbus


    I will never ,ever, ever sand blast the floors of a bus again. Today my
helper spent 5 hours blowing out the sand and dirt from all the secret
little crevice's that are very well hidden in a bus. It was interesting
watching the hour glass run as sand kept pouring out the drain divots in the
rockers.  Besides the rat nest and spider colonies that live in the frame
rails, blowing through the jack points helps clean out the cross over braces
for the floor it was truly amazing at how much dirt collects in these areas
of a 41 year old bus. I have never paid that much attention to this before
as I have never thought of going this far on a bus, many thanks to Robert
Davis and David Mayes for giving me the inspiration (ya right) to go
overboard on the unrest oration of my DC.
   At least now I understand how easily a bus that lives in a wet climate
can rust from the inside out. So all you bus owners out there, CLEAN the
weep holes in your rockers, doglegs and your rear wishbone.
  I now have one clean chassis, now for the rust mort and paint, then time
to put back together.

ronnie,  why am I doing this?

---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: vintagebus-unsubscribe(-at-)type2.com
For additional commands, e-mail: vintagebus-help(-at-)type2.com


