From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 3 Aug 2001 00:54:30 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Holy dirt batbus

In a message dated 8/2/2001 10:33:26 AM Pacific Daylight Time, TTackman2 
writes:

<< What thinning agent is used for roofing tar?>>

Hi Tacker,
You can use kerosene which works well and is not anywhere as flammable, but 
dries out rather quickly which could lead to cracking especially if you use 
too much kerosene.  Oil would do the same without drying out, but too much 
would make it too runny and never dry!  Probably a mixture of the three would 
be best.  The main thing you want is a very thin layer of tar so it resists 
cracking and especially peeling.  The original factory Bahama Brown paint 
inside the fenders and wheel wells were tarred early on in our 52 sunroof's 
life in Sweden.  This bug was parked and barned in about 1964 after battle 
damaged and now almost 50 years later where this tar is cracking from being 
applied too thickly the factory paint looks show room new!

<>

Definitely not!

<<Will using rust-mort be a good substitute? >>

Rust-Mort is a nice idea, but unless you have some way to remove thick nasty 
areas of the rust in places you can not get to easily you just convert the 
top layer and the rust continues to do it's damage underneath.  Using 
Rust-Mort in places where it will be chipped or scratched wil result in a 
wave of rust expanding into bigger and bigger areas quite quickly.  Which is 
what a high content zinc primer is best at stunting.  
  We are plotting to have doors, pop-out windows, engine lids, tool bay doors 
and truck gates rust repaired, sand or bead blasted at low enough to prevent 
warping them and then having them zinc plated or possibly zinc dipped.  When 
the galvinizer shop does this zincing they have to acid dip the parts to 
insure perfectly rust free steel for the zinc to adhere to.  Thusly this acid 
gets to work it's magic inside the structures of these body parts and then 
coated with zinc.  Since the tool bay doors and even the truck gates on our 
63 SC truck are showing signing of rust out from the inside this is going to 
have to be done soon!   Eric&Barb
