Date: Fri, 8 Aug 2003 15:26:46 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Eric W. Bradway" <eric(-at-)bradway.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] How do I connect laptop to cell to get list messages?

> We finally had to change our ancient cell phones for modern tri-mode ones
> when switching to a nationwide shared plan), and at Verizen I said I wanted
> the cheapest phones with the ability to connect a modem adaptor to a laptop
> so I can do email-we have the old presario I take along for the map program
> and DVD watching.  So got these Kyocera phones (2 for $30) and a kit I
> wonder about - it's a connector for a USB port (we have) and software for
> their own Express Office network or any other ISP.  It would not work with
> the IBOOK (Mac) we have for business

Modern cell-phones are digital devices. What you usually get with the
cell-phone is one of two things (and sometimes both!):

1. A cable to use the cell-phone AS THE MODEM. In fact, a guy I work with has
one with a IRDA port and you don't even need a cable. You just set it in front
of the IRDA port on the laptop and off you go. Of course, you need drivers to
do this and they may or may not exist for your platfom. This solution allows
you to use to cell phone to dial a modem with your ISP. You pay for airtime on
the modem as well as ISP fees.

2. The other solution (which I know SprintPCS offers), turns your cell-phone
in to a digital network device that connects to the 'net via their gateway
(the same one they use for the phone-based web browsing). Using standard
SprintPCS, I used to get about 14.4K throughput and about 1000ms round-trip
packet delay (don't try to play Quake on it!). Sprint's internet access was
included in the plan and just ate up minutes as though I was talking on the
phone.

> trips.  Is there NO adaptor that is modeled after the old "stick it over the
> mouthpiece/earpiece" of a phone to let one connect the handshaking of your

Acoustic couplers still exist, but you may not remember how _SLOW_ they are. I
mean, you're better off writing your emails by hand and delivering them in a
splittie. It's _SLOW_. In fact, I would be surprised if you got better than
300 baud - almost 200x slower than a 56K modem. In fact, 300 baud works out to
about 42 character per second (about how fast I type).

> program.   Heck, I might design my own modeled to the the cell earphone
> jack-has anyone heard of this or knows of a simpler adaptor...

It's not that hard. But it sounds like you had a common, bad experience with
the sales people at the cellular place. Those guys rarely know what's what and
when you throw something at them like wanting to connect a Mac and a PC to the
internet over the phone, they just sold you the cheapest thing that had
something printed on the box that sounded like it would work.

-Eric

-- 
www.bradway.net
