From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com'" <tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com>
Cc: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 8 Aug 2003 16:17:28 -0500 
Subject: Re: How do I replace my ignition lock?? Heh. (sorta long)

	Todd:

	Sorry, dude, you don't EVEN get off that easy checking Bentley...
and besides the Bentley instructions??  Paraphrasing the immortal words of
one Bart Simpson:  "I didn't know it was possible for something to bluck AND
sow at that same time..."

	Hit the T2 Library - one of the old time UK members wrote up some
MUCH-MUCH-MUCH improved instructions on how to remove the ignition lock
cylinder, and I'm sure that someone else can proffer up the link to the
OTHER illustrated write-up (spooky something/someone (-at-) the lost/special
patrol group??), also out of the UK.  The illustrated write-up is most
excellent, combining the right parts of the Bentley instructions, with the
Library article content + photos for the reading impaired :-)

	Begin light hearted side note discussion.  Since we're on the
"pimpin' the T2 Library" roll...  There's been a LOT of List traffic on
stuff done to death in the Library and/or Archive lately.  Nu Volks - please
read (or re-read) the List charter, check out the Library AND kindly do an
Archive search or two before firing off those "need-to-know" questions about
(ahem): gas heaters (in winter), air conditioning (in summer), and the all
time non-season specific List favorites - vendor-bashing, hippies / cop
slagging, MMO, tires, 009/050 vs vacuum-equipped dizzy, GL ratings on gear
oil, VWOA diatribes, Weber progressive non-functionality, Kettering ignition
vs alternatives, Type1 vs Type4, best oil for me -
straight-wt/multi-vis/synthetic, and "proper" oil temps.  End light hearted
side note discussion.

	But back to our regularly scheduled question.  I must warn you in
advance - removing the lock cylinder is a Whole Lot of No Fun, and I've done
it twice now...  My only words of advice are to make your spezial lock
cylinder "blind hole" tool out of a coat hanger (and NOT the paper clip
advocated in the Library article), say your prayers (and eat your vegetables
while you're at it), meditate on your happy place while working, and last
but not least, drill a small (easily filled) hole in the ignition housing so
you can actually SEE the ding-dang spezial tool when it enters the
otherwise-nonvisible-super-secret lock cylinder catch release hole...

	And keep reminding yourself the whole time you're in there - "I
guess I picked a good week to stop doing <stuff>..." and "Patience is a
virtue..."

	Jim Hayden
	'72 Westy Weekender (sportin' that 2260cc motor now)
	'73 Deluxe (that finally idles - whoohoo!)
	'73 914 (waiting for it's day in the sun)
	'69 Ghia (the wife's pride and joy)
	www.savethebays.org
