From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 9 Aug 2003 10:17:38 -0500
Subject: distributor vacuum test

>To: type2(-at-)type2.com
>From: "aircooled chris" <midwestbass(-at-)hotmail.com>
>Subject: new vaccum advance available?
>Message-ID: <Law14-F115UeaCYPct10001d91a(-at-)hotmail.com>
>
>I have what I believe to be a good working distributor, but the vaccum is
>shot on it,
>and by that I mean when I suck on it, it doesnt move the plate at all.
>(thats the sign, right?)
snip snip
ggme replies
the vacuum advance distrbutor has systems that need to be tested
independently and then together. (for pedgological reasons, here are my
definitions; big round chunk of metal on side of distributor is called
"vacuum motor"; it has a flexible rubber drum head streched inside from edge
to edge; one side is vacuum accuation side; other side is motor output
shaft)

Any system could be good and the some other bad. When you find the good
systems, you can swap parts around.

It is much better to test the vacuum diaphram with a vacuum tester than by
sucking on the vacuum line yourself. I once sucked on a distrubutor vacuum
line on a carbureted engine. I sucked in a bunch of stale gasoline. I then
bought a cheap hand held vacuum pump. On an old carbureted VW engine, there
is suppossed to be a metal vacuum line with a very high loop. The top of
this loop, must be higher than the top of the carburetor fuel bowl vent. On
the engine I was testing, someone had run a rubber vacuum line from the
carburetor vacuum port straight down to the distributor vacuum diaphram
motor. When the diaphram got a crack in it. somehow the vacuum motor chamber
filled with fuel. I don't know exactly how this happened, but it did, no
flames please. It was wintertime with a lot of cold nights and hot running
engine temperature changes. I think there was a weird vacuum differential
and some wierd vapor to liquid condestion syphoning going on with the
frequent very cold to very hot engine temperature changes. Besides never
having to taste the carcinogenic terrible tasting stale fuel, a cheap hand
held vacuum pump also has the advantage of a gauge that you can watch over
time to test for slow leaks.

To test a distributor, first gently twist the rotor clockwise and counter
clockwise and let go of it at the end of each direction rotation. The rotor
should have no movement on the shaft, but the shaft should move only one way
just a little bit and automatically snap back the other direction. This is a
crude test of the centrifugal advance. Then put your hand held vacuum pump
tester on the vacuum motor and pump up a little vacuum. You should see the
distributor points's plate rotate. If the plate moves a little, maintain the
vacuum for a while to be sure you don't have a slow leak. If the vacuum
holds, then dump the vacuum real fast and see if the plate rotates rapidly
back to its origina position. If you keep pumping and pumping and you never
build up any vacuum, then the diaphram is shot and has a hole in it. If you
build up some vacuum and the points plate doesn't move, then expand your
testing by separating the "two systems" The vacuum motor has an actuating
shaft hooked onto the points's plate by a tiny circlip.

If you already know all about how to deal with tiny circlips, then just take
it off. If you aren't familar with tiny circlips, then pull out the
ditributor, get a big magnet, get in your bathtub, tape the drain and the
overflow shut with duct tape, close the shower curtain, seal the curtain to
the wall edges with duct tape, tape a piece of plastic to the top of the tub
shower stall, as a ceiling, and then before you run out of air to breath,
put you fattest and smartest finger over the circlip to "hold it" , stick a
tiny screwdrive in the slot in the circlip and pry the circlip away from the
shaft it is gripping, catch the circlip when it pops off, or if it pops off
and goes flying through the air and dissappears, start looking for it with
your magnet. At least you know it can't get very far away in your sealed
small volume of space.

You want the vacuum motor accuator shaft separted from the points's plate so
that you can test the motor by itself and so that you can test the points's
plate by itself. With the two systems separated, put vacuum on the motor,
you should see the shaft pull in and stay in, hold the vacuum for a while to
look for a slow leak (shaft slowing moving  back out and vacuum going to
zero)  (You can't suck long enough with your mouth because you won't be able
to stand the taste for that long) Then dump the vacuum and watch for a fast
responce. It is always best to compare the movement to a known good vacuum
motor movement.

You can now test the points's plate rotational movement by sticking your
finger in the distributor and rotating the plate back and forth. The plate
should move very very easily. The plate should only move in a perpendicular
plane to the shaft. The plate should not wobble up and down . The plate will
stay stopped dead still wherever you last left it because it gets pulled
back to its original retarded position by the vacuum motor.  If the plate
doesn't move smoothly, free it up with something like liquid wrench or knock
out the mud bug nest keeping it from moving. Always clean up the distributor
guts with spray "Electric Motor" cleaner. Then 2 drops of light oil on the
shaft felt if you are lucky enough to have the felt and a tiny dab of
points's cam grease on the correct first approach side of the points's cam
lobe. Then wipe the points's contacts contact surface with a super clean
super lint free rag wetted with a dab of "Electric Motor Cleaner Spray"

Then put everything back together and test advance by watching the timing
mark move using a timing light on a running engine.
bye ggm
