From: "Ted Finesman" <tedebare(-at-)one.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 10 Aug 2003 18:30:58 -0400
Subject: COVC show and Dixie Bus trip report

I just had the perfect VW week-end. Left Friday at 3 pm and drove up I71 to
Cols. Oh.. It was all freeway and nothing special as I have made the trip
about 10000 times.  Arived| at the CVOC show site about 7:00pm. I saw and
talked to a lot of friends that I only see at this event. The people in
charge of the event told me that I would have to park on the blacktopped
parking lot if I wanted to "show" my bus so I opted for the swap meet area
that was grass and that's where I stayed. I meet a whole lot of new friends
and saw a lot of people that I knew from the northern part of the east
coast that I only see at this show. Had a wonderful time. Saw Bill Bowman of
Buses Nowhere Near The Arch and he told me that this year was going to be
great. I can't wait.

I packed up and left about 3:30pm and drove to the Dixie Bus event and it
was really great. I got there about 5:30 (normally about a 3/4 hr drive but
I got lost as usual). Frank Biffith(chili king and fire master) hosts one
great event. The keg of beer that came down from Canada was wonderful. I
don't drink beer normally, but this brew made a beer drinker out of me. The
people were wonderful, the weather great ( people told me later that it had
rained but I didn't notice, probably due to the beer) and the band that
played was wonderful. Fell into my bus after the cherries came out and awoke
the  next morning to a great burrito breakfast. Life couldn't be better.

I scored an NOS clock for my bus at the swap meet. I also got another bay
window clock for $40.00, the dealer telling me that it worked but I couldn't
check it. If anyone wants it, let me know.

I left the event Sunday morning about 10:30 and got home at 2:00 ( of course
I got lost). Many thanks to Frank for hosting such a great event and raising
$40.00 for the type2 list to boot. What a wonderful weekend... Tbear.

Don't take life too seriously- you'll never live through it.
