From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: "bus" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 11 Aug 2003 04:48:35 -0700
Subject: Temp Sensor II, Now what?

2.0L F.I.

Well this last weekend I decided to tackle what seemed like a temp
sensor issue on Freddy.  Prior to doing this I traced every wire in
the engine compartment, removing all clips and closely examining
each point of connection for vertigris, debris, and/or generally
lame/bent state of affairs.  Fixed several things( one crucial one
at the AFM ) with that and then moved on to the hoses.  Didn't have
the carb spray handy, as I generally don't need it being that I'm
fuel injected.  Although I may pick some up if the conscensus is
vacuum leak.  So anyway, I removed each hose, closely checking for
cracks and loose fit, replacing several hose clamps in the process.
Things were looking healthy at this point, and I was surprised at
how good all of my hoses still were on each end.  No stone left
unturned here,.. literally examined every hose, big and small,
labeling each one with colored tape as I went, so as not to miss
anything.

On to the temp sensor!  I asked this list previously about the
behavioral issue that Freddy was having after highway driving in
excess of 25 minutes.  The bus would idle sweetly when cold, but
when warmed up would then require some footsy with the accelerator
when taken out of gear.  Several kind volks said temp sensor and/or
vacuum leak.  Not having a brand new temp sensor II on hand, I
removed my old one from Freddy (which was frayed and electrical
taped up btw by PO) and installed onto Freddys motor the temp sensor
II from Krista, since her motor is down and out at the moment.  At
any rate I turned the bus over and it ran beautifully.  So I took it
onto the highway for the test,... still running great.  After 20
minutes of highway driving ((-at-) 55-60mph) took Freddy off of the
highway and into city traffic,... idle was fine for five minutes and
then back to footsy. *sigh*

Could I be looking at AFM or wiring harness?  plugs(bosch), dwell,
points, cables(bosch), cap and rotor, all filters and oil have all
been switched out.  Oil is a nice color too :)  Where do I go from
here?  condensor maybe?  then why would it run so nice when cold?

Noticed a subtle difference between the two motors too while I was
in there.  Freddy seems to have what looks like two decels (flying
saucer like apparatus).  Besides the one topside that's near the
accelerator, this one is right above the left heater hose.  There is
a hose that runs from the air intake onto this device, that Krista's
motor wasn't designed to have.  I always believed that Freddy had a
2.0L, just like Krista, but now I'm not so sure.  The condensor is
slightly different as well.  Freddy's setup is starting to look like
frankenstein's monster a little bit, as I'm noticing parts from
different years here and there, but that's the norm for busses with
several owners.  I'm so glad that Krista has been in the family all
these years.

Any helpful suggestion is welcome  :)

Seann Stafford
76' T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
76' T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
