From: "Jeff Myer" <jmyer(-at-)myermountain.com>
To: <Type2(-at-)Type2.com>
Date: Mon, 11 Aug 2003 08:58:15 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Tire Size Question

>     I have the stock OEM steel wheels on my transporter. I'm considering
> getting new tires, what is a GOOD size to have?

    Having just been faced with the need to buy new tires, I can tell you
that there is some excellent information in the Library section of the
Type2.com website.

>I'd like something that will
> give me low rpms on the highway, but still give me decent handling. Not
that
> I careen around corners...

    After reading the articles and taking the advice given, I can attest to
the fact that getting a re-inforced sidewall and a high load rating (C or D)
is paramount to the handling on the bus.

>but I want something tall so that my gears aren't
> winding out at highway speeds, and I'd like something that isn't skinny
and
> narrow that'll cause my ride to be.. well.. scary.

    I am running 185R15 Michelin Agilis tires on my '72 and I could'nt be
happier with the performance of the tires. The tire is also available in a
195R15 which would be a little wider.... but having an early steering box, I
decided to go with the skinnier tire hence less stress to the steering box
(Although I can't quantify the difference in the force required to turn the
wheels with one size versus the other, it seems to make sense that as you
increase the width you will be increasing the force required to turn the
wheel)
>
> Any ideas?

    In summary, the Michelin Agilis tires are great, They are a little
spendy (I paid $110 ea. mounted and balanced at my local mom & pop tire
shop) but they seem to be about the best offering out there that meets the
load and sidewall rating required. Also, there are not a whole lot of
choices out there for tires that meet the required specifications.

    By all means, Avoid using passenger car tires!!!! The load rated
reinforced sidewall tires makes more of a difference to the handling and
ride than all the fancy treads and sticky rubber compounds available in
passenger car tires ..... (IMHO)
