From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 28 Apr 2003 08:13:13 -0400
Subject: Engine Cooling?

Ok, you guys may think I'm ridiculous, but I just can't seem to imagine how
something 1.8 liters could stand to be air cooled and not need coolant. In
any case, I wanted to make sure my bus was set up EXACTLY how it was
supposed to. I've seen a few pictures that show fans in the engine
compartment.. one even that had two air dryer hoses with a turbo looking fan
attached to them.. 

In any case, this is what I have.... now, I'm trying to learn more about
this motor as time goes on, so please excuse me if this sounds stupid. I'm a
Pontiac guy.  Anyway, I have the fan that's attached to the crank. I assume
it's fixed to the crank without any sort of a fan clutch. That fan I'm
assuming draws OUTSIDE air from UNDERNEATH the car, pulls it THROUGH the oil
cooler, through that aluminum tubing in front of the motor (which is two
cast pieces of aluminum bolted together... draws it through the fan, and out
the back of the engine compartment towards that little vent area.

Is that correct? I have a 73 Bus. Should there be any other fans? What are
those two massive RAM-AIR side scoops on the side of my Bus?! Is that to
force air into the side of the bus, creating a positive air flow that forces
the hot air out towards the rear of the bus?

I'm thinking... I'd really like to install a set of fans.. maybe one over
each cyl head (so two..) They would be spaced maybe a couple inches from the
cyl head, and I could rig it up so that when I notice the cyl head
temperatures getting too high, I could switch on the fans and it would cool
it.. right? Would this disrupt the original air flow design of the motor?

I'm just looking really, for any suggestions that a real obsessive
compulsive cooling motor type guy could use.

Also, how do I know what kind of amps my alternator has? 



Thanks!

Todd Jaspers - Programmer
AmeriPath IT - Fort Lauderdale
954-377-3291

> CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments, is
> for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential
> and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or
> distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
> contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original
> message.
