Date: Mon, 28 Apr 2003 10:20:24 -0700
To: <twps2(-at-)cam.ac.uk>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] eating spark plugs

btw this is a stock 1600 running a 34 pict-3 stock VW carb.

You should verify compression before teardown if you are going to rebuild 
this core. Overall low end numbers could create poor combustion all around, 
and this will give you some ideas as to what not to do wrong.

If you are not using Bosch W8AC plugs, do. Then verify spark at the gap. It 
should go SNAP, not phuutt.

If you were using a long reach plug (wrong plug), you can mash them with 
the pistons, which could explain broken insulators and bending the top. 
Note the short reach for the AC plugs.

Verify carb. Float level is critical. It it's too high it could well be 
your over rich. Check those floats float high. Dropped floats will sure 
make you rich off idle. Check fuel pressure, too much pressure can cause 
high float level when the floats are just fine. Leaky float needle 
sam-o-sam-o over rich fuel level. Worn or loose jets or the wrong jets must 
be ruled out with inspection. Mix screw threads must be CLEAN. Rubber seal 
here must be the right size so it will both seal and not bind. Oil for 
installation, turn all the way in while watching for the end of the pin in 
the air hole in the venturi. Seat the needle LIGHTLY, then out 2 full turns 
= 4 half turns. Same with the idle screw, clean threads and no leak or bind 
from the seal. If the seal binds, you cannot feel the seat and will mash 
your parts. If your mix needle has a wear ring from this issue, it simply 
must be replaced cause you will only get finniky tuning never quite right 
so the only way to keep it running is at least a bit too rich.

All or some your over rich could also be from a choke set too rich. Make 
sure it is fully open at operating temp. Better, make sure the marks line 
up centered, then close a bit if cold running wants more, but always verify 
full open baffle, pressed against the stop, at operation temp.

Now, fire up the motor and during warm up verify timing. As it warms up 
watch the choke as the throttle clicks closed. At operating temp, verify 
choke full open. Turn in mix screw slowly until rpms drop, turn out 1/4 
turn, reset idle, turn in to rpm drop, turn out 1/4, reset 
idle.....continue until idle rpm and clean but smooth mix is achieved.

If the motor does not respond to these adjustments, you may well have a bit 
of grit in there somewhere that has laughed at your attempts to clean it. I 
have on the shelf a nice German original Pict 3, tight shafts, sharp screw 
slots throughout, beautiful never mashed needles. I've been through it 3 
times. Still not right. Many use an adapter to use the earlier carb, which 
being a good bit simpler, has less issues this way.

If it responds to idle settings nicely, but goes rich off idle, look to 
your jets, worn or loose, and float level. Did the accelerator jet fall 
out?? Wouldn't be the first time.

The glass pack muffer just might be a problem. You don't get clean running 
unless you have proper exhaust back-pressure, so putting a no back pressure 
muffler on there can/will create imbalance and poor intake/exhaust flow 
through the motor.

At 08:53 AM 04/28/2003, you wrote:

>My engine eats spark plugs.  I seem to experience 2 types of failure.  The
>first is that I get a black sooty coating on the plug which obviously
>suggests incomplete combustion- and that I am running rich.
>
>   I can tune the carb to my hearts content to
>set the mixture at idle, but nothing as far as cruising.  I am not running
>stock exhaust but an aftermarket glasspack one, could this be impeding air
>intake?
>
>So the first consumer of spark plugs is that they get covered is soot
>The second is that they get bent.
