From: "Wakanska" <Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 28 Apr 2003 11:25:27 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Help! 68 Brake lights

One more point that I forgot to mention.. The turn signals and brake lights
ARE the same circuit by the time they get to the "load" (the bulb). The make
and break functions are accomplished by the turn signal relay (flasher) and
brake switch, and also the turn signal apparatus on the steering column,
where both circuits merge before they go back to the actual tail light
assemblies and bulbs. This turn signal apparatus can therefore be
responsible for a malfunctioning brake light, especially if it is only on
ONE side and if the problem is transitory (there are frequently two switches
on the master cylinder, but the second one is seemingly redundant, probably
a safety consideration in case one switch or lead fails!). It is difficult
to imagine that a brake light would be affected by a turn signal assembly,
yet that is the case.
I have found that if NEITHER the brake light or the turn signals work, it
may be a bulb or a contact (or otherwise broken circuit) in the taillight
assembly, but if the turn signal alone doesn't work it may be a flasher or
fuse, and if the turn signal works and the brake light on one side doesn't,
especially if it is a transitory problem (comes and goes), it may in fact be
the turn signal switch assembly on the column. Some of the earlier turn
signal assemblies can be easily cleaned and repaired, which is fortuneate
because they are no longer available. Some of the newer ones may be
cleanable with a compressed contact cleaner in a can, but so far, many of
these switches are still available. Always, the first thing to do is to spin
the fuses in their bracket a bit.. This makes sure there is contact, and
poor, corroded contacts are the number one cause of electrical problems in
old vehicles that have been sitting unused for awhile. DC circuits tend to
develop "cold joints" or a dialectric corrosion on the contacts if they are
not in frequent use. The frequent or constant DC current flow and
"potential" actually keeps the contacts conditioned to some extent. This is
a peculiarity of low voltage DC circuits.
