From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 22 Jul 2002 21:47:45 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] painting question

>
> In a little over a year, I've got VWs coming out of the ears!

They do have a way of finding you when they're looking for a home! LOL.. I
think that what happens is that once people see you messing with them,
driving them and what not, they will make a mental note of it and approach
you if they are looking for a new owner.
>
> BTW, if you don't mind saying, where about's do you live?  You mentioned
> on the ugly stretch bus thread that you lived near Santa Barbara.

No, I'm further south, in the South Bay area of Los Angeles. But I did just
go up that way to get the parts bus.
>
> Also, how did the parts bus trip go?

Well, good overall. We were going to strip it up there, but it just wasn't
happening, and I finally went and rented a trailer. There was enough value
there to make it well worth while, assuming someone wants to do the work,
that is. The tires are all good'uns, all the cabinetry looks good, and
there's lots of other goodies there that would cost you a bundle to buy
separately. I haven't raised the pop-top yet, but the canvas looks to be in
very good condition. The fiberglass shell needs a new coat of resin. I might
color it...Hmmmm. Luckily, I have done fiberglass fabrication, too. The door
panels are really good and someone thoughtfully left some new in-the-box
curtains and other accessories in there. It's a shame to scrap it, really,
but it has some real serious rust issues...terminal cancer around the front
and back windows and roof edge. Since I'm figuring on keeping mine all going
now for many years to come, and parts may not be as readily available, I'm
starting now to get a little used and new parts pile going. I've got a
sturdy framed up rack out back, almost four by eight feet and three feet
high inside that's up off the ground 18" and roofed with tin, and that's
where much of the used stuff is going.
I intentionally chose to buy three '71s, so that parts can swap across and
if one gets wrecked it can become a donor bus. The tentative plan now is to
make one a complete Westfalia, one a restorable original (pampered) and one
a daily driver.
As well, the trusty '67 sedan will now be slated to get the full treatment
that I had begun to prepare for years ago, but never had time for. I'm going
to pull out everything and make a complete restoral. That thing is like a
pet to me.. lots of sentimental value.. I'm sure you understand.
I really hate to kill the '79, but like I said before, "Some die, that
others may live". Before this, I was going to get a '69 Sundial hightop to
fix up for general use and camping, but the owner could never come up with
the right paperwork on it, so I had to let it go. I have a lot of '69 parts
that I took off an old Sundial panel conversion, but it had too much
colateral damage due to collision (while parked!) and major rust. It was a
cheap rust bucket when I got it and I never expected to spend eternity with
it. I think it had a death wish. I pumped money into it, trying to keep it
going. All new tires, brakes, shocks, generator.. All of that I ended up
taking back off and putting aside. Even that one, I very reluctantly
scrapped, but it had to be. Sundials were never meant to be vintage
collectibles anyway, in my opinion. They were just fun while they lasted.

  Keep up the good work!
>
Thanks! You too!

Jan B


