Date: Wed, 24 Jul 2002 06:01:34 -0400
To: "Billy" <wfp3(-at-)lycos.com>
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <Doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re:won't start still - help! 

Date: Tue, 23 Jul 2002 16:44:49 -0400
'79 cal engine.   Changed fuel lines, pulling injectors and 3/4 runner in 
the process. replaced all, now won't start. Performed double relay test 
procedure per Bentley with meter instead of test light.

1. only getting 4-6vdc (-at-) fuel pump, do I need 12vdc?
the pressure gauge only goes up to 10psi unless I
connect the pump to a known 12v source, then I get
32psi. Will this keep the bus from starting?

2. I only show 8vdc at terminal 15 at the coil.
Is this why I'm not getting 12vdc (-at-) pump?
This wire to coil comes from the ignition switch
yes? Maybe I just have too much resistance there.


3.Apparently I have fuel pump wires switched from
terminals 30/50 at the solenoid, but I can't
tell which terminals are which on the solenoid.
The battery cable goes to 50, but which of the
little pins (I have 3, 2 top, one bottom) is 30?

......................Those 3 little mystery pins are giving me headaches 
also. I am having this same problem rewiring my 76 Westy, getting the 
engine back together after a rebuild. And no one has answered your question 
yet about the 3 mystery blades (pins). If you get an answer, please relay 
it to me. From under the car, looking up at the starter, I can feel two 
connection blades at the top of the solenoid, and I can see one connection 
blade at the lower edge of the solenoid. I am guessing that the wire to the 
double relay goes on one blade, and the wire to/from the ignition goes on 
the other. But which goes where, and does it really matter? I don't have 
anything connected to the lower blade.  I tried swapping between the two 
top blades, but it didn't seem to help anything. I can make my engine run 
for 8 seconds, and then it leans out and dies.  Won't idle. It is running 8 
seconds on the cold start valve I think. That is where I am on this 
thing.....hope someone answers you.  I also think we need a reference 
terminology for the two top blades. Looking up from the ground at the 
starter, let's name the blades 'passenger-side' and 
'driver-side.'   Eventually we can substitute 30 and 50 for those names 
when we get some answers. Or maybe they are both the same number, and the 
'lower blade' is 30 or 50.


4. I think I'm sucking air, she'll catch now, but die
immediately. I've tried to tighten all the air
lines, what's the check?
....................Take off and examine the "S" shaped duct between the 
air mass sensor box and the throttle body. When it is off, flex it and look 
for a crack at the lower angle, near the throttle body attachment.  My '76 
had a two inch crack that was letting in air that wasn't being metered by 
the air mass sensor, so the engine died from lack of fuel/too much air.


5. I had a backfire doing this, blew off the brake
booster hose connect at intake manifold.

......................My '76 stopped backfiring when I discovered the 
electrical connection to number 3 injector had been pulled loose. I 
reconnected #3 and the engine ran fine....for 8 seconds.  All this after 
replacing the cracked "S" duct.     Doyt in Ohio with 76 Westy

enough for now, thanks y'all. I really am doing my best with the Bentley, 
meter and pressure gauge, but I'm hurting now. It's been three days in the 
sun and a burned vacation day today, but I will press on.
Later,
Billy 


