To: vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com,wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 6 Jan 2003 01:20:30 -0600
From: Stan Wilder <wilden1(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Great Engine test stand event.

Poppy and myself got organized about a week ago and secured some steel to
build the framework for my engine test stand.
We faired pretty good and got some bolt together basic frame units that
just needed some trimming to make a viable project. (bunches of 5/16"
holes had to be drilled)
I scrounged around my over filled junk box and came up with a Fiat AEG
fuel pump to work with the little weber Carb that I retrofitted to a FI
air plenum from a 74-91 FI Vanagon.
After a few trips to the hardware store buying generic fasteners (1/3 the
cost of metric) and bolting the frames together using stock VW engine
mounts and various VW hardware, I wound up with an engine and
transmission bolted into a frame.
Things being simple on the outside often become complex when its time to
make them work.
I built a control station for the engine stand that consist of an old
tackle box with the additions of a tachometer, oil temp, oil pressure,
cylinder head temp, volts gage.
Included in the control station are a main power switch, fuel pump
switch, starter bottom and a vacuum gauge.
I didn't run out of room I just ran out of necessities.
The whole birds nest was basically from stock parts on hand and no major
cash outlay was necessary.
Since the engine test stand has been built as a KD apparatus I calculated
that permanent controls would be more wasted than wanted.
One regret was that I had to install a full transmission because I didn't
have a surplus bell housing so the total package is 48x48" in length and
width give or take a few quarters.
I'm working on getting some pictures posted.
One thing I discovered early on, I had an oil pump on the first engine
that just would not prime.
Switching it out was a fairly quick process and I immediately got
pressure from on the replacement pump with over 5 bar pressure (75 psi)
just turning the engine over with the start and 10/30wt engine oil.
I'm still a few hours from starting the engine because I left a check
valve ball out of the Fiat fuel pump (don't know if it is required) and I
think I should put it back in just to be safe.
I'm just guessing but I'm going to say that I've probably saved one
engine already by my strange and extreme detail procedures.

Stan Wilder
83 Air Cooled Westy
