Date: Mon, 06 Jan 2003 09:09:22 -0700
From: "Curt Conklin" <CONKLINC(-at-)lawgate.byu.edu>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: My Sweet Bus

Volks,

I had some surgery over the holidays so I am just catching up.  My son took
MSB down to Autozone to get some stuff for a '72 Westy he picked up for $500.
Got a couple of blocks away and busted the canoe paddle flat end of the
driverside axle.  Busted inside the tranny.  Two big pieces and some ground
chew in the fluid inside the tranny next to the bearing. Uh-oh, rebuild time,
right?

I wanna make sure this ain't gonna happen agin.  I am running an 1835 with 100
degree cam, .044 heads and a progressive carb.  I am running a new 1700 lb
kennedy clutch.  When we took out the engun (less than 500 miles on her) we
noticed that the clutch was rubbing a bit at about 10 o'clock, which means
someone did a poor job of machining out the tranny when changing over to 12
volts  MSB is a '66)  We think some shavings got into the tranny through the
shaft seal, because the seal was not tight and there was a tad bit of play in
the shaft.  Uh-oh, rebuild time, right?

The tranny is running fine otherwise.  I do have a '67 donor bus I picked up
some years ago from a yard up in SLC for 400 bucks.  KB Metwiz would pronounce
it restorable, but lots of lower rust including the floor.  I took the
passenger side axle out of her for MSB, but the tranny is an unknown factor,
so I am going to have mine rebuilt.

Questions:

I definetly need a rebuild, right?

I want to get a higher ration 4th gear so I can go faster that 57 mph or so
without over revving my 1835.  Is 3.88 going to do the trick with RGB's still
on?  I want to keep the RGB's because Ewtah is a mountainous state and I need
the lower gearing in the first three gears anyway.

Phinally, what in tarnation would cause the axle to break at this key spot?  I
bet Bry was busting loose on the accelerator when it happened.  He said he was
in 1st gear.  No I ain't mad, I should have pulled and replaced the tranny
when I put the Bergmann 1835 in.  Cheap, cheap.  She was probably a tad low on
tranny fluid, but there was still plenty in it when we busted it out.

Oh divine restorers, I am I thinking logically here?

Curt
MSB:  '66 Kombi w/'63 23 window rag top
