Date: Tue, 7 Jan 2003 00:57:52 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: voltage drop diagram

>From: "Collie" <collie(-at-)ifoundit.ca>
>Date: Mon, 6 Jan 2003 20:49:57 -0500
>
>Converting a 6V bus to 12V.  I have a voltage drop and I'm not sure how
>to wire it up, can someone enlighten me?

There are lots of things that could conceivably be sold as a "voltage
drop" but the most common is a resistor.  This is usually a long skinny
thing with a terminal at both ends.  Sometimes one of the terminals is
connected to a clamplike thing that can be slid along the body of the
resistor to adjust it.  If yours is like this, set it in the middle to
start with.

Unplug the power wire from the device you're going to use the resistor
with -- the wiper is the usual suspect on a VW.  Get a new piece of wire,
the same or thicker gauge and preferably the same color as the power wire,
and put a connector on the end just like the one on the power wire -
usually a push-on female.  Now you have two loose ends: the power wire
and the new wire.  Connect one of them (it doesn't matter which) to the
terminal at one end of the resistor, and the other one to the terminal
at the other end (or on the sliding clamp) of the resistor.

If your resistor doesn't have the sliding clamp, then you can't adjust
it and you're done.  If it does, then you need to adjust it.  Get out
your voltmeter and put the black probe to ground (bare metal connected
to the Bus body) and the red probe to where the wire attaches to the
sliding clamp.  Turn on the device (wiper) and read the voltmeter.  If
the voltmeter says 6 V, you're done.  If not, loosen the clamp and
slide it back and forth until the voltmeter reads 6 V with the device
running.  Next, go for a nice drive to charge up the battery and when
you come back, leave the engine running.  Shut off everything else
electrical in the car and connect the voltmeter as above.  Turn on
the device, run the engine at about 2500 RPM and read the voltmeter.
It'll probably be higher now, like 7 V.  If it's over 8 V, adjust the
sliding clamp some more to bring the reading under 8 V.

The idea here is to balance having enough voltage for your device when
the system voltage is lowest (engine shut off) with not having too much
voltage when the system voltage is highest (battery fully charged,
generator charging).  Low voltage makes motors run slower; high voltage
makes them run faster but they also burn out quicker.

Either kind of resistor, fixed or adjustable, will get hot when the
thing it's connected to is turned on, so be careful where you mount it.

If you don't think you have a resistor, and you bought it new, then ask
whoever sold it to you.  If not, post back.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds
