Date: Sun, 28 Jul 2002 12:24:40 -0700
To: Paul Deatherage <deathead777(-at-)yahoo.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Setting Up Webers was Re:servo w/ Dual Webers

At 09:57 AM 07/28/2002, you wrote:

>Listen, man. I'm about to upgrade to Weber 40 IDF's.
>I've gotta ask you:
>1. What size venturis did you get? (Your's IS a 1700?)

Get the Haynes publication on Weber carbs. In the back it shows the various 
and sundry factory applications for Weber carbs.

Now find which applications used the carb model you intend to use. If your 
using dual IDF's, find the same in the charts. Then compare the ratio of 
bore/stroke for your motor with that of the given factory setup, and 
compare as well the motor size ratio. Note the venturis/jets/emulsion tubes 
used for the factory set up and apply the ratio of your motor size to the 
factory motor size, then go to the parts listing also in the book and 
identify the orifice sizes and flow rates calculated.

I could give you the algebra if such won't scare you to death. But all that 
is required is simple ratios, and nothing more than arithmetic and logic to 
develop an educated guess that will vastly improve a good matching 
selection of components the first time. Pretty important, as a set of 
tuning components for each IDF I suspect will run you over $100.

I don't recall the vendors, but some of them will send you a complete 
assortment of tuning components, let you do your tuning, then return the 
assortment. But without some prior calculations as suggested above this 
could lead to many iterations of test running and frustration at finding a 
good combination. You have four variables: venturi, idle jet, main jet and 
emulsion tubes. Each change of any one might/will require a change of one 
or more of the others. There are far more bad combinations in the 
assortments available than there are good matches for a particular machine.


>2. What the hell is a brake servo and how does it have
>anything to do with the carburators?

The brake booster is a big diaphragm sucked by vacuum from the engine 
intake, and applies force to the master cylinder when you apply the pedal. 
If this power assist is not provided for by a non-stock carb application, 
then it must be adapted or the brakes will be very POOR (dangerous).

