From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 28 Jul 2002 15:24:59 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Dometic fridge in 78-79

Oh.. Don't put dry ice directly into your Dometic fridge.. Dry ice has been
known to crack some plastics and it could do some damage to the
refrigeration system. But you can certainly keep your frozen foods locker
shut most of the time, only taking out your steaks and what-not maybe a day
or so ahead of use, thawing it in the refrigerator. Each will then act like
a little block of ice, helping to keep the overall refrigerator environment
cool and saving energy use (propane or DC), while it is thawing. I would
keep it away from direct contact with cooling or thermostat elements in the
fridge. It can also be wrapped in newspaper to protect surfaces from damage
and to ease it's handling (unsafe without gloves or protection).
We didn't have the use of a fridge on our last trip, and we had two
coolers.. one with fresh (cooled with normal H2O ice), and one with with
strictly frozen food, and nothing else. We were gone for a total of eight
days. The dry ice lasted around four full days, but the frozen food stayed
frozen a total of about six days. It could have remained frozen longer with
better care, but for one thing, the top of the picnic cooler (poorly
insulated top) was in the direct sunlight for a long period of time, and it
was blazing hot at one point, especially in Sacramento (probably due to hot
air emissions and flatulence from herds of resident state and local
politicians).
Here's another tip for you, but it is quite possible to make a customized
frozen food storage box that is much, much more efficient than anything that
you could buy, out of ordinary R-25 foam board that you can get in your home
improvement store. You can make any size and rectilinear shape you want, and
you can either build a wood box for it, put it in a cardboard box, or you
can fiberglass it. You can hold the pieces together for primary assembly
with pieces of bamboo.. the kind you use for shish-kebab on your barbeque..
Leave them in and use a hot glue gun to weld the outer seams together, or
even duct tape and/or strapping tape, just to hold it all together. When it
is stable, lay a bead of silicone bathtub or window sealer on the inside
seams to prevent leaks.. but there won't be many if you use dry ice. If you
make a double-walled box, you can keep your food frozen and your dry ice
intact for an unbelieveably long period of time. I have kept 5lbs of dry ice
in a small, homemade double walled R-25 box for up to a week! Do not use
construction glue in building these.. the urea in the glue will be emitting
fumes for a long, long time. I first learned about this homemade box when I
saw a sportfisher who had made a custom-sized one for his boat. He could
stay out a long time and keep his catch cold. If you stock up on some dry
ice, you can actually freeze your own catch!!!! Final word on that is that
dry ice cannot be used as a refrigerant, like H2O ice can.. Dry ice (CO2)
will actually freeze any food that is put in with it, and it will do it
pretty fast, too!
Jan B


> There is another trick that can be used, if you can get dry ice. Freeze
> everything you can and load up an ordinary picnic ice chest with frozen
> goods, then put the dry ice on top, and a towel or something over that
(lids
> on ice chests usually have pretty poor insulation). That dry ice will
> probably maybe four days, and it will get the food in the freezer SO cold
> that even when the dry ice is long gone, it may still remain frozen for
> days. The best part is that there is no melted icewater mess to deal with,
> and as you take each frozen food item out to use, you can put it in to the
> refrigerator, which will help to cool down the rest of the fresh food and
> take the load off your refrigerator. Jan B



