From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "George Lyle" <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Cc: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 28 Jul 2002 23:35:33 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Odd tire wear, right rear tire.

George..
  Generally, a tire that shows more wear in the center than the sides may be
overinflated. If your tires are not all matched (different styles or mfr),
then they may perform differently or require different inflation pressure,
etc. Some people who manage fleets will write the inflation pressure on the
tire or rim of each vehicle to help prevent improper inflation.
  Inflation is one of those things that most of us overlook that can
tremendously impact anything from tire life and fuel economy, to performance
and road safety. If you can find a pocket tire guage to keep in your glove
box, it would be very worthwhile.
  Regarding the other symptoms, such as "cupping", it could be that your
rear shock on that side is bad. If you look at the shock, and the lower
section appears darker than the upper section, it may have been leaking
hydraulic fluid (oil). Worn shocks collapse and expand easily.. Good shocks
have resistance in them, sufficient to keep wheels in contact with the road,
but have enough "give" to absorb shock from irregularities in the road
surface, while preventing the transfer of shock to the chassis.
  Personally, I prefer gas shocks, but be careful if you put them on, not to
cut the strap until you have both ends secured to the wheel and frame. They
are under pressure and will fully expand, being quite difficult to
recompress and almost impossible to install in the expanded state!
  Every several years it is a good idea to replace shocks and steering
dampers routinely. It may not be technically necessary, but the improvement
in the ride and handling makes it worthwhile, as well as savings on wear on
other suspension parts, tires, etc. To evaluate a shock properly, you would
almost have to take it off and test it, a job in itself.. Since most of the
work is usually just getting the shock off, I would rather just change
shocks once they are off. And I would rather install a whole MATCHED set of
shocks at one time, knowing that I will then have a balanced ride. Besides,
assuming that if one is failed or weak, the others may not be far behind.
So, it makes no sense to replace just one unless you are really tight for
money.   Jan B


