Date: Mon, 29 Jul 2002 12:47:34 -0400 (EDT)
From: "John David Anderson" <janders1(-at-)mix.wvu.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Some painting thoughts

I painted the '91 Golf this past weekend, and although not a bus I 
thought I'd share some tips as I have in the past.  This was the third 
time I masked standard VW rubber weatherstrip using the technique of 
placing a fine wire (telephone company hookup wire, just one insulated 
solid strand) around the periphery of the rubber about a 1/16" back 
under.  I use a plastic scraper to lift the rubber ahead of the wire 
and it falls right in.  Then I mask with good 3M tape a bit over the 
edge using my thumbnail to bend the tape over and around and under the 
rubber.  Did this on the '81 and a '74 van before and again this 
technique is a wonderful tip when you don't want to pull the glass (for 
instance on a windshield where you don't think you can salvage the 
seal.)  The paint wicks under the rubber a bit and when you pull the 
wire and tape after drying it appears that the car was never painted.  
Otherwise the only new thing I have to report is my continued 
frustation/confusion with PPG's cheap line Omni.  This is also the 
third time I've sprayed the Omni acrylic enamel (MAE).  The first was 
the beige '81 Vanagon.  The coverage was horrid.  It took the entire 
quart and 6 coats to cover light gray primer, absolutely no solids.  
Swore I'd never use it again, but...  Then I bought a quart to respray 
a white Subaru front bumper, covered in 3 coats.  So as the Omni is 
half the price of the real Delstar AE and the Golf was a "budget" 
project I figured what the hell.  A gallon was only $45 and I had the 
hardener ($12) and reducer at hand ($10)  I had previously figured the 
reason Omni was half the price was that it is basically prethinned and 
only half the paint which seams reasonable as you only thin it 8:1:1.  
So I go to paint the Alpine White golf.  The short of it is, covered 
gray primer completely in two coats, I sprayed a third only to give me 
some safety for when I buff it out.  Go figure.  Maybe Steve's '67 will 
go Alpine White now as I got over 2 1/2 quarts left over.  Steve?

Just some ramblings anyway, the wire tip is money for masking bus 
rubber though volks if you don't want to disturb the glass.

John
janders1(-at-)mix.wvu.edu

