From: "Frank E Biffath III" <fbiffath(-at-)mailingsolutions.com>
To: "Kerry Steding" <cat762(-at-)optimum.net>,
Date: Mon, 29 Jul 2002 13:23:53 -0400
Subject: HCBF 2002 Report

WooooooooHoooooooo!
Thank you Buddah!  My families first bus gathering with me. We left Ohio
Thursday evening.  Of course, when traveling with an 8 yr old and a 1 year
old, stopping each hour is a must.  Needless to say, it was a slow and
arduous journey.  Met up with Beth and Greg in Southern Ohio and stopped for
a pizza party dinner below Ashland KY.  As darkness approached, the
mountains got steeper and ole' HapyBus had to creep up a few in 2nd gear.
Found a room in Western VA, about 110 miles from the event.  Why a room????
Mommy and my daughter had to have one.  I slept in the bus!  Finally arrive
Friday morning on Grandfather Mountain!!!  Number 28 in the gate.  Get ready
folks, the Ohio Valley Tribe has arrived.  It takes me about 1.5 hours to
set up, and after being chased off by David (Swiss Army Bus) for encroaching
on his area (just teasing) we established camp.  My daughter Briana was a
big hit during the Karaoke.  We had a pretty decent fire on Friday (Who
built that fire?)  I believe a few Dads singed a an eyebrow or two
attempting to roast a marshmallow.
Saturday was a hoot.  Technical training by the VW Brain (Marc Dearing) and
Steve Dolan.  Worth my trip!!  received a helpful hint on carbs from Mark.
My family went sight seeing up the mountain, and low and behold, what a
sight I had right at the event.  Mad Uncle Dave and his fellow jousters.  If
you did not see it, you missed a heck of an event.  Live medieval fighting.
I have pix posted.
Later in the evening, it is time to cook chicken wings.  I was in way over
my head.  What an ordeal.  I sent a couple of plates down to be judged while
continuing to cook.  I missed the entire event.  After cooking, of course it
was clean up time, and up the hill running comes my daughter, "Daddy, you
won!!!"  Hehehehehehehe, you FMBC moonies must not eat much!  I am two for
two, EB2002 chili and now HCBF 2002 wings.  Oh the bragging will never end.
I received  a nice visit from MUD while on his mid night peanut passing out
run.
Packed up Sun morning fairly early, takes me 2 hours to breakdown and
re-pack the trailer. A great uneventful trip back to the Buckeye State.
I don't have as many pix as other events, I had trouble negotiating pushing
a stroller, holding a cold beverage and attempting to take pix.  I have pix
to be posted by Rob Henley, and they will be on the Ohio Valley Tribe yahoo
group page.
Thanx again everyone, it was great to meet a few more and associate names.
Maybe one day Dixie Bus Gathering can host as many as EB and HCBF.

Some pix at: Go to the photo section
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/ohiovalleytribe/

Look for Rob Henley's edition soon!
www.72camper.com

FEBIII
71 HapyBus
66 Westy New Addition.
EB2002 Chili Cook Off Champ
HCBF 2002 Wing Cook Off Champ



