Date: Mon, 22 Dec 2003 16:33:35 -0800
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: trgesell(-at-)compuserve.com
Cc: "TYPE2. COM (E-mail)" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] Hydraulic valves or solid?

On Monday, December 22, 2003, at 03:18PM, TR Gesell <trgesell(-at-)compuserve.com> wrote:

>I'm not busting on anyone who has hydraulic lifters and likes 'em, just
>pointing out that my solid lifters seem easy to maintain and foolproof,
>while some folks have obviously had difficulties with the hydraulics. My
>opinion only, not the definitive answer for anyone else. My bus is more of a
>hobby anyway, so I don't mind an excuse to go poke around the motor on a
>regular basis.

It seems folks either love them or hate them and I would venture that if someone inherited an abused engine you're probably in the hate 'em category.

When they are pumped up the advantage is that the valves are always in perfect adjustment from the time the engine is started, not just when the engine has reached the perfect operating temperature and all of the metals have expanded. Having to bleed a lifter although not hard, means removal of the push rod tube to access to lifter, cleaning that area before reinsertion, bleeding etc. My lifters have always pumped up after a years of sitting but some folks seem to get stuck with air bound lifters and that must be an age issue.

I can see why engine builders don't like them:

- they can break in two and appear as a weakness in the engine design
- new lifters for a rebuild must be prepped which takes more time
- If they pump down before installation you can't just adjust them on the engine stand as you need to run the engine to pump them up and adjust them again.
- claimed performance issues for non-stock engines

Respectable authors like Hoover and Wilson seem to like them. The fact that hydraulic cams and lifters are available for sale says something about them.

Scott makes an excellent point about the nature of the engine cases...

--
Richard, 1978 Westfalia CDN
http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell
Cupertino, CA
