Date: Wed, 24 Dec 2003 20:16:51 -0500 (EST)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: <Type2(-at-)type2.com>,  <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: A Visit From Saint Nicholas

(This is a repost, but 'tis the season!)

A VISIT FROM SAINT NICHOLAS

(With apologies to Clement Clarke Moore)

'Twas the night before Christmas, when all through the Westy
Not a creature was stirring, not even our dog Pesty;
The stockings were hung from the visors with care,
In hopes that St. Nicholas soon would be there;
The children were nestled all snug in their beds,
While visions of split-windows danced in their heads;
And mama in her 'kerchief, and I in my cap,
Had just settled down for a long winter's nap,
When out in the campground there arose such a clatter,
I sprang from the bunk to see what was the matter.

Away to the windshield I flew like Hatari,
Parted the curtains and flipped up a safari.
The moon on the breast of the new-fallen snow
Gave the lustre of mid-day to objects below,
When, what to my wondering eyes should appear,
But nine miniature buses, carrying nine tiny reindeer,
Oops! not the last bus, its driver, so quick,
I knew in a moment it must be St. Nick.
35 miles per hour up the hill they came,
And he whistled, and shouted, and called them by name;

"Now, BREADLOAF! now, DELUXE! now, BAY and KOMBI!
On, BARNDOOR! on SAMBA! on, HIGHROOF and BULLI!
To the top of the hill! Right next to the wall!
Now putt away! putt away! putt away all!"
So up to our hill-top the buses they flew,
Packed chock-full of toys, and St. Nicholas too.
And then, in a twinkling, I heard like a knocker
The tapping and rapping of each little rocker.
As I drew in my head, and was turning around,
From our pop-top St. Nicholas came in with a bound.
A bundle of parts he had flung on his back,
And he looked like a peddler just opening his pack.

Upholstery for Marie, disk brakes for Mitch
A tranny for Steve, and a new headlight switch.
Deep in the bag was a little barndoor for Ken,
Who as we all know is a darn good admin.
And of course there's chilly Mr. Shoemacher,
For whom Santa has an NOS Eberspacher.
For Nikki there are hubcaps, for John a CV
(This isn't how I heard this read on TV!)
For Bob there were manuals in the original German,
They'll come in handy if he writes a new Sermon.
A new speedo for Thom, valve guides for Gary,
Headlights for David, to keep him all merry.
For Kathy there'll be a year's pass to ski.
She'll drive to the slopes in Her Majesty!
Stainless screws for Sean, a fan for Ed,
Keep that heat flowin. so his cheeks don't get red.

Santa spoke not a word, but went straight to his work,
And filled all the stockings; then turned with a jerk,
And laying his finger aside of his nose,
And giving a nod, through the pop-top he rose;
He sprang to his bus, to his team gave a whistle,
And away they all drove like the down of a thistle.
But I heard him exclaim, ere he drove out of sight,
"HAPPY CHRISTMAS TO ALL, AND TO ALL A GOOD-NIGHT."



Merry Christmas from George, Marie, Claire, and Tempest Lyle!
