From: "Al Lalumia" <alalumia(-at-)surefit.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 19 Aug 2001 08:35:01 -0400
Subject: Straight Axle lowering stuff for trade or sale outright. Long and not for purists.

Volks,
There has been some interest in the stuff I uninstalled from my bus in my
effort to get back to stock. 10 weeks ago, I promised this stuff to a guy
who called me from OH, who will remain nameless, and he didn't show
yesterday after I drove 4 hours to save us shipping costs, so I now offer
these parts to interested parti(y)es. I will split them up, but do prefer to
help out someone who is interested and needs all the stuff. Becuase I was
jilted AND need stock parts badly, I will trade some of this stuff out,
here's what i have in mind....

Wolfagang welded and lowered spindles (pics will be available), paint in
great condition, very few miles, basically new, with links. If you can
furnish pics of yours, your word they are well within serviceable, or best
yet, rebuilt!, I will trade even out.
These cost 350.00 plus 100.00 core. If I can't trade em, I must get enough
to BUY recond spindles, as everything in the NE is rusted away and there are
no yard miracles, only cores. So outright price is 200.00 plus a core set,
or 275.00 without a core set. A savings of 150.00, and a set of links
installed already. OR REALLY GOOD (I MEAN it, I need to get this on the
road) spindles. I prefer the trade here, if you really have the parts.

BRAKES: TIII VERY good condition. Surface shit in drums from sitting, I'll
clean em before shipping/meeting you. New german cyls, pads are even good,
all adjusters, springs are there. These will come with tIII bearing covers,
which are wrong for the conversion, unless you are getting the swing
axle/spring plate kit, which will come with reconditioned and unused 61-66
bearing covers.
This is the hard part, I won't be able to buy repop and recond rear brakes
peice metal guys, we're talking like 300 bucks. Lets trade these nice TIII
even up for SERVICEABLE (preferably cleaned sharp) TII brakes, with good
cyls (prefer german, decent springs, hardware, drums at or under cut max and
run out condtions. I really want to trade the brakes out, but if I can get a
yard to come up with a reasonable price for the metal, then calculate
replacing all the shit, we can work out an outright price.

Lowering kit: A wolfgang kit, new condition, unscatched (give the bolt holes
a break though, it WAS installed) Tubes, bearing covers, spring plates, TIII
68, long spline long axles with fulcrums, plastic flowers, c clips, washers,
new bearings (china?), and new stuff for the ebrake lengthening (brass
tubes). I already have a fully rebuilt transaxle, so no trades here. This
would be 189.00 plus 100.00 on your spring core, plus the axles and covers.
A flat 250.00 will do with the goodies and axles included.


The conditions: I will work with any interested party or parties if we wind
up splitting this stuff. Trades will require a pic, then I get 24 hours
after recieivng this stuff to determine if it will do, otherwise I send you
your parts back, no hard feelings, otherwise you get the stuff agreed on.
This is bascially like getting paid first, as usual for mailing stuff. You
pay shipping here, I pay it back.
Cash deals are cash first if mailed to you, you pay shipping.
Delivery or meeting, I'll go 4-5 hours from Philia/Allentown, PA area and
meet you, just don't be like the last one, he could have just called and
told me to screw off.
I would prefer this goes to one person with a nice set of at least rear
brakes, and spindles too, that I can meet and both get what we need for the
lowest cost.
I will be shooting pics today, and cleaning up parts, so expect two days for
that to be in order.
Thanks, hope this can be mutually benifical for at least two of us. It's
like I am not getting as close as I hoped to be by now.
Al


