From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 19 Aug 2001 15:09:53 EDT
To: burning.girl(-at-)home.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] fuel flow problems

In a message dated 8/19/01 10:33:19 AM Pacific Daylight Time, 
burning.girl(-at-)home.com writes:

> 
>  
>  Last night I did this 6 times in a two hour drive on the freeway.  It's
>  getting incredibly frustrating, not to mention dangerous.  I pulled the gas
>  tank and dumped a whole lot of crud out of it about 5 months ago, because
>  the fuel filter was getting clogged too quickly.  But this is much worse.
>  I'm just wondering if there is anything else (other than crud in the gas
>  tank) that could cause this problem (fuel pump?) because it seems odd to 
me,
>  mostly because I can start it again but it stalls as soon as I drive away.
>  And because sometimes I don't do anything, I just take the line off and 
wait
>  about 30 seconds and gas will start pouring out again.  Sigh.
>  Mmm... is that that new gasoline perfume I smell?
>  Diana

Hm, seems like there is still crud in the tank.  What helped for me is find a 
magnet (piece of speaker magnet is great) sew it in a litle bag- maybe made 
of a sleeve ripped off an old T shirt.  Straighten out a line coat hanger and 
attach one end firmly to the bag o magnet.   Stick the magnet down the gas 
filler, and hook the end over the filler so you can  pull it out.    No the 
gas cap won't fit right, but it worked for me- Pull the magnet out when you 
fill it with gas, and hang it from the roof rack or rain gutter (assuming you 
dont freak out about your paint).  By the time you have paid for the gas the 
bag should be dry- knock the rust particles off the cloth, and reinstall in 
gas tank.  It produces instant performance results.  And is cheap!!! And 
little work. After you stop getting rust on the magnet, hang it up in your 
garage for a friend who gets an old vw with rust in the tank, or for your 
next old bus that has been sitting.

My brother gave me this idea when I was having the same symptoms with my 65 
westy soon after I started driving it.
