Date: 19 Aug 2001 21:12:13 -0000
From: "George Lyle" <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Ronnie Feitelson <Ronnie(-at-)OldVolks.com>, buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org,
Subject: Re: [VB] push rods



>    Well today I started to fix the minor problems I had on my new 1800
> engine  (74X88). The only real problem I had is the valve train. I went to
> adjust the valves after I got back from Colo, 2000 miles and found another
> rocker shaft spring broken. I checked the other side and found 1 valve very,
> very loose. I got out a set of Brand New rocker arm assemblies to install
> and cut some new Chromoly push rods to fit and began to take everything
> apart for the change over. 
>    What I found blew my mind, all of my pushrods had started to mushroom, no
> wonder my valves never tightened up on the whole trip. When my head guy did
> the 3 angle valve grind on the new Manly valves in my heads he shimmed up
> the springs to give me 120 lbs of spring pressure

Yow!  no wonder things were breaking!  Is it possible (off chance) that the springs were coil-binding?  That would break things!

I know that springs are a bit of a religious arguement, but it would seem smarter to use stronger (stiffer) springs with less pressure while 
closed than to use stock springs and shim the heck out of them to keep the valves under control.  

The valves spend most of their time closed and they would be less failure-prone with less tension on the stems regardless of the quality of 
the valves.  Stiffer springs would still allow you the high-revving you desire without losing control of the valves.  The accelerations of the 
valve train when nearly closed are very small compared to those midway between closed and full open, so excessive closed spring 
pressure does nothing but make things harder on the valve train.  You need the additional force at the half-open position to keep the 
follower on the cam, and stiffer springs will do the job for you.

On another topic, do you know of a source for NGK BP5ES-A spark plugs?  They came in my Mexican engine, and I cannot find them 
anywhere.  I'm currently using BP5ES plugs.  The apparent physical difference is that the -A suffix has an extended electrode even longer 
than the BP5ES (the "P" in this number indicates a projected tip).  The BP5ES plugs seem to be working well, but if I can get the -A's 
it would make me happier.  The NGK website doesn't explain the -A suffix at all,  so it might be a "special" for VW.

George Lyle
