From: "King, Robert" <Robert.King(-at-)dsto.defence.gov.au>
To: "'Slow36Hp(-at-)aol.com'" <Slow36Hp(-at-)aol.com>, VintageBus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 21 Aug 2001 14:19:05 +1000
Subject:  RE: [VB] Repro Metal Question


mmmmmmm,

I know you probably don't want to hear this but
I'd probably excavate it a little more to have a 
good look.

The rust 'in the channel' is where three structures
are joined together - the inner rocker, the 'inner' cargo
door strengthener and the outer rocker....

I'd probably carefully remove a larger section of the
outer rocker, or the whole outer rocker to have a better
look (as you've stated you're going to buy a whole outer anyway to get the
lip...)
I'd start by taking out a chunk of the whole thing centered
on the rusty section.

Don't cut too deep on the outer rocker- you'll chop up
the inner strengthener...take it out in a series of steps
with each bit that comes off you'll be able to see the bits
underneath it..

If the underlying structures are OK, grind the top and bottom
lips, drill some holes and weld the new outer rocker in....you could even
just replace the middle bits of all these structures if everything else was
OK and whatever you bought
matched the existing profiles
(often they don't and its actually easier to do the whole
thing and get a better result..)

Here in Oz vendors have been selling a rust repair section that includes the
outer four inches
of cargo floor, and all rockers for just this sort of repair.....(to suit
LHD bus)..
made by Veng?  They are sorta OK but you do get a better result by replacing
the whole
lot than trying to patch bits in....

RobK

http://www.splitbusaustralia.com



-----Original Message-----
From: Slow36Hp(-at-)aol.com [mailto:Slow36Hp(-at-)aol.com]
Sent: Tuesday, 21 August 2001 1:38 PM
To: VintageBus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] Repro Metal Question


As i was finishing up some areas on the 21 today, i peeled back the rubber 
for the cargo doors.  The rocker is completey solid except for the rubber 
channel and the "sill?"

So anyways, the middle seat mounts are different than on the 66 and i need
to 
know the best source for a repro as well as for the "sill?" piece.  I wont 
mind buying a full rocker and just hack that piece off it they come with it.

What does the almighty list suggest?
