Date: Tue, 21 Aug 2001 09:05:33 -0700
To: "Thomas Lavergne" <tlavergne(-at-)wcoil.com>,
From: Scott Mc Williams <webmaster(-at-)motifstudios.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Bus Sickness

At 11:43 AM 8/21/01 -0400, you wrote:
>Besides losing the appeal it also turns my bus into "an
>investment". 
>But if I restore it will the bus loose its personality?

So you're saying that to have personality a bus needs to be a rusted out
old hulk? I'm sure that's NOT what you're saying, but as the owner of a
couple of rusted out old hulks I can tell you that I'm looking forward to
the day that they can all have their nice new shiny paint lovingly buffed
to a shine that's nicer than the day they rolled off the assembly line.
True, my daily driver is not going to win any shows (and I never expect it
to) but when I put a coat of wax on it it feels like a show winner, and
people notice it and smile when they pass me (as they normally do) on the
freeway. While it's also true that I don't really give a carp about what
someone in a PT Cruiser or some other ugly random car thinks about my
vehicle, its nice to know that seeing my bus doesn't make them hate all
other buses and bus people ("ugh...look at that disgusting POS...cut him off").

I just don't buy into that whole "keep it looking like crap on purpose"
mentality. The only good argument I've heard for that was whoever it was
that posted recently about keeping all of his radio stuff in there. But...I
bet if he had a nice, restored panel that couldn't be seen into it would
give the same level of safety.

As far as having an investment in your vehicle, don't you already? I'm
assuming that if you've had a bus for over a year (I'm assuming you've had
it for a lot longer than that) that you've already put some serious money
into it. Unfortunately, what sells a car is not usually it's running gear,
but the condition of it's body. Heck, just putting on an Earl Scheibbs
$29.95 special would allow you to justify upping the replacement value. I'm
sure you're not looking to sell, but if (Ben Pon forbid) something were to
happen to your bus wouldn't you want to get more than a couple hundred
bucks from the insurance Mongols?

But then, I know a guy who had a decent bus and then he did a full resto on
it. Now he's literally afraid to drive it. It's not like it's a rare model
or anything, just a camper he threw together. But it lives in his garage
and never sees the light. Now, THAT's sad, but that's not the bus's fault
it's the owner's.

I say paint it! And then drive the hell out of it!

Scott 
