From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 21 Aug 2001 9:24:33 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] Bus Sickness

just because you "restore" a bus does not mean it has to become an
investment, a permanent garage fixture, or a trailer queen. i've had my
share of flintstone's mobiles a well as desert vehicles, and to be
truthful, not having to deal with the annoyances of rusty parts failures is
sure nice. but be aware that just because the body is nice doesn't
guarantee that bolts won't still break, or that rust will not re-appear. i
don't think that restoring it will not cause it to loose its personality.
it will enhance it, as long as it is done properly. kinda like getting a
new outfit, suit, whatever-you're still the same inside.  my "shiny" bus
has a personality of its own, even though i bought it the way it is today.
my blue camper is a great bus, but is suffering from the uglies. i think
that when i get the chance to fix the blue bus, it will be the same bus,
but alot happier it will be around alot longer than if i did nothing to it
and let it suffer.  but i can look at the "shiny" bus and feel sad, because
it, too, is suffering from the wrong color paint job and wishes it were the
grey it rolled out of hannover with.  
i guess you must ultimately decide if you like your bus enough to want to
be driving it for a long time into the future. don't you feel like you
already have an "investment" in it anyway? clean, solid metal is alot more
appealing than duct tape. plus, "restoring" a bus has got to be cheaper
than buying a new car, or spending the time to re-vamp a "new" splitty that
you are unfamiliar with if you needed to replace your current one. then
again, your bus may not be worth saving to begin with. i am amazed every
time i go back east and see the stuff people are fixing. for the cost of
bodywork alone, they could have had a clean-to-start-with car from out
west, plus some pocket change.
good luck.

> [Original Message]
> I have NEVER had a "good bodied" bus and am not sure
> I really want one.  Besides losing the appeal it also turns my bus into
"an
> investment".  But the thought of having one that will, hopefully, never
need
> any body work again (other than maintenance) sure sounds nice. If
> I don't do something the bus has a life of about 5 to 7 years.  If I don't
> go through with a restoration how can I keep the old girl going?  I am not
> one of those show guys.  If I restore it it will be for the sake of the
bus.
> But if I restore it will the bus loose its personality?  



--- Jon Furst



