From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Sun, 19 Jan 2003 10:20:27 -0600 (CST)
To: jolliffe(-at-)mgl.ca (Denmiester), Limbolist(-at-)yahoogroups.com,
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] re: Tire twist

 Den and all,

Oh--no--this was no hot iron regroving technique ala JC Whitney /
Warshawsky catalog item of the 40's-- 50's---

This is razor width cuts across the face of the tire--width wise, cut
with a machine that they took the whole wheel and tire and chucked into
it--and this 3" spinning razor wheel ran across the face of the tire
from side to side making these sepatations in the tread--the sipe it
creates you can barely see--not like a regrover- 

Look at any Michelin--Pirelli tire--

The face of the tire is actually made up of little wedges-- blocks with
these razor cuts separating them.

This guy I was talking to at Discount Tire had his stuff together--
pretty knowledgable.

He was telling me that one of the reasons a Michelin--Pirelli is a long
winded hoop is they run cooler because of these sipes cut into the
tire--among other reasons--tire compound etc.

But these cuts will actually allow the tires I'm running to run cooler
as well as offer better traction in the white stuff, and in wet stuff,
by adding these separate blocks of rubber to the face of my tires

The Yoko's were good in the wet--no problems there--just when I would
get caught in the snow---terrible.
They have zero exits to the sidewalls from the tread to get rid of the
snow or have it exit away from the face of the tire---this sipe cutting
will help--(we'll see.)

Later,

Terry
 
E-mail message   
 
From: jolliffe(-at-)mgl.ca (Denmiester) Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2003, 9:51am To:
type2(-at-)type2.com Subject: [T2] re: Tire twist 

Hey Terry... 

Tire shredding has been around for MANY years...we used it in the 60s
and 70s to get our ice racing tires to "bite"....dirt trackers still do
it today...truckers do it too, but with larger grooves...they call it
re-grooving... 
Not an artform you'll likely see in a "new" tire store, but it sounds
like you may have lucked out... 
Enjoy the ride... 

Den.
