From: "Beckley, Matthew" <Matthew.Beckley(-at-)egg.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: "'pickyourwinda(-at-)aol.com'" <pickyourwinda(-at-)aol.com>
Date: Mon, 20 Jan 2003 10:09:17 -0000
Subject: Air Bath Airfilter

Hello

I have a 73 westfalia 1600 single Carb engine that I brought in a slight
state of disrepair,  I have sorted all the major problems and now have the
engine back in, I am looking at the oil bath airfilter and it doesn't make
much sense.  

It would be better if I could send a photograph but unfortunately I don't
have the equipment so I'll do my best to give you a description.  The filter
has what I believe to be an independent thermostat.  It is a circular object
and is clamped onto the bottom of the external air intake tube with a flap
going inside the tube, the thing is I don't think this thermostat is working
correctly as when cold the flap is covering the hot air intake from the
engine, and If I understand the workings correctly this flap should cover
the hot air intake when the engine is warm and allow the cold air to flow?
and visa versa? I think something on the flap may have broken off but
looking at the stat there is something that looks like it should move up and
down but it doesn't?

On the very top of the filter there are two outlets one of which has been
blanked off.  The other has pipe from it, I don't know where this goes but
from photo's I have seen believe it maybe to the thermostat?

As for the blanked one there is also a blank off intake on my 34PICT Carb-
Could this be related?

The other inlet/outlet is from something that protrudes from the bottom
section of the airfilter just above where the oil is, I think this should go
to a T piece on the vapour lines- Can anyone confirm?

I know I'm asking alot but so far I have only had very unconvincing
explanations from my local "experts" especially regards the thermostat so if
anyone can help me with some more information a picture or anything I'd be
very grateful

Thanks
Matt
U.K


This private and confidential e-mail has been sent to you by Egg.
The Egg group of companies includes Egg Banking plc
(registered no. 2999842), Egg Financial Products Ltd (registered
no. 3319027) and Egg Investments Ltd (registered no. 3403963) which
carries out investment business on behalf of Egg and is regulated
by the Financial Services Authority.  
Registered in England and Wales. Registered offices: 1 Waterhouse Square,
138-142 Holborn, London EC1N 2NA.
If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail and have
received it in error, please notify the sender by replying with
'received in error' as the subject and then delete it from your
mailbox.
