Date: Mon, 20 Jan 2003 11:26:27 -0500
From: 80 Westy Pokey <pokey(-at-)vanagon.org>
To: vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.com, syncro(-at-)yahoogroups.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: POR15 Undercoat

[...]

Well I posted this yesterday and did not get much of 
response. One rave "Great idea" and one strong "Don't do it" 
any thoughts?

Thanks,
Chris

---- Original message ----
Date: Sun, 19 Jan 2003 13:52:17 -0500
From: 80 Westy Pokey <pokey(-at-)vanagon.org>  
Subject: POR15 Undercoat  
To: vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.com, syncro(-at-)yahoogroups.com, 
type2(-at-)type2.com

I drive a syncro westy but this thread should ring true for 
anyone with a bus that would like to drive in winter who is 
worried about rust.

I am in a bit of a unique situation at the moment. The 
propane tank is out, and the saddle gas tank that I'm having 
put in under the passenger sliding door is not installed yet. 
Additionally, there is some work that requires the removal of 
the driveshaft. This leaves the bulk of these sections free 
of obstructions.

To me, this is the perfect oportunity to sandblast or 
wirebrush and then coat the entire middle section of the van 
with POR15. Does anyone see a problem with doing this? My 
main concern is trapping moisture.

I think it would be way too much work to effectively coat 
underneith where the floorboards meet the frame (if I'm wrong 
tell me), and I can't see an easy way to finish the inside of 
the framerails (again let me know). These are two stumbling 
blocks but even with these limitations as long as none of the 
existing drainholes were blocked wouldn't this be a pretty 
good thing to do if I were so inclined?

Yes the middle section is just one part of the van, but I 
figure I could do this in stages, slowly applying POR15 to 
the entire underbody of the van. I am also thinking about 
extending up the side of the van to coat the rocker panels of 
course this would all be topcoated to prevent UV decaying the 
POR15.

Thoughts?

Thanks,
Chris
