From: "Gensler, Mike" <Mike.Gensler(-at-)CONCERT.COM>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 20 Jan 2003 12:07:27 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] re: Tire twist

>He was telling me that one of the reasons a Michelin--Pirelli is a 
>long winded hoop is they run cooler because of these sipes cut into 
>the tire--among other reasons--tire compound etc.
>
>But these cuts will actually allow the tires I'm running to run 
>cooler as well as offer better traction in the white stuff, and 
>in wet stuff, by adding these separate blocks of rubber to the face 
>of my tires

Sigh.  Call me a skeptic, but if cutting razor-thin lines across the blocks
of the tread will make your tires run cooler and give you better traction,
why-oh-why wouldn't the tire manufacturer have done it in the first place?
If putting a magnet on your fuel line will give you better gas mileage,
wouldn't all cars come with magnets?  If running your air-cooled engine with
no thermostat or flaps would make it run cooler, why did VW stick them in
there in the first place?

Each tire is designed as a whole.  Some have great big blocks of rubber for
maximum contact - good for dry, less so for wet, snow, and mud.  Others have
great big gaps - great for "paddling" through muck, but damned loud on the
road and not so good at dry traction or cornering.  And there's every
combination in between.  Pity there are so few tires to choose from for our
buses!

I believe that siping will reduce your tread mileage by about 10% and give
you a squirmier feel on the road (you've split those tread blocks into small
pieces so they'll squish around individually).  It may aid slightly in wet
traction, but how much snow do you really think will push out through those
razor-thin cuts?

I'll agree that Yokohama tires are crap in the snow.  If you live where snow
is an issue, either carry chains for the just-in-cases, or try one of the
other tires.  The Michelin Agelis' I put on my 73 this past Summer are 100%
better in snow than the Yoko 370's I had on there before (Colorado Springs,
CO area allows for some seat of the pants testing).

YMMV.

Mike g.
73 Westy
