Date: Mon, 20 Jan 2003 19:27:50 -0800 (PST)
From: Jon Syder <syder(-at-)vache.ucdavis.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] CHT readings

Aircraft engines, the primary application for these gauges, have
individual cyl heads not paired as per VW.  You might do as well with a
dual gauge but while you are going for it get the quad.  Either way there
is going to be some severe sticker shock for NIB items.  They don't give
those yellow tags (FAA certification) out cheap. I have seen "out of time"
aircraft instruments on our favorite auction site.  The basic EGT or CHT
as used on light aircraft is a simple device AMHIK and the probes are not
that expensive, nor the thermocouple wire.  If one was a determined
bargain hunter I think you could find a nice set of gauges for not too
much money.  There are some very cool looking larger diameter instruments
as used on larger piston engine ac in the past floating around.  MUCH
nicer than the cheap ALCO's mentioned above altho the ALCOs work fine.  
You may find those in the most unlikely places, swap meets, junk shops,
surplus stores, even some instrument shop junk piles.  They will have
either a color code on the terminals (indicates wire type) or the wire
type directly marked on the back.  Any self-respecting old instrument jock
can give you the color code so you can get the right wire/probe.  My books
are buried but it is somewhere on the web for sure.  Next time you are
watching a WWII bomber movie and they show the FE's panel, as he is
screaming about dilithium crystals or something, you are looking at
several of them.  Think about how long the wires to those cylinder heads
were ;)  jon



> From: "R. E. Haufler" <rehaufler(-at-)mac.com>
> 
> Does one really only need a quad CHT gauge?  Would not a dual be just a
> good?  There are only 2 cylinder heads, made of high thermal conductivity
> aluminum.  Would the temp very that much fore-to-aft?  But then, why are
> quads sold?  In the future, (I really do not know when that is) I plan to

Jon Syder
arcane knowledge on a need to know basis 
