Date: Mon, 1 Sep 2003 08:01:14 -0700 (PDT)
From: Stan Brown <browns4s(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Update: A cry for help in AL : Spiffy broken down-please help!!

All

I got a call from Spiffy's new owner last night and
James said he made it to Texas with no problems and
just loves the bus.  The problem he had consisted of a
bent valve.  After my friend Andy was able to use his
AAA card and get him towed to the Mitchell Servie
center and they were able to put another head on with
no problem the next day. I called the next day and the
woman (daughter I think) that answered the phone said
"you mean the guy with the rainbow bus, I'll get him. 
The next thing I heard was "JAAAAAAAAAMES, GET IN
HERE, YOU GOT A PHONE CALL!  Apparently the Mitchell's
adopted him into the family for his short stay, took
pretty good care of him and enjoyed having him around.
 Looks like they put him to work too!

When I spoke with him he was grateful for the
assistance he received and amazed at the speed that
the word got out.  

It's ironic, when he bought the bus if he had an
uneventful trip back to Texas he would never had known
how large the "type2" family is. He realized we wern't
just a bunch of people on an e-mail list but a family
that reaches all over the world. So it looks like he
will be joining the list in the near future so you
should be hearing from him again.

Later

Stan
> 
 Well Spiffy broke down in Alabama. He has a big
problem. I am not a mechanic, but I told James to take
off the valve  covers and as feared its not good. He
said the spring retainer on the #2 valve was laying in
the valve cover and the spring is twisted. The rod is
"loose". I am not sure what this means except it
sucks. Possibly a dropped valve? The #1 is fine as are
#3 and 4.   He is in Uniontown, AL just west of Selma,
AL which is about 40? miles west of Montgomery on
highway 80. If anyone can help please call me at 704
502-8927 or James at 281 935-7330. If nothing else he
needs to find a mechanic in Selma or thereabouts.   
Can someone send this to the type 2 list also? I am
going to start calling the AIRS listees now.
Thanks!   Rob
