From: kagelp(-at-)songs.sce.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 2 Sep 2003 06:52:56 -0700
Subject: 73 auto adventure camper

well, actually went around the whole block in my bus this weekend to see
how she shifts and sure, it was slow as expected but ran strong and shifted
nicely.  i used all synthetics in her so that should give her a little
longer life.  i've replaced all the flooring and one wall so far and that
went well and sure lightened up the interior.  photos are at
http://photos.yahoo.com/ocsd50ae where you can see the work i've done and i
even put a couple pics of the original floor on there also so you can see
what they thought was cool back in 73.  now, i've removed all the screws
from the top to replace with new ones and a new seal which i need to locate
(anyone know a good replacement, pmail me so i can buy it.)  removing the
old screws took nearly all day as most all of them were corroded beyond the
point where i could just use a 1/4 inch socket so i had to use a variety of
tools on each screw.  i am sunburned and lost a whole day of interior
updating but it was worth it just to get those old screws out of there.
the ones i'm replacing it with are philips heads and much flatter so they
will look better.  i plan on only leaving 4 in the bus when i drive it to
get repainted so that i can easily remove them for the new seal.  i found
in removing the interior that it was much harder than my old 72 westy and i
needed to cut the water pipe in 4 pieces just to get the closet out buck as
luck would have it home depot came through with some rubber connectors for
the pipes that made the reinstall much easier.  in fact, home depot came in
handy for lots of stuff.  right now i'm in the process of negotiating with
them on a big piece of scrap corian countertop that they are throwing out.
right now they are at 100$ on it which i find a bit to high but if they
come down to 50 then i'll be buying it and replacing my tabletop and
counters with the corian in a teal color for a very nice look.  if they
can't bring it down to 50 then i'll just buy some plywood and laminate it
with white laminate instead.


Paul A. Kagel
SCE/Maint/Win Team
89-971
