Date: Tue, 02 Sep 2003 10:10:17 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scmills21(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K), aufever(-at-)prodigy.net (Karl)
Cc: Shawn.Luft(-at-)Completions.Bombardier.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Towing Jetta for 100 miles

>Before you go this route, you need to check the Vehicle Code in the
>state you live in. Here in California, in order to legally use a tow
>dolly, the towed vehicle must be currently registered. You cannot have
>any part of a non or expired registration vehicle on any street. Even if
>it is non-op'd. You would need a car trailer to legally move the
>vehicle. If you get a ticket for having a non-op'd vehicle on the
>street, it nullifies the non-op status and besides the fine and risk of
>impoundment you also must pay the past registration fees and penalties
>that the non-op status waived......

Heck I towed a Hyundai from VA to TN in 1995 and the Hyundai was not 
insured, registered, nor mine (beyond a handwritten transfer of ownership). 
The cops did check me over at a DUI check site. My Beetle (tow vehicle) had 
current Italian registration which they could not read, doubtful insurance 
(also Italian), and the towee Hyundai, was on a tow bar (Tomken Machine in 
Colorado, nice collapsible towbar). Hyundai had no lighting beyond the 
parking lights whose battery was sustained by the Beetle through a single 
hot wire from the one of the Beetle's taillight. Ground wire was 
accomplished by the towbar connected to the Beetle.

It worked, I wouldn't recommend it, wouldn't do it again. Oh and I'd get 
the hell out of the Soviet Republic of CA today... <grin> Good lighting is 
a must - ones that include brake lights, turn signals and running lights.

Seriously, try a good towbar by Tomken (for example) or a tow dolly. I have 
both and both have done me well. Flat towing is better but I have neither a 
trailer like that nor a suitable tow vehicle.


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
