From: "Jay Brown" <jayb(-at-)coedsportswear.com>
To: <Margaret.MacArthur(-at-)montgomerycountymd.gov>
Cc: "'type2'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 2 Sep 2003 12:19:25 -0400
Subject: RE: front door screen

Hi Meg,

The easiest way that I have found to make a screen for the front doors of a
bus (or any other vehicle for that matter) is to make a dual layer setup
that will fit over your open door like a sock.  Just take a piece of
cardboard and trace the outside edge of the door as a template.  Add about
an inch or two all the way around to account for the thickness of the door
(a little extra at the bottom is a good idea to get a better seal) and cut
out 4 identical pieces of screen.  Then you simply sew two pieces together
on the front, rear and top for each side.  For extra security, a small
magnet in each bottom corner is all you will need to hold everything
securely in place.

To install, open the door and slip the screen over the top edge.  Close the
door and you have a nice bug-free front window.  If you know anyone with an
old screenhouse they don't use anymore this will make a great supply of easy
to fold screen.
Also, if you find yourself traveling in a particularly buggy area you can
even use this setup while driving at low speeds.

Good Luck!
Jay Brown
'72 Riviera
'85 Westfalia
http://www.geocities.com/vwcamper72




Date: Tue, 2 Sep 2003 11:31:37 -0400
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "MacArthur, Margaret" <Margaret.MacArthur(-at-)montgomerycountymd.gov>
Subject: front door screen
Message-ID: <CE0D86DD86055642AB5BD54A13D0C55808FFFC(-at-)mcg-ex05.mcgov.org>

Hi,

I would like to find some magnetic frame screens for the front doors of
my bus. When I was a kid we had some for our bus. I will make some if I
can't find another manufacture. I seem to need a more powerful magnet
than I originally tested. I cut out the screen and bought magnetic
strips, sew them in a binding around the screen. My mistake was not to
calculate the fact that the material would lessen the magnetic power so
I need to get a more powerful magnet, hopefully in a strip like the
other one.. If I get these the way I want them I may ask if anyone wants
a pair and make a few extras:-)

Anyone know a company that manufactures something like this?

Peace

Meg
