From: "Jasan C." <type2-78(-at-)comcast.net>
To: "type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 2 Sep 2003 12:54:32 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] How did you restore your front kick panels?

I used 1/8" press board to make new panels for mine. You can get it at any
home improvement store like Home Depot. As for the type of glue, stay away
from the spray on kind. I have had bad luck with it coming loose even with
the heavy duty 3M brand. I used the brush on contact cement on my seat
pedestal rubber and once it dries it doesn't come apart. Get the flamable
version as I have heard that it sticks better. Make sure that you give it
enough cure time before applying the two parts together. It should be dry to
the touch with just a slight tack. I think 10-15 minutes depending on temp.
and humidity.

One more thing. The kick panel on the drivers side is a PITA to get into
position the first time. It's because the new panels will be flat and not
contoured like the originals so bending them to get them into the side rails
and past the pedal assembly is a chore. Once the panels have been in for
awhile they will start to take on the same contour as the originals.  I
broke the first drivers side panel I put in. The passenger side goes in
pretty easily. If you have someone to hold the clutch pedal to the floor
while putting the panel in it makes it a little easier.

Good Luck

Jasan C.
'78 Westy
Portland OR.


----- Original Message ----- 
From: "Ruth Bajorek" <rbajorek(-at-)zoominternet.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Sent: Tuesday, September 02, 2003 12:39 PM
Subject: [T2] How did you restore your front kick panels?


> I want to put the front kick panels back in my 76 Westy; however, they are
in
> sad shape. I am going to use the old ones as a template, but I'm unsure of
> what material I should use as the "board"?The original is that hard
cardboard
> stuff. I can't find anything like that. What about thin plywood like luan
> (sp)?
> I have some black vinyl too, but I'm not sure what kind of adhesive to
use. I
> have some 3M spray that I think will work well- anything better?
