From: "Gensler, Mike" <Mike.Gensler(-at-)CONCERT.COM>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 2 Sep 2003 17:04:25 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: front door screen

I made mine with the magnets like you're talking about, but I hot-glued the
screening to the magnets so the magnetic side was clear to stick to the
metal door frame.  For anyone interested, here's my "how-to" instructions.
Worked for me.

Mike g.
Colorado Springs, CO
73 Westy
-------
I made some screens for the front door windows of my 73 Westy out of some
mosquito netting, some magnetic strips, and a hot glue gun.  It took about 1
hour from start to finish and I'm VERY pleased with the results.  Now I can
leave my windows rolled down at night and not get eaten by the mosquitoes.

Here's a brief how-to:

1.  Cut the netting (available at Army Surplus stores - I got mine at the
local Cloth World - any fine netting will do) to an approximate size to
cover the window.  Make sure you leave several inches extra, just in case -
this will get trimmed off after you're finished.

2.  Fit your magnetic strips.  (I got mine at Michael's - a craft store
chain.  It is about 1/2 inch wide and came in little rolls of about 3 foot
each and had self-adhesive backing on one side which made gluing the netting
to it easy because it helps hold it in place while you work.)  Just stick
the strips to the inside of the door (with the magnetic part, not the
self-adhesive!) and cut the ends to fit.  Don't leave any gaps anywhere
because those damned mosquitoes will find them!  I cut my corners with a 45
degree angle so the 2 pieces meeting there would match up nice.  Oh, by the
way, these go all the way around, including the vent wing.  If you want to
be able to fold your screens in half for storage later (I store mine flat so
didn't do this), make a cut in the magnets opposite each other - then you'll
be able to fold them toward the netting side.

3.  Pull the backing off the magnetic strips and press the netting onto it.
This won't hold real well so it's best to do it out of the wind and it
really helps to have an extra set of hands.

4.  Fire up the hot glue gun and start gluing.  I started in the top, rear
corner and did the top first, then the rear side, then started along the
bottom.  VERY IMPORTANT - if you want to be able to leave your vent wing
open with these in place (helps grab every little breeze at night), open
your vent wing BEFORE gluing the whole bottom and any of the front edge in
place.  Just leave the netting a little loose in this area and it'll work
fine.

5.  Let the hot glue cool or dry or whatever it is that hot glue does, then
trim the excess netting off with a blade or scissors and you're ready to go!
For storage, I stick the two together and lay them on top of the metal roof
up under the pop-top.
