Date: Tue, 27 Nov 2001 20:26:32 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)home.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Trailering Bus

>From: "Michael Heron" <Michael.Heron(-at-)mbs.gov.on.ca>
>Date: Tue, 27 Nov 2001 10:28:13 -0500
>
>I am going to be renting a trailer to move a 65 bus a good 800 mile and
>need to get a few spec's on what sort of trailer would be required. So my
>questions
>
>1. How much does a 65 Bus weigh (this is just a regular van- doesn't have
>all the camper equipment in it)

Per Bentley, a Microbus weighs 1140 kg (2512 lbs).  For reference, the
heaviest Bus they list is a DIN-spec ambulance at 1280 kg (2822 lbs).

>2. How "wide" is the bus (i.e what sort of width would thr trailer have
>to be)

A Deluxe is 1.8m wide, 4.3m long, and 1.94m high when empty per Bentley
again.  That's about 6 feet by 14.5 feet by 6.5 feet.

>3. Finally would a double axle trailer be sufficient or would a tri axle
>be preferable?

A double-axle trailer with minimum 14" wheels would be probably be OK.
It really depends on the load rating of the axles and tires.  Most
rental trailers I have seen are the two-axle kind.

>Any other tips for a realtively inexperienced trailer tower would be
>apprecaited.

http://www.type2.com/library/misc/towee.htm has some good info.

My personal story: I towed my Bus from Houston to Tulsa when I bought 
it in July 2000.  I used a double-axle flatbed trailer from U-Haul and
one of their smaller trucks (empty).  Most rental places have restrictions
on the towing vehicle and the total weight of the entire rig; they may
not let you tow a Bus with a pickup, or they might insist on a one-ton
pickup.  On U-Haul's Web site you can type in the trailer you're using,
the towed vehicle, and the towing vehicle, and it will tell you whether
they allow it or not.

Unless you know for sure that the rear axle of the '65 is in perfect
shape, you probably want a flatbed trailer - all four wheels of the
Bus are on the trailer.  The alternative is a "dolly" or "car carrier"
that only supports the front wheels of the Bus - the back wheels of
the Bus roll on the road.

If you're not sure if the '65 runs, make sure you bring something with
you that can get the Bus up on to the trailer, like a manual winch.  I
didn't do this and had to do some work to get the Bus up on the trailer -
I unhooked the trailer from the truck and used the truck to pull the Bus
on to the trailer, then had to hook the trailer back up.

The trailer should have straps or chains to tie the Bus down with, or
at least a place they can be attached.  Put the straps or chains around
the torsion bars, front and back.  Be careful of nearby breakable things
like brake lines.  Make sure you have more than one thing holding the
Bus to the trailer, and that all chains/straps/rope are fairly tight. 

Make sure the trailer lights work OK, both when you get the trailer and
while you're traveling.

Make sure that at least the driver's door of the Bus will clear the sides 
or wheel-wells of the trailer when it is opened.  Because of where the
doors on a Bus are, 99.9% of Bus/trailer combinations will have no
problems with this.  Also, on many Buses, you could crawl in and out
through the back if you have to.  This is more of a problem with low
vehicles like Bugs, Ghias, etc. 

When you're driving the towing vehicle, pretend like you have no reverse
gear - only drive in to places that you can drive straight out of again.
People who drive trucks for a living can back up with a trailer and make
it go exactly where they want it but I know I can't.  Use the brakes
early, and don't forget that the overall rig is very long - you can't
make sharp turns at intersections, you have to drive the truck out into
the intersection a little and *then* start turning.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds


