Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Thu, 15 Apr 2004 11:49:40 -0700
To: "James Jackson" <firesong4ng(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] vacumn readings

On Apr 15, 2004, at 10:28 AM, James Jackson wrote:

> When you have a gauge in a vehicle which measures vacumn
> what is it watching?

This is the way I understand how vacuum works...

Vacuum readings are generally taken from the air plenum (fuel injected) 
or manifold (carburetted).  This vacuum is the difference between the 
amount of air that the pistons are trying to pull into the cylinder and 
the amount that the throttle is letting in.  As the throttle opens, 
manifold vacuum drops (since the throttle is letting more air into the 
manifold).  I believe it also creeps back up slightly as the RPMs 
increase (since the pistons will be trying to move that same volume of 
air more quickly).  Manifold vacuum goes WAY up when you close the 
throttle again, since the pistons are trying to move that volume of air 
very quickly against the closed throttle plate.  For this reason, 
manifold vacuum is used to perform functions related to deceleration or 
idling, such as retarding the timing (if you have a dual-vacuum 
distributor) and boosting braking power (see the big vacuum line that 
runs from your engine up to brake booster near the master cylinder).

A tight, well-running engine will have higher manifold vacuum than a 
worn-out engine.  A worn-out engine is going to have leakiness at the 
rings or valves, which will effect how well the piston is able to suck 
air into the cylinder.  Vacuum leaks (caused by cracked or disconnected 
vacuum lines, leaky gaskets, worn-out vacuum diaphragms, etc.) can also 
affect your vacuum reading (see below).

There is also ported vacuum (sometimes called throttle vacuum).  Ported 
vacuum is the vacuum created by air flowing through the throttle body 
(or carburetor) as measured at a small hole drilled or cast into the 
throttle body (or carburetor) for this purpose.  As more air flows 
through the throttle, ported vacuum increases (this is the venturi 
effect, right? ... the same principle used by a carburetor to draw fuel 
into the air stream).  Thus, ported vacuum is roughly proportional to 
RPMs.  For this reason, ported vacuum is used to perform functions 
related to increasing engine RPMs, such as advancing the timing[*].

[*] Distributors often couple two advancing techniques - centrifugal 
and vacuum.  Centrifugal uses weights connected to springs to move the 
advance plate inside the distributor.  With this technique, timing does 
not advance until the engine RPMs increase.  By adding vacuum advance 
(using vacuum to pull an arm connected to the advance plate) to 
centrifugal advance, you can get a more responsive advance curve, 
because the ported vacuum increases before the engine RPMs increase 
(since there is vacuum already present in the manifold, the increased 
air flow through the throttle body can happen before the pistons 
actually start moving faster).  This is why many people (including 
myself) prefer vacuum-advance distributors to the good ol' Bosch 009 
:-)

Vacuum leaks are a cause of trouble for an engine mostly because they 
lean out the fuel mixture.  In a fuel injected Bus engine, any air that 
enters the plenum AFTER the air flow meter is not accounted for by the 
ECU, resulting in a fuel injector pulse that is too short for the 
amount of air that is present.  In a carburetted engine, any air that 
enters the manifold below the carburetor is not going to draw 
additional fuel from the jets in the carburetor.

A well-running Type 4 engine should have 15'' - 18'' (inches of 
mercury) of vacuum at idle.

Hope that helps.  (And, I hope I got that all right :-)

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
