From: "Andy" <airhedz(-at-)earthlink.net>
Cc: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 15 Apr 2004 21:42:25 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Painting wheels with POR

I'd like to chime in on this one.

I work in the marine industry, and have personally applied marine single
part urethane paint, specifically Interlux Brightsides. I have used it in
the floors of shower stalls that are used 15-20 times per day, often by
people who wear their flip-flops right from the parking lot into the shower,
dragging in all sorts of oil, imbedded stones, sand, etc. Some of these are
skinny guys, and they have to run around in there just to get wet. These
showers get scrubbed daily with a polypropylene brush and the usual bathroom
cleaning chemicals, including bleach. These repainted fiberglas shower
floors have held up a minimum of 18 months. I am amazed. I have seen it
applied by a professional on the hull of a 45' power boat with a three inch
brush, and I swear to you it looks like it was sprayed on. There is only one
product that can beat it for abrasion and UV resistance, shine and life
expectancy, and that is a two part urethane system. You can expect five
times the life, but it pretty much has to be professionally applied, as it
is sprayed and this stuff will do the same thing to the inside of your lungs
as it does to the surface you are applying it to, namingly coating it with
an impenetrable barrier that lasts for many years.

As with everything in life, results are only as good as the prep. Kill the
rust, remove the greases and soaps silicones and waxes BEFORE you sand so
you don't imbed them in the surface, and practice on an old piece before you
do the good stuff. Read the manufacturer's instructions, and don't
substitute (ie, don't use the Home Depot paint thinner when they specify
Interlux 333 Brushing Liquid. There are so many coating systems out there,
and they have specific instructions for their products.

Andy McKinley
airhedz(-at-)earthlink.net
'79 Westy, '79 Kombi
