Date: Fri, 16 Apr 2004 11:40:07 -0500
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Painting wheels with POR

Esteemed List-Volk:

From the Bench Racing file - I call Hog Wash on the "painted/coated rims
won't loosen up, must be lack of torque on the nuts/bolts" Hog Wash...

I've been recently tasked with building a class winning 1600 SP motor
for some friends racing in SCORE-International's Class 9 category - have
a copy of the 2003-2006 Rules and Regulations handbook right at hand.
And I quote from CR12 (Competition Regulation 12) Wheels and Tires:

"...It is highly recommended that all paint be removed from the mounting
surfaces of the rim and hub. (Paint burns, blisters, and peels, allowing
the lug nuts to loosen.)..."

I would posit that one of the premier off-road racing sanctioning bodies
knows a thing or two about how things get to loosen up - know what we
means, jelly-beans?  Personal experience dictates SEVERAL regular
re-torques of the fasteners on freshly prepped rims, which is what I
perceived as the problem with the Trashed Splittie epic.  The freshly
refinished rims were mounted up and the owners took off on a road trip
to attend some bus event and failed to recheck the torque.  End of
lesson some 400 miles later.

OBC - if you ever happen to strip down the impeller on a Type 4 motor
for cleaning/painting, please do make sure that you remove as much paint
as you can where the two pieces bolt together, and don't use any
thread-locking product on the four fasteners.  It's very interesting to
note how much torque gets "disappeared" when the two pieces rub through
the fresh paint on each piece :-0

Happy Friday

Jim Hayden
STBs.org



E-MAIL CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:  The contents of this e-mail message and any
attachments are intended solely for the
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or legally privileged
information. If you are not the
intended recipient of this message or if this message has been addressed to
you in error, please
immediately alert the sender by reply e-mail and then delete this message and
any attachments. If you
are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination,
distribution, copying, or
storage of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited.
