Date: Sat, 6 Mar 2004 00:32:40 -0600
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: Chris Walker <toph(-at-)tophu4u.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 79 FI Transporter Runs all day then starts well and 

On Fri, Mar 05, 2004 at 11:14:46PM -0600, Chris Walker wrote:
> I am having fun troubleshooting my 2000cc FI '79 Transporter.

First off if you don't have the Bentley, get it.

> Tune Up Settings:
> 
> 7.5 degrees before Top Dead Center
> Idle 1000 rpm
> Dwell 48 degrees
> Valve clearances 1/8 turn in

spec is 2 turns, many people on the list say between 1 and 2.
Shouldn't cause the symptoms, but could possibly improve your
compression.

> Compression cold is (-at-) 90 on each cylinder

that number isn't really much use. you need to do it at operating
temp.

> Since my last tune-up (one week ago) I have been experiencing something I
> have never heard with this engine.  She starts strongly but then for the
> first 2 minutes she runs rough and I have to rev her high - close to 2500
> rpm.  There is an intermittent subtle soft popping sound and uneven firing.
> After 2 minutes she evens out and runs and idles smoothly.

this is just a guess, but it could be the really rich mixture not
being combusted in the chamber and then igniting in the exhaust (or
more likely your spark isn't always firing), which would lead us to
possibly see plugs that look like a rich mixture.

> Other oddities.  I timed her this afternoon and noticed that the timing
> light synched up 180 degrees out.  In other words with  cylinders 2 and 4
> not 1 and 3.  Why?

i'm not sure what you are saying here, but I have a nice project for
you tomorrow. it's called double check the ignition mechanics. This is
how I do it, others have similar procedures with the same goals.

get the engine at TDC for the #1 cyl. You can confirm this by pulling
the valve cover and watching the valves. at TDC the valves on the #1
cyl will not move at all anywhere around that degree mark. but you
will see the #2 valve move.

ok, now pull the cap on the distributor. Does the rotor point toward
the plug on the rotor cap that is connected to the #1 cyl? good.

now follow it around counter clockwise. in this order you should trace
all the wires to their proper cylinder 1-2-3-4 (nice huh). 

you have now verified that you are timing the engine correctly and
that all the plug wires go to the correct places. I mainly suggest
this since the condition got worse after a tune-up. That sometimes
means a user error in putting stuff back.

if you "know" that the wires are in the correct place, check again. 

> Carbon tracks build up within a week.  I wonder if I am loosing spark
> strength because the gap between the dizzy rotor and  dizzy cap studs is
> excessive.  I am considering getting a complete new dizzy.

what does your dwell do when you rev up the engine, does it get
erratic or move up or down? if so the distributor is needing some
attention.

> When I pull the spark plugs each one is consistently black.  Not oily black.
> A dry black.  What does this indicate?

i'm thinking rich or imcomplete ignition.
 
 
> As for the FI components...I don't know much about them...I am going to
> research them next...any likely culprits I should look  at first???

if all the ignition checks out then it's time to go step by step
through the entire fi section for testing parts in the bentley. (no
really) I"ve always been lucky and found defective parts while just
doing the first steps, but the procedures give work. You won't replace
anything you don't need to and will find the cause. fi is simple, but
you can't "time it by ear" so to speak. You have to actually test
things.

-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
1979 Sportsmofakia 2000cc                        www.fasterlaster.com
1966 Westfalia SO-42 "Butch"
