From: "Will Anderson" <will.anderson(-at-)tetratech-ffx.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 8 Mar 2004 07:54:56 -0500
Subject: [T2] Vac advance bliss testimonial (WAS: What dizzy to use???)

Having just gone through all this, I feel bold enough to throw in my $0.02.
It looks like the SVDA is the way to go and aircooled.net sells them.  But
there are very many 205 distributors that all work OK with very similar
upright engines regardless of specific method of carburation, as long as the
correct ported vacuum signal is available which it should be on your carbs.
The advice I am hearing from Karl is use the vac advance but ignore the
retard. (sorry to beat a dead horse, but it worked for me).

Today I finally installed the 205E distributor that I cleaned and
refurbished once upon a time when Mark was doing some work on my bus in
Salem. . . last week Karl instructed me to time this dist. at 7.5 before
(using a strobe at 900 rpm idle, vac advance connected, retard not
connected).  Took some time getting the dwell perfect and . . .WOW.  talk
about reaching fweeming nirvana after years of struggling with the 009 which
by the way had a spring missing making it bounce all over the place within a
7 degree range. no wonder it ran like crapola before.  Correct timing is the
key to VW bliss.  Or at least the first step on the path.  All the time I've
spent with these HiPo heads and Dellorto DRLA's wasn't worth anything until
today.  It does go over 40 deg advance part throttle, hoping that it doesn't
go that high at wide open cruise.  Got to listen hard for pinging I guess.

Now I have torque at low rpms--the dreaded flat spot is gone!  If warm, it
starts with a turn of the key; I don't have to fight with it anymore.  The
009 is going to the emergency parts stash.  I will have to cannabalize a
spring from another one.  If I had another upright bus I might use an 009
for a while--it works, especially well for all highway driving.  But not
optimal for around town.

Now that that's solved, who has a portable exhaust gas analyzer to bring to
Everybus?  I'm trying to figure out if I should stay with 122 mains or go
bigger. . .

Will A.
Smyrna GA
'70 Westy "Rebertha" 1835 / 091


>Date: Sun, 7 Mar 2004 10:06:56 -0800 (PST)
>To: type2(-at-)type2.com
>From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com
snip
> to build a not-so-stock engine settup for my 68 bus. I
> will be installing a factory new 1600cc DP engine with
> new 34/32 sdpit dual carbs. I need to know what type
> of ignition that I need to be looking at with this
> engine. What type of advance/retard curve should I be
> shooting for? What is the biggest factor in
snip
