From: "Joseph Ames Jr" <joe.ames(-at-)comcast.net>
To: "'type2 List'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 13 Sep 2006 20:55:40 -0400
Subject: FW: VWs harassment of enthusiasts

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Joseph Ames Jr [mailto:joe.ames(-at-)comcast.net]
Sent:	Wednesday, September 13, 2006 8:46 PM
To:	'gdp(-at-)hpalaw.com'
Cc:	'Bernd.Pischetsrieder(-at-)volkswagen.de';
'Ferdinand.Pikch(-at-)volkswagen.de'; 'Reinhold.Kopp(-at-)volkswagen.de';
'dialogcenter(-at-)volkswagen.de'; 'Wolfgang.Bernhard(-at-)volkswagen.de';
'Martin.Winterkon(-at-)audi.de'
Subject:	VWs harassment of enthusiasts


Mr Philips:

Please tell your client that I, a life-long owner of VW/Audi products
(including my present V8 Touareg, Audi quattro, and 1978 Westfalia
Campmobile undergoing a $15,000 restoration effort) and I am livid over this
asinine "cease-and-desist" demand on a Volkswagen enthusiast's cafepress.com
store.

This act is petty.  It is vindictive.  It is the behavior of a bully who
picks on little people only because he can.

Volkswagen ought to be ashamed to harass the few owners who are proud of
their VW!  As for me, it will be a cold day in you-know-where before I
purchase another VWAG product.  BMWs work better, cost about the same
net-net, and they actually treat their customers with basic dignity and
respect.

Oh one more thing:  my Touareg has made thirty trips to the dealer service
department in fewer than twenty-four months.  VW should spend half as much
time on quality control as it does preemptive enforcement of dubious claims
on public-domain "IP".

Joseph A Ames Jr, MBA, MS
10 Andrews Rd
Malvern, Pennsylvania 19355

PS:  I have already begun reporting your abhorrent demands to all my friends
and associates.  So far, they share my outrage.

CC: 	Dr Bernd Pischetsrieder
	Dr. Ferdinand K. Pikch



From the desk of:
Joseph Ames Jr, MBA, MS
Malvern (Philadelphia), Pennsylvania
Site of the Paoli Massacre, 9/20/1777

Dear Shopkeeper,
Thank you for using CafePress.com!
In accordance with our Intellectual Property Rights Policy, Gregory D.
Phillips, on behalf of Volkswagen of America, Inc. provided us with a notice
stating that your use of images bearing the distinctive shape of the Classic
and New Volkswagen vehicles, the VW Emblem and/or other VW trademarks and
trade dress infringes upon their intellectual property rights
(trademark/copyright). Please click here for more information about
intellectual property.
Accordingly, we have set the content that is alleged to infringe the rights
of the third party to pending status which disables said content from
being displayed in your shop or purchased by the public. You may review the
content set to pending status by logging into your CafePress.com account and
clicking on the Media Basket link. The content set to pending status will
be highlighted red.
If you believe that you hold the rights to the content alleged to infringe
the rights of the third party, we encourage you to contact the alleged
rights holder directly for a resolution to this matter. Below please find
the contact information for the party alleging infringement.
We realize that you are a dedicated fan and are expressing such through your
art work, as only a true fan could. That being said, feel free to contact
Volkswagen of America directly to voice your concerns about not being able
to express you true love for the automobile. You are, after all, part of the
fan base and, more importantly, part of the purchasing public and have
assisted in creating greater sales of the automobiles, and have helped
elevate the VW properties to their current cult status. Please find the
contact information for Volkswagen of America and their representative below
if you want to share your concerns.
Law offices of Howard, Phillips & Andersen
Gregory Phillips
560 East 200 South, Suite 300
Salt Lake City, UT 84102
801.366.7471
gdp(-at-)hpalaw.com
We apologize for any inconvenience that our actions may cause you. Please
let us know if we can be of further assistance.
Sincerely,
Lindsay Estes
Content Usage Associate
(650) 655-3047 (O)
(650) 240-0260 (F)
