Date: Fri, 15 Sep 2006 09:49:33 -0400 (EDT)
From: Adam Narraway <adoom(-at-)rogers.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: VWoA still being VWoA

Let's not get too off base here. 
The fact is Don made a picture of admittedly a VW bus,
for the sole purposes of A) personal enjoyment, B)
making a profit. This cannot be overlooked. 
His goal was to make a cool print, and have cafepress
sell that shirt, for money. If Don was selling
pictures of a VW Van for money, yes they would
probably be upset too, because (just like buying a
movie) it's no longer for personal use, it's for
distribution for the purpose of making some cash.
Well, VW has a rule about their "image". So do most
companies. 

But, most companies are, wait for it..., excited that
people have such furious loyalty that they would
develop web-cults, print shirts, and keep their
vehicles alive much longer than what typically
acceptable. 

But those companies believe, and support thier
heritage. You will not find that support from VWoA.
We, (bus owners, don't worry vanagon owners...yet) are
like the disowned children. We are like that Duran
Duran album in your closet. You only take it out when
it's convenient, or advantageous. Then you tuck it
away in embarassment, with hopes that people will take
your Steeley Dan DAT collection much more seriously. 

I guess I'm a little more sensative, because I AM a
designer, and I've HAD my designs "borrowed" by other
people so that they could make some money, or make it
so that I couldn't make some money off my own art. 
It happens to artists. It happens to musicians. It
happens to software designers. It happens to car
designers. (ever notice the likeness of a Honda Civic
from the 90's and a Golf from the 90's?) The really
sad thing...it's usually artists who are ripping off
the artists, and it's usually musicians ripping off
musicians. 

I like Steely Dan as much as the next guy. Oh wait, no
I don't. Bad analogy. Well, lets just say I have a
fine collection of Duran Duran, and I think y'all
should make YOUR OWN VW shirt. Just don't go selling
them on a  site like cafepress, without expecting to
be bitch slapped by a little bubble-head from VW.

If you want to further explore the realities of
t-shirt design, profit, and losing money. Check out
the fine folks at Fugazi. A fine band, that asks their
fans to make their own shirts...but to not sell them
to mass market. 

A


--- JHMEARSRN(-at-)aol.com wrote:

>   The next logical step is for them to go after
> rogue film developers like
> Costco and Walgreen and order them to cease and
> desist the printing of
> illegal likenesses of people standing beside their
> bus without VWOA's 
> permission.
> This lawless disregard for VWOA's control of their
> products images must 
> stop!!!
> Costco and Walgreen are just as guilty as the
> outlaws who actually have the 
> nerve 
> to take these illegal images of VWOA's sacred
> products..............
> John M
> '71
