From: "Joseph Ames Jr" <joe.ames(-at-)comcast.net>
To: "'Adam Narraway'" <adoom(-at-)rogers.com>, "'type2_1'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 15 Sep 2006 10:44:15 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] Re: VWoA still being VWoA

The potential sales of a cafepress store, particularly one run as a hobby
business, are miniscule.  I doubt they would even meet the threshold for IRS
income reporting on Schedule C.  I know this because my brother runs several
of them and he is a serious web marketing guy.

Sales are, of course, a form of gross income that does not yet account for
direct materials, direct labor, overhead and financing charges, let alone
potential taxes.

Most likely, taken all together, Don's store would be a loss maker.

This has nothing to do with "lost sales" or "damage to the brand" for VWoA.
In fact, goodwill -- which is a actual line item on almost all publicly
traded company balance sheets -- is positively damaged by such petty,
vindictive behavior.  This very discussion is tangible proof of that.

Besides:  you can't copyright an idea.  You can copyright a process.  You
can't trademark something in the public domain (although greedy Target
Brands tried to intimidate me out of www.ontargettech.biz a number of years
ago).  What you can do is intimidate small businessmen who cannot afford to
hire a layer to fight this outrage.  In a confrontational system such as
ours, a default is as good --even better -- than an outright win.

Joe

From the desk of:
Joseph Ames Jr, MBA, MS
Malvern (Philadelphia), Pennsylvania
Site of the Paoli Massacre, 9/20/1777




-----Original Message-----
From: Adam Narraway [mailto:adoom(-at-)rogers.com]
Sent: Friday, September 15, 2006 9:50 AM
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: VWoA still being VWoA


Let's not get too off base here.
The fact is Don made a picture of admittedly a VW bus,
for the sole purposes of A) personal enjoyment, B)
making a profit. This cannot be overlooked.
His goal was to make a cool print, and have cafepress
sell that shirt, for money. If Don was selling
pictures of a VW Van for money, yes they would
probably be upset too, because (just like buying a
movie) it's no longer for personal use, it's for
distribution for the purpose of making some cash.
Well, VW has a rule about their "image". So do most
companies.

But, most companies are, wait for it..., excited that
people have such furious loyalty that they would
develop web-cults, print shirts, and keep their
vehicles alive much longer than what typically
acceptable.

But those companies believe, and support thier
heritage. You will not find that support from VWoA.
We, (bus owners, don't worry vanagon owners...yet) are
like the disowned children. We are like that Duran
Duran album in your closet. You only take it out when
it's convenient, or advantageous. Then you tuck it
away in embarassment, with hopes that people will take
your Steeley Dan DAT collection much more seriously.

I guess I'm a little more sensative, because I AM a
designer, and I've HAD my designs "borrowed" by other
people so that they could make some money, or make it
so that I couldn't make some money off my own art.
It happens to artists. It happens to musicians. It
happens to software designers. It happens to car
designers. (ever notice the likeness of a Honda Civic
from the 90's and a Golf from the 90's?) The really
sad thing...it's usually artists who are ripping off
the artists, and it's usually musicians ripping off
musicians.

I like Steely Dan as much as the next guy. Oh wait, no
I don't. Bad analogy. Well, lets just say I have a
fine collection of Duran Duran, and I think y'all
should make YOUR OWN VW shirt. Just don't go selling
them on a  site like cafepress, without expecting to
be bitch slapped by a little bubble-head from VW.

If you want to further explore the realities of
t-shirt design, profit, and losing money. Check out
the fine folks at Fugazi. A fine band, that asks their
fans to make their own shirts...but to not sell them
to mass market.

A
