From: "Justin Pentecost" <cameflex(-at-)tiscali.co.uk>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 23 Nov 2005 10:40:11 -0000
Subject: RE: [T2] One version of why we are "orphans" of VW

>The dealers
tended to treat Phaeton owners as if they were $20k Jetta owners. They
nickeled-and-dimed them, trying to squeeze $30 out of them on items that
should have been warranteed when they already paid $80k for the car six
months earlier. Failed to wash the car after a scheduled service
appointment. Screwed up the same warranty repair two or three times in a
row. Basically they had no clue how someone who spends $80k on his car (and
is used to Mercedes and BMW service departments) is accustomed to being
treated.<

Well certainly in the UK if people are to be believed Mercedes service is
some of the worst around ..  I know of three people who have had terrible
problems with dealers .. It's so much serviceing as repairs ..     One guy
paid about ?60,000 for an estate car for his wife, after ten days it stopped
at a set of lights and refused to move .. (Apparently a relay had failed).
She called the dealer (which was 1/2 a mile away) and asked them come and
fix it or tow it or anything .. They said "No we don't do that" call the RAC
.. They got the RAC to recover the car the garage.  The garage (the
dealership that had taken ?60,000 off them 10 days earlier) refused to allow
the RAC to drop the car because it was not booked in .. When she asked if
she could book it in she was told yes she had an apointment could she bring
the car back in three weeks ..

She said No.   And her two children (both under three) into a Black cab and
went home.    She called her husband and he didn't speak to them because he
thought he would be rude and mess up the situation ..   He passed it on to
the legal department in his office.    It was decided that something like
this could not happen again .. and told the legal people to just simply try
and get as much back for the car as possible .. they got ?45,000.

All of this was over a relay that could have diagnosed and fixed in half an
hour.   The dealer did not even try to call the owner until the legal people
had said that the car was going back.

It stuns me .. The reason this came up is because we are both type two fans
(he has two including a samba) and he could not understand how it was that
he got better service from a guy he had paid ?20,000 to for a restoration
than from a posh garage who he had paid ?60,000.

One of the funniest I heard was an Aston Martin dealer who gave one of
Britains (Very few) Billionaires a Ford KA as a replacement during some work
... This gentleman then drives it to his office and parks in his parking
space ..   When the security guard turned up he apparently did an impression
of an angry monkey while he trying to find out "Who's put that heap of shit
in the Guvnors space .."

Apparently if want service from a dealer you need to have a car on lease ..
Apparently you get much better service if you lease (I've no idea why ..).

Justin
