From: "Justin Pentecost" <cameflex(-at-)tiscali.co.uk>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 23 Nov 2005 21:28:21 -0000
Subject: RE: [T2] Re: One version of why we are "orphans" of VW

> He really taught that dealer something.  Be rude and make 15,000 profit!
>
> Sad.
>

>True. However, I'd bet the folks that turned that car back in were
happy to take the loss and walk away. Hopefully someone at that dealer
recognized that they will never sell a car to that couple again.<

I just don't get it .. Paul Booker (Landrover expert all round good guy ..
all engineering jobs undertaken etc etc .. No false claims) Who recieves I
guess about #1200 -1400 off me every year (the ? are sterling BTW) and yet
if I call him he's never "In a meeting" or too busy, or only availiable in
three weeks.     He has been known to go out and recover one of his clients
cars on a Sunday afternoon after the radiator split (He did not fit the
radiator, He did however give the excuse that wife was driving him mad at
home so good to get out of the house ..) .. Alot of things he can fix over
the phone ..

Jamie might have made a mistake because his philosophy was "I'm a wealthy
person, a household name, If I go into a Mercedes dealer and buy a new car,
although expensive it does mean that my wife drives a car I don't ever have
to think about ..."

It turns out he was wrong .. but I don't understand the dealers attitude,
If they had "Played his game" and sent out a mechanic (even an apprentice)
with some car off the second hand car lot and given it to his wife, coo'ed
over the kids fixed it and then delivered it back to his house .. Then they
are looking at a customer who will be buying a new car every three years
without question .. He'll trade in his old one .. He'll never question any
bills as long as there is no hassle ..

He was lucky to get 75% back .. as in the UK a car will lose at least 25% of
it's value the second it leaves the dealer ..

In the UK the most hassle free way to own a car is to use a small local
garage (and have a simple car),   As they will always look at your car if it
breaks down ..

I'm sure that this is one area where it really was "Better in the old days"
.. My Grandfather bought his first new car a "Ford Consul" from what remains
our local Ford dealer 1952 He changed his car pretty much every three years
until he died in 1996  The Escort he owned when he died was his 12th from
the same garage ... When my dad qualified in 1962 he bought a second hand
ford Popular .. From 1965 he replaced his car like clockwork every two years
.. He made it absolutly plain to the garage that he really didn't care how
much it cost it had to be reliable because in a country district it could be
the difference between life and death.   In fact the first time his Ford
ever "Let him down" was when a drive shaft snapped on a Cortina he owned in
the mid 70's.  A young man who saw him in trouble (This was late on a friday
night) stopped and because it was "One of Ours" drove him to the hospital
and then went to the garage and got the tow truck out and recovered the car.
It was back within 24 hours ..

He delivered both the dealership owners children  .. then 40 years after the
start of the relationship .. it finished ..

He had just taken delivery of a new Ford KA, three days later it stopped ..
no nothing.  What had happened is that the alternator may have been faulty
in manufacture .. and the battery went flat ..

He called the garage they said "Get it recovered here", He explained he
couldn't do that because he going to have to leave the car now and get
someone to give him a lift to the hospital therefore could the grage recover
the car from it's present position (a recovery service will not recover an
unattended vehicle).    While he's on the phone he sees a tow truck from the
dealer he walks out into the road to signal it to stop .. it fails to do so
with the driver affecting to look the other way.

He flags down a police car and tells them to take him to the hospital.
When he got to the hospital he asked his secretary to phone the garage and
ask them to get the key from her, go and get the car repair it and bring it
back round.

The dealership came back saying "They don't do that".     After his
operation my Dad telephones and askes to speak to the owner of the
dealership "He's in a meeting" a message is left for him to call the
hospital when he comes out of the meeting.

At 8.30 pm  he still hasn't called back and my dad get's one of the
Ambulance drivers to give him a lift home .. He explains the problem to the
Ambulance driver,  The Ambulance service sorts out the recovery in less than
an hour (they have their own Tow truck).

The next morning he goes into the dealer, the owner is "In a meeting", they
haven't looked at his car yet.    He says he will wait while they do .. It's
the alternator, they can't do right now they are too busy.  The only way he
can have it done right now is to get a local "FastFit" to replace it for him
..      He points out that the car is only three days old and in all honesty
he would like to speak to the sales manager.    Sales manager says "if the
workshops too busy you're stuffed", Dad try's bribary .. HOW MUCH would it
cost to have it done now .. #100 ? #200 ?  It not a huge job surely?
Answer is no .. but we will rent you a car if you want us to ..

Then he sees a sign "We are so confident that you love our cars, if don't
and bring it back within 7 days we'll give you your money back ..."

He tells them that he will take advantage of this and return the car, but
that the dealership owner is more than welcome to call him any time.     In
the end he had to use a solicitor to get his money back ..

He retired the same year and his neighbour looks after a 10 year old golf
for him ..

The thing that personally bugged him was that the owner NEVER called him
back .. For  Americans this may be hard to understand where almost all Obs
and Gyne care is done by specialists .. but if you have difficulties during
a pregnancy in the UK you call your GP or the hospital or worst case an
Ambulance.    Dependent on condition you do not automatically get a
specialist.    He's also on a salary which is a fraction of what he would
earn in US.    So when owner of the dealership phoned in the middle of the
night asking him to come and see his wife .. he was not even slightly
obligated to do so .. Yet he did .. and the last words the dealer said as my
dad was walking out the door were "If theres anything I can ever do for you"
..

Justin ..
