From: "Tom and Thanh" <tom.loan(-at-)rogers.com>
To: "Jamie Auch" <jamie(-at-)kookymathteacher.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 24 Nov 2005 13:47:47 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Starter won't turn over with key

Jamie- Mine and Adam's(and many other people's I suspect) bay window buses 
have had this very common problem-they just don't start worth a cr**.  I 
solved this issue by running a brand new 12 gauge wire from the ignition 
switch back to the solenoid.

How to test- volt meter, not just a circuit light. Put a voltage meter on 
the pulled off wire from the ignition switch at the solenoid(important- the 
voltage at the front is meaningless) and then get your daughter to turn the 
key. I was getting about 6 volts. Adam was the same.  Old, corroded wires, 
bad connections. No hot start relay needed IMHO. With the new wire, there is 
12 volts being delivered to the solenoid. My bus has never started so well.
Tom

70 High Roof







Happy Thanksgiving Everyone!
I have recently gotten my 1960 DD on the road but have had problems
starting it with the key.  There is a wire that runs straight from the
battery to the solenoid for starting when working on the engine. I never
know when the bus might start with the key or not.  At first I thought
it might be a "hot start" problem, but the bus would starter would not
tun over this morning.  The starter does spin when I use the wire from
the battery.  I tried to trace the problem this morning starting at the
ignition switch and working backwards.  When I tuned the key to engage
the starter, the test light showed current.  Next, I moved underneath
the bus and clipped the test light to the wire from the ignition switch
to the solenoid.  I had Casey, my ten year old daughter turn the key,
and the test light showed current, but no starter action.  Then I went
to the rear to get power straight from the battery to the solenoid and
got the starter to whirl,  Frankly, I am stumped.  What wisdom can you
lay upon this Kooky Math Teacher.  Do you think that a hot start relay
may help my dilemma?

-- 
Joy Thru Air,
