From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: "Hal Sullivan" <tristessa(-at-)pon.net>, "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 30 Mar 2004 07:23:39 -0800
Subject: RE: [T2] Advice and/or part needed in PNW

Hey Hal,

The U-Pull it on Foster is okay but typically pretty picked over.
Continue down Foster a little further, like you are driving out to
Damascus.  Right before you climb that small hill, there will be a
german restaurant on your right called 'Black Forest' or some such
thing, look immediately to your left.  There is a VW garage there
with a huge DEQ sign that has a boneyard.  I havn't been there in
several years, but when I did stop by there, they let me walk on
their lot and pull stuff.  I could tell that this wasn't totally the
norm, so ask them if you can,.. they might let you.

Another place is further down that same road, actually in Damascus,
there is another U-Pull it that claims to have a lot of german
stuff,.. but I have not checked that one out yet.

Another place is called Trafton's Foreign Auto.  It's off of Stark
street around 170th or something like that.  Can't miss it,. it has
the front end of an old splittie sticking out of the front of the
building with windshield wipers and lights that turn on when it is
raining outside.  Check there.  The owner is named Bill Trafton and
he is one helluva guy.  A real nice person who continually goes way
above and beyond for volks/folks.  He won't rip you off and is very
honest about pretty much everything I have seen him talk about.  He
typically is doing about 20 things simultaneously so don't be
offended if he is distracted.  He is fair to the point that I wonder
how he stays in business.  Anyway,  he has loads of buses and parts
on hand at the shop.  If you do one thing, stop there.

I have heard very good things about a legendary lot in Portland
maintained by a gentleman named Ashley.  His place is called Always
VW or something like that,..but I have not had the chance to check
it out yet.

And last but not least, if you feel like a bit of a drive, head like
you are going to the town of Sandy,  before you start to climb the
really really big hill, on your right, you will see another U -
Pullit that I know for a fact has tons of german stuff.  It's just
passed the exit for the town of Boring.  VW's, Mercedes, BMW, you
name it,.. if it was shipped into the Portland area, they may have
what you are looking for there.

That's what I can think of off of the top of my head,.. there is
more but I will have to think on it.  Portland in general is
notorious for having all kinds of parts and things, but a lot of
it's businesses get pigeon holed into these remote and hard to find
locations.  Hang in there, ask around, and don't forget the yellow
pages, otherwise some great find may be sitting close to you and you
would never know it....

Seann Stafford
76' T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
76' T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
