Date: Thu, 1 Apr 2004 03:18:25 -0600 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <type2-list(-at-)phorce1.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Bus related emails with attachments

On Wed, 31 Mar 2004 17:12:47 -0500 Chris Slaymaker <nurofiz(-at-)knology.net>
wrote: 

> Recently I have received a coupla emails from seemingly bus-related 
> sites.  I have not opened the attachments because I don't know the 
> sender.  Is there someone www savvy out there (Raistrick?)  that can 
> sleuth these senders?
> 
> .sales(-at-)busdepot.com
> 
> 20040110041637.H80685-100000(-at-)pon.type2.com
> 
> Please p-mail me.

> Chris Slaymaker

Not pmail because everyone should read this. 

DELETE THE MESSAGES!! They are viruses. Someone on the list is infected.
I've been getting a handful also and this email address is used *ONLY* for
the type2 list so only someone on this list would have my email address on
their computer for the virus to pick up.

I am the mail administrator for an ISP. I started using a separate email
address for each list specifically for spam/virus tracking. I'm not getting
any spam at this address but I am getting 4 or 5 viruses/day. With that low
of a number it's probably only one or two people infected.

So, -- everyone get an UP TO DATE virus scanner and check your system.

And, I know that all bus geeks are not computer geeks but everyone needs to
follow a bit of common sense advice (that Chris appears to be following).
If you receive an attachment in email that you did not have PRIOR KNOWLEDGE
OF then just DELETE IT! It doesn't matter if it from someone you don't
know, from your boss, or from your Mom -- if they didn't send a PLAIN
message (no attachment) or call you on the phone saying they were about to
send you a "cool attached file" then just DELETE the message. If they ask
if you got an attachment from them later then TELL them you deleted it
because you weren't expecting it and it could have been a virus.

The bagle virus slammed our support lines with "Hey, you sent me this file
and nothing happened when I clicked on it" calls. Bagle sends itself from
"support(-at-)", "admin(-at-)", "administration(-at-)" addresses using the domian it is
sending TO as the part after the "(-at-)". 

OBC:

Went last Saturday night (at 1am Sunday actually since I work from 7am to
midnight weekends) and moved the mostly disassembled '74 from one storage
unit to another. General info -- lifting type 4 long blocks from bench to
truck bed then from truck back to bench is no fun without help.

Talked my mother into coming down at the end of this month to go with me to
the texas VW Classic too (http://www.texasvwclassic.com). It'll be another
month or two before I have time/cash to use a title service to get the
paperwork straight on the Riviera so I'm just gonna hook the towbar up to
it and tow it to the show for camping. Got a free-standing Westy tent to
use with it last week. Still need to set it up and have a look. Built some
poles for someone's '66 westy tent as trade for this one.

G

--
Gerald V. Livingston II

Configure your Email to send TEXT ONLY -- See the following page:
http://expita.com/nomime.html

'74 Kombi (to be renamed - LifeSaver doesn't 'feel' right)
'69 Type 1 - AirBall the Rolling Basket Case
http://www.phorce1.com
http://www.buskatiers.org
