Date: Thu, 1 Apr 2004 12:22:38 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Engine downgrades (a touch long)

Was writ last night, and I insert my commentary with all due respect:

"Yes, it is very possible to do an engine downgrade.  I'm planning the
very same thing on my '72..."

<sigh> Look before you leap, good sir...

"...In Europe, the 1600 continued to be an option through 1979.  I got
the correct factory tin and rear engine carrier ( "bearer bar") from
Just Kampers in England..."

Bravo on scoring the right parts - but I think you have it
back-*sswards...  According to this humble correspondent's Euro
contacts, the Type 1 was the standard, the Type 4 was the option.  And
the smart money, when they wanted a reliable (and not disposable)
powerplant - guess which one they chose?  I'll spot you two guesses, and
one is all wrong...

"...I'm thinking if my 1600 doesn't have enough power to suit me, I
might build a 2 liter stroker motor with one of the new aluminum cases
that are available.  It should still be cheaper than a type 4 motor,..."

Dang straight on that one - it probably won't have enough power to suit
you, you'll rue the day you ever contemplated it, I could go on and on.
More importantly, spend some time adding up ALL the costs involved to
build that 2 liter stroker motor using high quality parts, and you "may"
be a little shocked at how much it will cost you to come to the table
with the same level of reliability that the Type 4 2.0L comes with "bone
stock" with all the bits intact.  Remember the old "cheap/fast/reliable"
saw - you get two of the three.  I don't dispute that you can build a 2
liter Type 1 for cheap, as can I or anyone else on this board, but will
it be as reliable as the Type 4 2.0L built with a modicum of attention
to the details?  To wit - I just removed a 2055cc Type 4 from my '72
(see you DO have the bestest year ever!) that was built by this humble
correspondent in the late '80s for the insayne amount of, like,
$1,500...  It did duty in my 914, and nearly double the duty in the bus
and I recently removed to make way for a 2260cc Type 4.  Still running,
BTW and just duck-ily - 160K miles on it, probably going to give it to
my brother-in-law for his '75 ASI that regularly eats it's Type 1
conversions.  Clean up the heads, make sure all is well, maybe check the
rod bearings, you know, stuff 'n junk like that...

"...and besides, I'm familiar with the type I motor..."

We all were at some point - spend some time expanding your horizons,
trust me - it only hurts a little bit in the beginning.  The Type 4 is
no great mystery, just an evolution in tech and materials to address the
short-comings found in the earlier design - if you can do up a Type 1,
you'll be right at home in a Type 4.  Just don't go all cheap on us with
the heads and cam, m'kay?  A lot of what is reusable/rebuildable for the
2.0L Type 4, is what will need to be replaced with NEW for that 2 liter
Type 1 if it's going to last.  And THAT is what levels the costs, but
you'll still be dealing with the design deficiencies of the mag alloy
case.  Please read very carefully all that is writ about the new
aluminum cases - it may cause "sphincter pucker"...  Also try to find a
reputable parts dealer to sell you one for the 2 liter for that bus
application - you might be surprised at what they say.  I see/hear about
these inexpensive Type 1 2 liter hi-po motors vs. mega-'spensive Type 4
2.0L stocker pipe dreams all the time ;-)

"...With the 1600 in my '72 there should be more room to get at the
spark plugs, another little bonus..."

You're funnin' us - right?  You actually like removing the spark plugs
from a Type 1 DP with dual carbs on it?  Must be some new definition of
the word "bonus" I'm not familiar with...  Oh wait - it's April Fools
Day :-)

"...Good luck..."

Good luck, indeed - take a long hard look at what you propose to do
before you do it.  Like the Bergs used to say:  "Open your wallet once,
and cry only once..."

Jim Hayden
Type 4 to the bone - gotta figure out how to get a Type 4 into the
wife's Ghia...
www.savethebays.org




E-MAIL CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:  The contents of this e-mail message and any
attachments are intended solely for the
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or legally privileged
information. If you are not the
intended recipient of this message or if this message has been addressed to
you in error, please
immediately alert the sender by reply e-mail and then delete this message and
any attachments. If you
are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination,
distribution, copying, or
storage of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited.
