Date: Wed, 18 Apr 2007 12:24:21 -0700 (PDT)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Water injection problem(use delete if ydwt learn)

From: phil cain 
snip>the problem is that
on trips the water works for a while then stops,
around town it does the job quite well keeping the
head temp between 270 and 325. 
Hi Phil,
    It isn't something as simple as venting on the water supply tank.  I.e. on short runs the tank doesn't lose enough water to lower the tank pressure before the engine stops and the tank "vents" back up through the water line, but at cruise it gets to a point where the draw can't overcome the tank's lowered pressure.

    Is the 80 dizzy set up so that increasing vacuum advances the spark or retards it?  As mentioned on the web link and in earlier posts this determines whether the distributor vacuum line is satisfactory for the purpose.  I have an 83 aircooled, and am VERY interested in, and pleased to read of your practical experimentation, however my bus isn't to hand to check.  If it is a "retard" vacuum line it will be at it's lowest draw at cruise to get best efficiency out of the smallest amount of combustible mix.  Heat not being a problem at cruise throttle due to the small(er) amount of mix vs WOT.

    Not to devalue the elegant bottle/needle system, but I have a buddy with a turbo SAAB that has operated for nearly 20 years using a windshield washer pump, feeding a carburettor jet to regulate the flow, injecting washer fluid in front of the turbo.  His system has a  pressure switch so the pump only activates above 5psi boost.  He got tired of replacing blown head gaskets, installed the WI and has been trouble free (in that regard, heh, heh) ever since.  One could use a throttle position switch, such as the one already on the Bosch FI throttle body in our vans, to achieve the same ends.  The bottle/needle system provides variable amounts of WI with load variations, which has some real advantages, however a switched system, while not offering other efficiencies,  will still keep you out of WOT detonation which is a killer in our engines. WW tanks with built in pumps are easy to find, and inexpensive, in pick-and-pulls. Mine is out of a Volvo.  jon


"While there is lead in the air,
there is still hope".
       
---------------------------------
Ahhh...imagining that irresistible "new car" smell?
 Check outnew cars at Yahoo! Autos.
