Date: Fri, 20 Apr 2007 13:52:28 -0700
From: Nathaniel Poole <npoole(-at-)telus.net>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: New look at old problems

As an avid sailor I keep on top of materials advances in the marine industry
-arguably the most rigorous and demanding environment on equipment and
compounds such as paint and adhesives. While preparing to replace some body
panels on my truck I thought about 3m's 5200 marine adhesive to attach the
panels rather than welding which has issues such as potential warpage,
trapping rust in a lap joint, the time and skill required etc.

In the several nautical forums I've been a part of, what comes up over and
over again is the great difficulty people have removing parts that have been
adhered this way. I've read several posts where people have removed keel
bolts and a several ton keel will still not come off because it has been
glued/sealed with this stuff. Eventually wedges and sledgehammers have to be
used, often doing damage to the hull. And this after 20 or more years
immersion in salt water. Hull and deck joints are fastened this way as well.

Most production boats now use this stuff to glue in (rather than glass in
which is more expensive) the frame grid. It's got a breaking force of
something like 700 lbs PSI and anything you glue with it you are supposed to
consider it permanent in that you will break something if you try and get it
off later.

There is no way a panel will ever come off - what kind of loads are in a
fender arch?, and even if there are significant loads, if a 40 foot sailboat
can have it's frame glued in place with this stuff and still pound safely
into the waves for decades without structural failure, is there anything to
really be worried about? It also has the dual benefit of providing a
permanent waterproof seal to prevent water intrusion and future rust. It's
also sandable and paintable.

I know this is heresy -the idea of gluing together a truck, but there are
advances in materials that boggle the mind. If you can make a gun out of
plastic...

Nathaniel
