Date: Sat, 21 Apr 2007 09:50:39 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: John Rogers <jnrogers(-at-)verizon.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] T1 oil pressure sender unit leak woes

Anything you do to the threads there will impede a
proper fix later.
I have had easily 50 oil pressure idiot light senders
over the years of all different faiths and races and I
only had a couple that never leaked. My buddy has had
the same "luck" with his Porsches.
Yes, that is a vulnerable spot, but the chances are
maybe 1:100 that it's the mounting and 95:100 that
it's the unit! I have studied them long and hard also
and have discovered in the end that it was, indeed the
sender.

If you are going to attempt a fix, it seems to me that
is an unusual thread. It may be possible to go bigger
and adapt back down. Some people have added flexible
extension lines and if you did that, it might be
feasible to gunk it in there as you would still be
able to swap out senders but the alleged leak would be
allegedly sealed. I had that setup for my VDO sender
for gauge / idiot light and it did not leak.

If you are going to attempt any machining process on
your own, it would be wise to either study a
disassembled case or a junk case first or at the very
least, consult with someone who knows them inside and
out like Jerry or Dave at Northwest Connecting Rod, fo
example. - BaH
--- John Rogers <jnrogers(-at-)verizon.net> wrote:
 I recently installed a rebuilt engine and am having
 a problem. I have an 
 oil leak at the oil pressure sender unit.  It is not
 the sender.  I 
 checked that carefully.  Simply put, even though I
 tighten the sender as 
 tightly as seems safe, I still get a messy, steady
 leak.
 
 I am working on the assumption that the threads are
 worn or 
 semi-stripped, and am trying to come up with an
 answer.  I am 
 considering coating them with something that would
 make them tighter, 
 like a gasket sealer or red loctite.
 
 Does anyone have any ideas or suggestions?
 
 Many thanks,
 
 John R.


-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
