From: "No Quarter" <silent(-at-)beatricene.com>
To: "listbus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, "listvw" <VintagVW(-at-)listproc.sjsu.edu>,
Date: Wed, 15 Aug 2001 16:49:18 -0500
Subject: NQ's RMMW/Bandimere Trip Report Part 2

As I was strapping the goods down to my roof rack, an RMMW rep came around
asking if anyone ran a shop.  I said I did (just a little one really) and
just like that I got signed up for the VIP tour of RMMW.  Rob had been
having trouble with his generator and dead batteries.  It was a broken wire
in the generator and so I insisted that it get replaced.  Just before and a
little after the VIP meeting, I went to work on replacing Rob's generator.
Did it without pulling the engine but it was still a tough job.  I missed
most of the show because of this but didn't want Rob to cruise around
without a charging system.  The VIP meeting was kind of neat.  I got to see
all the inner workings of RMMW.  Got to visit with Clyde Berg about his
newest design - a Berg pulley machined to look like a BRM rim.  I remembered
seeing that on the milling machine at Bergs but didn't know what it was.
Here is the picture I took:
http://www.buskatiers.com/2001/events/buskatierswayoutwest/updates/finalupda
tes/June8_Yacaipa/FridayGeneBerg3/images/MVC-020F.html

At the VIP raffle, I pulled out Dan's name from the hat and he won a $80
Hazet wrench set.  Of course everyone suspected that I cheated but honestly,
I had no idea whose card was whose.  For those that didn't have business
cards, they wrote their name on the back of an RMMW card.  Dee Berg needed
to borrow a pen and since Dan and I sat next to her and Clyde, she borrowed
my pen.  So now I have this pen set aside - Dee Berg herself wrote with my
Mead Lumber pen.  I never dreamed I'd be visiting with the Bergs.  Even
though they are very business-savvy, you would never know it.  Clyde and Dee
were both very personable.

After the meeting, I of course bee-lined it to Rob's SC and with help from
Justin and another fella who I've seen but can't remember (from NM I
believe), we got the generator replaced.  By this time, a little crowd had
formed around us and I was in a pissed-off and grumpy mood.  I was sore, I
cut myself a couple times, so I just wondered off back to my bus.  Terry and
Dan saved the day with Orange Gojo and water so I could get cleaned up.  Had
a really nice chat and jam session with Dan Buser behind my bus.  I got out
the guitar and some lyrics and we sung for a good 30 minutes it seemed.  It
helped break the tension that had welled up inside of me.  The show was over
by now and we were the last of the crowd left behind.  We finally piled into
our buses and headed towards 11 mile campground.  Our little caravan crept
up on Rick and Nikki and Rob blew by them for fun. Rick returned the favour
and then on the way up to the campgrounds, the opportunity presented itself
and I just passed everyone.  I was 3rd gear 45mph and just impatient as
could be - I wanted to get out of my bus, rest, eat, and just chill.

The campout was great at 11 mile.  Chad from Ponca City, OK was there.  He
was a good friend of Josh Rodgers and we had a nice little chat about T4
conversions and campouts.  A severe thunderstorm had formed over the
mountains and it appeared that it was coming our way.  It veered off just
leaving a few sprinkles on us.  It cooled way off and we were all watching
the rain descend on the far mountain slope to the point where you couldn't
see the mountain anymore.  As the storm made its way to the southeast, the
sun came out and we were treated to the most vibrant double rainbow you
could have ever hope to see.  The cameras were clicking and Dan got a couple
of nice shots of Rob's beautiful velvet green single cab and the Binz with
the rainbow in the background.  What a beautiful evening this was! As the
sun set, we got several group photos.  I can't wait to see these!  There was
also an awesome neon light looking sunset - a line between the mountians and
a cloud made a thin strip of sunlight come alive!!!   With Rick and Keith
running the grills, the food was abundant.  There was so much, I was full
and we had stuff left over!!!  Rich spent a bunch of his time working over
the high roof - getting the dome light to work, plugging vaccuum leaks, and
getting turn signals operational again.  He's amazing!  He just fixes stuff
on the fly and I don't have the patience to do this while I'm on vacation.
Rich is just the most determined bus dude I've ever met.

As night fell, we realized that in order to make Bandimere early, we would
have to get up at 5:00 and be on the road by 5:30.  It was really hard to
get up the next morning out of Rob's tent but the alarm went off so I got
Rob and Justin up.  Rob took off, expecting us to catch up with him later.
I woke up Jamie, Dan, and Rich and by 5:30, we rolled out.  The windows were
wet with dew and the morning air was a chilly 50 some degrees.  You could
see your breath!

We descended the slope into Woodland Park with Rich taking his highroof
around the corners.  He was doing an awesome job of handling the bus but you
could tell he had his hands full.   I had my hands full while I was trying
to navigate tight corners at speed with a heavy load.  When we finally hit
the gas station to fuel up, we sent Rich ahead of us because our flyer
trannies just simply were out-running Rich.  If Rich broke down, we could at
least see him and offer assistance.  The bullet ride from Colorado Spring to
Denver was something to behold.  Dan and I did 75 to 80mph and were in the
fast lane a lot of the time.  We actually had some kids in a VW Thing that
hung with us.  They knew something was up as you just don't see splitties
traveling those speeds! :-)  We had to slow down for a couple of big
antelope or deer that buzzed across the interstate as well.  As we hit our
exit, we saw Rich down on the shoulder just past the exit.  He had broken a
shift coupler - not snapped it in 2 mind you but right where the grub screw
goes.  We had to circle around and get back on I-25 and finally got to where
Rich was.  After about 20 minutes or so on the side of the road, Dan and
Rich got the coupler patched up enough so that Rich could shift again.  We
arrived at Bandimere and before long were in VW spectator parking.  It was
neat to have the high roof, the Binz, and my bus parked together.  A caravan
of "rare" buses of which mine was the least rare.  We wasted no time in
getting over the swap pile and we all found a few deals.  I didn't buy
anything but found a box labeled "free."  In it was a T2 1967 12v flasher
relay!  Dan scored a deal on some mint condition popouts (a whole set for
dirt cheap), and Jamie snagged a bunch of splitty jalousie windows as well.
We watched a little drag racing and I just kind of walked around and looked
at all the action.  I never made it as far north as I did last year but I
definitely saw more than I did at RMMW.  Rob's SC was the only Splitty SC
entered in the show!!!  There were a lot of DC's this year though.  Also,
when Rob and I came back from California, there was a couple that we passed
and then got passed by in a white Super Beetle VW around Hastings, NE.  It
just so happened those people found Rob's bus at the show and waited for him
to come back to his bus so they could meet him.  They were ecstatic to see
the bus that they had passed on the road back on June 14th - almost 2 months
prior.  Connections were made and hopefully we've added another Nebraska
couple to the Buskatiers!!!  I also met a guy from Scottsbluff, NE and
managed to give him my card.  Hopefully we can get more acquainted with our
Western Nebraska VWers as the population density is so sparse out there,
it's hard to find VW people.

We also saw John Jones panel with the 21 window roof clip hacked on to it.
It was the same clip that Rob helped Dan cut off in June of 2000 in
Independence where Dan was living at the time.  The couple had some pictures
of the roof clip in the crate in the back of their truck.  When the gal
heard Rob and I talking, she was  thrilled to meet a couple of the guys who
were responsible for getting the clip sent to them.  It was more so Rob and
Dan than I as I was gone the day Dan torched it off though.

I met all the old regulars at Bandimere.  Saw James (the guy with mint
condition DC that I met at BNNTA last year), Ronnie, J.P, Tommie, Barry, Tom
from Utah, and the couple whose name escapes me - they are practicing for
retirement in their splitty.  I have such a hard time with the names but
it's sure neat to travel all over and see these same people time after time.
We're always so glad to see each other - makes those trips far from home
seem a lot closer and safer. :-)

As the afternoon progressed, we started to assemble our caravan out in the
parking lot.  I bid farewell to J.P. whom I consider a VW Bus poster boy.
To me, J.P. is kind of like a time capsule the embodies the hippy era of
yesteryear.  Kind of like a relic - he just keeps on doing what he keeps on
doing.  I enjoy seeing J.P. at all the events - can't imagine an event
without him being there! :-)  Anyway, I had a guy who parked next to me
offer a free crank and flywheel.  I took him up on that and loaded it up in
the bus.  I was also not prepared for the people who came up and asked, "Are
you a Buskatier?" or "Are you one of the guys that started the Buskatiers?"
Man - I did not realize we were that "famous."  This would not have happened
without the hard work of Bryant and Keith.  People ALWAYS mentioned the
website and the pictures - the exposure from this is priceless.  Anyway, we
took on Dan and Jamie's gear and man, my bus was really loaded down.  Dan
went and turned the Binz over to John the bodyman and for the first time in
the trip, the Binz was gone.  Kind of a shock but in a couple of months,
we'll see a Binz that looks like it rolled of the factory floor.  I'm
excited for Dan and hope all goes well with it.

Close to 4:00, we left Rich behind.  Last we knew, he was going to drag race
the other highroof at the strip but we'll have to wait until he gets home to
see how he did.  We drove to the bottom of the hill and got fueled up.  Dan
encouraged me to check my timing and low and behold, it was down to 26 to 28
degrees advance.  I put it at 32/33 and had tons more pep!  I couldn't
believe how I could pull grades with ease and manage to maintain speed where
I couldn't before without major pedal effort.  Anyway in the parking lot was
Hans Christensen's 1957 Deluxe.  Rob visted with him - I didn't know that
was Dick's son.  Wow - the whole family has some really nice looking dubs!
Rob got an invite to ski and stay at his place - Rob knows how to hang out
with the best of them doesn't he? :-)

Dan piled in with Kerry and I.  Justin rode with Rob and Jamie rode with
Terry.  All the way from Denver to Ogalala, Dan and I talked about all kinds
of neat bus accessory inventions.  This was a highlight of the trip for me -
talking thick old brainstormy bus stuff with Dan.  Wow - I came away with
more ideas and enlightenment from that conversation.  I wished I had it on
tape!  We stopped at and got gas at a Sinclair station in Eastern CO on I-76
where the shop owner has a faded orange Super Beetle with autostick parked
on a slope behind the station.  They have it there as an attraction I later
found out so it ain't for sale I guess. Somehow, Dan got a deal on ice-cream
and I got cone with 10" of ice-cream on it.  Dan made one up for me and then
I had to take a leak.  How do you use the bathroom with an ice-cream cone in
hand?  Well I did it but let me be the first to tell you that it ain't easy.
Buttoning a fly with one hand is a chore!  We moved right along and noticed
the thunderheads building ahead of us.  A call home to my mother verified
that via www.intellicast.com, 50 miles ahead of us until Grand Island, NE
was rain.  We ended up camping on the other side of the dam at Lake
McConaughy (sp?).  We were all tired so basically we threw our sleeping bags
on the ground where we parked and crashed.  Rob, Justin, and Kerry saw some
very bright falling stars that night.  Dan crashed within 60 seconds and was
snoring as usual.  Jamie wanted the last of Dan's beer so we jokingly said,
"Dan - just snore if it's okay if Jamie finishes your beer."  Of course Dan
snored and we all laughed.  A few more questions ensued with Dan giving a
resounding "SNORRRRRRRRRT!" of approval.  We really cracked up when I said,
"Hey Dan - snore if you want to give me the Binz when it's done."  There was
a long pause!  I suggested that it was the word "Binz" that made him stop to
think.   Pretty soon he snorted a couple pops and bingo - just like that I
was the owner of the Binz. ;-)  We had fun with this for a few minutes and
then we all crashed.

The next morning we got up early and had a little breakfast at the Country
Kitchen.  Got a bunch of waves and thumbs up from a bunch of traveling work
released Greyhound bus passengers.  Visted with a couple of them and then we
took off.  The rest of the day was traveling, rotating drivers, I played
guitar while Jamie drove, pulling over to pee, stopping for fuel, eating,
chatting, etc.  - all the way to Omaha.  We had all of an hour or so for the
guys to chill out and get prepped for the trip home.  Terry and Jamie went
and got the VR6 Jetta and came over to Rob's.  From there we went to the
airport and that is where we bid Jamie and Dan off.  The airport drop off is
always so sudden and definite and it's sad but you know that you've made
good friends, reinforced friendships, and that you'll continue chatting on
the net as usual when everyone gets home.  Terry and I bid Dan and Jamie
farewell.  Terry dropped me off at Rob's and I sat there and watched Herbie
the Love Bug (which happened to be playing on some Classics channel).  Rob
and I went and got some tacos at California Tacos and came home to eat.
Finally about 8:15 I decided I would just head home.  I was tired.  I made
it home around 10:30 - tired, but satisfied at the wonderful weekend.  Words
can't ever describe how awesome all these events are.  I'm proud to be a
Buskatier.

I'm thrilled to have been able to road trip with Dan for the first in each
of our own rides.  Being around the Binz is just an amazing thing.  I love
that little truck and Dan is the most wonderful owner - he let me actually
drive it and ride in it!  Then the icing on the cake was having Jamie along.
It's really neat to able to pass the karma on and be in the position that
Britt was when he hauled Rob and I to BNNTA from Vegas.  Jamie and Dan are
both great kidders and Jamie also took the brunt of a lot of kidding from my
sister.  There was just no end all the teasing, tongue in cheek humour,
chiding, and all those good side-effects from getting along great with your
buddies.

Until we meet again guys - it was a great show and trip everyone and I can't
wait to do it again!!

NQ


