Date: Mon, 04 Nov 2002 19:48:47 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Hello Chris, question about heat ducting

>Forgive me if I have you mixed up with someone elsd
>but did you say that you replaced your heater ducting
>in your bus with ABS piping? If so, is that the same
>as the black sewer piping that you can buy at home
>improvement stores? Was it a very expensive job? What
>were the ups/down of doing this? Does the plastic pipe
>insulate the heat better than stock? Do you smell any
>fumes when the piping heats up? Are my questions
>getting annoying yet? ;) I was just curious. Thanks!

You do probably have me mixed up with someone else if you are looking at 
current or recent mail as I have not posted anything in over a year about 
the center pipe..

-BUT-

I do have a sewer pipe replacement pipe. It is a white PVC sewer pipe.

Does it insulate better? Probably not better. I wrapped mine with insulation.

Cost? $10 or less. I used the pipe and two large diameter worm screw 
clamps. Wrapped it with 1/4" self-adhesive foam insulation? I had to split 
the ends of the pipe so i could flex and squeeze the ends down to 
the  right size to grip the VW pipes at both ends.

Pros and cons:

Never smelled anything bad BUT I do believe that heated air is hot enough 
to melt the pipe or soften it inside enough that it could release some sort 
of chemicals that would be dangerous. There are folks who say any plastics 
in your environment are bad for you, but then there are people who think 
everything not made of dried wood and dirt causes cancer. I will say that 
the heated PVC pipe should be investigated by you for your piece of mind. 
My idea was to use this pipe as a temporary solution. My van has been off 
the road forever so this pipe is not causing any harm right now... <grin>

Alternatives: visit your local HVAC (heating and cooling contractor) or 
your local wood stove dealer and see if they can supply a metal pipe of 
similar diameters. This is going to be my next step. I do plan on wrapping 
the pipe with some sort of insulation. I might even consider some sort of 
insulation INSIDE the pipe to muffle noises from the engine. Again this 
would be a safe solution for under $20. You might have to split the pipe 
and squeeze it to a smaller diameter at the ends. You could again use the 
worm screw clamps to fasten it in place. Seal ALL air leaks with a high 
temp RTV. I wrapped my temporary pipe end to end and then wrapped the ends 
once in place.

Consider that the wrapping may hold moisture against the VW pipes and they 
aren't everywhere anymore - you don't want to cause a bunch of rust on the 
parts you can't replace cheaply.

I am considering following this up with a thin metal cover over the pipe 
between the frame rails to keep the cold winter air off the pipe, and 
removing the cover panel in the spring. 20 minute job twice a year once the 
parts are made.

Hope this helps. Write back anytime.



Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
