Date: Mon, 04 Nov 2002 18:11:32 -1000
From: bpierce <bpierce(-at-)flex.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: customer service by Bus Depot - a long posting

Hi List,

I am bummed at the Bus Depot.  

I have gotten lots of stuff from them since I bought my bus.  By my 
accounting close to $958.  I have another $250 to $10,000  :-D on my 
wish list.  Owning a 23 year old bus guarantees on going parts 
purchases.  I have found the guys in sales very helpful.

BUT, this present situation is showing me some true colors of their 
customer service.  I know that the owner of the Bus Depot respond to 
posting and always says you get what you pay for, well I guess I getting 
what I paid for.

In August I ordered a set of floor mats for my bus - approx. $150.  The 
first order got lost by the post office.  The Bus Depot said no biggie, 
wait 30 days and we'll send you a replacement.  Everything cool.  Get 
the replacement order and a week later a letter from the Postmaster in 
PA wanting a signature verifying I didn't get the first shipment. 
 Signed and sent back the letter and everyone is happy.

In October I get the first shipment of floor mats.  Just shows up.  I 
like to think I'm an honest guy so I figure I be nice and call the Bus 
Depot and ask them what they want done.  Figure they'll be happy.  I 
mean I could of given the mat to a friend of mine who has a bus but 
little cash.  OR I could of sold them to somebody for $75 and they and I 
would both win.  But no I called and wanted to show some loyalty and 
appreciation to a company that had served me well.

I got a big surprise.  See the email below.

The Bus Depot, Inc. wrote:

>Brad,
>Thanks for writing.  Please send the duplicate order back to us.  If we do
>not receive it within 30 days, we will have to charge you for the duplicate
>order.  Please write the following number in large, dark print on the
>outside of your return package: 1022AR22749.  Once we receive it, your
>account will be current.  I will write back tomorrow regarding any new
>developments regarding the post office claim.  If the post office agrees to
>refund our shipping, we will refund yours.  Please do not hesitate to
>contact us if we can be of any further assistance.
>
>- Cheri Gaydos
>  The Bus Depot., Inc.
>  www.busdepot.com <http://www.busdepot.com>
>  (215) 234-VWVW 

I mean what's with these guys?  Or what's with Cheri?  A little harsh don't you think?  So I responded with the following. 

Cheri,

The shipping on this is $45.  That's a tad bit more than I want to lay 
out on the premise that I might get it back if the Post Office decides 
to pay the Bus Depot back.  I understand that you have an insurance 
claim with the post office - did it cover postage too?

I will gladly ship it via COD.  I will not bill you for my time to bring 
it to the Post Office and wait in line and all that.  I don't know about 
your PO in Pennsylvania but the one here in Kihei is a sad and slow 
experience.

The way I see it the post office screwed up and sent this package to who 
knows where.  I was a nice, and honest, guy by telling you that I got 
the package.  I could of said nothing, etc...  

Now either the Post Office has reimbursed The Bus Depot for the lost 
postage on this box or not.  

If the Post Office has, then the Bus Depot should pay for the shipping.  

If the Post Office has not reimbursed the Bus Depot, then the Post 
Office should pay for the shipping.

I 
already have paid for the shipping of the product that am using and do 
not want to pay for shipping on something I am not using.

I do not always check my email, please call me via the phone number I 
gave last time.  Here it is again: 808/264-4451.

Looking forward to your call.

Bradley

I wait and finally get a call from "Dave" who tells me sorry and send the package and The Bus Depot will reimburse me as soon as I send the package.  Silly me - I believed him.  I sent the package and called the Bus Depot with the cost of the postage.

I'm still waiting for my reimbursement.

I saw the posting on how the Bus Depot just got a big shipment in and how they're really busy - don't call.  Believe me it'll be a while before I call again.

Bradley
