Date: Wed, 6 Nov 2002 15:01:30 -0800 (PST)
From: Bill Abbott <bill.abbott(-at-)teradyne.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: '71 Front Axle available for pick-up NOW. Oakland, California

	Volks,
	When I bought our '70 single-cab back in 1995 it came with
a '71 front axle to use in doing a disc-brake conversion. Marriage
and a child change priorities, and its time for the axle to go
to someone who wants it. If you're not into the esoteria, a '70
and earlier T2/68 has drum brakes up front, a '71 and later
has disc brakes in front. I no longer aspire to do the conversion.

	What you get: Axle beam with all attached bits: Hubs, discs, 
calipers, dust-shields, tie-rods, link that goes to the steering box,
steering damper, master cylinder, vaccuum brake booster, brake fluid
resivior, shocks, etc. 

	The rod that links the booster to the brake pedal is questionable 
at the pedal end and may need to be replaced. The booster may need work.
Its much as the Dreaded Previous Owner (DPO) of our pickup removed it 
from some donor bus sometime before 1995. Stored indoors since 1996. 
No wheels or wheel nuts. Neither disc/hub turns freely- discs are pretty rusty, could be welded to pads or caliper or ???. I can't remember if the tie 
rod boots are all ok or if some are split.

	You could imagine pulling off the knuckles and fitting new
bearings, rotors & pads after rebuilding the calipers. The trailing
arms are the same for disc or drum brakes. But without the vaccuum 
boster, that would be a high-effort setup. The vaccuum booster bracket 
is welded onto the torsion bar tube that is the 'axle', so to use this 
for an upgrade you need to refurb the whole thing and then swap 'axles'. 
If you have a '71 or later and just want parts, your life is simpler.
If you're crazy and will weld your own bracket onto your existing
pre-'71 axle, I don't really want to get involved :)

	I regret to say that its too heavy and awkward for me to 
organize shipping it, though I'm happy to help if you want to 
arrange for someone to pick it up. Wieght more than 50lb, I can
try to get a bathroom scale under it but the best I can do is
wiegh each end and sum the wieghts. Its as wide as a bus! :)

	If nobody expresses interest before November 14 I'm planning
to put it out for the trash guys on Bulky Item Pickup Day. That
would be a shame, but I need our garage to look like a workshop,
not a junk yard :)

	We're located .25 miles from highway 13, our exit is 2 miles
from the 13/24 intersection. Convenient to the whole Bay area.
Of course I'd love to sell it on EBay, and I wouldn't mind a donation
to the Widows and Orphan's Beer Fund, but its Time To Clean Up. :)

	Bill Abbott
	wabbott(-at-)mtest.teradyne.com aka bill.abbott(-at-)skytel.com

'97 Boy    '96 Marriage   '93 Corrado    '70 Single Cab    '48 3br/2ba
