Date: Mon, 20 Jul 2009 21:18:18 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Diagnostics on Bussy

Last winter I bitched about the de-icer Washington DOT was using on the mountain passes. There were a few times I ran the tire chains for more than a few miles. Now, when I did this conversion, there were a few things that were to be done later. I cut away most all of the floor of the engine compartment because most of it was just part of the engine compartment seal - you know, with the foam gasket to the engine tin. Never got around to putting the splash guards that I had intended to put between the rear tires and engine.

Most of the stock Subaru major wire loom connectors are as moisture proof as could be - like my Korean war vintage Jeep with waterproof everything! Some things are part VW / part Subey and some things are just plain Mickey Mouse!

With all that deicer and snow and water being flung into the engine compartment by the tire chains, I've been chasing troubles ever since! I think I finally got the electrical problems all shot down yesterday and the engine running quite smoothly again (one injector plug was not connecting!)

Go back in time once again, when the engine died on me and would not restart for a couple weeks. I had some ideas, but they all seemed to fizzle. Just on a whim, cuz there seemed to be very little resistance to the starter spinning the engine over, I popped out the two closest plugs and stuck the compression gauge in there. I think it was something under 10 on one and around 20 on the other. I was not happy. Since then, I tracked down the electrical gremlins as mentioned above, and got the engine running.

Remembering the bizarre compression readings, I tested by driving over Snoqualmie Pass and it seemed to be able to go most any speed I so happened to try, so the engine seemed plenty strong.

This past weekend I was following up on the electrical stuff. The low voltage at the oxygen sensor was, I think, the worst victim. When the engine runs weak until just over 3000rpm, mixture seems to be the culprit, and along about 3200-3400 it just takes off like a moonlaunch, it's usually the oxy sensor circuit. I cleaned it AGAIN and went out for a quick test spin, down the hill into town and back up. With the tires squealing on the street at around 45 mph climbing what would have been a 2nd gear hill with the stock engine, I figured it's close to "right."

I did want to stick the vacuum gauge on there and see what it looked like, especially since those low comp readings a few months back. I plugged in the vacuum gauge, started the engine - just let it idle at 700rpm. Checked the gauge and it was at 22 inches of mercury with a little needle shake. No wobble, just shake of about the width of the needle. At about 1200rpm, the shake is all but gone.

Any thoughts about 22 inches of vacuum and/or about the needle shake?  It's been years since my schooling, but I think 22 is a pretty strong reading and I think a small amount of shake (no wobbling or diving) is not abnormal. What do you think?

(It sure isn't indicative of 2 cylinders of 10psi and 20psi compression!)
-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
