Date: Wed, 22 Jul 2009 19:57:17 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Jeremy Moore <moorejeremy(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] engine sounds

I assume you have already checked the bolts holding the fan to the crankshaft as that is the first place I'd look. Then, while in there with the guard off, I'd look around for anything that may have fallen in there and is maybe being randomly caught by the pulley and flung around. I'd also check the fan belt condition and the tension, and whether the alternator is secure.

Before reassembling, I'd take a rod of some sort, and with the engine running, I'd use the rod or dowel or massive screwdriver as a stethoscope and listen near the alternator to see if maybe the noise is coming from there The alternator bearings start to seize and make a horrendous noise as they rip the aluminum alternator case apart!)

The fact that the noise goes away as the engine heats up would lead me toward the alternator bearings (may be early enough to fix!) or something related to the engine cooling flaps which open thermostatically as the engine heats up.

If you hear what seems to be alternator bearing noise, loosen and remove the belt, grab ahold of the alternator pulley, and see if it feels like the *other end* of the shaft it is on may be loosely supported (pulley wobble that you can detect this way but may not see while running.)

That's it for my ideas.
-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington



 So the last couple times I've started
 my bus (1977 kombi w/original engine)
 I've heard some clatter/rattling that seems to be coming
 out the cooling fan.
 If I let it idle it goes away after the CHT gauge gets to
 around 150 or so. It
 wasn't that long ago that I adjusted the valves. Like I
 said it goes away in a
 minute or two but its scaring the crap out of me and I was
 just about to take
 it out for a camping trip. Anyone have any words of
 advice?
