Date: Fri, 24 Jul 2009 14:28:05 -0700 (PDT)
From: Joel Cort <joel_cort(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, westfalia(-at-)yahoogroups.com, vanagon(-at-)yahoogroups.com,
Subject: 2 months away - Westies (-at-) Watkins 2009 - Sept 25-27 Watkins

Sorry for Cross posting - Reminder that the Westies at Watkins event is two
months away!!
B 
Westies at Watkins 8th year in the running at the Birthplace
of Road Racing!! 

Sept. 25-26-27, 2009. 
Watkins Glen, New York in the Finger
Lakes 

This is a premier camping event sponsored by the Empire VW Camping
Club and a LiMBO supported event! 

Don't miss out folks. This is a great
place to explore and meet others like minded campers. 

All VWs are welcomed.
Vans, cars, popups. You donbt even need to have a van to camp with us. 
Last
year we had over 75 vehicles camping out with volks from Nova Scotia, Maine,
Ontario, Ohio, MI, NJ, VA, PA, and local NY towns. 

We have reserved our own
loop at the Watkins Glen State Park so all you have to do is pay when you get
there (~$20/night) b no online reservations required. 
I have selected the
Onondaga Village loop. It is the closest to the gorge, has showers, bathrooms
and sites that have a common grassy area. 

Activities for Saturday:
Morning:. Breakfast Burrito Breakfast ( Full Moon Bus Club Style) 
Hiking the
Watkins Glen Gorge on the Finger Lakes Trail! 
A gorge that has been a escape
for folk since 1850! 
Afternoon: Wineries! Biking! Discovery! 
Small Town
Charm and quiet places to be! 
And Seneca Lake to Paddle on! 
Evening: Potluck
dinner. b bring a dish 
T-Shirts. Raffles and door prizesB B  <<<B 
pre-order T Shirt info coming soon >>

Activities for Sunday: 

Best part
is... Race Track... Watkins Glen International Race track. On Sunday morning
we get to drive our vans on this world-class race track. 
We had 45 VW vans on
the racetrack last year b what a hoot! 

Please do not hesitate to ask
questions if this is murky and you need further details. 

Cheers, 
Joel b
Westies at Watkins camp counselor 
jcort(-at-)rochester.rr.com 
CELL (585) 690-8145
Check out the web page at: www.westies-at-watkins.org
B 
B 
B 
Joel Cort
Rochester NY.
89 Syncro Westy (CinnabarVan)
87 Syncro Transporter (Stella)
73
Westy Campmobile (agent orange)

Founding Member of the Empire VW Camping Club
