Date: Mon, 27 Jul 2009 18:42:54 -0500
From: "David Schwarze" <dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net>
To: "Jeremiah Stutte" <jeremiah.stutte(-at-)gmail.com>,  "Type2 LIst"
Subject: Re: [T2] valve adjustment

The foolproof way to do it is this:

For each cylinder, adjust one valve while the other is open (rocker arm pushing the spring down).  This should make sense to everyone since we all know that the intake and exhaust valves never open at the same time, right?  Yes I know about overlap and I'm ignoring it for purposes of this exercise because it is very slight.  So if for example the intake valve is WIDE open, the exhaust valve MUST be closed and therefore can be adjusted and vice versa.

Here is a step-by-step procedure:

1.  Get a piece of paper, draw eight circles on it for the eight valves, oriented as they are in the engine (two rows, four valves in the left row and four in the right).  Draw an arrow on the paper indicating which way is FRONT.  
2.  Make sure bus is in neutral and parking brake is engaged.  Remove both valve covers.  
3.  Get under the bus, find an open valve, adjust the *other* valve for that cylinder to .006".  Cross off the circle corresponding to the valve you just adjusted on your piece of paper.  You did bring the paper with you under the bus, right?  If not, go back and get it, and a pencil too.  There should be two or three open valves at any given time.
4.  Get out from under the bus.  Using a wrench on the alternator pulley, turn the engine clockwise about 1/2 crank revolution (not important to be accurate).
5.  Repeat steps 3-4 until all valves have been adjusted.
6.  Replace valve covers, REMOVE THE WRENCH FROM YOUR ALTERNATOR PULLEY, start the bus and be amazed at how smoothly and quietly it runs.

I have been using this method for 20+ years on all kinds of engines.  It always works.  I don't like the often-quoted method of starting with TDC, adjusting a few valves, turning crankshaft 90 degrees, adjusting a few more valves etc.  With that method, one mistake and you will botch the adjustment plus you learn nothing about how an engine operates.  This method is much simpler and the likelyhood of success is therefore higher.

-David


-----Original message-----
From: Jeremiah Stutte jeremiah.stutte(-at-)gmail.com
Date: Mon, 27 Jul 2009 17:15:04 -0500
To: Type2 LIst type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] valve adjustment

> i am looking for a write up on valve adjustments on a type 2 engine.
> karl's in the archive is good, but i don't have a remote starter and i
> am working by myself.  my wife is just not as interested in the bus as
> i am.  the rotor lines up with the slot in the distributor when the
> timing mark lines up with zero, so, i assume everything is properly in
> place.  i'm running a single vacuum distributor and have the timing
> gauge in place.  any help would be appreciated and flames accepted.
