Date: Tue, 28 Jul 2009 10:01:36 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: benthin(-at-)prodigy.net
Subject: Re: [T2] valve adjustment

Mike Soultanian wrote:
> Which way do you like spinning it the best - you pick :)
> 
> No matter how you get it to 180, when it's there, it's there, regardless 
> of the direction you went to get it there.  The valves won't be affected 
> by the direction of rotation.

And yes, like someone else said, it's 180 degrees of distributor cam 
rotation, not crank rotation.

Also, if you're unsure about if the rotor is pointing in the exactly 
perfect direction and want to make 100% sure that you have it at the 
correct spot for valve adjustment (which really isn't all that 
critical), then you can use the timing mark on the fan to align it as 
well.  To do this, point the rotor at the #1 mark on the distributor and 
then make sure that the timing mark on the fan is lined up at the zero 
degree mark on the timing scale.  When you're done adjusting your four 
valves, turn the crank a full 360 degrees (any direction) until the mark 
lines up again with zero degrees on the scale and the distributor rotor 
should be pointing the opposite direction (180 degrees) and adjust the 
remaining four valves.  If it's not pointing the opposite direction, 
you're doing something wrong or your engine is broken.

Again, the above is being really anal because you can probably be off by 
a good 50 degrees in one direction or another.  Because you're on the 
compression stroke, the intake just closed almost 90 degrees ago and the 
exhaust isn't going to open for another 90 degrees or so.  Granted, this 
really depends on cam timing, but its good to know what's going on.

One other thing for those who are curious, whenever the timing mark is 
lined up with zero, the distributor will be in firing position for 
either #1 OR #3, but never #2 and #4.  Also, when the timing mark is 
lined up with 0, cylinders #1 AND #3 are at TDC, but not necessarily TDC 
firing position.  TDC firing position is determined by the cam, which is 
why you have to watch the valves to determine when a particular cylinder 
is at TDC firing position.  And, if you are watching the valves to 
determine #1 TDC, you must turn the engine clockwise (when looking at 
the engine from the back).  Once you see that intake valve close on #1, 
keep turning the the crank until the timing mark lines up with zero 
(approximately 90 degrees) and you're at the #1 firing position and the 
rotor should be pointing at the mark on your distributor.

Now, if the rotor is not pointing at the mark on the distributor (very 
common issue), rotate your distributor so it is, fix a mis-aligned 
distributor drive gear, fix the distributor drive dog orientation 
(sometimes installed 180 degrees off), use the correct distributor (009 
is off by 90 degrees), or just do what many people do and install spark 
plug wires accordingly which confuses everyone else that works on the 
engine.  In the end, it really doesn't matter as long as #1 is lined up 
to fire when it's supposed to with all the others firing in the correct 
succession.


Really more than you ever really wanted to know, but I'm bored...

Mike
