Date: Tue, 28 Jul 2009 22:28:59 -0400
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
To: The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Case breather vs dipstick tube?

Hi Volks,

A couple of years back a local bus guru and I replaced the top end on 
another local 75 westy. It had blown a valve on one side and the top end 
hadn't been touched in 50,000 miles so it was decided that both heads 
should be freshened up. Since it was finished in 2006 the engine has 
seen *maybe* 200 miles; possibly closer to half that.

This spring it started leaking oil. It seemed to be coming from a lot of 
places, so I inspected the pushrod tubes and they had a fair amount of 
oil on them. Remember back to the time they were installed, Viton (tm) 
seals were not available so we used the set of red and black seals as 
supplied in the type4 gasket kit. These were replaced with Viton (tm) 
seals a few weeks ago.

The oil is dripping a good bit slower, but when I got back from vacation 
last week I was told it still drips.

Tonight I went up to see the bus and gave it another close look. The 
worst accumulation of drips is on the engine bearer bar, and there's 
also a wee bit on the seal between the oil filler tube and the rear tin.

After wiping away the excess oil and idling in the driveway for 20 
minutes, it doesn't seem to be dripping anywhere. Maybe there's a small 
increase in the oil on the filler pipe gasket, but not more than 1-2 
drops. So it's off for a spirited 30 minute test drive up and down the 
concession roads north of town.

The bus runs extremely well. It rides smoothly over every bump, and 
responds quickly to throttle and brake. It shows 42K on the clock and if 
I didn't know better I'd think it was on its first go-round.

Back in the driveway after 30 minutes on the road there are drips on the 
bearer bar again. There was also a mist of oil spray around the dipstick 
tube. I suspect that the case pressure is blowing oil vapour out the 
dipstick tube at high RPMS.

I removed the case breather while the engine was idling and there was a 
considerable cloud of oil vapour to be seen exiting the engine. I was 
actually kind of surprised that the FI didn't quit; the engine just 
idled along like nothing was wrong. Is this possibly the sign of a bad 
case breather?

Any suggestions on how to resolve this would be greatly appreciated.


Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/79 Westfakia "Bob the Tomato"
1987 Wolfsburg Weekender Hardtop
www.busesofthecorn.com
www.pottsfamily.ca
