Date: Thu, 10 Jul 2003 23:59:19 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Parts ordering experience w/ 4 vendors

>From: SkyFungus(-at-)aol.com
>Date: Thu, 10 Jul 2003 19:23:13 EDT
>
>I work at a VW dealer in the parts dept. Dealers use these ETKA computers
>now. Unfortunately they dont even have a SECTION for split Buses!  Just
>the 68-79 models.

Going by what I've gathered on the lists, VW put parts catalogs only on
paper until the mid-60s or so.  When microfiche came along, they issued
new catalogs only on microfiche, but continued to update some of the paper
catalogs.  By some time in the 1970s it was all microfiche with very few
updates to the paper catalogs.  When the electronic parts catalogs came
around in the 1980s or so, they only scanned in microfiche, so anything
that never made it onto fiche didn't make it into the computer either.

Microfiche is not too bad of a way to keep a parts catalog.  In 1991
through 1994, I had a summer job selling appliance parts for GE.  We had
text-only parts lookups on the computer, but on the older models only the
major parts would be listed.  If you needed a picture for any model or a
complete parts list for an older model, you had to go to the fiche.  They
were around 4"x6" and a stack of those around 10" high covered every GE
and Hotpoint major appliance from the late 1940s onward.  One drawback of
the fiche was that they were monochrome; sometimes a customer would say
something like "it's the brass widget, not the steel one next to it", but
we couldn't tell from the picture.

By 1993 there were a few CD-ROM versions of our microfiche.  The pictures
were usually scanned in at an appallingly low resolution and the search
mechanisms were either non-existent or painfully slow.  People who had
worked there for more than a few years could usually look it up in the
fiche faster than they could find it in the CD-ROM catalog.  By around
1996 things had improved enough that the electronic catalogs were suitable
for everyday use, at least on a LAN.

The car makers (both American and foreign) seemed to go to online catalogs
a little sooner than that, like in the mid-1980s.  On the other hand, they
were often using something like a Sun workstation, which was much better at
graphics than (and about seven times the price of) the PCs of the day.

In these modern times, when you can buy a 1200 dpi scanner for $90 and
a 60 gig hard drive for $75, neat things like
http://wow.atlasta.net/~mriluvu/oacdp/ are possible.  Still, if you
find a paper parts manual that covers your Bus at a swap meet and the
price is right, pick it up.  If you're really into it, collect parts
manuals for earlier years as well, so you can track when parts were
superceded or made No Longer Available.

Matt Roberds
