From: "Frank E Biffath III" <fbiffath(-at-)mailingsolutions.com>
To: "Ohio Valley Tribe" <ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Cc: "Full Moon Bus Club" <FullMoonBusClub(-at-)groups.msn.com>,
Date: Fri, 11 Jul 2003 08:32:59 -0400
Subject: Dixie Bus Gathering August 8-10

Greetings all,
I have kept a rather low profile lately.  Dixie Bus is rapidly approaching.
August 8-10 in Mt Vernon Ohio. The camp is in great shape this year.  We have
Man Made Moon committed to attending to entertain us.  Some fool expects to
cook the biggest cauldron of chili any of you have ever seen.  Damn near is
the biggest cauldron I have ever seen.  We will be making the early Saturday
morning trek to the Central Ohio Vintage Volkswagen Club show.  The swimming
lake is inviting and awaiting all the little mommies and chillins.  We will
probably be on display this year, many of the campers are excited to see you
all come back.  We are sure to enjoy an unlimited supply of fire wood, maybe
even a bigger ring this time to accommodate the blaze.  We don't have many
organized events at this gathering, however instead of a hayride, we may do
adult rides in the 60 DC......... It seems the host is more into getting
intimate with the attendees.  Sort of just sitting around with a delightful
beverage in hand, telling stories, and bragging about who has the most VW
projects goin.  There is the Dixie Music Festival in town (link from my web
site), so the folks that like to site see and meander, will be delighted by
the event.
So, come on out folks.  Bring your fixins for the breakfast burrito, we will
probably do this Saturday morning before the show, or maybe Sunday.  We need
an organizer who can pull this event off...... Anywhoooooo, bring some
veggies, eggs, LARGE tortilla wrappers (I hate those small ones!!!) sour
cream, salsa, chorizo sausage or whatever else turns your taste buds on.
The event planner had great visions, but little umph to get em goin.  I doubt
we will have any tee shirts this year...unless someone can help me with a logo
ASAP, we wont have any grab bags, we wont have any door prizes, but we will
have a dang god time fellowshipping amongst ourselves.  I may send you home
with a headache and heart burn however, guaranteed to remind you of Dixie Bus
Gathering during the trip home.
The fees will be $20 per night per bus, of 4 people. This includes water and
electric.  I will be working on a rate for those that come single.  I do most
of my traveling to different events alone, and some have rates by the person,
others are a flat rate.  I will try.  For those of you that bring more than
one bus, I will make the accommodations.  Just see me!!!
I am sure I have forgotten something, but stay tuned.

Bye for now,,

Beep Beep
HapyBus


www.geocities.com/dixie_bus_gathering
