From: "Jason Starbird" <JasonStarbird(-at-)att.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 11 Jul 2003 19:56:14 -0600
Subject: My 67 project

Well,
    I've gotten quite a bit done on my 67. I've been slowly going around the
front of it and stripping off the 7 colors of paint that is on it, and
reprimering it. Slow messy work, but it sure looks nice and feels better. I
bought new white KYB shocks for it all around. I got the old one off, and
they were totally shot! Then i got new tires for it. Just on the front of
it, one side was a Uniroyal p 205 70 r 14, and the the other side was
something like a Highway rambler 78? F 78 size...it was 2 inches taller, and
about an inch narrower than the other side, with no tread ! All dry rotted
etc. I can't belive I drove it home like that a year ago! 51 miles of
interstate! I was pretty lucky. Since i was down there I grabbed the tie rod
link, clank-clank....so got two new ones of those. Brake hoses, all
dryrotted. Two new ones of those. new brake cylinder last year, just need to
be installed. New brake shoes. And new fold washer things for the axel nuts!
Man, what else....new cluch disc, cable and clip. And a new oe style
muffler. I went to put the muffler on, so i could get the rear apron on and
the rear bumper back on, the the bug style muffler wasn't working. So that
drove the new oe stlyle muffler. Shoot, then somebody had added an
accessorie oild filter adapter , so for the original muffler to fit that had
to come off, which drives a new oil pump. The engine case is an AE case, so
it is good at least. But don't know if i have the 3 or 4 rivet cam
gear....so i had to get two differnt style oil pumps. I can return the one i
don't need. 51 mile drive back to boise....So I have a lot of fun planned
for this weekend! But the bus will be so much happier, and we'll feel better
about driving around a bit more!! Hope you all have a good weekend. I wish i
could go on some sort of bus related camp thing or some thing!!
Jason
61 bug
67 deluxe 15 window
Starbirds' Custom Wood Working
507 North 11th East Street
Mountain Home, Idaho  83647
(208) 859-4653
www.starbirdscustomwoodworking.com
