Date: Sat, 12 Jul 2003 02:28:38 -0400
From: Don J <djohnson1(-at-)snet.net>
To: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Leaky carb, Thank You, and how I got into buses(friday)

Thanks to all for the info and suggestions- this, like so many of my 
other issues will now be resolved.  I have to ditto the "Thank You" 
message from earlier today for everyone who has helped me over the past 
five years.  When I was little, my two favorite matchbox cars were the 
orange vw camper, and the blue d(-at-)gde challenger which i painted orange 
and put a rebel flag on to look like the general lee.  In 1998 I drove 
x country with my girlfriend(now wife) during the summer, and while out 
west, I kept seeing those "orange busses" and even one that looked like 
a pick-up truck!  One of my personal mottos is "Dream it, do it", so 
within a week of getting back to CT, I had bought a non-running 71 
westy. Within another 2 months , I proposed during the two minute 
warning in dallas at a cowboys game(I'm indifferent to football, but 
she is a crazy Dallas fan) They won.  Then i discovered type2.com, and 
proceeded to fix up the '71 real nice with the help of countless 
strangers from far away.  Got Married.  Soon wanted another bus.

Bought the '65 EZ  project(Sort of against her wishes, but I was still 
learning that "do whatever you want" means NO :)  Again, everyone on 
these lists - especially Matt Roberds with the nutzo knowledge of 
electrical systems, enabled me to finally register and tag it, just 
this morning - two years, one month, twelve days later.  I work  alone 
on these 99% of the time.  On the '65 I needed to: re-do entire braking 
system, install a new transmission and mounts, swap a motor in, get 
everything electrical to work (Damn those flashers), attempt to solve 
wandering steering - swing lever bushing next, remove adhesive tinting 
from all windows except the front, solve leaky window sills with new 
seals and the famous "tar", figure out which tires to use, which oil to 
use, and just yesterday, pop rivet new german  hub cap clips onto my 
rims to finally get hubcaps to stay on.  (Not to mention, I swapped the 
front beam on the '71 under a tarp in the rain this April with the help 
of my Dad)  I have learned to use tools I didn't even know existed, and 
laughed out loud at some of the stories and trip reports I read here.  
Without this list, I truly would be "A mime in the dark" Thanks Ray 
from kent :)

Every year on our anniversary, we would go to a local beach/campground 
Hamonassett St park, and camp in the Westy, and play scrabble and hot 
dice and roast corn on the cob.  However, this year, the Westy is 
somewhere in NJ with a great new owner because I just had to have a dc 
I saw for sale, and we just didn't have the room for one bus, let 
alone, three(And I finally understood that "Do whatever you want, means 
NO!)   My wife Tracey is actually sad that we won't be taking the bus, 
but little does she know that I've got a nice trailer hitch that will 
fit on the dc, and be able to pull a little westy trailer someday:)

As I'm typing this, I'm still looking right at the little Orange 
matchbox camper.  by studying the insides, and the way the top flipped 
up from the sides and using vintagebus and samba galleries, I'd already 
deduced it was a bay window dormobile, and just now - no kidding - I 
turned it over, and it reads "Matchbox series #23 Volkswagen Camper 
Made in England 1970.  In front of front beam, it says "Dormobile", and 
behind rear axle it says "Superfast"

Thanks for listening, and my hope is someday, I'll be able to answer 
more questions than I ask, because I have a hunch this dc is going to 
take a while :)


Don J

Check out the Lost Discs Radio Show on the internet!  Spinning obscure 
b-sides from 55-70.  Requests welcome :)
http://lostdiscsradioshow.tripod.com/
