From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 12 Jul 2003 15:25:07 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: maintenance in action

having more time than Ihave had in ages, I have been doing some catch up 
stuff with the buses.

I made a puller for steering wheels, and will replace the steering box in the 
65 westy.   That bus got a wash, polish and wax, and it looks really pretty.  
It's been what, 5 years?, since the paint job, and this is the first buff and 
polish.    Want to find some paint in a can as close to bluewhite as possible 
to paint the column before installation.  any hints?   

the 53 microbus had a leaky seal at the right RGBox (hm, they were replaced 
only ten years ago) so I pulled both sides apart, replaced the seals and 
cleaned out the back brakes, and flushed the brake system.  The way the seals and 
things go on is of course banrdoor unique, so I had to check the book to put it 
back together right.  At least the parts are common.   The left axle boot was 
leaking, which turned out the be a bad hose clamp, it got replaced.   Then I 
had to go get more GL-4 gear oil, and topped it up this morning.    Soon I'm 
off to pressure wash the underside and RGboxes. (engine is clean)   but the 
undercarriage is so nice and clean (rust wise).   yum.   pretty grey paint (or is 
that primer?)   thinking about sanding the surface rust off and zinc primering 
the outside.    It needs a paint job.

http://www.barndoor.dk/    go to picture gallery, then to page 27

Been driving the 67 riviera.   this bus will be fs when the interior is back 
in it, meanwhile it is empty and great for hauling stuff.   I removed the 
wiper motor and cleaned the commutator and checked the brushes and cleaned and re 
greased the gears in there.  and greased the joints and checked that the 
plastic bushings were not ovaled and greased the pivots.  reinstalled it and it 
parked the wipers in the middle of teh windows!!!!!!  luckily the bolt for that 
was easily accessible, (I had put it back in the wrong place when putting the 
pieces back together) so I undid it, adjsuted it, and did it back up.   put on 
good wipers.  nice quiet wiper motor, 2 speed, parks at side.  Not that it has 
rained since mid may to speak of, real dry these days.  put some more miles 
on the bus this week and it got quieter, rejetted the carb as it was too rich, 
sounds smoother and nice power and gearing.   I got it from a lady who parked 
it in 95.    put the dash back together.  nice when the column it bolted up to 
the dash pod, you know.  Changed the oil yesterday, after 100 miles, and was 
dirty, but no chunks ya!. I'm doing the change oil when it gets dirty, rather 
than waiting the usual 3000 miles.   Did some other tinkering.

Too many irons in the fire, so some are FS (see other post)

Clara
