Date: Sun, 13 Jul 2003 06:50:11 -0500
From: Wolfe <wolfe(-at-)tconl.com>
To: buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: The Great Western Tour Website

For the 3rd year two of the Buskatiers Founders, Rob Laffoon(P-Daddy)
and Terry Wolfe will be doing a tour of the upper midwest and the
northern Rocky Mountains. We will be joined by several other busses this
year. Bryant Baecht from Kansas will join us from the start. Other
possible participants are still making plans to join us along the way.

We will be leaving Omaha on Sunday July 27th. Heading north and west
across Nebraska. Wyoming and Montana. Our schedule is very flexible but 
we are headed to Glacier National Park. We expect to hit parts of Idaho 
and Utah before heading to Colorado. Finally after lots of miles we will 
be heading to the Rocky Mountain Motorworks show on August 9th in 
Woodland Park Colorado and the Bandimere Show in Denver before heading 
home.  We should be travelling about 4000 miles in 2 weeks.

We would love to meet up with other bus folks as we travel. If you are 
anywhere in the area and would like to have a bunch of bus crazies stop 
by please feel free to drop me a pmail before we leave. We will see what 
we can work out.

In conjunction with this trip I have launched a website, 
www.bustrips.org , that I intend to use to chronicle our trip as we 
travel. I will do this on the road whenever possible. When I was first 
getting back into busses Charlie Ford was just starting his 'round the 
US trip. I found his descriptions inspiring enough to carry me through 
the 3 plus years of work it took to restore Frodo my 65 Westy. Since my 
wife won't travel very far in the "tincan" I feel very lucky to have a 
good friend like Rob that is crazy enough to take nearly 40 year old 
vehicles on such a challenging trip. We have travelled lots of miles in 
our busses and seen some beautiful sites and this year should be no 
exception. I have pictures from last year up already as well as our 
short trip to the MOKAN show with 10 other busses. I am waiting on 
submitions from a few other drivers to tell the story of their journeys. 
If you have a story to tell or are going to be traveling long distances 
in you bus send me information. I would love to post your story.
Thanks for reading.

Terry Wolfe
Frodo 65 Westy
www.bustrips.org
www.buskatiers.org
