Date: Sun, 13 Jul 2003 11:30:53 -0400
From: rob <coerver(-at-)mindspring.com>
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] Undercoating?

Kevin -
	Growing up in NH I have seen plenty of salted cars.  One thing that we 
did do to our cars was get the undercarriage sprayed with waste oil 
( i think this is similiar to the bar & chain oil technique.  
This is not very kind to the environment, and collects dirt but it does keep rust off the pan.  
My family drove a 65 cadillac from 75' -00' all year long with only rust 
happening on the wheel skirts, the vw fastback however, didn't fair as well and 
the brake cluster was pushed through the floor sometime in the eighties. I think water got in from somewhere up top though.  The damm salt is not only a rust accelerant but its very abrasive and chews right through the undrcoating paint etc as it is flys up from the road, wheels etc..
      Oil coating I think is a good idea but its messy and probably illegal,
keep in mind that salt still gets on the rockers, doglegs etc, ( you know,that white coating that gets sprayed up from your own wheels or passing cars).  Of course, washing the car frequently in the winter helps as well.   I have always thought vw buses were bad winter vehicles for alot of reasons.  Bugs however, go great in the snow but without the good heat ( the windows always fog up during those many damp winter days )... 
	My friend got his car sprayed by some old timers a couple years back, I'll ask around to see if anyone does it.  The biggest advantage is that you save yourself alot of time lying on your back underneath your bus.  The oil probably never comes completely off unless you were to have some high pressure washer/degreaser thing.  To prepare for winter we would put the snow tires on and respray the oil on our cars nov 11th.
	My thought is that the least cost, trouble argh!-ravation is to stay off the salt as much as possible and treat individual areas as needed, covering things up does makes it harder to know what the hell is going on. 
	
	By the way the NH show was really great this year, congrats to the NWVW club.  Anyone go?

-rob	
