Date: Fri, 25 Sep 2009 15:58:44 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Solex Rejetting - Round 1

Hi Timo,

The manual will have specifications for the fuel pump for both fuel
pressure and fuel volume. Deficiency in either will definitely prevent
the carburetors from performing to specification.

Oversize valves make the engine a more efficient air pump, so yes, if
more air is being processed, the fuel pump must be able to supply the
amount of fuel that the jets being used are calling for.

So, in effect, changing jets is meaningless if the fuel supply is
insufficient to keep up with what the jets are trying to supply.

As I mentioned before, stock carbs should be able to supply the
correct AFR on a stock engine size, so you may have stumbled upon the
problem with your thinking on the fuel pump.

Lean mixture can also result from a clogged passage in the carburetor.
I did not mention this before because you said the carbs were rebuilt.
But mistakes can be made in rebuilts too.

Try the CHT sensor on the other side of the engine to see if both
carbs are performing the same.

13.6-14.7 is still a bit hot, but don't get more jets until you check
the fuel supply and try the sensor on the other head.

John

On Fri, Sep 25, 2009 at 3:27 PM, Timo Schairer
<tschairer(-at-)wsi-gris.uni-tuebingen.de> wrote:
. That dropped AFRs
 from the range 14.4-16.0 down to the range 13.6-14.7. The engine runs
 much better now (more power) and CHTs were a bit lower, but not much.
 So, I guess I should order some even bigger ones and rejet the idle and
 air correction also. But what could be the reason for a stock
 configuration to run so lean? I suspect a vacuum leak somewhere, so I
 even disconnected and plugged the line to the brake booster right at the
 intake manifold to be sure there is none. Am I missing something obvious
 here? To get in the range of AFR the engine rebuilder told me, I would
 probably need 145 main jets. Is this excessive? Could my mechanical fuel
 pump be the reason? And if so, how do I check it? Or could the cylinder
 head with larger intake and exhaust valves be the culprit (intake is
 42mm and exhaust is 34mm)?
