Date: Mon, 28 Sep 2009 10:44:44 +0200
From: "Timo Schairer" <tschairer(-at-)wsi-gris.uni-tuebingen.de>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Solex Rejetting - Round 1

Hi all,
Thanks for all the replies! I'll be posting this single mail with my
replies/questions:

Syd wrote:
> Timo, I was just in Maui, Kehei, for 2 weeks r&r, but forgot what Island you
> were on,..so.. talked to evry type 2 owner I saw, and turned them onto the
> site, just in case!  Cheers.
Hi Syd, I'm the other Timo on the type2 list and unfortunately don't live in
Hawaii but in southern Germany which is about as far away from the sea as
possible when living in Germany :-(

David wrote:
> Why his engine is running so lean is a mystery though.  Maybe the air in
> Germany is just thinner?  Maybe he lives on thhe Zugspitze?  :-)  Vacuum
> leak is possible but it would have to be a big one to affect A/F that much.
I neither live in Hawaii nor on the Zugspitze but both places would be perfect
for my hobbies (surfing/snowboarding) :-)
I'm slowly running out of ideas why this engine is running so lean and hot.
Since I replaced all the hoses of the idle circuit and in between the intake
manifolds with new ones and even put hose clamps on them (!) I doubt that
there's an air leak. I checked this last week with spraying carb cleaner at
all the connections and did not notice any increase in RPM. As mentioned
before, brake booster is disconnected and plugged right at the intake
manifold.

John wrote:
> As I mentioned before, stock carbs should be able to supply the
> correct AFR on a stock engine size, so you may have stumbled upon the
> problem with your thinking on the fuel pump.
Hi John, I'll check the fuel pump as soon as I get a pressure gauge. While I
don't feel any acceleration issues while cruising, I did notice that with the
engine rather cold (starter flaps closed) when flooring the pedal the engine
stumbles one or two times as if it is starving (feels like the gas tank run
empty). This only happens on a cold engine and I've never felt any problems
when the engine is warm/hot.

John wrote:
> Lean mixture can also result from a clogged passage in the carburetor.
> I did not mention this before because you said the carbs were rebuilt.
> But mistakes can be made in rebuilts too.
I rebuilt them by myself and I am quite sure nothings clogged since I sprayed
carb cleaner in all holes and it exited at all the right orifices. I also put
in new bushings at the throttle shaft to get rid of all possible sources of
air leaks.

John wrote:
> Try the CHT sensor on the other side of the engine to see if both
> carbs are performing the same.
This is not so easy, 'cause I've got the sensor under the spark plug which
would require some grinding of the other head for the thermocouple to exit
properly. With the engine in the bus this is quite some work that I'd rather
like to do when the engine is out (which will hopefully not be the case in the
next months or my fiancie will be killing me).

John wrote:
> 13.6-14.7 is still a bit hot, but don't get more jets until you check
> the fuel supply and try the sensor on the other head.
Replacing the main jets from 132.5 to 137.5 brought down the AFRs from the
range 14.4-16.0 down to the range 13.6-14.7. That would mean an increase in
jet size of 0.5 resulted in a decrease in AFR of 0.8-1.3. Is this reasonable
or should the bigger jet have far more effect on AFR?
Today I'm (again) going to check all the intake parts for sources of an air
leak...

Thank you all,
Timo
