Date: Mon, 28 Sep 2009 09:55:01 -0700 (PDT)
From: Joel Cort <joel_cort(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com, type2(-at-)type2.com,
Subject: Thank you for participating in the 8th annual Westies at

To all VW enthusiast of camping in our VW vans last weekend at Watkins Glen NY
- A big THANK YOU for participating and being one of the 87 VW at this event. 
Volks from all neighboring states and provinces participated.  I'll provide
stats on the webpage.
 
There were about 10 vans in on Thursday night to get a
jump start at the event. As we were relaxing at the campsite we could here
those distinctive VW engines power up the hill to our campground. We saw a
constant stream of all sorts of VWs rolling in on Friday each establishing
their encampments. The campground loop filled up quickly. By Saturday we had
the final count of  87 VW vehicles participating in this premier campout.
Numerous Vanagons, EuroVans, Bays and Splitties, a few Bugs and tenters and
even a Rialta and a Routan.
 
We kicked off Saturday morning with the Empire
VW Camping club's version of the "Breakfast Burritos" to treat every camper
breakfast. It was a hit, everyone was well fed and ready to work it off on a
hike down the Watkins Glen gorge.
 
The New York Southern Tier region, Finger
Lakes and Leather Stocking regions are connected with a long hiking trail
referred to as the Finger Lakes trail. Fortunately the Finger Lakes Trail runs
through this park and we hiked about one mile to get down to the gorge trail.
Our hiking group enjoyed the beautiful scenery of waterfalls and clear pools
and easy steps while hiking back to our campsite.
 
The afternoon allowed some
folks to visit to local towns and vineyards while others relaxed at camp. The
weather was in the 60s with an occasional gust of wind cooling the air. The
Iroquois Lodge pavilion was reserved for our group, just in case of inclement
weather and to gather us all in one area.
 
We filled the pavilion with some
new entertainment and hopefully tradition to the Westies at Watkins events
with our own Rick the Juggler who entertained the children and most of us
watching with his juggling acts, unicycle tricks and playing with fire. Thanks
again Rick for a fine display of your talents. Rick was camping at Watkins
last year when he saw a parade of VW vans heading off to the racetrack. He
thought that these vans were so cool and practical that he wanted one too.
After some investigation Rick finally acquired his own Vanagon Westy to join
our group.
 
After the juggling act, everyone gathered and brought food to
share at our pot-luck meal in the pavilion. We added more picnic tables to
accommodate the crowd and filled to pavilion to near capacity. Everyone had
plenty to eat with some pretty decent camping food to bat. By this time, as
predicted, it was pouring rain outside so it was nice to be in a warm dry
place to enjoy each others company. We concluded the evening with some door
prizes to give away as raffle gifts. A genuine big thanks to all who have
contributed door prizes for this event:
 
GoWesty
Van-Cafi
MidAmerica-Motorworks
SewfineCondelli and Associate
Wolfsb|rg-West
VAWCCNY
LiMBO &
Empire VW Camping Club 
Sunday, under pouring rain we packed up camp
and those of us brave enough to venture up to the Watkins Glen International
Race track were allowed to take our vans on the race track. The racing goes on
rain or shine. There was a small delay while the BMW racing club ended their
practice and we were then allowed on. 25 vans and one bug took to the track.
It was wet and still raining which kept the speeds down but some of us were
able to go top speed in a VW bus around the track. Everyone took lots of
pictures and some videos of the amusing event of seeing these utilitarian
vehicles dare to challenge the asphalt of the race track. Pictures will be
posted or linked from the 
 Oh yeah, some scoundrel absconded with my Westies
at Watkins banner!! what good is it to anyone else?
It was really nice to see
old friends again and to make new friends at this event. Some were missed and
remembered. Thanks to Empire team for pulling together in making this happen. 
Thank you all again for participating in the 8th annual event of
Westies(-at-)Watkins campout.
 
If you missed this year's event, start planning to
attend next years on October 8-9-10 2010 (Columbus Day US)
 
 

Joel Cort -
Camp councelor


Rochester NY.
89 Syncro Westy (CinnabarVan)
87 Syncro
Transporter (Stella)
73 Westy Campmobile (agent orange)


Founding Member of
the Empire VW Camping Club
&
Westies at Watkins -
www.westies-at-watkins.org  October 8-9-10 2010 www.westies-at-watkins.orgweb
site. Please send me any media you wish to post.
