Date: Tue, 11 Oct 2011 12:08:25 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: [VB] Re: [T2] Re: [VB] Stuck rear brake, need

On 10/09/2011 01:09 AM, C. Dreike wrote:
> You put it on the not and then you hammer on the panhandle of
> the tool.  Works much better than a breaker bar and those tools are very cheap

Does this method worry anyone else? I have one of those tools and I 
worry I might damage my wheel bearings hammering on them. I've used it 
once unsuccessfully.

The tool I have also has a square hole of a 1/2" drive breaker bar. I 
could see using a brass or copper hammer to pound on it while a helper 
stands on the breaker bar but a steel hammer might damage the bearings 
rather than persuade the nut to rotate... I nearly dented my fender on 
my Beetle swinging wildly with a sledge hammer.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/False_brinelling

Not exactly what I was thinking of but close. I was imagining the balls 
inside the bearing denting the race b/c they were absorbing the hammer 
blows.

My method has always been to use a massive cheater bar and safety gear. 
I have ruined cheater bars a couple of times but if I was doing thing 
regularly I'd likely take my most recently ruined cheater bar and weld a 
decent impact socket to it permanently. Then add a 5 ft cheater pipe to 
it when I needed to. That way there were alot of forces at the socket 
but I was not working so hard at the end of the handle that I would be 
hit by the handle when I hung on it or I wouldn't fall to the floor if 
the nut came loose or the socket shattered.

Alternatively drive your VW to a truck shop and have them loosen the nut 
with a massive impact gun and then tighten it back and reinsert a cotter 
key. Drive home and all you are fighting is the torque and not the rust 
too. Simple math says that 350 ft lbs of torque is only 17 inches from 
the axle for a 250 lb fellow standing on the end of the breaker bar. 
Maybe my math is wrong. The rust might increase the initial 
break-loose-torque quite a bit though.

I'm dreading this part of my teardown. Neither of my impact guns are 
capable of breaking the nut loose, the bus has no working brakes and 
it's up in the air on jack stands so a cheater bar is out. Will likely 
have to invest in one of those half-moon geared tools that the VW 
catalogs sell that multiplies the breaker arm rotation torque and 
rotates the axle nut. Or - I'll have to take the trailing arms off and 
drive them over to our local big truck repair shop and pay them to 
remove the axle nuts with an impact gun. Actually I prefer this method 
despite the effort. I need to replace suspension rubber, this would 
allow me to sandblast the parts and install the new bearings on the 
workbench rather than under the bus.

Chris in TN
