Date: Tue, 11 Oct 2011 15:10:30 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Cheap Air compressor review (was Re: [T2] Captive nut

On 10/11/2011 01:29 PM, John Anderson wrote:
> Buy
> an IR 231.  Period.  Don't cheap out there (sorry Chris but I do feel this.)
> Don't buy a plastic IR gun, don't buy a cheapo Chinese HF set, don't buy a
> Sears or CH, sure buy a Mac or Snap-On if you want to pay more, but I'd just
> buy the IR 231.

Thanks, I'll be saving that bit of info and using it eventually. I need 
to buy a new impact gun in our shop at work anyhow. Doesn't get used 
that frequently but the old gun was cheap and is worn out. It was a 
throwaway impact gun when purchased.

A person has to do that balancing act - price vs utility vs durability 
vs what you can find with a decent reputation.

I had zero info to shop with but my own experiences and what I read on 
the web. Had I known what you had to say, I would have followed your lead.

There are different conversations going on around the web too - the 
commercial shop guys who generally have the budget to buy Snap-on/Mac 
Tools/Ingersoll-Rand and the amateurs like me trying to outfit a home 
shop so I don't have to pay a mechanic for things I will happily do myself.

Who is who is not always evident to me.

Tough for me to figure out who is a "tool connoisseur" and who actually 
has a bone to pick with a particular tool. We've all heard the Ford vs 
Chevy vs Dodge debates. GRIN! Or Miller vs Lincoln vs Esab vs ??? 
debates. I'm shopping for a big multi-process welder right now for work 
too. That balancing act again but I've got a much bigger budget and 
different needs...

Your good experience is what I was searching for on the impact gun.

I've used my $30 reman impact gun to remove/install not more than a 
couple dozen fasteners now so at this pace it'll last a long, long time. 
IF I wear it out I'm going back for an IR231. That's about $100 more 
than what I paid for the gun I bought and thus not in the budget at the 
time. I know I'd get my money back out of the better gun eventually 
though based on your experience.

Good to know on the Chinese compressor. Buying cheap can be a real pig 
in a poke sometimes from NT or HF. I went to a trade show last year that 
had some amazing Chinese brand welders at affordable prices - affordable 
enough to make the domestic guys uncomfortable. Like sub-$1000 TIG 
welders that I could afford to put in my home shop but good enough 
otherwise to consider putting in my shop at work too. Some of these 
welders were component welders that a guy could expand too into 
multi-process welders. Then there was that motivation to buy American 
and presumably keep some American worker at work but that's a whole 
other topic...

I have a free-to-me tiny tankless tire pumper by Campbell-Hausfeld that 
is good for about that - only - despite the promises printed on the 
packing materials. I tried spraying paint with it's basic-basic gun and 
it would do a good job for repainting a dog house indeed. My poptop 
didn't look nearly as good (about ten years ago) but the paint held up 
at least. We'll go again with my better gun and better compressor 
eventually. Low pressures AND low volumes...

I also have a DeWalt nail gun compressor (with tanks) and a rotary 
compressor portion that has been okay for that purpose but it doesn't 
promise to be a very long lived compressor - at least not decades. I put 
down a wood floor with it. It will drive the nail guns great but for 
spraying dust with my air gun or an air tool it provides only a few 
seconds (less than ten) per squirt. Not even a good tire pumper. No 
volume, only good pressure. Single purpose nail guns only.

I'll second you on buying quality tools if a person can scrape together 
the budget for them. No need to buy something twice if the cheap version 
is going to wear out b/c I cheaped out. My cheapest tools have been 
purchased knowing I'll not likely wear them out anytime soon b/c they 
are used so infrequently.

Note that I describe the price, not the quality. I won't put up with a 
poor quality tool. I want a good quality (working) tool even if I'm not 
going to use it often.

When I was a teen I bought flea-market level tools - you know, the 25 
screwdriver assortment for $5 made in a hut somewhere in a foreign land. 
They last 3 uses max before the tips twist off or the wooden handles 
split. They were cheap in price AND quality. And I didn't know any 
better. Or the Asian socket set I got for my 15th birthday that 
stretched after a few dozen uses so the socket became bell-shaped and 
would not grip the nut it was sized for. It was a decent set but I wore 
them out with frequent and legitimate uses. Some wore out from abusive 
uses (1/4" sockets doing the work of a 3/8" socket). -GRIN!- I had a 
cheap Italian wire feed welder that was another good example. The welder 
didn't even do very well what it was advertised to do but then it was 
free to me - passed on by two other previous frustrated owners.

That's a big part of why I quit my Corvair implant/VW resto for so long. 
Doing a poor job on my project just made me miserable so I'd rather quit 
than continue on and restore/upgrade a vehicle I was embarrassed by.

Eventually I bought the big compressor and the Lincoln MIG 180 and I'm 
ready to go again. Just took a decade or so... -GRIN!-

Chris in TN
