From: "C. Dreike" <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: "Joe Average" <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>,	<type2(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Tue, 11 Oct 2011 21:02:03 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: [VB] Stuck rear brake, need  advice.

I got the axle nut off with the help of a friend who had a proto breaker bar 
that fit into my 3 foot long piece of 3/4" pipe. Slid the pipe all the way 
down onto the bar. Stood on the end of the pipe and bounced gently while my 
friend beat on the pipe up close to the pivot with a 2 or 3 pound hammer. I 
weigh in at about 175 pounds. BTW the breaker was only a 1/2" drive. Be sure 
to wear some safety goggles if you go this route. It took a pretty good 
beating before it let loose with a slow slide.

Chris
64DD Kamper in Los Angeles area

----- Original Message ----- 
From: "Joe Average" <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
> You put it on the not and then you hammer on the panhandle of
> the tool.  Works much better than a breaker bar and those tools are very 
> cheap

Does this method worry anyone else? I have one of those tools and I
worry I might damage my wheel bearings hammering on them. I've used it
once unsuccessfully.

The tool I have also has a square hole of a 1/2" drive breaker bar. I
could see using a brass or copper hammer to pound on it while a helper
stands on the breaker bar but a steel hammer might damage the bearings
rather than persuade the nut to rotate... I nearly dented my fender on
my Beetle swinging wildly with a sledge hammer.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/False_brinelling

Not exactly what I was thinking of but close. I was imagining the balls
inside the bearing denting the race b/c they were absorbing the hammer
blows.

My method has always been to use a massive cheater bar and safety gear.
I have ruined cheater bars a couple of times but if I was doing thing
regularly I'd likely take my most recently ruined cheater bar and weld a
decent impact socket to it permanently. Then add a 5 ft cheater pipe to
it when I needed to. That way there were alot of forces at the socket
but I was not working so hard at the end of the handle that I would be
hit by the handle when I hung on it or I wouldn't fall to the floor if
the nut came loose or the socket shattered.

Alternatively drive your VW to a truck shop and have them loosen the nut
with a massive impact gun and then tighten it back and reinsert a cotter
key. Drive home and all you are fighting is the torque and not the rust
too. Simple math says that 350 ft lbs of torque is only 17 inches from
the axle for a 250 lb fellow standing on the end of the breaker bar.
Maybe my math is wrong. The rust might increase the initial
break-loose-torque quite a bit though.

I'm dreading this part of my teardown. Neither of my impact guns are
capable of breaking the nut loose, the bus has no working brakes and
it's up in the air on jack stands so a cheater bar is out. Will likely
have to invest in one of those half-moon geared tools that the VW
catalogs sell that multiplies the breaker arm rotation torque and
rotates the axle nut. Or - I'll have to take the trailing arms off and
drive them over to our local big truck repair shop and pay them to
remove the axle nuts with an impact gun. Actually I prefer this method
despite the effort. I need to replace suspension rubber, this would
allow me to sandblast the parts and install the new bearings on the
workbench rather than under the bus.

Chris in TN
