Date: Sat, 15 Oct 2011 12:06:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Sandbasting My Undercarriage

Hello List,

I have done alot to my bus over the summer. my 68 weekend
camper needed a facelift. I live on the east coast of NC so rust is a never
ending battle. So far, I have completed the top half of my bus from the belt
line up. I stripped off the paint, rewelded in a new rear roof section to fix
the saggy rear hatch and the rotted away rain gutter. I replaced all of the
non-existant metal under the windshield. The PO had fixed the area by shoving
shop rags in the rusted holes and icing it with bondo. The is all fixed. I
even sandblasted inside of the engine vents to get rid of chipping paint. It
is all ready for my second coat of primer. I first primed it with epoxy primer
before the body work. Now that the body work is done and much of the original
primer is sanded off, I am going to give it one more coat of epoxy prime to
seal it all up. That was alot of work.

I am getting ready to start the bottom
half of the bus. It needs some of the rockers replaced, one rear corner, batt
tray, etc. I am going to have the undercarriage sand blasted  as there are
many holes in the frame. The floors are good. Has anyone done this before? I a
looking for words of wisdom. Should I go ahead and cut out the obviously
rotted metal before hand? After it is blasted, I planned on spraying zinc
galvenizing spray inside of the frame sections that open up with rust holes
before I weld in new metal. ANy thoughts? I am going to remove the engine and
tranny before I send it out. What else should I protect before sending it out?
I am trying to pick out a company to blast it. What should I ask or look for
in a Sand Blaster person? 

Eventually, I am going to make this bus Pop up
camper with a Sportsmobile camper top that I have. I had to have a canvas made
for it.

Any help is appreciated.

Thanks,
David Kelly
volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com
