Date: Sat, 15 Oct 2011 16:58:12 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>, "type2(-at-)type2.com"
Subject: Re: [T2] Sandbasting My Undercarriage

Couple thoughts as I've done this many times on many vehicles (but only to 2
buses that I felt warranted.)
 
First, if you got factory undercoating, you
are going to pay ot the whazoo unless you scrape most of it yourself.  I don't
know what year it started, certainly by the late 70's it is there, I don't
think my '69 SC has it, I think it was an option (perhaps even factory M
coded, others will be smarter on that.)  Fortunately though sometimes it is
brittle enough that maybe it will blast off, who knows.  If you got to scrape,
think very carefully about what you hope to achieve with this project.  Putty
knives +/- heat gun depending on what seems to be working best.
 
I'd gently
cut back large rust outs to expose what is below but you need to decide your
goals, how much you will replace.  If you are sectioning the rockers, don't
cut out too much, if you are replacing them in total, like is mentioned,
remove as much as you can, they aren't overly structural in the sense that the
body won't bow without them, so you can if you like and blast the insides
well.  Particularly as the middle section (which is the last to rust usually)
actually is sort of trapped off from the ends.
 
Yes, weld through primer
before inside everything that will be closed.  Hands down to me, time and time
again, and cheaper than most things so marketed is just good ole Rust-ol-eum
cold galvanizing spray.  NOT the shiney, the dull, though oddly the shiney
makes spec in weld shops and the dull doesn't, but for me the dull lasts
better.  On bare steel, unscratched, I've had that stuff exposed to elements
for 15+ years without a bit of rust, and even scratched or on sharp welds, it
still works somehow.  All weld throughs are zinc based, you must weld safely
and appropriately with proper ventilation, else even risk as much as death. 
Back of replacement panels, sand off the black e-coat stuff a bit (it is
thinner than hell) and put on the weld through.  Home Depot usually has the
best price.  Stuff dries instantly in moderate to warmer weather as well.
 
Weld through though only on surfaces that will be closed and welded over.  All
blasted exposed surfaces to be finish painted need primed immediately (WITHIN
HOURS) as well unless you are in the desert with no humidity.  Some blast
shops will actually do this for you.  Need to put down your favorite to bare
metal primer immediately, the second you get it home, before you even start
metal work.  Personally as long mentioned I'm a PPG DP40 guy.  Even though not
etching, it will never fail.  Dupont's Variprime has a longstanding good rep
if you'd rather an etching.  Price will be a wash on both, with the possible
benefit of DP40 being a good choice as a sealer for the rest of the bus as
well if you don't go to bare metal, but you'll probably use the full gallon on
the bottom anyway.  You will of course have to then sand off all the areas
to weld as needed.
 
As to who to use, call around, whoever is cheapest and
seems relatively trustable (has a plan for not leaving your bus sitting out on
a rainy day after they blast it.)  Doesn't really matter, in large cities
several places, even in small WV or AK towns where I live/lived usually one
place in a town of 25000 population.  Often powder coat shops are also blast
shops.  You could look for fancy places that do plastic media (well not fancy
anymore) or soda, but honestly on the bottom of a bus, regular ole sand or
Black Beauty is going to be fine, will just give more tooth for the primer. 
Tell them you don't want it beat to hell rough though because "you are finish
painting the bottom to be a show car."
 
Final word, again consider carefully
what you hope to achieve, and cost/value into all this.  It is a rare, rare
bus that I'd take to bare metal for any reason.  And you will be cleaning sand
out of the thing 4 years from now, even after countless vacuum/air blasting. 
It is a bit too late by the sound of it to do the obvious (stop and buy a $500
rustfree bus shell from the SW) but really, really think about what you hope
to achieve here before getting into this.  And if your frame, frame is rusted,
really, really be sure of your welding skills and what you hope to achieve. 
Obviously you aren't ever making your money back here, seldom is a resto of
anything worth under $50-100k now days that does, but if you aren't going to
end up with something solid, consider things carefully.

John

----- Original
Message -----
From: David Kelly volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com

I am getting ready to
start the bottom
half of the bus. It needs some of the rockers replaced, one
rear corner, batt
tray, etc. I am going to have the undercarriage sand
blasted  as there are
many holes in the frame. The floors are good. Has anyone
done this before? I a
looking for words of wisdom. Should I go ahead and cut
out the obviously
rotted metal before hand? After it is blasted, I planned on
spraying zinc
galvenizing spray inside of the frame sections that open up with
rust holes
before I weld in new metal. ANy thoughts? I am going to remove the
engine and
tranny before I send it out. What else should I protect before
sending it out?
I am trying to pick out a company to blast it. What should I
ask or look for
in a Sand Blaster person?
