Date: Sat, 15 Oct 2011 22:59:55 -0400
From: Mike Benthin <muts(-at-)verizon.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: How not to sell a VW van-a sour experience

The short version is we backed out of buying a really nice 2003 Eurovan 
weekender with poptop.  Maybe we were paranoid- what do you think?
     I saw it on that consumerguide/autos site for $15k and called the 
seller, a Barry, who he told me they'd lend me the plates so we could 
get it home 5 hrs away.  He said it was ebay listed also, and had 2 
offers but if we came that day they would stop the sale if we bought it. 
  It was listed, as $15k buy it now or best offer. We arrived with a 
cashier's check to a house on Oriole Ave in Springfield, Va that looked 
just being moved into, and saw a nice no dents, no leaks (I laid 
underneath) Eurovan that the only flaws were a broken cupholder and a 
quarter sized hole in the canvas rear- no rust visible below, exhaust in 
good shape but had california required catalytic.  Two "brothers" were 
there, one claiming it was given to him in California 2 years earlier by 
their grandfather as a wedding gift.  The carfax did jive that it was a 
California car whose second owner got it in 2009 and it was registerd 
then in Virginia. It had engine/trans overhaul 45K mi earlier, 165K on 
body. Could not test it beyond a 25 mph ride up the street and back 
because there were no plates and he said the insurance was stopped. 
They spoke Romanian to each other and asked to see the cashier's check 
and to prove we got it from our bank, listened to the bank's auto phone 
system we called to show the check was issued that morning.  I thought 
it worth the $15k and they produced a title I signed before noticing the 
title was a duplicate and the holder was neither of them, and it sounded 
fishier and fishier when they told a story that THAT MORNING (after I 
called we were coming to see it) they could not find the title and the 
duplicate title was issued, and the owner their grandfather had gone to 
Florida and was unavailable.  He also took the plates. This seemed 
suspicious to me. My wife asked to see their driver licenses (which 
neither had the address we were at, although the younger one showed mail 
in his name for this addie). He was only 19 and was married 2 years ago 
and travelled in the van (20k mi last 2 yrs?) with kids. His brother had 
a different last name.  I did not trust the title being not in the 
sellers name and there being no other documentation like insurance or 
registration (How did they drive it around as they claimed for last 2 
yrs?).  I said we'd only buy it if the DMV cleared the title in our 
presence, and they said the DMV was 6 blocks away and they'd take care 
of it next day.  My daughter looked it up and said it was 2.5 mi in 
Alexandria, where we went to a motel. They asked to be given back the DL 
info she had scribbled down.  We had to wait anyway to call our car 
insurance to legally  drive it and ask about a transit pass from the 
DMV. Sue worried they might have memorized the check # and could make a 
forgery of it, and worried until we called the bank Sat AM about it. I 
looked on the motel computer and noticed the van was also listed on 
GoWesty by his brother (different last name) and the ebay sale had ended 
with a $15k listed.  I called them and he said the grandfather had sent 
them a power of attorney and he would switch the van to his name. I said 
I would back out as it was sold already and he then claimed he had 
stopped the sale assuming I would buy it.  I asked if there was a 
registration so I could drive it and he said no. We had had enough and 
told them we were backing out as it could not be properly test drived 
and I thought it was sold.  We went on to DC to visit museums and he 
called me 5 min before the DMVs closed and said he had the title in his 
name if we still wanted it.  No registration (wanted to save the fee). 
Sorry, I said, they did not have their ducks in a row to sell it 
properly. This experience tells me to stick to someone you know or go to 
a dealer who can let you drive it on the highway and has a clear title.
