Date: Sun, 16 Oct 2011 11:04:13 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Sandbasting My Undercarriage

We have a sand blaster fellow in the next town over - town of maybe 8K 
people.

I have rented BIG sandblasters in the past. If the sand blaster service 
charges $800, consider that you might get a large CFM blaster rental for 
less than half that and do the work yourself. About fifteen years ago I 
rented a jack hammer compressor and commercial sandblaster for $150 or 
so for a day for a job at a sign shop where I worked.

Before you start cutting, make sure you don't cut out so much that the 
bus will sag during the process. Don't know how rusty your bus is. In 
the past we bought a 1935 Ford coupe that needed all of the lower 8 
inches of the car replaced. It was a mess that we had to support with 
bracing.

Look at the factory undercoating under the front fenders. I am slowly 
removing my front suspension and on the passenger side where the inner 
fender welds to the floor, the undercoating led to alot of surface rust. 
No perforations. Same problem with the seat belt mounts behind the front 
seats.

I'll use a 90 degree angle air grinder with 2" sander wheels to clean up 
the metal and BRUSH on some Rustoleum primer and top coat. I am moving 
away from rattle cans b/c they have to thin the paint down so much so 
the can's propellant can deliver the paint that the final result is too 
thin in my opinion. Either brush it or use a spray gun. I recently 
checked some places I repaired under my VW Cabrio - the undercoating 
there had bubbled and surface rust had set in. Ground the rust away and 
top coated with Rustoleum hammered paint (just what I had on hand). It's 
fine a couple of years later and it sits outside year 'round.

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L (almost)
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L (basketcase)
'97 VW Cabrio (getting new interior makeover)
'99 CR-V EX AWD (just keeps on going and going and going)
Brenderup 1205S

Mint Linux 10 KDE - if you are curious and need some guidance, give me a 
holler.
