Date: Mon, 17 Oct 2011 10:37:18 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Sandblasting bus bottom.

> Thanks for the link. I bought a light-duty welder, but I'm afraid to try it!
>
http://www.mig-welding.co.uk/mig.htm

Not sure that his Renault resto page has a link to his welding pages. 
Well there you go. ;)

Give that light-duty welder a try. I've had a light duty welder. It's 
fine for some projects.

The light duty welders don't have the duty cycle of a larger welder, 
might not have enough AMPS for a thick piece of material, and might not 
offer alot of adjustment to the temp but it's still worth while to learn 
with and you'll figure out what it excels at.

That said it takes very few AMPS to weld spot welds or to do short 
stitch welds around a patch panel. That UK webpage addresses how to 
accomplish that safely without warpage.

I will say - you ought to look into a gas bottle. You've got to use flux 
cored wire or gas+MIG wire. The flux takes the place of the CO2/Argon gas.

The flux core wire is a "big" diameter (.045") compared to the MIG wire 
and therefore requires more heat to start melting when you weld. It is 
very difficult - if not impossible - to get enough heat into the wire to 
melt it without causing the weld to blow out/burn through/melt out and 
leave a hole in your project. This is exactly the reason I could not 
weld/fab my Corvair implant's cooling parts with a little Italian wire 
welder I inherited. I just made holes everywhere or I warped everything. 
At the time I did not know much about welding yet . I was using flux 
core wire, and no gas. My little machine did however have the hookups 
for a gas bottle if I bought a regulator. Hookups = small brass barbed 
hose fitting. Add the hose from the regulator and a hose clamp.

Another side effect of the flux cored wire is the .045" wire requires 
more heat. More heat will reduce your duty cycle i.e. how long you can 
weld before the welder shuts off to cool down. It won't be a problem 
with small wire and gas. I bet it would be with big wire and thick 
materials. My Italian welder gave me less than a minute per weld on 
thick materials after I had been welding for a while. As the welder got 
hot, it stayed hot and the cycle time decreased a bit more. No internal 
fan. My Lincoln has a fan and I have never been able to overheat it. A 
friend in East TN that built kitcars did overheat his SP-180T several 
times but he was welding up a heavy steel tube frame and welding 
continuously.

Suggestion if you want to learn to weld sheet metal with your new 
welder: get a bottle of COs/Argon mix, a regulator for the gas, and some 
.023" diameter MIG wire. Your local welding supply store has it in stock.

Now you can make good welds with a minimum of heat. Weld away from the 
breeze or your gas will be whisked away. In windy conditions you need 
flux core wire again.

Now that said my flux core wire welder did a good job on heavier steels 
like my friend's lawn tractor mower deck and on my utility trailer when 
I built myself a steel ramp. I maxed out it's duty cycle many times 
though. I removed a cover and aimed a floor fan at the insides of the 
welder and that helped a little.

Make sure that the wire feed roller and the tip match the wire diameter 
you are using. Seems simple but I made that mistake way back when. And 
even the most basic welder uses normal tips that you can get locally 
from a welding store cheap. These do wear out over time. I was using the 
wire feeder wheel for the .023/.025" wire on .045" flux cored wire so 
the wire did not fit in the groove and the wire slipped. Alot. Match 
those supplies and the welder parts.

Lastly the smaller 120V MIG welders are fine for sheetmetal. 
Miller/Lincoln/Hobart/other brands - these smaller welders aren't going 
to be well suited for welding on thick materials like car hauling 
trailers or tractors but they'll do sheetmetal fine. I bought a 220V 
machine (entry level Lincoln SP-180T and for the shop at work a pair of 
SP-180C).

What do they do better than their 120V cousins? Longer welds on thicker 
materials without overheating. Not a problem with sheetmetal which 
requires low heat and short bursts of heat or you'll face burn throughs 
or warpage. I'll steer you towards a name brand welder just b/c they 
have a track record. Not to say that the little Asian welders from H-F 
or N-T are bad by default. They couldn't be or everyone would bring them 
back for a refund. You just need to get a gas bottle and .023/.025" wire.

I went to a trade show last year in Atlanta and there are a TON of Asian 
inverter TIG welders/plasma cutters/stick welders/MIG welders on the 
market now. We don't see them much b/c they don't advertise much in the 
mainstream media but they look good and undercut the big American brands 
by a fair amount. I won't say we need to turn our backs on the big 
domestic brands (and the jobs they create) but if you need a nice 
welder, there are more options than the big 4-5 domestic brands we've 
all heard of at premium prices. Do your research first and realize that 
in the welding forums sometimes there is that brand name dynamic with 
the veteran welders. They stick with what they know and trust.

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L
'97 VW Cabrio Highline
'99 CR-V EX AWD
Brenderup 1205S
