Date: Fri, 28 Oct 2011 12:13:46 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: '78 Westy draglink removed

Thought I'd share how we finally accomplished this for the archives. Big 
kudos to my friend David whose age and experience made the difference!

The procedure is easy and quick but in an effort to be detailed for 
first-timers and without the aid of pictures - it'll be wordy.

The problem: trying to remove front suspension b/c while the joints are 
good, the rubber grease boots are rotted on tie rods and balljoints alike.

Heat would help but it would reduce the grease to something besides 
grease and the draglink doesn't have grease fittings to get the grease 
back in.

In order to get the suspension out, you have to remove cables and 
shocks, brake lines, heater tube, etc. See Bentley for a better list.

The drag link has to be disconnected at the steering box minimum - you 
can deal with the other end once the front beam is on the ground.

I tried a tie rod end puller from the FLAPS and it flexed until it 
couldn't grasp the tierod end. I sectioned the tool, bent the arms 
closer to together and re-welded it so it would have a better grasp. No 
dice. It IS useful for putting tension on the joint while you go caveman 
on the tierod end. See below.

Went back to the FLAPS for a balljoint tool - this thing looks like a 
big clothes line clip. The threaded bolt that spreads the tool bent 
after i really wrenched on it.. Use an impact gun if you've got it, less 
chance of the tool is going to try to rotate and bend itself into to a 
pretzel. It's not a bad tool but the tie rod end was stubborn. Also that 
threaded bolt was only a Grade 5.

Again good for putting tension of the joint while you go caveman on the 
tie rod end.

I have a pickle fork that would likely work but I didn't relish the idea 
of beating on the steering box. What do the replacement steering boxes 
cost now? $300?

A friend came over to help and what we figured out was we could lay a 
big hammer and wood splitting wedge (just convenient & HEAVY items on 
hand and heavy is important ) against the frame rail behind the steering 
box pitman arm. Then turn the steering so the arm is resting against the 
hammer/wedge or whatever heavy steel you have on hand. Keep a helper 
twisting on the steering wheel gently to making contact.

We used a prybar to encourage the drag link to move towards the 
passenger side of the bus. We left the castle nut on to catch the drag 
link when it did come loose.

The hammer/wedge combo is at 3 o'clock looking at the front of the 
pitman arm. My friend whacked it on the side at 9 o'clock twice. Pop! It 
was loose.

Hopefully I'll drop the front beam tonight. It'll be the same routine 
for all the tierod ends and the balljoints though I'll use the separator 
tools to put tension on the tierods and balljoints. Maybe the picklefork 
too since I'm not worried about the grease boots.

Keep the dirt out of the joints too so clean everything up first.

Hope this helps someone.

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L
'97 VW Cabrio
'99 CR-V EX AWD
Brenderup 1205S
