Date: Sat, 4 May 2002 16:43:30 -0400 (EDT)
From: "A. Katie Harris" <hisakh(-at-)panther.Gsu.EDU>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Red Light On! (Alt./Bat.)

THE STORY:  A couple of days ago, I was driving my 74 bus and my
Alternator/Battery light came on about a quarter of a mile from home; so I
continued home.  Upon popping the hatch, I saw that the battery was laying
on its side, seeping acid onto the engine side of the lip separating the
battery tray from the engine surround.  I dont think any acid got into the
alternator.  Anyway, after cleaning up the mess, and righting the battery,
the light remained on; so although I was still able to start and run the
bus, I swapped an other battery from my wifes car into the bus.  Light
still on.  So I swapped regulators with my other bus.  Light still on.  So
now Im thinking it is the alternator; so I put my Fluke across the battery
terminals and rev it up. 12 volts.  That confirms it, yes?  Since I have a
spare alternator that Im pretty sure is good, I swap it in.  Once it is
installed, but before Ive put all the tin etc. back, I start it up and am
pleased to see that the light is finally off.  Later, having finished with
the tin and etc., I start it again, and am suprised to see that the light
is on again.  And again, revved up to where I should be getting 14 volts,
more or less, the VOM shows 12 volts.  Since at this point Im not sure
whats going on, I try a test from the tech library, cutting the regulator
out of the picture by jumping the green wire to the battery positive
terminal.  (BTW, when I jumped the green to pos., I got a little sparking,
which struck me as odd.)  With my lovely wife in the drivers seat, I again
get a measley 12 volts.  But whats more, at the end of this 15 second
test, after my wife has cut the ignition, I get a little smoke coming out
of the alternator, and my wife calling back, Eric, do you smell something
burning? Thats the story up to this point.  I am currently just scratching
my head, loathe to go to tpense of insg another alternator until I know
what has transpired here, lest I smoke another, see?

THE HYPOTHESIS: I figure that the battery tipping over is the cause of the
problem, and not just a coincidental happenstance; but I dont know how or
why.  At this point, Im hoping that somebody smarter than me can tell me
what happened and what to do next.

SIDE ISSUE (I think): After getting it out, wiping the grime off
alternator #1 reveals it to be a an AL108x, which my RMMW catalog shows is
the 70 amp model.  I note also that RMMW sells a different regulator for
this model than for the 55 amp model.  Im guessing that the regulator I
was using was likely the 55 amp one, which was apparently not a problem.
Whats the deal with interchangeability of these things?  This is not
entirely a matter of mere curiosity, as two of my three remaing spare
alternators are 50 amp models originally (I think) from a certain VW Type
IV engined poor mans German sports car.  (The third is a mystery
alternator.) 

Eric Forsman
Cabbagetown
Atlanta, GA

PS I'm on digest mode, so please cc reply to me direct,
hisakh(-at-)panther.gsu.edu

