Date: Fri, 3 Sep 2004 14:06:45 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Blake Coglianese <blake(-at-)focusednrg.com>,  "Dave C. Bolen"
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Bringing the Bus home.

Blake, 

Okay you've got a JC Whitney special (all the chrome) and an electric fan cooling an external oil cooler (which might be okay - it can be controlled by an automatic thermostat).  

What the PO didn't know was that he was going to create an overheat problem with all that crummy tin so now he was trying to cool the oil to make up for it. He was throwing money and chasing the glossy catalog ads - not engineering an engine... 

I would remove the engine and strip it down to the long block. Gather all the right OEM (factory!) tin and following the pictures in the Bentley book, reattach everything making sure nothing is missing. Also clean and paint eveything ($20 extra cost but worth it). Do all the maintenance to everything you come across b/c it is likely that the PO did nothing - it often happens this way. You can keep driving it as is and you will ruin nothing but the engine. 

In 1994 I bought a 1965 Beetle originally sold in TN (I'm from TN) while I was living in Italy! It had a cheap rebuilt catalog motor and ALL the chrome JC Whitney (and the other catalogs) could throw at it. I bought it b/c the PO (nice lady) had spent all this money on it and it wouldn't run very good. It would overheat on winter mornings! I would see it sitting in the parking lot steaming in the cool humid Naples mornings, steam rising out of the vents below the rear window. She asked me to work on it and I did, tuning and replacing a few parts (screws and gaskets) but it still wasn't right. Then she sold it to me. I had the same problems but kept it adjusted and polished. My previous Beetle had run like a clock never overheating in the hot Italian summers and I travelled in it from Venice to Sicily several times. 

Only later once the #3 rod began hammering (and I drove it anyhow knowing there would be nothing to fix!) did I realize that the chome tin shroud had to vanes, that the reason that the other tin didn't fit was because it was junk. I thought somebody had just bent it on installation - or something. I was young...

The carb though only 2 years old was worse than the 25 year old carb I had on my other car. I stopped buying any JC Whipme parts after that. Something rubs me the wrong way when a company will sell junk like that and advertise it as better than stock. Many companies do that. The sale is more important than selling quality. 

This was pre-Internet, living in a foreign land where my tech sources in English were few, and my only contact was the VW mags (often pushing junk) and MUCH later Gene Berg's tech books and some of the other GOOD rebuild books like Fisher - best money I ever spent before the Internet. 

Still got the Beetle. It's a basketcase these days though. Not rusty, just in a bunch of baskets... Next year I'll fix it I said last year... 

Chris
'78 Westy 2.7L - "Dharma"
'65 Beetle 2.0
'97 Cabrio - "Gabby"
'99 CR-V AWD EX
