Date: Fri, 3 Sep 2004 15:03:34 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Blake Coglianese <blake(-at-)focusednrg.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Bringing the Bus home.

P.O. = previous owner, generally believed to be bad - failing to maintain YOUR vehicle, and often making very poor "improvements!" that you have to correct. 

IMHO the motor may be a hunk of junk (because GEX built it, look up the Better Business Bureau) but I would straighten out the cooling issues and keep the maintenance up to date and see what happens. At worst the engine blows in 6 months, at best maybe you've got a good GEX engine - they had to screw up sooner or later and make a good one - and it lasts you a decade. 

Straighten it out, learn to work on it, treat it nice, and keep it happy. Keep your eyes open for a good donor engine. Buy it and rebuild it before the GEX blows. When this one goes POP strip it down and recycle only what bolts to the outside. The inside items may be a mismatched mess - the two rebuild kits I bought from them were - but check all the same. I would not rebuild a GEX engine unless everything was checked for high mileage or abuse or mismatched parts. Buy a Bentley Manual and the "How to Rebuild VW Engines" byt eh Fisher guy (I think that is his name). John Muir has a good book for newbies but leave the procedures to Bentley or Fisher. Muir does a good job of putting things in layman's terms. He teaches a good carb adjustment, and brake adjustment, and so on. double check every procedure though. 

It is a strong engine now but they are not known for their durability. Beware of anything not factory - i.e. JC Whitney parts. The oil cooler will fit under the bus beside the tranny or better yet near in front of the tranny between the frame rails but the further away the cooler, the more oil pressure drop. Pep Boys and Advance Auto carry the adjustable automatic thermostat. $35 maybe? If the engine is RIGHT (100% OEM) you won't need that external cooler. Is the OEM cooler still there? I doubt it. 

You might even consider having somebody (or buy a mechanical guage from the local co-op and a piece of hose) test your oil pressure hot and cold, idle and at speed. The electric dash instruments are hit or miss depending on who you talk to. I use mine not for actual numbers, but to track trends. 

Oil pressure, oil temp, cylinder head temps. 

Chris
'78 Westy 2.7L - "Dharma"
Team Slowpoke

-----Original Message-----
From: Blake Coglianese <blake(-at-)focusednrg.com>
Sent: Sep 3, 2004 2:19 PM
To: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Bringing the Bus home.


What's a PO?

Are you saying the engine is crummy...or just all the extraneous crap 
on it. Steve from Volks Tech said it was a strong engine as long as I 
got the cooling fixed. It was put in in 1999, and didn't see much 
driving...its a GEX engine.

> What the PO didn't know was that he was going to create an overheat 
> problem with all that crummy tin so now he was trying to cool the oil 
> to make up for it. He was throwing money and chasing the glossy 
> catalog ads - not engineering an engine...
