Date: Fri, 3 Sep 2004 18:11:46 -0500 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Jerome Jamboree Tech session?

OK, those of you not gone to BNNTA.

Who's going to Jerome?

Who's going from east of the Rockies?

What route are you taking? I'm in far soutEAST Texas.

Anyone going to Jerome from anywhere interested in a couple hour "first
start" tech session on a Raby engine?

I've resigned myself to the fact that I'm going in the Chevy this year. The
weather is getting odd here now (rain, sun, clouds but no rain, rain with
no visible clouds -- no telling when it's safe to start working on the
Rivi). 

I'm trying to decide if I want to tow the Rivi with me on the off chance
there will be a few people interested in helping me finish up the last bits
to get it running. It would be nice to have other VW folk around for that.

I'm going to place a "little parts" order with Ronnie (www.type2parts.com)
and need to decide whether to have him ship the stuff here or carry it to
Jerome. 

I will be leaving by TUESDAY at the latest. I'm going to go take care of a
customer's computer on Monday so I can get gone. The truck gets pretty good
mileage towing if I stay at 55. I already have the CV axles off so that
makes life easier.

It was raining when I headed in to work this morning so I didn't even pull
the bus up here. Plan to run home at midnight and get it so I can clean it
out. With just me coming I can pack tools instead of camping gear in the
bus.

Items remaining to get it started.

1. fuel line from tank to pump to carbs
2. fill tranny with oil
3. drain storage oil from engine and refill
4. hook up clutch and accel cables
5. install a couple of tin pieces and engine comp. seal.
6. hook up the electricals
7. test/replace brake parts as needed
8. install oil temp and pressure guages (CHT has to wait one more payday)
9. install axles if we actually want it driveable <grin>

10+. there's probably something I've forgotten

If I do this the Rivi will have close to 6000 miles under Chevy power
before it's ever registered and driven with it's own engine <grin>.

Gerald
