Date: Mon, 10 Dec 2007 22:31:55 -0800
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Jamie <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] importing a 64 bus into Canada from the USA

On Monday, December 10, 2007, at 02:19PM, "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net> wrote:

>Ok,, I know about riv.ca ... I am reading it again ,,  but I have a question

Keep in mind that RIV only applies to vehicles that are 15 years old or younger (1991 as of 2007).

>This vehicle I am looking at does NOT have a title... seller say bill of
>sale is all that is required in his state prior to the '70's
>
>Can i bring a 43 year old volkswagen across the border without a title..
>something tells me I'll be in trouble..

Importation procedures seem to vary by agent so whatever advice you get may not help you at your particular crossing at the time of day you will cross.

CBSA regularly performs these actions wrt vehicle importation:

1) take your RIV payment if necessary. Some agents are "difficult" and will ask you to send payment directly to RIV.

2) fill in Transport Canada "Form 1". You need this document to register and title your new vehicle in your province.

To perform the above actions they could inspect your vehicle but they prefer not to and need to see any document with the VIN they can use to fill in Form 1. If it's your own vehicle, registration papers suffice. If it's not, then the title is usually the next best proof of VIN.

Some of the more lazy agents will even ask you to fill in Form 1 yourself meaning you provide the VIN etc and they just stamp it but don't count on it.

Form 1 does has a box for the title status (3 checkboxes - clear, salvage, rebuilt) but lack of title doesn't mean they won't fill it in as clear.

You need to find out if you will need the title in order to re-title the vehicle where you live.

3) provide you with a Casual Goods Declaration Form after you pay 6% duty on non-USA/Canada/Mexico made vehicles and 6% GST (going down to 5% this Jan!). In order to do this they need to see the bill of sale. This document will be used by your province to charge you any PST at time of registration.

If you have only a bill of sale I would imagine they could inspect the vehicle for VIN but they don't have any training to find the numbers or identify the make/model on these old vehicles so have the seller write this info on the bill of sale so it will be easy to copy this info to Form 1:

VIN
Manufacturer
Make
Model
Year
Sale value

CBSA will convert any $USD sale price to $CDN using their own daily exchange rate.

Most CBSA agents are easy going but the few that aren't can ruin your day.

PS. US CBP wants to know about all vehicles that are exported from USA. For this they want to see the title document and bill of sale. In light of this plenty of people ignore this regulation and import vehicles directly into Canada because they can.

-- 
Richard, 
'78 Westfalia CDN 
'76 Doublecab 
http://www.ratwell.com/ 
