From: Irvin Probst <irvin(-at-)probst.fr>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 19 Dec 2007 21:42:53 +0100
Subject: Seeking for 34 pict 3 mods

Hi people,
I am the happy owner of a green 72 bay window [1], driving it everyday  
in France in a small city called Brest.  I'm trying to tune the motor  
in order to get the power I sometines need to escape from traffic jams  
and stop pushing it to high rpms on the steady slope roads all across  
the city.
I've already made a few changes to the motor: new exhaut pipe (4 in 1  
+ Quiet One), 1.4:1 rocker arms and CB perf hi-flow pipe
Now it's time to change the carb, I don't wish to switch to dual  
carburetors for practical reasons (I have a gas heater filling all the  
space available on the left side of the motor). Furthermore for legal  
reasons I want to keep the motor original look so I have no choice but  
to modify the 34 pict 3 carb to get more power from it. I started to  
read everything I can find about it on french forums, then on  
thesamba.com. I've already found several possible mods, most of them  
aimed at improving the flow through the carb:

- bore the venturi to 30mm
- increase the accelerator pump speed
- remove the choke plate (and the choke itself by the way)
- polish the throttle plate
- change main jet to <insert here any jet size from 135 to 160> and  
trhottle jet to <same thing>

I found references to people making more radical mods: completely  
remove the venturi and/or bore the carburetor body to 36 (or 38) mm  
around the throttle plate (and of course replace the throttle  
plate :) ) .I already asked on thesamba.com but this far it seems  
nobody there ever tried this. Have you ever heard of these mods ? I  
know there are somewhere on Internet some english articles detailing  
at least how to get the carb working without the venturi but I can't  
find them. For the 36mm carb body I know it has been done by a few  
people but I can only find indirect references to this mod and almost  
no details at all :(
So can you help me for the two mods abose ? And I would like to ask  
all the people on this list if they know any other easy or deep 34  
pict 3 mods. I've time to waste next week and I really want to get the  
best I can from this carb so if you have any advice tell me and I'l  
try it.

Thanks a lot.

[1] http://www.irvinig.org/combi/

Irvin Probst
