From: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: "Keith Martin" <thewestyisthebesty(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 17 Feb 2006 12:25:45 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] electrical problem - HELP!

----- Original Message ----- 
From: "Keith Martin" <thewestyisthebesty(-at-)yahoo.com>
>  I'm having some sort of electrical problem with my '71 Westy. The  engine 
> runs fine off of the generator, however, the battery is not  charging at 
> all and nothing else electrical works (radio, headlights,  etc.... all 
> dead).

1st off,, you need to do a visual inspection.
I am going to guess your battery positive cable is broken at the starter,, 
or the neg strap is no good.

When ALL items are effected,, including the starter,, which you never 
mentioned,, then the common wires are the main POS cable, or the NEG .
OR the battery has a defect.

You need a voltmeter instead of common sense..  put the meter on the 
battery,, report back with the voltage.
If it is less than 12v,, charge it while you check some other stuff.

Remove the wiring at the starter,, clean all connections and replace them 
making sure they are tight... if  you overtighten them and they break,, back 
them off a quarter turn.  :-)

Now,, if you have any voltage at the battery,, and good connections at the 
starter,, you can measure voltage at the dash fusepanel.
Once you have voltage at the fuse panel,, it may restore operation to radio, 
headlights,  etc.... the were all dead

Also,, that may correct your engine related electrical problems,, if not.. 
the archives may.. http://www.type2.com/~type2reflect/msg107574.html

First,, check that your battery is fully charged... 12.3 -12.5 volts....
Connect voltmeter to battery terminals... disconnect coil power,, turn 
engine over while watching voltage,, it should not go below 11 volts after 
running starter for 30 seconds if it does,, the battery is weak, recharge 
and test again,, or replace

Quick check,. Alternator [or generator] charging. First, connect a voltmeter 
to the battery and note the voltage. A battery in a good state of charge 
should read about 12.5v Then start the engine, the voltmeter should now read 
close to between 13.5 to 14.5 volts
If not,, shut off engine...

Check drive belt tension

Inspect wiring, make sure all connections are clean and tight. from the alt 
or gen to the battery including the positive and the ground strap. Look at 
the brush length and condition in the generator.

Test Generator on T1 [67-72] T2 [67-71] and T3 only,,,
disconnect the D+ and DF leads on the generator... Connect the DF terminal 
of the gen to a ground using a jumper wire. Connect the voltmeter pos lead 
to the D+ terminal of the gen. connect the neg lead of the voltmeter to a 
good ground. Start the engine. At 800 rpm, the voltmeter should read 12v... 
at 1600rpm, the generator should read 36 volts.... caution == do not 
continue this test longer than 15 seconds. shut off engine

Test voltage regulator on T1 [67-72] T2 [67-71] and T3 only,,,
Disconnect the wire from B+ reg terminal,, tape and secure that wire away 
from contact with anything. Connect pos voltmeter lead to B+ reg terminal 
and the neg term to ground. Run engine at fast idle 2000 rpm note the 
voltmeter reading.. it should be between 13.5 and 14.5 Reduce the idle to 
600 rpm and raise speed slowly. noting voltmeter reading.. as engine reaches 
700- 750 rpm the voltage should rise to between 12.4 and 13.1v shut engine 
off and watch the voltmeter,, is should read zero . If regulator meets all 
above, it is ok,, if not , replace it.


Road side test,,
connect voltmeter to battery,, start engine and let idle,, connect jumper 
wire from battery pos terminal to regulator green wire marked DF , this will 
full field the alternator and should draw enough HP to try to stall 
engine... you will hear the rpm decrease and the voltage should rise ... do 
not continue this test for more than 15 seconds. That tells you the 
alternator is working and the regulator is defective.


Hope that helps
Jamie Rivers
