Date: Sat, 18 Feb 2006 00:05:38 -0500 (EST)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Keith Martin <thewestyisthebesty(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] electrical problem - HELP!

On Thu, 16 Feb 2006, Keith Martin wrote:

> So I've been lurking on this list for a while..... but I think this is the first time I've ever posted.
>   I'm having some sort of electrical problem with my '71 Westy. The  engine runs fine off of the generator, however, the battery is not  charging at all and nothing else electrical works (radio, headlights,  etc.... all dead).
>   My common sense would tell me that it is probably the voltage regulator  but I would like to get a second opinion and see if anyone else has ran  into this problem.
>   I have a spare regulator that I found under the seat shortly after I  bought the bus. Is there a way to test this regulator to see if it's  any good before I try to put it in?
>   Also.... If I need to buy a new regulator... would be worth my time and  money to just convert to an alternator with an internal regulator?  (motorworks has the kit for around $150)

Any parts found under the seat are suspect.  Does it look clean, or does
it look like it has been in engine bay for a few years?

An alternator swap will work, but don't go with the "kit"  These come with
cheap chinese alternator stands that seem to be breakage prone.

What you need to convert is:

If you currently have a 30A bug generator:

Alternator
Used German alternator stand
Alternator-style fuel pump
Short fuel pump pushrod.

The original 30A generator tin (dished slightly outward) will work fine.

If you currently have a 38A bus generator (your bus came with one, but
over the years a lot got changed to the cheaper bug generator) you will
also need:

Bug 30A generator or alternator tin (dished slightly outward).
30A or alternator style fan hub and nut.

Hookup is easy.  Make an adapter to connect the small ring connector to a
push conn. at the alternator.  make an adapter to connect the blue to the
green wire, bypassing the regulator.  Make another adapter to connect the
two large wires together, bypassing the regulator.  The bypass adapters
are simply flat strips of copper and an insulating cover of tubing.
