From: "J Barry Burneskis" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: harmony(-at-)buszen.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sat, 18 Feb 2006 14:28:46 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] Transmissions

----Original Message Follows----
From: John Baker <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>
Reply-To: harmony(-at-)buszen.com
To: J Barry Burneskis <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Transmissions
Date: Fri, 17 Feb 2006 10:50:46 -0800 (PST)

--- J Barry Burneskis <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com> wrote:

 > Can a '68 VW bus transmission be used in a '67
 > split??<<

Not without MAJOR mods to the rear end...

* * * * * *
Thanks, John.

i was just looking at a '68 Westy in the yards on Thursday (beautiful day in 
Virginia, so I played hooky from school) and the engine was removed.  The 
transmission looked so inviting...  I was thinking about Steve Dolan's '67 
and what he might need as spare stuff.

I saw the recent post on the front axle from a '68 fitting on a split.  I 
have neither; I am late bay.  I tried to contact Steve Dolan to see if he 
wanted to pull the front axle etc.  He's not at home...

There is not much '68 only good parts .  I think NONE.  The brake fluid 
reservoir was broken at the bottom; the wiper blades are there, but I 
thought they were like M Benz blades, with a flap over the nut. (They could 
be original). The VIN was gone (darn),.

Surprising, the canvas top was like NEW!!  It was a replacement canvas.  But 
when I looked closer, it was rotten at the front / bottom edge.  It was 
probably put away wet and it just plain rotted.  OR more probably it had 
gotten wet by driving in the rain and not letting it dry out.

So my hint to the '68 - '73 crowd is to check your canvas if you don't have 
a good seal up front.  It was a shame to see the neglect.

The front screen in the canvas was also bad.  I thought that would be good, 
but it was dry and broken.  Darn, the zippers probably were good.  Oh 
well....

I pulled the ice tray and ice tray drip plate from the '68, and the triangle 
that supports the flop open sink cover, and the cover plate that goes over 
the spare tire well in the left rear (I only saw 2 '68's in 8 years and both 
had this cover plate.  The other one had/has a heater in the back, so the 
wheel well had to be cut to make room.  So that's why the spare tire wheel 
well cover.)  and the spare tire yellow vinyl cover and the bracket that 
held the '68's spare tire to the wall.

I got a loose tachometer.  It looks old, and  it says 'antique' 
reproduction.  I will use that

At another yard I pulled -4- Eurovan 15" 112mm steel wheels AND THE COVERS!! 
  A keeper.  There is another Eurovan there, but it only had 2 rear wheels.. 
  The front of one of hte Eurovans was lovingly removed and put inside the 
Eurovan by someone who was working on getting the head and then decided to 
also get the pistons...  What a job that was!!

FWIW. I pulled the rear seat Eurovan seat belts (3)  They are the kind that 
have about a foot long strap hanging from the ceiling, and will probably 
work well with a bay station wagon, or any campers with full rear seats.  
Tehre si still the second set, but no more receivers

Hey!!  Those Eurovans have fully reclining front seats!!!  Although the 
seats are not a straight fit for our late bays & Vanagons, the whole dang 
seat and pedestal can be removed from the floor, and probably fit somehow 
into the bays.


I am trashing some Bug parts.  Two oval front clear/yellow lights and two 
front small bullet lens.  They are not worth anything.  I don't know why the 
PO saved them.

Barry sends -
