Date: Sat, 18 Feb 2006 18:30:43 -0500
From: Eddie Goodwin <eddie(-at-)shitzthecat.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: fuel injection trouble after engine swap

Hello List,

I installed a 2.0L into my 74 Westy and I'm having  trouble getting it 
going. This motor came from a donor bus that I bought. It was running 
and driving before i pulled the engine and scrapped the body.

The problem is that it fires up and then almost immediately dies. You 
can actually hear about it fire about 4 or 5 times. Then about every 10 
attempts it runs for about 15 seconds  (nicely) and then dies. But when 
that happens it won't fire for about another 5 attempts....just keeps 
cranking.

Heres some background info:

When i bought this engine (in its donor) the Air Flow meter was blown 
up. The bottom cover on the AFM was blown off, probably from a backfire. 
It worked by using some vice grips to clamp it together. Otherwise it 
exhibited a similar symptom to what I am experiencing (as one would 
expect). During the swap I straightened that bottom piece and riveted it 
back to the AFM, using sealant to prevent vacuum leaks (where there were 
with the vice grip method, and it still ran).

Tonight, I pulled out the AFM and did all the tests i know how to do. I 
adjusted the AFM so that there is continuity between terminals 36 and 39 
just as the flap opens....got it almost perfect.
Resistance between terminals 6 and 9 was 300ohms and between 7 and 8 was 
210 ohms. Resistance between terminal 27 and 6 (the temp sensor 1) was 
3500 ohms (it was about 25F out) Bentley says  2500 at 68 degrees F. I 
sealed the cover up and reinstalled the unit. No change. It appears 
that  the AFM isn't the problem.

The temp sensor II and fuel pressure regulator are new BOSCH units  (i 
had they laying around). I tested the fuel pump just by applying 12V to 
it and it whirred normally. It is almost new.

By the way this is a '76 fuel injection setup with the 7 pin AFM. Engine 
is a GD code 2.0 rebuilt by Boston Bob. Has about 40,000 miles on it.

I've gone over the wiring 3 times now. everything seems to be hooked up 
OK.  Checked all the vacuum connections. All of the seals and vacuum 
lines are new and I've triple checked them as well.

Any ideas what to check next? I'm thinking in the morning i'll hook up a 
pressure gague to the fuel rail.... i'm highly skeptical thats the 
problem though.....


The irony is i replaced the motor to get away from the hassle of carbs. :)

I would greatly appreciate any thoughts or ideas.

thanks
Eddie
bus pics at: www.gacker.com
