Date: Sun, 19 Feb 2006 19:59:16 -0500
From: Eddie Goodwin <eddie(-at-)shitzthecat.com>
To: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] fuel injection trouble after engine swap..solved, now

OK... I i've solved the no start problem.... but its lead to another set 
of problems. The problem was that the engine backfired and blew off my 
cork on the brake booster line.  I didn't see it because it was dark 
outside last night and must have popped off after i checked and fixed 
the AFM.

Now the engine starts and runs... but starts backfiring at idle. I tried 
setting the idle today... but it keeps wanting to die after running for 
2 or 3 minutes...

when it first fires up, the idle goes real high (about 2000rpms) for a 
few seconds and then goes down to normal... about 900rpm.... after about 
30 seconds i can start to hear some
backfiring .... about every 10 seconds or so..... pretty loud. then 
after about 2 minutes the idle slows down and there is a lot more 
backfiring.... then it quickly slows to nothing and sputters out. the 
idle is never really consistent.

it was about 10 degrees all day... so i worked in 15 minute spurts.... 
plus had to fix my dad's GMC Jimmy which didn't start on him this 
morning. I know those vortec engines pretty good. I think I nailed down 
his starting problem that has been haunting him for a few months now and 
cost him over $1500.... gotta love those mechanics.... the problem was a 
$6 temperature switch....

anywho.... Since I have tomorrow off heres my plan:
1.) adjust valves
2.) replace points and adjust
3.) set timing
4.) check for vacuum leaks with some starting fluid.

anything else i should be looking into?

I'm really hoping this isn't an exhaust leak at the heater boxes/head... 
that would suck.... i'm going to exhaust all other possibilities before 
i pull them off. How closely do these symptoms fit that diagnosis? I 
tried to go to good enough lengths to prevent it.... but i've never been 
able to completely avoid that problem on type 4 engines... i seriously 
wonder if the later '75-'78 manifolds would decrease the possibility of 
exhaust manifold leaks..... any opinions on that? I'd really be willing 
to pay someone to put a non-leaky exhaust on my engine.


--Eddie




>
>
> Still not running?
> Rig up a remote start switch accessible from the engine compartment.  
> Check for spark at the end of the plug wires.. Then pull the  
> injectors to ensure that they are firing. If you're getting gas
>
>> Hello List,
>>
>> I installed a 2.0L into my 74 Westy and I'm having  trouble getting  
>> it going. This motor came from a donor bus that I bought. It was  
>> running and driving before i pulled the engine and scrapped the body.
