Date: Mon, 30 Jan 2006 09:43:12 -0800 (PST)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Todd Olson <todd.olson(-at-)charter.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com,
Subject: Re: [T2] Need Help  - Do you have a favorite Bus Recipe or

one of our quickest easiest breakfast meals is something we got from some friends also bus drivers .,,,,,,,,,
   
  veggie sausage patties...... toasted buns...... and anything you can throw on that to make it a real breakfast sandwich....(onions,tomatoes,cheese,LETTUCE salt pepper.... jalapenos.... mushroooms etc....
   
  takes about 5 minutes to prepare and all with one frying pan two at the most for the buns LOL,.... and tad of olive oil and some propane.....
  yummmy.....
   
  peace
  chai
   
  

Todd Olson <todd.olson(-at-)charter.net> wrote:
  A note from my wife, Jen Olson:



Hello. I am starting a new fund raising project and would like your help.
I would like to make a "Bus" cookbook filled with recipes to prepare while
camping in a bus. I would love to include recipes from as many people as
possible and would love to hear your recipes. 



This cookbook is going to be sold to raise money for burn survivors through
Buses By the Beach.com. Some recipe categories I would like to include are
Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner, Snacks, Campfire, and Kids Favorites. I would
eventually like to take a picture of each recipe and have it on the page
with the recipe. I also want cool pictures of buses on the page and
bus/camping names for the recipe. Like, "Westy Waffles" or "Bus Burgers."
Your name and location will be listed with your recipe. Please submit as
many as possible so all bus campers can enjoy your cooking ideas! They can
be recipes you make at home that travel well in the cooler, or they can be
recipes you make using your grill, propane cooktop, or electric griddle or
skillet. They can be as simple as mac and cheese with hot dogs or something
a little more gourmet. As you know. anything goes in a bus!



Some recipes that come to mind are. Angela Strohschein's pies, Mary
Wisnewski's beer bread, Kristin Diffata's homemade salsa, Sara Dew's black
bean mango salsa and smores with peanutbutter, Kim Hengert's red pepper
hummus, Nancy Owsianowski's chocolate chip cookies, Michelle Plichta's award
winning chili, Richard and Hope Sanchez's breakfast burritos, Kirt Weakman &
Dave Strohschien's late night Queezy-dillas, Katie Hirt's jambalya, . Also
at some of the potlucks there were salads and dishes I did not know who made
them, but they were great!



Please submit recipes and meal ideas to 
jen.olson(-at-)charter.net



Thank you for your help in creating an awesome cookbook for all to enjoy!

Jennifer Olson

Buses By the Beach.com

Bus BRR! February 11th - 12th 2006 Angola, IN

Bus Benefit! May 19th - 21st 2006 Grand Rapids, MI 

Bus Bluegrass! June 1st - 4th 2006 Niles, MI

Bus Boo! September 15th - 17th Grand Rapids, MI 

For more information go to
icrosoft\Signatures\www.busesbythebeach.com> www.busesbythebeach.com

   


[url=http://com5.runboard.com/bdreamlocks]NattyRainBows[/url]






























		
---------------------------------
Bring words and photos together (easily) with
 PhotoMail  - it's free and works with Yahoo! Mail.
