Date: Mon, 30 Jan 2006 18:34:45 -0800 (PST)
From: jon <jon(-at-)kenneke.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Dead Van in SF Update (Final!!!) ;-) trip report  

(Warning, this is long, and is about a Vanagon, not a T2. But, we do own
a T2 as well.)

After 1 1/2 months, our van is repaired, and back at home. Today's date is
Jan 29.

To quickly recap (most of this has been posted before):

In mid-December 2005, I was down in San Fran on business, and for a
quick family vacation. I drove down in our 1983 Diesel Vanagon, with an
Overland 1.9NA. Drive down went well. Engine has about 20K miles. Family
flew into SFO, and the plan was for all of us to drive home via Hwy 1/101.
Home is in Oregon.

On the way home, just 20 or so miles north of the Golden Gate, I/we heard
a strange "squeeeeeeeeeeek!" (not like a water pump or alternator belt),
and the oil pressure light came on.

We coasted to the bottom of a hill, and stopped. To my surprise, the engine
was still running. Of course, I immediately shut it off. It ran a minute
or so with the oil pressure light on as we were coasting.

Fortunately, I had a fairly good set of tools along, so after a bit of
pulling things apart, I found the intermediate shaft was not turning. I
also found all sorts of metal shavings on the OUTSIDE of the engine. I
surmised that somehow a bolt, or something metal, fell into the
intermediate pulley, and jammed it.

I did not have the tools to do this repair, so I whipped out the cell
phone to call AAA. Well, no cell coverage. Luckily, a neat country
inn/brew bub was right across the street. (Pelican Pub, if anyone is
ever at Muir Beach) Jean and the kids ran over and  called. After some
funny business (like AAA not being able to find the place), a tow truck
showed up. They driver knew enough about Vanagons to
ask me to be double sure it was not a Syncro, and he could tow it with the
front wheels on the ground.

Funny thing was the van broken down in front of a huge bank of mail boxed.
Of the 20 or so people that stopped to check their mail, only one person
asked us what was going on. Even a person in a vanagon stopped without
saying anything.

Van was towed back to SF, and parked in a place it could stay for a day or
two. I took the Muni bus from there to a Hertz rental place downtown
(only one open in the area on Sundays), and rented a car.

I then went to pick up the family (who enjoyed Muir Beach while waiting).
We stayed in SF another night at Hotel Del Sol (recommended) while I could
ask the list for a repair shop recommendation.

The winner was Tassi, in South San Fran (Actually, Colma, CA). So, I had
it towed there on the next business day, and drove home in a rental car.
Keep in mind this was on Dec. 13, 2005.

Over the next week, I called and emailed Tassi numerous times. The
response then was "we think you need a new engine". My response was "no, I
checked the timing...it simply is a jammed intermediate pulley".

This went on with excuses as to why they could not look at it. Many of
these reasons, I believe, were valid. There were vacations, sickness, and
the lack of folks that know how to work on VW Diesels.

Fast forward to the second week of January. I finally got a "promise" from
Tassi, Inc. that it would be done on Jan 18 or 19. At this time, I didn't
really thing it would be done then. And, it wasn't. At this time, they
finally did believe (well, verify) me that something was jammed in the
 Pulley, and it, as well as the timing belt needed to be replaced. Also,
the cover was rubbing against the belt (and, this was the fault of another
shop that installed the engine several years ago, a different story).

The staff at Tassi has always been courteous and nice. But, they also have
not been straight forward on timelines, etc. Plus, since I was not nearby, I
was moved to the bottom of priorities, and sometime ignored. I really feel
the staff and owner means well. If days had 10000 hours, all would be
well. And, I do understand folks there had some family issues to deal
with.

So, after calling every day since that time (Jan 18th), I finally got a
confirmation it was done, and all was well. The above parts were
installed, and the cover fixed so it would not bind with the belt.

This Saturday, my Dad an I rented a car, and went to pick up the van. The
trip down there was interesting, to say the least. Huge amounts of wind
and rain until Ashland. There, we had to purchase tire chains for the
rental car, since that was the only way we could make it over the Siskiyou
pass.

Chains were off before Hilt. Lots of snow and slush on the road until
Dunsmuir, but no chains required. Then, monsoon-style rain until the Olive
Pit (what is the name of the town that is in??). Then, fair weather until
SF.

Then, a 1 hour backup of traffic crossing the Bay Bridge because of the
toll booths. Geez, I guess backing up traffic up to Berkeley is worth
collecting 3 bucks on a Saturday afternoon.

Even after all that, we made it to Tassi on time to pick up the van. All
was well, and I think, given it was San Fran, that they charged a
reasonable price for the work, even though it should have only taken a day
or two to complete.

We stayed in San Fran overnight, right next to The Presidio, and did China
Town and Little Italy. SF is a great place...many good places to eat. Met
some friends for brunch on Sunday, and then headed home, after filling
with Biodiesel.

The Van ran great until just outside of Corning (now I remember, that's
the town where the Olive Pit is). A short distance from the exit, the
water temp.  needle dropped to zero. When we pulled into the Olive Pit, I
pulled up the  engine lid, and saw the temp sensor wire had broken off of
the spade connector. It was a quick (5 minute) fix, recrimping the
connector.

We continued on into Oregon, where just after Grants Pass, on Sexton
Summit, the driver's side windshield wiper came loose. So, again, we were
right at an off ramp. We took the exit, and moved the wiper back to the
correct  position, and tightened the loose wipe mounting bolt. This task
was made  comfortable by the light and shelter of the little mom-and-pop
gas station at Sunny Valley. We bought snacks at the funky little store,
and took off.

In Sutherlin, OR, we stopped for fuel, both for the car, and for us. I
think this is the first time I have eaten food from A&W in 20 years, or
so. But, my pop wanted a burger, and it was part of the gas station. We
got our food, and started out of the parking lot. Just before turning onto
the street, the van died.

My first thought was the station had mixed up tanks, and we were filled
with gasoline. A quick sniff test in the tank confirmed we were running
diesel.

So, I pulled the engine lid again (nothing was stored in the back after
the sensor problem). This time, the wire from the fuel solenoid was not
attached. After another 5 minute strip and crimp job, we were on our way.
While we were there, some other diesel heads stopped by to say hi, and
offer help if we needed it. VW people are great!

It is scary to think the engine very well could have stopped on the
freeway in very bad places.

Of course, none of the problems we had today had anything to do with the
work Tassi did. In fact, I think their work was great. They fixed (meaning
welded) the funky dipstick on the van without charge, as well.

After that, it was smooth sailing home.

WHeeeeew. After a month and a half, it's good to have the Slugbus home.
(Of course, I'll take any excuse to head to San Fran;))

There are many people to thank for helping us: Ben, David, Jason, my Dad,
my Family, list members, etc.

I'll get some pics of the deal on the web soon.

Jon and co.
