From: "Snoopy" <vwsnoopy(-at-)comcast.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 18 Aug 2004 17:37:53 -0400
Subject: Indigibus 4th National Gathering of the FMBC You are invited

Hey diddle diddle..bring your bus to the middle...(alright.almost the
middle..;o)

Come discover America with us....

FULLMOONBUSCLUB

WOULD LIKE TO TAKE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO EXTEND AN INVITATION TO ALL VW BUS
OWNERS/ENTHUSIASTS ACROSS AMERICA.

This will be the 4th national gathering of the FMBC.  Please come out and
show your support.  We have all sorts of door prizes donated from different
vendors but if you would like to donate anything please get in touch with
D-Rick at usabuspilot_at_yahoodotcom  or 573-931-1253 or 573-446-1680 or
Snoopy at vwsnoopy_at_comcastdotnet
*Note these are not the actual emaill addresses.  Please modify (trying to
cut down on our spam)

.  We need more adult prizes.  Also we plan
on cooking communally as usual if you would like to donate any food items,
please do
:)
Pre registration is NOT required, but we would like to know if you plan on
attending, and how many in your group if possible. Please contact  D-Rick
For more info, check out
http://www.fullmoonbusclub.com/modules.php?name=Forums&file=viewtopic&t=455&back_to_calendar=mycalendar.php?month=10%26year=2004

The location of this campout is cleansing community so... drinking policy,if
it ain't in a cup you ain't drinkin!

Thanks



We (Full Moon Bus Club)  are hosting the 4th East Meets West IndigiBus
Fest October 8th through
the 11th.  This event will be held on the pristine 850 Acre Phoenix Ranch in
Birch
Tree, Missouri.  The Phoenix Ranch is located along the Jacks Fork River,
and boasts miles of hiking/mountain biking trails.  There are also 8 caves
on the property, which will make for excellent acoustics while drumming
and/or didgeridoing.  There are canoes available for rental right on the
property, and weather permitting, we will even have canoe races. If there is
interest.
There will be events, prizes, and surprises....
Camping is 5 bucks per person per night.  There will be a community fire
pit, but you can still have your own if ya like.
Dogs are welcome as long as owners maintain them.
There is a Sacred Lodge on the premises, where you can participate, or
observe, a Native American Sweat, drumming, didging, etc..
There will be events throughout the weekend, including a Chili Cookoff on
Saturday.and a Spaghetti Dinner on Sunday. (don't worry, we wont forget the
vegetarians..:o)...Other events include: Cave excursions, and what ever else
there is interest for.  Didgeridoo and drumming techniques..spare tire
rolling relays..etc as time
permits.
Events for the young, and the young at heart..Events for Adults, ..maybe
even an event for the dogs...
There will be raffles, prizes for various categories, bartering, etc....and
if all goes as planned, posssssssssibly even a music event!
So come on out and enjoy nature!  Meet new Volks!  Have a good time!
Don't forget..Bring your instruments!  FMBC always cooks up whatever food
donations we get and we serve it till we run out.  So all are welcome to
join our family for meals.
Please bring your own plate and eating utensils, as this will lower our
impact on the environment.  Bring Fishing gear if you
would like.

Feel free to forward this to other bus lists as appropriate.

Peace Brothers and Sisters,
Snoopy
Full Moon Bus Club - Home of the world famous Breakfast Burritos.
http://www.fullmoonbusclub_dot_com

If you are going to walk on thin ice,
You may as well dance.
