Date: Tue, 24 Aug 2004 12:13:56 -0500
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: Vintage Bus List <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Buses on the River trip Report

Buses on the River 2004

"I double dog dare you" ---
Those words were spoken to me, errr make that typed, Just a few days
before BOTR this year. I had decided I was going to go but the rest of
the family was up in the air. Rather quickly after this it was decided
that if I did go I was sure not going to leave Steph and all four kids
for an entire weekend. So as late as Thursday me and the three kiddos
were slated to appear for some fun and foolishness at the river. However
after Chris Thomas dared us to bring the three week old Olivia, we sure
couldn't turn away from that. Our street credit could be in jeopardy for
such a horrible backing down of wills, and we sure couldn't stand that.
By Friday it was definite that the entire clan would be making the trip
to Erwin.

Last year we left town after work, but arriving after dark to the
campground is a pain at this site. Lots of trees make quite a task of
trying to pick out the perfect spot, so we decided to go the sleep
early, leave early method. I was to meet Daniel (who was making the trip
so he could swap out his vanagon with a bay window) east of Nashville
around 2am. As usual it took longer to load up the kids than planned,
so we rolled out of the driveway at 1:30am sharp. Just as I was pulling
onto the highway, I get a call from Daniel who has already reached our
rendezvous point, but was leaking quite a bit of oil. We modified the
plan to just keep in contact and try and meet somewhere on the road. He
as slowed down by making sure he stooped every now and again to feed it
oil. I should have been able to over take him in a few hours. 

Mother nature decided that a wet drive would help keep the kids quiet,
so we drove in rain nearly the entire way, but had to slow down a decent
amount to safely travel in some heavy down pours. We finally managed to
catch on the coat tails of Daniel and stayed even for the rest of the
trip on I-40. A few stops to check oil and stretch later we reached I-81
and took another stop, to rest and let the kids stretch. Daniel and his
girlfriend were quite tired (having had no sleep) and made a change of
plans to simply meet the other bus owner at that exit to swap out
vehicles. We left them there to rest until the meeting. I tried my best
to talk him into camping with the rest of us, but I'm not a great
salesman, and he had family in the area he really wanted to visit.

The drive up 81 was quite normal. You know 65 down hills and slower up
them. We took the JC connector to get to Ewrin and then decided to pick
up a few more supplies at the local Super K-mart. Apparently the "Super"
part of the name only indicates that two register lines will be open
instead of the standard one. Steph spent quite a while in there, but
Olivia was certainly not happy. However, as a nice bonus if you start
the bus and drive she immediately quiets down. Many laps of the parking
lot later Steph emerged from the K and we pushed on. As we neared the
end of the trip I was having quite a chore getting up some of the hills,
and was starting to sweat it. Fortunately it was simply a pretty severe
head wind, which let us pass after it must have decided to give the old
bus a break. Finding the campground this time was much easier in the
daytime. 

Just as the burritos were finished up we arrived. Like everyone else the
campground patrol pounced quickly to pay up. As I started to look for a
place I found Ric who had saved us a prime spot. We were greeted quickly
from Chris, Jenn and Bryce (the 2nd youngest camper there). It was
really nice to see him in person. Quite the future moonie. The rest of
the morning was spent setting up camp and letting the kids run wild.
After the family all had a spot to crash for the night later I set about
showing off Olivia to whoever would listen. Visited with old friends,
and met a few new ones as well. As the day wore on, the rain we managed
to trick on our trip managed to find us. The camp quickly went into
"tarp" mode and everyone simply moved conversations to covered areas.
Later after a bit of prodding from Ric, I spent some time floating down
the river. It was much calmer this year, but very enjoyable. The sun
even managed to peek out from some clouds.

A fun ride on the farfrumfloatin back to camp awaited us at the end of
the journey.The Tootsie managed the kids games again and everyone that
participated in it loved it. All the kids were given fun prizes as well.
A bit later the award ceremonies started. Lots and lots of door prizes
and the awards. Our family was even given "Sit's lowest in the water"
award. Something about having six people in a little 66 split. Thanks
guys what a great award.  As Brad, Dawn, and Ric set to making real
supper, I fixed some good salty SPAM burgers. Yea, sure turn your nose
up at it, but I like it. The rest of the night was spent just enjoying
the company of friends, and trying like crazy to get that darn fire to
stay lit. We eventually gave up and since I was running on very little
sleep I joined the rest of the family for some R&R.

Sunday morning we woke to a picture perfect cool morning. Fixed some
coffee and ate some pop-tarts. We started to slowly tear down camp and
pack up. All the while visiting with as many people as possible. Watched
MUD work on Rics engine to take a look at the jets. (BTW anyone know
what size engine needs a 120 main?). The mechanic duo got the jet
swapped out and back in quickly.  Around noon we fixed a quick lunch and
took off. As a change of scenery we drove back on HWY 108. This path cut
through some beautiful land and as amazing as it is, was quite straight.
Unfortunately due to time we eventually had to travel on the big blue
lines from the map to get back home. Butch performed perfect as I have
come to expect from her and we made a very consistent 65mph back home.

As we are leaving the Cookeville area, my cell rings again. Turns out
Daniel has had a turn of bad luck and is now stuck on the side of the
road. Fortunately, we will be driving by his location in under 20
minutes. As I start to crest a small hill I see his new westy on the
side and pull over. I joked about how he should have come camping and
then I took a quick look at the engine. His ignition was just fine, but
the carb would not adjust at all. It didn't appear that I could do much
for him there. He made a call to AAA and when he was able to confirm he
had a tow coming we left him on the side, so we could get the kids back
home to see if these three children covered in dirt were actually ours.
I got a call later that night that he and his girlfriend were able to
get back home with no problems (although a bit later than planned).
Hopefully he can get it sorted out quickly and get it back on the road.
Around 8:30 we rolled in to home and discovered that we had in fact
actually carried the correct kids home. Everyone hit the hay as quick as
possible. 

Thanks to the TN Mech for another great weekend. I love going, Steph
loves it and the three kids definitely love it. I am happy to report
that the new addition also gives it the thumbs up. Lots of people came
up during the weekend talking about how hard it must be to travel with
this large of a crew. Truth is, we enjoy the fellowship and travel very
much and don't consider it a chore at all. I can honestly say that
traveling and camping with this small group of people has been a
blessing in my families life. 
-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
1979 Sportsmofakia 2000cc                        www.fasterlaster.com
1966 Westfalia SO-42 "Butch"
