Date: Fri, 15 Nov 2002 08:55:18 -0500 (EST)
From: "Eric W. Bradway" <eric(-at-)bradway.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Air injection port plugs - the final answer

I finally got this problem solved. My '74 1.8l has the California heads with
the air injection ports - and no injection system. It's been terribly loud and
I've been trying to get it straightened out. Now that the temp has dropped and
I have to let the bus warm up even more in the mornings, I figured I'd finally
tackle the problem for my neighbors' sake.

What you need is:

About 1 foot of 7/16" threaded rod (forget about bolts)
Four 7/16" nuts
Four 7/16" washers
Two 7/16" lock washers
And I used some exhaust manifold gasket paper

Cut the threaded rod into two 6" pieces. Thread on nut part-way on each end,
slide a lock-washer on and thread the other nut on. Tighten the nuts together
to make an effective 'bolt-head' for the threaded rod. Slide two washers up
each bolt to the nuts and cut a couple 'washers' from your gasket paper - and
slide it on lasdt. Douse the threads with loc-tite and run the rods into each
port hole until it seems to be all the way in. Break your nuts free (ouch!)
and run the inner nut all the way down so the washers and tight against the
head (with the gasket material making a nice seal). Run the outer nut down
with the lock washer just to make sure the thing never moves.

If you still seem a little loud, try backing the nuts out and running the
thread rod deeper into the heads. You can't go all the way into the head
because the actual port holes where the injection system attaches is alot
smaller than 7/16". The biggest danger is that you could strip out the head
and have to go to the next larger SAE threaded rod!

This is not the perfect fix - the best thing to do is to replace your head
with one that lacks the ports. But that's about $200 for the head and a good
weekend of work. My solution costs about $5 at Ace Hardware and takes about 30
minutes.

-Eric

-- 
www.yogabus.com                  '74 Westy 'Portia'
