Date: Fri, 15 Nov 2002 08:38:08 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: John Rogers <jnrogers5555(-at-)earthlink.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Uh-oh ... what have I got here?

>Here is my dilemma. I have re-torqued the 4 stud nuts to spec and tomorrow
>will run another compression test. However, even if I do get good readings,
>I still have to assume that the same person who failed to tighten to spec
>the four nuts I can access also tightened the four I cannot, so the odds
>that they are sitting at some minimum torquage are really good..

Assume that all of the studs need torquing on both sides of the engine - 
assume the previous mechanic did a very poor job and torque everything. Use 
a torque chart so you know what they should be. The VW engine is very 
touchy about this.

>Does it matter if the compression is good? Maybe, maybe not.

Yes - very important. I believe all the cylinders are supposed to be within 
10% of each other or there is a problem and it needs to be greater than 
about 115 psi (this value depends on the compression ratio your engine is 
set up with and really anything over 110 psi is okay but 100 is marginal). 
An engine with poor compression in 1 or 2 cylinders will have very poor 
power as you found out. It can also cause the remaining functioning 
cylinders to overheat due to overworking to compensate as the driver floors 
the throttle out of frustration. Another good reason to have temp gauges.

It can also cause an engine to run rough since 1 cylinder may be making 5 
HP while the others are making  15 HP. Ride a bicycle and pedal harder with 
1 foot than the other. The leg working harder gets hot and tired faster, 
and the bike will wobble a bit. At engine speeds (pedalling at 3000 rpm) 
this would be a vibration. It would also be a very fast bicycle.... <grin>

Every time I buy an air cooled VW I pull the engine, power wash it, strip 
off all of the accessories and cooling system and power wash it again, and 
then god through the tune up procedure (not necessarily replacing any 
parts). As a result my engines have been trouble free. I've never been 
stranded by an aircooled engine - except twice by my '65 which had a large 
quantity of debris in the gas tank which I was trying to remove.

Most aircooled engines have a build up of oil and dirt (shop rags, rodents, 
tools, leaves, stuffing left there by the dead rodents from your seats) 
blocking some of the fins - head and cylinder - that needs to be removed to 
operate without danger of overheating. Most of these engines need a few 
cheap gaskets replaced, and most certainly many have tin missing or the 
rubber seal that seals the engine to the body and controls recirculating 
heated air through the cooling system (overheat danger) or recirculating 
exhaust through the heaters thus endangering your health.

>Still it is going to be difficult for me to consider a long trip without 
>first pulling
>the engine and making sure everything is as it should be.

So my answer would be to take 5 hours this weekend and do the deed - pull 
it, inspect it, torque everything, clean it, and reassemble adding any 
missing pieces. This usually costs me about $20 (or the price of a new 
engine to body seal and some new gaskets) because I try to keep some spare 
VW tin laying around in my stash of spare parts.

Most of our VW's are suffering from 20 years of neglect by the previous 
owner who thought because the engine would function without a few pieces 
present that they weren't important. Immediately no harm is done but long 
term the engine is not as reliable or durable.

I probably told you some stuff you already knew but I hope this info was 
worth something to you.


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
