Date: Sat, 16 Nov 2002 18:42:00 -0800
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Pertronix report

I bit the bullet and went to electronic ignition this weekend after my
online order arrived from Bus Depot.

I decided to go with Pertronix for the hell of it although many list members
had good things to say about the 1979 ignition components and the Compufire
as well as other CDI additions.  I'm using the Bosch Blue coil...

Before you install the Pertronix do check the parts that are included.  It
seemed to be well made factoring in how simple it looks from the outside but
I did get a bag of parts that had a mounting screw for the bottom plate with
no threads!

Luckily my friend had a tap and die set and I fixed the problem after
finding the right die otherwise I would have been out of luck with not much
desire to put the points back in.  The screw you get with the kit is the
countersunk style so you can't use the screw that formerly secured the
points.

* Note to vendors: check your stock and save a list-member who doesn't have
access to a metric die set a lot of hassle.

I have the stock SVDA distribution and the rotor fit without any filing.  I
even had a spare inner dust cap from a 914 that I re-used after I filed it a
little so it could clear the hall sensor.

The plastic feeler gauge they give you seems to set the dwell on the high
side.  My first try resulted in 54 degrees.  I found this URL that suggested
using a larger feeler gauge to get the dwell right (Ken's Buggy Barn):

http://www.w-p-c.com/buggy8.htm

It's too bad you have to mess with this at all but I guess that's what the
Ignitor II was all about (I couldn't determine if it worked with my
distributor and coil). I'll try adjusting the dwell again in the morning.
At least it will be way easily to play with now that I don't have to align
the rotor with the distributor body, etc.

With the dwell set a 54 degree I took it for a ride anyway and I wish I'd
put it in much sooner.  Results were just as the stated in the archives:

- starting is instant even when cold

- increased performance. The gas pedal feels more responsive. Acceleration
is vastly improved (might need that rev limiting rotor again ;-) and
climbing in 3rd is less of a strain and requires a less heavy foot, etc.

- ignition timing is rock steady.  With points it would waver a little from
7.5 BTDC 10-20% of the time but not anymore.

Looking forward to better gas mileage...keeping the points and condenser as
a spare just in case.
