Date: Thu, 03 Aug 2006 21:41:15 -0400
From: Dave Wolfanger <dwolf(-at-)bluefrog.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] VW powered air compressor

The Volks-Air compressor has two lawn-mover mufflers,
so it sounds like - dueling lawnmowers!
Should hardly raise an eyebrow in the typical
Saturday motning American neighborhood.
Put a flag on it.

You can't buy a 30 horse compressor for less money with replacement parts
access as easy and affordable as this.
Previous generations of the Volks-Air had a single special-head design
to make air, but the progression to the cam-style design improved
the efficiency and the cost of manufacture.

As for fuel consumption, no comparison.
You can't get that much power from a 220 volt circuit,
and it sips gas from the smallest 28-pict carb on 2 cylinders.
Remember, the compressor is 2-stroke, with the double-lobed
compressor cam, so 1500 rpm motor speed is 3000 rpm compressor speed.

I also have that problem of ring sealing, even with Total Seal gapless
piston rings, and it still lets significant oil through the pump,
which is of concern for pre-paint surface blasting contamination.
They told me the seal is too good, and the compressor is pulling it
through the intake valve guides. Maybe so. What do you think?

You can also have on-demand shut-down/restart, from a pressure switch
wired to an electronic remote car starter, feeding a typical shop air tank.

I don't use less than 3/4 i.d. hose in direct output application.
The air is powerful and sustaining, all day long, it doesn't lag.
And don't let go of that hose!

As for sandblasting, sand gets trapped in impossible places.
That pocket at the front floor behind the T2 nose panel, for instance.
It takes lots of air to get the sand residue out of there.

Dave


Greg Potts wrote:

> ...a LOT of air, but one thing no-one  has mentioned yet is that THEY 
> ARE VERY, VERY LOUD. 


What? WHAT DID YOU SAY???

In otherwords maybe not Saturday morning neighborhood friendly... <grin!>

Chris
