Date: Sun, 06 Aug 2006 03:23:07 +0200
From: Erik Meltzer <ermel(-at-)ermel.org>
To: Type2 Mailing List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Yet another Not-a-new-bus (long)

Hi!

George Lyle wrote:
> I think the same thing happened with the Forduars after Ford
> bought Jag.
> 
> And I personally swore of Bentleys after they were purchased by VW...  :)

Well.  A Ford Diesel station wagon dressed up as a Jaguar is one
thing (and a rather embarrassing one at that), but about the
Phaeton-based Bentleys, I do feel a little differently.  Sure,
they aren't what a Bentley used to be, what with their 40-year-old
engine design and such.  But they are actually better.  

Auto Motor und Sport concluded their first test of the Continental GT
with something like "this is the best Bentley we have ever driven,
and also the fastest, and also the cheapest.  Can't really argue
with that, even if it does have VW genes in it."

And for those who do care, Bentley still make the traditional
benemoths.

In a desperate attempt to get back to at least within shouting 
distance of on topic, let me compare to what Porsche did in the
1970s through 1990s: they used VW parts, to different extents, 
in such cars as the 912E, 914, 924, 944, and 968.  Didn't really
hurt them much, did it?  Because what they made with those VW parts
were, essentially, still Porsches, i.e. light and nimble sports
cars.  The VW genes didn't change their character.  

And neither do they, IMHO, change the new Bentleys' character.
They're still amazingly quick high-end luxury cars.

I'd be much more worried about the long-term effects on image
by cars that are far from the brand's percieved properties.
Such as the above-mentioned Jaguar Diesel station wagons, Mercedes 
A-class econoboxen, or indeed Porsche Cayenne SUVs.

Trouble is, VW don't make anything like our beloved air-howlers
anymore, nor even anything like a first-generation Dasher or Rabbit.
(Passat and Golf, to non-US readers.)  VW used to stand for cars
that were somewhat under-designed, but over-built.  Nothing much
in the luxury department, but transportation you could count on --
and you could count on not to be outdated in a couple of years
either.  Today, VWs seem to be all about premium, performance,
and creature comforts.  The only cars VW make today (in the northern
hemisphere at least) that still seem somewhat VW-ish in the 
traditional sense are the commercial ones, IMHO: the Transporter
(Eurovan in the US, but I'm talking about the commercial, basic
versions), and the Caddy (a Golf-based small commercial van).

By the way, they're both made in Poland these days.

And even VW's commercial vehicles are drifting into the upscale,
"premium" segment.  The new Crafter (successor to the LT, which
you USAnians know as the Dodge (or maybe Freightliner) Sprinter)
is said to be amazingly comfy, but lacking in the cargo capacity
department.  Which isn't quite the correct order of priorities
for a commercial vehicle, IMHO. So presumably, you can stop
bitching about not being able to buy Eurovans over there in the
near future, because you won't want one anymore.  (Personally, 
I wouldn't want one anyway.  Nor a Vanagon, for that matter.)

Hmm.  Still quite off-topic.  Sorry.

Airhowlingly yours,
   Erik.
-- 
"I've been thinking with my guts since I was fourteen years old,
 and frankly speaking, between you and me, I have come to the
 conclusion that my guts have shit for brains."
        -- Rob Fleming in Nick Hornby's novel "High Fidelity"
