Date: Sun, 6 Aug 2006 10:38:11 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Hydraulic lifter tapping! (take 2)

Regarding your one noisey lifter: I would be tempted
to pull the valve cover off and, after identifying
which one it is, give the valve lash adjuster about a
half turn, button it all up again and live with the
results until I replaced the lifter or all of them in
the next rebuild.

I did not give you that advice because you noted that
a change in oil changed the noise significantly and I
noticed that you are running extremely thin oil
viscosity. I could never run 5w-20 or even 5w-40
without major lifter noise on any of my engines, even
in coldest winter.

I think you should try some other oils before you open
anything up. For me, personally, I would start off
with straight 30 and see how that works. If that is
good, next oil change try some 20w-50 or 20-50 and see
how that does. Finally, after you get it dialed in,
try experimenting with synthetic again.

Summer is definitely the time to experiment. In the
winter you may need to switch back to the thinner
stuff  if you end up using a straight grade. If you
are in a mild climate you may run something like 20-50
year 'round. In the Seattle area that worked for me
most of the time. In really cold weather I did allow
the engine to run a bit at moderate fast idle before
taking off. I tried 10w-30 as I ran that in my other
cars, but the bus engines always made noise with it.

I also use a "viscosity stabilizer" from either Hilton
Hy Per Lube or Power Punch. That is solely for the
individual to experiment with. It comes out of the
bottle like honey. I like it. My engines like it. One
added benefit is that the oil does not run off of
vertical surfaces when this additive is used. Years
ago, one of my dad's old WW2 trucks with no cab on it
had shifting problems so I swapped out the shift
cover. When I opened it up, the tranny was full of
water! It had the right amount of lubricant, but from
there on up to the top was water. It had probably been
that way for several years. The gears and shafts were
as shiny as new! Upon closer inspection, I found that
they were all coated with an oily substance that
simply wouldn't come off without wiping with solvent.
Dad had been running 50% STP in all of his logging
equipment. It sure sold me. I now use either Hilton or
Power Punch (same product) and I also use it either
straight or thinned with 30 weight as an assembly
lube. It just hangs in there forever. They claim it is
100% petroleum.

Hope my rambling on helps somebody! - BaH

'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2)
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01
