From: "Bill Price" <bprice(-at-)mcdanielfire.com>
To: "'Dave C. Bolen'" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 7 Aug 2006 07:43:47 -0500
Subject: Ign. Switch replaced, now starter failing(RESOLVED)

From: Dave C. Bolen [mailto:dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com] 
Billy,
Divide and conquer!!



Dave, all,

Short story:  Starter was bad.

Long story:

Recently replaced ignition switch.  Two days later the bus won't start. I
get the "clack" at the solenoid but no engine turnover.

Under the bus with the voltmeter this weekend, I was getting 12.13vdc on
terminal 30 (big one on solenoid w/ battery cable).

There was a hot start relay installed in my bus, an old one with a right
angle mounting plate screwed to the frame a a big round relay housing with
screw terminals on it.  I had 12.13 on one side of the relay, only 10.6vdc
on the output side during cranking.

Decided to go back to stock wiring, bypassing relay to isolate that
component, still no start, and a weaker "clack".

Voltage was only 7.3vdc on terminal 50 of the starter during cranking, no
way enough.

I had a spare starter p/n 311-911-023D, which is listed in the bentley,
laying around so I decided to swap out and see what happened.  Took a pick
of the starter wiring for safety before unwiring (Battery neg. off first!)
Took off the big S air hose to access the top left engine/trans/starter 'D'
head bolt's nut in the engine compartment. Removed lower starter mounting
nut from it's stud and pulled it out.

It was a rebuilt 091-911-023.  Is that a vanagon p/n?  Had a long gone
metallic sticker over the o.g. p/n's that couldn't be read.

Cleaned the nuts/bolts of their accumulated grease, dealt with a little rust
on the new starter's terminals.  Reinstall starter, rewired leaving the hot
start relay out of the loop for sh*ts & giggles.  Replaced the S hose,
reconnect battery neg., reconnect FI harness to computer.

Starter works!  Engine promptly dies :(

Why is it so often like that?

Assuming a vacuum condition since I had messed with the boot, I poked around
for hoses loose but everything was good.

Fretting, I remembered a long time ago in my rookie bus year after redo-ing
the fuel lines that it wouldn't start when I was done.  I emailed Karl V.S.
since we lived pretty near each other and pleaded that he stop by during one
of his junk runs and take a look.

Happily, he was agreeable and in about 6.4 minutes of surehanded
troubleshooting he had found the problem after a week of my noodling around
in the darkness.  An FI ground on the top of the case had slipped off during
my fuel line job and was killing power to the FI computer.

I looked for that ground wire yesterday, and sure enough, it had slipped
again.  Reconnected it and was back in business.

Thanks to the list for all their help, and thanks Karl for that little
nugget that keeps paying dividends.

Billy
M'boro, TN 
