Date: Fri, 5 Nov 2004 04:19:08 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Time switch for heater

> From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
> Date: Thu, 4 Nov 2004 09:09:43 -0600
>
> So does anyone know of any sort of switch that has a timer built in
> that I can use to control my gas heater?

As has been said, you can adapt a timer meant for household AC.  There
are two basic kinds: the spring-wound kind that will run something for
a time and then shut it off, and the motor-driven kind that let you
set them to switch on at a specific time.  Most of the motor-driven
kind need AC to work, but I have a trick one on my front porch light.
It runs on an AAA battery and uses latching contacts, so it only uses
the battery when the contacts change state.  (Almost like a Bus clock,
but in reverse.)  It has a "sunset to sunrise" function but you can
also program it like a normal timer.  The contacts on this one are
rated for DC as well as AC, but as long as you can rig the timer to
run "relay" levels of DC, instead of "the entire heater" levels of DC,
an AC-rated contact will probably be OK.

As has also been said, Type IVs had a timer function for the heater
in their dash clock.  I guess if you were really into it, you could
get a watchmaker to add some contacts to a Bus dash clock.

> I have a late bay timer switch, however this thing is quite a bear
> to understand.

Depending on the year, look at page 46, 48, or 50 of
http://failsure.net/oacdp/ebersp.html .  It looks like through about
'72, the timer switch only has four connections: 15 (ignition) and
30 (battery), a ground for the pilot light, and the output to the
coil of the main relay on the heater.  In '73 it looks like the
switch got a bit more complicated, changing the pilot light into an
illumination light.  There are at least six connections, but three
of them (15, 30, output) are the same.

Disclaimer: Fooling around with the control system of your gas heater
might burn down your Bus.  Make sure that all the safety gear on the
heater is working.  Make sure that the timer doesn't bypass any of
the safety gear or hold the heater on where the original switch would
let it shut off.  Proceed at your own risk...

Matt Roberds
