Date: Sat, 6 Nov 2004 02:55:50 -0800 (PST)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: NEW BUS OWNERS: Prevent engine fires!

I see we've got a bunch of newbies here, so I'm posting this again.

The two main reasons for engine/bus fires are easily and quickly
preventable; do this soon!

In order to prevent engine fires due to the most common reason for them -
the front engine tin cuts thru your metal fuel line:

Get four inches of the neoprene/webbed VW flexible black gas line (you
can buy this at any decent VW parts outlet), and split it lengthwise end
-to-end and slip it over your metal gas line, then push it down thru the
hole where it comes thru the front piece of tin, so that it protects the
metal line from rubbing on the edge of the tin's hole and cutting thru to
cause a gas leak and fire.

If you have an existing gasket there, remove it - they are unreliable and
fail always. The gas line fix will last indefinitely.

Be sure the metal line isn't already grooved/cut - replace if necessary,
then protect with the length of rubber gas line as above.

While you're at it, replace all your existing rubber gas line segments
with the VW gas line too, and use the small adjustable stainless steel
hose clamps at each end everywhere. Replace your gas line every year,
regardless. The VW webbed gas line is cheap, and it takes fifteen minutes,
and it gives you the opportunity to check all your critical gas
connections.

Fire prevention tip number two: the fuel line pops out of the input side
at the carburator.

Get some thin steel locking wire and some small hose clamps, clamp a hose
clamp over the fuel line where it's plugged into the fuel inlet at the
carburator, then twist the steel wire around the clamp, and tie it around
the carb in order to hold the brass inlet tube into the carberator.

Do this as soon as possible, like next weekend, or tomorrow! Your bus
could be the next one to burn, and the solution is cheap and easy and
fast.

Okay, back to the list...

cal
67 deluxe:garage princess this year
