Date: Thu, 11 Nov 2004 03:10:17 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Relay Q

> From: Sean Dorman <croftyest(-at-)yahoo.com>
> Date: Tue, 9 Nov 2004 09:39:57 -0800 (PST)
>
> I'd like to run a relay for my foglights and maybe my even my headlights
> (H4's). Does anyone have a diagram on how to do this and a relay to use?

Since you don't want to run a new wire from the back, this only really
takes the load off the hot wire from the fuse box to the light switch,
and the switch itself.  Having said that:

First you need to find a relay.  Having used different kinds, I like
Bosch and Hella the best, but there are several makes of the "standard"
12 V, 30 A relay.  You might find one near the fog lights at the FLAPS.
Your local car stereo or car alarm shop should be able to sell you one
for ~$5.  Radio Shack will sell you one for ~$7.  The one catalog I know
of that sells real Hella relays for ~$2 has a $25 minimum order and the
other that sells real Bosch relays for ~$2 has a service charge on small
orders.  The main points you are looking for is that it has at least
four (optionally five) 1/4" male push-on terminals, and has a schematic
of the relay marked on or molded into the case, with the numbers 85, 86,
87, and 30 on the schematic or molded into the plastic near the
terminals.  The relay itself will be a 1" cube.  For this application,
you won't need a socket, but look for a relay with a built-in plastic
or metal mounting tab.

Next, you need to figure out where you are going to put the relay.  If
you put it next to the light switch, under the dash, you can do a
minimum of extending wires to make things work.  It does need to be
mounted in some way; a couple of the terminals will sometimes have
unfused battery voltage on them, and your wiring harness will fry
if the relay bounces around and grounds one of these terminals.

In light of the above, you need to disconnect the battery ground strap
before starting, since you'll be working on an unfused feed from the
battery.

So, to wire it up: Unplug the black/white stripe wire from terminal 56
on the headlight switch.  Make a short jumper wire (18 gauge or better)
with 1/4" push-on females at each end.  Plug one end onto terminal 56
of the light switch, and plug the other end onto terminal 86 of the
relay.  Make another jumper wire (18 gauge or better) with a 1/4"
push-on female on one end and maybe a ring terminal on the other.  This
is a ground wire, so figure out where to connect the ring terminal end
to the body and do it, then plug the other end onto terminal 85 of the
relay.

Hook the battery ground strap up temporarily.  Pull the headlight switch
all the way out.  The headlights won't come on, but the relay should
click.  When you're happy, disconnect the battery ground strap again.

Take the black/white stripe wire that used to be plugged onto terminal
56 of the headlight switch and plug it onto terminal 87 of the relay.

Make up another jumper wire (14 gauge or better) with a 1/4" push-on
female on one end and plug that push-on onto terminal 30 of the relay.
The other end needs to go to the fuse box and hook on to where the two
fat red wires go to one end of the rightmost fuse.  There may be a
free male tab on this connection - in that case put a female push-on
on the jumper wire and plug it onto that.  If there's not a free male
tab, either use an adapter from the FLAPS that has one female tab and
two male tabs (unplug existing dual red wire from fuse box, plug
adapter onto fuse box where dual red wire was, replug existing dual
red wire onto adapter, plug new jumper wire onto adapter) or use a
"piggyback" push-on from the FLAPS that has both a female and a male
tab (crimp piggyback push-on onto new jumper wire, unplug exisiting
dual red wire from fuse box, plug new jumper wire onto fuse box where
dual red wire was, plug dual red wire onto male tab of piggyback
push-on).  Whatever you do, don't use one of those "guillotine"
connectors that you lay two wires in and push down a little metal blade
with a pair of pliers.  All of these connection methods will result
in a little extra voltage drop.

Make sure the headlights are off, then hook the battery ground strap
back up.  Go up front and pull the headlight switch out - the relay
should click and the headlights should come on.  Try the dimmer switch -
the high and low beams should work normally.  The four fuses for the
headlights (bright/dim and left/right) will also still protect the
lights, so if one headlight goes out, check the fuses.

One note: these kind of relays normally don't drop out until somewhere
under 8 volts, but it might happen that if you have a flat battery,
have the headlights on, and try to run the starter, the relay will
drop out and kill the headlights.  When the engine starts and the
voltage comes back up, the relay will work again.

In an emergency, you can always go back to the original setup by
unplugging the jumper wire on terminal 56 of the light switch,
unplugging the black/white stripe wire from the relay, and plugging the
black/white stripe wire onto terminal 56 of the light switch.

If you decide to run a new wire to the battery along with the relay,
do all of the above, except connect terminal 30 of the relay to the
new wire instead of to the fuse box.  I would suggest at least 12
gauge wire.  Also, put a inline fuse (30 A) in the new wire near
the battery to protect it.

I'm not sure if you have your fog lights set up to come on with the
headlights or if they have a separate switch.  If they come on with
the headlights, then the above mod will run the fog light juice
through the relay as well.  If they have their own switch, and you
want to make sure that the fog lights go on and off with the headlight
switch, disconnect the hot wire to the switch from wherever it is now,
and connect it to terminal 87 on the relay along with the black/white
stripe wire for the headlights.

If you have a digital multimeter, and are feeling scientific, get some
data: before you wire in the relay, take one of the headlights out of
the body.  Turn the headlights on, then measure and record the battery
voltage right across the battery terminals.  Go up front and measure
the voltage between ground (the brown wire that screws into the sheet
metal in the headlight bucket) and the yellow or yellow/black low beam
wire, right at the headlight connector.  Note the difference between
these two voltages.  After you wire in the relay, take the same two
readings and take the difference - hopefully it's a smaller number
than you got before you installed the relay.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds
