To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "Miles Erickson" <miles.erickson.type2(-at-)gmail.com>
Date: Sun, 15 May 2005 18:51:54 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Insurance

John: $110 per *year*?  Is that in 1967 dollars?  Where in the world do you
live?  Tell us more!

I currently pay $343/6mo for basic liability only on my '71 Bus.  That's with
GMAC insurance, Seattle 98102, 27/m, single, no tickets ever, one not-at-fault
accident in 2004 (which they say doesn't affect my rate), homeowner discount,
prior insurance discount, paid-in-full discount.  I previously paid about $100
more with GEICO -- they had been giving me good rates for about 8 years and
then mysteriously started to ratchet them up, presumably because I'd been too
loyal.  I'll check back with GEICO when my term with GMAC is up.

GMAC insurance may be cheap, but they love to waste your time.  They required
me to send in detailed proof of my prior insurance and homeownership.  I sent
it in by fax referencing my policy number, and 2 weeks later, they sent me a
"reminder" to submit the information.  Then I sent it again by Priority Mail
in a large (10x12) rigid envelope, with delivery confirmation.  Two weeks
later I received a notice that my premium was being increased by more than
$100, with no explanation.  I called (which with GMAC means waiting on hold
for around 30 minutes during business hours, what a joke!) and the person who
finally answered said that I had failed to send in my proof of insurance and
homeownership.  I started to explain that I had verifiable proof that they had
received the documents, and all of a sudden they discovered that I had in fact
sent them in and restored the original rate.  I don't plan on filing any
claims, but I'm sure it would be a royal pain if anything ever happened.  What
creeps.

I'd also like to put in a word against Allstate.  When I shopped around for
insurance a while ago, they gave me a quote that was MORE THAN DOUBLE the
next-highest quote -- about $1000 per six months!  Maybe they surcharge old
VWs?  Additionally, it took Allstate about three months to send me a check for
the paint scratch and minor dent resulting from the aforementioned
not-at-fault accident, wherein the at-fault driver had Allstate insurance, and
wherein everyone involved agreed about who was at fault and how much it would
cost to repair the damage.  I received the check fully *two months* after an
Allstate adjuster determined the amount that they would pay me.  Everyone at
Allstate seemed friendly, but actions speak louder than words, and their
actions indicate that they, too, are creeps.

So, there you go.  Geico gets points for prompt, efficient, friendly 24-hour
service, but they apparently raised my rates for being a loyal customer.  GMAC
is cheap, but their customer service is awful.  And Allstate apparently
surcharges VW Buses and takes forever to cut a check.

Bottom line: insurance is one of the least enjoyable aspects of owning a
vehicle.

Just my experience and opinions.

Cheers,

- Miles

Miles Erickson
'71 Dragon Bus

please send personal replies to myfirstname(-at-)myfullname.com
