From: "Gervais, Pierre" <PGervais(-at-)BR.Kruger.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 16 May 2005 14:54:04 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] Re:  flooring your "motor", exhaust valve

>Exhaust valve on carburated engines should be not be run for more than 50
>000 miles.  30 000 on injected.  By all time I take no chance, no guess
>work, and just put new exhaust valves (intakes as well).

Does this advice include Sodium exhaust valves?

....it says that only sodium valves can go for a "second run" after
regrinding.  Valve history can be difficult to know when busses changes
hands.  By the way I cannot find too many sodium filled valves for sale on
these days.

>On mechanical valves, you may have the chance to see that valve stem starts
>to strech before breaking (loss of power, frequent gap adjustment).  Not
too
>much chance for the hydraulics as they self adjust.

When a valve driven by a solid lifter stretches, it goes tight and the valve
fails to seat which causes it to burn even faster. When the valve is driven
by a hydraulic lifter, the lifter pumps up just enough to hydrolock before
it pushes the valve off the seat. On the way back to the seat, the valve
makes seat contact and the process repeats as the lifter self adjusts as the
engine runs.

Which ones will you notice first? Solid. But which valve is actually going
to burn faster?

... my guess is that if you do not know about your engine history, you
better go check clearance more often especially if you feel some power loss
your engine delivers.  With improper clearance, valve should stop stretching
(won't sit, stem not in tension) but, yes, it can burn if run too long in
that state.  With hydraulic, chances are valve will keep on streching
without burning (self adjustment, without signs of loss of power), but will
eventually break.

... it can also happen that the floating piston in hydraulic lifter get
stuck and no longer make the proper continuous zero gap adjustment which
lead to the same problems a badly adjusted mechanical ajusted lifter will
lead.  Well filtered oil is a must for hydraulic lifters.  Do not be cheap
on filter changes.

... It's not a perfect world. 

BusBosss Pierre
