Date: Mon, 16 May 2005 21:09:48 +0200
From: Erik Meltzer <ermel(-at-)ermel.org>
To: Type2 Mailing List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] What to do while engine is apart?

Hi Volks!

Erik Meltzer wrote:
> I keep getting different opinions as to what else needs replacing
> as a matter of course.  Rings, some said.  Pistons and Cylinders,
> a few said.  Intake manifold rubbers, someone said.  Upgrade the
> oil cooler to Type 4, someone else suggested.
> 
> Well.  Probably all of this can't hurt, but then getting a new
> Mexican engine can't hurt either, except my bank account.  What
> do you think is *really* advisable?

Thanks for all your input, both on list and off.

I've decided to do a compression check before tearing into the
engine, then to dismantle it and take a long hard look at 
heads, pistons, rings, and cylinders in the process.  I *hope*
to find undamaged parts.  If so, I'll re-use them all.  If
not, you'll hear from me.  :-)

Apart from all the gaskets, I'll take John's advice and replace
the intake boots.  Exhaust valves, well, I'll see.  Checking
valve guides seems a good suggestion to me.  I'll pass on the
oil cooler upgrade, though.

I hope to get a couple more years of trouble-free service in a
not-too-stressful application out of this engine that way, without
having to strain what I laughingly call my budget.  And after 
that, when the time has come, there'll be a complete rebuild --
because new Mexi-motors aren't available here in Germany anyway,
and because this is the van's original engine and I have the
paperwork to prove that.

And if and when this my very first engine work goes well, I'll
attack the 1600 SP that shall go into my '70 Bug Convertible with
more optimism.  That one has last run in 1994, and not too well
at that.  And then I'll be back with all those questions
about full-flow oil filtration, Type 4 oil coolers and whatnot
which for this engine I'm going to happily ignore.

(Yes, yes, I'll check the archives first, don't worry.  ;-)

For the time being, thanks again.  You're a grand bunch.

Airhowlingly yours,
   Erik.
-- 
"If you can't afford a movie, go to the zoo.  If you can't afford
 the zoo, go see a politician."
        -- Stephen King, "The Stand"
