Date: Tue, 17 May 2005 10:26:28 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: andy <andy(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Cc: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] valves

OF COURSE they are trying to sell something here, but here is one of my
sources from way back. Been years since I read anything about it so I'm not
going to get up on any soapbox preaching this or that... <grin!>

FWIW I have an aluminum pulley on my Type IV conversion for my Beetle. No
choices there. It's what fit.

Chris

Gene Berg Technical Information

Why an all steel pulley when most people tell you that you want something
lightweight? That is because most people simply do not know the truth about
what is needed to provide greater engine life and spread their ignorance with
hype and sales talk or maybe they want your engine to fail prematurely. Let's
take a look at some good common sense.
First, the stock engine when never turned over 4400 RPM with its stock
flywheel has little need for this device or our Equalizer pulley. They are
unable to generate the conditions that this eliminates. In the early 60's, we
started to lighten the flywheel and/or increase the performance and RPM range
of the engines and either of these changes pounded the cases out. We then
developed proper counterweighting techniques and it stopped this problem. For
years, people have tried (unsuccessfully) to copy our exclusive procedures to
do this. This completely cured that problem, however, as the power, RPM and
acceleration rates increased more new problems were encountered.
We had completely cured the new problems with our race engine by installing
our Equalizer pulley in the early 70's, however, did not realize it until my
138 HP bus showed the #1 main working in the case at the 135,000 mile
inspection. Now, many would say, "So what, that engine obviously should show
such wear at that mileage, especially with that HP and the use it had been
subjected to." Personally, I felt it was a problem that should be addressed so
I could go 200,000 plus miles without this, especially when no other signs of
wear were there and I knew immediately what was causing the wear.
The light pulley allows the nodes (vibration like a guitar string) to travel
up the crank from the pulley end to the flywheel end of the crankshaft.
Naturally, the flywheel stops this node at that point transferring it into the
case. By adding the extra weight to the pulley end with our heavy pulley it
stops this from occurring, no longer being sent to the flywheel end.
So why more than one weight? Another good question. I found that different
acceleration rates and RPMs required different weights and diameters of
pulleys. Naturally, the all out race engine would use the original Berg power
pulley size Equalizers. All stock VW engines with lightened flywheels and/or
higher performance up to 6000 RPM, and engines that require full cooling must
use the stock size pulleys. Engines that are turned over 6000 from time to
time must have at least the Achiever and if often in the 5500 to 6500 our
Equalizer would be extremely smart. If you have any doubts - get the
Equalizer. We can assist you in the selection of our Achiever or Equalizer at
the time you make your purchase. All Berg pulleys are dynamically balanced.
Both use the stock pulley bolt/washer or our new GB 435S bolt and Belleville
washers and come with copyrighted Berg instructions and NEW higher torque
specifications.
Another factor is belt groove wear. Berg steel pulleys will provide up to 10
times longer life as compared to an aluminum pulley.
