Date: Thu, 3 Jun 2004 14:25:32 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2]child seats and child comfort

>3 point harness on a collapsable bed, 

The collapsible bed part is actually a little
more of a concern.  In a frontal impact, this
could fold forward, but it certainly any worse
with seatbelts than without.  

>but this is something that I would definately
call the department of motor vehicles about,

The clerks at DMV aren't engineers.  

>and I might even inquire with my insurance
carrier to find out if any 'creative' 
setup would render my insurance policy
ineffective.

Never heard of any such provisions.  It would
probably be void anyway.  Negligence on the part
of the owner is exactly what the policy is
designed to cover, whether it be negligently
maintaining the vehicle or negligently driving
the vehicle.  

>he got pulled over one night by the State Police
and they ticketed him for not wearing a seat
belt...the judge threw it out.  

This is the law in every state with which I am
familiar.  

>The judge then informed John(my buddy) that if
he had modified the vehicle ...that it was very
likely that law and the insurance company 
would not have been on John's side because he was
not qualified to make such an adaptation.

The insurance company is never on your side.  The
"judge" is probably talking too much here.  He
was capable of reading the seat belt statute, but
.....  Keep in mind that in many states, the
"judge" that determines speeding tickets isn't
even an attorney, and if he is, well lets just
say that it's not a desirable job for most
attorneys.  

>There are people who do this type of adaptation
on vehicles for a living.

Who?  The folks at Simpsons seat belts who adapt
Nascar vehicles?  The guys who bolt them on to
sandrails?  Who does this for a living?  You
expect to pay an engineer to do it?  Any idea how
much that will cost?  Gonna provide a few extra
vehicles for crash testing?

I'm surprised that any of you would be hesitant
to use the stock holes for what they are intended
to be used for.  VW saw the future and was
prepared.  I won't hesitate.  To do otherwise
would be to suggest that allowing your little one
to be tossed through a window is better.   
