Date: Thu, 03 Jun 2004 21:22:28 -0400
From: Jeff Myer <jmyer(-at-)Myermountain.com>
To: Type2(-at-)Type2.com
Subject: Fuel Tank Breather Elbow part number and availability (And

Hi all,
	While my engine and tranny are out and I am waiting waiting for parts I 
decided to tear into some other maintenance items. One of these items 
happened to be pulling the Fuel Tank access cover and poking around. My 
hope was to replace the various hoses that are part of the 
venting/evaporation system.
	Upon looking into this area I have found the rubber elbow (See Item #8 
on the following Microfiche 
http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell/Microfiche/t202110.gif )

I think that the part number is 211 201 157 A which does come up on a 
bus depot search. I am wondering if a: Am I using the right part number? 
b: Has anyone had luck procuring this from BD or anywhere else? My other 
parts will be coming in soon and I dont want to wait too long to get 
this straight.

I also have identified the need for a new passenger (us) side tail light 
inside cover (Remove to get at the wire connections to the tail light.) 
(Item 27 in the following Microfiche 
http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell/Microfiche/t209810.gif ) If anyone has 
extras that they are looking to get rid of, let me know. Condition is 
not really critical, I am not restoring at this point just damage 
control.;). Also wondering if the assembly 211945231 available from BD 
comes with this cover?

Lastly, (I asked the list about this a year ago and didnt follow through 
  on th offers I had ....shame on me :(  ) I need a drivers seat for a 
72 bus in any servicable condition. My wife cannot drive the bus with 
the Rabbit seat I retrofitted. She is really anxious to drive the bus. I 
am in connecticut and would be willing to drive a bit to get one or pay 
shipping. Anyway, let me know.

By the way, I will be posting some pics of my latest bus endevours in 
the near future (even though my bus is in very poor condition in 
comparison to others that have pics out there) hopefuly as things 
progress my pics will give hope to others with less than excellent 
conditions.

Wow, that was way more than I intended to write. -Jeff
