From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 4 Jun 2004 05:53:34 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2]child seats and child comfort

> In response to something offlist:

If discussing child safety in a VW bus is offlist, then lets just say that
we are discussing attatching a VW bus to a car seat.

>Some attorneys out there will roll the dice on almost anything.

agreed.  'tis the age of litigation after all...

> But you can be sued for not adding seatbelts too, especially since the
reinforced mounting areas are there and you know they are.

see prior response above.  I am not privy to whether or not he has a cabinet
in the way or what.  I can certainly feel mounts under the vinyl in my
busses, sure.

> You can be sued for driving a vehicle that is
> inherently too dangerous <snip> You can be sued for not buying a 5 star
rated
> Windstar or something.
<snip>
> You get the point.

Indeed I get the point.  To continue on smacks of green eggs and ham.. Sam I
am (sorry I just couldn't resist)

> But any suit ultimately lands in front of a jury, lay people like you and
everyone else in the community.  And you can explain that you preferred to
leave the vehicle as is and allow the kids to be ejected out the windows.

Owch Nemo, that's harsh.  All I was saying is that a person should be aware
of what the DMV expects in these situations.  A clerk can tell him that.  As
for the people who are better qualified to give info on where to secure
harnesses, I would more than likely look into my local race shop that builds
roll cages into 4 x 4's and such.  That was my thought.  Are these people
better qualified?  I sure hope they are, because I don't know who else I
would ask.  If they aren't qualified to put in safety equipment, then maybe
they should look into a profession that puts their business endeavors in a
less risky and litigious position.  I know that anybody can be dragged
kicking and screaming into court for just about anything, but to do nothing
or to do something without any attempt to find out what the situation may be
(if there is an accident) is not so wise.  I completely agree that child
safety is a necessity.  I sincerely hope that I did NOT give the impression
that he should do nothing and conscent to ejecting his baby out of the bus.
This was never my intent.  So in summary...
Accidents=bad,..... Safety Equipment=good
'nuff said

Seann Stafford
76' T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
76' T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
