Cc: Type2(-at-)type2.com, buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Fri, 4 Jun 2004 19:52:12 -0400
To: The Bug Pack <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Woohoo!!!!!  FI REVERSION COMPLETED!!!

Hi Volks,

This week I almost gave up hope. On Tuesday I was very close to 
complete. I found the remaining problem.... The big rubber gaskets 
between the runners and head were leaking.

It was on Tuesday night when I went out to solve that problem that I 
noticed a bigger problem.... The tin that fits between the alternator 
and the #2 piston was sitting on my workbench.

I said a few bad words. Luckily no-one heard me.

Oh well, it had to come apart anyway... I'll just pull the top 1-2 tin 
and fit the smaller piece in from the top!

It wasn't quite that easy. It took Wednesday night AND Thursday night 
to get that tin installed and put the engine back together.  And no 
matter how hard I looked, I could not find the vacuum hose that runs 
from the decel valve to the T at the plenum. I capped off the brake 
booster and fabricated a new line with a peice of 1/2" fuel hose.

Then I started it up..... And it died. Just like it did last week. I 
went to bed last night a VERY unhappy person.

Weber carbs and Solex PDSIT's danced like demonic sugarplums in my head 
all through the night. But there was no

More sleuthing this afternoon found the problem... another vacuum leak 
at the cold start valve.  I pulled it off, put some "Seal-all" under 
it, bolted it back in and slathered some RTV over it for good measure. 
Then I reassembled the fuel line and installed the single-vac 
distributor while I waited for the sealants to cure. That was a long 
wait.

When I lit it up, it ran nicely. I adjusted the timing, lowered the 
idle, and took it for a spin.  Woohoo!!!!!

I quickly discovered that late baywindows without power brakes are not 
much fun on test drives if you want to wind out a motor. So I took 
easy. The powerband is a bit different, I think that's mostly the 
distributor. If I let the clutch out in first at idle the bus just 
crawls down the road without lurching or stuttering. My carbs were 
never that well behaved.

Anyway, I have to go fill the tank and take this baby for a longer test 
run. Tomorrow I'm off to cottage country for a Potts' Boys weekend with 
my dad and brothers, that will be the test cruize. Wish me luck. Next 
week the trailer hitch goes back on and we head up to BusFusion on 
Friday night.

Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.geocities.com/busesofthecorn
