Date: Fri, 4 Jun 2004 20:15:52 -0700 (PDT)
From: jim <jiminwis(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: vndrwrff(-at-)hotmail.com
Subject: re: solar panel

aaron asked about putting a solar panel (PV panel) on
his van.
>  I am currently looking at the 100 W 
> SolarPro put out by ICP Solar 
> (www.icpsolar.com) which is 30 lbs. but comes with a

> mounting kit and charge 
> controller.  I would be using it to run a 3A fridge 
> and charge the battery 
> when I am in the wilderness for more than a couple 
> days.

I looked up the panel that you mention, and it seems
to me that it is overpriced.  I was recently quoted
around $3.50 per watt from a local retailer of PV
equipment.  I would recommend contacting someone
locally that sells PV equipment.  I like Kyocera PV
panels myself, as they are a very reputable company
with an excellent product. (I am considering adding
about 12--120 watt panels to my home system this
summer).
Do a Google search for "Kyocera photovoltaic KC120"
and see what you come up with.  Check for a dealer
close to you. I think that if you go to the Kyocera
site http://www.kyocerasolar.com and fill out the
"contact" page, I think that your closest dealer will
contact you.  Otherwise, these folks have a good
reputation:http://www.windsun.com/ and you could check
their site for prices.  
Also, I suspect that a single 100 watt panel is going
to be marginal in running a 3 amp refrigerator. 
Figure that the fridge runs 50% of the time, so that
is 36 amp-hours a day. If you get an average of 6 amps
out of a 100 watt panel (which would be really lucky)
it would have to put out this 6 amps for at least 6
hours a day.  Since you would be charging a battery
you need to figure about 20% system loss in the
battery charging process, so you need another hour or
so of full strong sun each day.  If you use any of the
stored power for lights, etc., of course you will need
more hours of sun.  A lot will depend on just what
part of the country and time of year you will be using
the PV system.
As far as mounting the PV panel on the van, I am
afraid that I can't give you any help as I haven't
done that.  I would suggest at least considering
making it a removable mount so that you can put the PV
panel out in the full sun while you park the camper
bus in the shade.  If the panel is mounted on the
roof, you will have to park in the sunniest area as
far out of shade as possible for maximum power output.
Hope this  is of help to you.

Jim, in western Wisconsin, using wind and solar power
since 1977
