Date: Fri, 4 Jun 2004 22:51:00 -0500
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
To: "Bill Price" <bprice(-at-)rosesing.com>
From: David Schimpf <dschimpf(-at-)charter.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] helpin' hippies

On Saturday, June 5, 2004, at 01:56 PM, Bill Price wrote:

> So yesterday at the farmer's market, there's more smelly hippy kids 
> than
> usual so I get to talking to a few who
> are friends of mine and find out that the Rainbow people were in the
> mountains near us and have descended for
> mirthmaking.
>
> My friends put me on to this guy who's engine is having troubles.  
> Here is
> where it gets interesting.
> I know I make fun of the hippy kids, but I was one for awhile and 
> though I
> still consider myself
> left, lib, anti- whatever, the hardcore stinky kids are amusing to me 
> now,
> god bless 'em.

We ran into a Rainbow Family family three years ago in June just after 
crossing the Missouri south of I-90. We had passed them (they had a 
school bus converted to a mobile home and a full-sized 80s vintage 
Dodge or Chevy conversion van) in the town just before the crossing. We 
had been having problems with the distributor not staying seated and 
the timing advancing suddenly, and I wanted to stay off the freeway.

As we were climbing up the long, steep western bluff of the Missouri, 
the distributor did "it" again, and I quickly pulled off the road into 
a gravel parking area. Shortly after I pulled in, started to look at 
the engine, and realized I needed to let it cool down a little, the big 
blue bus pulled into the same area, followed by the van. It was a 
family of four, with another one on the way. The guy offered to help, 
and he managed to get the distributor seated better than I was able. He 
was having problems with timing, the wrong muffler, and bad brakes on 
the bus. He borrowed my timing gun to set his timing.

While he and I were working on the vehicles (it was really hot and 
humid), his wife took my wife and all the kids (we were traveling with 
two as well) down to the Missouri to swim and cool down. They had 
picked up a hitchhiker who also helped us. My son found some really 
cool quartzite in the riverbank. The guy and I had a nice talk, 
inviting us to the Rainbow Family's annual gathering (which was in Utah 
that year, I think). He explained that they lived on the road, settling 
in one place long enough to earn enough money to keep going. They also 
usually settled somewhere for winter. When my wife asked about how they 
taught the kids, the other wife said, "The road will teach them all 
they need to know."

They were heading west, with grinding brakes and no back pressure, able 
to go about 20 up a hill in the bus. We offered to pay for them for a 
night in Badlands NP (there were tornado warnings, and in fact we were 
caught in a near-tornado a couple hours later just outside White 
River), but being true Rainbowers, they objected to having to pay 
anything to enter or camp on public land.

I've thought of that family often since then, and hope the wind is 
always at their back, and that their bus stops and starts exactly when 
and where they want it to.

For more information about the Rainbow Family gatherings, see:
http://www.welcomehome.org/rainbow.html

My sense is that there is probably the same proportion of nice folks 
and jerks among them as among us. Most of the people we meet on the 
road (5-6 weeks every year for the last six years; we're leaving for 
six weeks a week from today) have been good, honest, decent folk.

I think Ron's suggestions about bartering and setting limits are 
excellent.

In any case, I hope Gravy and company are able to get back on the road 
soon, and make it to the gathering in early July.

David Schimpf
76 High-Top Westy: Guactoo
