Date: Wed, 05 Mar 2003 10:46:52 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Jon DeVos <hippygarden(-at-)comcast.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] My bus is tired

>With my lack of technical knowledge I don't know how it say it better: my 
>bus is tired.  I have been told by several people, most who know less 
>about busses than I do, and a few who profess to know more, that my '78 
>Bus is just "too old" to be my daily driver,

Well if you expect the comforts and HP of a modern SUV then yes it's too 
old. However if you become adept at repairs and preventative maintenance 
you can do what these busses were designed to do: provide daily 
transportation at 60 mph. There will be more maintenance required than a 
more modern vehicle though as older cars needed more attention when they 
were new - it was part of the design.

There are PLENTY of people who think a modern car is worn out after 100K 
miles and they require a newer car - - - I mean a new car payment. Lots of 
folks go from car payment to car payment, never living without a $400 
payment each month for the better part of their lives. It only takes a 
couple hundred a month conservatively invested to be a millionaire if you 
start at 25 years old and invest til you're 65 even with market ups and downs.

Frankly I'd rather have the million bucks than a different car every 3 years.

Your bus is NOT suitable for use any further from home (or walking distance 
from home) IF you do not learn to do some maintenance or repairs. ANY old 
car be it Volkswagen or Corvair or Porsche or Mustang that is 30 years old 
or older is going to have problems from time to time. Shops LOVE to see 
non-car people with car problems come for help. Some are very honest and 
economical and some are not. I've seen too many that aren't honest to 
blindly trust my wallet to a shop. Even if you can't do the repair 
yourself, at least know what repair is necessary and what type of work and 
parts will be required BEFORE you go to the shop. If you don't they can 
charge you anything and repair anything (or nothing) and leave you broke or 
worse broken down 200 miles further down the road AGAIN because they 
charged you for a good repair but put it back together with bailing wire 
and glue.

Too many shops out there that haven't seen an aircooled VW since the later 
70's and even then couldn't do a satisfactory repair then let alone now 30 
years later.

>  let alone take it on trips like Everybus (which unfortunately we have to 
> skip this year, boo hoo.)

Go. These busses could go around the world 30 years ago and they can today. 
They only things different is the age of your vehicle and the (lack of) 
maintenance during that 30 years. Hills are still hills, hot weather is 
still hot, going 60 mph is still alot of work.

Learn the difference between a repair and a proper repair, the difference 
between auto parts and GOOD auto parts and you're unstoppable. I only use 
cheap parts when I know it isn't a safety item (who cares if my stereo 
sounds cheap) and if it's easy to replace again when the part fails (being 
cheap catches up with me).

I don't cheap out on things that stop me (brakes, tires, brake lines, 
master cylinders), turn me (steering and tires and shocks), and retain me 
(seat belts). Oh yeah - and lighting.

>I respect the age of my bus, but  it used to be able to have a fair amount 
>of acceleration to pull out into traffic and could hit 75 on the highway 
>if necessary.  Now it can barely go 50, had no acceleration and basically 
>feels as if it is stuggling under a heavy weight. It has had a recent 
>tune-up; all the fuel lines have been replaced (healthy fear of fires); I 
>replaced the fuel filter and the air filter.  A cracked vacuum line was 
>replaced, which helped only a tiny bit.  The timing is ok.  The 
>compression is 120 all around.  I am  getting depressed because  I strive 
>to take good care of my bus and am under the impression that lots of you 
>guys are able to use your busses for daily transport, not just shows and 
>stuff.  I will be heartbroken if I have to take it off the road; I know in 
>my gut that I will not have to , I guess I just need a little emotional 
>support.  Thanks in advance, Beth in NJ

There is more to this than this. Leak down tester. Is the timing advancing 
at higher engine speeds? Carb or injection? If carb - is it clean, are the 
jets clean, is it adjusted properly, does it have any vacuum leaks, does 
the intake manifold have any leaks? If multiple carbs - are they balanced? 
Are the carbs jetted properly? Is the exhaust blocked or did somebody stuff 
potatoes in there? Injection: have you tested each and every sensor and 
injector? Don't retire this vehicle over engine problems. Your problems are 
with 1 small part on the engine. Worse case scenario replace the engine. 
I've seen LOTS of good vehicles retired over only a worn out engine.

Problems I have had that caused lack of speed: stuck brake shoes or pads, 
clogged fuel line INSIDE the gas tank (wire mess that filters out big trash 
was clogged), clogged fuel filter, kinked fuel line, bad fuel pump (no 
pressure), low compression, distributor than wouldn't advance, DWELL that 
needed adjusting, bum condensors, bum transmission (usually makes alot of 
noise), bum bearings (usually make alot of noise but sometimes will seize, 
acts like the brakes are on), and clogged carb w/vacuum leaks at adjustment 
screws and throttle shaft.

Learn to fix this stuff yourself before you get stranded or some shop takes 
your wallet. I've been to several shops were there was a "female surcharge" 
on every service they offer that was removed simply by a male presence. I 
have no problem with women and this is a new century and all but there are 
shops with a fee schedule written 1 hundred and fifty years ago.

Buy thee (or check the library) a John Muir's "How to Keep Your VW Alive 
for the Compleat Idiot"  and the Bentley manual. Read Muir's book start to 
finish (what applies to your vehicle). Zero in on what the bus should have 
had from the factory and what are changes made by previous owners. I would 
try to return it to stock where you can unless you verify that it was 
actually a functional improvement. Make sure nothing is missing (cooling tin).

I prefer Muir's layman's explanations but Bentley's procedures. Muir's book 
has a few mistakes in it best I recall and so does the Bentley but neither 
will stop you from getting your bus right to shadetree mechanic standards. 
Later wehn you worry about the ash content of your oil or the torque 
required to tighten a bolt dry vs. oiled vs. greased vs. coated with 
never-seize then you'll probably develop a few gripes about both books.

The procedures will require about $100 of starter tools. If you can afford 
better then buy better. You're going to need access to a timing light, 
dwell meter, compression meter, and the leak down gauge I think you can 
make (or pay somebody to measure leakdown for you). The wrenches and 
screwdrivers are just basic stuff - Sears or Lowes or Home Despot will have 
decent starter stuff. If you go pro though I hear you can't live without 
Snap-On (<grin>).

If the price tag makes you shiver just remember how much the mechanic 
charges. You're going to spend $200 for anything significant done at a 
shop. If you keep yourself out of the shop 2 or 3 times you've paid for 
your tools and books.

Good luck and CHECK YOUR STEERING COUPLER!




Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
