Date: Wed, 5 Mar 2003 21:39:24 +0500 (GMT-5)
From: <topsecret(-at-)beer.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Frustration sets in due to timing woes on 72 bus

Hey here's the scoop: I bought a 72 bus a few weeks back for $200 and it
runs great but had major acceleration issues. So a great smooth idle,
instant starting etc...
But it would barely accelerate once I got changed from 1st to 2nd etc. So
I checked the vaccuum advance and it was ruptured. So I replaced with the
exact #925 that goes with the 73 distributor . I checked and double
checked it is a 73 distributor and is timed at 10 degrees ATDC not like
the 5 degrees that the 72 one is timed at.....
So when I got the new vaccuum advance in place and got the distributor
back in the engine, I checked out my timing. Now my strobe light is non
functional at the moment, so I am just trying to get the timing in the
close vicinity of 10 ATDC, so I am using a test light and doing the static
deal...
And to make a long story as short as possible here's what the deal is:

My engine will not run when the distributor is set at 10 ATDC! It will
idle very very low and just sputter out. To low.
But, if I advance the timing to well before TDC then it will idle very
smoothly (but it still doesn't accelerate, I took it around the block).
It will hold an idle up until about the TDC mark and then it will quit....

So what the heck is going on? What did the previous owner do?

I pride myself in doing my own troubleshooting and repairs and it really
stings to think I might have to take this bus into the shop to have it
expensivly diagnosed.......
So ANY suggestions would be really appreciated.....

FYI, the valves are all on at .006, all new
plugs/points/rotor/cap/condenser/ etc.
Good compression and all that.......

I am stumped.

Mark

                                                             
----------                                                     
                                                               
Why be boringcat(-at-)badjob.com when you can be beerlover(-at-)beer.com?
                                                               
Sign up for Beer Mail today - http://www.beer.com !            
