From: "David Mayes" <mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com>
To: "Vintagebus(-at-)Type2. Com \(E-mail\)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 10 Nov 2002 08:03:06 -0800
Subject: metal from a 62 bus to a 64 sc

Hi All,

After a bit more looking at the new S09, the frame section at the point of
the bend looks quite rotten... and it's been repaired already once before(!)
so when we applied a bit of pressure to the whole thing, away it went.  My
guess is the weight of the ruthmann puts quite a bit of stress at this point
of the frame.  It must have cracked before and started the rust process.
We'll get it off the trailer today and try and bend it back enough to drive
it home.  Ok, if it's drivable, I'm gonna drive it in the parade here in
town tomorrow (Monday) for veterans day and surprise the wife with a sign
hanging from the main boom saying 'happy birthday'.  I'll post pics with the
expression on her face :-)

Anyway, my mind is going down the path of biting the bullet and restoring
this thing nicely.  Not  an AR DC resto (knock on wood) but something that
will allow me to use it in the end.  Whether or not it will go back to being
beige with a orange top coat is still a question.  By the way, the sticker
on the side of the doors read ' Freiwillige Feuerwehr Hohne' which
translates to the Volunteer Fire Brigade of Hohne.  Hohne is a small town
near Wolfsburg.

So, if the frame is in need of major repair in this location, and the part
right behind both dog legs also needs to be replaced, that means I need
metal.  I know of a 62 15 window bus near me that is nearly stripped of all
its hardware (by whom I havent a clue ;-) ) and several people have had the
opportunity to take it away and restore it but none have stepped forward.
Would the dog legs and other tid bits fit???  Also, I would need a new floor
section or at least on the drivers side.  Anybody have a nos piece, good
used, or a suggestion for a replacement piece that would be fairly
respectable?  I think there are a few of the outward frame supports that
could be replaced as well.   And while I'm at it, I may as well replace the
lower nose section below the seam or at least the inner section.


Oh, by the way, the engine serial number is 0348962... it has M-codes for
the 1500/heavy duty package (it's a January 6, 1964 bus)   Could this be the
og engine?????


Thoughts, comments...


David
http://www.dsquared-dev.com/davem/64SO9.htm
(new pictures up and the story.)
