Date: Sun, 10 Nov 2002 21:35:12 -0600
From: The Johnson's <bugnbat(-at-)swbell.net>
To: Vintagebus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Transmission update

I drained the rgb's and main box on the transmission today, and I
discovered a healthy amount of metal filings on the drain plug for the
main box.  That could explain the whine, I loaded it back up with GL-4
90W and the whine has become less pronounced.  I am going to drain in
again in a week and inspect the plugs for more shavings, if it is bad
then I will rent a car, if not then I'm taking the trip in the bus.
This will be my first major trip in the bus and as such it has been
getting a lot of attention.  In the last two weeks I have:  fixed the
turn signal wiring (along with hazards), dome light wiring, checked and
adjusted the valves, changed out the release bearing (had to pull engine
for that), adjusted the emergency brake linkage, fixed the defroster
(had to rig a tube from exchanger to body, at least until my new one
arrives from depot), replaced the sunroof vinyl, cleaned the windows
(hey I can take credit for that, there's 21 of them, and it took longer
than the valve adjustment.), replaced a missing exhaust clamp (which
along with the missing heater tube made for some nasty fumes in the
cab.), fixed my horn (cracked, and tends to stop working whenever
someone cuts me off.), adjusted front headlights so that other drivers
don't hate me as much, degreased everything, crushed my fingers, changed
the transmission fluid, and felt a new feeling of dirty.
   I am more in love with her everytime I turn a screw.  She holds less
mystery for me everyday.  I do have some questions, if you have some
time?

A PO sealed up the area over the engine where the spare tire is supposed
to go, should I find a donor bus for the metal or does someone sell the
section I need?

I think a PO changed out my interior door handles, removed pulls (all of
them except passenger grab bar), removed the side door straps (the ones
that prevent them from opening to far.), so I am in need of a lot of
interior parts, if anyone has a set that they would like to sell or know
of a resonable parts supplier could you let me know?

Is a 1776cc just a 1600cc with larger pistons?  does anyone know what
size?  what stock parts are affected by the different engine?

I need to get my locks rekeyed so that they all work, and with just one
key, who should I see for that?

I should be traveling to Taos for thanksgiving, is there anywhere
between Stillwater, OK and there that I should visit?  (for parts, good
resturants, scenic views, whatever.  This is a real open ended question
I know but I am interested in what I will hear.)

That is enough for now, I have to get ready for school, it's tougher
when your the teacher.

Tim Johnson    and   Clementine
28 year old man       35 year old bus

P.S. as soon as I hit send it's back to ordering more parts for my girl.
