From: "Alejandro Vieira" <bsnman(-at-)adelphia.net>
To: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "Don Tuleja" <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
Date: Fri, 15 Apr 2005 23:10:52 -0600
Subject: missing california

Ay carumba, Don! Are you really trying to p$%s off the people who already 
live here? See below...

Cons:
Where's the ocean? I'm going through ocean salt withdrawls. And no, road 
salt doesn't count.
Me: Duh. There ain't one here. Didja look at a map before you left? And we 
don't use road salt, we use dirt. Salt eats cars. Ask a list member from 
east of the Mississippi.

Where are the other VWs? In Cali there are still bugs galore, plus fairly 
frequent sightings of busses. Here I might see one VW of any kind each week. 
I think it's the same guy too... Club meets don't count.
Me: See your complaint about Highlands Ranch below. Yeah, a lot of people 
here only want to drive the shiniest newest stuff. Congrats on joining the 
small crowd in CO who enjoys bucking the trend.

Everything is a (-at-)#%^$#$^ hill! I'm getting tired of doing 40mph in a 55 
because of yet another darn near vertical hill. Dry skin sucks.
Me: Again, duh, it's CO. Topo map this time? 2 possible solutions: 1) Move 
further east of town. Eastern CO is really just like western Kansas and 
Denver is right on the transition between the two styles of terrain. 2) Have 
Painter's Grinding build you a big-honkin' motor to push you up the hill 
faster.

The city I moved into, Highlands Ranch, is so full of elitists that I keep 
waking up from nightmares that I moved into Anaheim Hills.
Me: Yup. Again, be proud to buck the trend.

People that grew up here don't know how to drive on snow. And this sunny 
California boy does better than they do.
Me: I'll bet that 75% of the people here didn't grow up here. In fact, most 
of them are from CA. People who did grow up here do know how to deal with 
driving on snow. They don't. It'll melt. Soon. Real soon. And, if they have 
to drive they know that four wheel drive doesn't equal four wheel stop.

I really enjoy your posts usually, Don. You've got to understand that we get 
a LOT of people who move here from elsewhere because it really is a nice 
place to live, and then complain that it's not like home. Well, frankly, 
it's not like home! But, like anywhere else, it's not for everyone. I could 
never live in SoCal. Too many people. Come check out the clubs, get to know 
people, have fun. We're pretty fringe out here, but we kind of enjoy it 
being that way. Check out the Colorado VW Bus Club. There are lots of nice 
people there.

Alex
Colorado Springs

PS Feel free to come down and slap James Dobson anytime you'd like, as per 
PMH's suggestion! ;)
