Date: Sat, 16 Apr 2005 21:52:41 -0400
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Chris Chubb <cchubb(-at-)codegurus.com>
Subject: Strange loss of oil pressure.

I was driving over to my mates house this morning. It was cold in the 
morning, around 40. I had been driving around yesterday, with no problems. 
Well, I fired up the bus, let it idle for a few seconds while I got 
strapped in and put my sunglasses on. Checked the oil pressure and it was 
high-normal, around 40 psi, what I expect when it is cold.

About a 1/2 mile from the house, mostly neighborhood streets with lots of 
little hills and stop signs I look down and notice that my oil pressure 
gauge is reading 0 psi. Bad. I check the idiot light, it is on too. (I have 
had the wire fall off the pressure sensor before, so I check both.) Even 
worse. I pull over at the next strip mall, and the engine has started that 
clanking noise. Yikes. I shut down and start thinking.

I check the obvious. I have oil. It is near the bottom mark, but still 
there. I add enough to bring it back up to the high mark. I check the hoses 
running to the filter. One has a busted clamp. I take it off and fix the 
clamp and put it back on. I start the engine back up again, still no 
pressure, still some rod knock noise. Shut down again. (Only ran for about 
5 seconds each time I did start it up.) The engine is obviously not puking 
oil out and the filter looks fine. There is a good bit of oil around the 
rear of the engine, but nothing new is coming out. This doesn't look like 
something I can fix in the parking lot. I walk across the street to the 
garage and the tow truck guy can come and get me immediately. $48 gets me 
home, all of 1/2 mile.

Here is the oil setup I have: 1600cc stock engine in a '71. Standard 26mm 
oil pump. Berg pressure relief oil cover. Full flow filtration with filter 
behind left wheel. I have only about 3000 miles since I completely rebuilt 
the engine with a new case, pump, etc.

My first prognosis is that the Berg pressure relief has somehow stuck open 
at high pressure (cold oil plus some 3500 rpm stints pulling up hills on a 
cold engine) and is just circulating the oil within its self. Or my pump 
has spun on the shaft or lost it's cam drive tang. Or the filter is clogged 
and not bypassing or the oil hose is clogged somehow. Something is not 
passing oil. Perhaps the pressure dump valve is stuck down. But that 
usually leaves enough pressure to at least register. I am getting nothing. 
0 psi.

Well, I pull the bumper, rear apron, exhaust, jack the engine, rear hanger 
bar, pulley wheel. I pull the spring and ball from the Berg pressure relief 
cover and it looks fine. The ball is still in there, smooth, clean and not 
stuck back. I put it back in. I pull the pump cover. All looks fine in 
there and the gears are being driven. So that is good. I rustle up a new 
gasket, clean the old one off and put the cover back on. So I figure some 
more. I am worried that maybe the pickup tube fell off somehow. Never heard 
of that happening, but how else would it not be getting oil pressure? I 
pull out the rear pressure plunger and it is clean and sliding freely. 
Nothing stuck there. I pull off the return line from the filter to the 
block, stick it in my oil pan and have the neighbor hit the starter for me. 
It belches oil while the engine tries to start. I don't want to run it long 
with no oil, so I figure that at least the engine is pumping something. I 
didn't get as much oil as I thought, I figured it would pump more, but it 
was just starting. I hooked the line back up and started it again. This 
time I had oil pressure! Yay! In a few seconds I had 40 psi again. I also 
had no muffler, so I shut it down after about 15-20 seconds. That is where 
I am now.

I didn't find any obvious problems. The pump had prime when it started. 
What did I do? Do you think that the pump just sucked air at some point and 
lost it's prime, never to get it back? Or perhaps one of the pressure 
reliefs was actually stuck and it just unstuck it's self when I messed with 
it or just with time. I am stumped.

Anybody else have a prognostication?

Chris in VA
