Date: Sun, 17 Apr 2005 19:20:47 -0600
From: Jack Hattaway <jack(-at-)law.utah.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 78 automatic update.

Earlier this past week, I was chasing down a squirrely problem with the
electricity flowing through the double relay. The bus would start right
away, then die within a couple of seconds. I suspected the cold start
injector was working correctly, but was stymied as to what would prevent
the injectors from injecting.

I got stumped troubleshooting when tests four and five in the Bentley
10.8, Section 4.1, current supply tests 4. and 5. failed. After much
poking, prodding, profanity, and pleading, I discovered an "extra" wire
missing its end underneath the airconditioning compressor. I'm not
currently planning to use the AC, and I had assumed the wire in question
went to the the rear light assembly and included an inline fuse. It
turned out to be the ignition circuit's connection to coil terminal 15.
Once I corrected the error of my mistake, terminal 88b on the double
relay began correctly sending power to the resistor block, the injectors
worked correctly, and the engine started right up.

After swapping out the AFM and coil, I got the idle mostly squared away.
I still require a bit of fine tuning.

While on a test drive earlier this afternoon, it seemed to me as though
the automatic transmission was getting confused while climbing hills. My
best description will be it is as if the tranny is switching rapidly
between kickdown mode and normal.

I've kludged together a temporary solution to not having a strictly 
proper set of throttle linkage -- Michael Knight pointed me at 
an auction which had part of the linkage, thus saving my bacon. I've got 
a spring on the back and will order the correct part thanks to Greg
Thompson -- neither my local VW dealer nor I could find the a automatic
linkage in the fiche.

Is the spring a sufficient causal factor for the transmission to be
behaving in this way? Do I need to be looking at other issues?

As always, thanks in advance for your advice, calm words, encouragement,
and anecdotes,

jack


-- 
second star to the right and straight on 'til morning
http://nomuse.com
