Date: Mon, 30 Jul 2001 10:54:16 -0700 (PDT)
From: Nicholas Palmer <nicholas(-at-)slackers.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Valve stretch, EGR filter, etc...

So I spent a good portion of the weekend working on my '77 2.0L FI bus,
much to my satisfaction. I did the valves again, and was pleased that they
were not nearly as far out of wacky as the last time. I put on new heads
about 3500 miles ago, and have seen considerable stretching on the exhaust
valves and some on the intake. My first question is, how much stretching
is normal on new heads? Also, how much stretch would indicate immanent
breakage? I have been keeping a log of how I find the valves each time
under the presumption that more info is better, but I am not sure what
good the data I have been collecting is.

I also got my new EGR filter installed (from the Bus Depot, thanks Ron) so
that I can pass California emissions. (Is it me, or does the EFR filter
make it harder to get the valve cover off. No wonder people take these
things off.) My engine is now stock + cat, so I expect that it will pass
emissions and inspection with flying colors. I noticed that it seemed to
take longer to warm up today, but it was cloudy so it could be just that.
I will have to observe the temp some more before I can say for sure how
much this has lowered my temps. I'll let you know how it goes.

My next question is about the mechanical linkage that goes between the EGR
valve and the throttle. I have read that it is desirable to have the EGR
valve closed at idle, and full throttle, but I am not exactly sure how to
set this up. I have never seen one working properly, and didn't find a
good reference on it in any of the standard books, but I may have missed
it. It seems like the bracket that the linkage hooks into on the throttle
is not oriented correctly. When the throttle is at idle the bracket points
to the front left side of the engine (F is F). At full throttle it points
to the front right side of the compartment, which means that the valve is
open at full throttle. It seems like it should go from front right to back
right, but perhaps it needs to go some other way. Does anybody know for
sure? I ran out of daylight yesterday to fool with it a lot and see if  I
could get it to work with another orientation, so I thought I would ask.

Thanks so much,
-Nick



