From: "incynr8" <alalumia(-at-)rcn.com>
To: <general(-at-)oldvolks.com>, <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Date: Thu, 8 Jul 2004 08:53:25 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] re: listees

I beleive there are few other factors:

Intrest and attrition:

Alot of the good splits are already saved and owned, with a few getting
traded around to those in the know, preferably. Others are long term resto
projects the brave and already knowledgable (again) are taking on with
vigor.
Those with buses, get more buses. I think it is more rare now to start with
a split, I did, and watched others that did also come and go off the VB list
fairly quickly, with few reporting long term success.

I think we have the mettle to take on VWs. Some don't.. It just is alot of
work to resurrect a 30-40+ year old car, and the 'cheapies' splits or bays
that get sold out there just aren't as ready as they seem. We all have alot
of blood, sweat, and cash to spill to get there. It takes time, sometimes
years. And the annoying stuff, like that motor that has to come out AGAIN,
as we learn things, some just can't handle that part. You have to do all
this YOURSELF, or it costs even more, and you run the risk of it being done
wrong. How many times did we read posts about the "bad mechanic in
whereever", that f'ed up again? This also costs people precious cash and
time.

Baywindows are more plentiful, there are just more out there and on the
road. So more are being bought, sold and driven.
Also they were made to 1979, so by attrition, there are more newer 79s than
older 59s or 69s'. Less time to be neglected and rust (on this coast)

The mechanical commitment must be made in proportion to your ability ,
facilities, time, resources of others that actually know their stuff, and
the almighty dollar.

I think we are reaching the apex of already owned buses vs new vailable
owners. I have seen this in fewer (hey I am new guy/gal posts). More like,
hey, I bought ANOTHER...I myself just found a 64 down the road.... :)


Keep.....saving.....buses.....
AL
