Date: Thu, 08 Jul 2004 08:55:35 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] 76 broke down.........ideas?

At 07:07 AM 07/08/2004, you wrote:

>Here is what happened.  Van has been running great.
>
>Started losing power and backfiring.............had to "limp" about 5 more
>miles to  a friends house to get off the interstate.

Could be low volts/amps. Verify battery by load testing and rebound, then 
main electrical feeds and grounds. When that is spec, verify feed and 
ground to the coil. Confirming points condition and gap then spark energy 
at the plug gap, then timing at spec.


>All vacuum attached............

Now comes simple 2 minute spray test which can prove leaks don't exist or 
do and where they are.

>.....oil level about 2" high, so i suspect
>leaky or constant injector.

Anything that creates poor combustion can load the oil with excess gas. 
Verify compression and valves settings. When gas washes the cylinder, loss 
of compression can occur quickly and it's a possible that needs to be ruled 
out before getting to the FI control system diagnostics.

>I have to get back over there and fix it after lunch...............any
>ideas?

As well, before control systems, you must now verify no restriction in the 
fuel filter then fuel pressures and delivery volume. Your symptom can be 
caused by an overdue clogged fuel filter putting giant demands for amps on 
the pump and quickly leading to burned up pumps, as well as start passing 
particles that foul the injectors making bad spray patterns, poor 
atomization and poor combustion.

So this means, up at the very top before anything else, complete all due or 
overdue maintenance. Amazing how this solves the source of your problem 
over half the time.

Then verify good spray patterns. Pressure regulator next because if that is 
holding 5+ lbs over spec you get rich all the time from exceeding the 
control system parameters to adjust outside the range designed in. Next 
would be mixture adjustment to confirm the issue remains in the FI control 
system.

Now, get the Bentley. Step by step testing of the injection systems 
components cannot be improved by me. Diagnosis must be structured and 
defined to rule out the source of the problem in a specific order so that 
the culprit can't be missed. It's goal is to insure not wasting time/money 
on items functioning properly and using all time/money only for actual 
results.  
