From: GOBUGGIN(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 22 Mar 2002 00:38:28 EST
To: thom(-at-)calweb.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: My bus, my reply

--part1_68.1d4ed564.29cc1d54_boundary
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="US-ASCII"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

I always miss out on all the fun!!  You guys must all have computers and 
internet at work.. The threads are usually over by the time I get home from 
work.  But I guess I will reply since Mike (turkisbus)said yesterday that I 
never reply.

Tom is sooo right...  I will not make a dime off my bus.  I will be honest 
with all of you, I have $25K in parts and materials, and about 2500 hours in 
it.  Rust repair takes awhile, so does all that Kustom stuff!!  If all I did 
was stock stuff, I could slam them out!!  There's nothing to figure out..  
Some rust repair, paint and body, refurb all the original stuff, put it back 
together.   My bus is basically a win/lose deal. Good promotional tool, lose 
money when I sell!  But as Tom pointed out, it was a tool to promote our 
shop, show our work, and get our name out in a hurry.  It worked, Heck you 
guys talk about me and my bus all the time!!  And the work we are doing now, 
is atleast twice as nice as my bus!!  Come on by and check it out..

Another point you guys will more than likely find interesting.  My Oval, on 
the Sept 97 cover of HOtV's, I had $12,500 in parts and materials, probably 
1000 hours, sold it for $9500.  My single cab, March 99 Hot V's, also 
VolksWorld, also in a book, had $13,500 in receipts, another 1000 hours or 
so,  sold for $13,250.  Building VW's is not really a money making buisness.  
Especially if you build to show winning/magazine quality without taking any 
short cuts, and buying all new parts all the time.  Could you imagine if I 
PAID someone else to do all that work?  Lets see, 1000 hours x 40 an hour.. 
WOW..  Tom, how much profit did you get out of your unfinished Barndoor?  My 
bus will more than likely be the LAST killer VW I build for myself.  I always 
build every car I ever build with a purpose, to be the nicest one of it's 
kind out, period.  You can't do that on a shoe string budget.  You all should 
know this by now.  How many of you profited when you sold a VW?  An 
unrestored car is easy to make money on, I only want to hear about "nice" 
stuff that you sold, restored, refurbished or whatever.

Hideous??  Matter of opinion I think..  Hard to believe Tom would say that 
"outloud".  I would never bash ANYONE's bus to their face, or in public!!  
Somethings are better left not said.. Know what I mean??        And I look at 
back issues all the time!!  trends always come back around, and you always 
want to carry everything one step further than the last guy did.  If his bus 
was low, then you gotta go lower!!!  If he had a 2007cc, you gotta build a 
2110!  You get it.. Thats how you get in magazines, thats how you win shows.  
Yes Tom, it's creativity.  Like many have said before.. I can only look at so 
many sealing wax red buses before I feel as if I have seen them all.  A stock 
resto is sooo easy.  All you gotta do is do the work, you already know the 
entire project's layout.. Rendering.. Just get a dealer brochure.. There it 
is!!  Tom your bus is a Kustom.. How many Chrome Yellow buses were built?  

I Truley appreciate the compliment on the workmanship.  Thanks a ton.  And I 
know what you were saying, and for the most part you are not bashing me or my 
bus, just stating your taste.  And you are kinda right about shelf life.  But 
I think NO car should be shown more than one or two years.  Once everyone has 
seen it, it's old news, it's time to build another, it's time to go to the 
next level,  which is what I do..  I have never shown a car for more than one 
season.  I sell it, and build another.  I am willing to bet I will have 
hundreds of resto's under my belt before I die.. And love everyone of them..  
I like to build killer cars! Not collect them.   Once I finish them, they are 
old news to me, the fight is over.. I usually don't even drive them after a 
few months!  So I sell them and build another, building cars, my true love!   
.

Streetrods are my future.  And I am fitting right in with those guys.  I plan 
to start mine right after I sell my bus!  Someone will get a heck of a bus 
for $20K...

Take care, sleep good, and I can't wait to read all the stuff tommorow night!!
John Jones
Bus driver, soon to be full time street rodder.


--part1_68.1d4ed564.29cc1d54_boundary--
