Date: Thu, 21 Mar 2002 22:40:57 -0800
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: Scott Mc Williams <vbscott(-at-)sv2s.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] My bus, my reply

At 12:38 AM 3/22/02 -0500, GOBUGGIN(-at-)aol.com wrote:
>A stock resto is sooo easy.  All you gotta do is do the work, you already
know the 
>entire project's layout.. Rendering.. Just get a dealer brochure.. There it 
>is!!

Sorry, but I completely disagree with you here. Just my point o' view, but
when I see a custom (or Kustom...whatever) all I think is how easy it must
be to do that. Don't get me wrong...I know it takes a LOT of work to shave
the door handles or "french" in the taillights (not really ever sure what
that meant...but Hot VWs used to love that term). But you don't have to
follow any rules. I also agree that going custom is more creative than
stock, but that's not what I'm into for my car. I have tons of creativity
in all aspects of my life. I like to think that just my choice of vehicle
is a creative one (hell, I COULD drive a Saturn...well, no I guess I
couldn't). But choosing to paint a vintage bus Fuscia metallic whatever is
MUCH easier than finding the RIGHT shade of Sealing Wax Red. There's a 50s
deluxe that I've seen at a bunch of shows that's SUPER bright SWR...they
tried it, missed it and it shows. And the basic body work is the same on
any bus...just cause you're going to paint it Dove Blue doesn't mean that
you don't want it just as straight as the custom guy.

If you're going BONE stock...you just have to watch the debates online
about which logo glass you need, which Kamax bolts you need for the rear
apron to realize that it's a HUGE chore to go that way.

There may be more physical labor in going custom, but it's certainly not
easier. John I know you did a TON of work on your bus. I'm just glad you
were savvy enough when you started to realize that there was little chance
of getting your money out of it. It's nice that there are folks with your
attention to detail around. But...being a stock freak I probably wouldn't
even notice your bus at a show. But...I know I'm in the minority! To be
honest, when I go to street rod shows (rarely) I'm the same way. Last one I
went to, there was some newer 80s-90s car parked in there and some guy was
going ballistic "get this new p.o.s. out of here" I laughed at him and
pointed out to my friends that half the cars there had newer running gear
than the one this guy was freaking out about.

Oh well...different strokes, right?

Scott
webmaster(-at-)sv2s.com


