From: jbrush(-at-)aros.net
Date: Thu, 29 Jul 2004 15:04:56 -0600
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: noisy rocker arms, dry lifters on startup

Kind of hoping to find others in the same boat with regards to the "dry lifter,
clacking rocker arm" syndrome.

My 81 Air Cooled 2.0l Vanagon (~200K) has always been used for distance travel,
and not a daily driver, so sometimes there are several weeks between starts, but
usually when it is started, it is driven for quite a distance. For years, every
now and then, it would start up and clatter, and then quiet down in no more than
a matter of minutes, but this past six months it is progressively worse. I have
taken to cranking the motor for what amounts to about 30 secs before letting it
start up, and that helps, sometimes. 

Yesterday was the worst it has been. Three days ago, it was running quietly on
long drive, but yesterday, it seemed like more than one or two rocker arms were
clattering away and I had to drive for nearly twenty minutes to get them to
quiet down. Once they did, it ran perfect like it always does, no noise, and so
smooth its hard to believe it has that many miles on it.

I run 20-50W dino. Can't use Synthetic as it blows too much oil and I would go
broke feeding that stuff to it.

I have taken to the occasional Marvel Mystery Oil treatment, and it has helped
in the past, but I question what good it does, as it stays in the crankcase for
several hundred miles, during which I continue to get the noisy rocker arms on
most occasions. I have tried different brands of oil, and have seen no better
results over time.

The filters are Mahle, but I doubt the use of the better filter does any good on
an air cooled with the filter mounted vertical, as opposed to the waterboxers
that sit on an angle. If someone has a valid design reason why the stronger
spring should have anything to do with the draining of oil from the motor with a
vertical mount filter, I am eager to learn.

Truth be told, I always used the "American" Bosch filters from the FLAPS until
maybe two years ago, and never had a problem. Its probably a coincidence that
switching to Mahle and this problem have occured at about the same time,
but........

In addition, I don't understand why my engine runs so very well even with
multiple lifters apparently not pumped up. While cruising to quiet it down, it
runs just great, sounds like a V10 Diesel. It shouldn't really hurt the engine
to drive it around to silence it, right?

Should I seek out, and replace the offending lifters? Is that a nice thing to do
to the camshaft at this advanced age? Am I doing anything that is damaging to
the engine if I just live with it for now? Considering the noise, which means
vavles are not opening all the way, I am surprised it even runs  :) 

As a final inquiry, since the problem is the lifters are draining and taking a
long time to pump back up, is it a fair guess to say they are dirty and "blocked
up," and if so, why is it recommended to use a heavier grade oil? For every
other purpose, 20-50W seems a good idea, but doesn't this symptom point to using
a lighter weight oil to pump the lifter more quickly? 

Just wondering how much longer I can go without a major disaster caused by this
'syndrome' and wondering if I am alone. Occasionally, and for a minute or so,
has been the history and I can live with that, but this year, it seems to be
worsening.  

Thanks for any ideas or comments.

John
