From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 11 Feb 2003 20:26:45 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] "Slightly Custom"

  John had over 20k into the bus not counting labor. It is a custom, could
never be stock again. It started life as an 800 dollar DD parts bus and John
resurrected it instead of parting it out or trying to restore it (which
would have been cheaper). All sheet metal is OG with very few repo parts
(except my fiberglass ribbed bumpers). You may dog it all you want, but it
still takes TALENT to do that kind of work. 
  Go to his web site and look at the stock buses he has done and is doing
and quick. If only other body shops could follow his lead and due a perfect
total resto in 2 to 3 months there would be a lot more nice buses out there
sooner!
  To see his latest personal Kustom be at VW Drag Day on March 23rd for it's
debut. It's so trick! kustom that he won't even let me see pics of it's
progress, but I know it's almost done as I am out of parts to send him for
it

ronnie

now if I could only afford to have him do my single or double cab ;?(

-----Original Message-----
From: rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com [mailto:rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com]
Sent: Tuesday, February 11, 2003 5:22 PM
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] "Slightly Custom"


While it's pushing it a tad, I still think this bus "looks" mildly 
custom. The roof is what pushes it for me. But the overall feel of 
the bus is mild custom in my opinion. Obviously people will disagree 
and I don't want to argue about it, but just wanted to chime in.

I think this is a fine looking bus and would easily be worth the 
money for someone looking for something like that. I do agree that 
making a custom bus for profit is harder to sell than a stock one. 
And many times don't fetch the same price. But I don't think this one 
is too far off for what it is. It's a nice bus. With very fine 
workmanship.

My opinion for the record.
