Date: Wed, 12 Feb 2003 20:06:38 -0500
From: Type2Guy(-at-)aol.com
To: raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: shipping(-at-)aircooled.net
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: Castrol and BP

All,

Ok I may have exaggerated a tad...may not like a sieve, but compared to the Castrol it was quite a bit, mostly from the main seal.  I have run HD30Wt Castrol with no probs.

All I have ever gotten from this engine was some mist on the bottom, and after new pushrod tubes and seals, not a drop leaks.  I have no beefs with Synth. oils...use it exclusively in my bike and some previous VW's.

Just found it strange with this current motor....leaks with it, no leaks without it.....answer is simple for me - go back to what works.  I also have no beefs about dropping a motor or doing my work....just not gonna do it if I don't have to.

IIRC, didn't one of the VW rags do a syn. vs. dino oil test?  I remember reading that and seeing a blurb about some seals leaking, deteriorating, or shrinking with the synth. oil.
After reading that blurb, I checking on the web and found a few supporting articles but never researched any further.  One of my good friends tried Mobil 1 with the same results as me...switched to Quaker State Synth. with no leaks.  There's so many factors out there that the reasons behind it are limitless.

Maybe some oil guru can enlighten us on the possibilites of seal shrinkage/deterioration with synth. vs. dino oil?

For now....I'll just keep on running the piss out of it. 

Beto
63EZ
Winchester, CA

In a message dated 2/12/2003 6:01:14 PM Eastern Standard Time, raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com writes:

> 
> 
> Now, this is my own person observation, but any crankcase that can't hold its
> oil has a serious problem in assembly.  I had the occasional notorious spot on
> the pavement like all dubs I've owned with no difference in oil usage. If you
> leak that much with Mobile 1 which has the viscosity of 20wt oil then you
> might consider cracking the block and doing a reseal and retorque.
