Date: Wed, 16 May 2012 13:26:12 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] looking for battery hold-down solution

Sure.

It's basically two threaded rods that could go all the way through the 
battery tray with nylon-lock nuts (nylock nuts) on the bottom (outside) 
of the battery tray. Get a small piece of angle steel. Drill holes 
through it about 1/2" from the ends. Lay it across the middle of the 
battery, run the threaded rods through the holes near the ends down 
through the bottom of the battery tray. The angle steel would have an 
"L" profile if you look at the end and I'd think 1/2" wide on both sides 
of the "L". Lay the one side of the angle flat on the battery front to 
back on the battery if you can imagine the battery terminals being to 
the left and right ends of the battery. Use maybe 1/4" threaded rod.

Paint it all up good so it doesn't rust.

You could take this a little further and make up a frame from the same 
materials for the battery to sit on. Bolt it through the bottom of the 
battery tray. Add a flat washer or two to lift the frame off of the 
battery tray so you can rinse it out from time to time. Now the battery 
has a frame to sit in. You can then simply use a piece of the same "L" 
angle laying across the battery with threaded rods like described above 
that reach down to tabs or nuts welded to the sides (middle of the long 
side) of the frame and thread into those tabs or the nut or a tab with a 
nut welded to the bottom of the tab.

For that matter you could go looking for a late 90s VW watercooled Golf 
or Cabrio or probably a Jetta and nab the battery tray and adapt it so 
it is bolted to the Bus battery tray and the Golf battery tray has it's 
own battery hold down system that grips the bottom of the battery. Again 
- set it up so the battery tray is a flat washer or two thickness above 
the original bus battery tray so you can rinse/blow out any debris, 
dirt, etc from time to time.

When I clean up a battery tray I wire brush or sand off any loose paint 
or rust, wash/brush it with baking soda and water (50/50), rinse it 
well, convert any rust with the brush on rust converters from the FLAPS 
(water soluable white stuff that turns black when it dries, not 
expensive), and then paint it with Rustoleum.

Hope this helps a little.

Chris in TN
