Date: Sun, 20 May 2012 11:25:26 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "deaconbluz54(-at-)yahoo.com" <deaconbluz54(-at-)yahoo.com>, type 2
Subject: Re: [T2] Front Spare Holder fell off

Ben, couple of thoughts.
 
Optimal, nutserts, you can insert them without the
tool (the big price) with a bit of care:
 
http://www.318ti.org/notebook/nutserts/index.html
 
Though McMaster-Carr shows
some relatively cheaper tools now as well on the nutsert and nutsert stud
page:
 
http://www.mcmaster.com type 3297 into the search for page 3297...
 
If you homebrew it won't be mil or aircraft spec install, but it works.  Now
you do need relatively flat holes that are ROUND for them to work.  So they
will only work likely if you can pound the metal back down flat, then
overdrill with a step bit to the next size up to get a relatively clean hole. 
You are probably at this point talking drilling out to a 3/8 to 1/2" hole for
a 1/4-5/16" nutsert.  I think with a little care you can do this likely, or
you could always drill new holes adjacent and pick whatever method you want to
fill the extras like good RTV under the holder on reinstall.  You could hang
the front of the bus off of 4 5/16" nutserts BTW I figure.
 
There are toggle
style anchors that you can drill actual size hole, but you might have to stack
washers to get into their effective hold range.
 
http://www.mcmaster.com/#butterfly-anchors/=hmanmw
 
Repairing a nose that has
had one of these on, is a real, real, real PITA, the main reason my '77 still
sports one.  The idea of supporting the tire is good as well, but not needed
with well installed nutserts.
 
Some other general thoughts, often only 2 of
the bolts are buried in the airbox and 2 are accessible, so you may only need
to rig 2 of them.  A solution I've also done is welding studs to a little
metal plate, and welding the plates to the nose over pounded down boogered out
holes.  At least lets you seal the nose from water penetration.
 
John


-----
Original Message -----
From: Ben Timmons deaconbluz54(-at-)yahoo.com
 
I was
shocked to see that the rack had been held on by some flimsy looking expansion
fasteners with 3/16" bolts!  The holes in the skin had enlarged and -- FOOP!
I'd like to put the rack back where it was, due to the 4 ugly holes and lack
of the VW logo on the nose.   The area where one would put proper bolts
through is sealed off on the other side of the duct-work which looks
immovable.  Likely why the PO used blind insertion expansion fasteners.  And
they worked for 34 years!

Does anyone have an idea of decent expansion
fasteners needed to reattach this rack?
