From: francois cyr <frankcyr45(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, francois cyr <frankcyr45(-at-)hotmail.com>
Date: Mon, 21 May 2012 11:31:49 -0400
Subject: Official cry for help.......

Hello all, ego is bruised, need help..
i am frank, i am an aircraft mechanic(why ego is bruized, these vw's kicking
my a$$)

2 x 1979 buses; both 2.0L FI.  2 problems. Ill refer to each as green monster
and grey westie (its what i normally call them...)
green monster; backround; complete rebuild (new heads, cyl, pistons,
CAM.....all is new except case, well crank has brought to machine shop,
balanced and bearing surfaces polished) i thought it was golden, easy rebuild
but here is what happened. Go to fire it and realize numnuts who who had it
before thought he would try to fire it up, story short everything was in the
wrong place and i came to realize this after many hours with wiring diagram.
i should mention i put everything back to stock setup, took the time to
measure my combustion chamber volume and adjust my compression ratio to i
think it was 7.3 or was it 7.8;1, should have wrote it down...but i know it is
what the book said i should be at...(aircraft mechanic, book is gospel)
okay as of yesterday, rewired everything and made sure all is plugged in the
correct spot, got a new batt, made sure i had a good grn, fired, well started
with a a lot lifter noise(i figured it was normal since they most likly have
bleed down over winter after 20 min first cam run)
he starts, fuel pressure good, 12,56 to coil, double relay doing what he
should, then i hook up strobe to cyl 1 lead and timing is like 50
degrees(vaccum line on) and move the dizzy clockwise and try to get timing to
up....i can barely get it onto the scale!! i then got and awesome idea to play
with the screw on the mass air flow to try to get a high idle so i can fill my
lifters as to properly adjst valves.....got him running for 2 min and then got
a low idle , it would surge(up and down, up and down) and stall. Would then
restart pretty good and do the same.....runing stock points (electronic points
coming in the mail) bosch blue coil, fuel pr is 38 psi , 30ish runing. spark
plug gap and point gap as per bently green book...(oh and dual batt setup)
question; why is timing so off, why is the engine idle so messed up?
grey westy; this guy was bought as a parts van but after looking at him good i
decided to replaced seals on the motor and run him a bit. (honestly i wanted
to do a diesel swap into this guy) Engine came out, pulled the heads (there
was a lot of carbon build -up) cleaned the heads, inspected. Jugs pulled off
to inspect rings, all looked good. So clean, paint, shine, re install, but
this guy won't start now. Started with fuel, pr is good. Cold start valve, you
can hear him spraying on start. i figure all vacumm lines are good(got richard
atwell's vacumm diagram on the garage wall, thanks ratwell!!)
here's where it get wierd, go to start him yesterday, as i start him all
lights on the dash go out - crap i got a short. i figured out that as soon as
i plug my dizzy (green wire to terminal 1 on coil) is when everything goes
out.....
question; Has anyone seen this before (i imagine, there is like 1000 years
experience here.... totally awesome!) dizzy is shorting everything....tried
the dizzy from the other one and i am getting only 10.5v at term 15. (but when
i would unplug green wire from dizzy i would get 12.54 v. - reason i tried the
other dizzy)
i am going back in the garage later and working on the rats nest of wires in
the grey westy dash and looking at conections......
Any ideas on both? i would love to take the family camping once these guys are
up and running good....... Thanks in advance
ps/ i have been reading for 2 years now in my emails but never had enough gut
(and pride)  to ask anyone here for help, this is my first time
asking...please go easy on me.....
