Date: Mon, 21 May 2012 09:20:18 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <mike.soultanian(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Official cry for help.......

On 5/21/2012 8:31 AM, francois cyr wrote:
> question; why is timing so off, why is the engine idle so messed up?

First check to see that you have the spark plug wires going to the 
correct plugs.  Firing order is 1-4-3-2 (distributor rotates clockwise). 
  Looking at the distributor from the top-down, the top right plug goes 
to 2, below it 1, left of that is 4, above that is 3.  Another way to 
remember it is the right two wires cross going to plugs 1 and 2, and the 
left two wires go directly to their respective plugs without wires 
crossing.  The car will run like crap if you don't have them hooked up 
correctly.  Then, make sure you have your timing light on spark plug 1 
(right front plug) - I'm guessing you're on the wrong wire or something 
like that.  If you want a sanity check, look at the stamped numbers on 
the tin just next to the spark plug hole, or front-right is 1, 
rear-right is 2, front-left is 3, rear-left is 4.  Next, don't touch the 
AFM screw - you only want to mess with the screw on the throttle body to 
adjust idle speed.  Unfortunately, if you've messed with that AFM screw, 
you'll have to go to a smog place or get an air/fuel ratio meter to 
readjust it back into spec.

> grey westy;

> question; Has anyone seen this before (i imagine, there is like 1000 years
> experience here.... totally awesome!) dizzy is shorting everything....tried
> the dizzy from the other one and i am getting only 10.5v at term 15. (but when
> i would unplug green wire from dizzy i would get 12.54 v. - reason i tried the
> other dizzy)

You should be able to ground the negative terminal of the coil without 
the lights going out as all that does is charge the coil (which is what 
the points are doing).  Try that instead and see if it still kills all 
of your lights.

Also, next time I'd separate these two issues into their own emails 
because this is going to get very confusing very quickly...
