Date: Mon, 21 May 2012 10:52:48 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <mike.soultanian(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Official cry for help.......

On 5/21/2012 9:27 AM, accessys(-at-)smart.net wrote:
> there is a very real possibility that the dizzy gear got put in
> backwards meaning everything is 180 degrees off, I have run into this
> problem far too many times to count. yes you can look down the hole and
> see if it is right but it doesn't mean the cam is not 180 off.

Dizzy gear?  You can't put the distributor drive gear backwards on the 
crank.  You can, however, install the distributor drive shaft 
incorrectly, but I'm not totally sure that's what you're talking about. 
  I'm guessing you're talking about the distributor drive dog at the 
bottom of the distributor, which yes, you can put on 180 degrees off. 
That being said, that does *not* require a teardown.  Now assuming he 
assembled the cam-to-crank gear alignment incorrectly, then yes, that 
would require a tear-down.

So, first thing to do is find the firing-TDC for cylinder 1.  Have 
someone rotate the crank CLOCKWISE while you watch the #1 valves.  Watch 
to see when the exhaust valve opens and closes (front-most 
passenger-side valve) and then watch to see when the intake valve opens 
and closes (next valve behind it) and then stop rotation.  Go to the 
engine compartment and rotate the crank about 180 degrees until the 
timing mark lines up with 0 and you are now in the #1 TDC firing 
position and your rotor *should* be about lined up with the little mark 
on the distributor, or you should be able to rotate the distributor to 
make it line up with that mark.

If you can't rotate the distributor to get the mark to line up with the 
rotor, then you either have your distributor drive shaft installed 
incorrectly (no biggie), you have the drive dog installed 180 degrees 
off (no biggie), or you have the wrong distributor (i.e. 009 - get the 
right distributor!).

If you can't get it lined up, pull out the distributor and make sure 
that the drive shaft is installed correctly (see bentley).  If it is 
installed correctly, note how far off the rotor is from pointing at the 
mark - is it 180 degrees off?  If so, flip the drive dog at the bottom 
of the distributor because someone installed it backwards.  If the rotor 
is pointing off in some other arbitrary position, then you most likely 
have the wrong distributor and you *should* get the correct one, but you 
can get it running by adjusting the spark plug wires accordingly.

If the rotor is in-fact pointing towards the mark or close to the mark, 
then rotate the distributor until it's pointing directly at the mark. 
Put the rotor cap on and note where the rotor was pointing to and *that* 
is #1 - install other plugs accordingly (working clockwise from that 
point would be 1, 4, 3, 2).  If you time the engine off of that wire, 
there is no way you can be off by more than 10-20 degrees unless the 
internals of your distributor are totally screwy (which would be kinda 
strange).
