Date: Wed, 23 May 2012 15:01:47 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "laurens2000(-at-)juno.com" <laurens2000(-at-)juno.com>, type 2
Subject: Re: [T2] re: "traveling"

Well, wow I think Bill is being cheritable.  I'd say don't keep up with modern
traffic and keep it no more than 55-60 mph myself !!! and I'd lean toward 55
most of the way except on nice cool flats or long downgrades.  But also do NOT
lug it on the long grades.  Now as a kid we towed a probably 1000-1500lb
Wheelcamper brand pop up camper with our '76 but I'd note the engine only made
it 85k miles in that van despite otherwise good maintainence and careful
driving so...  I think about all I'd tow on this trip would be a small light
nonenclosed trailer, like one of thos 4x8' sheet of plywood style, but
obviously that affords no security to the contents.  Uhaul unfortunately tends
to usually build their trailers pretty heavily as they are built to endure
rental torture.  Looking around to buy a used (light) motorcylce trailer might
come up with something you could resell when you get there.
 
I'd agree with
having a mechanic give it the once over for sure.  If your idle screw isn't
doing much, I'd be really suspicious of small air leaks, and if they haven't
been done in the last 5-7 years or so I'd take the chance to do some easy
routine stuff to deal with some.  I'd do fuel lines all round the ring
including on the injectors, with new injector seals, new intake runner boots,
any of the rubber T's etc that are now available.  I'd look closely at the
intake S-hose.  New plugs obviously, and a CDI or Pertronix might pay for
itself on the trip, at least new Bosch points.  Make sure engine compartment
seal is top notch.  Make sure someone looks at the brakes all round, and I'd
consider all new soft brake hoses if you don't know they are under say 10-12
years old.  Tires better be true C-D load raters, and make sure you have a
good solid spare.  I'd also install either an oil temp or head temp gage of
your choosing in a location of your
 choosing, not to start the neverending arguement on which, but one or the
other.  Even if poorly calibrated will at least tell you in a trend manner
that you have something going wrong.
 
Those are just some first run
thoughts.  If the bus hasn't been maintained, it could easily total $1000-1500
in parts alone to get up to what I'd consider cross country snuff for true
safety.  At one time I was the king of jumping in a $800 bus I just tossed an
engine in and driving it 2-3000 miles, even in pre cell phone days, but times
and people seemed a bit more pleasant back even in the 90's, today there are a
lot of places I wouldn't chance it today.
 
Final bit that might really save
your rear, spring for a AAA Plus membership.  One single 50-60 mile tow and it
pays for itself 3 times over.
 
John
 
 


----- Original Message -----
From:
Bill Bowman bill(-at-)bnnta.com
 
Don't be tempted to keep up with modern traffic
on the Interstate, drive 60-65
and take your time, your motor will thank you
if you don't push it too hard in
the heat.  Do not take a lot of weight in the
trailer or you'll be asking for
trouble...  Find a good mechanic who knows
Type 4 engines and pay them to dial
that engine system in to perfection before
ever starting out.
