Date: Thu, 24 May 2012 12:11:12 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] '74 bus rear brake question

	The idea of slapping discs on the rear of a T2 may seem 
attractive for those with nothing more important to do.  Renault 
showed how to do 4-wheel discs on the R8 in the mid-60s and  -  still 
without power assist  -  the R10.  In particular they solved the 
problem of working the handbrake on the rear disc brakes; others have 
done so too.  But those were c.1600-lb vehicles, whereas we have to 
hold on hills more than double that weight.
	Even tho' the T2 weight distribution gives more braking 
opportunity for the rear wheels than on most vehicles, the fact 
remains that in very hard braking nearly all the usable braking 
effort is on the front wheels where you already have the discs that 
VW were so unaccountably slow to slap on the front of their heaviest 
vehicles, and your rear drums can readily enough lock those rear 
wheels because so little weight is on 'em, so I fail to see that rear 
discs offer much advantage.
	And as has been pointed out, the apportionment of hydraulic 
pressure front/rear will have to be changed to optimise the 4-disc 
setup.
	  I'd not heard that heavy rain gives more trouble in rear 
discs than in rear drums, but if so that is one reason against this 
non-trivial conversion.  I'd offer a vague general warning of an 
uncomfortably stuffy-official-sounding tone: brakes are of prime 
importance, and changing the hardware to this considerable extent may 
create modes of mishap that you haven't thought of and don't want to 
learn about from Crash Investigation Analysis.

	Having said all that, I'm sure someone has done as I decry, 
and made it work well.  Anyhow I doubt it's worth the trouble.  Well 
done it will bring marginal advantage at most, for quite a big effort.

	I wish I could say 'my tuppence worth' but then someone would 
expose the fact we went to cents in the late 1960s.

-- 
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600dp Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
