Date: Wed, 23 May 2012 18:43:50 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] '74 bus rear brake question

Conventional wisdom in good ole boy offroading US wisdom has always been that
drums are more weatherproof than discs, not sure of the logic, I have never
seen it.  4 wheel drums can do simply crazy things when driven in deep
standing water IMHO.  Drums do have a couple real advantages over discs.  The
first is that they for the same size wheel constraints can have massive swept
area compared to a disc, so your initial stop(s) (or maybe just first stop)
can have great force in a drum vs disc.  Unfortunately even though they can
have massive mass, since they can't cool it effectively, subsequent stops if
in short order fade them so badly, that the initial benefit is lost.  Still
has value for heavily loaded vehicle that you need to stop once., but I think
in Europe even heavy trucks use a lot of discs now unlike us good ole
Americans.  Now VW didn't even bother to fin our fine drums, because as
mentioned the rears don't do much.  And over the
 years performance workarounds did improve cooling, different fins, aluminum
drums with steel liners, etc.
 
Things briefly tried to help discs
with innovative solutions at times, the infamous Audi UFO brakes of the 20V
200 and early V8 were designed to pack more swept area in the same size wheel
contraint, this when a 15" alloy was pretty big, and tires for 16-17" were
rare and prohibitive $$.  They of course lasted for shit and everyone swapped
them back to conventional discs.  The main remaining offroad/work benefit for
drums is that sliding single piston calipers of pretty much any sort don't do
all that well in sand and dirt, some are sealed better, but most aren't. 
Hence drums even though with a lot of springs, levers, adjusters, etc can work
out more reliable, though again with no free lunch, really can have issues
clearing mud when it gets in
 
Oddly our arcane opposed pistons fronts don't
have the problems with gunk, they just bind pistons in the calipers of course
unless you change that fluid like you are supposed to.
 
I know a lot of old
time offroaders who still swear to drums, but most today would take a well
engineered 4 wheel disc to fling off mud and goop.  To me the main benefit of
drums is and always will be the parking brake issue in the rear.
 
-----
Original Message -----
From: Robert Mann robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz
 
 I'd not heard
that heavy rain gives more trouble in rear discs than in rear drums, but if so
that is one reason against this non-trivial conversion. 
