Date: Fri, 5 Jun 2009 17:30:19 -0700 (PDT)
From: J Stafford <sunbus(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Trip Report - week III

20090530 Yellowstone to Grand Tetons
AM DXing last night pulled in my home station from Los Angeles, KFI.
West Thumb to South entrance is snowbound.  Lewis L. is closed
due to 2-4' of snow.  20 mi S. of Yelowstone's South entrance has
road repair & a mix of bad asphalt and wet dirt/gravel surfaces.
Stop (-at-) Jackson Lake Lodge for a couple hours.  This place is a
historical resort with all amenities.  I asked the front desk about
the weather South of here (Flaming Gorge & Dino.N.M.) and was met
with the utmost in hospitality and service.  I went up to the grand
room on the 2nd floor and set about getting caught back up on the
'net.  30' ceiling, two hearths, bar, grill, restaurant and coffee
barista, all with full wall size picture window showing the Tetons.
Put this one on your must-see list if you pass through the area.
I had lunch in the diner off the main room.  Beautiful cashier from
Ukraine served me.  She is here for the summer and must go back at
the end of the season.  Many of the staff here, and Yelowstone, are
from other states or nations.  Spotted an orange VW Type181 parked
near the Jenny Lake boat ramp.  Walk around part of Jenny Lake.
Found tent-only camp (-at-) Jenny L. where tent is mandatory - no vans.
Camped in Gros Ventre campground $19/basic camp amenities.  Gravel
patch for parking in cottonwood grove next to Gros Ventre R.  A & C
loops are open, with the others closed.  Host says moose are camped
in the E loop and nearby are places to find big horn sheep, bison.
Natl elk preserve on other side of river.  Rain last night to rinse
the bus.
   
20090531 89, 191 Grand Teton to Rock Springs, WY
Took the long way back to 89.   NW to Kelley, then N to Antelope
Flats Rd. Herd of 12? bison 100yds from road.  Cool & wet, no dust.
Hoback River area is the end of the alpine forest.  Ok 2-lane hwy
w/passing lanes and turnouts.   Snow capped mountains to the East
of 191, rolling hills & mesas to the West.  Having left behind the
pine forest to the N. for a high desert w/sagebrush and few trees.
Yellow TypeI sighting in Pinedale, WY.  
HARD rain shower in Eden, WY.  Love the smell of a fresh rain in
the desert.  The rain brings out the smell of sage and it's cooler.
Rock Springs KOA reminds me of an RV storage lot (w/hookups). Sad.
warm in spite of the occasional shower.  Lots of "Simpson's clouds".

20090601 I-80, 40, 189, 89, Rock Springs, WY to Panguitch, UT
I-80 West sighted a sage green Westfalia going the other way near
the WY/UT state line.  My 1st bird strike West of Heber City, UT.
I saw the bird dive in, *donk*, bird went up past the rt winshield
wiper & over the roof.  POI sht metal betw headlight & turn signal.
4lane divided hwy of concrete.  Hwy 40, then 189 which has some
scenic and steep descents into Provo.  I-15, 6 and then 89 south.
Hwy 89 is two lane & has at least 25 miles of constuction near
Thistle/Indianola.  Road is in valleys between two mountain ranges.
Took a break in Manti.  Crossed an immense lawn to photo the LDS
temple & statuary of J.Smith.  Hungry mosquitos rise from the lawn
with every step. I thought they were tiny grasshoppers.  10+ bites.
Took a break in lt rain and as I left Manti, I noticed banners on
light standards with Rat Rink Reunion & R.F. in all his green glory.
The reunion is this weekend.  I just missed it by only a few days.
http://www.ratfink.org/events/
http://www.bigdaddyroth.com/nonflash/Events/
I was eager to get away after donating blood on the temple lawn.
Stopped in Panguitch KOA for the night.  Nice camp, but next to a
residential area.  Hosts have clamped down everything, incl combo
lock on the restrooms and encrypted the internet access.  A tight
ship.  Checking engine ign timing & it's retarded.  Dwell is 55,
so I file the points gap flat and set it to 0.4mm.  Timing 7deg
w/timing light ('78 2.0L GE engine) and it's a bit more "frisky".
Noone complains about my auto maintenance in camp, so perhaps the
camp hosts are more tolerant than at first thought.
More AM DXing, picking up KNX (L.A.) and KOA (Denver) tonight.
Going to explore Bryce, Kodachrome Basin, and Zion tomorrow.

20090602  89, 12, 9, I-15 Panguitch, UT to Las Vegas, NV
Up and out shortly after sunrise, as usual.  Air up tires and refuel.
Decided to hit Bryce Canyon NP first & it's a good call.  $25 entry
fee.  Most of the vistas are with 0-4 tourists.  Until the buses
show up after 9am. Loads of tourists pour out of tour bus after tour
bus.  Gladly, I have seen the vast majority of the park.  Two bikers
take an interest in the bus.  They are originally from Germany,
now living in NC.  They flew in and rented the bikes.  One said he
had a white '73 Westy in Germany and that many put the painted MBZ
hubcaps on, because they fit.  He owned many buses and the last as
a T4.  Also, he commented that while in Tunisia, he found the T2 bus
was one of the favored vehicles there for their utility/durability.
Heading East on 12 to Kodachrome Basin SP.  I took one dirt-road
adventure and came upon a bicyclist and her 3 dogs.  She told me
that I was lost.  I told her I was not in that I had found what I
was looking for - a place without asphalt & power lines. I think she
may have not wanted to share this place & I can't blame her.  We bid
each other a good day and went our ways.  I soon found a place with
seemingly few living residents.  Georgetown, UT est 1877.  Graveyard.
Heading back toward Bryce on 12, I found a small stream near the
Mossy Cave trail.  Forded the stream barefoot and had a nice solice
on the other side with noone around.  Very peaceful with only the
sound of the running stream, sunshine, clouds, rocks.  I need to
come back to this area and explore it more thoroughly.  
Zion N.P. dropped another $25 on park entry fees. (Wonder of this
is a tax deductible expense?  I suppose it's for a good cause, for
future gen.) There have been alot of changes since I was here in the
early '90s.  You can no longer drive your car to the deepest parts
of the canyons in this park.  You have to park (-at-) the visitor center
and board a tram.  Temp was in the 90s and I decided to forego the
tram ride and had my fill after traversing as much of the park as
I needed.  Made hiking trips using the turnouts as trail heads.
On the way to Las Vegas, there was a gusty cross wind.  Found 20 mi
from Vegas was the hwy 93 exit.  This is route I took over two weeks
ago on my way to MT.  It's hot as hell in Vegas, so I cave and stay
(-at-) the hotel I stayed at before.  It's near Nellis AFB nd I cannot
miss the B-1s and F-18s flying around - loud. Making one last leg of
this journey in the early AM to hopefully beat the predicted high
heat & crosswinds.

20090603 I-15 Las Vegas, NV to Costa Mesa, CA
Southbound at 6am.  Lots of I-15 construction in N.Vegas.  I find a
blessing in the heavy overcast sky and 75F temps.  Little to no
crosswinds and no stopping for 200 miles.  Ice/hail falling as I take
the grade down the Cajon pass near Rancho Cucamonga, CA.  I can see
thunderheads and their dump of rain in the distance.  Also, 500' or
so off the ground is a cork colored cloud - smog.  As I get down off
the pass, I can smell it.  Like entering a smoke-filled room I sense
smoke, b.o. and chemicals.  An icky, greasy feeling that makes me
want a Silkwood shower when I get home.  Turns out some harsh storms
have come through the SanBernardino mts overnight.  Lightening has
touched off some brush fires.  Took the 210 fwy to the 57, 5, 55 &
405.  Right thru the 'Orange Crush', a tangle of freeways in Orange
County.  No traffic here at 11:am, which is also a blessing.  All
in all, this has been a pretty troublefree an enjoyable journey.
Now at home in Costa Mesa, I can get settled back in.  Download over
900 photos, unload the bus, do some laundry and get my act together
for work in the am.  Welcome home my friend the bus.

-Jack '73 Westfalia
