From: Richard F Coombs <rfcoombs(-at-)syr.edu>
To: vw-t2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 6 Jun 2009 15:53:44 -0400
Subject: Re:'71 turn signal question (long)

Hi all,

Since I've just finished work on my '71 Bus turn signals, I may have some
helpful information.

I had turn signals that would go dead at random intervals, but would start
working if I made rowing motions with the turn signal lever, or moved the
wheel to a different position. Also, I would have to hold the lever down when
making left turns.

Occasionally, I would get smoke out of the turn signal, which alarmed
passengers. Sometimes, I could make the signals work by rotating the switch
housing on the column, since it was loose. That just made passengers curious.

It was hard to remove the 4 screws (2 for the switch, 2 for the housing)
because previous owners had buggered up the Phillips heads on the little
screws.

Also, my high/low beam switch had stopped working, and my headlights were
stuck on "High".

In short, I had all the standard  issues.

When I took the switch off, the first thing I noticed was a deposit of dirt,
grease, and metal filings between the stationary contacts on one side. The
deposits were causing arcing that I could see when I operated the switch, In
fact, I had a little switch fire while I was testing it, that I couldn't put
out until I (DuuH) remembered to turn the ignition off!

I used one of those little pick tools from Harbor Freight to clean out the
debris, & found a hole burned through the circuit board! Just a small one,
between the contacts.

I gently cleaned the contacts with the small blade of my Swiss army knife &
the pick, and the arcing stopped.

The next thing I found was a brown wire with the end broken off, which had
obviously been soldered to the ?Brass? Copper? section of the switch that held
the turn signal switch contacts. I stripped, tinned, & re-soldered this wire
(MAJOR PITA , but  got it done) and I had turn signal switching again.

Went to check & clean the dimmer switch, and found another detached ground
wire to the dimmer section. I re-soldered that, having no more fun than I did
with the first one, and I had dimmer switch function. I cleaned the dimmer
switch contacts with a piece of cardboard dipped in acetone, because I was out
of alcohol.

Next, I stared at the tiny, buggered-up screws for a long time.

I decided to measure them. I got the pitch gauge out of my metric tap & die
set (Harbor Freight strikes again) and determined that the screws were M4 x
.7, and just about 13mm long, and that the heads were around 7mm wide I also
discovered that I had an an M4 x .7 die in my set.

At the local Tractor Supply store, I was able to find M4 x .7 screws that were
20 mm long, with Phillips heads that were way too big.

Bought 4 of them. Cost me $1.06.

Took them home, and stared at them for a long time.

Eventually, it came to me to chuck the screws into a drill, and to clamp a
file, one of my finer ones, into a my vise, and to reverse the rotation on my
drill so that the head of the screw would be moving in the right direction
relative to the file teeth. I just kept the drill spinning, and drew the head
down the file, stopping every so often to check for fit.

After a while, I had 4 M4 x .7 screws that fit nicely in the housing, but were
too long, since the ends would hit the switch when installed.

Using the original screws as a gauge, I threaded my modified screws into my
die to clean up the threads, then backed them out so that  exactly the lenthe
that I needed to loose was sticking out of the die. I then clamped the die in
the vise, and cut the screw to length with s Dremel cutting wheel. By using
the die and dressing the end of the screw with a file, I came up with a
finished end that would thread into the switch body and the clamp section of
the housing.

NOTE: This was a Harbor Freight die and a Dollar Store file. Don't monkey
around like this with expensive ones. It's bad for them.

Now that all is said & done, I have much better switch function. The new
screws hold the switch solidly in the housing, and the switch now locks
solidly in both directions. I have no idea how the locking mechanism works,
but apparently, if your switch is loose, the play between the switch and the
housing will cause a good switch to not lock in position.

I've also noticed that the clamp section of the switch works much  better now,
and the switch is no longer loose on the column. I may even be able to take my
electrical tape off!

I hope all this is helpful to someone with turn signal switch issues. For
sure, check for broken ground wires while you're cleaning the switch. Check
the supply wires, too, & check for gunk between the stationary contacts on the
circuit board.

You CAN re-solder the broken wires, especially if you have smaller hands &
better eyes than mine, and it is possible, with some modifications, to source
new screws locally.


Just blinking & grinning,

Richard

Syracuse, NY

'71 hippie Bus "Putt-Putt"
