From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 8 Jun 2009 16:10:20 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Trailer hitches

On Saturday 06 June 2009 18:11:22 Jason Meyer wrote:
> I wanted to know how many folks are utilizing trailer hitches on their
> buses and where they got them from.

I built one. Brackets (part A) were fabbed by somebody to hang down under the 
rear frame rails. About even with the heater box to muffler flanges. My bus 
came with these. They used bolts that went through the body's frame rails. At 
the bottom they were bent 90 degrees. I welded a piece of steel to the front 
tranny mount (part B) (the part bolted to the torsion bar housing). Then 
bolted a piece of 1" square tubing (part C) on those rear mounts I first 
described. Welded another short piece of square tubing (2") to the cross bar 
for a reciever. Beefed it up with some steel plate (3/8" or 1/4" thick I 
think) I had laying around. Bolted it to the rear bumper from below with a 
steel plate inside the bumper sandwiching the bumper material between this 
plate and the receiver. Ran two long pieces of square tubing from the front 
tranny mount (part B) to the rear cross member (part C) that I just 
described. Welded them to the crossmember roughly between the reciever and 
the end bracket that was bolted to the rear frame member of the bus. This 
made a VERY tough hitch that was capable of pulling more than the bus was 
capable of stopping safely and repeatedly. I was also able to lift the rear 
of the bus with a forklift for giggles at work one time. Lifted the tires up 
an inch or two to see how the materials coped. Would never get under the bus 
suspended like this. Sold it to a friend for the cost of materials. I liked 
it because it protected the engine and drivetrain from obstacles. Could have 
added skid plates very easily. Don't know how the engine heat would have 
coped but would have used 1/8" thick strips of steel versus solid panels 
anyhow. 

I managed to nab another hitch which fits inside the bumper and shares the 
bumper bolts on the rear frame rails. I have jumped up and down on the hitch 
(non-reciever type) and it hardly flexes at all. I'm a big guy too. I have 
towed with it and like it. Much more compact. Will add a quick-swap hitchball 
system soon so i can haul load easily whether they have 1 7/8" and 2" balls. 

It is a pair of brackets - one per side. A piece of heavy wall tubing was bent 
to match the curve of the bumper and welded to the brackets at each end. A 
tongue for the hitch ball was bent 90 degrees (makes an "L") and welded to 
the front of tube hanging down under the bumper. I have not towed alot with 
this one. I miss the redundancy of the hitch I built which made it difficult 
for all the hardware to fall out at once causing a catastrophe. On the other 
hand it is lighter and seemingly strong enough to tow more than the bus is 
able to stop. 

Exactly how much is a guy going to tow with 67 horsepower already commited to 
pushing a 3,000+ van down the highway? VBG! Even with my 110 Corvair 
horsepower I still think the limits are the same. Got to be able to stop the 
rig. 

I have pulled a 5x8 ft utility trailer, a tandem axle 16 ft utility trailer 
(no load on it) and a stripped down Beetlebug shell around with this hitch. 
Once upon a time I did pull a car and car dolly across town. Plan ahead for 
those stops though. Brakes are fine as long as they don't get hot or the 
roads aren't wet (when pulling extreme loads). ANY vehicle can get a push 
into trouble with a heavy load of course. 

Did I mention I wish I had vented front rotors and at least solid rear rotors 
on my bus? I really like big brakes. 

Chris in Cookeville, TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L (Corvair implanted)
