From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 9 Jun 2009 09:13:51 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Trailer hitches - cargo racks, trailers, etc.

On Monday 08 June 2009 16:57:43 mike begley wrote:

> Not a problem at all.  Here's a quick writeup, with a few pictures:
>
> http://www.hell.org/?p=42

Hahahaha... With a web address like that maybe we have different concepts of 
what is "hot"!!! VBG!

Very nice write-up and thanks for all the details. 

I have been considering a small weather tight trailer. We live 100 miles from 
the rest of the family (a good thing sometimes it seems! VBG!) and there are 
a few times a year when a weathertight bit of extra cargo space would come in 
handy. Mostly we notice it at Christmas b/c of our kids. Big family - 
something like 30 of us (her side and my side) so even with drawing names on 
one side of the family and one gift per person on the other side the haul is 
huge. Yes we are trying to institute drawing names on the other side. 

I want something lockable and rainproof. Started with the idea of a Westfalia 
trailer copy and it morphed a little. Unfortunately when I left my previous 
job for my current one about 18 months ago I lost my access to Solidworks 
CAD. I had most of the details worked out down to angles and screws. Simple 
4x5ft trailer, curved top so the rain wouldn't collect, solid floor with 
slates to keep the packages off the floor a little incase the trailer leaked. 
Bike rack on top (a way to use something like our Yakima racks). Was still 
working on it a little - had started looking a little like a casket with the 
side hinges. VBG!

Then my friend brought up teardrop trailers... Then I bought a book. A fully 
optioned teardrop is really too heavy for our needs unless the design was 
shrunk a little until it was really just big enough for bikes only. 

Whatever the case it would be nice to have a weathertight trailer for towing 
behind any of our vehicles. Still moving towards that. I really like your 
cargo rack though b/c I can store something like that in the garage and it is 
affordable right now and not later (saving up to build a trailer). 

Chris in Cookeville, TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L (Corvair implanted)
