From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 9 Jun 2009 12:51:48 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Trailer hitches - cargo racks, trailers, etc.

> > My question is how each of these hitches mounts/attaches to the bus? I
> > have looked at eBay and seen a simple one, but don't know if it will work
> > with my eliminator muffler. 

The one I have is inside the bumper so it would work with any muffler. It 
attaches to the body by sandwiching with the bumper brackets in the stock 
bumper bracket mount position. Currently I have a modified dual quiet pack 
muffler connected to some custom pipes for the Corvair implant. The quiet 
pack mufflers are more or less in the same position as they would be if the 
bus was VW powered. No interference problems. Stock tow hook is also still 
there. 

My hitch that I made also missed the dual quiet packs back when the bus was VW 
powered. It attached to the front tranny mount, under each frame rail in the 
back and to the center of the bumper. It passed under the mufflers in the 
center. 

Don't think you'd be that hard pressed to fab one. You need some steel and a 
hacksaw. It would be slower than with a SawzAll (my method). Cut all the 
pieces and wire them in place for the R&D portion of your project with coat 
hangers. Mark all the positions. Then remove all of it and go to a welding 
shop for the final installation and weld. Have them tack weld it together on 
the bus, you remove it and final weld everything together. Better if you weld 
it on the bus (not TO the bus, just bolted to the bus) but I hear fire and 
that gas tank right there over my head when I am considering welding. 

Hacksaw, electric drill, measuring tape, carpenter square (little one), some 
good bolts similar in size to the bumper bracket bolts (where the bumper 
bolts to the body), and a pencil/chalk/soapstone to mark cuts with. Oh - and 
some square tubing steel. 

FWIW I prefer not to weld directly on my bus. Worry about all that sparking 
and arcing with the gas tank over my head. Hope that helps.

I suggest that you get on the web and cruise the UK bus parts suppliers (and 
the USA suppliers as well) and see if there are any pictures in the catalogs. 
Might clear things up for you. 

Chris
