Cc: Myonnie Bada <mbada(-at-)gvpt.umd.edu>, Karl <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>, "H.
From: Marcus Schaper <mail(-at-)marcusschaper.de>
Date: Tue, 9 Jun 2009 19:43:29 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Need tin and fuel pump question

Dear all,

A little tale ... Myonnie's Coco Puff had been running relatively  
poorly with intermittent misses. Steve Dolan blamed it on my Vanagon  
electronic ignition harness - nobody should be surprised with his  
belief in points. I figured it was time to finally fix the exhaust  
leaks. So I sent Myonnie a complete '72-'74 setup to replace the US- 
market '78 Fed crap system on the bus. She took it to Peek  
Performance to have it swapped. There came the surprise: not only did  
a exhaust stud come out, but also the boss it is mounted to ...  
Installing a new head would have run $2500 (mostly labor).

So, off to plan B. Myonnie's backup engine in her '73 panel - well,  
they did not like the idea of swapping FI to a carb engine. Would  
have been a nice engine as it is a high compression 1.7 out of a 411.

That means plan C - shipping my backup engine from Oregon to  
Maryland. it is all ready to go now - GD case with 1.8 crank, Keith  
Black 94 mm pistons, mild cam, freshly powder coated tin, and the  
PDSIT 40 carb setup from my Kummetat motor.

Everything is ready to go out by freight tomorrow - except for one  
piece of tin. Please check the pic at:  http://marcusschaper.de/ 
images/PeekMotorMissingTin.jpg . I only have junk pieces for this  
location. Can anyone help us out?

Next question: what do with fuel delivery? Use the stock FI pump with  
a pressure regulator or use an aftermarket pump? If going for an  
aftermareket pump, which one and how to wire it? Since this is a GD  
case, using a mechanical fuel pump is not an option unfortunately.

Any ideas suggestions?

Marcus

PS: anyone need a solid front beam or patch panels? I am parting my  
badly rusted '74 camper in Portland, OR. It is off to the scrapper on  
Thursday.
