Date: Mon, 13 Sep 2010 06:32:36 -0700 (PDT)
From: Ted Reshetiloff <ted_reshetiloff(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Dimly glowing battery light

With the D+ wire disconnected the battery light does not light up at first key
position. I suspect you are right about a short someplace else and will start
pulling fuses to try and locate. Its an issue that has been present in this
bus since i aquired her (10years ago) and so while Im not terribly worried it
would be nice to resolve. It must be on a circuit that is off when the key is
off since I have never been greeted with a dead battery and only replaced the
current battery because it was 9 years old and FLAPS had a sale on Bosch
batteries.
 
Thanks John.

--- On Sun, 9/12/10, John Rogers <jnrogers(-at-)verizon.net> wrote:


From: John Rogers <jnrogers(-at-)verizon.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Dimly glowing battery light
To: ted_reshetiloff(-at-)yahoo.com, "SQUID" <sydclarke(-at-)shaw.ca>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sunday, September 12, 2010, 10:39 PM


Hi Ted,

The battery light should not glow even dimly when the electrical system is
properly charging.

The first thing I would do is disconnect the wire from the battery light that
connects to post D+ on the regulator.  This is the wire that completes the
circuit when the ignition switch is turned on and juice flows to the battery
light.  When the engine is not charging -- for instance, before the engine is
started -- post D+ is a ground and so  the circuit is completed and the
warning light goes on.  After the engine starts and  the system is charging,
post D+ is hot,  the circuit is no longer grounded and the light goes off.

If the light glows dimly it suggests a short somewhere or insufficient voltage
at post D+ on the regulator.

By disconnecting the wire to post D+ you can tell if there is a short in that
circuit because the light will come on when the ignition switch is turned on
even when wire is not connected to ground at the regulator.

If that circuit checks out properly, you might then check other circuits for
shorts by pulling fuses at a time to see if shutting down any circuits has an
effects pn battery light.

Finally, if all the circuits check out clean then check  voltage  at the D+
post  when the engine is running at a fast idle.  It should be the same as or
slightly higher than that at the battery's positive terminal.  If not then
suspect your regulator. The easiest way to test would be to swap it out with a
spare.

Cheers,

John
