Date: Mon, 13 Sep 2010 21:56:42 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Rear Roof Section Replacement and 1K epoxy primer

Hello List,
 
Well, I thought I would post an update on my current endeavor.  Here is a
quick recap of what I have done and why. My rear hatch has always been droopy
ever since I bought it back in 2002. The rear hatch stuck out almost 5/8" when
it was closed causing leaks.  After much studying I found that the rear hatch
hindge assemblies were completely worn out and sprung. The are sanwiched in
the roof and welded into place, so you cannot just replace the hinges. I went
ahead and bit the bullet and bought a rear roof clip from Daryl at Silver Lake
VW.
 
After much measuring, cutting, fitting and trimming, the new section is welded
into place. The welds are ground down and I am half way though with the mud
work. I am using U-POL fiberglass mud to cover all the welds. The U-Pol
spreads like butter. It sands like concrete though. It appears to be a very
strong product. I have got to buy some dust masks... I am coughing up a storm
from all the dust. It is comming along as expected. I hope to have the seams
and all exposed metal in primer by next week.
 
The roof clip was from a camper bus, so the roof was reinforced with another
layer of sheet metal below the top roof skin unlke the non-sunroof buses like
mine. When I welded the clip into place, I used 3/4" heavy duty square tubing
to reinforce the roof. I actually made the lower roof sheet metal into a shelf
using the 3/4" tubing. It gives strength to the roof and acts as a low profile
over-the-bed shelf! I know, I will have to post pictures so you can see what I
am talking about.
 
As far as primer goes, I bought a 1K epoxy primer from Napa. I am leary about
using it. It seems that an epoxy primer should have an activator, but this
kind doesn't. It is callled PCC industrial epoxy Primer made by Martin Senour.
Has anyone used this primer before? It was only about $57 a gal. I am used to
the old 2 part primers. Back when I worked at a body shop years ago, we never
used epoxy primer, so I hope that I have chosen well by buying it.
 
I will post pictures later when I am closer to being ready to prime. Let me
know what you think.
 
Regards,
David Kelly
volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com
