Date: Tue, 14 Sep 2010 18:11:24 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Rear Roof Section Replacement and 1K epoxy  primer

Now I wouldn't really go that far myself, but YMMV.  A 3M disposable
particulate N95 rated mask is more than sufficient for sanding.  It is in fact
more than sufficient for tuberculosis and varicella zoster isolation, both of
which are much smaller than glass sanding particles.  The N95 is not a cheapo
dust mask, it is truely a respirator by definition, IF used correctly.  Like I
said, box of 20 or so, about $1 each at Lowes.  Now Jeff does have an
interesting point on proper fit.  The N95 generally can be adjusted for proper
fit compared to cheapo dust masks, on an average size CLEAN face, tie the
straps a bit if you need a tighter fit.  As tight as a rubber mask, maybe
not, tight enough, but...  You also may have some other factors, like facial
hair, you're kidding yourself with it, got to go, unless you want to rub
vaseline in it and burry the mask in the vaseline.  Amazing the amount of
times when I was an engineer you'd see the engineers
 and the union guys ignoring this fact, or the amount of times I see nurses
and doctors (myself included now days) ignoring it now.  As my wife won't let
me shave it is why I have air supplied for painting, but for sanding I use the
N95 and realize I'm being a bit of an idiot.  I find personally that if I have
a box of the N95's I will ACTUALLY reach for one and toss it after done when
sanding, where as I am too stupid/lazy to get a real rubber faced respirator
and hang it off my noggin for sanding, and since I'm not shaving, or doing the
vaseline, wouldn't be any better.  The other factor is that a more real
respirator will clog its prefilters very quickly on dust, so you are then
forever replacing or cleaning them (and they are likely only N95 rated
anyway.)  For sanding, you don't need organic vapor, for painting with epoxy
with isocyanate it isn't really sufficient, only really good for rattle cans
or acryllic laquer, so....
 
Anyway YMMV as always, but it is your life and health.
 
John

--- On Tue, 9/14/10, j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:

Something like this http://www.airace.com/  will do a reasonable job.
However, AirAce are more expensive than respirators in the US, so you might
as
well go with 3M organic vapor + particulate respirator.  The fine glass/dust
particles are equally damaging to your eyes.  They need goggles at least.
