Date: Wed, 15 Sep 2010 11:32:58 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: Martin Mikush <martinmikush(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Brake pads replacement on T2 68 ?

I'd recommend seriously considering replacing the rubber brake lines if 
you think they are original. Mine have failed on my '78. Also you don't 
have to replace the bearing but I do recommend you replace the seals. 
They are cheap. Look at the wheel cylinders and if the rubber seals are 
bad or if any are leaking just replace those as well. You can buy new 
wheel cylinders or kits to rebuild your old wheel cylinders. Either way 
they aren't expensive and typically not difficult to remove/install. 
When I lived in Italy I bought brake material sized correctly for the 
shoes. We drilled out the old rivets and took off the old braking 
material and discarded it. We cleaned up the brake shoes and painted 
them (wear a mask, don't breathe brake dust), and the laid the new brake 
material onto the shoe and then peened the new rivets with a hammer and 
punch to hold the shoe material on. Didn't think they would last but 
they never gave me any trouble. I prefer buying new brake shoes with the 
braking material already installed (glued or riveted).

When doing brake repairs I usually clean everything (backing plate, 
levers, springs, etc) and apply paint if anything is rusting. I clean it 
all with diesel and a brush. Then i do a quick wipe down with paint 
thinner if I am going to paint the parts. Diesel isn't very flammable 
and is cheap so that is why I use that. The paint thinner usually 
evaporates so quickly that it is difficult to clean with. Using my 
method the cleaning and scrubbing is done with the diesel with a pan 
under the brake and hub to catch the drips and the paint thinner is just 
used to clean off the diesel residue.

Replace the parking brake cables if they are in poor condition, inspect 
the inside of the brake drums for grooves or uneven wear, and if the 
brake shoe springs are cheap and easy to get I replace them b/c the old 
springs are likely 30+ years old.

For the bearings I clean them with diesel and a brush. I clean out the 
bearing hub with diesel as well. Once you are done do a final rinse with 
clean diesel. High-temp bearing grease goes back in to the bearings 
capped off with new seals. If the bearings are bad (not silver when 
clean) then you'll have to tap out the bearing races and replace both 
the bearings and races. Not complicated. You just need a hammer and a 
punch.

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L
Brenderup 1205S
