Date: Wed, 15 Sep 2010 13:10:37 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: "Pratt, Bob, VBABOST" <bob.pratt(-at-)va.gov>
Subject: Re: [T2] Air compressor

Bob, I recently bought a re-manufactured Morgan brand. It started life 
as a Kobalt brand (Lowe's Hardware) and was originally manufactured by 
Campbell-Hausfeld. I got it from northern Tools for ~$350. This is a BIG 
air compressor. 220V motor. Tank has held it's pressure for a month (the 
last time I ran it). I bought the extended warranty. All of the major 
components are made by other companies and assembled by C-H so parts 
replacement will never be a problem.

I think mine is a 60 gallon. Upright. No Wheels.

My father has run a Craftsman branded piston compressor since the late 
1980s and built about 6 hot rods with it and a house. He paints, 
sandblasts, and run air tools. His is a ~15-20 gallon horizontal tank 
that has two plastic lawnmower style wheels on it. 220V motor. It works 
fine but he has to stop and let it catch up. I think spray painting with 
it is near the compressor's limits as it run continuously for some of 
the process. He points a fan at it and it keeps on trucking. He says 
he'll need to replace it soon because the compressor portion is getting 
worn and the tank may be nearing a rust leak. Sandblasting with it 
requires alot of patience. GRIN!

I would not recommend the piston-less oil-less rotary compressors. Saw 
commentary on the web that indicated they did not last long when pushed 
hard. Fine for occasional short term uses like pumping up tires.

Look at the volume (not pressure) of air that your favorite tools 
require and buy a compressor larger than that within your budget. Keep 
in mind that your spray gun will spray for long periods and your air 
driven socket wrench runs for short times. Your die grinder runs for 
30-45 seconds per cut while sandblasting gobbles vast amounts of air. I 
think I bought a compressor much larger than my needs but I'd rather go 
that route than the other way.

Hope this helps.

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L
Brenderup 1205S
'97 VW Cabrio
'99 CR-V AWD
