From: Tim Harding <timharding(-at-)shaw.ca>
Date: Fri, 17 Sep 2010 12:43:55 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE. 1973 Cargo

Hi all,and thanks a lot for all of the input.
First, let me re post the link to my facebook album which didn't come through
the first time around;
http://www.facebook.com/album.php?aid=228337&id=546645557&l=4a1e8d92ca

Okay, except for my math deficiencies lets continue, ( I get the math involved
now,thanks :) ) I still think that I'm gonna try polyurethane spray insulation
on the sides and roof. Someone- John? perhaps- advised me to not use the
closed cell foam coz it was too rigid and would separate from the body. Does
anybody have any first hand experience with this? I use these foams a lot (
not the spray can Home Despot type but the professionally applied stuff) and
have a difficult time imagining what would cause that stuff to let go. On a
properly prepared surface the only way to get it off is with abrasives for the
most part.
Also i was advised to use a vapour barrier and as I understand why this is
necessary for Pink insulation I am wondering if anybody has any first hand
experience with spray foam absorbing moisture,my experience shows me that this
just doesn't happen.

After that I plan to insulate the floor pan and lay in radiant wiring, covered
with more heatproof padding and then plywood.I plan to use plywood on the
sides and then build some tool bins to keep things from rolling around( I am a
freelance Theatre/Motion Picture Technician and mobility has it;s virtues).
Last night I played with the calculator and given the square footage I will
need to heat it looks like I will only be using +-1000 watts which puts me
back in the realm of reality.
For those warning me about running heat/chargers/computers at the same time,
please give me some credit. Power management isn't that difficult.

For everybody telling to use combustion heating, sorry, not really interested,
in fact I will probably be removing the gas heater ( but I will wait til next
year just to make sure :) )
I am going to tweak the original heating system a la the Bully Hewlett recipe
There is probably more clarification I should make but this is long winded
enough.
Thank you everybody!
Enjoy the photos,
Tim
