Date: Sat, 7 Jun 2003 00:44:08 -0500
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: nearly there...

ok, so i am creeping closer.

finally managed to pull the offending long crank dowels; turns out 
there were  'steps' 2 mm or so from the bottom of the drilling, 
preventing the dowel from seating all the way. i took a small dremel 
deburring bit to them, but could not get them to go away enough to 
allow the dowel to seat, so i said screw it and put in stock dowels. 
they fit, and now the flywheel seats properly.

apparently  dpr couldn't get their shit together enough to drill  a 
crank properly and then couldn't INSPECT their work before shipping; 
this makes TWO crappy cranks i have gotten from them, and raymond 
heath has a third. i don't give a goddamn how many quintillion motors 
someone personally knows of with their cranks that never had a 
problem and ran leventymillion miles, they are quite obviously not 
interested in taking the time to do good work, or check the work 
done. they have the fry's electronics freemarket capitalism mindset: 
ship it out; if it comes back, clean it and ship it out again. 
eventually it won't come back. gene berg once wrote an article titled 
'death of an industry' and at least back then you could still get 
parts from the dealer!  if forced to choose between paying $$$$$$$$$ 
for NOS crud on ebarf or paying $$$$$$$ for crappy aftermarket parts 
that must be returned over and over to get a good one, i am gonna 
start driving a toyota. a neighbor has a 70s pickup with over THREE 
hundred thou on it. and he can still get factory-new parts.

<rant off>

anyways. next, i went to set endplay for real. with a 24, 24 and 22 
shim i got .07mm.. BARELY in spec, but those were the smallest shims 
i had. hopefully better tight than loose. put in the oil seal, 
grabbed my berg highstrength nut and...... where the hell'd the 
washer go? i'd been using a stock gland nut/washer for the end play 
setup, but had the berg deal  set aside for the finished product. 
drat.
either the washer is in a box packed for moving, rex's friends 
snagged it when they bought my stash, or my friend lewis accidentally 
grabbed it. ah well, it was overkill anyways; stock will do.
alright, f/w, clutch and p-plate on!
now to grab the lil 36hp dome aircleaner i use when i test a motor 
outta the bus........ and rex's friends or lewis have snagged another 
item - argh!  note to self: FINISH building any motors you have lined 
up BEFORE selling all your spares in the future :P

no real easy way to mount the bus snorkeler, so i spent 2 hours 
cleaning out a bug model i found in the neighbor's yard (don't ask).
then found it wouldn't fit the 30/31, so had to munge the mounting 
area a bit to seat it; i'm not so woorried about rocks going down the 
throat of the carby as i am backfires, so a little loose is fine.

lastly, i couldn't get the oil pressure sender to light my test light 
no matter where i grounded it (yes, the light works), so i stopped as 
it was getting dark.  possible i ALREADY have oil pressure?? i DID 
fire up the starter a few revs to test all the wiring/remote switch, 
and it turned over without pauses or noises. valve geometry looks ok 
- heads have a .15" shim under the rocker shafts, but i think a .20 
would be better under the left side.
charging up the batt over night and trying again tomorrow.
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"Guard against the impostures of pretended patriotism." -- George Washington
