From: "VWguy" <pickit(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <Claralw(-at-)aol.com>, <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 7 Jun 2003 15:22:07 -0400
Subject: Re: [VB] scoops are cooler-electric fan q

OK, I'll try this one more time. This really isn't that hard folks.

My question did not address an electric fan attached at the fan shroud, it
addressed an electic fan "inside" the engine compartment attached to the air
vent where the air enters the engine compartment.

Since Clara reports that the benefit to cooling is an increased volume of
cool air lowering the temperature of the engine compartment and not
increased pressure in the compartment, and since I think most agree that
scoops are ugly, wouldn't this be a better way to skin the cat?

It also occurs to me that the problem with a decrease in air at the
defroster vent being caused by air blowing past the seals would be resolved
by having the fan on only one of the air vents. This way the cool air would
be pulled from the vent where the fan was attached and any "unused" cooled
air would be pushed out the vent in the other side. You could vary the fan
speed to obtain a perfect balance between increased cooling effect and air
available to the heater.

Kevin Bell

....


In a message dated 6/6/2003 8:55:30 AM Pacific Standard Time,
eric(-at-)aircooled.net writes:

<< ---- Original Message -----
 > So,what are scoops? High volume, high pressure? Lov volume, high
pressure,
 > what? What do scoops give you that fans don't?
 >

 Yes, scoops provide pressure, how much depends on how fast you go.

 Eric Allre
 64 Bus >>

according to my test, the pressure in the engine compartment varied < =1mm
Hg
between idling and driving at 70 w/ scoops on.  actually, pressure varied
really little at all ever, which surprised me.

air flow inside the vents was about double w / scoops on compared to no
scoops.

airflow from the defroster outlet went DOWN slightly w/ scoops

This says to me that the additional air that blew into the engine
compartment
found it way out around the seals (which were actually all present and in
decent shape, but of course not airtight).  It did not pressurise the engine
compartment.  It did not blow more air over the heads/cylinders/oil cooler.
The
temp in the engine compartment did drop significantly, which to me accounts
for the cooler temps at the head.

what would an electric fan blowing at the fan do?   I think about f all, if
not blocking air into the fan.   the stock fan does blow pretty well.

I would have liked to compare different generator pulley sizes.

the huge amount of air my 65 westy w/ smaller gen pulley kicks out at the
defogger is really annoying when I have to defog my windows.  It blows in my
eyes.  (it also has all heat air comeing out up front and has larger heat
tubes,
so even w/ regular pulley it kicked out much more air than the 61 w/ small
heat
tubes and some air going to the back) .  But when I installed the smaller
pulley the air coming out the heater vents  went up a lot.  whcih tells me
it
does blow more air over the heads/cylinders/oil cooler.    It would be neat
to
find out if that changed the engine compartment temps or air flow into the
vents
or other things.

hm, maybe I'll put my graphs on a website.
