From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 8 Jun 2003 11:51:24 EDT
To: yver(-at-)entelchile.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] preheat tube into air cleaner?

I'm not sure what year bus you have but as long as you have and air cleaner 
with preheat attach spout, you run the 1" pre heat tube down through the rear 
tin.

there are several version of rear tin, made for various years/ models of 1500 
and 1600s (and other size engines)   you want on with a hole a tad bigger 
than 1" in diameter.  some have it on the left, some on the right, some both 
sides.   

so route that paper tube through the rear tin down, and point it at the head 
under the push rod tubes, over the flat tin at the bottom of the heater boxes.

originally they came with a pre heat pick up which bolted on at a heater box 
to head stud, under the nut there.  

see pics at
http://vintagebus.com/cgi-bin/gallery-search.cgi?string=pre-heat


...............
so, it's an 61 or earlier?   

you can buy a replacement tap lever  and install it.  (drain gas from tank 
first)  Wolfsburg West has them I believe.  Maybe otehr VW sources too.   I used 
a rebuild kit from them for my 61's reserve tap  and it worked well.

Or, you can keep a little notebook in the bus, and write down the milage you 
filled it up at.   later fill again, figure how many gallons it tokk to go how 
many miles, and there's a rough estimate of MPG.  Then you'll figure you can 
go how many miles before running out.   It's not a bad idea to have a 
maintenace book so you know when it had a tune up last, brakes last etc.

especially as you just got the bus, I'd go through the 60,000 mile tuneup, 
and inspect everything.   Unless the PO was really good about maintenace.  But 
it doesn't hurt to inspect brakes and axle boots and change oil, tranny oil 
etc.  Especially if the bus sat a while.  It's easy to blast a motor by putting 
it into vigourous use suddenly after it's been sitting.  (BTDT)   You have to 
pretend it's a rebuild and go through the break in procedure again.  Also check 
the oil frequently, and change it early if it gets icky.




DPM removed the reserve valve from
the fuel tank when they  put in a newer higher capacity tank. They also
put in a '67 VDO fuel gauge which i consider digital: It's either
marking 3/4 or it's empty. No in-between. Since i've only had the bus
for a few days i still haven't gotten the hang of calculating mileage
by distance travelled, especially since i sometimes climb that mountain
pass...
In a message dated 6/7/2003 4:21:39 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
yver(-at-)entelchile.net writes:

<< Or, in plain english, from where does that tube run? A search of the
 archives yielded the remark that it came from the warmest part of the
 engine, between #'s 3 and 4 cylinders, near the thermostat. Unless i've
 got some weird tin, there's no apparent fitting there. A spark plug
 hole with bootie, a manifold, another spark plug hole.


 What am i missing? >>
