Date: Mon, 9 Jun 2003 00:01:16 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Solex 30 PICT 1 electric choke/stepped cam (long)

>From: Andres Yver <yver(-at-)entelchile.net>
>Date: Fri, 6 Jun 2003 23:59:36 -0400
>
>A nephew of the previous (and only) elderly owner decided to sell her
>because he was paying too much, year after year, for the parking space.
>He also owns 70, yes, that is seventy, 2CV Citrokns.

Trivia: The model number on those comes from the engine rating: "deux
chevaux" or 2 horse power.  :)  One of the few vehicles around that can
make a fully-loaded Bus look fast.

>[...] we ran around, church key in hand, pulled up the tailgate, stuck
>our head in and promptly got a terrific whack on the back of our
>neck and shoulders when a gust of wind blew the tailgate back down

If you don't have the engine lid prop on the right side hooked up,
opening the back hatch, opening the engine lid all the way, and then
putting the back hatch down over the engine lid (per Muir) does work.
If the springs on the back hatch are still good, though, moving the
Bus much (like tugging on a wrench on a stiff bolt) or gusts of wind
can send the back hatch up and the engine lid down again.

>Now here is the question: what is the method by which the electric
>choke communicates with the stepped cam?

There's another little arm that goes on the end of the choke shaft.
It has a hole with flat sides that fits over the shaft so it turns
with the shaft, and an arm with a little bent over "finger" on the
end that pushes on the stepped cam.  The arm can only push the cam
one way - towards faster idle.

Normally, if you've driven the Bus enough to warm it up and then shut
the engine down, the idle speed screw will be on the lowest step of
the cam.  As the engine cools off, the thermostatic spring tries to
close the choke, but the idle speed screw will stop the cam from
moving, which stops the arm from moving, which stops the choke from
closing all the way.

Before you start it, you step on the gas, moving the idle speed screw
away from the cam.  This frees the cam to rotate, and the choke spring
can turn the choke shaft clockwise (as viewed from the left side of
the carb) to close the choke all the way.  This also lets the arm push
the cam clockwise, so when you let off the gas, the idle speed screw
will come back and touch the high step on the cam.

If you don't touch the gas, the idle speed screw will stay right there
and the idle will stay high, even as the choke opens up - the arm will
move counterclockwise away from the cam.  When you finally do step on
the gas, gravity pulls the cam counterclockwise until it hits the arm
again - this also means the idle speed screw will come back to rest
on a lower step of the cam.

>the choke spiral has it's tab, which engages the arm coming off
>of the choke (axle? what's the word for that?)

"shaft" is probably the standard word for it.

>The stepped cam fits on to a brass bearing which pushes into the carb
>body, supporting said axle. A thin nut on the same axle holds the cam
>on the bearing, but the cam rotates freely on the bearing, so if the
>axle is actuated by the choke, the cam does not respond to this
>movement.

The cam is supposed to spin freely.  The little arm is fixed to the choke
shaft and should go between the nut and the cam.  There also may be a
washer between the arm and the cam.

In other words, if you have nothing installed on that side of the choke
shaft, you should see the choke shaft and the roll pin sticking out.
First you put the cam over the shaft and it is free to spin, limited
only by the roll pin in the slot on the cam.  Then there is maybe a
washer, then the little arm, then a nut.  When the choke shaft turns,
the arm turns with it and pushes the cam.

If you have the '63-'67 Bentley manual, you can see a pretty good
picture of it on the bottom of page K-2 7.  On K-2 8, in the middle,
you can see a closer view, and on the bottom, you can see the arm
rotated counterclockwise (as viewed looking at the left side of
the carb) away from the cam.

You can also see it in the second picture (left side of carb) at
http://type2.com/bartnik/carb.htm .  It's item A7 on page 143 of the
'58-'67 parts manual at http://wow.atlasta.net/~mriluvu/oacdp/5867part.html .

>Well there are more questions, but i think this list (or was it the
>alfa list?) had a length limit so we'll leave it at that.

There is a length limit, but it's set at 30,000 bytes.  This is about 5
times longer than your message, so you're fine.

Welcome back to the list!

Matt Roberds
