Date: Mon, 9 Jun 2003 15:49:58 -0500
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: mostly a motor

at last - AND I AM CROSSING MY FINGERS,  SAYING 7 HAIL MARYS AND 
SACRIFICING A GOAT JUST IN CASE - i have the aluminum hellmotor 
installed in the bus and RUNNING.

some issues remain... i hear air hissing somwehere, and i had to 
crank the big carb screw out quite a bit, so i must have an intake 
leak someplace, tho  i haven't found it. hope the manifold didn't 
crack :P

end play - which WAS at .07mm now reads to .013 - .015, the limits; i 
really have no choice but to leave it right now, as the car needs to 
be running the last two weeks i am here in texas. if i finish all the 
chores and have an extra day before i leave i'll drop it and set 
again.
any ideas why this would change?

shimmed both rocker arms .030, and the valve noise lessened 
considerably. it may need some tweaking still, and at least one 
rocker arm needs replacing due to problems w/ the adjuster... when 
you tighten the jam nut, no matter what the clearance setting, the 
clearance will shift to .008 - must be stripped internally. bob p, 
these are not the ones you sent - those are in a box, and will go on 
as soon as i get a free day to shim them for sideplay.

cam is retarded 4 degrees, which sucks, but schneider said to hell 
wid it, run it. i did notice that when the throttle is goosed, the 
rpm will run to 4500, stay there a sec, and then shoot to nearly 6k! 
great for a racecar, but not exactly the torquey motor i was after. 
oh well, at least i'll never ping!   other than the timing, intake on 
#1 specd exactly to card (duration 220, lift .391) but the exhaust 
was a bit off: duration was solid, but i measured lift at .471. this 
will hold it open longer, running the valve hotter, so i hope my 
measurement was in error. i can't recheck, cuz i dropped the dial 
indicator and broke the bezel :P it could also have been my crappy 
chinese mounting base, which moves if a fly zooms by it.  as soon as 
i replace the dial face i'll redo the measurement.

has some slight vibration, which also sucks, as everything was 
balanced. sadly, the replacement p & c i had for jug #4 was a full 5 
grams heavier than the other pistons, so that might contribute. when 
i get to phoenix and settle in i'll pull it and grind it a bit. that 
cylinder has slightly more compression, too. compression is 1 - 6.93 
2 - 6.92   3 - 6.93   4 - 6.96.

one small oil leak at bottom rear, but i can't tell if it is the 
seam, or if my fullflow fitting has a leak under pressure that is 
squirting there.
after 20 minutes of running, the tightfin T3 oil cooler was barely 
warm. i'm attaching a temp guage and sender to it, so i'll know the 
exact temp of oil to bearings!

aluminum case did get warmer, and stay warm longer, than stock cases. 
we'll have to watch that.

as soon as i can pawn the kid off to someone for an hour or two, i 
need to roadtest it. wish me luck!
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"Guard against the impostures of pretended patriotism." -- George Washington
