From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 10 Jun 2003 09:53:03 -0700
Subject: OCTO/Classic trip report (long)

  It all started Wednesday with JP and Berry from New Mexico showing up at
my house to travel in to Christmas Tree Island Thursday with me and Steve. 
  We all went over to the dyno shop and watched as Geoff Hart dynoed the
1800 type 1 engine that I was delivering to a customer at OCTO, all went
well on the dyno and we all learned a lot from the experience.
  Thursday morning rolled around and I had some work to wrap up at the store
so everyone just relaxed as I stressed out trying to get things ready to go.
Finally around 2 p.m. I was ready and locked up the shop to leave and drove
home to finish loading. When I got home the brakes on the OZ container van
started to pull. Checked the fluid and topped it off, no problem I thought.
I then remembered that I had forgotten my passes for the OCTO/Classic
weekend in the shop, so headed back, OHHH  NOOO, went to step on the brakes
and they were gone. Here was everyone waiting on me and now my bus had no
brakes.
   Drove the bus back to the shop (after telling everyone to leave with-out
me) to repair the brakes and found out that the metal line between the 2
front cylinders had a hole worn right through it. Thank God it happened  at
home and not on the way to the BIG weekend. Did I mention that we just put a
new tranny and my 1800 in the bus the day before and that my helper didn't
adjust the e-brake cables, so when the brakes went out the e-brake barely
worked!!!
   So repairs made, loaded up ready to hit the road, so off we go. Me in the
Oz container van (first long road trip in it) and Steve in my Fo#d pulling
the trailer with the Fire Truck on it (that's a whole other story).
  We hit the road at 6 p.m. and the bus was running great UNTIL it developed
a weird sound! I was driving the van as I would my DD the engine came out of
(that was a mistake) pushing it real hard (a few 5500 rpm runs) and started
to overheat it and BAM, there went a valve seat.
   Not to be discouraged I pulled over (45 miles from home) and decided I'll
blow it up before I miss OCTO, so off I went.
   We made it another 50 or so miles and I had to pull over due to lack of
power. Proceeded to drop the muffler (damn hide aways) to check the valves
(damn were they hot) and found that number 3 exhaust was tight and number 4
intake were tight. Adjusted the valves, started the van and it ran like a
top again.
  Off we go for the rest of our journey as the sun set in the West, just
trying to keep making progress.
Everything was fine for another 70 or so miles when the van started to run
like crap again, trying to push it in 50 mph headwinds in 3rd gear on 3
cylinders just didn't want to work, so off the freeway again into a gas
station to adjust the valves again (just number 4 intake) and off we went
again.
  I decided no matter what I was going to make it the rest of the way to CTI
and we did. The 250 mile journey took 6 hours, I can usually make it in less
then 4, ouch.
   To my surprise there were at least 10 buses already camped out, on
Thursday night. We had a blast that night without the crowds and stayed up
talked till the wee hours of the morning.
   That evening I decided to check my one bad valve again and found it to be
held open, no adjuster left so I pulled the rocker shaft and install a
standard adjusting screw instead of the roller tip that was there. I knew I
would get at least 2 more adjustments before I ran out of room. 
   Friday morning rolled around and out came the stoves and breakfast foods.
I broke out my new Fire and Ice stove and cooler combo and HIGHLY recommend
one of these units to anybody who camps. A griddle and ice chest all in one.
After we all ate buses started to role in, a never ending process as they
came and stayed and went all day long. I had to go run errands and went to
TMI to check them out, quite the place, at least 100,000 square feet of
upholstery factory. From there off to Rancho Trans to pick up stuff and talk
about quality and availability of RGB trans parts and then off to West Coast
Classic for the pre OCTO/Classic party. Trip back from WCC to CTI took us 2
hours and 40 minutes, why do these people choose to spend hours everyday to
travel 50 miles has me baffled, now I remember one of the reasons I left So
Cal 14 years ago!!!!! Did I mention you need your wipers to wipe away the
smog!
   We only stayed there an hour or so as I didn't want to miss the FEED at
CTI. VTO puts on a Carne Asada, Chicken, Salmon feed like you wouldn't
believe, 95 lbs of meat not counting the chicken and fish. Got my belly full
and then proceeded to do the camp fire talks with all that showed. 
  Saturday morning rolled around with the 4 am wake up for the early
travelers to OCTO with the second wave leaving an hour later. 
   OCTO was UNBELIEVABLE, the lot was full by 8 am. I don't know home many
buses were there but they easily beat the 350 of last year by a big margin.
  My hats off to the OCTO boys for running a smooth show, the only one I
have ever been to where it doesn't take hours in line to get it, they run it
smooth.
   Finally got out of OCTO by 1;30 and proceeded up to the Irvine Lake
Camp-out, as always it was a blast with 50 or more buses camping out and a
funnier then heck raffle they put on, guess who won the Turnip?.
   Got up at 5;30 am, only because the sun came up and proceeded to get
packed up for the trip to the Classic. That trip was uneventful being there
is real no traffic at 6 am on a Sat except the Harley weekend warriors. Got
to the Classic and saw the 100's of cars lined up to get it but proceed past
them to the rear entrance to get in, it pays to get your passes early. Don't
have to wait in the BIG lines.
   This year the same as last year I had a blast at the Classic, not selling
so I had time to walk around and visit for a change. Found a few goodies in
the swap and Axle from Germany was there with his usual giant stash of NOS
parts, amazing what he has. This year he even had bay window and vanagon
stuff all NOS.
   Left the Classic and headed to Rich Yost aka Old Buses to drop off the
Fire Truck so I could put the Oz van on the trailer for it's trip home,
didn't want to take the chance of totally destroying the engine on the long
drive and the truck also has AC, will go down this weekend to pick up the
Fire Truck then off to Germany for Bad Camberg. I will be closed form June
19 till the 24th. Its going to be a fast trip there but then the hectic
month of June is over and I will have a few weeks to relax till the Mid
summer and fall shows happen.

ronnie   thanks to those that read this far.
