From: "VWguy" <pickit(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: "Jim Ellis" <ellisjames(-at-)yahoo.com>, "Dawn Smith" <dawn(-at-)plfvw.com>
Cc: "VW_VINTAGE_list" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 11 Jun 2003 12:37:15 -0400
Subject: Re: [VB] PLF highroof accident 

As far as VW's being "less safe" than water-coolers, I beg to disagree.

VW's do have less sheet metal in front but that only helps you in a front
end collision. Also, American and Jap cars only started adding reinforcement
to side panels in the last few years.

I wonder what would have happened to Dawn and her family if she was driving
a 2003 Corolla when that semi slammed in back of her?

Kevin Bell

.....

Glad to see that our friends are in relatively good condition.

SOB! what a story...

As most all have known or surmised my family has radically pulled back from
our
involvement and daily usage of aircooled VWs. After many years of daily
driving
of typeIs and typeIIs I, almost literally, woke up one day and was as "over
it"
as much as I was gung-ho into the vw scene. BAM, done! As a friend bemoans,
when he first met Ellis he only owned and drove aircooled buses with no
watercooled back up.

My wife, Paula continued to be more into her 67 Westfalia and Puck than
myself.
A light came on in her head about the time that she was past the first
trimester of her pregnancy with our son, John. She suddenly realized that
there
was only a thin sheet of metal between her legs and any stationery object.
She
was suddenly done with the bus and was content to drive the POS low dough
full-framed Landcruiser that I had at the time.

Now we continue to enjoy the scene and pay the cost, yeah it costs, to drive
a
more modern "van" via our '97 Eurovan camper. The health/safety of our
children
and selves are worth the dues paid. Time, money and energy provided I will
continue to work on the 63 EZ Camper that I've had for a year this coming
August. I have yet to drive it. VWs have become a secondary priority due to
a
few crying, screaming and pooping reasons. =)

I am very sorry for the material loss that PLF and crowd incurred but am
thankful that our friends remain to tell the tale.

Drive safe and remember that although they are very cool, our vehicles are
only
"a thang".
Peace,
