From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <njmr0021(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 27 Jan 2004 08:26:35 -0600
Subject: bus on ebay with questionable papers

re: bus for sale on ebay with questionable title

Be very cautious before you purchase this vehicle because of the
questionable paperwork. I have had one success and one failure when buying a
bus with a questionable paperwork.

The success story: I once bought a VW Bus with a "good" title. I knew the
previous owners. I knew they were recently divorced. I got the bus's title
from the wife. The title said in plain English.

Owner: John Doe AND OR Jane Doe

so I went to the Notary Public with the wife, Jane Doe, the owner and she
signed the title over to me. I took the signed notarize title to the
Missouri Department of Revenue - Motor Vehicles Division and they refused to
give me a title. They said I had to have the signature of both owners. I
explained to them that the Title clearly stated in plain English AND OR. I
explained to the clerk the meaning of the word: "OR". I explained that that
word meant that either person was the owner and either person could sign the
title over to me as the owner. The clerk rose to here low level of
intelligence and she refused to honor the owner's signature. I went to a
lawyer. The lawyer explained to me that in Missouri, the term: "AND OR" ,
has a very different meaning than it does in the English Language
Dictionary. He explained that the term: "AND OR" means only "AND" meaning
that both owners are the owner and that I needed both signatures on the
title. The husband had taken off to Timbuktu taking care of some Chinese
Panda Bears. I found out the Panda Bear tour dates. Once I chased him all
over the St. Louis Zoo. I never caught him. I sent certified registered
letters to him at all the Panda Bear tour stop zoos. I finally gave up and
forged his signature and used a notary stamp I bought at a garage sale. I
got the title. I drove the van for many years and finally sold it. I always
worry about being caught. So. I really do not have such a notary stamp. I
never had that notary stamp. I was just telling a big fib to make a good
story.

The failure story: I bought a beautiful 1968 VW bus in perfect and rust free
condition. I bought it from a woman who had never put the title in her name.
She told me that the MVD would not give her a title. She bought the van from
her roommate, a female lawyer. The lawyer could speak legal-ese. The title
had a place for a "LIEN HOLDER" . She told me that she bought the car on a
payment schedule, so the lawyer owner signed her name in the "LIEN HOLDER"
spot. She told me she made all the payments on time and then finally paid
the agreed total cost. So, the female lawyer owner, signed her name in the
"LIEN RELEASE" spot indicating that the "lien" was thereby ended or
satisfied or released or whatever.

This "LIEN ending in a LIEN RELEASE" is the exact same thing that happens
when you buy a car from a dealer and a bank loans you the money. The dealer
sells the car to the bank by assigning the title to the bank . The bank has
the car titled in their name. The bank allows you to have the title to get
license plates, but the bank owns the vehicle . The bank places a "LIEN" on
the vehicle. If you don't pay the bank all the payments the bank can
repossess their vehicle. When you pay off the "lien" then the bank signs the
"lien release" spot and you become the sole owner with a clear "lien free"
title.

The women said she tried to get a title, but the MVD clerks said that only
"businesses" could place and release liens. I took the women to my lawyer.
He said that the MVD clerk was an idiot and that anybody could set up such a
lien and lien release. He said the title was perfectly legal and that the
MVD had to accept it and issue a new title to the new owner. So we went back
to the MVD to get the title in her name so she could sign the new title over
to me. We told the MVD what my lawyer said. The MVD said that they had to
have a court case initiated by a lawyer for them to accept the title. I went
back to my lawyer. He said the MVD clerk was being really obtuse. He said he
would be happy to file the lawsuit for $XXX.XX . It also turns out that the
Missouri Department of Revenue MVD has a really stupid law that says you
must immediately re-title a vehicle when you buy it or get a big fine. So
the MVD had incorrectly illegally refused to initially title the vehicle and
so there was a huge $XXX.XX fine attached to the vehicle. It was a real
Catch 22. The rip-off fine only existed because the MVD had incorrectly
refused to title the vehicle. At the time, I didn't have all the money to
cover the lawyer's fees and the ridiculous "late" title fine. So I just
bought the van and let it set since the already exorbitant extortionist fine
wouldn't get any bigger. Eventually I started taking parts off the van and
... after many years the hulk of it went to the junk yard. What a waste.
Years later I had to go to my lawyer for something else and he told me that
he had read of a new ruling that forced the MVD to accept "lien releases"
from non-businesses without having to go through an expensive lawsuit; so
that I could take my title to the MVD and pay the fine and get a title.
aieeeee.

State Motor Vehicle Departments are notorious for having asinine rules and
being run by mindless bureaucrats. Do not buy the vehicle unless you do some
research first to be sure you can get a clear title without having to pay
huge lawyer fees and ridiculous fines or processing costs. It is especially
complicated if you are buying a car in one state and trying to title it in
another state. In some instances the MVD can absolutely deny an ownership
title and you will not be able to get license plates and be able to legally
drive on public streets.
