Date: Tue, 27 Jan 2004 11:40:03 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <eodell(-at-)sfront.com>
Subject: Re:  Cost Effectiveness of Points Replacement

List, et al:

I've not had the opportunity to use one of the CDI boxes on an FI motor,
my experiences are limited to use on Dellorto carbureted Type 4s.
Thusly equipped on a 2055cc (71 x 96), dual 40 DRLA'd version, running a
dual vacuum distributor (with only the advance hose connected to the
vacuum port on the Dell), my around town mileage improved significantly
- which is pretty much EXACTLY where I wanted it to improve; the bus is
a daily driver.  Prior to using the dual 40 DRLAs, I had been running
the original 34 PDSITs (pretty much worn-out to the point of not being
able to tune them properly), and having made the switch, I was
pleasantly surprised to note there was no immense DROP in around town
mileage.  With a judicious foot on the "loud pedal", mileage during the
course of many weeks actually improved by one or two mpg, but that takes
a real steady foot, and half the time you're wondering if it's real or
just changes in traffic conditions.  With more usable go-power, there is
the tendency to use it, but over all the improvement in general
drivability made the bus as a daily driver so much more pleasant.
Pretty much all my cars at that point had been converted to the
Comp-u-fire point replacement conversions for reasons of maintenance
reduction, and on that basis I made my remark that I had really seen no
noticeable improvements in mileage.  The  motors would rev a little
snappier, and felt a little snappier, and there was a whole lot less
continual maintenance of the points ignition.  For some people, that may
well be sufficient unto the day...

Somewhere about the time I had made the switch to the Dells, I
discovered the List - back when Bob Hoover's Sermons were still in the
Library.  Mr. Hoover went on and on about the CDI box, and on the basis
of his recommendations in many other areas, I figured that the guy
couldn't be too off-base, but having been bitten by less-than-stellar
ignition mods in my Type3 days in the '70s - I had my doubts.  A year or
so after that I discovered John Connolly at aircooled.net sold the
(sniff) now no longer manufactured Universal Corp. CDI boxes.  I love
the Dells, but one thing about them is that they don't have chokes, so
the start-up/warm-up cycle can be a trifle long in cooler weather.  So
after reading and re-reading all the exposition about how great the CDI
box is, with a great deal of trepidation I coughed up the $125 at
aircooled.net.

Since then, I have coughed up for several more - the carbed motors in
general just have that much more "get up and go" right at the point you
are just cracking open the throttle plates, very much akin to the effect
one sees when switching from a pure-mechanical dizzy to a combination
vacuum-mechanical dizzy.  That point of partly opened throttle plates
pretty much corresponds to the exact place you'd like to be driving in
town, in the tallest gear you can pull for the best economy.  For me,
this means I can pull 4th gear barely on throttle (instead of foot in it
in 3rd) and still have the guts to tickle the throttle for a lane
change, or pull a barely-stopping-to-rolling start in 2nd gear (instead
of having to hit 1st first).  It's also very important that if one does
go the CDI route, don't be a big chicken and fail to punch out the plug
gaps - the money is wasted if you don't.  I didn't start to see the
noticeable mileage improvements UNTIL I re-gapped the plugs out to
.045"; and once that happened, during the course of many weeks that I
monitored it, the bus went from generally using "about" 3/4 tank a week
M-F (measured over the many months pre-CDI), to generally using "about"
1/2 per week (measured over a month or two post-CDI).  My yardstick was
to watch the general usage on a M-F work week; because of traffic
conditions on my to/from work trips, side trips, other variables, etc.,
I just preferred to do it this way to average out the weekly
fluctuations.  In mpg terms, in-town went from "around" 12 mpg (yikes!)
up to "around" 16 mpg.  I personally did not expect to see such an
improvement, but once I did, the orders went out for another for the
914, and then once again for the '73 Deluxe.  The easier starting and
quicker time-to-drivability when running the Dells is pure gravy...

In closing, and as is often said - YMMV :-)

Jim Hayden
www.savethebays.org
