Date: Mon, 18 Jul 2005 20:15:37 +0000 (GMT)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: Jack Dinan <jdinan(-at-)cox.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] auxiliary air regulator characteristics

On Mon, 18 Jul 2005, Jack Dinan wrote:

> I am having trouble maintaining idle when cold on an FI engine and I
> just pulled the auxiliary air regulator to have a look.
>
> What I see when I look through the orifice is a moveable metal vane
> with a notch in it. This vane/notch is already a good way into the
> circular opening. I estimate that perhaps 15 % of the area of the
> opening is not obscured by the vane when it is cold. So very little
> air is allowed through and this could lead to my low idle situation.
>
> I would appreciate any info from someone who has looked down the pipe
> on one of these. What should I see inside there? Is this 15% open
> area normal?

This device is a disc mounted on a temperature senasative coil within a
case that also contains a 12v resistance heater.  As the coil heats it
winds the disc closed, as it cools it winds the disc open.  When you
start the engine the 12v heater is turned on and that heater remains on
as long as the engine is on. It is subject to three faults:

First, the heater can fail.  If it does then the disc will not close as
the engine warms and the idle will stay high.

Second, the disc can become stuck in its case with engine munge.
Depending on the position it can cause high idle (stuck open) or stalling
on warmup (stuck closed).

Third, this disc and termperature sensative coil can become disconnected
(usually as a result of the disc sticking (see second fault)).  They
symptoms are the same as the second fault.

At 90 degrees fahrenheit, yes, 15% would be about right.  Stick it in the
freezer for 20 minutes or so and see if it does not open right up to fully
open.  After it comes out of the freezer, apply 12V and it should close up
fully in ~30 seconds or less.  If the disc does not change position,
freezer or 12V then:

does not open in freezer....  spray it with Kroil or equivalent, until the
kroil runs clear.  Try the freezer again.  Try nudging the vane into
turning with a thin long screwdriver.  If it turns but does not spring
back then then the valve is dead, the disc and element have become
disconnected.  If the disc loosens then all may be well.  Apply 12v and
see if the disc will close now that it is loose.

Does not close on application of 12v...  the valve is dead as the heater
is burned out.

It may be possible to disassemble this device and rebuild it, but I have
never tried.  SO FAR they are available in yards.  In another decade, I
may learn whether they are rebuildable.

OOK!
