Date: Mon, 18 Jul 2005 21:11:10 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: <jkolak(-at-)byu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] Q about inspecting a new engine after assembly

On Mon, 18 Jul 2005, john kolak wrote:

> I can appreciate the enthusiasm of the students, but I'm less inclined
> to believe a college student's backyard experiment than the
> engineering studies cited in Fisher, "The black surface is more than
> ten times better in heat-radiating ability than a plain cast surface".
> Quoting Irving, "Motorcycle Engineering" and ALCOA's Engineering
> Handbook.

Your cylinders are _not_ cooled by radiation, but rather by
forced convection.  You can prove this to yourself by feeling the cylinder
tin when the engine is running at operating temperature.  If the radiation
component of engine cooling was significant, the cylinder tin would be
very hot, as it is the first thing that would be struck by the radiation!

So, the color of the cylinders doesn't matter, since radiation does not
account for the bulk of the heat transfer.

However, the insulating qualities of the paint layer, as well as the
texture of the surface will make a significant difference in cooling.
Many people, in quest of improved radiation cooling will put a nice thick
coat of black paint on their engine.  This actually hurts cooling, as the
paint layer acts as an insulator and the smooth paint surface doesn't
transfer heat as well via convection as the rough casting.

If you really want to make the surface black, you should use a very thin
process, such as anodizing for aluminum.  It won't really help cooling,
but if it makes you feel productive...

Years ago, air cooled motorcycles all had natural-colored metal cylinders.
Somebody read their physics book about black body radiation and figured
out that it might be a good idea to paint their cylinders black.  This
became quite a fad, with everyone painting their entire engines black.  It
was common knowledge that your engine would overheat if you didn't paint
it black.  Then Honda started painting their engines red!  Seems that the
Honda engineers didn't hear bout the commom knowledge!  Their bikes cooled
just as well as the black ones!

George
