Date: Sun, 13 Nov 2005 23:34:26 -0800 (PST)
From: Cliff Rhoton <commodore97210(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] T2 visit into Twilight Zone

If you want T2 mechanical Q & A only, then don't read
any further.  0% T2 Mechanical, 100% T2 humor.
   
Sunday night.  Lazy day.  10:30 pm, I get a hankering
for a McDeath-and-cheese.  Get dressed, and go out the
front door.  As I'm approaching my T2 ASI/Riviera,
there is like a herd of deer hovering around the salt
licks, 20 feet past the bus.  But they don't panic. 
Nah.  I know from experience if I meow at them, they
don't scatter.  <<Meow>>  They stand still. 
Stupified, but still.  (But then I'm so clueless, the
deer are probably planning on telling their children a
knee slapping story about a fat middle-aged balding
bespeckled gentleman who drives a large loaf of bread,
and who tries to pass himself off as a cat.)
  
Bus starts, and I fly off.  Leave the deer in my dust.
 As I'm coming down the mountain, there's something
moving ahead of me, just at the front edge of the
headlight beam.  Driving a T2, that's not saying much.
 Brights.  Oh, it's a Coyote.   And his tail is so
large, I can only occasionally catch a glimpse of his
ears.  I'm doing 30, and he's pacing me.  Fast Coyote.
 And he takes a leap off stage left.  Gee, more
wildlife.
   
I get to McDeath.  Order a Fish Sandwich and Sprite. 
Back on the road again.  Ok, steering wheel=1 hand. 
Gear Shift=1 hand.  Medium Sprite=1 hand.  Filet
o'Fish=1 hand.  Out of hands.  Get onto freeway
somehow.  Demonstrate poor driving technique.  Now,
I'm buzzing along on the freeway at 55, and there's
someone who has started to pass, but now they are to
my left.  They seem to be trying to tell me something.
 Perhaps they witnessed my bad driving....But I'm
still doing a juggling act.  I bite into the Fish
sandwich and burn my mouth.  I talk to god.  Then I
look left at someone who has been even with me for a
quarter mile.  Wow, it's an early bay, a transporter. 
I nod my head and smile as best I can with a burning
mouth.  He speeds up.  Florida plates.  Long way from
home.  But not for me...I'm 15 minutes from home.  (He
probably thinks I'm driving drunk!)
   
Some miles on the freeway later, I signal my exit get
ready to pull off.  The early bay, still in front of
me, taps his brakes a couple of times, and I flash my
lights in return.  Exit.  3 or 4 lights later, the
traffic signal turns red, & I stop.  I down the last
of the Fish sandwich only to notice a <<very old>>
rust colored T2 is crossing in front of me.  He honks.
 I pound my horn button.....nothing.  Pound pound
pound pound.  Nothing.  Grrrr.  Something more to fix.
 He probably thought I was stuck-up by not responding.
 My light turns green, and I head-off.  I noticed when
he passed that his drivers window was open, and he had
on a winter coat and stocking cap.  Could it be his
bus doesn't have a very good heater?  Or maybe his
heater doesn't work?  That would be odd, to have a
vehicle with little or no heater!  I can't imagine.
   
I'm climbing the mountain road to home now, and
downshift to second around the corner where the Coyote
bailed.  Not there any longer.  But then a vehicle
with bright lights comes rounding the bend
quickly!!.....its a Vanagon.  And it appears to be
full of High School students.
   
I get home and park the bus.  Strange excursion. 
Surrealistic.  Like a short visit into the Twilight
zone.  Let's tell the T2 list about this!
    
Clifford Rhoton
Portland, Oregon
