From: "Justin Pentecost" <cameflex(-at-)tiscali.co.uk>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 15 Nov 2005 10:20:17 -0000
Subject: [T2] Re:Convert Gasoline to Natural Gas?

I was thinking about this .. I have a landrover already running on LPG.
As I understand it there are two systems "OPEN" and "Closed".   In the UK
(And I'm pretty sure Australia) and the Netherlands and Germany .. Only
closed systems are allowed When I was in canada I also saw a Ford Van with a
System similar to the UK ..

In an open system .. a big fat pipe comes from the tank and the evaporated
LPG is fed by a ventri effect into the top of the carb .. Thats all I know
:)   As it's not legal here that's all I need to know ..

In the Landrover there is a pressureised tank with a dip tube.  The pressure
of the gas pushes the liquid down a thin copper pipe to the Evaporator.
The evaporator is simply a heat exchanger exchanging the heat from the
engines cooling system (It's in the same circuit as the heater) onto the LPG
and evaporating it .. it's then fed by ventri into the top of the carb.

Some vehicles are alleged to only run on petrol when cold .. I have never
had that problem even at -15 .. I thought it would ice up and had kettle of
water ready to pour on the evaporator when it froze .. It didn't freeze.

These systems are really simple .. easy to install and easy to use .. also
very little can go wrong.  the only potential problem you can have is that
in the UK if your MOT tester (DMV Equiv) has not tested a gas car before
then it might fail on emmisions (Basically the emmisions are so low it puts
the machine into uncalibrated mode which means the test cannot be
compleated).

The problem with useing these on a bus is ... NO HOT WATER .. and I've been
thinking about this in connection with another bus problem .. No heater ..

How about a diesel preheater heating and pumping a circuit of water with a
heater (such as from a type 25) a radiator (under the table) and an
evaporator .. if the circuit also took a couple of winds round the exhaust
the then the diesel heater would shut off as long as the temperature was
over 80 deg.   (You would also have to speak to customs and excise to be
absolutly sure of the TYPE of diesel you could use) ....

Now this system would be a load of hard work and would cost ?600 sterling at
least .. But given that LPG is 1/2 the price of petrol  and an Propane
heater is about ?400 I think it would be worth it ..

Justin

1977 Type II
