From: "Casting Fool" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 11 Nov 2004 10:33:26 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] more on Emblems...does anyone make emblem accessories?

From: "Wil Haslup" <wil(-at-)charmfx.com>
> I think it's okay to make up any design, even trademarked for your own
> personal use.  You only get into trouble if you try to sell them.

Technically, this isn't right.  They can go after you for the personal use
thing.  It's just that most companies won't because it isn't worth the
dollar to sue you.  Some companies will overlook personal use because it
furthers interest in their product(s).  Companies like Disney and VWoA are
particularly sensitive in the other direction.

Technically, any copy needs license to be legal.  I went through this with a
game company.  I was making accessories for their and other company's 54mm
gaming systems.  Some of them looked a lot like the stuff that the first
company was producing, though it resembled nothing specific that they had in
production at the time.  I had long email conversations with their
Intellectual Property folk to get things straightened out.

I could make and sell the accessories, but had to be careful not to use any
of their trademarked names.  It also helped to have a selection of parts
that covered several game systems rather than just ones that would work with
their games.

What it boils down to is folks feeling that they have a right to reproduce
things because they want or need a copy.  But it has to be balanced against
the right of the copyright owner to make a living selling their product(s).

For example, a lot of choir directors in churches make copies of sheet music
for their choirs.  Why?  Because buying so many copies costs a lot of money.
But they rip off the copyright owner who loses sales of his or her music.
It might be frugal, but it's not right.

Four really great casting companies have closed their doors because of
copyright violators ripping them off (Horizon, Screamin', Halcyon, &
GEOmetric: http://www.cfnson.com/doomsong.html).  They just couldn't compete
with the bootleg shops turning out copies of their work, sometimes to the
point of copying the actual packaging!  I've seen copies of work that I've
done for companies turn up at trade shows being marketed by bootleggers
masquerading as legitimate retailers.  Sad.

TTFN - Mike Jackson
`77 Bay, "Giacomo"
Casting Fool & Son
Augusta, GA  USA
http://www.cfnson.com
