Date: Tue, 20 May 2003 08:30:48 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Bob Thomas <bobgthomas(-at-)earthlink.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: [VB] Noisy TO bearing saga continues

>I am starting to think the noise I was getting was the TO hitting thePP,
>but not centered on the ring, so that the TO bearing  is not rotating, like
>it should, but rather it is just dragging agaist the ring on the PP. This
>would give a scraping sound which would change pitch as the clutch is
>depressed, getting worse and worse the the more you depress the pedal, as
>the the two rings, TO and PP, get farther and farther off center from each
>other.

I have not been following this thread so I may repeat something someone 
else has already said...

I had a 1970 Westy when I lived in Naples, Italy that went through 4 
throw-out bearings in 2 days. We could not figure it out for a while.

Turns out it was a combination of two things: the throw-out arm had a 
cracked spot weld and one of the arms was bending (rotating on the shaft so 
it was not pushing as far as the other side). The other problem was that 
the bushing in the bellhousing on the driver's side was worn and the arm 
was shifting towards the driver's side causing what you mention above - the 
bearing to rotate against the pressure plate but off center so they rubbed 
instead of just mating up and being quiet. In our case the problems were 
severe enough that the bus would only make it about 4 or 5 miles before it 
self destructed. The heat built up would cook the bearing and the bearing 
would explode.

We towed it home each time with my little 40 HP Beetle and fixed it again 
and again before we got "educated". The Italian parts guy at the 
autoricambi thought it was funny though...


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
