Date: Tue, 20 May 2003 14:46:30 -0400
From: Mark Ryan <3ryans(-at-)myrealbox.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Stumped! No power-1641 DP

Bussers,

The motor in my 70 bus now runs so poorly, top speed is about 30 MPH and 
hills pretty much stop it.  I am out of answers so I now request any 
ideas.  Here is the long sad story.

I rebuilt the dual port motor using an AVP short block, GEX (ugh) 
rebuilt heads, 87mm P&C, new 34PICT3 jetted to 135, 009/pertronix, and 
Quiet Pack exhaust.  It ran great for about 10K miles, the only problem 
was rust in the gas tank.  I dealt with that by changing the fuel filter 
whenever I saw red sediment creeping into the filter, every 2,000 miles 
or so.  Then...

The bus coughed, sputtered, and died on the highway one day.  I had it 
towed to my house and tried replacing the fuel filter and draining the 
float bowl.  No better, so I bit the bullet.  Pulled the engine and gas 
tank.  Cleaned and coated the tank with the POR-15 kit, leaving the tank 
open after finishing for about 10 days to cure.  Replaced carburetor, 
all fuel lines, and exhaust while motor was out.  Bus then ran OK, but 
with a significant amount less power.  (A hill climbed at 56 mph when 
the motor was strong was now 48-50.)  Over about a thousand miles, 
things got gradually worse, until the lack of power became hazardous.  
No nasty sounds, oil pressure, temp, and CHT all normal.  Compression 
within normal limits.

I then tried what I thought were the obvious things.  Cleaned carb.   
Plugs, wires replaced.  Swapped out coil.  Switched to stock dizzy and 
points.  Swapped out an OK used carb.  Tested fuel pump.  Removed 
muffler in case it was plugged.  Drained fuel tank, put in new gas.  
Yes, the vacuum connections at the carb are plugged with the 009.  No 
change.  Smooth idle, good compression, no power.  The only thing left I 
could think of was a burned valve in the GEX heads so...

Pulled the engine again.  Installed new brazilian heads.  No sign of 
visible damage to P&C, just cleaned the piston tops.  Reassembled, 
reinstalled.  Still the same.  Suspecting old fuel, drained tank again, 
new fuel again.  All this has been over nearly two years.  The only 
noise of note is a tapping, but only when warmed up.

I don't think I've missed anything obvious, but I've been fighting the 
battle so long I'm beginning to wonder.  Any suggestions welcome.  I 
have been on the list in the past, taking and giving hints and advice.  
This list rocks.

TIA.

Mark Ryan
New London, New Hampshire
