From: "Bernd N. Wolniczak" <berndw(-at-)terra.com.pe>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 25 Jul 2004 12:56:33 -0500
Subject: Let me introduce myself... :-)

Hi everybody:

 

I joined the list about a week ago, and I'm impressed on the amount of
traffic it has. It's great!... you're a big community of VW users!

My name is Bernd, I'm from Lima, Peru (South America). This is for me the
first step in the long (I think) process of restoring an old VW bus (down
here we call it "Kombi") that I now own. The story is as follows:

 

My father is German and he bought about 32 years ago (I'm 34 by now) a VW
Kombi that still rolls. Since he (my father) is too old now (80 years) his
driving license has expired and he can't get it renewed because of the laws
in Peru, so I've "inherited" the car.

Till today I didn't realize the jewel I had in my garage, until a friend of
mine who is a mechanic told me about the historical value of a car like
that. So I decided to begin the restoration of my Kombi and bring it back to
life, and I hope you can help me in this process.

 

First of all, I'm not really sure about some facts of my VW. The
manufacturing year for example: In the registration card says it's a 1969
model. I've been surfing in the web and I can't find exact data about buses
built in that year. On the other hand, I don't have or know the exact model.
On the registration card says "1,600-221" because it has a 1,600cc engine,
but what does the "221" mean? I've been looking for this model in the web,
and I didn't find any information. Anyway, I've posted some photos of my
Kombi in my website at www.wolsoft.com/mykombi/ so you can help me in
recognizing the year and model. One thing I know for sure: It's air cooled
and it doesn't have a split front window! ;-)

 

Some of the things I'd like to work on are in the replacement of some parts
for the original ones, and to restore the others. For example, I believe the
original mirrors where broken or stolen because my father installed a pair
of plastic ones he bought at K-Mart. I believe I can find original ones in a
place in Lima called "Tacora" and another one "Las Malvinas". Both are
places where you can find a bunch of stolen auto parts and accessories among
other things.

The entire body must be repainted; the rubbers around the windshields are
too old and are cracking. The steering system is a little bit unstable and
the shock-absorbers must be replaced. The engine must undergo a full check
and maintenance, and the interior cleaned and repaired.

Well, the list is long and I hope, with your help, not to fail in the
attempt.

 

Greetings from Peru,

 

Bernd N. Wolniczak

 <mailto:berndw(-at-)terra.com.pe> berndw(-at-)terra.com.pe

(51+1) 441-4185

(51+1) 9964-9003
