Date: Sun, 25 Jul 2004 11:41:25 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Deatherage <deatheragepaul(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] insulation

Neal, you are talking about the Bulley-Hewlett thing from his technical article "Heat, Rust and Noise" or something. Two years ago when I took my bus apart, I was totally ready to do this to mine. I had a hangup and the bus was away with the body man for a whole year. So, one year ago, I was again ready to do that until one day when I was looking at the classified on www.thesamba.com . The bus he did that to was for sale and guess what- A huge chunk of the side appeared to be rusted out, above the rear wheel well. I emailed the guy who was selling the bus and sure enough, it was Jamie, who was mentioned as the new owner in the technical article. 
 
In the article, he was talking about avoiding vapor being trapped under the paneling by having a vapor barrier between the inner cavities of the wall and the cabin. This vapor barrier apparently prevented vapor from escaping as well. Now, it seems to me that vapor could easily be trapped between the roof patching gew and the body. After I saw the bus for sale, I began to feel that the notion of using that semi-permanent coating may be dubious. I am still redoing my insulation, but without the roof patching stuff. What I'm doing for noise reduction is using asphault patches from jc whitney. I'm not trying to criticize Bulley-Hewlett. His process helped a novice like myself have the hopes of heat and noise reduction in a bus. Who knows, I could be wrong about the roof patch causing the rust, but seeing that made me change my mind about what I was doing to my bus. I'm very glad he wrote the article, but I'm now under the school of thought that the volkswagen must breathe, like any other
 being with a soul. I thought I would warn you about that. 
 
The combination I am using, which I haven't tested yet, is asphault patches on the metal, Nasa insulation above that, Lowes bubblewrap foil insulation above that and probably some fiberglass. It won't take much to improve your stock setup. If anyone wants to read the article, I found an active link here: 
http://www.shagadelic.org/VW/info/gmbulley-soundproof/heatdum.html 
 
Again, I think that he had a great idea and I am following most of the other steps from his process, just not that one. If he is reading this, I would like to thank Matthew Bulley for the help he offered me when I started this on my bus.                                                                              -Paul Deatherage   

Neal354(-at-)wmconnect.com wrote:
i read on the list about a man who coated the inside of his bus with wet and 
dry roof cement he claimed it worked great and no road noise im wondering is 
their a smell after everything is dry my bus is gutted and i would like to try 
this if it works thanks neal
