Date: Sun, 25 Jul 2004 10:13:50 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: stevo <stevo(-at-)efn.org>
Subject: operation was successful; patient died

hey all, i'm back from a 9,500 mile circuit of the good old states. i took
my 75 westfalia. highlights included southern utah canyonlands; vagabonding
in telluride; taos; south jersey beaches; nyc; ithaca-seneca falls;
toronto; and the badlands/wounded knee area. most everything was hugely
successful, just about the best trip i could have done in a vw bus in
america.

i saw five moving buses, and about five parked ones. that was odd. over 85%
of the trip was made using state and county roads, and the total time spent
out there was two months to the day. the bus took on three mountain passes
of at least 10k feet, and one 11 thousand footer in the san juan mountains
near ouray, colorado. that was astonishing to me given the history of the
bus. all you listees take a pat on the back.

the westy did very well. toward the very end things seemed to come undone
but at least my family and i made it home together. aside from losing the
fuel sending unit, i had a little bitty engine fire in ontario, oregon -
375 miles from home. not exactly sure of the cause but i noted the fuel
vapor lines slipped off - that three-way section on the fuel injected
models. and, the fan motor electrical block had a melt down. the fire was
brief and was out in seconds but it was enough to sinter some wire casings
and charbroil others. i managed to drive 60 miles until i slowed down
through a super town between ontario and burns, oregon. i landed in front
of the oasis cafe and hotel - just about the coolest diner on the whole
ride. in mid-flight the engline lost power, and as best i can tell the fuel
pump never came to life. swaped out with another pump, including filters,
and no deal. i never got the electric fuel pump to whirl-wizz. in burns, i
open up the dual relay and it had dark spots, but i didn't have a spare and
none was to be had. with three children aged between seven and one, i
rented a uhaul and an auto transport and limped home at 40mph trying to
concentrate upon the good things about the trip.

haven't completely unpacked the bus, though i am thinking about its repair.
i wonder if anybody has a 77 fuel-inj wiring loom for trade/sale. dual
relays i got too many. no rush.

thanks to all the folks that offered safe haven, but were not on the path.
i'm indebted as if we stayed with you all the same. - steve
