Date: Sun, 25 Jul 2004 22:25:52 -0500
From: Dean Goodmanson <goodmansond(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Tin foiled

Need to ask some simple questions.

73 sportsmobile, 1700 w. single holley.

Can engine tin come off and on without removing engine? 

Specifics:

Sides. The two big portions on the sides of the engine on mine have a.
1-2'' holes for various non-existant ducts (blower), tubes, and are
rusted near the firewall to the point that PO metal screwed in
band-aid portions and don't look too promising for a good foam seal
fit.  Sorry I can't get better description at this hour.  Bentley and
my minds eye can't allign.  Can I replace these w/out a drop?

Push rod tube: In response to a previous mail about replacing push rod
tube seals I checked the metal protecting the underside of the head.
It's there, but I can't imaging taking it out, it's above what I'm
pretty sure are the push-rod tubes.  Maybe it's only partially there
or I'm looking at the wrong thing.  In decent shape.I don't see
anything between the road and push rods. (FWIW, oil leak in this area
inquery brought great responses to change these seals.  My tubes are
rusty and grimey.)

It looks like to change my oil pressure sender I'm going to have to
get a big-ole socket, or remove the tin. Suggestions?

Finally, if a piece of debris gets into my fan blades where does it
end up? (Missing 2 fan blades, planning on buying grated protector but
again, failing the mind-meld with bentley.

Title? Just a *sigh* over the simplicity and accessibility of this
engine then feeling the pinch of the engine tin aura.

- Dean

p.s. I am enjoying getting to know my bus.  As I was under pulling the
thermostat my fearless 1 & 1/2 year old climbed down onto my chest,
beamed at me then looked up at the engine. :-) It works. Cable next.
Muir description of cooling flaps seem odd. Type4 engine flaps are
defautl OPEN to keep engine cool, but thermostat keeps them CLOSED at
STARTUP to heat the oil faster, correct?  Type1 different?
