From: "Rob Henley" <robhenley(-at-)72camper.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 26 Jul 2004 00:08:11 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Tin foiled

Sides: these two pieces can come off without pulling the engine...in fact
most of the tin can come off, but you are looking at a lot of work either
way. In order to get the sides tin off you will have to pull the carb intake
runners, and there are some screws that go through the rear tin piece
also...hard to reach with the engine in but do-able if you are persistent.

Push rod tubes: Yes you will have to pull the push rod tubes to remove the
head deflectors. I wouldn't remove all of the push rod tubes at once anyway.
That tin is important, but there isn't much to it, so what you see is
probably right.

Oil pressure sender: Jake Raby advocates using a large adjustable wrench and
this is what I use.

Debri in fan: Well if a rag were to get lodged in there you could be looking
at a serious problem. As for where small stuff ends up...usually on the tin
below the fan. There is no magical hole that stuff will get into, however on
my 1700 there was a small plastic cover for the center of the fan and there
isn't one on my 2 litre. I guess some debri could possibly get into the fan
hole and make it's way to the fan hub. This would be a feat to happen and if
you have your tin and engine sealing foam intact there shouldn't be much to
jump up from the road. A reproduction plastic fan cover can be purchased at
several online vendors cheap.

I believe the thermostat flaps are closed at startup and the thermostat
expands to open the flaps once the engine is warm to keep the engine cool.
That is why it is important to check your thermostat and cable to make sure
they are operating properly. Some people wire the flaps open permenantly so
there is no chance of the flaps keeping the air from circulating, but of
course VW's design is desired if your thermostat is working. There is a good
article in the library about testing your thermostat.

Good luck!

Rob Henley
www.baywindowbus.com
