From: "Karl" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: "Dean Goodmanson" <goodmansond(-at-)gmail.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 25 Jul 2004 21:09:20 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Tin foiled

Dean asked:
>  73 sportsmobile, 1700 w. single holley.

>  Can engine tin come off and on without removing engine?

It would be easier to remove the 2 upper trans bolts and the rear hanger bar supports-to-body bolts and let
the engine swing down on a floor jack. Then you can remove the intake tubes. To remove the upper cylinder tin,
you will need to remove the upper front piece 1st.

> Sides. The two big portions on the sides of the engine on mine have a.
 1-2'' holes for various non-existant ducts (blower), tubes, and are
 rusted near the firewall to the point that PO metal screwed in
 band-aid portions and don't look too promising for a good foam seal
 fit.  Sorry I can't get better description at this hour.  Bentley and
 my minds eye can't allign.  Can I replace these w/out a drop?

I have good upper tin. But they will have the air duct holes in them.

> Push rod tube: In response to a previous mail about replacing push rod
 tube seals I checked the metal protecting the underside of the head.
 It's there, but I can't imaging taking it out, it's above what I'm
 pretty sure are the push-rod tubes.  Maybe it's only partially there
 or I'm looking at the wrong thing.  In decent shape.I don't see
 anything between the road and push rods. (FWIW, oil leak in this area
 inquery brought great responses to change these seals.  My tubes are
 rusty and grimey.)

I may have the left and right lower tin. It is 72-74 only. [the right one is 79 Fed also]

> Finally, if a piece of debris gets into my fan blades where does it
 end up? (Missing 2 fan blades, planning on buying grated protector but
 again, failing the mind-meld with bentley.

It will go into the fan housing and then end up on top of the cylinders or heads. Time to clean when you take
off the tin :)

I have a good fan and a good plastic screen.......
