Date: Sun, 30 Sep 2001 21:35:43 -0400
From: Jim <xpr3(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Alex Wisniewski <icehenge(-at-)hotmail.com>,
Subject: Re: [T2] howdy, and some questions

Alex Wisniewski sends:

> My second question is about CV joints. I was thinking about
> getting a inexpensive press some where to remove the
> joint from the drive shaft. A big hammer isn't doing the
> trick so its either this or someone at a machine shop
> with a press.  So how big of a press do I need for the
> CV joints and what would be good for other bus projects
> also, multiple uses i'm hoping :)

I have a six-ton Chuck Homier Special press, which has successfully pressed
off every CV I've ever tried it on, but the procedure for pressing CVs off
is long and convoluted: because of the design of the press, you can't put an
assembled CV through it--so you have to disassemble one CV before you can
put the axle in the press. (You only have to disassemble one.) In short,
this press is too damn little.

Now...the weekend they opened the Harbor Freight store in Fayetteville, I
saw they had a 20-ton press sitting there for, IIRC, $189.95. This press was
big enough to put in an assembled halfshaft. I know, I know, Chinese tools
can be crap, but this particular item seems plenty good for its assigned
purpose. The only thing that could screw up on it is the hydraulic jack that
runs it, and if it really does screw up you can buy a new one from your
favorite farm store and put it in there.

What other uses are there for hydraulic presses? Look in the Bentley at all
the procedures that contain the words "press the component on" or "press the
component off." There are a bunch of them--and some of them you'd be far
better off if you had the monster press.

However, if all you want to do is to get your CVs off every couple of years,
or press in one set of ball joints, take the halfshafts to a NAPA store,
where very often there will be a big ole hydraulic press sitting there--the
ones in town will press up to 20 things on or off for $5 if you bring the
parts in, and will press in anything you buy there for free. I know a very
successful pro VW mechanic (that knows what he's doing, BTW) who owns no
press. I asked him where it was; he pointed at the NAPA right across the
street and said he could have them press off a whole lot of stuff for the
price of the press they have, and when you do it that way you can add it to
the bill as labor, whereas it's kinda hard to put "your share of my press
payment" on an invoice.
-- 

--jmowreader
xpr3(-at-)earthlink.net 
http://www.macsalon.org

