Date: Mon, 1 Oct 2001 11:23:46 -0700
To: sales(-at-)bustedvw.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
From: stevo <stevo(-at-)efn.org>
Subject:  Re: [T2] lessons on the aftermarket

> Hey let's take it easy bashing the number one manufacturer and importer of
> quality restoration products. First WCM West Coast Metrics offers a lifetime
> guarantee for there product to last a lifetime and to fit perfectly. So how
> can you complain about the LAME fit. Just send it back for a new one. The
> problem is not that you bought a WCM product. You bought an auction site
> product. WCM parts cost more because they are a quality guaranteed product.
> Not all OEM German product runs are perfect either. poop happens. Don't take
> a chance, buy a product with a guarantee. Call WCM and tell them what
> happened. I'm willing to bet that they will help you out. If not I'll go bat
> for you. WCM products are the best available period. I'll at least give you
> nine bucks trade in for it.

i bought it from an established, well-known vw retailer in the midwest via
eb(-at-)y. except for the price paid what's the difference. does an unopened
product via auction site differ from buying it through a catalogue or phone
order? product is product. i'm not worried who will take it back and
replace or refund me. that wasn't implied in my post.

i'm not too concerned with the guarantee, in large part because of the
lousy nine dollars i paid. hell, shipping was more. point remains that the
scraper was brand new in package, shipped perfectly, and worth absolutely
nothing to me in terms of usefuless. it was a gamble i lost and am bringing
it up for discussion. its a quality control thing, and i pose to the list:
if you'd ripped your door down, and changed out your scraper in the recent
past with a wcm product, did the rubber contact the window - or was if a
quarter inch away from the glass end to end? same issues - but with another
manufacturer?

i had this discussion with wcm today. they're fine as far as phone service,
but the important info was that the scrapers are brazillian, and they can
be problematic. they were willing to send me another one (true to form as
stated by john connolly), which i declined. then i spoke that it was an
eb(-at-)y thing, and he was still gonna give me store credit. cool right? in the
pnw, window scraper replacement is not something one plays with late into
october. my feeling is that a german scraper will come around before an
aftermarket scraper fits. at least until more data comes my way.

had listees been satisfied with ron's stockpiled scrapers?      - steve



