Date: Fri, 7 Nov 2003 06:55:08 -0800 (PST)
From: John Baker <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>
To: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
Cc: list vintage bus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, type2 list
Subject: Re:  Auxillary battery (A rant in response to the rant!!)

--- someone wrote:
> > This rant means more than you think....the kids
> that dull their creative
> > abilities by letting the corporate media do their
> thinking for them will not
> > have any desire to continue with the preservation
> of crusty ol' buses, nor

And then someone else wrote: 
> Agreed!<

Since I started this thread (and it originally had
nothing to with what it evolved into) and since it's
Friday, and since SURPRISINGLY the Admins have not yet
killed it, I will respond by saying that I can't
remember the last time I have heard so much
self-righteous B.S. spewed forth in the form of
"advice".  C'mon people, TV\technology as the root of
all of societies evils?! Give me a break!! 
Bad parents who are un-invloved in their childrens
lives is what is harmful to kids, not watching TV in
the bus.  As a matter of fact, the TV in the bus is
just something that makes it easier to take our
children on these far away bus campouts. And I am here
to tell you that THESE ARE VERY VALUABLE EXPERIENCES
FOR MY CHILDREN, and I'm gonna do what I have to do in
order for them to have the opportunity to experince
such positive events.  This is an attempt to involve
children in ALL parts of our lives, including the VW
scene!! And what are they going to remember when they
are older? They are going to remember going to these
cool places, meeting great people, and having a
blast!!  It just so happens that they were watching
"Ice Age" on the way there, that's not what they will
remeber.  And someone is saying that this is going to
PREVENT them from being involved in restoring old
VW's?!  Get a grip!!
So, if the options are: 1) Leave the kids with the
babysitter for the weekend so I can go to a campout OR
2)Put a boob-tube in the bus to make the trip
tolerable for everyone, then I am choosing #2. 
Remember, while you are driving a bus 10 hours, you
really can't interact with the children 5 feet away in
the back of the bus, so that piece is not even part of
the equation.  PARENTAL INVOLVEMENT is what is
important, and involving the kids in bus events is a
great tool in staying involved with the kids.
So, Admins, before any one else has some "helpful"
advice to give, PLEASE KILL THIS THREAD!!
P.S. Isn't it interesting how you always get the BEST
advice on parenting from people who have no
children!!!! Rant off.
Now for bus content:  I have gotten the Aux battery
hooked up in the Westy, it works and charges as it
should when the gen is cranking. 

=====
Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1967 Kombi soon to be camper!
http://www.buszen.com

"So we got into the red VW microbus with the shovels and the rakes and the implements of destruction and we headed on to the police officer's station..."
