From: ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 7 Nov 2003 11:16:44 EST
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Trade 79 parts bus with title

In a message dated 11/7/03 10:35:54 AM, harmony(-at-)buszen.com writes:

<<  Of course, if you want to include your whole
bus in the trade, I'll take it. I've got my flame suit
on, so if anyone wants to harass about how you think
this is inappropriate, go for it!!
 >>

You're talkin' major federal and state offenses here, BTW...
Sending a VIN # off is an invitation to someone (not any-
one on this list... ;-( to steal a matching Bus and resell it
under your VIN and title...I seem to recall that later (and
maybe earlier) Vans had a VIN stamped in other places
(rear apron, IIRC, but there could be others...), which
could lead to some interesting situations further down 
the road... If the "re-VINNED" van is involved in an acci-
dent and is inspected the insurance company as well as
the police are gonna frown on non-matching VINS...
If you sign that title and send it to me (I could be the
Antichrist of vans for all you know...), I could attach that 
VIN to another van, and pass it on without my signature
(no paper trail to me...)...You're last in line on that VIN and
title...Anything happens, they're gonna come lookin' for you
not me...
If you think this is just a minor offense, think again, the po-
lice rate this up there with grand theft auto...Sgt. Friday will
not be smilin' if he's walkin' up your driveway to talk to you...
If you really don't have a title for your van, try the classified
pages of Hemmings Motor News...There are companies that,
for a fee, of course, can get you a legal title for your van...
Last I checked it was about $250...
All this said, (like Rush Limbaugh, I gotta be honest with my
loyal readers...) I have a complete legal 1964 MG Midget in my
desk...MG, in their infinite wisdom, mounted the VIN on the
door jamb and the front frame member with phillips screws.
I have both of those and a valid NJ title in my name...The rest
of the car went into my Bugeye and the usable sheet metal was
sold off...The rest fit into a few garbage cans...Y'know...Just in
case I come across an MG in a barn or somethin'... ;-)

Tony in NJ
W.A.S.T.E.
