Date: Sat, 8 Nov 2003 09:28:33 -0600 (CST)
From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Report...trip to germany

Folks,

Ok, I got back from almost a week in Germany last Sunday and have
pretty much recovered from the jet lag.

No, I didn't discover any secret parts caches, but did see a few
buses.  On a train trip to a town about an hour outside of Frankfurt,
I did see a bus picture #1 here... 
http://www.shockwaverider.com/germantrip/

This bus was parked at the train station, I didn't try
to translate the lettering...maybe someone else?

Pictures 2 thru 7 were from an air-cooled vw specialist shop
in a different small town close to Freiburg.  My hosts took me there
on Friday morning to check on some of the 2 pages of nla'd parts
that I was going to try and see if anyone had.  Unfortunatly, it was 
friday before a big holiday(on Saturday) and the guy had skipped out real 
early.

There is a treat(and mystery) in this pics.  Picture #7 shows a roof from
a bay window with what appears to me to be a "factory" 21 window setup 
like a splitty.  Since we were essentially trespassing, I really couldn't 
touch anything, put just got a few snaps of his treasure trove.

Apparently the TUV(DMV) in Germany pretty much insists that 
wrecked cars be crushed right away...so...no junkyards like we have.

Pictures 9 and 10 are at the local vw/audi dealsership and they agreed to 
take my 2page list of nla'd parts and see if anything was available.  One 
of the folks I met at the company I was visiting will pick it up from them 
in a few weeks and let me know anything.  Notice the pics of an "old" bug
on the front window that is obviously used to trade on the status of the 
old bugs to try and sell new ones....same as they dealerships do here.  
Unfortunately, the folks there have the same problems trying to get parts
from the dealer that we do.  The father-in-law of one of the folks had 
just finished a restore on a 79 vert...he brought pics so I could see it.

Picture #11 shows the only vw that I was close enough to on the road to 
get a shot.

I did pick up a couple of magazines...one showed a Silberfisch with
a Rover V8 in it!  Also was given a copy of "oldtimers Markt"...the german 
version of the hemmings news...prices for restored and other vw's stuff
looked about the same as here.  

I thought prices were expensive although I didn't get to really comparison 
shop.  One of the places near Freiburg actually had a Wal-mart and a 
Toys-r-us....but we didn't stop and go in.  Globalization Redux..even one 
of the two "old" wall towers in Freiburg housed a McDonalds...yeeech.


The weather was terrific...alternately grey and gloomy with sunshine every 
other day...temps were in the 50-60's on the sunny days.  

Saw a lot of all kinds of cars...lots of vw's of all type and plenty of 
Mercedes and Audi's.  The cars are just as expensive there as here, but it 
didn't seem to matter if you could actually afford one.  Gas prices were
about 1.19 euro's for a *liter* of gas...most of it in taxes.

The places where I was seemed a lot cleaner now than 30 years ago although
on the train trips that I took, there was "art" graffiti 
*everywhere* along the railroad tracks...the Germans said that it was  
national problem.

These cars http://www.smart.com/
were everywhere...they are a car designed by the folks that make swatch 
watches and manufactured by Mercedes.  Kinda cool really, but small too.
Almost all of them with extensive graphics or colorfull advertising on 
them.

People were nice, beer was terrific, food was as good as before!

Cheers, dave

 -- 
-------------------------------------------------------------------
"I'm more interested in getting it right, than being right"....dave
