From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K)
Date: Sat, 8 Nov 2003 21:59:23 -0600 (CST)
To: thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com (Jason Thorpe)
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Leaky windshield seal

Jason,
Either the glass is short-or the metal behind it is going away--
I think the glass could be short--

The Black silicone is your best bet--
Get the 30 year stuff.
Pull back the rubber, and with a caulking gun, run around the whole
perimeter of the windshield--
Have a quart of mineral spirits ready to go-and a bunch of rags--
when you let go of the rubber the silicone will squish out from behind
it--
With your index finger and the rag soaked in the mineral spirits--make a
nice fillet around the outside of the rubber--an even one--all the way
around it--
You'll hardly be able to see it, and the leak will be a thing of the
past--

I've been doing this fix to Mack Trucks for 30 years--no more rust or
leaking around the rubber rear or windshield moulding's-

Have Fun--

Terry

 
E-mail message   
 
Well, the rains have finally come to San Francisco, and today while
running some errands I noticed a leaky spot on the top of the windshield
seal basically right above the horn button. 
I was afraid this was going to happen; there is a gap at the top of the
seal on the outside where it appears as though the glass/seal have
"sagged". The windshield is not the original; it was replaced some time
in the past (how long ago, I don't know). 
I'm not particularly interested in replacing the seal right now. What
I'd like to do is skate along until I get the Bus painted (which I'd
like to do in about a year or so), at which time I'll deal with all the
various body nits (including rust repair under the windshield seal). 
So, I'm inclined to use some sort of black silicone-type material to
patch the leak until I'm ready to do all the body work. Does anyone have
any recommendations? Just plain GE black? I'll want something that'll be
removable with a reasonable amount of effort. 
Also, I'm curious what would cause this "sagging". Maybe glass that
isn't quite the right size? Just a crappy seal? Would a picture help? 
:-) 
Thanks! 
Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/
