Date: Sat, 13 Oct 2012 17:53:50 -0700 (PDT)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Jerry Azevedo <jwazevedo(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Electrical frustration

Hi Jerry,

Clean BOTH ends of every cable.  Not just the ones that connect to the battery
terminals.  Use the battery terminal grease and the felt terminal rings from
your FLAPS.  Some kind of grease coating on every cable end, and fixing bolt,
before assembly.  When you tighten the bolt appropriately, the contact
surfaces will penetrate any hydrocarbon film, but the surrounding surfaces and
crevices, will be sealed and protected by the grease.

Resting voltage of 12.4 volts is fine.  I wouldnt have changed out a battery
at 11.7v unless it had been fully charged and gone down to 11.7 overnight
(after taking it off charge and disconnected from all loads).  Pulse chargers
work well for me to keep occasional use batteries in good shape.

Take the solenoid off the starter and clean the insides. Very easy to remove
and replace in-situ. They can get a sticky coating of oil/grease residue
inside that slows the "slug" and inhibits it's action. Especially noticeable
in winter. AMHIK.  A barest coating of something light to prevent rust is all
the solenoid "guts" should have.

Do a Big 3 wiring upgrade to get the best out of your charging system.

Don't start shotgunning parts until after you have done all this maintenance.

YMMV jon




From: "Jerry Azevedo" <jwazevedo(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Electrical frustration
snip> I got just a click.  I pulled the battery
and put a meter on it and got 11.7v.

snip>  I tested the battery voltage and got
12.5v.  I figured they hadn't fully charged the battery, so I pulled it back
out and put it on a charger overnight.  The battery was 13.5v this morning,
but only 12.9v three hours later.

snip>By the way, I've been running a Hella starter
relay for 10 years, and I've never had starting issues.  Any thoughts?

Thanks,
Jerry
'70 bus
Victoria, BC

"Your present circumstances don't determine where you can go; they merely
determine where you start." Nido Qubein
