From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'trawling(-at-)unimelb.edu.au'" <trawling(-at-)unimelb.edu.au>
Cc: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 1 Oct 2003 12:23:07 -0500 
Subject: Re: Starter problems?

Tim and The List:

You penned thusly:

"...Am I on the right track or is this something electrical?" - Truer words
were never spoken :-)

"I tried the archives but could not really find a discussion of the same
symptoms." - See the Amazingly Stupendous collection of information found in
the Type 2 Library, under the Electrical (Primary) section.

I'm sure that others will chime in with what primes their pumps, but here's
what I do with all my newly arrived VWs.  Understand first that ALL portions
of the starting system are suspect, particularly anything which has a system
of electrical contacts, and we're going to assume for the sake of my post
that you have no OTHER electrical issues which may affect the condition of
your battery.

1)	Starting with the electrical switch portion of the key switch (not
the lock cylinder assembly - not yet anyway), replace it with a new one
appropriate to your year/model.  Pray that you don't have to replace
anything else in that assembly - but if you do, there are directions on how
to extract the mess are in the Library.
2)	Replace all the battery cables with proper ones - no emergency
"tack-on" cable ends, make sure that your transmission ground strap has good
clean contacts, too!  If possible, run your new battery ground cable to an
upper mounting engine bolt.  With the cable to the bolt and the transmission
strap properly grounded, you "should" have a good clean circuit.
3)	Your starter and/or solenoid are most likely tired beyond belief, or
they have other issues as well.  Get a good Bosch factory rebuilt -
sometimes it's really just the solenoid that has troubles, but why mess
around?  You can mess around with a non-Bosch rebuilt, but in the end you
will pay for your perfidy many times over what a proper Bosch rebuilt would
have cost you in the first place.  All of us have at one time or another (in
our salad days, when green in judgment) have done so...  Also replace the
old starter bushing with the new one that comes with the proper Bosch
rebuilt - another reason to buy proper in the first place.
4)	Augment and supplement the existing starting system cable runs by
adding the Bosch WR-1 starter relay (or locally available equivalent).  The
relay will relieve the new electrical switch portion of the switch of the
high current loads imposed on it by the existing system, thereby giving it a
potentially longer lifespan.  It's a win-win proposition - you get a
shorter, cleaner current path to the solenoid, and that somewhat difficult
to replace part of the key switch gets to live a longer happier life.

About the only thing that will set you back some currency is the starter
itself, but failing to check and remedy some of the other things I have
listed "may" cause you to start yanking your hair after you have spent big
coin on the starter, but to no avail.  You "may" even want to try
replacing/updating some of the lesser priced items FIRST, and then move to
the starter once all the rest of the system is up to spec...

I like my bus
But it costs me coin
Oh the addiction...

(That's 5-7-5 right?)

Jim Hayden
www.savethebays.org
