Date: Wed, 01 Oct 2003 12:56:18 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scmills21(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Sound proofing - was '68 wheel locked up

>Careful with the roofing supplies, tho'...I seem to recall a rather amoral
>dealer on the net selling cheap sound-proofing that was actually roofing
>underlayment (or such) that it was meant to soften with heat...but tend-
>ed to melt into an oozing mess at the bottom of your doors when parked
>in the sun... ?-(

I recommend heating a sample in the oven (the oven in the garage...) on a 
cookie sheet to see what happens during 150 degree weather!

I am using flat roof walk pad materials in my doors and floors and let me 
assure you that nothing has happened in over 2 years with this material. No 
runs, no smells, no nothing.

Buy it at your local commercial roofer contractor. $40 for enough to work 
over a bus and a bug (or more).

Don't take my word for it though. Go get a sample and see what you think.

This stuff will liquify and run with enough heat but it will require more 
heat than I can to stand to touch. Nowhere inside my bus is a surface that 
gets so hot I can't touch it. That said the pads I make to cover the engine 
compartment (inside the bus) will be sealed in heavy plastic bags just in 
case.

I use the heat it 'til it's soft to stick it to surfaces. Works MUCH better 
than contact glue (might work with enough glue) or spray on upholstery glue 
(won't work for long). This method worked VERY well with the sliding door 
on my bus. Those panels have never let go of the metal and the door is VERY 
solid sounding. This is the same method used to layer up a roof...

Another option is black neoprene rubber/foam used to insulate walk-in 
coolers. Will not hold moisture. Another version of the same thing is the 
foam used under vinyl tops. I bought a roll from an upholstery supply shop 
for little $$$ in Knoxville. Under $20.







Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
