Date: Wed, 01 Oct 2003 16:25:24 -0700
To: Alex Wisniewski <awisniewski(-at-)comcast.net>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Ball joint work

At 02:29 PM 10/01/2003, you wrote:

>If it's a big hassle finding someone with the proper equipment I
>will purchase rebuilt torsion arms from Bus Boys.

I think you hit the nail on the head here. IF you can find a local shop to 
do the work right, hire them. If you can't, buy the rebuilt assemblies. A 
problem to watch out for are the many shops who say, NO PROBLEM, then find 
out they don't have what they need, botch the job, invoice you, and you 
don't know you have junk until you have to do it all over. Tiny chance you 
will get back any money on the arrogant, egotistical bad joint install, 
either. You just can't throw darts at the yellow pages to find competence. 
Hire by referral from those who know the reputation of the vendor, that 
they are honest and deal fairly and honestly with their clients. Don't be 
concerned about what these type charge for the work, they never overcharge, 
just enough to do it right with no excuses. So much better than half as 
much to do it wrong.

I would expect the reman unit will be bead or sand blasted and painted as 
well. Sure, you could do this to yours but will you?? Then there is core 
value/return ship. The value is it reduces substantially the labor to what 
you can do yourself to nuts and bolts and pay attention to good clean 
procedures, no need to find outside labor for spezial skills and equipment. 
However, any master machinist can fabricate custom arbors to press 
anything. Expect this would cost more than the cost of the reman arms.

Many dealers who have been with VW since the Loaf era have these arbors. 
Find the old established VW dealers and inquire about a pressing service. 
If they want to then can dig out those VW arbors and flat do it stock. Make 
sure you use OEM joints. I've seen some very unusual interpretations of 
ball joints supposedly correct that cannot be installed, period, from a 
variety of cast iron era countries. I have seen mufflers from a US Co. who 
contracted a plant in West Germany quite obviously welded by East German 
cheap hardly skilled labor with neither work ethic nor jigs, just by eye, 
and an unconcerned eye at that. Uninstallable brand new out of the box. The 
ugly part is it was good German steel they waisted. It's rare, but you can 
buy junk made even in W. Germany.

You got to look over those parts closely and compare them with the 
originals. If that ball joint housing is not W. German pressure cast iron, 
it's a pretender. If the boot is thin or not really fitting nice, it's a 
pretender. Watch out for boxes made in Germany and parts smelted and filed 
into shape in Pakistan. Know the Japanese have earned the respect of 
Porsche engineers by supplying bearings for Porsche production. There is 
good, bad and ugly available from all over the world.

With that in mind, I would want to confirm with the supplier the source of 
the joints in the reman arms.

There is ever only two choices. Verify or assume.
