Date: Wed, 01 Oct 2003 17:06:15 -0700
To: "KYLE LAFERRIERE" <klaferriere(-at-)msn.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 79 into 72

At 01:58 PM 10/01/2003, you wrote:

>Good afternoon everybody.
>My bus has had some pretty lousy bondo work done by a po. I have been 
>looking at pictures of a 72 for sale in the area. The 72 has no engine or 
>tranny and it is not a camper. I'm not sure about the body yet, but if it 
>is in ok condition I was considering using it.

Yes, most important is verify faults and weaknesses from corrosion. Pull 
the mats and carpets for sure. Even if you see but a bit of rust at the 
edge of the windshield seal, you don't know how good, bad or ugly things 
are under there until you remove the glass. But this is typical, and 
battery box rot is typical, and dull and dirty light reflectors is typical, 
and poor bulb holders are typical, black filthy rotten brake fluid is just 
too typical, on a 30+ year old chassis.

>Would it be possible to install the engine and tranny and camper equipment 
>from my 79 into the 72.

But if the chassis is good enough, this is a swap that reaps good results 
with extensive re-engineering of the manual to auto shifter and tranny 
mounts. Some welding skill is required as well for the air filter support 
from the 79 into the 72. I would also put in the over motor access door. I 
would cut a hole in the 72 for the ECU and mount it as for stock 79.

>   The engine is rebuilt stock.

I quite simply would have to know the source of the rebuilt motor before I 
would put much money on it, even if it shows good compression figures. 
Verify source. Verify if warranty is transferable. Verify reputation of 
builder, and if a corporation, the personal references of the CEO and the 
machinist. In other words, if it's GEX, et al, find other dreams to pursue.

>  The tranny is a stock automatic.

I hope other's will correct me if I'm wrong, but the tranny should bolt 
right up with the axles from the 79. The mounts and shifter are another 
story referred to above. You will need some engineering for the shifter 
change from manual to auto. Perhaps some more cut and splice at the shifter 
end to install the stock 79 shifter. You also might be able to fabricate a 
gate for the 72 manual shifter. A master body man could do it all in a few 
days.

I would consider selling or trading the auto and put in a manual to 
eliminate chassis conversion to auto, but that's me.

>How hard will it be. I have never dropped an engine or tranny before, but 
>am not afraid to try.

Any swap such as this will require twice the time/skill/money as doing it 
all stock. Got a great 79 motor/tranny, find a good 79 auto chassis to put 
it in. Got a great 72 manual chassis, sell the great 79 motor/trans and use 
the money to put in a stock 72 motor and stick tranny. Both alternatives 
would cost a lot less time/skill/money, more especially for a novice. Stock 
is walking, easy swaps are running, this swap takes champion speed. Walk 
before you run. Do something stock before you take on re-engineering.
