From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <farmer(-at-)orangeburgcomputers.com>
Date: Thu, 2 Oct 2003 08:35:24 -0500
Subject: drum brakes adjustment

Blank>Date: Thu, 2 Oct 2003 01:19:01 -0000 (GMT)
>To: type2(-at-)type2.com
>From: farmer(-at-)orangeburgcomputers.com
>Subject: 68 Baywindow Broken Brakes
>Message-ID: 3853.65.142.44.157.1065057541.squirrel(-at-)webmail.safepages.com

snip snip
>At what point will I have brakes that don't require a pump and a half?

as soon as you find and repair all the problems, be deligent and you will
really appreciate having safe reliable brakes and so will everybody else
whom you won't kill in an auto accident

>The pads are new on all of the wheels as are the wheel cylinders.  I was
>told to adjust the pads till it stopped the wheel from spinning.  Then
>to back the pad off so that is just begins to spin freely.  Then do the
>next pad adjustment the same thing.

Let us all use the same definitions so that we can better understand each
other:

brake shoes are used with drum brakes and wheel cylinders as actuators

brake pads are used with disk brakes and calipers as actuators

Calipers have built in cylinders using the same parts: pistons, springs,
rubber seals, bleeder valves, etc.

You must  clean and polish and grease : the adjustment star parts, the hole
in the drum mounted star wheel holder, the outside of the star "nut"; the
inside of the start nut threads; the outside threads of the the star nut
"bolt" that hold the shoe. You do this so that you can easily adjust the
brakes the next time they need it. If you don't clean and grease the
adjustment parts, they rust tight.

make sure the bus is securely blocked from rolling, and make sure you take
off the parking brake.

It is tricky to adjust manually adjusting drum brakes. It is harder to
adjust them the first time because the brake shoes do not have the exact arc
"perfectly" matching the curve of the inside of the drum. Newly installed
shoes are also not positioned "perfectly" inside the drums. So... you should
adjust one shoe as tightly as you can get it. Do not move the drum to test
for tightness, keep the drum adjustment hole perfectly aligned with the star
wheel and tighten the star wheel until you can't turn it anymore (in the
correct direction to force the shoe against the drum). Then de-adjust the
star wheel several notches to move (spring return) the shoe away from the
drum so thae the wheel will turn easily. Do not get wild and spin the drum
too fast. Just turn the drum a little at a time. The drum may not be
perfectly round and may have a high spot that rubs the shoe and stops the
drum movement. You always want to be able to turn the drum to align the
adjustment hole with the star wheel. Just turn the drum a little, and if it
gets hard to turn do not push hard enough to lock it up. return to the hole
and de-adjust a bit more until you can safely turn the drum all the way
around.  Then adjust the other star wheel for the other brake shoe the same
way: turn the star wheel until the star wheel won't turn anymore and the
shoe is locked tight against the drum, then back off the star wheel till the
drum turns freely. What you are trying to do with the too tight adjustments
is to push the wheel cylinder piston completely back into the wheel cylinder
in the piston's rest position. You are also trying to center the shoes in
the drum. Now go back to the first shoe's star wheel and adjust it to have
it's shoe just barely drag on the drum. You should still be able to turn the
drum all the way around. Then go to the 2nd shoe's star wheel and adjust
it's shoe to just barely drag on the drum. You still must be able to turn
the drum freely all the way around. You may have a couple of slighty harder
to turn spots. If the tight spots are really abrupt, then perhaps you should
have had the auto machine shop turn your drums to a perfect circle. Drum
metal is not perfectly uniform: it has harder and softer spots inside. The
soft spots wear easily and create a larger diameter inside circle. The hard
spots do not wear as much and that creates a smaller diameter inside circle.
After you adjust new shoes, drive a couple hundred miles and then adjust
them again. You will find that the shoes will have worn to match the drum
curve. When the shoes match well, there are fewer star wheel clicks
necessary to adjust the shoes. It is almost, one click and the whole surface
of the shoe touches the drum tightly and locks it , and one click backwards
and the drum spins freely. After the shoes break in, just adjust the shoes
on the long mileage schedule, or after you make the mistake of letting some
jerk drive your van and he leaves the parking brake on, and drives even
though he can smell the burnign stinking brakes.

>Thanks so much for everyone's answers, I am beating my brains out trying
>to get this bus on the road.
<Jennifer

Eventually you will be on the road and enjoying your bus. Make it fun to
learn all the things you are learning. You are the one in control. You can
do a great job using patience and book studying and question asking. It is
really fun to finish and clean off your tools and put them away and go for
the test drive. Only mechanics start what they finish.
