From: "Jeff Myer" <jmyer(-at-)myermountain.com>
To: "Zach Freshman" <zachary(-at-)freshmans.com>, <Type2(-at-)Type2.com>
Date: Thu, 2 Oct 2003 11:50:56 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Am I on the right track??

----- Original Message -----
From: "Zach Freshman" <zachary(-at-)freshmans.com>
To: "Doktor Tim" <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>; "Type 2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Sent: Thursday, October 02, 2003 10:10 AM
Subject: Re: [T2] Am I on the right track??


> It was said:
>
>
> > This sounds like
> > an issue that will typically be resolved by just adequate maintenance
> > inspection. Rule that out before any further diagnosis.
>
> Ummm. I'm not to sure how to respond to this without sounding like I'm
> taking it too personally. I keep her maintained as well as I know how. But
> this does bring up another question for a newbie like me. How often should
> cap and rotor be replaced? (As often as they need it ).

    I will chime in on this with some OPINIONS on regular maintenance and
troubleshooting. Hopefully someone will find my ramblings useful.

    How ofter should a cap and rotor be replaced? I would say that if it
were replaced every 15-20k miles that it is unlikely that they will ever
become "worn-out" given all other parts of the system being in a state of
normal repair. (Some may dis-agree strongly)
    1.) Most maintenance intervals are published by vehicle manufacturers
and are a good starting point. Although some items in a maintenance schedule
may be overkill, following the maintenance schedule diligently will often
prevent the items considered in the maintenance schedule from ever failing.
    2.) A good example of a maintenance ritual that may be overkill is
replacement of your battery. Over the years various schedules for battery
replacement have been published by vehicle manufacturers, battery
manufactures, ASE etc. All of these maintenance schedules express an amount
of time after which a battery should be replaced. The amount of time is
based on many factors that may or may not contribute to the eventual failure
of the battery. My point on this is that I have never replaced a battery
that was functional strictly based on how old the battery is. Because of
this, I have had batteries fail in several ways; Battery no longer takes a
charge, Battery becomes internally shorted etc.
    Now had I followed a recommended replacement schedule, it is likely that
I would have never had a battery failure to deal with; Likely not
absolutely!

    3.) Many of us for financial reasons or lack of time may not perform the
scheduled maintenance "on-time" which can result in encountering part
failure. Although this is not the desired condition, it is reality for many
people. Because of this "reality" troubleshooting methodologies are
absolutely necessary and invaluable.
    4.) A good set of troubleshooting methods will point you to a part or a
group of parts that are suspect. i.e. No spark from the coil may lead you to
check the points at which time you find that the point gap has closed down
excessively. In this case the bus owner can simply re-adjust the point gap
and be back on the road with a minimum cash outlay and (with the right
troubleshooting methodology) a minimum amount of time spent.

    Finally, while there is no substitute for regular scheduled maintenance,
it is not a reality for many of us (although we strive for it). Good
troubleshooting techniques not only allow a driver to get back on the road
in a bind, they allow a driver to become more aware of what function the
various parts are responsible for performing and thus more in-tune with the
inner workings of the vehicle.
