From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 27 Sep 2012 20:10:25 -0400
Subject: RE: Hard shifting continues...

Hello All, just an update.I'm trying to go through the suggestions.busy at
work-but it got so bad today, I had to turn around and drive back home-as I
could almost not get it in gear at all.not sure if I was clear-this is on my
'69 singlecab. So I made some time this evening to look at it.

 

1.       I adjusted the shift plate again. It is not moving around. It is
just as tight when I go to adjust it as when I finished adjusting it last
time. Plus the PO repainted the cab, and didn't really clean around the
plate too well-so the paint is peeling. It is kind of a mess and hard to
mark any locations. I'll try to find some time to sand this area down, so it
is smooth and easy to mark the plate location. I have also ordered a new
plate-maybe mine is worn out?

2.       I've referenced the Bentley pictures,  and I have all the right
parts. 

3.       I went to check the cable-as even though I think it feels ok, it is
a relatively easy thing to check, and I have a spare. So I went to pull the
cable out-and noticed the Bowden tube still has the sticker from WW on it.
The Bowden tube does not have much of a bend in it, and I think it should
have more. Not sure how to truly measure this. Bentley mentions installing
washers on the tube, and some spots on the web mention c-shape washers. Are
these washers just something you fabricate in the shop? 

4.        When I get the cable out, it looks brand new. Although whomever
installed it, did not appear to use any lube, as it was very dry. I went to
re install it, with lube. It got stuck.I went back to check, and apparently
the tube it runs through had been cut at one point, and rejoined with a hose
clamp. I'm not sure if this last bit of tube is supposed to be welded to the
frame, but it looks like there are a couple broken welds on there. Should I
have these tubes welded back in?

5.       Now I have the cable back it, fully lubed, the pedal glides much
more smoothly now. I can get it in gear, although I only drove around the
block this time. I'll give it a real test drive tomorrow, and report back. 

6.       I am pretty sure I probably need to adjust the Bowden tube, and
therefore need to get some of those washers.

7.       I'm not sure what you guys mean by the "coupler at the nose cone"
Could you be a bit more specific? Sorry I don't know much about this whole
clutch/shifter linkage thing.

8.       I checked the front mounts- I assume you mean where the
transmission mounts? This looks ok.

9.       I remember I had some clutch cable boots - PN 111721365. I tried to
install this, and can see no way to get that clutch cable through the little
hole. Any suggestions on that?

 

Here are some pics of what is going on at the Bowden tube. 

http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/album_search.php?search_author=kguarnotta

 

-Kevin Guarnotta

Jamaica Plain, MA

 

'69 Singlecab

'65 Ez-camper
