To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: veewee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 2 Oct 2012 09:30:33 -0400 (EDT)
Subject: Re: Hard shifting continues...

Hi Kevin,
Best reference is the "Type 2 Parts Reference Manual" for the pre-1968 type 2
(-at-)

http://oacdp.org/

Sections 3 and 7 show all the parts.  Even though your bus is a later model
the parts are pretty much the same.

Ronnie at Bustorations (-at-)

http://www.bustoration.com/

Ronnie is real helpful and had the later upgraded part on hand.

The seal is actually a boot over the tip of the nose cone and shift rod.

Stainless steel wire is superior to zinc steel wire.








-----Original Message-----
From: Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: veewee111 <veewee111(-at-)aol.com>; vintagebus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>; type2
<type2(-at-)type2.com>
Sent: Tue, Oct 2, 2012 5:10 am
Subject: RE:Hard shifting continues...



Ok-to clarify this is about my b69.

Was writ b bLooks like you are missing the rear seal which helps keep
dust/dirt from getting into the shift bushing in nose of transaxle.  Also
missing safety wire on the rear coupler, and front coupler is loosely safety
wiredb

Could you help me out-what is the seal part that you are referring to?
The safety wire, can this be just galvanized wire, or should it be Stainless
Steel Wire?

I have been to a couple vendor sites-to try to get all the seals along the
shift rod that are either missing or appear to be split. As my b65 also has
some split seals, I figure I should do them both. I would like to make sure I
order all the right seals, so I donbt have it apart, and then realize I am
missing a sealb&aside from taking it apart, how do I figure out all the
correct seals to get. In my experience, taking it apart and putting it
together is the hard part, and I donbt want to do that, and then realize I
am missing a seal.

I wish they just sold a kit-with all the seals from front to back for the
shift rodb& ;)

-Kevin Guarnotta
Jamaica Plain, MA

'69 Singlecab
'65 Ez-camper
