From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 15 Oct 2012 20:40:24 -0400
Subject: Starter or hot Start problems...

I took my bus for a short trip with my family to go camping and see some
foliage. Trip started out pretty good, great campfire Sat night.
Unfortunately rainy late at night, and woke up to a pretty muddy site.
Luckily we were in the bus.

 

On my way home, we stopped at the grocery store for some food. This was
Sunday evening. I had stopped and started the bus a few times over the
trip-without any problems.

 

So I stopped in parking lot. I waited out in the bus with my son, while my
wife went to get some food. She was in there for about 30 minutes. When she
returned,  I went to start the bus- I got nothing. I thought maybe I had
drained the battery listening to the radio, but also thought it was pretty
lame that the battery couldn't run the radio for 30 minutes.

 

I hooked up my 'jump starter' battery pak. Still got nothing. Not even a
click, or sluggish start. I swapped the ignition, as I had a spare on the
dash. The one I put in seems a bit loose. Still nothing.

 

I crawled under the bus, and shorted the solenoid with a screwdriver. The
starter turned over. 

 

I then got out, and the bus started right up.

 

I am thinking that I've either got a bad starter or bad solenoid. I'm not
sure which. Alternatively I've got that 'hot start' problem I used to have
when my bus was 6V. (now it is 12V). 

 

The starter I installed was a used auto starter, the kind where you don't
need to worry about the 6V/12V bushing compatibility. I got it from a
friend, it was of unknown quality. I have had the odd problem starting the
bus like this every now and then. 

 

I drove it today, no problems starting it. 

 

I don't want to get stuck unable to start it again. Do I just replace the
starter? Pull the starter-is it something that can be tested? How do I know
if it is the starter or the solenoid? Tips/suggestions on how to diagnose
appreciated.

 

Thanks,

 

-Kevin Guarnotta

Jamaica Plain, MA

 

'69 Singlecab

'65 Ez-camper
