From: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 15 Oct 2012 21:35:47 -0400
Subject: Re: [VB] Starter or hot Start problems...

Here is some words of advice,,, but I think yearly is a bit overkill.. try 
every 5 yrs,? ish...

Starter Maintenance
It wasn't long after my wife and I started driving VW buses that I
realized the starter is a problem area.
I, like so many others, was carrying a small hammer and short but
thick jumper for when the starter would not turn over with a twist of
the key. Since banging and jumping the starter would revive
it, I was convinced that there really wasn't anything wrong with it
that couldn't be prevented.

Now I perform a yearly starter system maintenance routine that lets me
prevent problems instead of just fixing them. The benefit of this is
that I get to deal with this on my terms; you know, during good
weather, at a reasonable time of day, and in my own driveway
Since there are different starters for different buses, I'll just give
you the basics of what I do and then let you apply it to your own
situation.

Consult the Bentley manual for specific tests, and information about
the various starters and of course follow all precautions for working
on the electrical system.

First is to disconnect and remove the battery. As
always, disconnect the negative lead first and then the positive.

Once the battery is out I check it for cleanliness, condition and
proper water level. I like to use a battery brush to clean the
terminals on both the battery and battery leads. Now is also a good
time to check your battery tray for condition.

Next disconnect and remove the starter. If necessary, first mark the
wires so that you will get them back on the proper terminals. Clean
the terminal ends of all the wires disconnected from the starter until
they are shiny and clean. Take the starter to a work bench or
someplace else clean, where you can work on it. Disconnect the heavy
lead that connects the starter to the solenoid, and clean the end of it.

Next clean all of the terminals on the solenoid until they are shiny
and clean. I like to use a small brass wire brush for this. Now remove
the solenoid and check the plunger for condition and ease of movement.
You should be able to push it in and have it spring back out smoothly.
I wipe the plunger down with a little light weight oil like LPS 1.
With the plunger pushed all the way in, you should get continuity
across the 2 large terminal studs on
the solenoid.

Now it's time to disassemble, clean, and inspect the starter. Be
observant as you take it apart, so you will be able to reassemble it.
I do the following things to the starter; check the brushes for
condition, remove and check the armature for condition, clean the
commutator using a piece of scotchbrite. Disassemble, clean, and
inspect the drive mechanism parts, inspect the starter body and
windings for condition. Use compressed air or a vacuum cleaner to
clean out the starter and windings.

Repair or replace anything you've found wrong and reassemble the whole
thing. I use a little high temperature white lithium grease on the
drive mechanism parts at reassembly.

Clean the transmission where the starter body mounts,, wire brush ..
use de-ox on the starter nose, and the trans collar.. this is the starter
ground circuit.. good to have clean connection there too!

Now all that's left is to install and hook up the starter and battery.
Remember, hook up the battery's positive lead and then the negative
one. Hopefully, you'll have the same luck as me, and not have to deal
with the starter for another year.

Paul A
Huntington Station,
New York
71 westy 
