Date: Mon, 15 Oct 2012 19:04:27 -0700
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
From: Otmar Ebenhoech <Otlist10(-at-)evcl.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Starter or hot Start problems...

As a mechanic who had to troubleshoot a lot of "repairs" where people 
added a solenoid, I would advise against it. I believe it's better to 
find the root cause than to patch around it. Here is an old post of 
mine that may be relevant in your case:

At 10:20 AM -0800 8/2/98, Otmar Ebenhoech wrote:
When the solenoid gets hot, the copper wire resistance increases,
reducing the current drawn by it and the pull in force gets weaker.

I haven't heard anyone talk about the "ridge in the solenoid plunger
problem" on this list yet. This was a very common problem on VW's
when I used to work in a bus shop. Unfortunately, many people didn't
know about the problem and would try to fix it with a relay like in
the old 6V days. They'd add lot's of poor wiring in the dirty over
tranny area with a relay, what a mess!

Here's what I found:

Occurrence:
Usually at around 130K miles.

Symptoms:
Solenoid does not click, especially after a long drive (vibration?
and hot starter). Usually starts after it cools, or if terminals on
starter are jumped, or if solenoid is whacked with a heavy object.
Gets worse over a period of months.

Problem:
The solenoid plunger has a groove worn in it from sitting on the
edge of the solenoid body and vibrating. When the solenoid pulls in
it gets a side load from the lever which pushes it into the groove.
This makes it hard to pull in.

Solution:
Remove starter and solenoid. Note (mark) the orientation of solenoid
plunger to the solenoid body! Clean and lubricate plunger with
tri-flow and some grease. Now rotate the plunger 180 degrees (since
there are two ways the plunger can engage with the lever) and re
assemble. This gives it a new smooth surface to slide on.

I have fixed starting problems on at least 20 vans this way, never
had one come back. :-)

HTH

  -Otmar-
Corvallis Oregon
82/86 Stretch Vanagon Westie TDI http://www.evcl.com/vw
1965 Dad's Green Transporter, the one I grew up in
1990 DOKA "Yellow Dokarine"
1974 914 Electric http://www.evcl.com/914/
