From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'John Anderson'" <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 8 Nov 2012 18:31:40 -0500
Subject: RE: [VB] Thrust washers?

Hey John,

I guess you heard my story about my front bearing friction welding to my
spindle? I did that too, I can't remember the time of year, but I was
somewhere between Houston and Boston, driving back and forth...far from
anywhere I lived. As I recall, actually I think it was a 'cold' time of
year, as I limped to a service station, late at night, and had to spend the
night parked/camped in their lot. When I woke in the morning, their dog's
water dish was frozen solid, and I swore I was buying a decent sleeping bag
as soon as I could.

Why is the nipple so tiny, is there a reason? I'll check the areas you
mention, and see if I see contact. The odd thing is I only hear it when I
brake.

Thanks for the tips on things to check...I'm hoping to continue and get it
back together tonight. Perhaps test drive tomorrow or this weekend.

-Kevin Guarnotta
Jamaica Plain, MA

'69 Singlecab
'65 Ez-camper

-----Original Message-----
From: John Anderson [mailto:wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com]
Subject: Re: [VB] Thrust washers?

Kevin, I might wonder (presuming the shoes were OK) mostly about the drum to
backing plate interface, which you have probably improved by the brushing
and painting.  Of course I do wonder a bit about the backing plate side of
the equation as well (warped, or interface area rusting) so look carefully
for contact there.  The final one would be if the drums have a real
impressive ridge (on either side though usually the inboard edge) that can
rub on the side of the shoes funny.)  That can obviously be improved by
turning or in a pinch just taking a grinder with a 40-50 grit flap disc to
knock it down won't usually affect balance and vibration THAT much.

I agree the little nipple is sad on the one washer.  That of course is what
keeps things from rotating and backing out to some degree, so is necessary. 
Was the adjustment on the side that was broken still OK, not loose?  If it
was loose, I'd replace the bearings on that side if you think the front is
the issue, regardless of how they feel to hand.  To hand vs. loaded with
several thousand pounds of dynamic load at hundreds of rpm are way different
of course.  If you friction weld one bearing race to a stub axle
(particularly on a 4500 foot mountain 20 miles from nowhere in the middle of
winter), you'll never question not replacing when with the slightest doubt
again.  That is obviously an ask me how I know from my younger dumber years
20 years ago.

John     
