From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, "John Anderson" <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>,
Date: Thu, 8 Nov 2012 22:32:28 -0500
Subject: Re: [VB] Thrust washers?

Just to update.

 

I was short one seal, so I went over to my local mechanic as he thought he
might have one kicking around in the bowels of his shop. He had one with the
right part number, but without the 'b' at the end. This was a different
size. I poked around some more, and found what I think was an original type
of metal seal. At least for some reason my bus had one metal inner seal, and
one rubber inner seal. I got the metal seal from him, and also asked him to
check my bearings-I thought they were ok, but was just looking for a 2nd
opinion. He thought they were ok.

 

I brought the stuff back to my garage, put everything back together. I think
I am installing the nuts properly. I basically tighten the inner one, while
turning the drum, so it tightens the bearings evenly. Then I back it out a
bit, then tighten it, then back it out, until the thrust washer can just
barely move when poked with a screwdriver. That is how I understand the Muir
book. I then put the locking washers on  and the 2nd nut. 

 

I saw no ridge on the inner lip of the drum. I did lightly sand the outer
edge of the backing plate with an emery cloth. As for the side that had the
broken thrust washer - I don't remember any excessive play. 

I then adjusted all the brakes - the rears were really loose. I took it for
a spin around the block a couple times. The brake pedal travel is shorter,
so the brakes grab quicker. The scratching noise I heard before is gone.
I'm not sure what it was, but repacking the bearings, and adjusting the
brakes got rid of it.

 

During this work, between reading Bentley, the list archives, the samba, and
all your responses, I realize I have never adjusted my link pins. I think in
one of the items I read that they are supposed to be checked and adjusted
every 6,000 miles. I have now had my bus for almost 60,000 miles.and 14
years.I guess it is time. That should go onto my 'todo' list.is this is a
big operation?

 

thanks for the tips. And keep on bussing.

 

-Kevin Guarnotta

Jamaica Plain, MA

 

'69 Singlecab

'65 Ez-camper
