Date: Wed, 11 Apr 2007 18:10:09 -0400
From: "H Steven Dolan" <stevendolan(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Horn Wiring Questions

Howdy, All!

Well, I spent the weened on the wiring and now have parking lights, backup
lights, instrument lights, and all the indicator and warning lights work as
they are supposed to. In addition, I have removed the wiring harnesses for
three different radios that are no longer there YAY!

Now the hard part... the dreaded horn!  I have the steering column apart and
am trying once again to figure out the "wiring."  First, definition of
terms:
when I say "ground" I mean attached electrically to the negative post of the
battery at all times;
when I say "switch" I mean that this component is attached to the negative
post of the battery *only* when the horn button is depressed;
the steering shaft is the solid rod that the wheel is attached to;
the steering tube is the tube in which the steering shaft is enclosed.

Now, the diagnostic, so far.  I have power to the horn, no problem there,
the wire from the horn runs up to the base of the steering column, thru the
fairlead in the base and is attached to the lug at the base of the steering
tube. Note that to get the tube in and out, I had to use the key to retract
the steering lock.  At this point I test for electrical continuity between
both the switch and ground in various parts of the system:

the wire is switch;
the tube is switch;
the shaft is switch.

I withdraw the key, the steering lock falls on the shaft and all these
components are now ground.

I believe this to be wrong and bad.  I *think* the shaft should be
electrically separated from the tube and I think there should be some
electrical isolation in the bearing at the top of the tube.  Am I correct in
this?  Should there be some insulation between the steering lock and the
steering shaft?

I *hope* that was clear, but this system, even tho I've worked on it a dozen
times on various buses is till a bit of a mystery to me.

Steve Dolan
