Date: Fri, 13 Apr 2007 10:28:02 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] dwell

HeyBopaRebopSax, having asked
>
>>Would somebody please explain exactly what 'dwell' means

	will then have thought of this (correct) defn

>according to wikipedia (.com):
>
>Dwell angle, a term used in automotive context, indicating the degrees
>of rotation of the camshaft during which the ignition contact breaker
>points in the distributor are closed.

	he'll have thought  -  and so will many other alert readers  -
if the gap is the correct number of thou, and if the points are 
opening at the correct stage of crankshaft rotation, then isn't the 
dwell automatically fixed by the shape of the distributor cam?

	What you want is for the spark to go off at the right moment 
when the piston is coming up the cylinder.  Figures like 7.5 deg of 
crank rotation before top dead centre are often mentioned around 
here.  If you have water-injection, more like 20 deg or 30 deg will 
give best performance, and isn't crucial; if you don't have WI, get 
that spark timing exact or you will  have poor performance and 
probably soon significant engine damage.
	I never heard of dwell until mid-way in my half-century of 
mucking around with coil ignitions,and have never measured it.  I 
believe that dwell is automatically set right, in accordance with the 
above logic,

	GIVEN several conditions  e.g

* cam not worn badly
* cam-following point pivot snug & lubed
* cam-following fibre heel OK
* dizzie shaft not wobbling too much
* no PO has slapped in a ZapSpark. or other drongobox "abolishing 
maintenance & faults"
- and a few other conditions too, no doubt.


	Increasing the advance with rpm, and decreasing it with 
decreasing intake vac, are dynamic aspects of ignition timing which 
we can omit here, mainly on account I can't understand how my lo-vac 
intake vacuum manages to do both.
	The other classical variable in ignition adjustment, points 
gap, sets - or strictly entails - the dwell (given that long list of 
conditions and importantly including the advance/retard controls). 
Some rare electrical faults can change dwell.
	Dwell meters e.g the Vane tunescope or various portable 
instruments from Monkey Ward, J C Whitney, FLAPS, etc, are an 
indirect means of getting hints that one or more items in that list 
are below specs.
	I think Munro never measured dwell.  It's a way of reducing 
to one figure several mechanical variables.  I'm not against this 
check, but point out that it's not needed if all conditions on that 
list are OK because you've directly made them so.
	 If the vehicle will do at least 90 mph before you change up 
from bottom gear, you have right there sufficient indirect evidence 
that the spark timing is OK.  In that respect if no other, I've 
caught up with the mighty Munro.

Could we complete that list and get a final version of this bull 
inserted onto a server in Seattle Wash?  Newbies might appreciate it. 
Anyone who doesn't want to think publicly, as I'm bold to do, please 
let me have corrections & additions direct.

   My Tunescope manual got burgled, so I'd be grateful to learn how to 
get a replacement.  Those CRT traces for each cyl at various rpm can 
alert you to dizzie shaft wobble   ...

If anyone finds this note useful, please reciprocate by decoding FLAPS for me.


thanx

your egghead Unca Robt
