Date: Thu, 12 Apr 2007 16:38:22 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Kevin H. Roberts" <bopsax(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Cc: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] dwell

Well, I found it interesting.  I'd like to learn more about WI, too, but right now everything must be cool 'cause the Bopmobile is running great even with a stud out of one of the heads.  Sounds terrible but starts and runs great.  Only a VW!  I'm being careful not to overdo it.  Just putter around the neighborhood.  I'm doing my own green thing by riding the city buses as much as possible.  I'm in college again and students ride free.  I just drive about a half mile to the park and ride.  And no, it has nothing to do with global warming.  I'm talking about the really important green things.  

And for you kraut loving Kiwi's, FLAPS means 'Friendly Local Auto Parts Store'.  I always thought it meant 'Full Line Auto Parts Store' but somebody dutifully corrected me.   

I'll leave you with this previously posted piece of wisdom found on a sign in a mom-and-pop FLAPS in a little town in eastern Kentucky.  Prominently displayed on a sign over the counter:

Price, Quality, Service

       Pick two! 

As someone who used to be in the parts business, I can tell you that it's SOOO true!   Am I right, Mr. Salmon?  If you're wondering why an ex outside sales rep in the parts business doesn't know what dwell is, I worked for a company that specialized in under-car parts.  Brakes, shocks, etc.  No electrical.   Cheers...KR

Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz> wrote: HeyBopaRebopSax, having asked
>
>>Would somebody please explain exactly what 'dwell' means

 will then have thought of this (correct) defn

>according to wikipedia (.com):
>
>Dwell angle, a term used in automotive context, indicating the degrees
>of rotation of the camshaft during which the ignition contact breaker
>points in the distributor are closed.

 he'll have thought  -  and so will many other alert readers  -
if the gap is the correct number of thou, and if the points are 
opening at the correct stage of crankshaft rotation, then isn't the 
dwell automatically fixed by the shape of the distributor cam?

 What you want is for the spark to go off at the right moment 
when the piston is coming up the cylinder.  Figures like 7.5 deg of 
crank rotation before top dead centre are often mentioned around 
here.  If you have water-injection, more like 20 deg or 30 deg will 
give best performance, and isn't crucial; if you don't have WI, get 
that spark timing exact or you will  have poor performance and 
probably soon significant engine damage.
 I never heard of dwell until mid-way in my half-century of 
mucking around with coil ignitions,and have never measured it.  I 
believe that dwell is automatically set right, in accordance with the 
above logic,

 GIVEN several conditions  e.g

* cam not worn badly
* cam-following point pivot snug & lubed
* cam-following fibre heel OK
* dizzie shaft not wobbling too much
* no PO has slapped in a ZapSpark. or other drongobox "abolishing 
maintenance & faults"
- and a few other conditions too, no doubt.


 Increasing the advance with rpm, and decreasing it with 
decreasing intake vac, are dynamic aspects of ignition timing which 
we can omit here, mainly on account I can't understand how my lo-vac 
intake vacuum manages to do both.
 The other classical variable in ignition adjustment, points 
gap, sets - or strictly entails - the dwell (given that long list of 
conditions and importantly including the advance/retard controls). 
Some rare electrical faults can change dwell.
 Dwell meters e.g the Vane tunescope or various portable 
instruments from Monkey Ward, J C Whitney, FLAPS, etc, are an 
indirect means of getting hints that one or more items in that list 
are below specs.
 I think Munro never measured dwell.  It's a way of reducing 
to one figure several mechanical variables.  I'm not against this 
check, but point out that it's not needed if all conditions on that 
list are OK because you've directly made them so.
  If the vehicle will do at least 90 mph before you change up 
from bottom gear, you have right there sufficient indirect evidence 
that the spark timing is OK.  In that respect if no other, I've 
caught up with the mighty Munro.

Could we complete that list and get a final version of this bull 
inserted onto a server in Seattle Wash?  Newbies might appreciate it. 
Anyone who doesn't want to think publicly, as I'm bold to do, please 
let me have corrections & additions direct.

   My Tunescope manual got burgled, so I'd be grateful to learn how to 
get a replacement.  Those CRT traces for each cyl at various rpm can 
alert you to dizzie shaft wobble   ...

If anyone finds this note useful, please reciprocate by decoding FLAPS for me.


thanx

your egghead Unca Robt


       
---------------------------------
TV dinner still cooling?
Check out "Tonight's Picks" on Yahoo! TV.
