Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Zack Jarrett <zack.jarrett(-at-)cox.net>
Date: Thu, 12 Apr 2007 17:31:13 -0700
To: jdd <johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca>
Subject: Re: [T2] converting rear seat to bed!

My z-bed hinges are intended for an original equipment bench seat and
back and are absolutely wonderful.
You can see photos of them here:
http://www2.zackswagon.com:8000/Bus/zbed_hinges/zbed_hinges.html

http://www2.zackswagon.com:8000/bus/bus_index.html

These hinges came from my parts bus (and were one of the prime
reasons I bought the parts bus).  They do require some drilling to
mount, but I measured over and over and over again and did a mock up
of the entire thing before I bit the bullet and drilled holes in the
floor and wheel well sides.

The picture in the middle of the top row shows pretty well how they
work.  The top bracket screws onto your bench back, and the bench
itself rides in the lower sled runner thing.  The big plate on the
bottom mounts with something like 12 sheet metal screws to the floor.

While it's not as comfortable as a westy bed, being able to use the
original seat is super nice (and I think the original bench seat is
more comfortable to travel on than the westy bed anyway).  Do westy
seats have seatbelts?  I don't remember... but that's not a problem
with this setup either, since the seat belts are kept.  The one other
drawback to this type of seat is keeping the bench back portion of
the bed from falling below the level of the engine deck when the bed
is pulled out.  I'm not sure how this was originally dealt with, but
I mounted a piece of redwood to the fuel tank compartment wall and
the seat back rests on it when pulled out.  This is better seen than
described.

Reading through the archives I found some mention of this type of
hinge being manufactured by the Riviera company.  Can anyone confirm
this?  I couldn't find any manufacturer's stamp on these hinges.
Another thing I couldn't find was a place to purchase them.  Someone
with fab skills could certainly make them easily enough, but I'm
afraid if you want this type you'll have to find them at a junk yard
or swap meet or something.

If my bus were at home I'd take a photo of the seat installed for
you, but it's not.

Zack
