Date: Fri, 13 Apr 2007 17:06:00 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] dwell  -  draft

		DWELL  ANGLE

>corrected from wikipedia (.com):
>Dwell angle, a term used in automotive context, indicating the degrees
>per 360 deg. rotation of the crankshaft during which the ignition 
>contact breaker
>points in the distributor are closed.


	What you want is for the spark to go off at the right moment 
when the piston is coming up the cylinder.  Figures like 7.5 deg of 
crank rotation before top dead centre (at very low revs) are often 
mentioned for VW late aircooled.  If you have water-injection, more 
like 20 deg or 30 deg will give best performance, and isn't crucial; 
if you don't have WI, get that spark timing exact or you will  have 
poor performance and probably soon significant engine damage.

   At ordinary engine operating speeds, the points open & close a 
couple of hundred times per second, the
exact number depending on the number of cylinders and the engine RPM. 
The points need to be closed for enough time to build up sufficient 
magnetic flux in the ignition coil core.

   The period of points closure is specified by the ignition system 
designer and is typically expressed as
degrees of distributor rotation.  In a four-cylinder engine, the 
angle between neighbouring ignition cam lobes is 90 deg and the 
period of points closure or "DWELL" is usually a bit over 45 deg of 
distributor rotation.

   The dwell is set by adjusting the points gap to a specified maximum 
opening.  A narrower gap gives more dwell and a wider gap gives less. 
Taking it to extremes, excessive dwell means that the points close 
too soon after opening, cutting off the magnetic field collapse 
before it delivers all its energy. Too little dwell gives the 
magnetic flux insufficient time to build up.

   Both of these deviant conditions give a weak spark which gets even 
weaker as the engine RPM rises and produces misfiring at normal 
operating speeds.  The dwell, as well as spark plug gap, does have an 
effect on ignition timing.

   If the points gap is set correct, and if (a lesser influence) the 
points are opening at the correct stage of crankshaft rotation, then 
in theory the dwell is automatically fixed by the shape of the 
distributor cam.

	Dwell is automatically set right, in accordance with the above logic,
GIVEN several conditions  e.g

* distributor cam not badly worn
* cam-following point pivot snug & lubed
* cam-following fibre heel OK & lubed
* distributor shaft not wobbling too much
* rotor not cracked
* etc.

	Increasing the advance with rpm, and decreasing it with 
decreasing intake vacuum, are dynamic aspects of ignition timing 
which should affect dwell little or not at all.
	The other classical variable in ignition adjustment, points 
gap, sets - or strictly, entails - the dwell (given that long list of 
conditions).  Some rare electrical faults can change dwell.
	Dwell meters e.g the Vane tunescope or various portable 
instruments, are an indirect means of getting hints that one or more 
items in that list are below specs.
	Dwell measurement is a way of reducing to one figure several 
mechanical, and some electrical, variables.  It's not needed if all 
conditions on that list are OK because you've directly made them so.
