From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Sun, 15 Jun 2003 11:58:56 -0500 (CDT)
To: DAS74KG(-at-)aol.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: [Syncro] New found AC Refrigerant

David--

You just hit the nail on the head.

The problem here is using 134 where 134 wasn't designed to be in the
first place--
In a R-12 system which has miles on it.

In your type 2 Bus--134 would be a joke--if it had AC

I service Semi's--lots of them--and converted them all to 134--just
because of the 800 dollar price tag for the R12.

I had 3 30 lbs. bottles--it's gone, and now I need a repalcement that
blows cold with the same pressures the system was designed for--not more

Every truck I used the 134 in failed.
And every truck I put the 134 in--I had to replace every seal and
o-ring--on me.

No More.

This stuff seems to work--it is compatible with every refrigerant, and
oil, and runs at lower pressures---

AND IT BLOWS COLDER THAN THE R12 !!

And it is inexpensive--cost efficiant refrigerant.

I'll keep everyone posted to the long term results durring the summer
months--

Later,

Terry


E-mail message

Terry,
                  I have owned 7
cars now with 134a from the factory with no leaks or problems. 3  
Firebirds, a Grand Prix, Dodge Caravan, GMC Sonoma, and a Honda Odyssey.
I also have an Impala (2001) that so far up to 40,000 miles has no
problems. I did one conversion on an older Ford that had 200,000 miles
on it and it did have a leak when we sold it. All these cars get run up
to high mileage and are used for mine and my wife's work vehicles. They
run daily in the desert and I think the constant use has something to do
with the reliability. I live in the Phoenix area and some of the dealers
here readjust the pressures before the cars are sold new. Luckily for us
in the past the local Pontiac GMC dealer is one of them. The Honda and
Dodge both work great also and they both have Front and Rear A/C. Also
the sealers sold make a very clear reference to not covering any
warranties if they should clog your system and ruin the compressor or
components. At some point in the future I will put A/C in my bus and my
Ghia had a system in it already from the dealer but all components were
old and I took it all out. I will replace it with a newer system as in a
Sanden compressor and better brackets. Ice in California sells a decent
kit. Problem with our Air-cooled cars is many holes are cut into the tin
for hoses and brackets and need extra care in the grommet and sealing
departments to avoid overheating due to hot air entry where it doesn't
belong. The Sanden uses very little H>P> compared to the older units.
Just my 2 cents worth.
Regards,
David,
74coupe' (o=I=o)
76bus [oOo]
