From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Sun, 15 Jun 2003 12:12:37 -0500 (CDT)
To: glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com (George Lyle)
Cc: dhaynes(-at-)optonline.net (Dennis Haynes), type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: [Syncro] New found AC Refrigerant

George--

I retracted that statement I made--you are right--natural gas does have
methane in it---
But this stuff is not straight methane--it is some sort of
conglomerate--

Here's the  last word from me on this--

I have found it to work---
I needed a reasonable cost replacement refrigerant at work for my
customer's.
They were running not walking away at the cost to tip off their 12 in
their Semis'--not  repairing them at all---

I found this stuff--it works--and has so far for a month in my
vehicle--I am the guinea pig.

I blow cold, with less product, at lower pressures.

I do like the 36 to 38 degree's it's now blowing out of the vents--

That's good.

I'll keep everyone updated on this product as the summer progresses--

Hey--I'm not trying to sell anyone on the list this stuff---
I was just reporting my findings on a replacement refrigerant at a
reasonable cost.--that's all.

If anyone has other preferences--that's OK with me--

But I will say this---134 is not the answer for an older R-12 system---
Way too much head pressures---something has to give--



See Ya--

Terry

 
E-mail message   
 
George-- 
Your facts are a little twisted here this morning-- 
Methane is NOT natural gas-- 
Natural gas consists of 87-96% methane. Not pure, but close enough that
the flammability of pure methane and natural gas are the same, and that
is the property that we are considering. As I said, the liklihood that
this product having methane as a major constituant is very low, since
the boiling point of methane is much too low for an F-12 system 
You ought to take the time to examine the product info site---just for
fun to see what this stuff is all about-- 
It's yet another "drop in replacement". If it has methane in it it won't
get approved by the powers that be for mobile uses. The only approved
"drop in replacement" for mobile users of F-12 that I am aware of is
GHG-12 (or whatever they are calling it these days) 
Great scare tatics you layed on the list-- 
I didn't lay any scare tactics on this list. I pointed out the
incongruity of the assertion that propane/butane mixes were bad and that
methane was better. They're all flammable, but the quantity of
refrigerant is very small so the danger is minor. As I said, I'd worry
more about the 100 pounds of gasoline in the tank than I would about the
pound of flammable hydrocarbon in the AC system 
Heck, the stuff will probably work great, but don't forget basic
chemistry and physics when considering the manufacturer's claims. 
George
