Date: Sun, 15 Jun 2003 22:48:22 -0600
From: elijah <elijah(-at-)sisna.com>
To: Kevzag7(-at-)aol.com,  type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] EGR....optional??

Kevzag7(-at-)aol.com wrote:

>I talked to a guy who has worked on bugs and transporters for a while and he 
>told me i could disconnect the whole Exhaust Gas Recirculation system, 
>starting at the throttle without any negative consequences...he said it doesn't work 
>that well anyway.  Has anyone ever done this, or am I the only knucklehead to 
>do it?  What could the possible repurcussions be?
>
>  
>
on my 76 i have never had a functioning egr (filter completey gone and 
y-pipe shut off by another knucklehead like you).  in addition to the 
list of pros and cons that are enough to almost make your decsion 
arbitrary the one that makes me stay where I'm at is ultimately cost. 
 New filters are expensive.  

Having raised a similar question in april I gathered that the 
consequences of removing egr have to do with the air you breath, the 
engine in your car, and the laws you obey.   the reprecussions ( which i 
clearly choose to ignore) are that NOx emissions go up.  This is why egr 
was added, to reduce those bad, bad, NOx emisions.  Also head 
temperatures go up.. thereby decreasing their lifespan.. in theory.  and 
finally it's against the law to tamper with emissions equipment.  How 
important it is to ackowlege those things is up to you.

The reason I chose to ignore them were as follows - having decided to 
drive an aircooled vw (especially type 2) it was already clear in my 
mind that clean air was not my biggest priority, and I was already 
passing below average for my state's emissions test anyway.  as far as 
the whole "heat the head" argument was concerned, I probably didn't give 
much weight to this because while there is probably legitimate analysis 
suggesting that the heads would get hotter, nobody seemed to quantify 
how hot and also the fact that that my engine seemed to be running 
several thounsand miles ok w/o any problems I knew it would be ok.  most 
people who have ran without an egr would probably say they'ved had 
similar success.  as far as the law is concerned  I just decided that if 
they don't care I don't care.  In my state they don't check for the egr 
filter or it's function.  If the situation were otherwise I would 
install my filter.

I'm not totally sure of how much better the car runs without it, I've 
never ran it with it.  I do enjoy having one less thing to worry about, 
one less potential exhaust gas leak, and like I mentioned the cost of 
buying one.  If your mechanic does this frequently than it's probably ok 
in your state but you should check.

Here's what I think is really funny about the EGR.  The ONLY gas it 
reduces is NOx (so I hear).  Chances are your state doesn't even measure 
that.  Look at your last emissions report.
