Date: Sun, 15 Jun 2003 23:01:00 -0700
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] EGR....optional??

On 6/15/03 9:48 PM, "elijah" <elijah(-at-)sisna.com> wrote:

> The reason I chose to ignore them were as follows - having decided to
> drive an aircooled vw (especially type 2) it was already clear in my
> mind that clean air was not my biggest priority, and I was already
> passing below average for my state's emissions test anyway.

I think it's silly to get holier than thou about the EGR system. On the
other hand the government won't let you modify the car to reduce emissions
beyond the factory design so there's some hypocrisy and politics at work.

Although I don't doubt the science, I've never seen a Bosch L-Jetronic graph
that shows the effect of the EGR system on the emissions. It's easy to look
at the graphs for the cat converter and draw the same conclusion that
emissions are near zero when in proper working order. We know the emissions
aren't zero at idle and there's plenty of idling in large cities during rush
hour.

If you could legally install a CAT on the bulk of non-equipped VWs I suspect
this would have the biggest impact on emissions but what can you do when
there is no legal aftermarket for making cars pollute less?

Now that would be a true step forward but we all know why that will never
happen so we're stuck with more pollution than necessary. It sucks I know
but if you can figure out a way around it at reasonable cost, I'll vote for
you.

> Here's what I think is really funny about the EGR.  The ONLY gas it
> reduces is NOx (so I hear).  Chances are your state doesn't even measure
> that.  Look at your last emissions report.

Often true but just because it's not tested doesn't mean it doesn't have an
impact. NOx was identified early on as a contributor to smog in the LA
basin. Every seen a 50's Bugs Bunny cartoon making fun of the air in LA?
It's not really funny.

-- 
Richard
1978 Westfalia CDN
Cupertino, CA
