From: "KYLE LAFERRIERE" <klaferriere(-at-)msn.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 16 Jun 2003 09:31:12 -0700
Subject: symptoms, why my bus won't start, compensating for vacuum leak?

ok, some of you may remember that my bus wouldn't start. Well, I got it to 
run for a day, but only for one day.
So hear I am again, full of grease with wrench in hand.
Alright, I've spent a long time in that engine compartment, so I can give a 
lot of info, but I'll try to keep it as brief as possible.
Remember that front means front of the car.
So, I had a broken ground wire in the distributor. Soldered it, still 
wouldn't start. Messed with the point gap.  Found a disconnected hose while 
doing that. (a black plastic tube enters the engine compartment on in the 
front lower drivers side corner. The tube runs to a rubber T that plugs in 
the drivers side of the engine near the top, while another braided hose goes 
up from the T to this flying saucer looking thing that is in the front top 
center.) the t was disconnected where it meets the engine. plugged it in. 
Started, with very rough idle and wants to die when cold. Drove it for a 
day. Next day went to set proper point gap, timing, etc. Made numerous 
attempts to set point gap with no feeler gauge and then check it with a 
dwell meter. Got close, but then it wouldn't start all of a sudden. Appeared 
as if I ran out of gas trying. Walked to get gas. Got back, put a couple 
gallons in the tank, still wouldn't start. Look around some more. found 
another problem hose. Out of that flying saucer looking thing comes a black 
rubberhose shapped like a U. This hose connects to a Y shaped plastic 
fitting. This Y isplugged into the big S shaped black hose that is connected 
to the intake air sensor box that is connected to the air filter.  still 
with me. ok. There is one more rubber hose that is attached to this Y it 
runs down to a rubber elbow, that attaches to something I don't know what 
is, that attaches to a braided hose, that attaches to the engine on the 
passenger side in the rear towards the top (pretty much on the opposite side 
from where the rubber T connects.
The rubber elbow had split entirely up the side. Funny though, because the 
rubber seemed to be in real good shape otherwise. Anyways, I wrapped it real 
good in electrical tape and wrestled it back in place.
Tried to start it. Real rough start, sounded like it might have backfired 
twice real quick and then died. never really idled. Tried to start it again. 
nothing. nothing again. then let it sit a couple minutes then try again. 
Real rough start, sounds like backfire or something. Then dies almost 
immediately. No chance to even try to give it a little gas. try to start it 
again, but nothing. walk away. drink beer.
So, that brings me to today.
I was wondering, if the broken hose would cause a vacuum leak and if 
everything was set to compensate for that, and if so, what do I need to 
adjust to get it started again, or if not what do I do.
I don't really have any money to take it anywhere, but I am willing to buy 
lots of beer or something for any one in the area who wants to take a look 
at it with me.
Any advice is welcome
Thanks for hanging in there and reading through.
Kyle
79 Westy
auto tranny
Chapel Hill, NC
