Date: Mon, 16 Jun 2003 15:55:45 -0700 (PDT)
From: quincy mccrary <qmccrary(-at-)pacbell.net>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: strange electrical woes...HELP PLEASE! free music offer

So, here is my storyI picked up my 69 transporter for 600.00 a couple of months agoit ran, but someone had broken off the key in the ignitionwhile it would turn with a screw driver, when the ignition was engaged all power would drain from the electrical system and the flasher box would click

ok, so there is a short and the ignition switch is toast I thinkthey have it rigged to hot start from the battery (large gage wire attached to starter and arched to the batteryepp!) and it seems to run goodmy 1989 vw fox (great car!) had just died a steaming 400,000 + mile death in the transporters yard (a car from "grateful dead tour", covered in stickers of every kind) so I figured I would pick up the ol bus and build her up for a ride to Kansas...

But I have little moneyso Im trying to cut out unnecessary expenditures

on with the story! I buy a nice 30 volt toggle and a universal started buttondisconnect the old ignition switch and install the toggle and starter button (starter button= from starter to light switch to ignition button back to starter power-on switch= light switch to toggle to fuse box (aw, fuse second from right, starting from the right))works great for a whilethen one day I hop in and try to start her up andwhen I push on the starter button, all power drains from the system and the flasher box starts clicking

strange, I think and ponder maybe the battery is deadI jump her off an old battery, and she starts right upbut the flasher box is still clickingstrangeturn engine off, try againflasher box still clickingafter running for a while, it goes awayI drive off, but when I hit the brakes, the flasher box clicks again, and the stereo dies! (power drain, but not so much as to effect engine...)

 

Strangeso, when I get home that afternoon I replace the main wire from starter to the front of the bus.the cable from the battery to the starterfrom the starter to the voltage regulatorand clean up the fuse box of spaghettihaving wired a 66, it all looked familiar and seemed okso, after that it runs fine for a few weeks...

Until this morning at 4.00 am when I left for workit did the same thing! I had to jump it and the flasher box went nuts till she warmed upso, ?????!!!!!

 

What does the wondrous collective list-serve-mind think about this little problem? Short? Bad flasher switch? 

 

As I way of offering some return for favors granted, I would like to offer to mail a couple of cds from my eclectic music collection to any who would enjoy stuff like the grateful dead, the allman brothers, steve kimock, and the many other jam-band, jazz, bluegrass, blues, folk, rock recordings I have acquired through the years....

 

Any thoughts would help!

 

Quincy in California
