To: mattroberds(-at-)cox.net
Cc: aufever(-at-)prodigy.net,vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 3 Nov 2002 11:28:43 -0600
From: Stan Wilder <wilden1(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: was/ high pressure/Oil filter/cold issues

In discussing engine oils there seems to be an endless controversy at to
the proper weight, blend, milti-vis or synthetics.
The governing factors with any engine oil are directly related to the
condition of the engine at the time the oil is installed.
In over 45 years of driving I've never thrown a rod or destroyed and
engine while driving any car other than high performance drag cars and
even in those situations it wasn't the engine oil that caused the
failures..
Most engine oil testing is performed on new engines in a laboratory
condition.
Although these vehicles may be driven on the road as part of the test,
everything gets monitored.
Volkswagen performed these same test on their engines based on the
current driving conditions of vehicles that were produced for US export
and likewise those produced for European export.
Engines oils used in extreme cold conditions versus extreme heat
conditions must have specific characteristics for that environment.
As a general rule you can count on getting full engine life by using what
the manufacturer recommends for your vehicle.
There are some folks on the list (VW lists in general) that have gotten
two or three times the mileage as others from their engines.
These long mileage situations are directly related to the driving and
maintenance habits of the driver along with the condition of the engine
they started with..
VW engines operate in a broad temperature range and can idle for hours at
4 psi and run over 60 psi at highway speeds.
Most automobile engines have water cooled engine blocks and heads, they
actually have overkill on their cooling capabilities. With the advent of
the cross mounted engines the radiators remained in the same high air
flow position but electric with thermostatic controls for fans were added
to assist in low airflow traffic situations. In retrospect the VW Vanagon
series of Air Or Water Cooled use the engine oil for cooling either
completely or as a cooling assistant, combined with airflow across the
oil pan. VW Vanagons just simply don't have the overkill factor, they are
designed for optimum with very little safety factor for pulling trailers
or general overworking of the engines.
This isn't a negative arrangement, it just requires oils to meet a wider
range of operating temperature.
If you notice the temperature ranges on water flow thermostats you'll
find that many sources have ranges from 180- 220. This in itself should
tell you the optimum operating temperatures common to all engine oil
currently sold in the US.
No matter what type of oil cooler you install, only a portion of your oil
is processed through the cooler and filter. There might be the one
exception if you had extremely low oil pressure.
Your oil bypass valve should always be actively bypassing oil back to the
sump and performing its named function of Oil Pressure Relief Valve.
When you start your cold engine in extreme cold your bypass should be
bypassing the filter and oil cooler almost entirely. It performs the
safety function of preventing an oil filter blowout or oil cooler
blowout.
I often wonder why most vehicles with automatic chokes rev the engine so
high at low rpms. Most VW water cooled and air cooled with injection
systems have only slightly elevated cold start rpm increase.
My take on this " high pressure/Oil filter/cold issues" is simply: If you
have the minimum idle oil pressure and the highway speeds oil pressure
are sufficient to allow operation without overheating or setting off your
idiot light then you're right on with your oil selection. Run the
manufactures specified lubricants and consider higher viscosity or
special lubricants when you get to the point that your are just nursing
the last few thousand miles out of your engine.
The question of Too High oil pressure just isn't an issue .............
think about the last case of Washed Out Engine Bearings you heard of. 
Porsche, Audi engines and the Mazda Rotaries routinely operate at
pressures as high as 120 psi.
They don't have any magical bearings, they are just like yours.

Stan Wilder
