Date: Mon, 04 Nov 2002 17:17:19 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: 1970Westy Flick <westyvw(-at-)hotmail.com>, goodolevolk(-at-)yahoo.com,
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: [VB] OT: Verizon Phone Service for Bus Traveling

>I was headed down a lonely old forest road in northern washington state in 
>my 70 on labor day many years ago. I was going way too fast, at night. I 
>saw a Huge hole in front of the bus left by a tree that had been blown 
>over, pulling its root ball with it. The hole was about 6 feet wide, 6 
>feet deep and right in the middle of the road. I slammed on the brakes, 
>only to slide. I tried turning the bus and ended up resting on the side of 
>the hole with the rear wheel on the passenger side falling in, but not all 
>the way. The bus sat at a precarious angle, with the back end threatening 
>to fall in all the way. What was I to do? I slept in the bus anyways, it 
>was late, waking up every so often when I was crammed up againt the side.
>The point is I had to hike out to a mian road and flag down a driver who 
>then went bak to town and found the only open tow truck place to get me 
>out. The moral? With todays modern technology it would not have made a 
>damn difference. Slow down on old grassy log roads (duh) and be prepared.

Twice I've been off road and gotta stuck (many, many more times and not 
stuck) - neither time was I the driver. The first was with my family after 
cutting a Christmas tree (I was 10). Dad thought a big puddle was a little 
puddle. Same thing happened back in '95. Got to see my friend's brand new 
Cherokee fill up with water...

Go buy a $25 come-along and a LONG, LONG strap (to put around a tree or rock).

30 minutes of labor will extract your vehicle from most any hole or puddle 
you get yourself into. Better than the cell phone we had with us the second 
time which had a signal but I had no way to explain to the wife where 
exactly we were.

She came up anyhow with a vague idea of where we were. She drove the Westy 
of course. We got a pull out by a passing mondo 4WD before she could arrive 
and we caught her on the road. Boy was I in trouble (grin!).

Make that strap a long one. I was 10 feet short with the Cherokee. I did 
have a come-along on that trip but no handy trees.

1 towtruck bill would be more expensive than a come-along and appropriate 
gear.

Good luck to all!!!


Chris Mills in TN
