Date: Mon, 04 Nov 2002 19:09:48 -0600
From: The Johnson's <bugnbat(-at-)swbell.net>
To: Vintagebus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Thanks for all the turn signal info/update

I was looking through the box-o-parts the PO gave me and in there was an
old turn signal switch and a 9-prong box, I metered the switch and after
soldering one of the dimmer relay wires back on, it seemed to be working
fine.  The box's ground wire broke off so I soldered that back together
as well.  The wiring looked like hell behind the kickpanel of the bus,
like a cross between egg-drop soup and a robin's nest.  However, to make
a long story short I now have a functioning turn signal switch, hazards,
dome light and high/low dimmer.  I love my bus.  I do have to go back in
and check the connection on the high/low dimmer it will change states
sometimes when the steering wheel is being turned.  I did have one
problem with the pins 54 and 54f on the 9-prong box dubbed "blinkgeber"
My brake lights would not come on, it seems 54 brings in the signal from
the brake switch and then travels out on 54f up to the turn signal, so I
disconnected 54 from the box and spliced directly onto 54f so that way
my hazards would still work (the hazard signal is generated inside the
box).  Should I be worried about jumping that connection, does anyone
know the inner schematic of the "blinkgeber" for now all is well with
the lights and I feel much safer.
  My new problem, it's always something isn't it?, is that now I have a
whine coming from around the transmission except when the clutch is
fully depressed.  I have ordered a throw out bearing from the local
import place.  I also ordered an engine gasket set as mine is leaking
oil and I want to make it stop.  Where should I look for the leaks at?
what is the most prone to leak?  I have a 1776 in my bus and I was told
that it is just a 1600 with a bigger set of cylinders on it.  Is that
true?  I also have a hole in my muffler (which is an aftermarket) and I
was thinking of switching out to a stock exhaust setup like the one in
the busdepot catalog, would this setup work with my engine? will it
affect performance?
  I am also glad to report that my bus has a new vinyl skin on top which
looks alot better than the stiff, torn, discolored vinyl I had up there
before.  I highly recommend changing tops because it was an easy job and
I did it myself in about 2 hours (this includes trips to the store to
buy the little 4mmX7mm screws that go through the top and hold it to the
bows (mine were missing).
   Anyway, I thought you would all appreciate the update,
   Tim (in the middle{oklahoma}) Johnson
   67 21-window
