To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Kirk Hilliard <kirkaye(-at-)earthlink.net>
Date: 06 Feb 2002 17:58:10 -0500
Subject: Blown Front Tranny Seal

Hi All,

I have a 77 westy that I just installed a rebuilt engine in.
Following instructions, I ran it at 2000 rpm for 20 minutes after the
first start, then slowed down the idle and fine tuned the timing.  I
was feeling pretty proud of myself (having, in the past, done nothing
more daring than a valve adjustment) when I spied a large puddle of
oil under the middle of the bus.

It was about a pint (ok, maybe a cup) of transmission oil, and the
very front of the transmission is covered with it.  I can't tell for
sure, but it looks like it came from up high where the shift lever
enters the tranny.

I did check the tranny oil level during the engine swap.  It was
exactly full (just barely weeping out with the upper plug removed) so
I did not add any oil at all to it.  (I changed it a couple of years
ago and hadn't done anything to it since.)  I checked it now; I can put
my finger tip in and down through the top hole without touching oil.


What did I do to mess this up?  Two thoughts come to mind:

1 The bus did sit jacked up for several months before the engine swap.
  (It took a while to come up with the bread and spare time.)  I know
  it did not leak during this time as I was under the bus shortly
  before the start.  Could the front seal have dried out from disuse?

2 Tom Wilson's book says to lower the car before first start, but I
  left my bus jacked up so that I could more easily get under and
  check for exhaust leaks.  Still, the rear wheels are barely off the
  ground, and I know it has been on steeper hills than that.  Could
  a fast idle for a long time at this angle caused the leak?

  The bus was in neutral during this time, but the wheels did spin
  very slowly while the engine was running.  I have seen this before
  and assumed that it was normal.


How is the front of the transmission sealed?  I scanned through
several manuals but can't find any mention of a front tranny seal.
Does the boot do all the sealing?  (Please let it be something easy.)

Crestfallen but hopeful,
Kirk
