From: "David Bell" <bellky(-at-)charter.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 6 Feb 2002 19:55:41 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] 79 Speedo in 72 Bus (long-ish)


----- Original Message -----
From: John Anderson <outbasket(-at-)hotmail.com>
 Some
> idiot decided my bus wasn't fast enough and pulled out to pass and didn't
> make it causing two oncoming cars to swerve off the road and driving me
into
> the break down lane with his horn blaring by me.  When I finally came to
> stop light a few miles up, another driver started yelling at me that my
bus
> was a hazard on the road and the near head on collision would have been my
> fault.  I was doing 60 mph on my speedo at the time in a 55 mph, but the
> real speed probably was in the 52-53 range.

John,

You can fix that for 79 cents. Read on and find out how.

But first............

That old story about a crash being your fault for going too slow is a load
of crap. It is a childish rationalization used by people who are too full of
themselves to drive the posted speed limit. If you were truly doing 52 in a
55 MPH zone, you have nothing to be ashamed of. Also, in a legal sense, the
fault is almost always given to the driver who enters another vehicle's
right of way. That means the guy who makes the left in front of you because
you're too slow off the line, the speed-nut who tries to pass without enough
clear road in the other lane, the driver who pulls onto the road from a
driveway or parking lot, etc, etc......they are to blame for the crash, not
you. Or me, for that matter. I just did over 1000 miles on the interstate at
an average cruising speed of 55 MPH. The posted limits were 65 and 70. At no
time was there a minimum speed posted, though I have seen that on freeways
in large cities (Detroit, for example) and the minimum is usally 45MPH.

That being said, I ALWAYS try to be as courteous as possible about my slow
driving. I stay in the slow lanes, use the truck lanes when available on
hills, I slow down when people are passing, and on two-lane roads I have
been known to pull over and let traffic go by when I notice a parade in my
rearview. On really steep grades I run the flashers just to be sure the
other drivers see me. I can't count the number of Saturdays mornings I have
been caught behind Papaw doing 35 in a 55 zone, two wheels on the shoulder,
a death grip on the wheel, and no legal passing zones for the next twenty
miles. At times like that I just smile, tune the radio and light another
cigarette. I try to stay mindful of that old adage: "We mock what we are to
become."

Now, if you're not into doing a lot of work on your speedo, you can do what
I did in one of my first cars. I drove behind a friend with an accurate
speedometer and used a fine-point sharpie to mark the lens of my inaccurate
speedometer at 25, 35, 45, 55, and 65 MPH, those being the common speed
limits on the varoius roads I travelled. Ten minutes and 79 cents later I
had a speedometer as accurate as anyone else on the road.

Remember, we don't drive slowly, we drive deliberately!

Regards,
Dave
74 Riviera Weekender



