Date: Mon, 23 Apr 2007 05:50:39 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: Timo Schairer <timo.schairer(-at-)student.uni-tuebingen.de>
Subject: Re: [T2] Fuel smell and replacing rubber filler neck

Yes, you can, but you don't need to (probably). I have
replaced a dozen elbows and never needed any of the
others. The elbow is rubber and gets stretched every
time you stick a nozzle in there. The other hoses are
reinforced plus they never get stressed.

If you decide to go ahead anyway, don't forget the two
screws at the outboard ends that come up from
underneath (one on each end.) It also helps if you
have elbows that bend the wrong way and you only weigh
about 40 pounds! (Kinda hard access) -BaH

--- Timo Schairer
timo.schairer(-at-)student.uni-tuebingen.de> wrote:
> Hello all,
 
 I'm having a strong smell of fuel in my bus (2l,
 stock carbs) that is
 worrying me. I've replaced all fuel lines, all the
 accessible (without
 removing engine and tank) rubber parts on the vent
 system, but the smell
 won't go away. Having some spare time at the
 weekend, I double checked
 everything and I think I figured out what's
 happening (please correct me
 if I'm wrong):
 
 Symptoms:
 Fuel smell in bus when turning sharp left. Stopped
 immediatly and found
 gas on the inside of the gas cap, but not leaking
 outside.
 
 Possible cause:
 Rubber elbow (part number 1 on this fiche:

ttp://www.ratwell.com/technical/Microfiche/t202110.gif)
 cracked at the
 top. So apparently when doing left turns, gas is
 flowing towards the gas
 cap and escaping through the crack in the top of the
 rubber elbow,
 causing strong smell of fuel inside the bus.
 
 Question:
 Since I currently have no way to drop the engine,
 remove the tank and do
 this job properly, I want to do this with the engine
 installed.
 - Can I remove the firewall this way (removing carbs
 and air intake)?
 - Will I have enough space to replace the hose from
 the tank to the
 metal filler pipe? I think it is not leaking, but I
 want to replace it
 anyway.
 
 

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
