Date: Fri, 9 Mar 2007 21:15:59 -0800 (PST)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: A Friday Busaru Story

For those who don't know, Bussy was converted from T4
VW power to Subaru SJ22 power, conversion completed in
July of 2003. Since the initial re-tightening of
coolant hose clamps, there has been little to no
trouble. The "maiden voyage" was in ambient temps of
108 degrees and the coolant temps were staying right
at 190. Even when climbing the mountain pass on that
same day - something I would not have done with the
aircooled - while cruising at 80-85mph in a place
where on its best day the T4 would have required
downshifting to third, the temps stayed right where
they should.

The cooling system has a Toyota Forerunner radiator up
front in a continental spare tire enclosure. Fan is a
Flex-a-Lite Black Magic designed for the radiator.
Connection to the engine is via 1.25" hard copper
pipes in approximately 4 foot sections connected by
hoses to allow for flexing. The run is pretty much
flat, using the tunnel created when I removed the old
hot air heat tube for the bus heater. At the rear axle
the pipe on the return side climbs over the axle and
then back down to just below frame rail height at the
engine. The flat engine and long pipe run makes for
difficult maintenance as there are many places for air
pockets to reside.

The biggest chronic problem has been over cooling. I
can have the engine up to operating temp and then
accelerate to get on the freeway and the engine takes
a big gulp of cool coolant, dropping the temp down to
the bottom of the gauge. I insulated all the pipes and
that helped a lot. I put an air blockage in front of
the radiator in winter and that helps. It just seems
that the flow rate varies too much. I think if I went
to smaller pipe it might actually help by keeping the
velocity of the flow up, but logic says it will offer
more resistance and actually lessen the flow. My
contention is that if I can keep it flowing well all
the time, it will eventually heat up evenly. Fact is,
the radiator is too big for the application.

I have been planning on adding a bypass valve short of
the radiator, much like the heater bypass valves that
allow the flow to be constant but regulate how much
coolant goes through the heater core. I plan to do the
same for the radiator, having the valve lever within
reach for on-the-go adjustments. I suspect that I will
need only seasonal adjustments and very little
reactionary adjusting after I initially dial it in.

There have been three on-the-road "breakdowns" since
the Subey install. The first was bus related and
involved the shift coupler coming loose when I
downshifted on the freeway at 70mph for some reason,
at about 11pm in some place that was a mile past
nowhere! I had to drive to the next off-ramp in third
gear and was happy that the Subey is a balanced engine
and can cruise all day at 6,000 rpm, topping out at
7,300rpm! I was easily able to keep up with freeway
traffic for the ten or so miles I had to go. The fix
was easy and since I had the inverter, I was able to
use real 120Volt trouble light at the little all night
food mart parking lot I chose to do the repair at.
Five minutes tops and back on the road.

The next "breakdown" also occurred in the middle of
the night, also just past nowhere. The "fan" belt
busted (actually all it really drives is the
alternator.) I again had around ten to fifteen miles
to get to where I could pull off and spend the night.
Cooling was not a concern as the waterpump is driven
by the cambelt. What I was concerned about was how
long I could continue with the lights on and wipers,
the defroster blower, and what voltage does the Subey
ECU need to continue running? What happened this time
was gradual and I should have addressed it long before
it got this bad. The crankshaft pulley on a 2.2 Subey
weighs about 11 pounds. The hub is only about 3/8"
thick and it mounts on a straight shaft (no taper)
with a woodruff key shared by the cambelt drive
sprocket. The sole occupant, belt-wise is the
alternator belt and it rides on the furthest outermost
part of the pulley, exerting the most possible
pressure to misalign. What had happened was the pulley
was twisting on the shaft and digging the keyway wider
and longer, in kind of a spiral pattern. The pulley
was still tight on the shaft, but it had about 1" of
runout as it wobbled through its revolutions. Hard for
a belt to stay on with 1" wobble!

The next morning was Saturday and I managed to get to
the town of Longview on the Columbia River just north
of my crossing into Oregon. There were several
wrecking yards open there and I managed to find a
pulley and they let me use their 3/4" drive massive
air impact wrench to remove the damaged one and
install the replacement. This is key to what the store
eventually becomes about, later on. The rain never
stopped that weekend and I felt pretty much like it
was a wasted trip, except that I had finally gotten
around to fixing the wobbling pulley.

That was summer before last, as I recall, but it could
have been last spring - I don't think so though. Since
then, there has been really no trouble. There was some
hard learning along the way, like how I had come up
with an ingenious way to adjust the TPS by adding a
trimmer pot to it, and then I simply unplug it and
check resistance values, tweaking the trimmer pot to
achieve the resistance that a couple years back
yielded the voltage called for in the manual. There
were glitches along the way, with the fuel injection /
engine management system and I devised a normally-on
relay with a switch to open it from the drivers seat -
a relay on the feed to the ECU, effectively providing
me an "ALT+CTRL+DEL" reset for my ECU computer. The
wisdom eventually gained was that if the battery is
allowed to deteriorate, the voltage values may be way
off, even though I set to my "model" resistance. Yes,
I know it's simple and any fool should know that, but
once you know you're right about something, it's hard
to convince otherwise! I got my battery and charging
system back up to what they should be and my engine
management system started behaving itself and not
going into limp home mode!

So here's what the story is about: Bussy is all apart
now for the second weekend in a row. The cooling got
gradually worse, but I knew that whenever it got hot
all I had to do was rev the engine up and it would
cool off. Here it is, almost 4 years since the
installation and the hoses are starting to come apart.
Not the big easy hoses, but the little ones buried
deep within the engine parts that are a real bugger to
access. They didn't need to be that way, but somebody
did not think that step through very well when he
installed the engine! Friday night, dinner and a
couple drinks with a friend, then the drive home.
Engine temp was up, but so what? Rev the engine and it
will cool down. Well, the temp was up a bit higher
than it usually gets. It was pushing 230! Not a
problem cuz the coolant won't boil until 260+ degrees
with my ratio of antifreeze and the pressure I'm
running. It was when the temp suddenly went to no
reading at all that I knew I was in danger of losing
the engine. It would be a nuisance if I fried the
engine, but I do have another one almost ready to go
in anyway...

Raining hard, 10pm on a Saturday, a fairly heavily
travelled road in an industrial area... Heavily
travelled by "normal" traffic during daylight hours,
but the traffic at 10pm on a Friday night is not
"normal." I found a well lighted parking lot and
proceeded with the diagnosis. About a half mile away I
heard a POP-POP-POP-POP-POP-POP in rapid succession.
By then my friend had joined me with a piece of hose
to do the emergency repair and he commented on "the
firecrackers..." and I told him, "Hell! That's not
firecrackers. That's gunshots!" And there we were.

After about an hour of fussing, I determined that I
had gotten enough coolant in the system to attempt a
run for home. The massive steam eruptions had died
down and now the only problem was worry and the fact
that no cooling seemed to occur below 4,000 rpm!  I
made it home in 2nd and 3rd gears, worrying all the
time that I had ruined my engine already and that
pieces were about to start flying out of it. I slept
on the problem and then Saturday and even Sunday i
went into denial and refused to spend any time on it.
Sunday night I came up with a theory. Granted, all the
hoses need to be replaced as they are decomposing en
masse. The problem of requiring high rpm too cool?
Water pump is slipping and doesn't move enough coolant
until engine speed is waaayy high. Cam belt was
replaced in 2003, so it easily has gone much more than
60,000 miles since.

Next weekend I started to pull it apart. First
obstacle is the crankshaft pulley. I went to Harbor
Freight and bought one of those chain - type locking
pliers devices to wrap the chain around the pulley and
hold it while I attempt to loosen that bolt that,
remember? That bolt that I had installed with the 3/4"
drive two-man air impact wrench at the wrecking yard
way back when! All day Saturday I fought with that
pulley, until I finally realized I needed to get the
torch out and build a tool to hold the pulley. Sunday
about 11am and the pulley holding tool does it's job
as I use my right foot to push against the 18" long
breaker bar attached to the pulley bolt. About the
third hard lunge and the bolt is loosening. Yaaayyy!

Everything is pretty straightforward form here on in,
except that I do not want to remove the exhaust system
and of course everyone knows why - they are a total
PITA to remove after a tear or two! Of course as one
problem cascades into another, I eventually have to
remove everything everywhere - as you all know, that
IS the order of things mechanical! The water pump has
about a two inch diameter pulley, perfectly smooth,
that is driven by the back side, the smooth side of
the cam belt. The belt has nearly a half wrap on the
pulley, but if the cam belt is stretched, it just
isn't gonna work very well. My Subaru expert answer
man tells me that the hydraulic tensioner is
slot-mounted and if I'm lucky, I'll be able to just
move the entire unit in the slots, re-tighten the
bolts, and all will be fine for a few more months (til
I get the new engine ready.)

The tensioner was as tense as it could tension. WTH -
replace the cam belt - it's well due by now anyway.
So, off I go on a Sunday to buy my new cambelt and an
elusive thermostat bypass hose that my FLAPS does not
have in stock. The trip to the alternate FLAPS is way
across town and take about a half hour. I got the new
belt on and made all the adjustments, had the timing
marks all lined up - the left side cam, the crankshaft
sprocket, and the right side cam sprocket all have
their marks at 12 o'clock position. I tighten the
tensioner and the tensioner pulley and check one more
time, and the center mark is off by one tooth! Pull it
all apart again and get them all lined up and start
tightening bolts again, and the tensioner pulley won't
tighten. Finally, I pulled the bolt out and looked at
it - all the threads from the hole came with it!

Now, it's off to my FLAPS for a 10x1.25mm helicoil
kit. Nope. They have 10x1.5, but close isn't and
doesn't, so off I go to three more stops before I find
it. They also have the proper drill bit which I
probably have somewhere but it and 3 or 4 duplicates
will not appear until days after the repair is
concluded - with the new bit it comes to $65.00. Here
is where I'm glad I bought the right angle drill cuz
I'm able to reach right in there and drill it nice and
square... but in order to work the tap for the new
threads for the helicoil, I now need to remove the
muffler and tail pipe. It was actually two days later
when I finally got the cam belt on and properly
tensioned, the crank sprocket, new woodruff key and
crank pulley on and tightened, and then it was dark
and then the Washington rains returned and as yet, I
have not concluded this chapter. Bussy awaits
impatiently outside, his ass-end in the air looking
much like a cat in heat but at least he's quiet!

The cooling system mods are on hold until the weather
gives me a break - unlikely in Spring in western
Washington. We have beautiful mornings, and the sun
heats up the ground and the air enough that the clouds
build up and the after-work period is almost daily
inclusive of a deluge. At least daylight saving time
starts Sunday so I'll have more evening time even
though I'll be so exhausted from the adjustment that
I'll have no energy for probably two weeks. If I cam
get a few hours Saturday, I should be able to evaluate
and appreciate the situation more fully. Whatever that
means! Hope you enjoyed my story to nowhere. A
question period will follow, but don't expect answers.
I have finally learned not to! -BaH

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.


 
____________________________________________________________________________________
No need to miss a message. Get email on-the-go 
with Yahoo! Mail for Mobile. Get started.
http://mobile.yahoo.com/mail 
