Date: Sat, 10 Mar 2007 06:37:54 -0800 (PST)
From: "Kevin H. Roberts" <bopsax(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Paul and Kathy <pa.ka(-at-)verizon.net>
Cc: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] RE:Annual smog checks

That's very interesting.  I used to work for TVA on environmental projects.  We worked closely with the Electric Power Research Institute in Palo Alto.  Cleaning up emissions at coal-fired plants.  Then I got transferred to the electric vehicle testing facility where my job was to drive battery powered VW Rabbits around a track and count the mileage that we got out of them.  The project was successful and the end result was that Chattanooga now has a fleet of electric-powered shuttle busses where tourists and anyone else can ride around downtown for free.  

But to have an electric powered bus would mean having an additional bus as it would be no good for long-distance trips like campouts.  And if everyone runs electric vehicles, that just means that the coal-fired power plants are going to be spewing out that much more CO2, particulates, etc.  It would be interesting to know the difference in the direct costs of gasoline powered versus indirect costs associated with electric vehicles.  Maybe it would be worth doing, maybe not.  The hybrids seem to make a lot more sense.  All power costs something to the environment.  If it could be done safely, we'd be better off with mini nuclear plants under our bench seats running our busses.  Ooops, there's that taboo 'N' word.  Cheers...KR

Paul and Kathy <pa.ka(-at-)verizon.net> wrote: Previously posted on the type2 list ..........

"I know (through mutual friends) a man who runs a golf-cart factory.  Gotta 
remember to talk with him about electrifying my Microbus when I get settled
in 
my new home.  A range of 20 miles would suffice for grocery store runs :-))

Cheerio
Glenn  "

Well, years ago I met a fellow bus driver who had converted a Vanagon to
electric drive.  The entire floor, behind the 2 front seats, was covered
with batteries and he only got a range of 30-35 miles.

Paul A
Huntington Station, NY
71 westy 
77 passenger bus


  
---------------------------------
Looking for earth-friendly autos? 
 Browse Top Cars by "Green Rating" at Yahoo! Autos' Green Center.  
