Date: Tue, 13 Mar 2007 01:32:52 -0400
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com>
Subject: 'S" boot redesign

Nathaniel said "I firmly believe that if someone was to sit down for a day 
and think about
the problem and be creative, they could build themselves if not a repro, but
a functioning alternative. All it is a pipe with two small take-offs, only
one of which is actually needed."

OK, lets give that a try, Nat (maybe not for a day......more like a few 
hours).....:  Could we also try to eliminate/reduce the vibrations that 
CAUSE the cracks in the "S" boot? And perhaps handle the vibrations 
differently?  We can't very well reduce the actual motions and vibrations 
of the engine.

The "S" boot connects a fixed chassis module with a vibrating/moving engine 
module. And it lives in a relatively hot and possibly oily environment.

It connects the fixed structure of the AFM/airfilter to the vibrating and 
moving throttle body of the engine.  It soaks up all the engine motion and 
isolates the AFM/airfilter from that motion. And in about 30 years it 
hardens  and cracks.

Could we mount the AFM/airfilter on the engine , so that it experiences the 
same motion as the engine?

Could all the parts of the AFM tolerate the vibration of being rigidly 
connected to an engine?

Maybe we could mount the AFM/airfilter on the engine with a few 
shock-absorbing bushings, resembling motor or transmission mounts. The "S" 
boot could still be used, but would have less vibration to absorb.  It 
might last 40 years that way.

Another idea would be to change the vibration rate of the "S" boot by 
making it from a material that isn't as likely to crack............perhaps 
of cast silicone rubber. This would  probably be less complicated than 
redesigning the fixation of the AFM/airfilter.

So, there are some ideas. Now, someody else sit down and think about it for 
a few hours.

I come away thinking 30 years was a pretty good design life, and I'd like 
to be able to get another one just like it that good.

Doyt
1976 Westy, on it's second "S" boot thanks to Karl. 
