Date: Sun, 1 Aug 2004 17:27:39 -0400 (EDT)
From: Eddie Goodwin <egoodwin(-at-)shell.gis.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] Can't start after carb rebuild...

The plugs are indeed getting spark. Starting fluid didn't work either,
which makes me think there something wrong with the carbs.
Before I pulled the carbs the engine ran fine. I rebuilt it about 2 years
ago with all the best parts I could get my hands on at the time. It is in
tip-top mechanical shape, and very clean and cared for.


As for the electric fuel pump... why is it "SUPER FREAKING 
DANGEROUS"????...
in late '74 VW switched an electric fuel pump that pushes 10 times the
pressure.

My bus engine came with FI and an elecric Fuel pump. Now it has a
much weaker pump. When I relocated the pump I moved it from where the FI
pump normally goes to a spot closer to the tank. Being that there is no
return line anymore I wanted a shorter path from the tank to pump to the
carbs. I feel its in a much safer place now too, mounted to the frame with
rubber washers.

Can the insurance company get me for switching to Carbs? Its a 74... some
had carbs, some had FI. In my bus you can't really tell which it came
with... unless you check the VIN and production stats (or check really
closely). What if i had a stock FI system and replaced the fuel pump with
an aftermarket one. Isn't that esentially the same thing? As long as I
keep the car street legal i don't think there is a problem. 


If you were to hook an electric fuel pump up to the ignition... I agree 
its not such a good idea.... mine is normally rigged up to only operate
when either the engine is cranking or there is oil pressure (via a
pressure switch). I've ran this setup for about 3 years with no trouble at
all.... it will die when oil pressure drops... but is that really a bad
thing?


is there anything wrong with this setup?? I don't see how the facet pump
is any more dangerous than  the FI pump...unless miswired.....
I dont' have any "sophisticated relays" or "motion sensors"... the
stock oil pressure switch and a simple relay from radio shack works fine.
(I actually have a VDO oil switch) I feel its pretty safe.  Let me know if
it isn't.


right now, until i get this mess figured out, i have the fuel pump on a
 flip switch so i know its working..but that will change.


This bus is my secondary car... it was my primary and only for years...
but it doesn't like the 60 mile commute to work. I care about it too much
to subject it to that every day. I use it to camp and drive around town. I
plan to keep it as long as I can. I've even owned a few others just to
work on them. Even those were hard to part with. I love every one of em I
see. 


Eddie


P.s... just for the record, I prefer FI to carbs any day of the week. I
even would have said that before my carbs got screwed up ;)




LoriandLane(-at-)aol.com wrote:

>Hey. 1st off, better you than me (I've had too many bus-nitemares and get
>a devilish satisfaction out of not being the poor sap being bent over by
>his bus). Pull a plug wire (at the plug and hold it 1/2" away from ground
>and have wifey crank bus) and DETERMINE if you're getting spark. If
>spark,
>I'd hit each carb w/ 2 seconds of starting fluid. I call it bus-crack.
>It'll start, trust me. If it doesn't you have no GOOD spark. Gap could be
>wrong at plugs, fouled plugs, etc. Backfiring indicates switched plug
>wires, make sure they're correct at 1-4-3-2 firing order on distriby.
 
>Something concerns me. Your fuel pump is mechanical, right. NOT
>electrical. When you wrote you moved the fuel pump it sounds like it is
>electrical. An electric fuel pump is SUPER FREAKING DANGEROUS unless you
have sophisticated relays and/or motion-sensor devices to shut the pump
down in the event of an accident. Think of the ramifications of pumping
gasoline into a car wreck when you are unconscious or trapped in vehicle.
Also, if something terrible happens and your insurance company discovers
(and they will) you modified your vehicle w/ an electric pump you'll be
hung out to dry with no coverage.....
 
Good luck and I wish MY bus was my 2nd car (sounds like yours is). Lane in
San Diego
