From: "Ted Finesman" <tedebare(-at-)one.net>
To: "Ohiovalleytribe" <ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, "Type2"
Date: Mon, 2 Aug 2004 08:46:51 -0400
Subject: HCBF trip report

Hi Volks- HCBF was a blast..... Left last Thursday morning to great
traveling weather. Took OH sr52 which is a 2 lane road running along the
Ohio river. It's like a picture book of rural America, running thru small
towns and very picture perfect landscape. As usual, I got lost around
Ironton and crossed the Ohio river in the wrong place, which made hooking up
with my traveling buddies at Huntington more interesting.....
	The trip to HCBF went very smoothly from that point as all I had to
do was follow. Made the camp ground at about 8:00 and spent the rest of the
night saying hello to old friends and new.
	Friday morning got up and relaxed all day, just hanging out and
socializing. The weather was great- a little rain, a little sun, and mostly
a nice overcast day which was perfect for doing nothing.
	Saturday dawned beautifully and the Burrito breakfast was a filling
success for all. I started to get organized for the selling of tickets to
the Type2 split-the-pot raffle. Spent the rest of the day selling tickets
and meeting new people. The results of the Type2 split-the-pot raffle was
that we collected $396.00 and returned $193.00 to the winner. This paid for
over 1 month of service for the type2 list. WOO-HOO.
	There was so much going on Sat. that it was hard to catch
everything. Mark Dearing of Salem Imports gave a teck session covering all
sorts of problems and general maintenance tips. Mark has forgotten much more
knowledge of VW's than I will ever know. The man really knows his stuff.
	Ted Nash was there doing his custom painting and airbrushing. This
man is a genius with a brush...  I gave him a gas cap door at EB and when I
saw the scene he had painted I was blown away. Ted painted a picture on
Hotdogs's new high-top right there at the show. Pictures will follow.
	Sunday I left at about 6:30 AM. The strange thing about the trip
home was the I didn't get lost and arrived at 3:00. Total miles 842.
	Buddah- thank you for putting on another great High Country. I know
you work you're a_s off and take a hit in the wallet so that this event will
have something for everyone  (I didn't mention the kids games and I was to
tall to play). Thanks again Ted
