Date: Wed, 1 Sep 2010 10:41:39 -0700 (PDT)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
Cc: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Subject: re:battery luck & gauge install

Hi Kevin,
           Your meter probably only reads to 1 amp, or perhaps 10 amps if you
have a second set of sockets. There are clamp meters, that read direct current
at higher amperages. You probably don't have one of those if you are asking
these questions as a Fluke 337 is >$300 and is somewhat of a specialist tool.
There are less expensive meters of that type.  However none, including the 337
which I own, operate reliably under 1 amp DC; which is still plenty to drain
your battery. If you exceed that 1 amp (or 10 amp) current (not voltage) you
need a new fuse in your meter, at the least.

Your battery was drained rapidly IIRC.  Any time you are looking for weird
currents around a battery you have the potential for HUGE current draws.  Very
easy to fry something including your meter, particularly when set on current,
and your wiring :(.  A meter costs $20 to $400, a light bulb costs $1+ $1 for
wire, and doesn't blow up-its made to go across 12 volts, right.  If you short
something out with a bulb connected between ground and the battery negative
terminal, all that happens is the bulb glows at it's (normal) maximum
brightness.  Nothing fries-what a deal. Next, you can position the light bulb
on a long set of thin wires, and watch it out of the corner of your eye as you
pull fuses, or disconnect items.  As Gerald said, if it goes out, you found
the problem circuit.  How simple is that, instead of fooling around with a
delicate/expensive meter.  That is the long explanation. 

I am constantly amazed that people with a problem, blow away outstanding
advice given by many experienced folks, way more experienced/capable than me,
on this list.  None of us like to do more work than necessary, especially
those that have been there before.  If someone gives you a simple
trouble-shooting suggestion, or repair technique, and especially if it gets a
couple of similar replies, it is probably a time/work saving solution. Go with
it.

jon

snip>
I think I see what you are saying. Could I just do this with my voltmeter as
well? Ie, disconnect battery, then run the meter from the battery ground to
a bare spot on the chassis?

As far as disconnecting things, I will just disconnect connections at the
fuse box? An watch my meter...is that the right way to go?

SNIP>
"If its dropping the get a 12 volt light. Disconnect the GROUND from your
battery. Connect the 12V light where the ground wire used to be(from the
battery negative post to a good chassis ground)  and it should light up
(indicating there's power flowing through it). The brighter the light, the
faster your battery is draining.

Hang the light where you can see it from most anywhere. Now start unhooking
stuff trying to get the light to get dimmer and, eventually, go out."

jon

"Always remember that you often find outstanding people among those you don't
particularly like." Soichiro Honda
