From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'j syder'" <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: "'type2list'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 1 Sep 2010 14:24:59 -0400
Subject: RE:battery luck & gauge install

Hi Jon,

I apologize if it seemed like I was blowing off advice from the list. I just
did not understand the difference between using a bulb and a volt meter. Now
I get it.

As far as what is easier... I have a voltmeter handy. I did not have long
wires to go from the engine compartment to the driver's seat handy, not did
I have a bulb handy-without taking something apart. So it felt simpler to me
to just use the voltmeter. Now that the difference was explained to me by
Chris, I understand the difference.

I got some wire, and found a spare bulb.

So I hooked up a bulb between the ground of the battery and the chassis.
What I get is first a bright flash of the bulb, then it goes out, then the
light sort of goes on and off, slowly. A good second or two between coming
on and going off, and much dimmer than the first flash.

This happened for all fuses, except for number 10(furthest to the right).
This is what the radio is hooked to, along with a few other things. I will
try to figure out what is what there. I think the next thing is to
disconnect each spade connector at the fuse box, at fuse 10, until the
blinking light stops. Then figure out what that wire goes to.

Thanks...any idea why the light would flash?

-Kevin
Jamaica Plain, MA
'69 single cab
'65 Kombi

From: j syder [mailto:scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com]
Subject: Subject: re:battery luck & gauge install

Hi Kevin,
           Your meter probably only reads to 1 amp, or perhaps 10 amps if
you have a second set of sockets. There are clamp meters, that read direct
current at higher amperages. You probably don't have one of those if you are
asking these questions as a Fluke 337 is >$300 and is somewhat of a
specialist tool. There are less expensive meters of that type.  However
none, including the 337 which I own, operate reliably under 1 amp DC; which
is still plenty to drain your battery. If you exceed that 1 amp (or 10 amp)
current (not voltage) you need a new fuse in your meter, at the least.

Your battery was drained rapidly IIRC.  Any time you are looking for weird
currents around a battery you have the potential for HUGE current draws. 
Very easy to fry something including your meter, particularly when set on
current, and your wiring :(.  A meter costs $20 to $400, a light bulb costs
$1+ $1 for wire, and doesn't blow up-its made to go across 12 volts, right. 
If you short something out with a bulb connected between ground and the
battery negative terminal, all that happens is the bulb glows at it's
(normal) maximum brightness.  Nothing fries-what a deal. Next, you can
position the light bulb on a long set of thin wires, and watch it out of the
corner of your eye as you pull fuses, or disconnect items.  As Gerald said,
if it goes out, you found the problem circuit.  How simple is that, instead
of fooling around with a delicate/expensive meter.  That is the long
explanation. 

I am constantly amazed that people with a problem, blow away outstanding
advice given by many experienced folks, way more experienced/capable than
me, on this list.  None of us like to do more work than necessary,
especially those that have been there before.  If someone gives you a simple
trouble-shooting suggestion, or repair technique, and especially if it gets
a couple of similar replies, it is probably a time/work saving solution. Go
with it.

jon

snip>
I think I see what you are saying. Could I just do this with my voltmeter as
well? Ie, disconnect battery, then run the meter from the battery ground to
a bare spot on the chassis?

As far as disconnecting things, I will just disconnect connections at the
fuse box? An watch my meter...is that the right way to go?

SNIP>
"If its dropping the get a 12 volt light. Disconnect the GROUND from your
battery. Connect the 12V light where the ground wire used to be(from the
battery negative post to a good chassis ground)  and it should light up
(indicating there's power flowing through it). The brighter the light, the
faster your battery is draining.

Hang the light where you can see it from most anywhere. Now start unhooking
stuff trying to get the light to get dimmer and, eventually, go out."

jon

"Always remember that you often find outstanding people among those you
don't particularly like." Soichiro Honda
