Date: Wed, 1 Sep 2010 15:02:26 -0700 (PDT)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
Cc: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE:battery luck & gauge install

Hi Kevin,
            A bright flash on first connect is usually something, typically a
capacitor, charging up.  Not many capacitors in an old bus except in the radio
or an amplifier.  Do you have an audio system?  That would be my first place
to look, especially if you have a seperate amp switched on by the radio or
audio signal.  Sounds like it isn't switching off properly.  Do you have a
power antenna?  Can give you trouble if it isn't retracting
correctly-typically connects to the back of the radio for power, not the fuse
box.  They need cleaning and light lube occasionally. I would definitely check
that if you have one.  Often you can also hear the relay clicking and motor
trying to retract the antenna.   A modern radio only uses a tiny current to
keep alive the presets and the display when it is not operating.  It will pull
a pulse of current when you first connect it, i.e. give you that first flash,
but it should stop after that.   A
 pulsing light could indicate something oscillating at a high frequency and
charging and discharging a power supply.  Oscillation can be caused by errors
in wiring, poor connections, adjacent wiring interactions, incompatible
cables/speakers.  If you have an upgraded audio system it would be prudent to
go through it stage by stage and refurb the connections using some contact
cleaner-preservative.  Caig products DeoxIt is hard to beat. 
http://store.caig.com/  Don't forget the grounds- especially important in car
audio systems.

No problems about the advice feedback.  Tripped a nerve, I guess.

jon

"Always remember that you often find outstanding people among those you don't
particularly like." Soichiro HondaHi Jon,
snip>
I apologize if it seemed like I was blowing off advice from the list. I just
did not understand the difference between using a bulb and a volt meter. Now
I get it.
snip>
So I hooked up a bulb between the ground of the battery and the chassis.
What I get is first a bright flash of the bulb, then it goes out, then the
light sort of goes on and off, slowly. A good second or two between coming
on and going off, and much dimmer than the first flash.

This happened for all fuses, except for number 10(furthest to the right).
This is what the radio is hooked to, along with a few other things.
