Date: Sun, 5 Sep 2010 12:10:08 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: draft   Replacing the VW T2 throttle cable

		Replacing the VW T2 throttle (or accelerator) cable


	The fabulous 'Bentley' manual ignores this need.  (Or perhaps 
its lack of an index has misled me ... anyhow, I've found nothing 
there on it.)  I hope this note is better than nothing, tho' I've 
done it only once. Finding no such item in our archives, I request 
corrections/augmentions before we lodge the final version there.
This is my draft.

	If the accelerator goes to the floor without affecting the 
engine, the accelerator cable (also called throttle cable) may be 
broken.  But if you're lucky, the reason will be only that it has 
become detached at one end; so check first whether the latter is so. 
If not, you'll have to replace the cable.
	The cable is multi-strand, stainless, in a thin-wall steel 
pipe which is of much larger dia and is fixed to the chassis  i.e  it 
is not really a Bowden cable.  The non-obvious problem is that the 
tube is NOT continuous from front to rear but has a discontinuity at 
the front of the engine compartment.
	I measure the original which had broken on me at 1.4 mm.  The 
nearest I could find at a yacht rigging workshop is 1.5 mm, and that 
is not significantly fatter.   At U$0.60/m, it's a slight saving on 
the official part, but of course lacks the fitting at the front end. 
Since your main cost in obtaining it is the travel to the shop, you 
may as well get 2 or 4 cables' length while you're there.  I'm not 
sure whether all sub-types have exactly the same length of throttle 
cable, so I'll just say 4 m for now, hoping for a more precise figure.

	The accelerator pivots a shaft which runs across under the 
floor to a lever in line with the front end of the tube.  To get at 
the front end of the cable which is attached to that lever, remove 
the pan under the front of the floor.
	Do NOT remove the cable from either end before using the 
residual cable in the tube for what it is worth  -  which may save 
you quite a lot of time & trouble.
	Detach the cable from where it's fixed at both ends.  Grasp 
the cable that is still showing at each end, and jiggle it gently to 
guesstimate (by friction and sound) how far in the break is.  If you 
find the break is much nearer one end than the other, then go to the 
far end.  Entwine the new cable an inch or two with the old, and wrap 
that lap & beyond with duct tape or similar.  (An ex-seaman would 
nostalgically splice them, but us ornery landlubbers aren't so hot on 
that method of joining  ... <:-|.  Someone adept at soldering might 
well use that method.)  Push this tandem super-cable thru; with any 
luck the distal end of the old cable will soon emerge from the far 
end of the tube, when gentle pulling can be added to the pushing.

	[could be omitted from final bull:   The stupid alternative 
is to pull out the long fragment of the broken cable, and then try to 
push in the new.  This is liable, from either end, to run into the 
discontinuity in the outer: as the somewhat flexible new cable 
emerges into the hidden gulch, it will droop so that its end rams 
into a 'wall', rather than entering the resumed tube on the far side 
of the gap.  That will condemn you to reclining supine, with torch or 
flashlight, while a confederate pokes & jiggles whatever you've poked 
in from either end, trying to locate the gulch and then tape cable 
ends pushed in from both directions, in mid-air in the gulch, up 
among various *dirty* things  ....]


	Those used to Bowden cables will be tempted to add some 
lubricant as they feed the new cable into the tube.  This is a 
mistake, serving only to trap dirt over the years and increase 
friction.  Nevertheless, the corrugated rubber cone which excludes 
dust at the front end of the tube is needed (or an extemporised 
substitute).

	Clamp the new cable with the grubscrew/setscrew on the 
throttle lever.  At the front end, attach it to the underfloor lever 
either by soldering on the clever kinked-pipe to fit thru the hole in 
the lever, or make a clamp with a small bolt + a couple nuts to lock 
the looped end of the cable.

-- 
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600dp Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
