Date: Mon, 6 Sep 2010 19:37:48 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: =?iso-8859-1?Q?MannGram=AE?= : Replacing the VW T2 throttle

		MannGram.: Replacing the VW T2  accelerator (or throttle) cable

					L. R. B. Mann      Sep 2010


	This is my draft towards filling a need
ignored by the fabulous 'Bentley' manual.
	Also I will argue that preventative
replacement of the accelerator cable should be
added to routine  maintenance of rear-engined VW.
The resulting burden will be infrequent (I'm
suggesting decadely).

	If the accelerator goes to the floor
without affecting the engine, the accelerator
cable (also called throttle cable) may be broken.
But if you're lucky, the reason will be only that
it has become detached at one end; so check first
whether the latter is so.  If not, you'll have to
mend or replace the cable.  Mending is feasible,
but I here discuss only replacement, as the
component required is cheap.
	The cable is multi-strand, stainless, in
a thin-wall steel pipe which is of much larger
dia and is fixed to the chassis  i.e  it is not
really a Bowden cable.  The non-obvious problem
is that the tube is NOT continuous but has a
discontinuity at the front of the engine
compartment, so that simply poking a new cable in
from an end will not necessarily get you to the
other end.
	I measured the original which had broken
on me at 1.4 mm.  The nearest I could find at a
yacht rigging workshop is 1.5 mm  -  not
significantly fatter.   At U$0.60/m, it's a
slight saving on the official part, but of course
lacks the fitting at the front end.   I'm not
sure whether all sub-types have exactly the same
length of throttle cable, so I'll just say 4 m
for now, hoping for a more precise figure.
Since your main cost in obtaining it is the
travel to the shop, you may as well get 2 or 4
cables' length while you're there; say 16m
(scraps may later be useful elsewhere after
you've cut the exact sizes for the VW cables ...
the Kiwi handyman lives on ... :-[ ).

	The accelerator rotates a shaft which
runs across under the floor to a crank lever in
line with the front end of the tube.  To get at
the front end of the cable which is attached to
that lever, remove the pan under the front of the
floor.  If this pan is not there, be grateful in
the short run to have been saved the task of
removing it, but please do replace it in the near
future :-P.
	Do NOT remove the cable from either end
before using the residual cable in the tube for
what it is worth  -  which may save you quite
some time & trouble.
	Detach the cable from its fixings at both
ends.  Grasp the cable that is still showing at
each end, and jiggle it to guesstimate (by feel &
sound) how far along the break is.  If you find
the break is much nearer one end than the other,
then go to the far end.  Entwine the new cable an
inch or two with the old, and wrap that lap &
beyond with duct tape or similar.  (An ex-seaman
would nostalgically splice them, but us ornery
landlubbers aren't so hot on that method of
joining  ... <:-|.  Someone adept at soldering
might well use that method.)  Push this tandem
super-cable thru; with any luck the distal end of
the old cable will soon emerge from the far end
of the tube, when gentle pulling can be added to
the pushing.  It is probably best to remove the
far (shorter) bit of broken cable just before
doing so.  If you have a scrap few m of a fatter
cable to push in & out from the open end,
twisting it so that its somewhat flared front end
will collect dirt, so much the better.  Then, if
you can, blow compressed air thru the tube to
clear out dust.

	The stupid alternative is to pull out the
long fragment of the broken cable, and then try
to push in the new.  This is liable, from either
end, to run into the discontinuity in the tube:
as the somewhat flexible new cable emerges into
the hidden gulch, it will droop so that its end
rams into a 'wall', rather than entering the
resumed tube at the far side of the gap.  That
will condemn you to reclining supine, with torch
or flashlight, while a confederate pushes &
jiggles whatever you've poked in from either end,
trying to locate the gulch and then tape cable
ends pushed in from both directions, in mid-air
in the gulch, up among various *nasty black
dirty* things, samples of which may drop into
your eye  ...  this could play havoc with your
makeup :-|.

	Those accustomed to Bowden cables will be
tempted to add some lubricant as they feed the
new cable into the tube.  This would be a
mistake, serving only to trap dust over the years
and possibly increase wear.  The corrugated
rubber cone which excludes dust at the front end
of the tube is needed (or an extemporised
substitute); be sure to put it on before you
affix the front end of the cable to the lever.

	Clamp the new cable with the
grubscrew/setscrew on the throttle lever so as to
abolish all slack in the cable with accelerator
fully up.  This fixing may be deemed worthy of
tinning (infiltrating with hot solder) at the
section to be clamped, and all thru the
immediately-aft shepherd's crook which is then
strong enough to serve as a backup in the event
of the grubscrew coming loose.   At the front
end, attach the cable to the underfloor lever
either by soldering on the clever kinked-pipe
from your old cable to fit thru the hole in the
lever, or make a clamp with a small bolt + nuts
to hold the looped end of the cable.  This had
best be a 'pivoting' hold, allowing the cable to
stay around horiz as the lever moves over its
normal range.

	Two lap-soldered joins in my old cable
imply the time to breakage may be 1 decade.
Dents in the thin-wall tube will presumably
increase wear even if they don't dent far enough
in to cause dangerous drag soon.  Examine the
ends which define your break, and the tube at the
place where they were, for any clues to such
future fast wear.


	The case for replacing the accelerator
cable each decade looks strong to me, synergising
with several other categories of maintenance. My
supposition, on the glorious sample size of 1
(with evidence of at least 2 previous)
accelerator cable breaks is to replace the inner
with good yachties' 1.5mm stainless every decade.
The crawler or hoist time can fit in a round of
inspections for other damaged cables, heater duct
leaks, etc, and squirting anti-corrosion liquids
(preferably the mighty RIPO if I can at last
provoke export-led growth =-O).
	 If the factory didn't think it worth
even explaining as a procedure in their
good-looking (& generally unrivalled) workshop
manual, I infer they had some mentality along the
lines of 'this component needs no maintenance,
since it is designed to outlast the rest of the
vehicle's roadworthiness'.  If that was the
theory, it at least worked out better than the
corresponding hopes early in C21 chez Toym*ta; VW
accelerator cables usually lasted long enough
that the company had undergone severe changes in
ownership by the time any significant number
broke; and of course breakage is a less hazardous
mode of failure than jamming on high power as
alleged for some recent Toym*ta cars with digital
control.
	Anyhow I reject the design hope (&
omission from VW's manual) in favour of a more
realistic recognition of the facts now to hand
after several decades.  An accelerator sluggish
from friction to spring OFF (powered only by the
spring back at the carb or FI box) is dangerous;
at the other extreme of failures, a broken
accelerator cable is more difficult to replace
alone than with a cobber, and a roadside version
of this ceremony is not recommended.  My
previously-mentioned get-yez-home "fix" for the
broken cable is fun but dangerous & illegal.  It
may nevertheless be necessary sometime, so recall
that the idle-stop on the throttle can be screwed
up to c.2000 rpm, and could be padded even
further with a scrap of sheet metal or perhaps
plastic); but anyhow that will give you just the
one throttle opening, so be careful  :-|.  And if
you find yourself doing a version of my trip home
with broken accelerator cable, do reflect during
this exciting caper that Unca Robt told you to
replace that cable for a few dollars.

Keine Reich  Ein Volks  Keine F|hrer

--
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600dp Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
