Date: Fri, 8 Sep 2006 08:39:33 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2]steering box?

thanks george and mark... i have not found anything yet... 
it doesnt seem to pop every time but sometime it feels lie it gets stuck and then slips when i turn more... like its catching and slip releasing again only once in a awhile or sometimes back to back three or four times each right turn i make,,.>?

going to fix yer bus at buddahs this weekend,... should have al the help i ned to take a look over whats happening.....

thanks guys...

now if i could figure out how to fix the wifes beetle... the master cylinder wont fill back up and keeps squeeshing sound at me when the brakes are pushed..?
the back brake lines are full of air bubbles the front brakes are ok..no air bubbles...

the master cylinder wouldnt have emptied had i known there was aleak in the brake fluid container and when bleeding brakes it got worse...thats how i found it..the leak...

chai



George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com> wrote: 

On Thu, 7 Sep 2006, Chai wrote:

> went to turn this morning to the right and pop i felt and then it was loose feeling...
>
> pulled over and checked nothing rubbing nothing came loose...
> got back and and every turn after that to the right popped and got loose...
>
> lots of play there after the pop and each time it doesnt always pop as loud as the first time but its popping pretty much everytime you turn to the right...
> ...
>
>  this sound like a possible bad going bad or already bad steering box?

Before you drive the bus any more (at all) get underneath, have someone
move the steering wheel back and forth, and make sure
that the swing lever pivot isn't coming loose from the front beam.
Sometimes these things rust and come adrift.

George Lyle




                                                                Better start thinking about sealing up those windows and leaky doors....
  Winter months are on there way,dont forget to break out the heater and Lets Go CamPing~!
