To: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: steve daniels <stevo(-at-)efn.org>
Date: Tue, 12 Sep 2006 10:10:15 -0700
Subject: contributing bus pilot slammed in cross country trip

Dear VW Friends;
I am sorry to have to contact you in such an unfortunate  
circusmtance. Two of my closests friends, Ronnie and Cristal, had  
just have a serious accident while driving their 1962 Westfalia.  
After being treated/surgery for about 2 weeks in Maine, they were  
recently transported back home to Cottage Grove, OR.

For those of you who don't know them, they are excellent people, and  
trully VW enthusiasts (Ronnie's yard has about 15 split window buses  
and his collection includes some amazing buses). They had a lot of  
hopes and worked hard to prepare the Westy for this trip. THey drove  
fro OR to CA, then to NC and then stopped at my new place in upstate  
NY, a few weeks back. I did not hear from them after that, and was  
worried because they were not answering my calls and e-mails, and up  
to that point we had been in permanent contact (we always are). Well,  
after they left home they went to the Adirondracks, and then headed  
to Maine, were they got T-boned by a 22 year old girl. The impact was  
so strong that it ejected both of them through the driver's door,  
Ronnie hitting the pavement and injuring his head, and Cristal  
getting caught in the wheel well and sustaining several broken bones.  
They had to operate her back as well. They are both slowly getting  
better, Ronnie has terrible pain, just hearing the phone ringing  
causes him pain and nausea. I don't know the details of the accident,  
but here is a link to the local paper (which might be biased, I don't  
know, it doesn't matter at this point): http://bangordailynews.com/ 
news/t/hancock.aspx?articleid=139071&zoneid=178

I got a call from a still very shocked Cristal two days ago, and  
found out what happened. I was asked to take care of organizing the  
trasnport of the bus and their belongings from Maine back to OR. The  
bus still sits in a body shop located near the accident scene, and  
storage and towing fees for about $600 are owed, and it keeps going  
up. I have set up a PayPal dontaion site to help with the costs  
involved in getting the bus back to them (it is a priority for them):  
http://torlasco.tripod.com/ronnieandcristalsdonationsite/

Please help if you can, any amount will do. Please spread the word  
among the VW circles. I am not subscribed to the WetWesties anymore,  
but I believe a posting there should be sent, since some of the  
members might know Ronnie and Clara, especially those driving  
splitties. Also, the TYpe II list might be a good one to spread the  
word. And any local clubs.

Larry, I wonder if you are still doing the Forward Fund thing...If  
so,  this would be a good  one for that.

I have posted in the Split Bus Samba Forums something similar to  
this, and we are getting good dontation response from them. The VW  
community is awesome!

Please don't call them if you have their number. You can write a note  
to them if you wish, VW Steve in Eugene (stevo(-at-)efn.org) has their  
address, send him an e-mail if so inclined.

We will make a decision on how to transport the bus in a few days,  
based on suggestions, offers, and amount of cash collected. Thanks in  
advance for your help in these bad times.

Hope everyone is well,
Cris
