Date: Wed, 07 Apr 2010 14:09:16 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] lights, locks & more lights...

Kevin Guarnotta wrote:
> put a seal at the body/trim ring connection there is still a pretty big gap
> between this and the bulb, basically it looks like water is supposed to
> travel through this whole thing, and drain out the bottom. 
Isn't there a hole drilled in the bottom somewhere? Seems like I 
remember the Beetle versions being hole free but the bus versions having 
a drain hole. (???)
> -I also hooked up a ground to my back-up lights.
 From memory you're supposed to have 12v+ going through the fuse to the 
switch on the tranny and then back to the light bulbs and then to 
ground. Check to see if you have 12V+ at the start (connects to the coil 
I think?). Then again at the fuse holder on both sides. Then again at 
the switch, then again on the other side of the switch (in reverse), and 
then back at each light. If the lights work then obviously their grounds 
are good so no test needed there. If this seems simplistic just know I'm 
trying to write plainly and have no idea what your skill level is. All 
you need to test this is a $10 multimeter or a dome light bulb and spare 
wire (see John Muir's idiot manual for the test light design. There is a 
picture near the front of the book). All tests need to go to a clean 
piece of steel for a ground. Test this by placing one end of the wire on 
the + side of the battery, the other end on the - side of the battery or 
something steel like a good bumper bolt. Leave the - side connected in 
the same place and just test the circuit with the other multimeter probe 
or wire connected to the other end of the bulb. I clean and replace as I 
go along. I suspect you have a broken female spade crimp connector. 
Suspect the tranny switch last as it costs something. Everything else 
comes from your tool kit or spare parts stash.
> Now I want to try to
> get the all the doors to work on the same key.
One upon a time years ago I paid a locksmith to rekey all of my Mustang 
locks to the same for dollars per lock. Was cheap.

> -The turn signal light on dash pod stopped flashing a few weeks ago
Start looking at bulbs. I'm sure they need a cleaning. Steel wool works 
well and is cheap. The problem will likely be a bad ground connection. 
Bentley manual details where all the grounds are for your bus in the 
schematic. One ground is likely the problem but they are all the same 
age and have faced the same environmental conditions so go clean all of 
them. Steel wool, emory board nail file, strips of emory cloth. I clean 
up with a few squirts of contact cleaner to wash away the grit. A 
typical FLAPS has contact cleaner spray.

Hope this helps a little.

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L
'65 Beetle 2.0L
Brenderup 1205S
