Date: Thu, 8 Apr 2010 15:22:11 -0400
From: Adam Lunoe <adam.lunoe(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: WW T2 accel pedal lever fix

I had a WW accelerator pedal lever fail at the spindle attachment
several months ago. The spindle popped right out as a traffic light
turned green downtown one afternoon, of course.

Inspection showed the spindle wasnt welded or in any othr way
positively attached to the lever itself, it was just a press fit. The
spindle hole in the lever is lots smaller than the mounting holes in
the underbody bracket, so a double diameter spindle welded into place
would have been a good solution, but I was far from lathes and
welders. I found a decent hardware store where I got a good quality
allen head screw long enough to go the length across the lever
thickness, underbody bracket, and the washers that would need to be
interposed for smooth action. Iirc the allen screw was #6, skinny to
fit the hole in the lever the original spindle had been pressed into
back in Guangxhou. Or Guadalajara. To make up for the much wider
mounting holes in the underbody bracket I got an inch or so of nylon
tube bushing, sized to be a semi-tight threaded fit inside for the #6
screw that would for the actual new spindle, and a snug push fit into
the underbody bracket holes.  A lockwasher for under the nyloc nut on
the far end of the thing so it wouldnt fall out too soon, and a pair
of plain washers to stay between the underbody bracket, the lever, and
the allen head of the screw.

I told WW about it, thinking it had to be a fluke that the spindle
wasnt even joke welded onto the lever, and they expressed concern and
said they would replace my original part and check into the issue.

The replacement I got was identical to the one that broke, except it
hadnt broken yet. But I hadnt installed it either, still havent, my
version has soldiered on since May without complaint or issue. I have
pix somewhere of the fix as I was making it, might put em up if folks
are interested...

Adam Lunoe
1970 Riviera
