From: "Mike g." <mike.gensler(-at-)comcast.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 8 Apr 2010 23:29:57 -0600
Subject: Unintended Acceleration in a 68 Bus (Friday Madness)

I know the Toyota sticking-accelerator pedal thing is no joke and there are
fatalities attributed to it.  But I'm a little twisted and can't help myself
extrapolating the concept to VW buses and laughing about it.  
 
I mean, think about it:  A couple is cruising down the freeway in their 1968
Westfalia loaded down with camping gear for a long weekend and all of a
sudden the driver says, "OMG!  Honey, the accelerator is stuck wide open!"
(I imagine a camera shot of the speedo at this point showing about 54 MPH
followed by a closeup camera shot of the driver screaming in fear with a
quick cut to the passenger also screaming in fear).  
 
Then the driver grips the steering wheel with white knuckles and pushes on
the brake pedal with all his might to no avail - probably because his brake
booster is full of water and brake fluid and doesn't provide any boost
anymore (then a camera shot of the bus running out of control and a closeup
of the speedo now showing 56 MPH followed by another closeup of driver
screaming in fear followed by closeup of passenger screaming in fear).  
 
Five minutes later, after the driver has read the newspaper and had another
cup of coffee he looks down at the dash and screams again in abject fear as
the speedo is now showing 62 MPH and no help is in sight.  Then he has an
epiphany!  He remembers that he received the revised gas pedal from Toyota
and only has to find it in the suicide cabinet underneath the tools, spare
CV boots, Bentley manual, oil rags, miscellaneous pieces of rubber and
plastic, and the 7 fan belts he has amassed over time.  
 
While his passenger holds the steering wheel from the passenger seat
(remember the accelerator is stuck wide open so no need to switch seats) he
walks to the back of the bus to find the holy grail of accelerator pedals.
Finally he returns to the front with the prized package in hand only to find
that the speedo is now showing 66 MPH (another obligatory closeup of
screaming people here).  He immediately drops to his knees and begins the
arduous task of replacing the stuck accelerator with the new one while his
passenger frantically steers the bus to avoid being run over by SUVs, semi
trucks, riceboy pocket racers, and grand parents out for a Sunday drive in
their Buicks.  
 
Finally, after searching for the 10mm socket and almost dropping the stubby
flat screwdriver through the hole in the floorboard he is triumphant!  He
reclaims his seat as master of his bus and relaxes as the speed begin to
drop from 67 MPH back to normal cruising speeds.
 
OK - I warned you I'm a little twisted.
 
Anyway, cheers and have a great weekend.  Don't know about where you might
live, but here in Colorado it's showing as Spring in Full Swing and would be
a great time to take my bus out for a romp if only I still had one.
 
Mike g.
former owner of 73 Westy w/5-speed tranny (anybody heard from Leo in Tulsa
about this bus lately?)
former owner of 58 single cab - Zorm (anybody heard from Matt in KS about
Zorm lately?)
