From: LJ Evans <ljevans01(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: Type2 mailing list Type2.com <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 11 Apr 2010 21:19:33 -0800
Subject: Starting out: general questions

I have been (mostly) lurking on the Type2 list for about a month now,
"listening" carefully, and I've already learned a lot from you folks. Somebody
suggested a Bentley manual to figure out how to solve sliding door problems so
I got one; door is not perfect but working much better, thank you. Several of
you were very helpful at the beginning when I was trying to figure out what
kind of bus I have and from the pointers you gave me I learned about the
differences between Westfalias and Rivieras: I THINK what I have is a 1976
Riviera. A lot of the mechanical stuff you folks talk about are way over my
head but I read them all anyway because I figure I'm learning something, and I
save the ones with content I understand and can use.

I finally got some photos posted at
http://www.flickr.com/photos/esteroid/sets/. Consider these the "before"
photos. Some of these I took right after I brought the bus home in October and
some of them I took today. She needs SO much tender loving care, but she
starts right up, and once I figured out the shifter pattern (there isn't a
diagram on the knob and it's been too many years since I've driven a bus, I'd
forgotten), I could even get it in reverse. I will be getting insurance and
tags for it in the next couple weeks so I can drive it out of my immediate
neighborhood, which will be great fun.

I know a little about cars but I'm no mechanic. I really want to learn and I
really want to do as much myself as I can. I haven't yet found any recommended
repair places in Fairbanks who speak old air-cooled VW; the VW dealer who used
to be here moved to Anchorage years ago. There is a VW club in Anchorage but
apparently none here. I figure the snow's melting, it's getting warmer: buses
or bugs which live here will start coming out on the road and I'll flag them
down to meet their owners.

The bus has been sitting for several years, the last time it was registered
was four years ago.
 I know I need to change the oil and filter before I drive it again. I
can see the tires are low. The gas gauge is broken but I put more gas in
 today and now it's full so I'll track mileage. I know it'll need painting
eventually but I am definitely not a wealthy person so it'll have to wait a
while.  A friend suggested a compression test because it will tell me
so much about the condition of the engine and it sounds like he has the
necessary piece of equipment to do that.

My request of you folks is to please look at the photos and share any
suggestions about how I should proceed. Any recommendations about what I
should do
first, besides clean her out from stem to stern and replace the horrid
flowered curtains in the back?

Also if someone could point me toward any tips on how to productively search
the Type2 archives I'd be very grateful.

Very best regards,
   LJ aka Esteroid
