Date: Mon, 12 Apr 2010 08:56:57 -0400
From: Michael Rule <manikmike(-at-)gmail.com>
To: LJ Evans <ljevans01(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: "Type2 mailing list Type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Starting out: general questions

LJ,
Yea man, that's a Riviera conversion. Other than the odd (to me) fabric,
looks like you have a pretty complete interior, down to the sink cutting
board and passenger cupholders... You're gonna love it.

You'll get lots of a suggestions - but all of them will include replacing
all the fuel lines, for good reason. This is a Must Be Done, not a casual
suggestion. Old lines can look OK, but be rotting from the inside out (or
may be incorrect replacements etc). Replacing the breather lines will also
be a good way to preclude any additional fuel odors, and give you a nice
tour of the engine compartment.

Looks like the engine area has some leaves etc - you want to get those out,
and maybe take off the front of the fan housing to make sure your oil cooler
and airways controlled by the flaps in there are clear of leaves, mouse
homes etc. Also a good time to see whether you have a working thermostat for
the flaps (or one at all) and seeing about getting any parts needed.

Personally, I say - yea yea clean it up! It's looks pretty solid but will
look great with the top cleaned and a bit of elbow grease on the paint. If
that is original paint, I"ll bet you a homebrew it will shine with a little
work! I'd also suggest tucking that edge of the poptop inside the rain
gutter, so it doesn't fracture from riding on the lip of the gutter. Might
be worth looking into replacement for the trim that is suppose to go there
and protect the edge of the fiberglass - I have pics of the pinchwelt I used
that I can send, and some small pieces I could send your way for the cost of
shipping. I also have a rough PDF copy of the Coleman heater manual that
might be of use; PM if interested. Congrats, it looks like a great machine.


Mike
79 Riviera


>
> I finally got some photos posted at
> http://www.flickr.com/photos/esteroid/sets/.
>


> Very best regards,
>   LJ aka Esteroid
