Date: Tue, 13 Apr 2010 00:12:58 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: LJ Evans <ljevans01(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: "Type2 mailing list Type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Starting out: general questions

On Mon, Apr 12, 2010 at 12:19 PM, LJ Evans <ljevans01(-at-)hotmail.com> wrote:

Hi,

Mike pretty much got you in the right direction, so just a few
observations from me.

> A lot of the mechanical stuff you folks talk about are way over my
 head but I read them all anyway because I figure I'm learning something, and
I
 save the ones with content I understand and can use.

> I know a little about cars but I'm no mechanic. I really want to learn and
I
 really want to do as much myself as I can.

Great attitude. As you spend more time in the community you'll find
other women who are real tech gurus and can rebuild things on the side
of the road, or fly to a dead bus purchase with a toolbox and box of
parts and drive it home!


> I haven't yet found any recommended
 repair places in Fairbanks who speak old air-cooled VW; the VW dealer who
used
 to be here moved to Anchorage years ago.

Don't feel bad. The VW dealer that still speaks air-cooled is getting
rare. Join http://wetwesties.org (just be careful not to forget and
accidentally go to .com!) They maintain a database by city of VW
mechanics with reviews of their service.

> There is a VW club in Anchorage but
 apparently none here. I figure the snow's melting, it's getting warmer:
buses
 or bugs which live here will start coming out on the road and I'll flag them
 down to meet their owners.

And get them to join your new club!

> The gas gauge is broken but I put more gas in
  today and now it's full so I'll track mileage.

Great way to get started. Expect 17 to 22 mpg. You'll get to know
yours after a while. This is usually caused by a bad sender in the
fuel tank. If you go so far as to get into the gas tank for rubber
hose replacement, you can pull the tank out and change the sender.
Otherwise, there are web sites detailing how to SAFELY cut a port in
the rear deck to service it from inside the bus.

> Any recommendations about what I should do first, besides clean her out from
stem to stern

Cleanliness both for bus preservation and sanitation. Pull out the
rubber floor mats in the front section and scrub the metal clean. Dust
attracts and traps moisture. Moisture plus old bus = rust.

> I know it'll need painting eventually but I am definitely not a wealthy
person so it'll have to wait a while.

The bus really doesn't look bad, so it largely depends on how strongly
you feel about the eyesore factor. That enamel paint responds well to
red rubbing compound, but it's a lot of hard work without power tools.
But I've done it myself, and it is a rewarding feeling. After it looks
like new paint, follow with a good wax.

Mainly you need to be on a rust control program. Wash the underside of
the bus, especially the wheel wells, after driving in snow or mud. You
can protect rusty spots with a spray can of oil until you get ready to
tackle a serious rust treatment program. Use a wire brush or tip of a
knife to remove as much surface rust as you can. Thick rust also
attracts and traps moisture the same as dirt does. Eventually you'll
have to permanently kill the rust whether you decide to paint or not.

> Also if someone could point me toward any tips on how to productively
search
 the Type2 archives I'd be very grateful.

Start by reading the Library. When you have questions, you will know
what to type in for an archive search. Stick to simple key words so
you don't pull up a zillion hits on searches. That wastes a lot of
time wading through posts.

Best of luck,

John
