Date: Mon, 12 Apr 2010 12:27:04 -0700 (PDT)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: LJ Evans <ljevans01(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: re: Starting out: general questions

Hi LJ,
         I used to live in FBX but moved to Cordova in '06.  I have a buddy
there who takes his VW's to an old line VW mech in the area.  I will ask him
who it is.  The guy seems to do good work.  All that being said, YOU will do
better work on your Riv than any one else.  I forget exactly how old your's is
but, regardless, ALL aircooled VW's are collector cars.  They are not modern
automobiles and cannot be treated as such.  Once you accept that, owning the
rig will get much easier all around.  All parts are available from various
sources, old, new NOS, free, rebuilt, cut from a donor, etc.  It just takes
time, searching, and hoarding.  You, or a (non-local?) specialist, will have
to do most of the work on the rig.  This will take time and planning.  They
dont have a computer controlling all aspects of engine operation, so will take
more attention from you.  Many of the engine/vehicle systems need much more
frequent human
 intervention. 

Fortunately, Fairbanks is pretty much rust-free and all kinds of solid old
vehicles lurk in back of folk's cabins, sheds, etc.  You will have noted the
lack of residential zoning controls ;).  That being said, NO AC VW puts out
enough heat for a -55F FBX winter.  The cold is also VERY hard on CV joint
boots and other rubber parts.  I replaced both my Toyota Tercel drive shafts
twice in three winters due to cracked boots.  It's faster, 50 min for both,
and easier on the Turkel to switch the whole axle, and NAPA has lifetime
replacement warranty.  Not so fast, or easy, on the bus.  In '89 during a cold
snap there was a guy driving a van to the airport had three tires go down as a
result of ice snapping the valve stems. Hey, it was -75F in Tanana, just south
of FBX. 

http://www.gi.alaska.edu/ScienceForum/ASF12/1267.html

The Type2 list and the Samba have ANY information that you need to do ANYTHING
to your rig.  Nothing you come across, or want to do, hasn't been discussed to
death before.  Troy has done a great job on the new search engine and the
archives are much more search-able than the previous generation.  A large part
of the search issue is folks overquoting in replies and/or not changing
subjects as threads drift.  As I said, the new search is greatly improved.  A
google search of the type2 domain is also productive.

Dive in, accept what you have isn't modern, and welcome.  Before you know it,
you will be hip deep into your bus.

jon

"Always remember that you often find outstanding people among those you don't
particularly like." Soichiro Honda
