From: LJ Evans <ljevans01(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: Type2 mailing list Type2.com <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 12 Apr 2010 23:34:28 -0800
Subject: RE: Starting out: general questions

Thanks, all, for the advice and pointing me in useful directions. Much great
information from this list, I knew type2.com was a keeper soon as I found
you.

I especially appreciate the one about the fuel lines, I
promise to pay attention to that. I saw an amazing and awful video
somewhere online of somebody's bus going up in massive flames just after
 he'd finished months, maybe years of restoration work. Yikes.

Thanks for offer of the Coleman heater manual, Michael, the bus actually came
with a pretty good copy of that tucked into the drawer. What I would love to
find is more info about the Rivieras. Was there a standard fabric pattern for
1976 like for Westies, for example? Also maybe a suggested source for the
pinchwelt for the edge of the poptop? I found a thorough protocol for cleaning
up and painting the top online but forgot to note the source. The title is
Fiberglass Pop Top Painting and the author's name is Brian Hoare.  I hope to
give that a try this summer. I also need to find a lift somewhere that they'll
let me get underneath the bus and inspect everything.

I love the idea of being able to fly somewhere with tools and parts and
driving a dead bus home but I am a long, long ways away from being able to do
that. It's nice to know what I'm aiming for, though!

Jon, would love to know from your buddy who he takes his VWs to here in FBKS.
Someone has given me a name -- Richard Sterling -- seems to me the guy who
told me about Sterling said he used to work for VW, wonder if it's the same
guy. Your buddy here wouldn't be Garry Utermohle, would he?

I have also observed the Alaska-specific info and cautions you shared, I'm
sure the idea of -55 is inconceivable to most people. I drive a 93 Subaru as
my main wheels and it is real discouraging how often I have to replace those
darn CV boots. My bus is a '76, and no I definitely don't plan to drive it in
the winter. I have co-owned a beetle and two buses over my life and yeah, I
remember the heater. Not so good for this climate. I paid an extra $10 at the
DMV when I changed the title to get the bus's history; it was first registered
in Alaska in January 1992, when the tags were changed from California.

I'm just chompin' at the bit to get it insured and tagged so I can drive it in
to town. Next paycheck! First shakedown trip will be to Chena Hot Springs for
a weekend (25 miles one way) and if that goes well then maybe Denali Nat'l
Park (125 miles) later this summer as my confidence grows. The Anchorage VW
club has a couple gatherings a year, would love to go to one of those (358
miles w/the Alaska Range inbetween). I have aspirations for Deadhorse, too
(498 miles one way from FBKS to the Beaufort Sea, Brooks Range crossing, on a
sometimes rough, often unpaved road with almost no services), but definitely
not this year! Seems to me I saw at least one bus on the Haul Rd. when my
friend and I drove to Toolik Lake last summer. I know, I know, those road
trips are time to relax, don't think I'm in a hurry because going fast is not
part of the game plan!

Lots of work to come and the labor and the learning is a big part of the fun.
Thanks for the information and encouraging words.
     lj






Date: Mon, 12 Apr 2010 12:27:04 -0700
From: scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com
Subject: re: Starting out: general questions
To: ljevans01(-at-)hotmail.com
CC: type2(-at-)type2.com

Hi LJ,
         I used to live in FBX but moved to Cordova in '06.  I have a buddy
there who takes his VW's to an old line VW mech in the area.  I will ask him
who it is.  The guy seems to do good work.  All that being said, YOU will do
better work on your Riv than any one else.  I forget exactly how old your's is
but, regardless, ALL aircooled VW's are collector cars.  They are not modern
automobiles and cannot be treated as such.  Once you accept that, owning the
rig will get much easier all around.  All parts are available from various
sources, old, new NOS, free, rebuilt, cut from a donor, etc.  It just takes
time, searching, and hoarding.  You, or a (non-local?) specialist, will have
to do most of the work on the rig.  This will take time and planning.
 They dont have a computer controlling all aspects of engine operation, so
will take more attention from you.  Many of the engine/vehicle systems need
much more frequent human intervention.

Fortunately, Fairbanks is pretty much rust-free and all kinds of solid old
vehicles lurk in back of folk's cabins, sheds, etc.  You will have noted the
lack of residential zoning controls ;).  That being said, NO AC VW puts out
enough heat for a -55F FBX winter.  The cold is also VERY hard on CV joint
boots and other rubber parts.  I replaced both my Toyota Tercel drive shafts
twice in three winters due to cracked boots.  It's faster, 50 min for both,
and easier on the Turkel to switch the whole axle, and NAPA has lifetime
replacement warranty.  Not so fast, or easy, on the bus.  In '89 during a cold
snap there was a guy driving a van to the airport had three tires go down as a
result of ice snapping the valve
 stems. Hey, it was -75F in Tanana, just south of FBX.

http://www.gi.alaska.edu/ScienceForum/ASF12/1267.html

The Type2 list and the Samba have ANY information that you need to do ANYTHING
to your rig.  Nothing you come across, or want to do, hasn't been discussed to
death before.  Troy has done a great job on the new search engine and the
archives are much more search-able than the previous generation.  A large part
of the search issue is folks overquoting in replies and/or not changing
subjects as threads drift.  As I said, the new search is greatly improved.  A
google search of the type2 domain is also productive.

Dive in, accept what you have isn't modern, and welcome.  Before you know it,
you will be hip deep into your bus.

jon

"Always remember that you often find outstanding people among those you don't
particularly like." Soichiro Honda
