From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 15 Apr 2002 22:31:47 EDT
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] MORE on the Clutch Spring

--part1_d3.a02f54e.29ece713_boundary
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="US-ASCII"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

In a message dated 4/15/2002 4:15:34 PM Pacific Daylight Time, 
chuck.jan(-at-)cyberdude.com writes:
> That damn thing got away from me and thunked me in the forehead over my 
> right
> eye.  

Hi Chuck&Jan,
Hmm, sounds like you are not playing nice with your VW!  ;-)
Do you have the engine removed?  That is really the easiest way to do any 
part of this area.
For tunnel tranny.
Check the new throw out bearing arm to the old one if you are replacing it.  
Are the arms and slots for the C-clips in the same place?  Slide on the inner 
C-clip onto the arm and install the TO arm into the tranny.  We prefer the 
old solid bronze bushing (Have had length problems with the newer ones and 
they do not hold the TO arm as stable.) and you really need to completely 
remove the lock bolt for this bushing all the way out.  Slide the bushing 
onto the shaft of the TO arm.  With the bushing bolt out you can use a nail 
to feel for the hole in the bushing and line it up to the bolt hole properly. 
 Install the bolt.  Slide the inner C-clip over to it's slot and into it.  
Check the TO arms for equal distance on either side of the tranny input 
shaft.  You might need to install shims/washers to move the shaft over to the 
right.  Set the return spring in place and slide on the clutch cable arm onto 
the TO shaft next to the spring.  check the boden tube to be shooting right 
through the clutch cable arm.  If not a straight shot replace the arm with 
one that matches the side plate of the tranny holding the rear end of the 
boden tube or enjoy replacing clutch cables about every 6,000 miles due to 
rubbing on the end tip of the boden tube.  There are two lengths of straight 
post-1967 model clutch cable arms, and two pre-1968 model curved arms of the 
same length and curve, but mount/bolt on the TO shaft differantly from each 
other!  Then install the outer C-clip.  Once this is all together pry with a 
screwdriver while sitting behind the tranny.  Screwdriver handle held lowe 
left of the clutch cable arm while the tip prys the spring around an into 
place on the arm.
Eric&Barb

--part1_d3.a02f54e.29ece713_boundary--
