From: "Joel Bidinger" <JoelBidinger(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "buslist" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 16 Apr 2002 00:07:38 -0700
Subject: My trip to Time-Fastener

Relevent info up front, so those with pressing things to do can get on with
them:
A Big-Sert version of the Time-Sert can return up to a 9/16" hole to 12x1.5. It
can't help me with the 5/8" holes I've got in my otherwise lovely RGB. An
employee of Time-Fastener recommended I get in touch with a company called
EZ-Loc he thinks can help. I did buy the kit to install 12x1.5 Time-Serts
because I know I will need them someday. Tools and ten 30mm inserts set me back
about $75, mostly for the tools.
Trip report:
A trip to the Time-Fastener company in Reno, NV is a great excuse for spring
camping trip, right? Probably it is, only I don't think it is spring up there
yet. The western side of the Sierras are still under snow, but I figured the
eastern dry side of the range would be a different story. And it was. Dry and
extremely windy, sand being pushed around in little wispy dunes on the roadway.
A friend had recommended a road called the "Geiger Grade" (as you would imagine
it has some hilly bits) as having potentially good camping. I am dutifully
crawling my way up there and the wind is getting stronger and I start thinking I
am being foolish, I should be going down not up. Looking down from the road I
had noticed a narrow dirt road winding steeply below, and that looks like the
place to be. I find it, rough and rocky but nothing a bus can't handle slowly,
the track hangs on the side of a slope, big rise on one side big drop on the
other. I head down it a couple of miles, strictly 2nd gear and picking my way
through, find a nice spot, the wind isn't so bad down here. I have just turned
the bus around so I don't have to in the morning and in the next moment I am
nearly in a head-on collision with a "dirt-bike" motorcycle who is flying down
the track, shortly folllowed by a second. I don't think he anticipated coming
around a bend and find himself face-to-face with a vintage bus. We didn't
collide, but it shook me up some, spoiled the campsite so I headed back up to
the proper road and the growing wind.
I scouted about here and there, best thing I could find was a very exposed spot
with a great view of the sun slipping behind the western sierras, the stars
twinkling above and the lights of Reno twinkling below. And wind, throwing sand
and then snow and sand against the side of the bus, the sound it makes like dice
hitting the tables in the casinos, all those dice all night long. That and the
gusts rocking the bus like a ship, whistle of wind through the panelvan vents
that aren't sealed up too well anymore. I didn't sleep too well, but I had a
good view to lie awake and stare at.
I discovered something interesting (to me anyway) about my Sundial camper
conversion. Just rear of the side cargo doors, in between the body of the bus
and the camper closet, is a bead of the same material as used on the camper
conversion upholstery. It tells me that my trashed rear upholstery is original
to the kit anyway, presumably so too is the linoleum on the floor as I think
parts of the kit actually sit on it. Still trashed though.
I got my first flat tire on the bus, after maybe 30,000 miles, many hundreds
miles of dirt and gravel, no problems, I get a flat at a highway rest stop. A
little pair of nail scissors right where tread meets sidewall, where tire shops
won't repair it. This was nice a Michelin tire, my spare is a used whatever
brand the tireshop gave me and doesn't have the stiff sidewall. I can really
tell the difference, there is a lot more sway to the back end around corners,
trucks, and wind. I can see the difference too, despite the same inflation
pressure the sidewall bulges out more on the cheapie.
So between the not so great camping, the flat tire, and Time-Fastener not being
able to repair my RGB I was feeling a bit bummed as I pulled onto the 80
westbound to head back down the mountains. An unusual number of wrecked cars
were on the highway between Truckee and Reno, and soon I came upon the scene of
a terrible pileup, maybe a dozen or more vehicles involved, many big trucks. I
guess my night in the wind wasn't as bad as some others, my bad luck with the
tire just doesn't compare.
Drove home at 50mph, scared of the wind, scared of the air in my tire.
On the subject of air, bus loses a lot of power above 5000feet, ran so weakly at
7000feet that I had to get out and pull spark plug wires to convince myself I
was running all four cylinders. What do people living at high elevations do to
get there cars to run better?
Glad to be home again.







