From: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>
To: ncbus <ncbus(-at-)mindspring.com>,
Date: Tue, 16 Apr 2002 09:54:51 -0400
Subject: RE: <FMBC> [VB] Parts FS at EB02

I hate exaggerated shipping fees!

Believe it or not the practice of businesses jacking up shipping rates is
fairly common of most vendors (not talking VW parts houses specifically).
How this is not mis-representation is beyond me, but I am not a lawyer
either.  The actual cost for businesses shipping product is less than Joe
Blow from the street can get as well, known as corporate rates which are
negotiated by volume, proximity to distribution center, and so forth.  So
even if you pay "advertised" UPS, USPS, FedEx, or Airborne rates it is
probably jacked up a little bit.  Granted USPS normally does not negotiate
and is a bear to work with in high volume situations sense is it a backwards
branch of government, but it does deliver to places the corporate services
do not (because USPS in its government charter has too).

Personally I think the jacking up of actual shipping charges is unethical,
but I guess that is why I am not the CEO of some fortune 500 company... Lack
of a "shareholder value" mindset, which often times conflicts with "doing
the right thing". 

Now as far as handling charges go the company *should* mention this practice
before you complete the order and then you have the right to decide if you
still want the order.  Nothing unethical IF you are an informed consumer.

I think handling charges should be part of the product cost and not an
additional charge on top of a product cost when delivering it.  Build the
handling into the product cost otherwise there is no way to really compare
prices.  Like we can see from Chris's Bentley example.

PS: I am removing Type2 List from this thread because any "comments" I have
there usually get red flagged from the system admin :(


Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Microbus Westfalia "Biscuit"
1967 VW Microbus Deluxe/Westfakia "Dino"  
1979 Porsche 911 SC "Cochise" 

On the gravytrain to biscuitville!
  

     

-----Original Message-----
From: ncbus [mailto:ncbus(-at-)mindspring.com]
Sent: Tuesday, April 16, 2002 6:41 AM
To: Adrian Pillow; Heath, Raymond E; fmbc; type2 list; vintagebus
Subject: RE: <FMBC> [VB] Parts FS at EB02


At 10:47 PM -0400 4/15/02, Adrian Pillow wrote:
>$18 shipping!!!  Maybe if you live in Siberia.
>
>Shipping should be like $4-6 to almost anywhere in the US.

Several list members have called to get the "cheap " JC Bentley only 
to be turned off by their outrageous shipping and handling fee. 
Besides who said I was not going to wheel and deal on my prices :)

