From: "Casting Fool" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 9 Apr 2005 19:56:08 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Clutch

----- Original Message ----- 
> I'd sure appreciate any findings from your re-bushing adventure,
especially with respect to what parts you needed.

Well, The bus is my daily driver, so in an effort to try to get it back on
the road temporarily until I can get the bushing...

I took the bell end off of a piece of 1/2" PVC conduit.  I would assume that
a bell from some regular SCH40 1/2" PVC pipe would work as well.  I thought
about using a 1/2" coupling, but it was slightly shorter than the bell
(which turned out to be an issue later, longer is better).

I sanded the inside of the bell using a Dremel bit in my 3/8" drill.  I
sanded it just enough that the bell would slide up over the shift rod
(pipe?) where the bushing was missing.  The original bushing looks to have
been missing for years and years.  The hole is wallowed out on either side a
bit.

The bell slide on and through the hole nicely.  And it restored my ability
to shift into 3rd and 4th.  Actually, it firmed up the shifter enough to
really make a difference.  I had to add a set screw right at the end of the
shift rod (pipe?) in order to keep the bell from coming back off.

As a ride down to the store revealed, it will come off after a few shifts.
I probably ought to get some non-petroleum based grease to lube the
temporary "bushing", too.

I ordered a bushing, but am wondering if it's just plastic.  If so, is it
going to fit the wallowed out hole well enough to stay put?

(If the plumbing uninitiated are wondering what a "bell" is, it's the end of
a piece of plastic pipe that's made slightly bigger in order to be able to
slide another piece of pipe into it.  Instead of using a coupling, the
normal method of gluing PVC pipe together.)

TTFN - Mike Jackson
`77 Bay, "Gertrude"
Casting Fool & Son
http://www.cfnson.com
Water Sysop Services
http://www.watersysop.com
