Date: Mon, 31 Mar 2008 10:56:02 -0700 (PDT)
From: Sean Dorman <croftyest(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Melissa & Jerry Jess <vwstuff53(-at-)msn.com>
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] FW: Exxon - Mobil

I haven't bought gas at Exxon since Valdez!
   
  Sean  

Melissa & Jerry Jess <vwstuff53(-at-)msn.com> wrote:
  THIS IS NOT THE 'DON'T BUY' GAS FOR ONE DAY, BUT IT WILL SHOW YOU HOW WE
CAN GET GAS BACK DOWN TO $1.30 PER GALLON.

This was sent by a retired Coca Cola executive. It came from one of his
engineer buddies who retired from Halliburton. If you are tired of the gas
prices going up AND they will continue to rise this summer, take time to
read this please.

Phillip Hollsworth offered this good idea.
This makes MUCH MORE SENSE than the "don't buy gas on a certain day"
campaign that was going around last April or May!
It's worth your consideration. Join the resistance!!!!

I hear we are going to hit close to $ 4.00 a gallon by next summer and it
might go higher!! Want gasoline prices to come down?

We need to take some intelligent, united action. The oil companies just
laughed at that because they knew we wouldn't continue to "hurt" ourselves
by refusing to buy gas.

It was more of an inconvenience to us than it was a problem for them.
BUT, whoever thought of this idea, has come up with a plan that can Really
work. Please read on and join with us!

By now you're probably thinking gasoline priced at about $2.00 is super
cheap. Me too! It is currently $2.98 for regular unleaded in my town.

Now that the oil companies and the OPEC nations have conditioned us to think
that the cost of a gallon of gas is CHEAP at $1.50 - $1.75, we need to take
aggressive action to teach them that BUYERS control the marketplace...not
sellers.

With the price of gasoline going up more each day, we consumers need to take
action.

The only way we are going to see the price of gas come down is if we hit
someone in the pocketbook by not purchasing their gas! And, we can do that
WITHOUT hurting ourselves.

How? Since we all rely on our cars, we can't just stop buying gas.

But we CAN have an impact on gas prices if we all act together to force a
price war.

Here's the idea: For the rest of this year, DON'T purchase ANY gasoline from
the two biggest companies (which now are one), EXXON and MOBIL.

If they are not selling any gas, they will be inclined to reduce their
prices. If they reduce their prices, the other companies will have to
follow suit.

But to have an impact, we need to reach literally millions of Exxon and
Mobil gas buyers. It's really simple to do! Now, don't wimp out on me at
this point...keep reading and I'll explain how simple it is to reach
millions of people!!

I am sending this note to 30 people. If each of us send it to at least ten
more (30 x 10 = 300) .. and those 300 send it to at least ten more (300 x
10 = 3,000)...and so on, by the time the message reaches the sixth group of
people, we will have reached over THREE MILLION consumers.
If those three million get excited and pass this on to ten friends each,
then 30 million people will have been contacted!

If it goes one level further, you guessed it.... THREE HUNDRED MILLION
PEOPLE!!!





    Give a man a fish and he will eat for a day. Teach him how to fish and hell sit in the boat and drink all day.
   
   
  This message may contain confidential and/or privileged information.  If
you are not the addressee or authorized to receive this for the
addressee, you must not use, copy, disclose, or take any action based on
this message or any information herein.  If you have received this
message in error, please advise the sender immediately by reply e-mail
and delete this message.  Thank you for your cooperation.




       
---------------------------------
You rock. That's why Blockbuster's offering you one month of Blockbuster Total Access, No Cost.
