Cc: A vintagebus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
From: Gary Gibson <meckie1(-at-)mindspring.com>
Date: Sun, 6 Apr 2008 21:34:38 -0700
To: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Brake reseviour washer

Hi Eric and Barb,
	I've tried "rebushing" these MCs once and the cost is about twice  
that of the new brasilian master cylinders.  My dual circuit MCs have  
not failed because of worn bores or cut piston cups.  The new parts  
are not exactly the same as the german ones.  There is a stop screw  
between the two piston assemblies in the german ones which exactly  
aligns the orientation with the small hole leading to the supply of  
brake fluid. If this hole is plugged or bypassed by the piston, the  
brakes slowly sink to the floor at a stop.  They do stop the car in a  
normal city stop.  But at a traffic light with pressure the pedal  
will sink to the floor.   Going down a long grade riding the brake  
would not be good for more than one reason but a failing crappy  
brasilian dual mc would fail then.  The brasilian MCs I've bought  
lack the stop screw between the pistons and I suspect this may be  
their weak point.  They do work great for a while but then the  
alignment of the pistons to the brake fluid supply is not exact and  
over time the MC fails.   I've also had two brasillian MCs fail by  
leaking past the pushrod end seal.  This makes for a stupid mess  
having brake fluid pumping into the interior of my '74 Super. This  
also ruins the paint around the pedal assembly and invites rust.  
These MCs were less than 3 years old and used in a clean dry  
environment.
	I use original style brasilian single circuit MCs today in three old  
VWs which I trust much more than the dual circuit MCs in my '67 bus  
the the mentioned '74 Super.  The single circuit MCs really do not  
magically go out all at once.  They will give signs of weakness for a  
long time before they totally fail.  A dual circuit MC may have one  
bad circuit for ages and the car will still seem to stop "normally"  
in everyday traffic.  Old dual MC VWs might not have warning lights  
for failed brake circuits or the brake idiot lights might not work.   
I have had a dual circuit brake MC go out on me all at once.  One  
circuit had been bad for some time without being noticeable and when  
the one "good" circuit went I had no brakes at all and the pedal  
would not pump back up.  A bad single circuit may well have quickly  
pumped up and stopped the car if the brake failure was only the MC.
	Obviously, dual master cylinder brake circuits are safer than the  
old single circuit cylinders except when buying replacements for our  
older VWs that came new with the duals.  These units seem to be pure  
junk.  I would recommend that owners of VWs that originally came with  
single circuit master cylinders keep that system stock and do not "up  
grade" to dangerous, poorly made dual circuit master cylinders.
Gary Gibson 
