From: Shad <shenderson(-at-)thegeekgroup.org>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 26 Sep 2008 08:50:28 -0400
Subject: Out out Damn rattle!

Hi All, 

*sigh*  

Mkay.  Months ago I rebuilt a donor 2L GE engine to replace the
noisy-as-hell engine in my bus that was doing an excellent impersonation
of the Exxon Valdez... 

New bearings throughout. (cam, crank, rods, etc)
New cam & lifters.
Re-used P&C (~10K miles on 'em)
Re-used heads (headflow master did 'em, ~4K miles on 'em)
Changed from EFI to dual Kadrons
Endplay is set properly on the crank. 
Valve lash is set at .006 (solid lifters)


Ended up with low compression on #3, and some piston slap.  So I
obtained a set of used Porsche 914 P&C (94mm) in immaculate shape.
Still had oil retention grooves on the wear areas of the skirt.
Compression is now outstanding (can't measure it 'till the rings are
broke in) on all 4 cylinders.  

The cam broke in beautifully. Uniform wear pattern on all lobes and no
scoring at all.  

BUT I STILL HAVE A DAMN RATTLE IN THE ENGINE!!!!!!!!!!!

And it's driving me completely batshit crazy.  

I was dead-nuts careful about following the Bentley and the advice of
the local VW mechanic (30+ years experience).  Aside from the P&C I
originally had on there being close to the wear spec in the Bentley (I
was too poor to afford another set), everything checked within spec.
Rod tolerances, crank tolerances, etc.  The engine I rebuilt had
~150-180K miles on it (VW mechanic judged by camshaft and cylinder
wear). Only 1 bearing on the cam was down to copper, and that was right
in the middle, above the $2000 nut (oil strainer). Just meant somebody
torqued it a little much.  Probably laid about 2 feet of plastigauge in
that engine while rebuilding it.  It ain't out of tolerance anywhere it
shouldn't be.  

I've rebuilt 2 and 4 stroke small engines by the metric ton, two
watercooled VW engines, and a few ford big blocks.  I am not a complete
newbie to wrenching on an engine.  

But damned if I can determine the source of that ##(-at-)!$^%*&  noise!!!!

I've pulled and shoved *every* piece of tin on that engine, and it isn't
anything loose on the outside of the engine.  I spun the alternator and
bonked the end with a mallet, listening for any slop.  Nada.  

Valves are adjusted to .006 (stone cold, did it with the engine out of
the bus when I re-assembled it after changing the P&C, 0 miles since
adjusting them)

So, this afternoon, I plan to snatch the cooling fan and AC pulley off
and fire it off to see if the noise still persists.  If it does, I'll
pull the distributor (crap!!!) and replace it with a crappy 009 that
originally came on the bus (it's an SVDA on there now) 

The noise is definitely rhythmic, tied to engine speed.  I can't quite
tell if it's crankshaft speed or camshaft speed, though.  It *seems* to
be coming from the fan end of the engine.  But I can't tell exactly
where, cause it's so freakin' loud.  "ear on the screwdriver" trick
nearly cost me an eardrum, and I still couldn't localize it.  

The only "odd" thing I noted in the rebuild was that the brass
distributor drive gear on the crank had a *small* chip at the very
leading edge of one tooth, right where it formed at the very edge of the
gear.  Inspection of the gear showed *no* wear marks at that point on
any of the teeth, so it did not seem that the gear on the distributor
ever rode on that particular area on the gear.  So it shouldn't matter
in the least that the chip is there.  And it's a "chip", not a
"chunk".  

If the distributor and/or fan don't clear up the noise, then I'll pull
the oil pump and see if there's any problems there.  I seriously doubt
it's a dropped seat.  The noise is not from the head area. 

I've turned the engine over by hand and with the starter many, many
times.  I can't reproduce the noise doing so.  

I've heard many a type 4 engine.  They're generally pretty quiet. About
the loudest noise (other than the exhaust) is lifter clatter.  

Mine sounds like a freakin' jackhammer is blasting away at the inside of
the case.  


I am *LOATHE* to drop the engine *again* and split the case.  She Who
Must Be Obeyed is already pissed that I spend so much "quality time"
working on the bus.  Spreading an engine across the garage *again* will
surely not end well.  Taking it to the local VW mechanic is out of the
question as well, as I'm so flat broke I can't afford to even pay
attention.

Besides, I *just* put the damn engine back in yesterday afternoon!!!  

Now, the *ONLY* thing the two engines have in common are - 

The heads.  But I doubt it's the heads making the racket, as the noise
is central to the back (FIF) of the case. 

The pushrods.  I checked 'em all over.  Not bent, all seated properly in
their lifters.  Ends show wear, but nothing worth worrying about.  No
scoring, no nicks, no gouges. 

The distributor.  I ran both the 009 and the SVDA on the old engine.
Right now the SVDA is on the running engine.  I'll replace that with the
009 and see if it helps quiet things down.  


Other than that, everything else is different.  

So, I suppose, 

Pull fan & AC pulley
Change to 009
Pull steel dizzy gear and inspect brass gear (watch for the washer!)
Pull oil pump & check it again
Make sure all timing gear bolts are tight (should be, I lock-tited and
peened the threads)

*sigh*  If I knew then, what I know now, I woulda passed this particular
bus by and bought a different one.  Ahwell.  Gotta make the best of what
I got...  I'm just at the frayed end of my rope with this engine.  

Thoughts?  Questions?  Comments? 


Thanks!

Shad H. 
