Date: Mon, 22 Apr 2002 14:34:17 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: '78 Bus - Newby owner

If your finances are limited then I would progress slowly and repair 
drivetrain and rust issues first. Cosmetics last.

Muir has a procedure to assess the condition of your engine - compression 
test, noises, oil consumption are some of the key factors.

Use Bentley to ABSOLUTELY ensure the presence of EVERY little engine part. 
They all have a purpose and all ensure the ability of your engine to last. 
you will certainly have to order a bunch of little rubber things that you 
will discover is missing after 20 something years.

Don't rebuild the engine unless you have to. 115K miles might only mean you 
need the heads to be reworked.

Paint is actually very expensive b/c it is labor intensive. The beauty of 
learning to do your own work is that you can save the cost of labor if you 
learn what the difference is between a good repair (a proper repair that 
lasts) and a plain repair - one that lasts for a while and then fails - 
usually on a dark, rainy night far from help. That is what separates a good 
mechanic from any mechanic.

You can learn alot of skills maintaining an old car that you can use on 
other brands and makes and that you can use to make a bit of money - or at 
least barter your abilities for services that you need. Heck on the Vanagon 
list they just had a gal offer to barter several things including a bit of 
nude modelling!!! <grin>

Take it slowly. Look around at other busses for missing items on your bus. 
Most busses and just about all campers are missing alot of details - things 
that got lost or thrown away years before you bought your bus. By looking 
at other VW's you will see things that you are missing. My bus had a 
previous owner (PO) that removed and discarded the water reservoir, the 
rear table, and the cot. It took a while but I found replacement parts for 
a decent price used.

Read alot in the archives of Type2.com and this list. There is a HUGE 
amount of great info on this list. Realize right now that most average 
mechanics do not properly understand or take enough time to fix old 
aircooled VW's right unless they specialize in them. Also parts is parts is 
parts is not true. The cheapest route is not the cheapest route and the 
most expensive parts do not always guarantee anything but that they were 
the most expensive parts.

Be careful of changes that involve permanently altering your bus. These are 
hard to undo 9 months later when you decide that you hate a particular 
thing you did to your bus. Be wary of changes that affect the way your bus 
handles or stops - the ability to turn and stop are paramount. Your first 
responsibility as a driver is to not kill the folks you share the road with.

I mention these things b/c they are topics that return to the list from 
time to time - folks who want funky wide wheels or want to lower their 
busses or chop the top off or what have you. All your choices but you've 
got to stay safe. Stock ain't a bad way to go until you know more than you 
do right now.

Make sure all of the safety systems on your bus are up to spec - that means 
the lighting is bright, headlights are aimed right, brake lights are 
working, and that the rubber hydraulic lines in the brake system have been 
replaced recently - many folks are driving on 20+ year old rubber hydraulic 
lines which are waiting to burst when you need them the most.

Read up on the Type2 site and on the Vanagon site about tires. Chances are 
your bus has tires which are not strong enough for the job. Remember the 
Firestone/Ford Explorer debacle? It can happen to the VW for the same 
reasons - under pressure or under capacity tires.

Replace your steering coupler ASAP. Mine was crumbling. It connects the 
steering column to the steering box. It breaks and you have no steering. I 
know somebody who rolled a very cherry 60's Corvette Stingray Coupe that 
way. Didn't kill him but it almost did.

REPLACE THE FUEL LINES  and VENT LINES. The VW is sensitive to fuel system 
leaks. The fuel tank is in front of the hot engine. Drips and trickles are 
blown onto the hot engine. Also fires once started can be gravity fed fuel 
because a ripped fuel line is generally below the gas tank - once ripped a 
line can leak fuel (and burn) until you are out of gasoline - and then it 
is too late. Replace all those fuel lines and vent lines (cheap compared to 
a bus) and count on needing a fuel neck elbow. Buy a good (big) fire 
extinguisher and keep it with you.

Basically you're bus will need ALOT of maintenance to get it right. Only 
then do I really think you are ready to make it pretty.

I hope I haven't scared you but I see alot of folks spending big money on 
stereos and wheels and tinted windows before they ever conquer the fuel 
leaks, rust, and safety issues an old vehicle has.

I'd be happy to answer any specific questions you have about your bus anytime.

My advice is to start with the books I mentioned and learn about your bus's 
parts and take inventory. Do not get discouraged. A vintage VW that has 
been properly updated and restored is alot cheaper than a car payment on a 
late model Honda!



At 11:32 AM 4/22/02 -0400, you wrote:
hey, well actually mine is in the process of be shipped here. its from 
arizona. im from new york. i should be expecting it any day know. im just 
starting to get into vw busses. this is my first one. hey if you can give 
me and tips, or pointers that would be great. i have 115k miles on it. how 
much more do you think i should go for until i should rebuild the engine? 
how how much does that cost? oh yea and what are intermittent wipers? i was 
also thinking about painting my bus, but since its the chanpagne limited 
edition i kind of dont want to. how much was your paint job. ad i hear 
paint jobs are so expensive too. ok well get back to me. thanks see ya
-Matt
Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


