To: "Gail Doles" <chopper(-at-)cox-internet.com>
Cc: "type2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Miles Erickson" <miles.erickson.type2(-at-)gmail.com>
Date: Wed, 13 Apr 2005 19:26:14 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] problems with rebuilt engine

Gail,

Hopefully the timing will help.  If the timing were way too retarded, shifting
into 4th at 40mph and expecting to accelerate would be asking too much, at
least in my Bus!

If not, another thing just occurred to me: when the throttle cable was
reconnected, maybe it wasn't set correctly?  It is possible to connect it in
such a way that the carburetor does not reach full throttle when the gas pedal
is floored.  Actually, this would fit your description of the problem
perfectly.  To check, with the engine turned off, have someone put the pedal
to the metal (or put a brick on the gas pedal if you're alone) and then make
sure that the carburetor really is at full throttle.  If not, loosen the
barrel clamp and adjust until it IS at full throttle.

Otherwise, it could be a fuel system problem.... but usually, a clogged fuel
filter or bad fuel pump will result in jerky operation, "missing", symptoms of
too-lean, etc., so it doesn't sound quite right.  It doesn't sound like you're
experiencing anything along those lines.

Sometimes new plugs can be defective... maybe you're only firing on 3
cylinders?  But then, my '71 Bus *could* accelerate to 60 mph when it was
running on 3 cylinders, if I was really, really patient (2-3 minutes?).  So
it's probably not that.  Keep us posted!

- Miles

 ------------Original Message------------
From: "Gail Doles" <chopper(-at-)cox-internet.com>

No....... just reset the timing internally when the engine was built.  It is
hard to get it up to that speed..even with accelerator all the way down, but
yes. around 40. and then she starts decellerating even with it all the way
to the floor.  Yes. we are familiar with break-in techniques. my husband
works on and teaches aircraft mechanics.
He is bringins a timing light home tonight.
Thanks for the reply I'm needing all ideas I can get.  But, this one won't
make it to EB. going to have to drive my hightop again.
