From: "Gervais, Pierre" <PGervais(-at-)BR.Kruger.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 14 Apr 2005 08:59:14 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] stock 78 automatic engine installed, would like help

I've installed my engine in my 78 automatic. I hooked everything up and 
tried to start it. The engine turns over and acts like it wants to start, 
but then dies. After an attempt or two to start the bus, it quits acting 
like it wants to start. I think this behavior is gas being injected by 
the cold start valve which cuts out when the thermo-time switch heats up 
as it is supposed to do.

--- When I am troubleshooting this kind of problem, I often pour some gas (1
ou 2 ounces) in a hose going to the intake "spider" to check if gas can be
in trouble.  If the engine stats and die after this little treat, regular
gas supply is in problem.  If it does not, timing, spark or other is in
problem.  If it starts and run normally, something wrong in cold start valve
components can be the problem.  I recall making 10 to 15 on/off with my
ignition switch to "prime" the engine befor starting (westy 82).  Every time
you make an on/off, it's like there is a spark and the 4 regular injectors
does a squirt.  This was often sufficient to have the engine normally run
when I started right after.

I have verified spark and I'm inferring gas. I installed a new fuel
filter while I was replacing my fuel lines and added about seven gallons
of new gas to a drained tank.

If I understand the Bentley correctly, all of the injectors spray every 
other point opening. This means I ought not have the harness hooked up
incorrectly. Am I correct here?

--- Yes you are.

Where should I start on the fuel injection trouble shooting list? Can I 
verify fuel pressure while cranking? Should I hear the fuel pump with the 
key in the run position -- I'm not hearing it, and am not clearly 
remembering what's been said in list regarding hearing it.

--- As I recall, the gas pump will run when you start and will keep running
if motor does.  You will have to check fuel pressure while cranking

How do I hook up my remote starter? I hooked the switch up at the
solenoid, but all I got was starter spin.

--- You probably jump the wrong terminal on solenoide.  You have to bring
power to the small terminal, not the large one. The one on which the wire
from the ignition come to.

Also, a couple of folks indicated they might have the 76-79 automatic
throttle linkage (m6 male threaded stock, nuts, pivot, spring, and
c-clip would be dreamy). I kludged a temporary fix, but would love to
have the right part.

Thanks in advance for any suggestions, directions, corrections, and/or
linkages,

jack

---- BusBosss Pierre hoping this can help


-- 
second star to the right and straight on 'til morning
