Date: Thu, 14 Apr 2005 07:23:47 -0700 (PDT)
From: Steve Elms <selms(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "type 2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: texas roads

>i was wondering if anybody can tell me about the
>roads that parallel the red river. there's 82 on the
>Texas side, and 70 on the Oklahoma side. how can
>those roads be described?
>- steve

Texas isn't the vast wasteland some believe. But there
are some vast not-much-there lands. The Texas
panhandle is flat-flat-flat and sometimes the wind is
unbelievable. From Albuquerque and Los Vegas, NM
you'll probably be taking I-40 to Amarillo. Don't miss
the Cadillac graveyard just west of Amarillo, 8 or 10
old Caddys half buried nose down. The story goes that
an eccentric millionaire planned to build a private
airport and was going to use the taillights to mark
the runway. There's no runway but the Caddys are still
there.

From Amarillo to Wichita Falls, where you'll pick up
82, about the only thing you can say about the scenery
is that there's an awful lot of it. There are plenty
of small towns for fuel and such, and lots of
antique/junk shops. You'll pick up 82 in Wichita
Falls, which is a nice mid-sized town. Being a
full-time resident of Wichita Falls was once listed as
one of the worst 10 jobs in Texas.

82 across Texas is a good road. It's slightly wooded
in places and has frequent towns. Roadside attractions
are there but vary in appeal depending on your taste.
Fuel cost right now is around $2.11 to $2.25 for
regular. If you get off the highway a little the cost
is frequently about 10 cents cheaper. The speed limits
will be about 60 or 70 and the state cops usually will
give you at least 5 mph leeway. Watch out for speed
traps in all the small towns. Sometimes speeding
tickets are their main source of revenue. They'll nail
you for just a few miles over the limit and sometimes
the limit changes quickly as you enter the town.
Expect temperatures from 90 to 105, depending. You'll
find no hills in that part of the state.

I hope this helps,
Steve Elms
