Date: Fri, 15 Apr 2005 06:01:00 -0600
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Friday Topic: Missing California

Well, I've been here in the Rockies (ok, Denver Metro area) off and on
since Jan. I'm still not comfortable here.

Pros:
People love my bus! I'll be sitting at a light and have folks take my
picture!!!
Busted bus is close enough to get to if traffic doesn't keep me from
getting there before they close (Tuesday... Stupid rubberneckers.)
Snow rocks! GWB loves snow!!!
Annoying family members are over a thousand miles away.
I have a beautiful 1300 sq ft 3 bedroom apartment for what I was
paying for a 2 bedroom 1050 sq ft apartment in Anaheim. And this is in
the "high end" area. Anaheim was, well, Anaheim.
You can actually smoke without getting hassled, yet the air here is
clean and crisp compared to SoCal.
Less crime: A serial rapist got weeks of TV coverage here. In SoCal he
would have gotten 2 days.

Cons:
Where's the ocean? I'm going through ocean salt withdrawls. And no,
road salt doesn't count.
Where are the other VWs? In Cali there are still bugs galore, plus
fairly frequent sightings of busses. Here I might see one VW of any
kind each week. I think it's the same guy too... Club meets don't
count.
Everything is a (-at-)#%^$#$^ hill! I'm getting tired of doing 40mph in a
55 because of yet another darn near vertical hill.
Dry skin sucks.
The city I moved into, Highlands Ranch, is so full of elitists that I
keep waking up from nightmares that I moved into Anaheim Hills.
People that grew up here don't know how to drive on snow. And this
sunny California boy does better than they do.
The city of Denver is 2 blocks long by 2 blocks wide. At least it
feels that way compared to LA or even just Hollywood.
How can there be a shopping center in the middle of friggin nowhere,
with 50 stores, 12 restaurants, and not a single gas station?!?!?!?!
STREET SIGNS MF'R!!!!

And so on.

I'm flying back to Cali on Monday for a week on the company dime.
While there I'm going to the beach, the mall, etc. I'm going to try to
keep a completely open mind and see if my emotional memories of SoCal
match what is really there. I guess I'm hoping to get a new
perspective on the move to Colorado.

That and get a few jugs of beach sand. ;-)

--
Don
