From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 29 Sep 2002 14:23:11 -0700
Subject: Red rubber dual intake manifold gaskets

OK.. My husband just found the problem on the 71 T2 that would not idle. We
could not adjust the idle at all, as it would not run at all at less than 1200
RPM, and the tach meter would show wild fluctuations in RPM that would not
respond to carburetor adjustment in any comprehensible way. That should have
been clue number one (RPM fluctuating wildly per digital tach-dwell meter)
that there was a vacuum leak. Clue number two should have been that it would
die after warm-up (closed air intake throttle was opened by automatic choke
device), UNLESS the air intake was closed off by putting artificially. It
should have then been realized that air was being drawn from somewhere else
and mixing with fuel, that somewhere being closer to the vacuum source. It
was. I suspected a defective "Bocar" 34 PICT 3 carburetor, since there is an
alert on the internet ("Ken's Buggy Barn") on that model having to do with
torn O rings and resultant vacuum leaks at the idle and fuel adjustment screws
(note: some mechanics use a squirt of WD-40 or similar oil to seal off such
leaks, or canned ether or carb starting fluid to test for these micro leaks,
listening for changes in engine RPM immediately after application). It was
not, however, the carburetor that was to blame, in this case.
It so happened that the rebuilder, who we paid to build up a turnkey engine
for us, installed a partially used intake manifold. The heat riser portion was
used, and some time after installation, this heat riser developed a hole which
I discovered while looking for the vacuum leak. This was another matter that
needed to be addressed, as it would be leaking hot exhaust gases into the
engine compartment. We debated as to whether to plug it temporarily or to
replace the manifold, and we decided on the latter. This morning hubby pulled
the engine. What he discovered is that the red rubber gasket that joins the
intake manifold to the dual intake castings was cracked all around. We could
have spotted it actually, if we had connected with the brown fuel residue that
had formed a drip pattern on the bottom side of the intake manifold.
We had heard that these red rubber gaskets fail early, and I noticed that they
come packed as standard equipment with at least one brand of intake manifold
assembly. Now, here is an interesting thing that I have noticed over the years
with regards to (of all things) rubber dog toys. The red rubber fails earlier
than black rubber, in my experience.
I just thought I would take the time to share this. It might save someone some
time, frustration, expense, an engine fire or?   Jan B
