Date: Fri, 27 Sep 2002 11:04:08 -0700
To: Jeff Strickrott <jstric01(-at-)cs.fiu.edu>, Vanagon List
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Bad Valve Issues/Question, Opinion sought.

At 11:49 AM 9/26/2002, Jeff Strickrott wrote:
>Their opinion was that the car was not running on cylinders 1&2
>because if they removed the ignition wires on 1&2 it did not effect the
>idle of the engine. They did a compression test on these cylinders and
>got 100 psi.  They also checked the FI and concurred that the system
>seemed to be working. Their conclusion is that the valves are bad on
>cylinders 1 &2.

Sigh.  Another wrong diagnosis by an incompetent mechanic.  I see a couple of problems here.  First of all, 100psi is more than enough compression for a cylinder to fire at idle.  Therefore the valves are not responsible for the lack of firing at idle - there is another problem that they overlooked.  I can only guess as to what that problem is, but it might be a vacuum leak or an injector problem.

Another problem is that you imply they only checked the compression on the two cylinders in question.  They should have checked all four cylinders if they wanted to get a real picture of the health of the engine.  If the other two cylinders are also around 100psi, the engine might not be in that bad of shape.  What's more, the compression reading will likely be artificially low if all four plugs are not removed (I assume they were not).

>Not ever having driven an air cooled van in its prime, I have nothing to
>compare the performance/power of the engine to. But I think I would have
>noticed if it was only running on two cylinders. 

I would agree.  On two cylinders you would be holding up traffic and have a top speed of 40mph or less.  What is likely going on is that the engine is running on two cylinders at idle and all four above idle.  Problems such as vacuum leaks tend to manifest themselves more at lower engine speeds.

>The car seems to have
>enough power to get up to speed on the highway (65) and to handle hills.
>How could I double check their diagnosis?

You can get a compression tester and give the engine a proper compression test.  Consult the archives if you have any questions about how to do this.  Or, you can find a reputable Type4 mechanic, but the chances of that are slim as I bet in this day and age there are probably only a couple dozen of them left in the USA (many are on this list).

> Could someone explain what
>would make the valves go bad so early in the engines life? Was this
>normal?

Early in the engine's life??  Aren't we talking about a 21-year-old original engine here?  And don't talk to me about low mileage - when a bus is 21 years old it doesn't matter if it has 0 miles or 250,000 miles, it will have problems.  The valves or rings are likely not sealing as well as when the engine was new, but 100psi is not necessarily a serious problem.  I have driven my bus across the USA with less compression than that.  Fix the firing-at-idle problem and keep an eye on the compression.  If it drops further, then you should start worrying about it.

-David
