From: "Jonathan Crawford" <servious(-at-)servious.org>
To: "'Michael Benthin \(MUTS\)'" <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 29 Sep 2002 22:32:59 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] 75 FI bus won't start

Mike,

	You have established that your fuel pump is working correctly,
and all the other components appear to be working fine, aside from the
injectors not getting signal from what I understand. My concern would be
the series resistors, and the wiring harness at this point. Your
injectors should have power from the time you start cranking til you
shut the engine down (if the engine starts) or stop cranking (if it
doesn't). That is my best guess as to your problem. I would check the
series resistors for proper resistance first (I am unsure of the value,
im sure someone on the list knows). Then proceed to check and see if
there is a fault somewhere in the harness. I tend to lean toward the
resistors being bad instead of the harness.

Jonathan

-----Original Message-----
From: Michael Benthin (MUTS) [mailto:benthin(-at-)prodigy.net] 
Sent: Sunday, September 29, 2002 10:02 PM
To: Jonathan Crawford
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] 75 FI bus won't start


In the process of rejuvenating the 75 bus (sat since 1997) I established
the fuel pump was bad (clicked, did not run), and drained the tank and
changed the filter and pump.  Broken wire on cyl. temp sendor was fixed;
resistance was around 500 at 72 degr.  Plugs OK (looked rich, previous
starts of engine did work but put out black smoke- assume it was bad
temp sendor).  Attached a line to the fuel rail T and it easily pumped
out a cup of gas in a few seconds. Dwell and timing are on, fine spark
when plug wire is held near ground and strobe but it wouldn't start;
ignition is fine as it will run for 2 seconds with a squirt of ether.  I
overdid this and got a backfire that bent the AFM flap and blew 2 hoses
off the s-tube.  Luckily I had 2 extra and put one on, so that's been
changed.  Put a fuel pressure gauge onto the T and it is reading 40 max
during cranking, so I assume pressure regulator is OK.  Checked the
voltage to the cold start valve; it's there and diminishes in 5
seconds-OK.  Put a test light on the injector plugs and they are NOT
getting power.  No smell of gas at exhaust after much cranking.  Checked
the center prong on the series resistor plug and that has juice.  Tried
another double relay, NaDa. 
Checked terminal one on the MPC and it has power- means coil trigger
wire is continuous and OK?.  Checked terminal 10 to 5, 17, 18 and there
is continuity so "brain" has ground.  The AFM checked out (oops, I
didn't check the swapped one).  Swapped out the brain, and still no
start!!!!!   So what am I missing?
