Date: Wed, 18 Apr 2007 19:33:05 -0700
To: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com,Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: Hermine <hermine(-at-)endangeredspecies.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Powdercoating a Roof Rack

At 06:03 PM 4/18/2007, VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com wrote:
>In a message dated 4/17/2007 11:21:47 P.M. Pacific Daylight Time,
>croftyest(-at-)yahoo.com writes:
>
>I had my  engine tin powdercoated 8 years ago and haven't had any problems.

Oh how i used to be addicted to powdercoating!
I had my Hurst bumper powderpainted, and it has rust telegraphing 
through through at the welds. I am not WORRIED. I am just saying that 
powder paint,  like other coatings,  has things to recommend it and 
things NOT to recommend it. The last time I checked, the UV resistant 
power coats were not as hard as the ones intended for indoor use. 
maybe this has changed.   I said I used to be almost addicted to 
powdercoating. and at some time when maybe I ran out of money, i 
began to use spray cans on engine tin and other places, particularly 
things which could be removed and reinstalled without great agony. so 
that despite the fragile nature of spray can paint, the ease with 
which one could redo it in a twinkling, kind of made up for that.

My best spray work was done on a mini cooper engine, the real ones, 
not the new ones, (fooey on them!) and the pieces of tin were TINY, i 
was able to slowly oven dry them and recoat them and to a degree, 
colour sand them, and folks thought they were some exotic powder 
paint. (they were not painted stock colours, but they were GORGEOUS 
if I do say so myself and I do.)

What I am going to do with the Hurst bumpers is a cheap and dirty. I 
am going to sand the living daylights out of them,  but not down to 
bare metal, and spray the rust telegraphic places with zinc and 
okie-chrome, and I will redo them in Krylon "Not-Quite-Refrigerator 
White" ....I think it is called "Navajo White, for mysterious 
reasons------and slap them back on.  this bleeding through is what 
fine art painters call "pentimento: Italian for repentence, when a 
painting or colour underneath, gradually is revealed either by 
bleeding through, or because subsequent layers of paint have become 
more transparent with age.  I am buying some time here. nothing is in 
danger of rusting to pieces.

Imagine at one time cars were painted with lacquer! what a fragile material!

I have an access ladder, which came original with some kind of dull 
silver, seemingly clear coated.
Personally I am very fond of the fine grained bethanized finish of 
top quality galvinization, and the pewter to which it gracefully ages.

can you tell I am jonesing up for another renovation of CAR?

Question. i live in full on dread of something CHIPPING the paint on 
a roof rack. anyone else?

hermine

hermine 
