Date: Thu, 19 Apr 2007 19:33:39 -0700 (PDT)
From: Sean Dorman <croftyest(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com, Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Powdercoating a Roof Rack

I'm not sure the amount of angles is as important as the degree of them. I'd think a 45 degree would be a little easier on coatings than a 90?  My rims are also powder coated and have no chips after 10 years other than around the clips which I have replaced a few times. 
  I'd argue that engine tin though covered experiences a much harder life than a roof rack as it is subject to heating, slow-cooling, heating then rapid cooling, vibration, various chemicals (gas, oil, water, asphalt, tar and anything else the road throws up at it) and dirt.
  I think the final outcome depends heavily on how well the parts were prepped and on the skill of those applying the finish.
   
  Is jet coating a similar process as far as exhaust is concered as it has sharp angles on tubing and that stuff is supposed to be great so i've heard.
   
  Sean

VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com wrote:
  In a message dated 4/18/2007 8:44:17 P.M. Pacific Daylight Time, 
croftyest(-at-)yahoo.com writes:

>> Really? Engine tin has far more right angles and sharp corners than an 
industrial rack would or does as it's made from round tubing. I have a stock 
pulley that was powder coated as well. <<

Hi Sean,
The inside angles we are referring to are more like 45 degrees or less. 
Just took a look at a short 1/3 German industrial roof on our bus. With 
the six front to rear tubes running under the four left to right tubes you 
have two angles at each junction, for 48 of these tight angle areas. Then with 
two of these angles at each arch supports at each leg, one has another eight 
tight angles. Total of 56 tight angle areas. Of course 2/3 and full roof 
racks will have that much more of these tight angles. All of these are exposed 
to full weather on a roof rack Where engine tin for the most part is 
fairly well protected in the engine compartment, and all engines have exude some 
oil vapor to help keep that rust away.
Have had same problem with powder coating rims where the outer part of the 
rim meet the inner, but have hand painted this area to keep out the rust 
from there. Because of chip resistance of the powder coating it is worth the 
extra care of touch up painting this area to us.
Eric&Barb








    Give a man a fish and he will eat for a day. Teach him how to fish and hell sit in the boat and drink all day.
   
   
  This message may contain confidential and/or privileged information.  If
you are not the addressee or authorized to receive this for the
addressee, you must not use, copy, disclose, or take any action based on
this message or any information herein.  If you have received this
message in error, please advise the sender immediately by reply e-mail
and delete this message.  Thank you for your cooperation.




       
---------------------------------
Ahhh...imagining that irresistible "new car" smell?
 Check outnew cars at Yahoo! Autos.
