Date: Mon, 30 Apr 2007 00:01:31 -0600
From: "Curt Conklin" <conklinc(-at-)lawgate.byu.edu>
To: <Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Question about body prep

Fellow Bus Junkies,

Finally got the '66 23 window custom back on the road.  Dropped the main
spring down from 1835 to 1776, dropped the compression ratio a bit, and
tightened up the engine compartment a little.  Hopefully that will solve the
overheating.  Tomaui she goes in for some new front seats, prolly take until
Wednesday or so.  Tom Beuse parted with a Z bed that I am going to put in her
so I won't bother with the rear seats.  My son bought a heavy duty commercial
sewing machine and sewed up some vinyl covers for his '71 Bay Westy.  Beaut
job, so I'll go that route except use cloth.

I digress.  I got a '78 Westy in "fair" condition from a good friend of mine
for $750.  Strong engine, I know it has a good engine because I sold it to him
and he had it dropped in, but the guy created a short and my friend gave up on
the project, finally sold the whole thing to me.  I had the 2L rebuilt when it
was in a '78 Bay I had back in the mid 90's.  It's been garaged since about
2002. My friend didn't put a hundred miles on it.  I say fair condition
because the body is rusted a bit and the interior needs resto.  But amazingly,
my friend got some nice original cloth seats in great shape and some cloth
foam in just as good a shape. He also got a good used sliding door as the
existing one has a shot slider.  She also has some surface rust and the
rockers and doggies need replacing.  No problemo as one of my sons did a 2
year program at the local college in auto body repair.  He's doing a '68
Galaxie 500 390 right now . . .

Anyway, earlier, he resto'd the body on his '72 Westy n the shop while in
school.  Took him forever.  I told him I wanted to buy a random sander like he
has, as I have a nice compressor, and get to work. He turned to me and said
"Dad, if it was me, I'd pop all the windows, gut the interior, put 1/8 in
cheap ply inside and outside the window wells and take it to a sandblaster.
Sanding is no fun, it takes forever, and you'll spend that much in paper and
supplies anyway.  Your time is worth something."

Question . . . is his advice on the right track?  He said it would be about
$200-300 to have it blasted.  It prolly needs some minor rust repair on the
top right rear corner too, besides the rockers and doggies.

What say ye resto been-there-done-that people?  I have no illusions, this is
going to be a couple of years project.  Meanwhile I have my '66 to play with
and take to BBB again!

Chime in junkies . . . I'm all ears . . . those who know me get the inside
joke!

PLV,

Curt
'66 Deluxe w/ 23 window rag top, 1766 w/dual 36 Dells
