Date: Fri, 4 May 2007 18:41:14 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Good Wiring Harness?

> From: "GNS" <gns.wagnon(-at-)verizon.net>
> Date: Thu, 03 May 2007 19:35:54 -0700

> Who has the best wiring harness for a '63 panel/camper convert?

I don't know, but I suspect there are probably only one or two
manufacturers of them, and several vendors.

> Also, would the same wiring harness work for a 59 Single Cab?

Doesn't a '59 have mostly screw-terminal connections, and a '63
push-ons?  A later harness might work but you'd have to cut off most
of the connectors.  Also, a '63 has an 8-place fuse box, while a '59 has
a 6-place - the '59 doesn't have fuses for the high beams.  Finally the
'63 harness might possibly contain wiring for a hazard flasher system
that the '59 probably doesn't have.

The only wire I can think of that would be in a Bus that wouldn't be in
a pickup is the wire to the rear dome light.  If you wanted to get
really fancy, you could install a light on the back of the cab and use
the rear dome light wire to run it - pickup bed light, just like
downtown!  Or maybe a treasure chest light.

I don't think the available wiring harnesses include the battery-starter
cable, the battery-body ground strap, or the transmission-body ground
strap.  It's probably a good time to replace those as well.  Get as
thick of a battery-starter cable as you can manage, especially if you're
still on 6 volt.

The Bentley has a procedure for swapping harnesses that sounds like it
would help avoid a lot of frustration.  The wiring diagrams in the back
may also help this project, or get color ones from
http://www.vintagebus.com/wiring/ .

It's probably also a good idea to get one of those little wire brushes
that look like a toothbrush, with brass bristles.  Use it to clean up
the push-on tabs (on the '63) before you plug the new harness onto them.
It should take a little bit of effort to plug the push-ons onto the
tabs... if it doesn't, you might close up the push-on a little with a
pair of pliers.

If any of the push-on tabs are loose on the device they're attached to,
you may want to solder them down to get a better connection.  There is
an article on doing this to the headlight switch at
http://www.type2.com/library/electris/vw-hauptlicht-schalter.html ;
the fuse box is also often cited as a place to do some soldering.

You may want to add ground wires to your rear lights.  As built, they
ground through the housing to the body, and sometimes this connection
doesn't work very well.

Matt Roberds
