Date: Thu, 8 Nov 2007 10:40:44 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Airic <airic(-at-)midsouth.rr.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 2 liter head studs

You know I don't know exactly where Helicoils get such a bad rap, we used them in rocket engines for heaven's sake, admittedly a short term application, but they handled heat fine.  Inserted correctly they are fine, VW used them from the factory as inserts into aluminum blocks/heads over the years.  I've used and would use the helicoil personally in this situation, and do an 8mm stud (both ends) with the helicoil overtapped for 10mm x 1.25 (which is a tap you likely already have, as it is just M10 fine.)  There are various solid inserts in steel and brass in the same dimensions, sure they might be better but aren't usually locally available when you need them.  If you find a 9mm insert (which is going to be tough but Amazon lists a set right now) it will likely be 11mm on the OD thread which is TOO BIG for the little boss you are putting it in.  Your effective thread diameter and pitch with any insert is that of the outside of the insert (if a steel insert or helicoil) for
 strength as the steel to steel M8 isn't going to be an issue so the M8-M8 stud is fine.  You do need to be sure the insert is fully below the boss surface so that things seat down fine.  Other alternative which I've also done and is better of course, find a shop that does a good but cheap jop and have em TIG up the hole and retap but that usually ends up being M8 unless you can find that pesky M9 tap, guy around me in WV would charge $15 for the 5 minutes welding work.  Final alternative, I've seen M10 fine - M8 coarse studs, which you would just overtap the boss M10 fine and be done with no insert, but that is a tough stud to find as well (actually the rocker arm studs are I think this dimension (don't recall off the top of my head if the M10 is fine or coarse) but are too short anyway.  FWIW in the day I've seen heads even from Boston Bob with helicoiled exhaust studs (though I don't know if he installed them and he doesn't do used core T4 heads anymore so...)
   
  just my opinions anyway YMMV
   
  John


  
I was NOT planning on using a wire helicoil insert , unless others have good
experience with them, it does not appear they can handle the heat.
