Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Sat, 10 Nov 2007 12:41:17 -0500
To: David Schwarze <dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: What's your MPG

Hi David,

I stated in my initial post that fuel economy suffers at higher  
speeds; take that as a given.

The same load applied at different RPMS need not have the same fuel  
consumption. Lower gearing will lessen the torque required to turn  
the transmission input shaft at higher RPMS, meaning that less power  
*per revolution* needs to be produced. So less fuel will be required  
per revolution to maintain the same speed. At the same time, the  
engine is pumping more oil and moving more cooling air than an engine  
with higher gearing.

Will it be less total fuel consumption than with higher gearing?  
Probably not, but there are a LOT of variables in that equation that  
make calculating the effect on engine temps difficult.  The effect on  
the cooling system would be much harder to figure.

Consider the same engine running up a LONG hill at 65 MPH. The  
transmission with lower gearing will be connected to a cooling fan  
and oil pump that are turning at a higher rate than what is happening  
in an engine connected to an 091 transmission.  This is healthier, is  
it not? And if it's healthier on a hill at 60 MPH, it's hard for me  
to see why it would be so bad at higher speeds on the flat. OK,  
there's more friction and vibration at higher speeds; and those are  
bad things in the long term. From what I recall, long term effects  
weren't included in the original poster's inquiry.  As far as I'm  
aware there is no published research available detailing the thermal  
efficiency of the type4 cooling system at various RPMS, so until that  
data becomes available and is verified accurate we're both in the  
dark here to a certain extent.

I don't have it handy at the moment, but I am pretty certain that the  
owners manual for my 1972 westy said the top speed was 90MPH.  
Actually, I haven't owned that bus for about 23 years, but somewhere  
in my garage is the owners manual for a 1973 bus, and I will try to  
find time to dig it out later.

Do I really think that a 30 YO bus should be driven at high speed on  
modern fuel alongside typical drivers yakking on cell-phones,  
checking their mail on the crackberry and slurping a double-frothed  
latte?? HELL NO!!!   But a designed redline above 5000 rpm I think  
that any properly maintained type4 engine should be able to maintain  
80MPH for a while, if the driver is patient with the leisurely pace  
required to get there. Throw in a hill or a headwind, and the bets  
are off; you're heading for a dropped valve really quick. And as I  
also said, gauges are a good idea as well.


Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/77/79 Westfakia "Bob The Tomato
www.pottsfamily.ca
www.busesofthecorn.com



On 10-Nov-07, at 10:38 AM, David Schwarze wrote:

> I don't understand your logic.  The load on the engine (in hp, to  
> maintain a particular speed) is the same regardless of the  
> gearing.  The effect of the gearing with the earlier transmission  
> is that the load will be satisfied at a higher RPM which is even  
> farther beyond the peak efficiency of the engine.  That means that  
> for every gallon of gas that goes through the engine, less will  
> come out as power and more will come out as heat.  This is not an  
> insignificant difference.
