From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <VWBrain(-at-)aol.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <accessys(-at-)smart.net>
Date: Thu, 5 Apr 2012 09:37:26 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] flywheel?

I actually scored an autostick 12V starter a couple years ago. So I was
going to use that. The vehicle this engine is going in is 12V, but the
starter that was in there was pretty rusted apart, all connections sort of
busted off when I tried to disconnect the wiring. So I got a starter and set
it aside for installing on this car.

 

The flywheel I have is 6V. As I now have a 12V starter, I'm thinking I want
to get a 12V flywheel. I think the crankshaft is for 12V-is there a way to
tell the difference? I just learned how to tell the difference on the
flywheels, (I just learned that 6v flywheels have 109 teeth vs 12V with 130
teeth).

 

I actually have 2 - 6V flywheels, one that does not use an O-ring, and one
that does. The one that uses an o-ring is  the one that was on the engine.
So I think a new 12V flywheel will be the same connection, right? Ie, I
won't need to machine the 12V flywheel, as the crankshaft is set up to take
a flywheel with an o-ring.

 

It is a 4-dowel flywheel/crankshaft.

 

Thanks again for suggestions and help. I am thinking I just need a basic 12V
flywheel. I prefer to go with stuff that is more standard, so I don't have
to remember in the future about odd -ball things on the engine. When I look
at 12V flywheels, I see 8-dowel, lightened, chrome-moly, forged, balanced,
.I am not building a racing car, I am trying to stay simple, and don't want
to spend too much. I would like to get it running. 

 

-Kevin Guarnotta

Jamaica Plain, MA

 

'69 Singlecab

'65 Ez-camper

 

From: VWBrain(-at-)aol.com [mailto:VWBrain(-at-)aol.com] 
Subject: Re: [T2] flywheel?

 

OK Kevin 2 ways to do this  leave the 6 volt flywheel and change the starter
to 6 volt one , you will need a special bushing to do this.  or take a 12
volt flywheel and use a brake lathe to cut the outter most part on the
inside where the o ring goes away.  doing this allows the 12 volt flywhhel
to mate with the 6 volt style of crankshaft.  the end step on the cranks are
a different lenght.  later  mark d 
