From: "Bill Bowman" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
To: "List - Common Gear" <commongear(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, "List - DBG"
Cc: "List - Type 2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "List - Vanagon"
Date: Wed, 23 May 2012 14:57:43 -0500
Subject: a Friday morning caravan of VWs to "VW Funfest"

Hi all you VW enthusiasts out there!

Okay, since Kent Z. can't leave until Sat morning for Funfest, I'll put this
caravan idea out there.  My personal out-of-town guests (old friends Bob Van
Heyst and Linda - the owner of B.B.T. in Belgium - http://www.bbt4vw.com/en/ )
and I will be departing in my '55 Sunroof Beetle and my '67 Westy Campmobile
on Friday morning for Effingham.  Bob needs to arrive early to conduct some
business with the fine folks at MAM.  So we plan to let the St. Louis area
rush hour traffic die down first buy going over to "Ginghams" coffee
shop/restaurant on Hwy 94 just south of I-70 in St. Charles for a hearty
breakfast.  Sounds like Roy, Rick Rahmberg and a few others will be joining us
there to eat and meet "B.B.T. Bob".  Then we plan to depart from Ginghams
(approximately 9:45 or 10am) and take I-70 to I-270 northbound and around into
Illinois to I-70 again and keep heading east towards Effingham.  We expect to
travel easy, at about 60 mph, we're in no real hurry.  If you gotta go fast,
well then, we'll see you there...

Bob, Linda and I heartily invite all who'd like to join us in the caravan (and
meet Bob and Linda too) to come along.  It is always more fun, and safer too,
to travel in a pack.  I imagine that we'll clog up the right lane of eastbound
I-70 and enjoy every stinkin' minute of it...  I expect we'll arrive at the
MAM campus, site of the Funfest festivites by 12:30 or 1pm.  Bob and Linda are
personal house guests of the Yagars for the weekend, and I'll be setting up
camp in the "moshpit" campground with the "usual suspects" (we hear that the
"Bondo Condo" commanded by Captain John Lago and his trusty First Officer (his
pooch) will again be making another appearance in the campground (goodie!
brats cooked over a hucap grill!)!  Bring plenty of iced-down adult beverages
and of course, your blow-up dolls, this is gonna be fun!

Feel free to forward this info/"invite to cruise" to all whom you care to...

See ya at the MAM "Funfest on June 1-3 !!!
