Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Tue, 18 May 2004 13:35:44 -0700
To: "Bob Forrester" <forrester3(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Bus iPod Mount/Photos Anyone?

On May 18, 2004, at 11:30 AM, Bob Forrester wrote:

> Thinking about getting an iPod to take along on family Westy 
> roadtrips.  Has anyone figured out a clever way to mount the iPod up 
> in the cockpit area on a Bay?  Photos of your installation would be 
> great (please pmail me offline). I was thinking about maybe making a 
> bracket to sling the iPod off the front of the ashtray or something, 
> then using a FM transmitter attachment to beam the iPod signal to the 
> indash unit.

I'm still working out how I want to do this.  I am thinking that I will 
put a mounting point onto the camping stool pseudo-replica that I made 
(has cup-holders! :-)  I just need to find an iPod mounting bracket 
that can mount off the front of the box, and allow the iPod to tilt up 
so that I can see / fiddle with it from the driver's seat.

My current thought is to run a 12v source under the carpet and up into 
the box, and permanently mount an inverter and power strip in the box 
so I can power any number of accessories there, including the iPod.

I was thinking either of using one of the standard iPod transmitters or 
using one by JVC that actually plugs into the stereo's antenna lead, 
and physically disconnects the antenna when signal from the aux input 
source is detected (to eliminate that obnoxious cross-talk that causes 
you to have to switch the station you transmit from).

I'm a little disappointed that the Sony head unit that the PO installed 
doesn't have an aux input ... it is "XM ready", but has no way to 
connect a non-XM aux source, sigh.

Of course, this leaves me needing to solve the speakers problem... I 
have some decent Sony 5 1/4" 2-way speakers in the doors (also 
installed by the PO), but they perform only about as well as you could 
expect such speakers to perform in a Bus front door.  It got a little 
better with foam baffles installed behind the speakers, but I still 
want something better.  I think my best bet is to put a high-pass 
filter ((-at-) 100HZ, was my initial thought) on the door speakers, and then 
put a set of decent 6x9's in the rear of the Bus... but I don't want to 
cut any of my Westy cabinets for something as trivial as speakers... 
any suggestions on pre-fab speaker boxes for 6x9's that fit decently in 
a Westy, and where did you mount them?

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
