From: "Phil Trenholme" <dim1(-at-)comcast.net>
To: <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Date: Tue, 18 May 2004 13:42:56 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] case sealant

I used Curil T the first time a few years ago and I like it because it seems
to seal well but is easily removed. Following are some sealant comments I've
collected from the 356 Porsche list and these guys are even fussier than bus
guys:

loctite 574, is European in origin, orange in color and the factory Porsche
case sealant  used in 911 production-works great, dissolves in oil, and
maintains seal for decades it seems
very user friendly,

We use the factory recommended Loctite 741; the orange stuff; get it from
Zimm's...expensive, but worth it; cleans up a HELL OF A LOT EASIER than
waterpump sealer or the permatex goo (not everybody has a barrel full of
toxic waste to clean cases.)

I have used Loctite 574 with
excellent results but it is not available around my  neck of the woods
unless by mail order. It is 3 oz. for about  $27 plus shipping charges.

I used Loctite 574 on my engine. It was highly recommended by several
members of "Talk". It seals well and does not set up until air is removed
and under pressure

What I have been using lately is a Porsche prescribed product for all
of their motors since about 1988. It is a Locktite product known as Locktite
574. This stuff seals extremely well and has a few neat properties. It is an
anaerobic compound so it does not set up till air is removed and under
pressure. You can coat the surfaces with this product, leave it unassembled
for a few days and then when it is assembles it sets up. One of the main
reasons that I like it and Porsche likes it is that it bonds the metals
together so you end up with a more rigid structure. If you have to separate
the surfaces, you can just re-apply new 574 and it will recombine with the
old hardened stuff and re-seal. Once the case halves are bolted together,
you find the stuff has set up in about 20 minutes. The remaining stuff on
the outside will stay soft for days. It has an extremely high working temp,
it was initially used to seal the 911 turbo motors together that ran
extremely hot. The only down side (IMHO) is that it is bright orange but
that was intentional so you can see where you put it or not. Alan/The
Stable/SF, CA

Phil
Los Gatos, CA
70 Type2 since new
