From: "Don Tuleja" <durocshark(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "Type 2 Mailing List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 19 May 2004 04:29:58 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] I think I've made my bus worse...

Thanks everybody for your suggestions.

" Make sure you have the right wires going to the right spark plugs."
Hmmm.... My #1 wire is at the top right - actually pointing towards the #1
cylinder. I think it's time to check those. What gets me is that it has run
like that. I doubt this is the stock dizzy (no vacuum advance, square
condenser wire plug). Plus, when I bought it the rotor was a mismatch. It
didn't fit the notch in the dizzy shaft and was spinning freely... Might
explain the wires in the wrong positions. I did get it to time properly
before though...

When I bought it I drove it home from Hollywood hitting 70. Aside from
backfiring and an exhaust leak (I had assumed that was the cause), no
problem.

Here's what I've done so far:
Oil change
Plugs
Spark Plug Wires
Cap
Rotor
Coil
Passenger side valve adjustment
Much wiring replacement
Fuel filter ( http://www.donimages.com/1973bus/cloggedfilter.jpg )
Blocked off every vacuum port I can find.
JBWeld to seal the leaky right EGR can
Checked cutoff solenoids
Verified coil is getting juice.

Shop:
Drag Link
Fuel pump to carbs lines (dorks didn't replace the tank to pump line with
the filter)

It's definitely pumping fuel. I didn't check for spark after the new coil,
but I'm confused by it running up the RPMs, backfiring, and then stalling
and refusing to start. I haven't been able to get to the left side valves
because the heater box is too high to let the bail wire down enough to get
the valve cover off. Since it's parked on a busy street and I'm not keen on
being under the bus on that side I was hoping to get it running enough to
get off the street to tackle that one (I even have all the exhaust gaskets
ready to pull that off. Sigh).

I think I finally drained my nice new battery trying to start the thing the
past few weeks. When I finally gave up, battery voltage was at like 10.5v.
I'm going to jump it in the next few days and see if that makes a
difference. I haven't done any carb work other than adjusting. Another list
member sent me some carbs so I can rebuild while the bus still has the
originals, so that's something I'm going to have to try.

I have a digicam. I actually have several (hey, I'm a photographer AND a
computer geek!), so I'll get some detailed pics of my basket case. I've been
too busy with work (promotion! Woot!!) and just trying to get this thing
running to update the site.

Thanks!!!
Don
