From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 4 Sep 2001 16:21:08 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] JC Whitney rebuild kits

In a message dated 9/3/2001 7:48:21 PM Pacific Daylight Time, 
mlardner(-at-)netzero.net writes:   << Does anyone know if these kits from JC 
Whitney are any good? What is the brand name?  Is this a difficult job? Are 
there any directions for this procedure on the web?>>

Hi Mike,
JC Twitney parts can be good one day and then be suddenly switched to a 
really bad quality supplier or not fit at all situation.  Best to check out 
ACVW parts shops in your area first and/or go with parts suppliers that this 
list can can reccomend like Ronnie.  Then go out and get a few good books on 
how to work on the ACVW engine.  
1.  Bentley reprint of the 63-67 VW Bus Shop Manual.
2.  How To Keep Your Volkswagen Alive.  By John Muir.  Best is a 71 or 
earlier copy of this to avoid the type 4 stuff mixed up in there.
3.  How To Hot Rod Volkswagen Engines.  By Bill Fisher.  Has lots of info 
that applies to a totally stocker engine and can improve the HP slightly and 
the longevity greatly!
4.  Bentley Official Service Manual.  For 68ish thru early to mid 70s for 
either VW bug or bus for info on the later 1600 engines that many of us run 
in our pre-1968 type 2s.
 
Also read the type2.com library, do some hunting in the archives for more 
enlightenment.  If you can not find your ansewers in these manuals and 
websites, then by all means do put out your questions on the list!

 <<The kit also says that no machining is required.  Is this true? >>
Depends on the kit and the type/condition of the engine in question.  Just 
bolting on a set of P&C onto an unknown mystery engine is not something we 
would recommend   We would suggest you completely build a seperate engine 
into the daily driver you need and will love!  We have been running a slip in 
1641 SP DR CW engine for over 50,000 miles and a freeway flier tranny with 
very little problems.   Eric&Barb
