Date: Tue, 13 Jan 2004 12:31:52 -0700
From: "Curt Conklin" <CONKLINC(-at-)lawgate.byu.edu>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Leav'un on a Split bus . . .

Gunks,

But I do know when I'll be back again.  Heading down to Triple Bee. One
problem:  My Sweet Bus has been a'sittin inside the garage (fortunately
insulated) since early November.  Right now it is 16 degrees farenheit
outside, with 83% humidity, and a 5 mph wind for a chill factor of 9
degrees. 

So, I know that fresh 30 weight oil I put in her in late Nov. is going
to be rock solid.  Question is, what do I do to soften up the oil before
I crank Her over?  I have a 1 1/2 quart extra cooler sump and an oil
filter on Her too, remember, She's a beefed up 1835 with a progressive,
balanced with a mild cam (100 degrees)

I plan on leaving about 11 or so on Thursday, so that the drive down
I-15 for four cold hours will at least be the warmest 4 hours of the
day, then overnight just below St. George, somewhere in the Virgin River
Gorge.  (Thanks Tom Beuse!)

My best idea is to put my little kero heater behind the bus and open
the engine hatch, letting it warm up the garage for 4 hours before I try
to crank her over.  I will keep the heater 2 1/2 feet away from the
bumper.  When I start doing this it will probably be the low temp of the
day, 14 degrees farenheit.  Will the little kero heater soften up the
oil, or is there something more drastic I need to do.  The garage is 13
x 20 and is insulated walls and ceiling at R13, with visquine over the
insulation.   In Nov., during 32 degree weather the kero heater got the
garage to longsleeve cotton tee shirt comfort in about an hour.  Keep in
mind, with the garage door and side door, it is plenty drafty, uh,
"fresh air." 

Anybody had similar experience cranking up a sitting bus in cold
weather?  Last thing I wanna do is damage My Sweet Bus!  Would a light
bulb under the engine help at all?

Thanks, and hope to see you in Havasu with that 71 degree weather
prediction.

Curt
