Date: Sat, 17 Jan 2004 07:31:23 -0600
From: Rick Taylor <busbarn(-at-)Prodigy.net>
To: <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>,
Subject: Re: [BSKA] Update on the BBB burned bus

I'm sure if we had a show of hands, there are a number of people who do not
carry the most simple insurance to burning down a bus.  I carry two fire
extinguishers, just incase one isn't enough.  I have been invovled in two VW
fires, one in a bug and one in a bus that I was driving, but many more with
other's VW's in caravans.  People get the idea from TV that "it's going to
blow!!!!" but they don't, they just burn like crazy.

At school we have a fire drill once a month so kids are comfortable in case
of the real thing.  We should do the same with our busses.  If you smell any
smoke (Chris said her bus lost power, then she smelled smoke coming out of
the heat vents), you should waste no time shutting off the power and pulling
over, then grabbing the extinguisher and running to the back.  On both of
the fires I was in, I also heard a loud "whooosh" sound when the fire
ignited, but with other noise in the bus, you may or may not hear this.

The handle on the deck lid may be really hot from the flames, so a rag or
glove beside the extiguisher would be helpful.  Open the lid and shoot the
extiguisher on the largest amount of flame, it most likely will be a fuel
line.  By shutting off the engine, there shouldn't be any more fuel coming
out, but what was sprayed about may still be on fire.

Even if you do all this quickly, you will still loose the wires and fuel
lines from the top of the engine along with the paint around the air vents
on the side.  Gasoline burns hot and fast, it will heat things up quickly
which is what fuels the fire after the gasoling has burned off.  Things like
insulation, wood cabinets, carpet all become fuel sources if the fire is not
put out quickly.

Of course one of the best ways to prevent a fire is to have new fuel lines
put on, but this isn't a 100 percent prevention, both of my fires were
caused when the small brass tube going into the single center mounted carb
came loose and sprayed gasoline on the distributor.  I purchased one bus
after it had a fire when the battery rolled over on a curve and shorted out
against the bus.

I carry both of my extiguishers behind the drivers seat in easy "quick draw"
fashion just in case I need it for my bus, or someone elses.


This was from one of our Buskatiers:

for some reason it doesn't look like 10 bucks for a
disposable walmart fire extinguisher is so expensive
to me,.... for some reason. ;)
hummm, maybe i should put off getting up to date
shag carpet??? nahh
 
"I guess investing in a fire extinguisher would have
been a good idea, but she didn't have one with her."
 
sounds like chris is one lucky woman to have
friends of this caliber, thought at least one person
should say that, it needed to be said. From reading
the worried, releaved, and then excited post from this
list i count myself lucky just to be able to whittness
