From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org
Date: Mon, 19 Jan 2004 15:03:19 -0800
Subject: Burnt bus fund/update

  Here is my response (below) to some peoples question of WHY. The fund for
Chris is growing with a anonymous donation of 100 that has brought the total
up to 890.00 dollars I will throw in another 10 to make it 900.00 dollars.
As the fund grows it will help in the search for a decent bus to replace her
loss,
 http://www.thesamba.com/vw/gallery/index.mv?photo+138958.jpg 
  Think if it would have been you!

ronnie

-----Original Message-----
From: OldVolks General [mailto:General(-at-)OldVolks.com]
Sent: Monday, January 19, 2004 10:28 AM
To: Mat Nardone; type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] Burnt bus fund


  Chris (burnt bus) is a bus person. The reason she owns (owned) a bus was
to transport her kids and all the gear needed. A bus is much more economical
then any other vehicle that can serve the same purpose. Cheap to fix, user
friendly and has a great support group behind it. Yes she could get
something different (which she will do till she finds another bus), but she
is part of the bus community, the camp-outs etc. You don't go to a BUS
campout in a Celica. 
  She had to make a choice and the bus community swayed her in the right
direction. She is not money flush and cannot afford to own 2 cars so she
made a decision, which watching the list have proved that there is support. 
  If you burned up your Toyota I doubt if there is any group that could
really care.
  There is more to owning a bus then the paranoid feeling of it burning up.
  It's like when my shop almost burned down a few years ago, I could have
thrown in the towel and did something else, but it is the bus community that
supported me and helped me make the decision to stay in it.


ronnie

ps. We have almost 800 dollars in the buy chris a bus fund so far and more
coming in. The money is going to buy her a bus only, when the right one is
found.
