Date: Thu, 27 Oct 2005 08:02:48 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Baker <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>
To: list vintage bus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, type2 list
Subject: Engine\Power loss troubleshooting help

Hey Y'all,
I think I know the answer, but I want some more
opinions about a problem on a 66 bus, has a 1600 SP.
A friend of mine got a "new" 66 bus this summer and it
has never realy run well for her. It was sluggish, no
power, acceleration, etc.  So she brought it over on
Saturday and we did a tune up. New points, condensor,
rotor, dizzy cap, set dwell, set timing, adjusted
valves, etc.  Upon checking #3 & #4 valve, I find a
nut laying inside the valve cover, hmmmm. Look mre
closely and see that it is off of one of the #3
cylinder studs. So I take off the rocker arm and one
of the studs for the #4 cylinder is sticking way out
with no nut on it either! the other 2 nuts are on and
tight. I re-install the loose nut on the #3 and
tighten, no problems. But when I try to screw in the
#4 stud, I realize it has been stripped by a PO on the
engine case side.  So I make sure that the 3 nuts
which are present are nice and tight, and then I put
everything back together so she can drive home,
telling her that she will need to get that cylinder
stud hole re-tapped by a shop ASAP. I didn't feel
right about having her drive away with that stripped
stud, but it was 11:00 pm on a Saturday and after all,
she had been driving on it all summer with no
problems.  After the tune up, we test drove it and it
drove great!!! Much better than when she drove it in.
However, the next morning she had problems. The
following are her words about what happened:

>>I don't remember hearing any clunks, thunks, or
clangs.  It did seem to 
gradually lose acceleration on the way home, but then
again she doesn't 
seem to like I-275 speed & potholes too much anyway. 
It wasn't until 
Saturday morning when I was bummed.  It was very
difficult to start and sounded awful.  When I arrived
at my training site (only a few miles away) I noticed
what looked like tiny oil specks all over the back 
(engine/trunk lid and back window).  It could have
been totally non-related, but I remember thinking,
"hmm, I wonder what that is from?".
After she's warmed up, she idles great, coasts great,
give her a little gas and everything's fine, but try
to accelerate or go up hill and 
people start staring<<

So what do you all think?? That the cylinder with the
stripped stud started pulling out causing a massive
compression leak and spurting oil???
Is there something else I may be over-looking?? 

Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1971 Double Cab
1971 SuperBeetle Convertible
1968 Karmann Ghia Convertible
http://www.buszen.com

"So we got into the red VW microbus with the shovels and the rakes and the implements of destruction and we headed on to the police officer's station..."
