From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <vwmicro1974(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 27 Dec 2003 11:34:46 -0600
Subject: seams

snip,snip

>From: "Thomas Stillwell" <vwmicro1974(-at-)hotmail.com>
>Subject: Welding Body Panels- To Overlap or Not?
>Message-ID: <Sea1-F152r3ukkwu1Bt00037c17(-at-)hotmail.com>

>Looks like a great weekend to work on the bus and my new body panels
>awaiting installation.  I've been researching body metal replacement, seems
>to be several different opinions (of course).  I need to know which is
best:
>to leave an inch or so of the original metal and overlay the joint -or- cut
>the orginal metal so the replacement part fits in like a puzzle piece?
>What do you guys think?

>Also, what type of grinding tool would you use to smooth the seams?

>Thanks,

>Tom


I am sending you a link to some pictures of some repair work I did on a VW
bus and on a subaru

http://www.sendpix.com/albums/03122709/092042000000114ed958c35a6c1e7971af91e32bb05919/

there are examples of both overlapped seams and exact jigsaw butted pieces

I am not a professional. when I made these repairs. I only had access to my
gas welding tanks, (just moved, not big enough electrical panel box in
garage to run AC-DC buzz box)

I would suggest that you buy a special seam roller tool from
www.eastwood.com. This tool makes a recess for the repair panel and provides
a reinforced support ledge to help hold the repair panel in place. You can
also rivet or screw the repair panel to the rolled ledge to hold it in place
while welding. Sure beats having your wife and friends hold everything in
place because you ran out of C clamps.

and buy a good wire welder with the inert gas hookup

If you overlap seams too much, you cannot sand the paint the inner spaces,
and you will get rust in a few years.

I only grind down the seams I have to, mostly, I use a small hammer and I
deftly pound the seam down into a very shallow trough and fill it in with
body putty.

I use a dangerous cup wire wheel on my right angle grinder to remove rust
and burned paint. . I use a straight line die grinder (like the tiny dremel
tool but on steroids) for the trickier areas.

I prime with an phosphoric acid based etching primer. And I follow the
primer and paint directions to the letter. e.g. Do not top coat the acid
primer before it has finished off gassing. Paint cleaned dry metal at the
proper temperature (not in a condesing evironment).

One of the picutures shows my favorite undercoating, which is also a great
sound deadening agent. I use several thick coats of  Mobile Home Aluminzed
Roof Coating. It is petroleum based. It is really messy to work with. I
don't trust similar water based (latex or emulsion) type products. I have
seen these products rot due to being eaten by bacteria. Don't get the
flamable tar based stuff near sources of flame ignition heat, like on or
near the exhaust parts.

have fun

ggm
