Date: Sat, 27 Dec 2003 18:48:44 -0800 (Pacific Standard Time)
From: Courtney Hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: brandthart(-at-)hotmail.com
Cc: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Torsion Bars (front End)

Brandt, if these torsion arms are like the ones in VW bugs, which I have
plenty of, there is a mother big screw in the middle of the torsion tube
(some call it a grub screw) that has to be tightened down to lock the leaf
spring splines inside from turning. In other words, it holds the inside end
tight so that the outside (wheel end) has to twist to flex the suspension.
Have you checked your front end for this?
Just a thought,
Courtney

 
-------Original Message-------
 
From: Brandt Hart
Date: Saturday, December 27, 2003 04:41:13 PM
To: type2(-at-)type2.com; dworkin(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] Torsion Bars (front End)
 
Greetings List,

This is kind of long and complicated...

78 Westy, Stock

Ok about a year and a half ago, before my bus spent a long time at the paint

and body shop, I did my ball joints with the Bus-boys pre-pressed ball joint

and torsion arm set up. When I had it all apart I noticed that not only was 
the weld broken on the end on the torsion bars which is normal but so were 
three leaves of the torsion bars. So I got two used torsion bars from 
BustedBus. I put it all back together, took the bus off it jack stands and 
sadly admired my front suspension resting on top of the rubber stop as if it

were still on the jack stands. I was out of time and sent the bus to the 
paint shop.

Back then Mr. Dolan theorized that perhaps the bars were in backwards and 
were in springing oposite than they were in the bus they came from. It 
seemed logical to me as well.

Not wanting to spend quality time in the local junkyard under two feet of 
snow and mud. I took a gamble and today I took it all back apart and 
flipped both torsion bars end for end (weld now on pass. side) then I put 
things back together enough to set the bus on its wheels. I lowered the 
jack and sadly, my hard work has not paid off. The upper torsion arms are 
still resting on top of their rubber stops and the front supension still 
soild with no give.

I am at a total loss and now face tearing it and likely another bus apart to

make it right. I hope to take the bus on vacation soon.....

I have three theories:

First is that today only one bar needed to be flipped. But which one??? It 
would take me ripping it apart and puting it back together two more times to

test this one. Both bars appear straight when viewed on end.

The second and really out there theory is that the tosion arms are 
different. Though I remember they were an exact match to the old ones in 
basic appearance. However, the part of the torsion arm that locks into the 
torsion bar seems pressed in (round). Is there a different year torsion arm 
set up where the torsion arms are set at a different angle?

Third is that there are different strenghts of front torsion bars. I don't 
think this to be the case on front torsion bars, however.

The busted bus bars did not come labeled (Like "upper Driver side", or 
"Lower Pass. side"). This might have saved me a lot of work but I think this

is now a deeper issue.

How much distance is there supposed to be between the rubber stop and the 
upper torsion arm in a normal bus?

Everything is how it should be, arms to the back, ball joints toward the 
ground....

If anyone has the microfitche where there any torsion arm angle changes? Or 
changes in bar strenght?

Or does anyone have some torsion bars either labeled or still in the beam 
and could be labeled?

Any ideas????

Thanks for reading,
Brandt in Utah

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of IMSTP.gif]
