Date: Sun, 28 Dec 2003 09:11:30 -0500
From: Jeff Strickrott <jstric01(-at-)cs.fiu.edu>
To: Type Two List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Air Fuel Mixture Logic

Hi All:

I am in the process of fixing all the teething problems of bringing up a
new engine for my Federal 82 Vanagon (2.0L type IV engine). I am still
the process of trying to get the engine to idle well and set the air
fuel mixture. I am looking for some suggestions or comments on my
reasoning process.

Current situation:
- the FI system checks out and fuel pressure is to specification.
- valves were readjusted (after they pumped up) and compression is now
110-120 in all cylinders,

Problem: Can't get the car to idle well enough to set the timing using a
timing light or the mixture using a O2 sensor.
- To start the engine I have the timing statically set at 7.5 BTDC.
- Idle mixture screw 8 (half turns) open and the CO mixture screw mostly
closed. These were the settings from my old engine.
- The car will immediately start but will need the throttle to be held
open to continue to run (at about 1500 rpm). If I do not hold the
throttle open the engine will die. Vacuum at 1500 rpm is about 15 InHg.

By my reasoning, I am running too rich so I need to give the engine more
air. I have tried opening both the idle screw all the way and leaning
the mixture at the AFM. This improves thing slightly, but still requires
more air (by opening the throttle). If I now vary the timing I can get
the engine to idle (poorly), but the timing must be advanced around
16-20 to get this to happen. Vacuum decreases when I do this.

By opening the throttle I am also delivering more gas. So maybe it is
not the mixture at all but something to do with the injector spray
pattern. I have not checked this since the old engine was removed, but a
year ago they gave me a nice conical pattern. They were stored dry as
not to gum up.

So what does the community think the initial problem is? Any ideas on
how to proceed?

Thanks for the help in advance.

Regards,
--Jeff Strickrott
82 Westy, South Florida
