Date: Sun, 28 Dec 2003 19:00:45 -0500
From: Jeff Strickrott <jstric01(-at-)cs.fiu.edu>
To: scott lyons <slyons(-at-)netrover.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Air Fuel Mixture Logic

Hi Scott:

> Check the indexing of the distributor drive gear. It sounds like the timing
>   is way retarded, if the distributor is out by one tooth you will not be able
>   to use the timing scale to time the motor.
>

This might be the problem with regard to setting timing with the light. Looking
at the picture I thought I had it right. I have moved it back and forth and
essentially ended up with the same type of problem. I can get the car to idle
with about 13 InHg of vacuum, the idle screw most of the way out, etc.


> The AFM adjustments are fine ones and they should not be needed at the stage
>   you are at, you should able to achieve a smooth steady idle at factory
>   timing specs, plus you should have 20 inhg at 1500 rpm. This makes me think
>   there is possibly an error in the timing measurement. 8 turns out of the
>   idle screw is also too much.
>

When I set the timing by ear and by what provides the best vacuum, I still end
up with timing that is way advanced from what it should be (7.5 BTDC), 20 for
one and worse for the second position. The engine dies if I ever try to set it
near 7.5 BTDC. Vacuum gets around 15-17 InHg when I rev the engine to 1500 rpm.

I have removed/plugged the air lines for aux air valve, the deceleration valve,
PVC valve, and brake vacuum line. Again everything else is new, hoses on
manifold, air boot to throttle body, injector seals, up to including the shaft
seal on the throttle body. Squirting WD40 on the injector seals and intake
manifold indicating no leak there.

Fuel pressure is 36 psi with the vacuum hose disconnected and between 29-32 when
at idle (due to the low vacuum). As I rev the engine fuel pressure becomes 29
psi.

So I have low vacuum for a new engine (assuming no other obvious leaks) and I
need the timing advanced for the engine to idle. Any idea what is wrong? Valves
have been adjusted to 0.006" per Bob Donald's page on hydraulic lifters.

My next check is to test the spray pattern on the injectors. AFM passes the test
along with head temperature sensor.

Regards,
--Jeff Strickrott
82 Westy, South Florida



scott lyons wrote:

>
>
> Scott Lyons
