Date: Mon, 6 Feb 2012 23:37:19 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Bob Pratt <ka1dza(-at-)verizon.net>, type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Exhaust system bolts

Although blasphemy I use stainless 5/16" bolts with actually (get this)
flanged serrated mild
steel nuts.  And I prodigiously antiseize them.  You can
use stainless on stainless with
prodigious antiseize, but stainless on
stainless galls, plus I love the flanged serrated on
the exhaust.

I've had
these in service in the WV salt on winter beater vanagons for 8+ years and
they came
off easy as when I put them on.  Only thing better is real copper or
bronze nuts (solid not
thinly plated) if you want to stay metric, but I just
love those damn flanged serrated
suckers.  Tighten, stay put, no lockwasher,
no fuss.  And the ones I have (bag of 50
from Fastenall 10+ years ago) must be
a bit higher grade cause they are harder than
shit cheese bolts from box
stores, and resist corrosion a bit better.  The stainless bolts
I just get
from box store, they probably compare at least grade 5 for hardness and
strength
though they make no claims.

I will also sometimes when feeling real
invigorated take a slightly longer bolt and cut it off
then face it down nice
and pretty so I have a little of the unthreaded portion there between
the
mating flanges for improved alignment.

John


----- Original Message -----
From: Bob Pratt ka1dza(-at-)verizon.net

Now that my shoulder is healing quite
nicely, I started to bolt on the new
exhaust headers and muffler. Since I had
to cut/break off the old exhaust
bolts, I had to buy new ones. I went to my
local home improvement store and
bought the bolts to fit. As I started to
tighten down the bolts, they all of
a sudden turned rather easily. I
discovered that the threads started to
strip. I went to the local FLAPS store
to buy "exhaust' bolts. They told me
that the only ones they carried were the
same kind I could buy at the box
store. Does anyone know where I can buy bolts
that would stand up to the
temperatures of the exhaust system?
