Date: Thu, 02 Aug 2001 22:53:00 -0400
From: Bob Haufler <rehaufler(-at-)mediaone.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Clackety-whackety, Valve adjustment?

Hey Folks,

I recently noticed a louder clickety-clickety sound emerging from the
drivers side (#3 and #4 cylinders).  It was louder than normal and louder
than the other side.  I like listening to the valves from the cooling air
intakes.

Well I suspected a valve adjustment was needed.  This I do seldom and it is
not the best working conditions the be hanging upside down and performing
this adjustment.  Especially on this side, because it is hard to fine tune
the engine position by watching the valves move as I rotate the engine, but
that is the conditions.  I was wishing my son was handy to twist the engine
around for me, but he was not.

Anyway, I adjusted the engine position (the rotor was pointing at the firing
position for #3) as best as I could and, I will be danged, all the #3/#4
valves seemed tight.  I was thinking about the fact that I paid someone to
adjust those valves for me last time and that now I am regretting letting
anyone else do this for me and that I would not in the future.  I was
thinking that I had found the reason for the increase in sound volume of the
clickety-clickety sound.

After getting all valves to 0.006", the valve sound was much louder, now
kinda a CLACKETY-WHACKETY.  I did that old long-screw-driver-as-stethescope
trick and found that most of the sound was coming from the valves (duh) and
somewhere deeper in (solid lifters?).

Now.  I am thinking that maybe I did not have the engine rotation just
right, and I got all the valves way loose.

I also worry that there is a dropped valve seat.  I have never lost a valve
seat and I do not know what that sounds like.

This is a 1700 cc 1972, dual carbs all original.  72K miles.  It has been a
great running bus, good compression, runs with an oil temp at a steady 212F.

Do any of you folks have any insights?  Is this a mere valve adjustment?  Or
something worse?

Many Thanks,

Bob H.

