Date: Fri, 03 Aug 2001 11:34:42 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Paul m Yakopovich <screwloosevw(-at-)juno.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] whoops

Check with any regular commercial glass supplier.

They can cut the glass to any size. Specify laminated glass for the 
windshield. The side glass can be whatever you want - laminated or 
tempered. The factory glass was probably tempered. My '78 used tempered.

At the same time, you can buy tinted glass - the tinting is in the glass, 
not just a film on one side of the glass. The glass company cuts regular 
glass (tinted already or not) to size, and then sends it off to have it 
'baked' which tempers it.

I think the law requires laminated glass in front - that means there is a 
layer of plastic or rubber between two layers of glass. This maintains a 
windshield in most crashes and protects you front flying rocks and car 
parts. Tempered glass simply shatters and falls out but the pieces are not 
sharp shards of glass but instead more like little gravel glass.

A typical glass shop can cut anything you need. Pay attention to tempered 
or laminated. Also pay attention to what thickness the original glass was. 
They can (should) be able to match whatever you bring to them. Take them 
the old windows (out of the van) so they can use them for templates.

The reason old glass fogs up in the corners is that the middle layer of 
plastic begins to turn yellow. The glass is usually good but the plastic 
has gone bad. No way to repair this except with a whole new piece of glass.

I replaced all the flat glass on my '78 Westy with a grey lightly tinted 
glass. I did not replace the door glass, the front door vent glass, the 
windshield, or the rear window (defroster) though. That means the two rear 
side windows and all of the jalouise panes are new and lightly tinted.

I went with lightly tinted because I want to be able to see out when I 
drive in the dark.

I'll probably pay someone to tint the other windows (not the windshield) 
with a lightly tinted film, same grey.

Flat, plain, clear glass is cheap and this way you don't pay for shipping.

Shop around though, the town I live in has two glass shops and there was a 
difference in price. Also one shop could not do the long narrow panes for 
the jalouise windows but the other could.

Spring for good seals when you reinstall the glass. I used WCW for about 
everything as I remember.

Also painted the bus while the glass was out....
Chris in Tennessee

'78 VW Westy
'65 Beetle (type IV powered)
'99 CR-V
'81 Honda CB900 Custom (FOR SALE)

ICQ# 5544649

