Date: Tue, 10 May 2005 13:13:25 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: kevin(-at-)bopsax.com
Cc: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] 3 Liter Type IV - off topic

<I've had several Fords and have not had serious trouble with any of them.  Last I had was a Taurus SHO.  Now that was a hot-rod!>

A friend owned a an SHO and it was FUN! He changes cars often (gets bored I think) so we did not test it's durability. 

Never owned a GM product (well, I hav Corvair engines now) but that is all my parents will own. Excellent results.

Dad surpirsed me with a confession (via Mom) hat he has a thing for the New Beetle 'vert... He's a hot rod guy so this is weird... <griN!> 

Sister had Fords (matching Taurus x2 at the same time, dunno...) and then Buicks. The Fords had identical problems at about the same mileage. 100K or so. Tranny blew in both cars. Buicks so far, so good. My sister-in-law has a newer Taurus (65K miles) and I drove it this weekend and all was well except the crank pulley seal is leaking, and it pings BIG time. Dunno what it's life is like so I can't say it is the car or the driver. Told her to start using better than generic gas (not a boost in octane, just quality gas). Her Chrysler mini-van was a mess too losing the engine, a/c, trim, etc. in 115K miles. Again was it the driver or car? 

VW content: We've had Hondas and VWs. Both seem to be very durable and easy to fix. Yeah the aircooled variety has issues but then I have to keep in mind their age and that cars back then had issues (adjustments) that had to be done. It's a shock to adjust to driving a carb'd engine after 15 years of fuel injection! <grin!> 

I really do think though that success and failure of a vehicle has alot to do - though not all to do - with the owner and how they care for it, and how they drive it. That's how (I think) one person get extradinary mileage out of one car - maybe a cheap one, and another person wears out a "high quality" one in fewer miles. I think alot of drivers don't KNOW what it means to care for their car. Witness the cars that never get detailed, never get quality repairs, always driven away as soon as the engine fires (before the oil even has a change to get to the cam even). 

Chris
