Date: Tue, 10 May 2005 17:50:49 -0400
From: whalens <whalens(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: Peachstate Transporters <peachstatetransporters(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, 
Subject: Generator light/electrical problem

Our '71 van has been giving us all sorts of electrical/generator/belt problems 
lately.

The generator belts had begun breaking rather frequently.

In January, there was a horrible rattle that seemed to involve the generator and 
  fan belt.  Our mechanics found damage in the generator (bent shaft?) and 
installed a new generator.

In March, the generator light came on, after a loud "ping."  Sure enough, the 
belt had broken.  AAA towed the van back to the same shop.  They had to replace 
the generator (no charge), voltage regulator, fan belt, clean the lower crank 
pulley.

In late April, the engine lost power, so we had a minor tune up in early May. 
On the way back from the shop, after driving 5 or 10 minutes, the generator 
light came on.  I stopped, expecting to see another broken belt.  The belt 
looked fine.  I drove home with one eye on the oil temperature light, but it 
never glowed.  The generator light was on, but not bright.

I took the van back to the shop, and they said they'd keep it for a time and try 
to diagnose where the fault was.  They found a short in the starter wiring 
harness between the voltage regulator and the generator.  They repaired, so they 
thought, the short, and installed another voltage regulator, at no charge.

As I drove home, the generator light flashed on briefly after 5 or 10 minutes. 
I stopped for a moment, checked the fan belt, and considered driving right back, 
but when I restarted the engine, the light stayed off.  As I drove, though, I 
smelled a burning electrical smell, and after another 5 or 10 minutes the light 
came on again and stayed on until I got home.

Is it possible the short in the wiring harness is still there?  Or is there some 
other short, perhaps in the dash, since I could smell something burning?  Is 
there a particular order in which I should check the lights, signals, horn?  The 
generator light doesn't seem to come on until the van has been driven about 10 
minutes.

Any suggestions, besides pushing the van over a cliff?  :-)

Evelyn Whalen
