From: "Walkingboss" <walkingboss(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: "Karen Jones" <Rock_N_Soul(-at-)msn.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 23 Jan 2006 15:20:53 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] Please LOOK, and tell me what you think.

Hi Karen,

    I'm not too sure this the bus you want as a daily driver, for your first
bus. It looks like a good starting point for a restoration. I would be very
worried about the rust. Just the rust shown in the ad is enough for a red
flag. Not trying to be sexist or anything, but can you do major body work,
including metal forming, welding, painting, etc, and do you have a place to
store the bus while working on it? You wont get much done trying to drive it
while working on it. Also a project like this can exceed the GNP of some
third world countries.
    So I would do all the things "T" suggested, plus, don't send any
pre-payment, make sure you have a ride home arranged, so you are not
compelled to buy. Ask to take the bus to a body shop that has Volkswagen
experence, and have it inspected on a "lift". If your not sure of what to
look for, make sure someone can help you insect it. Making sure to check the
front beam, and frame mounts for it. Also have someone with Volkswagen air
cooled experence check the engine. If the seller balks at any of these
requests, walk away! Remember the old adage: "Let the buyer beware".
    One other thing, have you driven a "Splittie" much? You may want to
drive one before putting down your dollars. Some find them a little
disappointing the first time they drive one. 60 MPH tops, down hill, tail
wind, 18 wheeler on your tail, etc! The gear-reduction axles are the cause
for this. They can be replaced, but that is another story, and a major one
at that! If the front end is not in good shape the steering can be a little
"random" in across wind, or when meeting a 18 wheeler with him at 75 or 85
MPH , and you at 50 MPH on a two lane highway.
    Personally, I like them and have had several. I just get in no hurry and
enjoy the ride. Also I have the benefit of being able to do my own work.
Like almost all early Volkswagens, its a very simply vehicle to repair, and
most parts are still available. Buy a Bentley Manual, and some basic tools
and jump in!
    So good luck in what ever you decide to do, just be careful, and enjoy
your new bus! :-)
    All in all, I give it thumbs down for a new bus owner who can't do their
own work. And a thumbs up to someone who is willing to get hands on
involved, or willing to PAY ($$$$) someone else to do the work.

Howard

> OK, you guys are starting to worry me now...
> Thumbs up... or thumbs down.
> Tell me what you think
