Date: Thu, 26 Apr 2012 00:23:18 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Laurie X Wayne <lauriewayne(-at-)gmail.com>, type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Passenger seat rails (or some other approach)

Laurie,
 
I have what I feel is a pretty good idea but...   I don't know crap
about Rivi's and have only done this on Vanagons.
 
Find a Vanagon camper
swivel.
 
Dirt common (well getting more uncommon but stil pretty common.) 
The Vanagon swivel base (on both sides BTW, so 2 in any camper) welds right
between the factory rails on the vanagon, which are essentially the factory
rails on a bay as well.  It is 3 piece, top unbolts from bottom which is
welded into the vanagon, circle parts clamps the swivel.  Comes out with your
favorite method, I usually use thin cutting wheel on air cutter, plasma also
works, might be tough but probably not insurmountable with good battery
powered sawzall with good bimetal blades and lots of batteries in a pick and
pull if you had to, can clean it up at home.  Should weld into a Bus, I've
transplanted them many times into non camper Vanagons, and actually into a
Eurovan as well, but I presume it would fit a bus just fine because it is
mostly a flat piece with the round stamping for the swivel but doesn't have
any depth or countour, drops right between the rails, have it welded
 in.  Bolt the top back on and your Vanagon seat fits to the top totally
factory.  In fact, people cut them out and sell them on samba, which if one is
near you would be worth it, but they would be pretty pricey to ship.  Bus
passenger side, factory Westy swivel is in fact probably the same, one of the
adds below implies it, but oddly I've never pulled one out of a bus.
 
This
one is a fair deal, bit rusty:
 
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/classifieds/detail.php?id=1177217
 
This one not
"quite" as rusty:
 
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/classifieds/detail.php?id=1270934
 
This one is
pretty much a rip for just the body side (you'd have to find the rest) but is
clean as hell:
 
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/classifieds/detail.php?id=1245312
 
But frankly I don't see giving more than $50 to $75 for a complete unit,
lesser end if you hit the yards and do it yourself as the labor to get it out
isn't going to be super quick.  You could cut out factory non swivel tracks
and weld them in (Rivi really removed them to install their swivel??) but
would have to maintain very good alignment on installation (seat in place for
the initial tack welds, removed to finish weld, and watch the plastic bits if
present in the tracks.)  Using the swivel you just tack down the base side
well with some sections of weld like it was when you removed it, and done, no
alignment BS, plus you still got a swivel seat.
 
John


----- Original
Message -----
From: Laurie X Wayne lauriewayne(-at-)gmail.com
 
1) Where would I
get the rails to weld in? Is removal from a junkyard 
bus /in situ/ feasible?
2) Is there some other option to adapt or modify the new seat (or 
bracket)
that you've seen or done? I don't really care if the passenger 
seat adjusts.
I just want it to be safe and stable.
