Date: Thu, 26 Apr 2012 09:07:26 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Laurie X Wayne <lauriewayne(-at-)gmail.com>, type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Passenger seat rails (or some other approach)

Laurie, you know I didn't get it originally, I just saw 1978 and presumed your
van had the slider tracks on both sides and no partitions behind the seats,
sorry I didn't read carefully.  I still don't get how Rivi got that setup in
1978 but anyway.  If it has partitions and the hook in seat, I don't think
there is much way to do it in the manner you suggest because the hooks just
hook right onto the frame of the seat.  You could probably take the vanagon
cover and put it on a later bus seat frame, but would be defeating the whole
point of the foam cushions and not having to rebuild the bus seat with new
horsehair, etc.

I'd cut out the hooks and either weld in regular tracks (more
of a PITA like I mentioned) or find a swivel, but if you have a partition and
camper stuff behind the seat like I think maybe a Rivi does, the swivel would
be largely for show.  Plus as I recall Vanagon seats won't swivel in a Bus
with the armrests on anyway.  In point of fact thinking about it a bit,
perhaps the easiest thing to do so you got proper spacing would be to get just
the TOP part of a vanagon swivel, that way no cutting, seat slides out and
then the top bit just unbolts from the bottom bit.  I bet that would weld
easily to the area, or could even be bolted in, though I'd weld.  I won't
swear this one will work, but I have a good feeling it will.  Would be an easy
way anyway to have proper spacing and alignment, and would be a simple bolt
out at least.

John


----- Original Message -----
From: Laurie X Wayne
<lauriewayne(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: 
Sent: Thursday, April 26,
2012 7:28 AM
Subject: Re: [T2] Passenger seat rails (or some other approach)
Hey John, what a great help you are! Thank you!

I wonder if it makes any
sense to try to go the other way, and
cannibalize the old seat in order to
retrofit the new seat to fit into
the existing hooky dealies (sorry for the
technical jargon and lots of
prepositions).
