Date: Thu, 10 May 2012 23:27:26 -0700
From: Andy McKinley <airhedz(-at-)gmail.com>
To: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: [T2] Re: Heating system VW Baywindow estfalia cam?er year 1977

That's what those two little aluminum flaps at the bottom port and
starboard of the fan housing are for. At higher (off idle) RPMs the flaps
close, preventing the pressure of the cooling fan overcoming that of the
electric fan and blowing air backwards through the electric fan into the
engine compartment; essentially a check valve, directing all airflow into
the cooling system.

Following that train of thought, I'm suprised the VW engineers didn't think
of a simple way to automatically deactivate the electric fan under those
conditions. After all, that running electric motor is contributing ever so
slightly to the ambient temp of the engine compartment, and taxing the
alternator a bit. Tsk, tsk. Such waste.

FWIW, the ventilation controls and locations varied not only from year to
year (with some mid year changes) but also variations within a model year.
For instance, the '72 Westy hard top I owned had one heat vent facing
rearward, eminating from under the walk-thru, one louvered vent each in
port and starboard kick panels, and a small lever with a black knob handle
about half way up the duct that runs up the middle front of the floor that
directed heat to either  the front two kick panel ducts or to the
windshield defrosters. There was also i small black knob located under the
driver's right thigh that, when pulled out about an inch, controlled
airflow to the rear duct. Each red lever operated corresponding left and
right heat control boxes. I don't recall which lever or the degree of "on"
activated the fan, tho. This van also had pull straps on the doors for
closing, no ventillated arm rests ducting fresh air to the rear.

My current '79 sunroof cali emission kombi has the same strap door handles.
Left red lever opens the left heat control box, directing unassisted air
from the main engine fan to all available heat vents in the van. In my
case, those vents are located in the port and starboard kick panels and the
center rearward vent under the walk through, just like my '72. Right red
lever does the same, but about 3/4 open it activates the electric fan. Left
lever is labeled " heat," right, "defrost."

I had a '79 pop top Westy that had all the same configuration except it had
the big arm rests for fresh air to the rear.

If you have ever removed the interior of a bus, you'll have seen the unused
provisions for optional locations of heat vents (for example, some models
had heat directed forward from under the rear seats, and a large armrest
that doubled as a duct for fresh air (blue levers) that exited behind and
below the outside shoulder of each front passenger, and other stuff. Some
of these options were standard equipment regionally (for example, left or
right hand drive).

I had a '79 pop top Westy that had all the same configuration except it had
the big arm rests.

Not to mention, if you were patient, you could probably order just about
any configuration. I've seen some odd configurations.

Andy McKinley
'79 CA emissions Kombi (anyone have a port heat echanger for me?)
Alameda, CA

On Thursday, May 10, 2012, John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:
> On Fri, May 11, 2012 at 11:46 AM, Mike Soultanian
> <mike.soultanian(-at-)csulb.edu> wrote:
>
>> Unless what he was trying to say was that the purpose of the electric fan
>  was to help provide airflow when the engine fan isn't - then that makes
some
>  sense.
>
> I think that when the engine is above idle, the electric fan's air
> pressure is insufficient to overcome the engine fan pressure coming up
> to the fan through the heater ducting.
>
> John


-- 
Andy McKinley
airhedz(-at-)gmail.com

Love your country, but never trust its government.
-- Robert A. Heinlein.
