Date: Tue, 15 May 2012 19:28:37 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Front beam rebuild questions

Hey volks,

Worked on teardown tonight and it brought me a couple of questions and 
two suggestions.

Suggestions: I used a big two arm puller (Sears) and an impact gun to 
pop the balljoints. I can provide specific model if anyone wants it. The 
impact gun could have been done with a wrench instead. A cheap electric 
impact aka from the budget tools stores ought to do it. 150 ft lbs ought 
to be enough b/c I used a $30 air impact gun from Campbell-Hausfield. 
The balljoints were easy. The tie rod ends were easy too - I used a 
different tool from the FLAPS for that. Tighten the bolt and the tool 
pivots and pushes against the tie rod end bolt. Again - used that impact 
gun. My balljoints are on the verge of wearing out. They are loose.

Next suggestion - take the rubber bump stops off before you start the 
teardown if you plan to remove the trailing arms. Bentley doesn't 
mention that. What happens is you release the lower balljoint, upper 
balljoint, remove the spindle (which will fall to the floor when the 
upper balljoint releases - be ready, toes out of the way, ask me how I 
almost know), and then remove the lock nuts on the trailing arms and 
then the allen screws near their pivot point.

IF you didn't remove the bump stops the upper arm will push down so hard 
against the bump stop that the trailing arm won't slide off. I had to 
beat it off with a mallet. Used a sledge hammer part of the way with my 
12 year old son standing on the beam that was laying on an ancient B&D 
work table. I had him push down on prybar to try to pivot the upper arm 
off of the bump stop a little. Removing the bump stop would have made 
this step MUCH easier. I wish I had used my Sawzall to cut the bump stop 
bolt off instead.

The ball joints will need to be pushed out with a big hydraulic press as 
advised by the list months ago. I have one at work (60K lbs).

Looks like my 198K front beam has been rebuilt at some point. The 
steering stabilizer is an aftermarket replacement. The trailing arm 
bearing races have the indentions that the Bentley says need to be at 12 
and 6 o'clock are at 9 and 3 o'clock. Is that a big deal?

Also I have two broken leaves in the upper pack. Did break them beating 
the trailing arm off? Anyone got a set they'd like to sell from a 1978? 
Wish I kept that extra beam way back when.

So did I mess up the arm bearings beating the upper arms off?
Did I break the two leaves beating the upper trailing arms off with the 
mallet?
Anyone got a set to sell for a fair price?
Does it matter how the bearing races are oriented?

Thanks for any guidance that anyone can offer.

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy (Corvair implanted)
