Date: Thu, 6 Jul 2006 23:23:34 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Cc: VB list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: semisorta busless (was HOSED)

after 2 weeks and 3000 miles, i am now not only busless, but CARless. 
as a resident of manhattan, that is good.

after getting screwed by the transport company, i rustled up a 
trailer for the 24' moving van i was driving. bought the insurance 
(mom saw a news report about a trailer coming off, killing 3). 
reassured mom trailer wouldn't come off.

trailer came off the ball TWO BLOCKS from the dealer.

you knew that was coming........

dealer's fault. get new trailer - hooked up by employee who semed to 
know more than boss -  and we load the van. pack the van with as much 
stuff as i can, considering the trailer's max weight capacity. 
loaded 24' truck to at or near 12K load limit.  swallow hard, and go.

get lost in phoenix.  hey, the map said the 202 highway was done! 
saw 2 baja bugs, a nice early bug, and 1 bus in tucson.

no problems at all on trip; get to small town in texass where 70 is 
gonna get stored, right down the row from the 65.  see some old 
friends, drive on trailerless.

not a bug, bus or thing for 2k miles.  as it is non-bus related, i'll 
omit the part about  nightdriving in mountains in blinding rain with 
headlights aimed at sky. thanks, budget!

1 mile from parent's  house in upper st. clair, pa, i see a later bay 
at the po-leece house, with two older gents  chatting up a cop. i 
think they were getting registered - not a hassle stop.  plus, they 
looked like duffers, not stoners.  bus looked nice!

i have a hotwheels 'beach bomb' and a brekina singlecab sitting on my 
desk, otherwise i am temporarily OUT of the bus life.  i won't unsub, 
but i doubt you'll hear much from me.

considering the petulance (pestilence?) and woe of my last 2 year's 
worth of postings, perhaps a good breather for all :)
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
