Date: Sun, 09 Jul 2006 11:40:20 +0200
From: Erik Meltzer <ermel(-at-)ermel.org>
To: Type2 Mailing List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] rapid response to low oil-P

Hi Volks!

Robt Mann wrote:
> been proudly offered the
> much-trumpeted just-unveiled new model 404.  "Forget it  -  I want
> the proven 403 which impressed me in Africa" he said.  
[...]
> If you had the new VW water-cooled bus pushed at you in 1983
> and replied "no, I want the culmination of 4 decades of air-cooled
> development  -  get me the old model", would that be so crazy?  Well
> anyhow it may qualify as bus content  :-)

Well.  This is a quite poor example actually, as our beloved
airhowlers are in fact a little overstressed by that huge 
heavy unwieldy box that a Vanagon undoubtedly is.  We need to
remember that the Type 1 was made to drive a humble little Bug,
and the Type 4 was made to drive a not-so-little but still 
relatively humble 411.  They have to work hard pushing around 
a huge box on wheels.  And being air-cooled, they tend to get
hot when they have to work hard.

So if I were to get me a Bus-sized vehicle that I'd need to
be able to depend on, and possibly to drive flat-out all day, 
every day, no way would I get an air-cooled Bus, be it a 
Vanagon, Bay, or Splittie.  I know they can be made to last,
and I love them dearly (well ... except the Vanagon), and I
wouldn't be without one.  But for *work*, and that's what most
new vans are bought for, I'd prefer something more modern.

Not necessarily a waterboxer, though.  A 1900cc, non-turbo,
non-everything Diesel fills the bill rather more nicely.  And
since that wasn't available in 1983, I'd've gone for the 1600cc
Diesel.  Sure, it's underpowered.  But it will take any amount
of abuse for an arbitrary period of time.  And in 1983, it was
already proven technology.  Been available for six years, and
for two in the Vanagon already.

Airhowlingly yours,
   Erik.
-- 
"Apparently the fashion industry has decided it's a waste of fabric to make 
 fashionable clothes for men my age because -- and here I'm putting words 
 into their mouths -- it's like adding a sprig of parsley to road kill."
        -- Scott Adams
