Date: Tue, 24 Dec 2002 10:35:55 -0500
To: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: ncbus <macbus(-at-)mindspring.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Hillman Fastener

I have noticed a steady decline in the usefulness of hardware stores. 
In my area many of the independent ones have given over to selling 
high priced patio furniture and fancy dust ruffles. Ace, as someone 
else pointed out is, remains one of the few hardware stores that 
still sells hardware.

However I have found a much better solution. There is a business in 
Greensboro called Automotive Fasteners and guess what they sell? 
Greensboro is not a huge city, Maybe 225,000 and I can not think of 
any reason we have such a business but it THRIVES. I have walked in 
the counter sales area with various fasteners from splits and bays 
and they have always come up with the correct item.

When I was a kid (this was late 70's) and lived in Charlotte, NC my 
dad and I went to every hardware store in town looking for metric 
allen head bolts for the  neck on my BMX bike and came up empty 
handed. We finally went to a  supplier/wholesaler called Atlantic 
Fastener Co. After going to the counter and showing the clerk the 
stripped bolt he came back with a handful of the right thing. We were 
overjoyed.

To put a finer point on it, look beyond retailers that only want to 
move expensive items quickly. Home Depot is more interested in 
selling battery powered circular saws then hooking you up with a M12 
1.25x25 bolt.

Try the following
1) Call a local foreign car place and find out if they have a local 
supplier for fasteners and of machinist products.
2) Call a machine shop. Even a small town should have an automotive 
machine shop to keep the Detroit iron rolling.
3) Look in the yellow pages for fasteners, automotive, etc.
4) Find a ag supply place if you live in a rural area. Lots of farm 
equipment now has funny sounding names painted on the side and they 
may have metric stuff.

Happy Hunting
Chris
'68 Bus



At 8:52 PM -0800 12/23/02, Richard Atwell wrote:
>Folks,
>
>When I was in Austin I used to get most of my metric fasteners from Lowe's
