Date: Fri, 14 Jan 2005 22:45:14 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Electrical mystery

>From: Dan Epperly <braukuche(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
>Date: Fri, 14 Jan 2005 13:13:13 -0800 (PST)
>
>Need a little help with my electrical system. Its a 12 volt converted
>'65 Bus that has a dead electrical system. The battery checks out at
>12 volts and I have 12 volts going to the fuse box and to the headlight
>switch and to the ignition switch. When I turn the key, the whole system
>loses voltage.

You have too many volts in your Bus.  Restore to six volts and your
problems will be over.

:)

If your battery checks out at 12.00 V, it's actually fairly discharged.
A fully-charged 12 V car battery, no load, not recently charged or
discharged, should measure about 12.60 V.

First, get a little mirror and a flashlight.  Use these to check the
electrolyte level in each cell without taking the battery out of the
Bus.  If any cells are low, top up with distilled water.  Normally
it only takes a few ounces; if you've poured several ounces into one
cell and it's still not filling up, suspect a crack in the battery.

Then, if you have a battery charger, hook it up, let it run for at
least a few hours, and try again.  If you can start the Bus, then
your battery was discharged.  If not, there is some other problem in
your electrical system.

If you don't have a battery charger, try getting a jump start from
another car.  If the jump works, then your battery is discharged.  If
the jump doesn't work, then there is some other problem in your
electrical system.

If you determine that your battery is discharged, the next step is to
figure out why it discharged.  Did your Bus sit for a long time in the
cold?  Did you leave the dome light on?  Is the generator belt tight?
Is the generator working?  Are the battery cable ends shiny or crusty?

Note that it's possible to have a battery fail in such a way that it
can provide some current, but not enough to run the starter.  I had
one in my '89 Ch(-at-)vy that did this.  I could turn on the headlights,
or the wipers, or the heater blower, and they worked just fine... the
battery would even still measure 12.5 V.  When I hit the key for the
starter, the voltage collapsed to almost zero.

Some auto parts stores will test your battery for free, with a view
to selling you a new one.  You can do your own test: as the kid walks
out to your Bus with the battery tester, let him walk in front of you
and see which end of the Bus he heads for.  If it's the front, take
the test results with an appropriate grain of salt.

Matt Roberds
