From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 17 Jan 2005 00:17:29 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Fw: [VB] Bus startin' woes

In a message dated 1/16/2005 7:57:28 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca writes:
>>I'm pretty sure that my points and condenser are good - Muir says to clip a 
test light to the wire that goes from the coil to the distributor and to pull 
the centre wire out of the coil and to turn the engine over with a wrench 
etc.. I did all that and as I watched the points open and close the light would 
come on etc...<<
Hi Jdd,
That will work.  We just leave the wiring hooked up and clip the test light 
to the #1 coil terminal and ground the other end of the test light.  Then when 
the points are closed the light turns off and when points open light turns on.

>> He says that to test the ignition you clip a wire between the hot wire on 
voltage regulator ("the big red one") and the +15 wire going to the coil  
etc.. and if it starts then the problem is the ignition switch - so the hot wire 
on the ignition switch that he talks about ... would that be the red and black 
one that goes to the voltage regulator from - I guess the starter - or would 
that be the big red one that goes between the voltage  regulator and the 
generator - or does it matter?  <<

Really does not matter because as you found out you have coil power when you 
tested for the points to work.  If the ignition switch was not working at all 
the test light would not light up.  Suggest you do check voltage at the 
battery and the #15 terminal of the coil to see how much voltage drop is between 
them.


>>Again - when I turn the key on and pull the middle wire from the 
distributor and hold it next to a ground and turn the engine - no spark jumps - and when 
I pull a spark plug wire and hold that next to a ground and turn the engine - 
no spark. and coil is brand new. <<

Do that without the test light not hooked up to the coil to distributor 
wiring.  You also should try a differant coil to distributor spark wire, it might 
be bad.  Also clean, clean, and tighten all connections.
Eric&Barb
