Date: Sun, 16 Jan 2005 23:23:16 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Bus startin' woes

>From: "john d" <johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca>
>Date: Sun, 16 Jan 2005 18:02:43 -0500
>
>Anyway - I went partially through the Muir procedure for a vw that won't
>start and got to the point at which I tested my coil - I wasn't getting
>any spark from the coil - so I figured that must be the problem and went
>into town to crappy tire to get a new coil - put it on and ... damn -
>still no spark coming from the coil

Coil wire bad?  Substitute one spark plug wire for the coil wire and
re-run the test.  If you get a spark, replace the coil wire.

>why wouldn't I get spark if the key is turned on and there is power to
>it (at the +15 connection).

I agree with Eric&Barb.  Assuming the coil is good: points stuck closed,
points stuck open, bad condenser, short to ground in low-voltage wire
from coil to distributor.  First thing is to pop the distributor cap and
watch the points as you crank the engine with a wrench (key off) to see
if they appear to open and close.  If they're stuck, unstick them.

If the points look like they're opening and closing mechanically, you
can check them electrically.  Hook up your test light as if you were
going to time the engine.  Pull the center wire out of the distributor
so it won't actually start, then crank the engine with a wrench while
watching the test light.  Normally the light should flash off and on.
If it stays off, your points have something conductive stuck in them
or are stuck closed, your condenser is shorted to ground, or the low
voltage wire from the coil to the distributor is shorted to ground.  If
it stays on, your points have something non-conductive stuck in them
(including oil) or are stuck open.

If the light stays off and you suspect the condenser, unscrew it from
the distributor body and let it hang by its wire, with its metal casing
not touching anything.  Crank the engine with the wrench.  If the light
now flashes off and on, the condenser is shorted to ground and you need
a new condenser.  If it's still off, look for a short to ground in the
low voltage wire between the coil and the distributor.  It can get
pinched under the distributor cap, or the wire to the condenser can
get pinched between the condenser and distributor housing, or the
grommet where the wire goes through the side of the distributor can be
broken, or the terminal inside the distributor that the points connect
to can be shorted to ground.

An open condenser can also cause a no spark condition but it's a little
harder to test for.  Basically, if you've worked over everything else
and still suspect the condenser, replace it.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds
