From: Roamingwesty(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 19 Jan 2005 02:44:48 EST
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] BBB?????

OK I will do it.

A whole bunch of wierd Americans showed up in some beat-up old vans and were 
all happy...   oh wait that's letter to home. Sorry. Start again.

We left Flagstaff AZ Friday morning. When we left home at 7:45 it was still 
20some degrees. We met up with the caravan from Albuquerque Air Alliance at 
their hotel parking lot and got to Havasu at 2pm. (Our group had more than a 
dozen kids under 12. You could probably jog downhill and get there faster than the 
caravan.) The usual suspects are already onscene. John Howard was at the gate 
greeting people with one hand and charging entrance fees with the other, I 
mean giving out wrist bands with the other. Philip and Catherine was handling 
parking at this time. You cannot tell what matching t shirts they got on, but 
their orange vests were identical, true to form. More on them later.

Camps were already established when we got there. You have your usual 
VB-long-timer camp - JP, Sean (and Gus), Rachel and Jon, Clara, Greg Noble, and I 
heard John Kyte was 97 as well. Missed him the whole time. Next to them was the 
SV2s camp from SoCal, nicely represented with actual drivers Chris Fish, Ivan, 
Chris Cross and gang. Kustom Coach Werks' John Jones brought their "Slam 
Pumpkin" to be transacted. Then there's Ronnie's one-man, constant-people-flow 
camp. Further out on the lawn there's Tommy's 2 gorgeous buses on display, next to 
a 58' dlx and Tommy's baywindow for sale.   Then there's the stage. 

Directly next to the stage was the Yuma contingent. I kept forgetting names, 
so apologies inserted here for the whole report. Anyways, Jim Burnite, Jeremy, 
Kenny and others were there already.

On the other side of the stage, haha. VVVV   TTTT   OOOO   REPRESENT!!!! 
Steve and Stan, Big Hair Bob, Henry and others were there. And then there's my 
friend Chris George out of Vegas waiting for us. Eric of Vegas (EZ Gruv) was 
there with Lou, waiting for the AAA guys. Further towards the waterfront was 
shortly occupied by the later-than-usual TLR crew, with Kyle and Dede bringing out 
their Bambi this time. (FUBAR-V awaits a tranny at home this year.) And tons 
of buses from all over are there setting camps up.

Now don't get me wrong. Friday afternoon there was an unofficial count, over 
150 buses already. I'm extremely forgetful and am not the best person to 
report. Sorry if I forgot to mention anyone else. Clara is on her way thru the 
Grand Canyon and up north. If you can do better you've better start typing. Back 
to the report. By this time P&C are helping out with kids and rules. 

I was setting up camp. Becky walked around with kids to say hi to folks and 
to let them latch on to other people. (Now you know.) Soon it got dark, and 
then a diesel Rabbit pulled into camp, and out came Rob Lafoon and Erin, Mr. No 
Quarters, making a true rare apparence. Rare, cuz it took them 28 hours on the 
road to get to the balmy Havasu from Omaha. Their traveling companion broke 
down and had to turn back, they were the only 2 that made it. Other buskatiers 
that I haven't forgotten: Britt, Gerald Livingston, Dawn, Mike Hansen, Shawn, 
etc.

Speaking of Dawn. Richard Kimbrough arrived late at night with Rustybus on a 
towtruck. Tranny blew. That poor man would spend the better part of Saturday 
swapping trannies. But he could still be counted as a winner, for there was Pat 
from Colorado with his white and green standard bus that had the same 
problem. Richard got his bus buttoned up faster. Unfortunately for Pat, his straight 
axle called for a bug tranny and when he got it done at camp THE FIRST TIME it 
was a bus tranny that went in. Pat still kept at it Sunday morning at 
Ronnie's garage, and managed to get it corrected and returned as the raffle came to a 
close.

But that's jumping too far ahead. Timeline wise this was still Friday night. 
The taco truck pulled in with the melody horn, sounding surprisingly familiar 
as a roach coach. You saw people moving a little faster, with a little more 
expectation in their gaze. But I couldn't wait. Over the intercom said someone, 
"please one taco per person." Time to bust out the bratwursts I bought from 
Sam's Club.. Chris George, being an authentic French chef, hauled out like 10 
pounds of clams and mussels, and started cooking them with seasonings from 
scratch. My bratwursts were done and I wolfed down like 3 or more, yet I still 
managed to eat tons of Chris' cusine de camp. Crazy. 

Saturday morning, 2 buses getting trannies swapped, kids got their raffle 
numbers called. In random, but they ALL WON. Bouncie-bouncie was in place, and I 
smoked too much.
