Date: Thu, 23 Dec 2004 23:58:46 -0800 (PST)
From: Cliff Rhoton <commodore97210(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE:  Accufire Ignition

Accufire.  Low end, but usable.
     
I've used Accufire for most of the 4 or 5 years I've
owned my bus.  Installed in an 009, these low-end
units do work.  According to a salesman at Auto Craft
in Salem, Oregon, the Compu-fire is an American made
product, and the Accu-fire is a Taiwan clone, probably
made under license.  I have never used Pertronix, but
would presume its triggering mechanism to be better
built, and the Flamethrower 1 or 2 coils to be a
considerable upgrade over both points, and Accufire.
   
I did have an Accufire fail.  An installation boo-boo.
 It lasted about 50 miles.  But turn-back the clock a
bit.  Right after I first got the bus, we fixed the
"immediate imperitives."  Leaky exhaust.  Bad
stub-axle bearing.  Dying alternator.  And, we had
some engine running problems.  After several tanks of
gas and lots o'tinkering, discovered the distributor
shaft thrust bearing was shot...the distributor was
wabbling up-and-down, and was not delivering
consistent spark.  Enter the 009.  It was a quick and
easy fix.  But an 009 with points.  Then, some months
later, we upgraded from points to Accufire.  50 miles
later, in the middle of the countryside, it died. 
Thank the maker for triple-A.  But the Accufire
failure cause was an installation mistake.  It failed
because the rotor was rubbing on one of the wires. 
Duh!  We quickly replaced the Accufire with another,
and that was perhaps 4 years ago.  Note:  When
installing an Accufire, add to the installation kit a
nylon pull-tie, and prevent the wiring from rubbing
against the moving parts.
    
[Now, I am told the 009 is not correct for my '78 2.0
liter engine.  Since I have been a list member for
only about a month, it will behoove me to listen and
learn.  Apparently I need the features only offered by
a vacuum advanced distributor.]
    
For me, Accufire has been adequate.  But purists would
probably cringe. 
    
Clifford Rhoton
Portland, Oregon
1978 VW Camper Bus M.P. (Money-Pit)
