Date: Fri, 24 Dec 2004 10:24:16 -0800
To: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
From: Hal Sullivan <tristessa(-at-)frys.com>
Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Vanagon Hall-effect mini-howto (was Re: [T2] ACCUFIRE

At 03:07 AM 12/24/04, Don Tuleja wrote:
>> switched over to the OE hall-effect Vanagon
>> distributors.
>Is there a how-to for that swap? I'm curious... After all, Vanagons
>are plentiful in the junkyards.

I haven't seen a how-to and I haven't bothered to write one up, but it's pretty 
straightforward.  The biggest "gotcha" is that before the Vanagons went 
watercooled, only California-spec had the electronic ignition -- the other 49 states 
still got points.

You'll need the Vanagon distributor, module (usually a black thing on an aluminum 
heatsink, get the heatsink too) and the wiring  that connects the dizzy to the 
module and the coil.  You may have to cut the plastic thing on the end of one wire 
to "divorce" the ignition from the FI, but no cutting of wires should be needed. Also 
needed is a coil for a '79 Cali-spec Bus and the "correct" rotor for hall-effect -- I 
told the guy at Kragens that I had an '88 Golf -- because the resistance is different.  
Use your existing cap & wires.  There's also the "Idle Stabilizer" box, with two 
round plugs where it connects to the harness.  This can be "deleted" by hooking 
the two plugs on the harness together (they're designed to fit each other) if you're 
using carbs, which is what I've always done.

Once you've got everything, find someplace to mount the module that's in the 
coil/distributor "corner" of the engine bay, making sure there's enough length in 
the wires to reach everything.  Mount the coil, install the distributor, connect the 
wiring harness.  Hook up the vacuum advance (& the retard if you have it), rough
time things to be able to start the engine, then set the timing with a light.  

Don, if you do anything about this before you leave Cali for Colorado, go grab the
distributor.  Most of the other bits are common to watercooled VWs from the '80s 
so they're easy to get.  Coil would need to be ordered, my last one was $50 
