Date: Fri, 24 Dec 2004 11:35:59 -0800 (PST)
From: Cliff Rhoton <commodore97210(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] CIP aka www.cip1.com

I've used California Imports for perhaps 2 dozen
orders in the 5 years I've owned my bus.  Their
customer service has always been a-ok for me.  They
have screwed-up orders, and sent me the wrong parts. 
But dealing with them has not been difficult.  I find
it strange they call themselves "California.." when
they are located on the Washington Canada border, in
Blaine, Washington, and whatever town is 500 feet over
the border.
     
I prefer to purchase parts IN-PERSON.  I can do this
75 Miles to the south at a VW Parts-only establishment
named Auto Craft.  Salem, Oregon.  Knowledgeable,
VW-only junk yard in the back, several employees, a
going concern.  But they have no web presence, and I
am only infrequently down where they are.
     
CIP can however, can easily sell you crap.  You need
to be careful in your ordering, as quality will vary
greatly based upon which part of the world it is
manufactured.  Their catalog Ads readily say parts are
from Germany if they are from Germany.  But if CIP
says nothing about their country of origin or
manufacturer, then they are from Mexico, Brazil, who
knows.  In cases where I have ordered a "No location
stated" part, quality has usually suffered.  The
Accufire ignition is a good example.  But they also
offer Compufire and Pertronix.  Caveat Emptor.
    
I've ordered from the Bus Depot, Bus Boys, now
recently German Parts.  Both Bus Depot and Bus Boys
customer service are more T2 savvy than the "kids" you
talk-to when calling CIP.  Have only ordered from
German Parts once, but will go out on a limb to say
that Canadian supplier is probably of the T2-Savvy
classification, versus talking to some joe off the
street, sitting at a computer data entry screen.  Bus
Depot, Bus Boys, and German Parts all have a member
presence on this List.  I don't think CIP does.  If I
am wrong, please tell me.
   
By-the-way, this Type2 List is invaluable for me.
     
Clifford Rhoton
Portland, Oregon
1978 VW Camper/Bus "M.P." (Money Pit)
