To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 2 Jan 2003 23:33:32 -0600
From: myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Bay Window Calendar is here

WOO HOO!!!! I FINALLY MADE IT!!! LMAO!
my baby made december! the snow on the bus and ice in the trees... THATS
MINE! 

and the bus that is painted real psychedelic with "tie dyes of..." across
the nose... (top october) that was here in tulsa, too! the place is
called "tie dyes of tulsa". i have pics of it all around, awesome paint
job. kelly and her mom painted the whole thing theirselves, where there
werent dead stickers, that is. there was even stuff on the top (that i
only knew was there because i saw it being pulled onto a flatbed to be
taken to the shop too many times. kelly is so cool, too. she sold the bus
on ebay for way more than a normal ubpainted bus in it's condition would
go for. it wasnt running, but it had a unique paintjob. anyway, now she
has a vanagon and she has ALREADY started painting on it, lol! i have to
get pics of it "in progress". 

then there is the orange bus with the "rear-ender" (goes by the name of
"Julius"), that belongs to Mark Krauter down in Prague, OK (near OKC), so
that is at least THREE oklahoma busses!! YEE HAW!!!

anyway, thanks rob, you are the best! and you churn em out so quick! how
do you do it? you gonna do a vanagon one now? i have a few good pics of
my friend pete's DC and RHD vanagons, plus some aussie BAJA vanagons...
just a thought... i am sure they feel left out sometimes. OH! i also have
a pic of some of my fellow moonie's vanagons... the gold syncro that won
at BNNTA , bear's RHD irish vanagon camper and karl's vanagon westy. man,
i almost have enough vanagon pics to make a calendar already! but you are
the pro, i'll let you do it if ya like, lol!

waving excitedly cuz my bus is famous!!!
chris
70 westy (december pin-up girl)

On Thu, 2 Jan 2003 19:07:04 -0600 "Rob Laffoon" <captoaster(-at-)cox.net>
writes:
...
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/archives/extras/laffoon/baywindow2003calendar.
pdf
>    Rob Laffoon    (o\X/o)
> www.OmahaVWClub.com
>    www.Buskatiers.com
