From: Ronnie(-at-)OldVolks.com
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: VINTAGVW(-at-)listproc.sjsu.edu, buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org
Date: Fri, 3 Jan 2003 08:24:51 -0800 
Subject: BBB VII

  Buses by the Bridge is only 2 weeks away, the first VW event of the new
year, a quick run down on the event and what's going on

1. Friday is move-in day, get there early and watch the never ending stream
of VW's rolling in
2. Friday FREE TACO NIGHT hosted by The London Bridge Bullis
3. Friday night, relax and get to meet each other (last year over 110
campers were here by 10pm)

4. Saturday morning more people coming in
5. Sat afternoon the first raffle and start of the chili cook-off
6. Sat. all day, kids activities, non stop fun for the kids all day
7. Sat. 2pm, boat tour of Lake Havasu (8 dollar fee) sponsored by Lou, this
is not a mandatory event
8. Sat. (sometime) Polar bear  SUMO wrestling in the LAKE (a must see for
those not with a faint heart)
9 Sat. approx 4:30, chili cook off judging
10. Sat. free time till approx 7 pm, at that time the night time raffle and
auction
11. Sat evening, wander from camp to camp, talk buses, bugs or just plain BS

12. Sunday  8 am pancake breakfast sponsored by The Boy Scouts of America,
for 4 dollars eat all the pancakes you can
13  Sunday 10 am approx, final raffle after camp clean up
14 The sad part, saying good by to friends both old and new

a partial list of what you can win

Safari Windows
Westy roof rack
Bus side step
Not 1 but 2 split bus transmissions, one a center section and 1 complete
drum to drum big nut, with brakes and all
COMPLETE TURN KEY 1600, CW crank andall the goodies
T-shirts up the kazoo
A beautiful HAND MADE QUILT with 12 buses on it
EMPI bus steps
A new split bus gas tank
and the list goes on The Greatest VW raffle on the face of the earth (or
maybe just Havasu), this is just a partial list of what's we will have all
for just a 50 cent ticket

Go to www.busesbythebridge.com for a complete list of event sponsors


Ronnie  London Bridge Bullis
