Date: Fri, 3 Jan 2003 20:53:06 -0800 (PST)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Pictures of my refurbished engine compartment and my

Hello Tom,

Well, I wish I could say that I sprayed over the POR
15 black with 2 coats of white paint and it turned out
this well.Unfortunately, after I sprayed the first
whitecote, black showed through on all of the high
spots so I brushed on the second and third coat. I
filially ended up spraying the last coat to smooth
everything out. The point is, I shouldn't have used
black as my base coat. This sounds like common sense
and it is. If you use the POR 15 whitecote, make sure
you use the POR 15 grey as the base coat. You won't
have the problems that I did. In the end, everything
looks great but there is at least 4 coats of whitecote
on there.  For those wondering, I did follow the
instructions the best I could. The whitecote is a 2
part paint and you have to let it set for 30min or and
hour before use as far as I can remember. I don't
think I had to thin it. If I a did, I used a little of
POR 15's solvent. It wasn't hard, just time consuming.

The gas tank cover plate was sprayed with Plasticote
gloss grey spray paint. This is my favorite brand of
spray paint. It is sold at Advanced Auto Parts. It
turned out well with 2 coats.

The fan shroud is a story in its self. I put alot of
work into this thing. I took it apart and sand blasted
it. I then polished it and coated it with POR 15 clear
but I used the wrong clear. It turned almost a golden
brown from UV light. Because of this, I ended up
spraying it with F(-at-)RD Blue Plasticote spray paint. The
only problem I found is that after I sprayed it with
the 1st can, I could not find another can of the same
color that matched. A fluke I guess. 

Karl has pointed out to me that I have my flapper
boxes upside down and backwards. That would explain
why the cables didn't exactly match up. Hopefully my
creative blonde ingenuity doesn't show up on anything
critical!;o)

Thanks again for the replies. If you have any more
questions, please let me know.

Have a great day!

David Kelly

 <...>
--- Thosmcg(-at-)aol.com wrote:
> Thanks for sharing the pics. I was wondering how you
> applied the POR 15. Was 
> it sprayed on? If so, did you need to dilute it? 
> Thanks,  Tom
