Date: Tue, 7 Dec 2004 11:56:59 -0500
From: Jules Herr <jules.herr(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Bus runs, well kinda

Hi,

For the first time since I''ve owned my '71 westy I've got her to run.

Thanks to everyone who helped me get the 34PICT3 to fit the 1600DP
with an alternator.

So I started her up for the first time in over 3 years. This was a few
days ago when the temps were still in the upper 40's here in upstate
NY. She idled a little rough with a pop and a sputter here and there.
She also blew quite a bit of white smoke out the tailpipe for the
first few minutes, along with some small pieces of rust, most likely
from the rusting exhaust.

I finally found reverse and decided I'd take her out for a test drive
around my office parking lot where i've been working on her. Got her
to one end of the parking lot with no problems, then on the return
trip I noticed that as I would apply the gas and release the clutch
that there was some hesitation, then loss of power, then stalling. So
I rolled her back into here parking spot and started wondering.

I figure I've got to do the following before my next voyage:

Replace leaking pushrod tubes
Adjust valves
Adjust points/timing
Tune Carb

Should I complete these tasks in that order or is another preferred?
Any tips and suggestions before I  get started? Looks like the snow is
going to melt and I should have an afternoon or two of 40 degree
weather again to get these tasks completed, so I'm hoping to plan
ahead so everything goes smoothly.

A Question about pushrod tubes:
I've got the collapsible screw in types from bus depot and I noticed
there's a rubber o-ring included that doesn't seem to be doing much.
As shipped the o-ring is just sitting on the end of the threads. I'm
thinking I need to move the o-ring so it's between the adjustment bolt
and the other half of the pushrod tube. Does anyone have experience
with this type of pushrod tube they would like to share?

Also, I tried to get my bus started yesterday when the temps were in
the mid 20's and it idled really really rough, I'm hoping this will
improve once everything is adjusted properly, it just kinda surprised
me how much difference 15 degrees and some moisture in the air made
between my attempts on two different days.

Thanks in advance for any tips or suggestions
peace
jules
