Date: Wed, 20 Jan 2010 16:49:27 -0600
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: Susanne <baybridgesue(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] To cry over, was re: to drool for

> The real question is this.  Now that it's all purtyfied, how long before you see it on craigslist?  No... the REAL real question is, how much $$$ would it take to make this right again?  
>
> No matter what...  GET RID OF THAT TAIL-END SCRIPT ON THE NOSE!!!!  Looks F(-at-)^&!nG dorky.  ICK!!
Yeah put the nose back original. NOW! GRIN!

Kind of undecided on the side moldings. Would prefer to have the OEM 
style and under the windows. The frenched in exhaust I REALLY like. The 
cleaned up dash cover (underneath) I like. I REALLY like the brakes. 
These things can go back to OEM original if I want to later 'cause they 
bolt on.

Things I don't particularly want is the lowered suspension. I like to go 
places with my wife and children. We go over mountains and down gravel 
roads. We drive to campgrounds. Our cars get wet.

I have family with streetrods. Big turning radiuses and very little 
wheel travel come to mind when I think about lowered suspension. Fun for 
a little while, alot of work to me after a while to avoid all the holes 
and bumps. Your mileage and preferences may vary. No sweat off my back. 
That said my Beetle is a little lower. I like the look. Not so happy 
with the loss of utility (how many passengers can't ride in a lowered 
passenger bus?).

I don't mind bolt on changes. My inner antique enthusiast can get along 
with that.

I like the hidden-ish stereo. Am on the other side of the stereo divide 
though. The older I get the less interest I have in loud music or radio. 
LOL! Radio has to me (your miles may vary) become too many obnoxious 
commercials (SUNDAY! SUNDAY! SALE! SALE! SALE!). Quit yelling at me Mr. 
Radio DJ! Please? I still love music but these days it is either NPR or 
prerecorded music. Broadcast radio doesn't cater to someone like me. 
Radio Paradise does pretty good (Google it). In my Beetle I'm working 
towards locating a stock AM radio. I have seen a stockish AM/FM radio 
that I'd rather have. FM gives me that dose of NPR on the commute if I 
want it.  Our Westy is sportying a basic digital tuning stereo with 
cassette (!). It is a longer distance ride so I might spring for a MP3 
player someday or something with USB. No fancy lights necessary. Man I'm 
getting boring in my middle age... LOL!

Wish somebody would "steal" by Westy and return it with a new paintjob 
top to bottom/inside and out and a new interior after hypnotizing me to 
find out just what I want. Already have the fabric. Already got the 
colors decided. Just need the paint job fairy to come along when I'm not 
looking. LOL! Oh and install that "frenched" exhaust/bumper combo...

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2,7L (Corvair implanted but no cutting)
