Date: Thu, 21 Jan 2010 23:26:40 -0600
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: "Accessys(-at-)smart.net" <accessys(-at-)smart.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Mig Welders

> I have a small lincoln 120v mig welder and it is more than enough for
> occasional VW bus usage.  think it was about $150 plus another $100 or
> so for a gas bottle (but I bought a big bottle too)
I know I'm replying to an OLD thread (like back in October) but I wanted 
to add a couple of things.

I had a 120V flux-core wire welder. It was an Italian make and was a 
real starter welder. It had two quality problems - VERY little heat 
control. Like hi and low but infinite wire speed control. I did a few 
GOOD welds on my utility trailer and lawn tractor deck back in the day 
but with the very limited heat settings it would only weld on a few 
different thicknesses of materials. High temp liked thicker steels of 
course, low on mower deck thickness metals. One problem was the flux 
core wire. It takes a significant amount of heat to get a bead started. 
On thin materials like a vehicle body that temp is often higher than the 
temp at which the body steel burns through. A .025" solid wire with a 
gas bottle allows a person to weld at lower temps and thus on thinner 
materials.

The other quality shortcoming was a plastic wire feeder chassis. It 
flexed. By the time I got it cranked down tight enough to feed correctly 
it flexed and needed a C-clamp to get enough clamping force to feed the 
wire reliably.

In other words you get what you pay for.

Look for a used 120V Miller or Lincoln is my opinion. It will get you 
welding. You might want a 220V machine later.

 From what I understand the difference between the 120V and 220V 
machines is duty cycle. Indeed my little Italian welder had a very short 
duty cycle. When welding on high on my trailer lawn mower ramp I could 
weld for a little while and then the machine would shutoff until it 
cooled off. It did not have an internal fan. Eventually I removed one 
side and aimed a table fan at it. It helped a little. The more I pushed 
the machine the shorter the welding period would get to a point.

Fast forward to 2009 and I bought a Lincoln SP-180 220V welder. It welds 
effortlessly by comparison. The duty cycle is much better and I have not 
overheated it once. It has a fan. It has many heat settings allowing me 
to pick the right temp to go with the right wire to go with the material 
I am trying to weld. I have read up on the Miller and it was just as 
good. Perhaps better? The Miller vs Lincoln debates on the web rival 
politics or Ford vs Chevy vs Chrysler trucks. GRIN!

The 120V version of my welder would likely have a lower duty cycle, less 
power to weld thick materials, but probably just as capable of welding 
body panels because they are thin and you don't want to concentrate too 
much heat anywhere (warpage). Fewer heat settings to choose from with 
the missing heat ranges at the top of the temp range I suspect.

The gas regulator came with my welder. Dunno if the 120V machines comes 
with the gas kit. I bought my gas bottle from a local welding supply 
store. I can refill it later. I could have also rented the bottle but I 
expect to consume the gas so slowly that the rental fees might eat me up.

Shop around for welder prices. I saw a $200 range in prices for the very 
same welder. The local big box retail hardware store had the same price 
as the online source I ultimately used but the online guys threw in a 
free cart and free shipping and no taxes (not necessarily a good thing 
considering the condition of our state's budget).

I am happy with the welder enough that I bought another one this week 
for our shop at work. We've got TIG, stick, oxy-acetylene torch and now 
MIG. These are for teaching and for smallish projects so it will exceed 
our needs.

Hope this helps someone!
Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L (Corvair implanted)
