Date: Fri, 22 Jan 2010 10:14:31 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Bob VBABOSTPratt <bob.pratt(-at-)va.gov>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] Mig Welders

Piece of Romex with dryer end works fine Bob, much cheaper than flexible cord,
and as long as you don't move it much (not very flexible) just fine in a
practical (though not legal) sense.  Do remember that you don't need as much
thickness with 220V anyway, because you are only pulling half the current, so
if you have an old real HD piece of cord around (say a good ole spare late
Westy extension cord where the ends have succumbed to age) or 30A RV cord,
that with dryer end and matching your other end will be fine too.  30A 120V
cord is of course good for 60A at 220V more or less, particularly as you won't
often run that high anyway.  For the female end, use a little $0.50 steel
handy box with a Romex clamp and buy your desired 50A socket and coverplate,
instead of getting one of those that is stand alone like people use for a
dryer, because then you haven't thrown away the $15 for the socket when you
want to put it in the wall of the garage, you can
 use all of it later and are only out the cord and the dryer plug end.  Hell
if you reuse the Romex you aren't even out the cord.  And of course look at
the garage carefully, if you are somehow lucky enough to have miraculously a
circuit with only 1 or 2 outlets on it, and nothing else (no lights, pop!!!),
that you can spare (it does happen sometime) and have a spare slot in the
breaker box for the 220V breaker, you are ready to go with just a few minutes
wiring work already.
 
As I said many times of course, I would have gotten (and have by choice
several times now) a 120V machine, but I have a heavy old copper wound stick
welder to do heavy stuff.  Youll love learning MIG, and the Lincoln is a good
quality machine, not quite blue, but better than most 8-)
 
The bottle given to you may be a deal or not, depends if it needs hydroburst
tested or not, I don't know current regs on CO2/argon tanks but used to be
either 5 or 7 years.  Some places will take even an expired tank without
dinging you because they have their own test rigs and don't care as it doesn't
add much expense, some charge you.  If not expired most will simply exchange
freely.  I actually often watch more that I don't get reversed time wise like
trade a good tank recently tested for one that is stamped 4-5 years ago
because at the rate I use gas, will probably be expired when I next fill it
and that might screw me.  Up here in AK though the major supplier doesn't
care, unless what you swap looks terrible, they just swap it out.  Which leads
to another point, sometimes not a bad idea if you are trying to swap an
expired one that looks terrible to hit it with a wire brush and $5 of rattle
can machinery gray, what looks clean often doesn't
 get looked at very hard.
 
John

--- On Fri, 1/22/10, Pratt, Bob, VBABOST <bob.pratt(-at-)va.gov> wrote:


From: Pratt, Bob, VBABOST <bob.pratt(-at-)va.gov>
Subject: RE: [T2] Mig Welders
To: accessys(-at-)smart.net, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Friday, January 22, 2010, 9:45 AM


I just got a Lincoln Electric 180 for Christmas. I haven't been able to hook
it up yet as there is no 220v in the garage. Right now I'm in the process of
rigging a temporary extension cord so that I can plug it into the dryer
outlet. My niece's husband just gave me a tank. All I have to do is get it
filled or exchanged. I've never welded before and looking forward to
learning how.

Bob
