Date: Sun, 24 Jan 2010 12:28:05 -0600
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: Courtney Hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>
Subject: Re: [T2] Essential spare parts list for 2000 mile trip ? 77

Start with the items you have on hand that would be difficult to get 
from a standard FLAPS. A whole spare fuel injection system wouldn't take 
up much space. Don't forget the wiring harness for the EFI if you have one.

I'd carry a small assortment (like ten pieces) of electrical crimp 
connectors and a crimper/stripper. On several occasions I have had some 
female connector break off right at the crimp. It's going to happen 
every 30 years - ya know? -GRIN!-

Carry a toolbag with the tools you'll need including the weird stuff 
like the 36mm axle nut socket and a handle for it. Get at least a basic 
$10 voltmeter to carry along.

I'd carry a spare thermostat if you have one. Maybe an extra sparkplug 
(x1 or 2, if you need a full set go to a FLAPS), points and condensor, 
and extra gaskets (a set if you have one). Perhaps an extra voltage 
regulator for the alternator and fan belt. The roadside emergency stuff. 
A set of spare fuses because they rarely go out fo rme but they are 
small and light.

I don't carry spare alternators or starters or distributors. I used to 
but the weight adds up quickly. They seldom have broken for me and I'll 
risk the chance that one will fail and I'll have to wait overnight for 
one to be shipped to me. FWIW I have never had one fail completely 
without weeks of warning. I plan to buy a rebuild kit for my alternator 
and starter to pack along in the future. If I can't do the work at least 
I could take the parts to a rebuilder or a garage and let them rebuild 
my starter or alternator. Some roadside repairs are tough without a 
bench vice but any shop will have one.

What I do try to do is ALL the maintenance to my vehicle before a week 
of commuter duty to test the maintenance I did and prove that I did it 
all right.

Check the CV joint boots, check the torque on the CV bolts, axle nuts, 
tightness of the steering parts, adjustment of the brake shoes, eyeball 
everything.

You know your bus the best. If you are taking a basket-case on a road 
trip then anything could happen. If you know your bus is "right" (keep 
it well cared for) then it will likely stay right for your trip in my 
opinion. My '78 has never required much attention on short notice. A 
part will wear out just like a modern car and rattle or roar or whatever 
giving me fair warning that a problem is developing.

Have lots of fun. I've got a touch of cabin fever and would really like 
to go "somewhere" - or "anywhere" right about now...

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L
