Date: Fri, 26 Aug 2005 22:18:41 -0700
From: john kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Wife sez the bus isn't reliable enough to go to

It's really up to you to know if your bus is in shape for the trip.
You are the one who is in tune with it's status. If you have anything
getting flakey like that starter, you had better take care of it. You
know you will never hear the end of it if you break down on the trip.
Be honest with yourself and with her and she will trust you. Never
hurts to remember how many broken down newer cars you have passed
while driving your bus.

Here's a story for you on how I got a deal on my 80 Vanagon way back
when before I was into VW's. We searched and searched for a van in
good condition in the $2,000 price range. Couldn't find one. The good
ones seemed to start at $3000 and the $2000 ones seemed like junk. So
we find the Vanagon for $2250. It provided great trouble free service.
Turns out a year or so later I am talking to a friend at work. Turns
out she knows PO. When she told him about me and how happy I was with
the van he couldn't believe it. He says he sold the van because it
constantly had problems. Turns out he fixed everything by the time I
got it. So your little rash of issues may be all it needed to get it
into shape.

If you were driving a 2005 Eurovan camper, your wife would have no
qualms at all. Many years ago I was listening to a car talk show and
the announcer said he would have no qualms about driving an old car if
everything was kept up on it. As said before on this list, a bus
maintained like new is like a new bus and just as reliable as it was
when it was new.

John

On 8/26/05, Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:

 We were talking about the trip to Cali in October that we've been
 planning. I mentioned that I'm spending this weekend under the bus to
 find out just why I'm having such a rash of little issues. She said
 it's fine for puttering back and to work, but she doesn't trust it for
 anything else.

 I think the triggers were the fact that my less than a year old Kragen
 starter is going out and the bolts that hold the steering column to
 under the dash popped out the other day (I have no idea what that was
 about. There's one bolt left. They're getting replaced tomorrow).

 But how do I explain that busses were MADE for these kinds of
 trips?!?!?! If I can't convince her then it's either Grayhound or
 Frontier Airlines. :(
