From: Chuckinsey(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 27 Aug 2005 11:23:33 EDT
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Keeping my '82 Westy roadworthy

We made the trip from Carlsbad to the Redwoods and back in July with the  
help suggestions and tips from this group.  Now we are setting off on  another 
adventure on  Surf-ari up to a great surfing beach for some pre  Labor day 
weekend surfing.  
 
Today, I will be taking my OEM oil filter over to Pep Boys and have them do  
a $40 oil change using Mobil 1  15w 50.  Yep only 3000 miles on it and  it is 
guaranteed for at least 6000 but my baby loves fresh.  I use 2 oz of  Lucas 
upper cylinder lube in the gas every tankfull and so it has cleaned the  carbon 
and some of it is in the oil at least color wise.  Oil Change $40 vs  new head 
approx $500   do the math.
Monday I go to B & R in oceanside for a physical exam.  (Daddy promises it 
won't hurt)   Factory spec timing.  Wires, fuel lines, alternator belt, (enen if 
yours looks good, put on new  and keep old as spare) brakes, body bolts, 
propane tank and guard  bolts.  Check it all.  I  wash the Westy when I pick it up 
and  vacuum the carpets and make it all snuggy for my bride of 29 years.  
Fill  with premium.  Only use premium for road trips with wifey.  Call me  stupid 
but so far not one little tiny hic up  from the engine.   Add two ounces 
Lucas.   Put one quart of Mobil One 15-50  to be  added 1/2 quart at a time in 
cupboard next to small tool kit.  If you are  worried about a headlight  Napa has 
them for 12 bucks.  I blew  one and got them at Napa in Santa Barbara where 
the VW dealer literally  escorted me out of the shop telling me that they will 
not touch an '82  because they might break something. (Hello Tourag buyers, 
did  the greedy salesman mention that when your Tourag is old that  VW will not 
have anything to do with you?)  The fuse issue stopped  when I removed and 
cleaned and resealed each of my brake and fog lamp outer  plastic thingies.  Lots 
of WD 40. But I have lots of spares.
 
Never exceed 70 and try to pin at 65mph.  (floating valves are not a  pretty 
thing, nor are bent pushrod tubes) I let my wife drive twice on our  vacation 
as I specifically have owned only automatic Westies since the  70's.  Who do 
you think drove over 70 mph for the first time since I have  owned the vehicle? 
 Right.  Shame shame.  Love your westy and she  will love you back.  
 
Have fun on your CO CA run and remember that truckers don't mind westies in  
their lane as long as you move over if they are fast approaching from the rear 
 and there is a short skirt somewhere (hopefully you will not be wearing it)  
visible from their angle.  Never return single finger salutes with more  than 
a smile.  
 
Respectfully submitted,
Chuck
