Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Sat, 27 Aug 2005 13:01:35 -0400
To: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Wife sez the bus isn't reliable enough to go to

Hi Don,

The topic here isn't the bus... it's about relationships, trust and  
expectations.

*We* know that you and your bus can make the trip.  You're preaching  
to the choir, as you probably expect. And there are few amongst us  
who will publicly advise you to "Take the car".

SCENARIO #1
If your wife's mental picture of your upcoming trip consists of  
candle-lit dinners and long, meaningful discussions as the miles go  
by, then *her* trip would be devastated by even a "minor" breakdown.  
That's going to be hard to overcome. It doesn't matter if the bus is  
capable or not.... If she *thinks* that it isn't reliable, she will  
spend the whole trip listening for that strange engine sound before  
launching that important conversation. And it's possible that for her  
the trip is more about that discussion than it is about getting to  
and from the destination.

COURSE OF ACTION:
Stage a flurry of minor show-stoppers throughout September.  
Demonstrate your "McGuyver" prowess using bubble-gum and hair-pins to  
repair a variety of ills that will cultivate a sense of awe and  
wonder at your mad skillz and the most excellent user-serviceable  
german design. You have to emphasize your mad skillz here, not the  
frailty of the bus. Also make her aware that commuting short  
distances qualifies as "severe operating conditions" in a VW bus,  
whereas long distance highway travel is actually less troublesome.

SUPPORT PLAN:
Put some gauges in there if you don't have them already. CHT,  
voltmeter and oil pressure are the Holy Trinity I drive by. (No  
religious offense intended) With more feedback, the passengers have  
more awareness of what's going on, and that helps build faith in the  
driver.

There are spouses out there that take a while to come around to the  
"adventure" of bus vacations. My wife experienced the thrills of  
Westy ownership before we were married; Back in 1986 I had a '72  
westy...back then it was just an "old" car, rather than a classic.  
She quickly learned not to get too dressed up for a date, in case she  
had to get out and help bump-start the darn thing. When we got our  
next bus in 1997 she had a good idea what to expect, and for the past  
8 years it's been a lot of fun.

On 26-Aug-05, at 5:41 PM, Don Tuleja wrote:

> We were talking about the trip to Cali in October that we've been
> planning. I mentioned that I'm spending this weekend under the bus to
> find out just why I'm having such a rash of little issues. She said
> it's fine for puttering back and to work, but she doesn't trust it for
> anything else.

Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada M1B 4C9
www.pottsfamily.ca
(416) 724-8808

Remember:

Amateurs built the Ark
Professionals built the Titanic
