Date: Sat, 27 Aug 2005 11:47:10 -0700
From: john kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Cc: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Wife sez the bus isn't reliable enough to go to

My wife is always ready to go in a bus anytime anywhere with me,
whereas I am the more cautious and hesitant one. If a bus hasn't
proved a track record of reliability, I am hesitant to risk it. And
since we usually repair with used parts, I always have a nagging
feeling of insecurity that I am going to be stranded in the middle of
nowhere by a fuel pump, or coil or something giving out on me.

Of course, in reality we have often been forced to take an unproven
bus on many of our trips just because we are always scramblnig to
piece something together in time for a trip. On our trip to LA for the
niece's wedding that we combined with our coast tour, we barely got
our 72 put together. We had tire failure (new tires sat for 7 years),
and a brand new electric fuel pump failed, both on top of Hwy 36 in
the middle of nowhere. But we recovered from both in good fashion and
had a great adventure. The 82 Westy we put together for the honeymoon
was out of the picture due to breakdown on the way to the reception.
Later found out it was a clogged fuel filter. So we took an 80 Audi
that I also just put together. Made it to Vermont and back, but when
we got to Wyoming on the way back, it was getting increasingly
difficult to start after getting gas, so we stopped turning it off and
drove round the clock. Got back to Red Bluff, and it barely had enough
power to get over the bridge over I-5 and limped the last couple of
miles at 3 mph! Sometimes faith and a belief in blessings helps!
Another story was finishing the 62 the night before Shasta Snow Trip.
Didn't run well getting there, so the guys finished tweaking it at the
maintenance stop at Christopher Moore's. Did well from there, but got
knocked out of the trip when the snow started and the wiper motor only
lasted 3 minutes! But got home fine and it ran like a champ. Hit 80
mph on some of those downhills!

John

On 8/27/05, Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca> wrote:

 There are spouses out there that take a while to come around to the
 "adventure" of bus vacations. My wife experienced the thrills of
 Westy ownership before we were married; Back in 1986 I had a '72
 westy...back then it was just an "old" car, rather than a classic.
 She quickly learned not to get too dressed up for a date, in case she
 had to get out and help bump-start the darn thing. When we got our
 next bus in 1997 she had a good idea what to expect, and for the past
 8 years it's been a lot of fun.
