Date: Thu, 7 Sep 2006 08:31:37 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: RE: [T2] Emissions Test Maryland 79 Bus

Anymouse sent:

>Pat, it has been said that the gas for us north easterners is oxygenated  in
>winter to reduce emissions.  What ever that means!!
>
>Perhaps you might have a different reading with the oxygenated  winter
>gas.....

	I've no measurements on this, but it's a plausible idea.  The 
compounds called 'oxygenates' are added to petrol  -  and if there's 
none of that lying around, gasoline  -  for the purpose of decreasing 
emissions.  If tuned for that fuel, and perhaps without any special 
tuning for it, you are likely to register lower emissions on test if 
you are burning fuel with oxygenate additive.  If you're struggling 
to meet the emissions test, you could consider saving winter 
oxygenated fuel for the test.  On the other hand, petrol is a far 
less stable misture than many assume; it forms varnishes & other 
nasties on a similar time-scale ca. 6 mo.  More reliable might be to 
slap 10% ethanol into fresh premium summer petrol.

	 Ethanol EtOH is the most important oxygenate (a colossal 
racket of billion-dollar subsidies to ADM to make it from maize). 
Another is MTBE  -  methyl tertiary-butyl ether  -  the story of 
which will be told in Rolling Stone some day.  The world's biggest 
methanol factory was foisted on my country by Mobil & Bechtel as one 
of a suite of 'Think Big' industrial projects in the early 1980s. 
The methanol was intended all to be polymerised into a form of 
petrol, with byproduct LPG, by polymerisation in 'Mobil's noo 
catalyst ZeeSM-5', a zeolite mineral.  This part of the plant has 
been mothballed for a dozen y now  -  and I can't get the NZ media to 
report the fact.  The methanol has therefore been exported  -  for 
many y, mostly to make MTBE in N. Amer.  Then some MTBE showed up in 
some Calif groundwater  -  inevitable in view of the oil gangs' 
sloppy attitude to leaks in underground petrol tanks.  Instead of 
requiring that the tanks be lined (being as how ornery petrol without 
MTBE is a lousy substance to let into groundwater anyway) the krazy 
kalifornians banned MTBE.

-- 
Robt Mann
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
'69 Renault 10  -  The Water Wagon
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
http://www.dave-cushman.net/misc/mannject.html
