Date: Thu, 7 Sep 2006 21:01:58 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] Emissions Test Maryland 79 Bus

Tony in NJ quoth
>>  you
>>could just be putting in more BTU's to make ethanol from corn
>>than you get back burning the ethanol... ;-(


Greg responded to Tony:
>
>That statistic is more than a decade out of
>date.  It ignores the energy recovered by using
>wastes from the distillation produce as
>feedstock for domestic animals. There are a LOT
>of ways that these byproducts can be utilized.
>Then start using more efficient methods to
>distill and your yeild per btu gets a LOT higher.
>
>Another little-known fact is that petroleum
>distillation also uses more energy than it
>produces.

	sorry Greg  -  it's not that inefficient
-  see fig below (from Science)


	I watched with dismay an ill-informed
argument about whether die Krdute had nitrous
oxide on W2 planes (they did).  At the risk of
overpeaking, here's my attempt to get this new
topic in perspective, deterring misinformation.
	Vehicle drivers have good reasons to be
informed on the burgeoning range of fuels
available, and on the changing composition &
performance of a given class of fuel  -
especially petrol.  A lot of vehicle fires have
been caused in my country by furtive punitive
changes in petrol composition, and a lot of
pistons had holes burned in them by synthetic
petrol in S. Africa.
	I don't expect everyone to read this
MannGram, but I do offer it as evidence of
serious problems with energy farming.  Tony
happens to be right  -  on this, if not on his
taste for Pommie cars  ;-)   Many versions of
energy farming fail to deliver net energy worth
the land, labour, lubricants, etc.


	 Energy Farming
		  -  a source of Net Energy for transport ?
		L R B Mann	Nov 2004   rev.Sep 2006

	I have been involved (sporadically) in
discussing energy farming since the start of its
'modern era' in the mid-1970s (a response to the
famous 'Arab Oil Shocks').
  	The most favourable net energy estimate I
know of for a particular energy farming concept
was calculated by Dr Carl Henderson, who did his
doctorate in France then came back to NZ and
calculated  20 y ago that the beet-ethanol
concept would give an energy ratio of up around a
half-dozen (NZERDC Report 129, June 1986).  The
report was not pubd by a reputable outfit, but I
believe this particular report deserves more
attention.  I am asking Dr Henderson to slap it
on some suitable website.  He calculated the
energy ratio of producing ethanol from sugar
beet: an energy ratio of 3 for a factory without
methane digestion, and 5-6 for a factory with
methane digestion.  The attractive price from
selling one of the wastes, beet pulp, as an
animal feed will probably dictate a factory
without methane digestion.  Fodder beet had
slightly lower energy ratios than sugar beet.
	This energy ratio = (ethanol energy
out/total energy into the farm and the factory).
	In view of my care in stating my
conclusions, I would hope to be understood as not
utterly against energy farming.  But I intend to
continue to emphasize, as have leading scholars
like P S Corbet & D Pimentel, the fundamental
importance of net energy.

	All such concepts must be appraised not
only on net energy (which if around zero, let
alone if very negative, should cause the concept
to be abandoned) but also on those neglected
criteria which most concern all decent ag
research.  Swapping one monoculture for another
is not much progress.  In 1972 the mis-named
'Blueprint' for Survival (main author Goldsmith)
emphasized the need for rural resettlement;
lo-labor monoculture is inimical to that
priority.  A given system of energy farming for
transport fuel, even if proven to produce net
energy, may be obnoxious if it tends to minimise
rural labour, biological diversity, freedom from
pesticides, etc.

	In the mid-late 1970s many concepts were
discussed for producing transport fuels from
biomass.  Many trees and crops were examined with
a view to converting this or that part of the
plants into liquid fuels (e.g ethanol), or
gaseous fuels (usually methane).  The image
generally pushed was harvesting of solar energy
by sustainable agribusiness systems  -  an
oxymoron.
	Energy R&D funding in the main modern
period of NZ energy farming discussions & trials
was dominated by C J Maiden's 'NZ Energy R&D
Cttee', including Garth Harris's Growth Scenarios
group, and then Maiden's 'Liquid Fuels Trust
Board'.  I tried in vain to get Garth to take
account of ecology, or just for a start the First
Law of Thermodynamics, in his massive energy
farming scenarios.  BTW the traitor Scott, later
Secretary of the Treasury, was involved in a
small way, paid part-time by Garth to read up on
sustainability (it did not sink in) and a
co-author of Garth's Growth Scenarios.  Garth
summarised late in the 1970s the NZERDC-funded
studies on energy farming (1)
	The simplest issue that awful group would
not consider was the energy required for growing,
harvesting & processing biomass for fuel
production.  Philip Corbet, founding prof of
environmental sciences Canty/Lincoln, kept
pointing out the need for careful estimates.  The
Maiden cttee went so far as to fund Corbet's
assistant R G Pearson who urged (2):

The technology of interest that could be
fruitfully examined is that of fuel crops.
  Proposals to build energy supply systems based on photosynthetic materials
to produce ethanol have been given serious consideration recently.
The degree of important placed on the concept is indicated by the major
(by NZ standards) funding of fuel cropping evaluations.
Net energy calculations are a necessary first step in any such
evaluation, to test the concept's viability and to help steer research
efforts along energy-frugal paths.

		Pearson did not, however, go so
far as to state definitions of any energy ratios.
Neither did Harris(1)  -  which did not however
stop him from asserting a column of figures
called 'Energy Ratio' of crops  -  lowest 17
(maize), fodder beet 24, gorse 90, radiata pine
21-32.

	The Harris/Scott Growth Scenarios group
asserted biomass can be a net energy producer.
The only ref they gave turned out to be a CSIRO
pubn containing no energy input estimates, merely
using an alleged conversion factor 75MJ/$ to get
from approximate *money* input estimates to even
more uncertain energy inputs.
	But the fabled Market is too stupid to
invest in appropriate technologies.  I see no
hope for real progress in our country until we
restore the Mixed Economy  -  democratic
ownership & control of the main utilities, and
public planning to ensure people can earn their
living, as well as being protected from
unnecessary hazards.

	With a billion humans undernourished,
biomass arising as a byproduct of food production
is morally different from assigning land to mere
energy production.  A good example is conversion
of tallow by transesterification with methanol to
make what might be called a quasi-biodiesel fuel.
We have the world's biggest methanol factory,
whose output is no longer used for Maiden's
greatest flop (the mothballed Mobil/Bechtel
synfuels rort) nor for making the MTBE now banned
in Calif.  Tallow esters would seem a high
priority for oil substitution.  But the NZ
refinery was expanded in such a way as to
maximise dieseline production (of high sulfur
content), and we have imported bulk used Jap
diesel vehicles (I've been driving one).  The
sub-micron particles from modern 'lo-smoke' EFI
diesels are ranked by some experts as  _the_
under-rated public health problem in our cities.
Conversion of many diesel vehicles to CNG (& CBG)
should be urgently investigated.  Such as remain
on dieseline should be supplied with as much
tallow ester admixture as we can make.  Transport
fuels from wastes is a realistic theme; what I am
cautioning against is careless dedication of land
to energy farming which *may* absorb more fuel
than it produces.

	Another case is ethanol from sugar cane,
notably in Brazil.  For Louisiana sugar cane, the
ratio energy out : energy in  is in the range 1.8
- 0.9 (3).  The authors conclude "Such a small
return on energy investment is not likely to help
solve the national energy problem"  and helpfully
add: "For comparison, the net energy benefit of
gasoline from Gulf of Mexico oil is about 6:1".
