Date: Thu, 7 Sep 2006 21:03:48 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: energy farming  -  the other half

	Another concept for energy farming is the
anon undated (ca.1998) 'underground, suppressed'
PDF 'Biodiesel from Algae' which Molly Melhuish
kindly made available since it disappeared from
several wesbites.  This reminds me of the gushing
about bullrushes based on their reported world
record for productivity (19t[dry]/ha.y).  L D
Hills wrote scathingly that the naive enthusiasts
had not thought how to harvest the crop - and at
the time this was true.  The harvesting of algae
is not dealt with by this review.  How would
algae be harvested from 'racetrack' ponds?  (The
raupo problem was solved by Art Haughey at the
Mangere sewage works 1978-84  -  grow the plants
as a chain of floating mats.  This should be
pursued at sewage lagoons.)
	Art Haughey & I have prepared more
detailed comments on that anon US Dept of Energy
review which are too bulky for this brief note.
Suffice it to say that net energy is not taken
seriously, and "in the 1990s genetic engineering
had become the main focus of the program"  -
despite which " best results were obtained using
native species of algae that naturally took over
in the ponds".

	I'm particularly glad to see that I warned in 1978 of

  > ...  possible precipitate, rash efforts in genetic engineering
to fix nitrogen from the air and otherwise to improve plant yields
{ref. R Revelle, Sci Am Sep '76 173}.  The hazards of such research
are not well known but do include potential disasters {3 refs}; and the
failure of the DSIR to comply with the environmental impact reporting
procedures before its apparently dangerous attempt to make pine trees
fix nitrogen, coupled with the efforts of NZ's few would-be genetic
engineers to evade open democratic control, do not inspire confidence. (4)

This is today cogent in that GM-trees are being
touted as an image for energy farming.  PresRSNZ
James D Watson 'jr' has announced that his
Genesis. Corp, whose main 'thing' is
gene-tampering, is going to do energy farming.
When I tried to tell him it might fail to net
energy he contradicted me but has not pointed me
to any energy analyses in support of his
dismissal of my warning.  He has also not made
clear whether he expects to deploy GM-plants for
energy farming.  The GM hypesters routinely
allege higher yields, whereas in fact GM-plants
have almost always yielded less than appropriate
normal varieties.


The wider context within this renewed interest in
energy farming arises is exemplified by this
recent warning from the World Wildlife Fund:-
                     <http://www.enn.com/today.html?id=235>
Consumption of Resources Is Outstripping Planet's Ability to Cope, Says WWF
                       GENEVA --  People are
plundering the world's resources at a pace that
outstrips the planet's capacity to sustain life,
the environmental group WWF said Thursday.

	We can tend to get discouraged by the
fact that govts & corporations have very largely
refused to act on this understanding since it
became reasonably clear 3 decade ago.  But this
ignorance/apathy/perversity is all the more
reason why we must redouble our efforts to
organise prudent action.  The prospects for a
'soft landing' from 'peak oil' {why must we be
dogged by pidgin slogans?} decrease as the years
pass.  The case for solar energy in many forms is
more urgent than ever.
	Concomitantly urgent is avoidance of
phoney solutions e.g 'energy farming' of
varieties that absorb more fuel than they
produce, or at best merely augment the
non-renewable fuel inputs with solar to produce a
modest proportional increment that does not
justify the land & labour entailed.


Refs

1  Garth Harris 'Energy Farming in NZ' _NZ J Forestry 24_(1) 67-75 (1979)
2  R G Pearson 'Energy Analysis' NZERDC 1977 p.14
3  C S Hopkinson jr, J W Day jr  _Science 207_ 302-03 (1980)
4  L R B Mann 'Some Difficulties with Energy
Farming for Portable Fuels'  [Geo Serallach's]
conference on biomass & energy, Massey U 24-5-78;
also in _NZ Energy Jnl_. 1979

=====

    "There  is just no energy benefit to using
plant biomass for liquid fuel," says David
Pimentel, professor of ecology and agriculture at
Cornell.  "These strategies are  not sustainable."

Pimentel and Tad W. Patzek, professor of civil
and  environmental engineering at Berkeley,
conducted a detailed analysis of the  energy
input-yield ratios of producing ethanol from
corn, switch grass and wood  biomass as well as
for producing biodiesel from soybean and
sunflower plants.  Their report is published in
Natural Resources Research (Vol. 14:1,  65-76).

In terms of energy output compared with energy
input for ethanol  production, the study found
that:

-- corn requires 29 percent more  fossil energy than the fuel produced;
-- switch grass requires 45 percent  more fossil
energy than the fuel produced; and
-- wood biomass requires 57  percent more fossil energy than the fuel
produced.

In terms of energy  output compared with the
energy input for biodiesel production, the study
found  that:

-- soybean plants requires 27 percent more fossil
energy than the  fuel produced, and
-- sunflower plants requires 118 percent more
fossil  energy than the fuel produced.

In assessing inputs, the researchers  considered
such factors as the energy used in producing the
crop (including  production of pesticides and
fertilizer, running farm machinery and
irrigating,  grinding and transporting the crop)
and in fermenting/distilling the ethanol from the
water mix.  Although additional costs are
incurred, such as federal and  state subsidies
that are passed on to consumers and the costs
associated with  environmental pollution or
degradation, these figures were not included in
the  analysis.

"The United State desperately needs a liquid fuel
replacement  for oil in the near future," says
Pimentel, "but producing ethanol or biodiesel
from plant biomass is going down the wrong road,
because you use more energy to  produce these
fuels than you get out from the combustion of
these products."

Although Pimentel advocates the use of burning
biomass to produce  thermal energy (to heat
homes, for example), he deplores the use of
biomass for  liquid fuel.  "The government spends
more than $3 billion a year to subsidize  ethanol
production when it does not provide a net energy
balance or gain, is not a renewable energy source
or an economical fuel.  Further, its production
and use contribute to air, water and soil
pollution and  global warming," Pimentel says.
He points out that the vast majority of the
subsidies do not go to farmers but to large
ethanol-producing corporations.

"Ethanol production in the United States does not
benefit the nation's  energy security, its
agriculture, economy or the environment," says
Pimentel.  "Ethanol production requires large
fossil energy input, and therefore, it is
contributing to oil and natural gas imports and
U.S. deficits."  He says the  country should
instead focus its efforts on producing electrical
energy from  photovoltaic cells, wind power and
burning biomass and producing fuel from  hydrogen
conversion.

Source: Cornell University PR
