Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
Date: Mon, 25 Feb 2013 19:22:43 -0500
To: David C Matthews <dcm7293(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: type2 Digest 25 Feb 2013 04:00:00 -0000 Issue

Hello David,

First off, congratulations on getting this far on your bus project!  No one
knows how hard that is unless they have attempted it. Can you give the list a
list of things that you have checked/restored on your bus? Just want to make
sure you have touched all the bases on maintenance before you hit the road.
There are some not so obvious error traps.

Make sure your wheel bearings are in good shape and packed with new grease.
This usually does not pose a problem until you take your first long trip. A
wheel will start to get hot and smoke. It can even seize up and cause a fire.

Make sure your fuel lines are replaced with new ones. ALL OF THEM. Even if
they don't looked cracked, the braided ones will hide cracks. Many many buses
have burnt to the ground due to this.

A lot of restored buses came from buses that were sitting for a long time.
Look at your transmission if it is a manual. If you see caked dirt around the
joints in the transmission or it looks wet, it might be weeping out tranny
oil. Use your Bently to go ahead and change your transmission oil. You should
probably do this anyway if you don't know when it was done last. You don't
want to burn up your transmission 1000 miles away from home.

Of course, make sure your brake system is in good order. If your bus was
sitting for a long time before the resto, the flexi hoses can rust and swell
up inside acting like a one way valve. Your brake can lock up. They are pretty
cheap and easy to replace. Also, switching to DOT 4 or DOT 3/4 instead of DOT3
is a good idea.  It will save your brake components from corrosion and failure
in the long run. Just don't use silicone fluid. Your system will leak like a
sieve if you do. Look at the inside of your tires and make sure they do not
look wet. This is a sign of slave cylinders leaking. Also inspect your master
cylinder reservoirs (both of them) for cracks. They start to crack and craze
over time with no warning. You would hate to hit a big pot hole in the middle
of the night and shatter your lower brake reservoir and loose your front and
rear brakes.

Make sure your cv joints are ok and that all of the allen bolts are torqued
down. I had one side of my axle fall off while driving down the road. Not fun.
Carry an Allen key that will fit these in your emergency travel kit

Everyone remembers to do engine maintenance but forget other  catastrophes
causers such as these. Also AAA is a must and only $110 a year. Free towing is
a must.

David Kelly




On Feb 25, 2013, at 1:33 PM, David C Matthews <dcm7293(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:

> Greetings-
>
> Well, at long last my bus is *very* close to being ready for a road trip --
> just in time for Spring!
>
> Any suggestions?
>
> I'm in the SouthEast US, btw, and am trying to avoid the temptation to jump
> right in with a long-ish trip.  Maybe a coordinated trip with the help of
> this group, just so I'll never be too far if (I mean when) I unexpectedly
> stop/breakdown on the side of the road.
