From: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: "raceingcajun" <raceingcajun(-at-)communicomm.com>, "TYPE 2 LIST"
Date: Thu, 28 Feb 2013 20:11:25 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] re:Tow Bar Advice

Hey Howard... the '76 Vw Bus frame is pretty sturdy,, it can take a well 
built hitch, that like you say, bolts to the frame.., and it can tow a fair 
bit of weight..
I wouldn't say the same for an early bus [pre 73].. but that is my 
opinion...

I flat tow bar beetles, buses,, and chevrolet cavaliers on a tow dolly quite 
often... behind my 74 westfalia..
when it comes to stopping.. brakes are adequate for that weight.. it isn't 
really that much of a strain on the engine or the clutch either

Your words are very good wisdom,, but a little on the reserved side..
altho.. a very good point is tongue weight..

with the torsion bar suspension... it doesn't take much weight at ALL.. out 
behind the rear bumper to totally destroy the handling charactoristics of 
the Bus..
you can put a ton inside.. between the wheelbase.... but all it takes is 
about 100 lbs,, 2ft out behind on one of those patio like carriers .... and 
the steering gets quite light, and touchy,, and I say, unsafe to drive..

I think the '76 has a 2 liter engine in the USA...  and the clutch and 
brakes are very adequate.. on that Bus...
you can get yourself into some serious trouble with other issues,,

It isn't hard for a small trailer to weigh in at 800 lbs,, and pretty easy 
to throw 800 lbs into it ,, to make it a toad weight of 1600 lbs.....

Vw factory paper work,, manuals etc put the allowed towed weight into the 
2600 lb range...

Jamie
http://www.globalserve.net/~jrivers/hitch.htm

----- Original Message ----- 
From: "raceingcajun"

You need to be a little more clear about your needs. Do you want a Tow Bar,
or a trailer hitch? A tow bar hooks to the front of a car/truck so it can be
towed, by another car/truck with a trailer hitch!
Your post sounds like your looking for a trailer hitch. If so, please keep
this in mind, due to the uni-body type subframe on your Westy, it can't take
much tongue weight. A small baggage trailer, a bike rack, a small boat, a
small trailer and small lawn mower and not much more is safe to tow. I seem
to have read a tongue weight of 50 to 75 lb's was tops with an all up weight
of 1000lb's. Certainly not a car! That's not to say you can't tow a car with
a strap/chain. Remember your working with 1600 cc's and 50 hp.
Unless...........??? Engine Mods etc!
Driving our Bus's/Van's is akin to pushing a sale. There just not much of a
work horse. I know-I know we/I have all don't it. But remember the clutch &
brakes just aren't made to do it!

ps: Stay away from any trailer hitch that clamps to the bumper! Get one that
bolts or better yet welds directly to the "frame"!

Howard 
