From: "Bill Bowman" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
To: "Bowman, Bill" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>, "Anderson, Lynn"
Cc: "List - Buskatiers" <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>, "List - Common
Date: Sat, 2 Mar 2013 10:22:49 -0600
Subject: A little help needed toward a goal for the Holcombs...

Hello everyone,

A little time has passed since Dawn's passing and everyone is still struggling
to adapt and move forward while holding our memories of Dawn close.  It is
heart-warming to watch the out-pouring of sympathy and emotional assistance
from family, friends and fellow hobby-ists for Brian, Carson and both families
who have been so deeply affected.  All of us were touched in one way or
another by Dawn, and her memory will not pass from our daily thoughts for a
long, long while, if ever!

The Holcombs are doing what they can to move forward, one step at a time.  It
was great to hear from Brian that Dawn's ashes have been returned home.
Another step forward...

A couple of us are about to try to raise a few donations from any concerned
friends toward a small goal for Brian and Carson to look forward to this
coming Summer.  A little backstory is probably necessary here.  Brian had long
ago planned to join myself and Tom as well as other friends to attend to the
upcoming Hessisch-Oldendorf Vintage VW meet and then the European Bug-In VW
meets over in Germany this coming June.  Brian already bought his
non-refundable roundtrip ticket with us back in December.  Then several weeks
ago the Holcomb family suddenly suffered the unexpected loss of wife and
mother Dawn and the aftermath that follows an event like this in one's life.

Distraught, and not wanting to leave Carson with family for that long, Brian
was initially about to abandon his plan to attend his vacation when Tom
Janiszewski and I hatched a plan to try to keep him on his goal to attend, to
have something to still look forward to this Summer.  Tom and I both started
things off by throwing in several hundred dollars as a start to a fund to buy
Brian's son Carson a roundtrip ticket so the two of them can stay together and
have a 12 day "break from things" while over in Europe enjoying the VW shows.
We hope that it will be a goal that the two of them can share together, and
Tom and I will be along on the trip to help...

So....   if anyone out there in VW land might want to contribute ANY amount,
large or small to the help fund a ticket for Carson, it would be most
appreciated by all of us!  They could make a check out to Tom Janiszewski (who
will be buying the ticket), and write in the "memo" area that it is "for
Carsons ticket".  No one should feel pressured, please only contribute if you
care to help them out with a little getaway trip together.  One way or another
we WILL make this happen for them, but we could sure use a little "VW help"
right now.

Checks should be sent payable to: Tom Janiszewski, 417 Dacy Street, Woodstock,
IL 60098 .  Tom will use the funds to add to our own donations and will
purchase the ticket for Carson that we've alredy held down with a flight
reservation.  Brian is currently working on obtaining a U.S. Passport for
Carson.  Thanks again to everyone out there for their concerns and continuing
prayers for the Holcomb family during this turbulent time.

Bill Bowman & Tom Janiszewski
