Cc: "<type2(-at-)type2.com>" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Ray Haynes <type2(-at-)rayh.com>
Date: Mon, 4 Mar 2013 09:54:33 -0800
To: Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] looking for advice on a new camper

For the last 25 years I have daily driven and camped with a '71 non-poptop
Westy. My wife and I have had too many great adventures to count. I have
always done all the work on the bus and used to enjoy it. But things have
changed. Parts are getting more expensive, and if something does go wrong in
the middle of nowhere finding a mechanic that knows which end of the bus to
look for the engine is getting more difficult. And personally my time has
gotten more valuable as I have gotten older and finally we have been plunged
back into parenting with an adopted grandson. All this caused me to rethink
things.

[Begin blasphemy]
I decided to leave the VW world and buy a Tacoma. Got the four door so there
would room for the family and now I feel like if I was to tangle with an SUV
my grandson would still have a grandpa to raise him. It starts every morning
and my tools are happily collecting dust. Next we are getting a poptop Four
Wheel camper shell. It has room for the 3 of us to sleep very comfortably and
more amenities than the bus ever had.

I could go on and on about all the helpful features a modern car has of which
I have not enjoyed until now. Anyone that knows me knows how much my bus was a
part of my persona and are shocked with my decision. I went from a driver of
car that turned heads and invited many conversations to a nobody driving a
boring white truck. There is a lot that I will and am missing but the list of
what I won't miss is longer and weightier. It does sadden me that my life and
the world has changed to make this the best decision but I am soooo happy I
faced it.
[End Blasphemy].

I apologize for this post to the great and mighty VW list but Kevin sounded
like he might be in a similar place as myself and thought it would helpful to
mention that there is life outside the VW cult. ;-)

Shields up....

Ray Haynes
Former '71 bus owner




On Mar 4, 2013, at 6:58, "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net> wrote:

> Well I've had my '65 Ez-Camper for almost 15 years now. It has been great
