Date: Thu, 08 May 2003 19:47:46 -0400
From: Jamie <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: John Rogers <jnrogers5555(-at-)earthlink.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] waterproof distributor???

We used to waterproof a vehicle so that it could run under water ,,, 3 wheelers,
quads, jeeps, dune buggies,,

You need to put a snorkel on your air intake,, and vent things like your
crankcase vent and distributor into that snorkel.... then seal them up with
silicone, or heat shrink, 

Tooo bad the camera didn't survive ,,, the buggies always drove out with very
wet passengers! hahah,, 
we never worried about anything other than the crankcase, air intake and
distributor,,, they have to be vented AND sealed.... the vent and our heads
where the only things above water in a dune buggy,,, and we tried to make sure
the head lights stayed above water with the 3 wheelers,, cause that is where the
air intake was on a Honda.

Just remember, your trans, wheel bearings, and other things will fill up with
water, and silt, so you have to take them apart much more frequently if your
going to "play silly games"... as my mother described me!

And don't expect your brakes to work well , just after emerging from the water!
Oh,, and if your brake lights or tail lights are hot when you submerge them,,
they will probably crack the bulb and burn out.  Some times we would turn on the
head lights under water at night just for fun! ,, as long as they were not hot
when you submerge them,, they don't crack

We never damaged an engine playing silly games,,, some folks said the engine
block should crack being cooled off that quick,,, but it never did 


Hope you have fun!
Jamie Rivers
What a long Strange trip I been on.   LOL  or something like that!




John Rogers wrote:
> 
> If you are that far into water your battery is also submerged, and all
> electrical hell is gonna break loose.  I wouldn't worry about a dry dizzy.
> 
> Bryan Mitchell writes:
> 
> > Any one heard of (A waterproof distributer)? Any ideas how to water
> > proof the electrical on a motor , just incase one were
> > to be partially submerged, say as in a stream crossing?<snip>
