Date: Thu, 08 May 2003 22:37:30 -0700
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Daniel Stern

I found this old email on my work computer. I'm not sure if it's a form
letter but there's still good info there.

It's interesting to note that the bus lamp are up about 34" like my
motorcycle whereas as many cars have them much lower like 26" (of course
it's going to vary a lot depending on the design).

------ Forwarded Message
From: Daniel Stern Lighting <dastern(-at-)vrx.net>
Organization: Daniel Stern Lighting
Date: Tue, 22 Oct 2002 21:32:49 -0400 (EDT)

Several companies make 7" (large single round, sealed beam size type 2D1)
E-code headlamps. First off, it's important to use CAR headlamps, not the
motorcycle ones you sometimes find from Bosch, IPF or CPI.  These are
easily identifiable (they say "MOTORCYCLE" on the lens) and the beam
pattern is not at all well suited to use on a double-track vehicle with
low-mounted headlamps.  In car units, the most widely marketed in the USA
is the Hella 70476, standard H4 European-spec headlamp.  (You'd also find
the 70477, US DOT "Vision Plus" headlamp, which we call the "Vision Minus"
'cause...well, it's got a replaceable bulb, but it's just not that much
better than a sealbeam as far as beam pattern goes, and it tends to
collect water because of a badly-done drain design.)  But as I was saying,
the 70476 is around.  I don't use it on my cars that take the single large
(7") rounds; I use Cibies. Why?

Beam patterns are better (wider, longer-reaching) on low and high beam
with Cibies. The main difference, though, is that 7" round and 200mm
rectangular Hellas have an irritating beam separation problem.  Set the
low beams where they belong, and the high beams are up in the trees
without enough on-road light.  Pull the high beams down where they can be
useful, and the low beams are down on the bumper.  I exaggerate for
illustration, but the effect is to make you try to find a compromise
setting where both beams are kinda OK.  The Cibies do not have this
problem; when the lows are correctly aimed, the highs are correctly aimed.
Some folks don't find the beam separation as much of a problem as some
other folks--and a lot of people who have only ever used two kinds of
headlamps (Hellas and sealed beams) will swear that Hellas are the cat's
pajamas.  It's certainly true that Hellas are a big improvement over
"sealed bum" originals, but Cibies are just better.    All Cibie 7" round
headlamps have convex (domed) lenses.  Clear Lens Classic lamps have
highly convex (highly domed) lenses and are generally for use in pre-1972
cars that must look "period correct", also in hot rods where styling is a
prime concern, etc.

Now that we've fixed the beam pattern problem, let's talk about bulbs.
Stock wattage is 60/55 (high/low).  My "normal" bulbs are German-made
high-efficiency 60/55W bulbs; with these, you can just remove the
sealbeams, install the Cibies, aim and go with no NEED (though it's always
a good idea) for uprating the wiring.  Now, the E-code beam pattern, with
its sharp cutoff which nullifies glare for oncoming traffic, can support
higher-output bulbs without (a) glaring oncoming traffic or (b) creating
impossible backdazzle for you in bad weather.  Note that it is a VERY poor
idea to put overwattage bulbs in with the stock headlamp wiring, which is
meant for stock wattage ONLY.  We see a lot of car-be-cue type messes when
people try to do this.  The relays/sockets/fuseholders package to do-up
the wiring properly contains all heavy-duty components (dual-output 40A
relays, terminal blocks, brackets, terminals, fused fuseholders and
headlamp sockets) to accept heavy-gauge wire; supply your own wire from
the local economy in your choice of color and length. View and print my
"how-to" page at http://lighting.mbz.org/tech/how_to/relays for full text
and color diagrams of how to do this. Now that we have good wiring, we can
go to town on bulb wattage.  NOTE, if you have a passenger car or other
vehicle with low-mounted headlamps (lamps below the level of most
passenger car drivers' eyes when seated at the wheel) you can increase
both low and high beam power without causing undue glare.  If yours is a
truck or SUV or other vehicle with high-mounted headlamps, you will want
to keep the low beams civilized to avoid dazzling other road users.
"Other road users" include cops, so use your head!  100/55W bulbs can be
furnished to keep the low beams civilized and still punch the next county
with the high beams.  I do not handle the 3rd-world bulbs you can find in
the pages of JC Whitney and in lots of other places.  I carry only
German-made (Osram, Philips, Narva) bulbs.  My policy of selling ONLY
items I would use voluntarily on my own cars extends down to bulbs!

How about city lights?  What is a city light? It's a European-type parking
lamp, a small 5W bulb sticks through a grommet in the lamp's reflector
into the lamp itself. Ground one of its wires, and run the other of its
wires to the parking lamp feed. The city light illuminates the whole
headlamp in a "pilot light" fashion; this makes for large-area parking
lamps that WORK, and if a headlamp bulb ever burns out, oncoming traffic
still sees you as a double-track vehicle. If you use the city lights to
REPLACE the dim amber parking lamps common on US vehicles (which you
should not do if your '68 or later American-spec vehicle does not use one
bulb to handle front parking lamp and front sidemarker lamp duty) the turn
signals now go "BRIGHT-off-BRIGHT-off" instead of "bright-dim-bright-dim"
when the lights are on.  City lights are especially useful if you have fog
lamps.  On foggy days, you can put on the city lights which will show
other drivers exactly where your car is, and switch on the fog lamps so
you can see.  Note that city lights are a legal form of parking lamp in
the USA.  Also note that city lights aren't used on vehicles with
flip-door (hideaway) headlamps.

Optional: thin-shell polyurethane impact guards to prevent the lamps being
rock damaged or "sandblasted" in normal daily use. For use only on
vehicles NOT equipped with hide-away (flip-up/flip-down) headlamps.

Prices at http://lighting.mbz.org/prices

Carefully pack and ship two lamps with whatever accessories you wish, $16

ORDERING INSTRUCTIONS

Please indicate:

The quantity of each item you wish
The type of shipping you wish
(UPS trackable ground shipping is standard; all UPS service levels are
available)
The address to which you want the items shipped (if different from billing
address)
Whether the UPS driver has permission to leave the parcel at your doorstep
if you are not available to accept it in person.

NEW! Toll-free ordering!

You may now phone-in or fax-in your order toll-free on 1-866-861-8668

Orders may also be sent via e-mail to: dastern(-at-)vrx.net

We accept Visa, MasterCard, Discover and American Express. Transactions
are processed securely.

Whatever method you use, the following information is required in order to
process a credit card order:

Card type
Card number
Expiry date
Your name as it appears on the card
Billing address

Please don't forget to include a note (such as a printout of our e-mail)
stating exactly which items you are ordering, and where you wish them
sent. 

I look forward to hearing from you.

Best Regards,

DS

------ End of Forwarded Message
