Date: Sat, 25 Jan 2003 22:50:08 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Question for the PNW-ers...Wiper motor Q

>From: "Kevin Albrecht" <kfa(-at-)dbsitebuilder.net>
>Date: Sat, 25 Jan 2003 15:35:54 -0800
>
>I have heard these voltage drops could go bad.  Would it create MORE
>resistance, and less volts?

A voltage drop is usually just a big resistor.  They can fail by going
open circuit, going short circuit, or changing resistance substantially.
Failing open circuit is probably the most common and you'd know that
because the wipers wouldn't work.  Short circuit could make the wiper
motor run really fast (the 6 V motor would be hit with 12 V), and a
resistance change could either speed up or slow down the motor.

>I don't have a volt meter to measure the feed, otherwise I would check...

You can tell a lot with a test light, but if you need to know the exact
voltage, you need a meter.  Radio Shack sells a cheap analog meter for
about $15 and a cheap digital one for about $25; you can spend more if
you want.  Sears and auto parts stores sell digital multimeters that
have "automotive" functions like dwell and tach as well.  If you buy
your mechanical tools from Snap-On, buy a Fluke 70-series multimeter.
That will set you back $200 but you'll have it forever.

Whatever you get, read the little book that comes with it.  Later editions
of the Idiot manual also have some good advice on how to use a meter.
Practice on flashlight batteries and stuff around the house to get used
to using it.  When you get the meter, find out what kind of fuses it
takes and buy a few spares - eventually you'll blow one.

>Oh, does a store like radio shack have these?

Meters?  Yes.  Voltage drops?  Kind of.  They sell a few high-power
resistors but nothing that's really directly usable.  You'd have to buy
a couple of different ones and connect them in series and parallel to get
the right values.  The sales droids will not understand what you are
talking about.  The various VW parts vendors sell voltage drops; one
vendor sells for $13 what you can get out of an electronics catalog such
as Mouser or Digi-Key for $5.  Another sells a nice adjustable one for
$33 that costs about $12 at Mouser.

If the voltage drop you have is adjustable - there is a clamp that can
be slid along it - it may need to be readjusted (with a voltmeter) to
deliver the correct voltage to your wiper motor.  If it's fixed, there
isn't a lot you can do.

At this point, the wiper motor is 40 years old and the voltage drop
isn't.  The wiper motor and linkage are full of moving parts and grease
that can dry out and the voltage drop isn't.  I'd vote for checking out
the pivot points, linkages, and greasing everything including inside the
wiper motor.

"grease is good.  your bus loves to be greased.  grease grease grease.
 this is the grease mantra.  grease..."  (Claralw in
 http://www.type2.com/archive/vintagebus/044659.html , April 2000)

Matt Roberds
