From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 26 Jan 2003 09:06:26 EST
To: lsm6(-at-)northcoast.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB]  WTB  complete gearshift housing for a '64 big nut

hmmm, I am not sure I understand the problem or what you did.

One thing to check is the linkage attached, and the plate under the shift 
stick (Vertical) if installed right.   If should be uppside down and 
backwards from what you think it should be... i mean the hook bit for reverse 
goes at the front right.

SO remove the floor mat, undo the 2 13mm bolts, and remove the stick shift, 
install with clean greased ball and socket joint and grease on all moving 
parts.  you often need a friend to hold the front of the front shift rod 
(Horizontal, under bus) so you can get the bolts started.  Attach but not 
tight, as usually you need to adjust a little.  since you dont have reverse, 
take a rubber mallet and bang the whole thing over to the left.

Once I found a late rmodel couple on a 59 and replaced it out of shock.   
Suddenly the truck had reverse.  Good god! the retro fit late model one 
twisted it slightly.

What's a DCO?

sound like you have one or more trannies out?   Take the hockey stick- that 
thing poking out of the nose cone, and wiggle it.  you can use that to shift 
the tranns into all 5 gears.    Odds are there's something funky in the 
linkage. 

look at the front part of the shift rod.  sometimes people cut them out of 
frustration when the coupler is har dto undo.   if it is welded back together 
slightly twisted that could be enough to stop getting reverse.

the gearshuft housing aka nose cone does come  off when you undo all those 
nuts under the grime.  Get all of them.  

In a message dated 1/25/2003 4:49:46 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
lsm6(-at-)northcoast.com writes:

<< The spare trans(complete side to side) I've got the DCO cut off the
 gearshift by sawszalling the coupling on the trans side(bad day).      By
 reading the Bentley it looks like the gearshift housing comes off as one
 unit?            Background= '63 camper will not select gears in the right
 place, I've tried every ajustment I could think of(took of complete
 gearshift& rod,couplings back to trans, put trans into neutral and put back
 together)  I've got 1,3,4 but 1st you have to push down and back( like into
 reverse) and there is no reverse, at least that I could find ! Looks like
 I'll end up sending the '63 trans to Rancho but in the meantime I'd like to
 put in the '64 big nut and try out it's gearing & to see if the bigger
 brakes really make a difference.      So any leads on a complete gearshift
 housing ?       Lloyd in Eureka,Calif    '63 camper
