From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 26 Jan 2003 09:34:28 EST
To: jtjames(-at-)pacbell.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] 64 Deluxe Resto Help

a later front suspension changes the ride.  and raises the bus a couple inchs 
Whether this is good or bad depends on the driver.   I love the kingpin ride 
myself.  Feels firm, not squishey.  First time I drove a split I was shocked 
at how different it was from my 73 westy, and had to have the split.  Much 
better on windy mountain roads too.    Dunno what the deal is with th IRS 
mod.   

 I have the 64-67 brakes and if they're in good shape they work quite well.  
Re disc brakes, better braking can't be bad.  Aren't there disc brake kits 
that attach to kingpin spindles?  Bus Boys or Wolfgang?   

Is there a specific reason you are thinking of this mod?  

Re cracked or broken lower door hinges... th buses with the hold opens on th 
cab doors (late dec 63 through 67) are prone to that.  especially if the hold 
opens have not been lubed in 40 years.   the thingy sticks into the door, so 
pull the panel off and see how that goes into spring loaded rollers- has 
bumps so it'll stop the door at part way/ all teh way open.  lube and grease 
it.    either buy a new door, or get the hinge welded back to the door.  If 
the door's rusted out at the bottom probably get a nice one at a swap.

whether you want to do the resto yrself or get a shop or decide what you hand 
or to them, well, money, time, how your vw skills and tools are.  Hope 
someone knows a good resto shop near you (???), word is that 21 window 
headliners are pretty tricky to install.

  In a message dated 1/25/2003 9:22:10 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
jtjames(-at-)pacbell.net writes:

<< Thanks much for the welcome and the leads. Also wondering if anyone had
 positive/negative feedback regarding the retrofit of 68/Disc front ends and
 IRS rear ends to early busses. I don't think mine will ever be destined for
 concours, so it would seem these "driveability" mods would be well received.
 If there is a dark downside to this I'd really want to know.
 
 Thanks again to all,
 
 JT
