Date: Mon, 5 Dec 2005 22:23:54 -0800
From: ian <ian(-at-)sonic.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: FS 1978 westy, norcal, bad engine, $500 (neg)

A year and a half ago, my westy's transmission died. I brought it out to my
parents' house in Guerneville (Northern California, near Santa Rosa), pulled
the engine, exchanged the tranny with a used box, and then I got busy with
other things. The engine was indoors, as was the rear half of the van. The
front stuck out of the garage.

A couple weeks ago, I finally got the engine put back in. Something happened
while it was sitting, though, and now the engine's seized. Horrible, I know.
It was an AVP rebuild with about 20,000 miles on it. It wasn't out in the
rain or anything, but I guess the humidity got to it or something.

Anyway, now I'm selling it. I could fix it, but I have other priorities.
You'd have to pick it up in Guerneville -- it will need to be towed somehow.
I'll help however I can. In fact, if you're willing to rent a tow dolley, I
have a pickup that could be used to pull it a reasonable distance. 

If you buy it, here's what you get: 

One 1978 beige Westfalia, decent body, good brakes, decent clutch. The
engine is seized, but the fuel injection and electrical systems are all
there and they work great. The cabinets and beds are there. I replaced the
foam in the lower bed a while back, so it's nice and comfy. The upper bed is
in great shape. The poptop canvas is pretty unhappy, but that stuff's easy
to replace. Sink pump works (though I think it's unplugged right now),
propane tank is present, stove works. The little electric fridge is broken,
but I always figured it was sort of worthless anyway.  It might be possible
to fix it -- all the parts are there.

The bus has vanagon front seats (with armrests and stuff), a tachometer, an
oil pressure gauge (porsche-type sensor) and cruise control. 

The windshield leaks a little around the bottom. As a result, the headliner
in front has become rather moldy. At this point, it's probably only useful
as a template to cut a new one. That's easy with a jigsaw, though. Also,
there's some rust in the normal places, but none of it is really bad.

There are four decent tires, and a nose-mounted spare.

I don't have any current pictures (I'll try to get up there to take some
this week), but here's a pic of me and my friend Rick (in his wedding dress)
sitting in it at Burning Man 2003: 

http://www.sonic.net/~ian/bus.jpg 

As you can see, the passenger seat swivels around backwards and everything.
Oh, and if you want, you can have that portable toilet too... unless you
think that's yucky. :) 

I think it's worth $500 because of all the work and money I've put into it
over the last few years. That said, I realize it doesn't run. If you think
it's worth less, make me an offer. I might be interested. Just email me
privately, or call me at 415-355-0815. If you get the machine, leave your
number so I can call you back.

Thanks for looking!

-Ian
