Date: Wed, 7 Dec 2005 09:52:58 -0600
From: Peter Steckhan <peter.steckhan(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] i need some winter driving tips

I've driven my bus through a few winters up here in the Great White
North.  It's much colder here than in CT, although it's also much
drier here.  I've driven it on days when the daytime high is -35C
(which is awful close to -35F).  Daytime high of -35 means I got it
started when it was -40.  That's the pre-windchill number.  They don't
even tell us a "and it's blah with the windchill" here when it's that
cold.

I've got snow tires on all four wheels (Nokian Hakkappeliitta CQ).  I
put these tires on last winter, and they made a huge difference over
the all-season tires I had on before.  Traction on ice was the biggest
difference.

The bus is a Canadian model, so it came with the BA6 gas heater.  It
works well to provide adequate heat when it's tuned up properly.  A
lot of shorter trips in the winter with the gas heater on and the
lights on (the sun is rising at around 9 am and setting at around 5
pm) means a dead battery, so I've also got an automatic trickle
charger permanently installed to keep the battery topped up.  We've
got plug-ins at the parking lot at work for block heaters, so I plug
the charger in while I'm at work.  Some people recommend a
non-automatic 1-amp trickle charger for the winter (which I've used in
the past).  This has the advantage of warming the battery slightly as
it's overcharging it.  Oil pan heaters used to be available for
air-cooled VWs that replaced the drain plate with one that has an
electric element in it.  I used to have one of these on my 58 Beetle,
but I didn't get the chance to try it out during the winter.

Having driven a few automatics in the winter, I can second Bob's point
on throwing it into neutral when you're trying to come to a stop on
ice - this becomes second nature.  It's supposed to be advantageous to
put the automatic into 2nd when starting on ice because there's less
torque, but I've never noticed that much of a difference.

I think it's the consensus of the list that heating the interior of
the bus with an electric heater while driving is going to be futile.
Seat heaters as Bob suggested certainly make a big difference,
especially if you've got vinyl seats.  An interior heater that you
plug-in, as Eron suggests, can certainly make getting into the vehicle
first thing in the morning less shocking.  I've found that these
heaters can have the disadvantage of melting and evaporating all of
that snow you've been tracking into the bus.  If your heater can't
maintain the temperature as you drive, all of that moisture will
freeze on all the surfaces inside the bus, including the inside of the
windows and the gauge faces.  It's SOP to drive an air-cooled VW with
an scraper in one hand during the winter, but scraping the gauge faces
while your driving in addition to the inside of the windshield is no
fun ;-).

Peter
77 Bus
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada
