From: Spentzos3(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 7 Dec 2005 15:32:07 EST
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: electrical connector corrosion

Hello All,
I have a problem with electrical connector corrosion.  The problem is that
the male/female disconnects I have been using corrode and create an open
circuit
with my tail lights (among other things).  I had a similar problem with my
fuses.  The aluminum ceramic types would corrode at the fuse box.  I would
have
to clean them every 6 months or so (until I realized that they make stainless
aftermarket fuses).  The blade connectors I have been using are the aluminum
crimp on type that is sold just about everywhere.  I even tried the type with
little nylon/plastic insulated covers.  I also put electrical grease on the
blades before connecting. I know that I have a dissimilar metals problem
(Aluminum vs. Copper).

I have two general topic questions that I was hoping someone could help me
answer.
1. In the short term, how can I clean the current connects in a way other
than abrasives.  Has anyone had any luck with those quick dip and wait
cleansers?
 Or is that just too lazy of me to wish for (itbs getting cold).  For now, I
just need to get my rear lights in order (State Inspection up at the end of
the month).
2.  I recently found a few copper disconnects (in my jars of spare parts).
They look similar to the stock type.  They are opened at the end where the
wire
enters.  They are then folded over and clamped.  I had used these on some
other wiring lately.  I had two of them and they were attached to each other
sort
of like a model car has its pieces tied together. I had trouble with the
crimp (had to solder them).  Looks like there is a special tool required.
That
would give the nice crimp attach point similar to the original connectors.
Where
can I get these?  Anyone ever seen the crimp tool?

I live near the ocean; Ibm surrounded by salt water so Ibm always fighting
rust and corrosion.  Any help would be greatly appresiated.
Dino Spentzos
Newport, RI
