Date: Tue, 18 Mar 2003 08:14:51 -0800 (PST)
From: Sean Dorman <croftyest(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Rob Miller <rcmiller3(-at-)hotmail.com>, DasList <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Have been lurking -- now scared (a little long)

Hey Rob, 
 I think, the reputation of VW's being unreliable can be blamed one those who think they are indestructible. For example a Toyota can go for many, many miles without a tune up. A VW on the other hand needs regular maintenance, but can be just as reliable as the previously mentioned. The issue you have to deal with is that theses cars are old and the technology that produced them is, by modern standards, rather archiac. The regular maintenance that a bus needs shouldn't be a deferent, as it will eventually give you a better understanding (and appreciating) of the classic you are driving. 
 Purchasing a restored vehicle does have it's advantages for sure, but you will pay for it. Most shops sell at a higher price than let's say, a guy who has done a lot of the work himself saving himself and you some cash. When you go look at a bus take a bus fan with you for insurance. Ask for receipts, better yet demand them! I personally would never buy a bus from a kid or one that has been lowered if I was looking for a stock bus. There are ways to lower your bus safely and correctly (whatever that means ;) ) but most of the time it is done half-assed and whatever was pulled off is never to found again. 
So that being said, sh(-at-)$ does happen.sometimes things break. However most engine parts are readily available and affordable, unlike my Nissan Patrol! Sometimes a good repair shop may know of cars for sale. Or better yet join a club or go to a few events and talk with people who have a bus. Most of us are pretty friendly cats! 
By the way, The Buggy House in hayward is having a "show" on Saturday, March 22. They are on Mission Blvd in Hayward. 510-582-7847. 
 
Sean 
65 Westfalia 
70 Westfalia 
  

"If you want to be the popular one at a party, here's a good thing todo: Go up to some people who are talking and laughing and say, 'Well,technically that's illegal.'  It might fit in with what somebody justsaid.  And even if it doesn't, so what, I hate this stupid party."
