From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 18 Mar 2003 12:26:47 EST
To: rcmiller3(-at-)hotmail.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Have been lurking -- now scared (a little long)

 In a message dated 3/17/2003 7:10:34 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
rcmiller3(-at-)hotmail.com writes:

<< 
 My question is, if I purchase a restored vehicle, is alot of
 stuff going to break?  Am I going to have to spend all my
 weekends fixing, repairing, tinkering?  Like I said, I'm cool
 with the frequent maintenance aspect, but are restored busses
 unreliable? >>

I personally only twice bought a car that ran.   And I tended to not spend to 
much on the bus either.    So I may not be really qualified to say if you buy 
a shiny bus will it be reliable.
    Having bought non running buses, I then proceeded to go thorough most 
things and make them work, not leak etc, go, stop, turn,open, close, lock 
etc.  After dealing with the delayed maintenace, and working the bugs out,  
the buses just seem to do what they should.   So you want a bus that someone 
has already done these things to.   Sounds nice, and not impossible to find.

     The amount of maintenance I do is not that much actually.  I would feel 
comfortable getting in the bus and going on a trip (except for that slow leak 
in the tire that I am getting sorted out today). There is your 3,000 miles 
tune up, not much else.   depending on how much you drive, that could be once 
a month to once a year.
Unfortunately things do eventually wear out.   Luckily many parts are 
reproed.  

Most people who have old splitties like, at some level, to tinker.  There is 
a vague but fundamental mindset of split bus folk, and I don''t know if we 
have that mind set before we get the bus, or are taught how to think that way 
by the bus.  It is fascinating that so many people (esp w/ newer cars) 
haven't the foggiest of how their vehicle works, yet I can actually picture 
in my mind and take apart and put together most of the system in my bus.  I 
like to think that being able to understand these things makes my world 
better.
   
Many splitty folk also like to camp, and go to shows.  When the weather is 
nicer you'll see.   Hey, go to "Bring Your Own Bus" at the Red Barn in April, 
it's just about the best show/campout.

In Oakland you are near lots of of buses.  Take your time looking, don't buy 
the first one.   Get someone who knows VWs to go with you and scope  out the 
prospective bus.   There are a variety of models out there.   Trucks, panel 
vans, microbuses with full seating, campers, etc.   

When i bought my first bus, it was the coolest, but the motor died soon 
after.   I should have had a mechanic or VW head scope it out.
