Date: Tue, 18 Mar 2003 12:51:43 -0500 (EST)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Rob Miller <rcmiller3(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Have been lurking -- now scared (a little long)

On Mon, 17 Mar 2003, Rob Miller wrote:

> I think this is way cool because I could only consider
> buying a restored, or at least solid daily driver condition
> bus.  Why?  Because I'm NOT mechanically inclined.  I can
> change a battery, change a tire, install headlights, but
> that's about it.

That's where a lot of folks are on this list.

> So, I'm a little scared because mostly what this list talks
> about is repair and maintenance.

Keep in mind that you're listening to about 1000 people talking about
maintainance.  It isn't as if we are all underneath our buses on a daily
basis!

> My question is, if I purchase a restored vehicle, is alot of
> stuff going to break?

No more than any other vehicle, if the restoration is done well.  The good
thing is that, with a VW, you have the option of doing the repair yourself
(it was designed to be maintained by the owner) or farming it out to a
mechanic.  With a modern car, you no longer have that option.  With the
list, even if you farm out the work you will have a better idea of what is
going on.

  Am I going to have to spend all my
> weekends fixing, repairing, tinkering?  Like I said, I'm cool
> with the frequent maintenance aspect, but are restored busses
> unreliable?

No.  If they are properly maintained and driven reasonably they will take
you anywhere with good reliability.  OTOH, if maintainance is neglected
and the vehicle is allowed to deteriorate.  Every VW that I've stopped to
assist on the road has been a disaster in the engine bay.  No seals,
missing heater tubes, random wiring, etc.  The moral is that the mechancal
restoration is as important as the cosmetic restoration, perhaps more so
if you are interested in driving the vehicle.  The other pitfall is to
make the assumption that a VW bus is capable of going as fast as every
other vehicle on the road.  Yes, if you put your foot down it will go 80,
but it won't go that fast for very long.  I find that 60MPH is a good
cruise for a early baywindow.

George Lyle
