Date: Tue, 18 Mar 2003 20:26:54 -0600
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: head repair questions

while awaiting some other machine work, i thought i'd take my heads 
over to a local shop; i had purchased new exhaust valves recently 
(after 2K and 7 months in this motor, i just KNEW a valve with only 
5k miles on it would go on me and ruin it all) and needed to have the 
seats cleaned up and the valves lapped in. also, i figured on 
checking the valve guides.
machinist called me and sounded puzzled... 'the one head has two CAST 
IRON exhaust guides, and the other head has exhaust guides that are 
TOO SHORT and don't completely come up to the combustion chamber!'
well, i know the previous rebuilder, and i figure that he used cast 
iron guides cuz he's a cheap bastard and rather than buy new ones he 
just used what he had around, but is there any reason for the short 
guides? i can only guess that maybe he cut them for porting reasons?
the machinist is contemplating reaming the cast iron guides a size 
larger internally, and putting in what he called a spiral 
silica-bronze insert. he says the guides are in there so tight that 
he would have to charge quite a bit of labor to fully extract them. 
any comments good or bad on these inserts?

lastly, is anyone hoarding a nice set of stock 1500/1600rocker arms? 
i am likely going to use a scat rocker shaft  because all my vw 
shafts are galled to some degree ar another; and while a local brake 
shop can hone my existing rocker arms to clean them up, he wanted a 
LOT to do it :P  ronnie says they are unobtainium new, which puzzles 
me since the factory is obviously either a) still making them or b) 
at least rebuilding them.  there is a company that rebuilds rockers 
for the collector car crowd, but they didn't answer the phone 
today........

at this point, i am getting so anal about items on this motor that i 
have been going through head stud/nut pairs to find sets that didn't 
bind or seem too loose!!
-- 
craig
