From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K)
Date: Mon, 23 Feb 2004 08:20:49 -0600 (CST)
To: cchubb(-at-)codegurus.com (Chris Chubb)
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] door seals

Why do folks use 3-M Weatherstrip adhesive?

How else are ya going to get the rubber door gaskets to stay put?

Weatherstrip adhesive is very similar or of the same breed as contact /
rubber cement is.

The object of this stuff is to apply it to both surfaces ( vehicle, and
then the rubber) let it set up for a moment--be sure that you have an
idea where the moulding is going to go--and then stick it.

Sounds like your trying to get the job done by slapping the rubber up to
the Bus when the glue is still wet.

This can get your finger's real sticky--and the glue will ooze all over
the place.

Let it dry like contact --it'll work--

 
E-mail message   
 
Subject: RE: [T2] door seals 

And hopefully you've learned the lesson I had to pay
for...............Need
seals? Talk to Ron at The Bus Depot before you get out your wallet 
I have the rear hatch seals from Ron as well. But, I have to put them
in. On a related note, what do people use for adhesive to install the
seals? I have tried the "weatherstrip adhesive" that comes from 3M and
some others. They all seem to be a type of contact cement. They all seem
to leave a yellow residue, will stick to everything but the inside of
the groove, are impossible to adjust once installed and stick all over
my fingers, any tools, dirt, etc. 
Are there other adhesives like rubber cement or something else with a
longer cure time so I could install the seal dry, clamp it into place
with some clamps to get it all aligned, then pick up a small section at
a time and run a bead of adhesive under it? I usually dont have anyone
else to provide extra hands, so clamps are my friends. Things I have
considered are rubber cement, adhesive silicone caulk, and gorilla glue
(for woodworking, but dries waterproof). 
Are there alternatives to the weatherstrip adhesive, or am I just doing
it all wrong? 
Chris in VA
