Date: Mon, 23 Feb 2004 16:52:31 -0600
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: ADMIN Re: [T2] VWs and Politics

At 07:49 AM 2/23/2004, Todd M Jaspers wrote:
>News flash.. there are LOTS of people on here, that are Democrats,
>Republicans, and even Green, Independants, and NPAs. With that being
>said, we are the way we are because of what we believe in. Sending out
>political e-mails on the VW list isn't going to change anyone's opinion.
>So, I'm going to refrain from e-mailing out political propoganda, and I'd
>hope the rest of you do the same.

You're right - politics are not a subject for discussion on this list.
BUT, neither are discussions about whether or not we should discuss politics.

>On a similar note, I've never watched the TV show Dharma and Greg
>before... but my TiVo happened to record it so I thought I'd watch it.
>The ENTIRE episode takes place in a bay window Bus.

News flash... The above is a Friday subject - this is Monday.

It seems that there are quite a few people here who either can't or won't 
follow the charter.  I will remind those people that many of these charter 
violations are cause for immediate and permanent removal from the 
list.  That hasn't happened a lot recently, but maybe it should have, as it 
has led to accusations of selective enforcement.  Maybe a repost of the 
priority-one rules is in order:

 From http://type2.com/type2charter.html

--Do not EVER post UNSUBSCRIBE messages to the list.

--Do not EVER post "TEST" messages to the list.

--Do not EVER post virus warnings, or messages about important issues
that you think should concern everybody in the world. Do not post
messages unless they have legitimate bus content.

--Do not ever continue a thread that an administrator has "killed".

--Do not harvest addresses.

--Do not use an auto-responder without unsubscribing from the list
first.

--Do not use profanity on the list.

We reserve the right to remove and/or ban people in the above cases.  We 
will be as fair as possible, but we (the admins) have jobs, families and 
lives just like the rest of you and don't always notice every 
infraction.  If/when someone wants to pay us a salary for running the list, 
that might change.  If you don't like the charter, e-mail an 
administrator.  Don't post to the list!  Chances are though that the 
charter won't change, as it has been around a long time and has proven to 
be effective.  If you can't live with the charter, you will need to 
unsubscribe and join another forum whos rules you CAN live with.

-David
-Don't prod the moderator- 
