Date: Mon, 23 Feb 2004 20:37:00 -0500
To: <ramsey8(-at-)charter.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: ncbus <macbus(-at-)mindspring.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] oil temp gauge question

Notes on oil temp sender install, wiring and gauges.

The VDO sender that is available for installation in the sump plate 
is available from any VDO dealer and must VW shops or online 
merchants such as www.busboys.com or www.busdepot.com. To install the 
sender you must drill a hole in the sump plate using the measurements 
provided with the sender. You can also buy a sump plate with the 
sender installed from Busboys. This can be a great time saver and the 
cost is not much more than the price of the sender, drill bit and a 
replacement plate if you trash yours in the process.

Measure very carefully and pay close attention to the fitment as you 
reinstall the plate. If you experience any resistance upon reinstall 
that was not normally there then you may have a serious problem 
especially if you have a later Brazilian case. The oil pickup tube on 
some of the newer AS41 cases is longer than the older ones and comes 
down at a different angle then the older Brazilian and German cases.. 
A sender in the sump can cause the base of the oil screen to push up 
against the pickup tube and restrict the pickup tube causing a 
reduction in oil pressure. The result can be catastrophic. It is 
possible to carefully cut the tube and and make it work without 
causing a restriction to oil flow.

An alternative is to get a VDO temp sender that replaces the stock 
dipstick. I have had both in my current bus and set up a toggle 
switch as the gauge to check the temp from both locations. The 
dipstick sender always read 10% higher than the sump sender. I can 
explain why but can tell you it was consistent across the range of 
temperature.

An oil pressure gauge is arguably more important than a temp gauge. 
First, the sender responds more quickly to changes and can give a 
quicker warning that something is happening that you may want to 
adjust your driving for. Secondly, an engine running an oil temp oil 
190 or 200 degrees can still be damaged by low oil pressure. Consider 
using the dual sender that allows for use of the stock idiot light as 
well as a VDO analog gauge.

The tach is a good idea for obvious reasons.

If you are installing the busboys gauge holder that mounts below the 
radio hole measure carefully and enjoy the neat installation when you 
are done. You can wire all the gauges ground, power, and lights in 
series to reduce a gaggle of wires. The lights can be hooked up to 
the dash lights via the headlight switch which will allow you to dim 
them along with the dash lights. Pre-wire all the gauges in the 
holder before installation.

Running the wires from the engine room to the cab is fairly simple. 
You can make your own harness buy purchasing rolls of different 
colored wire, taping it every few inches and running it in a plastic 
tube that is available from any auto ports store. Use at least 16 
gauge wire for the oil temp, oil pressure, and tach. Four conductor 
trailer wire is available and comes in lengths of about 20" which is 
not as long as it sounds. Either way, run the wire through the 
grommet in the firewall and snake it along the frame using zip ties 
to hold it to the frame. You can drill a small hole in the floor or 
and run it behind the kick-panel and up to  the dash. Neatness 
counts. If you can, run a few extra wires. you never know what you 
might want to run later.

Buy a decent set of wire stippers/crimpers and you will find the job 
more enjoyable. Buy at least a 100 count box of female spade 
connectors. You can never have enough!

If you are anywhere near Greensboro, NC I would be glad to offer some 
help with the install. If you make it to EveryBus (www.everybus.com) 
check out Joel's 69 single cab, Chris Slaymakers 71 Westy and perhaps 
noted gauge junkie, Dave Schwarze. will be there with his 17 gauge 
1973 Safare camper!

Happy metering
Chris
'68 bus.
