Date: Mon, 23 Feb 2004 22:33:43 -0800 (PST)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] '68 bus dash qs

Hello,

Well, it is more than just a matter of removing all
bolts and pulling it out. One of the first things that
will need to be done is to remove the 4 screws holding
the gage pod in place. You will also have 4 vent
levers to remove. I think they have a special clip
that must be removed on each leaver. then, you pull
the levers out. Reach behind the gage pod and unscrew
the speedometer. If I remember correctly, You should
be able to wrestle the gage pod so that it will fit
through the hole in the dash. That way, you can remove
the dash and leave the gage pod in place without
having to disconnect all of the gage wires. 

Now, unscrew all of the knobs on the dash, unscrew the
brass retainer and the switches will slide through the
holes in the dash. Make sure you put the correct knobs
and retainers back on the dangling switches.

You should have several bolts that follow the line of
the bottom of the windshield, 2 bolts on each side of
the dash near the door jams, at least 2 bolts near the
emergency brake, and several bolts holding the
steering column to the dash. Remove all of those and
play the rest by ear. I may be forgetting a few screws
or bolts but you will see them. Removing the dash is
not as hard as it sounds. The biggest thing to deal
with is the gage pod and making sure you keep your
wiring straight which is not hard if you pay attention
and keep things organized.  Leaving the gage pod in
place even if you are planning on using a new one is a
good idea. This way, you can remove your new one from
the new dash, and be able to connect it before the new
dash is installed. This will save you the headache of
trying to switch over wires after the dash is in place
which would require your to contort you hand and body
under the dash to reach the wires. Same goes with the
switches. Oh I almost forgot, the heater and vent
cables are easy to disconnect. they are attached to
the leavers with the special spring clips. These will
need to be disconnected before the dash is removed.
MAKE SURE you save those spring looking clips as well
as the rest of the hardware!

On a side note, this would be a good time to check the
function of your new gage pod. Connect all the wiring
and see if everything works. Make sure your turn
signals and high beams work properly. That reminds me.
I am not sure off the top of my head if the flasher
relay and high beam relay are connected to the dash or
the steering column brace. Either way, pay attention
to them. The flasher relay is attached with 1 screw
and the head light relay clips in place. The last
thing you want is to have wires still attached while
you yank the dash out. Just be careful. If light bulbs
are blown, this would be an excellent time to change
them. Because you have a spare pod, you probably have
plenty of extra bulbs. 

One last note, while doing this, MAKE SURE you
disconnect the battery cable! electrical fires are
VERY easy to start if you don't. especially when you
start moving the wires around. Things can ground out
easily! Ask me how I know. ;0(

Any who, it has been some time since I have removed a
dash, so I am a little rusty on the details. Good
luck! Take your time and keep things organized. It
would also help to have a friend around when you are
ready to remove the dash because they are quite
cumbersome to remove and install by yourself.

If anything I have said is incorrect, anyone, feel
free to correct me. As, I said it has been awhile... 

Take care!

Regards,
David Kelly
volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com




--- jacopomoroni <jacopomoroni(-at-)sbcglobal.net> wrote:
> This is a question regarding the front dash. I have
> been to a junkyard just
> yesterday and he is willing to give me one in really
> good shape for a fair
> price ($30). I wonder how I can replace the one
> which I have now 
> In short, what's the quickest and safest way to do
> the thing?
> Thanks
> Jacopo
> 
> 68' BUS
