From: boletivore(-at-)comcast.net (James Neumeister)
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sat, 29 Mar 2008 01:31:57 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] How do I adjust air to fuel ratio?

> I'd have asked what they did. 
> Is the test done at idle or on a treadmill? 

Idle only, no revving, no second idle, no treadmill, about 8 miles from the shop, and with my thermostat hooked back up it was feeling toasty in the cab.

For idle you alone can 
> adjust the screw on top of the airflow meter; this should not influence 
> your regular driving. For 
> all around running they could have played with your timing (have you 
> checked that it is stock) or adjusted the mix with opening the AFM and 
> tweaking the spring inside to leaner output. 

I'm guessing they did the simplest thing being they threw it in with rear brakes, an oil change, and a thermostat cable replacement, so probably the one that didn't require more than one tool, they are closed now and will be until Monday so I have no way to know.

I've had similar issues 
> passing; numbers were always better if the engine was HOT at the time of 
> the test (drove at least 12 miles first). 

8 miles with functioning thermostat.

This presumes your air 
> cleaner is new, engine is tight enough not to let oil into the exhaust 
> or unburnt gasses due to poor valves, and your injectors are tight, 
> including the cold start valve. 

I don't use very much oil at all.  Air cleaner was new in December.  The thing ran great before this adjustment, hummed right along, more like purred.

I drove it downtown to school after sending my initial email, it stumbles at very partial throttle, more throttle is better, as you let out the clutch it is good, then it coughs, then it goes fine, you shift, it is good, it coughs, then it goes, it runs fine if you drive it hard, meaning no low RPM and power shifting (a.k.a. driving like you are pissed off).

I am going to check out the link from ratwell tonight, hopefully it will help me help myself in the morning, but if anybody has strong feelings about what they think is wrong please step up and share them.
