Date: Sun, 11 Nov 2001 07:10:45 -0500
To: "george sayers" <dredlock420(-at-)hotmail.com>
From: ncbus <ncbus(-at-)mindspring.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] dirty heads, gen light, carb hose

Hi,

If your heads are caked up they should be cleaned and everything else 
while you are at it. The gunk on the head reduces cooling the part of 
the engine that makes the most heat.The result is over heated oil. 
Hot oil runs thin and oil pump cannot keep up with it especially at 
low RPM. This is know as the hot idle oil pressure problem. Doing a 
search of the archives using the keyword HIOP will produce a number 
of hits and explain the situation in details.

The oil pressure switch is just that: a pressure switch not a heat 
switch. It will start to flicker on a stock switch when pressure 
drops below 2 to 6 PSI for original switches and 7 to 12 PSI on 
replacement units. Of course the HIOP model dictates that if your oil 
is too hot and thusly to thin the oil pump can not supply enough 
pressure. Indirectly the oil pressure light can be indicative of high 
oil temps that cause low oil pressure.

Clean the motor thoroughly while the tin. Clean the tin as well along 
with the fan and fan housing. Replace the oil cooler seals. If you 
have a leak the fan can spread the leak along the cooling air path. 
It can also suck oil spray in through the fan and deposits it on the 
motor. After it is all together, run the motor and search for leaks. 
It is much easier to detect leaks on a clean motor..

I do not have a Bentley Manual handy but gen light problem may be 
your voltage regulator and not your generator. Hopefully someone else 
has the book handy and run through the test procedure on that with 
you. If it is your gen you replace the brushes before you run out an 
buy a new gen.

If your bus is a 1971 then there should be a hose from the oil filler 
neck to the oil bath air cleaner. Then oil bath air cleaner is 
connected to carb via a plastic snout. If you have something 
different such as a carb with a paper filter on top with a hose that 
goes to the oil filler neck then that is an acceptable setup I 
suppose. The hose from the filler neck does vent gasses as well as 
pressure from the crankcase. In a stock setup the crank case breather 
falls inline before the air filter and is not an issue.

Chris
www.mindpsring.com/~ncbus/

