Date: Mon, 12 Nov 2001 11:43:09 -0500 (EST)
From: Elizabeth <beth(-at-)bethx.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Update on the beast... er bus...


I'm so tweaked about this that I had to share....

A few months ago, I picked up a 1977 Westy with a damn nice interior and a
less than perfect exterior (aka a rust bucket). So after sitting for a few
months I finally got around to working on it.

First, I had to get the gas tank replaced, which isn't a job I have the
tools or space for (yanking an engine out on the street in my area is
asking for trouble from the city) So, I called around to the "volkswagen
air-cooled specialist" in my area and got told "That isn't something I'm
interested in doing right now..." Ummm, ok....

So, I called up the guy who does the work on my 411. When I told him what
I wanted done he made a little groan (I think he's sick of having parts
places laugh at him when he calls up looking for a set of shocks for the
411). So, he agrees to do it.

While he has it on the lift sure enough he notices that the axle beam is a
rusted hunk of junk. So, that gets done as well (no way in HELL do I wanna
futz with a 300 lb axle beam). Unfortunately, this was about a week before
Ron announced his new axle beams, so in went a used one for literally the
same price as Ron's new ones. :( Damn!

While this is all getting done the owner and I start chatting. Apparently
he's trying to start up a body shop on the premises. I ask him how much it
would cost me to get all the rust done on the bus and a new paint job. The
last time I looked into this for the 411 I got quoted 4,000 from this one
place in my neighborhood, so I'm expecting a similar shock. He quotes me
1,500!!! Um, hi, NO BRAINER (especially since I've seen some of the work
he's done)

So, I visted the boogermobile this morning. All the trim is off, she's
totally butt nekkid and a good chunk of the rust is already taken care of.
I should be getting it back in two weeks or so in all her vomit green
glory.

That being said, I want to replace the water inlet, vent cover, AC
inlet and associated gaskets (no sense putting crappy looking ones on a
brand new painted bus, right?) I found a set of inlets on bus depot, but I
don't seem to be able to find a vent cover. Anyone?

-beth


