From: "Neil Sundberg and Hilary Groves" <sungrove(-at-)email.msn.com>
To: <vanagonman16(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 12 Nov 2001 10:43:11 -0800
Subject: re: new engine ,any thoughts

Hi Matthew,

   You may or may not do OK with Bus Depot. As you know, they use AVP
engines. I recently installed one of their engines purchased through Bus
Depot. The engine runs well. I have run into two problems so far. One of the
pushrod tubes was leaking. I solved that problem with silicon applied to the
outside on the ends. Then I had a valve lash problem that was causing a
tapping noise. Tightening that valve seems to have solved the problem.The
jurry is still out though. I'll have to keep an eye on it. I had to tighten
it a seemingly large amount. During these problems I found that Bus Depot
would argue with me . Bus Depot's initial brush off was that the warranty
does not cover engines not installed by a certified mechanic.AVP would
sometimes respond and sometimes not respond. (the answering machine always
answers)On the other hand, I find that I can get Lennard at AVP on the phone
and he does try to help out . He is willing to talk at length if you want.
Many times I wished that I had just gone with a local builder with a good
rep and paid the extra money. That way I could have just driven it down
there and had them deal with the problems.
    Some other thoughts: If you go the mail order route you probably will
not get the same level of service.Another thought I had was maybe it would
have been better to just buy directly from AVP. Bus Depot charges your
credit card immediately for the core charge and then takes about two months
to refund your money after you return the core.A major considertion is the
time it takes to do all of the installation work. The amount you spend on
the engine starts to be less and less of an issue if you value your time
highly. Even if a mail order company honors a warranty , you will still have
to redo all of that work.
     I had the tranny rebuilt locally and I'm glad I did.
Good luck to you ,
Neil Sundberg


