Date: Sat, 28 Aug 2004 08:27:25 -0500
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: Blake Coglianese <blake(-at-)focusednrg.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] just purchased a 70 Bus and have some questions

On Fri, Aug 27, 2004 at 10:27:05PM -0400, Blake Coglianese wrote:
> Thanks for the help so far. I finally bit the bullet and purchased a 70 
> bus and now I have a few questions. I am in Savannah, Ga and am going 
> up to Trenton New Jersey to pick up this bus. I am going to be driving 
> it back approx 750 mile trip. It's in driveable condition, but I would 
> like to take some precautions do you have any suggestions? Also I would 
> like to get the oil changed before I start the trip, is this something 
> I have to go to a specialist for or can just about anyone do it? Can 
> anyone recommend a good mechanic who can take a look at the bus in 
> Trenton or near there to either give it a once over and oil change?

blake it kinda sounds like you are novice at mechanicals (that's ok we
all started somewhere). Before you go make sure you have the muir
book, have read it at least a bit and carry the tools he recommends in
that one section about what tools to carry. While I really recommend
the bentley a lot more, anyone who has just started the bus experience
will find the cute pictures and funny writing style much friendlier on
the side of the road than our friendly writer in germany.

Unless this bus is used to taking long trips, I'd seriously break into
a lot of small trips. These vehicles really seem to love taking long
trips, but only after "stretching out" again. If you have not driven a
bus before, drive very slow. It will be slugish and tend to drift into
other lanes at the slightest cross wind if everything suspension and
wheel wise is not 100% to spec. You will slow down on hills (and let
the bus do that), but that only allows you to enjoy the scenery more.
I would also stop after the first 30 minutes and see if the engine
seems to hot. Signs of too hot will be tin that pops, you will not
be able to hold the oil dip stick in your hand w/out burning it, and
spit on the case sizzles. 

Unless you pull up to a quick lube store w/ an aircooled vw in the
parking lot from an employee, don't even think of taking it somewhere.
These guys will not properly reinstall the sump plate. Change it
yourself before you leave, and also carry man more quarts of oil than
you think you will need. When buses leave their owners, they always
seem to mourn and drip oil much more. Other than that print out that
AIRS list and have a great trip. 

-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
1979 Sportsmofakia 2000cc                        www.fasterlaster.com
1966 Westfalia SO-42 "Butch"
