From: Chris Slaymaker <nurofiz(-at-)knology.net>
Date: Sun, 29 Aug 2004 08:30:11 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Bus ramblings, tune-up & distributor

I love my bus.

I did my usual 3,333 mile ritual yesterday - tune-up and oil change.  I 
  sure is a good feeling to commune with your means of conveyance this 
way (come to kindly terms with your ass...).

At this point, the engine has 20,000 miles on it.  All was well except 
that #2 compression was 5# low (the rest were 125) and the spark plug 
was a little lighter than the rest (no biggie, right?).  (The intake 
valve was a little tight).

I have determined that oil consumption is 1.5 pints/3,333 miles.  I 
have not been keeping it topped off.

I had a spare distributor (205T) that I put in (in place of the 009), 
and I'll run that for a while.  The difference in seatofthepants 
performance isn't that striking, but I'll watch the numbers (at every 
fill-up,  I put in 10 gallons and monitor MPG that way).

Anyhoo, I now have a rebuilt tranny ( from a local mechanic whom I 
trust), which I will be putting in once my parts arrive.  I ordered 
shift linkage bushings/boots/couplings from Bus depot (LIST1E didn't 
get me a discount) and the entire cooling apparatus from Mitchell Motor 
Works (formerly BustedBus).  While all the guts are out, I will bring 
some things up to spec.

On another note, someone pulled up next to me at a stop light and said, 
"Hey, I've got a catalytic converter for that vehicle."

I said, "No way."  It turns out that it is a gas heater, though he 
doesn't know what kind.  He says its NIB - to give him a call and he 
will try to find it in his basement.  Several phone calls and two 
months later, I still don't have a heater, but that would be a nice 
score and I suspect I would install it in the engine compartment.

When I do this trip to my bus, I will have a case of beer on hand and 
would like to invite anyone over to spend a few hours with Lurch.  By 
myself, I expect to spend an entire weekend on this, but with one or 
two more people, it should take a day.

Chris Slaymaker
1971 VW Westfalia
"What's your hurry?"
