Date: Tue, 27 Sep 2005 11:16:04 -0400 (GMT-04:00)
From: chrhobbs(-at-)mindspring.com
To: Ted Finesman <tedebare(-at-)one.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com,
Subject: Re: [VB] A REALLY dumb question

Ted--

Haven't you heard, there are no stupid questions, only stupid people!  :-)

I have rebuilt a couple of distys myself, using cannibalized parts from distys I got at VW swaps.  Matt is right about the felt piece inside the shaft housing, you need to be careful exposing it to various fluids or it can be damaged.  Only way to remove it, though, is to take apart the disty and pop it out with a pin through the oil hole in the side before cleaning.  The old felt material degrades easily when exposed to other than oil.  BTDT.

I know you said you don't have time for a complete breakdown but I would also be concerned about water getting into the shaft and staying there, causing rusting, even with an alcohol bath afterwards.  Also BTDT.  The shaft isn't that hard to remove, just take off the spring around the dog and carefully punch out the pin in the end to remove the dog.  (You can cradle the housing in rags to protect it while you do this.)  Take note of the order in which all metal and fiber washers appear on the shaft on both ends.  Be careful with the fiber washers, they are fragile and the only way to get new ones is to cannibalize other distys.  Make sure the dog goes back in the same orientation, it's important.

With the shaft out of the housing, you can make sure that all parts are dry or properly lubricated before reassembly.  Better all around.  Also make sure to take off the O-ring from the shaft, cleaners can damage the rubber.  Unless you plan to replace it, of course--it's one of the few ACVW parts that VW dealers still carry!

Chris Hobbs
1967 doublecab
Oviedo FL

-----Original Message-----
From: Ted Finesman <tedebare(-at-)one.net>
Sent: Sep 26, 2005 12:01 PM
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] A REALLY dumb question

Hi Volks- I got two ***205 distributors at a local VW show this weekend.
They seem tight. I would like to lightly disassemble them (points, vacuum
can,etc.) and stick them in an ultra-sonic cleaner, followed by an alcohol
bath to remove the water, and then treat with a spray of lubricant. Is there
anything inside the dizzy that will be hurt by this process? Time and moving
restraints preclude a total disassembly. TBear
