From: "Heath, Raymond E" <raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com>
To: "'Type2Guy(-at-)aol.com'" <Type2Guy(-at-)aol.com>, Westyfalia(-at-)aol.com
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 18 Mar 2002 12:13:35 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] not a public debate room!!!!!

I don't know, there has always been a, IMHO, unsubstantiated opinion that
VWOA is out to get ya. Since the mid sixties there has been a growing
concern among outside manufacturers to reproduce and upgrade and manufacture
various parts for dubs. Heck, you can build a complete engine without one
OEM part. There are all sorts of other parts made too. It seems to me that
if they haven't shut down EMPI, SCAT, CB Performance, Pauter Machine,
Autocraft, Gene Berg, ect & ect, then it goes to reason that anyone who
starts up a sheet metal reproduction facility ought to enjoy just as much
success as the other biggies just mentioned. The rub lies in when and if
someone will decide to risk some venture capitol and do that. It is all in
the "demand" arena. If there are enough people willing to buy, then there
will always be enough parts available.

Unless you are a diehard OEM stock geek.

I for one wouldn't mind dropping a brand new reproduction 65 deluxe 23
window van body on my brand new reproduction Chevy Corvair van frame with
the 140hp turbo Spider motor and automatic with air conditioning. But then
again, I'm not an OEM geek, IMHO

67 Single Cab, DP 1641cc 34PICT
71 Trike 1776cc 32/36 Progressive
VolksAir 1585cc 28 PICT
Ray, Kent WA
A loose rattlesnake in the living room ends discussion of animal rights
 

-----Original Message-----
From: Type2Guy(-at-)aol.com [mailto:Type2Guy(-at-)aol.com]
Sent: Monday, March 18, 2002 11:54 AM
To: Westyfalia(-at-)aol.com
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] not a public debate room!!!!!


Rick,
I beg to differ.  Although IMHO Thom's coarse approach was a little too
personal for me, something has to be done.  VWOA's actions directly affect
our hobby, and the future existence of it.
Our buses are getting older each and every day, and parts are getting harder
and harder to find.  Hell, If Ronnie posts to the list stating that he can't
find something, then I'm more than likely never gonna find it.
VW will do exactly what Thom said in his post.  When approached on recent
lawsuits and actions on ACVWs and the ACVW hobby, they will simply show
press releases and footage of the 'vintage' VW show that 'they' host.  And
the everyday Joe will be none the wiser.
What's gonna happen when VW delves even deeper and shuts down parthouses
like Ronnie and Bus Depot for selling 'unauthorized' VW parts?  
Hell, if they can manage to convince courts that small time personal
webpages are a threat to their mega-corporation, then very difficult future
lies ahead for our hobby.
This topic needs to be brought up every chance possible(and the MVVC show is
a perfect chance) so the public can see whats going on.  Especially fellow
ACVW owners who are not on the internet.

I agree with Thom, this has been going on for a few years now, and has only
gotten worse.  If anyone that is somewhat up to par with the ACVW
hobby/industry hasn't heard or seen VW actions---then damn, I want to live
in that glass house too.

Beto
63EZ

 In a message dated Mon, 18 Mar 2002  2:01:27 PM Eastern Standard Time,
Westyfalia(-at-)aol.com writes:

> Lets kill the thread on the shows, promoting or demoting, and what and who

> everything is or is gonna be.  
> Bashing and promoting are things you do at the shows face to face and 
> not on this mailer.  I have been to shows all over the world and have
voiced 
> my opinions with the promoters in PRIVATE.  lets keep it that way guys and

> gals. I have no problem when a business is praised or objected to on
orders 
> or practices, but that to can be dealt with on another wave length.  It is

> alright to notify people of a show date and some details but re-direction
to 
> a site should be included.  I hope everyone has a great summer to look 
> forward to, but if we can't as a tight community get along amongst
ourselves, 
> just imagine being on the outside looking in. Happy motoring.........
> 
> Increase the Peace
> Rick
> Air Cooled Creations
> Heidelberg Germany



---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: vintagebus-unsubscribe(-at-)type2.com
For additional commands, e-mail: vintagebus-help(-at-)type2.com
Donations help keep the list going. http://www.type2.com/donate.html
