From: "Heath, Raymond E" <raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com>
To: "'Type2Guy(-at-)aol.com'" <Type2Guy(-at-)aol.com>,
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 18 Mar 2002 12:52:12 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] not a public debate room!!!!!

I agree with the war on the logo being a big thing, but you are wrong on
other manufactures not doing the same. 30 years ago when I was heavy into
Chevy, Ford, and Mopar, you could find aftermarket items with OEM style
logos on them. Then WHAM, the industry as a whole clamped down on parts
makers, using the federal government, and put a cease and desist on all
logo'ized parts not OEM. Well, there went my OEM look a like hubcaps etc. 

Even though the ads in all of the sources you described don't contain the
logo anymore, the ads are still there, and they are still in business. In
fact, I counted 7 new ads in my March Hot VW than in my January. The logo
may be out, but the market is still there and growing.
67 Single Cab, DP 1641cc 34PICT
71 Trike 1776cc 32/36 Progressive
VolksAir 1585cc 28 PICT
Ray, Kent WA
A loose rattlesnake in the living room ends discussion of animal rights
 

-----Original Message-----
From: Type2Guy(-at-)aol.com [mailto:Type2Guy(-at-)aol.com]
Sent: Monday, March 18, 2002 12:42 PM
To: raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [VB] not a public debate room!!!!!


Yeah,
I won't argue with you regarding the supply and demand issue.  That's a
given, somewhere somehow a part will be made/found.  At what cost?  whether
it be now or 10 years from now?

VWOA is CURRENTLY on a tirade of shutting down personal/business websites
all over the web.  If it has a VW logo, uses the word VW, Volkswagen,
bug...etc etc...on and on...they are shutting them down.
Look at your magazines....see any ad with VW logo seatbelts? mudflaps?
Shit, look at the ad for Wolfgang.  A friggin' singlecab--made by VW can't
be pictured with it's own logo on the front?  It's getting ridiculous no
matter how you look at it.

There are lawsuits galore against parthouses, shops etc. for unauthorized
use of their logo.

Damn...the newsgroup ramva had a cease and desist order against their logo.

Look in a Hot Rod magazine or a Street Rodder.  All kinds of
Ford/Chevy/Dodge parts houses, ads, etc.  No threat there, is there?.  Are
ACVW's that much of a threat to VW?!  Where's a little support? 

Don't get me wrong...I am a freelance Graphic Designer and know all to well
about copyright/trademark laws.  But have they forgotten what got them to
where they are today? 

Again regarding parts......
We all know that they are out there, and will be made by someone.
But what about, when you want to replace you VW hubcap years down the
road...who knows maybe smoothies will only be available, or you have to
restore some og ones.  Or how about just trying to replace your VW logo on
the front of the bus, or script on the rear?   VW keeps it up, who knows
where these little parts will be? or how much?

I see a lot of buses around here, and deal with them on a daily basis due to
the list and internet.  But in reality, our buses are rare.  And they are
only getting older everyday.  The demand WILL NOT be there 20 years from
now, when there are even less on the road.  I sure as hell hope I won't be
paying 200 bucks for a front brake cylinder in 20 years, just to keep my bus
on the road.
We definatley need VW's support..or at least their blessing for this hobby
to have a strong future years down the road.

I'm only 28 and got into VW's when I was 16.  I did cause they were cheap
and easy to work on.  

At least I've still got one out of the two.

Beto
63EZ

In a message dated Mon, 18 Mar 2002  3:14:12 PM Eastern Standard Time,
"Heath, Raymond E" <raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com> writes:

> I don't know, there has always been a, IMHO, unsubstantiated opinion that
> VWOA is out to get ya. Since the mid sixties there has been a growing
> concern among outside manufacturers to reproduce and upgrade and
manufacture
> various parts for dubs. Heck, you can build a complete engine without one
> OEM part. There are all sorts of other parts made too. It seems to me that
> if they haven't shut down EMPI, SCAT, CB Performance, Pauter Machine,
> Autocraft, Gene Berg, ect & ect, then it goes to reason that anyone who
> starts up a sheet metal reproduction facility ought to enjoy just as much
> success as the other biggies just mentioned. The rub lies in when and if
> someone will decide to risk some venture capitol and do that. It is all in
> the "demand" arena. If there are enough people willing to buy, then there
> will always be enough parts available.
> 
> Unless you are a diehard OEM stock geek.
> 
> I for one wouldn't mind dropping a brand new reproduction 65 deluxe 23
> window van body on my brand new reproduction Chevy Corvair van frame with
> the 140hp turbo Spider motor and automatic with air conditioning. But then
> again, I'm not an OEM geek, IMHO
> 
> 67 Single Cab, DP 1641cc 34PICT
> 71 Trike 1776cc 32/36 Progressive
> VolksAir 1585cc 28 PICT
> Ray, Kent WA
> A loose rattlesnake in the living room ends discussion of animal rights
>  
> 
