From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 18 Mar 2002 16:52:51 EST
To: Westyfalia(-at-)aol.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] starter woes...

In a message dated 3/18/02 11:19:26 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
Westyfalia(-at-)aol.com writes:

<< Ok my starter starts when it wants to and my hand and screwdriver do the 
 starting when it doesnt.  Why is it that when I turn the key the starter 
 clicks, but when I crawl under the bus and cross the two wires it comes 
right 
 to life???  The little things that keep me and my 59 closer than I want to 
be 
 sometimes.... >>

somewhere in the wires between the positive terminal on the starter, the ig 
switch, and the starter on push on terminal the wires are losing the 
electricity.  I think the click is the solenoid trying to do its thing, but 
stopping cause there isn't enough voltage to turn the engine.  the 
screwdriver bypasses the wires, so you get the volts.

Well, first I'd clean the battery terminals and ground, and the terminals on 
the starter that you screw on with the 13mm or 14mm nut.  Then clean the fuse 
box, the light switch terminals, everything in the starter pathway (check a 
wiring diagram if the light switch does not make sense.  The big fat red 
wires on the 30 terminals are what hss the problem.  undo the battery before 
cleaning the terminals up front, as they are always on.  This can really help 
the purity of your voltage flow.   check it with a volt/ohmeter if you have 
one and feel like it.

I have the same problem with my 65 westy, and cleaning everything helped, but 
did not solve the problem, I tried running a new wire from the ig switch to 
the satrter, but that didn't do it.  will try from starter to fuse box, and 
if that doesn't fly I will break down and install one of those booster 
thingys.  I did install a wire from the second push on connector that runs 
the "on" part of the starter, and took that into the engine compartment, so I 
can touch it to the + of the battery and keep from getting soggy, but that 
still is annoying.   But I haven't been driving the 65 because of the bad 
muffler and tires, so that doesn't matter really.

BTW, the snow (tie fighter swarm) has been coming down all morning, and is 
sticking.  Have a pic of my 61 15 window bus in the snow,  if anyone is 
interested p-mail me.

Clara
