From: "Smith, Ted (T.A.)" <tsmit137(-at-)ford.com>
To: "'jbakerccymca(-at-)springmail.com'" <jbakerccymca(-at-)springmail.com>,
Date: Tue, 19 Mar 2002 08:02:42 -0500
Subject: RE: [VB] Message to VWoA & MVVC

This is the best response to this issue I have seen on the list.How about the vintagebus.com VoA Sucks panel?

I and other friends will be there getting the message out in our own twisted ways and where better to do it then their own front yard.

There are also some VoA folks that are vintage people that are venting their frustrations at the office.
 

-----Original Message-----
From: John Baker [mailto:jbakerccymca(-at-)springmail.com]
Sent: Monday, March 18, 2002 4:36 PM
To: type2(-at-)type2.com; vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] Message to VWoA & MVVC


Hey All,
I feel kind of responsible for starting this thread with my off hand remark that said "if you want to boycott VWoA's actions, then blow off their show and come to ours" so I feel like I want to add another 2 cents and a possible CONSTRUCTIVE plan of action.  I received a letter from the secretary of MVVC in response to my initial post, this letter was also sent to the lists.  I'm sure most of you have seen this by now.  The secretary said they were not happy with VW's recent actions either but they are still having their show there due to committments even though they don't agree with them, etc. etc., etc.
So to members of the air cooled community and to the MVVC I want to propose this plan of action:  I assume there will be vendor space for rent at this show, correct or no?  If so, I suggest we take donations to rent a vendor space(I'll be the first to give!!) and recruit some volunteers to staff it.  Instead of selling stuff, The volunteers would be responsible for informing and handing out information and literature about what all VWoA has done to the air cooled community and the small businesses surrounding this hobby.  VWoA should be given no prior knowledge of this happening, and the MVVC could claim "no previous knowledge" to cover their own a$$es.  The large media presence at this show would be the key.  I would have to think that it would make national headlines when the press picks up a "demonstration" against VWoA at the show held at their headquarters! So everyone wins, MVVC and the charities they support get their share, and we all get the message out to a larger !
po!
pulation.
So, do we have any old hippies out there who have just been dying for a good old fashioned demonstration who would like to head this up?? 



Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1966 Kombi
http://www.geocities.com/jbakerccymca
"...so we got in the red VW microbus with the shovels and rakes and implements of destruction and
headed on to the police officer's station..."

---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: vintagebus-unsubscribe(-at-)type2.com
For additional commands, e-mail: vintagebus-help(-at-)type2.com
Donations help keep the list going. http://www.type2.com/donate.html
