Date: Wed, 19 Apr 2006 12:16:17 -0700
From: "Pace, Nick" <nickpace(-at-)rand.org>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "Pace, Nick" <nickpace(-at-)rand.org>
Subject: "Bad exhaust gasket"-like sound at start-up

This is a resend of an earlier question that didn't get much in the way of
responses.  I'll try to be more succinct this time!

I recently installed brand new heads and a brand new muffler on my 1971 Bus
with a stock 1600 DP engine.  The very first time I kicked it over following
engine reinsertion, I heard a sound that was almost exactly like what you get
when one of the exhaust gaskets goes bad.  You know, a PUT - PUT - PUT sound
at idle and a much louder one when you gun the engine.  But as the motor
warmed up, it quieted down considerably.  Once I go down the highway for a bit
and the oil is near normal operating temps, it's gone completely.  The same
pattern has been occurring for a few weeks now.

It's not a noise I can ignore.   Startup in a parking garage sounds like I
don't even have a muffler on at all.  Something is definitely funky.
Hypothetical explanations I can come up with include the following:
	(1) I cracked a head during the installation due to bad torque discipline
(always a possibility with my slopping handiwork) and the crack closes as the
engine heats and expands.
	(2) An exhaust gasket is bad or I failed to torque down the head nuts enough
and whatever opening is there at start-up closes as the engine heats and
expands.
	(3) This muffler has an internal defect that allows gases\sound to escape
relatively unscathed at start-up but the defect closes as the muffler baffles
heat and expand.
	(4) One of the heads is loose because head studs are working themselves out
of the case or because the head nuts are loose.  As the engine heats up and
expands, things cinch themselves into place.


Any ideas?

Thanks,

Nick Pace
nickpace(-at-)rand.org


--------------------

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use,
disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended
recipient, please contact the sender by reply email and destroy all copies
of the original message.
