Date: Thu, 20 Apr 2006 22:39:06 -0700
From: Andy <airhedz(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Jeremiah Stutte <jeremiah.stutte(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] spray on bed liner on undercarriage?

While I read your  email, I envisioned a spray-on bedliner similar to 
the Rhino product.

Preparation is always the key to a successful coating. When applied to a 
clean painted surface, this is indeed an impervious coating if applied 
properly, and suffers only from mechanical damage when extreme loads are 
applied. Water, road salt, pebbles and sand would not affect this 
product for years if it were applied to the underside of a van on the 
assembly line.

Let's see, if you're aircooled, your van is at least 22 years old. Some 
undercoating was applied at the factory, maybe some rust protectant 
applied by the dealer, lots of contaminants and moisture in tiny 
crevices from many years on the road. If you can get all that removed, 
I'd say the liner would be an excellent choice for an undercoater. If 
you apply it over all the aformentioned stuff, you're giving that stuff 
only one way out: through the metal, and through the metal it will go, 
because the bedliner is impervious and holds this stuff in constant 
contact with the same spot of metal.

I'd stick with a something that is less of a film and more of a flowing 
substance, something that can wick into the cracks and crevices and 
displace moisture and other contaminants. If this substance contained a 
rust inhibitor, would that be great or what?

Load up a garden sprayer with bar and chain oil (chainsaw stuff) and 
give the belly of your van a thorough shot before every winter season. 
Long winters with lots of sand/salt may require repeat applications.

Cheap and effective, easily applied (yeah, right. Wear disposable bunny 
suit).

Andy McKinley
airhedz(-at-)gmail.com
Alameda,, CA
SO HAPPY to be driving my '79 Kombi

"What good fortune for governments that the people don't think." - Hitler

Jeremiah Stutte wrote:
> hello,
> i was looking at the bed liner of my work truck and noticed the spray on
> bedliner.  what would this look like on the undercarriage of my bus?  in the
> wheel wells, etc?  
