Date: Tue, 07 Aug 2012 11:29:28 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] GoWesty Officially Partners with Volkswagen

On 08/06/2012 06:10 PM, Richard Jack wrote:
> I'm already finding myself priced out of the Buses I love.  Ridiculous prices
> for buses. Absolutely ridiculous!

Not a bad thing for the buses to fetch more than used economy car 
prices. Keeps them out of the crusher. Helps us all when we resell ours. 
Moves them beyond "hippie buses" with mainstream folks to something more 
interesting to more people - which helps keep them out of the crusher. 
motivates people to redesign/upgrade those leaky VW fuel systems that 
threaten to burn down these buses without warning.

Snatch up what you need now to keep your bus on the road for the next 30 
years. I have a spare Type IV engine, two spare Corvair engines and the 
consumables like tune up stuff isn't too bad. I can't imagine brake 
drums and starter motors will get too much more expensive.

Seriously, the rising cost of our hobby is part of why I've hung on to 
our Westy through periods when we couldn't afford to restore it properly 
(a dry garage helps preserve the in-op vehicle) due to college tuition, 
daycare fees for two kids, etc. I knew there might be a time when my 
$1500 wonder that is paid for would cost $8000 to buy again and the 
replacement vehicle would still likely need to be restored.

I'm restoring it now. Finally.

Still, I don't see these vehicles doing what rare Corvettes have done 
unless a guy as a rare 50s/60s sunroof bus. These VWs seem to be much 
like 1st gen Mustangs. They'll top out at some price probably in the 
mid-teens $$$ and stay there.

There will be folks who'll pay more for the GoWesty style salesmanship 
and shiny presentation of the used vehicles. GoWesty makes alot of lofty 
promises that the vehicles may or may not live up to. For $40K+ any VW 
Westy of any era better be perfect top to bottom inside and out IMHO. 
Like a new vehicle. Like a Brazilian bus brought here straight from the 
factory - because we can still buy starter buses for $5K and invest 
another $XYZ and have just as nice a vehicle AND get alot of cool tools 
to keep in the process.

Hey, if I was rich enough I'd spend $50K for a Syncro just for the feel 
good confidence that GoWesty includes with every Vanagon they sell but 
I'm not in that tax bracket. To buy a Syncro at those prices my other 
cars would need to be a new Porsche 911 and a new Mercedes wagon and a 
newish Land Rover Defender LWB which are also insanely priced... LOL!

Chris in TN
