Date: Wed, 08 Aug 2012 16:32:22 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: Phil Parker <phil(-at-)pagenumberone.co.uk>
Subject: Re: [T2] GoWesty Officially Partners with Volkswagen

I just meant in the USA there was nothing else like the Beetles and 
Transporters except the Corvairs. In Europe you guys had all sorts of 
different vehicles to choose from - rear engined Fiats, aircooled 
Citroens, Renaults, rear engined Simcas, and all the UK brands big and 
small. Some were good, some were not, some were great if you were a 
mechanic. Some were like a good watch that never stopped.

We had - and mostly still do - have Ford, Chevy, Chrysler and the Asian 
imports here.

The aircooled VWs were different and interesting. Not without their 
shortcomings of course. The Corvair disappeared in 1969 and we had 
air-cooled VWs until 1983 or so in the Vanagon.

Everything else here was watercooled and if it was small - FWD was ever 
more dominate. Call me crazy but a Datsun B210 was never as interesting 
as a Beetle or a Bus or many of the other European vehicles I had the 
pleasure of driving in Europe.

Once the aircooled VWs were gone we American consumers could buy 
watercooled Asian (mostly Japanese) or watercooled American cars. Few 
European options except very expensive luxury European cars. We didn't 
get many of the pedestrian bread and butters except the Fox (Polo) and 
Rabbit (Golf). I don't dislike the watercooled VWs but I don't aspire to 
own a half dozen examples of them like I do the vintage aircooled 
European and American models. ;) Maybe when the 80s watercooled VWs are 
50 years old they'll be more interesting to me. LOL!

Few cars in the 1970s available me here in TN were interesting economy 
cars. Few were standouts. VW was just another brand selling the same 
stuff as everyone else by the 1980s. yes, they were more interesting 
than Citations and Pintos though!

I miss the variety of cars we drove when I was stationed in Italy in the 
early-mid 90s. I loved their simplicity, their economy and often their 
diminutive size. I grew up with American barges and they just weren't 
appealing or interesting to me. Like the old saying goes it is more fun 
to drive a slow car fast than it is to drive a fast car slow. Same goes 
for big and small. A Beetle on a curvy road at 25-30 mph is a blast 
compared to a 70s/80s American barge wearing off it's sidewalls with 
it's tires howling in protest. More fun to dart in and out of traffic in 
a light car than lunging here and there in an American isolation chamber.

Chris

On 08/08/2012 02:39 PM, Phil Parker wrote:
> "Everything after was bread and butter to most folks after the 
> aircooled vehicles were obsoleted. The Vanagon was a standout b/c it 
> was unique during it's era."
>
> Beetles and Type 2's were bread and butter cars - that was the appeal 
> yet we still love them now. Wht shouldn't someone love a Polo (UK name 
> for the Rabbit) or a Golf ? I recall someone working out that there 
> were less rust-free Mk1 Golfs than Beetles ones...
