Date: Fri, 10 Aug 2012 17:01:16 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com>
Subject: Re: Type 2 advice for road trip

My wife and I did that sort of thing over and over for about two months at 
a time every summer until the late 90's in our 76 Westy. It included the 
USA, Canada, and many countries in Europe. And we still have the Westy in 
the back yard.
You are planning to travel in some very hot dry country in the worst time 
in history for such things. Take lots of extra drinking water and some 
emergency food, stay out of the desert in the daytime, and expect periods 
of impossibly hot record-setting dry weather. Personally, I'd postpone my 
travels until fall, and take advantage of cooler weather this fall. And 
take a month or two to get your vehicle and your skills tuned up. That's my 
first advice.

In any case, drive on tires that can handle the heat, and get out every now 
and then to put your hand on them. Stop driving if necessary. Use and carry 
oil that can handle the challenge, and drive so you don't destroy your 
vehicle. Wrap towels around your heads and keep them wet as you drive. Do 
frequent rest stops. Install some heat sensors on your air-cooled engine 
and drive so you stay in a safe operating zone. Carry a generous fire 
extinguisher.

We strongly suggest a few short 3-day shake-down trips to tune up your 
on-board resources and skills first. Then do a one week trip to uncover 
unexpected needs of both yourselves and your vehicle. Then do a two week or 
three week trip to gain some confidence.

Think about security for both your persons and your possessions as you 
travel and park and stay in strange campgrounds, and perhaps even have to 
abandon your vehicle for a few days while it is in a repair shop 1000 miles 
from home. Keep in touch with friends on a daily basis by phone and let 
them know you are OK.

Since you can't do much of that in 10  days, and probably won't change your 
plans, start out with really short easy stages of travel and rest over the 
first two weeks, carrying a list of names, addresses and phone numbers of 
repair facilities that specialize in 1976 Westy  parts and services along 
the way for the first 1000 miles. Maybe if you publish  a detailed route to 
the Type2 list, local list members along the route will supply 
suggestions-candidates to meet those repair and camping needs.

Enroll in a good RV towing and recovery organization that will insure your 
vehicle, help you fix it, and get it to a repair shop when you are 1,000 
miles from home. I'm not recommending them, but http://www.goodsamclub.com/ 
is a place to start looking at these options.

Take plenty of money, Maybe twice  what you think you need, and adequate 
identification and credit.  Make arrangements with your banker to take care 
of your banking needs as you travel. Pick several towns as mail drops where 
you can pick up forwarded mail in general delivery every month as you 
travel. You may need to rent a car, store your Westy, find a doctor, 
dentist or lawyer, and maybe even hide in a nearby basement when the 
tornado sirens are howling. Most of that happened to us over the years (not 
all on the same day).....especially in Texas and Oklahoma.

Why not travel North to Montana and Canada and find some cooler weather 
right now, and save the Southwest for fall and winter adventures?
Doyt Echelberger
 >>>>>
On Date: Fri, 10 Aug 2012 Steve MacDevitt said:
(snip)...any advice in regards
A: driving recommendations/advice on this roadtrip and
B: any places you would recommend we should see/not miss!
