Date: Thu, 16 Aug 2012 11:05:38 -0700
From: Scott Busby <swbusby(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Dakota Digital CHT Gauge in a 1600DP readings?

From Raby, referring to type4 engines:

Type IV Cylinder Head Temperatures


by Jake Raby
The following temps are based on the readings I have seen both on my
dyno, in my test car as well as every car I own as I do 92 miles round
trip daily, all aircooled. I have been able to see the effects of
different temps on engines, MPG and come up with basic rules. These
readings and parameters are ONLY accurate when your sender is the same
place as mine, under the spark plug.

Less than 300F
Your engine is well configured, properly tuned and you probably are
not driving it hard enough

300-340F
This is what I consider average for the Performance TIV engine that is
well tuned and properly configured. With these temps, you'll be
getting the best MPG and efficiency from the engine, it will live a
long powerful life and you can do valve adjustments at the normal 6K
mile interval, since heat isn't sinking your seats and stretching your
valves.

350-375F
These temps are standard for a STOCK engine with a stock cam at cruise
speed, if it is properly tuned. Generally, if you are cruising at
these speeds, as soon as you hit a hill you'll see a spike to a higher
level, approaching 400F. If you experience temps of 375 in 5th gear,
you may be doing the engine an injustice by keeping the tranny in 5th,
hitting a hill with a shift to 4th will keep load off the engine and
that reduces engine heat and increases cooling fan speed- 4th gear is
a friend to stock engines.

If you see temps in the 375 neighborhood constantly you'll be having
to reduce the intervals between valve adjustments to maybe 3K miles
due to the extreme heat cycling the engine and valve train parts are
seeing. Engines that cruise at 375 are generally out of tune or may be
misconfigured creating more heat.

375-400F
No engine should "cruise" at these temps, not for any reason. Cruising
at these temps is a guarantee that under load up hills that you'll be
over 400F and thats not acceptable.

400-420F
At these temps the rules change, 400 is the magic number that
stretches valve train parts and really where cracking issues begin.
400F is OK for a few seconds if climbing to the top of a hill, but
don't allow the engine to stay there long. In a perfect world as the
needle starts to climb toward 400 the smart driver will grab a lower
gear and remove load to cool the engine some, the extra blast from the
fan also helps.

420F+
Well your engine has been damaged. Go home, do a valve adjustment and
see how many valves have "tightened up" from your baking experience.
Those valves are the ones that have seen the most damage, so make a
note of it and upon teardown (that probably isn't far away) see how
those chambers and exhaust ports look as cracks will more than likely
be notable with the naked eye.

The other big issue is with guys that get their engine really hot and
then immediately pull over and leave the engine running! THIS CRACKS
HEADS!!!!!!!!
If you get the heads over 400F sustained, the best bet is to slow down
and use the tranny to moderate the cool down period. If you do stop on
the side of the road, shut the engine off and allow it to go through
it's heat cycle naturally. This will keep the heads from cracking in
most cases. The dumb guys pull over leave the engine running and watch
the needle drop down to 250F and drive again, those guys cool the
engine to quickly and crack heads.

So, there ya go... Thats a short summary of what I have seen for temps
and how they effect the engine.
Once again THESE TEMPS ARE ONLY FOR GUYS WITH THE SENDER UNDER THE SPARK PLUG!!!
If your sender is there, you are not lazy and want the best readings
for accurate monitoring of the engine. If your sensor is not there,
put it there, OR remove the gauge and throw it away, because the
readings you are getting are worthless.
