Date: Thu, 16 Aug 2012 23:21:54 -0700 (PDT)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: comparing CHT gauges

snip>
would be interesting to put a sender in the same place and have a DD and a
VDO side by side just to see how they compare.

Actually Bob, you don't have to fool with sensors, spark plugs, etc. at all. 
The curves from K type thermocouples are well documented.

e.g. http://www.mstarlabs.com/sensors/thermocouple-calibration.html

www.dataforth.com/catalog/pdf/an107.pdf

http://www.mosaic-industries.com/embedded-systems/microcontroller-projects/te
mperature-measurement/thermocouple/type-k-calibration-table

http://www.maxim-ic.com/app-notes/index.mvp/id/5032

All you need is a K type chart and an accurate millivolt source.  Hook both
gauges up to the same source (one at a time) and you can check the calibration
over their entire ranges. Note the offset, say every 10 degrees between 350
and 450F, and draw your comparison curve.

What is probably even more interesting for most folks is to put their gauge
under a lamp and heat that sucker up (without changing the input).  Just like
it would be on a hot day in Texas in/on the dash.  Watch how much the readout
changes as the unit heats up.  Then you will understand the importance of cold
junction compensation.  Of course it also changes as the gauge cools down
below calibration temperature (typically ~70F), but that isn't quite as
important (to us VW folks) as we like cooler (ambient) air over the heads.
Cool ambient air and cool gauge go together, usually. If you read and pay
attention to Jake's write up, shock cooling is a very bad thing, especially so
after overheating the engine.  Not the same thing as cold ambient air and a
cold gauge ( i.e. a colder than calibration temperature cold-junction)
upsetting the reading. 


I have found that even high-dollar, cold junction compensated, gauges
temperature 
drift to some degree, but MUCH less so than uncompensated units. 
Modern, microprocessor based units are even better.


The aeroplane folks have to juggle more balls at once as they fly in different
temperature air both with altitude and location, continuously adjust their
mixture (manually), adjust cooling air flow, and have to worry about closing
the throttle at cruise altitude (cool air) with a hot motor and then coming
down for some time without making any/much heat. Suddenly asking for a lot of
power from an over-cooled motor is asking for trouble (and a short TBO). This
is all with motors that are unchanged since the Pleistocene, but cost far,
far, more than ours.  Our brethren at Porsche did make quite a nice (updated)
aeroplane motor, but it was never very popular.

jon

ps You can make a usable millivolt source using a D cell and a pot from the
Shack. You will need an good DVM to measure the voltage out from the pot
accurately. Go play.  See for yourselves.  It's not magic.  j

"Your present circumstances don't determine where you can go; they merely
determine where you start." Nido Qubein
