Date: Sat, 18 Aug 2012 01:00:58 -0700 (PDT)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: misting system

snip>
On my next engine, I am considering installing a water misting
system hooked to a thermostat. The plan is to use a 2 nozzle misting system
with the misters mounted inside the fan shroud , one over each head. It would
be relatively inexpensive and would only turn on when the heads start to
reach
a critical temp.

I actually have most fo the parts for something similar.  This was inspired by
the "climb to altitude" record holders.  They use exactly that set up.  I have
some email traffic from Bob Hoover (the VW guru not the pilot)  He said it
wasn't worth doing unless it was fully instrumented.  At that time I didn't
have the $ or the tech kit to do that.  Now it's way easier.  His suggestion,
and pretty much what the aeroplane guys
 do, is to spray a mist directly
above, i.e. upstream of, the exhaust ports.  That is the critical failure
point in our engines.  If you look at photos of Pratt and Whitney aircraft
cylinders you will see that the intake tract has minimal finning whereas the
exhaust side has fins from top to bottom. I was just going to spray mist right
into the center of the cooling fan, and let it distribute itself.  Not too
reliable on the distribution end and that is no good. Got to hit all cylinders
evenly. The misters from patio coolers should work ok with a windshield washer
pump sprayed just above each exhaust port of the head. I would use the WOT
switch on the throttle body to turn on the pump, or something similar.

Now the big BUT is..... you have to have some temperature sensing system, or
water flow sensor, so that if the mist stops you know immediately. Think
strobe light on the dash. Otherwise you are cruising along thinking everything
is getting a spray until the plot melts. 

All of the racers at Reno use some form of spray bar cooling on their oil
coolers/inter-coolers/radiators.  This allows them to use much smaller units
(= lower drag) than would otherwise be necessary without evaporative cooling
to assist.  Doesn't take much evaporated water to make a big difference in
cooling. 

A small fun read for motor heads. 
http://www.enginehistory.org/rolls-royce.shtml  Yes these folks are using 15
ounces of spray bar water per second but, at 3000+ horse power, they are
making a LOT of heat.

jon

"Your present circumstances don't determine where you can go; they merely
determine where you start." Nido Qubein
