Date: Sun, 19 Aug 2012 20:30:57 -0700 (PDT)
From: J Stafford <sunbus(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Mid-August road trip in central CA

Aug 19 - I have lost track of the calendar date.  Symptom of letting go
of the daily grind back home.  Finding alot of hospitality with the locals.
In the strangest of places, if you look at it right.  Pebble Beach is
found Westward along G16 Carmel Valley Rd. to PCH Hwy1 and Hwy 68 West.
Follow the signs to Concours in a most convoluted way.  Guests park along
17mi drive and are shuttled into the Pebble Beach clubhouse area via
luxury buses.  It's cool and shrouded in fog at 7am.

The 17 & 18th fairways are already crowded.  If you want to take good
photos of the 'precious metal' on display you have to have the patience
of a saint and the reflexes of a wild cat.  People will stumble in front
of your lens or willfully block your line of sight for their own purpose.
Just relax, don't worry.  We share kinship & appreciate the fine machinery.

An amazing display of Shelby Cobra prototypes, production cars and racers.
Also on display were a few original AC cars which inspired Carrol Shelby.
Equally worthwhile I find a handful of Mercedes-Benz 300SL, 300SLR cars
which were prototypes made in the early 1950s.  German silver.  On display
along the shoreline are Maharaja cars which may have been commissioned,
and met the owners of a Rolls flown in from Jaipur, India.  Also found
along the shoreline are several Fiats.  And a dozen of early motorbikes
which were the only AIRCOOLED vehicles on the green.

Had lunch with a gentleman and his wife from Long Beach,CA.  Owns a 1970
double-cab Type2.  Small world.  Back to Saddle Mt Camp before the mass
exodus and related traffic jam.  Found my VW near lot A and Bird Rock
(guano mine) along 17mi drive.  Exit route equally convoluted and puzzling
as the ingress to PB Concours.

Heading South tomorrow via G16 Carmel Valley Rd. and Hwy 101.  It's too
stressful departing on a Sunday night after a full day.  VW can't keep up
w/modern cars on the interstate.  I hunker down in the slow lane w/trucks.

-Jack  '73 Westfalia
