Date: Sat, 17 Sep 2005 17:01:27 -0400
From: Eddie Goodwin <eddie(-at-)shitzthecat.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] bay window market crash/Selling a bus.

I have some recent experience in trying to sell my bus also and I'm 
always in the market to buy another... heres my recent experience....

I have a tough time gaging what the value of a bus is. I've seen some 
out there that I would pay good money for that end up selling for a loss 
less than I would expect, and then I see some basket cases sell for much 
more. I would attribute that to inexperienced buyers. We were all there 
once. I guess it really boils down to the right buyer finding the right 
bus and seller and coming to an agreement on price. I got a good feel 
for this recently from the other side of the fence. I put my '74 Westy 
up for sale at the beginning of the summer:

http://www.gacker.com/buspics/

I got all kinds of questions and people coming to see it. Interested 
parties from all across the spectrum of VW experience. A lot of them had 
no clue what to look for in a bus. I tried to explain to some of them 
(who were willing to spend good money on it) that it wasn't the bus for 
them. I wanted it to go to a good home,  someone who knew VW's and could 
correctly maintain/diagnose/repair it and knew what they were getting. I 
couldn't bring myself to sell it to a high school kid as their first car 
who expected a reliable car that they could drive cross country on a 
whim. That was not my bus.

After some people came to see it and commented/complained about certain 
things... and noticing what they were looking for/at... (often things 
that I found trivial, but were a big deal to the inexperienced 
bus-buyer, like worn tires)... I started replacing these things. I ended 
up replacing 2 tires, the gas gauge sender, fixing my carbs for good, 
replacing the master cylinder and brake booster, seat covers, touched up 
some paint all to make the bus more marketable... but in doing that work 
I realized how much I love the darn thing ...and from then on I couldn't 
get an offer that would justify my selling it (though some came before 
the repairs ;) ).

I was asking $3500, which I thought was reasonable for a '74 Westy in 
Eastern Massachusetts in the shape its in. Would you (list members) 
agree that to be a fair price? The best offer I got was from a lady who 
lived further up cape (Cape Cod). I agreed to sell it to her for $3000. 
I got the bus ready to make the 50 mile or so trip... and she bailed. 
She never showed up to pick it up and wouldn't return my calls. She 
seemed to vanish off the planet.... I'm not too broken up about it now.

The whole experience was frustrating for me... mostly because I couldn't 
find the right buyer... and I think the buyers got a little frustrated 
with me when I tried to get a feel for how well they could take care and 
maintain it which in turn, frustrated me even more.

I've decided to keep it and continue working on it until the right offer 
comes along. And whatever I do sell it for is going  right back into 
another VW.

-- Eddie


>
>
>
>
> Joseph Broach wrote:
>
>> This time a year ago, we were trying to find a bus to buy and use on 
>> our cross country trip.  At that time, bay windows seemed to move 
>> fast on thesamba.com, and a really pristine non-Westy bay went for 
>> 8k.  Now, a bus like that won't sell for 5k and nothing seems to be 
>> moving.
