Date: Sun, 18 Sep 2005 23:35:16 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: sump denouement, product review and HOAs

thanks to c dreike, i got a nice looking bolt, measured twice, cut 
once... damned if the aluminum POS crapcase doesn't have a big ol 
bulge of aluminum just at the stud hole in question. this bulge 
prevents me from getting the bolt in from the INSIDE of the case, as 
it hits the pickup tube - not enough clearance.
sigh.  got a nice stud from the stud box, gooped the tar outta it 
with 'tha brown stuff'  and screwed it in. wiggles a bit going in, 
which means the brazillians ain't too swift with the lathe.

got my newfangled a/c.net silicone sump seals ready... and bout bust 
a gut. john, these things are TOO DAMN THICK!! seriously, like 1/8th 
inch!  now, i AM using the ALPOScrapcase, so the possibility exists 
that the studs are in too deep (couldn't easily reach the spare case 
to compare), but no -way- are two of these gaskets, the strainer and 
the plate gonna go on, let alone go on and catch a thread on a nut. 
tried 3 different stock and aftermarket plates; no go. ended up using 
the silicone gasket closest to the case, then the strainer, then a 
cardboard gasket painted in gasgacinch and 3H, then the plate. still 
had trouble getting some of the nuts to thread. these gaskets need to 
be waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaay thinner - or else 
longer studs need to be included.

as of tonight, the sump plate ain't leaking, however, so that's a 
start. this enables me to see that 1) the front of the motor has a 
leak somewhere (f/w seal i bet, as i popped  the TWENTY DOLLARES for 
an official VW cam plug, as oposed to the stamped tin foil the 
vendors are selling - so THAT ain't leaking), 2) the seam just below 
the cam stud leaks a bit and 3) the sooperdooper hexhead oil piston 
plug by the pulley still drips. at least it doesn't drip as much as 
the brass-colored 'stock' one.

amusingly, i was tinkering with the wife's car friday when the HOA 
manager pulled up. "sorry buddy, but it has to go." points to bus...
  pardon?
"non-running vehicles aren't allowed, and i'm getting a complaint a week."
hmmm. tagged, insured. NOT my problem. plus, it runs.
"lady says it never moves."
one, i have developed the skill in life to NOT drive unless necessary 
- didn't drive AT ALL from feb to may. (engine was out, but the point 
is still valid!)
second, i never see the lady in question take a dump, but i bet she 
does. although her, i begin to wonder.

luckily he didn't ask to see it run, as all the oil was out, but we 
chatted about gas prices, the $99K bus, and retired people with too 
much time and too little brains. he is now firmly on my side.  :)
  keep in mind that i live in a small development of townhouses that 
go for a bit over 190K i am told (not my choice of habitat, and we 
rent), and when you turn your escalade into the neighborhood you come 
to a stop sign at a T intersection, and there it is: my bus, like a 
huge, rusty green steaming turd, RIGHT in front of you. i even have 
trucker reflective tape all over the back, so no avoiding it at 
night. HOA manager says it annoys 2 or 3, but REALLY gets the goat of 
the lady down the block. i am tempted to park it in front of crazy 
lady's house, JUST to prove it moves.

i did offer to cover it with a tarp, if SHE buys it!
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
