Date: Mon, 19 Sep 2005 09:17:07 -0700 (PDT)
From: mark durrant <markd89(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 78 Bus Needs help staying running after engine pull

Hi All,

Background:

1978 Bus with oil leak and needing some love, but
otherwise running perfectly. Decided to fix the leak,
do fuel lines, etc.

Lots of fun yesterday. Got the engine pulled, a very
hard
rear seal replaced with a nice new flexible one. Also
every fuel line was replaced - even the little ones I
had to cut off the injectors. My friend Grant and I 
were working on it from 9am to 1am. Lots of errors
made
but mostly of the kind which just involve a little
more work to fix - nothing bad.

"The" Problem:

Bus runs on the starter. It also will sometimes stay 
running if I keep the revs up (probably 2-3K revs) but
then only for 20-30 seconds.

I'm thinking that it is not ignition because it DOES
start. I have Compufire (like Pertronix) and an MSD
box so it is more complicated than stock. However
since
it does start and ran perfectly for months prior to
yesterday I'm thinking not to focus troubleshooting
there.

I'm thinking it is probably double relay or something 
related, where the fuel pump is only getting power
when the starter is running, except that I can make it
run for 20 seconds by keeping revs up so that shoots
a hole in that theory.

I've checked the wiring (as best as you do at 1am)
AFM is plugged in. Double replay connector is
connected.

One of the many mistakes I made was to lower the
engine
with the FI computer connector bound up. This resulted
in it being tugged on -hard. Once noticed we took the
pressure off, but I am hoping that I did not break
a wire in there. I do have a spare harness, but it is
from a 79 with Lamda sensor.

In doing the fuel lines, I noticed a metal spring
inside one of the fuel lines coming out of the fuel
tank. 
I said -- hmm.. what's this and removed it.
I suppose it's also possible that the spring was in 
there for a reason and now there is crud blocking the
fuel the line. (But then it wouldn't start consisently
with the starter, right?). 

Probably it is just a wire I have set wrong, that's
what it usually is ;-) Any help and suggestions much
appreciated.

Thanks much,

Mark
'78 "Blue Bus"
Los Angeles
-New clutch, rear seal and fuel lines!!
