Date: Mon, 19 Sep 2005 13:48:05 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] bay window market crash?

I've ranted about thesamba there and here a few
times.  As far as I am concerned, there are very
few busses worth $5-8k.  However, in the opinion
of most sellers and listmembers on thesamba.com,
anything that has a most of it's sheet metal and
runs on three or more cylinders is worth that. 
So if you are buying, the best place is to start
shopping at the local VW mechanic, then the local
classifieds/cars.com, and then autotrader.com or
craiglists.  Only as last resort would I attempt
to buy off Samba.  If youre selling, do the
reverse.  

So youre into your bus for a few thousand more
than you can sell it for now, my advice is wait.
Now isn't the time to sell.  The market starts
slowing down every single year in the late summer
and bottoms out in early March.  Work on you bus
and give it some curb appeal.  Throw on new
tires, like you've already done, and fix as many
of those little things as you can.  Then clean
the heck out of it. A Maaco quality paint job
also helps very much if your bus is in need of
that sort of thing.  Like I said, Samba is the
costliest place to buy a vehicle, yet people who
post on that list will affirm that your bus is
easily worth the asking price.  Obviously that is
where you should post your ad, but be prepared to
wait until the spring.  Link your ad to a
geocities or similar page with many pics showing
your bus in it's best light.  Don't forget to
have a nice campground or nature scene as the
background.  Give it some karma/personality/sex
appeal that the internet buyer can perceive. 
You'd be surprised how much that sort of thing
helps.  If you take a pic of it at the alley
behind your house, with the trash cans and your
neighbors junk Pinto as a backdrop, your bus is
worth less to the internet buyer.  

Don't be afraid to ask for an absurd samba level
price, because many of those people have no clue
and won't look at a bus in certain price ranges
(say, below $4000).  They assume that since they
were going to buy a Honda Odyssey for $30k, that
anything less than $10k is a bargain.  "But I've
already dropped the price $2000 and I've got more
than that in, so I'll just keep it" works on
some, especially when people finally see those
busses start to sell in the spring.  You'd be
surprised how many of the samba posters buy a bus
for $4-5k and think they got a steal.  

Good luck and happy bussin'
Ray
