Date: Mon, 19 Sep 2005 21:51:08 -0700
From: Anton Pitts <apitts(-at-)interchange.ubc.ca>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: water/ sink/ faucet on '81 westfalia

Thanks for some advice on timing a couple of weeks ago.  Turns out, I 
had to set the timing to 0 to pass emissions tests, then back to 7.5 
where it's supposed to be for actually driving.  I was told this by not 
one, but two emissions-program certified mechanics...

So now that the engine runs, I can turn my attention to more fun stuff: 
the camper parts.  Given I haven't owned one of these before and it did 
not come with an owners manual, I have more than a few questions.  
First one: anyone know of anywhere to download the owners manual(s)?  
That could save me some time and spare you some questions :)  I found 
one for the fridge, but not for anything else.

Next, the water system.  How does it work?  I assume there's a clean 
water tank and a gray water tank.  On the outside, there's a standard 
garden hose type hookup, which I assume feeds the clean water tank.  
Then there's a bayonet-type connector; is that for sucking out the gray 
water? Or something completely different?  Is there a gravity-fed way 
to drain gray water, if a pumping station isn't available?

I seem to have this model of faucet: 
http://busdepot.com/details.jsp?partnumber=255070808, except the actual 
spout part is missing.  Is there a way to rig up a jury-rigged spout 
into the hole left behind, or do I need to replace the whole faucet for 
U$45?  Can I find something somewhere else that will fit almost as well 
and be cheaper?  I took my faucet out to see how it works, and am a bit 
confused by the connections below.  There's two electrical wires from 
the switch down to the pump itself.  Then there's a clear braided hose 
that attaches to a barbed fitting with a hose clamp and goes to the 
pump, which I assume is where the water gets pumped up to the faucet.  
And then there's a hard gray plastic hose, connected with what looks 
like a tapered nut and fitting (I didn't take it off yet), which 
disappears in behind the fridge, and I can't see where it goes to.  
What is that for?

Lastly, I'll soon get around to thinking about the propane system, but 
in the meantime, is there some safety-first procedure I should do to 
make sure there aren't any gas line leaks anywhere, before filling up 
the tank and turning it on? If I rock on up to a propane filling 
station, will they be able to show me how to fill propane tanks, or 
should I know what I'm doing before hand?  I haven't really messed with 
propane before, and don't really want to blow my new baby up :)

Thanks all,

Anton.
