Date: Wed, 12 Feb 2003 09:29:09 -0500
From: scott lyons <slyons(-at-)netrover.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] great door speaker location!!!

On 2/12/03 3:04 AM, "bpierce" <bpierce(-at-)shaka.com> wrote:
 
> I have also kicked around the idea of trying to mount two small speakers
> under the dash, but not in the front kick plates.  Space is limited....
> 
> Bradley
> '79 bus

List,

Just to chime in here. My '79 westy has speakers everywhere. The guy I
bought it from was pretty into electronics. When I bought the bus it also
had a computer installed into the space behind the driver's seat, with the
monitor bolted to the sink cabinet. That's gone now, and it's another story
anyhow, that and the tv antenna that was on the roof.

He installed a sub-woofer in the cabinet under the z-bed. It has a port on
the front. Also in the z-bed is an amplifier and cross-overs. It takes up
storage space, but not that much. Attached to the amp are 6" speakers in the
rear, mounted in the sides of the bus flush with the panels, just near the
power panel on one side and opposite that. Also there are 2 surface mount
midrange speakers attached up high at the edges of the header panel. In the
front are two tweeters flush-mounted in the dash. This system sounded great,
but most of the sound was in the back, so I installed a pair of 2-way
component speakers in the doors, in the "up high" location people have been
mentioning. 

The front speakers are powered by the head unit, and the back speakers and
the subwoofer are powered by the big amp in the back. I put a switch on the
dash to interrupt the "power-on" signal from the head to the amp, so I can
disable the rear speakers when needed/wanted.

This all sounds very invasive and over-the-top, but you'd be surprised how
discreet it all is. There are 11 speakers, but you barely notice them at
all, the PO did a really slick job of installing everything and pulling the
wires through the frame and panels so you don't see them. He must have taken
the interior apart completely to do the wiring. If the beastie boys are
playing, then you notice the speakers...

I will take some pictures and put them up.

Scott Lyons 
