From: "Ben Huot" <huotx(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 12 Feb 2003 22:45:06 +0000
Subject: Trip report! (need parts!)

Cheers Volks from.......rainy California (San Diego)
Well, i made it that far but not without any troublessssssss.
4100miles later........

Quick note to the folks who did offered help in San Diego area....i will 
call you guys (he he he)

Trip: Cold alll the way! everywhere! Nice friendly people everywhere i went, 
pretty cool!
I did drive very close to many of you guys but as it was so cold we where 
driving all the time except for a short stop to New Orleen (2days) and  San 
Antonio (Beautifull town by the way) We took half freeway and half small 
route, we've seing alot!

Ok, now the Bus!!!!!!!!!!! ggggrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrRRRRRRRRR
Am 20 miles north of san diego right now on a small state beach park on the 
ocean.
Here is my 3 main problem in order(S)
- Tranny problem, pretty sure it's the bushing in front of the tranny, 2 
square parts! where the ball joint is, one side is almost missing?
  Trouble with first, second and reverse speed, very dificult driving in 
town? If not, i need a tranny, i cannot enter Mexico like that!

-Muffler, well i lost my muffler tail pipe twice, it won't last for long! My 
muffler is a 4 in 1 type, the 4 in 1 portion is fine but the muffler is 
going away fast, MY EXHAUST PIPE IS ON THE LEFT SIDE!!!!!, no shop in the 
main land could help me, well i was always in far away small town!!!

-Carbs!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Running to rich at idle like hell!!! i think my fuel 
pump is giving to much pressure (flooded each morning and near impossible to 
start, in the morning the engine is always flooded)
and very dificult to start. I have a 100$ electric fuel pump (with 
regulator) but i had no time to install this one! INEED NEW CARBS, or very 
good use one, i would also settle for single weber! I had to put my spare 
carbs yesterday, they are fine on freeway but TOOOOOO much ritch for driving 
in town!!!! they smell like hell when am at a stop or at idle! I am tired of 
those carbs, iv'e been playing with those all my way down south! changing 
jets (air and fuel), the other one completely failed in....Arizona, i could 
do nothing with those!
Some morning or simply after fuelling the bus, black puff smoke, heavy 
hesitation, impossible to drive, light smell in the van at night when we are 
speeping!!!

I am simply dead, driving more than 500 mile some days, my girl didn't dive 
much as she coudn't shift the bus....

I would have love to meet a few of you guys along the way but....when your 
from Canada, your looking for some HOT weather in winter time! Maybe on my 
way back, not soon!!!!!!!

I have other small problem but nothing serious, i am on internet for an 
other hours! or so! and will check my message tomorow.

i only need a few quick adress of VW bus part retailer, i will do my own 
research right now.

Ok, am off now, thanks in advance for any advice for parts, i think i can do 
most repair on the campgroung, unless i need to change the tranny.

-So i need good used cabs or new one, i guess double carb will be a must! 
(my engine is 1.7L)
-Bushing for the tranny (where the joint is)
-Muffler for my 4 in 1 or complete new system, the heater box are fine!

Cheers, Ben
http://messenger.fr.msn.ca/
