From: "Casting Fool" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 10 Nov 2004 10:03:14 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Bummed over emblem

From: "john kolak" <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
> Well, that's it. These are not held on by nuts. They have small metal
> studs that fit into plastic keepers that press into the holes on the
> nose. All you have to do is pry to remove the emblem. I bought some
> spares off ebarf but they turned out to be the little ones for late
> bays. Plastic too. Hey, maybe you could cast emblems from one of your
> plastics. Original emblems are way too high, about $100. Maybe you
> could make them from plastic for $20 or so retail.

I wondered about that.  I'd thought the studs had threads and a nut.

The taser/cattle prod idea rocks!  The plastic keepers would electrically
insulate the emblem from the rest of the bus.  Liability might be a
question, though.  I'd get the video. :O)

I'd thought about casting the emblems in resin.  They'd be easy to cast and
I could metalize them to appear "chromed" (in bronze, copper, gold, silver,
or gunmetal), or they could be painted or actually chromed.  The resin I use
can be chromed like metal, though I don't do that process myself.  $20.00
retail would be okay, too.

I really doubt that VWoA would have my butt over the copyright thing.  I
could always stop producing them if they squawk.

The trick is picking up a set of original emblems in both sizes (didn't
realize my bay emblem was different than earlier model buses) and in good
condition.  Right now I don't have $200.00.  Having to buy emblems in used
condition, make one-time molds to cast a set of masters from the originals,
restore the masters to pristine condition and then make new molds to cast
production emblems would raise the costs a bit.  Perfect originals would cut
out the mastering process.

One other thing.  How difficult is it to get the plastic keepers that hold
the emblem on the bus?  Are they a hard plastic or soft?  If it wasn't so
difficult to get to the holes, I'd replace the studs with either threaded
holes for screws or thread the studs for nuts.  Of course, then they'd get
broken instead of stolen when pried at.

On a happier note, I'd like to mention that we officially purchased Giacomo
on Monday, which also turns out to be the date which he rolled off the
assembly line.  Neat!  Happy Birthday, Giacomo! (27 yo)

TTFN - Mike Jackson
`77 Bay, "Giacomo"
Casting Fool & Son
Augusta, GA  USA
http://www.cfnson.com
