Date: Thu, 31 Mar 2005 13:07:37 -0800
From: "Pace, Nick" <nickpace(-at-)rand.org>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "Pace, Nick" <nickpace(-at-)rand.org>
Subject: The factory's official take on Pertronix electronic "points"

Based on the helpful suggestions of folks on this list, I was able to ID the
points replacement set-up installed by a PO as a Pertronix 1847V system for
older VW vacuum advance\retard distributors.  My concern was that initial
dwell readings after I recently bought this '71 Bus were showing about 64
degrees every time, a figure that would have previously caused me to
immediately grab my feeler gauge, my flashlight, a screwdriver with a
relatively un-molested blade for the banged up point screw, a pair of
high-powered reading glasses, and a dictionary containing little used cuss
words.  

I checked the Type II archive and there was a lot of chatter on the
subject but no real consensus.  I just called the friendly folks at Pertronix
(909-599-5955) and spoke to a tech support guy named "Karl" who came complete
with a vaguely Central European accent (always comforting when dealing with
things VW).  He stated that there was no way to adjust the dwell on these
systems as they come factory preset, not even by changing the gap between the
rotor donut and the sensor.  Furthermore, according to Karl, the dwell reading
itself is irrelevant with an electronic system.  The OEM has to have a
specific set figure for mechanical points because the distributor's designers
have to compensate for the eventual wear that will take place over time.  With
electronic points, that's not an issue and the spark can be far hotter with
this system without worrying about any damage to the points that will cause
the timing to change.  A dwell reading of 64 is, according to Karl, not a
problem at all no matter what the "normal" specs might have been.

So I guess
I have to believe this gentleman rather than assume that dwell can in fact be
adjusted on Pertronix systems or assume that a dwell reading outside of a
range of 48-50 on one of these things is cause for alarm.



Nick
--------------------

This email message is for the sole use of the intended
recipient(s) and
may contain privileged information. Any unauthorized review,
use,
disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended
recipient, please contact the sender by reply email and destroy all copies
of
the original message.
