From: Peter Pankonin <webtmc(-at-)telusplanet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 1 Apr 2005 14:08:28 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] Adding engine access

On Friday 01 April 2005 11:05 am, Spentzos3(-at-)aol.com wrote:
> I was wondering if anyone out
> there had added the top engine access to their older bus.

Yes...


> Could you just 
> cut one out of a 73-79 and add it to a 68-72?

I cut the hatch out of a 73 and spot welded it into my 72. I already had a big 
hole in the back of my 72 because the PO got tired of "having to keep 
hunching over...". He covered the hole with a thin piece of tin but there 
were always a lot of fumes and engine noise. Adding the hatch sealed off the 
fumes and noise.


> Are the metal ribbings the 
> same? Will it just lay in easily? 

The ribs are identical and with some careful measuring and cutting it fits 
great... 

On the 72, I cut on the inside of the ribs that run front to back. I 
cut in front (FIF) of the rib that runs left to right by the firewall. The PO 
had cut the hole about three or four inches from the rear door so I left that 
where it was. When I was done the left-to-right ribs were gone but the 
front-to-back ones were still there.

On the 73, I cut one floor board groove over to the left and right of the 
ribs that run front to back. This was necessary because of the proximity of 
the hatch lip to the edge of the frame members. I cut in front of the rib 
that runs left to right by the firewall (same place as on the 72 -- I 
probably should have left a little overlap here as well, but I didn't...). I 
cut along the edge of the little curved lip just inside the rear door. Then I 
removed the ribs that run front to back but left the ones that run left to 
right.

I inserted the hatch so that the frame members all lined up correctly (this is 
important since the firewall needs the groove just behind (FIF) the front 
rib to be in the right place). This provided one floor board groove overlap to 
the left and right, about two inches overlap to the rear and a slight gap in 
the front (where I should have overlapped as well). I welded the frame 
members all around and then spot welded the metal every two or three inches 
(I tried to weld the whole length but the metal ended up warping and burning 
through) both on top and underneath.

I sealed the whole thing from the top and underneath with silicon to keep out 
engine fumes and noise etc. and then painted it. It's not a thing of beauty 
but it's functional as well as it seals off the huge hole I had in the back.
I still haven't taken any pictures of the thing (sorry Chris...). I'll try and 
take some this weekend and could send you some if you'd like.

If I had the option of doing it again without a previous hole in the back, I 
would probably cut a hole in the 72 just inside the frame members and then 
cut out the hatch in the 73 just outside the frame members. Then remove the 
frame members and lay it over the hole and weld it in with the slight 
overlap. If my body work and welding skills were better, I might have 
attempted to weld it all flush but...

-- 
Peter Pankonin, digitalcrucible

There are 10 kinds of people in the world,
those who understand binary, and those who don't.
