From: "Scott Goodno" <sgoodno(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 10 Mar 2005 07:46:48 -0600
Subject: Engine Rebuilder Recommendations

Hello,

After 6 weeks and much prep work, I've finally made the maiden flight! Feels
pretty good except for the slipping clutch and telltale oil trail down the
street!  As far as I can tell, the bus had been sitting idle anywhere
between 4-18 years.  Now, onto looking seriously at the engine.  It
currently has a 1500 bug motor installed and a severely corroded case.  It
does leak oil, a lot, and I suspect the main seal is also bad.  The clutch
is toasted, but the transmission seems ok. Shifter is quiet sloppy.  Upon
start-up the engine knocks loudly but goes away after some oil pressure has
built up. Idles very well but I still need to rebuild the carb.

Anyway, I was really wanting to change the engine for a new or rebuilt 1600
with some mods to help with the horsepower, torque and esp. reliability.  My
desire is to use the bus as an occasional camper and get maximum reliability
from the motor.  I am looking at AVP, GEX and JSC Volks as potential sources
for new or rebuilt motors.  So far, I think, I would order a 1641cc with
external oil filter setup, alternator, dual port, deep oil sump, new clutch,
electronic ignition and header as additional accessories.  My questions are:

Are there other quality rebuilders you have experience with other than those
I listed?
Would you recommend any other additional mild modifications other than those
I listed?
Any additional advice?

As an aside, I'm recording all of my work on a spreadsheet, so I have
attached the list of things I did to my bus to take it from dead in a field
to running.  Some are pretty minor others are a necessity.  Hopefully, it
may be helpful for use as a checklist for other novices, like me, just
getting started!

Regards and thanks for any advise you can give,

Scott
'70 Bus


System	Description

Electrical	Spark Plugs - Gap and Install
Electrical	Coil - Replaced
Electrical	Spark plug wires - Replaced and routed
Electrical	Distributor cap and rotor - Replaced
Electrical	Ground strap - Body to motor strap broken - Replaced
Electrical	Ground strap - Battery - Cleaned and reinstalled
Electrical	Replace ignition switch and lock cylinder
Electrical	Positive strap - Battery - Cleaned wire and replaced
terminal end
Electrical	Generator - Cleaned all electrical connections. Replace wire
connectors
Electrical	Voltage Regulator - Inspect and clean connections
Electrical	Starter - Inspect and clean connections
Electrical	Coil - Connect Pos. terminal to ignition and to 2 points on
carburetor
Electrical	Change out broken fuse box
Electrical	Install new Battery
Electrical	Distributor condenser and points - Replace and adjust
Electrical	Check Dwell and adjust timing
Engine	Oil Change and new oil strainer
Engine	Lubricate and manually turn motor
Engine	Belt - Replaced and tensioned
Engine	Inspect and purchase bolt, nut, washers and sealant for front Engine
Case
Engine	Oil pressure switch connection - Tested bad.  Replaced
Engine	Flush Engine with Gunk Cleaner.  Clean strainer and refill with Oil
Fuel		Fuel line replacement - End to end - New hose and clamps
Fuel		Fuel filter change - Added 2nd filter between pump and carb
Fuel		Fuel tank drain, refill and drain.  No rust or sludge
concerns
Fuel		Clean Carburetor - Carb cleaner spray
Fuel		Inspect/reposition/lubricate throttle cable end to end.
Replace throttle tube
Fuel		Fuel tank fill - 5 gallons + fuel conditioner
General	Complete electrical schematic poster for garage
General	Clean up engine bay - Degrease and power spray
General	Paint and reinstall steering col. Tube, ignition housing and support
bracket
TransmissionTransmission fluid change
Body		Remove old tires from rims
Body		Strip rims and sand/acid etch
Body		Paint rims with POR15
Body		Dust rims with Primer.  Complete primer coat
Body		Paint rims with color coat
Body		Order/receive tires.
Body		Paint rims with clear coat
Body		Install new tires and balance.
Body		Clean and POR15 lug bolts
Body		Removed and cleaned up rust on Driver seat
Brakes	Recheck rear brake installation, adjust star wheels and torque axel
nut.
Brakes	Order, Paint and form/replace REAR steel brake lines
Brakes	Replace REAR brake flexible hoses
Brakes	Fill and bleed brake system. Adjust shoes.
Brakes	Replace brake master cylinder.  Install and adjust linkage
Brakes	R/R Rear brakes with new cylinders, spring kit, shoes, adjust
Brakes	Paint POR 15 Rear Brake Parts and Connecting Links
Brakes	Check Rear Drum diameter and condition
Brakes	Paint POR 15 Front Brake Parts and Connecting Links
Brakes	Check Front Drum Diameter and condition.
Brakes	Install used brake fill reservoir and tube line to main reservoir.
POR 15 under tube
Brakes	R/R Front brakes with new cylinders, spring kit, shoes, adjust star
wheels
Brakes	Order, Paint and form/replace FRONT steel brake lines
Brakes	Replace FRONT brake flexible hoses
Suspension	Replace existing REAR shocks with KYB  Gas-A-Justs.  POR15
behind shocks.
Suspension	Replace existing FRONT shocks with KYB Gas-A-Justs.  POR15
behind shocks.
Front Axle	Replace and lubricate all lub points.  Ordered new grease
fittings
Front Axle	Clean and pack front wheel bearings - Install new grease
seals
