Date: Thu, 10 Mar 2005 07:44:26 -0800
From: "< Arnaud >" <turbo2cv(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Heat riser

Bussists,

My daily a Hoover sermon taught me about the heat riser tube. Then I
dug into the archives, Muir and Bentley to understand that thing.

 I noticed that some black cheap paint holds on the riser tubes and I
was able to touch both sides of the tube after a 15 minute drive in 55
degree weather  (i.e. the riser wasn't hot). Also the throat of the
intake manifold was pretty darn cold under the carb and had water
drops on it.

Unfortunately I have a non-stock muffler, I believe it is called
Monza. It is a pretty loud thing and had FOUR tail pipes, which is
annoyig because after a tune-up my clothes smell exhaust fumes and my
wife wants me to shower.

Anyway, I read in the archives that the 'performance' mufflers usually
have no hole in the heat riser connector - since they are often used
with dual carbs - I guess :)

I kind of experience the "plugged heat riser symptom" as described by
Muir, but also I still have a 009, so not sure who's at fault.

So I'm wondering if the heat riser tubes are plugged or it the wholes
for the heat riser were not done when the Monza muffler was installed
under PO's authority. Soon I'll remove the muffler and check it out.

However, three years ago when the stock muffler of my previous bus was
shot. Back then I knew nothing about VW's and listenened to my
mechanic only who advised me to install a 99$ Monza 4-tail-pipe
exhaust muffler. He claimed that it would give more power. Since it
was the cheapest muffler, I went for it. What I realize now is that he
made 55+$ margin on that sale, while he would probably have made less
on the sale of a stock muffler...

I was already a statistic freak and was writing down the gallons used
and miles driven at every fill up. By looking back into my notes it
shows that the with the stock muffler I was getting 22-23 mpg. With
the 'high performance' Monza I was getting 19-20 mpg and the van did
not run as good.

I hope that my heat riser is not plugged as it seems to be hell to
unplug. Drilling heat riser holes in the Monza would be cool.
thanks

Oh : 71 westy expecting a stock dizzy and oil bath air cleaner within a month.
- Arnaud
