From: "J Barry Burneskis" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 11 Mar 2005 14:52:13 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] Help Needed - Stuck in Woodbridge

Jeff Steward said:  "I do have to thank  Paul for one thing, though, if it 
weren't for him trying to rip
me off, I wouldn't have learned to work on my VW myself. "

Jeff, that goes the same with me!!

I failed emissions a few years back, and I took it to Paul's.  Don adjusted 
my AFM with an analyzer, and I took it back and amazed the emissions 
inspector.  Don took a $10 bill with thanks. (Months earlier, Don adjusted 
my aux air regulator.  God knows how that is done, but he opened it a bit 
when it was cold so I could get more air through  ...  or something like 
that.  He showed me everything he was doing, but I was/am a clutz and I may 
have this all backwards.  Anyway, Don showed me everything he was doing, and 
even though I could not be in the shop right next to him because of 
insurance reasons, I was able to stand at the open bay and talk to him and 
see everything.

Of course, I did not immediately take the VW back to have the AFM reset, but 
that is another story.

About a half year later, I went back with a set of points, and told Paul 
that I wanted the points replaced and the dwell set and the AFM readjusted.  
I told him I have all new plugs and cap and rotor, and I did not want those 
replaced.

Somebody else was assigned to my VW.  Again, I was able to see everything 
being done from outside the shop, through the open bay doors.

This guy spent over TWO hours!! messing around.  He pulled the plugs, looked 
at them [they were brand new and set properly] then he did a compression 
check.  Man, I didn't ask for a compression check!!  He replaced the points 
and did set the AFM, but I couldn't understand what he was doing  with 
analyzer since I vaguely remembered what Don whad done, and he was getting 
strange readings..  Back then, Don taked with me the whole time he was 
working on my AFM, and pulled the analyzer close to the open bay door so I 
could see the readings...


Well, Paul gave me a bill for $165!!.  What the heck.  Paul said that was 
the standard price for a tune up.  In the discussion that ensued, I huffed 
out of there and started buying the equipment and the books I would need to 
do the work myself.

Thank you Paul.  That probably was a cheap leasson; NEVER let someone touch 
your VW unless you have to, and be RIGHT THERE!!.

I would plan my future trips to whenever Paul went on vacation and Don was 
there himself!!

Don is an honest mechanic and person, and he will work to the best of his 
ability.

(BTW, Don first said 'Thanks for coming', and didn't want to accept my $10, 
but I am glad he did.)

Barry Burneskis
Springfield VA
