From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: "'< Arnaud >'" <turbo2cv(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 11 Mar 2005 09:52:06 -0600
Subject: RE: plugged heat riser

From: < Arnaud > [mailto:turbo2cv(-at-)gmail.com] 
Sent: Thursday, March 10, 2005 4:00 PM
To: Gary G. Martin; Type 2 List
Subject: Re: plugged heat riser

Thanks Gary for the detailed answer. I'm scared by the idea that my
rebuilt engine with 25K miles might be almost shot because of that...
I saw the dark smoke, poor mileage (18mpg)  and other horrible things
you describe.

My plan was to remove the muffler only and try the drill-steel-wire
trick with the manifold in the bus. Is that doable ? Seems that the
other option is to remove the manifold for better access but involves
more work.

It's not that I like my Monza muffler, it's just that I cannot buy a
new one right now.

ggm replies:

RE: remove muffler only to clean out blocked heat riser.
	I do not know if you can clean out the heat riser this way or not. I
never tried it. Sure seems like a creative approach. You only have to remove
two muffler to head connections plus two muffler to muffler connections,
then two muffler to heat riser connections. The advantage is not removing
the carburetor and intake manifold to head connection. At the very least you
always have to buy new gaskets. You will be lying on your back. Be sure to
wear good eye protection goggles and also wear ear plugs to keep the gunk
out of your ears; button up your collar, and wear a tight head scarf. You do
not want any loose clothing to catch in the spinning drill and spinning
cables. 

It is a lot more work to completely remove the intake manifold, but it is a
lot easier to clean it out with it clamped in a vise and you standing up. If
your remove-muffler-only approach works, you should do a write up about it
and send it to the list, everybody wants to fix their bus engine in the
least amount of time.

Before you start all this, test your heat riser diagnosis by testing against
a known clear heat riser system. Find somebody with another bus engine and a
good clear heat riser. Start with overnight cold engines. Start the two
engines at the same time. Drive them for 20 minutes or more on the same
route, then touch your heat risers and touch the other heat risers. You need
to touch the heat risers all over: touch AT the muffler connection which
will be hot even with a plugged heat riser tube. Touch all along the tube;
sometimes you can actually find the plug location because the tube will be
warm all the way to the plug. A clear tube is almost uniformly hot.

When you take the muffler off be sure to check it out to see if it really
has holes for exhaust gas to travel up through the heat riser. I have seen
cheap mufflers where they just welded a heat riser connection tube to the
muffler tube, but they did NOT drill a through hole to allow the muffler
exhaust gasses to flow up into the heat riser. I always use big hole muffler
to heat riser gaskets on both sides of the heat riser. Sometimes you find a
small internal hole gasket and a large internal hole gasket. I use two big
internal hole gaskets. 
