Date: Thu, 21 Jul 2005 13:17:28 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Is the end near? Few VW buses seen at premier hippie

Oregon Country Fair, eh? I was just down the road on the Oregon Coast
(Florence) that weekend, and there were a few busses on the 101. There
was a nice maroon splitty (waved) and 2 white bays (both waved). In
fact, there was another bus camping at Honeyman SP one of the nights we
were there while the fair was going on. I saw them pulling in, but the
park was too big - I couldn't find them. I guess in answer to your
question, there are plenty of them around Oregon. But, the numbers are
dropping here too.
Take Hal's suggestion, and interpret the V as for Volkwagon. If you
want to have some fun, flash them a "W" (for the other half of the VW).
The fact the Rep's used that to symbolize Mr. Bush in '04 makes it
especially funny, IMHO. The faces switch from "hey man" smiles to "what
the..." questioning looks in a snap of your fingers. Funny stuff.

I meant to trip-report my venture down the coast, but I kinda forgot.
Hapy ran great: $45 in gas for 450 miles, so I got around 24mpg -
astounding, really. He started running a little rough after we got over
the Coast Range, and found by leaning the carb a touch, it made up for
the damp coastal air, and he ran better.
The stretch of 101 between Newport and Florence is very twisty. That
stretch turns white-knuckley when the rains set in, and the big rigs
turn into a grille in your rear-view mirror. This was the first trip
with the new Koni shocks, and I gotta say, it was like floating on air.
Very nice. My wife and I were stunned Hapy could feel so firm on the
road, yet not kidney-punch on the bumps. Even the wind sheer seemed to
be reduced. Overall, I strongly encourage anyone in the PacNW or CA (or
anywhere, for that matter) to check out the Oregon Dunes - 75 miles of
sand dunes from Florence south.

Paul Manning
Lake Oswego, OR
1972 Westy (Hapy)
2000 Jetta TDI (Flash)

PS. BTW, I'm selling a couple of pairs of Solex on theSamba. If you
know someone that needs them, I'm selling them for what I paid last
year.
