From: Zyganke(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 21 Jul 2005 20:56:08 EDT
To: Type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Is the end near? Few VW buses seen at premier

Had to get in on this also...we're long-time, very appreciative 'lurkers' 
(getting ready to do our second session of charcoal canister surgery this weekend 
thanks to the great instructions from the list) who might kind of look like 
hippies (our vws cinch this for most), but aren't. My husband and I are both 
45; he's an aircraft mechanic (the whole air-cooled idea is nothing new to him) 
and I've been involved in stained glass in one way or another since 1980 
(hauling glass is the main reason I even considered a bus). About 6 yrs. ago, we 
got the 73 camper from my niece. She was acting like a hippy at the time, 
thought the bus was cool, and wasted her money on a project car (the seller actually 
convinced her that "the engine just pulls out like a suitcase"!) instead of a 
driver. After 3 weeks, the engine went belly-up and it sat in her driveway 
until the city threatened her. We gave her $500, twice what a local junkyard was 
willing to give her. To say the least, it's cost us quite a bit in both time 
and money to get it going, but now it's my reliable driver. It ain't pretty 
(crappy paint, dents, a bit of rust, etc.) but it's great to drive (even without 
ac in Arizona). We were so impressed with vw quality (we'd had no prior 
experience with them), we followed the camper with a 70 Single Cab (also ugly but 
with a good heart), and a 70 Beetle that a neighbor was getting rid of when she 
moved. I figure the 'peace signs' we get might be V for Volkswagen too. The 
bumper sticker on the SC reads 'The Grateful Dead Sucks' and there's an NRA 
badge on the rear window, so we don't get many 'peace signs' with this vehicle. 
Just bucking the stereotypes as usual. Anyway, we think The List is as 
indispensable as our well-thumbed Bentley and thank everyone for it...But we aren't 
hippies, surfers, or any of the assumed type of bus owners. So, this rant being 
over, I'll return to my lurking...Glenna
