From: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 22 Jul 2005 8:56:05 -0400
Subject: Blue Bay Bus on Reno-911 TV Show

Hey guys,

      I know most people probably don't bother watching Reno 911 on Comedy Central. It's a show about the Reno Sherrif's Department. They're basically a group of fairly incompetent officers. It's pretty funny, but kind of makes fun of the police force.

In any case this one officer (who always wears his bullet proof vest outside of his uniform) stopped a blue VW Bus. It looks like it was definitely a pre-73 (as far as I know). It had the small round lights in the rear, etc...

Anyway, he pulled them over and started to talk to the driver. He told the driver that he smelled pot (or something) and was telling them that they probably have drugs in their van.

While the officer was talking to the Bus driver, passengers in the car were throwing things like bongs, drug pariphinalia, and all kinds of assortments of crack pipes, etc... out of the passenger side sliding door. (the cop was oblivious to this).

The cop went around to the other side so he could reach in the glove box through the passenger side.

You then saw bongs and crack pipes getting thrown out through the other side (I guess through the side window). The cop was also oblivious to this.

He then said that he was going to check under the car because sometimes people like to hide drugs under their VW busses.

So he started to look under the Bus, and a couple of guys dressed like TOTAL hippies started throwing stuff out the top (it was one of those VW Busses that has the sliding open canvas roof).
The two hippies threw like THREE entire pot plants (large plants) out of the roof and several other bongs and stuff....

That was basically it, the cop let the hippies go and said.. "Looks like you guys are clean... have a nice day."

And the chick driving the Bus said.. "Have a groovy day..."


I just thought it was kind of funny being that we JUST had this conversation yesterday...


Todd
