Date: Fri, 22 Jul 2005 18:42:43 -0700
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] new cip1 1600 longblock

I can't find this info on the new Berg website so I'll just quote it from the
old one:

* The Proverbial Questions About Cases!!! *

Practically every day we get asked, "Which is better, the single or dual oil
pressure (OP) case?" They are both the best! They are designed for different
applications. The single OP case is to replace non-smog applications with the
regular factory fan and cooler and the dual OP is for replacement of engines
with the dog house cooling systems.

The dual OP case has larger galleries to flood more oil (larger pump) into the
head to soak up the head temperature caused by the smog devices or improper
tuning and to take it back to the also larger cooler and larger fan that pumps
more CFM of air. Now all of the cooling parts can be retro-fitted either way
with the GB 111E cooler adapter gasket kit, however, the pump and gallery size
will have some affect on the results if mismatched. I, personally, would not
have a dual OP case without the proper matching cooling system and oil pump.

The big problem today is getting stuck with a second or a reject. All of the
engine cases we sell go through an extensive inspection before we accept them
from our supplier. We reject almost 30 percent of the cases we inspect. We
hear people saying they need a case with the back filled in behind #3. Yes,
Germany did make the 1975-on dual oil pressure FI engines with the back filled
and CB Performance (formerly Claudes Buggies) had a Brazilian single oil
pressure case with the back filled which is no longer available. Do you need
this on a high performance engine? We have never used one of these cases and
have not had any such failures that people trying to sell you a filled case
claim you will have if you do not have one.

First, the case will never break behind #3 unless you over heat the engine or
have pre-ignition (detonation). I have ran 14.1:1 compression ratios for over
15 years on our race engine and over 180,000 miles on my 1968 (1900cc 138 HP)
engine and have never had a case crack.

At this time only Brazilian AS41 cases are available.

* The Stock VW Case *

I would like to share some information about the stock case. The first thing
practically every shop will tell you is to line bore your case if it is worn.
Have you ever asked, "Is this rebuilding the case?" Not so, according to a
document on the applications and effects of magnesium when used for engine and
transaxle housings that are heated and cooled many times. The document was
written by the Quality Control Department of a major German car builder. It
disclosed that the engine cases made with the AS41 material (no longer used
for VW parts, now all cases are AS21) are designed as non-rebuildable items.
In other words, when it needs to be reconditioned, replace it with a brand-new
case. Naturally, this will depend on how bad and how much more use you think
you can get for the money you will spend patching it up. Remember, you are
only patching it up to run a little longer, not reconditioning it. Why does
the case pound out and get bad in the first place? Why does it have
over-heating and low oil pressure after it is rebuilt? What are the facts
about all this?

AS41 magnesium is a very lightweight material. When used in ideal
circumstances, it will give 100,000, maybe even 150,000 miles of trouble-free
service in the VW engine when never overheated or ran over 4400 RPM. When I
read available documentation about the AS41 and AS21 material used in the VW
cases, I was shocked when I saw how weak the AS41 is when subjected to
conditions beyond the normal VW temperatures and stress. This, however,
substantiated many evaluations I made from my own years of research and
development and answered some questions previously unanswered regarding the
memory, rigidity, resistance to elongation and strength which was reduced
drastically. The higher the temperature, the faster the case is reduced to
junk! A new material called AS21 was available, however, it required slower,
expensive production procedures and was not introduced until the FI engines in
1975. The Volkswagen factory of Brazil has informed us that the AS21 case
containing 2% aluminum and 1% of silicon have not been available since
10/25/95. They have been replaced with the new AS41 case. The new AS41 case
has been upgraded with a new alloy composition consisting of 4% aluminum and
1% of silicon, giving the new AS41 case 2% more aluminum and the same amount
of silicon than the AS21 cases had. This gives the new AS41 case better
flexibility and durability than the previously desired AS21. AS21 is stronger
and resists problems of the old AS41. The AS21 markings can be found at the
side of the case and often in large letters in the bell-housing area. Most
engine builders have noticed these cases show a considerable decrease in
pounding or distortion as compared with the old AS41. When any of the cases
are overheated (AS41 old material being the worst) they are stretched, pushed
out of shape and the center main bearing area starts to wear. The materials
are subject to stress beyond their design limits. This overheating is more apt
to happen to the smog controlled engines (1968-on) that are run very lean,
which causes overheated heads that come loose or head studs to pull out. The
more times this happens the worse it gets. This is irreversible damage. It
soon pounds out the center main saddle enough so oil leaks between the case
and the main bearing. This loss robs the engine bearings of needed oil. More
heat is produced due to less lubrication and more damage occurs. Soon the
number one bearing starts to do the same thing. By now the case has lost most
of its resistance to elongation and the center main saddle is pounded so badly
that the cam tunnel has moved over and is wearing the center cam bearing. A
non-counterweighted crank only aggravates this condition especially when the
engine is often turned to its upper limits. Even if a properly counterweighted
crank is used under the conditions I spoke of, some of this damage may still
occur. Some of this stress can be dealt with by stress-relieving the case 3 or
4 times, removing the case studs, machining both halves flat, re-install the
studs, torque everything, and remachining every surface to the proper size.
This is still not a guarantee of being 100% like new and at today's labor
prices it is out of the question. A new case is far cheaper and will assure
100% life ahead. That's one of the reasons Volkswagen cast new cases for their
factory rebuilt engines from the mid 60's and on.

I tested 100 line bored cases in stock 1600cc engines. Over 80% had low oil
pressure when normal temperature was reached. This often occurred in less than
5,000 miles. Most of them never performed well and got poor mileage. FAT
Performance line bored the case on one of their 1600cc off-road race engines.
The dyno revealed that it was down 17 HP from previous tests. Another engine
that made the correct HP was disassembled and every part, piece by piece
(except the case) was swapped, still down 17 HP. I was called in as a
consultant. My only comment, "Replace the case." This advice was not taken at
first. In fact, a newly designed head was tried first. Better, but still not
up to normal. Finally, Ron went for the new case. "Voila!" a magical 19 HP
appeared. Ron said, he has heard me saying this for years and never paid much
attention, but now had the actual experience of what I have been seeing for
years.

If nothing else, use your common sense. When you use up 75, 80, 90% of the
life of the part why put it back into service and ask it to take more stress
and strain than it did when it was new? Don't spend a bundle for machine work
on an old worn out case and expect it to give the service of a new one? It is
your gamble. What is it worth to you to know it is good for 100% of its life
rather than 10% or 20%?
