Cc: vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM, The Bug Pack Pack
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Sat, 23 Jul 2005 12:43:55 -0400
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Two Week Warning: Buses Of The Corn 2005

Hi Volks,

There's just two weeks to go until BOTC 2005 at Heber Down  
Conservation Area in Brooklin Ontario just east of Toronto. Less than  
that if you're planning on arriving on Friday.... The gates open at  
noon, Friday August 5th.


NEWS:
- T-Shirt Orders need to be in by THIS MONDAY. Details are available  
here:
http://www.busesofthecorn.com/T-shirts.html

- Firewood would be greatly appreciated.

- PAN-AM Jam Session: Bring your instrument and prepare to rock out  
from 2-5PM Saturday.

-Please Bring your own drinking water. There is running water on- 
site, but it isn't "certified" for human consumption. It might be  
perfectly fine, but the conservation area has declined to monitor the  
source. It's safer and cheaper to just bring our own.

-Noise Zoning: Since we're not in a public campground, there's no  
"noise police" at BOTC. There's no excuse for being obnoxious all  
night long, but we will be setting aside a camping area well away  
from the campfire for those who want to enjoy a full night's measure  
of peace and quiet.


EVENTS:
What is going on? PLENTY!

- Breakfast Burritos
- Swap meet
- Tie-Dye Workshop
- Bus Driving Competition
- PAN-AM Electric Jam Session
- Kids activities: Water Balloons, crafts, scavenger hunt and more!
- Corn Roast and Pot-Luck dinner
- Group Campfire
- Drive-In Movie theatre (vehicle not required)
- Belle's "House of Pain" Tattoo Studio will be onsite, in the Family  
bus. Appointments are being booked; you can reach her at  
raspbelle(-at-)rogers.com . Please put "BOTC TATTOO" in the subject line.

There are also some "Stealth Events" in planning, but if I told you  
about those I'd have to kill you.



WEATHER:
Still too early to tell for sure, but the weather in Southern Ontario  
has been very good to us this summer. Winter coats will NOT be  
required. Bring a sun hat, sunscreen and lots of liquid refreshment.
The long-range forecast is available here: http://tinyurl.com/a4ktt


ATTENDANCE:
As of now I have heard of almost 50 buses attending from far and  
wide. If you're planning on coming out, please email me offlist and  
let me know.


COST:
Pre-registration discounts are no longer available, but if you wish  
to avoid the hassle of cash and paperwork at the gate I will still  
accept payment by cheque until August 1st. Paypal is also acceptable  
until August 3rd.
$25/weekend or $18 single night. All prices are "Per Bus", not per  
person. There are lots of cool door-prizes to be had and any profits  
realized will go to support www.type2.com.
