Date: Sun, 4 Sep 2005 07:25:52 -0600
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Head's Done!

I actually finished it around 1pm yesterday. Forgot to jabber about it. ;)

I pulled all the valves to inspect the seats (and posted the pics). I found
that both intakes were full of that black crap, as were the valves. The
exhausts were coated in gray and tan fluff. One of the exhausts had weld
balls in it.

http://www.donimages.com/73westy/head/head-cyl1.jpg
http://www.donimages.com/73westy/head/head-cyl2.jpg

I also noticed the valve guides for the exhaust valves were pretty beat up,
while the intake ones looked new.

Anyway, I checked the deflect per Bentley and all four passed. All four
valves stems were nice and straight too. I finally got the black gunk (and
the gray too) off the valves with a paint stripper wheel of all things.
Worked like a charm. Then I got my softest grinding stone for my dremel and
using my flex shaft got as far into the ports as I could. Everything cleaned
up wonderfully where I could reach. I did the seats too, but only the
insides, not the mating surface for the valves.

That done I lapped the valves to the seats. Spent about 20 minutes on each
one. 120 grit, 240 grit, then polishing compound. They don't shine but they
are super smooth. I can't get a razor blade edge to catch. I'm happy with
the results. The 240 "Fine" lapping compound still left everything too rough
for me. So I dug out the polishing compound. Much better.

Before I started there was a 1/16" variation in the valve spring heights
when mounted to the head. Now it's almost unmeasurable. I prolly could have
used a feeler gauge to find out.. bah! When I had the springs out they all
matched beautifully. Same height, and nicely square.

I also took my grinding stone to the chips and dings in the combustion
chambers to smooth them out and make sure there was no loose bits of metal.
I'm glad I did. There was one little piece that popped right off. Who knows
when that would have come loose during combustion and if it would have
passed cleanly through the exh valve.

Quick rinse of everything, carb cleaner to be sure, then a coating of motor
oil to keep it all from rusting. Reassemble and it's ready to go.

Sorry, no pics. My batteries are dead and I haven't been to the store.

--
Don
