From: "Todd Super Bassist" <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 4 Sep 2005 10:34:06 -0400
Subject: Exhaust Manifolds???

Hey guys,

    I got my Bus basically totally stripped. I've bought many new pieces and
whatnot and it's pretty complete minus the interior. However, when I got the
car, the motor had been rebuilt (GEX, I know.. I know...) and it had a rebuilt
transmission, new clutch, the works. BUT... many of the external motor
components were either missing or re-used original pieces. For example, I was
missing half of the engine tin, including the flaps.

I've currently got a Pace Setter dual exhaust system. While it is kind of
cool, I'm looking to rebuild my Bus to a more stock appearance and I'm going
to be replacing it with a complete OEM style exhaust system from Bus Depot.

The ONLY thing though that I'm confused about are the exhaust manifolds? I
guess Bus people don't call them that? What are they called Heat exchangers or
something?

I live in South Florida, and other than the fact that it never gets colder
than 50 degrees on the worst day, I also thought I'd mention that I'm
basically missing every single piece of the factory heating system. There are
no fans, no relays, no hoses, nothing. That said, I'd like to replace my head
exchangers with just a simple exhaust manifold, performance or otherwise.

Does anyone know what I should be looking for, what I can get, where I can get
it? I want to be able to use a stock exhaust system, but at the same time go
with a VERY simple exhaust manifold setup so as to keep it simple and
uncluttered down there. (Like I said, I won't be using the heating anyway).


I appreciate the help!


Oh, one last thing. I was looking through the Bus Depot catalog last night,
and I noticed that my engine has a "strainer"? My 73 VW Bus has an oil filter
system on it (I know that some earlier Buses don't use external oil
filters???), and co-incidentally, the oil filter part number is the same as it
is for my dad's 1996 Volvo 850 Wagon. In any case, I noticed that under my
block, there seems to be this huge bolt holding up a round disc object. Is
that where my strainer is, and do I need to clean that out every so often?
(Even if I've got an external filter?).

One more question while I'm at it. I DO have the larger than normal
replacement oil cooler that's used inline of the Type-4's cooling system. I'm
really paranoid about running my car too hot... has anyone ever installed an
additional oil cooler, and if so, where. And what kind of additional oil
capacity did it add. And real dumb question here, is it possible that the Bus
can run TOO cool?



Thanks!

Todd
