From: "Jeff Stewart" <fonman4277(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "Type2 Buslist" <type2(-at-)lenti.type2.com>
Cc: "Vanagon List" <vanagon(-at-)gerry.vanagon.com>
Date: Sun, 4 Sep 2005 11:22:52 -0400
Subject: New Bus Event For VA./MD./DC?

Good Morning Folks,
       I just got back from my weekly Sunday morning motorcycle cruise.
Today's trip took me to Brunswick MD. Brunswick is a small city with a
population of 5,000 and is on the National Register of Historic Places as an
example of a 1900's era railroad town. While in Brunswick, I decided to head
down by the train station, and I noticed that beyond the second track crossing
was a sign pointing to a campground, which I had never noticed before. Three
quarters of a mile down this gravel road is a pretty nice little campground,
right on the C&O Canal and Potomac river. The campground has 65 RV Sites and
300 tent sites, and is operated by the city of Brunswick. Now,  every year in
Brunswick they have an event called "Brunswick Railroad Days", which features
train rides, craft show, model train show, museum tours, carnival rides, pony
rides, flea market, and lots of good food. At that point the light bulb went
off in my head-this would be a great place to camp during the weekend of
"Railroad Days". It would be easy to bike (or even walk) from the campground
into the town. I've been to the "Railroad Days" event before, and it is a lot
of fun, especially if you like trains. However, two small problems-It would
fall 2 weeks before "John Brown's Buses" in Harper's Ferry (which is only 6
miles from Brunswick , BTW.) and the campground is "alcohol free". Now the
alcohol free part may not be a problem-RED CUP! But, two events so close
together...if there is any interest in getting something together for 2006,
let me know and I'll check with the campground
for more info. "Railroad Days" is scheduled for October  1 & 2  this year, so
it's probably too late to do anything this year- although I may just call the
campground and check for site availability this year and head up there that
weekend. If you have any interest in this, please pmail me (-at-)
vw_vanman75(-at-)yahoo.com.                              Jeff Stewart

Mid-Atlantic VW Campers
http://autos.groups.yahoo.com/group/vwcampersmidatlantic
