Date: Tue, 06 Sep 2005 15:25:18 -0700
From: Anton Pitts <apitts(-at-)interchange.ubc.ca>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: California/ federal vanagon hybrid??

Dear all,

I'm not entirely sure what I have, or how to adjust the timing.  And 
I'm failing emissions tests.  I'll try to keep this short-ish while 
giving enough info to ask a decent question.  Or three.

I bought a 1981 California-spec Vanagon with a blown motor in need of a 
serious overhaul.  This is my first vehicle, and I didn't really know 
much about cars or engines four months ago, but was too broke to buy a 
vehicle that works, and VW's are supposedly a good one to learn on.

So, pulled the engine, #3 piston was actually melted, replaced all 
pistons and cylinders, cleaned everything up, put it back together.  
Failed emissions tests miserably.  Turns out part of the reason was 
having the valves *way* too tight, once the tappets pumped up.  Fixed 
that, but still took it to a mechanic at that point.  They replaced the 
points, distributor rotor and condenser, and diagnosed it with leaking 
rings on #2.  They also adjusted the gap and timing.  Regretted 
spending $300 on that, as I should have been able to stick a 
compression tester in there, but thinking the rings were all new, 
didn't.  Alright.  So, brought the van home, pulled the engine, 
replaced the rings, but it back together, tested compression, and it's 
all good.  Did a quick check of the dwell angle and static timing; 
looked good to my inexperienced eye.

Took her down to the AirCare station, and failed again with NOx 
emissions at 2300ppm (1900 allowed).  Did some googling and reading of 
the little booklet AirCare gives you, and came up with three likely 
culprits: timing being off, catalytic converter being old, and EGR 
system being missing.

The first of these seemed cheapest to address, so went out and bought a 
timing light.  Had a look at the books, and got confused.  Muir gives 
7.5BTDC for all type II's from 1976.  Haynes gives 7.5BTDC for the fuel 
injected version, and 5ATDC for the carburatted one.  Chilton gives 
7.5BTDC for fuel injected type II from 76 to 81, except the California 
model, which should be at 5ATDC.  (5ATDC, statically timed, is also 
where the mechanic appeared to have left it before I swapped the rings; 
I had no need to loosen the distributor for that)  Alright.  So, I know 
mine's fuel injected.  But thing is, while the sticker says it's a 
California model, and the exhaust system looks like the pictures of the 
california exhaust system in Haynes, Chilton also describes a hall 
effect ignition replacing the conventional points in the distributor, 
and an ignition stabilising unit as hallmarks of the California 
version.  I haven't found anything that looks like the ignition 
stabilising unit, and the distributor most definitely has points in it.

So, the questions, after that rather lengthy introduction:  What do I 
have on my hands here?  Is it something that no longer bears any 
resemblance to the way it shipped?    Would I be correct in assuming 
that whatever it came as, it now has a conventional ignition system 
which should be timed to 7.5BTDC?

Is that likely to affect NOx emissions?  If it still fails once I've 
decided what to time it to and then set that, should I be looking at 
replacing the cat, installing an EGR system, both, something else, 
spending much money for professional diagnostics?  Did this thing ship 
with an EGR filter which has been removed by a previous owner? (There's 
a dash on the board, and I can see where one would connect to the 
exhaust stream and to the intake air distributor, but the filter itself 
is not there and the connection points have plates sealing them...) Or 
did it never have one, and shouldn't need one, despite obviously having 
spots for it to hook up?

Again, apologies for the length, but since I'm not sure what 
information is relevant to my question, figured I'd err on the side of 
too much.  If I missed anything, let me know what info is needed...

Thanks,

Anton.
