Date: Mon, 09 Sep 2002 08:29:25 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Karl <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>, Javabus(-at-)aol.com, type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] dual dellorto 36mm on a 78


>The FI works VERY well. Better than any carb system you could put on it.
>Not sure how the smog laws work where you live, but here in Calif that would
>be tampering. If you take the FI off, your next stop is the wrecking yard! You
>cannot pass the bi-annual smog check.....
>
>Don't listen to people that are afraid of it!
>
> > How well can I get a 1978 Bus engine running using dual dell 36mm 
> instead of
> > running the FI. I have heard mixed reviews, thanks

I ran/run a 2.0 on 36mm Dells with excellent results. HOWEVER I prefer the 
fuel injection. It starts better, better gas mileage, handles cold weather 
and wet weather better, quieter (those carbs SCREAM), and it is more 
durable. Carbs require upkeep - that means adjustment for each of the 4 
barrels, you will have to rejet the carbs initially to find that sweet spot 
where the engine runs best, and at best it is a cobbled together mess.

If you opt to go with carbs I would DEFINITELY take the time to learn to 
care for them yourself. They can be a money pit if you have to have 
somebody else install them and care for them for you. Also in my experience 
nobody will take the time to do them right like you will.

I like my carbs on the Beetle. I like the way they look, I like the vintage 
factor, and I think I did it well enough to say they are equal to any Alfa 
Romeo AlfaSud (OEM application) factory design. That said I have scouted 
out a fuel injection replacement for my carbs from  TWM Induction. They can 
provide throttle body replacements for my dual carbs and I plan to modify 
either a Megasquirt system or some sort of OEM junkyard system to handle 
the fuel.

In short: go for the OEM fuel injection. Buy some technical literature such 
as Bentley and the Bosch Fuel Injection books listed on the Barnes and 
Noble website (search for Bosch). Also buy a good multimeter (I prefer 
digital). With those materials and common tools you can replace any part of 
the fuel injection system and troubleshoot about 99% of it. Finally you can 
also take it to a European cars specialist and get it worked on. The OEM 
system is basically a bolt on system.

Teach yourself the system and you cannot be stopped by any failure and the 
money saved by doing your own work will make it easier to tackle other Bus 
problems.


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


