Date: Mon, 09 Sep 2002 10:03:03 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Ray Haynes <ray(-at-)vwbuscamp.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] Thermostat- to fit or not to fit? Failure Mode


>I disagree completely. The whole reason people got in the habit of
>removing them was because of failing closed. The flaps on a T1 are
>opened by the engine heating up a small bellows which causes the air
>inside the bellows to expand which increases the length and pushes the
>flaps open. The problem is when the bellows gets a hole they can no
>longer expand and the flaps stay closed.
>
>What are the chances of the bellows failing may be debatable. Is it a
>real concern or an unnecessary worry? When VWs were in their heyday they
>were so cheap that people didn't install temp gages they just drove
>them. Here in the Sacramento valley temperatures are never very cold so
>people removed them "just in case".

These thermostats are spring loaded - they prefer to be in the expanded 
position. The thermostat is filled with alcohol. When the alcohol gets hot 
it expands and causes or allows the thermostat to expand. When the alcohol 
is cool it causes the thermostat to contract. The thermostat is designed to 
want to expand and it can't because it would create a vacuum inside itself 
(expanding internal area but nothing to fill the space thus vacuum) and it 
does not have enough spring pre-load to do that.

They fail when they develop a leak and the alcohol leaks out and/or they 
can get some access to the outside atmosphere - and instead of pulling a 
vacuum they would pull regular air inside.

Either way they fail in the expanded position which in VW and Corvair 
engines means the flaps are open and thus the engine will not overheat. Now 
if the flaps stick closed then that is another problem and not a problem of 
the thermostat.

I have 1 Corvair thermostat that has failed in my parts stash. Each Corvair 
has 2 thermostats. I have seen maybe 1 in 50 or so VW thermostats that has 
failed.

I personally have never seen a Type I or Type IV that had flaps that were 
stuck closed. It IS possible due to excess gunk buildup on the pivot shafts 
or due to damage to the shroud that pinches these pivot shafts somehow. 
That is up to owner to do the maintenance necessary to prevent the gunk 
buildup (clean them and oil them) or damage to the tin that would cause the 
flaps to stick. This is a great place for a gauge on the dash to tell the 
driver that "HEY! I'm getting hot back here - hotter than last time 
anyhow..." I ignore the numbers myself and just use them to spot trends.

I won't preach to you about how it is wrong to run without the flaps but I 
subscribe to the idea that they were put there for a purpose. VW certainly 
didn't spend any money on things they didn't have to...

Someone recently mentioned that the lack of flaps didn't seem to do much 
good or bad on longer trips, but were most effective for in-town use. That 
agrees with my experiences exactly. Otherwise you engine might not get the 
engine hot enough to dry out the oil or burn off the junk that should. 
That's how you get the mayonnaise inside the cap.

Read Julius Mackerle's "Aircooled Engines". Your local library (County, 
City or University) may carry it. It is out of print. Lot's of good stuff 
in there.




Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


