From: "1970Westy bus" <westyvw(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net, tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sat, 03 May 2003 08:52:56 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] VW Hippie Bashing

This thread is gonna get an axe I hear it comming but I had to say this:

>Capitalism is just the best way of sharing the good things and spreading 
>the
>love.

Is it?

>AIRS is an exception, an anomaly.

Not really, its very much a Republican (read OLD school republican) view: 
the goverment doesnt need to provide services that can be provided by the 
good will and intentions of the citizens. Also happens to fit well with the 
true Hippy point of view: People who WANT to help themselves will run into 
times of trouble that are best served by others who have sharing what they 
can to help another.


>Considering that selfishness is a characteristic and a motivation that is
>born into every living creature,

Many creatures will actually help each other of the same species if it 
benefits the good of them all. This makes sense from a evolution point of 
view.....


>Let everyone provide for themselves, and give them the freedom to do it. We
>are creative and productive and talented enough to do it. We just need
>government to stand aside and let us.

In many ways thats true, but we should be able to rely on family and friends 
to help us learn and achieve.

>And I know, that VW and other big corporations are like the wide trees that
>give shade, food, shelter, and solace to all manner of creatures. They
>provide industry and exchange; they make products to make our lives more
>satisfying... and they pay the taxes and put food on the table for workers
>and for those who can no longer work. Is that such a bad thing?

Sometimes it is, like when CEO's earn $60,000 dollars an hour (read Disney) 
but the workers are slashed when times are bad. They dont even consider a 
pay cut.

Also, I happen to be using Linux to write this to you. No one is getting 
paid to make this software, its free. Fly's in the face of your argument. 
Sometime people will work on something for the love of it, rather then the 
financial reward.

Would you rather a doctor operate on you who is in it to make the money, or 
is in it to help people? (and the money is just an aside to pay the bills?)
