Date: Sat, 03 May 2003 03:53:32 -0700
From: Dave Dixon <ddixon(-at-)mbay.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Inside the bus sounds

Hi Splitties,

Seeking your opinion on cab noise. It is loud enough to attract 
(detract?) attention while driving. I have read others express concerns 
about this being a source of exhaustion on long trips. Unable to have a 
converstion while engine and transmission are roaring as the van 
propells down the road at 55 to 60 MPH.

Yesterday I finally reinstalled my old cab door panels. I shouldn't have 
been so surprised by the difference that made. I definitely recommend 
putting those back in place to help muffle noise. The doors 'thunk' now 
instead of 'clank'. Now that in itself was a gratifying sound.

A part of me says the sounds are good. They help me to understand my 
team of horses. The analogy of a covered wagon driver illicits an image 
for me like someone John Muir in the Idiots Guide would describe when he 
talks about keeping in touch with their vehicle. Being in touch with the 
roar keeps bringing me back to, 'this is too loud'.

The source these sounds are the aged transmission , the cooling fan, the 
extractor exhaust with the 'quiet pack', tires whirring down the road 
the inside metal shell of the van reverberating the other sounds. It 
feels like driving a dumpster sometimes!

I wonder how much effect I can have by rebuilding the transmission. Have 
others been satisfied by this approach? Is this something I can do? 
Reshimming the ring and pinion gear to original clearances? Has anyone 
ever done this? Do I need to have a professional transmission guy do this?

One thing I have done is to apply a self adhesive, metal-backed, black 
tar material that is sold by stereo stores. That reduces the echo inside 
the cab a lot.

I am also looking for a partition to put up behind the bench seat. 
Besides restoring original stuff, that would reduce noise too.

Anyway, that's the vision for today. Do others share these issues? I'd 
like to hear about them.

Thanks,

Dave
