From: "Wakanska" <Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "1970Westy bus" <westyvw(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 3 May 2003 08:40:55 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] VW Hippie Bashing

*very much a Republican (read OLD school republican) view: the goverment
doesnt need to provide services that can be provided by the good will and
intentions of the citizens.

Good point. Republicans were the original liberals, and have been some of
the greatest of benefactors and philanthropists. Well, it is the "more
government" types who want us to believe that we need a "big brother" to
monitor and control social ills and excesses so that they can make careers
out of running a big people farm. They try to drum in the idea that
capitalism = greed and "greed" is all evil. They also say that profit motive
is evil. If we can characterize "greed" as "selfishness or self-interest
taken to a harmful or injurious degree by means of excess" then I suppose we
could label it as an ill, but then we get into the "shades of grey" problem
of definition by degree (At what point does self-interest become excessive,
and is it the duty of others to make this decision?)

*Also happens to fit well with the true Hippy point of view: People who WANT
to help themselves will run into times of trouble that are best served by
others who have sharing what they can to help another.

Someone once told me that most people are Republicans who just don't know it
yet. That would include hippies.

* Many creatures will actually help each other of the same species if it
benefits the good of them all. This makes sense from a evolution point of
view.....

I've been using the word, "selfishness" very liberally, and on second
thought, it might be better to use the term "self-interest", because I would
rather avoid negative connotations such as "greed" or excess. Self-interest
CAN run to excess and exclude others, but it can also be very generative,
philanthropic, or beneficial to others. As you make note, in social or
family structures (human or otherwise), this is actually beneficial to the
giver or helper in some way.

*Let everyone provide for themselves, and give them the freedom to do it. We
are creative and productive and talented enough to do it. We just need
government to stand aside and let us.

like when CEO's earn $60,000 dollars an hour (read Disney) but the workers
are slashed when times are bad. They dont even consider a pay cut.

*This is an example of greed, more than self-interest, don't you think? It
may be a sickness, and it may be criminal. It may be both. Eventually this
kind of aggressive and "creative" excess in management devastates a lot of
corporations and their investors as well. It's a totally new phenomena in
American business and it has helped to foster a mistrust of corporate
culture and management by the citizens and eroded confidence in our markets
and economy. It is not good capitalism, in my opinion.

 Also, I happen to be using Linux to write this to you. No one is getting
paid to make this software, its free. Fly's in the face of your argument.
Sometime people will work on something for the love of it, rather then the
financial reward.

*Compensation for one's labor is not always realized in financial terms. It
can be realized in the freedom of the creative process or in pleasure of
enjoying the results. This, too, is enterprise, and it's FREE enterprise.
When the government wants to make jobs for themselves regulating the
creation and sharing of all software and pay for their program by licensing
software writers and affixing fees to our creations, then you know how
socialism would treat your "free" pursuit. Socialists want to move in and
"share" whenever they see anything going on or smell any money or even the
possibility of money. They will create media cases and conduct show trials
to frighten the public about hackers, pornographers or whatever, then get
the public to pass laws that they then use to meddle in everyday activities
such as raising your family, commuting to work, caring for your pets, and
how you find recreation.

 Would you rather a doctor operate on you who is in it to make the money, or
is in it to help people? (and the money is just an aside to pay the bills?)

*Well, I don't see it as necessarily being an "either/or" situation. Where
is the conflict? Why can't someone enjoy what they are doing AND be
financially successful?
I would like to think that financial and business success would follow
naturally from the quality reflected in the work of someone who loves their
work. To some extent, that is so, but still I know that it takes good and
even somewhat hardnosed financial skills to make a business work. Medicine
is a business. It has to be, because everything has a "bottom line". When I
go to my dentist's office, I am comforted to see a clean, well-furnished and
professional environment. I know that it costs money to keep this kind of a
business place, but I feel that this dentist is capable of good management
and can render professional services.
