Date: Sun, 04 May 2003 10:39:53 -0700
To: west coast loafer <magicbus1974(-at-)yahoo.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] gas pedal

At 06:54 AM 05/04/2003, you wrote:

>One of the more robust systems on a VW bus has to be
>the gas pedal. It is in constant use. I was wondering
>if anyone out there has ever rehabed/replaced this
>assembly (I'm sure someone has).

Worst case scenario. If the holes for the pin in the gas pedal are worn, 
get a new pedal. Same for the pin. Any rust on the spring, replace it. As 
to the floor mount, mucho vacuum and scrape and wire brush all the crud. If 
rust perforation is present, you must now cut out and reconstruct the 
floor, then weld in a new mount for the gas pedal pin. Whoever does this 
will start by setting reference marks and measuring positions of the mount 
and pin axis. If a repair panel with mount is available that would be 
great. A desert donor chassis might provide an original solid rust free 
replacement.

If the mount tabs aren't rusted away but just the holes are worn, think 
about spot welding some washers on them with the right diameter for the 
pin. This may require a longer pin be found or made. Same thing for the 
under floor pin and mounts.

>Mine is getting a tad
>sloppy and
>I have been thinking about some PM work on it.

To keep it from becoming worn prematurely in future, add to the PM list at 
every lubrication maintenance the cleaning of the pedal mount and a drop of 
oil on the hinges and spring, along with the dizzy felt and throttle shafts 
and linkage. Lots less wear than not a drop in 5 years. Then do this the 
next time you replace the throttle cable. Get graphited lock fluid. It is 
thinner than water and saturated with very fine graphite powder. Hold one 
end up and one end down and while drawing the cable back and forth, feed in 
this fluid into the sheath until you see it begin to come out the low end. 
You can try this with an installed cable, but must do some feeding from 
both ends to fill the belly. If you have compressed air, you can feed the 
cable at the motor end a few drops, then blow it through with low pressure, 
10 or 15 pounds is all that is required. This virtually guarantees that the 
ends will break off long before the cable might seize from wear.
