From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 5 May 2003 07:53:33 -0400 
Subject: IT RUNS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Well, 

	I GOT THE DANG THING STARTED!!!! Well, Bus, not thing. Anyway.. I
finally got it started. After looking at the wiring harness really closely,
as per Andy's suggestion. I decided to repair the harness. In any case, the
Bus started, and after some adjustments to the carburetor, it runs pretty
decent. Honestly, it's quite slow.. I can't imagine how a 60s Bus with the
1.5 can even begin to move.

Anyway, I had a few questions. I wanted to know specifically what are some
things I should check out. The first thing I'm going to do is replace my
rubber fuel lines with a solid steel line that I bought. I can hook the
steel line directly up to the electric fuel pump, and then attach another
steel line and have a small piece of rubber just to connect the steel line
to the carburetor (and so the motor can shake and not disrupt the steel
line).   Second, I'm going to go throught the whole braking system,
steering, what have you. I intend to have this car registered and driving
within a month. 

Other than that, is there anything else in particular I should check? seals?
gaskets? whatnot.

Last thing, I noticed that even after running the motor for about 15-20
minutes and driving it around the neighborhood.. I put my hand on top of the
TIN covers that are on top of the cyl heads.. they were still cool. Is this
a good sign? I intend to get a cyl head temperature guage and what have you,
but I was just curious if.. if the motor was overheating, would I be able to
feel it anywhere in the engine compartment? It was actually cooler in the
engine compartment than it was outside.


Thanks,

Todd Jaspers - Programmer
AmeriPath IT - Fort Lauderdale
954-377-3291

> CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments, is
> for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential
> and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or
> distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
> contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original
> message.
