From: "Heath, Raymond E" <raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com>
To: "'hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net'" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>,
Date: Mon, 6 May 2002 15:53:35 -0700 
Subject: RE: [VB] Bottom tin opinions - Revisited

GM would have saved all that money on Corvairs also !

67 Single Cab, DP 1641cc 34PICT
71 Trike 1776cc 32/36 Progressive
VolksAir 1585cc 28 PICT
Ray, Kent WA
A loose rattlesnake in the living room ends discussion of animal rights


-----Original Message-----
From: bus-snob [mailto:hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net]
Sent: Sunday, May 05, 2002 6:41 PM
To: vintagebus
Subject: Re: [VB] Bottom tin opinions - Revisited



if VW didn't think there was a need for the 
engine to have tin below the cylinders, they sure as he!! wouldn't have put
them 
there. think of the millions of $$ they would have saved over the years by
not 
putting them there. who cares what they do?

i'd rather have a $2 piece of tin stopping rocks 
rather than a pushrod puking oil and not knowing it until it was too 
late.

i (personally) also think they help cooling by 
actually directing the air somewhere (away from the engine) rather than just

having large, open spaces underneath for the air to go nowhere. if it were
an 
issue of keeping the engine "warm" for the thermostat, they would have only
put 
them on the one side, again saving $$. i mean, c'mon, every aircooled engine
had 
the darn things, even industrial engines which don't see much rock throwing.

they are obviously there for a reason!

geez, call me a vintage nazi, but it's 
ridiculous not to run them. why not just get a ceiling fan, wire it up for
12V, 
mount it above the engine, remove ALL cooling tin and cool it that way 
instead.

 


----- Original Message ----- 

Looking for opinions on the bottom tin...the pieces that attach to the 
case

and the heater boxes.  The local shop owners believe them to be 
gravel

guards to protect the push rod tubes from flying rocks.  Others 
think you

have to run EVERY piece of the tin in order for the complete system 
to

work.  
