From: "Heath, Raymond E" <raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com>
To: "'VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com'" <VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com>, Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 6 May 2002 19:54:52 -0700 
Subject: RE: [VB] Bottom tin opinions - Revisited

That was interesting about the Bismarck's scout plane. I knew that they had
scout planes like that, and how they launched and retrieved them, just never
knew about the engine maintenance on them. Guess that would be common sense
if you thought about it.

Say, could they be considered "Water Cooled" and thus not belong to this
list?

67 Single Cab, DP 1641cc 34PICT
71 Trike 1776cc 32/36 Progressive
VolksAir 1585cc 28 PICT
Ray, Kent WA
A loose rattlesnake in the living room ends discussion of animal rights


-----Original Message-----
From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com [mailto:VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com]
Sent: Monday, May 06, 2002 7:16 PM
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Bottom tin opinions - Revisited


In a message dated 5/5/2002 6:20:36 PM Pacific Daylight Time, 
wades_wagens(-at-)qwest.net writes:
> I argued that it  just had to do with the keeping an accurate temp for the

> thermostat (which i have never ran either!=) and a guard for the puhsrod 
> tubes.  

Hi Wade,
They also help to protect the cylinders and thermostat from the water that 
splashes up from the rear tires.  Which would close the thermostat when the 
engine is up to temp already.  Plus cause the cylinders to deform
temporarly, 
warp and possibly even crack.  
Interestingly the Bismark had an observation plane that would be catapulted 
into the air to search for frieghters to attack and Allied warships to avoid

or attack.  When this plane returned to the Bismark it landed on the water 
and was craned onto the deck.  This was a big problem due to the cold sea 
water hitting the hot cast iron cylinders of the engine would often crack
one 
or more.  During the Bismarks final voyage they ran out of cylinders to 
replace the cracked ones thus blinding the Bismark to long range knowledge
to 
where the British war fleet was at.  Just one of many factors in a chain of 
events/mistakes that doomed the Bismark to be sunk by the British fleet.  
This chain of tragic events for Bismark reads like the story of the Titanic 
does.  If just one event/mistake had changed, either one of these ships 
probably would have made it to port.
Eric&Barb
