From: "Thomas Ainlay" <tainlay(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 6 May 2002 23:54:00 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] '65 bus 6V to 12V wiper motor conversion

I was wondering if anybody would catch that or even give a hoot.  I had been
fiddling around with using an intermittent wipe relay from a Rabbit in my
'74 thing.  My first try at that was to swap the ignition housing and
switches from an 80s Rabbit into the Thing which fit with one slight mod
(http://www.thingtech.com/rabsteermech.html).  The Rabbit switch gave me the
ability to use the intermittent relay and now I have that feature.  As it
turns out for the first couple of years the Rabbit and Scirocco used a wiper
switch that is a direct bolt in for the Beetle part which makes this upgrade
much easier but good luck finding one of those vehicles.

Onto Type 2 content:  I'm a tweaker (no, not that kind) when it comes to
mods like this so naturally I started thinking about doing something similar
to the single cab.  The first step was to adapt a '66/'67 two speed wiper
switch to fit the '65 dash.  That involved making a custom plastic collar
and escutcheon to hold it in place in the stock location.  With that done I
wired up the Rabbit relay and was ready to try the wipers.  Turned the
switch one click and all I got was constant wiping instead of the expected
intermittent wipe.  Frustrated but unwilling to give up I set about figuring
out how to make it work and realized that the Rabbit wiper motor (and the
Thing apparently) switches the feed from the wiper motor to 53e on the
switch from 12V to ground when at the park position.  What happens is that,
with the switch in the intermittent wipe position (one down from neutral on
the Rabbit), 53e is connected to 53 thus the current in 53 changes from 12V
to ground tripping the wiper relay and the wipers will stop at the park
position for a short period then restart.  To understand this better you
need to study the wiring diagrams in the Bentley early Rabbit manual.

After thinking long and hard and dissecting the gear side of the '65 wiper
motor I realized that 31b (brown wire) gets 6 volts when it hits the park
position and is isolated the rest of the time.  To work the intermittent
relay I needed a ground signal when the wipers came back to that position so
I simply used the momentary voltage in 31b to operate a relay that switched
the feed to the relay (53s) from 12V to ground thus tripping the relay until
it's timer activated the wipers again.  Now the other problem to consider is
when speed 1 is selected the relay would continue to be tripped at the park
position causing an undesirable break in the wiping cycle.  The solution,
while not quite so elegant, was to use another relay to break 31b when in
the continuous wipe setting.  So in the end I am using the intermittent
relay and two Bosch relays to get the job done.

At first I was using this while the wiper motor was still 6V and the results
were less than satisfying as the power from 31b was 6+ volts through the
voltage drop and barely able to trip the first relay when the vehicle was
running.  Also the wipers would continue to sweep a short distance after the
relay tripped.  I considered that it could be caused by the delay in the
relay and that maybe this whole crazy idea wouldn't work.  My efforts were
vindicated once the motor was converted to 12 volts and the mod works
perfectly:)  I'll work up a wiring diagram sometime soon and place it on my
web site.

To convert the '65 Bus wiper motor to 12V you will need the field magnet,
armature, and brush plate from a '67 Beetle wiper motor.  Remove these parts
from the '65 motor and replace them with the Beetle parts.  There are 2
brushes on the '65 Bus motor 180 degrees apart.  One is ground and the other
is power.  The '67 Beetle motor has an extra brush for speed 2 which lies
between ground and speed 1.  At this time you can remove the speed 2 brush,
it's spring and wire from terminal 53b since they won't be doing anything
and will only contribute more carbon dust in the long run.   BTW, all mods
to the '65 motor can be reversed as long as you keep the old parts.

Regards,

Thomas

-----Original Message-----
From: Eric Lykens [mailto:elykens(-at-)gte.net]
Sent: Monday, May 06, 2002 10:19 AM
To: 'Thomas Ainlay'
Subject: RE: [VB] '65 bus 6V to 12V wiper motor conversion


Hello Tom

	I need to do this on my 65 deluxe. The motor is a frozen 6v
motor and I would like to know what you did to make them intermittent
and what bug wiper parts are needed if you don't mind.


Thank you for your time!
Eric Lykens
65 Deluxe 21
67 Deluxe 13

