From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 12 Jul 2002 10:53:50 EDT
To: retarrdo(-at-)mac.com, Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] duh....shouldve asked this in the first place

If the motor is your bus is toast and you can get a running dp 1600, ya, that 
works.   If you are borrowing the motor out of your bug, use the bus air 
cleaner on the bus.  

If you are thinking about building one, I find SP is better in a bus, as DP 
heads crack.  I have a 1600 SP in my 61 corner window bus which is plenty 
perky. 

Myself I don't think I'd buy a motor w/ all new stuff on it- why spend the 
extra cash.  Plus the old german tin is better.   I'd rather use the cash to 
get tin powdercoated, or a bunch of other stuff.  Like- how are your brakes 
and steering?
The Muir Idiot book is great for learning to swap motors.  Get a rolling 
floor jack and whatever else you need and it walks you through it.

It also walks you though undressing your motor to do the rebuild, and 
dressing it after it's been rebuildt.  If you can find a friend whose done 
some of this before and you buy the beer, you could get some help.

Wires- well the black wire goes to the 15 on the coil - this one goes hot 
when you turn the key on

The green one plugs into the oil sender- if a friend turns the key on, and 
you ground this wire, the oil light comes on on the dash

If you ground the power wire for the coil with ig on, you'll blow a fuse.  
sometimes someone has spliced a differenet colour wire on there.

wiring on the voltage regulator- do you have a bentley?  or look at the 
vintagebus.com wiring pages and the VR is the same on any where the VR is not 
mounted on the gen.
Duct tape is good for taping up your cuts so you don't bleed on things.


In a message dated 7/11/02 7:24:12 PM Pacific Daylight Time, retarrdo(-at-)mac.com 
writes:

<< 
 sorry if getting annoying everyone...do you have a 1600 DP engine? do 
 you think you could send me some pictures of it in the bus? and maybe 
 send a picture of the wiring back there too =D??????????? (like what 
 comes out of the voltage regulator, mine is converted to a 12v) 
 pllleeeeeaaseee?? i dont have enough to afford my engine yet, and its 
 getting boring looking at a hole. and plus ill be able to learn before i 
 get it.
 
 -Jay >>
