Date: Fri, 12 Jul 2002 10:22:22 -0500
From: Denis Dodson <coocoo70(-at-)swbell.net>
To: Jason Porta <retarrdo(-at-)mac.com>
Cc: sukchew(-at-)cox-internet.com, AJ Smith <ajsmith(-at-)oasisol.com>,
Subject: Re: [VB] scat... BUILD YOUR OWN


As I stated recently here, if at all possible you should build your own
engine. I looked and researched and asked lots of questions of knowledgeable
people before I picked the highly reputed mechanic to build my engine. I
paid about $1800 for a new case and all the best parts...the guy made a
mistake. He left out the plunger in the deep oil pressure relief valve.

The fact that the engine was otherwise well built is proved by the fact that
the engine did not burn itself up from low oil pressure the first week. It
ran over a year and more than 10,000 miles before it threw a rod (actually
the rod insert melted).

I would never have known it was not my fault until I made the decision not
to pay $800+ to have the mill repaired, to do it myself.

AND NOW, A TRUE LIFE STORY!!!!

I fired up the personally hand built engine last weekend, after only about
16 hours of labor over 8 days, and was not terribly surprised to hear a
horrible screeching sound located behind the crank pulley. Being my first
engine, I assumed I had done something wrong. Before I pulled the engine out
to crack it open I pulled off the pulley ( and for some reason the tin
behind the pulley) to check if I had the oil slinger in the right way. I
had. I started the engine again in a last check before pulling it and
splitting the case again and.....IT RAN PERFECTLY!!! It was the pulley tin
rubbing on the pulley!. There is a God!

BACK TO " BUILD YOUR OWN"...

As the Beach Boys once said, "You need a mess of help to stand alone". For
my first engine build I needed,

1.  The OLD "Idiots Book" (the new editions are confusing with all the
modern info. You will still need a consultant to fill in the missing info,
update new info and translate. For instance; the book told me to insert the
"cam followers". Being a dolt, I had to call someone to inform me that this
is actually a "lifter". I know what a lifter looks like and what it does,
but I had never heard of a Cam follower.).

2. A good parts house with an old guy who knows the Type 1 engine, and is
willing to inspect the parts for damage.( Knights Foreign Auto Parts here in
Dallas. And Lee Roy)

3. A good friend or relative who used to work for VW or repaired alot. ( My
brother in law, Chuck).

4. A good junkyard/mechanic source for calls to identify the doohickey
you've got in you hand and to supply obsolete parts and spacers and shims,
etc. (Pistons and Plugs, Glen. You will really need him when you do your
suspension work).

5. A generic parts house very near for cases of oil and odd sockets,
filters, light bulbs, testers, etc. (Almost anybody but Pep Boys. Save your
precious time and, even if they are the closest store, don't go to Pep
Boys).

And the patience of a loving spouse or partner.

P.S. I am thrilled to have found a guy with a tool call a "Torque Doubler"
or something like that. It uses a torque wrench and the flywheel gear teeth
to tighten the gland nut to a million pounds using only 30 lbs of pressure
from you. He says that Kimco sells them. It was marvelous,





