From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>, "'type 2 list'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 15 Oct 2007 23:06:16 -0600
Subject: RE: [T2] fuses on a '69 and wiring update...

Kevin, 

Regarding the fuses.  I would definitely replace them with the 8 amp fuses.
If they blow, then trace why. Loading a higher amp fuse is an amateur fix to
a overloaded circuit. Usually I have found that higher amp fuses are snapped
in when people connect radios, amps and alarms instead of installing in-line
fuses.

If you keep a higher amp fuse, it may cause a hot wire syndrome where the
wire heats up and eventually shorts out, damages lights/fixtures or causes
(gulp) a harness fire.

Regarding the "capacitor", that is odd. It might just be a
line-noise-isolator for a aftermarket radio. Check the '68 diagram and '70
diagram to see if it is a hybrid wiring harness fix. Some folks will put in
a later part and add that year's necessary switch to make it work. Usually I
bypass those kinds of things and if it keeps working, then I get it back to
stock.

Keep up the good work. Wiring is really frustrating at times. I've never
owned a bus that hasn't had its wiring bassakwards. But when you get all the
colors right and everything working with the factory schematic, it feels
awesome!

Jon Stiles

-----Original Message-----
From: Kevin Guarnotta [mailto:kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net] 
Sent: Sunday, October 14, 2007 11:03 PM
To: type 2 list
Subject: [T2] fuses on a '69 and wiring update...

So aside from working on my horn this weekend, I spent some time cleaning up
the weird wiring stuff going on.

I replaced some wiring that the PO put in with some that more closely
resembled the colors of the wiring diagrams. For example I bought some grey
wire and a red sharpie to make the gray/red wire that lights up the
instrument cluster lights. I got all the instrument lights to work properly.


I took a couple switches out and cleaned up all their connections. The whole
area under the dash was covered in tons of dirt/dust etc. 

I got the interior light to work, the PO had gotten paint all over it when
he painted the interior. I also re-connected the defroster switch, although
I don't have a defroster on my rear window, but now I'm ready to go when I
get one.

I noticed that the PO changed some of the fuses on my bus, I see some are
white and some are red. According to the wiring diagram they should all be
white. Which is 8amp. I am reading this thing correctly, and should I change
all my fuses to 8 amp white fuses? This is for my '69 single cab.

I also noticed that the wire going to the fuse box that is supposed to feed
the radio, also connects to something that looks like a capacitor, that is
connected under the turn signal pod. I don't see this in the wiring diagram,
should I keep it? What does it do? 

Again, thanks for any suggestions comments...

-Kevin

'65 kombi
'69 single cab
'71 sqbk
Mountain View, CA (temp)
Jamaica Plain, MA (main home)
