Date: Tue, 11 Dec 2001 20:27:05 -0500 (EST)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To:  <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Subject: Carburetor Icing (was: FI vs. Progressive carb)

Dave Gillingham asked the following question of me off-list.  I am posting
my response for review and comment. Please feel free to jump in with any
additional knowledge you have to share

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail

On Tue, 11 Dec 2001, Dave Gillingham wrote:

> BTW, what are the symptoms of carb icing, and what environmental
> conditions cause it?  I had only heard of this phenomenon in
> airplanes!

OK, it's like this... there is a thing called "Charles Law" which states
that the temperature of a gas is affected by its pressure.  Heat pumps and
air conditioners run on it.  If you compress a gas, it heats up.  if you
make it less dense, it cools down.  In the throat of your carb and out the
intake runners, there is (or ought to be) a substantial vacuum. This
decreas in pressure causes the temperature of the air to fall.  As it
falls, the moisture in it condenses out and can freeze onto the walls of
the manifold.  As the throat of your intake manifold gets filled with ice,
you "run out of air".  While running out of air is the opposite of running
out of gas, it feels about the same.

My rule of thumb on carb icing is that if relative humidity  equals or
exceeds temperature, then carb icing can happen.  That is, at 60% humidity
and 60 degrees fahrenheit or 80% humidity and 80 degrees fahrenheit, you
can get problems.  I have not seen this elsewhere, and I don't *know* it's
true, but I have had icing problems *way* above freezing.  The middle
atlantic States can run 90/90 humidity/temps in the summer and carb icing
can  be a problem year 'round.

VW gets around the ice problem on the T1 engine by piping some heat up
from the exhaust to heat the intake manifold.  On the dual carb engines
('72-74), (a) the intake manifold is too short for this to be a problem
and (b) the gasket you use is a thin metal one, which means that heat is
transferred directly from the head and heats the intake manifold.  On the
FI engines... well... it's magic (and you can quote me on that! :)  I
think that the mixture of gasoline and air (with humidity) is more
saturated than the air with humidity alone and has a greater tendency to
drop ice crystals.  I know I had severe icing problems on both the single
carb T4 conversion I drove for a day or two and the bugs I drove with
aftermarket mufflers that didn't supply intake manifold heat.

The thing that I know is that my experiences with the bugs that had no
manifold heat and the one bus with the carb conversion were not happy
ones.  After a while they acted very much like they were running out of
gas or had a clogged gas  filter.  Very sluggish acceleration, bucking.
I have never experienced this on an FI engine, so the FI must deal with it
somehow.  I maintain... magic!  But if George or another physics-wise list
member wants to expound, I would love to listen!


