Date: Mon, 17 Nov 2003 23:28:15 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: engine test

>From: Jonrobere(-at-)aol.com
>Date: Sun, 16 Nov 2003 23:08:52 EST
>
>[bench testing an engine] Is this the correct way to do this?

Sounds pretty good to me.  You want to make sure that the engine itself
is secure - bolted to a strong stand, sitting on a sturdy table, or
even sitting on the ground.  Make sure that whatever you've lashed up
for a fuel supply is leak-free.  You may want to make sure that the
wire you've run to the coil is easy to disconnect in case you need to
shut off the engine in a hurry - if nothing else, have your wire cutters
handy.  Have a fire extinguisher handy in any case.

>Do I need to hook up the generator?

You should have the belt on it so the cooling fan will work.

You don't need to hook up the wires to it, unless you're planning on
running the engine so long that the battery will start to die.  A
fully-charged battery should start the engine and run the ignition
for at least a few hours, so this probably isn't a big concern.

If you do decide to hook up the generator, you must have the regulator
as well.  If it's the regulator-on-top kind, you just need a fat wire
(min. 10 gauge) from B+ on the regulator to the battery positive terminal,
and a test light from 61 on the regulator to the battery positive terminal.
(The warning light hookup is required for the regulator to work.)  If it's
the regulator-on-the-inner-fender kind, you need to attach the regulator
to the engine such that its case is grounded, run a fat wire from D+
on the generator to D+ on the regulator, and run a skinny wire (min. 18
gauge) from DF on the generator to DF on the regulator.  Then hook up
wires to B+ and 61 on the regulator as described above.

An alternative to wiring up the generator is to start the engine on the
battery, then hook up a battery charger to the battery while the engine
runs.  With this setup, you'll run out of fuel before you run out of
battery charge.

If you're not going to use the generator, make sure there are no
wires at all connected to it.  All of the dire warnings in the Bentley
refer to what happens when you have only the field wire and not the
main generator output wire hooked up to the regulator.  In this
situation, the regulator sees zero volts and tries to turn that into
6 volts by running the generator at "full throttle" - the generator
can't stand this for long and pretty soon the field coils burn out.
As long as the regulator isn't hooked to the generator at all, no
current will be drawn from the generator and it will be fine.

The residual magnetism in the generator will cause it to put out a
bit of juice, even when it's not hooked up.  If you're bored while
waiting for the oil leak to appear, measure between the generator
body (ground) and the D+ terminal with a voltmeter while you goose
the throttle.  Don't be surprised to see well in excess of twice or
three times the nominal system voltage -- 12 to 18 V for a 6 V
generator, 24 to 36 V for a 12 V generator.

If you're chasing a bad oil leak, you may want to wire a test light
from the battery positive terminal to the oil pressure sender.  If
this light comes on after starting, shut the engine down.

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds
