Date: Tue, 18 Nov 2003 14:01:33 -0500
From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
To: rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Tranny swap and eye damage...

Bummer seriously.  yes, definately go to the doctor if the eye's hurt.   good thing it'll be ok.

 I've never bothered with goggles while pulling a tranny myself either.  Then again, I don't have an air gun to zip things off with.  But I always do when using a grinder.

Yes you have to split the boxes to take the axles off the center section.

with the tranny still attached to the bus I'd take the rgbox covers off.   (you can do it out of the bus, but easier if it holds still, your choice) (you already have the brakes off, even the backing plates right?) Put a oil drain pan underneath when you pull the center seal covers off the RGBox, and when you pull the box half off, as it will drip gear oil, even if you drained the tranny already.  Your wife will like you better if you don't smell like gear oil.

with cover off,
take off the circlip at the end of the axle shaft.  The upper outer bearing is a press fit, meaning you should be able to take two screwdrivers and pry it off. Sometimes they are stuck, and so I made a wierd puller thingy for when that happened to me, which has come in useful since.

  Then (with nuts around base of thingy around axle tube undone, and RGBox undone, heck, tranny out) pull the axle tube./RBOx inner half off the tranny.   give it a good pull. Then you can knock the inner upper bearing out with a stick or long pipe.  

under the base of the axle tube flange is the daisy wheel aka flower aka kaiser sphere.

you can now get out your big circlip pliers (and goggles) and remove the big circlip and take the axle shaft/fplates/crown gear out and inspect for damage.

Clara

 In a message dated 11/18/2003 1:18:43 PM Eastern Standard Time, rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com writes:
> I've been driving around with no 4th gear since I got the truck. I've got a 
> good working used tranny, so decided to swap it out with the one that's in 
.... pulling 
> the transaxle. Had everything loose and ready to go except the 2 big tranny 
> bolts under the bell housing. I zipped the first one off with the air gun 
> and then went to do the other. That's when it happened.
> 
> When I zipped the bolt off, it came out faster than I expected. Something 
> caused the big washer to skim off the end of the bolt and it zipped right  into my left eyeball!
> 
> I put off going to the doctor until today. My family ganged up on me and so 
> I went. They verified that I've got a corneal abrasion right on the iris  below and right next to my pupil.
> 
> Now....I got to get back to work on the truck. I don't 
> have a bearing puller to get the outer reduction gear 
> bearing off. That's the only way to 
> be able to get the axles off the tranny...right???
> 
> I've got the small nut tranny, so may go ahead and split the boxes 
