Date: Thu, 20 Nov 2003 22:09:38 -0500
From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 65 engine/steeringbox report (long)

After putting the new 1679 engine in my westy, I drove it about 50 miles before putting it back in the garage for a steering box swap.   Took everything (steering wheel, steering lock, etc ) apart but the front end of the drag link wouldn't come off.  put it back drive-able, and took it to Eric who offered to use a special VW tool to get the b%^^er off there.   He took the pitman arm off with an impression metal stick and my BFH, and then the real VW tool could get to the drag link end.  pop.  

took it home, drove it up on ramps and removed the steering wheel, steering lock, turn signal switch, etc and column.  

  Fast forward a few weeks, while it gets progressively colder and I'm driving the 61 with safari (leaks) rust holes (drafts) and lesser heating system.  

Then I took the rebuildt (by wolfgang) column, and realised I had to swap over not only the pitman arm but also the bracket that holds the column to the bus.   Ok, two large 17mm bolts.  hmm, won't works.   oh, under the gurk is a lock plate to be bent back.   now stand on the column while I undo the 17mm bolts.  clean off bracket.  dry, grease lightly where it slips onto new column, and tighten the 17mm bolts so the bracket won't fall off onto to foot.    The pitman arm has a line on it to line up with the line on the thing it slides on to, to get the splines on right.  (so you turn to the left as much to the right, nice idea, eh?)

carefully use rags in the little hole on the bus floor so when I put the column in it won't scratch the paint.  ever so carefully slide the column into place and while holding the box up with one hand, aligning it with the second, with the third hand I started the bolts that hold the bracket to the bus.

Now I found a piece of rubber I could modify to make a gasket around the column where it passes through the floor, blocking off air flow.

Then installed the steering lock (lubed the rubber grommet over the column with simple green), and screwed the repainted black knee banger plate to it with the Phillips chrome machine screws, which flaked the paint when I snugged them down.  oh, well.  Put grommet back in for ignition wires.  Spun that plate around and got the wires through the grommet, then wiggled it up and installed the 3 13mm hex head bolts that hold the black knee banger to the dash tray and pod/steering lock.  Set wheel straight.  Attached wires to horn.

Back under the bus I torqued the 17mm pinch bolts for the SGBox bracket, and folded back the lock plate.   Set drag link length and installed drag link end.

On top of steering column installed the spring, half moon key, and steering wheel, snugged steering wheel nut down (don't tighten the heck out of this or you'll hate it when you try to remove it)  Horn button screw missing, drat.   Opened garage door (snow's almost melted) so I could open the engine lid. Hooked battery ground back up, then sorted out wires to ignition bit of steering lock, and popped on plastic cover over the wires.  Checked horn, it doesn't work when I ground the wire coming out of the column.     Put the turn signal switch back on (careful not to lose those screws!)  Where's the rubber knee guard?  

Turned key to start, engine turned round, caught.  cool.
removed blocks from behind rear wheels, looked for tools in the way, backed bus up, and got ramps out of the way.  let the bus run about 15 minutes while I put tools away, changed the radio station, admired my stylee bus, etc

Now, the engine had run fine ( with the exception of feeling like the clutch might be slipping a tad, and the oozing at the oil pump) but the oil pressure had been funny.   ie when the oil warmed to about 50* C the dash light came on, just under 10psi, but it jumped back up real high when I stepped on the gas.   So I planned to investigate the oil relief and control. (I have oil temp and oil pressure gauges)

So I put a drain bucket underneath, and with the monster big slotted screwdriver and a adjustable wrench on the rear one I undid the plugs and the plunger and spring fell out.   Got out the book, which said it should be 1 3/4 in with 13-16 lbs or so on it.   found some splitting wedges and a maul head that together weighed that, and with a low tech set up I decided that the spring indeed did not squish as much as it should, so I found one from another engine that was stock and squished the right amount.  installed good old spring and all w/ new gasket, repeat with forward one.   Dif specs, but again the stupid heavy duty spring  was there, replaced with good old regular spring.  Install.   

Started up engine, and the oil pressure looked ok.  Took a test drive to the coffee shop for beans and gas station for gas and the oil light didn't come on ever, even though it didn't get above 70 C, but stepping on the gas didn't make such a huge change in oil pressure anymore.    

I suspect this will stop the oozing at the oil pump.

I had put a 1/3 grease 2/3 gear oil mixture in the steering box, and I wish I was lighter on the grease as it was pretty clear it was thick in there.  then again it was close to freezing.  

Really nice to not have that grinding noise from under my feet anymore when I turn the wheel, steering feels really good, except i still need to adjust the column, at least I hope that's it, as there is still an inch of free play.  And this bus does have much better heat than the other.

BTW, I took all crusty bolts  and the drag link end to the buffer wheel to clean up threads, and greased threads religiously.  I even used some of that silvery antiseize stuff.  grease is good.  Your bus loves grease.   Oil your door and engine lid hinges every tune up.   
