Date: Fri, 21 Nov 2003 11:50:29 -0500
From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
To: jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Ugly 65-67 front seat pics?

Nice mesh grey seats are hard to find because the material doesn't age well.  I think it's UV sensitive.   Meaning that 99.999% of mesh grey seats have the mesh grey bit all cracked, peeled, torn up after 20 years, and so got seat covers on it. The grey sides would still be fine.   Once in a long while I have found nice rear seats, and ONCE saw really nice front seats in a low milage bus the OO had put covers on from day one to protect them.

 My 65 westy had 2 layers of seat covers on its seats when I got it, and I put a 3rd one on, then swapped out the drivers seat for a comfier one.   

I think mesh grey seats look nice, but you have to look at a mesh grey door panel, and imagine the face of the seat and back the mesh, and the sides the grey.

One of the things I'd like to do is collect pics of OG interiors and make a website showing what combinations came which years/models.  But that hasn't been assembled yet (except in my head)

If you want I can pmail you a pic of a OG mesh grey door panel.

To maintain/ restore the suppleness of your "real vinyl leatherette" seats and panels, wash with simple green and water and a brush to get the dirt out of the texture/grain.  (I take the seats out to wash them.) Then apply glycerin liberally with a clean damp rag.  Let soak in overnight.  (ie don't do this right before you drive it or it'll get on your clothes, does wash out but may look funny.)  Next day notice the material is softer.  Repeat as desired.   It really helped the seat material in my 53 which had been in the desert for decades. 

Glycerin is available at drug stores.   A small bottle cost me less than a dollar, and it's good for dry chapped hands.

I have no idea if the new panels TMI makes has that same issue of the mesh material going bad.

Have you checked out old brochures?

  In a message dated 11/21/2003 10:45:38 AM Eastern Standard Time, jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com writes:

> ON the quest to find any pics of a 65-67 bus w/ the stock 
> mesh
> gray/gray I still haven't found any :(Is this combo that ugly. seems like every pic I can find had a
different seat cover.
