Date: Fri, 26 Jul 2002 05:29:59 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] adding a second fuse block

>From: Donald Johnson <djohnson1(-at-)snet.net>
>Date: Fri, 26 Jul 2002 10:16:47 +0000
>
>I'm toying with the idea of putting in a second fuse block in the 
>65 to keep some of my accessories organized.  (radio, 40x2amp,

What do you need forty 2 amp fuses for?  :)  I suspect you're talking
about your radio's speaker power output, like 40 watts x 2 channels.
That translates to a draw of at least 7 amps at 12 V.  The 40 watts
may be a "marketing" (i.e., bullsh!t) number and the real number is
probably more like 20 watts, making the total draw around 3.5 amps.

>Can I run a second small fuse block off the main block, and if so, 
>where should I tap in?

You can, but it may not be a good idea, depending on what your total
extra load is.  The ambulance models had up to about 7 amps more stuff
than a standard Bus, so if your total draw is less than that, you
should be OK.  Your radio probably draws around 3.5 to 7 A, the
cigarette lighter draws 1 A (cell phone charger) to 10 A (actually
lighting a cigarette) to 20 A (inverter), and the interior lights
are probably about 1 A each.  Auto-squirting windshield washers
add another two or three amps.  So, you could be drawing anywhere
from 5.5 A to 30 A more than stock.

If you decide the load will be low enough, the place to tap is at
the far right fuse on the stock fuse block.  One of the terminals
will have two fat red wires connected to it and that's where you
want to tap.  Before you start playing, though, disconnect the
battery ground strap.  

Ideally, you should be able to unplug your radio and any other 
accessories from that terminal and have a spare tab to plug the
feed to the new fuse-box on to.  If not, you can use an adapter
push-on that has one socket and two plugs, or make up a short
adapter cable.  _Don't_ use those blue/yellow guillotine tap 
connectors that bite into the middle of the wire with pliers!
They suck at anything over a few amps.  You also need to make
sure that the stock two fat red wires have an absolutely impeccable
connection to the fuse panel, as they are the source of all
juice in your Bus.

If you're adding the new fuse panel under the dash, a 10 gauge
wire from the stock fuse panel to the new one is fine.  If you're
running a new feed wire for the new panel back to the battery
positive terminal, put in 8 gauge wire.  (The stock back-to-front
wire is equal to 8 gauge).  If you really want safety, fuse the
new panel at its feed point (battery or old fuse panel) with
one of those huge blade fuses rated 40 A or more, made for newer 
cars.  You can get the kind that are huge and plug into a huge
fuse holder, or you can get the slightly smaller kind with holes
in their lugs and attach wires to the lugs with ring terminals.
Adding a big fuse isn't so important if you're feeding the new
fuse panel from the old, but a very good idea if you're feeding
it from a new wire to the battery.

There are all kinds of fuse blocks, too.  The stock VW type
is one option.  There are small blocks that take 4 blade fuses
but require a little more wiring on the bottom.  If you look
around you can find flat black plastic blade fuse panels that 
have a stud and nut for the feed and push-ons for each circuit.
Some of these even have a cluster of push-ons with another stud
and nut for ground wires.  If you have one of these, run an 8
or 10 gauge jumper wire from the ground stud to a good ground
on the Bus body.

>Ideally, I would even like to have the second fuse block switched 
>between always on, and ignition on, using a single pole, dbl throw
>switch.

Probably the best way to do this is with a relay.  That way the
extra draw from the new fuse block doesn't have to come through
the ignition switch in the "ignition on" position.  Wire the
relay contacts (terminals 30 and 87) in line with the feed to
the new fuse box, using 8 or 10 gauge wire.  The rest of the
connections can be made with anything; 16 gauge is a good choice.
Ground terminal 85.  Run a wire from terminal 86 to the center
terminal on the switch.  Run a wire from one end terminal on the
switch to 15 on the ignition switch and run a wire from the
other end terminal on the switch to 30 on the ignition switch.
This way, the only extra load on the ignition switch or battery
is less than 1 amp for the relay coil.

Make sure to insulate all connections well (electrical tape or
heat shrink) and neatly dress the wires (tape, zip ties).  Look
everything over closely, hook the battery negative strap back
up, and enjoy.

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds


