From: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>
To: "Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 26 Jul 2002 16:13:05 -0400
Subject: Air backpressure

Okay since we are on the maximum fan air issue with pulley ratios... Lets
talk air flow :)

It has been reported by a few very knowledgeable people that the T3 bottom
tin "super cool tin" modification that a lot of us perform is counter
productive to maximum air flow.

Why you ask?  Because the T3 tin is more restrictive and creates more
backpressure which means less air actually makes it past the cylinders to
cool them down.  I do not think anyone can disagree with that statement.  I
think the main benefit to the T3 tin might be on a less air efficient flow
engine (maybe non-doghouse) so that all the given air is circulated better
around the cylinders, which T3 tin does do.

Think about this.  Why do only the VW pancake engines (T3 and T4) have this
"super cool" tin? Because the airflow is horrible from the rear mounted
fan... Trace the crooked inefficient path it has to take over the cylinders,
yuck.  Thus both the T3 (Ronnie's favorite) and T4 got more robust oil
coolers as well.  Considering the mouse fart of air flow even the T1 engine
doghouse oil coolers get it is amazing they stay cool at all (I have a
theory it is a heat radiator more than an air coolant device, thus I like
the T4 cooler mod in theory like Eric&Barb run).

Also check out what Nate has done here to improve air flow:
http://www.nateswaterart.com/vw/casting_flash/
(I am very impressed with his webpage and his custom other products FS -
check it out) 
*As a side note since these are 90.5 cylinders it might be more of an issue
with custom stuff than in the stock 85.5mm units (none of the new ones I
have bought really had this problem, at least bad enough to worry about).

Just my Friday thoughts :)


Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Microbus Westfalia "Biscuit"
1967 VW Microbus Standard/Westfakia "Dino" - For Sale
1979 Porsche 911 SC "Cochese" - For Sale 




