From: "Timo Schairer" <timo.schairer(-at-)student.uni-tuebingen.de>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 28 Jul 2003 12:25:07 +0200
Subject: [T2] almost up in smoke

Hi all,

just wanted to share the BAD experience I had this weekend:
Some weeks ago my 2liter dual carb (solex standard) '78 westy was smelling
of gas.
Stopped, checked everything (Done two years ago: new fuel lines, clamps and
secured the clamps like it's shown in the archive.).
No dripping, everything looked clean and dry. Checked twice and finally
drove on.
The smell came in unregular intervals, I checked everything about one
hundred times, couldn't find anything. Bought myself a new fire extinguisher
(a big one!), 'cause I was sort of worried. Checked the fuel breathing
system. Turned on the engine, checked fuel pump, vacuum-lines AND the
spare-fuel can. Nothing. The next day, no smell at all.

I drove home this weekend. Suddenly the smell was back again, very very
strong, stopped immediately. I was driving for about one hour, so the engine
was on operating temperature -> hot heat exchangers, cylinder heads, ... Got
out of the bus and noticed many drops of fuel behind the engine and a puddle
under the engine.
Ok, it's time to panic!
I had filled the bus up 5 miles ago... Got the fire extinguisher, looked
under the bus. Fuel dripping on the right heat exchanger, no fire yet, but
very strong smell of fuel. The only thing I could think of was to get that
exhaust system to cool down. I filled up the water tank last weekend, so I
got about 15 gallons of water in the bus and poured it in small doses over
the heat exchangers (I did not want to cool down the heads to quickly, so I
thought I start with the heat exchangers.) One thing I was very worried
about: what if fuel is still pouring out of the tank, even when the engine
is off (like the fuel line form the tank to the pump leaking). In order to
stop that I would have to lie under the bus. I thought that this might not
be the best idea and hoped that the problem were near the carbs. After about
one hour the engine was almost cold, and no gas was dripping anywhere (did
not even smell any more).
Checked the fuel pump, looked ok. Towed the bus home. Let it cool down
another 2 hours. Cranked the engine and there it was: The threads holding
the screw on the front (front means front of bus) side of the carb (the one
to get to the jet out) had come loose soaking the engine in fuel. I put out
both carbs, cut new threads in one of them, put in new bigger screw with
correct washer, reinstalled them. No smell of fuel, me beginning to feel
better. Drank some beer to cool down myself.

Bus smells of gas: Check those carbs!

Timo

'78 westy
'84 beetle
