From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: "Rob Carpenter" <brnagn7(-at-)yahoo.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 28 Jul 2003 04:51:31 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] windshield tips

> I heard it was near impossible to break the glass, ive
> always been told it was strong, but now i have my
> doubts.

Uh,..... no.  You would be surprised at how easy it is to break the
glass.  It does flex, but it cracks pretty easily too.  A body shop
friend of mine stated that the glass on a bay window and also the
glass on a super beetle were some of the hardest windshields he ever
had to install because of the arc in the glass and the subtle
technique required to get a good fit.

  Also something else to keep in mind.  Windshield glass in the
States is designed to crack and crumble and not shatter, in case of
a wreck.  This was accomplished by actually taking two or more panes
of glass and suspending them over one another with an acrylic or
rubber like material (shatter proofing).  Original windshields are
particularly more brittle than current reproduction ones.  It's not
the glass that gets all that brittle (although it does a little)
What gets brittle is the rubber in between the glass.  The rubber
loses it's elasticity and becomes hard.  So if you get uneven
pressure when putting in the bay window glass, the glass tries to
flex over material that has become more or less inflexible and dry
over the last 20-30 years.  This will crack your glass, if uneven
pressure is applied, and you will find yourself making another trip
to a yard or your local glass shop.

On the subject of lube, it should also be stated that straight dish
soap will dry quicker than one might think.  If your lube dries up,
apply more or start over.  Some folks I know like to add a little
bit of water to it, but I have my own reservations about introducing
water into an area that I am trying to keep dry.  Something that I
would like to see somebody do sometime would be to watch them
install a bay window windshield with a cloth headliner.  I would
think that the lube would stain it or cause a greasy like
discoloring, but who knows?  I'm sure somebody has some magical
substance they use to just slide those buggers in.  Go figure....

Seann Stafford
76' T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
76' T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
