From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
To: fbiffath(-at-)mailingsolutions.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 28 Jul 2003 08:40:47 -0400
Subject: RE: Subject: wont start only backfire

Definitely sounds like a timing issue to me. I'm not sure exactly how this
works, but is it possible that you could have put the distributor in 180
degrees off? I know that in the Chevy motors I've worked on, this CAN
happen, and those are some of the symptoms you get.
 
Also, I have no idea what 1600 DP is.. but if that means it's fuel
injection?? then check the fuel pressure.
 
Either way, even if carbureted.. if your fuel pressure just isn't good
enough.. then that can cause a problem too.
 
Try spraying (with the motor off) a lot of WD-40 or starter fluid into your
carburetor (with teh flaps open) then close it and spray some more on the
throttle plates with them closed. (don't go TOO nuts now).
 
Try to start the car.. if it runs decent for a couple of seconds.. then that
could be your problem.
 
 
For my car (which isn't original.. mechanically speaking and probably won't
ever be again), I went with an aftermarket electric fuel pump. It's a
Purolator. It actually came with the Transporter when I bought it.. but I've
had experience with these before. These Purolators are GREAT fuel pumps to
have for carbureted motors. They produce about 4 psi of pressure.
 
I currently have one in my Volkswagen Bus (1.8 2bbl Webber), in my 1981
TransAm (with a V8 / 4bbl carb) and my 78 Cadillac Eldorado (also a V8 with
a 4-bbl carb)
 
I think they're like $30 dollars new.

Todd Jaspers - Programmer
AmeriPath IT - Fort Lauderdale
954-377-3291 

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments, is
for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential
and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or
distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original
message.
