From: "Sage Green" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: brnagn7(-at-)yahoo.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 28 Jul 2003 13:52:48 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] windshield tips

Gosh, I hope you received ENOUGH HINTS ! ! !

Here's mine...

I R & R a front windshield on my '72.  Other windows many times.


My 17 age daughter inside, pulling the string (woven nylon cord from a 
parachute riser.  Anything will do..)

I was on the outside, maintaining the windshield.


Here are the hints.


1 - lube the FRAME, not the RUBBER!!  I used silicone that I use to blacken 
the tires.  A silicone wipe.   Wipe your lube on the frame where the rubber 
will meet the frame .


2 - DO NOT put it in at the bottom rail, but start pulling the string at the 
bottom of the windshield. (Of course, you have to wrap the string in the 
seal so that it meets at the bottom, and overlaps some)   Reason: the 
windshield is heavy and the bottom is the more difficult area.  So  start 
there first.  Heavy windshield pulls down towards the bottom.

3 - pull slowly, and watch how the rubber pulls over the lip.  DO NOT push 
on the windshield, or you will make the string to difficult to pull.  Don't 
worry about getting a perfect seating of the windshield/seal in the frame.  
It will seat easily enough after all is done.  Just worry about getting the 
rubber over the lip of the frame.

4 - Most Important!!  The windshield MUST be perfectly centered.  I was 
outside, and I could reach my hands across the windshield, and I could touch 
the right and left edges of the rubber <-> frame and feel with my finger 
tips when I had as centered a windshield as possible.  This is why I was 
outside, and my daughter got the no-brainer inside.  This centering must be 
maintained from start until you get both sides of the string from the 
bottom, up to the top.  Pull each end of the string from the bottom, 
somewhat evenly.


5 - If you do pull the string and the rubber does not go over the frame lip, 
STOP ! !  If there is just a small 'holiday', like a 1/4 inch or so, you can 
feed the rubber over the frame with a flat blade screw driver.  You can use 
metal if you don't touch the glass.  One minute of work here will keep you 
from restarting the whole job.


My opinion:

Bottom line, no pressure is needed from the outside of the windshield.  The 
outside guy is just there to keep the windshield from falling out, and 
centering the windshield, and seating the windshield / seal when needed.  
AFter finished, you can put pressure from the outside directly on the rubber 
seal, not on the glass.  I used a small piece of wood / stick to push on the 
seal, and just pushed all around the whole seal.  Carefully, of course...



Barry sends
