From: "Gary G. Martin" <gmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "Gary G. Martin" <gmartin(-at-)coin.org>
Date: Mon, 28 Jul 2003 10:20:35 -0500
Subject: winshield

Date: Sun, 27 Jul 2003 09:12:35 -0700 (PDT)
From: Rob Carpenter <brnagn7(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] windshield tips

> have lots of people on the outside gently
> pushing on the glass.  >what would be considered lots?? 2-3?
>
ggm replies
I have had success lots of times with two people on the inside and three people on the
outside. I am sure the professional installers are laughing at my lack of skill, but
after breaking one windshield, why take a chance on not having enough un-skilled but
very helpful help.

>1/8" diameter, something like twine?? or thicker?
>
well, I can't tell you exactly what I used. You don't have to have exactly one kind of
particular string. You cannot use thin kite string,  It is too sharp, it is too weak.
You cannot use sisal twine. It has too many loose strands that will break off and later
rot and cause leaks. Sisal twine has too many edges and will have too much friction. The
sisal twin they give away free at lumber yards is too thick. I used some nice thick
strong slippery braided nylon. It was easy to hold onto, with a gentle pull. and it was
thick enough to be dull and not cut into the original old cracked gasket (all I could
usually afford). If the string is too thick it will block the fit.

>Do you set the bottom seal in first then have the string start from each lower corner
working into the top >center of glass??than,robert

this is what works consistently for me. There may be a better expert method. I wrapped
the string over and in the top of the grommet with the ends coming out the center of the
bottom and overlapping long on both sides . Then I put the glass into the grommet. The
three outside helpers keep the grommet on the windshield and put the bottom of the unit
in-on the bottom of the vehicle windshield hole. The one person on left inside, gently
pulls on the string and pays close attention to making string gently pull the grommet
lip over the inside body metal lip. The one person on left outside, pays real close
attention to his assigned helper, the left inside helper. The outside left helper pushes
the unit down and against the vehicle more and more as the inside left helper gently
pulls the string flipping the grommet lip over the vehicle metal lip. The same thing on
the right side with the inside right helper and the outside right helper. The middle
outside guy helps too somehow ( I never had that position) by pushing the windshield
down and against the vehicle in the middle. The most important part is that everybody
has to work together to keep the unit going into the vehicle very symmetrically. Nobody
can get ahead. The bottom goes in; the bottom lip is all flipped over; the right edge
and top edge start going up from the bottom at the same time and keep up with each
other; the top is the last grommet to flip over; the top middle is the very last place
the string comes out. There has to be lots of talking. Lots of cooperation. Before you
start, you have to all come up with some common commands like. start, stop, down harder,
against harder, down less, against less. I know I used the words "left" and "right" But
DON'T use the words "left" or "right" when you are working in a group. Those words are
too confusing to people facing opposite directions. Use the words: "passenger side" and
"drivers side". The very worst word any helper can use is the terrible word: "okay".
That word is too meaningless. Do you mean okay-start pushing, okay-stop, okay-slow down,
okay-???????. You must all use your agreed upon command words. And remember the most
important part of any job is that nobody gets hurt. It is really nice when everybody
enjoys working  together and has fun.
