Date: Mon, 28 Jul 2003 19:43:33 -0500
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: Vintage Bus List <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, Type2 Bus List
Subject: High Country Trip report (really long)

Go ahead and go to the restroom, this will take a while :)


High Country Trip Report 2003

First off thanks to Buddah for putting on another great event!

This year we had decided that we weren't going to be part of the last
group there. So I took off 2 days from work so we could leave early on
Thursday. Spent Wed night packing & making last minute trips to the
store to stock on stuff we forgot. Finally got in bed for a restful
night before the long haul. As planned the alarm went off at 3am. I
however didn't go off as planned & hit the snooze (apparently) until
about 4ish. After I woke up we all got in the bus, got the kids settled
with travel pillows & off we went. Leaving Dickson at about 5am Thursday
morning full of camping supplies, full tank of gas & lots of coffee.

The drive along I-40 east was pretty boring. The fog was very heavy the
entire way even as late as 9am. We finally broke out of the fog cover &
could see a beautiful day ahead of us. Butch performed flawlessly. She
had no problems with the hills & ran pretty darn cool for the amount of
stuff she was pushing along with. We finally got to the east side of
Knoxville where we were to meet up with Ted Finesman. Since we didn't
have any problems on the way, we got there VERY early. Turned into a gas
station to meet up & opened up the bus. We sat around & had lunch & then
hung around & played ball in the parking lot. About 12:30 Ted rolled up
in Goldie. We chatted a bit & talked busses while letting him get a
break. Since it was such a nice day we both agreed that taking the
Interstate would be much less interesting. 

Off we drove from I-40 down Hwy 66 toward Sevierville. A few miles from
Sevierville we hit stand still traffic (HUH?). After quite a while going
3mph we managed to peel off from the traffic and head toward Johnson
City on 411/321. We couldn't have chosen a better drive. With
breathtaking views of the mountains & the valleys in front we twisted
and turned our way through some nice little towns. Stopped for gas once
& just kept a nice easy pace. When we reached Elizabethton we broke for
a quick break & any supplies at the Kroger. On the way out a nice guy in
an early bay let us out. First bus sighting the entire trip. We just sat
and drove all the way to the campground. Arriving at 5ish gave us plenty
of time to setup camp before it got dark. Doc Ric had saved us a primo
spot right behind his bus so we got the bus leveled up & started
pitching camp. Ted camped a small distance away with a very visable
50/50 raffle advert. Saw some familiar faces & new ones even as early as
we were on Thursday. The first night saw the beginning of our camp
forming with us, Brad & Ric. As well as all our offspring & some with
friends. Sat around & got settled in after cooking dinner. Everyone in
our bus was tired so we retired early by about 9pm. That first night got
pretty chilly so Steph was glad I had stockpiled some blankets in the
bus and off to dreamland we went.

As the sun has a tendancy to do it rose early in the morning to greet
Friday and all the campers under her protection. Several busses had
arrived through the night and the Friday talley was something on the
number of 45ish busses there already. We started the day by discovering
that I had not brought any coffee grounds. We only had instant. I was
looking forward to having brewed coffee and was determined to do just
that. Fortunately Dianne came by the camp and mentioned that she had
left her cooking equipment at home but did have coffee. What's this? Us
with no coffee & Dianne with no way to make it? It didn't take long to
come to the decision that our situations could be benificial to each
other. Unfortunately for Dianne it DID take a long time for the coffee
to brew. So I finished cooking & cleaning up a breakfast of bacon and
eggs with OJ and we were ready to watch everyone setup camp.

The rest of friday was spend just hanging around and visiting old
friends and putting faces with others I knew just by name. I wanted to
try out our cast iron griddle so cheeze toast for lunch. The grill was
giving me fits about not staying lit very well. Doc wonders over and
poof fixed it. Turns out I had forgotten that then pumping a white gas
stove you must turn the valve for it to work. I must have pumped that
thing 100 times and it never made any difference. So I got my first
stupid moment over pretty quickly that day.  After lunch Lela and Victor
arrived with friends to nearly complete our campsite.  Paul and his son
arrived in his bay a bit later Chris and Jenn rounded out the campsite
in their very nice 66. As expected we re-arranged the campsite several
times making it all fit nice. After it was all said and done our little
camp of 3 bays, 3 splits, 1 beetle, 1 thing, 1 motorcycle tent trailer,
1 drive away tent as well as assorted other sun blocking tents were
assembled & looked darn good. Spent the rest of the night having some
fantastic fajitas from my fantastic wife. I would also recommend after
this night, if you ever see Brad trying to get an old coleman lantern
lit, stand back. It has a tendancy to engulf itself in flames, much to
the delight of onlookers. Since we got the kids to fall asleep, at least
after a bit of crying (sorry guys) we got to hang out with the adults &
had a wonderful time just socializing with fellow bus people. Got to bed
late (at least for us) at 1am.

Saturday came & coffee making was much quicker this time (& I was
happy). In the past I haven't helped out w/ the breakfast other than to
make sure and bring supplies. This year I took the stove down the hill &
helped cook some dead animals. I had a fantastic time cooking for the
common group. I mostly got in the way trying to cook, but did manage to
make some sausage & bacon. Hopefully I can build on those skills next
time. In spite of my "help" the moonies managed yet again to feed every
hungry mouth with some to spare for the cooks. Boy those burritos were
good. 

Later in the day brought the kids activities put on by Ronnie and
Snoopy. I got to watch all the kids pin the "VW" on the bus nose, which
was a lot of fun. All the kids seemed to have a great time. The twins
also had a great time making bubbles down stage side. I missed Mark's
tech talk since I was enjoying the kids, but I'm sure it was fantastic
as people extracted some info from him. While walking back to the camp I
saw a plane fly over and Buddah yelling for everyone to line up. So
everyone that was in earshot ran toward the huge VW in the middle of the
camp for the group shot. that was a huge highlight of the weekend. I
didn't realize that we could move that fast. The remainder of the day
was spent just talking and meeting new people. Had a fantastic time
talking w/ Shawn & David and letting the twins meet their dogs (IIRC
Zion & JT) and check out the small teepee they brought as well as
getting to actually try real digi. Turns out I'm as bad on a real one as
a piece of pvc.

Saturday evening brough the award ceremonies and prizes. Lots of fun
hearing the bus count and that money was raised to help fund type2.com
for an entire month. The raffle prizes were given out. Strange karma
abounded that night. One lady won both the 50/50 as well as another
prize. Not once but twice a child pulled the winning ticket for a prize
that their parent actually had. We were one of those people & got a
great little book about the history of the Beetle. We went back to
camp afterwards and cooked some spagetti. Later the band got started &
made for some wonderful background music for us further up the hill.
After dark I had to do my hourly kid check to find Wyatt. I started to
worry about when Tanner & Abram, who he spend most of the weekend
playing with, were not with Wyatt. A quick walk around found him sitting
in front of the band. He was soooo tired. He had just decided to rest
some and listen to the band. He really seemed to be enjoying himself. So
I sat down with him a bit to enjoy the music from 5 feet away from the
front. After a bit of music we put the kids down for bed & stayed up
talking. Unfortunately I lost one of my flip-flops when I strayed into
the woods a bit to use natures facilities. What I didn't realize was
that the path was more of a cliff instead, so I fell about 6 feet and
stopped. I fiddled around in the dark looking for my shoe, but gave up
and just hobbled back to camp with one shoe. Of course I had to explain
why I only had one shoe, but everyone got a chuckle over that. We went
to bed and had another restful sleep.

Sunday morning brought a craving for pancakes, so I got started on
making some. No one in camp wanted any so I just stuffed a lot more than
I needed in my face. I spent way too much time cooking so we were very
rushed tearing down camp. We did however manage to get it all stuffed
into the bus & lined up for the carabus. This years carabus was a bit
split up at first. Apparently the local "heat" wasn't too keen on us
blocking the road to let all the busses pass. However we all gathered at
the top of the hill and made some great group shots. Next onto the
Parkway for beautiful views and busses. Near the end of the trip we
started to smell brakes bad. I was pretty sure that it wasn't me, but
you never know. Turns out it was Ian who had a caliper lock. At the park
everyone who was needed pitched in and started to get their bus back on
the road safely. Buddah thanked everyone for coming and informed the
group about Ian's situation. Let everyone know that he was in good
hands and gave out instructions to different destinations. Most of the
group left to get some Pizza Pie at Mellow Mushroom. Later we found out
that Ian and family made it home after some mech work. 

In Boone we got a table and ordered up some great Calzones and got one
last chance to visit with people. After the lunch we set off on Hwy 321.
I will not drive that way again if I have an option. It sure looked easy
on the map, but it's not a bus friendly road. This is the part of the
story where I should talk about a nice visit to Ric's place, but since
we were going 321 we didn't drive through Roan Mtn. Oh well, now we
know. The rest of the way home was simple down I-81 and over on I-40. No
problems and good running. We arrived home about 10:30pm tired,
sunburned and ready for our beds.

HCBF 2003 was a fantastic trip for my family. I really love these events
since I get to escape the normal and simply spend time with people,
especially my family. Right now I'm gonna try and rest. I spend a good
amount of the weekend carrying around 55 lbs of twins who didn't seem to
want to walk, so my legs are quite sore.

Technically the 66 bus ran fantastic. got 22-25 mpg with CHT usually 350
and only peaking at 400 a few times on very long hills. My dipstick was
always cool enough to hold (but sometimes it was a bit warm) and it
performed fantastic. We can't wait untill next year's festival. To those
I met, we will meet again. To those I didn't meet, we shall soon meet,
and to those busses I drooled on, sorry :)







-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
1979 Sportsmofakia 2000cc                        www.fasterlaster.com
1966 Westfalia SO-42 "Butch"
