From: "Buddah VW" <buddahvw(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 28 Jul 2003 20:46:39 -0400
Subject: High Country Bus Festival Official Report!  LONG (pic links

First of all - I want to thank all of you who treked up the mountain for the 
7th annual gathering of buses at the base of Grandfather Mountain.  We had 
175 buses this year -  these buses brought along approximately 335 people 
with them.

The weather this year was PERFECT.  For the first time in 7 years there was 
not even ONE drop of rain!  Even in years where the weather was great, there 
were one or two brief afternoon showers, but this year........postcard 
weather!

I arrived on Wednesday to find Jim & Sharon Huston (totallyillogical.com) , 
Mel Wilson were already set-up........they had been there since Sunday.  I 
got my site set-up and as the sun set on Wed night there were already 9 
buses in the field.  By thurs night there were over 55 buses in the field.  
We have never had so many buses show up so early.........I guess people have 
figured out that the early bird gets the flat and shaded campsite!

Buses continued to roll in all through the day on Friday and Friday night.  
Rob Henly fixed up and sold some of his world renound Hot Dogs to raise 
funds for the FMBC.  There were no other official activities that night,  
everyone just set-up camp and visited with old and new friends.

Saturday got off the a great start with the Full Moon Burritos!  I do not 
think that anyone walked away hungry.  I would like to send out thanks to 
everyone who donated food, helped cook and most importantly......those that 
helped to clean-up!

Jay and Lynn Blankenship started up the T-Dye Clinic at about 11am.  It was 
a blast for the kids and the adults.  Many people chose to dye their HCBF 
shirt.......and others brought various garments to tie and dye!  I really 
want to thank Jay and Lynn for all of their help............it took a lot of 
there time and they both had the sun burns to show it.  I also wanna thank 
James Herndon who pitched in with his T-Dye expertise!

Mark Dearing was a little late starting up the technical workshop in front 
of his bus...........but that's OK, because he was running a mini-technical 
workshop and tag-teaming with Keith McDonald to replace the tranny in Jeff's 
bus.  Mark then gave his tech talk on a engine that he had out on a stand so 
that everyone could easily see.  He concluded with some great tips on how to 
limp home if you ever run into trouble.  I really want to thank Mark for 
taking the time to share some of his "guru-ness" with us.

Snoopy was in charge of the kid's activities.............what a great job!  
The kids participated in scavenger hunts, bubble wars, VW word finds, and 
pin the logo on the bus nose!  I think Snoopy really has a super idea:  the 
highest point value item on the scavenger hunt list was for "trash."  Snoopy 
gave each child a garbage bag and asked them to pick up trash and they went 
around on their hunt.  if they came back having picked up and 
trash.......they got full credit.  HATS OFF to Snoopy for the Kids 
Activities!

At about 2:30 the call was heard.......... DE' PLANE   DE' PLANE  DE' 
PLANE.........and all of the humans came running to the center of the field 
to form a human VW Logo.  He took several passes and buzzed the field.  This 
might have been one of the most exciting things I have ever seen.......all 
of the adults were screaming, waving and smiling like kids on a roller 
coaster.

To see a picture from the Aerial Flyover Picture of HUMAN VW 
LOGO............thanks Scott Soehlig for posting an "easy" link!       
http://www.rpmtuning.com/hvwlogo.jpg

I am going to make all of the pics from the Aerial Flyover available soon. I 
plan to post low res thumbnails online and you will be able to order and 
size glossy prints of the pics you like.

You can see the "ground level" pics that I took in my yahoo pics........
http://f1.pg.photos.yahoo.com/buddahvw

At 6:00 we gathered for the awards ceremony.  The Type 2 prize Raffle raised 
$141 and the 50/50 raffle for the FMBC raised $92.  We had given out the 
door prizes earlier in the day.  I apologize to those that did not get a 
door prize, it was first come first serve........but thanks to everyone's 
donations and generosity we did make sure that all of the KIDS got a door 
prize!

I wanna thank James and Sharold for passing out and counting all of the 
ballots.........Gail Doles also helped sorting, counting and separating all 
of the dimpled chads..........and the winners are:
THE PEOPLES CHOICE:   Ron Dunn- 70 westy
THE BLACK SHEEP AWARD:  Victor Osley -  a beatle with a puck trailer
MOST IN NEED OF RESTO AWARD:  Adam Stegall "trailer queen 67 westy"
DEPT OF HOMELAND SECURITY: Mel Wilson- 77 westy
BEST GROUP CAMPSITE:    Jim and Sharon Huston
BEST INDIVIUAL CAMPSITE:  David Conner  -  nice canopy's!!!!
FURTHEST TRAVELED AWARD:  John Thrichern from Key West, FLA.

Each of the AWARD WINNERS received a custom painted valve cover.....I 
painted a bus on every valve cover.  Special Thanks to RON at the BUS DEPOT 
who donated the new valve covers for me to paint.

The band was a little late getting going.  One of the cars in their caravan 
was involved in a rather serious accident on HWY 105 just a few miles from 
the campsite.  LUCKILY no one was seriously injured.......and by 8pm BESSIE 
MAE's DREAM began to rock HCBF.  These guys are a great band .......if you 
get a chance check out their site:  bessiemaesdream.com   As the band played 
the traditional case was tossed on the fire and lit up the valley.

Sunday Morning we had 65 buses join us for the carabus along the Blue Ridge 
Parkway.  The segment we travel is one of the most scenic stretches of 
highway in the US.  The buses wind across the Linn Cove Viaduct, one of the 
most unique bridges in the world, that is built out of and winds around the 
contours of the mountains peak.  I think the coolest part is that they 
managed to build this bridge without feeling any trees or damaging any of 
the rock formations.  The view from this bridge on a clear day is hundreds 
of miles.

We ended the carabus and a large group of us went into Boone for lunch at 
the Mellow Mushroom.  It did take a while for us all to get our 
food.......but we did manage to fill every table they had inside and out.

Ian James had some brake issues on the carabus.  When the large group left 
for lunch Ian and a crew stayed behind at Price Park.  THREE-CHEERS go out 
to Keith McDonald and Jeremy Hoggard for getting really greasy and dirty and 
taking care of Ian.  I know there were a lot of other people who stayed 
around to help out and I did not get all of their names......but when I came 
back out to the park after lunch....Keith and Jeremy were the dirtiest!  :-)

AND LAST BUT NOT LEAST............the BIG THANKS!
Thanks again to Jay and Lynn for the T-Dye Clinic and EVERYTHING, Rob Henley 
for HOTDOGS and for EVERYTHING, Ted Finesman for the TYPE 2 raffle, Wild 
Bill for the FMBC Raffle, Snoopy for the Kids Time and EVERYTHING, Mark 
Dearing for the Tech Class, Diana Broom for help with the Door Prizes.

There is no way that I could make HCBF such a huge success without the help 
of all of these people.  If I have forgotten anyone, please forgive 
me..........as it is late.

What can I say,  this year's event was the best ever and I cannot wait for 
next year.

I will post info about the additional aerial photos soon!

thanks again,
BUDDAH

could somone please cross-post to the vintage and vangon lists?
