Date: Mon, 28 Jul 2003 18:37:22 -0700 (PDT)
From: Bill Abbott <bill.abbott(-at-)teradyne.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: '70 front brake shoe adjustment stars, possible lubricants w/o

	Bless me Ben Pon for I have sinned.
It has been at least 7 1/2 years since I adjusted the front shoes.
(I've only put 15K on the pickup, while we got married and started
a family, but that's beside the point...)

	The adjusting stars were pretty firmly NOT turning for me using
my old adjust-from-the-backing-plate-side-moves learned on later
drum brakes (like Rabbits). The access through the hole in
the drum which is PART of the hub was a new one for me too.

	Eventually I gave in and used a child size hammer, the kind
that cost $0.99 at the drug store, to wack the handle of the
screwdriver. THAT made the stars turn, and left bright, shiny
metal witness marks. But it wasn't easy, even so. Awkward angle,
hard to see, dinky hammer (that's on purpose), really stiff stars.

	I'm reluctant to put any lubricant into there, but I was wondering if 
1) Brake fluid
2) a dab of penetrating oil
3) a dab of lithium grease 

wouldn't be the end of the world. A little on the threads going into
the star, a little where the star seats in the far end of the slave
cylinder. Poked in through the adjustment hole in the drum.

	Or do I have to be a Real Man and take off the drum/hub to clean the
lot and repack the front bearings while I'm at it?

	The good news is it brakes a LOT better. Pedal position is
higher than I ever remember. I'm not sure I ever did this before :)

	The less than good news is that the driver's side needed about 2 
stars points of adjustment, < 90 degrees, while the passenger's side 
needed about 270 degrees. :( Obviuously the passenger side shoes are
re-radiusing themselves and will need another adjustment soon.
That's probably why it pulls to the driver's side (left) when I
slam the brakes on now.

	The really good news is that our son, now 6 1/2, operated the Bilstein
jack to raise it AND took off the wheel bolts. Parenthood is sweet :)

	Bill
