From: "Gary G. Martin" <gmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: "David Kelly" <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 28 Jul 2003 21:13:54 -0500
Subject: Re: knock when warm only

----- Original Message ----- 
From: "David Kelly" <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "Gary G. Martin" <gmartin(-at-)coin.org>
Subject: Re: knock when warm only


> Hello Gary,
>
> Thanks for the informative reply! I wonder. When the
> engine is cold and you don't hear it knock, is damage
> still being done?
ggm replies.
wow, what a philosophical question. er, I think,

If no one hears the rod knock, is the rod knock, knocking on the crankshaft and doing
damage?

>Seeing as I did not let it knock for
> long, do you think the crank will be damaged?

well first, you don't have an absolute diagnosis of a knocking rod, so stop worrying
about it until you get an expert ear to listen to it. It could be something else.

> Could it possibly be bent now?

The crankshaft is bent in a fasinating pattern to begin with. If you have a loose rod,
the rod rubbing on the crank shaft and or banging into the crankshaft can damage the
surface of the crankshaft where the rod bearing rides. That area is called the rod
journal. If you have a knocking rod, damage is being done with every single knock.

> Do you think that the rods and
> crank will need to be re ballanced and the bearing
> surfaces polished?

If you have a rod knocking , you have to take the engine all the way apart, so don't do
anything until an expert tells you you have rod knocking. You take the clean parts to an
automotive machinist who knows all about VW engines. VW engines are a lot different than
standard cast iron Ford engines. etc. You will have to ask the list for a good machine
shop in your area. The machinist will measure the crankshaft rod journal and the rod big
hole and measure the rod bearings. (or look for a size measurement on the back of the
bearing) The machinist will also examine the rod journal surface of the crankshaft. And
the machinist will measure all the rod journals and all the crankshaft main bearing
journals. The rod journals have to be a certain size range and they all have to be
close. If the rod journal surfaces are bad or bad sized, the crankshaft can be fixed .
The rod journals are ground to a smaller size meaning that you need thicker rod
bearings. Same thing for the crankshaft. If the crankshaft main bearing journals are
undersized by being ground to a uniform size, then you need larger diameter crankshaft
main bearings. Those bearings are thicker on the inside. Oversized bearings go by ten
thousands, so 0.010" or 0.020" 0.030" .  Perhaps your crank is okay still but it needed
oversize crank bearings and the previous rebuilder grabbed the wrong box of bearings.
Bearings with a big gap steal and waste all the oil pressure. Some purists will not use
an undersized ground crankshaft. Ordinarily, the rods are "remade" or "reconditioned" .
The rods are taken apart and the ends ground to make the hole inside oval, Then the rods
are bolted together and cut out to a perfect sized circle (mostly) The little end of the
rod has a new bushing installed and cut to exactly fit the piston wrist pin. Let the
machinist measure everything and tell you what happened to the engine and what you need
for the rebuild

> know that will need new bearings
> and the other assorted seals and hardware that are
> always replaced when the engine is torn down. Would
> the knocking have damaged that case?

If you have a rod knocking and If you keep running that engine, The rod is going to come
apart and ruin the crankshaft and go flying out of the case. Yes that will ruin the
case. (even if the rod never makes it all the way out. The older 1200 to 1600 cases most
always had case damage at the end of a normal engine life without a rod knocking or a
bearing failure. Those cases were not designed well. Normal operational movement of the
crankshaft pounded on the case crankshaft bearing surfaces and made those "holes" weird
shaped. Those cases then needed to be line bored to a bigger but correctly round hole.
Then the case had too big a hole so you needed to use special "outside" oversized
bearings. In 1600's it was common to use a 0.010"x0.010" bearing, that means the case
was cut out 0.010" bigger and the crankshaft was cut 0.010" smaller. The oversized
bearing was oversized on the outside size and on the inside size. My machinist says that
he can't ever remember seeing a "modern" Porsche "914 type"  bus case that needed to be
line bored .

>What would have cause the bearing to spin?

Well, after 80,000 to 100,000 miles of normal wear and tear, things wear out. At zero
miles, somebody made a big mistake. rod in wrong journal, wrong bearing size. rod bolts
not torqued and glued or peened closed, rod cap turned around. rod caps mixed up,
foreign material in oil, no oil, low oil pressure. etc..

> once, will the case metal be weakened and allow it to
> happen again after the damaged parts are replaced?

let the machinist tell you about the case.

> When tearing down any engine, do the piston rings need
> to be replaced?
everthing that is worn out has to be replaced, the more new stuff, the longer the
rebuild will last, but not everything is worn out when an engine needs to be rebuilt. If
the pistons and cylinders are measured and within size limits, you can just put in new
rings and have the cylinders honed. on air cooled VW engines, you must always replace
the exhaust valves and the exhaust guides. VW engines are known to be very hard on
exhaust valves. I think you should replace the exhaust  valves and guides every 50,000
miles just to be safe.
Some parts are very  hard to get to in a running engine, if those parts are  cheap, then
replace them when they are easy to get to. The machinist can  tell you which parts need
to be replaced.

As you can see I am full of questions.
> Thanks in advance if you are able to answer any of
> these questions. Thanks so much for the info about the
> engine knock. Like you said, I do not want to run the
> engine again until the problem is fixed.

You need to read the Muir book even if you are not going to do any of the work yourself

bye ggm
