Date: Wed, 2 Mar 2005 23:46:55 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Engine cutting out

>From: "Oly" <olyolsen(-at-)bresnan.net>
>Date: Wed, 2 Mar 2005 14:09:30 -0700
>
>My bus fires then quits as soon as I release the starter.
>Yesterday she quit spontaneously two or three times usually decelerating
>to a stop sign.  But after 6 or 8 resart attempts she fired up.

Since you said "cutting out", it sounds like the engine is dying quickly,
like you shut off the key?  If so I would look to the electrical like you
have.  If instead it wheezes and stumbles before dying, look to fuel and
air.

>I'm thinking one of three possibilities:
>Bad regulator

I'm not sure how likely this is.  Your battery should carry the system
for at least several miles, even with a total generator and regulator
failure.  I could envision a failure mode in which the regulator is
trying to short the battery to ground and intermittently succeeding,
but if this was happening I'd think you know it in one of two ways:
wires in the engine compartment starting to smoke, OR the battery having
a mysterious loss of capacity.  Since you said the battery survived 6-8
restart attempts, I don't think this is happening.

If you want to eliminate it for sure, disconnect and separately tape up
all the wires at the generator, and disconnect and separately tape up
all the wires at the regulator.  Go for a drive -- preferably in the
daytime, so your battery will last longer -- and if it still happens,
it wasn't the regulator.

>Bad coil

I think this is more likely.  I have also seen a failing condenser in a
Bug cause an intermittent miss, progressing to intermittent starting,
then finally no spark at all.

>Short to either one of above.

Maybe an open circuit to the coil.  You might get a strong light and
inspect the black wire (15) that goes to the coil, choke heater, and
carb fuel cutoff for breaks and bare spots everywhere in the engine
compartment.  Also inspect the (low voltage) wire between the coil and
the distributor.

It could be a failing ignition switch.  When it fires and quits, leave
the key on, then see if other things that should only work with the key
on still work.  If they don't, I would suspect the ignition switch.

Maybe something else on the ignition circuit is dragging it down?  You
might temporarily disconnect the reverse light wire at the ignition
coil, as well as the wires from the coil to the central test socket
if they're still hooked up.  Drive around and if the problem is gone,
you probably have an intermittent short to ground in one of the circuits
you disconnected.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds
