From: "Oly" <olyolsen(-at-)bresnan.net>
To: "'Matt Roberds'" <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>, "'VintageBus list'"
Date: Thu, 3 Mar 2005 17:22:18 -0700
Subject: RE: Engine cutting out

After checking all of the wires, contacts and vacuum hoses recommended by
the group I began experimenting to find out if I could cause or work around
the issue.
This is what I've come up with...
I start the bus and when I let go of the ignition she stalls.
I've found that if I get her started, turn to off the back to the on
position quick enough she will run.  It takes several attempts sometimes but
I think I've isolated the issue to the ignition switch.  I don't know why
she sometimes quits enroute but maybe the spring back mech in the switch
releases.  I've limited my key ring for the bus to one key since I found out
the weight of many keys can wear out an ignition switch.
I'll have to read some archives as I think the 71 may be a one year only
switch and requires some extra wiring.
Thanks for all the suggestions. 


Oly Olsen
Great Falls Montana
'71 Riviera

-----Original Message-----
From: Matt Roberds [mailto:mattroberds(-at-)cox.net] 
Sent: Wednesday, March 02, 2005 10:47 PM
To: VintageBus list
Cc: olyolsen(-at-)bresnan.net
Subject: Re: Engine cutting out

>From: "Oly" <olyolsen(-at-)bresnan.net>
>Date: Wed, 2 Mar 2005 14:09:30 -0700
>
>My bus fires then quits as soon as I release the starter.
>Yesterday she quit spontaneously two or three times usually 
>decelerating to a stop sign.  But after 6 or 8 resart attempts she fired
up.

Since you said "cutting out", it sounds like the engine is dying quickly,
like you shut off the key?  If so I would look to the electrical like you
have.  If instead it wheezes and stumbles before dying, look to fuel and
air.

>I'm thinking one of three possibilities:
>Bad regulator

I'm not sure how likely this is.  Your battery should carry the system for
at least several miles, even with a total generator and regulator failure.
I could envision a failure mode in which the regulator is trying to short
the battery to ground and intermittently succeeding, but if this was
happening I'd think you know it in one of two ways:
wires in the engine compartment starting to smoke, OR the battery having a
mysterious loss of capacity.  Since you said the battery survived 6-8
restart attempts, I don't think this is happening.

If you want to eliminate it for sure, disconnect and separately tape up all
the wires at the generator, and disconnect and separately tape up all the
wires at the regulator.  Go for a drive -- preferably in the daytime, so
your battery will last longer -- and if it still happens, it wasn't the
regulator.

>Bad coil

I think this is more likely.  I have also seen a failing condenser in a Bug
cause an intermittent miss, progressing to intermittent starting, then
finally no spark at all.

>Short to either one of above.

Maybe an open circuit to the coil.  You might get a strong light and inspect
the black wire (15) that goes to the coil, choke heater, and carb fuel
cutoff for breaks and bare spots everywhere in the engine compartment.  Also
inspect the (low voltage) wire between the coil and the distributor.

It could be a failing ignition switch.  When it fires and quits, leave the
key on, then see if other things that should only work with the key on still
work.  If they don't, I would suspect the ignition switch.

Maybe something else on the ignition circuit is dragging it down?  You might
temporarily disconnect the reverse light wire at the ignition coil, as well
as the wires from the coil to the central test socket if they're still
hooked up.  Drive around and if the problem is gone, you probably have an
intermittent short to ground in one of the circuits you disconnected.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds
