From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 7 Mar 2005 10:36:09 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] need for freeway flyer?

In a message dated 3/6/2005 7:55:06 P.M. Pacific Standard Time,  
slojason(-at-)charter.net writes:  >>> Does that  mean installing a tach and driving or is 
there some other way
(simpler) to  check it?  <<




Hi Slojason,
Yes, buy, or borrow a tach.  Run a wire out the back hatch and into  the 
engine compartment to the #1 (neg.) terminal on the coil that the  points are 
connected to.  Hook up power and ground wire from the dash area  and the coil wire 
you just ran to the tach.  Set the switch on the tack for  4 cylinder, or if 
no switch and tach is for an 8 cylinder, double the dial  reading.  In other 
words for a tach meant for a 8 cylinder  engine 750 is actually 1,500 RPM, and 
1,500 is actually 3,000  RPM.  Get a passenger to hold the tach, and with 
pen/pencil and paper write  down the RPMs.  Try to not speed up too fast and hold 
the RPM/MPH for 10 or  so seconds to make sure it is stable.
  Good idea to install oil temp and pressure gauges permanently to  keep 
track of your engine.  Tach is only needed for short time to see RPMs  (-at-) MPH and 
write them down, unless one is deaf or RPMing the engine at the light  for drag 
racing.
  When we towed home the 1960 walk thru panel camper conversion  in 1991, the 
DPO had put the engine was in the cargo bay with a connecting  rod sticking 
out the top of the engine case.  We built a big bore 40 HP  engine for it and 
when we took it out on the highway we could not get the bus to  go above 45 MPH 
in fourth gear.  Even though it did not sound to us like  the engine was over 
RPMing (Eric in a type 1 can hear if the engine is going  over 3,000 RPM), 
but we tried a tach to see what was going on.  Turned out  4th gear hit 3,000 
RPM (-at-) 35 MPH!!  Figured out that to do just 55 MPH,  which back then was the 
national speed limit the DPO had to be doing about 5,000  RPM.  No wonder the alum
inum piston was heated so much that it swelled in  size much faster in 
diameter than the cast iron cylinder.  So the  piston seized inside the cylinder, 
the piston wrist pin sheared due to  the mass of the rest of the moving parts in 
the engine, and the connecting rod  suddenly let loose shoved up through the 
top of the engine case. 
  In the many years we have been into VWs, we have seen way too many  engine 
cases with rod damage through the top of the engine case.  So for us  "floor 
it and ignore it" is not an option.  Yes, there are going to be  fluke engines, 
but most of those are going to be due to special driving  conditions.  Heck, 
we know of one instance where a little old lady  only drove in town and after 
30,000 original miles on her bug decided to drive  on the highway to visit a 
friend.  Engine nuked, and turned out the  doghouse cooler stand was not 
drilled through at the factory.  So in other  words we know one can drive without a 
working oil cooler for 30,000 miles!
Eric&Barb
