Date: Tue, 8 Mar 2005 13:52:36 -0800 (PST)
From: Matthew Henricks <mjhenks(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: bennettc1(-at-)msn.com
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: Barndoor Bus Hitch

Charles.

There are two different genuine barn door tow hitch
designs out there that i have seen.  This is what to
look for.

Basic design will look exactly like a pre 63 westy
hitch.  It will have the wider legs going back to the
torsion bars and will not have a bar bridging the two
arms together.  Both have the solid one piece curved
ball going up around the bumper.

The front bumper mount will have a curved piece that
has the same profile as a pressed bumper.  It goes up
behind the bumper and is secured by one bolt.  (Yes,
you have to drill a hole in the face of your bumper)
Later units have a shallow "V" bar that mounts to the
bottom of a post 58 bumper.  (Again you have to drill
holes, but two of them for this one)  The hitch i have
has both of these for some reason)

The outriggers are mounted the same but are not curvy
like the later ones.  They are straight with a small
bump in them to clear the exhaust and take a more
direct approach to the bumper area.  The later ones
swoop well under the heater boxes.  Both mount to the
bumper area the same.

The difference between the two i know of is the tranny
mount.  One style has a "U" clamp system that us
welded to the torsion tube legs that clamps around the
round tranny mount arms.  There is a separate "U"
clamp that goes over the top of the tranny tube and
clamps the hitch.  One on both sides.  The alternate
style has a bar that is permanently welded to the
bottom of the tranny tube and has tabs on the hitch
that mounts to this bar.  Later units have a "L" type
bracket that mounts to the later style tranny mount.

Both of these have a narrower westfalia tag on them
that is similar to the tag found on a westy roof rack.
 It is also brass looking.  Later ones are metal and
about 1" wide.  They are very different.

That is the basic difference.  If you need more info,
email me.  I can send you pictures of the one i have. 
Mine was made around 1961.  The other i have seen i
can not remember the date it was made.  Seams to me
that neither were made in the barn door era and were
probably made after the later styles came about and
owners of BD buses wanted hitches for there bus as
well.  That is speculation though.

BTW.  There is a unit on the Samba that is being
advertised as a westy.  It may very well fit a BD bus
but looks totally different to the real deal.  It more
resembles the later westy hitch that has the narrow
arms back to the torsion tube.

Hope that helped.  Feel free to email me with other
questions.

BTW.  Didn't i make you a electrical hook up plate for
a westy hitch for you?  Seams like we have emailed
about hitches befor.

Matthew
