From: "Troy Wical" <troy(-at-)wicals.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 16 Sep 2002 09:59:44 -0400
Subject: Troy's engine runs again...sort of      (long)

------=_NextPart_000_0007_01C25D67.D154DE90
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset="US-ASCII"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

The engine runs again...but it won't idle.  Doc Ric and Mad Uncle Dave
came over and helped me out today to try and get the engine running.  We
started with the distributor and replaced it with a 009 that Doc Ric
had.  After putting that in and messing with it for a little while
without progress, we took it out and looked at the drive shaft again and
made sure that it was pointing in the right direction while #1 was at
TDC. It was.  We are pretty sure that we found out what was wrong with
my dist.  The bracket holding it from rotating it was slightly bent.  So
when it got tightened down to the crankcase, it pulled the dist end up a
little.  Just enough to cause it to disengage at random.  Now its in
good.  Checked spark and we agreed that the spark was not very good.
Since a coil was not too expensive, we ran out to FLAPS and got a coil.
No change in the quality of the spark though and no change as far as
getting the engine running.  The cap and rotor had been replaced and the
resistance on them checked out fine.  So now we were getting spark to
the plugs, compression to the cylinders.  Next is fuel.  So we checked
the fuel again.  Pressure the night before had been 35psi so I had
pretty much tossed fuel aside as being the culprit.  But just for the
heck of it, we took the injectors off the left side to make sure that
they were spraying.  No spray though.  Huh?  I had spray just a day ago
when I checked though.  So.I had a new fuel filter on the side so we
decided to replace it, get some fuel in a glass jar to check, and check
the old filter for deposits and make sure there was no water in the gas.
Seems I need to clean my tank as there were some metal deposits in the
filter, but nothing bad enough to keep the engine from running.  There
was also no water in the gas.  We messed with the flap on the afc while
cranking and the injectors started to spray.  Right then, if you pushed
the flap in slightly to simulate air flow (hense sending current to the
fuel pump through the double relay,) the engine would start and then
die.  If you start it and keep the throttle going, you can keep the
engine going. However.it will not idle.  There is about 2 seconds of
time before the engine starts to die.  During this time the vacuum is
about 17.  I have not yet checked fuel pressure while the engine is
actually running, but I suspect that from a couple bad backfires through
the intake system, the afm components may have gotten messed up.
Currently there are no vacuum hoses out of place or so loose that the
lack of vacuum would cause the engine to die.  Reading through the
archives, it seems I need to check the afm components.  Maybe the arm
attached to the flap in the afm has been altered and is not triggering
the fuel pump with the slight flap-movement that occurs during cranking?
Am I heading in the right direction?  
Thanks to all who have replied and to Doc Ric and Mad Uncle Dave for
coming over yesterday.  Hopefully this engine will be running soon.
 
Troy Wical
 <http://www.wicals.com> www.wicals.com
'78 Transporter
Nebo, NC
 

------=_NextPart_000_0007_01C25D67.D154DE90--

