Date: Mon, 16 Sep 2002 13:36:45 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Eric Shook <eric(-at-)scurvymonkey.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] "New" Bus with a few Questions



On Mon, 16 Sep 2002, Eric Shook wrote:

> I just got a '71 Camper.  I need to go through everything to make sure
it's all good.  I especial want to redo all of the gas lines.  Here's the questions:
>
> 1. How many feet of hose will I need and how many clamps?

3 or 4 will be plenty, allowing you to make a couple of mistakes.

> 2. Would it be easier to pull the engine to get it all, or can it be
done without?  I haven't pulled an engine yet, so this would greatly
increase the complexity, but I want to do the best job I can.

Pulling the engine won't make it markedly easier, but it won't hurt
either.  It does allow you to inspect the critical metal fuel line where
it goes through the tin.

You have three pieces of line to replace.  From the tank outlet to the
metal line under the bus, from the metal line to the fuel pump, and
from the fuel pump to the carburator.

If the nipple comes out of the carb or the fuel pump don't just push it
back in!  Clean the nipple and carb (Clean Clean!) with carb cleaner.
rough up the surface of the nipple by rolling it with a file (don't remove
material).  Apply a coating of JB-Weld (fuel proof epoxy) to the nipple
and tap it into place.  Allow a full day for the jb-weld to cure.

Use clamps on all connections even if they didn't have one before.

Use correct metric size line.  If you can get metric line from your FLAPS
it will be better than the VW line in the wierd fuels we have in the US.

It's easier to work with a nearly-empty tank, but gas will spill no matter
what you do.  Extinguish all smoking materials!  You might want to remove
the big nut at the tank outlet, pull the finger screen, and clean it.
Before you replace the scren, put a bucket under the tank outlet and pour
a quart of gas into the tank to flush out the nastys.

Have pencils or golf tees handy to plug the lines when they are disconnected.

Have fun!

George

