Date: Mon, 16 Sep 2002 15:18:06 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Access Systems <accessys(-at-)smart.net>, Steve Pribyl <steve(-at-)unliketea.com>
Cc: VW Type II Mailing List <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Restoration Info/Help(longish)


>I have always felt that this is such a huge project that most folks (not
>all) get bored with it long before it is finished, and then there sits a
>half finished bus that rusts away or hauled away

Or life gets in the way. We started out to fix the rust under the 
windshield gasket about 4 years ago. That progressed into the rear window, 
and then the whole dang bus.

We stripped it out, painted it, moved 3 times, had a baby, my wife went 
back to school, and presently we're both working and going to school at the 
same time. Along the way we bought a house and our bus continues to reside 
in the car port.

Partly financial limitations, partly procrastination, partly that there 
just isn't enough hours in the day.

Do it in stages. Save up the money to have it professionally painted. I 
prefer to paint for myself but it requires ALOT more time - which do you 
have time or money? I always have more time than money! <VBG>

Have the cash on hand, have all the new seals on hand, and deliver it to 
them stripped out enough to be painted. Return home and replace removed 
items, reinstall glass. In a few short weekends you should be mobile again 
and you can start driving it again.

We're down to some misc wiring, rear axles and rear brakes install, and 
adjusting one of the rear wheel bearings (loose). Then we will have to get 
it registered again and we will finally have a 2nd car again.

Interior wise we'll have a (re)finished dash and all else will be out or 
old. I plan to R&R those seatbelts ASAP after I replace all of the fuel 
lines. Then comes upholstery which we are doing ourselves once we locate a 
fabric we like.

Go for it but be sure that you've got a cold/wet weather place to work b/c 
you may find yourself really tired of the weather very quick. I've got 
access to my grandparents' garage once it is mobile enough to drive around 
the neighborhood.




Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


