Date: Mon, 16 Sep 2002 22:54:58 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: danielbnelson(-at-)hotmail.com
From: "Daniel Curran" <daniel_curran(-at-)tys.on.ca>
Subject: re: removing engine for first time...please help

I'm following the Bentley procedure to remove the engine out of my 71
Westy 
to replace the heads with rebuilt ones. I've done the procedure except for 
the removing the bolts and dropping the engine.

Daniel - I removed my '71 engine for the 1st time about two months ago. It
was surprisingly not all that hard, but having a couple of people that had
done it before REALLY helped. It sounds like you've disconnected the
appropriate electrics (Muir has you disconnect everything from the coil -
you only need to take off the wires that go to the voltage regulator and
the gas heater, if you have one...you'll see them. Everything else is
intrinsic to the engine as a whole, and comes out when you pull it). 


I don't understand when the Bentley says the upper bolt on the right, what 
is it talking about.

Bentley seemed to say that in the '71, there are only 3 engine mounting
bolts. I had four. Go figure. The two that bolt to the bellhousing are
obvious. The "upper right" mounting bolt is the one that passes through
the starter mounting flange. On my bus it was a D shaped head. If you
crane your neck way into the engine compartment, you should be able to see
the nut end of that bolt on the right hand side. The upper-left engine
mounting bolt should thread into a tapped hole and you don't need to get a
wrench on the other side to loosen it. Just loosen it from underneath the
bus. They're hard to get to - feel only. 

All I see is the thingy (don't know the name) that supports the heat 
exchangers, is that all thats supporting the engine??

I assume here that you're talking about the moustache engine hanger-bar
that supports the engine. Basically that's all that's supporting it, as
far as I can tell. Make sure you support the tranny so it doesn't drop
when you pull the engine back. 

I disconnected the accelerator cable with by loosening the 8mm nut but it 
seems that it will catch on the fanshroud?

It should just pull right through the accelerator cable guide tube that
runs through the fanshroud and out past the rear tin and under the bus. It
may catch, but no big deal. 

Also like i pulled the fuel line but it doesn't really bend out of the way 
with the engine in, is that something you bend out of the way after you
roll 
the engine back a tad.

You have to disconnect the cloth/rubber fuel line (if you DON'T have
proper metric cloth line, REPLACE AND CLAMP THE WHOLE DAMN BUSINESS WHEN
YOU HAVE THE ENGINE OUT. DO NOT USE 1/4" RUBBER FUEL LINE. PLEASE PLEASE
PLEASE. GET THE PROPER BRAIDED CLOTH METRIC-SIZED LINE). Disconnect the
fuel hose that attaches to the copper fuel tube that you see in the engine
compartment, but disconnect it from underneath the bus in front of the
engine tin. Then when you pull the engine, the metal fuel line will pull
out still attached to the fuel pump, etc. as one unit. Check and MAKE SURE
the rubber grommet is secure and solid in the hole where the metal fuel
line passes through the rear tin. This is a great time to make sure all
your engine compartment seals are in good shape and seal properly. Replace
them if they're not.

Take your time, put the radio on, have fun, and be patient when you try to
get it back in. It will line up, but sometimes it takes a bit of doing.
Rotate the engine by turning the generator pulley to get the splines to
line up and push! 

Have fun replacing the heads! 

dc

