Date: Tue, 17 Sep 2002 09:50:07 -0400
From: "John Baker"<jbakerccymca(-at-)springmail.com>
To: daniel nelson <danielbnelson(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] removing engine for first time...please help

On Mon, 16 Sep 2002 19:14:06 -0500 daniel nelson <danielbnelson(-at-)hotmail.com>
wrote:
>>I'm following the Bentley procedure to remove the engine out of my 71 Westy 
to replace the heads with rebuilt ones. I've done the procedure except for 
the removing the bolts and dropping the engine.
I don't understand when the Bentley says the upper bolt on the right, what 
is it talking about.
I disconnected the accelerator cable with by loosening the 8mm nut but it 
seems that it will catch on the fanshroud?<<

daniel,
the upper mounting bolt on the right is also the same bolt which holds the
starter to the tranny bell housing. It goes through from the starter side into
the engine compartment.  You will need to reach around your engine (read "big
hug!") and find nut attached to this bolt, should be a 17mm, although I have
found a few on bugs which were 15mm?  Unless a previous owner has changed this
bolt, it will have a "D" shaped head on the starter side that holds it still
against the body of the starter so you can simply screw off the nut on the
engine compartment side without the whole bolt turning around.  Finding and
turning off this nut is usually a big PITA but get down there, hug your
engine, get a wrench on it and push, pull, grunt, etc until it turns off.
(Removing the air cleaner assembly first gives you a little more room to work)
Also, don't worry about the accelerator cable, it will slide through the hole
in the fan housing without hanging up, just be careful when you re-install the
engine not to bind the cable up or even forget to get it started through the
hole in the fan shroud, thus causing you to have to re-remove the engine (ASk
me why I know this!)
As for the fuel line, just disconnect it at the junction of the fuel pump,
then you can work it through the engine tin as you pull the engine out
backwards.
I know engine R&R can be a little intimidating at first, but once yo conquer
it, it's a piece of cake.  It does help to have someone who has done it before
help with your first attempt, but after that, it's no problem!  Good luck!



Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1966 Kombi
1985 Cabrio
http://www.geocities.com/jbakerccymca
"...so we got in the red VW microbus with the shovels and rakes and implements of destruction and
headed on to the police officer's station..."
