Date: Wed, 7 Nov 2001 12:26:15 -0800 (PST)
From: Nicholas Palmer <nicholas(-at-)slackers.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Repairs done and to do

Hey Volks!

'77 2.0 FI, all stock.

I am trying to get the bus ready for some serious road trippin' for the
holidays. This weekend I replaced the front break pads and rotors, with
new Pagid pads and new rotors from the Bus Depot (Thanks Ron!). It really
made a difference, however I am still getting a mild squeel from the front
when I break. Any suggestions on how to get rid of this?

Also, one of the bolts that holds the rotors on (8 x 1.25 #6 alen head)
was rusted in so much that I managed to strip the head trying to turn it
out. (Never stripped an alen before!) Off to the hardware store for an
easy out and a replacement. (My first time using an eazy out, and it
worked like a charm!) The only thing they had that had a compatible thread
and a small enough head has an SAE hex head, and is rounded instead of
flat on the top. It works fine, but it feels wrong to me to have it on
there (not to mention it is anther tool I have to lug around). I would
like to get the right bolt. Any sources for this type of bolt.

Finally, I am trying to get my battery isolator (which has been
hooked up wrong since I got the bus) hooked up properly. It is
one of the ones with an R port for connecting to the regulator, so that
the regulator knows about the 1 volt drop across the diode, and ups the
output. 

I am not sure which connection on the voltage regulator to connect to
this terminal. The documents over at sure power's site have the
connections for the earlier bosch alternator with attached regulator,
which has you tear the regulator off, and then solder a wire onto it. If
there where just one connection on the regulator I would know what to do,
but there are three. Anybody know the right way to hook one of these up?

Also, what is the maximum safe voltage for a FI bus like mine. Mine
usually stays right at 14.3 volts, but while I was trying to figure out
the wiring this weekend, I had it wired up at one point in time so the
alternator was putting out 15.5 volts. Is this high enough to damage
anything?

Thanks list! You all have been so helpfull in the past. I have learned so 
much about these fine automobiles from you.

-Nick

