From: toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 11 Nov 2008 18:53:18 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] Going Down to VW HQ to Throw a Rock Through The Office

I don't know... do you guys think people today don't think the VW Bus is cool? I have a 73, so it's obviously not a Splittie, but do remember that not all Hippies were poor, and on August 15th of 1969, there were already two full years of type-2 VW Busses that were selling already. I've got a laserdisc of the entire Jimmy Hendrix performance at Woodstock (the entire thing recorded in stereo 8 feet in front of his face). Through the entire prelude video, I actually see more type-2s than I do splitties.

Anyway, that said, people still do associate the type-2 VW Bus with hippies and woodstock. There is also the association of the VW Bus being a beach vehicle (in a way, surpasing the Woody GMCs from the 50s). At least, that's the case here in South Florida, and for the most part, I would assume on the west coast.

Here in Florida, most everyone I drive by gets really excited, they either wave, honk or give me the peace sign. I'm 30 years old, a computer programmer, and a Republican, so I'm not really what one would consider a hippie... so stuff like that, it doesn't insult me at all, I think it's great (although, when my wife isn't looking, I tape my Nixon / Agnew sticker in my back window). My wife is my total polar opposite, total hippie, Democrat, and only drives Volkswagens. I actually bought it for her (since I'm really a Pontiac guy, but she has a hard time getting it into second). 

Anyway, I don't think for a minute that most people do not think the VW Bus is cool anymore. Everyone seems to like it. About the only people who seem to get annoyed are overweight middle-aged white women driving crappy compact, ill maintained cars like a late 90s Hyundai or Kia or something like that. They usually just get pissed because I'm not accelerating fast enough, and they zip around me.


But, to bring my ramble full-circle... I think VW consistently tries to redefine themselves. I guess they feel for some reason that the car culture holds them back and prevents them from being considered a major competitor. I'm sure after some major marketing research, they determined that the hippie image was bad, and that no one would buy it if it was at all associated with it. But, they're wrong... it's these constant cultures that the company creates (not in spite of their marketing) that has kept them going... whether they realize it or not.


Todd,
2006 Pontiac Solstice
2004 VW Beetle Convt. (Wife's)
2002 Ford Crown Victoria LX-P74
1987 Pontiac Fiero SE / V6
1981 Miami Dolphins EZ-GO Medical Cart
1973 Volkswagen Type-2 Transporter
1973 Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme 455 



> Date: Tue, 11 Nov 2008 08:35:02 -0500 
> From: Shad 
> Subject: Re: [T2] Going Down to VW HQ to Throw a Rock Through The Office 
> Window 

> The old hippies aren't pining for their lost youth. They aren't 
> depressed about their bus no longer being "cool". 
