Date: Wed, 12 Nov 2008 10:42:35 -0600
From: Chris <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: Type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Going Down to VW HQ to Throw a Rock Through The Office

> I actually saw one of
> those things on the street today.  Before my brain clicked into gear my
> thought was "Wow, someone stuck VW badges on their Town and
> Country."
>
> VWoA, I didn't think you could sink that low.
I spent the weekend riding in the middle seat of an eight year old Town 
and Country with 224K miles on it and AWD. We went across three states. 
It wasn't that bad to my surprise. It's just a big people carrier. Was 
surprised with all the jokes about cup holders that it only had four. 
Two up front, two in the rear most seat and none for the middle seat. 
Heck my 9 yr old CR-V has four.

I didn't like it as much as the Eurovans, Vanagons or Transporters I 
have ridden in taking into account their age and how they measured up to 
the competition when they were new. In other words I won't compare a 
current Honda Odyssey to our 70s VW Westfalia. Wasn't quirky enough for 
me but it did a good job doing what it was supposed to and was naturally 
pretty bland like stuff is these days - designed to appeal a little to 
the maximum number of people.

I don't have a big problem with the new Routan except that name. I'm 
getting better with it but I keep visualizing a wicker chair for some 
reason. I don't understand why American marketing types feel like they 
need to change the names on everything. Eurovan or Transporter or even 
Vanagon would have been perfectly good with me. MUCH better than 
something convoluted like Routan. HOWEVER the name is there - don't 
change it! Ford had the Ford 500 and then decided it needed to be called 
the Ford Taurus. Dumb. Which is it - a 500 or Taurus?

I don't understand is why automakers don't embrace their customers 
better. They often find themselves with an enthusiastic following 
whether it be Saturns or VWs or Subbieroos. GM basically turned their 
backs on their customer base. They did not listen to their customers and 
starved their product lines in favor of high margin vehicles. Sure 
that's great but not all of us want a $40K SUV that gets 17 mpg. Some of 
us want a Civic/Rabbit/Mini/Astra type vehicle. Volkswagen did the same 
rushing up market to capture sales from Mercedes and BMW. Didn't they 
already have Audi for that? Instead of forgetting who your customer is 
why not embrace their enthusiasm and keep building cars these customers 
want? Honda has done a fairly good job. As their customers got old they 
kept updating the Accord and growing it a little. Now if you want a 
midsized smallish car you buy a Civic - a formerly tiny car. If you want 
a small car you have to buy a Fit (I prefer Honda Jazz).

Instead of making fun of your customers - why not say hey - remember 
those old vans we used to make? They were fun and pretty good for the 
times. Remember all the places we went with them? Remember moving to 
college in the Transporter? Remember the trip out west? Remember 
building the garage and carrying so much of the materials home in the 
Eurovan? Remember going to Germany for vacation and seeing Eurovans 
EVERYWHERE? Well here is the new one and we're going to have just as 
much fun with it too. Let's hitch up the poptop camper and head off to 
the Ozarks. Let's gather up a full load of friends and go to the Corn 
Maze. Let's go do some Christmas shopping and bring home a pile of 
goodies. Let's put our skis on the VW supplied ski-rack and go snow 
skiing (insert shot of a full load of friends going up a snowy road to 
the ski slopes). How about three of these minivans hauling a load of 
people and their bicycles to an afternoon of mtn biking?

If I was a VW dealer I would have a good relationship with a local VW 
club so I could borrow a vintage VW to keep in the showroom. Give 'em a 
free detailing. Rotate them monthly. Trade some mechanic time for the 
vintage vehicle time. Instead of concentrating on the TYPE OF PERSON you 
are hoping to attract (at the risk of repelling other customers) I would 
concentrate on the places you can go with your VW and the things you 
could do with a VW - from ordinary to extraordinary. I would bring 
reference to some of the extraordinary things folks have done with their 
vintage VWs over the past 30 years  and use pictures and "diary entries" 
in their advertising. Even if some of the pictures had to be staged. 
Look, here is a caravan of VW enthusiasts traveling from Seattle to the 
top of Alaska in 30 year old VWs. Cross country. South Africa to Europe. 
This guy has had his VW for 35 years and still uses it regularly. This 
one lasted 1M miles. This one was brought back from the dead by this 
fellow and his son. See - it was a crusty mess 3 years ago and now it is 
nearly like new.

Make a 6ft tall cardboard thing that has a bunch of pictures on it with 
a map, some fake handwritten diary entries, and so on. Combine the 
things people do with VWs. Quit the endless hippie references - positive 
and negative. Somebody is going to feel alienated.

Bring back the VW's are international stuff. See - they rally race them 
in the rest of the world (WRC). They race them in the Dakar Rally. They 
have offroad challenges.

These are not expensive advertising campaigns. These are posters, 
brochures, and cardboard standups for the dealer's floor. These are 
badges the customers can buy and attach to their VW products. These are 
T-shirts the customer can buy. If all goes well they could make a DVD 
each year and give them away with new cars and sell them to the rest of 
us. Stuff that shows rally races or challenges (see Camel Trophy stuff). 
These things go on anyhow. All they have to do is show it to us through 
sponsorships or pictures.

It's unfortunately that the modern corporations pander to their stock 
holders more than their customers...

For the record I'm not a hippie either. Politics right down the middle, 
think America could be a better place if we tried a little harder and 
used our brains more often. Went long haired for a year or two after six 
years in the military but that was an effort to undo the changes the 
Navy put on me. <griN!> My kids, wife and the dog all like our VWs. The 
extended family not so much. They are more about NASCAR, football, and 
being as all-American as they can be - whatever that means.

Whew - I think my soapbox overheated...

Ciao!
Chris in Cookeville, TN
'78 Westfalia + Corvair implant
'65 Beetle 2.0L Type IV
