From: toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net
Date: Wed, 12 Nov 2008 21:40:45 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] Going Down to VW HQ to Throw a Rock Through The Office

My wife has a New Beetle, she bought it in 2004. It was actually sold to us directly from Volkswagen of America corporation (and not through a dealer). The reason is, she had just bought a 2002 Volkswagen Jetta 1.8T with the Sport Package. It was the 180hp version of the 1.8T. It was an excellent car... when it ran. It was in the shop 23 times in less than two years. To be completely honest, the entire last year of owning the car, my wife drove random rental cars (from the dealership). So VW bought it back full price and gave her a significant discount on a New Beetle (which has generally been a good car).

The dealership we go to for warranty stuff (or did for that matter) was Gunther Volkswagen. It's probably one of the better dealerships. I can't fault the dealership for the crappy cars. Their service center is always packed with the "mid 2000" year cars that are constantly breaking down. 

In their showroom, though, they do have a MINT condition Splittie VW Bus, and a mint condition, totally loaded (with roof rack) Volkswagen Beetle (Early 70s I guess?).

They've been in there for a year or so already... 


I think the hands-off approach of the older VWs has more to do with VW management than it does the dealership.

I DO think Volkswagen had a real opportunity in 2000-2004. The Volkswagen Jetta that was being sold then was a VERY high quality car... well.. at least it appeared so. I think it was a very well designed vehicle. It looked good, it drove VERY nice (suspension is awesome... tight, but almost as comfortable as my Crown Victoria). It genuinely feels like a much MUCH more expensive car than it really is. It's just got so many damned problems. 

Those Jettas sold like crazy to young college kids.  They were very unreliable, so hopefully it hasn't tarnished the brand for them?


I think Volkswagen's marketing department is really stuck in a position where it constantly tries to re-define itself, but at the same time trying to maintain it's existing customer base.

A lot of people believed (prior to 2000) that most VW owners were dirty hippies with long hair, or Macintosh users (since nearly every VW Jetta hatchback you saw had an Apple sticker on the back window.  I think they tried desperately to seperate themselves from that image, in hopes they could redefine the company. 

All I can say is, they aren't currently doing a good job... I think they should look at what has made them successful, WHY people bought their cars to begin with, and maintain that, but allow themselves to expand. People bought VWs in the beginning, not because they KNEW it was going to be a beach car, or that peace and love would be popular, it was because it was cheap, easy to fix, and easy to maintain. NONE of those apply to my wife's VW Beetle. The oil drain plug is located just above an "X" brace. When I remove the oil plug, it dumps oil all over this brace and it funnels it out through the two front control arms onto my driveway.

It's also nearly impossible to get the oil filter out.




------------------------------------------------
Date: Wed, 12 Nov 2008 09:26:00 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Going Down to VW HQ to Throw a Rock Through The Office
  Window

Hey Rennie,

Chris' rant was good.

If I was driving by a VW dealer and saw a nice old  bug, bus or squareback 
up on a pedestal out front with a large sign that said something like:
If you like our vintage vehicles, you will Love our New Ones! Come on in for 
a test drive!
I might actually stop in for a look. What more does a good salesman need? (a 
sale of course).

Chris
with the 64DD 
