Date: Wed, 12 Nov 2008 16:51:17 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: Re: VW, rocks and windows

>Brought the car back days later when she realized it had
>crank up windows.


oooh - gonna have to get an aveo i guess ... i LIKE crank winders. 
can't stand power this and that. hard to find cars without the lil' 
buttons.

we recently bought a new (used) car; the wife wanted a tiguan because 
'it was cute.'  just like upstream poster said!  i told new car 
dealer i was not spending 42K on a tub that got 18mpg and had no more 
luggage space than a jetta wagon.  would TAKE a jetta wagon if it was 
a diesel, tho.  looked at the croutan, and decided if i wanted a 
chrysler i'd BUY a chrysler... tho my kids loved it.

no diesel wagons.  none for MONTHS.  dealer was honest, and said 
tiguan would be wrong car for us (and how).  oddly, i had mentioned 
if i was only  getting 18mpg in a car, and i could afford one, i 
might as well buy a touareg and drive it up in the cascades, and out 
in the AZ deserts - where the touareg is actually a great performer.

he had one on the lot. his. we got it for a song and 1K down.   i'm 
sure they were happy to get it gone, as they couldn't budge the 
others they had recently... took them all to auction!  the dealer 
himself had sold his to the lot  due to 1) gas hog and 2) getting a 
routan due to expanding family.


the best part of the saga: the salesman had to give us a lift home 
from the dealership (my bus was inoperative while i waited for some 
carb parts), and went NUTS over the complete rustheap that is the 70, 
in all its multi-colored-panel glory.  swore he'd rather have one 
over the routan.   seemed sincere, but who knows. he knew very little 
about air-cooled vws at all.

ps - while buying a gashog like the touareg seems nuts these days, we 
don't commute. i drive less than 50 miles a month unless i make a 
long trip that the bus just isn't up to (rather, the aluminum POS 
engine in it isn't up to).  and come spring i intend to put its 
offroad capabilities to the test - any oregoners have suggestions for 
good destinations?

-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
