Date: Fri, 14 Nov 2008 10:44:01 -0600
From: Chris <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Meanwhile in Brazil, El Kombi!

George Lyle wrote:
> Those are the agencies that, if they had their way, would crush our buses!
> The EPA and DOT are far from our friends.

China is aligning their safety and emissions rules with Europe's. The 
USA ought to do the same so that there could be easier trade of products 
between their world divisions....

...except they probably don't want easier trade b/c that also allows 
Fiat and Renault among others to bring new products to America. The 
unions and the parts suppliers prob don't wan to compete with car parts 
made overseas either. It prob justifies all of the different divisions 
of Ford and GM as well.

The Detroit debacle is a big one. So will the tax bill if the gov't 
bails them out. Their market share is declining and Detroit won't/can't 
adjust. They seem to want to continue on just the way they have for the 
past 100 years - stomp out the competition by keeping imports out of our 
markets through FUD and gov't legislation via lobbyists. They use 
tariffs (and so do other countries) and arcane rules administered 
through gov't agencies. I am certain that Europe's rules are as tough or 
tougher than the USA standards for vehicle safety and prob only 
marginally different from our pollution standards as well.

Well I guess as a good American I ought to go buy some high margin 
domestic vehicle (read low mileage SUV or truck) but I can't bring 
myself to do it. Gasoline is cheap now but there is nothing that says it 
won't spike again next year for any number of reasons - real and 
originating in greed. I also can't bring myself to buy a big SUV low on 
interior space when i could buy something like a vintage VW or Eurovan 
which offers MUCH more utility in a better package. Sure I can't tow a 
houseboat but then again I don't need to. Neither do many of the SUV 
buyers.

We American consumers are a tough bunch to sell vehicles to. We follow 
fads, are sensitive to market pressures, long steeped in the idea that 
it is our right as Americans to consume, consume, consume. And we like 
to buy cheap stuff made elsewhere. Funny things I'm say when we consider 
that I have an 18 mpg import vehicle in my garage. Still I think vintage 
vehicles are far different from daily drivers which actually affect the 
environment and the economy.

You probably know what I'm going to say next but then I like to hear 
myself say it... Remember you can press delete at anytime while reading 
this rant.. <griN!>

I see several major changes that we need to embrace: our corporations 
need to learn to right-size themselves without putting our economy into 
a tailspin, our corporations and consumers alike need to understand that 
offshoring our manufacturing can only be a short term solution because 
people without jobs can't buy your stuff and neither can people who make 
retail clerk's wages. We've got to keep folks employed at reasonable 
wages so they can buy stuff if our economy is going to built on consumption.

Next consumption needs to be considered. Can we continue to consume at 
this rate generation after generation? We are ever more efficient at 
harvesting the earth's resources and ever more efficient at consuming 
them too. That keeps the price down but the consumption levels climb 
year after year. Isn't there a point where even goods produced cleanly 
will cause dangerous levels of pollution? Think of the modern cars. Cars 
got alot cleaner but there are so many now that pollution can still be a 
problem. I'd rather conserve than see mountain tops around here removed 
to get at the coal. We're hoping to go solar soon as our budget allows.

We need to look at sustainable consumption patterns and producing 
quality items that don't have to be replaced so often. Stuff that is so 
cheaply made that it needs to be replaced often or can't be repaired. 
How about a 300K mile vehicle that can easily be upgraded or repaired 
instead of the current lot which is usually trashed at 150K miles b/c 
it's owners won't take better care of it (previous owner syndrome - we 
know it well here at Type2 don't we?). Saturn could have been this car 
company with it's easily replaced body panels but GM didn't market them 
the right way. They didn't want us to keep the old car, they wanted us 
to buy a new one... Not picking on GM here b/c most car companies are 
like that once they are a big company.

Lastly places like China and India want the same lifestyle and stuff we 
have. Can that be done? Can every family consume 1200 gallons of 
gasoline, buy new cars every few years, live in big standalone houses 
and eat stuff grown half a world away? I don't know but my gut says it 
would be tough.

Obviously some big changes are coming our way and we are starting to 
make our lifestyle more efficient to accomodate these changes. We'll 
still get out the old bus anytime we want but our daily habits are 
getting more lean. Working to payoff the mortgage in case there is 
another big financial depression - we can heat with wood, light by 
candle but nobody will be able to take the roof over our heads. The 
vintage VW might be the perfect vehicle if the eocnomy goes into long 
term decline b/c it can be used for a myriad of uses and can be kept 
moving for decades.

Well my soapbox's low oil pressure light just started blinking a little 
so I'll step down and let it cool off.

Chris in Cookeville, TN
