From: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: "courtney hook" <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 17 Nov 2008 16:24:11 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Starter connections on my 77 Westy

---- Original Message ----- 
From: "courtney hook" <


> Now THAT'S the kind of answer I like, right down to the minute details.
Thanks Jamie! Will be all over this after I finish writing 29 report cards
out for my students!! I like your idea of the remote starter switch too, but
I assume I'd have the key turned on till the idiot lights light up on the
dash in order to start the van with this? Appreciate the help!
> Courtney
>
>

 well,, I used to tell people to STOP putting them infernal hard start
relays in... I thought they were just a curse..  but with the help of this
list I found that they may be a help .

the perfect hard start relay would use NO current thru the ignition key
switch.. and only conduct in one way to prevent the counterEMF spike that
can ruin a ign switch.
I would have though that some EE would have created a cmos switch or
something for $5 .. instead of the 3X the price bosch relay..   even
myself.. lol
I just never got the idea on to the test bench.

From: "Paul A" <bigguy91_at_hotmail_dot_com>
Starter Maintenance
	It wasn't long after my wife and I started driving VW buses that I realized
the starter is a problem area.  I, like so many others, was carrying a small
hammer and short but thick jumper for when the starter would not turn over
with a twist of the key.  Since banging and jumping the starter would revive
it, I was convinced that there really wasn't anything wrong with it that
couldn't be prevented.  Now I perform a yearly starter system maintenance
routine that lets me prevent problems instead of just fixing them.  The
benefit of this is that I get to deal with this on my terms; you know,
during good weather, at a reasonable time of day, and in my own driveway
	Since there are different starters for different buses, I'll just give you
the basics of what I do and then let you apply it to your own situation.
Consult the Bentley manual for specific tests, and information about the
various starters and of course follow all precautions for working on the
electrical system.  First is to disconnect and remove the battery.  As
always, disconnect the negative lead first and then the positive.  Once the
battery is out I check it for cleanliness, condition and proper water level.
  I like to use a battery brush to clean the terminals on both the battery
and battery leads.  Now is also a good time to check your battery tray for
condition.  Next disconnect and remove the starter.  If necessary, first
mark the wires so that you will get them back on the proper terminals.
Clean the terminal ends of all the wires disconnected from the starter until
they are shiny and clean.  Take the starter to a work bench or someplace
else clean, where you can work on it.  Disconnect the heavy lead that
connects the starter to the solenoid, and clean the end of it.  Next clean
all of the terminals on the solenoid until they are shiny and clean.  I like
to use a small brass wire brush for this.  Now remove the solenoid and check
the plunger for condition and ease of movement.  You should be able to push
it in and have it spring back out smoothly.  I wipe the plunger down with a
little light weight oil like WD-40 or LPS 1.  With the plunger pushed all
the way in, you should get continuity across the 2 large terminal studs on
the solenoid.  Now it's time to disassemble, clean, and inspect the starter.
  Be observant as you take it apart, so you will be able to reassemble it.
I do the following things to the starter; check the brushes for condition,
remove and check the armature for condition, clean the commutator using a
piece of scotchbrite.  Disassemble, clean, and inspect the drive mechanism
parts, inspect the starter body and windings for condition.  Use compressed
air or a vacuum cleaner to clean out the starter and windings.  Repair or
replace anything you'e found wrong and reassemble the whole thing.  I use a
little high temperature white lithium grease on the drive mechanism parts at
reassembly.
	Now all that's left is to intall and hook up the starter and battery.
Remember, hook up the battery's positive lead and then the negative one.
Hopefully, you'll have the same luck as me, and not have to deal with the
starter for another year.Paul AHuntington Station, New York71 westy
