From: JDStanton5(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 6 Feb 2003 10:14:58 EST
To: michael_a_jordan(-at-)hotmail.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] SHOWS IN AZ???

Glad you asked!!

We just got firm confirmation from the American Legion post in Corona de 
Tucson for the weekend of March 29/30 to hold our Corona de Tucson camp-out.  
We had a tentative OK from them just before BBBVII, but wanted to make sure 
before advertising it to the world.  The event will be about the same as it 
has been in the past: informal 'Top 10' car show awards, salsa tasting 
contest, raffles, etc.  This year we will be raffling off 1600 engine built 
by Mr. Jim Burnite, ABC engine builder extrordinair!!  A portion of the 
proceeds will go the Corona de Tucson fire department, a mostly volunteer 
department in that small rural area.

Jerome Jamboree XIII is scheduled for the second weekend in September, the 
13/14th.  However, it looks like we will officially be making it a 3 day 
event and add Friday the 12th to the schedule.  That still needs to be 
confirmed though.  Jerome will, again, be about the same as the last couple 
of years: 'Top 5' awards for VW's other than buses, numerous specific bus 
classes, chili cook-off, slow drags, raffles like crazy culminating with our 
grand prize: a 1967 13-window deluxe.  As always, a large portion of the 
proceeds will go to charity, most likely the Jerome Volunteer fire 
department.  For those who have missed the last 2 Jerome Jamboree's, the 
event has changed a bit.  They have been somewhat smaller and much better 
organized/monitored than in the past.  I think most folks who have been to 
Jerome for several years will agree that they have gotten much more mellow as 
a result

One last thing while I am on ABC subjects:  At the next meeting on Wednesday, 
Feb. 19th, we will be holding elections for club officers.  If you are a paid 
up member and can make it, please do.  If you cannot make it, you can mail 
your ballot from your newsletter (they are in the mail if you have not gotten 
it yet) to the clubs PO box address.  Please write ballot somewhere on the 
envelope so it won't get opened before the election.  Ballots received after 
the 19th, will obviously not count.

Thank you all for all of the support over the years,

Jon Stanton
President, ABC
