From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>, john baker <jb_bak(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 7 Feb 2003 08:53:57 -0800 
Subject: RE: [VB] POR15 discounted at The Bus Depot

  But don't sandwich metal between Por 15. Back in the day I had a customer
who painted both the top and bottom of his floors. Throughout the years of
driving he had chipped the bottom coat. This let moisture in and his floor
rusted out between the laters of the Por 15. 
  On another note, it is incredable on the growth of the POR 15 company.
Back in the early 80's it was sold by traveling salesman out of their
pick-ups, or in my case out of the trunk of his car. The salesman use to
tell me how great it was so we started using it on all the Porsche resto's,
especially in all of the inner panels. 356's were/are famous for rusting
from the inside out as they came from the factory undercoated.
  Then again there are other companies that sell a product as good or better
then POR 15, I saw one of them at the SEMA show. The only thing is they
don't have the marketing or the product line of POR 15. If you are looking
for just a BLACK hard rust coating, you can go to just about any HEAVY truck
repair (semi) shop and they use a product like POR 15 on the chassis of
semis to prevent rust, I have the info on this product (I will post it when
I find it again) at about 1/3 the cost of POR 15, but then again it is only
available in chassis black.

ronnie

-----Original Message-----
From: Cal Grant [mailto:cjay(-at-)well.com]
Sent: Friday, February 07, 2003 9:35 AM
To: john baker
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] POR15 discounted at The Bus Depot


[...]

You need to degrease and roughen up the surface somewhat. I have had the
same experience at times, and it always seems that the surface was too
smooth. The stuff sticks incredibly when you've gotten it down correctly.
I've done my whole underside in it. When you got it on right, it's like a
liquid rock, a hard non-porous shell.

cal

On Wed, 5 Feb 2003, john baker wrote:

> I bought a quart off ebay for 15 dollars shipping included. I'm still not
> sure of the stuff, as I was able to easily scrape some up with a screw
> driver after it dried. It didn't seem any stronger than reg. paint,
