Date: Fri, 7 Feb 2003 09:18:31 -0800 (PST)
From: Green on Green <kamax8g(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: (friday's) Bright Idea?

This is aimed at the Vintage end of the spectrum, and
is meant to inspire thought, not a heated debate about
how you should run H-4's or graft in other types of
headlights. Read with a grain of salt, but then again,
take a look around next time you drive down the
road.....
Maybe I'm paranoid, maybe I'm not. But it seems to me
like during my daily 40+ mile daily commute in one of
my various busses, I can count the number of vehicles
with regular old "round" headlights on my fingers and
toes, and still have plenty unused left when I get
home. Maybe it would be a good time to start "hording"
new headlight bulbs? Especially 6V? The time MAY come
where manufacturers will not produce them anymore, or
in limited short-run quantities. There must be a time
when they realize that they don't need to make them
anymore, because demand will be so small and the
profits from making those ugly new style units will
far outweigh the losses suffered from not selling the
old style roundies. Let's face it, a vast majority of
the cars today, even used cars, use those
molded-into-the-fenders/grille units with easily
replaceable, plug-in  bulb assemblies. Granted, many
will use H-4's and those are very readily available,
but to those of us with regular old sealed beams may
have problems in the future. Look at the scarcity of
original correct sized bias ply 15" and 16" tires, and
even many sizes of radial tires for the same. Pretty
much not available except from a few select and
expensive outlets. Even 6V batteries are becoming
harder to find and are getting pretty pricy.
I know the headlights are still available now, and at
a reasonable price. But how soon will it be until we
have to go to "Bulbs-R-Us" to find those new, $30 each
6V bulbs. (hypothetical price and store)
So what the heck, next time you go to your favorite
parts store, pick up a couple spares-they are not very
big. Maybe they'll be the next hot eBay commodity!
Like I said, maybe I'm just paranoid.
