From: "Ted Finesman" <tedebare(-at-)one.net>
To: "Vintagebus" <Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Mon, 3 Sep 2001 22:56:35 -0400
Subject: BNNTA experience report

This years trip to BBNTA was more of an experience than an event. Left Cincy
Thursday (6 am) and hit Indianapolis about 8:00 driving into one of the
fiercest thunder storms I have been in. Went on for about and hour of dark
skies, tall lighting bolts, and rolling thunder. Wondered what I was in for
the rest of the weekend. As the thunder storms passed, the sun peaked out
and the sky turned blue with white fluffy clouds and all was perfect. A very
spiritual experience.

So perfect was the weather and the driving that I went about 4 hrs out of my
way (missed a turnoff in the rain) and ended up getting to the site at about
6:30. It was such a great day for driving and my bus was running so good
that I didn't even mind getting lost- a real experience. Pulled in ,
registered, and set up camp. Went for a walk and saw the DBG club site and
meet up with the Soiney brothers and the rest of the members who were there.
I was really looking forward to seeing some of the group who hadn't come. Oh
well, I guess it was too far for some and to hot for others......

As is the tradition of the DBGer's the bar was well stocked and soon the
weariness of the day passed. Walked to the other end of the grounds and ran
into the Busktiers. This is one great group of guy's. Met NQ  along with the
"old shop teacher" Rick Taylor (who really isn't so old), Rob Laffon, Mike
Noble and the rest. Finally, pulled the bed in Goldie out and was asleep
in -2 minutes.

Woke up Sat. to perfect weather. Caravan was organized and about a million
buses (or so it seemed) lined up and took a really nice drive through scenic
country. We ended up in Hanibal, Mo. and spent some time going thru the shop
and seeing the sights of Tom Sawyer...

Sat. night the DBG bar was up and running and the Buskatiers had a great
camp-fire and burning case festival. Really a great time, weather was
perfect, prefect, perfect.

Sun. woke up to another great day. Hung out for a while and decided to take
the back roads home. Left about 3:00 and saw some great panorama views on
the way home. A really nice sun-set and a bright full moon rising. I was in
bus heaven.

Arrived home about 12:30 after having a wonderful week-end. This is a
must-do event. Bill Bowman does a great job of keeping everything laid-back
and the bus karma flowing. Good job Bill, and I'll see you next year. TBear

