From: "Russell Neithammer" <rneithammer(-at-)mlea.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <vwweekender72(-at-)hotmail.com>
Date: Tue, 4 Sep 2001 08:57:33 -0400
Subject: RE: Oil temp gauge mounting

I recently installed 3 gauges in my 71 (oil temp & press + CHT).  I used the
molded plastic pod sold as an accessory by VDO.  I ran the wires thru some
of the holes for the radio speaker grill located top center on the dash.
After everything was hooked up, I used self stick Velcro tape to hold the
plastic pod to the top of the dash.  This arrangement allows for easy access
to the gauges and wiring, and is completely reversible back to stock if
desired. Looks good and no exposed wires when you use the speaker grill
holes located under where the pod will be located. The plastic pods come in
1, 2 and 3 hole versions.

----- Original Message -----
From: "meredith murray" <vwweekender72(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Sent: Friday, August 31, 2001 11:16 AM
Subject: [T2] Oil Temp Gauge Mounting

I'm trying not to overheat another engine so I have bought a VDO Oil
Temperature Gauge for the 72 Weekender.

Up to this point I have been able to keep my dash original with no cuts, I
have a Sunpro tach in the clock position now.

Has any one else wanted to avoid cutting their dash and found the "perfect"
place to mount it without looking UGLY and having wires to exposed?

How about the mounting of the sending unit, it read to tap a hole in your
oil drain plate, any other suggestions? If I do end up taping the oil plate
any one have a suggestion for a block plate or something? I would hate to
break it off, the only concern is on campout where you might get into a rut
or something, haven't bottomed the engine out yet.

Thanks to all of you that can help and the best of bussin to the rest of us
:-)

This time next week I hope to be on my way to Picasso Moon, a Full Moon Bus
Club Camp Out! If you didn't make it last year I would suggest all the folks
close should come, it is an AWESOME camping spot!

Meredith

