Date: Tue, 04 Sep 2001 20:56:03 -0400
From: Craig Cluney <craig.cluney(-at-)sympatico.ca>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: I have had enough!  (long)

Well Folks,

Today was another bad day for "Norman", our 72 Westy.  After working all
winter on it and finally getting it on the road last month...He has
decided to act up again.

This winter I bought a dream.  You see I have always wanted an
ol-air-cooled bus and finally located one in sorta running condition (3
outta 4 cylinders can't be that bad.).

So my brother and I pulled the engine, with the help of the list, and
found a dropped valve seat.  Had the two heads redone, did the rings
while we were at it and put it all back together.  Ran great.  Wife and
I actually went camping a couple of times.

But of course an old bus is never really right..While checking my still
leaking push rod seals and I discovered that my rebuilt head has two of
the four manifold studs missing.  I guess the guy didn't helicoil them!

So I decided I had enough.  I would save my marriage and send Norman to
the garage to the garage this time.

Here I was, 5 minutes from home, completely disappointed in all my
efforts,  yet determined to have quiet oil free rides bringing my "boy"
to see the doctor on my way to work when all of a sudden he decides to
sputter, spit and backfire under acceleration.  So bad that I have to
really keep right and eventually pull in and park.

I sat there wondering what it could be.  I checked for any loose hoses
etc.  Shut him down for ten minutes.  Started him back up and he was
fine for about a block and then back to spitting and sputtering.

Luckily my wife decided to follow me to the garage.  She of course
always gives me a head start.  She pulled in, laughed, calmed the
frighten neighborhood children and towed me home...

So I spent my day at work thinking of nothing but my bus.

Finally the time came to go home or more like sneak out of the office.
I called a tow truck and Norman got a free lift to a local garage
(supposedly known for their air-cooled work) for his first sleep over!

Any ideas on what could be wrong?

Could the leaky exhaust have caused the sudden poor performance?  BTW
when I shut it off and started the bus after letting both him and I cool
down for a while it ran well again for about 3 minutes and then acted up
again.

I checked all the hoses and did not find any disconnected.

Plugs, wires, coil and points are new.

Lots of fuel in the tank.

Could oil in the heater boxes have caused this?

BTW I almost forgot it is the 1700 dual solex setup.

Thank you for listening.

Any direction would be appreciated.

Craig

