From: "Walkingboss" <walkingboss(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>, <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 13 Feb 2006 17:03:09 -0600
Subject: Re: [VB] re:CArb Question

Hi Kevin,

    Lets set if I can shake out the cobwebs. These are drag-race procedures
but the basic steps are the same for a street car.

1) All base engine adjustments in spec, valves, timing, dwell, etc. (on a VW
you should clean the air filter and have new oil in it only enough to cover
the bottom on the filter housing) new plugs
2) Engine at operating temperature, and in good condition, no bad
compression, bad plug wires, etc.
3) New plugs
4) From a standing start, accelerate through the gears at full throttle up
to full speed. Don't drop the clutch as in a drag race, just drive off
normal but at full throttle.
5) All in one motion, with the throttle fully opened, kill the ignition, and
put the transmission in neutral. When the engine has stopped turning over
you can release the throttle. This is as if you have ran a full quarter
drag, you could do the same by running at full throttle on the highway. The
main thing is not to let the car coast down in gear with the throttle
closed, or idle, this will give you a false very rich reading
6) Pull one of the plugs, (pull plug 1-2-4, not #3) and look at it with a
magnifying glass. You want it to be a light brown/gray in color. If the plug
is white, or has shinny flecks on it you have lean mixture and need to go to
a larger main jet. Black or sooty is rich and you need a smaller main jet.

    Why not look at #3 plug? Depending on your distributor and cam,
Volkswagen used to retard the point dwell and valve centerline on #3 to help
control the heat on that cylinder because of the in fanhousing oil cooler.
With the advent of the doghouse oil cooler they stopped that practice.
    Now where do you do this? I don't recommend the highway, because you
need to pull over and start working on the engine. I would not do that on
the side of the road. This is why most racers pay big $$$ to have their
engine run on a dynameters just to get a baseline setting to start with.
    There is kind of an acquired art to reading the plugs, but once you see
a few good ones and bad, its easy. I'll bet you know a drag or some other
type mad man. Buy him a cold one of his choice and take him along to look
over your shoulder (before the cold one).
    If you have trouble finding jets, you can make your own custom sizes by
filling the hole in the jet with solder and drilling them to the size you
need with a pen drill.

Good luck

Howard




> All this talk about cabs, and re-jetting them.is there a site somewhere
that
> explains why/when/how of jetting carbs? I am guessing re-jetting adjusts
> fuel/air mixture, but how do you know if you need to re-jet?
