From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 13 Feb 2006 21:30:13 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Carb jetting  Re: [VB] re:CArb Question

Hi Kevin,
The only to find out is to test or experiment.  Claude's Buggies have  a 
air/fuel gauge that can be used to figure out what is happening without taking  
anything apart.
  Otherwise one has to experiment to find out what carb jet  sizes were used 
for the similar sized engine and year and type of VW.   There are three 
changeable jets in carbs up to the 34 PICT-3. 
1.  Pilot Jet, which affects idle.
2.  Main Jet, that starts out just above idle and up as high as the  engine 
will go.
3.  Air Corrections Jet, leans out the mixture in the higher RPMs by  
allowing air into the passages in the carb.
  Get the engine up to 160F oil temp.  Install the main and idle  jets sizes 
you found were used for the stock engine.  Start up engine and  adjust the air 
mixture screw and throttle arm screw till the engine idles  properly.  If you 
can not get it to idle you might need a slightly bigger  pilot jet.  If it 
idles, but the mixture screw turned all the way in does  not stop the engine you 
probably have too big of pilot jet or even too big of  main jet.
  Once you have the idle working well rev up the engine  suddenly.  If it 
bogs the main jet is too small and/or the accelerator  nozzle jet is 
partly/completely clogged.  Check accelerator nozzle for  proper spray, and if still 
bogging increase main jet size till no more  bogging.  If it does not bog right 
away you might want to try smaller sizes  till it bogs and then go up a couple of 
sizes above that.
  Once that is good, install a slightly bigger than stock air  correction 
jet.  When you get to well above 2,500 RPM and the engine kind  of hiccups try 
smaller jets to enrichen.  If it does not hiccup try slight  bigger sizes till 
it does hiccup and then go down a few sizes for the final  jet.
 
  Just replacing one jet without going through the procedures  above is a bad 
idea.
  Replacing the main jet with a smaller one due to  too rich of spark plug 
test at highway speeds.  When one really  needed a larger air correction jet.  
Will result in way too lean  running in lower RPMs and even at idle.  
  Or visa versa, replacing the main jet with a bigger one due to  running too 
lean, due to too large of air correction  jet.  Will result in running way 
too rich at lower RPMs.
Eric&Barb
