Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2006 06:07:17 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: re:CArb Question

>From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
>Date: Mon, 13 Feb 2006 08:13:00 -0500
>
>is there a site somewhere that explains why/when/how of jetting carbs?

There is some information in the Solex manual at the doc project:
http://failsure.net/oacdp/solex.html .  Some of the things they say you
can change out aren't change-outable on VW carbs - read through the
whole manual to see what they are talking about.

>I am guessing re-jetting adjusts fuel/air mixture,

Yep.  There are several jets in the carb and they all work together -
some of them work more at idle and some more at high speeds - but they
are all important and affect one another.

>but how do you know if you need to re-jet?

It's pretty easy... just drive the Bus up onto the chassis dynamometer,
hook up the wideband O2 sensor to the tailpipe, and start "driving".
If the O2 sensor readings are out of line, re-jet and try again.

Since you can't get a chassis dynamometer for $19.95 from J.C. Whipme,
there are other things you can do.  Walkingboss posted a way to do it by
reading the plugs after a short run.  If you clean out the end of the
tailpipe and take a longer run, you can also tell by the deposits there
what's going on.

Other reasons might be that you are building an engine that is so far
removed from anything that VW ever put out that you want to set up some
different jets to start with, or that you're running a stock carb on a
non-stock engine and are having trouble, like backfires, really crappy
gas mileage, etc.

It's a good idea to make sure that everything else is tip-top before you
start playing with the carb.  Like: the ignition system is working well,
there aren't any leaks in the intake manifold, the exhaust system isn't
leaking, the engine has reasonable compression, etc.

Then you get to think about the trade-offs between performance and economy
and engine life and smog.  For smog and economy, you want to run a
little on the lean side.  For performance and engine life, you want to
run a little on the rich side.  If you're not sure, it's probably better
to go a little on the rich side - this wastes gas and pollutes, but it's
harder to damage the engine this way.

When you put the pedal to the plastic on a modern fuel-injected gasoline
car, the computer temporarily steps back 50 years and starts dumping gas
in like it was still twenty cents a gallon, partly to ensure performance
and partly to protect the engine.  Eventually the computer comes around
and eases off the fuel and generally tries to behave economically and
efficiently.  Besides, most people don't do the spark-plug-in-the-tailpipe
trick anymore.

IMHO, if your powertrain is anything resembling stock, the stock jets
are a really good place to start.  To figure those out, VW spent vast
amounts of time and money, which you get to use for free by reading it
in the manual.  If you like what the stock jets give you, you're done.
If you don't like it, then you're probably at least somewhere in the
ball park, and this may help you to decide what to change first.

Matt Roberds
