From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2006 22:30:52 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Engine Tin

In a message dated 2/16/2006 6:47:43 P.M. Pacific Standard Time,  
johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca writes:

>>  Hey guys - got any suggestions as to where I can get this engine tin?   
There 
must be someone making it.   <<



Hi John,
Engine tin made today is from all over, but most of this from the  Eastern 
Pacific region.  All of it SUCKS.  The only quality stuff is  OG stuff.  We 
would rather spend a weekend cleaning, straightening,  welding, grinding, and 
painting (or better yet having it sent to the powder  coater for zinc primer and 
80% gloss black factory look) a set of OG tin  and HEs.  Than to spend one buck 
on repro junk that will never fit,  never work right, and cracks if you look 
at it cross wise.  Let alone  the chromie junk....
  If you are just trying to put something together that will work,  swap 
meets, and picking up complete core engines is even better  because you can get 
all, or most of what you need at one shot, and  know at a glance that it fits 
together.
  If you are trying to put together an engine that looks just  like the 1500 
cc that your 1963-67 bus might have come with, that will be a  lot harder.  
Will require a bit more research, advertising, trading,  and a few more $$$.  We 
are still looking for the 1963-64 rear center  preheat tube hook 211 119 549 
almost a decade later....
  Do a "Search" through the "Classifieds" on Thesamba.com for "Engine  Tin".  
There is a dual port of engine tins and  HEs there that are a very good start 
for $40.00.  For SP  engine one would just need the SP head tins.  Then there 
is another  fellow in Texas who has lots of engine tins for sale, but  
advertises no DP head tins in stock.  Hmmm, there is a  possible trade and source 
for more tin pieces!  Good to look for  doghouse shroud, front engine tin, 
exhaust shell, and exhaust tube to get better  oil and head cooling.
Eric&Barb
