From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 18 Feb 2006 12:56:54 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Mechanical oil psi?

In a message dated 2/11/2006 5:55:29 P.M. Pacific Standard Time,  
1matteson(-at-)earthlink.net writes:

Anybody  out there in dub land ever installed a mechanical oil pressure gauge 
in their  bus. Seems like a long way to run a capillary tube, but I here they 
are alot  more accurate than electrical oil pressure gauges. Any words of 
wisdom on  that?


Hi Seth,
Either mech or elec gauges can be off.  Both can be tested or have  test 
gauges that can be calibrated and used to check the gauges in separate  VWs.
  With oil temp have done this with running electric gauges in the  VWs.  
Have a vintage "Stork" Porsche style mech oil temp gauge that the  sender is slid 
in where the dipstick goes.  Having tested the Stork gauge  at near sea level 
with boiling water, it is an easy thing to test oil temp in  each of our VWs 
for 212F.
  Oil pressure gauges are a little harder to check like the oil temp,  but 
can be done.  See VW662/2, pages 1, 2, & 3, (-at-)
_http://failsure.net/oacdp/tools.html_ (http://failsure.net/oacdp/tools.html) 
 
Checking lower oil pressure is easy.  Just start engine cold and once  oil 
pressure comes up shut off the engine.  Once engine is fully stopped  turn 
ignition switch to "run" position to get electric gauge and  idiot light working.   
As oil pressure drops in the gauge keep the oil  pressure idiot light in the 
corner of the eye.  When oil pressure drops to  4-6 PSI the idiot light should 
come on.
  0-80 PSI oil pressure gauge would be best, and we have had no  problems 
with the VDO electric kind.  0-100 PSI will be harder to see a 5  PSI change than 
in a lower pressure gauge.  While a 0-60 PSI gauge will  show this slight 
change even better.  We like to be able to keep  an eye in very cold conditions 
for the 80 PSI limit, that going above this can  result in blow oil cooler or 
seals.
  The biggest problem we have had with mech gauges is finding ones  with long 
enough capillary tube.  In the bus you need at least 21  feet.  With 
electrical gauges (except VDO head temp) you can add or  subtract wire length.
Eric&Barb
