Date: Fri, 31 May 2002 07:03:54 -0400
From: Snoopy <vwsnoopy(-at-)knology.net>
To: fullmoon(-at-)hville.net
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Fw: VW Protest Update from the MVVC

Just got this in my inbox and hadn't seen it posted here yet soooo...  For
all those that are interested in this...

Peace Brothers and Sisters,
Snoopy

----- Original Message -----
From: <webmaster(-at-)mvvc.net>
To: <vwsnoopy(-at-)knology.net>
Sent: Thursday, May 30, 2002 10:43 PM
Subject: VW Protest Update from the MVVC


To all VW Protestors:

The Michigan Vintage Volkswagen Club (MVVC) would like to thank you for your
participation in the VW Protest. YOU are one of the many that took the time
to express your opinions regarding VW and the trademark / licensing issue.
Your response has been added to the many that have been forwarded to VW.

We want to update you on what is happening in regards to the MVVC Protest
letter, and how you can continue to help.

On Friday, May 17th the MVVC principals handling the protest letter met with
Mr. Steve Keyes, Director of Volkswagen of America/Canada Public Relations.
The purpose of the meeting was to deliver the protest letters, and to
establish communication with Volkswagen of America. We are happy to report
success on both accounts!.

The meeting was both a frank and open discussion that touched on many
aspects of this contentious issue. Mr. Keyes admitted that change needed to
occur regarding VW and it's interaction with the enthusiasts. He also went
on to state that VW always knew that some customers were also Vintage
enthusiasts. They had no idea just who the VW enthusiasts were, or what
aspect of their client base we represent.

Now thanks to you and others, VW knows much more. Not only did the number of
respondents get their attention, but the demographics we asked for in the
letter provided them important data on the vintage enthusiasts, which they
have not previously had.

Mr. Keyes presented to the MVVC group a plan to address the licensing issue
as it pertains to clubs. Mr. Keyes also stated that this was just the first
step to re-establishing good relations with the VW enthusiasts and the
industry. All left the meeting feeling an important first step had occurred
in communicating with VW. You can expect to hear more from Volkswagen on
this issue soon.

We thank-you for your participation, and wanted to let you know how you have
helped to bring about change. We are looking forward to continued dialogue
with VW, and we will keep you informed. We do have a request of you--please
continue to pass the word on the MVVC Protest letter. There is strength in
numbers, and the demographics we provide are important for VW to see.

Best regards,

Ed, Ron & Ernie
The Michigan Vintage Volkswagen Club

Please visit www.mvvc.net for the latest updates!

You have been sent this update via e-mail due to your response to the MVVC's
VW protest effort. Your name and the information you provided us has been
sent to Volkswagen of America as stated on the VW protest web site.

The MVVC considers your information private and is not disclosing your
information to any other individual, group or organization.




