Date: Fri, 31 May 2002 08:22:13 -0400 (EDT)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To: Brandt Hart <brandthart(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] What have I done?(front end)

On Fri, 31 May 2002, Brandt Hart wrote:

> the bus(78 Westy) off jack stands. However, when I lowered the bus the upper
> torsion arms are still resting against the rubber stop. The whole front end
> is rigid when I shake the bus.
....
> Also I am pretty sure there is no mystical force in my
> carport that is holding my bus up. However, this is Utah...

Brandt,

Give your location, the possibility that it is "upright and ready
for the Trail" cannot be ignored, but lets look elsewhere as well :-)

when you installed the upper arms, they did point toward the rear of the
bus, check?  and you had a heck of a time prying the arms over the horn
and they do rest *on top* of the bump stop, check?

> Did I somehow mix up the lower torsion arms?

The studs on all the ball joints do point down as they pass thru the
steering knuckle, check?

If all of the above checks out, then you had to rotate all the trailing
arms during installation, so they can't be frozen and the four arms are
all different and can't be installed in the wrong positions if the studs
point correctly (down).  The Gas-a-Just shocks have some pressure in them,
but I have always been able to overcome it by hand, so it is not a
screaming lot of pressure, certainly not enough to hold the bus up to the
point where the bus is on the stops.

As I sit here, I think of one other possible reason.  The idea (and you
are going to hate this) is that you have installed the new torsion bar set
upside down.  When new, the torsion bar set does not have an orientation,
they can be installed either way.  After having a bus sit on them for
20-30 years, tho, they do take a definite set.  If you have installed them
upside down, twisting the other way than they did in the bus they came out
of, then they will hold the bus up higher for a while... but they may
break shortly from being overtwisted.  The only solution would be to pull
the front end back apart, pull the bundle of leaves back out , reverse it
and reinstall.  I didn't have a problem with this on the '73, but maybe I
just got lucky.

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail



