Date: Fri, 12 May 2006 11:09:40 -0500
From: Steve Pribyl <steve(-at-)unliketea.com>
To: VW - Type 2 mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: [Fwd: Re: Ethanol and Airheads]

I am cross posting this as the BMW Motorcycle motors are similar to the VW.

Any comments from the technical folks on the list.


-------- Original Message --------
Subject: Re: Ethanol and Airheads
Date: Fri, 12 May 2006 08:58:27 -0700
From: Tpcutter(-at-)aol.com
Reply-To: Tpcutter(-at-)aol.com
To: BMW Airhead Boxer mailing list <airheads(-at-)micapeak.com>

In a message dated 5/12/06 10:22:25 AM Eastern  Standard Time,
84bmwairhead(-at-)bellsouth.net writes:
With all the talk about  Ethanol plants in America will the older Airhead
bikes perfrom just as well?  Will Ethanol have any negative effect on 
valves
etc?

We are going to  have lots of different problems, from the gas tank to the
valve train. Even the  exhaust system. I just got this article from a 
concerned
client in Connecticut:  (There are a few minor technical points that are
stated wrong, but the point is  well-taken.)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------------
Switch  to ethanol fuel has motorcyclists yelling 'foul'


Saturday, April 15,  2006


BY BUD WILKINSON


Copyright ) 2006  Republican-American


Chris Fischer calls the problem "a  nightmare."
His off-road bike has suddenly conked out on him,
causing him  to crash, and his 2005 Yamaha Royal
Star street motorcycle has twice been in  the shop
to have its carburetors cleaned since Connecticut
switched  completely from gasoline with the
additive MTBE to an ethanol blend last  year.


"The new fuel is so bad," said Fischer, who is
among a  growing number of motorcyclists in the
state who are finding themselves  sidelined by
clogged carburetors and fouled fuel jets. "If you
park your  bike for more than, in some cases, two
weeks, there's a good chance you're  going to have
problems," he said.


The problem is especially bad  for Fischer because
not only does he ride, he also owns Cycle
Performance,  the Yamaha-Suzuki-Kawasaki
dealership in Torrington. Like other  area
dealerships, Cycle Performance's service
department has recently  experienced an upswing in
engine problems among its  customers.


Cycle Performance service manager Gary  Hatstat
estimates that he's seeing at least five bikes a
week with fuel  system issues. "If the bike leaves
and in two weeks has the same problem, it  doesn't
make us look good," he said.


Added Fischer, "We get  customers who come in who
think we're trying to steal from them or  scam
them."




That number may rise, too, now that riders  are
getting their bikes out of winter storage.
Don Garneau, service  manager at Canton Cycles,
the BMW-Victory-Triumph dealership in  Winsted,
agrees the odds of a fouled engine increase when
a bike sits for  a prolonged period.


Garneau has also recently seen more cases  of
bikes not starting or idling improperly. "When we
take them apart, they  usually have this unusual
collection of stuff on the jets. We've  been
attributing it to the change in gas," he said.


As a result,  bike owners are now facing
potentially expensive repair bills and  are
running the risk of riding unsafe cycles that
could leave them  stranded or worse. Pat Goss, who
hosts the "Goss' Garage" segment on  the
"Motorweek" television show on PBS and Speed,
places the blame for  increased motorcycle engine
problems directly on the  more
environmentally-friendly, corn-based ethanol.


"There are  multiple problems with the ethanol
blend," wrote Goss in an e-mail to  RIDE-CT. "The
first is that mixing an ethanol blend with an
MTBE blend can  cause a chemical reaction that
turns the stuff into black goo that clogs  fuel
lines, fuel filters and often carburetors and
fuel injectors."  Another problem is the chemical
reaction that occurs when ethanol comes  in
contact with the epoxy coating that some owners
and service departments  use to coat the inside of
gas tanks, especially on older motorcycles,  to
prevent rust.


"The ethanol causes the epoxy to dissolve  --
again into a thick glue-like substance that clogs
fuel system  components," Goss reported.


Speaking later by phone from his garage  in
Maryland, Goss further explained, "The ethanol is
very detergent and  causes dirt that's built up
over years to come loose." All gas stations  in
Connecticut have been selling an ethanol blend
since late last fall,  although Mobil stations
made the switch nearly a year ago and  Getty
outlets five years ago. MTBE (or methyl tertiary
butyl ether), which  has been known to contaminate
drinking water, was phased out over a  five-year
period.


"Ethanol acts like a scrubber," agreed  Michael
Fox, executive director of the Gasoline and
Automotive Service  Dealers Association in
Stamford. Any rust, dirt or corrosion in the  fuel
system will get picked up. He also warns against
mixing ethanol gas  with any leftover MTBE gas
that might be in the tank.


"You do not  want to mix half a tank or
three-quarters of a tank that's MTBE with  one
quarter or one-half of a tank that's ethanol,
because there's going to  be a varnishing effect,
where (the gas) turns to a thick varnish,"  said
Fox.


He suggests either running the tank dry or
draining  it before adding the ethanol blend or,
in the case of fuel injected bikes,  emptying the
tanks, replacing the filter, running a tank of
ethanol and  then changing the filter again.


Goss concurred "changing the filter  twice is
probably a good idea," although Hatstat and
Garneau said they  haven't encountered problems
with fuel-injected bikes, only carbureted  ones.
Fox said that "probably less than one percent" of
bikes should be  affected by the change in gas.


But local motorcycle dealerships see a  greater
problem and don't believe that the solution is
that simple.  Hatstat said that as a preventative
measure on all new bikes, along with  bikes that
come in with problems, he's automatically
changing the aluminum  needle valve in the
carburetor and replacing it with chrome one,
which  isn't as apt to corrode. Both he and
Garneau advise bike owners to add  gasoline
stabilizer every time the tank is filled and to
the drain  carburetors if the bike isn't going to
be used for two weeks or longer. For  customers,
getting their idled bikes back on the road can be
costly. "It's  hurting the wallet. It's lightening
the wallet," said Garneau, explaining  that
pulling and cleaning a carburetor can take three
or four hours at a  cost of $75 per hour for labor.


Hatstat also worries that a stuck  needle valve
could result in gas linking out of the overflow
tube on the  engine and igniting when coming in
contact with a hot engine. "It's a safety  issue,"
he said. "For people taking their bike out of
storage, you should  pay attention to what the
bike is doing before starting  it."


RIDE-CT is a regular feature on motorcycling.
Harwinton-based  journalist Bud Wilkinson rides a
2004 Triumph Sprint ST, which is  fuel-injected.
He may be reached by e-mail at budride-ct.com if
you have a  story suggestion or  comment.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------

Tom  Cutter
Yardley, PA
http://www.RubberChickenRacingGarage.com
