Date: Sat, 13 May 2006 11:38:31 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Adhesives in Body Repair

I've done a little looking into this and talked to
some real experts in the field and here are my
thoughts /opinions: In auto wrecks, it is common to
find the metal ripped but the adhesive joint
unaffected. 
* I did a panel repair on my bus about 10 years ago
and used epoxy instead of polyurethane. The epoxy
shrinks and gets brittle. It's performed just fine
other than that visual. I have photos of it - see my
sig. 
*The polyurethane adhesives stay flexible and don't
shrink. Manufacturers are 3M and Lord Adhesives
*I used pop rivets also. Have word from a certified
airframe tech that is a no-no as even though I used a
high grade of stainless pop rivets, they are still a
dissimilar metal and could cause electrolysis. I won't
live that long. At least enough rivets to pull the
panels together while adhesive cures.
*Some adhesives require a primered surface. That
depends on the primer bond IMHO and doubles the
bonding surfaces. Some act as their own primer/sealer.
I like that idea better.
* I will never sell my bus - if I did it I would make
clear to buyer what repairs have been done so it won't
cause him problems if he has repairs to make in
future.
* If you have no access to the backside, inside and
surrounding areas to the repair area, welding will
burn off any metal protection that is there. Adhesive
repairs do not. That was my biggest consideration.
* The mixing / application guns can be expensive. Some
smaller size throw-away applicators may be available.
* I plan to use adhesive method for a bunch of mods to
my new replacement body. Where more structural support
is required than I am comfortable with, I will add
fasteners and plates to distribute stress load as
practical.
* Flanged adhesive repairs actually create stress
areas by doubling the material thickness at the joint,
thus causing an area with less flex than the
surrounding areas. A truly proper weld (uncommon) with
proper equalizing afterwards (usually impractical)
will have no such stress loads as it will become one
coninuous sheet.
* I feel the advantages of adhesive bonding far
outweigh the disadvantages and although I am an
accomplished gas welder I only use that method where I
feel appropriate.
* For those into "purest restorations" I suppose
welding is still the preferred method, but I fear
there are few welders left with the skill and
knowledge to do a truly proper job - otherwise it
really doesn't matter and if that's the case, why
weld?
-BaH

'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2)
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01
