Date: Mon, 10 Aug 2009 02:01:31 -0700 (PDT)
From: Lourd Baltimore <lourd_baltimore(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Engine ID Clarification & Mainteneace Questions

I've done my research on the 'net including the type2.com tech library, but I came away with a couple questions unanswered.

For reference, I have a '76 Bay import from Spain (I'm in the U.K.) converted into a campervan.  The chassis number is 2162094367.
The registration docs show the engine displacement as 2000cc.  Other than that I know it's a pancake engine and I was told that it's not the original engine.

The engine number (AP010245X) that I can see on the cooling shroud (tinwork) has a prefix of "AP" which would suggest that the engine is an 1800cc version.
However, during my research it's been mentioned that if there was an engine swap, then the tinwork may have also been reused from
the old engine which means that the engine code is wrong.  The engine number I want to look for is on the "breather tower".  Where is that exactly?
I'm not completely mechanically illiterate, but I'm not familiar with that term.  I figure that engine number will let me know whether there
still is an 1800 or a 2000 in my vehicle.  Barring that, is there another way of determining the displacement short of measuring the bore & stroke?


I adjusted the vales over the weekend (.006" as per the John Muir book, Haynes manual, & the T2 archives).  The 1 & 2 cylinder rocker cover
has a few small holes where the gasket sits from corrosion.  I put it back on using some blue locktite gasket sealant until I replace it sometime this week.
The rocker cover on 3 & 4 cylinders is in decent condition and should last for a bit more.  If I am going to replace the rocker cover on 1 & 2 cylinders, then
should I also replace the other rocker cover as well?  Should the cover clips also be replaced?

And one final question...
The John Muir book says the bolt for the oil strainer should not be torqued more that 9 ft-lbs.  So I borrowed a toque wrench from work, set it to 108 in-lbs and secured the bolt.  That seemed extremely light so I tightened it a bit more.  Did I do a bad thing?  I figured the bolt gasket/crush-washer that came with the
oil strainer gasket set was there to eliminate having to deal with mis-torqueing that bolt.  Also, I realize that advice from the John Muir book should be taken with
a grain of salt and checked against other sources.


Thanks,

Josh
.
