Date: Mon, 10 Aug 2009 09:34:39 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Lourd Baltimore <lourd_baltimore(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine ID Clarification & Mainteneace Questions

Breather "tower" on a T4 is underwhelming.  On the right rear (as you look at
the engine in the bus) is a little 5x10 cm or so raised "box" area, comes
4-5cm up from the surface of the case or so.  It will have variably many
things on top of it depending where the engine came from, but most likely a
little black painted box of some sort with some sort of outlet for PCV, held
on with a little bale similar to the valve cover bales.  If stolen from a 914
or something else, the little black box could have an oil filler and cap
there.  Just to the rear of the casting for the breather is a little ledge on
the case with a stamped engine number.
 
But...  Doesn't tell you much, or anything really.  Anything could have been
rebuilt into anything.  Looking at the head casting numbers might tell you a
bit more, could see if they are 1.8 for a little agreement.  Even then nothing
to say the internals haven't been swapped to build a 2.0.  Essentially without
tearing it down, no way to know.
 
Cover bales last forever unless they rust in two or into a head on the end,
and no reason to replace a cover that isn't leaking.  Even the "bad" one if
just some pitting on the seal surface and you siliconed it, I'd leave well
enough alone, you will soon find your pushrod tube seals are probably leaking
more....
 
From the late Bus dealer manual (the orange one, not the standard green
Bentley) which has pictures like a Vanagon manual so no figuring which torque
is which, the T4 pickup/strainer seal nut is 9 ft-lb.  That is only M8,
although steel to steel it is on the oil pickup and you don't want to F it up
(you do and you got to split the case to replace it.)  I do snug them a smidge
more myself, but just.  You also have to be careful with sealing rings, you
want the thick paper, relatively pliable, like OEM ones, NOT the thinner
harder ones that are also sold.
 
John

--- On Mon, 8/10/09, Lourd Baltimore <lourd_baltimore(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:



And one final question...
The John Muir book says the bolt for the oil strainer should not be torqued
more that 9 ft-lbs.  So I borrowed a toque wrench from work, set it to 108
in-lbs and secured the bolt.  That seemed extremely light so I tightened it a
bit more.  Did I do a bad thing?  I figured the bolt gasket/crush-washer that
came with the
oil strainer gasket set was there to eliminate having to deal with
mis-torqueing that
