From: Shad <shenderson(-at-)thegeekgroup.org>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 10 Aug 2009 13:11:15 -0400
Subject: Curse of the DPO

Hi All, 

Well,  I just about crapped my pants.  

On my way back to work from lunch, cruising along nicely at ~47mph.
Engine is humming, tires are singing, and I'm happily in that blissful
groove of driving the bus.  

Then I hear a hellacious rattle-clatter-thunking from the rear of the
bus.  At first I thought I'd kicked up some road debris that I hadn't
seen.  The dash lights all flicker and the motor sputters for a moment,
more thumping-clattering, and I feel the thudding vibration of an engine
badly out of balance.  

I cut the ignition, stomped the clutch, then turned the key back on.
Tranny in neutral, hit the flashers, and coast to a stop in the turn
lane.  Thankfully, a red light.  

I sit for a moment, then resign myself to my fate and climb out.  I'm
already irritated 'cause this engine has less than 500 miles on it.  And
I was UberAnal about doing it right.  I console myself that at least it
was still rotating when I turned the key off, so at least nothing major
wedged itself stuck in the case.  

I get to the back of the bus and frown.  No oil smoke.  The exhaust was
nice and toasty (about 165 oil temp, 280 CHT).  Any major mechanical
malfunction should have breached the case and flung oil all over.  I get
to the engine hatch and peer under the bus.  No debris.  No oil
leaking.  

Frowing more, I popped open the engine hatch and begin spouting
profanity like an drunken navy auctioneer with Tourettes.

The DPO had at one time dragged a trailer with the bus.  Nothing
spectacular about that.  Except that he'd hacked the rear wiring all to
shreds to tap into brake, running lamps, and turn signals.  He'd secured
the abortion of a wiring job with a zip tie out of the way.  I knew
about it, but it was secure, and out of the way.  Everything worked,
despite tugging at the wires, so I'd left it as-is and intended to sort
it out later.  

Well... the vibration had worn the zip tie through and the bundle of
connectors, wire lengths, and whatnot had fallen.  Into the alternator
belt.  From there, it whipped violently, tearing off the guard over the
fan intake ($15 for a good used one from the local VW guy!) and the
hungry fan promptly tried to ingest the whole mess.  It failed
miserably, of course, but it did succeed in twisting the whole mess
loose and ripping it out.   Thankfully, the DPO's lackluster wiring job
had lots of crimped connections (not bullet connections, just barrels),
so no major damage done to the factory wiring.  I lost the passenger
side brake/running light and the backup lights.  

The horrible thudding vibration was caused by the ridiculously massive
rubber trailer connector + wires riding in the fan like it was some sort
of tilt-a-whirl carnival ride.  

More profanity, judicious use of some wire cutters, some electrical tape
and zip-ties later, I was back on the road.  I know I butchered up the
passenger side wiring a little, but at least it won't burn my bus down,
and it'll be easy enough to straighten out properly once I get home this
evening.  

The fan didn't seem hurt by it's ordeal, and the electrical system is
working normally.  Must've shorted some hot wires for a moment as it
wadded everything up.  I didn't see any broken fins, but I'll check
everything over tonight while I patch up the damages to the wiring.  

*sigh*   Could have been much worse.  


But at least it got rid of that hideous trailer plug and it's associated
rat-nest of wiring....  

Shad H. 
