Date: Wed, 12 Aug 2009 08:43:11 -0400
From: Mike Benthin -MUTS oboe support <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: accessys(-at-)smart.net, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Return from BOOC and sidetrip to Killbear P.P.

cc'd to type2 list
The Good: Upon Gregg's suggestion (thanks Greg!), after BOOC we went to 
Killbear Provincial Park (about 5 hrs north of BOOC via 12/400 with the 
shopping stops) -Tim Horton's are common and it puts Dunkin Donuts to 
shame- loved the cherry cheese danish and the almond danish. Gas 
stations are not as common as in US, and along Rt 400/69 I'd start 
looking by 1/4 tank left. We did cairn spotting; they were everywhere! 
Now Killbear is a fantastic park.  Breathtaking views. Even for a Sun 
evening it seemed packed but the sites were not chocablock and we camped 
about one site from the row along the beach.  Nicely shaded. Most 
campers stretched tarps between the trees against the showers. The park 
is on a peninsula facing Parry Sound and Lake Huron and most of the 
shoreline is flat orange-reddish rock that dips down into the water. 
Most of it is escaptment from ice age glacial scouring.  Not sure if the 
beaches are natural or added sand. Very clean- I saw almost no algae on 
the rocks by the shore and many were swimming even when getting dark. 
Litter very minimal. The pines clinging to the rocks were stunning. It 
is a canoist delight; Bob, you could literally roll your chair from 
parking on the rock to the water edge and roll yourself in.  Very calm 
water and the visibility was great for snorkeling- Nyssa saw large 
crayfish when snorkling the next morning.
    The toilets/washbasins  are nearby, but the shower buildings are at 
the top of Campground loops and they have a handicap/wheelchair 
accessible stall among the other individually locked ones.  Bears and 
rattlesnakes are not unknown and the visitor center is good. We easily 
could have spent a week and I'm sure many do.  We did stay until noon 
and it's nice you can stay at a site until 2 PM.
    The bad: We came down 400 towards Toronto and traffic for a Monday 
afternoon was heavy but moving.  We took the toll road 407 bypass to get 
to the QEW and the toll is by camera that sends you a bill if you do not 
have a transponder.
    The bus started hesitating on hills about 40 Km from the Peace 
bridge and we stopped to check it and blew air up the valved T I had put 
in; it stalled and I realized the air also went to the pump and traveled 
to the injectors.  Seemed to flow freely from the tank.  The pump 
sounded ok when jumped. No real traffic to the Peace bridge and we 
sailed through around 8 PM with about one car in front of us.  After the 
bridge it really got bad (bucking at slightest hill and touch to the 
pedal); I tried the air blowing again with bus off and now the pump 
sounded terrible.  We limped into a comfort Inn at the 90/190 
intersection and I decided to check it in the morning for a blocked tank 
and do some web searching on the A.I.R.S list if we needed a place to 
fix it (free computer use here with printers!). We got an offer to leave 
it/work on it at a listee 40 mi north and a name of a mechanic closer. 
As Sue really needed to get home we explored car rentals with a return 
of our Quest and tow hitch and decided overall it was worth getting a 
U-Haul truck with tow dolly, but it would have been $500 as a 3 day 
minimim all gas paid is required.  Next morning I pulled the filter and 
tee and found something had lodged in the T before the filter and we 
pulled it out- a piece of polyfilm about 1" by 1/2" had worked down the 
gas line- did not look like the coating I had cleaned away 2 years ago. 
The filter seemed fine and I left the T off. The pump whirred fine and I 
could hear the gas returning via the pressure regulator. Whoo-hoo! No 
problem getting home via 400/20A/309/17 to 81.
The views along 20A are great (rolling steep hills) with great banks of 
windmills visible. Crossing the Delaware Water gap (rt 80) there was a 
gaper block jam due to a chain reaction pileup with jackknifed trucks 
and cars on the other side with a 3 hr backup as it was being 
investigated, according to CB chatter. Made it home safe by 7 pm. Now, 
can anyone make stainless gas tanks for these?

Accessys(-at-)smart.net wrote:

  hope your trip was pleasant and the side trip was a pretty one.
  probably better you skipped Toronto Sunday as about noon the sky got
  so dark the streetlights came on and one of the worst thunder storm in
  ages came thru....
