Date: Thu, 09 May 2002 14:58:56 -0400
From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
To: greymatters(-at-)hotmail.com ("RB &AV"), vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Front End Rebuild: The Steering Knuckle

Hm- I've installed knuckles w/o a special tool, but always in the bus.  I used a jack to lift up the lower torsion arm so there was the right spacing between the two arms.   think I'd insert the lower pin and then jack it up until I could push the upper pin into place.   I replaced the knuckles on a 75ish bus too, w/o a special tool.  Think it was about the same deal.  out of the bus you can't jack against it, but you could put the beam against a wall or work bench and push with the trailing arm with a boot whiile you put the knuckle in place.
 
You may want to invest in a bay window bentley.  they are cheaper than the bentley 63 bus edition, but would give you the body info and also lots of nice 1600 info.  Often you can pick one up at a used bookstore or check it out from the library.  I'm a big fan of libraries.  
Clara

Hi gang,

I am in the midst of trying to rebuild the front end of a bus, and I am 
hoping some of you can help me with finding the proper tool I need.

I have a rebuilt 1968 (ball joint) albatross adjustable front beam from Bus 
Boys, which is currently out of the bus.  I am reassembing the torsion arms 
(with new ball joints already installed) and the steering knuckle.  
According to the Clymer manual I have, I need some sort of special tool to 
lift the upper torsion arm so that I can insert the steering knuckle.  This 
tool appears to rest against the front floor area of the bus and somehow 
attach to the upper and lower torsion arms.  From that point, it seems to 
function as a jack to spread the arms apart.

My question is:  What tool can I buy to perform this same function and will 
it work if the beam is off of the bus?  If it will not work with the beam 
off, is there something I can do to make it work with the beam off?

Thanks in advance for any input you all may have.

Richard


