From: "Craig Ayres-Sevier" <n7cas(-at-)gbis.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 9 May 2002 18:31:11 -0700
Subject: Morning Idle: What is this?


Morning.

<Chirp. Chirp.>

May.

<Chirp. Chirp. Chirp.>

If weren't for those damned birds, chirping in the trees at an ungodly hour,
you can almost hear those stupid little clicketyclickety high-tech things
you see on movie screens, going across your brain as you find your way out
to the 35-year-old bus, ensconsced on the side of the road outside your
house.

clicketyclicketyclicketyclickety.. MORNING..
clicketyclicketyclicketyclickety... MAY clicketyclicketyclickety... 2002.

Camera zooms, ignoring all the hapless chirping. Hapless bus pilot straps
in. Grrr.. grrrr. grrrrr.  gldldlldldld  rerrr bu fgrr be dubbledublble
dubllle dduble.

Great.

And THEN from a nice, healthy idle of two minutes straight -- for one minute
or somtimes after three -- it abruptly *nose-dives* like a Stuka from
vigorous and healthy? To moribund and absolutely dead. Zero. Dead. Sudden
difference from everything's okeydokey. To all that is Zen and peaceful when
you least need it.

Restart "Grief, the Bus."

----

Then and only then, does the idle maintain.

What is that? And it's not feng shui.

Morning ambient temps are between 30 and 40 degrees and psi for the engine
is always 50... which is why I let it get warm for a 40 psi, its normal
happy mode at these morning temps, and start out at low rpm's before I get
up to speed.

Sorry for all the naive ... and ongoing... questions I post in regards to my
current bus. I am indeed a long, longtime bus driver. It's just my other bus
ran great, with minor inconvenience, for -- count 'em -- 19 years: basic
upkeep, engine changes, lube, all that. This one, its replacement, gives me
grief, hence its name.

Why the sudden, sudden drop to gas starvation (all new, gas- and engine-wise
in '99) from a vehicle that was idling without a care in the world?

Why the sudden and absolute drop from a healthy idle? The carb has been
checked and re-checked, I can SEE gas in the line, and it thinks it's being
slandered by forces unseen.

Thanks, everyone / anybody.

Craig Ayres-Sevier, N7CAS
n7cas(-at-)gbis.com



