Date: Fri, 24 May 2002 13:46:04 -0700
From: Glenn <gbonnet(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: Paul Saulsbury <alexanic2001(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] New guy with carb trouble (long)

Hey Paul,
I had this problem with my 71 super beetle. The solution was remove the
fancy chrome air cleaner and replace it with the original oil bath air
filter. This was because the carb was simply running too lean with the
aftermarket air cleaner. I don't know if you would have room or not for the
beetle air cleaner so you may have to try something ingenious.
If indeed you do have a round chrome air filter try to wrap your hands
around it to block most of the air intake. This is how i pinpointed my
problem. I also adjusted the timing by ear rather than with the timing
light. When i checked it with the light i am a few degrees advanced. I left
it because it ran nicely.

best of luck
Glenn Bonnet
1977 Transporter 88,000 original miles on Fuel Injected 2.0L w/Westy
Interior
1956 Standard Transporter
1971 Super Beetle 2nd owner bone stock
http://geocities.com/glenninavw


-----Original Message-----
From: Paul Saulsbury [mailto:alexanic2001(-at-)yahoo.com]
Sent: Friday, May 24, 2002 12:01 PM
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] New guy with carb trouble (long)



Hello all, 71 Dormobile with a bug engine installed by p.o. 34 pict-3 carb.
Anyway touble is engine wont idle. Check timing, (statically), valves, and
some minor carb adjustments. Finally found a piece of rubber in needle and
seat and replaced just in case. New line, filter and still having trouble
with idle. I tried to adjust carb by using the library and the instructions
and just wont idle at all with the idle screw just barely touching the fast
idle cam. Am I incorrect trying to adjust this way?

Also when I squeeze the vacuum line to the booster it seems to run a little
bit better, is this normal or do I have a vaccum leak in the booster?

Runs fine while under power but dies when I push the clutch in for a stop
sign.

This is driving me crazy, any comments would be appreaciated.

Paul Saulsbury





---------------------------------
Do You Yahoo!?
LAUNCH - Your Yahoo! Music Experience

