From: "Jim Polera" <ralitaco(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: "Mailing List T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 25 May 2002 17:48:40 -0400
Subject: starter

Here is a brief rundown of my trouble. a longer more detailed description
follows.

My bus wouldn't start when I turned the key. The starter wouldn't turn over,
no clicking only one faint click. After pulling it out and bench testing it
(checked ok), I put it back in and it worked fine. What could be the
problem?

I searched the archives, but with my 28.8 connection I was getting no where
fast. So I decided to post to the List.

Long Version:
After a 5 1/2 hour drive at +/- 60 mph, my bus wouldn't start. I turned the
key and nothing happened. the lights and all were ok. In fact, when I turned
the key the lights barely dimmed. I checked the connections and all were
okay. I couldn't see well enough to jump the solenoid so I waited till
morning then just pulled the starter and had it bench tested at a FLAPS. It
dragged a bit but turned over really well. When I reinstalled the starter it
started right up. No more problems for the whole week I was out of town
working. The bus started and ran fine on the 5 1/2 hour trip home. I parked
it Thursday night and hadn't tried to start it until today, Saturday. The
exact same problem and the exact same solution. When I pulled the starter
and had it tested, it tested ok and fired right up after I reinstalled it.
My diagnosis leads me to believe it is one of a few things:
1. bad solenoid, I will check this by jumping it next time this happens. (I
intend to use a wire and slide on connector)
2. bad starter. I will simply replace the whole thing or have it rebuilt.
3. wrong starter. I put a motor from a 74 bug into the 70 bus and left in
the 70's starter. Would this cause a problem.
4. possessed bus. I will get a priest and have Ma Cherie' exorcised.
5. I prayed before I left to go to work and again when I left to go home
that I would arrive at my destination safely without any breakdowns or
problems. (That prayer was answered). Next time I'll pray that my bus
doesn't die the right after I get to the hotel.

Any thoughts on this would be greatly appreciated.
Later,
Jim
Hampstead, NC
'70 Westy - Ma Chérie



