Date: Thu, 21 Feb 2002 21:31:55 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] 80 engine into a 73

>There are serious problems with installing V'gon heads in a '73 because
>you will need to track down the one-year '79 exhaust system to fit the
>square port heads that the V'gon had and the '79 had, but the '73 didn't
>have.

I will add to steve though that if you do find those '79 heater boxes
your '73 muffler fits just fine.  Oh did I mention I still have that German
NOS let side box for sale for $250 or trade for a like German NOS
right side '72-'74 box 8-)  Also on the engine mount issue it is easy
enough you just need M10x? bolts for the Vanagon case and you
drill out the holes in the bus mount mounting plates.

>There are also serious problems with the fans shroud, tin and alternator.
>Vanagon shrouds, tin, and alternator will simply not fit in a bay window
>body.  No doubt with a tin-snip and MIG welder, you could "arrange"
>something, but it would be a project!

So basically yeah you got to go and use all the tin and acessories from
the '73.  The vanagon FI would go in easily enough though if you put
in a FI bus fuel tank.  Would have to cut some holes in the '73 tin or
get later FI tin, but otherwise you could lay all the vanagon parts in
and just use a generic cone style air filter from CB performance on
some sort of adapter flange on the air filter or get a FI bus air filer
and snorkel hose.  I actually sort of wondered how tough it would
be to mod the vanagon tin for use in a bus on that alternator side
to get rid of the nightmare bus alternator installation but have never
even bothered to go root through my tin box and find out.  I think the
vanagon alternator is only 60A or so, so not much of an upgrade just
a bit more convenient when you need to replace it.

>Basically, if you have someone willing to give you a running V'gon engine
>and you want the extra HP, yes, it can be made to work.  If you are
>picking up a V'gon engine with a dropped valve (very common, see my last
>post), even better!  Replace the heads with '78 heads and you are off and
>running!  *BUT* you want to swap everything outside the block for bay
>stuff, 'cuz the V'gon stuff won't fit.

yep.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu


