Date: Thu, 21 Feb 2002 21:46:20 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] Brakes!!  Pad, Shoes, Wheel Cylinders

>Buy rebuilt calipers.  Shop.  Shop hard.  Prices mentioned on this list
>have gone from $29.95 to over $60.  I *think* John Anderson found them at
>Autozone in WV for $29.95, but I am not sure.  Check all the chains near
>you, Bus Depot, Bus Boys, etc.

Has been quite a few (3-4) years and I think they were about $35, still
not bad considering a rebuild kit goes for about $20...  Were from Advanced
I think, not sure today.

>Buy new flex hoses!  Again, no matter how good they look, they are
>99% likely to be swelled shut inside and feeding degraded rubber scum into
>your new calipers.

This is real important, the bus rears are sort of funky and I have a peeve
on that one, the one odd side, the one everybody sells is wrong, wrong in
the fact that it has a female end that is supposed to have the groove for
the retaining spring thingy and nobodies (RMMW, Bus Depot, ??) has the
groove, just has a generic female end.  I ended up buying that one from
VW for about $30 for just the one line.  The others are fully functional just
don't get retained correctly.  Good Italian flex lines are availble about $10
to $12 each at the shows if you look, and Bus Depot's prices aren't much
more than that.  That is a measley $60 or so at most.

I mentioned before that soft lines really scare me after I cut apart the lines
on the '82.  This was a 76k mile car, but was an '82.  It had a couple little
blisters near the end on one hose, the early sign (if you get one) of
impending doom on a hydraulic line.  Now I've stood beside 6000psi
nitrogen systems with those little blisters, so I admit that a VW brake
hose doesn't scare me so much, but dead is dead when it fails.  REPLACE
ALL YOUR SOFT LINES NOW FOLKS.  And Steve brings another
good point.  I know when he did the '67 hard lines he was terrified by
what he saw, and everyone replaces their split window hard lines as
a matter of course.  A '68 bay is one year newer, a '75 bay is still what
27 years old?  I think there used to be a VW TSB floating around that
said in high salt areas VW metal bake lines should be inspected every
5 and replaced every 10 years....  You figure it out.  Nope I've never
replaced any bay lines excepting ones that looked real bad on the
outside, but...  And brake lines and systems rust from the inside out
as much as from the outside in when the system isn't regularly bled.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu


