Date: Mon, 05 Apr 2004 21:08:04 -0500
From: Rick Taylor <busbarn(-at-)Prodigy.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Fool's Fest campout 

We had a wonderful time traveling and camping at Fool's Fest.  Fool's Fest
started at another campground, but was moved to Indian Cave state park in
Nebraska.  This is the same campground where we hold the Buskatier's
"Bustoberfest" and as someone pointed out, at both campouts we change
daylight savings time.

What a great time visiting with old friends we haven't seen all winter.  It
was nice having the campground all to ourselves, no fighting with the grumpy
old farts driving giant land yachts.  This may be the secret to camping, go
out early in the season before everyone else has time to get their camping
gear ready.

The bus and Scamp (big bird and the egg) traveled nice as always, my
daughter and I really have this camping stuff down.  Even though Rachel is
only 5, she packs her own clothes, helps pack the bus and even makes a
camping list so I don't forget things!!  Believe it or not, she has
remembered a few things that I would have left behind.  The camping list
also helps with her spelling :>)

http://www.omahavwclub.com/DHPpics/aff2/index.htm

VW traveling and camping has to be one of the best things a parent can do
for their kids in my opinion.  A number of my best memories were of camping
and I hope Rachel will have these times to look back on too.  It is so
relaxing to be around friends while camping, much better than just going out
on your own.

It is also fun seeing how everyone is coming along on their camping setups.
We have some really unique people in our group and they have the coolest
camp setups.  I did see a new product at a couple of the camp setups, the
"fire and ice" grill and cooler look to be a must have for outdoor cooking.
The fire and ice makes into a nice camp kitchen and from what I saw this
weekend does a nice job, even on the cool mornings.

Matt Ramsey had set up a cruise on this date before the campout was planned,
so it was nice to cruise part way home with Matt and his Brazilian '86
double cab that is the strangest mix of splitty and bay parts I've ever
seen!!  What a neat bus.

So do your kids and yourself a favor and take the time to do a little VW
camping, it may take a few campouts to get in the routine, but you'll learn
to love it.

Thanks to Doug for taking these pics and posting:

http://www.omahavwclub.com/DHPpics/aff2/index.htm

And thanks to Adam for planning the campout, it is on our calender for next
year.
