Date: Wed, 26 Nov 2003 10:59:49 -0800
To: Todd M Jaspers <toddjaspers(-at-)juno.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 2-bbl Webber Progressive - Calibration?

At 09:00 AM 11/26/2003, you wrote:
>  Well, on my VW Bus, I have a
>2-bbl Webber Progressive. I'd like to make sure that it's configured
>properly so that, I'm neither running lean, or running rich. Without
>buying some fancy tools (unless that's my only alternative). Is there a
>good method to tune and adjust the fuel / air screws on my carburetor to
>make sure I'm getting just the right fuel mixture?

Tuning by ear is not calibration. In fact, without instruments certified to 
a standard you can't say it is a calibrated procedure. If you will read the 
Bentley for the Type I carbed motors it gives the basic procedure for 
tuning by ear the carb. The procedure is so little different from any carb, 
you can use it for the Weber and many others. At idle, turn the mixture 
screw out and in until maximum idle speed is obtained. Reset idle screw to 
spec. Repeat until spec idle is held at optimum mixture. When all else is 
spec, this will typically be a bit rich. With all carb adjustments I always 
use the RPM readout on a tach and this manual tuning, but I was doing it by 
ear in the 60's on Fords and Chevys.

Now I hook up my exhaust gas monitor and always find it a bit rich. You can 
lean it some and still maintain a clean idle. I then lean it out a bit at a 
time until I get a drop in idle quality, then back rich just to smooth 
idle. Every adjustment of the mixture requires readjustment of the idle 
speed screw, then rev off idle and hold until exhaust reading stabilizes 
then close and let idle until the reading again stabilizes. I repeat the 
iteration 2 or 3 times and depending upon the relative health of the motor, 
low spec or high spec but within spec, clean running results in spec 2.5% 
to 3.5% CO almost all the time. If it doesn't, it suggests something else 
is out of spec. Could be motor issue, ignition issue, or wrong jets or 
clogged jets.

If you get poor response when turning the mixture screw, something else is 
foul.  Could be anything from low voltage at the gap due to dirty battery 
and cables or one weak cylinder or one valve not quite closing or a bit of 
a vacuum leak. Webers typically give great response when set up properly 
for the application. Any 1/4 turn of the mixture screw will create a large 
response, but this presumes the correct jets for your motor are in play.

Adjustment of mixture whether by ear or spendy tools is folly if the 
mechanicals and ignition are out of spec in any way.


>It runs pretty decent, but it pops sometimes.

A sleight, only occasional pop upon deceleration is a good indicator or not 
too rich or lean, presuming no other faults like a vacuum leak.

In the end, the key to proper mixture adjustment is balanced compression 
and hot spark at the right time.
