Date: Wed, 26 Nov 2003 13:31:26 -0600
To: Type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Vanagon resetable trip speedometer

At 09:17 AM 11/26/2003, Sage Green wrote:
>There need to be a hole drilled in the 'glass' speedometer face to accommodate the reset button on the new speedo.  I did drill a hole in the original glass, but I broke the glass.  It was very sensitive at the new hole.  So I got some clear Plexiglas strips and cut out a circle to replace the glass.  I drilled a hole in the Plexiglas with no problem.

I installed a Vanagon speedo in my bus a few years ago and had the same dilemma.  I was able to drill the hole in the glass by getting a special bit at Home Depot made for the purpose.  There were a couple of chips around the edges of the hole when I was done, but it's not really noticeable.

>If you plan to drill a hole in the glass, and you are going out for a glass drill bit, get a BIG drill bit, like 3/8 or even a step highter.  A 1/4 (2/8) will not do the job.

Hmmm... I got a bit that was just barely larger than the reset pin - I'm sure it was not larger than 1/4".

>And make sure that stupid little early Vanagon speedo gear is not cracked!!

I replaced my gear with a brass one from a BMW, but had a problem with it recently that might be worth mentioning.  Sometimes, after I had driven for a while, the odometer would stop turning.  It got worse until the odometer was almost never turning.  Well, that's not quite true - it would turn up until 0.9 miles and then stop.  If I reset it, it would go another 0.9 miles and stop again.  Occasionally when it was cool outside (mornings) it would work for a few miles and then stop.

I finally pulled the speedo out and found that the brass gear was no longer tight on the shaft.  When the speedo was warm it would slip and the odometer would stop.  I wasn't sure why this was happening after so many miles but I took the gear off and cleaned everything up first.  I had put some grease on the brass gear to hopefully prevent it from wearing out the plastic piece it engages.  I wiped all of the grease off and found that the gear now fit snugly.  I reinstalled everything and it has been fine ever since.  I guess there isn't supposed to be any grease there, but I was really suprised that it would have that much effect on an interference fit.

-David
