Date: Fri, 17 Dec 2010 16:06:48 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Mind the Gap (weather sealing)

Again I usually try to make do with the stock seal (which surpisingly in the
US in a moderate climate area can still be in good shape) using some thick
silicone lubricant worked into it to restore the springiness, or I to seal off
the entire box.  The stock seals on those like all stock VW weatherstrip were
uniformly of very high quality.  I have several sets in parts boxes that are
still in wonderful shape, though I'm sure those in daily used buses are
getting worse year by year.  The ones in my '77 are still good, the ones in my
SC, well I don't drive it in winter, I have no idea.  I don't think anything
else would nearly do the job frankly but if I had to conjecture what I'd try,
it would be something very dense, maybe something in a sheet good form, like
off the top of my head perhaps some of the foam rubber from my 3yo's
"alphabet" floor/gym pad mats, or higher end under carpet pad (not the chopped
block stuff, but solid stuff) cut carefully to
 shape, or actually just striking me, perhaps some of an old used bus front
door seal that still had some good sections.  You need to make sure that the
linkage is truely closing those all the way as well.  Anyway as conjectured, a
cover over the entire box does nicely, whatever level of exoticness you go to,
it is much easier.
 
To add on a seperate note, I'm a bit confused by anything else leaking air
under there as mentioned.  If you cover the entire box, that should be the
only real inlet on the nose excepting that into the front doors as mentioned,
unless one has some pretty severe rust.  If that is the case the acess holes
to the windshield washer nozzel jets and some other holes in that same doubled
panel up along the top would leak air from the eternal below the windshield
seal rust, but I'd think you'd know about that kind of rust.  The only things
in the nose with air in them should be the heater plenum and ductwork (you
decide if this is warm or cold and a positive or negative factor for your
individual busses volks), the fresh air plenum box which should be fully
blocked by an external method as we've detailed, and the signal lights and
headlamp buckets, both of which had/have seals and even if disintegrated
shouldn't account for much.  Every little bit does
 help though.
 
As I've said since this little list started (back when I was driving that bus
commuting over the Allegheny front in winter) the best thing for heat in a bus
is a tight stock heater system, new boxes, tight joints along the feeds up to
the flapper boxes, wired open or well adjusted flapper boxes (your cables are
likely past adjusting, really), total elimination of the stock
middle distribution box if it is questionable/rusted, and most importantly a
recirculating intake system plumbed with either the stock electric blower
(do-able though a bit hard to get a good seal on its inlet) or easier using a
good aftermarket blower into the heater box feeds with intake in the rear of
the passenger compartment.  The only thing better than that is 9 warm bodies
in the bus.
 
John

--- On Fri, 12/17/10, gretnagreg <gretnagreg(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:

this message series raises a question for me, Under the front grill flaps,
what kind of foam do you use and what are the dimensions for that foam to
help
seal those flaps?  Every bus I've done and tried 3/8 +/- inch closed cell
foam
still leaked air at speed!
