From: Eron Crites <emcrites(-at-)msn.com>
To: type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 19 Dec 2010 18:42:50 -0700
Subject: Chico to McKinleyville(and back)

Hi all,

When I moved from Boise to Chico a few months ago, I had to leave my 1996
Passat GLX with family.  A friend coming out here to McKinleyville to pick up
a nice 1960 beetle accepts my request to deliver the Passat on his way out
there.  I offer to drive my '70 deluxe to go pick up the car and the stash of
extra parts.  We leave at around 9 AM and arrive about 1:00 in the afternoon
to look at the car.  After some carb and electrical adjusting, we have the car
ready to go, and the extra parts are tucked away in both vehicles.  My buddy
heads back to Boise via Bend,OR and I head back towards Redding on HWY 299.
Then the storm hits.  The mountains between Arcata and Weaverville are pretty
treacherous, especially when icy.  Luckily it wasn't that cold, but the rain
was frighteningly severe.  Not frightening because of the road conditions, but
frightening because of the rockslides...
     While descending through a cloud(no high-beams) I round a corner and both
lanes are covered in rocks.  My brain goes into hyperdrive and categorizes the
levels of danger almost instantly.  Brake, don't brake, change lanes or not,
it all happens so fast.  SOmething clips the right front wheel and suddenly
the engine is roaring.  I pull over to survey the damage to find the wheel
with a 1" taco and the quiet-pack caved in and wrenched loose from the heater
box(passenger side).  I would've cleared it if that muffler didn't hang so
low!  The wheel is losing air rapidly, so I grab my deadblow hammer and
proceed to un-taco the taco.  The leak is stopped, but I can't seem to find my
dammned compressor.  When I do, I need to put the little guy on top of the
tire so it isn't drenched in the downpoar.  The tire fills and holds, and I'm
on my way again, a little louder than before but relatively unscathed.  2 1/2
hours later and I'm back home.
     SO my question is this; who besides EMPI and Bugpack makes a quiet-pack
that isn't simply tin foil?  This muffler was a JSC mufflr from the 80's and
it was SOLID.  It stil had life left in it.  Where can I get something that
compares?  Anybody have one NOS somewhere they'd like to part with?  I'm
tempted to grab a Borla stainless and have it welded to the old flange.

Eron in Chico again.
