From: "Mitchell Motorworks" <joe(-at-)bustedbus.com>
To: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>,
Date: Thu, 2 Dec 2004 08:19:01 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Late disk swap on an early bus (70)

> I had a disk swap in mind
> anyway so I think I may do it all at once.  I
> plan on adding 73+ components.  My understanding
> is that I'll have to scrounge everything from the
> hubs out, wheels, a master cyl, and maybe a
> proportioning valve. I will not bother with the
> booster.  Sound right?

'70 is the right year for this swap that is for sure. I think that you 
understand what needs to happen so I wont go into the details to much. I 
will say that a large component of this system is the booster. It could add 
trouble to the swap process. First the mounting plate for the booster could 
be welded to your existing beam, you must then run the lines and have a port 
installed on your manifold some where. This is what I would do (well really 
I would leave it just like it is and do a brake job);

Find a '71 and later bus with a great beam (get everything even the stuff 
you intend to replace with new, just for reference, brake lines, hoses, 
everything) you'll need at least everything from the ball joints out and 
then some

drop the beam and rebuild it

new ball joints

swing lever kit

the works, fresh coat of paint is really nice too. (you could take it to 
shows and put those mirrors under the front for people to walk by and gock 
at)

then once you have all your ducks in a row swap it out. This will allow you 
the time and make sure you have everything before your bus goes under the 
knife (an on the bus swap to disks could take a long time and forced to get 
it rolling is sometimes pricey)

I wonder if busboys has a kit set up for this stuff, "inconceivable"

I would tread lightly with this there could be a ton of stuff to over look, 
like;
the linkage from the pedal to the master cyl
is there a pressure regulator needed
brake hose and line changes
sounds fun lets do it

Mitchell Motorwork's BUStedBUS
www.mitchellmotorworks.com  www.bustedbus.com
1-877-897-3211
Mon-Fri 10 A.M-6 P.M.
Sat 10 A.M.-2 P.M.
New, Used, and Rebuilt Baywindow Bus Parts '68-'79
