Date: Thu, 2 Dec 2004 08:12:44 -0800 (PST)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] dizzy rebuild was vac dizzy help....

--- Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com> wrote:
> On Wed, Dec 01, 2004 at 07:11:01PM -0800, Nemo,
> the Bus Captain wrote:
> > Except that he hasn't verified he has a bad
> > vacuum mechanism.  And he apparently still
> has the vacuum lines incorrectly attached. 
> 
> No, the lines he has running from carb to
> distributor are 100% correct.
> At least according to the picture he posted. I
> verified it with a
> beetle bentley I had laying around. 
> 
Then either the Beetle Bentley is 110% wrong or
my dizzy and carb and the carb, and dizzy used by
the guy that wrote the library article, are
different than the one on the Beetle in the
Bentley.  I don't have the Bentley photo, so I
cannot know if or why there is a discrepancy.  

I know that some kid on thesamba.com forum thinks
it's the same way his is hooked up also. 
However, lotsa people have their vacuum hooked up
wrong.  

Anyway, Daniel has a vacuum gauge as I've learned
from posts offlist.  Daniel, hook up your gauge
to the port on the left side of the carb.  It
should show no vacuum at idle and then spike as
you open the throttle.  If it does, then it
should be connected to your advance.  The advance
side of the vacuum pot is the more curved part,
in other words the outside aspect.  Also check
the rear port on the carb, rear meaning towards
the rear bumper.  It should show vacuum at idle
(around 15") and should have no vacuum as you
open the throttle.  Hook this up to the other
port in the inside of the vacuum pot. That would
be the reverse of how it appears to be hooked up
in the photo.  If the ports are somehow
backwards, then leave it the way it is.  That
should clear up any confusion.

If your vacuum gauge has the function that allows
you to pull vacuum, as one of mine does, you can
check your advance and retard functions also by
putting vacuum on the two ports and watching the
timing change with the strobe hooked up.  If your
guage won't do it, you can just suck on the hoses
to the two ports and see which was the timing
moves.  With both ports off, you can watch your
mechanical advance. 

If I'm wrong, and I've been wrong before, by all
means let us know.  

Happy bussin'
Ray
