Date: Thu, 2 Dec 2004 12:00:26 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] dizzy rebuild was vac dizzy help....

[Peeking head up - looks clear, don't see any small rodents about.
Putting various weapons on safe, but the Louisville Slugger is in
hand...]

Ahem - Daniel, Ray, et al...

Daniel hath writ thusly:  "...when I hook that to the drivers port on
carb and leave retard open, the dizzy doesn't advance at all. Zero. Up
the revs and the mark stays exactly where it is..."

Forgive the somewhat 'tarded and rhetorical question, but is this a
combination mechanical/vacuum dizzy, or is it a straight vacuum dizzy?
(Edit - never mind the rhetoric - the 9:00 a.m. digest just made this
clear)  I did see the pics over at the other site, but can't remember
what it was or if it even showed.  If the former, it "sounds" like your
mechanical advance section may be having issues, and/or your vacuum can
may be toast, and/or the plate that the points are attached to may also
be having issues.  If a straight vacuum dizzy, then you just figured out
the problem.  Joy!

Re the combination dizzy - if you grab the rotor and you CANNOT get it
to move clockwise/counter-clockwise with some resistance against the
springs and counterweights, you'll need to find out why.  Judicious use
of Kroil can be your best friend here to get the upper portion of the
dizzy shaft loosened up about the lower portion, then keep that section
free with the occaisional drop of motor oil in the place the rotor fits
down onto.  See Bentley for pics if my use of the language is
inadequate.  Use some appropriate tubing and apply the s*ck test to the
vacuum ports on the vacuum can - if it won't hold vacuum, you just
deduced a bunk can.  If it does hold vacuum on both ports, but the
points place doesn't move, you'll need to remove the plate and find out
why - sometimes all they need is some cleaning and lubing.  Sometimes
they are worn out, and you'll need to find a replacement.  While you
have the plate out, get the mechanical advance section cleaned and lubed
too...

That's about it for now.  If the $70 vacuum can fixes the problem and
gets you back in the running, it's still better than "no-name" rebuilds
of unknown parentage, the $125 SVDA, or the $300 Mallory Unilite, m'kay?
Count your blessings, do the math and figure out how much more gas the
009 will cause your motor to ingest with no ROI.  The combination dizzy
is your pal in this situation.  I'll be cleaning out my office now (so
long corporate-drone life), returning to the shadows from whence I lurk,
and adjusting my tin-foil hat for maximum coverage ;-)

Adios, amoebas!  Ya me voy...

Jaime
'72 Westy Weekender - 2260 T4, now with no 4th gear
'73 Deluxe - 2055 T4, now with no compression on #3
Desperately trying to leave Dodge - all of the above mayhem within 72
hours :-/

PD - I just saw the 9:00 a.m. digest and do have to concur with The
Cap'n - it would be VERY nice to know the proper ports on the carburetor
that ought to be connected to the proper ports on the vacuum can.


E-MAIL CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:  The contents of this e-mail message and any
attachments are intended solely for the
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or legally privileged
information. If you are not the
intended recipient of this message or if this message has been addressed to
you in error, please
immediately alert the sender by reply e-mail and then delete this message and
any attachments. If you
are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination,
distribution, copying, or
storage of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited.
