Date: Thu, 9 Oct 2003 08:15:35 -0400 (EDT)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: <farmer(-at-)orangeburgcomputers.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] 68 Baywindow: Studs too Short

On Thu, 9 Oct 2003 farmer(-at-)orangeburgcomputers.com wrote:

>   I changed my oil today and found that the studs are too short to firmly
> attach the screen.  What can I do about this?

Check them for length.  There should be about 6-8mm of stud emerging from
the bottom of the block.  If there is not then thread two nuts of the
correct size onto the stud.  Tighten the two nuts against each other and
crank the stud out of the case using the nut closest to the case.  You may
check the stud length inside the case using a dental mirror and check for
the presence of a lock nuton the inside of the case.  Depending on the
engine history these may or may not be there.

> Did cranking them end up screwing them into the case farther?

That is probably what has happened.

There are a variety of solutions for this problem.  The only permanent
solution is to remove the stud, clean the threads in the case, install the
stud using a good medium-strength locking compound, and installing the
backing nut on the inside of the case.  Unfortunately the only time this
is practicable is during an engine rebuild.

Since splitting the case to repair these studs is a bit of overkill you
might try cleaning the threads on the stud and in the case as well as
possible using carburetor cleaner.  Use a paper towel dam to hold back the
oil while you are doing this.  Once both the stud and case are clean
insert the stud with some medium-strength thread locker to hold it in
place.

As a final piece of advice I would replace any studs I removed.  The
original nuts on these were acorn nuts to protect the very exposed
threads.  Today most of the nuts are plain and leave the threads exposed.
They get buggered and the force needed to drive them drives the stud into
the case.  It is important that the threads be clean and smooth so replace
the studs and look for the proper acorn nuts.

                             OOK!

Litera Scripta Manent
