Date: Thu, 09 Oct 2003 10:52:53 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Michael.Donnellan(-at-)usdoj.gov" <Michael.Donnellan(-at-)usdoj.gov>
To: Type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com> (Receipt Notification Requested) (IPM
Cc: "'Noelslv(-at-)aol.com'" <Noelslv(-at-)aol.com> (Receipt Notification
Subject: Re: [T2] Carb Replacement (venturi size)

>>on Wed, 8 Oct 2003 at 17:15:18 EDT Noelslv(-at-)aol.com wrote:
>>I've been told you have to go with a minimum of 40mm venturi's instead of
the
>>34's. What do you think?

>On Wed,  8 Oct 2003 at 16:54:49 -0500 "schwarze" <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
wrote:
><snip>
>Ask your secret source why VW saw fit to equip their 1.8- 2.0 engines with
26mm
>venturis at the factory
><snip>

I don't want to wade very deeply into any discussion of venturi's, b/c I have
a lot of ignorance on all subjects related to fuel and intake systems.  I do
recall that it confused me when I first had a bus, so, for the benefit of
others, I thought I'd state a few things that I've gleaned over the years
(especially from this list) and let the experts tell me if I'm wrong.  In
general, an engine works better if the air flowing through the carb is flowing
quickly (high velocity).  On a given engine w/ at a given speed, the air will
flow more quickly through the carb if the opening is smaller.  So, at low rpms
when the volume of air flowing through the carb is relatively small, you can
increase velocity by using a narrow carb.  Also generally, a carb throat that
is narrow may reduce the amount of power developed by the engine at higher
rpms.  At high rpms when the volume of air flowing through the carb is
relatively large, a narrow carb would mean that less air flowed through the
carb, less air/fuel mixture flows to the cylinders, and the quantity of
horsepower produced by the engine declines.  The trick is to find the right
balance b/t velocity and quantity for the particular application.

Most aftermarket ACVW stuff is focused on high rpm performance - e.g. to
maximize horsepower at 5500+ rpms.  This is the type of power that can, for
example, be used when drag racing.  I think you need larger venturi sizes to
maximize horsepower at high rpms.  In contrast, the heavy bus actually needs
the engine to perform at its best at a much lower rpm range (e.g. 2500 to 3000
rpm for the type 1 w/ which I am most familiar).  For reasons that I don't
really understand, at moderate rpms with high velocity flow through the carb,
the motor will develop the torque (torque is different from horsepower) which
is most useful for moving a heavy vehicle w/ a small motor w/o overheating.

So smaller venturis that will have a restrictive effect on power at high rpms
may actually be a better choice for a bus engine that will operate at low to
moderate rpms.  As David Schwarze (a very knowledgeable guy) suggests, look at
the venturi sizes actually selected by VW for guidance.  Know that if venture
beyond stock into aftermarket ACVW products, you are looking almost entirely
at a product line that is not designed to work for your application.  With
know-how and hard work, you can probably achieve good results using
aftermarket parts, but going w/ the stock setup is almost always a much easier
way to achieve good results.

There are many factors other than venturi size that impact an engines
performance -- stroke, compression, size, cam, valves, etc....  I have ignored
those to focus on venturi size.  Also, I have not even tried to address the
issue of jetting the carb once you select it -- this is an area where I have
never had any ability at all.  Finally, I understand that velocity is not
generally relevant to FI systems.

Hope this helps someone,

Michael
1970 VW w/ 1600ccDP w/ 34Pict3
Silver Spring, MD USA
