From: Ted Kitch <tedkitch(-at-)tedsgarage.com>
To: 'aircooled chris' <midwestbass(-at-)hotmail.com>, "'type2(-at-)type2.com'"
Date: Thu, 9 Oct 2003 12:50:39 -0500 
Subject: RE: [T2] wish me luck

I hope things go great for you.  I'm glad that you will be able to get your
bus running again.  You had mentioned that you didn't want to sell it if you
didn't have to.

Airing out dirty laundry on the list isn't a nice thing to do.  I'm sorry
that you don't believe the circumstances, but I have email from you that
states that you don't always get your mail out on the island.  In fact your
exact quote was "Stuff like that always scares me, as I think Numan himself
is our own personal carrier. ;p"  I was amazed when I found out that the
person that I had contracted to bring the bus here said that he couldn't
make it.

As soon as my delivery to Chicago fell through I called you and you were
supposed to find out what it would cost to fix it and allow me to fly out
and pick up the bus to drive back.  I told you that the best quotes I was
getting to have the bus delivered to me in the time frame that you allowed
were over $2000 and we both agreed that this was way too much.  You didn't
bother to call back and started posting that you were going to sell the bus
again.  Today you post something like this and that isn't fair.  I know that
there are a ton of deadbeats out there that cause problems like this with no
regard to what one has to deal with on their end.  You should have at least
called me back as you had promised.

I can understand your frustration, but I was willing to take delivery of
your bus, as long as the costs are within reason.  As of the last time we
spoke you didn't know exactly what was wrong with the engine and I told you
that if it wasn't too expensive to fix or we could find an engine that I
would pay the difference.  All you needed to do was call me back.  You chose
this route.  I know how it feels when a deal falls through, it is very
frustrating.

I'm not looking to start a public battle with you here, but I don't think
that it is fair to make one sided statements to a public forum such as the
Type II list.  These type of things should be handled between the two
parties involved, not everyone in the world!

Wishing you the best of luck in your move to MN,

Ted Kitch
tedkitch(-at-)tedsgarage.com

76 Westy (Darlin)
77 Westy (Parts)
