Date: Fri, 10 Oct 2003 09:53:02 -0500 (CDT)
From: "Thomas J. Tarka" <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, <mistriss_poet(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: [Friday] Ah....

There is nothing quite like the feeling of driving down the road in your 
bus after a long hiatus.  

You let it warm up for 5-10 minutes because you're still puttering around 
and filling up the tires that you needed to deflate so the tire on the 
roof-rack would clear that garage opening.  You hop in after locking up 
the garage, complete confidence that despite the fact she hasn't been run 
in 3 months (except once to warm the oil before draining it) that she'll 
get you the 16 miles back to your house, flip on the headlights and swing 
out of the driveway.

It's that first moment when you feel (and hear) the vacuum advance dizzy 
kick in, sweeping you up to 25, shifting, and sweeping you beyond.  It's a 
thrill that I'm sure I can't describe, that I'm almost positive no non-VW 
owner could get other than by looking at the look of pure ecstacy, that
calm, satisfied, half-smile on my face as I wind it up and settle back 
into "driving the bus".

It's never quite the same after that.  I immensely enjoy driving my bus, 
but that pure hit of satisfaction doesn't come in the weeks that follow.  
Maybe it's that I only let it warm up for a minute or two and that it 
balks when it hits 2500 rpm in that condition, such that driving up the 
just doesn't quite hit the same peak.

Needless to say, my bus is back on the road and running like a charm 
-- well, like you'd expect a tired 1600 to run.  Still lots of work to be 
done on it, still a few bugs to be worked out, but now she's got a 
windshield, the rust under the windshield is repaired, the cancer 
temporarily abated, and hopefully between that and a new cargo hatch seal, 
I won't be taking on anymore water.  The novelty of being able to both 
open the driver's side door from the inside and wind down the passenger 
window have yet to wear-off/sink-in as well.  Now if that damn tail-light 
ground would only stay put...

Happy Friday Volks!

	-t
	-71 bus
	-67 kombi, 'lily', awaiting RGB transplant


ps thanks Steve Dolan for your immense help on the windshield!
