From: "Diane" <djaeby(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "Vintage Bus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 18 Aug 2003 17:16:37 -0400
Subject: RECAP ( 1 of 2) sent with wrong email address .. it didn't post

http://www.qoam.com/finished.htm

Spent a few hours on the phone with Dave W. from the list.  He had me crawling
around under my bus like a "regular mechanic."

FIRST THE LAUGH:   All the while - as I was under the bus and my head in the
engine .. I could hear the sound of a helicopter flying overhead.  Figured
there was a wreck somewhere near-by .. and when I came out from under the bus,
after just having commented to David that my neighbors probably think I am
nuts if they can see me because I was doing all this "grease monkey" stuff in
a dress. .  Not a dressy dress, not a mini skirt .. but a long dress, mid
calf, and doing my best to not give them a peep show.  So I come out from
under the bus and there are cops all over the place.  and as one started to
approach me I said to David that someone must have called the cops on me.
Turns out that there was an armed bank robbery just a block away and the guy
took off running down my street.  The police wanted to know if I saw anyone
running down the street, but I hadn't, I was under the bus.  JEEZ ...

So anyway .. bus still leaks oil and a bunch of other stuff that I made a list
of.  Waiting for the VW dealership to phone me back, they were at lunch, I am
going to get a written estimate on fixing the bus .. the CORRECT WAY .. and
take ole Brucie to court.
I am hoping they will see me today, as I am already 4.5 hours late for work.

The link above is my original link .. with pictures of the progress.  I was
doing a comparission on another webpage.



Took some pictures of the engine NOW and compared it to out of the bus.  It
was then that I realized [before talking to David] that the muffler in the
BEFORE installation is NOT the same as the one in there now.  The one in there
now is old and rust covered and the one in the picture is silver with a new
tag/label on it.  You can see what it should have looked like here.

www.omigosh.com/engine.html

I will take more of under the bus when I get to the VW dealership.  You can
see the greasy .. oily .. rusty ... mess later tonight maybe ..  I will not be
going back there again.  Under NO circumstances.

Diane

PS .. David said I should point out to the list how he DESTROYED the bumper
and the rear apron ... see for yourself ...
http://www.qoam.com/finished.htm

Near the bottom of the page.
