Date: Mon, 18 Aug 2003 14:44:15 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Thomas J. Tarka" <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
To: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] PROBLEM on the road!!!

Cal,

Slow down a second.  No need to disable the cylinder before you've 
determined the problem.

Here's a couple of quick tests to run:

1) Timing: Are the timing & dwell adjusted properly?  At full advance 
(~3300 RPM) you should be no farther than 32 degrees BTDC (do you have a 
degree pully?).  Make sure the dwell is w/i tolerances.  This could cause 
your pinging.

2) Lazy man's compression test.  With the engine running, pull the #3 
spark plug wire out of the distributor.  Does the engine sound different?  
If it does, then #3 is still firing.  Compare this to the sound that the 
engine makes when you pull out hte different spark plug wires (one at a 
time).

3) If you determine a problem with one of your cylinders, do a REAL 
compression test.  This shouldn'ot take longer than 15-20 minutes.  As you 
are pulling your spark plugs, check the plug gaps.  I've had a cylinder 
not fire because of a bad plug gap.

Your compression test will tell you if you've got a burnt valve or 
otherwise.

Pinging can also be caused by a loose head (ask me how I know).  If the 
timing, dwell, and plug gaps all turn out ok, let your engine cool 
overnight (or for 7 hours), pull the rocker arms and torque the bottom 
head bolts to spec (22-23 ft-lbs, IIRC).  If any particular one is loose, 
you've found your problem.  Nurse your bus home (having torqued both heads 
and re-adjusted your valves) with the knowledge that you shoudl probably 
pull your engine and torque the heads properly when you get home.

That's about 3-4 hours of troubleshooting and work.

It also strikes me that the sound you're hearing is a rod or ring knock.  
Have you done the Muir procedure for testing for a rod knock?  It's real 
easy.

I mean, otherwise your temps and pressure look good.  Really, I don't see 
a need to disable a cylinder if you confirm the above dataand promise your 
bus that you'll do some more thorough testing on return to the bay area.

HTH, 
  tom
