Date: Mon, 18 Aug 2003 23:08:18 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: "Thomas J. Tarka" <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
Subject: RE: [VB] PROBLEM on the road!!!

On Mon, 18 Aug 2003, Thomas J. Tarka wrote:

> how many miles on this engine?  i.e. when (if ever) have you seen that
> much of a change in any of the valves?

There's about 12K on the engine - two cross country trips this year, plus
very little here in CA save for this LA trip.

> how frequently do you do your valves?

My ship's log says last VA was 2000 miles ago.

> your new carb could be running lean and you could have just run that
> cylinder hot...

I"m beginning to think that this is the correlation I should investigate.
Tomorrow (Tues), I'll be visiting my buddies with the full workshop and
space, and I'm gonna remove the new carb, and check the size of the main
jet, because the old carb took me around for ten years on this basic
engine (I replaced the heads and Ps and Cs last year, had them matched to
the old ones volume-wise at Rimco). The old carb has a 127.5 main. It will
be interesting to see what's in the new brasilian. The old carb is an
original German Solex that I've been taking care of for at least ten
years. The bushings need replacing, gas was dripping out of each side
bushing when the car mysteriously died one day last month. I looked
inside, and saw the gas dripping, and popped in the spare carb, and
everything was fine again. I usually associate a sudden failure with
ignition, but when I opened up the old carb, there was no seeable damage,
just the usual crud, which I cleaned. The bushings need replacing - I
wanna keep this German carb going. The failure is still officially a
mystery to me.

This latest engine problem worries me because of the 4 mil recession of #3
exhaust. All my past experience with that symptom is engine failure,
usually quickly.

In 1986, I drove 200 miles from mid-Missouri to OK City on 3 cylinders to
avoid a possible #3 exhaust failure when I got the same symptoms. Made it
no trouble - pulled the pushrods and plug.

I'll see what gives tomorrow and report in. The engine ran fine all day
since the compression test and timing readjustment from 27 degrees to 32.

Gotta check that new main jet.

thanks to all! Nice to have this new-fangled Internet stuff. Back then, I
was on my own, period. Me and the Idiot manual and the Clymer book. But I
*did* make it this far! ;-)

cal
