From: "VWguy" <pickit(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: "Diane Vee" <djaeby(-at-)hotmail.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 19 Aug 2003 12:28:48 -0400
Subject: Re: [VB] VW Authorized Dealership Inspection

This doesn't surprise me Diane. I guess someone should have told you that VW
doesn't give a rats' a** about the aircooled community. It has been proved
over and over. VW is great about suing others for using their logo or name
but when it comes to backing-up a customer on a dispute you can forget it.

I think you are right about suing this guy. If he has to sit in court for a
few hours and answer to a judge, maybe he will think twice next time before
screwing-up somebody's car.

You don't have to have an "Authorized VW" estimate to go to court. You do
have to have _paid_ invoices from a repair shop, any repair shop, to show
the judge before you can expect to receive a judgment against the 1st
mechanic.

The invoices should show that you had to pay a second time to have another
shop repair the _same_ problem or condition that you paid the 1st shop to
repair. It would help if you could convince the 2nd repair shop owner to
testify for you but it is not necessary. Also, make sure that the invoice
from the 2nd shop has the exact same description of the problem they are
repairing as the description reads on the 1st invoice.

Also, you should send a _polite_ letter to the 1st repair shop outlining the
problems or items that you paid them for that are still not repaired. Send
it registered mail, return receipt requested. In the letter, state that you
require that they respond to you within a reasonable amount of time (30 days
or so) or you will be forced to take your car to another shop to have the
repairs done.

Another thing, when you talk to another shop, don't go off on the 1st
mechanic and how he screwed you. If you are too hysterical, they will think
that you are the problem and tell you to go elsewhere. Do tell them that you
had your car at another shop. Show them the invoices and ask them if they
think the 1st shop repaired the items listed on the invoice. Let them tell
you whether they think the 1st shop did or did not do the repairs correctly.
Stay calm.


Kevin Bell

.....




Just got back from the VW Authorized Dealership Inspection.  Didn't go as
well
as I hoped.  The person who made my appointment said "yes you can" to so
many
things, pictures etc .. Dropped off my bus .. she filled out the paperwork
..
then the service manager called me into his office .. closed the door and
said
"I smell a law suit and VW does not want to get involved."  In any case ..
NO
.. I could not go in and take pictures of the bus when it is on the lift.
They did an inspection and here is what they wrote.
