From: "VWguy" <pickit(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: "Dave Wolfanger" <dwolf(-at-)bluefrognet.net>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <djaeby(-at-)hotmail.com>
Date: Tue, 19 Aug 2003 13:30:05 -0400
Subject: Re: [VB] VW Authorized Dealership Inspection

I think you are missing my point Dave. My post addressed her goal is to sue
the 1st shop. An estimate to repair is not going to win the day in court,
regardless of who does it. To win in court, you have to show that you have
been damaged by a parties action. It is very unusual to go to court (except
on Judge Mathis) and have the judge find against a defendant based on an
estimate. Basically, she wasted her time and money getting an estimate if
she planned to use it in a court case.

About the letter. Again, the goal is to sue the original shop. If she does
not show the judge that she gave the 1st mechanic formal notice that the
repairs were unsatisfactory and that she gave him time to correct the
problem, the 1st mechanic can claim that he had no knowledge of the problem.
At that point could argue that he should not be held liable for a problem
that he was never given an opportunity to correct.

If you want to go play in court, you have play by their rules.

Your suggestion to have her go the BBB or AG would not resolve her problem
of having to pay a second time to have the car repaired. All they could do
is put pressure on the 1st mechanic to complete the repairs, something she
does not wish to do.

Kevin Bell

.....

> You don't have to have an "Authorized VW" estimate to go to court. You do
> have to have _paid_ invoices from a repair shop, any repair shop, to show
> the judge before you can expect to receive a judgment against the 1st
> mechanic.

Diane's second repair shop is "Scooter" :)
The authorized VW Dealer Inspection should have included
a cost estimate for the repair of an oil leak, since that's why she
went there and now plans to return for. They do repair old vw's.
It is unclear if the leak is a rear (?) main seal or a cracked
case so the estimate will be very different for each of these.

They refused to provide documentation for brake defects and
steering defects, and substituted rusty muffler, and was told
that the $75/hour charge ( which took 30 minutes ) would have
to be applied separately for each individual problem.
Pretty expensive estimate.
We think that she can get estimates for each of these extra problems
from Midas muffler, brake shops, alignment shops, etc. for free.

> Also, you should send a _polite_ letter to the 1st repair shop outlining
the
> problems or items that you paid them for that are still not repaired. Send
> it registered mail, return receipt requested. In the letter, state that
you
> require that they respond to you within a reasonable amount of time (30
days
> or so) or you will be forced to take your car to another shop to have the
> repairs done.

The registered letter is a very good idea, but she has no confidence
in the original shop and no way to police another shoddy repair scam there.

She has not yet explored the Better Business Bureau,
The Department of Motor Vehicles ( it's a registered repair shop )
or the Attorney General. And she bought the bus on Ebay.
The repairs may well exceed the limits of small claims court.
