To: airkooled(-at-)yahoogroups.com,FullMoonBusClub(-at-)groups.msn.com,
Date: Sun, 9 Feb 2003 20:46:29 -0600
From: myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Fw: Attn 2001-2003 model VW and Audi owners

just passin this along...

VOLKSWAGEN AND AUDI TO REPLACE ALL IGNITION COIL PARTS ON 2001, 2002 AND
SOME 2003 MODELS

AUBURN HILLS, Mich.  Volkswagen of America, Inc. and Audi of America,
Inc. today announced a customer service action in which the companies
will ultimately replace the ignition coils in all 2001 and 2002 model
year cars equipped with certain engines that have been experiencing a
higher-than-normal failure rate. Also affected are very early production
2003 models.

The companies are currently notifying all customers potentially affected
and are initially replacing those ignition coils that fail at no cost.
The updated customer service action, replacing all ignition coils whether
they fail or not, will be implemented in the coming months.

"We know that some ignition coils installed in our cars are not up to our
high quality standards, and we are determined to do the right thing for
our customers. The right thing to do is to fix every single car with
these coils by replacing them whether they are broken yet or not. That is
exactly what we will do as soon as we have the parts," said Gerd Klauss,
president and CEO, Volkswagen of America, Inc.

The vehicles affected in this action include cars equipped with 1.8 liter
engines, which includes the Audi TT and A4; and the VW Golf/GTI, Jetta,
New Beetle and Passat. The companies also included the Passat W8 engine,
all VW's equipped with the 2.8 liter VR6; as well as the Audi 3.0 liter
V6 engine. In total, approximately 530,000 cars are affected by this
action.

The ignition coils provide electricity to the engine's spark plugs during
operation. Volkswagen and Audi have recognized through service reports
that the ignition coils used in the products listed above have a
higher-than-normal failure rate. If an ignition coil fails, the check
engine light/malfunction indicator lamp will blink. The car's performance
may, in some cases, become rough and/or the engine will lose some power
and the car should be taken to an authorized dealer for repair. The
engine and its electronic controls are designed to keep the vehicle
running. Some deterioration in performance, however, can be expected.

Volkswagen and Audi are announcing the following customer service action:

The supplier is working triple shifts and seven days a week to make as
many new parts as possible. Additionally, a second supplier has been
activated.

Soon customers will be notified by mail that Volkswagen and Audi will
proactively begin replacing all ignition coils in cars potentially
affected, whether a failure has occurred or not. This action will begin
in the coming months as soon as replacement ignition coil supply volumes
will allow.

In order to minimize inconvenience to customers during repair, Volkswagen
and Audi dealers will offer alternative transportation at no cost. 
Customers with questions should call VW Customer Relations toll-free at
(800) 822-8987 or Audi Customer Relations toll-free at (800) 822-2834.
