From: "Russ Neithammer" <rneithammer(-at-)mlea.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "Access Systems" <accessys(-at-)smart.net>
Date: Mon, 10 Feb 2003 13:01:23 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] aftermarket, intermittent wipers

I have not installed this in any of my VW's but I did years ago install one
in a non-VW.  It worked OK, but there was an "issue" that would, I think,
apply to almost any combination of car and aftermarket delay unit.  The
issue exists due to the fact that the delay control is not in any way
interlocked with the wiper speed control.  The way the delay works is that
you cut and splice you factory wiper wiring to insert relay contacts from
the delay unit into the low speed and park circuits for your wipers.  To
operate in delay mode, you turn the wipers on low speed and then switch on
the delay.  The delay intermittenly closes the contact in the low speed
circuit, and in between, closes the contact in the park circuit so the
wipers continue moving until they get to the park position after each
intermittent wipe cycle.  You MUST make sure that you never turn the wipers
on high speed with the delay turned on.  When you do this, the wipers
intermittently get energized on both high and low speed at the same time -
which I can't imagine is very good for the wiper motor.  I usually
remembered this, but I could not count on the SO to do the same when driving
my car.  MY solution was that I did not tell her (the SO) about the delay
unit.

Date: Mon, 10 Feb 2003 11:52:08 -0500 (EST)
From: Access Systems <accessys(-at-)smart.net>
cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] aftermarket, intermittent wipers
Message-ID: <Pine.LNX.4.21.0302101150540.9216-100000(-at-)smarty.smart.net>

Volks

one of the things that I really wish that my 78 had was intermittent
wipers, I have seen aftermarket kits for sale, has anyone gotten any
experience with any of these????

Bob

   ASCII Ribbon Campaign                        accessBob
    NO HTML/PDF/RTF in e-mail                   accessys(-at-)smartnospam.net
    NO MSWord docs in e-mail                    Access Systems, engineers
    NO attachments in e-mail,  *LINUX powered*   access is a civil right
