Date: Mon, 10 Feb 2003 12:10:55 -0600
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: Darren Smisko <darrensmisko.alumtek(-at-)telus.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] WHAT HAVE I DONE?

On Mon, Feb 10, 2003 at 09:22:39AM -0800, Darren Smisko wrote:
> Hello, I have a 72 van and last night i changed the oil.  I thought
> i put enough oil in.

Look in your owners manual. there is a section on how much oil the
engine will/should hold. There is also an allowance for the oil filter
being changed or not. You shouldn't have to wonder if you have put
enough oil in the engine or not. You either put in too little, too
much or just right. Verify this first to answer this question. The
other procedure I do before going down the street is to start the
engine and check for leaks. Either a loose drain plug or any other
source of leaking.


>i drove about 5 blocks to the gas station and it wasn't running very
>good.  very low power.at the gas station i looked at the engine and i
>went to check the oil.it was nearly empty.oh no.

Yea, OH NO sounds right, unfortunately. This is not really helpful
based on what happens next in your story, but if the oil level is
below the dipstick, there can still be oil in the sump. I sure
wouldn't recommend running it as such, but the engine isn't ness
empty. Did you happen to look under the bus for any signs of leaking?
Perhaps even the drain bolt was very loose & coming loose?

> so i filled the engine with oil and it barely started.it seemed to
>run okay after it started so i went on my way.  i was heading down
>the freeway and i could hear a chattering noise like the valves were
>loose.and then i heard what sounded like a metal can bouncing around
>in the engine.sound seemed to come from right side.  the engine died
>and then it wouldn't even turn over.can anyone help me determine what
>i have done?

This might not be the case, but it sounds like you might have just
fried your engine by running it with out oil. Either you didn't put in
near enough (but hopefully you checked the level before starting to
verify it came to the oil mark on the dipstick; or there was a major
leak that caused your engine to loose it's lubrication. This will
damage an engine in the worst way. There is no easy cheap way to fix
an engine where the internals have been run without oil.

Just to verify, when you say the engine will not turn over, do you
mean you cannot get the engine to turn at all? or it just doesn't seem
to want to turn (like a dead battery)? If you cannot turn the engine
by hand at all there is something seriously damaged with it. You need
to start looking around for a mechanic or buy a few engine rebuilding
books and start reading on the procedures you will be undertaking
shortly. Sorry to be the bearer of bad news, but it sure doesn't sound
good.

-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
"Two wrongs don't make a right, but 3 rights make a left"
-Cosmo
