Date: Mon, 10 Feb 2003 10:12:57 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Ted Finesman <tedebare(-at-)one.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Window regulators

>A couple of years ago when I was restoring Goldie I bought "door rebuild
>kits" from the Bus Depot.  After exchanging these kits because they were
>defective from the manf. I got the new channels etc. in; however, my
>windows would not close properly. It seems like they would tilt in the
>channels and jam so the windows would not rise properly. Any advice on
>how to adjust them would be greatly appreciated. Could it be a problem
>with the window channels or should I try a better quality "kit" to
>rebuild the door hardware again. Thanks for any help or information you
>can give me as I want my windows to roll up. Thanks TBear.

Either shim the channels at the front or rear of the glass out so the glass 
fits tighter (not tight - just less slop) or adjust the position of the 
regulator on the glass. It may grip the glass too far forward or too far 
towards the rear. I would roll the window down and loosen the bolts that 
hold the window glass to the regulator and then roll it up. About halfway 
up tighten them and see if that provides a good middle ground.

Is the regulator bent?

Are the channel guides too tight to begin with?

If you roll the window all the way down and disconnect the regulator from 
the glass - can you slide the glass up and down from the bottom of the 
glass easily with your hand? That would help define the problem as 
glass/channel or regulator. I have seen worn regulators that bound up at 
the shaft where the handle connects. It's hard to roll up or down because 
the more you twist on the handle the harder the shaft gets forced against 
the side of the gear housing and it binds. Are the channels in square to 
the groove that they sit in (well seated)?

Was it well greased? I R&R'd my doors I took the latches out, the vent 
window out, and the regulator out and flushed each with brake cleaner and 
then I repacked everything with new synthetic grease. Everything operates 
quite easily where before the passenger side window was quite stiff to 
operate.

Let us know what you find.

Good luck!


Chris Mills in TN
