From: "Wakanska" <Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 11 Feb 2003 14:10:15 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] Braided lines

"Why do some VW hoses have a braided covering?"..
Here it is. When you, or something else, applies a pull to that hose, the
braided covering locks it down, just like one of those old "Chinese finger
trap" puzzles. How about that? The hoses push on easy, but resist being
pulled off! Simple, and ingenious!

>Interesting theory, but I'm not sure if the braid has that much effect with
thick walled hose.  Hoses tend to stick after a while anyway, so that you
need to give them a twist before pulling them off (you can feel it 'give'
when you turn it).

Yes, but I was placing new hose, and these suckers wouldn't pull off for
repositioning at all. They just clamped down tight when pulled from the
middle of the line. I finally had to push them off from behind (cut end),
which of course also tends to expand them by means of compression. So,
pushing tends to expand a flexible tube, and pulling tends to compress or
narrow a flexible tube (making it grip whatever it is passed over), but
especially so if a woven form is able to direct and contain those forces. It
is not necessary, as someone pointed out, that the ends must be somehow
secured, since the compression/gripping effect is consistent and
accumulative along the length of the tube. The fibers are molded onto the
tube so that there is no need for a singular attachment point.
Oh, I'm sure that this is not the only reason that these lines are braided.
The braiding offers protection from cuts, rubbing, makes it easier to
identify spots where rubbing and abrasion have occurred, and also helps to
support the rubber and protect it from bursting pressures, based on the
application.
But I never considered that one possibility, and I could see the effect when
I tried to pull the hose off. The resistance was definitely there. I used to
work for the phone company, and we used a type of woven basket clamp like
this for large cable where it went into a building (building entry). It
really would support a tremendous amount of strain and was easy to adjust
slack on (by merely pushing in). That is really important when you're up on
a ladder or pole in a compromised position where you may not be able to
muscle it.
