From: "Joel Bidinger" <JoelBidinger(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "buslist" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Mon, 3 Dec 2001 20:24:45 -0800
Subject: H30/31 jetting

Al-
(I am also posting this to the buslist in the hopes that someone might
jump in if I am thinking wrong.)
The '64 Sundial is a 1600dp for now, I plan to go with sp heads
someday and ditch the ugly dp intake manifold because it looks so
leakprone. Rubber boots already look to be cracking...
65 idle jet seemed to be working for me before I got into this mess,
mixture adjustment screw could kill engine when turned too far either
way. My issue was running rich: soot in tailpipe, blackened plugs,
thinned gassy oil. As far as I can tell, auxillary jet is the forward
one at a right angle to the carb, pilot/idle jet is the one rearward
at an assumed 45-degree angle to the carb. Auxillary jet maybe
occupies the space of the electro-cutoff thingy on the 30-PICT3? I am
thinking aux jet kicks in sometime after idle jet but before the mains
starts really flowing, but to be honest I don't really know, I can't
find any useful documentation on this specific carb. It is not quite a
30PICT, not quite a 34PICT. I also have a hunch that fuel mixture
should be leaner the higher the engine speed, so it makes sense to me
that this auxillary jet should be smaller than the idle. The air
correction jet with emulsion tube is in the flow between the mains jet
and the main sprayer, heart of venturi, whatever that is called. Pop
the top of carb and look down and it will be staring you in the face.
It is a jet with a perforated brass straw extending down from it, but
you can't see that until you remove it. The two H30/31s I have looked
into both had 125 air corrects, I would guess yours is the same. Bug
shop did not sell these jets. Somewhere in the archives Eric and Barb
refer to using a 112.5 mains, 65 pilot, 45 aux, and 140 air correct on
a 30/31 in one of their busses, so I am suspecting I might need to get
hold of something larger than the 125, but I am a little ways from
knowing about that. Air correction jet kicks in when the flow through
the mains sprayer is really going strong, to further lean out the mix.
Hence my theory on higher speed leaner mix. But I have to say I
haven't yet put these theories to the test, bus is all set to go but I
am waiting till daylight to fire it up and take a drive. Then I will
pull my new shiny Bosch sparkers and see what I can read from the
crusties laid upon them.
I am only putting up with this crop from the damn bus because she's
going to take me, sans complaining, to the rim of the grand canyon
this xmas, I'll walk from there, thankyou...
Joel
'64 Sundial (the heart of the prince with the skin of the toad)
'67 Kombi (still just a glimmer, a mile down the road)

----- Original Message -----
From: "incynr8" <incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org>
To: "'Joel Bidinger'" <JoelBidinger(-at-)hotmail.com>
Sent: Monday, December 03, 2001 5:48 PM
Subject: RE: [VB] Mikuni --> Solex jets


What's your engine set up? I think I need the same rig. Perhaps
another
adjustment sequence and idle circuit is good on my side, but the 115
sounds right. I just ripped apart a 30/31 that was a spare, had a 120,
but it was obviously larger from reaming that the 127.5 in the stock
34
I tore apart today also. Please explain the aux vs pilot, I am
confused.
Do you think we could swap them for 50 pilot, 65 aux?
Where the hell is air correct, inside like the 34? Didn't open the
spare
34.
Al

