From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 5 Dec 2001 19:46:59 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] Time to start replacing glass seals

i just replaced the driver's side windshield on my westy because of the
same leaky reasons, not to mention the 1000's of tiny chips from a new
mexico rock storm. i did this by mself, and did not require another person
helping.
i used rubber from wolfsburg west, 3/4 of a tube of permatex windshield
sealant (flowable silicon), a piece of string with approximate diameter of
4mm, and an original VW windshield. i have found that some
aftermarket/glass shop windshields are too thick and dimensionally too
large, which i think leads to the cracking. i have broken non-VW
windshields, i have not broken an original piece of VW glass...yet--knock
on dash--i have to replace the passenger's side this weekend.
i set the rubber in the sun to make it as soft as possible. rachel
suggested putting the rubber in an old pillowcase and throwing it in the
dryer for a while to soften it up if it was too cold outside, might work
well. 
i put a bead of the sealant, which is clear, very thin and slimy, unlike
the "colored" silicones, in the channel where the glass sits. water will
and has seeped around the glass for me in the past, and this silicon is
thin enough not to make any dimensional differences. then i laced the
string in the rubber, one time around, starting at the TOP in the CENTER
and started on the bus part. 
i, too, had rust due to 40+ year old rubber leaking. i have minimal rust
whick i scraped with a wire hand brush to clean it up. i did uncover one
pinhole, but it was very small and i didn't worry about it. in the past i
have put rust killer type stuff on to treat the rust, and then masked and
spray painted to help prevent more rust from occurring. this time, however,
i had to drive the bus that day, so i just cleaned off as much rust as
possible and covered it with a very healthy coating of the sealant.
so i put a very heavy coating of the thin silicon around the perimeter of
the windshield, not too much on the top, but alot along the bottom,
corners, and the sides, and then gently placed the windshield in place.
going inside, i started to pull the string out, perpindicular to the lip of
the windshield. i think this may also be a reason for cracking is that some
people try to yank the string too hard or on a severe angle, trying to get
it to seat on the first go-round. i pulled and after it had gone around the
windshield completely i saw that it was not completely seated (not
worried). i then went outside the bus and gently but forcefully
pushed/tapped the window into place. it seated easily and no cracks or the
dreaded popping sound. then, to be sure, i took the tip of the silicon
applicator and ran a complete bead directly under the outer lip of the
rubber. looks good and i'm not expecting any more leaks. cleanup: shop rag,
when the sealant was still "flowing".
another place to look is in the bentley service manual. they show the
procedure.
there was some flaking/chunky type rust which i didn't chip off, and it
didn't seem to make a difference when installing, as far as making the hole
dimensionally smaller. i guess the best thing to do would be to get as much
off as possible without causing a major project for yourself. as far as
fillers, i have no recommendations, but if you have serious holes, and you
didn't want to weld in pieces, you could maybe install the glass with your
choice of sealant, and then fill in from inside/underneath with some
silicon/out-of-the-tube type stuff.
good luck!


> [Original Message]
> I got my replacement seals today for the windshields and rear window.  
> Anybody out there have some positive experiences and/or links they can
share
> or point me to??
> 
> I also have a situation where there are two spots where the windshield
leaks
> the most.  There appears to be rust there, the extent of which I wont be
able to determne
> until after I get the seal and the window out.  At the very least I am
going
> to have to clean it up and primer/paint it before I put the
> windshield/gasket back in.
> 
> How forgiving is the gasket in filling these kind of areas if there is
only
> minimal decay (it came from WCM).  If I have to put some filler in there,
> what would be the recommendation of the group.  Bear in mind I am anything
> but a welder, and whatever I use will probably need to be something that
> comes out of a tube.


