Date: Tue, 7 Oct 2003 00:30:49 -0700
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: AL crapcase update

tooled on down to BAP today to talk to steve, who said he'd check out 
the motor... he agreed that the oil pressure situation was buggered, 
and gave me several springs to play with and compare to the ones i 
have in the case (and in my spares kit - whatever moving  box THAT is 
in). we talked about all the various permutations and problems, and 
he was amused when i told him that i was the R&D man on several of 
the changes made thru the months :P
one i hadn't heard: the bottom of the dizzy drive bore was pinching 
the shaft, and that had to be shaved out. at least mine didn't have 
that problem.

also, he repeated what many of us aluminum case buyers had suspected 
(and some folks claimed was IMPOSSIBLE): some of the cases (some 
standard as41 ones, too) had cocked cam or crank bores. steve 
described the neat effect that had on cam gears!!

and right now, they were NOT buying these cases. he likes em, he just 
thinks they need too much work for a non-pro to screw with. he makes 
bigbore screamers with em, otherwise too much trouble.


overall, he thought i was getting there as far as ironing out the 
last bugs. gave me one O them buttons that melt when you hit 255* and 
i stuck it below the dizzy. if it melts, yes, i still have troubles :)

anyways - dropped the oil pistons out of the case tonight; findings: 
the spring i suspected was sticking (oil pressure relief) was 
gold-colored, thick, and... THREE INCHES long. the stock vw spring is 
less than 2". needless to say, i doubt the piston was moving AT ALL 
in the bore. i'm surprised oil made it anywhere into the case at all.
swapped in a proper one (thinner metal, steel color, proper length) 
and my oil pressure dropped from 90 to 60 psi. we'll see if that 
fixes my heat issues. oddly enough, the motor sounded quieter.

this f*ckup was mine and the brazilians both; i don't know what the 
spring they sent me goes to, but it ain't a T1 upright. and i 
shouldn't have assumed that just because they SENT the spring with 
the case i should USE it :P


PS - the BAP shop looked alright - they had a bunch of motors being 
built, nice big piles of parts (sigh - i miss my stash), work area 
was clean.  looks  like a good shot if you need to order a turnkey 
motor for your ride.............
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"Guard against the impostures of pretended patriotism." -- George Washington
