Date: Tue, 7 Oct 2003 22:06:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: hejira <mheron9517(-at-)rogers.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Newbie question

On Tue, 7 Oct 2003, hejira wrote:

> 1. How do you get those dang dust caps off the front brakes. The manual shows a "tool of local manufacture" which I do not posses so a pragmatic (read simple) solution would be helpful.

I use my 10" vise grips pliers (real ViseGrips, not 'locking pliers'),
opened just about all the way. They fit nicely over the dust cap, and a
bit of wiggling gets them off easily. Or you could pry them off with two
large screwdrivers, or, what I've done in the past before noticing that
the large visegrips fit them well, is tap them with a hammer as you rotate
the wheel around and they loosen up that way too.

If you grease the contact surface before reassembly, they will come off
easier next time - I use anti-seize grease (Permatex silver) everywhere I
need to have future access on rarely-turned surfaces, including the rear
axle splines.

2. How do I get those 46 mm nuts off the read brakes?

Put the bus on the ground so the tires are taking the weight. Put the car
in first gear. Pull your E-brake firmly, but not over-tight. Put your
socket on the nut. Put a 3' steel pipe on your breaker bar to extend your
force, and apply a sudden impulsive force to it's end - not a hammer - use
your weight to firmly and suddenly break the grip. Have a friend hold the
socket firmly on the nut if necessary. Be creative.

On the way back together, only torque it to 215 foot pounds, maybe a hair
more to line up the holes with the clip. How? Divide 215 by your body
weight (I weigh 125, so 215/125=1.72 feet from the axle). Mark your steel
pipe at that distance from the socket, and when you're ready to finish the
torquing, grip the roof railing to help boost you up onto the pipe at the
mark, WITHOUT bouncing at all. Slowly apply one foot, then put your other
foot onto your first foot, so all your weight is at the mark. Let go
of the roof railing. When the nut stops turning, you're at exactly 215 ft
lbs.

1.72 feet is one foot and eight and a half inches. Your weight may
differ.

cal
