Date: Fri, 26 Jul 1996 19:04:08 -0500
From: Ken Hooper <bighouse@socomm.net>
Subject: [F] The Proper Compression Test


MICHAEL G BENTHIN wrote:

>Use the screw in gauge with the foot long hose on kit; you learn to FEEL
>the end threading in as you hold hose withn one hand at right angle to plug
>hole and twist the gauge end to thread in.

And don't store the thing with the hose rolled into a circle, it's very
dificult to thread if the hose isn't straight.

While we're at it, here are the things Muir didn't tell you about how to do
a compression test the right way. Step by step.

1. Start bus. Warm up engine. Shut off bus. Pull coil wire.

2. Go to remove spark plugs. Remember that you forgot to get the socket
with the rubber plug-gripper in it from Dad's house. Resolve to remember to
retrieve it. Decide to spin plugs out by hand.

3. Loosen plug. Remove socket. Try to spin it out. Burn fingers. Curse.

4. Discover that while you were cursing, plug has disappeared into
shrouding. Curse more.

5. Consider whether to go to FLAPS and get more plugs, or pull engine to
get the one back. Note that if you pull engine, you can fix the gas line
that you KNOW is rubbing on fan shroud. Admit that Bus will probably burst
into flames the next time you start it and that Bob Hoover would be ashamed
of you if he knew about it.

6. Remember that the 17mm wrench is at Dad's house with the plug socket.
Remember that there are some rusty plugs in the shed in a shoe box. Start
sanding off rusty plug.

7. Reinstall plugs to warm up now-cold engine and start over again. Strip a
spark plug hole. Curse.

8. Go to Dad's. Get 17mm wrench. Forget spark plug socket. Pull engine. Get
disgusted and quit for the night.

9. Tell wife that Bus will be down for at least three days while you get
head repaired and that she will have to drive you to work. Endure the look
wife always gives you when you have to spend money on the Bus.

10. Endure wife insisting that she is not looking at you in *any*
particular way and you are being ridiculous. Assure yourself that you know
the look when you see it.

11. Sleep. Next day, pull head off. Wonder whether you shouldn't do a
top-end rebuild, since the engine is out anyway. Recognize that you have no
way of knowing whether you need a top-end rebuild since you still have not
done the compression test. Meditate upon this dilemma.

12. Decide to disassemble head to check valve guides. While disassembling
head, remember that you have been meaning to get a decent valve spring
compressor because the fork in this cheap Chinese one spreads out. Remember
this when you almost get a collet shot into your eye.

13. Take bare head to machine shop. Get repaired head back. Reinstall head.
Reinstall engine.

14. Start bus. Warm up engine. Shut off bus. Pull coil wire.

15. Go to remove spark plugs. Remember that you forgot to get the socket
with the rubber plug-gripper in it from Dad's house. Resolve to remember to
retrieve it. Decide to spin plugs out by hand...


