Date: Fri, 6 Dec 1996 23:28:18 -0600
From: Thomas M. David <fidsatom@EXECPC.COM>
Subject: Re: Gasolines formulations

To those interested in strange stuff re. fuel and gasoline

Gasoline as we know is a complicated chemical stew of oxygenated
hydrocarbons and  a wild variety of other complex chemicals. As lay men we
tend to think of gasoline as one homogeneous product with simple
differences in octane. The whole " re-formulated " debate ( nightmare ) has
opened a number of eyes including this writers. I am just beginning to
understand some of the basic chemistry behind " gasoline ".

Some of you might be aware that a few years ago Formula 1 teams were
blending highly specialized brews all of them met the maximum octane rule ,
104 as I recall. They would use gas blend A at track X and then gas blend B
at track Y. This stuff gave them very small but measurable improvements in
mileage, peak horsepower etc. In simple terms they were tailor making each
liter of " gas " to fit very specific engine performance characteristics.
It was widely reported that the major F1 teams were spending $ 600 per
LITER for these special gasolines. That is not a typo Six Hundred Bucks per
Liter!!!!!!!!!!

What does that have to do with VW's? Lots. There is one quality in
particular that has a dramatic effect on the performance of Gasoline and
that is called REID Vapor Pressure. Basically this is a component that oil
companies tailor for given climatic conditions. Fuel that performs
optimally when the ambient temperatures are between 50 and 90 F isn't going
to work well when old man winter arrives, and vice versa.

At times here in the mid west we experience fairly dramatic temperature
shifts and the number of cars that won't start, or run poorly, or " ping "
is significantly increased. It seems especially bad when the oil refineries
are running a bit behind or ahead of seasonal changes.

What can you do about it?

Anticipate dramatic temperature shifts and just wait them out.

Keep your car in top running order.

Install a CDI if you don't have one.

Go to the local Drag Race or Sprint Car guys a beg or buy a couple of
gallons or so of their 104 non-highway use gas, and mix it with what you
get from the pump. About 2 gallons Union 76 104 octane mixed with 10
gallons of unleaded premium is MAGIC.

Learn to mix your own fuels. Dangerous, expensive, often illegal, and a big
hassle.

Be absolutely certain that I can not, will not, and am not, recommending
non-highway gasoline for use on the public highways as that is illegal. But
I use it in every motor I can.

tom
