From: Joel Wilson <jowils(-at-)unx.sas.com>
To: wfp3(-at-)lycos.com
Date: Wed, 24 Oct 2001 13:47:11 -0400 (EDT)
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: no keys & steering lock (was new sunroof bus)

busdriver X,

having just lost my keys at Oktoberbus, i had the exact same issues you
are describing. my bus is a 72 & i will outline the steps we took to 
get around no keys & steering lock. but i honestly dont know the differences
between your bus (79) & mine, so please take that into account.

first, remove the 4 screws that hold the steering column up to the dash.
pull the steering column towards the driver's seat.
look underneath & you will see the electrical portion of the switch attached
to the mechanical portion. there is a TINY screw that holds these 2 items
together & it will need to be removed. (make sure you put it in a safe place)
once the electrical portion of that switch is removed, you can start your bus
with a smallish flathead screwdriver or similar tool.

now on to steering lock. what you will need: a thin metal strip (we used a 
cutout section of a beer can), a couple of plastic zippy ties, & duct
tape (of course!)

the steering lock seemed to be controlled by a spring-loaded button in
 the column. look on the backside of the column
underneath the steering wheel. that button must be fully depressed (& stay
depressed) to disengage the steering lock. in order to press the button down
we used a long, skinny flathead screwdriver. then take your thin metal strip
& wedge it between the button & the screwdriver tip. you should now be able
to remove the screwdriver as the metal strip is holding that button down.
use your plastic zippy ties to secure the metal strip in position on the 
steering column.  use strips of duct tape to ensure the whole shebang stays
in place (you dont want it falling out while you are driving!)

almost done. when putting the steering column back into its original position,
pull the electrical portion of the switch out towards you & let it hang freely.

put the steering column back in its regular place & resecure the 4 screws
holding it in.

done.

also, now that i think about it, while everything is taken apart that would
probably be the best time to take out the mechanical portion of the switch. i
would think you could take that to a locksmith & they could probably make
a key for it.

the whole thing took about 15-20 minutes. it took me longer to write up
these instructions than it did to get the job done.

HTH.

Joel Wilson
72 bus
Cary, NC
fullmoonbusclub.com
 
