Date: Wed, 24 Oct 2001 14:24:06 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: typE2(-at-)TYPE2.COM
Subject: Poor Man's Dynamat

Spent several hours last night making pads to glue inside my van to quieten 
it down.

A short background: bought a roll of asphalt walk pad material last spring 
(early summer) after hunting for a cheaper replacement sound deadening 
material similar to Dynamat and the asphalt material that I find on the 
floors of original Beetles and most later model vehicles. I wanted 
something local and cheap and available in large quanities.

I started searching the net convinced that Dynamat was a high priced 
repackaged industrial product that could be bought in vast quantities for a 
tiny percentage of what the car mags and catalogs are selling it for.

My search eventually took me to a local commercial roofer. He allowed me to 
browse his material shed and quickly I found what I needed.

On flat asphalt and other membrane type roofs long term high volume foot 
traffic can be bad for the durability of the roof so roofers use this stuff 
to create pathways between ladders and HVAC equipment and such.

The rolls are 3 feet wide and quite long - how long I do not know but my 
roll is at least 25 feet. You cut it easily with a utility knife.

The owner told me (take this with a grain of salt I suppose) that the 
original manufacturer of the material used in Dynamat was the manufacturer 
of this stuff. John Mansfield Company I think he said. Remember this was 6 
months ago or more, my memory ain't that good. He said that this company 
manufactured the stuff which was packaged and sold by another company as 
Dynamat. Sounds possible to me! I'm sure this is a close cousin at least, 
probably with more built in tar for easier sealing of a roof.

This is very typical in most markets I know. I once worked maintenance (for 
a short time, thought I would work my way through college this way) for a 
company that made chicken and beef food products for half a dozen fast food 
companies. The Fast Food corporations supplied the recipe (meat percentage, 
by product percentages, spices, etc.) and this group made the stuff to 
order and then put it in boxes with the Fast Food companies' logos on it. 
Meat factories are scary stuff really.

I use this for an example but could name several other examples in the 
manufacturing world.

This asphalt material is heavy but I can pickup and carry it okay. Maybe 50 
pounds per roll.

He charged me $45 or so - tax and all. There is enough for me to do 2 or 3 
vehicles. So take that 50 pound number and divide it by 2 or 3. Depends on 
how sparingly you want to use it.

I used spray upholstery glue to fasten it to the walls and plan to cover a 
portion of the floor. Spray the wall and then the material. Wait 5 minutes 
and then press on. Very tough to take off. Does not tear.

It is 3/16" thick and has two sides - one side is abrasion resistant - sort 
of like tar paper. The other is covered by a thin plastic liner that has to 
be peeled off which reveals a somewhat softer tar material. I heated it 
with a hairdryer and did not get a stink from it, and it has spent the 
summer aging. I do not know if it would have a scent if installed 
immediately, but I think this material was at the roofer's material barn 
for several months as well.

I removed the Styrofoam from inside the nose of my Westy and used it as a 
pattern as best I could as it crumbled. I also added panels inside the cab 
doors and plan a panel on the cab ceiling, the floor (where your feet 
rest), and between the seats.

Note that I had the interior completely out of my van - dash and all.

I think they will be fine and don't expect the summer heat to affect them 
in anyway. It did not affect the material this summer when I checked it 
after it sat in the hot afternoon sun all day.

I also plan to use it under the rear seat and over the engine compartment 
however I will combine it with the silverized jute insulation (the asphalt 
material as a liner between two outer layers - top and bottom of the 
silverized jute) found at Lowe's and Home Depot and others. That will make 
it cleaner, reflect heat better, and believe me you do not want this stuff 
against you, your stuff, or your upholstery (under carpet would be no 
problem) as it does transfer a bit of black to your hands (if you rub it) 
when warm.  Not oily, but still we are talking about an asphalt here. Spray 
glue on everything and make a big soundproof Oreo.

The immediate result? Excellent. A gentle rapping of my knuckles on the 
outside of the cab and doors returned a deadened thunk or thud instead of 
the ring of an empty barrel. Same with the doors. They gained a solid 
sounding thump when closed. This added an additional few pounds so they 
swing with a little more force too - nothing that makes them harder to 
handle at all (4 pounds maybe each) just more solid. They latch the first 
time more reliably with a slower swing. Less effort overall.

Cautions and possible differences between this stuff and Dynamat: the side 
which is covered with plastic is softer asphalt than the reverse side which 
is very much like a tough tar paper. He told me they use a propane torch to 
soften the first side and it becomes an self sealing adhesive. Though I'd 
like to think that would lead to better adhesion I fear that if used in the 
engine compartment it may become oily and even possibly drip. Not the whole 
material, just the coating on this side. I plan some further testing. I 
think it would require several hundred degrees to get to this state so I 
don't expect any trouble inside the van. I did leave my hair dryer on a 
portion of the material for a time and it never did get that soft (or 
runny) or gain a stink.

One possible solution would be to encapsulate the asphalt material in a 
plastic or aluminum sheath - plastic would be easier. That is the direction 
I'm leaning. I'll seal the edges with a plastic 'welder' found in shipping 
and packing companies. Shrink wrap it maybe!!!

Another option would be to see how far it would get under intense heat and 
try to remove this one layer completely with a putty knife. If it ever got 
this messy.

I still think I've finally found a useful material for my needs. Every town 
in the US is going to have this stuff so if you want some you should be 
able to check the phone book, make some calls, and buy some easily. I doubt 
any of these companies would mind letting you have a square feet or two to 
test and experiment with. If anyone does try this and learns something, 
please let me (and the list know).

I hope this is useful information to those of you searching for a quieter 
way to ride in your VW.

Oh - I think I spent about $9 to soundproof the cab last night - material 
and glue. I used most of a $7 can of spray glue so you can see my cost was 
minor!!!



Ciao!

Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE:       Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing, otherwise 
complete (make offer)

