From: "Warburton, William" <William.Warburton(-at-)let-it-be-thus.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 25 Oct 2001 14:56:41 +0100
Subject: RE: [T2] 009 distributor? Why not?

Hi,
    Ron's comments about setting the timing tell the story- Fundamentally the
problem is that to get power out of the engine at low revs you need to advance
the ignition in order to allow the fuel time to burn. A centrifugal-advance
distributor CANNOT do this- it can only advance the ignition as the engine
speeds up.
 This isn't a problem on a hot beetle- the driver will rev the engine to get
it off the line and then keep the revs up as it's thrashed around the block,
this suits the style of the car and a beetle with a hot engine will accelerate
pretty quickly anyway.

 The bus drivers on this list are different: we want our  busses to be easy,
reliable transport and one of the big benefits of the later, pancake, engines
is that they make lots of torque at low revs, meaning that you can pull
smoothly away from a 10-15mph bend in second by applying throttle (even
with a loaded bus). Or climb a hill by burying the throttle, instead of
having the engine bog down as soon as the revs drop below 3000.

 Now, to complicate matters a little, the 009 is perceived as a performance
enhancement for a bug (and hence, inaccurately, for a bus) furthermore many
drivers of magazine busses never drive them far enough to warm them up. This
creates a large pool of ignorance, which feeds upon itself... Kewl kids 
convince themselves that performance is better because their bus needs to be
revved up to make it go- just like a sports car... :-(

 I have a feeling that this is less obvious with an upright bus because the
1600cc engine has less low end torque to lose to this effect. The impact of
losing it is therefore much less significant and can be perceived as 
hesitation, or a flat spot, rather than obvious poor running.
 I suspect that there are many people driving busses with inappropriate 
dizzys and/or badly set up carbs who have no idea how well their bus went
when it left the factory. A properly set up bus, with either FI or the
stock Solex duals will pull like a train from just above idle and cruise
smoothly at intermediate throttle settings- even in sub-zero temperatures.

Cheers,
        W.
