From: Mfitzsim(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 25 Oct 2001 12:00:40 EDT
To: nyblues99(-at-)yahoo.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 009 into a 71 Westy with 1600cc?

In a message dated 10/24/01 11:26:00 PM Pacific Daylight Time, 
nyblues99(-at-)yahoo.com writes:

<< What should I do? What exactly is 009 not a good choice for bus? Should I 
switch back to vacuum advance unit?...  >>

  The .009 can be made to work, but never as well or as efficiently as the 
correct vaccuum/centrifugal unit.  It_is_a good cheap fix if you are unable 
to find or unwilling to pay for the newer style dist.  It is_not_ an upgrade 
or a performance enhancing part.

The correct dist. gives your engine an extra "kick" of advance from a carb 
vacuum signal everytime you accelerate, then backs it off when its no longer 
needed.  It greatly improves your "around town", low to mid rpm drivability 
and can save up to 4 mpg's in fuel economy.  (What a coincidence, do you 
suppose they realized that when they designed it???)

The accelerator pump and jetting "fixes" commonly used to lessen the problems 
inherent in the use of the .009 will result in some extra fuel being dumped 
into your engine. If your goals in building and maintaining your ACVW include 
an optimal fuel/air mixture and optimal fuel economy you compromise both in 
order to take advantage of a cheaper, almost as good, replacement part.  In 
some situations this may make sense.  If the car is a show only "trailer 
queen", sunday driver or a race car, you can invest the $$ you save in a 
chrome fan shroud and pretty see-through plastic dist. cap.  : )

If you are willing to take the time or pay someone else to do the 
modifications and rejetting you will end up with a system whose performance 
can be quite comparable with the one that would have resulted with the 
installation of_one_correct part.  Even if I was willing to accept the small 
compromises in efficiency and performance, it still seems like a lot of 
tedious work to "make it work"!

Try Aircooled.net.  They seem to really understand the ins and outs of  
ignition and have developed several distributor options for different carb/fi 
setups.  Very few vendors support the hobby with this kind of research, its 
expensive.

mark
