From: Joe Clark <jclark(-at-)supernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 06 Jun 2002 11:22:44 -0400
Subject: A cheap alternative to pop-top canvas

Seeing the thread on poptop canvas come up, I just wanted to add that if you have no bread for new canvas but your old material is toast, you might 
want to try what I did: I bought some window screen material (the black plastic stuff) and used it to replace my canvas.  I just cut a single piece wide 
enough to stretch from roof to fiberglass top when extended and long enough to overlap a foot or so at the front (71 style westy popup).  I attached 
the screen at top and bottom using the standard method, and didn't even bother stitching the overlap.

Advantages:
- cheap (I think $10 or so)
- air circulation (really desirable in FL)
- visibility (awesome night sky from the bed)

Disadvantages:
- non-stock look
- problematic in rain or cold weather (I've thought about adding an inner layer of canvas that would roll up from the bottom and velcro at the top)
- neighbors can see your torso if you do something standing up :-)

I've camped with it multiple times in Florida weather and it's a pretty decent alternative.  In cold weather (below 40F at night) I just leave the poptop 
down, and I stretch a big tarp across the poptop and the side tent for rainy days.

If you're definitely going to install original canvas eventually, it's probably not worth it, because it's about the same amount of teeeeeedious work, as 
others have pointed out (less than a convertible top replacement on a Ghia, though).

Oh, and -- to avoid confusion, it's probably better not to refer to it as a "tent" as many people do.  It's not a tent any more than canvas curtains on a 
boat or the fabric sides of a popup trailer are "tents".  But that's just MO.

OBTW, I have a couple of pix of a splitty poptop done this way at http://www.supernet.net/~jclark/vw/whatsis/index.html.  That was what gave me 
the idea to do mine like that.

Joe Clark
1971 Westfalia Lagwagen
1965 Neunsitzer Bulli
1965 Karmann Kabriolett
Tallahassee Vintage VWs: http://groups.yahoo.com/group/tv2/
VW Camping Tents Info:   http://www.supernet.net/~jclark/vw/


