Date: Mon, 29 May 2006 08:34:47 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Squeek-squeek on front disk

--- Mike Benthin <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net> wrote:

> It's not all the time, and bearings are OK- but have
> an annoying sqeek 
> on driver side rotor/against pad that suggests out
> of round rotor<SNIP> If I get this turned, is it
done with all on the bus, or must rotor be taken off?
> 
This is on the '78, I assume? The way it should be
turned is on the hub, but yes, you remove it from the
bus. Your part: Have a couple feet of baling wire
ready when you remove the caliper so you can hang it
from the shock tower. Simply (!!) remove the two 19mm
headed bolts and the caliper assembly is free. You may
have to lay on the ground and use your foot/leg to get
enough leverage to loosen the bolts!

Once the caliper is out of the way, try to remove the
screws that attach the rotor to the hub. You will
re-attach them after thoroughly cleaning the mating
surface between rotor & hub, but it might be easier to
remove those screws now. If you have a sturdy
workbench, remove the hub and rotor as an assembly.

Remove the bearings and clean up the inside of the
hub.
Proper procedure to me would be to replace the
bearings at this time, but at very least, inspect for
wear patterns, especially out-of-round indications on
the bearing cups (the parts that are driven into the
hub that the races with roller bearings ride in). Take
a punch and make sure they are seated all the way
around. Don't gouge the surfaces!

Clean up the surface between hub and rotor. Shiny
clean! Reinstall the screws that hold them together.
Install all 5 lug nuts (use washers if needed to hold
rotor tight to hub).

Now you're ready to take it to the machine shop. Be
sure to talk to the machinist and ask if they can
handle it that way. Many will say they don't need it
on the hub. Just walk away and go to the next shop
down the road! You need to have it turned ON THE HUB!
If they don't do it this way, you'll do it all over
again and maybe need new pads also.

BTW - when you have it down this far, maybe new pads
and a thorough fluid flush at all 4 corners...
If you do new wheel bearings, either install them
prior to the turning or have the machinist press them
in for you. I really don't recall whether their
alignment is from the bore of the hub or from the
bearing surfaces, but I think it is from the bearing
surface - so if it's in crooked, it will cause the
rotor to be turned crooked.

I would do both sides - the new surface on one rotor
and not on the other can cause some real uneven
braking for quite a few miles! Hope I've helped! It's
only about an hour job if you're old and slow like me
- just jump in there and do it! -BaH

PS- New seals for reassembly, apply anti-seize
compound lightly to contact area between hub and rotor
and to screw threads of retainers. I use it on the
caliper bolts, too, but I don't know if that is
prescribed procedure.

'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2)
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01
