Date: Tue, 30 May 2006 21:40:47 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] Fuel Injection Parts Photos

--- "Messa, Corbett (GE Indust, GE Fanuc)"
<Corbett.Messa(-at-)gefanuc.com> wrote:

> Thanks for the pics. That helps out a lot. I am
> slowing learning all the pieces that I am going to
> need to make this change happen.
> 

You need to research just what megasquirt will
require.
I have never converted (heh,heh!) so I don't know if
the intake runners for a FI engine just bolt-up to the
carb heads. I assume so, but without supporting data!

You may not need that particular temp sensor. You may
not be able to use a CHT gauge thermocouple. Then
again, I think Megasquirt is very adaptable and
adjustable. There are CHT gauge thermocouples that
attach to head bolts instead of under the plugs.

My next series of photos will deal with the air supply
side of things. Keep in mind that all these components
I am showing you are for the stock bus L-Jetronic
Bosche fuel injection system on a '78/'79 bus. In '76
they were different and in '82 they were different
still.

I assume you will need to construct the high pressure
fuel loop (fuel rail), have intake runners that accept
injectors, have a high-flow/high pressure pump, a
pressure regulator, a return line to the tank...
Whether you need a regulator that adjusts pressure
according to engine load - I don't know. Megasquirt
may deal with load enrichening in a different manner.
Stock FI had higher pressure at lower vacuum and when
engine had high vacuum (light or no load) fuel
pressure was lower.

If you run the FI intake runners, you'll need an air
plenum that the throttle body attaches to and the
intake runners attach to.  There are certainly other
ways to do it, I think that would be the easiest.

Somebody else is doing megasquirt install currently -
have you been in contact?

Have you considered just converting to all-stock FI? I
set mine up so I had a wide range of adjustability for
enrichening as for freeway driving and hot weather
(cold weather, too) I ran richer on freeway and when I
pulled off on an off-ramp, if I forgot to kick it back
down to "normal" it would chug along and lay down an
octopus-like cloud of black smoke around us! A quick
flip of the switch and it's back to normal. Likewise,
for passing or blowing away that pest that keeps
getting in your way just to pick on the VW bus... Put
foot to floor, flip mix to full rich, and hold thumb
on 5th injector button - away you go! (It helped to
have almost 11:1 compression ratio and over sized
jugs!)
-BaH

'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2)
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01
