From: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 31 May 2006 8:38:06 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Tail-light Wiring

Thanks Busahaulic,

             You did answer my question. What I wanted to know was whether or not the ground from the harness went to the firewall / ground point, and then if everything branched off of that (ground for the tail-light and then for the side marker). It does make sense now that you've explained it, I just wasn't absolutely sure.

Unfortunately I don't have it hooked up in the front yet. I just routed the new line to the front, through the tube and into the compartment, but that's about the extent of it. I actually JUST installed my new (used) dash from Busted Bus last night!!!

One thing I noticed is that... the two wires that come off the harness and go into the coil... the brown wire has extra shielding, and then the two of them are both wrapped in thick shielding. However, the brown wire has an exposed connector, but the black wire has a plastic shielded connector (it's also slightly larger gage). This re-enforces the fact to me that the black is positive 12 and that the brown is negative. 

I cannot WAIT to have this Bus completed. It's going to be so much fun driving it. I bought it not running originally, but all it needed was a new fuel line and to correct some of the wiring. I was able to drive it around (even helped me move!!!) but... while the engine / transmission were recently rebuilt, and the body had JUST been painted, the rest of the bus was toast. All the wiring was shot, the interior was a rats nest, and the suspension is shot. I'm going through the entire thing and rebuilding or replacing everything. It will be soo nice to have this Bus running, but running well... and to the point where I feel I can trust it. Well.. so far as you can trust a GEX engine rebuild...



Thanks again!

Todd



 
>Date: Tue, 30 May 2006
>To: Type2List 
>From: Busahaulic 
>Subject: Re: [T2] Tail-light Wiring
>
>If I understood your questions, I think I've
>answered them! -BaH
>
>'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2)
