Date: Mon, 17 Mar 2003 14:03:16 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Wakanska <Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net>, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] dumb questions

>I was looking in the Bentley's and I saw a passage describing all 1700
>engines as coming equipped with dual carbs.

I'm going to make some assumptions here so I hope I don't tell you the 
obvious or step or your toes - limitations of e-mail.

Based on engine displacement alone you can run a single carb or dual carbs 
if the carb is sized right. V-8 engines run a single carb and they are much 
bigger than our VW's. The problem with a horizontally opposed engine 
(pistons sliding back and forth on their sides versus up and down like on a 
modern watercooled engine or at an angle like a V-8 - - - is that a 
horizontally opposed engine requires a LONG intake manifold to connect the 
carb to the heads. This can cause a variety of problems. The first is that 
in cool weather if the intake manifold isn't heated the gas/air mixture can 
cool to a point where the gas begins to separate from the air and the 
engine won't run well. In cold weather it may not run at all. Also that 
carb is compressing and redirecting air so you could have carb freezing if 
the carb isn't heated or the air entering it isn't heated.

By using dual carbs you eliminate the long intake manifold and the carbs 
get some heat from the heats to keep them warm. Lastly you eliminate the 
long intake manifold with all the bends which also can cause the gas/air 
mix to separate. Oh - and throttle response is better.

>I have a 1776 rebuilt engine
>sitting here, awaiting installation, but first it must be dressed up with
>all the topside goodies. I was totally unprepared for this possibility and
>the rebuilder never said a thing about it. "Uh-Oh!" "Now, what?" The
>rebuilder recommended a 1776 for the T2, but no further comment than that.
>I guess it is easy to forget that when we modify an engine, we have to
>re-engineer and change the entire system to fit it.

Understand (maybe you do) that the 1776 engine is a Beetle motor. That is 
called a type I motor. Your bus if it was built after 1971 (that is '1972 
and up) and if it was an American spec bus - it is supposed to have a Type 
IV motor. The type IV motor is bigger (displacement) than the Type I engine 
which topped out at 1600cc from the factory. The early Type IV powered 
buses used a 1700cc engine and then an 1800cc engine (which is the same 
engine with larger piston/cylinders, possibly larger valves and a miriad of 
other tiny changes). In 1975 or so they went with a 2.0 liter engine 
(2000cc) and fuel injection. This is also a Type IV engine.

The 1776 Type I engine will bolt to the Type IV transmission but may 
require a few parts. Also the 1776 engine needs to be about the same torque 
and HP as the Type IV engine or you'll have speed problems (if the 1776 
engine is a lesser HP or torque maker). If it makes more in both categories 
then be happy.

What I'm getting at is just because the engine might bolt in doesn't mean 
the transmission ratios are appropriate. Probably wouldn't hurt to try.

I am not really a technical kind of person, but it's going to get down to
>the point where I really have to learn this stuff. I've got an older book on
>carburetors and fuel injection systems to read, for starters.

You need to buy John Muir's "How to Keep Your VW Alive for the Compleat 
Idiot". It has procedures and some line drawings and alot of hippie era 
writing. He's basically right on alot of stuff but I would not rely on it 
alone. What I like the best and where I find the most value in this book is 
that it puts the whole machine in layman's terms and explains how 
everything works together. Read the whole book cover to cover. You might 
find it at your local library if you need to save your $$$ right now. I've 
bought about 5 copies. Some have been used up and some were loaned out and 
never came back.

Book #2 is the Bentley Publisher's "Official VW Service Manual" for your 
year bus. If you are going to transplant a new fuel injection engine into 
yuor older bus then also buy the correct manual for your engine. This book 
is the procedures and pictures to Muir's book. It too isn't perfect but 
it's more perfect than you and I. A pro mechanic might find fault with it 
somewhere.

>But in the mean time, I have to set this engine up with something, or put it
>on the shelf for later and just buy a new Mexican engine for the T2 for now
>and use the top end stuff that I already have. It's just a matter of where I
>want to put my money. Performance is not as much of an issue for me. It
>would be fun and nice and all, but maybe a future project for when I have
>the time to fool with it. Right now, practical considerations are more
>important. We have one of these Mexican engines in a daily driver and it has
>given us exceptionally good performance and reliability for the last year,
>and no sign of slowing down. I was interested to see that the new Brazilian
>T2's are coming equipped with a 1600 engine. I may just want to buy the new
>long block, even with the added expense.

If you have a Type IV powered bus (originally) then you won't be able to 
just stick the Beetle motor in and drive. It's going to require some custom 
tin work to seal the motor to the bus so you don't recirculate the hot 
muffler air through the engine cooling system (thus contributing to the 
engine overheat tendencies). You may have to find a certain clutch or a 
certain input shaft for the tranny, or other specific parts. You may have 
to fabricate a crossmember for the engine. If you've got a Type I engine 
from a Beetle and not a Type I engine from a bus, your going to have to 
create a way to bolt the rear of the engine to that new crossmember and 
some folks report that bolting it to the oil pump is okay and most say it's 
not okay. (vibration of the engine causes cracks).

I'm not trying to discourage you from doing anything but only to encourage 
you to seek facts (not just mine) and identify for yourself what you've got 
and what you need. Don't rely just on the mechanic's word - he might not 
know what he's talking about or maybe he's leading you astray or maybe he's 
golden - I don't know but I've seen all types.

Do it right and your bus will be no problems. Do it halfway and you'll 
declare in short order that VW busses are junk and unreliable. Most of my 
VW's were a mess when I got them - all sorts of half-done repairs and 
mismatching parts.

Oh - and replace all those fuel lines and rubber brake lines!

Take care and good luck.

Write back anytime.

Chris



Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
