Date: Tue, 18 Mar 2003 13:43:05 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Christopher Renz <midwestbass(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] top end rebuild ?'s   dear lord... =(

$1700 ought to cover a whole new engine, not just the top end which 
generally just refers to the heads.

Check Bus Depot's prices for example. I think they'll sell you a whole new 
engine for about that price.

If that is just for a head R&R they are charging you too much.

Should be $300 or so per head and some labor to remove engine, replace 
heads, and reinstall heads and engine. Count on a few gaskets and rubber 
things.

And why are you doing this at just 67K miles? I think you could do pretty 
good with an in-bus inspection (remove valve springs, check for guide 
tightness). To check the valves themselves it requires the heads come off 
to check length but I'd be happy with valves that had stem tops all the 
same height indicating equal lengths, etc.

Unless you are rich, unless you have no place to work - - - let me 
recommend you buy the appropriate books (Bentley and Muir if don't know 
anything) and study up, buy the appropriate tools, drop the engine (work 
slowly and methodically), remove the heads yourself and replace them with 
Bus Depot heads or the equal. Save your $1100. Replace all the fuel and 
vacuum lines as you go along.

The blue smoke at startup is due to sloppy valve guides, lack of valve 
seals or both. Blue smoke while you're going down the road is due to worn 
rings or cylinders or pistons.

If you are just getting an occasional puff of blue smoke worry not and 
drive on. Due to the layout of these engines (horizontal pistons, no valve 
guide seals - which is good) you can get a puff of blue smoke and not 
actually use any oil. Not until I was using a quart of oil per change or 
visibly smoking (for me - not the guy behind me) would I start to worry 
about it. Mine puffs from time to time when it's parked on an incline (side 
to side or front to back).

Where are you located at - I will come check your engine out and you can 
pay me the balance of the $1700... <grin>

Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
