Date: Tue, 18 Mar 2003 15:15:33 -0600
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: Christopher Renz <midwestbass(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] top end rebuild ?'s   dear lord... =(

On Tue, Mar 18, 2003 at 10:50:12AM -0800, Christopher Renz wrote:
> I am having my top end rebuilt at the buslab in Berkeley this coming
> Thursday and Friday. What are the questions I want to be sure and ask? 

Chris,
	To me it sounds a bit steep if they are putting new heads on doing
a R&R on the engine, & putting new rings in there. But then again my
labor is free, since I do the work myself :) I really believe that
anyone can work on their VW with the proper tools & manuals as well as
this list to suppliment that knowledge. But if you have no desire to
fix it yourself then.....

	The other posts have pretty much covered the topic, but here are a
few more tid bits and suggestions. Are you in a hurry to get this
done? If you expressed a desire to get it done quick, then they might
just be covering the quick fix that should cover anything that could
cause your symptoms. As opposed to tracking down the real problem &
just fixing that. This sometimes will take more time, but in this case
I doubt it. 

	How much diagnostic work have they done for you? That is, have you
paid for them to look at the problems, or just driven by and had them
look at it? If you can stand to have the bus down longer, take it to
them & have them check it out. Compression & leak down at the very
least. You will have to pay for this, but any good VW shop will be
able to take this knowledge and give you a good idea of the real shape
of the engine. If they cannot do this, I would be very warry that they
could actually perform proper engine work, (no matter what they call
it). 

	Now all that being said, if you have the space & money (if you were
fixing to drop $1700 on work you must have a little), go buy some
tools. The Muir book has a pretty decent list of tools needed for
particular jobs, while it might vary for particular engines, it has
already been published & easy to get. The list is a fantastic resource
for bus owners, especially the ones who do their own work. If you were
to tackle the job yourself, you could get good help from here. We have
also done some long distance mechanic work on peoples busses over the
irc network at irc.type2.com.


-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
1979 Sportsmofakia 2000cc                        www.fasterlaster.com
1966 Westfalia SO-42 "Butch"?
