Date: Tue, 18 Mar 2003 15:19:37 -0600
To: "aircooled chris" <midwestbass(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] top end rebuild ?'s dear lord... =(

At 02:19 PM 3/18/2003, aircooled chris wrote:
>>Reality check - blowby will not be cured with a top-end rebuild!  Unless their idea of a top-end rebuild includes honing the cylinders and replacing the rings.
>
>This is exactly what they mentioned doing, sorry for missing that part. Is that not a typical part of a top end rebuild?

Pistons and cylinders are part of the bottom end on most engines.  A top end rebuild generally means just  the cylinder heads.  However, our engines are a little different since the cylinders are removeable, so I think there is some room for variation in the definition of "top end rebuild".

>With honing the cylinders and replacing the rings, along with rebuilt heads and labor, is this now a $1700 job?

I'd say the price looks much better to me than it did before.  Maybe a tad high, but for quality work from a quality shop it's not unreasonable.

>I haven't paid for anything yet, so they can round up the parts. While they might be pissed, I can still cancel this thing and go elsewhere if this process sounds shady. I really like these guys, and they never pressed me to do this in the first place, just brought it up as an option.

If you like them and have had good experiences with them in the past, then sticking with them is probably a good idea.  It is hard to find a good typeIV mechanic these days.

>I think the re-ringing thing was what they wanted to do to fix the oil leak, but the rebuilding of the heads was what they mentioned I may want to do while tackling this issue.

Re-ringing will not fix an oil leak.  It is a solution to compression/blowby problems, which you initially indicated you had.  I agree with Chris though that the puff of blue smoke at startup is much more likely to be valve guides than rings.  Since you indicated that your compression was good, replacing the rings and honing the cylinders probably isn't going to benefit you much.  To be absolutely sure, give the engine a leakdown test.

If I were in your shoes, I would go back to the shop and ask "how much without the ring replacement".  In other words, just to R&R the cylinder heads and repair the oil leak (which will probably not be any extra work for them at that point).  Hopefully they will come back with around $1200, which would be a worthwhile savings.

Or, the cheapest route:  You could tell them to just fix the oil leak - that shouldn't require removal of the cylinder head unless something is cracked or broken.  Couple hundred dollars of labor and a few bucks worth of seals.  The only exception would be if the oil was leaking from the bottom of the cylinders, where they go into the case.  To fix that would require removal of the cylinder head.

-David
