Date: Mon, 10 May 2004 08:45:11 -0500
From: Tim Woenker <multipang(-at-)kconline.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Fixing Type IV Head Leaks

Situation:
Bone stock '79 Westy, 2.0L with square-port heads.  So this weekend, 
leakdown testing revealed compression leakage on cylinder No. 4, with 
no leakage of air out of intake, exhaust or engine case.  It would 
appear that the leakage is at the head to cylinder seal, since the air 
can be heard and felt leaking in the vicinity of the pushrod tubes  
Heads were installed 6500 miles (two years) ago (after being supplied 
under warranty by turnkey rebuilder well known the list with reasonably 
good reputation) with shims/gaskets between heads and cylinders.  These 
heads/shims were intended to lower compression slightly since the heads 
supplied originally with the turnkey engine failed prematurely due to a 
burned valve.  I have no CHT (will install one) but engine was 
meticulously and assembled with all correct original tin and seals, 
thermostat etc.  Engine was timed at 5 degrees ATDC per spec, started 
and ran perfectly cold or warm;  oil temps and pressures were normal.  
I do not drive it hard (60 mph on the highway).

I intend to correct this problem, but do not yet have engine removed 
from the bus so I don't know why this leakage occurred.  Recent 
conventional wisdom on this list and elsewhare seems to indicate that 
no head gaskets should be used upon assembly, and any shims required 
for compression adjustment be installed at the bottom of the cylinder 
barrels instead of at the head.  Am I correct in this assumption?  Also 
I have the following questions:

1  If I use shims at the cylinder barrel/case joints to adjust 
compression, where do I get these shims and how do you seal them 
against oil leakage???  Do you put a paper gasket on each side of the 
shim??  Currently the engine has NO oil leaks and I intend to keep it 
that way.

2.  What kind of treatment are the heads likely to require in order to 
get them to seal properly?  Will the old trick of lapping the cylinders 
to the head with valve grinding compound be adequate?

3.  What is the most recent wisdom regarding re-torquing heads at some 
point after the engine has been in service?  This was not done with 
these heads and I am wondering whether re-torquing would have prevented 
my situation.

4.  Are there any other precautions recommended to prevent reoccurrence?

Thanks in advance,

timatt
