From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 10 May 2004 11:56:19 -0500
Subject: engine problems

>Subject: [T2]warped fan pulley wheel
>Message-ID: <20040510121433.85980.qmail(-at-)web21406.mail.yahoo.com>
>
>question doesnt the fan pulley wheel suppose to turn round and round ...
>looks like mine has a slight wobble or warp look to it..?
>any suggestions anyone..? looks to be getting worse also on the wobble..?

Hello,

There are many people on the list that enjoy helping other VW owners. You
need to respect their help by frirst providing background information with
every request for help before you ask a question. It is frustrating, and
often a big waste of time, trying to guess what make, model, year, and
engine type you have. All of which is very important to correctly diagnose a
problem.

I assume you have a Type IV bus engine such that it is easy to see the fan
in the back of the engine. This fan may wobble a bit, but not enough to
notice. The three bolts holding the fan to the fan hub may be loose. this is
a dangerous condition. The fan may come completely loose and fly off the hub
and do a lot of damage. And , or the single bolt that holds the fan hub to
the crankshaft may be loose; a similiar dangerous solution.  Are the three
bolts tight? Is the big bolt tight? With the engine stopped - with the
engine NOT running - with nobody near the start key switch, can you wiggle
the fan or push and pull the fan back and forth in line with the crankshaft?

>also i have gas/oil mixture seems to be draining out of the engine at the
bottom of the crank case on both sides of caseing ...
>the leak seems to be happ ning over night as well.. bad enough that i can
smell the gas smell walking behind the bus...?
>reach down and the oily texture to my nose off finger smells like gas feels
greasy like oil..

there are a lot of places for oil and gasoline leaks. If you are really
smelling gasoline. Do not start the engine. Get the gasoline leak fixed or
catch the gasoline on fire and burn up your bus. If the fan hub is loose,
you will leak -OIL- from the rear crankshaft seal.

a gasoline leak may fool you into thinking you have or you also have an oil
leak: "clear"gasoline will dissolve and wash filth off the engine as the
gasoline drips down.
>
>Help this is a brand new rebuild and i am really sore for haveing to
everyday work on this engine now it seems...?
>do all new engines have all sorts of problems

Some "new" engines rebuilt by incompentent mechanics do have all sorts of
problems. You may have a simple problem or you may have a brand "New"
worthless engine ready to completely break down.
