Cc: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "Jamey Charlet" <prolabor(-at-)bellsouth.net>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Mon, 10 May 2004 14:20:31 -0700
To: "Lawrence J. Bell" <jeffbell(-at-)siu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] gas mileage

On May 10, 2004, at 11:02 AM, Lawrence J. Bell wrote:

> I have a 2.0L 76 Westy with a Weber DFEV 32/36 two barrel progressive
> carburetor (compliments of the previous owner).  It is not known as a
> very fuel efficient carburetor so 17.3 is on the high side of my
> mileage.  It sounds like you're doing pretty well.  We bus drivers
> sometime forget that we are pushing a vehicle shaped like a Kleneex box
> through the air.

My engine is still breaking in (less than 3000 miles on it), but my 
mileage is improving.  First long trip I took (nearly 1000 miles, and 
the return part of the trip was partly along CA-1, with lots of hills 
and sharp turns, so lots of slow 2nd-gear driving), I got about 12mpg.

I now have a new SVDA distributor and a Pertronix installed, and I'm 
getting around 15mpg in the city.  I live in San Francisco, and thus do 
a lot of hilly driving, and I often encounter Big Wind on the freeways 
south of San Francisco when I do get around to highway trips.

Richard Atwell recently referred me to a Samba posting discussing 
mileage and how to improve it.  Key checklist items:

1. A vacuum-advance distributor in good working order with an advance 
curve appropriate for your engine.  The Aircooled.net SVDA distributor 
seems to be pretty popular, and I must say that I'm quite happy with 
mine (it replaced a very worn-out dual-vacuum stock unit).

2. Electronic ignition instead of points.  Dwell is rock-solid, and 
won't change over time (no parts to wear out).  This helps keep 
everything in adjustment, and I believe the perfect 54deg dwell gives 
the coil more time to build up a field, resulting in better spark.

3. Adjusting the AFM to provide a 12.5:1 mixture at WOT.  I'm not sure 
what the factory spec is (I'm not sure I've ever seen it represented as 
a ratio in the Bentley manual).  Ok all you smart people on the list 
... is this leaner than spec?  I'd hate to cook my engine in the quest 
to improve fuel economy :-)

4. Installing a CDI ignition unit (presumably with a suitable "hot" 
coil), resistorless rotor, high-energy plug wires, and high performance 
plugs, gapped to .060".  The CDI provides hotter / multiple spark, the 
high-energy wires and resistorless rotor improve current flow, and good 
plugs with a wider gap translate all of that into better burn in the 
cylinder.

The author of the article claimed to have roughly 21mpg for city 
driving after all of these changes, and presumably has much lower 
emissions, as well.  Both are important to me, and with the price of 
gas the way it is right now, it also seems like a wise investment.

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
