From: "Gensler, Mike" <Mike.Gensler(-at-)CONCERT.COM>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 11 May 2004 17:10:25 -0400
Subject: A/C 101 (for those who want to know)

For any of you who are confused about air conditioning systems, here's a
layman's overview of AC and the various components:

Compressor:  The thing in the engine compartment that's driven from a belt
off the end of the crank.  Its function is to pressurize the freon that now
gets pumped to the condensor.  The original Bus compressor was a piston
style (York?) and pulled something like 5-9 horsepower when it kicked on.
You can replace this monster with a rotary (usually Sanden) that is like the
ones found on today's cars.  The one you need for a bus AC system probably
pulls more like 3-4 HP.

Condensor:  That's the big coil-contraption that hangs under the belly of
the bus with a couple of electric fans (found in front of the radiator in
most cars).  When the compressor pressurizes the freon it gets hot.  The
purpose of the condensor is to cool the pressurized freon by passing it
through the coils and blowing air over it before it goes to the dryer.  Bear
in mind that all this hot air is now washing back across the bottom of you
air-cooled motor...

Dryer:  That's the 3" diameter by 8" high canister that is mounted up under
the front wheel well.  The dryer removes moisture that may accumulate in the
compressed freon via a dessicant.  I have no idea how or why this works, but
that's apparently what it does.  After being dried, the compressed freon
goes onward to the expansion valve.

Expansion valve:  You don't see much of this one, but it's attatched right
to the under-dash (or over-head) unit inside the bus.  It does what you'd
think.  It allows the compressed freon to expand and uncompress as it enters
the evaporator coils.  Ever sprayed canned, compressed air onto your skin
and noticed how cold it is?  That's because when things go from pressurized
to non-pressurized they get cold (I told you this was in layman's terms).

Evaporator:  The coils behind the vents in your bus where the (hopefully)
cold air comes out of.  After the freon goes through the expansion valve it
passes through the evaporator coils.  The fan that you turn to high, med, or
low blows air across these cold coils and pushes it out to make you comfy.
Now that the freon is spent and has done its job it returns to the
compressor where its journey begins all over again.

I hope this simplistic explanation isn't too far off the mark for you
technical folks :)

Mike g.
73 Westy 5-speed (for sale - $3500)
See it at http://home.adelphia.net/~mgensler/bus.html
Colorado Springs, CO
