Date: Mon, 24 Oct 2005 22:35:11 -0400
From: Will Anderson <wha(-at-)alumni.princeton.edu>
To: rnrkeys(-at-)hotmail.com,  type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 1600 vs. 1776 : mileage (long hi-po saga reply)

>   I may have the option of having the engine rebuilt to a 1600 or a 1776. >I had opted for the 1776 originally for the power, but I'm wondering if the >gas mileage will be significantly less? If I'm going to have to pay the gas >company for the extra power I think I'd rather stick with the 1600.


Greg,
short answer, yes you will lose a little MPG depending on your 
setup--read to the end though.  this may be too much information--but 
you have more to consider if you are thinking of going with a "built up" 
engine. how are you going to set it up? some folks on here run single 
carbs with 1776 but I just couldn't. High-performance or hi-po is a 
slippery slope on type 1.  I run a 1776 in my '70 Westy.  It runs 
fantastic now.  but it was a hard road getting there. 

in 1999, to replace my tired 1600SP, I rebuilt a standard case to an 
1835 because of some 92mm pistons and cylinders I got on a trade.  had 
the case line bored and flycut for the bigger cylinders.  found 2 dual 
port heads and had them rebuilt and flycut also for the bigger 
cylinders.  I had the case modified for a full flow oil filter.  bought 
reground crank and rebushed rods. . 110 cam. . . bought a Solex 
progressive 32/35 DIDTA carburator off thesamba (ever find to try a 
rebuild kit for one of those? stock on mid 70's Dashers. . . )  
compression ratio on the 1835 was 7.6:1.  finally after many months got 
it put together and RAN GREAT for 6 months.  then carb went south on me 
and kept fouling plugs on a trip to West Virginia. the guy working for 
Mark Dearing at the time said to ditch the Solex prog and go with other 
carbs.  installed Dellorto 34 FRD duals.  ran great, on the hot side, 
but I felt like the stock DP heads coulda breathed better.  found a 
rebuilt set of 041 big-valve heads on thesamba and port-matched 
manifolds.  due to the manifolds I HAD to get bigger Dellorto DRLA 36 
dual carbs. (I contracted the disease known as carburitis).  RAN GREAT. 
ported heads give much more power.  ran so well that I "needed" taller 
gearing.  installed an 091 trans out of a later bus and gained a higher 
top speed. but the oil pickup tube was bent, oil pump cavitated and 
engine threw a rod (BOOM!!!) through the case and a cylinder--all 
garbage except thankfully for the heads, and the flywheel.  started over 
from scratch--was in a hurry due to a move, so made a deal with a local 
drag racer for a new 1776 at 7.0:1 CR (I pondered a stroker at that 
point but it would have taken 3 more weeks and a lot more $). new case 
using the same heads. counterweighted crank and 100 cam this time.  RAN 
GREAT.  except for a strange knock. took engine back to the builder.  
case defect, case replaced by an honorable builder--cam thrust bearing 
saddle machined too narrow causing bearing to break and cam to bounce 
around axially. thankfully nothing else was damaged.  while the crank 
was out I had all the rotating mass dynamically balanced.  in the 
meantime I borrowed a loaner engine from the full moon bus club (big 
thank you to phil cain). a 1600--pushing an 091 trans! on atlanta 
freeways! a little hard on this little motor. my gen light was inop and 
I threw a gen belt in tennessee.  only didn't realize it for a few 
miles. . . hmm I am hearing some bad spark knock, getting worse and 
worse, losing power, hmm better pull over. engine smoking.  engine cools 
off, install spare belt and get another mile to campground. reset valves 
in the morning. engine still runs but "not quite the same."  about time 
to return it to the bus club. apologize to phil and pay for damages.  
install reassembled, balanced 1776. runs great.  very smooth. 8.0:1 
compression runs cooler heads now than than at 7.0:1 confirming the 
squish theory promoted by John at aircooled.net (or as one builder told 
me, set deck height to a dime thickness, heh).  I think the big ports, 
free flowing exhaust, etc. are very efficient.  Before, I got ~20-22 mpg 
highway with the 1600SP and 30/31PICT at 55 mph.  now I get ~18-20 MPG (-at-) 
70 MPH, hard to compare because now "I can't drive 55;" it's not in the 
sweet spot anymore. YMMV.

like I said it was a hard road to get here 5 years later but I feel like 
it's dialed in for the long haul. lessons learned: 1) if you have a 
"built" engine you likely will have to build it more than once. 2) 
estimate how much you think it will cost, and triple that amount. 
deviating from stock is like expensive dominos. 3) for example, now I 
need to figure out how to heat my bus with a 1.5" exhaust and J-tubes, 
even if I get the CB heat exchangers the fresh air ducts conflict with 
the headers. . . and I keep looking for that 5th gear, what does it take 
for a 915 trans conversion. . . and. . . etc.

Basically if you just want a new engine for your bus the new crate 
beetlemex 1600 engines are a GREAT deal. . . especially compared to the 
costs of rebuilding--but if you decide to go the 1776 route I have some 
freshly rebuilt, flycut, stock DP heads that are ready to go, I would be 
glad to work out a deal on a trade for your SP heads (for a friend).  
now if I could only figure out this durn 1.9L waterboxer (new project). 
. . on the subject of the vanagon list, it's about 10% content and 90% 
BS. thank goodness for the admins here who keep us in line (thanks 
folks!!).  now if someone could only get the FullMoon site back up. . .

good luck, and flame suit on,
Will A.
'70 Westy
'83.5 Westy
