Date: Thu, 20 May 2004 11:09:15 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Jay Ollom <jaytype2(-at-)hotmail.com>, wil(-at-)charmfx.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: gasoline vapor induction?

What can I say, maybe I'm just gullible. 

Not gullible, just curious. I love the concept of efficient cars. I'd even convert my bus to fuel cell or hydrogen if I had the know-how and $$$,$$$,$$$... 

I'd like to see somebody build one of these but I can sit here and say that I seriously doubt it can be done or there would be a few (maybe 5 or 6) inventors driving around in 100 mpg cars. 

We've got enthusiasts running their cars on batteries, on french fry oil, and Megasquirt, but not any that I have heard of (certainly might still be out there) that has a running, working high mileage car that isn't based on $60K of unobtainable materials (fuel cell) or based on a golf-cart. You'd think somebody would have come forward and say - look at this - it works. I heard of a Phillipino fellow that had converted a normal Camry to high fuel mileage but no one could seem to get him to show it off... Had something to do with preheating the fuel as well. No demo, no showings, no conversation. Seems to shoot the man's credibility. Maybe it works, maybe not. 

One fellow cameup with a big improvement and he wants to sell you the parts: http://www.coatesengine.com/

Better power, better mpg. Will we ever see his design on a factory car? 

Even the air car has been promoted heavily. I'd drive a car that would go 50 or 60 miles on air. Shoot - I only drive 100 miles a week as it is... 

Saw a thing on PBS last night about hydrogen powered cars. Big bomb under the floor right? The newest idea was a proprietary metal that absorbs the hydrogen and releases it when needed. Allows a tank to hold more than a regular hydrogen tank. It is so stable they claim that they might even use this material as a cushion behind the bumpers... Another GREAT idea and they are trying to sell it and they are showing it off. 

Why aren't the 100 mpg carb folks doing this? (promoting themselves?) I realize that the traditional car mags totally ignore anything that isn't produced and endorsed by the big car makers (aka the car mag's bread and butter). The Pop Science mags of course repaort all sorts futuristic stuff that may never see reality. Strange to me how there isn't much on the internet from enthusiasts that have built prototypes. Racing belt sanders, racing lawnmowers, HomePower.com but no 50 mpg Caprice Classics...

I read an article about a 1930's car that was steam powered. Big and powerful and ready to drive after a 10 minute warmup. What happened to them? 

Chris

Chris
