Date: Thu, 20 May 2004 13:44:26 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: gasoline vapor induction?

I did that with a 40 HP Beetle engine. I was stationed in Italy where there are often gas strikes that close the stations for days. This time it was for the better part of a week. My roomate and I stocked up on fuel in 10 gallon containers and drove conservatively. At the end of the week the stations began to reopen - but not all of them. I hopped in my Beetle and clicked on the ignition. The gas gauage didn't even move. 

Into the tank went kerosene, lacquer thinner, mineral spirits, etc. etc. I was able to put a couple of gallons of this mess into the tank. I started it up and got 1/4 mile down the road ((or so) before the gasoline in the fuel line and carb bowl changed to the cocktail in the tank. It ran - barely. Lots of smoke but it maintianed 40 mph for 4 or 5 miles. Got my gasoline - couldn't shut it off b/c it would not have restarted. Locals thought I was crazy... <grin!>

It cleaned up 1/2 mile or so going home again and ran like a clock. 

Great little car - basic and slow but perfectly reliable and predictable.

Read some more of the http://himacresearch.com website. I won't say these super efficient cars aren't possible but I find it strange how none of the inventors would loan a vehicle to any group (school, car club, magazine, government agency) for independent testing. The design is patented - not like somebody could start copying them. All of the testimonies by reporters would have been SO easy to fake to a non-mechanic. Only driving the car in private, day after day, would prove these cars efficiency and prove that these cars were not operating with hidden fuel sources or other trickery. If I drove week after week on $2, I'd believe it. Why not sell this technology to the Europeans who obviously are more concerned about max-MPG.

Why not - if these super carbs are so super easy - convert a few folks' cars and send them home for a few months? All of the accounts mention just enough detail to seem real and technical but are lacking enough detail to repeat independently. Sort of like watching Star Trek! Some gadget is described and seems like it is almost based on real science... I know the show is sometimes but obviously we lack the science to build real Trek stuff.

Chris
