From: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Date: Thu, 20 May 2004 14:12:21 -0700
To: matthew.huntley(-at-)strathbogie.net, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Putting Worries to Rest - Try #2

Matthew, your questions are very specific, and have already been well 
answered. But here are some questions for you, your wife, and your 
friend:

1. What is your alternative? All vehicles ten years old or older have 
known difficulties. My '82 Volvo had a little plastic vent (about 
$3.00) in the oil breather that, if clogged, would cause the oil to be 
blown all over the engine. All watercooled engines have hoses and a 
thermostat that deteriorate in time and will eventually leave you 
stranded if not replaced in time. The door latches on my '77 Volvo 
would freeze up on a cold winter night in Maine and would fly open when 
I turned a corner. The list of known quirks for cars is endless.

2. Do you have room to store a spare engine? A spare engine for a '71 
is a very smart idea.

3. What do you and your wife think "a new engine" means? Most aircooled 
VW owners confront the likelihood that they will have to rebuild the 
engine, have it rebuilt, or purchase a "fresh" engine in the mileage 
range that others have mentioned (50,000 to 80,000 miles for a 1600). 
As long as you do some or all of the work yourself, the cost can be 
kept well under $1000. The engine in a '71 is easier to get out of the 
vehicle than any engine in any other vehicle I know of. It's one of the 
simplest to rebuild, too.

4. Can you afford a "car payment" to yourself for maintenance? If you 
can put aside $50 or $100 a month for maintaining the bus, you should 
have no trouble at all keeping it dependable, clean, and comfortable.

5. Does your wife think that ignorance is bliss? Okay, that one is a 
little over the top. But one of the reasons that VW buses have "known" 
problems is that SO much is known about them. This list, for instance, 
is a substantial resource. I'd wager that there is nothing that can 
happen with your bus that hasn't happened to ten people on the list, 
who will tell you ten ways to fix it.

Finally, not a question but my usual soapbox. Unless you are a very 
lucky guy, this bus is going to cost you about $4,000 before it is as 
safe and as dependable as it should be. That's pretty cheap for 
reliable transportation and a slice of "cool." But it's money. A couple 
of bicycles is much cheaper.

Mark "follow the money" Hineline
