Date: Fri, 21 May 2004 08:25:55 -0700 (Pacific Daylight Time)
From: "DARREN" <darrensmisko.alumtek(-at-)telus.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: NEW MICROBUS

It is interesting that someone says it is scrapped when
just yesterday there was an article in the Vancouver Sun
that it was going into production and would be out in 2007?
Then I checked the web and sure enough it is released.
is it or isn't it....we shall see



News
Hanover Plant to Build Microbus
October 1, 2002: 1,500 new jobs at Stvcken site. Dr. Bernd Pischetsrieder:
All market studies positive." The decision has been taken: the Microbus will
be built in Hanover. The decision means 1,500 new jobs for the
Hanover/Germany plant. These jobs will be created as part of the unique 5000
x 5000 labour model. Under this new concept, Volkswagen will employ a total
of 5,000 persons for a gross wage of EUR 2,556. The decision to create 3,500
new jobs to produce a minivan at the Wolfsburg plant was already taken last
year. By deciding to build the Microbus, Volkswagen has set its sights on a
new segment  a MPV combining striking design and high functionality with
the comfort of a limousine. Dr. Pischetsrieder emphasised that "the VW bus
was never just a means of transport, it has always been an emotive cult
object."
Author(s): Roland Schedel

Click Photos to Enlarge

) Volkswagen
Wolfsburg, Germany
Not For Sale - Not a Classified Ad
Volkswagen

Owner's Comments / Article Text:
 Volkswagen Microbus is Confirmed for Production

Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles has announced that the Microbus, which
captured the imagination of the media and public worldwide when it was shown
in concept form at the Detroit Auto Show in January 2001, is to go into
production.

The new vehicle will be built at the Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles factory
in Hanover, Germany, leading to the creation of 1500 new jobs. Speaking at
the factory, Dr Bernd Pischetsrieder, Chairman of the Board of Management
Volkswagen AG said: With the Microbus, a legend begun here some 50 years
ago when the first Volkswagen bus left the production line is now returning
to Hanover.

Volkswagen is targeting a new market niche with the Microbus  it is an MPV
that combines practicality and flexibility with striking design, high
desirability and a premium image. The concept was penned at the Volkswagen
design studio in Simi Valley in California, with special consideration for
the US market, and was shown at the Tokyo, Geneva and Frankfurt Motor Shows
last year, as well as the Detroit Auto Show.

The Microbus is a full-size MPV, equivalent in size to the current Caravelle
and Multivan. Though reminiscent of the original rear-engined T1 Microbus,
it is significantly different in both style and concept. Its wide and
shallow headlamps and rear lights contrast to the originals famous round
headlights, while the front-mounted liquid-cooled engine is a world away
from the T1s air-cooled powerplant. Inside the concept vehicle are six
seats arranged in three rows, with those in the middle capable of turning
through 180 degrees. The distinctive fascia is both stylish and ergonomic
with, for example, a dash-mounted gearlever that leaves the floor free of
clutter.

Continued Dr. Pischetsrieder: The Volkswagen T1 was never just a means of
transport, it has always been an emotive cult object. The publics reaction at
motor shows combined with the findings of market studies already show us that
the Microbus design has a spontaneous appeal, and that the vehicle will follow
in the footsteps of its successful predecessor.

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of IMSTP.gif]
