From: "Casting Fool" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 17 Jun 2003 02:40:14 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Holy Roll-ing... (Was: EGR connector removal)

From: <Mfgavia(-at-)aol.com>
> I'm not so sure that Paul took the abstinence "thing" too frivolusly!
Given  the VW's "hippy bus" reputation and associated indulgence in
activities of both carnal and consumptive nature, it's a very amusing verse
to feature. ; )

Oh, with the 60's thing, and the various religious faiths in our club, life
as a v-dubber is going to be interesting from now on.  Hopefully I won't
remain single for too much longer, though finding a Christian soulmate who
likes the bus image might be harder than it sounds. I always though that
Thelma was cuter than Daphne, I'm partial to orange and computers... you
know maybe if I get a Great Dane... [grin]

Related to your "hippie bus" comments...

When the clutch cable went out this evening, the patrolman that stopped
behind me (the back end was out in the traffic lane) yelled something that
I've never had said to me by an officer in the 20 years that I've lived in
Augusta, "You better move that thing, BOY."  (And yes, that was the "BOY"
that usually denoted one's place in Southern society.  As in racial
heritage, or as in "If you're trying to push your Catty, from Nashville to
Cincinnati and you come across the Boone County line... I'm the Sheriff of
Boone County, and you're in a heap of trouble, BOY.")

Being a "Michael Jackson" of the vanilla variety (which made the 3 years
that we lived in Gary, Indiana _very_ interesting, BTW), and someone who
detests racial slurs of any sort, I bit my tongue, got out of the bus,
walked back, and said to the officer (politely, mind you) "I'm not a 'boy',
I'm a 'man', and the clutch cable's broken.  We're working on moving it out
of the way."  Interestingly enough, the officer apologized and then got out
to help us push the bus.

I guess that I'd better not grow that beard and ponytail that I was thinking
about; it might make things even more "interesting". :O)

TTFN - Mike Jackson
`77 Bay, "Giacomo"
Casting Fool & Son
Augusta, GA  USA
http://www.cfnson.com
