From: "Air Cooled VW's" <aircooledvws(-at-)cox.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 17 Jun 2003 09:53:21 -0700
Subject: Westfalia Monster House

Howdy volks !

    My wife and I have started on this new and wonderful design for our house
after being inspired by the new TV show "Monster House" and have decided to
convert out livingroom/gameroom into a larger than life replica of our Westy.
    I was able to have a friend donate a rear-end of a 77 Westy (this bus had
a good life of over 150k and died from a honda running through the middle, no
good bus was hurt in this exercise) and cut it down just to the point behind
the engine deck lid inside. We removed the engine and installed a small ice
machine we found at a garage sale with access to the top, so you get the ice
from engine lid on the top, the westy back cabinets are still there with added
tracks to hang glasses from and another smaller Westy cabinet was used to hold
the bottles and serving accessories. The mufler was trimmed down and just
welded onto the ice machine. All this was attached to a large peice of
ply-wood that then got pained to look like it was going down the road. As for
wheels there were no axels, so i cut a tire and strecthed it out flat and
attached it to the ply-wood from the top of the wheel hub to the floor.
Needless to say it looks real cool as you pop the back hatch and reveal a
fully stocked bar :0)
    Next we went to home depot and got lots of lumber. we are in the process
of making a whole wall that is simular to our Westy with cabinets everywhere
and a Z-bed couch. Finding simular vaneer to match our Westy has been a effort
and opted to go witha kinda-a-like veneer we found at Lowe's ( its so close i
may redo my Westy's cabinets with it). We are hoping to have the wall
completed by 4th of July as we plan to have guest then.
    Later plans include ripping out our windows and installing louvered crank
windows, finding 2 extra sets of westy (late model) tables with poles to add
to each side of the couch, and I may get crazy and find a ice box out of a
weekended and add it next to the couch for cold drinks and muchies.
    Well I am sure i have given cause for great big smiles or wonderments of
dismay, but I will keep you all informed of this Westfalia Monster House and
as I progress will be making a website and including pictures of the whole
process.

Until Later - Peace, Love, and Volkswagens


Mike and Leigh
76 Westy
71 Deluxe
