Date: Wed, 18 Jun 2003 03:59:14 -0400
To: jebus(-at-)coffeepot.org
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <Doyt(-at-)NWOnline.Net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re:Seals and paint? 

 >Date: Tue, 17 Jun 2003 16:26:43 -0700
 >Hello,
 >My '76 Westy has blown main and pushrod tube seals. I was orginally
 >going to fix it myself, but after viewing the rebuild tape and looking
 >at the space I have to work with, I think it's better if I bring it to a
 >reputable shop who can tell me whether I need new seals, an engine
 >rebuild or a new engine. I live in San Francisco, so if anyone knows of
 >a good vw shop that specializes in bus engines, I'd appreciate it.
 >Also, as I get my westy fixed, I'm thinking of taking her to Earl Scheib
 >for a paint job. Anyone have any experience w/ Mr. Scheib? Anything I
 >should look out for or be wary of there - or is it a good, cheap paint job?

.................It will be cheap, and you will get only what you pay 
for....cheap paint and cheap labor. Earl isn't going to include any body 
work in his basic price. And he will do the bare minimum of surface 
preparation IF YOU ARE LUCKY.  So, take the bus to him already prepped to 
paint. Spend at least a few months getting it ready. Maybe even a year of 
spare-time work. Take out the engine first and send it to the rebuilder. 
Get all the mechanical work done first, like brakes and gas tank repairs. 
Then, do all the surface prep yourself that your skill and facilities 
permit. Read a few books on it from the library if necessary. Strip off all 
the trim, Take off the panels under the rear windows, and take out the 
grill that covers the fresh air intake. Get these removed items ready for 
paint and take them in with the bus. Clean up the empty engine compartment 
and fix all the rust spots in there. And paint the repaired surface with 
phosphoric acid and a good undercoater, and sealer. Remove the windows and 
the old window seals, and take off any door and hatch seals that are in 
need of replacement. Store the glass and order new seals. Fix the rust you 
find under the seals, including the bottom sides of the doors. Again, use 
the phosphoric acid and undercoater and sealer. Remove the headlights, take 
off the bumpers, fix all the dents and rust spots and put in new metal 
wherever necessary. Consider replacing the jack points on each side, if 
they are rusty. Apply more phosphoric acid and undercoater and sealer. When 
all the metal work is done, undercoated and sealed, and all the sanding and 
filling is over with, sand the bus with 400 paper. Let Earl paint it, and 
then you put the trim back on, install the new window seals, put glass back 
in place, bumpers back on, headlights back in place. And finally, after the 
paint job has cured, put the rebuilt engine back in the chassis. Earl won't 
do much beyond whatever you have already done. And, insist that he put on a 
good sealer before he applies the color coat. Use your eyes and your 
fingertips to get that surface ready for the new paint. And do it over 
until you are happy with the result. THEN take it to Earl for his cheap 
paint, if you must. Almost any other professional paint shop would be  a 
better (and more costly) choice, in my opinion.

Doyt Echelberger 76 Westy in Ohio   USA
(I've been working on mine for 3 years to get it ready to paint.)

 >One more thing, should I get the engine worked on before or after the
 >paint job?
 >Many thanks,
Pete
'76 Westy Deluxe "GOJIRRA!"
