Date: Wed, 26 Feb 2003 08:23:35 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Paul Guzyk <paullist(-at-)guzyk.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] bringing in mexico bus/bug

>My P.O. is a grad student heading to mexico for a few months.
>He's looking to pick up cheap vw transit, preferably bus, preferably 
>in mexico to be brought back to the US.
>Can it be done?
>How?
>

Probably not,

Newer Mexican VW buses are not approved for use on US roads.  You 
would need DOT approval etc and the costs to get it approved would 
certainly exceed any money you would save.

An old vehicle, (25 years or more) is a little easier to import to 
the US, but anything older than 25 years in Mexico has likely had the 
Sh** driven out of it and it is ready for the scrapyard.

I'm currently driving a '72 bus in Mexico and 2 or 3 times a week 
local people ask ME if I want to sell them my vehicle.

Better to take a US or Canadian bus into Mexico.  Check out the book 
"Mexican Camping" at http://www. rollinghomes.com , a good resource 
on how to get vehicles INTO Mexico and where to safely camp etc.

-------

 From www.customs.gov

The Federal agencies that regulate the
importation of non U.S. version or
nonconforming vehicles are the
Environmental Protection Agency, Department
of Transportation, U.S. Customs Service,
and the Internal Revenue Service. These
agencies do not encourage the importation
of non U.S. version or nonconforming
vehicles because converting a nonconforming
vehicle is usually very expensive, and
sometimes impossible or impractical. It is
possible that a car will conform to one
agency's requirements but not another's.
Cars that are more than 25 years old are
exempt from EPA and DOT requirements. In
2001, model year 1976 and older cars are
exempt. In 2002, model year 1977 and older
are exempt, etc. Cars that are 21 years
old are exempt from EPA regulations, but
must still meet DOT regulations before they
may be permanently imported.
EPA will permit the importation of a
nonconforming vehicle only if it qualifies
for an exclusion or an exemption, or is
imported by an independent commercial
importer (ICI), who is a current holder of
a valid EPA certificate of conformity. The
ICI importing the vehicle has to clear the
goods through Customs, not the vehicle
owner. The ICI must retain custody until
after the vehicle has met all EPA
requirements. Before importing the
nonconforming vehicle, make sure there is
an ICI who is both eligible and willing to
import your vehicle, and that you are
prepared to pay the ICI charges, and wait
the necessary time.
Exclusions are vehicles that are classic or
antique vehicles manufactured before the
EPA regulations, the engine is not
installed in a vehicle or chassis, it is
not intended for use on streets and
highways, it is a racing vehicle, and/or it
is powered by unregulated fuel. These
vehicles have been excluded from the
emission requirements of the Clean Air Act.
Exemptions are applied to situations of
extreme hardship, temporarily imported
vehicles, and foreign vehicles that are
identical to the U.S. versions. Additional
information on exclusions and exemptions
can be obtained at
www.epa.gov/otaq/imports/quiktext.htm.
The vehicle must also comply with all
applicable DOT Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standards (FMVSS) to be imported. If it
does not, the importer must contract with a
DOT-Registered Importer (RI)to bring it
into compliance, and post a DOT bond for
one and a half times the vehicle's dutiable
value. This bond is in addition to the
normal Customs entry bond required for
nonconforming vehicles, which is 3 times
the car's dutiable value. If the car
conforms to EPA requirements, but not
DOT's, then the car may be imported by the
importer, although copies of the DOT bond
and the contract with an RI must be
attached to the HS-7 form when submitted to
Customs. Proof that a car conforms to EPA
standards may either be a manufacturer's
letter or a sticker on the engine. Proof
that a car conforms to DOT standards may
either be a manufacturers letter or a
sticker on the inside rim of the driver's
side door. You can obtain a list of
registered importers at
www.nhtsa.dot.gov/cars/rules/import/Gray010
8.htm.
You will not be able to register a
nonconforming vehicle until it is brought
into compliance. You will need the Customs
form 7501 to register it with the
Department of Motor Vehicle. Customs will
not give you this form without approval
from the EPA and DOT.


-- 
