Date: Wed, 26 Feb 2003 08:05:29 -0800 (PST)
From: "Ray Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: rwill(-at-)arkansas.net, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] bumper reflective tape

>Plus, feel free to ignore all the Jailhouse
Lawyers 

Hmmm, there is a little irony in a doctor
dispensing legal advice and saying to ignore the
jailhouse laywers.  :)

>on the list who predict heavy fines and hassles
from the police..... 

Fined not more than $500 and imprisoned not more
than 6 months.  Realistically, you are looking at
only the fine.  The standard ticket fee, if the
officer elects to cite you rather than arrest you
(very likely to avoid the necessity of appointing
you counsel if you qualify for court-appointed
counsel) and you do not contest the ticket, for
this offense is $100 fine + $137 in state safety
related fees. 

>It hasn't happened to me and I've been driving
my bus WITH THE ORANGE TRIANGLE in place for 
several years now. 

This is not an indication that it is legal or
illegal.

>I think the law says you  MUST display a slow
moving vehicle sign(requirement) if you are going
25 MPH or less 

if the vehicle is DESIGNED to be operated at
25mph or less....

>..etc... but I don't think there is a law
PROHIBITING other vehicles from displaying the
SMV triangle.
Good luck. 

Wrong.  Here is our code.  See subsection (c).  

'17C-6-9. Slow-moving vehicle emblem. 
     (a) All farm machinery and other machinery
including all road construction machinery except
when guarded by flagmen or flares, designed to
operate at twenty-five miles per hour or less,
traveling on a public highway during day or night
shall display a triangular slow-moving emblem on
the rear of the vehicle.
     (b) The commissioner shall adopt standards
and specifications for design and the position of
mounting the slow- moving vehicle emblem, as well
as requirements for certification of conformance.
 The requirements of such emblem shall be in
addition to any lighting devices required by law.
     (c) The use of this emblem shall be
restricted to the use specified in subsection (a)
and its use on any other type of vehicle or as a
clearance marker on wide machinery or on
stationary objects on the highway is prohibited.

I'm not inclined to do a state by state survey,
but if you are inclined to check any other
states, you may check your state using
findlaw.com, http://www.findlaw.com/11stategov/ .
 Search your code for "slow moving or
slow-moving."  

>Of course, traffic laws vary from state to state


Actually, this sort of thing is fairly uniform
due to USDOT regulations that states must follow
in order to receive certain highway funding.  

> keep my sign mounted for that real-world test
beteween the letter of the law and what actually
gets enforced.  

Good luck.
