Date: Wed, 26 Feb 2003 10:50:53 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>, Tor <apophasis(-at-)kitcarson.net>
Cc: Miles Erickson <miles(-at-)pair.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Buses on very bad roads (rather long)

>A hugely important point is raised here: Don't try this without the proper 
>rubber on your vehicle. Handling is VASTLY improved when the bus is 
>outfitted with tires that meet or exceed the original specs. The thought 
>of tilt-testing a bus on single-ply-sidewall tires scares the crap out of me.

I rolled a bus over on purpose when I lived in Italy. We wanted the 
drivetrain out of a bus going to the junker's (not a bad passenger bus in 
retro, late bay) and rolled it by tying a strap around the roof and to the 
front tow point on my Rabbit Cabrio.

A little spinning of the tires (sand) in reverse and over it came. Too ALOT 
of pulling. It got to someplace between 30 and 45 degrees. Of course this a 
static tilt with no passengers. Motion and passengers would decrease this 
number I'd guess.

Why roll it it to pull the drivetrain? The sand. Tough to make a jack work 
on sand.

Was a good bus with a leaky mainseal. We told my friend that the seal was 
leaking and no to drive it until the $5 part was replaced. He insisted on a 
roadtrip and drove until the engine locked up (60 miles or so). We towed it 
home, removed a few key parts we wanted, tossed in toasted equivalents and 
to the military junkyard it went with ALOT of good parts still on it. The 
rules stated the car had to be complete when it was turned in for salvage. 
Was part of the military tax system - so the parts from non-taxed US 
military's civilian vehicles did not make it to the local market. Of course 
we weren't supposed to try to salvage anything either. Lots of wasted cars 
that way.




Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
