From: "Mike" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 26 Feb 2003 17:39:27 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] let's overwork the resin guy

From: "Robert S. Williams, MD" <rwill(-at-)arkansas.net>
> You talking about injection molding these things? Why not simply Vacuum
form them from ABS sheeting  and then cut them out? I can't see how that
would take THOUSANDS of dollars of tooling.

No, using RTV molds, urethane resins, and vacuum/pressure casting.  And I
used the wrong labor model for the figures.  The correct tooling cost
figures are $2150.00 for the hinge covers, and $1550.00 for the long mirror
stem.

The average labor rates for shops like CF&Son range between $25.00 to $50.00
per hour.  Our normal labor rate is $35.00.  If you figure 40 hours labor
minimum for projects like the covers or stems and the cost of the RTV and
other materials, and you discover why most folk don't understand the high
cost of resin model kits, etc..

To do the covers for example, there will be two sets of molds.  The first
set to copy the original covers in order to create masters, and the second
set to cast copies of the masters.  That's roughly 28 pounds of RTV mold
compound at $175.00 for 10 lb.. (granted, I purchase my supplies wholesale,
but the costs are figured using the same model that we use for clients in
order to keep things in perspective).

Larger shops can even their costs out over many projects, but smaller shops
have to do what they can with each project.  Specialty casters have to
balance their costs against the pricing, but you can only go so low in a
price before you start to lose.  And that doesn't include shop costs like
maintenance & utilities, etc..

My incentive in the mirror stem case is that I want one for my own, so any
sales will be a plus on top of what I intended.  And I wasn't aware that my
bus needed the hinge covers until Billy brought it up and I went out and
opened up Giacomo.

I usually write off the tooling costs on projects that I initiate on my own,
knowing that I'll probably not get them back on most small projects.  But
for every project that I suck it up on, there are a couple of client
projects that I do okay on.  And happy customers tend to promote your
business.  It all works out in the end.

And who knows, there might actually be 50+ VW bus folk out there who
need/want a long-stemmed mirror. :O)

TTFN - Mike Jackson
`77 Bay, "Giacomo"
Casting Fool & Son
Augusta, GA  USA
http://www.cfnson.com
