From: Mfgavia(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 27 Feb 2003 01:16:51 EST
To: fritha(-at-)preachain.org, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] more carb discussion

In a message dated 2/26/03 10:59:08 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
fritha(-at-)preachain.org writes:

<< if neither of these carbs work, does anyone know of where to get a 
 really inexpensive setup?  If not, what should I buy for it? >>

A really inexpensive setup of either stock solex or aftermarket dual carbs 
can be found at swap meets, on-line auctions and by advertising a need for 
them on these listserves.  If they are really inexpensive, its quite possible 
they will require a rebuild, re-jetting and correct tuning. If you don't feel 
you can do this with your experience and tools, plan to pay someone to do it.

I have run dual single and twin throat weber carburetors.  The linkages can 
be unreliable and quality varies significantly.  They take a while to warm 
up, cold starts are rough.  Fuel economy was un-remarkable.  They were noisy. 
 Their performance was OK after I adjusted the floats.  Jetting was expensive 
(each of the 12 primary jets cost $4 - $5) and a pain but not difficult if 
you have time, patience, a tachometer, sychronizing device, good reference 
books and, ideally, a fuel/air ratio meter of some sort.  Its frequently 
cheaper in the long run to have a shop jet them for your specific engine.

Run them with a dual advance distributor for best performance and fuel 
economy; correct float settings are_critical_to their smooth operation.  Tap 
one of the manifolds with a suitable diameter fitting for the brake booster.

My personal preference is fuel injection over the webers.  Its more reliable, 
offers more horsepower and fuel economy and its much more "drivable".  I 
replaced the webers on my 74 bus with a Bosch K-jet (CIS) conversion kit.  
Check out:

http://www.sandrail.com/millerfi/

The 40 IDF's are currently on my ghia and will be replaced with Kjet fuel 
injection when I have some time this summer for the conversion.

mark 

"Got duct tape?"
