Date: Thu, 27 Feb 2003 11:39:07 -0700
From: Matt <matt(-at-)jive.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Remove engine AND tranny?

> Hey Y'all,
> I am mainly a T1 engine guy but I have been working on
> building one good late bay out of 2, and I have
> discovered that it is a pretty good PITA to remove the
> pancake engine. So is it easier to remove the whole
> engine and tranny as a unit? I heard someone write
> this earlier, can anyone confirm or deny? Can you give
> me a quick run-through of the procedure including any
> issues that arose during the removal?

my "new" method, derived from this list, is to drop the tranny down by 
removing the top mounting bolts, then dropping the engine.  Lowering the 
tranny gets the engine past the rear apron, which is very close to the 
engine otherwise, and needlessly difficult to deal with.

In short-

Chock your front wheels on both sides

Disconnect the battery

Jack up the rear of your bus say 20 inches (is this right? It's been 2 
years since I've done mine)

Use Jackstands to hold up your frame. I've also backed onto drive on 
ramps, but they weren't tall enough, really.  If you take off the bumper, 
you can cheat a few inches, and save youself from hitting it with your 
head about 20 times.

disconnect the wiring from the starter, ECU, and various firewall plugs.
unhook the fuel line, throttle cable and heater control cables

using a long extension, remove the upper tranny mount bolts. Also remove 
the two lower engine/tranny mounting bolts

remove the coil, oil filler tube, and airbox. I also like removing the 
rearmost tin peices, and then removing the compartment seal.

put your jack under the engine. This would be a good time to find some 
wood to support your tranny as well.  Place the jack under the engine and 
jack it up until it has light pressure on it.

Remove the engine mount crossmember from the bus frame. I live it attached 
to the engine. IT makes a good steering handle.

Lower the jack slowly.  Remove all the things you forgot to take off and 
are hanging up now.  The assembly will stop moving when the halfshafts run 
out of travel.  Jack it back up a little, and block up the tranny.  This 
should give you at least 6 inches of room between the tranny and bus frame.

with the engine secure on the jack, remove the top engine/tranny bolts. 
Jack it up slightly to remove pressure, and slide the engine away from the 
tranny.

Finish lower the engine down, making sure nothing is getting destroyed.


Total time: approx 2 hours, including beverage breaks (maybe not the first 
time)


Installation is the reverse of removal.


that's my general outline. I'm still working on an easy way for my Golf...
matt
