Date: Wed, 26 Mar 2003 20:29:21 -0800
From: Volks-Web Support <support(-at-)volks-web.net>
To: KYLE LAFERRIERE <klaferriere(-at-)msn.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] living in a bus in NC

I spent 9 months in my bus this last year...  And with my cat.  ;-)

1)  Porta-potty.  The one I have is about a $60 wally world item.  Water
in a tank on top, icky in the bottom, separate the 2 and take the bottom
off to empty at your local loo.  Makes ALL the difference.

One of the things I found indispensable (being a filthy tobacco addict)
was a fan that the PO bought - 12v, about 8" in diameter.  I replaced
all of the little screws and shoulders that hold the interior panels
with bright shiny new brass cuphooks and shoulders, and have it hanging
from one so it points right out the louvers to the left of the window
near the stove/sink.  Didn't want to mount it by the base - hate to
drill holes in the pristine interior.  Just crack the window a bit and
it does a great job of exhausting whatever - helps to cut down on
accumulated moisture and odors from cooking, too.  And the proliferation
of cuphooks are great to hang all the things you like handy - I've got a
toolpouch with stuff I use regularly hung by the slider, flashlight,
etc.

The PO had also bought a hose that screws onto the sink outlet, I
installed it and routed it to the middle of the bus, so any washwater
can drain unobtrusively.

The biggest challenge is to pare your stuff so that you're not moving a
bunch of stuff to get to something else...  Took me awhile to get it
down, but now I kinda miss having everything at my fingertips.

I had no problems in silicon valley - my rig is clean and I'm a good
citizen.  Interesting that the local constabularly seemed AWARE and
tolerant that many folk have been forced to use their vehicles as living
space in this economy.

Happy Urban Camping!

Teri



-- 
)'(  )'(  )'(  )'(  )'(  )'(  )'(  )'(  )'(  )'(  )'(  )'(  )'(  )'(
		Volks-Web Web Site Design       
		http://www.volks-web.net
)'(  )'(  )'(  )'(  )'(  )'(  )'(  )'(  )'(  )'(  )'(  )'(  )'(  )'(
