Date: Sun, 22 Sep 2002 14:44:06 -0700
From: Nikki Elko <shrike3(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Explain vacuum

I already looked in the Library, hopefully clicked on "Vacuum Explained," and 
it linked me to the Carburetor section, and I'm sure somewhere in one of those 
articles is the information I seek, but I'm that lost that since it wasn't 
the title of an entry, I didn't know where to start. I found out yesterday 
there's nothing in Muir, and the only mention in Bentley is regarding the 
vac adv/ret distributor (which I no longer have).

The VW gods have apparently decided that since I've mastered the concept of 
"distributor," it is time for me to learn all about "vacuum." Specifically 
on a dual-carb manual system -- 73 with Solexes. And I'm sticking with the 
Solexes because I know enough already that they qualify as the "devil I know.
"

I attempted a trip from L.A. to Las Vegas yesterday to see Steve Dolan, who 
is visiting friends there. I got to Barstow (about halfway), stopped at a 
truck stop to check vitals (on the bus, silly) and give her a rest. Dipstick 
felt okay. Browsed around for about 20 minutes, checked the oil (50W) -- level 
was good, color was good. No sooner did I get out of the parking lot, the 
bus stalled and didn't want to start -- turned over, but didn't catch.

So I got my little tune-up tool kit, pulled the distributor, replaced the 
points with the better black/white striped wire (which is longer than the 
all black wire and doesn't pinch at the connections, I noticed). Replaced 
the condensor just for larfs (noticed the new condensor has a much longer 
green wire than the one I got in El Paso that we had to patch to reach the 
coil). Had a little panic when I forgot to line up the dogs with the slots 
in the drive gear and thought the distributor shaft had somehow broken (major 
D'OH moment).

I got the points gapped with the feeler gauge right on 50 degrees dwell for 
the first time (three times in a row now). I think I've mastered the fine 
art of distributors. So I'm not getting a Pertronix because stock is now "the 
devil I know."

So the dwell was right on, the timing light didn't want to work, and Steve 
MADE me drag out the Dreaded Vacuum Gauge -- MUCHO MOJO (shudder) -- to check 
the vacuum.  We wanted to find out why the bus stalled to begin with before 
I tackled the two major inclines to Vegas on a hot day.

All I know is the vacuum gauge, when hooked up to the left carb, registered 
a pulsing 7-8, and I remember Steve saying it should be at least 15. Beyond 
that, it's Chinese to me. He told me to sit tight and he'd come to my aid.

This is what we found out, so I know a little more about vacuum than I did 
yesterday:

Wiggling the connections at the left carb brings the vacuum up; raising the 
idle levels it out. The metal pipe that connects the brake booster to the 
carbs seems to be twisted slightly (probably forced into place without removing 
the carbs first), which puts undue strain on the connection elbows at the 
base of the carbs. The hose connecting the brake booster one-way valve to 
the metal pipe in the engine compartment has been replaced with a red rubber 
hose that I suspect is not proper vacuum hose (I recall someone saying something 
about non-standard hoses collapsing and creating problems).

So I need to find a good unbent vacuum tube that will seat in its proper position 
up by the firewall tin instead of sorta under the air cleaner -- BustedBus 
guys? And I need to replace that hose from the one-way valve with the real 
deal. Get new and spare elbows for when these blow out under the strain.

Most importantly, I'd like vacuum explained in an overview so it's not such 
a MYSTERY! So far I gather it's a carb thang? And it's vital to the health 
of the engine, because "Vacuum leaks burn valves." How? Why? What to do about 
it?

Nikki
http://home.earthlink.net/~shrike3/vwpage.html

