Date: Wed, 8 Aug 2007 05:51:48 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Jason Meyer <thesykboy(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] E-Brake vs. Foot brake

What I do is tighten the shoes as far as I can (same
number of clicks on each starwheel - they turn
opposite directions, remember), get in the bus and
exert as much pressure as I can on the brake pedal,
then go back out and adjust as tight as it will go -
repeat - then before you start backing off, hit the
pedal one more time as hard as you can. What this does
is center the shoe to the drum. Now start backing off
like 3 clicks back, 3 clicks front and so on until the
wheel will turn with some resistance. Now get back in
and do the pedal again before checking for "no drag."

My bus has always had some little bit of drag, so to
be sure, especially if I am driving a long distance
shortly after an adjustment, I stop after around 50
miles and feel the wheels near center to see if
they're  warm - they shouldn't be.

The method of stomping on the pedal to center the
shoes has worked well for me for many years. You can
start the engine and use the vacuum booster if you
want, but just remember the longer you run that
engine, the hotter the exhaust pipes are going to be
when you crawl back under there.

While you're down there, check all your CV joint
bolts! -BaH
--- Jason Meyer <thesykboy(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:

 I just got done with the rear drums and the parking
 brake is still not
 nearly as effective as it should be.
 
 I had to remove the drums because the star wheels
 were frozen solid. I got
 them fairly loose and then got the wheels on to
 adjust the brakes.
 
 I am pretty sure I did it right, but I don't know if
 I went too loose due to
 the fact that I was being hyper sensitive on the
 whole - tighten until you
 get friction, then back then off a tad. Maybe my tad
 is too big.
 
 It has been a loooooong time since I have done
 brakes.... is my method
 correct?
 
 When I got done, the parking brake WOULD hold better
 than before, but that
 was after applying some muscle to the lever in a
 nice strong pull.
 
 Are they still too loose?
 
 -- 
 -thesykboy
 


-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
Comedy with an Edge to see what's on, when. 
http://tv.yahoo.com/collections/222
