Date: Sat, 11 Aug 2007 03:39:32 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Recommendations for a digital advance timing light...

> From: "Bill Bowman" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
> Date: Fri, 10 Aug 2007 12:11:08 -0500
>
> Thought I'd upgrade my timing light and was looking around for a
> digital timing light that you can set the advance and read the
> tachometer, etc.

I have a Mac TL-90 that I bought on Ebarf a few years back and it works
fine.  It does need 12 V, which I provide from a small 12 V "gel cell"
battery that I already had for other things.

It only has three connections: power (alligator clip), ground (alligator
clip), and pickup (clamp that goes around #1 plug wire).  When I use it
on the Bus, I put the power and ground clips to the gel cell and put the
pickup around #1 plug wire.  You don't have to make any other
connections to make it work.

The user manual doesn't specify how much current it takes.  I just
measured the current it draws on 12 V and it was about 0.5 A.  This
was without the strobe light flashing; my guesstimate is that the
light might add another 0.5 - 1 A or so.  This means you don't need a
big battery to run it for a reasonable amount of time.

You can use a 12 V battery like I mentioned above, or use a 6 V battery
wired in series with the Bus' 6 V system to produce 12 V for the timing
light.  Using a 6 V battery lets you use a smaller and lighter battery
(or, lets you have more run time for the same battery size), and if it's
rechargeable, can also be recharged directly from your Bus' electrical
system.

You could get the 6 V from plain old flashlight batteries or a 6 V
lantern battery.  This might be handy if you usually have a lantern
or similar that takes 4 size C or D batteries in the Bus.  If your
timing light draws 2 A, my guesstimate is that you'd get 3+ hours of
continuous use out of a lantern battery or size D batteries, and 1.5+
hours of continuous use out of size C batteries.

For flashlight batteries, you'd need a holder for four of whatever size
you want to use (Radio Shack, Mouser, etc).  For either flashlight
batteries or a lantern battery, you'll also need a piece of wire with
alligator clips on both ends.  You'd hook one end of this wire to +6 V
on the Bus, like on the positive side of the coil.  You'd hook the other
end of this wire to the negative terminal on the lantern battery or
flashlight battery holder.  You'd hook the positive/red clip from your
timing light to the positive terminal on the lantern battery or flashlight
battery holder, and the negative/black clip from your timing light to the
Bus body or engine case.

Another way to get the 6 V would be from a rechargeable battery.  If you
use a 6 V gel cell, you can even recharge it from the Bus' electrical
system.  (Theoretically you could charge NiCd and NiMH batteries like
this as well, but they will be much happier with a dedicated charger.)
A 6 V, 4.5 Ah gel cell (547-PS-640) is $7.50 at Mouser, and with a
timing light drawing 2 A, I'd guesstimate 1+ hours of continuous use.
This battery is about 2"x4"x4" (50x100x100 mm) and weighs 1.8 lbs
(0.8 kg).

To use the gel cell to run the timing light, you'd need a piece of wire
with alligator clips on both ends.  You'd hook one end of this wire to
+6 V on the Bus, like on the positive side of the coil.  You'd hook the
other end of this wire to the negative terminal on the gel cell.  You'd
hook the positive/red clip from your timing light to the positive
terminal on the gel cell, and the negative/black clip from your timing
light to the Bus body or engine case.

To recharge the gel cell, you'd need one more wire with alligator clips.
You'd hook one wire from the negative terminal on the gel cell to the
Bus body, and the other wire from the positive terminal on the gel cell
to +6 V on the Bus.  Then go drive on the highway or otherwise keep the
RPMs up to a reasonable level.  When you shut off the Bus, disconnect
both wires to the gel cell, so it doesn't drain your Bus battery or try
to power things it shouldn't.

(For the purists: yes, this is not how you'd charge the gel cell for
your pacemaker or space station.  For your old car it works just fine.
:)  )

If you used NiCd or NiMH rechargeable batteries, it would probably work
a little better to put five or even six of them in series, to get a
6.0 V or 7.2 V battery pack.  If the timing light says it works down to
10 V, you could theoretically get away with just four batteries (4.8 V),
but using five or six will probably be more reliable.

Yet another way would be to use a DC-DC converter to boost the 6 V up
to 12 V.  Unfortunately these are somewhat rare in the ratings needed
for this application.  Back in the day, Radio Shack, JC Whipme, et al
sold DC-DC converters that let you use a 12 V stereo in a 6 V car and
one of these would probably work.  Keep your eyes peeled at the swap
meets.

Standard disclaimers apply; I don't get money or other consideration
from any companies mentioned.

Matt Roberds
