From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 15 Jul 2004 10:45:41 -0500
Subject: mysterious oil leak

>....
>while discussing something else, i mentioned to another listee
that i
>had dropped the motor THREE TIMES july 4 to fix an oil leak. to
no
>avail.  i thought i'd enliven everybody else's evening with
another
>tiresome and pointles saga of aluminum motor hell
>

I suspect your main seal is leaking,

Do not replace your main seal. just yet.

First check the oil pressure sender unit. It can leak and the oil
will flow to the bottom of the engine  and seem like an main seal
leak. The oil pressure sender unit can leak out of the threads,
where it screws in to the case; or it can leak out of the plastic
to metal junction on the top. It is hard to see it leaking
anywhere.

You can ruin your engine block if you try to screw this part in
tighter because you think it is leaking. the correct way to instll
it is to use teflon tape on the threads or use permatex aviation
gasket compound #3 on the threads. AND DO NOT TIGHTEN IT VERY
TIGHT AT ALL. The sender has tapered pipe threads and it seals by
getting stuck in the hole like a tapered cork in a wine bottle. If
you tighten the tapered pipe threads too much, you turn the sender
into a splitting wedge and you split the case apart and it has to
be welded back together.

Now if your main seal is actually leaking because you see new oil
dripping out of the special drain hole at the bottom of the engine
flange that bolts to the transmission bell housing flange, then
here is how to fix the main seal.

Do not just put on a new main seal. You are just wasting your
time. You must inspect the seal portion of the flywheel that rubs
against the main seal. This surface must be perfectly smooth and
shinny. If you can catch your fingernail in a groove in this area,
the flywheel is probably junk. If you can feel a little roughness
or see tiny tiny rust holes, then you may be able to save this
flywheel with a lot of work. You must polish the sealing area to a
mirror shinny surface. The roughness is just wearing away your
main seal or the groove is just pumping or slinging out the oil
like an Archemedes Screw.

To polish the sealing area you need several sheets of "wet - dry"
sandpaper. These are silicon carbide.

you need:

1 sheet of 400 grit
1 sheet of 600 grit
1 sheet of 800 grit
1 sheet of 1000 or 1500 grit

then you need a special dry only sheet of iron oxide crocus cloth

Put the flywheel in the kitchen sink with the sealing area up and
just cover this area with water, and add a little hand dishwashing
detergent.

cut the sand paper into a strip about 1 inch across the page
(short wise or 8 inches long). Fold this in half and fold it in
half again. You now have 4 sanding surfaces. Use the sandpaper,
under water, as a "shoe shine" rag and pull it back and forth over
the sealing edge. After about 10-20 strokes the abrassive is used
up, then rotate the flywheel about 120 degrees and use a different
surface of the sandpaper. Start with the roughest grade, use up
the entire sheet of sand paper. Be very vigilant about regularly
rotating the flywheel in a circle to maintain a true circle at the
sealing edge. Contine the process for about 2 hours. Use up all
the sandpaper. Change the water and detergent ocassionally as a
treat.

After a long time, the roughness and the pits will be gone and you
will have a shinny mirror surface. Then dry off the flywheel
COMPLETELY. Then cut and fold the crocus cloth and use it to
polish the sealing area some more.

yes you have changed the sealing surface diameter slightly
smaller. this change is insignificant. The main seal was leaking
because it wore out because of the sealing surface roughness. You
now have a surface that the main seal can actually seal up
against. The main seal has lots of compression and it will still
be tight against the flywheel and it will now work as it should.

If you have a groove in the flywheel, you will probably have to
remove too much flywheel surface to get down to a smooth surface,
and this will make a flywheel with too small a outside diameter
for the inside diameter of the seal to be able to compress tightly
enought so your flywheel is probably junk.

I have saved many flywheels this way and the main seal lasts at
least 50,000 miles

USE THE EXPENSIVE VITRON MAIN SEAL . Glue it in with gasket
compound. Pound it all the way in against the stop.

good luck

Gary
