From: "Jason Z Upper" <jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 15 Jul 2004 14:43:15 -0400
Subject: Compression Ratio and New Heads

Hi Folks,

The saga of my engine continues!  So far, I have cleaned everything, done 
some custom painting of tin and other parts, and ordered new heads from Bus 
Depot.  I've been reading up on re-assembly, and have visions of Deck 
Height, Swept Volume, and Compression Ratio dancing in my head (no pun 
intended).  I have a (relatively) stock GD-series 2.0 FI with oval exhaust 
ports.

I've been reading many different sources about Compression Ratio.  It seems 
that "CC-ing" the heads may or may not be required, shims may or may not be 
required, and gaskets may or may not be required.  My engine is a fairly 
recent (25,000 mile) rebuild, and I have all the specs from the builder.  I 
found no shims or spacers when I removed the heads, and found none when I 
moved the cylinders off the case for cleaning (I didn't remove them, just 
slid them up the piston).  The original CR was set at 8.0:1, the engine made 
great power, and I ran it on 89-octane gas.  It didn't get too hot (oil temp 
at 210F), but I also didntt have a CHT gauge.

So, my questions are as follows:
1. If I buy reman heads from Bus Depot/AVP, do I need to CC them, or is this 
a typical step in the rebuild process?
2. If I bolt the heads on without testing CR, am I in danger of getting the 
CR too high, or does the typical rebuilding process take this into account?
3. If I have combustion chambers that are different, can I put shims under 
one cylinder and not another, or do I need to get them re-machined?
4. Can somebody who has done this before give me more insight as to what I 
can look for and avoid?  There are many sources, and many different 
processes.

I have a call in to AVP, and hopefully they can give some insight into this 
as well.  Ideally, this rebuild will have a tight exhaust (unlike the last 
one), good power, and good reliability.  I love my Bus, I just don't want to 
have to do this again in another 25,000 miles -- aren't Type4 engines 
supposed to be "bulletproof???"

Thanks in advance for any help, advice, or suggestions.

Jason Z Upper
Universal Circle Music
1979 Westy "Sweet Pea" -- engine out, heads off
Asheville, North Carolina
