From: "Tom Young" <tomyoung1(-at-)comcast.net>
To: "Jason Z Upper" <jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 15 Jul 2004 12:31:35 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Compression Ratio and New Heads

From: "Jason Z Upper" <jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Sent: Thursday, July 15, 2004 11:43 AM
Subject: [T2] Compression Ratio and New Heads


> Hi Folks,
>
> The saga of my engine continues!  So far, I have cleaned everything, done
> some custom painting of tin and other parts, and ordered new heads from
Bus
> Depot.  I've been reading up on re-assembly, and have visions of Deck
> Height, Swept Volume, and Compression Ratio dancing in my head (no pun
> intended).  I have a (relatively) stock GD-series 2.0 FI with oval exhaust
> ports.
>
> I've been reading many different sources about Compression Ratio.  It
seems
> that "CC-ing" the heads may or may not be required, shims may or may not
be
> required, and gaskets may or may not be required.  My engine is a fairly
> recent (25,000 mile) rebuild, and I have all the specs from the builder.
I
> found no shims or spacers when I removed the heads, and found none when I
> moved the cylinders off the case for cleaning (I didn't remove them, just
> slid them up the piston).  The original CR was set at 8.0:1, the engine
made
> great power, and I ran it on 89-octane gas.  It didn't get too hot (oil
temp
> at 210F), but I also didntt have a CHT gauge.

Umm... perhaps I missed it in a previous post, but why are you replacing
heads on a 25,000 mile engine that did't get hot?  And how sure are you that
the CR was really 8.0:1, which strikes me as too high, perhaps leading to
head problems?


> So, my questions are as follows:
> 1. If I buy reman heads from Bus Depot/AVP, do I need to CC them, or is
this
> a typical step in the rebuild process?

I've bought heads from AVP and no mention was made about the cc's of the
heads, even though I picked them up at the shop.  I understand that a shop
that does a compression cut as part of the rebuilding process should should
provide shims equal to the amount of the cut, but that really doesn't
guarantee that the heads come back to original specs.

> 2. If I bolt the heads on without testing CR, am I in danger of getting
the
> CR too high, or does the typical rebuilding process take this into
account?

Yes, you're in danger of getting the CR too high, particularly if you don't
know the deck height, and particularly if the original CR was really 8.0:1.

> 3. If I have combustion chambers that are different, can I put shims under
> one cylinder and not another, or do I need to get them re-machined?

No, you really shouldn't since you also alter the geometry of the valve
train and end up with heads that are "cocked" in relation to the centerline
of the engine.  That's really the advantage of a complete rebuild; you can
swap heads, put the long/short rods and pistons together in ways to
compensate for combustion chamber differences and deck height differences
and get CR's fairly even without machining.    Sometimes you *can't* get the
CR's completely even but you can come up with a combination where no one
cylinder's CR is too high or too low, and live with it.  Frankly, that's
exactly what VW did when they were building these engines in the Black
Forest.  They put together parts without performing elaborate measurements
of each and every part.  They relied on manufacturing tolerances and trusted
that they wouldn't "stack up" in such a way to get any one engine too far
out of line.  You're not dealing with new parts anymore, so it's safer to
measure things.

> 4. Can somebody who has done this before give me more insight as to what I
> can look for and avoid?  There are many sources, and many different
> processes.

The first thing to do is to measure deck height with your shims in place.
(I know you said you don't have shims, but if the builder used a sealant at
the base of the cylinders - which he should - then there's a very good
chance the shims are there, glued to the bottom of the cylinder, and just
about impossible to see without pulling the cylinder completely off the
engine.)  Record the deck height for each cylinder.  Then, cc the heads.  I
usually cc each chamber twice, just to check my work.  Use the "spec" swept
volume for your engine; unless you've got some fairly sophisticated tools a
direct measurement of swept volume is pretty difficult.  If your pistons
have a dish in them it's best to measure this too.  If you can't measure the
dish volume use 14cc & 15cc (I've heard both specs, and never seen a
published spec) in all calculations, just to see what the high and low CR's
will be.  Then do your calculations.  Do the complete set of up to 16
calculations  (4 cylinders x 2 head configurations x 2 cylinder dish
volumes) and see what your results are.  Unless you're going to pull your
engine completely apart, at this point you're left with shimming to get the
CR's "right."

> I have a call in to AVP, and hopefully they can give some insight into
this
> as well.  Ideally, this rebuild will have a tight exhaust (unlike the last
> one), good power, and good reliability.  I love my Bus, I just don't want
to
> have to do this again in another 25,000 miles -- aren't Type4 engines
> supposed to be "bulletproof???"

The bottom ends are pretty darn sturdy.  The heads are a weakness, though
better than the Type1 engines.  A "mild" CR - no more than stock - will
improve reliability since higher CR = higher heat, which really is the
Achilles heal of air-cooled engines.


---------------------------------------------------------------
Tom Young                       '81 Vanagon
Lafayette, CA 94549         '82 Westfalia
---------------------------------------------------------------
