Date: Fri, 16 Jul 2004 06:20:41 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Baker <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>
To: bus list <ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, type2 list
Subject: A good karma day...

Howdy Y'all,
Just a little note about my day yesterday. First of
all, last week I saw an ad on theSamba for a set of
Yokohama 356, 185R14 small truck\van rated tires for
sale by a guy in Dayton. "75% tread left, $80 for a
set of four, selling because he put larger wheels on
his bus" read the ad.  So I immediately email the guy
and say that I'll take them.  Yesterday, he called me
up and said he was gonna drive them down to me and
deliver them to my office in Wilmington, because it
was a nice drive!  So about 1:00 pm he rolls into the
YMCA parking lot in his VERY NICE 66 hardtop camper. 
After a few niceties and checking out each others
buses, I run to the bank and get his 80 beans.
I am very anxious to get the "new" tires on my bus, I
have been driving the last 2 years with the WRONG size
tires (haven't I, Frank?!) so I call around town to
see what the local shops are asking for mounting and
balancing. Answers I got were anywhere from $15 to $20
per tire, until I called the Tire Discounters in
Wilmington, they said $12 per tire. Cool, I'll be
there in 10 minutes.  So I get there and drop off my
bus, and go walking around town because I just
couldn't stand to stay there and see other people
working on my bus, it just freaks me out, makes me all
crazy!!  I come back about an hour later and they are
just finishing up. The manager Dan starts chatting
with me, telling me how excited his techs were to
check out my bus. So I get my wallet out of my pocket
and ask Dan if we can go ahead and settle the bill and
he says, "Don't worry about it."  Huh? What?  I ask if
he is serious, and he just says "Yeah, don't worry
about it, next time you need to buy tires, just come
back!"
Sweeeet, a $48 dollar value, for FREE!  So I drive
home and the tires ride great!  They are smooth, give
a much better ride, and actually even look better on
my bus (although I am going to miss the whitewalls!!) 
But best of all, I FINALLY HAVE THE RIGHT TIRES ON MY
BUS!!


=====
Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1967 Kombi soon to be camper!
http://www.buszen.com

"So we got into the red VW microbus with the shovels and the rakes and the implements of destruction and we headed on to the police officer's station..."
