To: Type2 Mailing List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Sat, 5 Jun 2004 17:17:45 -0700
Subject: Stock Westy aux battery charging circuit

Hi folks...

I went out to debug my non-functioning aux battery charging circuit 
today.  I figured it was not working properly because the last time I 
tried to use the fridge was on a road trip, and it killed the aux 
battery while the engine was running, yet the battery does charge when 
I hook up to shore power and set the charging timer.

I started by pulling the wires off the isolator relay and cleaning the 
spade terminals.  Boy, were they ever corroded.  Some 120 grit 
brightened them right up.  Verified proper operation of the relay by 
manually feeding the signal terminal with +12v and checking continuity 
with a VOM on the switched terminals.

However, I was not getting any voltage from the black wire that feeds 
the signal terminal with the engine running (from the alternator), nor 
was I getting any voltage from the red wire bundled with it (from the 
main battery).

After tracing these wires, I discovered they'd been snipped off at the 
other end by some PO.  Grump.

Well, it's obvious where the red wire needs to go.  However, I would 
like to know the correct (i.e. stock) connection point for the black 
wire.  It's not immediately obvious looking around my engine 
compartment.  This black wire is fairly heavy gauge (does the 
continuous duty relay draw a lot of current?), though not as heavy as 
the red wire to the main battery, so I didn't want to just hook it up 
to the small blue/white wire that performs the same function for the 
heater blower relay.  The lead doesn't seem long enough to go below the 
tin, and there's not an obvious opening for it.

Can anybody tell me the correct location for this wire?

Now I just need to get new insulated spade female connectors and a new 
aux battery ground cable terminal (clamp nut rusted to bolt, and I'm 
surprised the existing connectors could pass *any* current).

Thanks!

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
