From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K)
Date: Sun, 6 Jun 2004 07:49:55 -0500
To: durocshark(-at-)hotmail.com (Don Tuleja)
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Removing gutters

Don,
I saved this message from waaay back when--simply because the valve
adjustment question comes up frequently here--

Karl has the situation down pat--and no one has ever explained the job
so eloquently-- and easy to grasp--.

Follow these instructions and you'll get the job done right the first
time--and that will be the end of that task for now--

Hope you didn'y glue them gaskets on--:>)
 
Hasta,

Terry
 
From: aufever(-at-)prodigy.net(Karl) 

Subject: Re: [T2] Stuck valves and promises 

I keep seeing people trying to adjust valves using the distributor when
it is in the wrong position. Forget all that goofy crap way of doing it
by turning the engine backwards and trying to remember which ones to do.
The EASIEST way to do it is with a remote starter button and not
worrying where the distributor is. Takes longer to R + R the valve
covers then to adjust them!: 

Remove both covers. 

Connect a remote starter to the solenoid. Watch ANY pair of rockers. 

Turn engine over with remote. 

Just as the exhaust valve starts to open, STOP. Adjust the intake. 

Turn engine, exhaust will open and close, intake will open and close.
Just as the intake closes, STOP. 

Adjust the exhaust.

Go to the next cylinder. 

As the exhaust just starts to move, adjust the intake. When the intake
just closes, adjust the exhaust. Real simple, real quick, real easy. 

The valve you are adjusting will always be on the heel of the cam. 

When you are done and before you put the covers back on, you can check
the position of the distributor. 

Turn engine in direction of rotation and watch #3 valves. When the
exhaust opens and then just closes, STOP. At the instant the exhaust
closes the intake will start to open. 
You want the valves to be at 'rocking' position, either way you move the
crank one valve will move. This is TDC to fire #1. Look at your crank
pulley. If you have a zero degree mark, it will be at zero. 

Your rotor should be at the index mark also. [a high lift or long
duration or high overlap cam makes no difference, rocking valves is
rocking valves] If you are 
NOT at TDC zero mark when the valves are rocking, your cam timing is
OFF. 

Karl,
