From: ubunet(-at-)comcast.net
To: cdprops(-at-)phonom.net
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 06 Jun 2004 15:03:09 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] Rust Converter's Results and Finding's.

<<I have small, surface spot rusting in the typical places

Is the rust all the way through? It doesn't sound like it is. I personally, not saying it's the RIGHT way or anything, would take a small grinder with a sanding disc on it, and sand ALL of the rust off. Any hint whatsoever of rust. Then just put a super thin layer of Bondo over it, sand it down and seal it with the best primer your able to. The Epoxy primers are REALLY good for this, but you need special equipment (sprayer) to put it on. The Napa house brand of rattle can primer SUCK's IMHO. I'm not really sure what brands of rattle can primer ARE good. 

If it's rusted all the way through, then I would grind the whole hole out of their, then using something like a baby bottle cleaner (think a giant pipe cleaner) I would apply POR-15, or whatever other rust stopper floats your boat to the inside, at least within' a foot of the hole in all directions if possible. Then get some fibreglass cut into JUST the right shape/size for the inside of the hole, and attach it the edges using the resin. Then you can resin the rest, bondo over the top and prime and be good. 

Of course I'm assuming you just have normal tools, and a driveway or something to work with. Otherwise, I'd be talking about purchasing new body panels, and welding and whatnot to do it "RIGHT". :)

<<And should I immediately apply touch up 
paint to these areas?

Paint typically isn't "NEEDED" after priming. It just makes things look better. If you're going to wait long after priming to do any painting, you'll have to sand again before painting. So just leave it rough primer untill your ready to paint. Then sand it down with some nice wet/dry paper (make it nice and wet) about 400 to 600 grit, dry it off, rub it down with Laquer Thinner or the like to remove dirt, dust, oils, etc, making sure not to leave finger prints, make sure it's SUPER DRY and spray on your paint. :) 

I'm not sure about number 3. Sorry. And as for what kind of filler to use, Bondo brand is used in just about every auto-body place I've been. And it's only like fifteen bucks for a gallon or less (you can buy smaller too, like a pint or something), and lasts AGES. 

Wow, that was long winded. That's what I get for responding to mail when I first wake up. :) 

Chris
