Date: Mon, 07 Jun 2004 10:24:34 -0500
From: Alex Wisniewski <awisniewski(-at-)comcast.net>
To: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: exhaust inside the bus

Good morning,
I've been having some serious troubles with engine exhaust
finding its way into my bus. It seems that any effort i've
done to fix this problem has had no effect. The big fouler
of all this though is that the exhaust fumes are not entering
the bus through the heat ducting or the rear cargo hatch,.
Here is an explanation of everything i've checked as of now.

Heating
I removed the 2 black heater channel that connects the heat
control boxes to the body ducting before the Y pipe section.
I've also plugged and seal up that area and then plugged
the main duct forward of the Y pipe again. The exhaust
still enters somewhere. From what I can gather the exhaust
is not coming in through the heat system ducting at all.

Rear cargo hatch
Visually the seal looks fine, but to test I sprayed the
outside of the hatch seem with water from a garden hose.
I didn't see any traces of water on the inside of the door
seam so it seemed to be OK. Figuring that was a good test
I eventually tapped the door seam shut with some painters
tape.
http://home.comcast.net/~awisniewski/vw/fumes/Dcp3165.jpg
This made no improvement to the problem of exhaust fumes
entering the insideof the bus.

Engine area
After all that excitement I decided to focus on the engine
compartment area again. The engine to body seal that raps
around the engine is new and is a tight fit. All pieces of
engine tin are in place and situated nicely. All of the tiny
rubber gaskets/seals are present and in good shape. The
engine access hatch above the engine has a good seal and I
even taped the perimeter of that with duct tape to eliminate
that as a source location. Valve cover gaskets are new and
not leaking oil. Crankcase breather in working order, and so
is the fuel tank venting system.

Exhaust system
In my attempts to fix this exhaust fumes I went and bought
a new muffler and a used left heat exchanger. Federal '79
Square port heat exchangers, 72-74 Muffler. While replacing
the muffler I did what is commonly suggested and filed the
exhaust flange surfaces flat with a metal file until the
area was shinny all around the flange surface. I used all
new gaskets. If I plug up the tail pipe with my shoe the
engine coughs then quits within a about 5 seconds.

Vehicle body voids
All the seat belt bolts are in place under the rear bench
and even under the flooring. [Riviera, originally 7 seater]
All camping equipment type holes(table, sink drain) in the
floor are sealed tight! All the drain plugs in the floor are
in place. Pop top body to canvas seal looks just fine and the
canvas itself is in prefect condition.

After all this work I can only assume with my understanding
that there might be an exhaust leak before the exhaust
system. I've read that the engine cylinder to cylinder head
seating surface can be a source of exhaust leaks. With the
lower tin pieces removed off the engine I could peak into the
this area with a light. The cylinder barrel to cylinder head
area looks fine on cylinders. Although cyl 1 & 2 have an oil
leak up in there somewhere. I removed the rocker arms and
pushrod tubes from cyl 1 & 2 and then took of the lower tin
that is under the pistons. I snapped these photos. It looks
like the oil leak might have settled on the bottom of cyl
#1 on the fins and dried to cause the dark area.
Have a look here
(In the photos you are seeing the bottom of the cylinders)
http://home.comcast.net/~awisniewski/vw/fumes/
Where the cylinder meets the case the dark mark appears
to be only oil and or case sealant, not exhaust. I'm puzzled
by what that is on all the fins of cylinder #1. The oil
visible in some locations appear to have come from above
the pushrod tubes and dripped down. Could that have caused
the strange marks? Or is this exhaust carbon.

Also I've been using a home carbon monoxide (CO) detector
alarm which has built in digital readout screen and highest
concentration recording.

Does anyone have any thoughts or ideas as to what might
be causing the exhaust leak? I feel that I've examined all
possible problem areas, and still have not been able to
find a cause. Is there anything else I should check that I
haven't already done? I'd appreciate any help/ideas/thoughts
to help me out. Thanks.

Alex Wisniewski
'77 riviera - '79 engine/exhaust
