From: "Walkingboss" <walkingboss(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 28 Feb 2006 05:30:37 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] Valve cover gasket sealer?

Another $00.02 worth!
    3M yellow  weather-striping glue is by far the way to go. IMHO

 Following these rules:
1) Clean, clean, and clean again the valve cover and head.
2) Valve covers straight
3) A tight bail.
4) Good quality cork gasket

    When the valve covers and heads are clean and dry. Apply a thin bead of
yellow glue around the valve cover. "Pat" the gasket in and out of the glue
to aerate till it gets tacky. Set the gaskets in place and set valve covers
aside to dry (about the time it takes to adjust the valves will do). Rub a
very thin coat of oil, (not grease) on the head side of the gasket. This is
to allow the gasket/cover to "walk" a little and settle in place.
    Yes this a little more work to clean the glue the next time. But in over
30 years of VW maintenance I've never had one leak from the gasket "sucking
in". I've had leaks from a misplaced a valve cover from time to time, come
on guys, who hasn't.
    Last rule....... Do your valve adjustments/oil changes on time, make
sure your engine isn't over heating, and your gaskets will stay soft, and
most of all......seal, during that time. Its the two years 20,000 mile
services that cause the hard gaskets, leaks and extra work to clean the old
ones off.
    Reminds me of that ad for point-less ignition in the magazines for a
while ( a POINTLESS waste of money as far as I'm concerned, but that's
another days topic). The one where the man in his suit and tie, wearing a
fedora, say's "I love to clean and adjust my points", or something to that
affect. Well if you don't "love" to adjust your valves and scrape those old
gaskets, you need to buy yourself a Fo*d Focus or some other New World Order
ride. Or at least get Hydraulic clickers.......I mean lifters. ;-O
    You know if you think about it, the factory never put anything on them.
I've done about a "Kazillonteen" 600 mile maintenances on new air cools.
Pulled the covers on many KD engines to check the adjustment. And never, not
once was there any glue! Says something for assembly with clean dry parts!
    You got to love these lists. A simple question about glue. You get 30
opinions in 30 minutes, just great, now what to do? Kind of like...... ah
noses, everybody's got one, so which one is the best one? LOL
    Went to an auto auction once. The auctioneer at the beginning said,
"Welcome everybody, I hope you all do well. Now I have some bargains, and I
have some losers. Its up to you to figure out which one is which".  Like the
glue.

Howard

Two wrongs don't make a right,
But three lefts do!




Subject: Re: [T2] Valve cover gasket sealer?
