From: "Walkingboss" <walkingboss(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 28 Feb 2006 15:56:35 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2]tire broke inward this morning on me

 Hi Mark,

    Glad to hear from you. I'm sorry if I have upset you, but it seems that
you have taken this on a personal basis. Why?
      No soap box involved here. Just a Professional, ethical high ground!
I'm also sorry to say that over the years I have hardened to business's
little barbs. I have seen too many ax jobs go wrong to know I don't want to
end up on the wrong end of one and play law suit bingo.
     In my Parish (county to you) a customer can sue you for a faulty repair
even if He, the owner signs off on it. Point being the courts here say; I,
the repair shop represents its self as the expert, and should know better.
And I for one do.
     I don't know how things are where you are, but I'm not buying into it.
My ass, name, as well as my money are on the line.
     Plus to get back to the moral high ground, I would never want to think
I had to explain to anyone, much less my kids why, Mrs. Smith and her family
wont be at church next Sunday. Fix it right or take it somewhere else, the
moneys not that important!
     About our shops customer courtesy policy. Do we loan cars, yes. Do we
give rides, yes. Do we help folks who can't afford to fix their cars, yes.
We have a finance plan, at no interest, the cost is the same as cash. Its
simple, sign a note of lean on your car and we fix it on credit. One year
payout no interest. No give away's after all we are in business.
     Anyway if your in a position to do a patch up repair work and not worry
about it. Or give work away, I'm glad for you. I still say its better to fix
it right the first time.
     I certainly would like to apologize to you if our high standards Burn
you up. Like I said this is what gives you and I, plus the industry as a
whole a black eye. I for one will always strive to better our standing in
the business community.


 Good luck to you and have a good one.

 Howard

 AND REMEMBER: Two wrongs don't make a right, but three lefts do.
