Date: Fri, 8 Feb 2008 14:41:24 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] sealant for pushrod tube seals >>> NONE

I've said it 12 years ago and I'll say it again.  The sealent for pushrod tubes is NONE, absolutely NONE.  See if you will the discussion in the archives on type2.com.  O-ring seals work in a very specific and simple manner and they rely on the proper deflection of a properly sized O-ring under pressure to work.  That is not possible if the o-ring land is full of goopy crap.   A good silicone grease for assembly is all they require and will keep them working indefinitely be it on a T4 crankcase at the pressures it SHOULD see or on a 10ksi hydraulic system.  That assumes a number of things that must be true.
   
  #1 The bores in the heads and block in good condition without deep gouges (usually true) and PERFECTLY clean of anything when assembled, particularly of all that cruddy old silicone somebody put on there.
  #2 The pushrod tube seal lands round, not dented, in good shape with originial diameter, and of the proper diameter (all occasionally true, often not) and note on this that there are 2 sizes of T4 pushrod tubes, with early 1700 tubes smaller, most are long, long gone, but still surface occasionally.  In doubt, buy 8 new ones.
  #3 Proper sized o-rings, ideally of a material that will long stay pliable (viton or silicone) which is more often than not true unless you are doing it yourself seals from a hardware store.
   
  and
   
  #4 Lastly and most importantly a good running engine with little blowby and normal internal case pressures, and properly functioning crankcase ventilation.  This is the one that usually gets you.  If it isn't true, certainly goobing them up with your favorite sealant will stop them for a while, but isn't going to cure the problem, and will cause infinitely worse headaches when 6 months later you are trying to peel the crap off again.
   
  I used to design O-ring seals from 100-10000 psi for a living, lots of them.  Many will argue what I say isn't true proffering their current favorite witch oil sealant.  (If I had to use one I'd go with the Mercedes Benz, low acetic acid stuff Karl gave me a tube of once, simply wonderfull for all sealant applications.)  Anyway about all those opinions, if they've designed more than I did back then as an engineer, feel free to listen to them.  Silicone sealer on an O-ring is a bandaid, and one that prevents the o-ring itself from actually working at all the way it should.  Adhere to the rules above and you will have leak free seals until the o-ring material itself ages/hardens too much (which for viton may be never) or until blowby eventually catches up with the engine (which will of course someday occur.)  Anything else is just a bandaid, may work for a while, but isn't how it is meant to work.
   
  John

Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu> wrote:
  Hey Everyone,
I wanted to find out what sealants people recommend for pushrod tube 
seals. I'm going to be swapping out my leaky ones tonight and my 
mechanic recommends the Permatex Red High Temp RTV Silicone but that 
