Date: Mon, 11 Feb 2008 21:55:02 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Rob <becida(-at-)comcast.net>
Subject: Bus thoughts and good decisions

In the garage tonight working on my 1979 bus, it's a westy this time. 
My last bus was an '87 that I put a Subaru 2.2 into, it's been a long 
time since I messed with an air cooled engine.

I had the bus towed here some months back and have been slowly 
messing with it since. Had to put a head on it, had to find the head 
to put on it. Had to get the exhaust studs removed, had to find the 
correct exhaust studs to put in it. The engine is in and to be honest 
I had forgotten about the joys of all that engine tin, had to put it 
on and take it off more than once to get it right (no tin left over 
is a good thing <g>).

Now it's the brakes. The rears have a leaking wheel cylinder and it's 
a mess. I ordered new parts from Busdepot and  started putting them 
in today. Brakes are not bad in themselves, it's all the other stuff. 
I need to get seals for the rear bearings, I need a new CV boot, I 
need grease for all 4 CV's. Doing the CV joints is so messy... 
nothing like that molly grease.
I used my big special adapter (and a 5lb hammer) to get the rear 
wheel nuts off. I had to spray and scrape to see what type of insert 
I needed for the CV bolts and had to dig thru an old tool box to find 
the correct multi point fitting to do the job. I like having tools.

Later it was time to close the garage door and I found I had a 
problem. After I lifted the rear of the bus the front no longer 
cleared the garage door, hmmm. It was a problem, an inch of problem 
but that was enough. I had the rear wheels off, the brakes from one 
side on the work bench, a CV shaft sitting on the floor and the whole 
thing is resting on 5 ton jack stands.
My first thought was to just use the floor jack and roll it back the 
needed inch, I even started to jack it up and took one of the jack 
stands out. I've moved cars like that before. Then I could picture it 
falling off the jack.... oh wow would that be a mess. I put enough 
back together to get the wheels on, rolled it back a couple of 
inches, closed the garage door and put it back up on the stands.
I bought my first 1959 bus in 1972, since then I have made a lot of 
poor decisions. Tonight, putting the wheels back on and rolling it 
that 2 inches was a good decision.

Then I grabbed the Bentley and came in to read up on greasing the 
rear wheel bearings, it's been many years since I did the rear 
bearings on my '71. This is a low budget project and I didn't like 
the part about not being able to reuse the roller bearing, we'll see.



Rob
becida(-at-)comcast.net

'91 VW Jetta & a '79 VW camper in western WA 
