Date: Wed, 13 Feb 2008 23:50:22 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Auto Parts Stores Rant

     You know I'll weigh in on this not that anyone cares.  Chain auto stores are just like Walmart, they run the little guys out of business and we lament and bitch and moan, but very few of us go pay three times as much in general at the little guy if we can pay less than half for NEARLY the same thing.  That of course is the rub, initially they sucker us in with nearly the same thing then the local small parts guy is gone and then whatever they send our way is what we got to take if we want it local.  In Morgantown WV (college town good place for VW service and parts) there were classically in the day 2 small parts stores that did Euro only or Euro/Japanese stuff.  Well three if you count the fact there was a VWoA authorized service/parts only shop (didn't sell cars) that existed after the dealer went out of business in the mid 80's but even they eventually dropped their VWoA affiliation and lost factory parts.
       Anyway of the others, one was the prototypical old VW bug guy (who was an ass) and variably priced his "gold plated" used stuff, but generally had a good supply of Bosch stuff, and filters, and routine tune up stuff.  On that stuff he was reasonable, better than the dealer when they still stocked the stuff in the late 80's, not as good as Recylced Bugs Inc/Parts Place (EEEK, AAAK, OOOK, but don't laugh in 1986 they too were a great company who were about it for stock parts low priced and still had a great reputation and service, that changed somewhere in the early 90's.)  Anyway he eventually got too old and dissapeared, still is trying to sell off his shop but it too must be "gold plated" for the price he is asking for the land.  The other was an old bug guy who kept up into the watercooled era, diversified into Subaru, then other Japanese, but always kept a good supply of Audi/VW.  He was the guy you went to for the Pentosin hydraulic fluid for the power steering
 on your late model VW, for NGKs for your Toyota, etc, but always kept air cooled tune up stuff as well, built mud rails for himself, etc.  He was a true lived it hippie, a nice guy, and if you showed him the RBI catalog price he'd take a hit to match it within reason to keep your business.  And I'd often pay him a bit more for it to be local.  He eventually diversified further and became the big FWD driveshaft shop, then sold the parts and service bit off to a couple of his mechanics.  One split and the other who is a great guy but not much of a businessman, has eventually dissapeared.
       Both of these locals were certainly run down (just as NAPA and the other "classic" chain stores were) by the coming to town of Autozone and Advanced.  That being said, like everyone, if I could get the same Lucas built fuel injector for a Bus from Advanced new for $40 in 1995 when they came to town that the local small guy wanted $90 for and at the time even Bus Depot wanted $60 for, guess where I went?  They had front bus/early vanagon calipers rebuilt for like $18.99 back then for heavans sake, I mean with $12-15 for a rebuild kit and better than a hour to do it myself, and maybe not a useable core even then, how could you even compare???  You had to be selective and pick and choose and if often paid to buy one step up, but it was there in town, or available next day, and was cheap.  The only thing I'd go to the old place for was German braided hose or the Pentosin.  Now I was also spoiled by Bus Depot being only about a 1 day UPS ground from me on average.  In
 general of course they are always a good choice, sometimes others are as well.  German Parts and Restoration (GPR) has done well by me consistently over the last 15 years, they always have it, they ship fast, they get Audi stuff as well, the prices aren't usually as good as BD or others, but the quality is always first rate, they are more for FWD stuff of course.  Heck even RMMW was pretty fair in the day of course, I guess Mid America still is.  Others similarly come and go.  My take home here is that if you don't any longer have the local German parts guy, don't lament too much their passing if you didn't stand by them when they dissapeared.  Of course bear in mind mail order is only one click away.  Also don't lament that all of a sudden Autozone's prices aren't much better any more compared to mail order, and the parts are much worse it seems.  We all got what we paid for...
   
  Final thought, no stinkin Autozone or Advanced up here in AK and with the local yokel Schucks and others, damn I wish there was.  Here it is the same crappy quality, with horrible selection and availability for twice the $$$.
   
  I wonder what a franchise costs....
   
  John

       
---------------------------------
Never miss a thing.   Make Yahoo your homepage.
