Date: Tue, 13 Nov 2001 21:27:13 -0500 (EST)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Snoopy <vwsnoopy(-at-)knology.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Stud removal

On Tue, 13 Nov 2001, Snoopy wrote:

> My ex mechanic said to use a torch to loosen the aluminum...  Is
> this right, if so how much?

Snoopy,


Jim and Grant have said it, and I have said it before...  Go to a
machinist with this one!

Your ex-mechanic is correct.  You heat the stud and it expands a bit and
pushes the aluminum of the head out a couple of ten thousandths of an inch
and then you weld a nut to the end of the stud and give it a rap with a
hammer and it comes out easy as pie.....

                 IIIIIIIIIII      FFFFFFFF
                     II           FF
                     II           FF
                     II           FFFFFF
                     II           FF
                     II           FF
                     II           FF
                 IIIIIIIIIII      FF

you have 5 years of experience.  If you don't, then you melt the head, or
you weld the stud to the head, or you break the stud off below the
surface, or..., or..., etc.  Doctor Tim could do this in a jiffy, John
Anderson could do this in a jiffy, Al Brase could... etc. etc. etc.  BUT
they have many years of experience and you and I do not and can not. Broke
studs are one of those things that are *expensive* to learn.  On most
jobs, I am very willing to take a shot at it and recommend that others
take a shot as well.  Broken exhaust studs are not one of them.  I have
watched John pull a broken stud and admired the effort, but when I do
this, I head for my friendly local machinist quicker than faster.

There is an advantage to this, BTW.  Machinists are so used to dealing
with horror stories (broken easy-outs, broken below the surface, big
gouges below the surface, etc.) that if you walk in with an *easy* one...
one that you have not touched, one with 2-3 threads sticking out, your job
often gets moved straight to the front of the line because they know you
care.

If you do want to learn, go to a junk yard, get a bunch of old heads, VW
preferably, alloy (AL or MG) definitely, and pull all the studs out.
After you have pulled 30 or 40 studs and have an appreciation of all the
tricks that they can pull and all the tricks the head can pull to stay
united, then you can start in to the heads that are on your bus.

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail



