From: ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 15 Nov 2001 05:34:26 EST
To: scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Heating with water - seeking what-if-ideas


In a message dated 11/14/01 6:02:36 PM, scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu writes:

<< Just wondering - thinking too much actually...

Has anyone created sealed heater boxes and circulated antifreeze through 
them to capture the heat and then circulate it through a heater core inside 
the bus and heated the interior like a normal, boring watercooled car?

Any such thing as an electric pump that would deal with the recirculation 
duties?

Just wondering...
Ciao! >>

Couple of problems right off the top of the heads:
What would you use for a heat exchanger that would survive being
submerged in water. Boilers (domestic) use a cast iron water jacket
and a circulating pump but the heat source is intermittant, controlled
by the thermostat - On an engine the heat is constant and would re-
quire two "radiators", one in the bus for heat ( a heater core ), and
a secondary one outside to remove the heat from the water. A water
cooled car already has both.
Electric water pumps are readily available but not cheap. Racer and
marine suppliers have plenty available.
Electric fans would be needed at least on the heater core and probably
on the radiator, too. Placement of the (especially), outside radiator
would require forethought - airflow without being subjected to stones
or other road dangers.
Plumbing - What kind of tubing/piping? Stainless steel? Copper? And
fittings to make turns/connections? Sweated connections? Rubber
and hose clamps?
Expansion/overflow tanks? Water expands when heated. A domestic
boiler has a large expansion tank with an internal bladder to take up
this expansion and return it when cooling. A water cooled engine has
an overflow tank plumbed off the radiator, some even use an electric
fan after the engine has stopped to continue to cool the water.
Provisions for "air bleeding"...to prevent cavitation.
Put two different metals together in a water bath and you've created 
a primitive battery. Dielectric connections? Sacrificial anodes?
I tend to think upgrading the air system at whatever cost would be
much cheaper than trying to engineer a water system from scratch.

Tony in NJ
W.A.S.T.E.  
