From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry Kay)
Date: Thu, 15 Nov 2001 09:57:47 -0600 (CST)
To: ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com
Cc: scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Heating with water - seeking what-if-ideas

I have simpler solution to the interior heat---
Use an oil cooler with a fan behind it to create BTU's in the cabin.

Terex off road dump trucks powered by Deutz diesel air cooled engines
use a oil heater in the cabs------they create so much heat, in the dead
of winter, the operator is down to his T-shirt in the cab----very
efficient.

This is a very simple arrangement, and would be inexpensive to install.

Later,    

Terry
 
 scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu writes: 

<< Just wondering - thinking too much actually... 
Has anyone created sealed heater boxes and circulated antifreeze through
them to capture the heat and then circulate it through a heater core
inside the bus and heated the interior like a normal, boring watercooled
car? 
Any such thing as an electric pump that would deal with the
recirculation duties? 
Just wondering...
Ciao! >> 
Couple of problems right off the top of the heads: What would you use
for a heat exchanger that would survive being submerged in water.
Boilers (domestic) use a cast iron water jacket and a circulating pump
but the heat source is intermittant, controlled by the thermostat - On
an engine the heat is constant and would re- quire two "radiators", one
in the bus for heat ( a heater core ), and a secondary one outside to
remove the heat from the water. A water cooled car already has both. 
Electric water pumps are readily available but not cheap. Racer and
marine suppliers have plenty available. 
Electric fans would be needed at least on the heater core and probably
on the radiator, too. Placement of the (especially), outside radiator
would require forethought - airflow without being subjected to stones or
other road dangers. 
Plumbing - What kind of tubing/piping? Stainless steel? Copper? And
fittings to make turns/connections? Sweated connections? Rubber and hose
clamps? 
Expansion/overflow tanks? Water expands when heated. A domestic boiler
has a large expansion tank with an internal bladder to take up this
expansion and return it when cooling. A water cooled engine has an
overflow tank plumbed off the radiator, some even use an electric fan
after the engine has stopped to continue to cool the water. Provisions
for "air bleeding"...to prevent cavitation. Put two different metals
together in a water bath and you've created a primitive battery.
Dielectric connections? Sacrificial anodes? I tend to think upgrading
the air system at whatever cost would be much cheaper than trying to
engineer a water system from scratch. 
Tony in NJ
W.A.S.T.E. 
---------------------------------------------- 
=A0=A0=A0=A0To UNSUBSCRIBE send any e-mail to:
type2-unsubscribe(-at-)pon.type2.com To email the admin for list help only:
type2-admin(-at-)pon.type2.com 
=A0=A0For additional commands send any e-mail to:
type2-help(-at-)pon.type2.com 
----------------------------------------------

