From: "Russ Neithammer" <rneithammer(-at-)mlea.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 22 Nov 2002 09:18:31 -0500
Subject: Clutch problem solved!

Somewhat of a Friday posting, as this was a problem that occured with my
T*Y*T* pickup, but I think it definitely has relevence to buses.

The problem was an intermittent but persistant and really annoying situation
where the clutch would not completely release when the clutch pedal was
pushed down, thus, hard shifting and gears grinding as one would expect when
trying to shift gears with the clutch not released.  This started after I
had had the clutch replaced by my local corner mechanic.  For reasons I
still can't explain, the problem was worse in cold (below 40 deg F or so)
weather than in warm weather.  Also, there was a rattling noise that ocurred
at low speeds and under load/acceleration.  This went on for two years and
30,000 miles, during which time I took the truck back to the mechanic
numerous times, replaced the master and slave actuating cylinders, and the
mechanic even re-did the clutch with new parts (at his cost).  Still no
improvement.

A couple of weeks ago I took the truck to a dealer service department.  What
he discovered was that the clutch disk had been installed backwards!  All
new dealer clutch parts were then properly installed and the problem is now
solved.  Except for the cold weather relationship, the rest of the symptoms
are well explained by this discovery.  The splined center hole in the clutch
disk has a long shoulder on one side, and a short shoulder on the other
side.  The long shoulder is supposed to go toward the pressure plate, short
shoulder toward the flywheel.  Having the clutch disk installed backwards
meant that, even with the clutch released, the long shoulder was sometimes
in contact with the flywheel, thus imparting torque to the tranmission input
shaft.  The rattling noise noise was due to engine torque pulsations (which
are normal) causing the hub of the clutch disk to bang against the back
stops of the outer part of the disk, rather than the torque springs between
the disk hub and the disk outer plate taking up the torque pulsations.
Looking at pictures of bus clutches, it appears that they also feature the
long/short shoulder, and also they definitely have the torque springs, so I
can easily imagine similar symptoms from a bus clutch disk being installed
backwards.

My reason for posting this is that there have been some posts a few months
ago about clutch release/hard shifting issues.  So, if all else fails,
suspect that the DPO/mechanic may have installed the clutch disk backwards.
