Date: Wed, 7 Aug 2002 17:25:46 -0500
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: Ftbllfn4lf(-at-)aol.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Why VW buses die

here's my take on your questions. Plus take a look at the library
section at type2.com I believe there are some things to know about
when thinking about a bus.

1. I drive my 79 80-90 miles every day. This is w/ a way worn out
engine, but important things like lights/brakes/tires in good shape.
When in decent shape they make great daily vehicles. Your price range
will dictate how nice the bus is, but except for a steal of a deal,
expect to pay to get one either up front or in repair later. In my
case I prob have about $1400 in my bus. Not bad for a reliable piece
of transportation.

2. I live in TN, & no we don't get crap for a winter weather, but one
thing we do get which other more artic areas of the world don't get
are ice storms. My bus performed quite well the few times I have had
it on questionable roads. But that's around here. Oh the high
clearance is nice when you have to take it off a paved road. :)

3. see #1 above :) A type 2 in good shape should not leave you
stranded, but it's nice to know that many of the repairs that would
leave you on the shoulder of a road are usually easily fixed on
location w/ minimal tools. Plus if you bought a bus in good mechanical
shape this should rarely happen w/ a good maintenance habit. Plus how
many other types of vehicles do you know that have a list of people
around the US (& world) who can help if broken down (airs). 

On Wed, Aug 07, 2002 at 05:15:30PM -0400, Ftbllfn4lf(-at-)aol.com wrote:
> brings me to the required type 2 content.  I would love to own a type 2, but 
> I have some reservations.  1.  I can only afford 1 vehicle so it would have 
> to be my daily driver.  2 not sure how it would go in the ice and snow 
> assuming we have any this year (after this drought who knows). And, 3.  the 
> endless horror stories I read from people about break downs.  I only commute 
> around town and am not afraid to tinker with it.  Add to that the scarcity of 
> type 2s for sale in my area and you can see why I am reluctant.  Dave.

-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
"Two wrongs don't make a right, but 3 rights make a left"
-Cosmo
