From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "Tyler Hardison" <tyler(-at-)tsioregon.net>
Cc: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 7 Aug 2002 22:40:18 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Some questions.


Hey T2 Gurus!
Well I replumbed the distributor.... 180 out. :-(
Good news is though I was finally able to switch wires and time correctly.

Oh, jubilant exhultations! I have finally succeeded in a virtual diagnosis
of a real VW problem. Remember, I thought the timing might be 180* out. Yay!
Glad you got it fixed! Was this a new Mexican engine? Just curious...

However the following problems are plauging me:
Sputtering (my wife says backfiring but its not gunshot backfires. Just
sputters) during decel and cruising speeds. Its also a little bit of a bear
to start in the morning.

Sounds like the timing could still be off a bit. All other things being
equal, a VW with proper timing adjustment should start right up with very
little effort. You need to really check a reliable reference and see where
your timing should be. I use a timing light. It is possible for them to run,
but poorly, with the timing way out. I know because I have made this mistake
myself. It may run with the wrong timing but you don't want to drive it like
that.. risk of overheating, detonation, damage, etc.

Namely I have to give it a pump and white smoke billows out during the first
few seconds of running.  I do need to finish balancing the carbs tommorow
but time keeps escaping me.

Dual carbs? Yikes! Don't know anything about that. The "white smoke" may be
condensation? Fully depress the gas pedal before turning the starting key,
and let the automatic choke do it's thing. Don't touch the pedal after
starting it until engine has reached (climbed to) full RPM. Then one tap on
the accelerator, and the engine should drop down to a nice idle speed.

It has been drivable and I love it to death. It was definately a step up
from the Beetle (Which I miss dearly).

It's amazing though, how these two very different vehicles somehow have much
the same "personality". I think of them almost as "pets". LOL. We have a
bug, too, a '67, and it is the same one that my husband bought right out of
high school, 34 years ago. It needs work, but now that I am retired for a
bit, I think it will get the time it deserves. I just bought two pop-out
windows for it, so I am already making plans.

Tyler
1972 Westy Uh-Oh





