Date: Wed, 07 Aug 2002 23:08:30 -0700
From: Meredith <floydpreston(-at-)attbi.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: climbing on board or jumping off the deep end

I'm not sure which is the more appropriate metaphor here and I'm turning to
you all to help me figure it out.

I'm a 30 year old mom of 3 (all in car seats, no less) in need if a bigger
ride. I now have a 1996 Honda Odyssey which has been a nice little car, but
it's just too small so I've started looking around. Started looking at the
Eurovan -- too expensive, then looked at Vanagon -- okay, I used to have
one, but we had some major mechanical problems and I don't want to get into
that again. So, I started thinking about a Bus, so that if it had mechanical
issues, I could take care of it myself. Now, I have NO, ZERO, ZILCH, NADA
mechanic experience, but I've got a lot of enthusiasm, the trusty Muir book
and I've talked to enough people who have taught themselves about cars with
the Muir book and their simple little air-cooled VW. Also -- I've always had
horrible car-ma. I've never really taken care of my car, figuring it will
just take care of itself, so I haven't done the routine maintenance that is
necessary (resulting in new engines, and other bad things). How better to
cure myself of that than to get a car that I HAVE to take care of, and do it
all myself, take responsibility for it -- right? Anyway, I'm getting very
excited about the whole idea. I used to own bugs (though I never worked on
them myself) so I'm not sure if this is some kind of midlife crisis, or
what, but I'm very excited.

My questions are these:

Am I crazy for thinking about doing this? Turning in a perfectly good modern
car for a bus. We'd love to get rid of the payment, and we'd actually get a
little cash out of the deal, but I sometimes wonder if this is just pure
craziness!

Is it realistic for me to consider learning about and working on my bus
myself, with only the book to help me (my husband is more clueless than I
am)? 

Is it possible to install shoulder harness seatbelts in the back seat (for
the aforementioned car seats), and if so, who will do it (I've called a
couple shops in the area and no one will do it because of liability issues).

Is there someone in the Bellingham, WA area who will accept a panicked phone
call from a frantic mom who has taken apart her bus and can't get it back
together? I'm a little bit nervous about taking this on without a real, live
person to teach me, or back me up when I get into trouble.

This will be my daily driver, is that okay? I don't drive much, but I don't
want to break down when I do (on the side of the road with 3 little kids is
not where I want to be.) I read some posts earlier advising someone to hold
on to their Taurus for back-up. I wouldn't be able to do that, but my
husband has a car and I've got family nearby (though they'd get pretty tired
of me if I was constantly asking to borrow a car.)

I've done some research and I'm pretty sure I want disc brakes (which means
1971 or newer, right?) but it sounds like I don't want fuel injection
because it would be too complicated (which means pre-1975, right?) How
important do you think this is? Will the fuel injection really throw me off?
There's a guy in town with a '79 for sale that sounds pretty good (just a
little rust, and the price is pretty good, though there's a hole in the
muffler). Should I not consider this bus because of the fuel injection?

Anyway, any advice is much appreciated! And if you've made it this far you
get a scooby snack.

Meredith

