From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "Chris Mills" <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
Cc: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 7 Aug 2002 23:22:37 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Why VW buses die

anyone who owns a vintage car - anything not mainstream - should learn to do
their own repairs. There are alot of crummy mechanics who think they know
about Volkswagens. I would say very few common mechanics are qualified to
work on a vintage VW these days. I also own a Honda and that too will never
see the inside of a mechanic's garage b/c so many are hacks...
Buy some tools, buy a few good books, and learn. It will be cheaper than any
mechanic and a much better quality in the long run. Learn how to not be a
hack.
Fix them, don't sell them. It's cheaper to fix a blown engine than "give"
away your VW. Otherwise you are stuck driving a car payment the rest of your
life.
 Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
 Cookeville, Tennessee

Well said.. I am really tired of people who ask why you don't just go out
and get a new car on the payment plan. And please allow me to add, that if
you learn to work on it yourself and invest a little "sweat equity", you get
a much better understanding of how it works, how it doesn't, how to drive it
and how not to abuse it. The pride of success and the less than joyful
memories of busted knuckles and frustration have a way of clearing your
thought processes when you are tempted to overdrive or neglect your ride.
This is a bit off topic, but I used to train dogs. Many people wanted their
dogs "trained", as if this was a one-step learning process that the dog
retained for life. The reality is that dogs are always learning and
interacting, and where they will remember tricks, discipline and reliable
behavior is another thing entirely. Like kids, they have their own likes and
dislikes and they learn to do things their way or the easy way. A stupid
owner can ruin months of training, implant or reinforce bad habits, or ruin
a dog forever, with only a few mistakes or sloppy handling of the dog. The
end result is that many dogs are destroyed because they have become a
liability. Dogs don't come with owner/operator manuals, and so few people
trouble themselves to learn what goes on inside a dog's head.
Unethical trainers are not about to clue owners in. There are some real
quick-buck scam artist dog trainers out there who take full advantage of
peoples' naivety. They get some people for thousands of dollars, when the
owner would be far better off to go to a training class at the local park
for under $200. These classes don't just train the dog.. they teach the
owner, and if the owner is willing to do the work and learn, he/she will get
a good result.
People want what comes easy and quick, and about the only thing that really
comes easy and quick in life is trouble. Oh, well.. I'll get off my soap box
now. Jan B


