From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "Meredith" <floydpreston(-at-)attbi.com>
Cc: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 8 Aug 2002 00:14:50 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] climbing on board or jumping off the deep end

Regarding the shoulder harnesses for the back seats.. Why would you want
one? My daughter was killed from an auto accident at almost 17 years of age,
and the shoulder harness delivered a fatal injury because the impact came
from the side and the shoulder portion of the belt crushed her liver as she
was thrown sideways. They are not all they are cracked up to be. They will
prevent your upper torso from going forward, but in the front seat, you have
to worry about eating your dashboard.. In the back seat, you don't. The only
safe seatbelt is a full harness like race car drivers have, but this is
impractical and undesireable for passenger vehicles, so a shoulder harness
is the next best thing. Under the right conditions, they can compound
injuries. And if you think this much of your children that you think a lap
belt is not good enough, then never put them on a public school bus.. Most
of them don't have any seat belts at all, and are exempted from any such
requirements by law.
Now we have seen that the airbags have killed a lot of infants and I guess a
few adults. Nothing is 100% safe and reliable.
If you are really worried for your kids' safety, never put one of them in
the front passenger seat. That is the most dangerous seat in the car. More
people die from oncoming and left hand turn accidents than any others. The
front passenger seat exposes you to both risks. My daughter was at the point
of impact as a front seat passenger in a car making a left turn. The safest
seat in the vehicle is actually directly behind the driver, but in this
regard, VW buses are very good, because the passenger seats are all pretty
well insulated spacewise from anything hitting the vehicle from the front or
rear, and there is plenty of seating in a transporter to keep the passengers
away from the right side of the vehicle. There is not much up front to
protect the driver on a VW bus, and more than one driver has come over a
hill on a country road to suddenly get real personal with a cow or deer. But
the VW has such an excellent turning radius that an astute driver with good
skill and reflexes, seeing an impending head-on, could avert direct impact
to their own space in some cases.
One thing that I do like about VW buses, is that they are big and people see
them. It also puts you up pretty good to where you can see traffic ahead and
around you. The crazy drivers just tend to go around you, and you just keep
your eyes moving, checking your perimeter, and keep moving at a steady pace.
I think it's a good idea to get the little round adhesive mirrors for your
outside rear views, then get used to using them.
These are my opinions. Jan B


