From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "Meredith" <floydpreston(-at-)attbi.com>
Cc: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 8 Aug 2002 01:05:04 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] climbing on board or jumping off the deep end

Meredith.. You are NOT crazy! But this is a process. Since you and your
husband have little or no mechanical background, it will be frustrating and
take awhile to learn. You will think that you are crazy at times. You will
wonder if others think you are crazy.. Pay no attention to them. You will no
doubt sometimes be discouraged, but you must stick with it to succeed and
gain the benefits, and if you do stick with it long enough, you will see
some. Little by little you will build up your tools, experience, and
confidence. This is not rocket science, and you sound like you are
intelligent enough to master the basics in fairly short order.
I hope you are not inordinately fond of having great hands and nails, or
afraid of getting dirty. This would be a problem. There are very good
nitrile gloves on the market to protect your hands, and creams like
"Invisible Glove" can protect your hands from the worst of the grime. I
would avoid degreasing engine tin, packing CV joints, or changing an engine
at least two weeks before a big job interview or board meeting. If you are a
model or aspiring actress, or if you work at a front desk where your daily
appearance is critical, you might as well forget working on cars to more
than a trifling extent.
Don't be afraid of working on cars because you are a female. I have rebuilt
two VW motors, replaced heavy axles, radial arms, tie rods and drag links in
a one ton '71 Ford truck, replaced an entire front end on a Buick Wildcat,
and I did these things all myself. I've worked on other cars, too, but
nothing beats a VW, in some respects. Two people can lift and engine up and
put it on a stand pretty easily. One person can take an engine out and put
it in without much in the way of equipment.
Now that I am getting older and lazier, I let my husband do more of these
kinds of things for me, but I am starting to get motivated again. He loves
it, and he gets me interested. The fact is, that auto mechanics can be
challenging, fun, and interesting. It's something that you can share with
your mechanicking husband. If your husband doesn't mechanick, it's never too
late to learn. Guys don't think less of women for knowing something about
cars.. In fact, most guys are real gentlemen and will give you good advice
when they realize that you are serious. Just like sports, this is good
common ground that guys are comfortable sharing and talking about.
And think of the good lessons that your kids can learn if you share this
with them. Independance, thrift, resourcefulness, safety, industry and
inventiveness as well as the importance of discipline and care are all
lessons that can be taught through mechanics. Kids enjoy being challenged.
This would be an excellent opportunity to teach them something useful.
You may not realize a lot of money savings at first, depending on your
luck.. If you are lucky, you may get a good reliable vehicle that doesn't
need much for awhile. If you are not so lucky, you will be spending quite a
bit on parts, tools, and machine shop services. Either way, you will get the
vehicle that you deserve in time. Almost all of them can be fixed, but not
all of them are worth the time, trouble and money. The hard part is knowing
which. Take your time in choosing the right car. Don't get in a panic over
one.. Almost always you will find another one as good or better. If in
doubt, pass it up and wait.

> I've done some research and I'm pretty sure I want disc brakes (which
means 1971 or newer, right?) but it sounds like I don't want fuel injection
because it would be too complicated (which means pre-1975, right?) How
important do you think this is? Will the fuel injection really throw me off?
There's a guy in town with a '79 for sale that sounds pretty good (just a
little rust, and the price is pretty good, though there's a hole in the
muffler). Should I not consider this bus because of the fuel injection?

OK.. Your thinking is a little like mine. I like the '71, because it sort of
has the best of both worlds.. A lot of the newer advances like front disk
and power brakes, and your basic carburetion and dual port heads, but it is
still very simple and easy to work on (upright, air-cooled engine). Parts
are fairly inexpensive and still available, mileage is good, and there is
less to go wrong. It still has a lot of the classic nostalgia of the old
buses, just without the split windows.. But having owned a "splitty" once, I
can say that nostalgia goes only so far.. the bay window was a definite
improvement. The final decision for me was that 1971's do not require smog
certification in California.. this should not be a big problem for me,
because my engines are running good, but it's just a little perk. If I
wanted to modify something on the intake or exhaust, no big deal, and it's a
little money and hassle that I can save myself.
I have a '79 Westfalia here that I am stripping down right now (taking my
time). I bought it to get the interior and popup camper, but I am having
some guilt pangs about "killing" it. I have noticed the same kind of rust
problems on other similar buses before...78's or 79's with a yellowish tan
colored paint. They seem to be prone to rust. This one would be repairable,
becuase none of the rust is underneath or in the floor or wheelwells. I
would only have to replace the nose, the rear hatch, and repair the rear
rain gutter. Well, in taking out the interior valance around the upper bed,
I got a look at some bare metal inside of a channel where the paint didn't
hit, and to me, it looks like there is no primer coat. Anyway, for some
reason, these ones seem to be rust buckets. I think that the paint left a
lot to be desired. And the chassis is that darned Corten steel that just
dissolves in a few years when the rust starts. They call it "cancer" in VWs,
and cancer has eaten a lot of VWs. If the '79 bus that you are looking at is
already rusting up, I would avoid it. A very motivated do-it-yourselfer
might be able and willing to deal with this, but this is just an expensive
PITA that is probably going to beat you in the end.
I am also loathe to even think about getting involved in the intricacies of
fuel injection, and I know nothing about pancake engines. I don't think that
this is a good starter vehicle for you if you really want to work on it
yourself. You will be lost.
Well, these are my opinions. Jan B



