Date: Thu, 08 Aug 2002 09:37:49 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Dylan Baxter <dylan_baxter(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] wiring harness

Do this: Look at the list on the left end of the schematic. It has the list 
of switches and components. It says that the schematic symbol for the turn 
signal switch is E2. A little to the right of that it tells you that is 
current track 44. Now go along the bottom line of connections (which 
represents ground or the frame of the vehicle) and find 44. Go up from 
there and you see E2. The color version says that the output wires of the 
turn signals are green/black and white/black. These should be the wires 
that go all the way out to the turn signal lights which are just below the 
switch on the schematic.

Remember none of the lines on the schematic are connected unless there is a 
dot at the intersection.

Get out your schematic and let's talk our way through the circuit... Damn - 
that Navy Electrician's school pay's off again. Need to get those brain 
cells working again... <grin!>

You might consider using a highlighter to mark the current path on a 
computer printed version from the web. It will save your Bentley book.

Notice that the items labelled with a "T" are wire splitters (one wire in, 
two wires out), items labelled with a "K" are light bulbs, items labelled 
with "E" are switches, and items labelled "J" are relays. This is a VW 
thing, I don't know if this is a whole world thing.

The current flow is from the key switch "D" (which has to be on), through 
the fuse S12 on a black wire (? - faded version here), through the dash 
indicator K5 (red/blue wire) and at the same time (parallel) through the 
flasher relay (J2) - - through T3 which is a cable adapter (splitter in 
this case) which sends the same current to the hazard flasher switch (E3) 
with a green/white/black wire, and then through the turn signal switch E2 
(one a single wire) which splits (T30) into green/black and white/black 
wires. This means if you connect a jumper from the green/white/black wire 
to the green/black wire (which would by pass the steering column switch) 
you could make the turn signals flash on that side and the same goes for 
the other side if you moved the jumper wire to that side's wire -> 
green/white/black and white/black wires.

Again the output goes through an adapter (T30) for each side which splits 
the current and sends it to the front indicator filament and the rear 
filaments inside the bulb - the bright ones.

According to the schematic and my common sense - this then grounds to the 
frame.

The schematic also tells me that there are several connector adapters (one 
wire becomes 2 or more). Says they are in the engine compartment, another 
on the right side of the engine compartment, beside the right side for the 
gas tank, on the instrument cluster, next to the left tail light.

It also tells me that there are grounding points at: body to battery, 
transmission to frame, from the steering column to the steering box at the 
steering coupler, under the dash next to the hand brake bracket - left 
side, and finally on the speedometer. These everyone should take apart and 
clean occasionally.

It's a pretty good schematic IMHO. I'd start looking at the light housings 
and see if you can find the right wiring colors, and then look at the turn 
signal switch, etc. If the colors aren't right on the schematic - you 
should be able to find the same colors at the turn signal lever switch and 
the parking light housing. I think the schematic is correct even if the 
color aren't.

Locate the components and the wires at the components and then proceed to 
check the voltages with coil disabled (unplugged on the 12v+ side) and the 
key on. You can leave the key on indefinitely with the coil disabled on a 
non-fuel injection vehicle. I'm not sure what you have to disable on a fuel 
injection vehicle to key the whole fuel injection system safely dead with 
the key on.

Voltage check would be like this: With the key on there should be 12 volts 
on both sides of the fuse #11 or #12 (I can't read the schematic clearly 
enough to tell you which). If you don't get good voltages on both side (but 
on one side - you have a dirty fuse or a blown fuse). Keep the hazard light 
switch off as it disables the turn signal circuit on (in other words if it 
fails then the turn signals fails too - - look at E3, notice the contacts). 
You could jumper the hazard light switch contacts and see if the turn 
blinkers work. Maybe that hazard light switch is defective - I have had to 
replaced a couple for friends.

It appears that the emergency flashers and the turn signal share the same 
relay. On mine it doesn't (I think) but on the schematic the whole circuit 
- emergency flasher and regular flashers - seem to share the same relay.

Looks like the whole circuit goes through the indicator light on the dash 
but it doesn't - the dash light is in parallel with the flasher circuit. 
You should get 12 volts on the input side of the flasher relay (as long as 
one side of the relay socket is hot with the key on I'd be satisfied).

Now add a jumper wire to bridge both turn signal relay terminals. Use a 
short piece of wire with crimp on male spades at both ends and put each end 
in the socket terminals where the blinker relay was. Now the input side of 
both the flasher relay and the steering column level should be 12 volts hot.

Finally with the Lever in the left position the left circuit should be hot 
- at the lever and at both bulb sockets. Do the same test with the right side.

If you get 12 volts at the input side of the steering column switch and no 
output the switch is bad. If you get an output but no power at the ends of 
the vehicle I'd follow the out of the switch to that wire adapter/splitter 
that sends the power to the front and back of the vehicle.

Do these tests and holler back and I will talk you through some more.




>If you're referring to the diagrams at http://www.vintagebus.com/wiring ,
>although these schematics are nice and in color (Thanks Thom!! I really do
>appreciate the service of providing those!), I found them a little difficult
>to make sense of, and the wires (at least on my '69 Ghia and '78
>Transporter) were not factory color-coded.


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


