Date: Thu, 08 Aug 2002 10:17:37 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Meredith <floydpreston(-at-)attbi.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] climbing on board or jumping off the deep end

The Honda is a very nice vehicle. We've always driven Hondas and VW's.

>I'm a 30 year old mom of 3 (all in car seats, no less) in need if a bigger
>ride. I now have a 1996 Honda Odyssey which has been a nice little car, but
>it's just too small so I've started looking around. Started looking at the
>Eurovan -- too expensive, then looked at Vanagon -- okay, I used to have
>one, but we had some major mechanical problems and I don't want to get into
>that again.

Do you feel like you could handle being stranded with 3 children? We've 
never been stranded but it could happen. Might be a good reason to get a 
used cellphone for 911 calls.

>Also -- I've always had horrible car-ma. I've never really taken care of 
>my car, figuring it will
>just take care of itself, so I haven't done the routine maintenance that is
>necessary (resulting in new engines, and other bad things). How better to
>cure myself of that than to get a car that I HAVE to take care of, and do it
>all myself, take responsibility for it -- right? Anyway, I'm getting very
>excited about the whole idea. I used to own bugs (though I never worked on
>them myself) so I'm not sure if this is some kind of midlife crisis, or
>what, but I'm very excited.

You WILL HAVE TO TAKE care of it for it to take care of you. You can cheat 
when a car is 15 years old but at 30 years old things have to be addressed 
or it will leave you stranded...

>My questions are these:
>
>Am I crazy for thinking about doing this? Turning in a perfectly good modern
>car for a bus. We'd love to get rid of the payment, and we'd actually get a
>little cash out of the deal, but I sometimes wonder if this is just pure
>craziness!

Have you considered a second job to pay off the Honda faster and then take 
that car payment money and apply it to a VW for the weekends until you can 
get it in order enough to be safe for 3 little ones?

>Is it realistic for me to consider learning about and working on my bus
>myself, with only the book to help me (my husband is more clueless than I
>am)?

You have this mailing list. That's worth 50 Muir and Bentley books. Get 
BOTH books because the Bentley book is the pictures for the Muir book. They 
also have the technical explanations in a better format. Muir is just a 
layman's translator.

>Is it possible to install shoulder harness seatbelts in the back seat (for
>the aforementioned car seats), and if so, who will do it (I've called a
>couple shops in the area and no one will do it because of liability issues).

Yes. I think some of the busses have shoulder harness mounting points too. 
The newer the vehicle the more safety featured it will be. They weren't too 
picky in 1971 when most people cut the belts out of their cars as soon as 
they got them... You'll have to do it though.

>This will be my daily driver, is that okay? I don't drive much, but I don't
>want to break down when I do (on the side of the road with 3 little kids is
>not where I want to be.) I read some posts earlier advising someone to hold
>on to their Taurus for back-up. I wouldn't be able to do that, but my
>husband has a car and I've got family nearby (though they'd get pretty tired
>of me if I was constantly asking to borrow a car.)

Spend a couple hundred bucks and buy a trailer hitch for your second car 
and a towbar. One tow home will pay for it. Assuming your other car isn't a 
Miata.

We used our '78 as a daily in a small town. I don't know how well it would 
have tolerated daily commutes of 40 miles without a "teething" period where 
alot of vintage parts began to show their age and demand replacement. The 
design is a decent one but all of these busses are suffering from brittle 
plastic, rotten rubber, a bit of rust, dried out grease, missing pieces, 
neglect, etc.

Are you aware that these busses require effort to force them to make a 
little heat? Would your children tolerate that okay? Lot's of kids handled 
cold VW's just fine over the years I know.

>I've done some research and I'm pretty sure I want disc brakes (which means
>1971 or newer, right?) but it sounds like I don't want fuel injection
>because it would be too complicated (which means pre-1975, right?) How
>important do you think this is? Will the fuel injection really throw me off?
>There's a guy in town with a '79 for sale that sounds pretty good (just a
>little rust, and the price is pretty good, though there's a hole in the
>muffler). Should I not consider this bus because of the fuel injection?

Fuel injection can be repaired with minor tools and a multimeter. You will 
have to learn how to work on it yourself b/c unless you are lucky enough to 
find an honest mechanic that actually knows what he is doing...

Learn to fix everything yourself. Invest in decent tools and manuals. Make 
some VW friends locally that can guide you or give you a second opinion. 
You're going to have to learn to do some repairs to anticipate when a 
problem is developing. An experienced mechanic knows when they can ignore a 
problem and which problems will threaten to leave them on the side of the 
road.

My advise is to keep the Honda and save up for a 3rd vehicle or sell the 
Honda and buy a 5 year old EV for $5K like a friend and then use the extra 
money for a $1500 VW Transporter or Westfalia to work on when you have 
time. We are on a limited budget and I have spent about $3K on bits and 
pieces to restore our bus to B+ condition for any occasion.





Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


