From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 13 Jul 2002 22:58:46 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] fuel filler pipe #2

I'm just now getting caught up on some emails.. I know of a good trick for
getting REALLY stubborn hoses on. :0)
Of course, assembly lube or glycerin works well for some jobs.. but hoses
can be really stubborn.
I don't know if it will help in this situation, but it might.
First, you've got to get the hose heated up with hot water. That softens it
up so that you can slide it on to the tube or fitting.
It's easy to get the tube heated up (hot water immersion, or pouring hot
water over) and usually you have enough time to slide it on one fitting, but
by the time you are going to slide it on the second, opposing fitting,  the
tube has gotten cold and stiff again. By then, you can of course no longer
immerse the hose! If you try to pour hot water on the other end, you just
end up making a big mess.. if you can do it at all. This is all especially
problematical in cold weather. But not if you know the tricks! Read on.
My husband and I own a '91 Ford F250 pickup truck, and not long ago, we had
to replace the water pump. Everything went pretty well until it was time to
connect the lower return hose from the radiator to the pump. The hose needed
replacing, too.. not easy to find, as the manufacturers are no longer
required to carry parts after 10 years and had just dumped their stock into
the aftermarket parts supply line. This hose is very short, and highly
articulated. We had heard from someone who had done it that it is a bitch to
get on. Well, the bitch had puppies! We were both completely frustrated and
seriously worried we would never get this thing installed. It was hard
enough to get one side on, but both? Forget it! Well, hubby and I were
taking turns on top of and underneath the truck, working this thing. We got
it close, but not quite there and we had run out of tricks.
Then it came to me that all we had to do was to wrap or tie a little shop
towel around that rubber hose, and pour boiling water over it. So, I went in
the house and boiled some water and got a rag. This really worked, believe
me! The trick is that the towel holds that heat long enough that it really
softens that rubber well. You pour on that really hot water (a little is all
you may need!), wait a few minutes, get ready to go, and pull off the towel.
That rubber becomes so workable, and the really nice thing about the hot
water and towel trick is that it stays hot much longer; and you don't have
to pour on much water, so you don't have to introduce a lot of water into
your work area, engine compartment, or what-have-you.
If your rag gets really cold, you can immerse it and wring it out a bit,
then you wrap it back on and just pour on a little bit of boiling water..
You can work with two or three rags at a time, alternating them, and you can
keep two or three pans of hot water on the burner while you're working. If
you have a camping stove a little water and a coffee can, you can do this on
the road. It is also possible, if you were in a really tight space, that you
might be able to use a turkey baster or a funnel and tubing (be careful)! An
extra set of hands is useful, too.
Honestly, we wrestled with that darned hose for at least two hours until the
little light came on in my head. I knew hot water softened rubber automotive
hoses.. I just never thought of wrapping a hot-water-soaked rag on the hose.
(duh!)
How nice when something so simple works so well. :0)  Jan B

>      I have the fuel filler pipe out.  I got it out by cutting the old
hose
> off.  Now, I can't get the new pipe back together.  If I put the hose back
> on the pipe before I place it in position, the pipe will not fit in the
> access hole.  If I try to put just the pipe in then put the hose on, It
will
> not fit on.  This is a major PITA.  I am stuck.  Any ideas?
>
> Pat Callaghan
> 77 Riviera
> Portland, OR.
> http://www.patcal.com
>



