Date: Sun, 14 Jul 2002 07:08:46 -0400
To: lamusicamellama(-at-)juno.com
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <Doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re:newbie question re: buying 1975 T2 

Date: Sat, 13 Jul 2002 20:16:51 -0700

Greetings All -
I am considering buying my first bus! I used to own an 84 westy and
worked on it quite a bit. I like the simplicity of a bus I have seen for
sale around my neck of woods (Arcata, CA).
This bus I am considering is a 1975 1800cc non-camper. I have not driven
it or received call back from the owner. I'd like some practical tips on
how to assess its condition and worth.

....................Hello Les....You need to spend a LOT of time with that 
bus before paying for it. If you have access to a Bentley manual, maybe 
from your public library, study the diagrams of the systems mentioned in 
this email and get familiar with what they look like and where they are 
before you get to the actual bus inspection. You want to avoid buying a 
wrecked bus, or one that needs thousands of dollars in repairs and 
maintenance in order to be safe and serviceable. Bottom line:It would be 
prudent to hire a professional to do an inspection for these issues.

................ You (and/or your inspector) can start by getting under the 
bus with a flashlight and small hammer, and verify that the front axle is 
not eaten away by rust. Use the small hammer to tap at all its surfaces and 
at its towers and attachments to the body. Don't break anything, but 
suspect internal rust at the steering box on the axle. Have someone wiggle 
the steering wheel while you watch the system work. Look for slack and play 
in the joints. Listen for 'loose' sounds. If this system breaks at speed, 
you may be dead.

......................Use the same small hammer on all exhaust system 
components while they are cold. Then verify that the HEATING components of 
the exhaust system are there and working. Frequently they are missing or 
bypassed. Have someone operate the dash levers to control the flaps in this 
system, and watch them work from under the rear of the bus. While you are 
under there, feel the entire heat tube that carries warmed air from the 
rear of the bus to the front. Look for integrity of weak or missing 
sections and connectors and side pipes. You don't want to freeze, roast, or 
get gassed by carbon monoxide.

......again, from under the bus, look at all the lengthwise chassis 
girders, for signs of rust damage and for evidence of being bent from 
improper use of floor jacks, or from damage in accidents/wrecks. Same 
caution for the side girders that ru8n out at right angles from these 
lengthwise members.  Try to fit the jack into each of the 4 jack points 
along the lower edge of the sides of the body.  These jack point channels 
sometimes get filled with rust, and the entire jack point girder must be 
replaces. Otherwise, you need a floor jack every time you change a tire.

..............The body panel at the lower edge of the rear engine hatch is 
usually the site of sever rust because of the accelerated chemical action 
due to muffler heat. There is also a heat shield between the muffler and 
that lower panel, and the shield frequently is either gone or in need of 
replacement. Look for it.

.........Verify that the engine compartment has a seal inside it that keeps 
the engine from drawing hot air in around the engine tin, from the space 
below the engine. If that seal is gone, the engine may have been already 
been run very hot and may have heat damage.

.....................look at the battery trays and the lower rear corners 
of the body to verify that these areas are not rust damaged. Remove the 
battery/batteries and look with a flashlight if necessary. Examine the 
heavy ground cable at the rear of the battery. It may be corroded and old 
and may not conduct electricity very well. Same goes for the positive cable 
at the other battery terminal, and all the wiring for that matter. Good 
wiring and fresh connections are critical to the good operation and 
integration of most of the working systems of your bus. They may all have 
to be gone over and freshened up or redone.

........................sniff for the smell of gasoline in the cabin and 
around the engine compartment. You could even fill the gas tank yourself 
and see if the filler system is holding the fumes. Also, these vehicles 
have been known to catch fire from gasoline leaks that happen when the 
small fuel distribution hoses and connections get old and fail.  You want 
some evidence that the fuel system hoses and connections have all been 
replaced fairly recently. Fire prevention is a major issue in these 
vehicles. They have been known to blow up and burn, and you don't want one 
that is ready to do that. Also be sure the vehicle has an on-board fire 
extinguisher that will handle gasoline fires and that isn't empty and has a 
good date on it.

.......................Tap at the metal below the windshield to see if it 
is Bondo, and beware of rust in this area. If the lower edge of the 
windshield leaks rain, the bus is in for an expensive and difficult session 
of body work that must be done....not optional. You can't live with a 
leaking seal there. The water in the cabin will destroy the cabin floorboards.

...............Look for rust under the rubber steps at both front doors. 
This is another common and difficult rust problem that frequently requires 
welding in of new panels. Also look at the lower edges of the front doors 
under the gasket, for the same cancerous rust/bubbles.

.....................The left rear vent window is usually badly rusted 
along the lower edge and down into the body at the pivot point of the 
window. Again, frequently requires removal and new parts. Same for lower 
edges of side windows, under the gasket.

...................get up on a low ladder and run your fingertips all along 
the rain gutters, looking for rust areas, particularly at the 4 corners and 
along the rear.

.....stand back and at the side of the bus, about 15 feet, and estimate if 
the rear of the bus is sagging compared to the front.  The rear suspension 
may need to be readjusted, or even need new parts.

................Finally, drive the bus for at least an hour or two, both 
around the city and along major highways, so that it proves to have a good 
tranny/gears and is capable of staying cool under all highway demands. Go 
over some mountains if possible. This also tests the brakes in a basic way, 
but doesn't tell you when they will need replacement of if the brake lines 
are leaking. Do some figure 8's in a parking lot and listen for grinding 
metal that may indicate a faulty wheel bearing, or clicking that may 
indicate a failing CV joint. Don't hesitate to do some backing up, to test 
the clutch and reverse gear.

..............And as a sort of insurance policy measure, pay a mechanic to 
put the bus on a lift and do an extensive inspection. Pay him $50 and tell 
him you want to be sure the bus is not a repaired wreck, and that you want 
an estimate of the repairs that it will need to run well and safely for the 
next few months. Ask about the condition of the CV joints and the brakes. 
Ask if it has the correct size and capacity of wheels and tires, including 
the spare.  Lots of people think that these buses need light truck tires 
size 185R14 REINFORCED radials with a load range of "D" instead of 
conventional passenger car tires. Tires are about a hundred dollars each by 
the time you have them on the car and balanced. And you need 5 good ones of 
the right size and load range, with stiff side walls.  I like to error on 
the side of safety when it comes to bus tires.  Tires and wheels are fairly 
expensive.

............And get a second opinion. Be sure you take the bus to someone 
who is experienced in working on buses of your vintage. Ask him if the fuel 
distribution hoses are OK. You don't want your bus to burn up, or blow a 
tire and roll over, etc.

.........Hope some of those ideas are helpful. $1,700 sounds cheap and may 
reflect the need for lots of upgrades and maintenance issues. Find out why 
the bus isn't 4-5 thousand dollars. ASK them why they are selling it, and 
then verify the things I mentioned, and what others will tell 
you.         Doyt Echelberger          76 Westy



Here's what the sticker says:
4,000 miles on totally rebuilt motor
Fuel Injected
New Clutch and brakes
The body looks pretty good. Rust is limited to the seams. A few minor
dents, not bad.
I would like to find out why they're selling it. I would like it to be
my daily driver for a bit. It looks like the rear seat folds into a bed,
which would be great since I'll be sleeping in it 2-3 days per week. No
curtains. Can I install them? It's a very clean, basic looking van.
What should i check for underneath?
Asking price is $1,700
Thanks in advance!
Les 


