From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 14 Jul 2002 11:15:22 EDT
To: djohnson1(-at-)snet.net, minor35(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: [T2] one motor, two buses

Yes, you should be able to take the motor from one and pop it in the other.

a few things, though- if the bay motor is 12V, is the tranny in the 65 
clearanced for 12? correct starter/bushing? If you are running 12V in the 65 
then you don't need to swap the electrics over.

Clutch.  some of the later VW have a different throw out bearing and clutch. 
I am not sure when they changed- about 70 I think.   if you use the later 
clutch on the earlier throwout bearing it makes a horrible noise.  So make 
sure the clutch has the circle in the middle- not just the arms.

the later pre heat is a different size, and you want to use the splitty air 
cleaner.

Oh- if it has 71 bay window heater boxes on it- the cables wont line up with 
the places on the heater box, but you can tie them open when you are cold.

There always seems to be a few things that can use altering when you swap a 
motor from one VW to another.   

In a message dated 7/13/02 11:47:03 PM Pacific Daylight Time, 
djohnson1(-at-)snet.net writes:

<<   But what's next for me is to take the smooth running 1600 out
 of a lovingly cared for 71 camper that I drive around everywhere during the
 summers, and transplant it into a 65 *project* that I've spent a year and a
 half grinding, sanding, bleeding, fuse blowing, and swearing/smiling at,
 just to see if it works, and how it feels.  I pulled an oil drenched1600
 TIII motor with a full flow oil *filder*, funky dune buggy type exhaust,
 dual carbs, all chrome engine tin,  running at 82, 85, 82, 110, out of the
 65, while it was still running.  I was left with a cracked case and head,
 rusted out manifolds, etc, basket case of an engine.  So... in the meantime,
 
 while the earth rotates and I save the money to rebuild it, I was simply
 wondering if swapping engines for One or Two, or if necessary, maybe even
 Three (Sorry, my brother in law Chuck, and I have a little joke about couple
 
 two tree) years, would be feasible.  Just by the honks and waves I've been
 getting while working on it in my driveway during the last two weeks, I
 would love to get it out on the road. 
 Don
 >>
