From: "Jackson Burgess" <jb(-at-)nv.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 14 Jul 2002 09:33:39 -0700
Subject: Oil Cooler 

If you do a search for <Oil Cooler> in the 1000 most recent posts you
will find a recent exchange on this.  The discussion (some of it
offline) boiled down to this: 

1. There are two types of aftermarket cooler--finned tube type (from
various suppliers), and the aircraft plate style. The aircraft style
(see Busboys site) seemed preferred as it is more efficient and rugged.
Either type can be controlled by a thermostat, or not, and a thermostat
controlled fan can also be added. Both types replace your current filter
with a block-off, and the oil is picked up there and plumbed via hoses
to a provided remote filter, then to the thermostat, then to the cooler,
and finally returned to the motor through the block-off. 

2. Mounting positions were either under the bus between frame members,
where cooler, (long!) hoses and especially filter are exposed to rocks,
etc., and must be protected or screened; or in the engine compartment on
the port side, opposite the main battery. In that position it is sharing
fresh air with the motor intakes, but according to one list member it
still cooled fine. Either location is a trade-off, but especially if
going off-road the engine compartment location would be my choice for
protection and to keep hoses shorter. 

3. Wherever you mount, you will also have to decide whether you want
rubber hoses or braided stainless with aircraft fittings (very
expensive).

4. Another option was to stay with the stock config and spend your time
and money making sure that everything having to do with the seperation
of cooling air and head/exhaust heat was in perfect working order. This,
coupled with driving the beast as close to prime cooling rpm as possible
and monitoring conditions with good guages, is what I decided to do for
an extended trip to Baja. However, if I experience poor cooling on the
way down, I've made arrangements for a friend to UPS a plate cooler and
fittings to me in La Paz.

Hope this helps.

 
Jaxon Burgess
San Diego
'79 ASI Conversion



