From: "HapyBus" <fbiffath(-at-)mailingsolutions.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 14 Jul 2002 21:09:33 -0400
Subject: Extreme Gratitiude to Bob Greenup and Karl Von Salzen

This will be long, but at least read long enough to appreciate the great
lengths that these two gentlemen, Bob and Karl, went to help me.
If you have read my posts lately about distributors you know what I have
been up against.
Bob Greenup has talked me through a few things on the phone,( a very patient
man, even when I was over reacting) Karl Von Salzen built a distributor for
me both gentleman went out of their way to express ship these items so I
would have them for this weekend.
I am happy, relieved and most of all proud to say, mission accomplished.
HapyBus seems to be running very well, and as cool as can be expected,
pulling allot of camping gear in this heat.
Now for the humor, Bob tells me it is very easy to get the distributor back
in.  So easy, even a monkey could do it.  Well I couldn't.
I have discovered that I need instructions on finding TDC!!  I used a screw
driver in the plug hole, but for what ever reason, I was still not on TDC.
How did I discover this morsel of truth?  The distributor slipped in very
easy (monkey like) only 180* off.  A brainstorm hit my assistant, and we
rotated the engine one rotation, and all be dang, 5 hours later, the
distributor went in, just as easy as Bob Said it would.
We thought the ignition wire was bad, we couldn't get a pulse anywhere near
the coil.  So I run another wire from the fuse panel to the coil.  After
this fun, we are ready to try again.  Vrooooom, yayyyy!
I look at the fuse panel and, wait a minute, how'd that start???? The wire I
just ran is not connected?  I'll be darn, we have been messing with the
wrong wire for a while now.
Hehehehehe, so we reconnect the original wires, and HapyBus still starts,
and oh yeah, the back up lights work now.(heheheehe)...what an education
this last two weeks have been.

I am done rambling now, but I am very thankful to this list and new friends.
I now own a timing light, dwell meter, vacuum gauge, compression gauge and a
290 piece mechanics tool set.

Wonder what I can break ( I mean Fix) next.

Thank you Karl and Bob, and list.

FEBIII
71 HapyBus
66 westy New addition

