Date: Fri, 7 Mar 2008 11:32:11 +0100
From: "Timo Schairer" <tschairer(-at-)wsi-gris.uni-tuebingen.de>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: New cylinder heads and german environmental issues

Hello all,

just got my reworked 2.0l heads back from my rebuilder (Kummetat in
Germany).
They looked like this before:
http://picasaweb.google.com/timo.schairer/CylinderHeadBefore

And now like this:
http://picasaweb.google.com/timo.schairer/CylinderHeadAfter

They were very low milage AMC heads bought from a fellow listmember.
Since I was having problems with my other old heads again and again, I
decided to rebuild the AMC heads though they looked very good. All parts
are new (valves, guides, seats, springs, ...), the heads have been made
planar, metered, ported, etc. The rebuilder installed bigger valves that
are normally used in the 1.8l heads. I'm very excited about the look and
I hope the quality is similar. The rebuilder is famous in the German VW
scene, specialized in tuning beetles and creating powerful type 4
engines. Hence, the rebuild was far from cheap, but if my head troubles
are over now, I don't mind. I also ordered a CHT gauge from Dakota
Digital to be sure that I don't overheat these babies.

Friday content:
Since the first of march, the city I live in (Tuebingen, southern
Germany, near Stuttgart) now has very strict regulations concerning
vehicles without catalytic converters and older diesel engines. In fact
they declared all of the city to be an "environmental zone (e.z.)" which
in turn states that these vehicles are not allowed to enter the city
anymore. Since I live in the city, I had to remove my cars from the
parking lot and park them outside the e.z., approximately 1 mile away
and I'm not able to drive to my house anymore, let alone to the city
center.
They tell you, that the reason is "fine particle" emission. Funny, that
these are mostly produced by diesel engines and I own two gas powered
vehicles. Even more funny is the fact that the city is just next to two
highways and an airport. Funniest thing: My neighbor has a brand new
porsche cayenne turbo, of course he is allowed to drive in the city.
What tops it all are plans to install 18 new coal power plants in
Germany...

I'm really angry about regulations like this that happen to be carried
out on the backs of people that can't afford new vehicles or don't want
to own throw-away-vehicles. Currently, I'm trying to get a special
legitimation to be able to drive there, but the chances are not good.
So what will happen in the near future in Germany is that a lot of older
cars will be sold/dumped in order to buy new cars. I cannot imagine how
this will be good in any way for our environment, since the production
of new cars needs lot of energy (coal?) and the major sources of
environmental pollution are not affected by those regulations.

Sorry, I'm angry!


Cheers,

Timo


78 westy
84 beetle
