From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: "'Avocado Tom'" <tommy(-at-)roadtrip.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 13 Mar 2008 16:44:34 -0600
Subject: RE: [T2] Transmission Clunking in Forward Gears  (AIRS-ish -

It most likely isn't the transmission. Anything out of sync will be felt
through the gear shifter since it is an unbreakable chain from the rear
tires through the transaxle into the shifting mechanisms.

Make sure the lug nuts are on nice and tight and are torqued to spec!

Have him re-check the CV joints with one side of the vehicle jacked up in
the air to check rotational play. Check it with one tire locked on the
ground and the other free, with it in gear (e-brake off of course). Then
check it in gear. Rinse, switch sides and repeat.

Also make sure the CV joints haven't lost any bolts to the stub-axle or to
the transaxle.

Also check to make sure the big ol' bolt on the end of the rear axles isn't
loose or missing the cotter-pin. It is supposed to be torqued to 250 foot
lbs, but if it isn't and has the pin missing, it is just a matter of time
till it works loose on the driver's side.

If it isn't any of those things, then check the front tranny mount, motor
mounts and things he may have picked up from the road like rope, cable, etc.

Then dive into the tranny. But they are pretty solid and catastrophic
failures are rare.


Jon Stiles
'68 Double Cab
'78 Westfalia

-----Original Message-----
From: Tommy [mailto:tommy(-at-)gemini.udlug.org] On Behalf Of 'Avocado Tom'
Sent: Thursday, March 13, 2008 2:48 PM
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] Transmission Clunking in Forward Gears (AIRS-ish - Fremont,
CA)

Volks,

I just got a call from a friend with a '71 bus who is having a weird 
problem.

He was driving down the highway when he started to hear a rhythmic 
"clunking" sound, so he pulled off the highway near Fremont/Milipitas, CA.

The problem, as he describes it, is that there's a pronounced 
CLUNK-CLUNK-CLUNK sound which he can hear when the car is IN GEAR and 
moving.   He hears the sound at low speeds as well as high speeds, but it 
only seems to occur in the forward gears (i.e. not in reverse).  He can 
feel the CLUNKing through the gear shift and it is does not change in 
rhythm ... i.e. it's a constant and regular sound.

I am not sure if the sound speeds up with RPMs or not, he said he believed 
it did not, although he wasn't sure.  Upon visual inspection, everything 
looks ok and there is no appreciable non-axial play in the CV joints.

Any thoughts on what this could be?  He took it to a non-VW shop who said 
"A tooth off one of your gears probably broke off", but I don't buy that. 
I haven't really heard of VW trannys failing in this particular way 
(although I'm sure someone on the list has! ;) ).

Again the weird thing to me is that it's only when it's in gear (I'm 
thinking maybe that it's only when there's a load on the engine?) which 
seems to rule out wheel or CV oriented issues.

I've given him the name of a shop in Hayward which I found on the Roadhaus 
site, and he's contacting them presently, but any insights would be 
appreciated.

Cheers,
     avocado tom
