From: "Jeff Myer" <jmyer(-at-)myermountain.com>
To: <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 2 Aug 2003 18:38:37 -0400
Subject: Just finished with shifter bushings (all but the rear shift

    Well being new to the list, I have not yet posted too many times but I
am pretty happy (and a little grimey) having just finished with replacing
the shifter bushings in my '72 westy. As the subject line says, I did all of
the bushings except for the rear shift rod bushings as I would have needed
to pull the engine and tranny. The front shift rod bushing was toast and the
shift coupler bushings were a little crappy as well so I replaced those
bushings. I also put in a quick shift kit ($8.00 +/- from bus depot).
    In order for this message to have some value to others that may want to
do this job, I can say the following:

1.)     For the front shift rod bushing, I would say (after having just done
it) that you might as well remove the shifter to do this job. I have read in
the archive that some have had luck with just losening the shifter and
managing to get the bushing in by just spliting the front and rear shift
rod. The reason that I would reccomend taking the shifter out to do this job
is that you get a good opportunity to thoroughly clean and lubricate the
shifter assembley at all of the points of movement. While apart, I cleaned
and greasesd the entire assembley . I am quite sure that if I had'nt done
this, the shifter would not be nearly as smooth now.

2.)     Although I am still fine-tuning the shifter adjustment to my
preference, getting the shifter back in and functional for all gears was not
difficult.

3.)     Although it is kinda trivial, I like the quick shift kit. It reduces
the total travel of the shifter at the knob slightly which I like. I can't
say that it is a world of difference but it is noticable. So far I like it
but the diference is not huge.

4.)     The rear coupler bushings proved to be the biggest pain on my job.
While the replacement coupler had a bolt with a nylock nut to go through the
bushings and the shift rod, the old one was the original style with the
Sleeve and strange screw with threads like a wood screw. The disassembley
proved to be somewhat difficult because the sleeve that goes through the
bushings and shift rod was frozen  into the shift rod. To remedy this, I
knoked the old bushings out of the coupler with a drift  and a hammer. Once
the bushings were out I was able to get some vise-grips on the sleve and
rotate it to free it up then along with some penatrating oil, work the
sleeve out of the shaft. Installing the new bushings with the bolt was
simple and I was sure to use some anti-sieze on the bolt.

    This is the first time I have done any work to this bus in over 6 years
and it brought back a lot of memories. Overall,  I recalled that things will
give you a hard time almost every time. You just need to be patient and
realize that there always is a way to get the job done. Sometimes its better
to sit back and think about it a little instead of going crazy with every
implement of destruction available.

Feels good to be back wrenching on the Bus!
Jeff
'72 Westy "Gretta"
