From: "Jeff Myer" <jmyer(-at-)myermountain.com>
To: "Faster-Laster" <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 4 Aug 2003 12:35:29 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Main bearing flange size

    I have had the same question for years. When I was doing a lot of type 1
rebuilds, I would have the case align bored as a matter o practice and often
times the thrust surface would be "faced" undersize. As you mention, there
are 3 different undersizes for this flange width. I had scoured through tons
of books and never was able to get the actual stock measurement.
    On one particular case, the thrust surface was really hammered and had
to be brought down to the minimum flange width yet my crank journals were
only on the first grind and the bearing journals were un-cut (Or some such
combination of sizes. I had a huge problem finding bearings in the specific
combination of crank journal, thrust width, and bearing saddle diameter.
When discussing this with my machinist, he mentioned that he had (due to
having to cut the thrust surface down beyond 3rd undersize spec) used shims
in between the thrust bearing and the thrust surface in the case with good
results. I think that he mentioned that a certain piston ring worked well,
maybe harley davidson.

Since I am prone to rambling, Here's a summary of the points I wanted to
cover:
1.) The thrust surfaces on cases can and are commonly cut.
2.) Published sizes on this width are hard to find. I would reccomend
calling rimco or a good VW machine shop and   they may be able to tell you.
3.) If you are going to have the thrust surface cut make sure you can get
bearings for the specific combo of Crank Size, Saddle size and Bearing
saddle size.
4.) An un-docunmented solution when the thrust needs to be cut beyond
undersized limits is to use a piston ring as a shim between the case and
bearing thrust surfaces. (I am skeptical of this although I figured it was
worth throwing out there)
Hope this helps -Jeff
> Took it apart
> & the main bearing is very loose. Nice wallowed out dowel pin in the
> bearing. In the wilson book he mentions that in some cases the case
> surface the bearing flange sits in can be faced & larger bearings
> inserted. It says these bearings were offered in 1.0, 1.5 & 2.0 mm
> oversize. What I can't find out is what the actual size of the stock
> bearing surface should
