Date: Wed, 31 Oct 2001 15:44:30 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Snoopy <vwsnoopy(-at-)knology.net>, typE2(-at-)TYPE2.COM
Subject: Re: [T2] heat questions

As far as the heat goes - make sure you are not leaking cooling air and not 
recirculating hot air into the cooling system and all is well.

The only way i know how to get heat to the carb in the winter is to create 
an air cleaner with a preheat circuit as found on any 80's carb'ed Japanese 
cars.

These cars had a simple vacuum hose that went through a heat sensitive 
valve in the neck of the air cleaner.

It opened and closed a flap in the air cleaner that divided the incoming 
carb air between one hose that lead to the exhaust manifold (heated air) 
and the cold air (the open end of the air cleaner snorkel).

Make a trip to the junkyard, purchase an old one and begin modifying. 
You'll need the tiny one way valve I think found in line with the vacuum 
source. If not present, most FLAPS sell them cheap.

Get out your Bentley and see where VW piped the hot air for carb heat.

The other option would be to create an intake runner preheater with a pipe 
connected to the #2 and #4 exhaust pipes ala OEM VW.

Use some sort of mild metal pipe and wind it around the intake pipes or 
around the carb base. VW used a large heat sink as part of the carb runners 
and you would be trying to duplicate this on your bus with the tubing 
snaking around the intake runners. Don't kink the pipe because you want the 
alternating exhaust pulses to be able to 'breathe'.










Ciao!

Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE:       Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing and exhaust 
- make offer
                 5 Beauty rings for 13" wheels, very nice, no dents, packed 
ready to go, $40 (was my cost)

