Date: Thu, 01 Nov 2001 08:02:43 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Thor Bentley <californialion2001(-at-)yahoo.com>, typE2(-at-)TYPE2.COM
Subject: Re: [T2] Purring bus for -$1000?

Just need to locate the leaks - most likely the dipstick tube, valve cover 
gaskets, and push rod tubes.

All can be replaced with engine in van.

However if the oil on the ground smells like the oil in the tranny, or if 
the leak is engine oil from the bell housing, then your rear main seal can 
be leaking. Requires an engine pull.

It could be the oil cooler leaking too.

With any of my VW's I always pull the engine, strip the tin off, clean 
everything, and reassemble replacing every seal and gasket that I can 
without stripping the engine block down. Easier to work on and easier to 
trace leaks. On a Type IV engine this will take a weekend and a helper and 
will cost about $100 for the gaskets. I paid something like $90 for my last 
set I think (2 years ago). That does not include some seals so plan ahead 
so you can order all your seals at once.

Go ahead and replace the injector seals, and the vacuum lines also. Since 
you've got the engine out, replace the rear main seal and tranny input seal 
too.

REPLACE ALL FUEL LINES NOW!

Again we are still under $250.

Do a compression test first. A basic tester can be had under $50. Not great 
quality but mine had lasted 15 years or so. Easy to verify calibration with 
some creative plumbing, a digital tire gauge, and an air compressor. At 
least you'll know if the compression is even.

The sputtering is probably related to a tuning issue or a vacuum leak. Just 
go through the tune up procedure  in the service manuals (Bentley manual). 
Even buying the book, and a cheap timing light, and tach/dwell meter you 
are still under $350.

Don't just start throwing parts at it without testing everything. It is 
easy to throw away alot of good parts and replace them without testing them 
first.

Take a long look at your Bentley and make sure that all of the tin is in 
place.

Might as well take the time to check all of the well bearings, CV joints, 
check the heater for good operation, and lube everything that moves.

That's about all the detail I can up with. In short - service everything. 
If you bus is in decent shape all it will require is oil and grease and all 
things rubber.

Since I am helping you save money, send me a $100 fee for consultation... 
<grin>

I'm sure the list can suggest even more.
Ciao!

Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE:       Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing and exhaust 
- make offer
                 5 Beauty rings for 13" wheels, very nice, no dents, packed 
ready to go, $40 (was my cost)

