From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 31 Dec 2003 10:23:22 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] re: battery explosion and clutch cable breaks

Hi John,
Our clutch cables tend to last well over 30,000 miles.  You might want to 
first hand inspect the tubing for holes worn threw.  If no holes then install a 
new cable and keep track of how long it lasts before replacing the entire 
clutch cable tubing.  If same happens twice then might try to fix it, and if thrice 
definitely time to do something.  After all it might have been a fluke that 
this one cable failed so soon and in the spot it did.  The problem with 
replacing sections of the tubing is that where it is welded back together will 
possibly be a rough area for the cable to wear on and even when installing a 
complete tube the welding can melt into the tube and cause the same problem.
  Would check the voltage output while driving to see if your alternator is 
putting out too much!
  Some sealed batteries are seal in such a way that you can not check them 
without cutting the battery case apart.  Some sealed batteries have easily 
removed covers to be checked though some of these covers are sealed with a sticker. 
 We only will use a lead/water/acid battery that we can check.  Only the 
newer lead/gel/acid batteries like Optima might in our opinion be a true sealed 
and safe battery.
  A couple of years ago we had to buy a modern Ford for transporting Barb's 
dad since his stroke.  Yes, we could have used a bug, but Barb's sister thinks 
ACVWs are sucidal to drive!  Even though this new car was and still is going 
to the dealership for maintenance Eric takes a look under the hood to make sure 
things are looking allright.  After a year he checked the water level in the 
battery and found it very low almost exposing the plates inside.  He filled it 
and next time Barb took the Ford back in she inquired if they checked the 
battery water level and was told that all batteries they sold with the cars were 
considered to be sealed for life and not to be checked!  
Eric&Barb
