Date: Mon, 16 Feb 2004 10:20:50 -0800 (PST)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: voltage regulator toasted UPDATE

As much as I appreciate a good smack-down, I'd appreciate your
knowledgable response more. For example, there are 3 wires going from
the VR to the ALT. Since the termination point of the 3 wires at the
ALT is covered by a plate on the front (FIF), how do I check the wiring
without removing the ALT to expose the wiring? The only remaining wire
is the blue one running to the front. No, I didn't test it yet. I plan
to test all of them, but I need them exposed to test them.

I read the Bentley section on testing the ALT in-vehicle, and I don't
own, nor do I have access to, all 3 of the different metering
components that need to be in-series to collect the readings as
described. I have a single multi-meter. From the description in the
Bentley, that is insufficient to qualify the charging system. So, if I
can't test it, I can either drive the bus to somone who can, or pull
the ALT out and have it tested. I thought knowingly driving the bus
when it was in a "known broken" state was bad juju and I'd bust a few
knuckles instead. You suggested that I just open the phone book to find
someone to test the ALT. There aren't 100 in Portland; the one Bosch
parts place that I found is ACVW supportive but they don't test. Even
if there were a bunch of them, someone from PDX on this list has
experience with one of them, and I asked for their referral. Not from
Portland? Skip that part. I know there are a few other Puddletown cats
out here.

I asked if I fried another VR although the engine wasn't started, but
the electricals were completed. I'd like to know if I need to buy
another one when I'm out getting the ALT tested.

You mentioned as a part of the great Wells -v- Bosch debate that
sometimes seemingly unrelated breakdowns cause failures. I took that to
mean that there can be a short in one subsystem that manifests itself
in a completely unrelated system. It was insight into that statement
that I was seeking. I guess you thought I asked for a wrist slapping.
Now that you've gotten that out of your system, either add value or
don't respond.

Paul Manning
Lake Oswego, OR
1972 westy (hapy)
"please don't dominate the rap, jack, if you got nothing new to say..."
