Date: Thu, 26 Aug 2004 23:23:13 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Suggestions for tracking battery drain?

>From: "Dave" <brooksdj(-at-)earthlink.net>
>Date: Wed, 25 Aug 2004 22:22:56 -0400
>
>Anyone have any suggestions on methods for tracking a battery drain?

Is the top of the battery clean?  If enough moist crud gets built up on
it, it can discharge between the terminal posts.  If it's clean, read
on...

The best way I know is with a multimeter that has at least a 10 A range.
Set the meter for amps, then disconnect the ground strap at the battery
negative terminal.  Put the red lead of the meter on the battery
negative terminal and the black lead on the ground strap.  A stock Bus
will read zero amps.  If you have a stereo with digital tuner, you might
see a few milliamps (up to maybe 50 mA, 0.050 A) for the station memory.
If you see much more than that, you have trouble.

You can isolate the trouble a little bit at the fuse box.  Go up front,
pick a fuse, pull it out, then go to the back and do the check with the
meter again.  If you still have a drain, you didn't pick the right
fuse... put it back in and try another one.  If the drain went away,
the fuse you just pulled is on the circuit that has the problem.

You didn't mention the year, but on my '64, six of the eight fuses are
for the lights.  If one of the lights fuses makes the drain go away, I
would suspect a bum light switch that isn't shutting off completely (or
the rheostat for the dash lights is shorted to ground - a possibility I
think Eric&Barb have mentioned before.)  Anyway, if you suspect the
light switch, first put the fuses back in.  Then, with the battery
ground strap still disconnected, unplug the fat red wire (30) at the
light switch.  Make sure the loose end of the wire can't ground out on
the switch body or the Bus body!  Use some electrical tape on it if you
have to.  Then, go back to the back and do the trick with the meter
again.  If it now reads 0 amps, your light switch is to blame.

If the fuse that makes the drain stop is the battery fuse (the far right
one on a '64), the trouble could be in different places, like the horn,
the windshield wiper+interior lights, or the turn signals.  You can
isolate further by unplugging wires from the fuse panel for the end of
this fuse that does not have the fat red wires.

There are some things that aren't fused at all - the ignition circuit
and the main feed to the lights (covered above).  If none of the fuses
stop the drain, then with the battery ground strap still disconnected,
unplug the fat red wire (30) from the ignition switch.  Make sure the
loose end of the wire can't ground out on the switch body or the Bus
body!  Use some electrical tape on it if you have to.  Then go to the
back and check with the meter again.  If this has stopped the drain,
it's probably a bum ignition switch that isn't quite shutting off.

As Ray mentioned, a bum starter solenoid can also cause this.  If none
of the fuses nor the ignition switch test stopped the drain, then with
the battery ground strap still disconnected, undo the nut on the starter
solenoid that has all the fat wires under it.  Get all the wires off the
stud, then bolt them back together with another nut and bolt.  Make sure
this connection can't ground out on the starter or the Bus body!  Go
check with the meter again.  If the drain has stopped - starter
solenoid.

If the drain hasn't stopped, there is one last suspect... the generator.
With the battery ground strap disconnected, go back under and unbolt the
wires you bolted together.  Make sure none of them are touching each
other, the Bus body, the starter, etc.  Do the test with the meter again
and if the draw has stopped

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds
