Date: Fri, 27 Aug 2004 20:22:05 -0700 (PDT)
From: Jim Ellis <ellisjames(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: VW_VINTAGE_list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] jerome... Johnny friendly?

Every year Jerome changes as to where the noise is and is unpredictable. You
think you have chosen a guiet spot but 2 camps down turns into all night, party
central, rubber Johnneys (just ask Van Bondo about that).
-----------------------------------------------------------

And be sure to bring the head butter... ah, never mind.
Yup, as Ronnie suggested, the real "raffle" is in picking a quiet camp site.
Shade is not to be expected, nor is rain- but it happens and is welcomed when
it happens. For anyone who is the least bit shy about staying up all night I
would suggest camping in Cottonwood or renting a hotel room somewhere. DONT
count on one or more quiet evenings. A prominent bus god failed to return due
to raging and raving all Friday night one year. I and mine failed to appear
following an all nighter on a Saturday night- babysitting some jerk who was the
poster child for self-toxicity. Other years, Jerome has been extremely quiet-
so you never know. It all depends on the mix of folks and there personal
behavior.

I vote for personal accountability and preparation of self and co-cohabitators
starting RIGHT NOW to anticipate having the time of your life up and until
10pm. Then for the good of the widest collective <the community at Jerome> shut
the F up and go to sleep. Bring or hire someone who loves to "boff" as the
coolcats of the beat generation used to say. Go to bed and get some on ya...
And shut the hell up!.

Camping next to the "old timers" is getting easier and easier as the years go
on. I for one dont have the desire to stay up all night long. Heck, my fantasy
is a solid 8 hours of sleep without wife, kids or pets waking me up. Lord that
would be nice. As it stands at the moment my family will be without any form of
running/driving typeII for the first time in decades. Anyone who has a decent
T4 engine that they would like to give/sell/build for me please contact me via
pmail. We will be camping at home this year and wishing you all well.

Of course, I am visualizing myself racing up the hill on Sunday AM in time to
win the bus... You better buy all of the tickets before I get there or it will
be MINE! <evil laugh fading into the background>
-Ellis\
JUSTA72
