From: "Eric Lykens" <elykens(-at-)gte.net>
To: "'rob'" <coerver(-at-)mindspring.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 30 Aug 2004 22:29:42 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] re: dynamat

Hello Rob

	This is what I have done in the past. I have used the Rubberized
Under Coating that will smell for a couple of days but covers completely
(Smell goes away). I have used it from the back cargo door to the bottom
floor under the back seat. Then I used 1/4 string padding and then short
stitch carpet. I found that this combo kills a lot engine noise on my 67. 

	On my 65 I have gone a different route and it appears to dampen well
too (No Smell). I use the same type of material as Dynamat but cheaper. You
can get it at Home Depot for $60 dollars a box and it will do the whole bus.
It is used on roofs and is made out of the same tarish type of material with
an adhesive side and a clear plastic side. I am in the process of installing
it behind the back seat and passenger panels. I have the back seat piece
complete and it appears to have killed a lot of the engine noise.

	In regards to installing Dynamat on the roof. With heat it will get
pliable and will tend to move. It helps if you use this product with a heat
gun to warm it up so it will adhere better. I have installed this in doors
and vertical locations without it pealing but I am not sure about a roof. It
also has to have a good clean surface to bond too. When I pulled my
headliner a couple of weeks ago I found a horse hair type of material above
it. This probably dampened the sound of rain and probably kept the bows of
the headliner in place.  The Dynamat product is used in most new car and
truck doors. It makes them sound thick when you close them not like the old
foreign car doors when they close. I used this on the front doors of my last
bus and it made them sound like they were made of thick steal (solid). 

	If anyone is interested in the product I will check Home Depot the
next time I am over there and get the name of it or if you know some one in
construction they will know what it is.


PS: Because it used on roofs and made of tar I think it will repel the
moisture too. 

Hope this helps,
Eric
65 Deluxe
