Date: Wed, 1 Sep 2004 21:07:45 -0700 (PDT)
From: Richard Lenzmeier <dicklenznd(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, RAMontieth(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Back in a (noisy) bus after 30 years, or...

Misdemeanor Lurking--Guilty As Charged!!

Though I have posted a time or two, after all these years of just
wishing I was driving an air-cooled VW again, I am in a listening and
learning mode and I don't have much to contribute. Yet.

I am also subscribed to a Toyota Landcruiser list (1985 LC is my
DD)which is much more active than this list, but the posts are often of
limited interest. They are also quite nasty to newbies. This list has
more cogent content, and so despite the smaller volume, the yield is
greater. I do not think it would be appropriate to rename it to the
"Vintage Bus Colostrum-Like List" though, but you get my drift...

These last few days have been most enjoyable to me as I have read the
posts of the "new" ways to deaden the incredible noise of an air-cooled
VW microbus at speed. ("It's like deja vu all over again". Y. Berra) In
the early and mid-seventies much of the time I should have spent
studying the calculus or female surface anatomy instead was squandered
in theoretical OG noise-reduction techniques. To little avail, as no
matter what we do to it, our Vehicle of Choice will never, ever be as
quiet as the noisiest water-cooled 1975 Toyota Corolla. With no
muffler. 

I didn't know that in 1975, and so when my buddy Rick's motel updated
its carpets, a room or two of it ended up on and under the wood floor
and behind the paneling of my 1966 Standard. Oh sure, the noise level
fell a decibel, maybe even a decibel and a quarter, but strangely I was
the only one who could tell. All this heavy carpet did slow the bus
down some, but again, no one could tell but me. And my hopes for
improved heating with this new-found free insulation? Well, a Grand
Forks, North Dakota winter at -25 degrees F will overcome 268 lbs of
used Holiday Inn carpet no matter how fast you get a bus going. Even if
it is your DD and you love it and keep it tuned just so, nothing will
do other than a heavy parka, thick gloves and boots made for ice
fishermen. And a window scraper for each passenger who wishes to look
outside. (Remind me to some day tell you the story of The Day I Got My
First Gas Heater.)

Yes, I am predominately a lurker, but in the nicest sense of the word I
hope. This is a quality group and that makes up for the lesser volume.
When I have something meaningful to say I'll chime in, otherwise I'll
just "lurk". Though I'll admit that you couldn't tell that from this
post.

Richard Lenzmeier
Fargo, ND
1964 Standard
