Date: Wed, 31 May 2006 08:59:57 -0600
From: George Gundesen <gundesen(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] Fuel Injection Parts Photos - and Megasquirt

Hi, I'm the current Megasquirt builder/experimenter.

MS uses the temp sense II (head temp sensor) in the same manner as the stock FI, it is used to determine warm-up enrichment parameters so you have a smooth transition from cold to fully warm operating conditions.  Specifically, you set fuel enrichment percentages vs. a sliding scale of temperature until fully warm.  I use the stock sensor and calibrate it in MS from -40 degrees to fully warm head (I use 275 F for fully warm).  At fully warm the head temp sense is no longer used.  MS uses thermistor type temp sensors only (like the stock one).  If you want to use the thermocouple variety it would require some code changes to make it work.  Unless you are a SW designer, its not worth it just for warmup.  Other thermistor type sensors can be used if you figure out how to attach them by the head or on the head. MS provides a calibration routine so you can adjust for whatever you end up with. Many air-cooled motorcycles are running MS and have improvised like that.

The stock fuel pump and regulator attached to intake plenum vacuum work fine. MS doesn't care what fuel pressure is going on. You adjust fuel variables to achieve stoic combustion based on your O2 sensor feedback, so FP to the injectors is a background condition only.

Update on my experiment:  At anything above dead cold (which has been ~40F lately) it is running beautifully. I let it "auto-tune" the fuel map when driving around under as many load/rpm conditions as possible and have used this feedback to stabilize on the fuel map for now.  The warmup enrichment still needs tweaking. I use the stock aux air regulator to add air at warmup, but have not been able to achieve a perfect routine yet.  It is surprisingly sensitive to fuel enrichment - 1 or 2% make a difference at idle conditions.

My hydraulic valve lash battle is on hold for the moment. I set them to zero for now. I get a very slight valve clatter, but I am confident the valve gear is opening and closing properly.  Sometime later I'll crank them in half a turn and live with it for a few days and see if it comes right.

Also, I was aware of a bit of rear end noise which definitiely turns out to be wheel bearings on one side, so replacing those (on both sides of course)on the weekend is another job.

Anyway I am very happy with progress so far.

GG
'82 Vanagon Westy Megasquirt
