Date: Thu, 1 Jun 2006 08:03:21 -0400
From: Anymouse <honeybus(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Natural Bus - Canoe = NO!!

Wow ! ! !  So, there is nowhere to use a canoe at Natural Bus?!?!?  Thanks
for the replies.

Someone asked if I was going to sell that license frame at Natural bus..
Yes, I am certainly going to try to...

I have some contacts in Korea (family..) that can repro that frame in BRASS
! ! and I was toying with the idea of making a hundred or so for the current
community of busers..

Yes, I WILL be selling lots of junk and treasures at NB 2006  (If I can get
out of the house!!)  Particularly some larger things, like:

Seats - they will go on Saturday at 10:00 for the best offered price, so

All the inside wood grained panels for a late Westy -

How about a full set of curtain rails??  Anybody??

Vanagon Chrome Rear Bumper - bumper strip - side bumpers This bumper 'was'
like new when I put it behind the garage a year ago...  $60

Intake Manifold and runners (really pretty, after it got cleaned up.  Thanks
going for $40 or it goes to auction)

Type 4 engine thermostat  (Dolan needs one of these ...)

Beautiful light chocolate front seat covers.  These are really nice..  $50
Friday, $40 Saturday at 10:00

I'll take a few timing scales and fan screens.  I think I have 3 (Dolan
needs one of these!!)

WAIT ! ! !  If I remember, the warm air tube that goes beneath the passenger
compartment.  ($20)

And fabric (some of the Westy brown plaid, and lots of Green ans maybe some
orange) and vinyl  (naugahyde - going pretty cheap)

My cell is   571 235 0795.  I will be under the 'steal your face' flag.
Come visit....  Bring a smiling face and a good story  I will be wiped out
by 2 PM

M. Benthin:  I have a pair of REAR SEAT SHOULDER BELTS RETRACTING from a
Eurovan.  These have the extentions on that allow you to connect to the
section of the roof over the shoulders of the left and right rear seated
passengers, and drop the seat belt down to the correct height.  This is
PERFECT for the back of the station wagon VW bus for your daughter ...  A
little expensive, but worth it..

For other people, I will bring some fromt seat retracting seat belts
sets...

-- 
Anymouse sends
