Date: Fri, 02 Jun 2006 16:44:10 -0400
From: John Hepner <hepnerj(-at-)corecomm.net>
To: Spentzos3(-at-)aol.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Nitrogen filled tires

As a Chem Instructor I see a couple of things not true, but still promoted by the people who sell this stuff:
	a) Nitrogen molecules are SMALLER than Oxygen (28:32 by mass).  CO2 is even larger.  Leak rate is related to the square root of the mass.
	b) Nitrogen leaks slightly FASTER than air through a small hole.  
	c) Air is 78% Nitrogen, and going to the pure stuff has little effect.
	The above is from lab experiments, and has no contradiction from field tests.  If you ask the sales people for EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCH RESULTS they will turn the conversation to other topics or repeat the sales literature line.
	Those using Nitrogen usually are much more careful to monitor tire pressure...this is why their berrer results compaired to those who don't monitor carefully.
	Under inflation IS a problem and far too common.  But don't let anyone fool you with partial truths ... otherwise you are setting yourself up for the salesman/mechanic who wants to clear out the winter air and refill with summer blend for only $29.95/tire! (Don't forget the spare!)
	A serious test will involve N2 fill in 2 tires (say, left side front/ right rear) and others filled with air.  With careful monitoring, I predict random variation among them.
 ...JH  Sinclair Community College  Dayton OH
	FAA A&P 8057

Date: Fri, 2 Jun 2006 15:54:58 EDT
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Spentzos3(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Nitrogen Filled Tires
Message-ID: <49b.17523ae.31b1f192(-at-)aol.com>

Hello All,
A guy here at work was telling me about his tire filling experience the other
day.  His tires were low.  He was going to fill them but his friend filled
them with Nitrogen (he had some).  Evidently, nitrogen has larger molecules
which prevent the air from seeping out of the tire as fast.  Did a Google
search
and he was right.  A tire stays inflated 3 times longer.  It states a typical
tire can loose almost 3 pounds of pressure per month (that sounds like a lot
to
me).  Also, read an article which stated that the US government estimated
that the nation loses more than 2 million gallons a day to under inflated
tires.
Said you could typically increase your mileage typically 3% if inflated
properly. Herebs the bad partb& prices ranged from $2 to $10 per tire at
stations.
I was wondering if anyone out there was running on nitrogen filled tires.
Dino Spentzos
Newport, RI

------------------------------
