Date: Sat, 12 Oct 2002 18:33:33 -0400
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <Doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com>
Subject: HAH! 3 years getting it home

Good News.........My 1976 2liter Westy has been being overhauled and 
refurbished for the past three years. We will skip that long story and just 
say I FINALLY DROVE IT HOME UNDER ITS OWN POWER!  Thanks to everybody who 
helped with my many questions over that long period of time.

All the rust is gone, it is in primer-sealer, and the rear bumper is off, 
and it only has the driver seat in place, but I drove it home today from 
the engine repair shop, where it has languished for a month, having the 
engine removed and replaced.  After a total rebuild, they put it back 
together a month ago and left out the tin duct that keeps pressurized air 
from blowing out past the alternator. When I discovered this, I insisted 
that they take the engine out and put this piece of tin in place. The 
engine had to come out, the alternator had to come off, along with a 
considerable number of nearby and surrounding devices and engine tin.  And 
jamming that panel in behind the alternator literally took hours. It didn't 
just slide into place. What a frustrating experience.

Then, when the engine was in the bus, I started it and the exhaust was 
loud....put, put, put, like there was no muffler at all.

On the passenger side, they had left a 1/16th inch gap between the copper 
exhaust gaskets and the ends of the exhaust headers.

I could see the sparks and flames coming out around the edges of the 
headers, right at the cylinders on the passenger side.  And then the 
mechanic took the week off and closed his shop, leaving my bus in his 
parking lot.

I spent the last two days upside down on an old rug under that engine, 
taking off the passenger side header and the heater box on that side. The 
header wouldn't seat solidly on the copper exhaust gaskets like it should, 
because the push rod tubes didn't allow clearance.

Karl (out in California,) and Chris Mills, both gave me the secret of 
fitting that pipe to the heads. I just followed their advice. Thank you 
Thank you.

I ground down the header flanges where they jammed against the push rod 
tubes, taking off maybe an 1/8th of an inch of excess steel from the 
casting that fits over the exhaust studs. And I filed the actual contact 
ovals at the ends of the pipes until they were perfectly flat.  I used a 
drill with a heavy commercial sanding disc. Then I finished up with a flat 
steel file.  When that unit went back in place, it just cleared the push 
rod tubes and the nuts pulled it down on the studs in a very solid manner. 
I knew it was where it should be by the way those nuts pulled it down and 
stopped. Most satisfying.

I coated the copper exhaust gaskets with a new product from NAPA, which is 
designed to seal exhaust systems and is claimed to withstand 2000 degrees 
of temperature. Six bucks a tube. It is a grey pasty material that in a 
plastic tube that has been totally evacuated of air.  The stuff starts 
curing when it hits the atmosphere. You put it where you want it, put the 
parts together, and leave it alone for a day or two. It cures in place with 
no catalyst other than the air. Then you start the engine and warm it up 
for 15 minutes, and the engine heat completes the curing process. It is 
some kind of high temperature epoxy, according to the NAPA counter man.

Anyhow, I started it up and drove it home today, and it was quiet and 
smooth, and I was very happy. I can turn my attention to acquiring new 
(correct reinforced) tires, and getting a few seats recovered. I have the 
materials and just need to find the time.  But it RUNS, and I can drive it! 
3 years to get to this announcement....I'm gonna get to go to some of those 
bus gatherings next year....

Doyt Echelberger
Ohio   USA
