Date: Mon, 14 Oct 2002 09:28:41 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Steve Laughlin <slaughlin(-at-)rushmore.com>, Chris Mills
Subject: Re: [T2] orbital sanders for nose work

>Thanks for the recommendation.  Anyone have any experience with the multiple
>headed sander, I think they refer to them as 3-D

None. I'm sure they are good for the job they are made for BUT several 
questions you should consider and answer yourself: (I will lay out all my 
info here and you decide. I'm not talking down to you as I don't know your 
experience level - probably higher than mine...)

Are the little sanding pads expensive? Are they proprietary (is only one 
company making them?)? Will the tool wear out or become obsolete - in other 
words is this a good tool or just a product that they will discontinue next 
year because it didn't sell well during the holiday season?

Lastly is this a consumer grade tool or a "professional" grade tool? Do you 
NEED a professional grade tool? What is your budget?

Milwaukee and DeWalt (among others) makes tools that last for years and 
years. Black and Decker (same company as DeWalt but they (B&D) typically 
sell a light duty consumer grade tool) sells tools that commonly have 
things like nylon gear boxes that may not outlast their warranty.

I say all this because a $50-$75 tool better last a while b/c that's real 
money to me.

I gravitate towards heavy duty professional grade tools that last and last 
- buy it once and I've got a tool for a decade or two versus the cheaper 
variety which I may kill 2 or 3 of in the same period for the same price.

I killed a B&D hedge trimmer in 30 minutes about 4 years ago - stripped the 
gears.

I do some woodworking on the side in addition to my car stuff so I expect 
my tools to do the work without problems. I own a Milwaukee Sawz-All 
(1994), a Milwaukee 1/2" drill (1992), a B&D Professional (De-Walt these 
days) square pad sander (1992), Delta table saw (2001), etc. I also have a 
cheap B&D jigsaw that was cheap and continues to last and last but I don't 
put much mileage on it. It vibrates like crazy compared to a nice Bosch or 
De-Walt or whoever.

The 3-D tool I would guess would be light duty and I would expect it to be 
a detail tool versus a main sanding tool.

Last thing to consider is that you want something with a substantial 
footprint for bodywork. There are many good airtools for this job but alas 
I presently lack a big compressor to drive them. (Someday).

A small detail sander like the 3-D would have a tendency to strip varying 
amounts of paint off as you work along. This would create a surface with 
many waves and ripples. The edges would get stripped first. Body 
professionals "work" a body with rubber blocks about 6 inches long so the 
"high points" gets sanded off first and the panel becomes flat - just like 
if you were working out a tabletop. Their powertools have long footprints. 
Terry K. could tell us about this...

With the swivel feet it might be useful on the curves and a larger sander 
for the flat panels. You decide.

Good luck!!!


Chris Mills in TN
