From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 14 Oct 2002 11:38:48 -0500
Subject: Re: Castle Nut (plus Massive Amounts of Torque)

	Happy Moon-day List!

	Another interesting thread in the weekend stack o' digests...  And I
have a couple of plugged nickels to throw onto the fire on this one too.

	When it was finally time to do the well-worn stub axle bearings on
the '72 Westy Weekender, it was discovered the #(-at-)$*%!^~(-at-)# fool POs or PO's
mechanic had applied the proverbial metric elephant-load of torque on the
46mm nuts on both sides.  I bent the handle on a 3/4" breaker bar EVEN after
applying Father's Machine Shop (tm) time honored trick of oxy-acetylene heat
to cherry red on the nut, liberal applications of various penetrating
fluids, beating the living sn*t out of the nuts (while supported against the
blows, of course, so as not to damage the bearings) etc., etc., yada-yada...

	The carriers were ultimately dislodged from the spring plates, and
bolted up a mill in F.M.S. (tm) and slots were milled down through the nuts
in the direction of the stub shaft threads to within a "very short distance"
of the threads.  A chisel and a delicate tap with the BFH provided the
necessary stress relief on the mangled remains of the nut.  The new nuts
were carefully torqued, retorqued, and quadruple checked to make sure they
would hold spec, on the theory that the over-torque may have caused the stub
axle to have stretched, or the axle hubs to have been "squished" out of a
good fit on the splines.  I may have even gone weak in the knees and used
another set of stub axles.  I also noted that the new nuts provided by my VW
FLAPS have more places to install the cotter key, which (hopefully) means
less reason to over-torque the living $h*t out of them.  More than one way
to skin a cat, although no cats were harmed in that operation...

	As a side note to this whole operation, I had searched the Library
and printed out the directions found there to guide me through the
operation.  I did find that because the bearings in my carriers were there
since the second or third week of September 1971*, the Library directions
were more on point for replacement bearings, and not for original bearings.
The Library article made a point of taking issue with the Bentley
directions, which were EXACTLY on point for my original pieces.  The OG
bearings had an outer race which appeared to be stamped or formed out of
some fairly heavy sheet stock, whereas the replacement guys had a outer race
created from solid bar stock (if that makes any sense).  The outer lip of
the formed sheet stock race also made the bearing race appear to be of a
larger diameter than they actually were, resulting in much "consternation"
(to put it lightly) about whether or not Wolfsburg West had provided the
correct bearings...

	* As near as I can figure from the VIN (ending in 974) and from the
M-code plate data, my bus was sent to the Westy factory REAL early in the
production run...

	Jim Hayden
	www.savethebays.org
	"You all know my deal about checking the nuts..."  
