Date: Mon, 14 Oct 2002 16:48:27 -0700 (PDT)
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Safe and Sound in Sunnyvale

I made it all the way from Austin without incident.  Thank you to all the well-wishers who emailed me before I left on the trip.  I think I have good idea of the capabilities of the 2L FI bus now...read on because I covered a lot of miles, altitudes and temperatures.

I'm sure glad everything was in order before I left.  Every time I passed someone who was broken down I wondered if it would be me next but 9/10 breakdowns were tire related and I had two spares inflated. I only saw two other busses on the road before I hit the California coast. One was an Orange early bay that had broken down and had been stickered by police about 20 mins west of Benson, AZ.

Day 1: I left Austin at 6:30am and made it to Lordsburg, NM near the Arizona border by 9:30pm central time. Up until about 10am the temperatures were in the low sixties and the fan shroud was cold to the touch.  I managed 70-75 mph for much of that part of the trip but the engine noise was a little loud for comfort.

Around 1pm I arrived in Ft. Stockton and I was hauling it.  At the gas station I checked on the engine and the fan shroud was as hot as I was normally used to, driving in Austin temperatures.  The wind was brutal from Ft. Stockton all the way to El Paso and I had to pull on the wheel the whole way.  By the time I arrived at the continental divide, the temperatures had fallen back down into the morning range and the fan shroud was cool to the touch again even though I managed several long climbs in 4th going 70mph up to 3,8000 ft. above sea level.  The oil level finally dropped a bit but the color was still good.

I covered 745 miles that first day!

Day 2: Another long day from Lordsburg to Santa Barbara, CA via I-10/US10 accomplishing another 744 miles but the trip through LA wasted some time as I had to stop on the "freeway".

The fan was cold to the touch in the morning with my weather radio reporting 71 degrees at 10am.  By the time I hit the hot arid air of the Arizona in the 80's the engine started to get hot.  I over did it a little trying to get to Thousand Palms, CA and when I stopped for dinner a check of the engine confirmed I went too fast in that heat: the fan shroud was almost too hot to touch.  I could put my hand there but no as long as usual.  I think I should have kept it to 60 for that last two hours.

Another disturbing fact was that the fan belt was hot and at first I could slide it a tiny bit around the pulley with a lot of effort because it was so hot.  After a long dinner, the engine had some time to cool but it was still too loose according to Bentley so I adjusted it some.  This was a new belt I put on before the trip so I'm wondering if it just stretched normally or if the heat was the cause.  That magnesium shroud sure holds heat well.  The rest of the way to LA was hard until I started to descend into the basin because I was trying to keep the speed down and that valley is full of wind farms for good reason.

For anyone wondering, the type IV engine can keep up with the posted speed limit but once the air looses all humidity you have to lower your speed by 10-15mph.  With a full load and passengers, the acceleration can't be pretty because it was slow going against the wind with just me and the few items I packed.  I checked the dwell a few times along the way and it never veered from 50 degrees so I knew I was probably doing the best I could under the climate conditions.

Day 3: From Santa Barbara I took Hwy 1 along the coast for the scenery and I finally arrived at Sunnyvale in the afternoon after 343 miles. Temps were lower on the coast and the engine was cold for much longer than the previous days and was only warm instead of hot by midday.  The route from Cambria to Big Sur increased temperatures because it was a 3rd gear climb and descent type of journey most of the way but it never got as hot as it did in Arizona and Palm Springs thank goodness.  Be sure your brakes are in the best of shape before doing that segmet of Hwy 1 as there is no guardrail for most of it and it can be all fogged in.

By the end of the trip I had added 3/4 quart of oil for 1832 miles at full highway speed.  I had to add more oil the second day than on the first day.  I have an oil leak at the sump plate which is very visible and there is a leak from the gasket at the case where the oil filler tube bolts on.They're not serious leaks yet but under running conditions more oil seems to come out but it can't account for much oil loss overall.

I used Mobil1 15w50 synthetic on this trip to experiment and the oil is a little darker now probably because I accidentally put 1/2 quart of 15w40 in before I started the trip.  It's still golden colored and checking the log book from my Dec 97 trip from Victoria, BC to Austin to compare, the 20w50 oil I used before had gone completely black by 1900 miles.

I wish I had time to put in some engine gauges before hand but this trip came up was on short notice.  I think having gauges are critical on long journeys if you care about your engine.

--
Richard
1978 Westfalia CDN
Sunnyvale, CA
