From: "Mike Jackson" <mike(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 10 Mar 2012 15:56:51 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] buy generator for my bus

> I was thinking about buying a generator for my bus when I go camping. Does
know anything about this one: [Harbor Freight #66619]

I just bought two of them at the local Harbor Freight store.  I wanted an
inexpensive way to power the fridge and freezer during power outages.

I've been using one as a portable power center on my golf cart (work
vehicle) just to break it in.  I'll switch to the other one after I break
the first one in.  So far it's been just great.  3 or 4 pulls starts it
every time.

Several things I learned online:

1. Change the Chinese plug out for a properly gapped Autolite #64.
2. Some of the reviews said to install a fuel filter, but when I tried it,
it entailed too much disassembly of the unit.  Besides, it has a filter
under the fuel filler cap.  So I passed on the filter recommendation.
3. Most of the complaints about this unit seemed to me to be from folks who
didn't read the instructions and follow the break-in period.  25 hours of
using no more than 600W of the unit's capacity.  That works out to 5
tankfuls of gas (two cycle with oil.)  I'm just making small marks on the
edge of the tank to keep track of them.

It's fairly quiet for such an inexpensive unit, 91 db's I think.  Takes 3
minutes to warm up, but you can usually judge that by when the smoke clears
from the exhaust.

I found a coupon in the back of the March issue of Reader's Digest that
reduced the price down to $89.99 (good for up to 3 units.)  The local store
is having a sidewalk sale today and the units are marked down to $89.99.  I
got an email from HF today that also has them at that price.

For what I paid for them, they're adequate for my purposes.  After I get
them broken in (which will take a long time), I'll try them on the fridge
and freezer.

If I could buy anything I wanted, I'd get a Honda 2000 or 5000 watt
portable.  A friend has one of the 2000W units.  Incredibly quiet and just
enough to run both my fridge and freezer together (proved during a recent
power failure.)

- Mike
