Date: Tue, 13 Mar 2012 09:15:12 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Jed Wubben <jed_wubben(-at-)yahoo.com>, type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] buy generator for my bus

Jed,
 
The sell that one locally (with different color) at O'Reilly and
several other places, I've been told people have real variable luck (like
running only 50-100 hours or so before death) with them so...
 
 I'd put my
vote for a Kipor ripoff of a Honda EU2000i.  Whatever Kipor is calling theirs
today.  I have a genuine Honda, and a McCulloch branded Kipor.  The Kipor was
locally in AK only $400 on sale at a big hardware place 3-4 years ago when I
got it.  At the time the Honda was never less than $950 locally.  I've had
good luck with the McCulloch/Kipor and have run the snot out of it and it is
still going strong.  I've used it countless times in -10F to run block heaters
when camping in a diesel rig to get the truck started.  It is nearly as quiet
as the Honda, you can easily if you want even sleep beside it, though the
Honda is slightly quieter in reality, and the Kipor doesn't start quite as
easy as a Honda after long storage (3-4 pulls vs 1) but for half the price was
worth it to me.  I'm not knocking the Honda though, it is all that and nicer,
just the Kipor was relatively cheap.  Now it looks like they ask $650 or so
new today, which is a
 bit close to the Honda price which makes the decision tough, I do see that
Kipor still makes a 1000W version and it can go under $500 though.
 
FWIW the
other thing to look to score on CL is an old noninverter Honda EM or EX 500,
650,??? (made several sizes) series, they are super miserly, super quiet, and
motor wise run forever, BUT...   I recall reading somewhere on the EX's at
least that they are a permanent magnet design and as the magnets age, they can
quit making power, and there is no realistic (cost effective) fix, so bring a
good load (500W halogen worklight) if you go looking at one.  And may not be
ideal for a computer.  But I've seen em on CL for the price of that HF junk
and if they make power they will run forever, I have a buddy with a set over
35 years old that still run/power great.
 
John


----- Original Message -----
From: Jed Wubben jed_wubben(-at-)yahoo.com
 
it looks small,
cheap and I am only
going to use it charge my laptop and my icebox in the back
of the bus.
