Date: Sat, 9 Apr 2011 14:18:32 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Need tips how to rebuild and maximize a type 4 engine 

I wouldn't go that far as to negate this as an improvement.  With air cooled
engines stretched to capacity, cooling the oil is a long established trick for
cooling the heads.  Porsche did it for years.  In a more practical sense, in
about 1994 or so I instrumented the hell out of a well balanced, well built
stock (dyno'd at 86 crank hp BTW on a aircraft dyno) and a built  2.2 (Dolan's
old Mark Stevens) engine in an automatic '81 Westy.  Note some big name T4
engine builders weren't even building engines then FWIW, and I was building
5/year or so.  I posted results on vanagon.  Although I don't run any gages
now except oil temp as a rule, at the time I had oil temps in several
locations, oil pressure, and 4 head temps, and was logging data on a portable
setup (386 based I think, eek) from my engineering program.  Consistently, in
that application at least (and I've said many times, that is the worst
application for a T4 engine, auto, westy
 Vanagon) running a 96 plate cooler, thermostatic controlled fan, improved
head temps, real world WV driving (pulling the I68 grade from Morgantown,
east) by 40-50F on the grades.  This improvement did not obviously heat soak
saturate either, you kept pulling the next grade, it kept the improvement. 
Now on the vanagon, the cooler set very nicely in front of the L tailight with
a hole plasma cut through, wire mesh cover, and a little import 12V fan
blowing down on top for help when stationairy and not getting ram effect from
the scoops.  I've never installed one in a bus, but have thought about it in a
bus Westy.  Same location (opposite the battery if you don't have an aux
battery or relocate a gel cell inside) would probably be nice.
 
For a stock 2.0 in a non camper, probably not worth it in moderate climates,
in a camper, sure can't hurt, but you can still get at least 150k reliabily
out of that anyway, so is it worth it?  If you are in the south, might be.
 
Oh FWIW anyone building even 1 VW engine should spring for one of the stand
adapters from the guy on $bay, that go into a standard American engine stand,
even the lighter weight ones.  Most helpful tool you will buy.
 
YMMV, it ususally does.
 
John

--- On Fri, 4/8/11, John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:

> 7) this engine can be considered as an oilcool engine also ;-)
>I have this wonderful extra oil cooler I bought 6 years ago that I never
>
>infrastructure is there to replace it by an extra oil cooler. Is there
>any oil pump out there strong enough to carry oil back and force that
>far ? Is it a good idea ? what the alternative ?

Type 4 runs cooler. External oil cooler is not needed. Head temps are
the critical factor, and an oil temp gauge won't tell you what is
happening there.
