Date: Mon, 11 Apr 2011 18:31:40 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Fw: Re:oil cooling

Jon,
 
Sorry, been starting chemo this week and am a bit behind.
 
I've done two things.  First is to run without a stock cooler, adapter that I
self machined (but in retrospect, I wondered if the spacing on the T4 is the
same as the T1/3, and one could just use a T1 adapter) to the stock cooler
location.  I did this on the 2.2.  The factory bypass valve in the case
provides total "thermostatic" control very nicely.  Made a tin to block off
the rest of the cooler location.  This does rather unbalance cooling FWIW
noticeably though trivially in head temp side to side by about 5-10F (if you
believed the resolution of my DAS.)  There is a lot more volume in the fan
scroll going to the left side of the car in the factory shroud just because it
is blowing over the cooler.  Improves cooling to L side, but does imbalance
things.
 
Next I've used both thermostatic and regular plate adapters.  The thermostatic
was one I had hanging around bought years ago from Techtonics Tuning for FWD
VW application, fit just fine.  A lot less cludgy than external thermostat,
I'm not sure if these still exist however, last time I looked they were hard
to find.  Either filter adapter lowers the filter a bit of course, not really
much below the heater boxes though, sort of same as if you are running a FWD
oil filter instead of a Bus one.  However, in WV with a tight engine the non
thermostat adapter would see 90-100 psi cold oil pressure with a stock T4 pump
in the winter with 10W30 and I thought that was a bit generous.  I was actualy
a bit surprised by this thinking compliance in the lines and whatnot plus the
"accumulator" effect of the lines and plate cooler might dampen things a bit. 
Not much compliance, even in the cheesey lines that come with the kit as it
ends up, a second lag to
 pressurize the system, and then full cold oil pressure.
 
Line routing is a bit of a scary thing, be very careful wherever you go
through the tin that things are well grommeted, or risk dumping all your oil
when vibration does its work.  In that respect, stainless covered line might
be a reasonable idea.
 
Anyway I'm all for an external cooler for stock technology engine stressed
hard, at least sort of again.  Money in a passenger bus if you aren't in the
south might be better spent running ZDDP additive to make the oil what it used
to be to keep the cam solid than in worrying about the heads so much if they
are well done.  Probably 150k out of the engine either way so who knows.  Raby
probably claims he does, wonder what his opinion is, but with his $1000
ceramic TBC heads, probably doesn't need it.
 
 
Just searching it looks like this:
 
http://www.racerpartswholesale.com/product/2972/Mocal_Sandwich_Plate
 
is the currently availably plate adapter, however the one I had was NPT
threaded and didn't need the BSP adapters which made things a bit more
convenient to plumb, considering what people want for an external thermostat,
this with adapters still seems a nice deal.
 
John
 
--- On Sat, 4/9/11, j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:
Hi John,
   How/where did you plumb the plate oil cooler in?  Did you use an oil line
thermostat too?  Sounds like a useful mod for my "second worst application"
vanagon westfalia.
