Date: Sat, 16 Apr 2011 11:53:26 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] Propane conversion (maybe cng)

Steve Blackham asked
>
>There used to be a propane conversion post on the library but I couldn't
find
>it there today.  I think a tech college back east played around with this
>subject.  Anyone have info on this subject?
>
>but it uses a jet in the carb instead of the propane carburetor.
>it's the part number on the impco or century carburetor and mixer I'm
looking
>for.

	New Zealand led the world in CNG in a
brief period c.1980.  But oil-co agents reversed
that, in favour of the misconceived Mobil/Bechtel
synfuels factory (at Motunui).  The leading
country today is Iran which produces at least 3
grades of tank, some for >3000 psi to increase
range beyond the paltry 80 mi which CNG users got
used to.

	The NG is mixed with air from the
air-cleaner by a ring-like device fitted between
your carb & the manifold.  These mixers were
generally crude.  One Kiwi firm (brand Rix) was
improving them   ...  I don't know what became of
that thrust.
	 For best performance, one added a
special electronic ignition system with two
different timing curves (c.300 more static
advance, for CNG).  That's an unforeseen
advantage of water-injection  -  you have less
need for the dual-curve ignition, since you just
slap on 300 extra advance all the time, and it
still doesn't knock on petrol (until you run out
of water, and then  -  mayhem on petrol).  Do not
run out of water!  But do let me know where you
slap the water needle in  ...  <:-|

  	Of course you retain the petrol tank,
carb etc, and switch to petrol when the CNG runs
out.
	In 1983 trade mags reported a system
using porous charcoal in the CNG tank, with LPG
(i.e  propane & butane) adsorbed on it, which in
turn dissolved surprising concentrations of
methane (CNG).  Then as the CNG ran out the LPG
evaporated to extend range further.  I visited
the lab in Detroit where this was supposedly
being developed for UPS.  Your local UPS workshop
chief will know what they're planning.
	They should have a good connection to a
local polytech or two where the CNG installer
staff are trained.  You might be able to get a
discount on a conversion if you let those
trainees practise on your bus ...
	Don't bother with a small tank; your
range could be down to a paltry c.60 mi if you
make that mistake.  Do explore possible mounting
sites under the floor, where the tank won't eat
into your interior space.
	A company that serves many fleets
throughout Calif is Clean Energy Fuels (in Seal
Beach, CA).

	The really cheap way to ease CNG into
your vehicle arises if you have pipeline gas at
your home.  The CNG compressor for home garages
developed by Sulzer had a 1/3 hp motor  -  i.e
only the power of a washing-machine motor (but
higher quality).  They sold it to a USA firm
Greenfield Compression.
	Filling a typical car tank is likely to
take overnight with the Sulzer compressor.  It
may well be faster if you have the several-atm
pipeline handy.  It's perhaps not widely
appreciated that a half-inch gaspipe can carry 50
kW into a building with only a few inches of
water guage pressure (1 atm i.e  14.7 psi is 30
foot of water guage).  In some industrial
districts of the USA, NG is presented at bldgs
with several atm pressure  -  a flying start for
taking it up to c.3000 psi for CNG.

	LPG is a slightly more energy-dense fuei,
giving correspondingly slightly higher range.  It
is more dangerous.
	A few bus owners will have near them a
CBG depot, e.g  at a pig farm in the central
valley of Calif; if they have a small surplus
they may let you fill up  ...

	Now, before you go much further: CNG
earned a reputation for causing some motors to
overheat, and most of us think our beloved
airhowlers have marginal cooling.  So let's look
into that before we go much further ...   I'm
trying to trace a sometime colleague who had CNG
in a bus, c.1981  ...

--
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600dp Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
