Date: Thu, 21 Apr 2011 09:00:58 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Bob Pratt <ka1dza(-at-)verizon.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] Color question

Bob if only doing a fender,
 
Locally NAPA fills spray cans with custom match acrylic enamel, Martin Senour,
sprays well for first timer, good match for solids, not so good for metallics
(can't spray a rattle can uniform and thin enough), and of course match
depends mostly on how accuracte your original match was and how faded.
 
Now if I drove to Anchorage, the PPG dealer would do the same, but would
actually shoot a color match with their computer, but I'd have to drive 45
minutes and have the vehicle or a small part (gas door.)  And as I don't think
they mix enamel anymore, must be in a single stage urethane, perhaps their
commercial grade coating, as they don't do Concept.  Generally speaking for
spot repair, hitting a PPG dealer WITH a computer and getting a can would be
my choice.  1 spray can could do a section about the size of 6-12 square feet
for 3 coats onto primer if you are careful and know how to spray.
 
Either place about $20 a can, a premium over a rattle can of Dupli-Color, but
for a custom match worth it.
 
If you actually want to spray paint, anything reasonable, as I've said
contless times, I'm a PPG guy, a Dupont guy is a Dupont guy, Ford/Chevy
arguement.  Over 25 years I've sprayed Glassurit, R-M, the Martin Senour,
scores of others, scores of lines in all these makers that have come and
gone.  Going to your local PPG or Dupont dealer, asking what they feel is
reasonable in a mid quality for ease of sprayability in the driveway with
reasonable safety equipment is always your best choice.  The "cheap" PPG Omni
lines spray nicely either the enamel or urethane, but I've had very mixed
results with coverage, but still not a bad place to start.
 
As always more so than the finish paint quality, is the prep, it is all about
prep, prep, prep, and then a good sealer coat compatible with your topcoat,
and following directions super carefully for between coats and products.
 
John

--- On Wed, 4/20/11, Bob Pratt <ka1dza(-at-)verizon.net> wrote:

On the same subject.... What paint manufacturer is middle to high quality?

After 10 weeks in auto body class and I ready to paint my fender!

Thanks for the advice.

Bob
