From: "Bill Bowman" <BussesByTheArch18(-at-)msn.com>
To: "\(msge\) VintageBus List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 16 Apr 2003 13:59:26 -0500
Subject: '66 Sundial Camper FS near Dallas...

Hi all,

While in Texas recently working on the body/paint on my '59 Double-Cab, I saw
a '66 Sundial camper that is just now becoming available for sale.  I first
saw this Bus about six or seven years ago stored inside a lawnmower repair
shop next to the shop where my Bus is being worked on.  Just recently the
owner decided to re-adjust his priorities and he's decided that he won't have
the time and energy to restore this bus, so he recently moved it outside and
now wants to sell it to someone interested in restoring it.  This is a project
Bus, but in overall nice and fairly complete condition with quite a few extras
thrown in.  He won't split up this package, so if you're interested you'll buy
it all.  Don't e-mail me for more info, contact the owner, Jim Benjamin at
JimBen1(-at-)yahoo.com  or call him at (972) 736-3888.  Jim may be able to e-mail
you photos? Here is what I can tell you about it:

1966 VW Sundial Camper conversion.  Last driven/registered in 1984, the
transmission was popping out of 2nd when parked/stored.  The original engine
is long gone (but comes with the extra engines mentioned below).  Vin #
216090798.  "Clear" Texas title (I saw it) and owners manual packet.  Jim is
trying to locate other service and historical paperwork that he has for this
Bus.  Odometer reading: 32,503 (based on appearances, probably add 100k to
that?).  M-codes: 425 002 043 080.  Port of delivery: UA.  Paint: oxidized
medium blue below the beltline and on the roof, white above the beltline
except for the roof.  This Bus apparently spent some time in L.A. due to the
UCLA parking stickers on the matching set of correct "pointed" bumpers (decent
condition but need a little attention to be great again).  It's spent at least
the last 20 years in the Dallas, TX area, most of it stored inside.

This 1966 Transporter was originally a "walk-thru" Panel Van, converted by
Sundial Camper Company in So. California (still has the Sundial "tag"
installed) which comes to it's future owner with the original Sundial (medium
blue, dark blue and white) striped side tent and poles in very nice condition
(again, he will NOT sell separate!).  Has the five "Behr" brand horizontal
louvered side windows which are almost the exact same units installed in
1965-67 Westfalia Campmobiles.  Interior components are the original dark
wood-grain material and appear to be all there but in need of either cleanup
and/or restoration (exception: the water tank and sink bowl are missing, but
the cabinet it sits in is all there).  Dash has no apparent "hacks" other than
some PO elongated the two holes the radio control knobs go through.  It has
"trucker" outside mirrors which have been removed (cracked mirror glass).

Rust: Less rust than the average project Bus available today (my opinion).
Typical stuff, needs the drivers side cab floor piece repaired/replaced,
bottom "inside/interior" edge of engine deck lid has some small holes,
passenger side outer rocker needs to be replaced (perhaps inner piece too),
bottom edge of side cargo doors somewhat rusty, light surface rust and some
pitting in rain gutter channels, floor by the cargo doors "may" be rusty
(couldn't see due to camper sub-floor, bottom edge of front windshields show
some rust.  I took a quick look at the underside and it looked pretty nice.

Spare parts that go with the deal:  Two spare engines in unknown condition
(assume they need to be rebuilt?), two spare complete transaxles drum-to-drum
(removed from '66 Busses), spare steering box, column and steering wheel, as
well as many other smaller various parts that go with this Bus sale.  Has the
correct 14" wheels with chrome caps.  Has the windshield washer tank, but
needs a new rubber "bulb".  One taillight lens cracked but is usable as is.
Minor dented right rear corner (fixable), battery tray surprisingly decent
condition.  Nice but dirty engine compartment, has correct Bus air cleaner,
hose and elbow.  Has front seat and rear bench seat "seat belts".  Needs new
upholstery.  Has one single used "EMPI" cab assist step mounted under the
passenger front cab door.  Sundial or perhaps some PO mounted a round
accessory dome light fixture to the rearmost edge of the overhead cab air duct
system.

Okay, that's about all I can remember from seeing it last weekend.  I believe
Jim wants $1,200 for everything.  In my humble opinion, for the better than
"average" condition and completeness of this Camper Bus with all the extra
mechanical stuff, it's a good value for someone looking for a good core
project restoration.  Do not contact me as I've mentioned everything I can in
my cursory examination, you contact Jim.  Good luck, I hope someone on our
list will soon own this decent resto project.

Bill Bowman
NEATO
