Date: Thu, 27 Dec 2001 21:17:47 -0600
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org (craig k)
Subject: Re: [VB] plugged riser = burned rod coz why?


>I can't find in my Idiot book where he mentions throwing a rod on his
>engine and linking that to a plugged heat riser.

In one of the earlier (3rd?) editions, he muses about it. seems to have
been deleted in later eds. i'll try and look up the page #.

>Just thinking out loud about it, the accelerator pump is there to
>give the engine an extra shot of fuel when the throttle is opened
>quickly.  It needs lots more fuel Right Now or else it stumbles.
>If the pump isn't working it doesn't get the fuel, but even if the
>pump is working, the liquid fuel still has to be mixed with air
>to burn.  The heat from the heat riser would tend to help the
>liquid fuel from the accelerator pump evaporate - if the heat riser
>was plugged, the fuel may not evaporate so well and the engine
>still stumbles.  In effect you're running lean, which probably means
>running hot, which might be the "rod burn" connection.

in addition, the air moves MUCH faster than the fuel when the butterfly is
flung open, so the accel pump is there to force extra juice into this
suddenly lean charge.

i'm guessing that's as close to his logic as we'll get. if it was logic :)

i reworked the preheat system, and set the accel pump on 'high!' tweaked
the shooter till it's squirt   j  u  s  t   cleared the throatwall when the
pump kicks in.  car gets up and goes like ... well, not like crazy (it is a
bus), but more quickly than it did.

added a second shim under the float valve and fiddled w/ the idle screw -
still too rich at idle, bu we'll see how it goes over time.

the idle on this carb is a bit odd when cold... much slower (500 rpm) than
when warm, even w/ the choke and fast-idle cam in play. if i tweak things
so that it idles at say, 800 when cold, will go to 1200 when warmed. weird,
but liveable. just have to ignore the flickering gen light.

Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen


