From: "Wakanska" <Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "OldVolks General" <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
Cc: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 13 Mar 2003 08:35:24 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: [VB] Scammer selling gas heaters

" I just wanted to give everybody here a head's up about a fraud who's
sellling SW gas heaters on Ebay.
He is selling under the ID wcbono(-at-)peoplepc.com, his name is William Bradford
and he is in Minnesota."

I got burned by a guy like that who sold me a "book" ("Crash Book") on
vintage DeSoto that I bought for my husband. It turned out to be nothing
more than a few poorly-copied pages from a real "Crash Book", in a little
three hole paper binder. I paid a good price for it. He did another guy the
same way that he did me, and later on said he would refund, but never did.
He started talking a lot of legal crap, saying that I was threatening him,
attempting to extort him, and slandering him, and posting false complaints
about me on eBay with that useless Square Deal thing of theirs.
But there is such a thing as fraud, and many states will allow you to sue
him in YOUR state. If that is the case, you can at least put a bad mark on
his credit, and some state attorney generals will also go after things like
this. I just read a report concerning eBay and their willingness to work
with law enforcement.. They are VERY willing to share information with law
enforcement officials, and they require positive ID of all new traders. So,
unless your guy is completely excellent as a scammer and had phoney ID, you
can do something about this. Being across state lines is no longer a
reliable protection from the wrath of burned buyers.. Besides, I know of a
case (other than eBay) years ago, where an idiot sold someone a bad dog, and
that someone was the wrong one to mess with. He got in his car, turned on
the ignition, and started a trip all the way from Texas to central
California with only one thought in mind, to kick that guy's (-at-)$$. He did it,
too! Cleaned his clock, but got arrested for his trouble (not a recommended
recourse for disgruntled buyers).
