Date: Thu, 13 Mar 2003 14:20:38 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: HightAndy(-at-)cs.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Westy Weight

>I'd be tempted to tow it with my Passat wagon - don't think the turbo would
>hold up, but I'm currently looking into a Jeep of some sort, so I can do a
>little wood trails exploration, plus tow the bus to a mechanic and/or to the
>campground (that's until I can get it running again).  Looks like Jeeps have
>about a 5000 tow capacity which should work, and now that gas prices are
>going up I'm waiting for the perfect deal to jump in on one....luckily I've
>only got a 6 minute commute and once the bus is back on the road, she'll be
>my daily transportation.
>
>btw...i've seen the tow bars for beetles that look like they hook somehow to
>the front of the beetle's frame...they make one of those for buses?  I'd
>rather go that route than having to pick up a small trailor.

The Passat: the turbo is going to be under boost much of the time when 
towing a heavy (over) load and this can cook the heads, valves, and 
pistons. I'd use it only in a pinch. The factory expects the car to get 
moving too fast and "run out of road" (get moving way fast) causing you 
slow down long before you can damage the engine under normal loads and 
conditions - or reach a steady state speed. However when towing, the car 
may think it is accelerating the whole time and make boost the whole time 
thus wrecking your engine. Dunno about this for sure but that is my take on 
it. Check around.


Beware of the Jeep. Seek some more informed opinions than mine but I have 
always heard that short wheelbase vehicles are not as good as long 
wheelbase vehicles for heavy towing - again it isn't trouble getting it to 
move, but trouble getting it to stop (or problems with it jack knifing). It 
may be rated at a 5K lb tow but what is the tongue weight rated. SWB 
vehicles have the front wheels closer to the rear wheels and have less 
leverage over the forces put on the rear of the vehicle and are thus 
influenced more by the trailer. Take a short piece of wood. Put a nail near 
the end of the board to represent the hitch ball, not all the way through 
the board. Put another nail on the board a short distance from it to 
represent the rear axle. Make the rear axle nail go all the way through the 
board to your work table. So it will cause the board to pivot on it. Now 
put two more nails in ahead of the rear axle nail to represent the front 
axle - both long wheel base and short wheel base. While pushing on the 
hitch nail left and right, try to counteract the pivot with the front axle 
nails - first the LWB and the SWB versions. The LWB version will win. At 
least that is how it was explained to me and it works out in my mind.

I suppose ask the folks that tow campers and boats what they prefer for a 
tow vehicle. Probably a big pickup or an SUV.

After towing several vehicles on tow dollies and full trailers I would 
prefer a good tow trailer where all the wheels are off the ground. My 
preference order would be tandem axle trailer with electric brakes, same 
with surge brakes, (would not tow a real car trailer without brakes except 
in an emergency), tow dolly, tow bar, walking.

The Beetle tow bar is a bit flimsy for much except minor tows in my 
opinion. In an emergency stop mine (BUGPACK) looks as if it would kink 
downwards about halfway between the towed car and the tow-er car. Mine did 
pop a spot weld on the tongue once. The repair job was much more 
substantial than the factory weld job I can assure you. Friends have used 
it haul cars though for several hundred miles several times. I prefer only 
short distances. I've semi-retired it favor of the tow dolly.

FWIW the Beetle tow bar hangs onto the car by fastening to the front axle 
from below.

I have a great collapsible tow bar from Tomken Machine (Jeep speciality 
company in Colorado) that is short (meant for bumper mount) that is quite 
substantial. $100 or so in 1995. I've used it about 4 times with vehicles 
big and small. It requires bolting it through the bumper (if you have a 
substantial bumper like an old Jeep) or creating a plate that will bolt to 
the bumper mounts or tow hook mounts. I plan to create a plate for my bus 
to mount permanently underneath and then I can clip the tow bar (actually 
bolt) it on the bus with the two tow bar pivot bolts in an emergency. I'll 
also probably do the same with the Beetle someday and just move the tow bar 
bag (it disassembles) from vehicle to vehicle if I am taking a long trip.

YMMV.

Take care.






Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
