From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Christophe Guilbert" <cguilbert(-at-)picasso.ucsf.edu>, "Type2"
Date: Thu, 17 Feb 2005 23:04:47 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] 1980 Vanagon air seal

> Tom,
> Sorry for the delay , I was overload by my work , I am on my way to mail
> you a peace of seal .
> Concerning the wire harness, I mostly need the injection connectors, but
> don't bother if you don't have ....
>
Chris
The delay is no problem. My engine has been on hold this week. I found an 
oil leak last week before I tried to start it for the first time. Been 
waiting for this coming weekend to pull the engine back out to fix the seals 
on the oil cooler. I'm trying to do this slow and carefully.

> BTW , I realize that you are living in Flagstaff , I was alway
> fascinated by this big mountain coming out from nowhere close to your
> place on my way to Grand Canyon.
> Is it a nice place to visit ?

Is it a nice place? I'll say it this way: I spent nearly 10 years in the US 
Navy. Was stationed up and down the California coast, and Rhode Island. Also 
traveled to many other coastal states during my time in the service. I have 
vacationed in states from Arizona to Louisiana to Iowa to California and 
back. Was raised in Phoenix Arizona, and when I had my choice of places to 
call home after these travels I chose Flagstaff. Living in the worlds 
largest Pondarosa pine forests is in it's self enough, but when one realizes 
all the geology, history, wild life and ledgends of this area it's hard to 
think any place can be better. I'm sure others will argue my point, and have 
many valid points of their own, but suffice it to say, I'm happy here!

I'll check what's left of my spare harness, I think I have a connector or 
two left. Do you need just the plastic connectors or the electrical 
connectors inside also? I don't have any of the green connectors left but I 
do have some spray paint that is an almost perfect match. I have a big day 
scheduled at work tomarrow and an engine pull this weekend but I should be 
able to get them in the mail to you next week.
Tom
75 bus "Turtlebus"
80 Westy "as yet unnamed"
Bus-ted minds want to know 
