Date: Fri, 18 Feb 2005 10:02:36 -0600 (GMT-06:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Todd Super Bassist <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Pulling out all the wiring!!!

Is the replacement harness 1 for 1 with the old harness (in other words a plug
and play solution?).

If not then you are going to have to reinvent the harness whether you modify
their harness or make one. If it was me I would replace the old harness 1 wire
at a time until I had a whole harness recreated with the right lengths so
everything bundled and tucked away all pretty.

You WON'T be able to buy enough different colors most likely unless you want
30 different spools of wire hanging around. However maybe you could offer your
leftovers to the list for resale. You can buy 50 feet spools of any gauage
wire. McMaster-Carr would have it as well as 5-6 different supply houses in
your town (off the shelf). Yellow pages... Buy stranded wire - solid is too
stiff. Lowe's/Home Depot wire was too stiff - I bought some. Remember they are
a HOME improvement store... <GRIN!>

I've wired several hot rods and it is no big deal 1 wire at a time. Even with
the vintage VW switch gear (no better way in my mind - looks + function).

I WOULD however get a sheet of numbering stickers to number wires as you go
along. Nylon wire tires (black) are a good way to bundle the wires. ALSO the
FLAPS and hardware store vareities are pretty brittle after a few years. The
industrial grade seems to last better. (Wire supply houses again). You will
also need a GOOD set of crimpers and strippers. IMHO there is no such thing as
a good all-in-one tool. Dykes and Klein are good brands. Just call an
electrician in the yellow pages and tell him what you are going to do and ask
for tool opinions, supplier opinions, etc. I told you my preferred brands (I
was a Navy Electrician). Buy GOOD crimp connectors - aka NOT FLAPS generic
assortments. Again an electrical supply house can sell you the good stuff. The
cheap seem to have cheap metal and cheap plastic for insulation. The good ones
seem to crimp tighter and stay tighter. IF I was going to make a new harness I
would buy uninsulated connectors (same as OEM) and a roll of shrink tubing.
Shirk tube all the ends. Looks nice too. Even better would be to tin the ends
of the wire with solder and then solder the wires to the connectors (not crimp
connectors). Then shrink tube it.

Get a decent digital multimeter ($30 ought to do it) that beeps when you have
continuity. Worth it's weight just b/c of the beep. In other words you don't
have to be able to see the screen to see if you've got a good circuit. Clean
everything as you go.

Print out the Bentley schematic, enlarge it would be better and study it for a
few nights. Color is good here! You will learn where everything is and how it
goes together. You'll learn the symbols, learn the color abbreviations, and by
practicing following circuits from source to ground you'll be a pro in no
time. Notice that terminals are numbered. So are your switches. Make sit all
easy.

The factory fuse box ain't bad but many suffer from simple corrosion now with
20-30 yers of age on them. Heck I suffer from some corrosion too at age 34...
<griN!> Clean the connectors. Dremel with a wire brush, fine emory cloth,
spray cleaner, etc.

You can find generic fuseboxes from the suppliers in the street rod and kit
car mags. Also the RV and Marine (boat) catalogs. You'll prob want one with
4-5 extra circuits if you want room to grow and plan to replace the wirng with
a duplicate system. I run the factory box for the basics and then an alternate
8 fuse panel in the engine compartment for the aux lights, stereo, cig lighter
and headlights (OEM fuses only power the relays I added). This aux panel feeds
straight from the battery. Uses the spade type fuses. $10 or so from the local
FLAPS. NAPA had it too (same one for double the cost).

Chris
'78 Westy 2,7L
