From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <vwforever(-at-)cantv.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 25 Jun 2005 19:30:50 -0500
Subject: easy to remove starter bushing from transmission with engine

>From: "Roberto" <vwforever(-at-)cantv.net>
>Subject: Tranny starter bushing
>Message-ID: <001a01c579ae$8d500830$76d4f8c9(-at-)sanmiguel>
>
>Hello guys
>
>I am working in my starter and I would like to know is there is a way to
>take out the starter bushing in the tranny with the engine in place.
>
>Thanks
>
>Roberto

-----------------------
It is easy to remove the starter bushing from the transmission while the
engine is installed

Buy a new starter bushing and be sure it fits your starter. It should slip
on easily and spin freely with little slop.

Take the bushing to the hardware store and buy a course thread taper tap
that will slip into the bushing but not slip through the bushing. A "tap"
makes female threads. A "taper" tap is used to start making new threads. A
taper tap has a longer lead in with tapered edges that allow it to fit
easily into the hole. Do not use a "plug" tap. You will never get it started
in a new hole. 

You are going to use the tap to make threads in the old bushing while the
old bushing is in the transmission and the engine is installed. When the tap
has made threads the whole length of the old bushing, the tap will run into
a dead end. When the tap hits the engine dead end, the tap cannot make
anymore threads in the bushing. Continue to turn the tap anyway. The new
threads in the bushing will make the bushing act like a nut. The tap will
act like a bolt.  As you turn the tap the bushing will move along the
threads of the tap and the bushing will back out of its hole. 

Because of all the stuff in the way, it is a little tricky to turn the tap
unless you use a sliding T tap wrench. I actually have some 8 sided sockets
which will fit onto square shafts (or old square nuts) I use an 8 sided
socket and an 3/8" extension on a ratchet and this makes it easier. 

I have taken out dozens of starter bushings this way. I have always been
able to "tap and screw" out the old bushing. 

It is a bit trickier to install the new bushing without damaging it, but you
can use the starter itself as an "alignment tool" to guide the new bushing
into its hole. Be sure you observe the position of the old bushing and
install the new bushing to the same depth. I just slip the new bushing on a
home made tool I made by grinding down the end of a large bolt. I don't have
a lathe. I just made the "installation tool" freehand. DO NOT DROP THE
BUSHING INTO THE BELL HOUSING.

Gary
