Date: Sun, 26 Jun 2005 06:06:43 -0400
From: mccomas(-at-)intercom.net
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: jdinan(-at-)cox.net
Subject: [T2] crankshaft--removing dist. drive gear

A few days ago there were discussions about

  1.) removing the brass/bronze timing gear from the crankshaft, and

  2.) removing/installing the shaft that drives the distributor.

I was able to find photos of my special tools for these purposes -- tools I 
made quite a while ago, when I had access to machine tools.  Jack Dinan has 
stepped forward to help other members who may be interested in this topic, by 
making the images available:

    http://allwood.thedinans.net:3000/distributordrivetool.jpg

1.) The upper and lower parts of Jack's image show the tool for removing the 
timing gear from the crankshaft.  This was made from the timing gear of a 
broken/scrapped CAMshaft, as everyone knows 2x the diameter of the timing gear 
on the crank.  A few easy lathe operations included opening the I.D. to a bit 
more than the crank timing gear's O.D.; facing off one surface; and (only 
cosmetic) removing the teeth, some of which were damaged anyway.  The collar 
that slips behind the gear was made from tempered aluminum.

To use this tool, you remove the collar halves, slip the old timing gear over 
the crank's timing gear, place the collar halves in position, and then pull 
with a 3-jaw puller.  IIRC heating in oil was recommended before the actual 
pull -- which went very smoothly for the several dozens of times this tool was 
used.

2.) In the central part of the image, you should see the tool for removing the 
distributor drive.  AYMK there is a cylindrical cavity in the top of the 
distributor drive shaft.  The tool works by engaging in this cavity.  The piece 
of shafting came from the scrap bin -- the circular grooves beginning around 3 
cm were already there.  The <" bolt was machined so that its head would spread 
the tool ends inside the cylindrical cavity.  To remove a shaft from an engine 
awaiting disassembly, let's say, you would insert the "collet" end into the top 
of the cavity in the top of the distributor drive shaft, tighten the nut, and 
then rotate tool-plus-drive while pulling upwards.

Thanks again to Jack for making the images available for viewing by Type 2 list 
participants!





------------------------------------------------------
This message was sent using Delmarva Online's Webmail.
http://www.dmv.com/
