Date: Sun, 26 Jun 2005 22:35:01 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: AL craptacular case runs - sorta

well, THAT was unpleasant.

finally did a marathon push to finish assembling the crapcase... 
before the 3 year old 'helper' put anything else inside the pushrod 
tubes!  he did manage to lose the little bag of clutch bolts, 
tho.......

anyways. a nightmare, as usual with this thing.  a few  small studs 
that were fine last time refused to torque - stretching? pulling? who 
knows. they got one last whack on the wrench and then i moved on. end 
play, when all was said and done, is right at out-of-spec mark: .015. 
this set of bearings must be a tad narrower than the original ones. 
no, i didn't have any usable shims to adjust. and no, i just don't 
care at this point. i STARTED to - it would give me a chance to 
replace the main seal that won't sit flush with the case, even tho it 
is in straight and true. but saner minds prevailed... that, and no 
parts stores were open at midnight.  dug in my big bucket of bolts to 
find replacement clutch bolts (hope they're not inside the motor!). 
finished dressing the motor, only to find that the OTHER thing eric 
lost was my   - r e a l l y  -   expensive bus-proper exhaust gasket 
kit from bus depot.  the MANY kits for the beetle i have just will 
NOT fit,  don't know whether they're s'posed to or not. all the dang 
flaps claim they should, but pfft on them.  so i had to adapt, adopt 
and improve... meaning dig in the trash for old parts that were 
already leaking. time for the orange silicon :P

have i ever mentioned that the aluminum case is SO crappy the tinwork 
doesn't fit right? forget worrying about bad engine seals, what about 
that 3" GAP in the cylinder tin by the flywheel? and the fan housing 
never sits right... i'd need a gallon of black silicon to seal this 
crap up.

anyways, motor went right in, 20 minutes all told.  cranked until 
oill pressure started up. then went back and plugged in coil wire to 
dizzy.

no vroom.

much futzing, checking timing, points, etcetc.

finally got some vroom, but it quickly died.  eventually got it so 
that after MUCH pumping of the pedal, it will fire and run. drove 
down the block, and got out to adjust the idle. and admired the HUGE 
trail of oil my remote filter had left for the last mile. oops.

lucky i stopped - had just reached the 'add' line on the dipstick. 
luckily, i carry many diapers aboard for this reason.  stuck them in 
oil puddles.  tightened up all the hoses on the filter setup, added a 
quart.  cleaned up soggy diapers. after some foot-stompin, on we 
went.  drove okay...

a few strange noises. one screech shortly after the first startup. 
hot-steel-on-steel-smelling smoke from exhaust pipe (rings?)  an odd 
'baseball-card-in-spokes-moment' for a split second from somewhere. 
more screechies from the damn generator pulley, which refuses to stay 
torqued and constantly loosens. which sucks, cuz it is my GOOD 
generator, and a buggered shaft threads mean trash time.

headed home,  nothing seemed amiss according to the instrumentation 
(high idle, but good temps, pressure (45 at speed)  and runnign just 
a tad rich), but just as we hit the stop sign across from my house, 
it dies. and WILL NOT start.  no matter how much i stomp. use the 
starter motor to get across street, parked wrong way. old geezers 
from HOA will report me to snotsdale police and get me a HUNDRED 
DOLLAR TICKET for parking the wrong way so that's out.

get car to start.  run and remove child from driveway so's i don't 
flatten him when backing in. hear car die. curse. a lot.

car WILL NOT start. many neighbors come out to look. many neighbors 
who don't like my liberal longhair ass anyhew.  i briefly consider 
asking them to push, but feel conflicted giving them mouth-to-mouth 
as a result.  finally use the starter motor to back up the drive. 
whew!

was gonna put the new 'german' chinese 34-pict3 on, but realized it 
needed the manifold adapter. of which i have three. of which i would 
have to find at least one. screw it, time for bed.

so the gist of it seems:  car will not start unless the HELL is 
stomped outta the accel pedal. will run for quite some time just 
fine, but if it dies, it repeats the circus.  so seems to be a carb 
problem, no? i mean, i have spark, gas comes out of the hose when i 
crank the motor, so it seems to be getting lost from there.  my two 
suspects are 1) gummy carb. after all, it did sit for 7 months in a 
can. empty, but still - lots of small passages to get clogged. time 
for a soaking!

2) is the possibility that i have 10 gallons of jello in the tank, 
despite my addition of fuel stabilizer in december.

any other suggestions?

besides disposing of 10 gallons of old gas by torching the car, i 
mean...............
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
