Date: Mon, 27 Jun 2005 20:06:47 -0500
From: Jeremiah Stutte <jeremiah.stutte(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: better but still runs funny, was runs now but won't idle.(long)

hello again everyone,
thanks to chris m. and mike benthin on the advice concerning my 75 FI auto
bus.
due to time constraints and my own impatience i did not work on the
bus myself but instead found shop that worked on old porsches.  first
they fixed the pcv breather catch can that was on backwards and not
sealing properly.  then they fixed a few vacuum leaks by changing out
some hoses.  after this they adjusted the co and idle speed.  when my
wife, who is the patron saint of patience, went and picked up the bus
she, the bus, only died once on the way home.  i then took goethe out
for a quick spin, quick being a completely relative since i was
driving a bus.  once she got up to temp i had the exact same problems.
 she ran rough and hiccupped on the highway.  accelerated in a boggy
manner and then she died as i coasted down an off ramp.  took her home
where she died as i pulled into my driveway.  i called up the porsche
shop and left a polite but terse message.  they called back on monday
since i had called on a late friday afternoon.  they took her back and
found the afm to be defective.
grrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr.  this was a
recently purchased rebuilt afm from fuel injection usa.  unfortunatly
for me the first shop i had had my bus in had tinkered with the sealed
up area and broken the cap on top.  however the bus drove no
diffrently than before.  the porsche place also tinkered with the
broken cap and broke it more.  so, there is no way i can prove the
rebuilt afm was defective, that Wolfsburg, the first shop, broke it,
or that the porsche place broke it.  anyway, one new afm later goethe
ran great for two whole days, just like the first year i had her.  now
she idles great when the timing is set to 20 degrees before tdc.  if i
back off the timing,to say 16,or less she is harder to keep running
though she starts beautifully.  once warm she runs fine.  on the
highway after two days of running fine around the city she developed
some hiccups as we attempt to accelerate up a hill.  did not much
affect power but i  could feel the catches.  the situation soon
deteriorated.  the hiccups,or catches if you will,  got worse and
kicked in now on little hills.  on the way to work this morning  i
barely made it up the hill to my warehouse.  however, goethe never did
die at idle, in fact she sounded great.  pulled the plugs after work
and they showed rich running but the symptoms seem to point to her
only running rich when under load.  would the throttle valve switch
affect this?  i know that it was messed with earleir this spring and
because it would get stuck and cause high idle.  the mechanic filed
down some part of it and things seemed to be ok.  i don't know what to
check next because the ignition system and fuel system checked out ok.
 i also don't want to fry a very exspensive brand, new afm.  um, what
should i do?
