From: "dan gordon" <dangordon0128(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "vans" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <Adventurewagen(-at-)yahoogroups.com>,
Date: Tue, 28 Jun 2005 08:49:43 -0400
Subject: 83 Adventurewagen update and story

I booght a very beautiful Adventurewagen on ebay about a month and a half ago
for a cool $1600.  Too good a price.

It lives in upstate NY and I live in Philadelphia.  The PO told me that while
it had been sitting, with some fresh gas and a quick fluid check she'd make
the trip back.  Those of you who suggested I take a HD wrecker were right on
the money.

Get this.. I get there and the van  is gorgeous.  Original KOA interior in
near perfect condition. Original curtains, camping gear screens, everything.
I am very impressed.  I wanted to get some gas in her and start her up so I
asked for the ignition key from the PO.  The gas tank had a locking cap.
After trying to open it with the only exsisting ignition key, I stopped and
rethought what I what doing.  I didn't want half a key and no way to start it.
The PO suggested that he try so I could get everything ready to go.  He tries
a little too hard and *snap* the key dies.  Now I have no way of knowing
whether it will start or not... I have the van towed (because i'm an idiot) to
a nearby respectable VW garage in the hope of the PO paying for a new ignition
in the morning.  After three days (and having to drive all the way back to
philly) I had not heard from the PO.  I did hear from my mechanic though.
Motor blown, all wheel had seized from rusted brake lines, huge rusted hole in
the muffler.  Those are the things he had theheart to tell me.  I don't know
that rest.

A huge dispute with paypal, ebay, my credit card and the PO. I win with paypal
and ebay... because non of these problems were revealed in the description. I
get $175 dollars back when paypal clears the PO's account.  Bummer.

So now, instead of being "stuck" with the van, I would like to change my
attitude and be blessed with a near perfect van...  here are the things I
would like to ask the group:

1. Can I really do the work to the engine of this van?  I am handy and have
all my own tools already and can read pretty well.
2. What are my options as far as a motor goes.  Should I trade in my core and
buy a new one, or should I try to rebuild her myself.
3. How do I get a high top van home 300miles from upstste NY.
4. How do I do all thins without selling my guinea pig into slavery.

Thanks everybody for support throguh this... if you have any questions or
help, please e-mail me

dan
