Date: Tue, 10 Dec 2002 10:18:39 -0600
From: craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: valve problem?

ok, the new Motor From HELL (tm) seems to run ok, no major 
problems... except one.
exhaust valve on #1 is getting pushrod flex, serious enough that i 
think it would eventually break it. noisy, too!
i have two thoughts...
after talking to ronnie (poor bastard; you need to call-block my 
phone number :P), he suggested a sticking or bent valve on #1 EX.
upon inspection, i have another thought - this valve sits slightly 
lower than the others. is it possible i am getting coil bind?
now, the valve has been that way since the head was rebuilt; no, i 
don't know why. wrong valve? seat in wrong? seen from the cylinder 
side, it looked like it was set into the head just as deep as the 
other exhaust valve in #2. i'm guessing the rebuilder (who usually 
knows his stuff) decided it was a minor issue - i certainly never had 
pushrod flex with it before ... i am reusing the same pushrods, and 
they show no marks from the previous 20K.

the springs are heavy duty scat springs; not progressively wound, 
which i thought sucked, but they are on the thinnest berg spring 
shims.
the installed height was 1.517" on all the springs but this - ths is 
closer to 1.4".  retainer to guide boss is .4",  coil  bind was at 
.8550;  cam lift is .390 at 0 lash, .355 at .050.
now, math ain't my four-tay, so where i TOUGHT i had plenty of room 
before bind, maybe i'm bound?
if so, would making up a shorter pushrod solve my woes, or am i just 
not going to open the valve enough?
if the valve is the wrong one, what one could it be? these are stock 
valve sizes for a 1600... would a 40hp valve be the same in all 
dimensions but length?

i'm a bit stumped, bit if this is the only bugbear in the whole 
motor, that ain't bad.

pics are at:
http://www.ckoon.org/vw/pushrod.jpg       - note the wear marks
http://www.ckoon.org/vw/springs.jpg   -  a slight differnce in height 
is clearly visible
http://www.ckoon.org/vw/strainer.jpg    - after draining the 10w, i 
found this... the orange silicone crap is from the cylinder-to-spacer 
junction; only place i used it on the whole motor!  the left arrow 
looks like it was a thread from when they machined the case. the 
right arrow is a bug pupae from brazil!

http://www.ckoon.org/vw/finished     what it looks like so far.......
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
