Date: Thu, 12 Dec 2002 14:55:47 -0600
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Recharging Gel Cell Batteries

At 02:15 PM 12/12/2002, Mike Visket wrote:

>Have 2 wheelchair (gel cell, 32 amp) batteries under the jump seat, running in parallel (12 volt). 

Gel cells need a slower rate of recharge than flooded or AGM lead-acid batteries.  Max charge rate for a gel cell is usually listed as C/20, or in your case 3.2 amps.  That's not much.  This also means it will take 20+ hours for them to recharge fully.

>I have been running a "two-headed" (female-female) cigarette lighter plugged wire from dash cig lighter to Aux lighter periodically for 30 minutes to keep the Gel Cells  charged.
>Good thing? Bad thing? So far (6 months with perhaps 20 chargings), so good. The Aux batteries haven't exploded or anything yet.

What is the gauge of the wire that you are using to charge?  Should probably be on the order of 14 gauge, since thicker wire would risk blowing a fuse if the aux batteries were dead, and smaller would risk frying the wire in the case of a short or severely discharged aux batteries.  18 might be okay if fused separately.

In any case, my main concern with the setup you have would be that the gel cells are not being fully recharged.  Are you monitoring the charging current and voltage?  At the battery, the gel cells should reach about 14.2V while charging and I would be careful to not exceed a 4 amp rate of charge for any length of time (2 amps per battery) if you want them to last.  You will also need to maintain this rate for longer than a half-hour to fully charge the batteries.  Best bet would be to use your cig lighter cable for "booster" charges but use a small 110V battery charger (ideally one designed for gel cells) whenever possible.

>BTW - my starting battery is a Group 27 Deep Cycle.

Overkill, perhaps, but too much is better than too little.  :-)

There is a very good Battery FAQ here, btw:

http://www.windsun.com/Batteries/Battery_FAQ.htm

-David
