Date: Fri, 13 Dec 2002 14:50:38 +0000 (GMT)
From: =?iso-8859-1?q?Nigel=20Skeet?= <naskeet(-at-)yahoo.co.uk>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: VW Type 4 windage tray & oil surge

From: Nigel A. Skeet
To: Type 2 Listees
Date: Friday, 13th December 2002 !
Reply to: naskeet(-at-)hotmail.com  OR  naskeet(-at-)yahoo.co.uk

INHIBITING OIL SURGE IN VW FLAT-FOUR ENGINES (AN
UNDESIRABLE AND LITTLE RECOGNISED, COMMON PHENOMENON),
BY MEANS OF A WINDAGE TRAY, 'WINDAGE-STYLE' PUSHROD
TUBES AND/OR OIL-SUMP EXTENSION

Compiled & Written by Nigel A. Skeet

Although unfamiliar to most VW owners, oil surge is a
relatively common phenomenon, to which the VW
flat-four engine is particularly prone (see Peter
Noad, "Pace Notes", VW Motoring, November 1997,
pp40~41); resulting from centrifugal effects, which
cause the oil to surge out of the crankcase, through
the pushrod tubes and into the valve rocker box
covers, under conditions of 'high-speed' cornering.
This leads to there being inadequate oil in the
crankcase, such that the oil pump pick-up tube is not
fully immersed and so sucks up a mixture of oil and
air, which does not provide adequate lubrication; yet
another reason to ensure that the oil level is always
at the maximum mark.

'High speed', is a relative term and in the case of
the flat-four engine, oil surge can occur, even under
normal driving conditions with a VW 1200 Beetle, as
Peter Noad personally discovered. One British owner,
of a non-standard VW Beetle, with 1641cc engine, has
observed exceedingly low oil pressure (illumination of
the oil-pressure warning light, served by the standard
0730 1 0715 BAR oil-pressure switch), as a result of
oil surge, when accelerating and/or cornering.

Although not in the same class as a Porsche 911, the
1968~79 VW Type 2, is a remarkably agile vehicle (even
without after-market, front & rear anti-roll bars!),
when skillfully driven, so it is probably equally
prone to oil surge, as the VW Beetles. With the aid of
an oil-pressure gauge or high-pressure, oil-pressure
switch, one has the option of changing one's driving
style in order to avoid oil surge or alternatively, to
combat it, by implementing one or more of the
recognised engine modifications. These modifications
are a supplementary deep sump, a set of 'windage
style' pushrod tubes and an oil windage tray.

As the name suggests, the principal purpose of the
windage tray, is to prevent windage. Windage is the
process whereby air is entrained into the oil, owing
to the rotation of the crankshaft and connecting rods,
plus to a lesser extent the camshaft; the air being
dragged around by the moving surfaces owing to viscous
friction. If by chance the oil-sump has been
over-filled, then in extreme cases, the oil is
whipped-up into a frothy foam. This not only radically
reduces the lubricating properties of the oil, but
also increases oil temperature and wastes power, hence
increasing fuel consumption.

Being a horizontal baffle, which is positioned below
the camshaft and just above the surface of the oil,
when filled to the maximum, a windage tray also serves
the secondary purpose, of limiting the extent to which
the oil level can rise at one end of the crankcase
(i.e. sump) and fall at the other, so reducing the
effects of surge. The windage tray should cover the
entire area of the oil reservoir and its edges be a
tight fit, to the internal contours of the crankcase.
To allow previously circulated oil, to drain back into
the crankcase, it should have a limited area of slots
or holes, close to the longitudinal, central axis.
Where practical, these slots or holes should ideally
have down-turned flanges or spigots

In conventional engines with a separate bolt-on oil
sump, oil would be further inhibited from sloshing to
and fro, by incorporating vertical baffles, arranged
longitudinally and transversely. Ideally, the baffles
should incorporate one-way valves, to facilitate a
rapid return of the oil to the pre-surge level. For a
VW flat-four engine, any such vertical baffles, would
have to form part of the windage tray. Home-made and
proprietory aftermarket windage trays are discussed by
Peter Noad, Bill Fisher and A. Graham Bell. Bill
Fisher observed that all but the home-made windage
trays he had seen (i.e. prior to his book being
published in 1970), interfered with the camshaft.

An oil windage tray, with neoprene rubber,
edge-sealing strips, is a standard fitment in the VW
411LE & 412LE, plus the VW-Porsche 914-4 engine
crankcases. These windage trays can be retro-fitted to
the 1972~83 VW 17/18/2000 Type 2 engine, as I have
done with my 1911cc, VW 17/1800 Type 2 & 4 hybrid
engine; which I photographed for inclusion in my
technical book & magazine articles.

If a windage tray is being fitted to a VW Type 4
engine, equipped with carburettors and associated
mechanical fuel pump, provision must be made, for oil
lubricating the fuel-pump pushrod, to escape back into
the crankcase. Tom Wilson's book (see pages 72, 74 &
123), both documents and illustrates the windage tray,
but no mention is made of it, in the Haynes manual for
the VW 411 & 412 and so far, I have not seen it
mentioned in any other books!

A few years ago, whilst on a desk-top publishing
course, I prepared an illustrated sheet, showing my VW
411LE windage tray, positioned in one half of the
crankcase, together with the camshaft gear, which had
been modified, by cutting two 0.090 inch wide grooves,
to the depth of the gear teeth. Regretably, I neither
possess an Internet website (my local public library,
is my only access to Internet & e-mail facilities!)
nor have any present means of scanning, my illustrated
sheet or photographs, to send as e-mail attachments.
However, I can send photocopies by snail mail, if
desired.

According to Bill Fisher's book (see pages 99 & 107),
this grooving modification, is attributable to Gene
Berg (that icon of Southern Californian, VW air-cooled
engine tuning!), which is said to reduce the internal
pressure and excessive oil mist (hence reducing
crankcase breather emissions!) inside the crankcase,
plus recovering a little of the power, used to squeeze
the oil between the gear teeth.

Keith Seume advocates substituting windage style
pushrod tubes, which also inhibit oil surge. These are
characterised by a longer section of tube, which
extends further into the crankcase. Bill Fisher
suggests supplementing the standard pushrod tubes, of
the VW 12/13/15/16000 Type 1, 2 & 3 engines, with >
inch (i.e 19 mm) long sections of pushrod tube, to
obtain the advantages of the windage style pushrod
tubes. One end of the short tube section, is peened
over to form a lip, so that it is held in position by
the pushrod tube seal. He states that this simple
modification, is commonly used in Formula Vees

Priced at US$ 39799 in October 1997, windage style
pushrod tubes (stock No. 46-8531), for the VW
12/13/15/16000 Type 1, 2 & 3 engines, made from
stainless steel (a useful bonus, as the original
factory fitted components are prone to rusting) are
available by mail-order from Car Custom Inc., in
California, USA. I am not aware of any off-the-shelf,
windage style pushrod tubes, for the VW Type 4 engines
and owing to the form of the pushrod tube seals and
crankcase design, it would not be practical to
supplement the standard pushrod tubes, as suggested in
Bill Fisher's book (see page 98). However, it might be
possible to extend the standard VW Type 4 pushrod
tubes, by welding or brazing on, an extra length of
tube.

Fitting a supplementary oil-sump beneath the engine
crankcase, in conjunction with an extended oil pick-up
tube, overcomes the problem of inadequate oil supply,
associated with oil surge. Although oil surge can
still occur within the crankcase, the oil does not
surge out of the supplementary sump and hence the
extended oil pick-up tube remains fully immersed in
the oil.

Supplementary oil-sumps, of 175, 375 & 470 US quart
capacities (note 1 US quart = 079464 litres) are
available for VW 12/13/15/1600 Type 1, 2 & 3 engines,
from Gene Berg (reputedly pioneered by him) Unique
Supply, So. Cal. Imports, Kustom 1 Warehouse,
Performance Express and other suppliers; including
some in Great Britain. I believe there is also a SCAT
branded, 175 US quart capacity, supplementary oil-sump
available, for the VW 17/18/2000 Type 2 & 4 engines,
but from what sources, I don't know! If anyone knows,
please tell me?

REFERENCES

Peter Noad, "Pace Notes", VW Motoring, November 1997,
pp40~41

Tom Wilson, "How to Rebuild Your Volkswagen Air-cooled
Engine", HP Books, 1987, pp72, 74 & 123.

Bill Fisher, "How to Hot Rod Volkswagen Engines", HP
Books, 1970, pp96~99 & 107.

Keith Seume, "Aircooled VW Engine Interchange Manual -
the Users' Guide to Original & Aftermarket Parts for
Tuning", Bay View Books, 1996.

A. Graham Bell, "Performance Tuning in Theory &
Practice", Haynes Publishing, 1981, pp191~192.

J. H. Haynes & K. F. Kinchin, "VW 411 & 412, Owners'
Workshop Manual; 1679cc & 1795cc; 1968 to 1975",
Haynes Publishing, 1988.
Everything you'll ever need on one web page
from News and Sport to Email and Music Charts
http://uk.my.yahoo.com
