Date: Mon, 3 Dec 2001 07:25:50 -0500 (EST)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Paul and Becky <oliver7(-at-)tds.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Info needed

On Mon, 3 Dec 2001, Paul and Becky wrote:

> I own a 1982 vanagon that has lost it's engine. I need to know if a 1973
> camper/bus westfalia 2.0L engine will fit my vanagon. . I can get the engine
> for $500 and it has been recently rebuilt.

Becky,

As usual, the answer is both no and yes.  It could be done, but would be
quite a bit of work.  The differences, as I know them are:

Size
 You say the '73 is a 2.0L, but the original '73 engine was a 1.7L.  It is
easy enough when you are doing arebuild to increase the displacement to
2.0L so it may well be a 2.0L but you would want to be absolutely sure.
you surely do not want to give up 300cc's on that bus :-)

Block
 Blocks are virtually the same.  The only changes I know of are location
of the dipstick and threading on bolt holes for the rear support bar.  The
bolt holes are easy, drill and tap the case for the larger later bolts,
The dipstick is a bit harder, as you need to drill into the case and
perhaps drop shavings in your  oil.  A risky operation.

Heads
  The exhaust ports on the vanagon heads are different from the ports on
the '73.  You can use the earlier heater boxes I suppose, but it will not
match the vanagon fan shroud and you would lose the ability to heat the
bus or you can switch for the later heads.

Fan shroud
  The '73 fan shroud will not fit the tin you need to put on to make it
fit in the vanagon engine bay.  Vanagon fan does not have the ports you
need to use the bay heater boxes.  The location of the alternator
changes with each fan shroud as well.

Tin
  The cooling tin is completely different between the '73 and vanagon.

Summary
  By removing and swapping everything between the old and new engines, and
drilling and tapping the dipstick hole, yes you could use a '73 long block
in a vanagon, but you would have no heat unless you swapped heads too.

Interestingly, I have a vangon block installed in my '73, with the earlier
heads installed.  It was quite a bit of work, but in the end the only
apparent oddity is that I have two dipsticks.

When you say "lost" you engine, what do you mean?  If this is the usual
Vanagon problem, then you have lost a valve to a bad seat, tho if you
pressed the issue far enough, you may also have lost the piston as well.
If all you need are heads, head replacement should be cheaper than what
you are contemplating.

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail



