Date: Mon, 03 Dec 2001 08:43:15 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: Sean Garrett <SEAN.GARRETT(-at-)asu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] Last items before putting together motor & tranny

At 08:47 AM 12/03/2001 -0700, you wrote:
>
>Ok I am ready to put the new motor and tranny together. The inside of the
>bell housing is filthy.
>1. I am gonna clean it with WD40 and paper towels. Next I plan to replace
>the throw out bearing with my new one.

Use a parts cleaning brush, scrubbing while spraying. Saves a tremendous
amount of wood fiber, and get into cracks and small spaces. Then flush it
clean, and just a few handfuls of paper towels to mop up the drips.
>
>2. Should I pack the flanges of the new throw out bearing with grease ??? 

No, it's a sealed bearing. You can't get anything like grease in there.
Always replace the TO bearing unless you know it's age/milage and it's
smooth as butter and the face is showing very modest wear. It takes a long
time to wear a little bit, then little time to wear out. 

I
>also wonder how much grease I should put on the splines of the tranny shaft
>??? Just a little, right ????

No grease at all, please. This is one of the few places where anti-seize is
called for. I like the copper based stuff best. Just wipe some on the
splines of the shaft and disc, then slide the disc on and off the shaft,
then wipe up all excess. An even light film only. 

>
>3. Is there any sequence I should think about with regard to the clutch
>slave cylinder when I insert the unit (tranny & motor) into the van? I have
>been unable to obtain a new rubber boot that goes on the slave cylinder so I
>would like to put this (attaching the slave cyl) off till I can find a boot?
>

Well, you can't attach the upper bracket bolt until the tranny is in there.
The bolts that hold the slave in the bracket are one of the most difficult
to access, so I would really like to have that in order before installing
the top bracket (tranny to engine) bolt. Forgo the boot and just pack heavy
grease around the shaft and seal to offer some protection from
dirt/moisture. If the boot is rotten, then it may be old enough to consider
replacing the slave before it fails and be done with it, more especially if
the fluid in the system is black and full of goo like so many that don't
get properly maintained.

Don't forget to inspect the cross shaft that holds the TO bearing. A bit of
slack in the bushings is not to worry, but if it moves a half millimeter or
more, replace the bushings. Then check the fingers for wear. If they have
flats worn on them, have a machinist regrind them to concentric arcs
radially in plane with the shaft centerline. They must press the TO bearing
squarely in plane with the flywheel/clutch. Otherwise, very short life of
the clutch will result. Can't tell you how many times I have replaced a
clutch less than 6 months old for this very reason. The fingers wear
unevenly and a wobble-wobble of the clutch plate results.

Don't forget to remove the flywheel bolts and big washer, then reinstall
two bolts so the flywheel won't fall off, then pull and replace the pilot
bearing, and be sure to use a dab of grease to pack the needles. A $3 part
that can mean a short term failure and do it all again. If there is also
over 100k on the bottom end, I would also check crank endplay and if
necessary make an adjustment, while replacing the rear crank seal and
flywheel o-ring. VW says these flywheel bolts are one time torque only.
Reuse them at your peril. And do indeed retorqe those bolts in a cross
pattern with a torque wrench in three stages. 
T.P. Stephens
Doktor Tim's

