Date: Mon, 03 Dec 2001 20:53:32 -0500
From: Jim Mowreader <xpr3(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: David Bell <bellky(-at-)charter.net>,
Subject: Re: [T2] Alcohol and Driving

David Bell sends:

> Would it be possible to convert an air-cooled VW engine to run on 100%
> ethanol? If it is possible, what would be involved? Would it work on carbs
> or fuel injection, or both maybe? Change valve sizes, material,
> lift/duartion, CR?  Hotter spark plugs? Anything else come to mind? Let's
> assume that the supply of ethanol isn't a problem and that we're talking
> about a small fleet, not a single vehicle.

The following racing series run alcohol: the Indy Racing League (fuel
injection, no turbos), CART (FI, turbo in 2001 changing to non-turbo in the
next few years), World of Outlaws (carbs), Alcohol Funny Cars and Dragsters
(not sure what they use for induction) and Monster Trucks (carbs with
superchargers, IIRC). Monster trucks run alcohol because most monster truck
races are held indoors, and alcohol exhaust is less likely to kill the
spectators than gasoline exhaust. I'd say you could run either carb or FI.

One thing I know you have to worry about is the construction of your
induction system. Alcohol will dissolve parts of some carbs; get a copy of
Stock Car Racing magazine and you'll find carbs specially set up for alcohol
racing series. These won't dissolve. (These are also Holley 650cfm
Dominators. I don't think you want this on your Bus.) I seem to remember a
Cadillac (or maybe it was a Chrysler; I know it was a 70's vintage
"establishment car") that came with instructions to not run gasohol because
the alcohol in it would dissolve the injectors. Gasohol is 90% gasoline and
10% alcohol; I can just imagine how quickly straight alcohol would eat the
nozzles.

Alcohol's also hygroscopic--means it draws water from the air. And worst of
all, it has an invisible flame. All you see looks like heat waves shimmering
up away from the burning thing. I saw a show about Indy Racing League safety
teams. They use local firefighters, who are told, "we are going to issue you
a special foam for alcohol fires. If you see a driver rolling around on the
ground for no apparent reason, you just soak down everything you see with
this foam." I would definitely label the Buses "runs on alcohol" just in
case the fire department has to deal with one of them.
-- 

--jmowreader
xpr3(-at-)earthlink.net



