Date: Sat, 13 Jul 2002 20:30:37 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Accelerator pedal linkage question

All,

I've been playing around with my pedals some more.  The original goal
was to free up the accelerator pedal - it tended to stick at about 1/4
throttle.  I just had my carb re-bushed, so it is a little stiffer, but
if I take the throttle cable off the carb, the return spring can always
snap it closed.  Also, my accelerator cable tube at the engine was
missing the grommet at the firewall, so it could have been sliding
around and jamming things up.  I fixed that.

Under the car, the "L" bracket on the accelerator pedal linkage had been 
mounted on the outboard side of the "U" that is welded to the frame.   
It should be between the arms of the U, so I took it apart, greased it,
and put it back together that way.

The problem now is that sometimes the L bracket can catch on the lip
of the vertical support that the U bracket is welded to.  There is
maybe 1.5 cm of space between the legs of the U and the L bracket is
free to slide back and forth in this whole space.  If I push the L
bracket inboard, and pull the linkage down (like stepping on the
pedal), I can make it catch at about 1/2 throttle.  If I go up in
the cab and step on the pedal a couple of times, it sticks again the
first time or two and then frees itself. 

I have all the pieces shown in the parts manual and the L bracket
still has its attached washer at the pivot point.  The L bracket is
maybe 3 mm thick and the washer adds another 2 mm or so at the pivot.
It wouldn't really help if the washer was thicker, as that would tend
to move the L bracket inboard, which is the wrong direction.  It
almost seems like I need a 5 mm or so spacer (thick washer) inboard  
of the L bracket to keep it from catching on the frame rail.  Another
possibility is that the pivot pin or the L bracket hole is worn too
much, which lets the L bracket get less than perpendicular to the
pivot pin.  They don't look too bad, but maybe it's enough to cause
a problem.

I haven't tried it on the road yet but this potential problem has me
concerned.  I don't have a column lock so I could just kill the
ignition if it sticks on me, but I'd rather not have to go there in
the first place.

Anybody else ever run into this?  Any tips or suggested fixes?
Thanks!

Matt Roberds
 

