Date: Sun, 14 Jul 2002 08:50:35 -0500
From: "Jim Bryant" <B10JPB1(-at-)wpo.cso.niu.edu>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Spec Guide 2nd Edition Review

Potential readers:

Through some "connections" I received a copy of the new VW Transporter
Specification Guide, 2nd Edition in the mail on Friday.  I know several
people have ordered a copy through NEATO or Ronnie and we're all still
waiting for the US distributor to receive and ship in quantity.  David
Eccles has put together a marvelous collection of data, stories,
photographs and facts for the split window Transporter.

From Ben Pon's inspiration and first sketch, to Heinz Nordhoff's
introduction of the Transporter to the press in 1949:

"Be warned, Ladies and Gentlemen, if you meet this Bulldog - take care. 
He bites!"

and through the refinements and variations for the next 17 years, the
book presents the museum pieces and the rust buckets.  Dave has
researched the M-Codes, the paint codes, the model codes and the
shipping codes, enough to fill 15 pages.  Along the way he covers
transporters built outside of Germany (Australia, Brazil and South
Africa), special models and transporters at work.

All is on first rate glossy paper with plenty of color photographs.  As
bus/van/bulli/transporter/type 2 fans, we will never have enough
information about the box on wheels to satisfy us, but Dave's book goes
a very long way to fill the void.

Many years ago I happened upon a beat-up Single Cab sitting in a
driveway in a town near me.  I stopped, left a NEATO flyer under the
wiper and left my phone number for the owner.  The next day I received a
call from her, not asking about the club or suggesting a selling price,
but thanking me.  The owner was living with her parents for the summer
and received nothing but grief from them about her choice of
transportation.  She said my interest in her Single Cab had sparked a
degree of respectability in her parents for her pride and joy.  Dave's
book takes that to respect to a new level that we can all feel good
about.

-Jim Bryant

