Date: Mon, 15 Jul 2002 01:30:38 -0400
Cc: Westfalia <swharris(-at-)adelphia.net>, Vintage Bus Post <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
To: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
From: Jay Porta <retarrdo(-at-)mac.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] scat


On Sunday, July 14, 2002, at 09:59  PM, George Lyle wrote:

>>
>
> It is confusing, but some folks say that there is a difference between
> Beetlemex and other suppliers.  The gist is that the Beetlemex engines
> are
> assembled from parts in the aftermarket while the engines sold by Ronnie
> are factory-built engines in the original VW-Audi cartons.
>
> Of course, no "turnkey" engines will be available from VW de Mexico, as
> their production is fuel injected these days.  Apparently the FI parts 
> are
> rather pricey.
>
> George Lyle
>
>
well, i dont think it's all that confusing really, beetlmex engines are 
built in mexico, now, and factory parts were built in germany, in the 
past. am i right? or am i looking to deaply into thisl im sorry im a 
alittle high (woh sorry to be so open about that guys, i dont mean to 
flip anyones script)  but i tend to really over observe things. anyways, 
friends, (wierd to hear from a stranger huih?) so basically, are you 
saying its better to buy an old rebuilt part, or engine, than buying it 
brand new from a different country? because bawically i would definitely 
rather support someone who does this themselves, for the love of it, 
over a factory (i.e. getting a burger at a quote "" un quote " " a mom 
and pop retauran " end quotes" (those things are fun) (so is typing 
actually) ..over getting one at mcdonalds or burgerthing) which i 
totally understand. ANd i would MUCH MUCH rather buy homemade soap over 
ivory, or even "dove" or whatevers spposeed to be silky "natural" 
anyways. um, ok i've forgotten where i was , and lost my track, im 
listening to tehis band called eastern youth, and musically theyre 
great, i think, but, theyre from japan and i cant understand a word 
theyre saying at all. (because, ultimately, they speak japanese)but, if 
you want tot hear them (interested in new independent bands?  haha, you 
guys arre old...ahha=D )you should try to get the cursive/eastern youth 
split EP, it's amazing, because cursive is really cool. theyre like, 
they started out sort of basic, drony but different, and hard at times, 
to somewhat experimental  (instrumentally), i dont know, Cave in, 
but...especially radiohead is better for the sort of mood i'm in.  i 
just realized i'm writing this like, personal letters to a bunch of 
wierd old gear heads. but, do not get offended just yet! i have faith, 
these are volkswagen owners were talking about, idont mean to throw you 
all in some sort of fucking genre, or clique, or whatever) but it's some 
what true, im sure the majority of you are simply thinking of the times 
you had in a time of your life, and associate the classic car with it, i 
think anyway, like, observation and assumption , thats what it might be, 
atleast for one of you, well whatever, point is, alot of people smoked 
pot when these cars were around, and im sure its not a TOTAL  
coincedence. i dont remember wha tthe point of this stupid email is, but 
im sure i meant well. nightys

<3-Jay

