Date: Mon, 15 Jul 2002 19:09:12 -0400
Cc: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
To: "Thomas Ainlay" <tainlay(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
From: Jay Porta <retarrdo(-at-)mac.com>
Subject: woH!

--Apple-Mail-1--924771231
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset=US-ASCII;
	format=flowed

yeah really ....put  down the pipe? jeez, im not a pothead. and if i 
was, i had no common sense before i started smoking,. so LEAVE IT OUT OF 
THIS! and, you, you jerk, i dont really think youre all old and mean. 
just a few of you.
and i said such things last night because i was putting faith in all of 
you to have a good sense of humor and remember when you were young and 
think "haha, yeah, i AM old...get me some denture cream"  dont take 
life, cars, and especially message boards too seriously. you'll have a 
seizure or go bald or something. (my hair is thinning actually, so i 
know about ALL  THAT) and for the record, i would never ever sell 
anything, (namely my volkswagen) for "alternate medicine" money. 
asshole. in fact, im trying to sell my playstation2, with 2 games, (tony 
hawk3, and grand theft auto 3) with 2 controllers and a memory card for 
$250, and a 13" tv/vcr combo for $75. (with remote!) so if anyone is 
interested please contact me via email and we will arrange shipping 
situations). and im selling this so i can afford things FOR MY BUS. or 
pay some bills so i can afford things FOR MY BUS. so don't assume you 
know who i am. because ill hang myself then, after im good and dead,I'll 
haunt your ass for the rest of your life...(or, ill just write an email 
about it. and you DONT WANT THAT!)  =o\      um, ok so later guys. it 
was nice to spice up the message board a little, and thank you to those 
of you who were cool and helped me out with some info. before i depart 
tho how do i contact this ronnie guy again? boston engine? or was it 
bus-boys? i dont remember. (must be that pipe thats lodged into my 
temple) did anyone see that south park episode when everyone was eating 
with their A-holes and crapping out of their mouths? that was a good one.

<3- Jay

--Apple-Mail-1--924771231--

