From: "Chuck & Jan Covington" <ccovingt(-at-)tampabay.rr.com>
To: "Vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 15 Jul 2002 20:00:54 -0400
Subject: Engine Sutter

Ok Volks, I'm going lay out what happen and leave out my analytical
assessment so that later when someone points out the obvious I can say
"Yeah, that's what I thought".  When I got up this morning my doublecab
started just fine and ran great all the way to work (30 miles each way).
When I got to the line of people trying to get on base (Macdill Air
Force Base) I had stop and go for about 40 minutes (another reason to
hate friggen terrorist).  During this stop and go I never got out of
first and I never noticed any problems.  Once I got through the gate and
had a chance to shift into 2nd gear the engine started stuttering and
hesitating but not really backfiring.  It was a short drive to the
parking lot and I went on about my day of hunting down bad guys.  When I
got off work my truck fired right up but when I started to drive off it
was still stuttering and hesitating.  I ran it for a bit till I got off
base and to a convenience store parking lot to see if I had a plug wire
off or something obvious like that.  No such luck.  I decided to limp it
the 30 miles home and mess with it tomorrow (my day off).  I drove it
another mile or so and all of a sudden it took right off and ran pretty
good.  I did notice that it didn't seem to return all the way to idle
but it was very close.  Now for what I am running:

1600DP
Dual Kads
009 with petronics
Sparkplug wires were changed about 6 months ago with Bosch wires
Voltage regulator was changed about a year and a half ago
Battery was changed about a year and a half ago as well
Plugs were changed about 6 months ago

I included everything I have changed that I can remember.  I'm not sure
which if any of these make a difference so I'm offering all the info I
think of.  As I mentioned earlier, tomorrow is my one day off a week so
any suggestions before then (I know short notice) would be GREAT help.
You all have been awesome with all of my questions in the past.  I look
forward to your insight and wisdom.  I do feel guilty sometimes because
it seems like I take from the list more than I give.  Someday I will be
as smart as some of you guys and gals.  Thanks again!

Chuck & Jan
ccovingt(-at-)tampabay.rr.com
http://www.mr-vw.4t.com/
Macdill AFB Tampa FL
60 Euro Ragtop Kafer
63 Doublecab

---
Outgoing mail is certified Virus Free.
Checked by AVG anti-virus system (http://www.grisoft.com).
Version: 6.0.373 / Virus Database: 208 - Release Date: 7/1/02
 

