From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 21 Dec 2001 13:19:25 EST
To: chrhobbs(-at-)mindspring.com, incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org
Subject: Re: [VB] 1966 bus preheat system?

Hi Chris, that is a great description of the pre heat set up up to part way 
through 66.   But the system changed to get pre heat from the heater boxes 
early in 66, and for 67.  so the most 66/67 preheat does not usethe metal 
pick up tube.  Of course, you can put either style on your bus.  My 65 has a 
special modified aircleaner that takes the 2" preheat tube, and it uses the 
68 later rear tin and preheat pick up.     In 68 they went for a larger pre 
heat that also came off the heads.  the 68 + carb  bugs (maybe buses too) 
came with a thermostatically controlled air cleaner, which meant it used two 
flaps, and you only sucked air in through the preheat until the thermostat 
opened.  pretty neat.  Sometimes I think I will try to figure how to do that 
for a splitty, but it would need the 2" pre heat intake to bring enough air 
in. You can intake the 40hp style tubes to air cleaner on your 36hp bus, and 
clip the 1500 air cleaner on it, with the pre heat tube (for those folks who 
are not doing the stock motor in the 50s bus, if there are people out there 
with icing 1600s in the 50s buses) In one of the bus workshop manual, it 
basically tells people with icing 36hp carbs to  deal, this is before preheat 
was installed in VWs.   anyway, that's just ramble

the flap in the air cleaner should move easily.   With engine running, go to 
motor and rev it by hand, the flap should open, and when you let the engine 
go to idle the flap should close.  If your flap sticks shut it will run 
crappy, all you need to do is make sure the snout isn't smushed, and maybe 
oil the pivots for the flap.

warm intake air also improves gas milage


In a message dated 12/21/01 6:02:04 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
chrhobbs(-at-)mindspring.com writes:

<< 
 Al--
 
 The preheat hose setup can be hard to visualize if you have never seen
 it done correctly.  Most buses I have seen on the East Coast are missing
 the part you need--I figure it gets lost during an engine removal.  And
 the Type 2 parts manual shows what it is but not where it attaches. 
 First of all, there is supposed to be a rubber sealing grommet in the
 hole in the engine tin where the paper hose passes to underneath the
 engine.  Once underneath, the paper hose fits over the flat end of a
 stubby round metal tube (the missing part) that has a small attachment
 tab.  If you look at the rear of the underside tin there should be an
 oval hole through it, in the area of the pushrod covers.  The stubby
 metal tube has an angled end which is inserted in that oval hole.  The
 attachment tab is fitted on one of the existing bolts nearby where the
 heat exchanger and muffler are connected together.  (I think this is
 correct, it's too cold and windy right now for me to go outside and
 stick my head underneath.)  Once you have the part and can fiddle with
 its position in the oval hole, the correct attachment bolt should become
 evident.
 
 It took me over a year to find this part.  It wasn't until a business
 trip to the Left Coast that I was able to visit a VW parts recycler and
 find one.  Then I was finally able to figure out where it went.
 
 incynr8 wrote:
 > 
 > I am referring then to part A56, seen in action on scan 195. Where does
 > this metal tube go? Does it just pick up air coming from past the heads,
 > and that is it?
 > Is there anything but the weight to worry about in the aircleaner?
  >>
