Date: Sat, 10 May 2003 14:53:09 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: coerver(-at-)mindspring.com
Subject: preventing engine fires

The most common cause of engine fires in the bus is the cutting of the
metal fuel line by rubbing against the tin piece, where it goes thru the
front (front is front) tin piece.

There was a grommet in that hole, but they wear out, harden up and
otherwise go away very quickly - a bad design flaw. It's easy and quick to
completely solve this problem merely by getting some standard VW braided
fuel line, taking a three inch long piece, and slitting it along its
length, and slipping it over the metal fuel line, and then down into the
hole in the tin; this will protect the metal line from the cutting action
of the tin against it.

IT IS MOST IMPORTANT to check your metal line where
it goes thru the tin for existing cuts, and REPLACE the metal line if
there is ANY cutting at all, before slipping the rubber line over it.

The piece of braided fuel line will last decades, and will protect against
this cause of fuel fires.

The other common cause of fuel fires is having the fuel line pop out of
the carberator at the point where it enters the carb. Check to see that
the inlet tube is tight, and if you want to be sure, use stainless steel
locking wire to lash it in place, tying it around the clamped line, and
securing it somewhere around the carberator.

You should also be using small hose clamps at all attachment points for
the braided fuel line, as well as at the fuel tank connection. This means
one at every connection point: at the carb inlet, at the fuel pump outlet,
at the fuel pump inlet, at the tank, and at each end of any fuel filter
you may be using. Do NOT use a GLASS fuel filter - get the clear plastic
kind at any auto parts place for a dollar. Don't overtighten these clamps,
so you don't ruin the plastic filter or the ends of the braided line.

If you take care of the above issues, you should be protected against 99%
of fuel line fires.

Everyone should do all these things right now - this weekend! And replace
the braided line every year whether you need to or not. This insures that
you have gone over the line all over, every year.

I just replaced all the braided line last month. I'm good for the year.
Are you?

cal
67 deluxe, comin up on 30 years!
