From: "Gene Cornelius" <mizamook(-at-)starband.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 11 May 2003 13:42:40 -0700
Subject: Yippee!  We're Back...

Greetings Buspilots!

It's good to be back on the list, and to see familiar names still here!  We
moved to Humboldt County, CA, from Sonoma County, and are off the grid (no
phone, no power co., etc).  Just got satellite internet.

I'd like to thank those who have sent questions/comments/insults regarding my
web pages of bus stuff...for those who didn't get a response, I'm sorry, it
was hard to get to a computer sometimes and life is busy.  Hopefully, the site
itself will move to the care of Richard Kimbrough, so all the Shasta Snow Trip
sites can be together.  Currently, it is:
www.sonic.net/~mizamook/Linkspage.htm Sorry, all info is real (relatively
speaking) old.  New stuff to come, I'm sure...

What's happened:  Bartholomew, the 1960 Doublecab, has done the Shasta Snow
Trip for a third time! http://www.rustybus.com/shasta2003/ He was slated for
resto when the odometer turned over, but bad thing happened, so I had to keep
driving.  Maybe next Shasta trip, he'll have less rust, and the tranny won't
make such a mess...I know one thing...the steering will be better...right side
tie rod, (I'm replacing it now), was funky, and I just discovered a floppy,
loose, steering dampener...

The Shasta Trip #2 Video came out sorta funky, so for #3 I bought a lot of
stuff, and captured many many gigabytes worth of footage....but I'm having
trouble putting it all together.  Hopefully, by the time we're gearing up for
another Snow trip, the video will be out (DVD/VHS your preference) Price
unknown, depends on interest, etc.  Email me if interested, or just look at
the rustybus site for a downloadable teaser
http://www.rustybus.com/shasta2003/.  I'll keep "I'm interested" emails on
file, and hopefully everyone will demand a copy, and the interest will stoke
me, and I'll actually get it done!

Sad/bad thing:  Our '66 Westy "Clara", after being functionally restored (she
looked pretty good, too!), and driving for a while, on July 9th, 2002, got hit
in the passenger side front.  Evil drug-stupor lady made as if to turn off
road into driveway, no signal, and then when I was passing her, pulled a fast
uturn without looking.  Her S*b(-at-)r* smashed Clara's rim, dogleg, door, pulled
the nose lower right corner back, changed the length of the bus (clutch/fuel
cables are now loose), and drove me off the left side of road...steep
embankment, impact, roll onto driver's side.  I'm fine....lapbelts seem to
work!  Driver of other car and her little daughter fine.  (Whew!!)  Bad trip.
Insurance co said bus not worth the $12K-14K I invested.  Evil!  Springtime
comes...I fix!  Body shops are scared of the damage (she is driveable).  I'll
do the work myself!  I don't believe in the term "total loss"!  Updates will
com as work starts/progresses.  Here's what it is now:  go to
www.vintagebus.com Hall of Shame, see Clara's damage "Bad Thing" "Bad Thing2"

Possible New Bus!  To enable us to go camping this spring, and because we have
Clara's condition as an excuse, and Michele doesn't have a bus that is "hers",
we're looking at a '67 Camper (Westy stuff, but wasn't a Westy originally) in
Buffalo.  Seems like a good driver/camper....nice, not offensive, and solid.
Might fly to Buffalo, NY, buy bus, and drive back to CA!  That seems like the
greatest thing in the world to do!  (Yes, I just re-signed up/updated my AIRS
membership!)  Any comments, route suggestions, hints, or warnings would be
great.

What we really want is a '61 or back Westy, rust-free, solid original paint,
solid or new engine/tranny/steering/suspension/seals, etc.  We'll have to
build that one, I think!

Also looking for a semi-beater singlecab to replace that gawd-awful '86 F(-at-)rd
truck that we just have to haul the boat with...It would have to have a small
nut rear end, and a treasure chest full of bricks, and a big engine, but it
only has to pull the boat about 5-7 miles over steep, long, windy coastal
hills....did I mention dual-circuit master cylinder and really good brakes?
Anyway, just so you know, will trade the F(-at-)rd for it!  Only has about 50K
miles.....

Better go work on Bartholomew, and I'll try to abbreviate my posts after this.
Just Jonesing for the List, I guess....

Later on,

Gene Cornelius
