From: "Paul" <paul_f(-at-)ntlworld.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 12 May 2003 22:52:19 +0100
Subject: Shifting problems after lots of part replacing

Hi,  (NB added at end - sorry its so long just want to give all the info
coupled with thinking out loud!)

Finally reinstalled gearbox and engine at the weekend, however I now have
issues with shifting.  Its a bit complicated what I have done so I will go
through step by step.  This is all on a mid 66 bus with the later shift rod
mech.

Before I removed the gearbox I had taken the front beam off to restore that,so
had the shifter and front rod out.  Underneath the shift plate there was quite
a lot of fibre glass, however it looked to be some sort of remnant from a
carpet or something so I pulled it all out.  After doing the front beam I
replaced the shiftrod with a new front bush, removed the fibreglass and fitted
a new shift plate and refitted the gearstick.  All gear selection were fine
and I moved the bus out of the garage and back in for easier access to the
rear.

Next removed engine and box, and main shift rod.  Cleaned shift rod and tube,
fitted two new shuttle cock bushes and new rubbers at each end and a new shift
rod linkage.

Because my old box was jumping out of 4th all the time, I decided to get
another box of a friend of a friend.   This box was free, and was apparently
fine, but had been sitting for approx 8 years, the last 18 months removed from
the bus without oil in it.  When I got it he had just removed the nose cone as
he was doing an IRS conversion on his bus - but it was only a couple of days
from removal of this to me fitting my one to it.  I fitted my nose cone, and
was able to select all the gears with relative ease, using a pair of soft
ended mole grips on the rod.

The gearbox I refilled with 80w90 GL4 gear oil as that was the only oil I
could find with GL4 rating - should this cause a problem.

Reinstalled trans with all new mounts, using OEM rear mounts with the grey
rubber, and the front mount was supplied by the SSVC here in the UK.

I had already removed the shifter again to repaint it as it was looking a bit
tired.

Before I installed the shifter I tried shifting from underneath at the front,
and it seemed to be stiff to change gear, being particularly difficult to get
out of 4th.

I just assumed this was due to not shifting from the shifter, a friend said he
thought it would be hard to shift without the shifter from up the front.

Anyway tonight I fitted the shifter, it is very easy to get 1st and reverse,
pretty easy to get 3rd, little bit more difficult to get into 4th and v
difficult to get into 2nd.  Once in 4th it is impossible to remove from 4th
with out the wheels turning, ie engine idling and the clutch not being
pressed.(the bus is in the air on axle stands, and wood under the frame as a
secondary measure and no rear tyres.  Tried moving the plate around with not
much success with making it easier, it is possible to get it into second but
pretty hard.  Tried putting the fibreglass back in (not sure why it was there
anyway) but that made no difference.

Once in gear the drums rotate at the speed I would expect when the engine is
idling.

My gearstick ball appears to be quite worn too, there is quite a lot of
rotational movement with no side to side or front back movement of the lever

My ideas as possible causes to the problem are (in no particular order)

1 Wrong gear oil
2 Faulty gearbox
3 Incorrectly fitted nose cone

4 Bad gearbox mounts causing box to be at an angle
5 Poor quality shift rod coupling - not sure where my old coupling went
though...
6 Bent main shift rod (pretty sure it isn't although I guess it could of got
bent as I was installing the rod)


Anyone got any other ideas?  I think if I remove the rear coupling tomorrow
and try shifting again with the vice grips on the selector rod.  This should
narrow it down to see whether it is either one of the first 3 or one of the
second 3.  If it is difficult to change like this I suppose I could empty the
oil out to see what effect this has I suppose.

Thanks a lot
Paul
