From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 13 May 2003 11:42:47 EDT
To: paul_f(-at-)ntlworld.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Shifting problems after lots of part replacing

What is tricky about getting into 2nd and 4 th?
does it feel like the shifter doesn't go back far enough?  
Yes shifting with the vice grips with linkage disconnected should sort the 
issue to tranny or linkage.

1 sounds like you used the right gear oil.  anyway, wrong gear oil would not 
cause this.  I once used 30wt engine oil in a tranny, as the old oil was so 
filthy and had chunks of metal in it. I put engine oil in, drove around the 
block a few times, and drained it for a quick flush.  To my amazement 
(because of the chunk of metal,) it shifted fine

if the tranny was at an angle,  the engine would be too.  Is the engine 
tilted front to back?

the not wanting to get out of 4th issue sounds like a tranny or clutch issue, 
not a shift linkage issue.

good luck, sounds like a really annoying problem.

usually messing around with the plate on the floor under the shift stick 
helps.  

In a message dated 5/12/2003 2:53:18 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
paul_f(-at-)ntlworld.com writes:

<< 
 Anyway tonight I fitted the shifter, it is very easy to get 1st and reverse,
 pretty easy to get 3rd, little bit more difficult to get into 4th and v
 difficult to get into 2nd.  Once in 4th it is impossible to remove from 4th
 with out the wheels turning, ie engine idling and the clutch not being
 pressed.(the bus is in the air on axle stands, and wood under the frame as a
 secondary measure and no rear tyres.  Tried moving the plate around with not
 much success with making it easier, it is possible to get it into second but
 pretty hard.  Tried putting the fibreglass back in (not sure why it was there
 anyway) but that made no difference.

 My ideas as possible causes to the problem are (in no particular order)
 
 1 Wrong gear oil
 2 Faulty gearbox
 3 Incorrectly fitted nose cone
 
 4 Bad gearbox mounts causing box to be at an angle
 5 Poor quality shift rod coupling - not sure where my old coupling went
 though...
 6 Bent main shift rod (pretty sure it isn't although I guess it could of got
 bent as I was installing the rod)
 
 
 Anyone got any other ideas?  I think if I remove the rear coupling tomorrow
 and try shifting again with the vice grips on the selector rod.  This should
 narrow it down to see whether it is either one of the first 3 or one of the
 second 3.  If it is difficult to change like this I suppose I could empty the
 oil out to see what effect this has I suppose.
