From: Joe Clark <jclark(-at-)supernet.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, "VW: type2" <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Date: Tue, 13 May 2003 16:40:19 -0400
Subject: trip report: 2003 Love Bug campout

Not exactly a huge turnout, but we had a great time anyway.  I left Tallahassee complete with still-noisy TO bearing and drove the 120 miles to the 
campground without a hiccup.  Engine temps read in the 190-210 range, maintaining about 55mph and getting over 20mpg.  Air temps in low 90's.

Was first in the group to arrive at O'Leno, where I checked out the site and then headed down to the river to cool off.  Folks began to arrive after I 
got back, including Les and Vicki in their beautiful bay westy (it's for sale - Les is on the type2 list) and Kevin and Shelly - the latter sansabus but we 
let 'em in anyway.  Also had some non-VW friends & family join us.  We headed out for dinner and went to Gilligan's in High Springs -- good seafood 
priced reasonably (check out the Swamp Meat Platter - frog legs, gator, & catfish).

David, Mary, and Mike arrived in Dave's '66 SO-44 after we got back from dinner and Dave was stopping everyone in the campground with a 
ponytail, looking for me -- and mine's long gone. :-)

Saturday AM we all met up at Adventure Outpost & after signing everyone up, boarded the vans for the put-in point for paddling the Santa Fe.  
Except we left David et al behind.  About the time I was counting heads at the boat ramp, going "Uhhhh...." they showed up, having driven over 
themselves after we had blithely driven off without them.  We all launched and had a great 6-hour run of the river, at several points losing track of 
different parts of the group but eventually meeting at the takeout point within 30 minutes of each other.

Back at the campground most of us met at the riverfront and grilled up a big cookout as the sun went down and we listened to the Santa Fe and the 
crickets.   David et al cruised into town to have dinner with a friend of Mary's, while Kevin and Shelly did their own meal thing in the campground (and 
paid for it, we heard -- something about bad cheese).

Next day most of us stopped by the river once more before leaving for a little cooling off from breaking camp.  Again, no troubles on the route home 
except 1) that dang noisy TOB and 2) lots of wind.

Dave uploaded some pix of the campsite & river trip but I'll let him post the URL.

Joe Clark
http://www.jsclark.net
