From: "Robert Wallace" <Wallace.Bob(-at-)btinternet.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 22 Aug 2001 23:53:30 +0100
Subject: RE: [T2] Gasoline Heaters in Busses

Some have said NEVER fit a gasoline heater in the passenger compartment but
use an LPG (butane / propane) heater. Others have said NEVER fit an LPG
heater in in passenger compartment.

The truth is that ether type of heater can be SAFELY installed in the
passenger compartment provided that you a) purchase the correct model, and
b) follow the manufactures instructions (for fitting, use and maintenance).

Any heater burning gasoline, LPG or anything else will deplete oxygen and
produce CO, CO2 and water vapour which can kill you. Those designed for use
in the confined space of a vehicle passenger compartment will have an air
intake from and an exhaust to the outside of the vehicle so are safe for
internal use. Heating of the internal air is by a separate air circuit and a
heat exchanger.
It is of course possible, as someone else has said, to create an external
air feed and exhaust to an engine bay heater; but you are on your own in
insuring your system is air tight (for combustion air) and will not get
externally hot enough to start a fire.

LPG heaters using an open flame are not suitable for use in a camper as the
water they generate rusts your bus and (if you follow the instructions) you
need to open the door to provide sufficient ventilation to run the heater -
and that's just silly! An open flame heater is also unsuitable for use while
moving due to the inherent fire risk (here in the UK it would also be
illegal).

The Propex LPG heaters which I know many list members use are designed for
internal fitting and are safe to use both in driving and camping modes.
Eberspracher (and probably others) make petrol heaters which are designed to
be used internally. These ARE SAFE FOR INTERNAL USE EVEN WHILE SLEEPING, and
have the advantage of thermostatic control and air recirculation (i.e.
heating the air which has been previously heated).

With engine sourced heating and all heating pipes being deleted by VW from
my T2 an internal heater is the only option - including for windscreen
de-mist.
Personally I do not use my internally mounted Eberspracher heater while
camping / sleeping but use warm jumpers and a good sleeping bag instead, but
that's mostly because I don't what to run the battery down and the high cost
of gasoline here in the UK (please don't start another thread whining about
how little it costs in North America).

As for the risk of fire from an internally mounted petrol heater - I think I
would rather have a fire starting where I could see it (and possibly put it
out) than in the engine compartment or under the floor where I could not see
it until, possibly, it was too big to control. Petrol line fires are a
possibility but in inverse ratio to the quality of your preventative
maintenance.

Those with LPG heaters should also inspect their fuel lines - especially the
rubber ones. LPG is chemically very close to gasoline and will also rot fuel
lines. In the UK rubber LPG hoses are marked for a 2 year lifespan.

So before making global statements that gasoline and/or LPG heaters are not
safe for internal please consider not just what VW used 30 years ago but
also what is readily available in today's market place.

Good luck, and toasty warm busses
Bob Wallace
Bristol UK
1998 T2

