Date: Thu, 23 Aug 2001 09:18:58 -0700
From: Kevin Leahy <kmleahy(-at-)pacbell.net>
To: Neil <tubanick(-at-)home.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] New to list


>
>I used to do a fair amount of knuckle busting on Beetles, but am somewhat
>out of the loop, especially concerning Type 2 models.
>
>Any opinions as to what the best model year would be for an air cooled
>Westy?
>
>I understand that VW was making air cooled models up into the 80's. Are
>there any advantages to getting a Vanagon, as opposed to the older style
>bus? And at the risk of getting a little off topic, are the water cooled
>models as reliable as the air cooled mills?

    This is a highly subjective area, and you are going to get lots of
different answers.  First question in the air-cooled  arena is, are you
comfortable with the Type 1 engine and would you prefer to be able to
directly transfer your knowledge from bugs to your new ride?  If so, the
models to look at are splitties or 68-71 bay windows.  If you are into cool,
then a split window ('67 or older) would be your choice.  Also, if you plan
on putting a lot of money into your rig, you are more likely to be able to
recover some of your bread at resale time with a split.

    If you want a better ride, vastly improved handling, more room in the
driver's seat, and a better view out into the country you will be traveling
through, but still want that bug engine, the top choice is the '71.  The '71
has disc brakes with vacuum assist. Yes, you can retrofit discs onto a
68-70, but if you are buying from scratch, why go through the expense and
hassle?  Discs are essential on a heavily loaded westy in the mountains.
The drum brakes are just not up to the task. Plus you should be getting a
doghouse cooler and all of the associated tin for a cooler running engine
with a '71.  This was my choice, and you will see a lot of other list
members have '71's.

    The consensus of most mechanics and users is that the type IV engine in
the 72-79 bays is much stronger and longer lasting than the bug engine.
Most people stay away from the '72 because it lacks the engine access hatch
above the engine to ease working on engine.  Some mechanics refuse to work
on '72's.  I find the type IV is a pain to work on, but many find the
trade-off for longevity is worth it.

    Vanagons have far more interior room and a tighter turning radius.  Be
aware that water-cooled ('84 and newer) repairs can be very expensive.  But
the wasser-boxer models have non-stinky heat, are quieter and have the most
power of all the models.  Kennedy Engineering has a kit to convert the
water-cooled vanagon to a Subaru engine, and I have been tempted to explore
that possibility (please don't kick me off the list for thinking about it!).

    I would drive all of the options you are interested in, and keep asking
questions.

Kevin
'71 Westy

