Date: Thu, 23 Aug 2001 15:44:48 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] resistance specs/temp 2 sender

At 02:20 PM 8/23/01 -0500, you wrote:
>Why not just unplug it and see if it makes any difference.
>Bentleys gives a resistance check for it but I don't have the older
>Bentley so I can't give you that spec.

Well unplugging it will tell if it does anything at all, it should barely
start/run if unplugged and the rest of the FI is OK, and lack power.
That will tell you if it were open or shorted certainly.  It doesn't give
you much info between those points though and if open the thing may
still start due to the steepness of the curve on the cold end of the scale.
The in between can really affect warm up, rich/lean running, etc.

Again my usual thought is call Bus Depot and pop for the $20 if you
have reason to suspect the sender is bad, but Stan's thought is a good
one right off, if you unplug it and get a major change (for the worse most
likely) then it was certainly doing something.  The room temp 2200-
2500 ohm is good to see as well and also says, hey it's not open or
shorted in a slightly scientific manner, but beyond that it doesn't pay
to analyze.

I posted the data more for using a spare sender and diesel/wbx temp
gage to make a nifty OEM look head temp gage for the air cooled
vanagon, Steve Dolan's bus runs the prototype of this setup, real cool
as the LED even blinks if it overheats.  I also use a spare and DMM on the
engine stand during break in which I do with an ole Weber carb before
I put the FI on in the car.  Allows me to keep an eye on head temps on
the stand, the sensor if VERY fast acting, much faster than one would
expect of an RTD.  It is very interesting to watch the effect of engine
speed on head cooling on the stand and reinforces that maximal cooling
of a hot engine really occurs between 1600-2300 rpm or so, the speed
it is wise to maintain if you pull off the road hot.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu

