Date: Thu, 23 Aug 2001 14:04:07 -0700
From: wabbott(-at-)mtest.teradyne.com (bill abbott)
To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
Subject: Re: engine rebuild - What would you do?


	Don writes that his '65 has 3 problems:

	1800rpm idle (dual Kadrons)
	Oil seems to be leaking everywhere
	Backfires

	He's got time but no money.

	IMHO, the high idle isn't a problem a rebuild can or will fix. Unless
the compression is so bad it has to go this speed or it dies. But this
motor has good compression.

	Ditto the backfires- backfires are caused by unburned fuel/air mix
getting into the exhaust and being lit by hot pipes or burning exhaust
from another cylinder- hence a symptom of way over rich mix or poor
ignition. Rebuild won't fix it.

	Oil leaking from everywhere- a rebuild can fix oil leaks from
the pushrod tubes,
cylender to case joint
the case halves.
front and real seals
fuel pump
filler/breather assembly
oil cooler gaskets

	A rebuild won't directly fix oil leaking from 
the drain plate, 
oil pressure sender, 
oil cooler,
oil gallery plugs
and other places unless you figure out where the leak is coming from
and replace or repair the problem.

	SO, I'd start working on the idle circuit on the Kaldrons, hoping
that the backfires are from over rich rather than bad ignition. Presuming
plugs, points, cap and rotor have been replaced, only the distributor and
coil are left as suspects in the ignition anyway. Oh, check the ground strap,
a really crappy ground strap might give you a really crappy ignition. 

	I'd wash the underside of the engine clean using non-pumice orange
hand cleaner and a stiff brush, wipe the top clean with rags and WD-40,
and try to spot where the oil leaks are coming from. Check that everything
is reasonably tight, repace the valve-cover gaskets if they haven't
been replaced yet.

	I know nothing about Kaldrons but my recollection is that both single
and dual setups have been done- if you had two Kaldrons each setup to be
on a single carb manifold, wouldn't that give you twice the fuel/air
mix you wanted and run the idle about twice what it should be? If no
adjustment helps, time to look at the idle jet size.

	Don doesn't say whether he's replaced the fuel hoses, which he should
do, what color the plugs are or what color the exhaust is. 

	Might be worth a quick trip to the friendly smog-check station for a 
tail-pipe reading at idle- high unburned hydrocarbons and sooty plugs 
(after idling for a while) would substantiate my suspicion that part of 
the problem is just running to rich.

	Bill
'97 son      '96 marriage     '93 Corrado      '70 Single Cab     '48 3br/2ba

