Date: Tue, 12 Mar 2002 10:56:03 -0500 (EST)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To: Martinez <mart1nez(-at-)pacbell.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Vacation travels

Juan,

I have divided this in two parts, on on where, the second on how.

When I took my present job, I made it a condition of employment that I do
not get two weeks/year, but rather four every other year.  In years when
my brother (army) is in the US, I tend to "drive around the block" from
Virginia, to Seattle, to Los Angeles and back.  I have taken one of my
buses each time.  It has never been uneventful, but I have always made it
thru :-)

HOW TO GO:

Of course, you will be doing all the routine stuff before you leave, but
make sure that the brakes and steering are excellent.  Take spare fan
belts,  clutch cable and throttle cable.

Go Slowly!  If you don't have an oil temp gauge, get one and drive by it.
any time the oil temp gets toward 250, it's time for a break.

You will be climbing and descending most of this trip.  On a '70, you have
all drum brakes and *YOU CAN LOSE THEM*!!!!  I have lost my brakes on a
disc brake '73 coming down a steep mountain.  Any time you feel or smell
brakes, pull over, let them cool!  I know I will take flack, but use your
engine as a brake on the steepest sections and don't let the bus run away.
I have slowed to 45 and put it in 3rd on sections of some downhills in
addition to many uphills.

Take lots of "beauty breaks"  Where you are headed is some of the most
gorgeous country on this planet, and stopping every hour os so just to
have a look around is a "good thing" :-)

Be sure *something*  will break. don't sweat it, it can be fixed :-)  I
have not  gotten thru one of these without incident yet, but i have always
gotten home.

WHERE TO GO:

I've been to Mt. Rushmore, the Grand Canyon and Yellowstone and two out of
three are worth the trip.  I am deeply interested in geology on an amatuer
basis and I love traveling in the rockies and beyond, just for the amount
of activity going on there!

Yellowstone is most amazing.  Especially if you approach starting in the
OR/WA flood basalts, travel via the Snake river plain and up into
Yellowstone. What you have to understand is that all three of these
phenomina are related.  *Something* happened in eastern OR/WA about 15
million years ago that covered the easter part of the state in lava and
formed a hot spot in the earth.  As the North American plate has moved
west since then, the track of this hot spot is preserved as the Snake
River plain.  Yellowstone is the latest incarnation of this hot spot and
the whole time you are in the park, you will be in the throat of an
active volcano.

See:
http://vulcan.wr.usgs.gov/Glossary/LavaPlateaus/description_lava_plateaus.html
http://vulcan.wr.usgs.gov/Volcanoes/Idaho/framework.html

The Grand Canyon...  One  of my trips, I went with  some fiends.  all the
way across the north and down the west coast, it keeps getting better and
better.  One amazing sight after another.  When we got to the Grand
Canyon, tho, I had to admit that we had reached the high point.  It does
not get any better than that.   I prefer the north rim for its interior
lines of sight and less travelled ways, but either is fantastic!

Mt. Rushmore... I am sorry to say that, for me, mountains are not improved
by presidents.  In addition, knowing the asociation of the monument and
Gutzon Borglum with the KKK didn't help.  Knowing the history of the
occupation of the Black Hills didn't either.  Too much history there.

In the same area, the Badlands of South Dakota are an interesting sight.
And you *have* to visit Wall Drugs!  Cheeziest place in the west! :-)

Other great places (some close to you) are (obviously :) Yosemite,
Southern Utah (Zion, Bryce, Arches), and the basin and range of central
Nevada (try to camp overnight in this area... *no* lights!  AMAZING
stars!).  If you take off out of SF and head thru Yosemite down into
central Nevada, south toward LV and over into southern Utah, hit the Grand
Canyon, then up thru Salt lake City over the south of Wyoming to the Black
hills and the badlands then back thru Yellowstone, the Tetons and the
Snake River plain to the Columbia River, hitting Lassen on the way back,
then  you will have a fine (and busy :) base itinerary.

Things to read:

The roadside geology series is excellent.
http://www.mountain-press.com/otherpages/GEOLOGY/roadgeol.htm

"Roadside America" will point out some of the more amusing byways and
stops (Wall Drug, for one).

"Lies Across America" is damn depressing, but useful.  Think of it as a
dose of insulin.


                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail


