Date: Wed, 13 Mar 2002 14:39:29 -0800
From: Larry Edson <sonofed(-at-)karmannghia.org>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Acquisition

I've been anxious to announce my new acquisition for a week and a half
but kept getting my emails refused by the list server.  So I decided my
only option was to resubscribe with a different address.

A couple weeks ago I happened to glance over at a car lot that sells
donated cars and saw an early Adventurewagon sitting on the lot.  Having
never taken a close look at one of these pleasure craft I decided to
stop in and have a look.  Well, the darned thing started to grow on me.
Our first VW was a '71 Westy and we have fond memories of trips taken
when the kids were young.  My current ride, 'a 70 sunroof Bus, doesn't
lend itself to the camping experience because you have to take a tent,
set it up, sleep on the ground, etc.  The next day an check I had sort
of been expecting showed up in the mail and that's all it took.  So last
Monday I went and plunked down the $700 and added a vehicle number 10 to
my stable.

This one is a '71 with just over 82k on the engine.  Its been off the
road for about 6 years but I'm not sure why yet.  It has a bent tie rod
from a careless tow truck driver, and the gen light stays on so those
are possible reasons.  The only other issues are going to be the normal
issues related to it sitting: draining off the old gas, tune-up,
bleeding the brakes, and replacing the dry rotted tires.  As I started
to go through the cupboards and recesses I got really excited by some of
the things I found.  There is a 4 page question and answer sheet
explaining all of the features.  This explained a mysterious pot with a
spigot on the bottom and a seemingly homemade 4' stick with a curved
piece of metal nailed to the end.  Then there was an emergency roadside
kit that the owner had put together complete with Bentley manual and a
Bosch tune-up kit that looks to be vintage early '70s.  I can't wait to
get it ready for camping this summer.

Larry
sonofed(-at-)karmannghia.org


