Date: Fri, 10 Jun 2005 23:19:45 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Randall Carpenter <rjcarp(-at-)earthlink.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] timing mark on fan

Hello list,

First of all I'd like to thank Mr. Atwell for his help in 
understanding my timing situation. Visiting his web page gives me a 
little inspiration in dealing with my bus. I have a 1700cc motor with 
a Weber progressive and I was having some timing issues. After some 
pondering and checking I've decided that for me a little knowledge IS 
a dangerous thing.
	I think that timing is a mechanical thing.  An efficiently 
running motor is a chemical thing.  What I mean is that there is 
nothing wrong with my timing.  I can set my timing where ever I want. 
That doesn't mean my engine will run at that setting.  I checked for 
vacum leaks (couldn't find any, doesn't mean there aren't any), 
checked dwell (48 degrees), set valve clearences (all were dead on). 
But I don't have a stock set of carbs.  The fact that I am running 
way rich is probably the carb (duh).
	So the next thing for me is to get ahold of that Weber and go 
through the tuning steps.  I'm assuming that as I lean out the 
mixture the timing will come closer to TDC.  I've seen some folks 
mention that they have their timing set at 7 degrees BTDC with their 
Webers.  Once I get the carb set and the motor runs good (no ping, 
power, not lean) then the timing will be what it is.
	It's been so long since I've worked with carbs and points 
that it takes some time to come back to me.  These distributors on 
these motors are a little stange to me.  As far as I understand it 
the vacuum advance only works in 4th gear and if the temp is 50 or 
below.  That would be fine except I don't have the cutoff switch in 
my bus anymore and the Weber doesn't have a vacum port.  When I got 
the motor the vacuum line was attached to a post on the carb.  I have 
a set of stock dual Solexes (with rebuild kits), but before I go 
through all that I would like to give the Weber a shot.  This next 
week I'll try and tune it up and get going.  I'm real close, but I 
figure I should do it right.  I'll let you know how I come out.

Randy Carpenter
'72 Westy
Minneapolis
