Date: Mon, 9 Aug 2010 23:15:41 +0200
From: Timo Schairer <timo.schairer(-at-)googlemail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] High CHTs - resolved

Mike Soultanian wrote:
> The cam is what Jake Raby highlights as one of the main culprits of the late
> bay's high temperatures.
That's what Kummetat also said. He suggested putting in a mild
Schleicher cam along with some SCAT followers. We'll see once he's
torn apart the engine and tells me what the whole mess is going to
cost.

John Kolak wrote:
>  I do envy your large floor jack!
Mike Benthin wrote:
> Envy the tall garage- note how high the westy is jacked!
The garage is at my mother's place and the jack belongs to a friend,
no need to envy :-) The westy barely fits in there, it's such tight a
fit that I have to jack it up and put the drive-on stands under the
wheels one at a time... But it beats working in front of my appartment
on a public parking lot.

Over the last months I did some minor rust treatment and polished up
the bus in order to get a "historic licence". This is a special
registration for 30 years and older vehicles that are in good original
shape. Once you got the registration, taxes and insurance are very low
and do not depend on the size of the engine any more. I also put in a
new pop top canvas (installation was a major PITA!), new bumpers,
carpet, kick panels and so on. I uploaded some more pictures here:
http://picasaweb.google.de/timo.schairer/HistoricLicence

In May I spent two weeks in Alaska, some guys on the list were so kind
to give me advice and tips where to go. We travelled from Anchorage
via Talkeetna to Denali National Park, then up to Fairbanks and Cheena
hot springs. We then went down to Paxson to drive the still closed
Denali highway. Man, what a remote and great place to be. It still was
very cold, lakes frozen, camping a bit uncomfortable but we had a
great time. Sorry, no bus content, but some impressions here:
http://picasaweb.google.de/timo.schairer/Alaska

Timo
78 westy
84 beetle
(bus pics: http://picasaweb.google.de/timo.schairer)
