Date: Tue, 10 Aug 2010 07:11:17 -0400
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
To: BenT Syncro <syncro(-at-)GMAIL.COM>
Subject: Re: Refresher: Does not anyone have specific information on

Hi Ben,

Sounds good. One of the plusses of the MK2/Mk3 seat design is that it 
reclines a LOT further than the typical vanagon seat. This would allow 
my copilot to nap more comfortably during long road trips. Or for ME to 
nap more comfortably when it's my wife's turn at the wheel.

I am cross-posting this to the type2 list since the 76-and-later 
baywindows share the same track design and the baywindow crowd has been 
outsourcing seating from Vanagons for quite a while. Myself included.

Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario Canada
197x Westfakia "Bob the Tomato"
1987 Wolfsburg Weekender Hardtop
www.pottsfamily.ca

BUSES OF THE CORN - AUGUST 13-15th, 2010
www.busesofthecorn.ca


On 8/10/2010 2:51 AM, BenT Syncro wrote:
Hello Everyone,

I know this is a rehashed subject but I do not recall anyone giving
any specific infomraiton on cutting and welding Vanagon tracks on
the
Golf/Jetta
seats besides the Recaros which came with removable tracks. I know
how to fit those.

There are some attractive seats offered in other VW's. The subject of
my inquiry are the ones from the Mark 3 GTI& GLI. They look similar
to the Recaros with taller side bolsters and reclined about the same.
They also have height adjustable driver's seats. These models appear
to be at the bottom of their price curve. People are looking agt them
as just old cars and not quite collectible yet. Parts are still
relatively expensive
compared
to the Mk1& Mk2 models. At the same time, they are not as expensive
as the newer Mk 4& Mk 5.

The problem with putting these seats in a Vanagon is the tracks are
part of
the seat frame unlike the Recaros. Forget getting rid of the seats
and buying Recaros. That's not the sort of advise I need nor does
that address the question. If you've never looked at the bottom of
those seats,
there is
a center rail which is used to lock the seat in various distances.
Then there are a pair of legs at the rear which slide into tracks on
either
side.
Now the Vanagon has a pair of rails with a lever for stop. The sport
seats appear taller because of the thigh support. Otherwise, without
the rear legs, they are very similar in height to the Vanagon seat
bottom. The framework underneath is made of tubing except that center
rail.

Here's what I propose. The tube frame is narrow enough to just fit
between the space of the Vanagon seat rails. That means they can drop
right down between the seat tracks on the van pedestal. I figured
cutting the
rear legs
would be the easiest to get the whole seat to drop in. Then the
center
rail has to be removed as well as the seats belt portion. Vanagons have
their belts bolted to the seat pedestal. OK so the Vanagon seat rails
can then be
welded onto a cross bar which can then be welded to the tube frame. I
see that the height adjustment makes the modification difficult so
the plan is to delete that as well.

Going back to my old emails, I see that a few people said they "...
cut and
welded..." portions so the seats can fit. I could not find anyone
specifying
exactly what they did. Can anybody enlighten me before I fire up the
saw?

I have a pair of nice black seats from a Mk3 Jetta that I am looking
to try
this procedure on. Matching rear seats would be cannibalized to
upholster the back seat.

TIA, -- BenT


-- 
