Date: Tue, 10 Aug 2010 22:52:31 -0400
From: Mike Benthin <muts(-at-)verizon.net>
To: Sami Dakhlia <sami.dakhlia(-at-)gmail.com>, Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: stranded in Wichita Falls, TX

BTW, a bad fuel pump (still whirring) or starving one (tank blocked) 
dopes not cause you to quit suddenly, as hesitation/poor power in 
"jerks" will be felt. A starving fuel pump or one with bad bearings or 
impeller is obvious- get a 3 ft wire with alligator clips at each end 
and get under the car.  Clip one end to the battery to starter lug and 
the other to the fuel pump + lead- you should hear it whirring merrily 
and listen for the gas returning through the pressure regulator into the 
tank.  This is also a good trick for bypassing one side of the double relay.
      I have had plenty of experience with fuel starvation as we had a 
"replacement" gas tank where a PO had coated the inside and it decided 
to delaminate on a 400 mile trip to Sandusky, Ohio.  It was flat going 
and seemed OK. After Indiana Dunes the fuel pump got hot and wouldn't 
run until we had cooled it; then it was noisy but ran. I hooled up a 
fuel pressure gause to the pressure relief outlet on the fuel rail (got 
an 8 mm socket?) and watched it throughj the engine cover lid while 
driving- could see the pressure fluctuated too much. Some hesitation was 
obvious now also.  I found a Ford F-150 truck fuel pump to replace it 
and in the process of draining some gas before the switch, noticed the 
fuel was dribbling out, not running- so I got extra tubing and held it 
above the level of the tank and blew air up the line and it seemed ok 
until the return trip the hesitation came back and I blew more air up. 
We limped home with a cavitating fuel pump with hesitation if I tried to 
go faster than 25 on the flats and we took all back roads home.  I 
cleaned out the delaminated bits with a vacuum cleaner through the gas 
gauge access hole (cut the deck forgetting at it) and carry my hose and 
spare fuel pump.
    Another time we had hesitation and I drained the gas into a can, 
noticing lots of rust silt, but is seemed ok for years after that.
