Date: Wed, 11 Aug 2010 14:04:16 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: t2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Paint prep

Hi Volks!

I've got my bus stripped down inside and out getting ready for paint.

The previous owner had repainted with metallic purple inside and out.

Originally my intention was only to spot repair rust around the
windows, but as I started working with it, the rust had penetrated
underneath and this has left me with a lot of exposed metal.

The other problem is, to be satisfied with spot repair, I would have
had to stick with purple. For financial reasons, I would have been
willing to tolerate that, but now that the job has gotten much bigger,
I'm looking at a total repaint.

Plus, as I started pulling headliner to expose the area being treated
around the windows, one thing led to another, and now I've got the
whole interior out except for the dash and wiring.

The exterior was painted with a strong modern paint that I felt was a
good substrate for the exterior repaint. I thought the interior was
the same, but as I started working with it, it became obvious that the
interior was a rattle can job. So now I'm concerned that it will not
be an adequate substrate for a quality interior paint.

Plus, I've been removing a lot of contact cement that was used for
interior trim and tar that was used for a seam sealer in some areas
and someone also coated the entire spare tire area under the front
seat with tar.

So as I worked with using paint thinner to remove tar and cement, I
found the interior color dissolving as well, and so started to worry
that it will not be a good base for the new coat of paint.

Plus after all the TLC of removing old cement over the last coat of
paint, I'm finding the last coat of paint was made over previous
cement that is now hardened and will not come up.

I'm thinking I should just forget about my goal of a smooth metal look
to the interior and just use rattle can primer over the existing
interior paint, but I'm worried that it will not be a good substrate
for a quality top coat either. A bus is a truck, too, after all, and I
wanted an interior paint that would resist scratches and chips.

Any thoughts? Especially about spray can primers being good enough or not.

Thanks,

John
