Date: Thu, 12 Aug 2010 10:30:21 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Paint prep

Hi John,
 
You are left with a sticky situation (no pun intended). I personally would not
waste my money on rattle can paint or primer. They put out more over spray
than an actual coat of primer. You would be better off buying a gallon of
primer that is compatible with the paint that you will be using and
either carefully brush it on or invest in a paint gun and compressor. I would
be tempted to brush it on as you will end up sanding it smooth before
you paint anyway. It would make prep and clean up much easier too. The rattle
cans usually create more dust that just wipes off with a cloth than a good
solid, sandable coat.
 
 The problem here is that you have old enamel paint, tar and who know what
other types of chemicals on the metal. There is a very good chance that the
new primer would just lift off of the paint or just not stick well. I have had
problems with acrylic urethane lifting off of old enamel paint. The chemicals
in the new paint actually soften the old paint and cause it to wrinkle off.
This even happened to me when I tried to just cover over the old enamel paint
with a base coat that was compatible with the urethane. The base coat went on
fine, but the urethane lifted in those areas! I would use paint stripper, and,
DA sander, wire brush, and a lot of elbow grease to remove the coats of goop.
You may have to experiment with different chemicals to get rid of the ancient
cement. If the old cement is hard enough, and sanded smooth, it might take a
coat of primer, but I do not know.
 
Good Luck! I feel your pain. I have gone through a gallon of  expensive car
paint on my pop-top (It still needs another coat) because of paint
incompatibilities.
 
David Kelly
volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com

--- On Wed, 8/11/10, John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:



Hi Volks!

I've got my bus stripped down inside and out getting ready for paint.

The exterior was painted with a strong modern paint that I felt was a
good substrate for the exterior repaint. I thought the interior was
the same, but as I started working with it, it became obvious that the
interior was a rattle can job. So now I'm concerned that it will not
be an adequate substrate for a quality interior paint.

Plus, I've been removing a lot of contact cement that was used for
interior trim and tar that was used for a seam sealer in some areas
and someone also coated the entire spare tire area under the front
seat with tar.

So as I worked with using paint thinner to remove tar and cement, I
found the interior color dissolving as well, and so started to worry
that it will not be a good base for the new coat of paint.
