From: "jdd" <johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Date: Fri, 19 Dec 2003 18:33:49 -0500
Subject: Bus????

So, I live in the country and I was returning home from Kingston today and I
took a route I take maybe a couple times a year.

I saw this "bus" as I was driving down this country road and I thought - "hey,
that's ... a pre-67 bus"  I was driving the 78 as I had it undercoated today
at Krown.  So I stopped and turned around and started to go into the drive way
when I figured I better not go any further.  There was quite a bit of snow on
the ground and I didn't want to have to back out too far.

So ... I noticed a truck in the yard with a company logo on it but there was
no one around they yard.  I was only able to look at the rear of the bus from
... maybe 50 metres away but ... it looked odd.  It was a faded out red panel
with what looked to be windows cut into the side.  It was a fire truck with a
ladder on the back and a bunch of lights - two on the roof and a couple down
low.  It looked totally complete and in excellent shape - but odd - the roof
line seemed to be wrong.  The rear hatch looked like a barn door but ... it
had hinges on the passenger side.  As if both rear hatches had been replaced
with a single door that opened from right to left as opposed to top to bottom.
It did not have a rear bumper but nor did I see any place a bumper would
attach.  I thought - maybe it was some special order thing.  The windows on
the doors looked very much like the windows on my 60.  I couldn't tell whether
it had two front windshields or one - it's very cool - but wrong somehow.

So I noted the logo and figured I would track down the owner and ask about it.
So ... that I did.  I called the business mentioned on the logo and the person
I spoke to had no knowledge of it.  I described the truck with the logo and
she confirmed that it was one of their company trucks - turns out - the 'bus'
is owned by one of their employees.  He was at the office so I was able to
speak with him.

Turns out the 'bus' is indeed an original fire truck.  The owner sounded like
a youngish man who told me he was a recent immigrant from Germany and he
brought the 'bus' with him.  He is currently using it for storage.  The reason
it looks odd is that it is a 66 Mercedes fire truck and not a VW.  I made an
appointment with him for tomorrow to have a look - if I remember I'll bring
along the digicam.  Anyone know of any pics posted anywhere of Mercedes
'Buses'  I think it might be for sale - but its not for me - might be cheap
tho.

jdd 60 std, 78 westy
