Date: Mon, 22 Dec 2003 12:54:02 -0700
From: "Curt Conklin" <CONKLINC(-at-)lawgate.byu.edu>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Finally  got the locks

Greasy Volks:

I FINALLY got my locks retumbled.  HA!  They just cut keys for
the exisiting two front doors and two cargoes, ('66 sytle keylocks)
 plus another set of keys for the  rag top hatch ('63 style keylocks)
My iginition is a '71 style key, so I have three keys.  Oh well, at
least
I can now lock My Sweet Bus)  I bet Gabe could do it right, but it is
done now.

Getting the locking mechanism to slide easy enough for the key 
mechanism to work in them was a massive PITA, only the rear hatch
worked to begin with.  I finally had to go back and get some expensive
Teflon spray and that did the trick.  Loosened them right up, though
the passenger door took an overnight soaking and then working back
and forth to loosen-up.

After that, my TMI interion went right in . . . after waiting for
almost
three years for the install.

Now I am working with son Bry to manufacture the sliding bolt nubs in
the middle  of the cargo floor so I can securely bolt the '77 middle
seat into position.  Next project is recabling the heater boxes. 

 After that, she's done when I scrape up the dough
for a reupholstery job.  She'll never be a show car, the rag top 
transplant is just too rough.  . . . Unless I take over to Oz with me
in a few years . . . then Rob King would/could whip her into shape,
I know first hand the quality of work he does!  Thweet!

We watched the knu Jake Raby "Bug Me" video over the weekend, . . .
it is no. 8, how to rebuild/assemble a Type 4 longblock.  Not all that
different than the Type I/II.  But some differences.  Son Bry and I
are rebuilding a Type 4 donor engine for our '72 Westy, . . . going 
from 1700cc to 2 liter too.  The heads are pricey!  We're putting on
dual 36 Dells, Art Thraen up the road will have to rebuild them, as a
butterfly shaft on one of them is twisted.  Whaa?  . . . buying on the
'net is always risky, but they were cheap enough.  Damned Texans
(wink!)

Best, and happy "working on your bus" holidays!

Curt . . . looking forward to Triple B in Jan!
'66 w/'63 rag top, dd
