Date: Mon, 22 Dec 2003 22:04:56 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Bad 9-Prong? Now 8-Prong!?

>From: Taylor & Amber Nelson <nelsonsvw(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
>Date: Mon, 22 Dec 2003 16:14:09 -0800
>
>Can someone help confirm for me that the #30 prong has busted off
>sometime before leaving me with an 8-prong box and no working hazard
>lights on the outside?

Yep...Your #30 prong is broken off and that's most likely why the hazards
don't work.

>Also looking for ideas on the best way to replace...

Well, I'm biased towards one of the options you mentioned. :)   You might
be able to salvage your existing box, though.  You can make a test first
to see if it's worth trying - a temporary connection to #30 to see if the
box is otherwise OK.  (If it operates your turn signals OK, it probably
is.)

It looks like the stub of the prong is still there - just a little bit of
exposed metal.  I would use something like a voltmeter probe or maybe a
nail (something heftier than a straight pin) to poke at the stub and try
to make a connection.  The other end of the voltmeter probe (nail) needs
to be connected to circuit 30, _after_ the rightmost fuse in the fuse box.
Originally there should have been a rather fat red wire coming down from
the fuse box to #30 on the 9-prong box; it may have been removed or taped
up.  If that fat red wire is still there, connect the other end of your
voltmeter probe (nail) securely to its loose end.

If the fat red wire isn't there, get out your test light, ground one end
of the test light, and pull out the rightmost fuse (16 A).  Try the test
light to each fuse clip.  The one that _does not_ make the test light
glow is the one you want.  Arrange for the other end of your voltmeter
probe (nail) to be securely attached to this clip or the push-on terminal
in front (FRONT) of it on the other side of the fuse box.  Even with these
precautions, DON'T let the probe (nail) tip ground out on the metal of the
Bus!  Hopefully you'll just blow that 16 A fuse, but more dire things could
happen.  When you've got the connection made securely, reinstall the fuse.

Now, poke the probe (nail) onto the stub of #30.  Wiggle it around a little
to make sure you've got a good connection.  Then, pull out the hazard
flasher switch.

If you get smoke from the 9-prong box, immediately remove the probe (nail)
from #30 (it may spark at the tip when you do this -- be careful; don't
bang the probe (nail) tip on the body in your excitement).  In this case,
your 9 prong box is most likely bad.

If nothing happens, wiggle the probe (nail) around some more to make sure
you're getting good contact.  If nothing still happens, push in the hazard
switch and remove the probe.  In this case, your 9 prong box is most likely
bad.

Hopefully, your hazards will come on and all 4 corners will blink.  Let
them blink on and off a few times, then push in the hazard switch and
remove the probe.  Your 9 prong box is most likely OK.

If you decided that your box was OK, now you need to figure out how to get
a wire connected to #30's connection.  You may not have to open up the box
to do this, but you do need to take it out of the Bus.

The one I've got is a slightly later one with a plastic housing, but the
terminal arrangement is the same as in your photo.  On mine, the #30 prong
doesn't stick straight out of the box...it comes out of the box, turns and
follows along the side of the box, under that paper label, for about 1/8"
before it turns again to stick up.  You may be able to cut back the paper
label and solder a short jumper wire to the flat surface of the prong.
You will need to make sure that the prong stub is really clean - use a
file, sandpaper, a tiny wire brush to make it shine.  You'll also need
a HOT soldering iron - the pencil type won't work.  A nice big pistol
type - 100 watts or more - will work much better.  For the jumper wire,
crimp a male terminal onto the end of a 2" or so piece of wire, preferably
red, and at least 14 gauge.  Strip the other end of the wire and solder
it to the prong.  If you didn't have the fat red wire in the test step
above, you'll need to make up one of those, too...this one should also
be at least 14 gauge, with female terminals crimped on each end.  When
you put the repaired box back in the Bus, plug the fat red #30 wire onto
your new jumper wire, _and insulate the connection with electrical tape_.

If there isn't enough exposed stub to solder to, you may be able to open
up the box and connect a jumper wire in there, bringing it to the outside
through a hole carefully drilled in the plastic around the terminals, or
through a grommeted hole drilled in the outer casing.

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds
