Date: Tue, 23 Dec 2003 20:23:42 -0800 (PST)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: Dave <kd5fvm(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Rheostat vs Voltage Drop?

Guys and girls,

I'm gonna do a short MR on this issue, for those who don't know -

The voltage dropped across a resistance depends upon the current flowing
thru that resistance, according to Ohms Law:  Voltage = Current x
Resistance. This means that the voltage that the resistor will 'drop'
across itself depends upon the end load's resistance as well, and how much
the total current will be thru the resulting circuit. Complicated? No. If
you know or measure the resistance of the dropping resistor, and add to it
the resistance of the load device, then the total current thru the two
resistors in series, across the 6 or 12 volt battery, will equal the
voltage (6 or 12) divided by the total resistance (load added to dropper).
Then that current times the dropping resistor equals the voltage that will
appear across it in that circuit.

Why all this? Because your wiper motor will draw more current than your
radio (usually), this is because your wiper motor has a lower resistance
than the radio playing at normal volume. This means that a dropping
resistor that drops 6 volts across itself to save your wiper motor from
burning up, will NOT drop 6 volts across itself to protect your radio. It
will drop LESS volts because the total current is less. And if this is so,
then the radio sees MORE than the normal 6 volts that it expects to
(assuming its a 6 volt radio).

One needs to find out how much current the device being protected draws
at its normal operating voltage. Once you know that, voltage divided by
that current gives you the resistance of the device. Then you can go back
and figure out the total current drawn by that device in series with the
dropping resistor (which you've already measured). Then you can figure out
how much voltage the device will really see with that dropping resistor.

Of course, if you know the current that the device draws, and divide that
into the 6 volts you want to drop, then the result is the resistance of
the dropping resistor that will do that for that device. Then you go to
RadShack or whereever, and get an appropriate resistor, knowing that it
will do the job properly.

How that? Did I sound like MR? ;-)

happy holidays - check and replace your worn out fuel hoses, check that
metal fuel line for cuts at the tin piece, slip some hose over it to
protect against number one cause of engine fires. Have a great
xmas/hanukkah!

cal


On Mon, 22 Dec 2003, Dave wrote:

> All this talk about rheostats, but... havent herd
> anything about VD resistors... last month I scored a
> bugpack VD, 12 to 6v, pn 3598... anyone ever use one
> of these? the heat sinks dont look like theyed do to
> much tho.... real shallow... just to make sure, gonna
> build a larger HS from scrap aluminum to mount it to.
> not really worried bout having multi-speed wipers,
> just tired of the hyper-drive ones...
> Dave
