Date: Thu, 12 Jul 2007 19:55:02 -0400
From: "Ken Dunn" <kennydunn(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "type2 list" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Pertronix, timing and fast idle

I received my Pertronix get-up and new Brazilian Blue Coil yesterday.
I installed the coil first - no change that I could tell but, I feel
better about replacing the 30 year old component.  After I took care
of some other errands, I installed the Pertronix.  That was pretty
simple with the exception of getting the magnetic sleeve seated.  Even
that wasn't too bad but, it took about 10 minutes to get it lined up.
The engine started up immediately.  Woohoo!  The timing was WAY off
after installing the Pertonix.  I was surprised by that.  I only
expected a minor adjustment to be necessary.  The new gear didn't
offer any immediate changes but, I had recently replaced the points
and condenser and set the timing plus I fixed some vacuum leaks - so
it was running pretty well to begin with.  However, when I left for
work this morning, the ritual of start, stall, start, stall, start,
rev, hesitate, rev, hesitate, rev, and hesitate on take off - was
completely gone!  It did hesitate the first time I rev'd the throttle
but, it pulled away without a hint of giving up and it had plenty
power from the start.   It starts the moment that I turn the key.  I
like that!  Here is the strange part - after about a minute of warm
up, the engine now idles high - smooth but, high.  It doesn't take
more than 5 minutes of cool down time to return to a normal idle but
once it runs for about a minute, the idle is higher than I'd prefer.
I turned the idle adjustment back as far as it would go and it still
idles a bit faster than I'd like when warm.  I also tried pulling the
throttle back by hand.  That helped a bit, but not enough.  After my
last vacuum hunting campaign, I believe the engine to be leak-free.  I
re-checked the timing both hot and cold.  Both are dead on.  I rev'd
the engine with the timing light and the advance appears to be working
and resetting normally.  I'm not really sure what else to check.  The
documentation for the Pertronix says to time as normal.  Would there
be any reason to retard the timing?  That wouldn't make any sense to
me but.....  I changed the oil today because I had recently been
running 10w-40 to try to pump up one noisy lifter and also I drove it
a lot last week with a bad vacuum leak so, it seemed like a good idea.
 I'm back to 20w-50 now.  It still idles fast.  Is there anything else
I can check?

Thanks in advance,
Ken
