To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Thu, 12 Jul 2007 21:56:45 -0400
Subject: Bob the Tomato bounces back!!

Hi Volks,

I am very happy to announce that my bus is back on the road after a  
major engine malfunction occurred on Sunday. As it turned out, the  
blown engine had massive damage to the case as well as the #3 piston  
and cylinder. Both cylinder heads seem to have survived OK, which is  
good news to me since I refurbished them less than 30,000 miles ago.

Once I got home and surveyed my available inventory of type4  
components it was decided that the best course of action was to use a  
rebuilt 412 engine that we had acquired a few years ago for Franklin,  
my Dad's 1975 westy. This engine allegedly had less than 400 miles on  
it when the car it was in was sideswiped, after which it was parked  
in a heated garage for 20 years or so. We puled off the D-Jet FI and  
installed the L-Jet components from Franklin but for some reason or  
other we never got it running properly, and Franklin wound up with a  
different engine.

The 412 engine was clean and had good compression, the only odd  
things about it are the top-mounted dipstick and oil filler, and the  
case breather fittings on the cylinder heads. I capped off the  
breathers and decided to simply make do with the top mounted filling  
system.

Installing the engine took a bit longer than expected, but not that  
much longer. The main hold-up was the lack of a pilot bearing in the  
crank: the former host vehicle for this engine was an automatic, so  
it never had a pilot bearing. We sourced one locally but soon  
discovered it was not in stock for immediate pickup so we had to wait  
a day to finish the install.

The only other issue we encountered was that the distributor drive  
gear was oriented 90 degrees out, once this was remedied with a quick  
re-wiring of the distributor the engine roared to life.

Did I say "roar"? Heck yes!!! In order to save time and effort with  
the engine swap I decided to use the Harley exhaust on this engine.  
Stealthy it ain't; but sure does have character.
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia/HD_BusMuffler/

The trip home from Cambridge ON went very well, with excellent  
cylinder head temps (never once hit 350 degrees) and very strong oil  
pressure at highway speeds between 65 - 75MPH. (I was being paced by  
a eurovan equipped with a GPS, so the quoted speeds are verified, not  
wishful thinking.)

When I got home after 70 miles of highway driving the engine  
compartment was not at all hot inside. I am very happy with this  
engine. The only remaining details are to replace the pushrod seals  
and to permanently plug up the holes in the tin that are normally  
used for the oil filler and heat riser pipes. For the trip home I  
simply stuffed those holes with chunks of a spare foam engine seal.

MANY THANKS from myself and my family to the Rivers Family and Don  
MacInnis for their help in getting my bus back up and running. MUCHOS  
GRACIAS!!!!


Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/77/79 Westfakia "Bob The Tomato
www.pottsfamily.ca
www.busesofthecorn.com
