Date: Sat, 14 Jul 2007 15:49:23 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: Jordan King <flatfour2007(-at-)verizon.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] 78 bus rear torsion problems

Perhaps I'm not reading this correctly... There should
not be any tension on the torsion bar until you try to
work it up onto the stop.

Do you mean the plate is vertically 3/8" too high? or
just too far out?

You did seat the inner splines (diiferent from the
outer splines. You are using the same bars you removed
(a few different lengths are available)
Last time I installed new rubber donuts I had a tough
time and had to improvise to get the caps on far
enough to use the stock bolts. I don't remember -
sorry - what the improvisation was. I think it
involved longer bolts, but not in the classic sense -
Maybe a couple longer but smaller diameter bolts and
nuts to pull it in until the stockers reached, but I'm
not sure. -BaH
--- Jordan King <flatfour2007(-at-)verizon.net> wrote:

      Been working on the rear torsion bars of my '78
 bus the last couple days,
 and am about to burn the thing to the ground. Once I
 re-indexed the bars, had
 a terrible time getting the spring plate back on
 with a new bushing behind it.
 New bushings are a bit larger and much stiffer than
 stock. Finally got the
 spring plate on far enough to sit on the stop,
 figured i would pull it down
 the rest of the way with the spring plate cover.
 When I put a bushing (old or
 new) on the outside of the spring plate, it causes
 the cover to sit about 3/8"
 too high, and I can't get the bolts in. (Even longer
 ones) If I pull it back
 off and relieve the torsion bar pressure, I can move
 the spring plate end
 around all I want, and get the cover on just fine.
 Even with the cover
 tightened down, however, I can't get the spring
 plate back onto the splines
 far enough to sit on the stop. So I can either have
 the plate on the stop
 (which takes some HARD driving with a BFH) or I can
 have the spring plate
 cover on, but not both. What am I missing here?
 
 Thanks,
 
 

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
