Date: Sun, 15 Jul 2007 19:22:36 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: Skateswithboard(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: [T2] HELP Diagnose Problem

You will get more help if you post to the entire list.
If you put all your "eggs in one basket" (me) you get
some short-sighted answers and a memory that isn't
near as good as it used to be! I haven't touched one
of these engines since I converted mine to Subaru
power five years ago!

You need to drop the engineEither raise it far enough
and hold it there with jackstands and use (with help)
a floor type or trolley jack. If you have two trolley
jacks available, raise up the back end as far as you
can, then place jackstands about even with the rear
jacking points. Now you can place one jack under the
front axle to raise the front while lowering the back
(cantilever style) -It's unconventional but I've been
using the method with the subey.

I prefer to remove engine and transaxle together, but
for a newbie it may be more difficult. I have an
engine stand with a cradle that supports both engine
and transaxle that raises and lowers - it's a
converted ATV stand.

Newbie? MARK EVERYTHING. Oh - by the way... MARK
EVERYTHING you remove as to where it goes back.

I can't stress enough - Mark Everything!!! Take
digital pictures. Use ziplock baggies for each section
you unbolt and mark the baggies like left front, etc.
Use masking tape and a permanent marker - wrap the
tape around the part / hose / wire and connect it to
itself so it won't just slide off due to oil/grease,
etc.

Post to the list so some of the guys who are still
doing this stuff can help you better than I can! -BaH

-- Skateswithboard(-at-)aol.com wrote:
> I think I will try and pull the head and hope I find
  something. Will it be 
 obvious? How hard is it to drop the whole  engine?
  
 Laura :o) 
 
 


-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
