From: Hal Sullivan <tristessa(-at-)tristessa.us>
Date: Sun, 15 Jul 2007 21:19:02 -0700
To: Type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: EFI 1600, was 1971 Type 2 Engine Recommendations

I've had this sitting in the Inbox for a few days and just can't  
resist the urge
anymore.   I call shenanigans.  Shenanigans shenanigans shenanigans.

On Jul 11, 2007, at 2:39 PM, VWBrain(-at-)aol.com wrote:
> hey marcus  That was adrain pillow But not so good of a system,  
> the  fuel
> dizzys are NLA and are known for clogging up. the injectors are  
> costly and  are
> prone to leakage, the fuel pump is Odd ball also seeing that it  
> needs 65psi  to
> squirt the injectors.  Out dated and not a very good system . Even Vw
> figured this out as the did away with this system in 1989   . Best  
> bet  would be to
> use a vanagon FI system or even a late bay  later  mark  d

There's not a damn thing wrong with a well-maintained CIS system.   
I've had an
'89 Cabriolet for the last five years, put 140k miles on the car, and  
aside from a
shorted fuel pump relay caused by water leakage there hasn't been a  
single
problem with the injection.  Ditto for my cousin's one-owner CIS- 
fueled Volvo
244 Turbo, ditto for my coworker's CIS-fueled BMW 320i that he uses  
for SCCA
rallies, ditto for countless thousands of CIS-fueled cars on the  
road.  It's a solid,
dependable fuel delivery system with very little to go wrong, unless  
you're the
type of person that drives a car into the ground every year or two by  
Just Not
Giving A Sh*t About Your Vehicle.

The injectors are no more prone to leakage than any other fuel  
injector I've ever
dealt with.  I got a set last week for my Baywindow CIS project from  
a Fox that's
been sitting for god knows how long (at least three years), they leak- 
test and
spray-test just fine.  Yes, the fuel distributors are NLA .. but it's  
rare to ever need
to replace one.  The plunger gets stuck if one sits with gasoline in  
it, but cleaning
out the varnished gas with Berryman's B-12 takes care of that 99% of  
the time.
"Outdated"?  If we were concerned with bleeding-edge technology in our
vehicles, we'd be on the Prius list or something, not Type2.  :-)

Probably one of the main things that killed CIS at the end of the  
'80s was the
requirement of On-Board Diagnostics that started in the mid '90s.   
How do you
put a computerized diagnostic system onto what's nearly a mechanical  
fuel
injection system?  You really don't.
