Date: Mon, 16 Jul 2007 12:18:39 -0400
From: "Eddie Goodwin" <eddiegood(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Power assist brakes fixed.

Hello List,

Its been a while since I've been on this list. I'm glad to be back live
instead of just reading the archives.

I finally found some time to do some work to my bus today. I installed a
tach that I found in a donor bus, a somewhat poor quality tach but matched
the other gauges pretty good. It works alright. I'm gonna try to calibrate
it a little better with a good external tach soon. I also replaced some
bulbs and rewired all the lighting for my radio and add-on VDO gagues. The
dimmer works on everything now.... even the tach.

The door switches now work with the interior light for the first time in my
7 years of owership. The wire was disconnected on the passenger side and the
drivers one wasn't making ground contact...it was loose.

And I also hooked up the power brake booster. I replaced the unit 2 or 3
years ago, with the previous dual carb 1800cc engine and I opted to
disconnect it due to vacuum leaks. I bought some 1/2 heater hose and ran
that from the long metal pipe to the engine bay. I got a good one way check
valve from the bench... i had 3 and only one passed the "blow through" test.
I actually found the right tubes to connect the rubber "T" boot on the air
intake distribution box to the check valve. Clamped the whole thing up and
voila! power brakes. Holy crap I can't believe the difference. I forgot they
were supposed to be so good! I think there may still be some air leaks
though.... the engine was idling a bit slower than it was and was rough when
i reved it.... I might buy some more of that heater hose and bypass the
metal pipe. There was some rust on it. (where isn't there any?).

I took the bus camping last weekend for the first time in a year. It was
wonderful. I need to make more time to do that stuff. I'm glad I have all
the big ticket items fixed in the bus. I can finally work on the little
stuff while it is a usable camper.

Does anyone have a good source for an orange 3 window pop top canvas? I
found some material online:

http://www.fashionfabricsclub.com/catalog_itemdetail.aspx?ItmID=U7154

not really sure if thats sufficient... or if I want to take on the task of
making my own. I was thinking of reusing the old screents, they are in good
shape. The canvas is all torn and weak. Has anyone made their own with good
success?

I am proficient with a sewing machine. Just not sure if it can handle
canvas.

keep on bussin'
Eddie Goodwin
'74 Westy

I passed 4 bay window buses this week on cape cod. A later 70's beige westy
on route 28 in yarmouth. An olive westy with an animal skull on the nose on
route 28 in dennis. A yellow bay window in hyannis at bearse way/route 28
and a rust/primer early bay on route 6. anyone on the list? mine orange and
white '74 westy.
