Date: Thu, 01 Aug 2002 09:12:32 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: warren baity <warrenbaity(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] body repair

Start looking at having the frame inspected. Sounds like they may have been 
tweaked. Front beam might be twisted.

Don't worry a good shop can do it for a few hundred bucks. I have had 
several cars repaired this way. Buy a wreck and repair it. For $2K you get 
a $6K car. I've always been picky though about what kind of wrecks I would 
repair. One Mustang (1966) was tweaked and despite a trip to the frame shop 
- was never right again. Steering was always a bit off.

You need to do this b/c even though you might be able to make it shiny 
again it is not  necessarily safe. The funky feeling the pedals and 
steering give is your only signal.

Once the frame damage is corrected (or verified to be okay - but I doubt 
that) then I would have somebody look (same shop?) and decide if the nose 
can be repaired (dents pushed back out) or if they recommend replacing the 
panel with a new one or a salvage yard nose. I suspect they can get the 
nose back out.

I suspect the wreck didn't tweak the frame but that the nose went down and 
your bumper went under their bumper and the sheet metal in the soft spot 
between the floor and the glass was shoved back. When this happened the 
floor sheet metal was pulled up a bit or pushed back and this is what has 
affected your pedals and steering column. The pedals obviously pass through 
the floor. The steering column is bolted at the dash and the floor.

You can save yourself alot of money by stripping the nose of the van out - 
that means all trim, all the dash, glass, everything. That makes it easier 
to inspect and repair. You can strip it out (front seats forward) in just a 
few hours. Try to pull things in assemblies. The dash will come out as an 
assembly after to disconnect the cables and wires. Good time to freshen a 
few things up. I leave the switches on the wiring but take the knobs off 
and disconnect them from the dash panel.

Borrow a video camera or regular film camera and take pictures of things 
like wiring and the climate controls that you may not understand after a 
few weeks.

Remember this is much easier and cheaper than laying in a hospital half 
dead b/c the steering or brakes failed or the suspension failed months down 
the road and you had a bad wreck.

Can you post us some pics?

>e damage the steering is pretty messed up and the pedals feel really 
>strange. the front end is about 6" into the car. get it? so whats next? 
>get it pulled as best as possible and bondo the rest or get a new front 
>panel and weld. does anyone know of any good places in the southern 
>california area?? any help whatsoever is really appriciated.

Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


