Date: Thu, 01 Aug 2002 12:58:14 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Derrick Gorshe <tolstoy96(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Broken fuel pump!


>When I got it all apart I found that the rod in the
>car was bent, and considerably longer then the one I
>got from RMMW.  I figured that I needed to put one
>back in the engine that was the same as the one I took
>out.  So I went to the autoparts store and got a new
>rod that was as long as the one I took out of the bus.
>  I got home and put it all back togeter again.  When I
>tried to start it, nothing happend.  The engine turns
>and turns but never fires.  I'm assuming that I'm
>still not getting fuel.  I tried it with the smaller
>rod just to see what would happen and still nothing.

Disconnect the supply fuel line and check for fuel from the gas tank. Then 
do the same for the output side of the pump with the first hose reconnected 
and the engine cranked.

The pump has to get enough stroke so measure the pushrod at it's highest 
level. You may have a rod that is too short or maybe the portion of the 
crank that moves that rod is screwed up.

>The only thing I'm not quite sure of is wether or not
>I got the fuel hoses hooked to the appropriate places
>on the pump.  Does the hose from the tank go the the
>top hookup or the bottom hookup on the pump?  Any
>other suggestions why she won't start?  Any Idea as to
>what caused the old pump to fail so badly?  Also, any
>comments on the pros and cons of using an electric
>fuel pump in place of the mechanical one?

Sorry no books to advise you for certain on hand. I'm at work.

Will it start with a bit of gas splashed down the carb throat?

Electric pumps are fine. The mechanical pumps are fine too.

The cheapest fuel pump commonly advertised in the VW mags is a Facet pump 
and it is quite noisy. I won't use one of those again. Go to your local 
NAPA and ask the senior parts person for a low pressure electric fuel pump. 
I saw one for a tractor once that looked very much like the cheap electric 
rotary pump that CB sells for less money than CB. If you can get a pump 
that has a similar pressure and output volume then you can use an 
adjustable fuel pressure regulator to set the pressure.

Check with Summit Racing or Jegs for example. I am moving away from some of 
the aftermarket VW performance parts b/c they are absolute junk or 
overpriced FLAPS parts like CB supplies (but I still use some VW suppliers 
like Bus Depot and the like - they are good!). Be sure to check the 
catalogs the V-8 guys use for price and quality shopping. Most of those V-8 
hot rod catalogs have online catalogs.

Lastly you need to look into setting up a circuit to handle the pump. You 
do not want a pump that runs anytime the key is on. If you have an accident 
and are knocked out cold that pump will keep pumping until the power source 
is cut - could feed a fuel fire and die. Buy an oil pressure switch that 
cuts the pump anytime the oil pressure is too low (engine is stalled or 
off). Wire it up so the pump doesn't get juice unless the key is on and if 
the oil pressure is up. The gas in the carb will get the engine running 
even if the pump isn't on yet.

Again the V-8 Performance catalogs like Jegs, Summit, and such will have 
these switches.


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


