From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "Tyler Hardison" <tyler(-at-)tsioregon.net>
Cc: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 31 Jul 2002 23:08:55 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] It runs!

Eureka! Progress!
Are we talking about an upright air-cooled engine?
Are you very certain that your firing sequence is correct?
I still don't understand quite what happened when we fired up our Mexican
engine, but... We put on an electronic ignition that we had on the previous
engine, and an oddball sort of Bosch distributor that a local parts place
sold us (He gave us some sort of performance rap, you know!).. We could not
get that darned thing running, but once in awhile it would start up and do
the "chitty-chitty-bang-bang", run a little, but no power and sounded like
two tomcats fighting in a trash can. I finally ended up deciding to try
swapping the distributor wires 180*, and turned the distributor a bit to get
it to ear, and it ran great. You can't argue with success. It worked. We set
the timing to specs and haven't had any trouble with it since. We just left
it like that. It went all the way, almost from the Mexican border to the
Canadian and back.. no problems.
So, to clarify, where the normal firing sequence is 1-4-3-2, if the
distributor drive shaft was out 180*, it would be 3-2-1-4. Same thing, but
where it looks like your rotor is pointing to number one, it should be
pointing to number three. So, I took off the rotor cap and where the rotor
was supposed to be firing on number one, I swapped the plug wires and put
number three wire there. Number two wire went where number four should have
been, number one wire went after that, and so on, clockwise.
It is possible for an engine that is 180* out to run, but you would have to
retard or advance the distributor setting something fierce, and it will
sound really awful. After swapping the plug wires, you will have to
completely reset the timing. Try this, and see what happens. It's real easy
to do.. All you really have to do is swap each wire with the one diagonally
across from it. You've got me curious now. Who had the new Mexican engine?
I never really figured out what caused this strange problem.. Was it the
Mexican engine, or was it the distributor? We tried to remove and reinstall
the distributor drive shaft and it only went in one way. Actually, now that
I think of it, it was missing from the engine when we bought it. Hmmm.
Another clue. Has anyone else ever had an experience like this? I'd sure
like to hear what you think of this.
 Jan B


----- Original Message -----
From: "Tyler Hardison" <tyler(-at-)tsioregon.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Sent: Wednesday, July 31, 2002 10:18 PM
Subject: [T2] It runs!


Well it runs!

But:

Missing some of the accelerator linkage. so the peddle is mushy because I
have it rigged.

Smoke coming from the right side of the engine? Smells funny? Unlike regular
exhaust smell. I dont see any oil leaking :-((

Still kinda loud but the sharp bang bang bang is gone.

Other notes to follow.

BUT IT DRIVES!

I did kind of a victory lap (limping as it was).

Tyler

1972 Westy Uh-Oh




