Date: Fri, 10 Dec 2004 08:39:57 -0800 (PST)
From: Gregory Sorbello <gregorysorbello(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Friday Post, Changing the Fuel Filter

This is an email that my a friend who was helping me
with last minute bus repairs before a road trip sent
around about my efforts to change the fuel filter. 
Its funny to me becuase its true.  This happened at 3
in the morning.  I hope someone else can enjoy this.  

How to change the fuel filter on a 1975 VW, Type 2,
Westfalia Camper 
Van.

This proceedure is best completed in the pitch black
middle of the night for optimal tweak.

1) Remove old filter without reading John Muir's
directions first.

Make sure your completely saturated about the face,
neck, chest, shoulders and arms with, preferably,
unleaded fuel.

3) Place finger over hose and take a moment of silence
to comprehend/deny to yourself The Situation.

4) Scream for help as high-pitched as possible; like
you just slammed a car >door on your hands.

5) Once friend's finger has replaced yours as the fuel
plug, climb out from >under vehicle.

5) Run 3 to 4 laps around vehicle and swing arms in a
convulsive manner while screaming, "This s(-at-)#$ burns!
This s(-at-)#$ burns! Aaaghh! Get it off! Aaaghh!" untill
everyone in your neighborhood thinks your crazy on 
acid.

>6) Remove clothing in backyard.

>7) Hose self off.

>8) Go in house and take shower. Make sure you
dissapear for a good10-15 minutes, leaving your friend
(human drain plug) under the vehicle untill he's 
almost dead from asphyxiation and tries to do the same
thing you just did and with similar consequences.

9) Exit house.

10) Read directions.

11) Ram no.2 pencil in fuel line.

12) Change filter. Reconnect hose.

13) Exit from under vehicle take deep breath allowing
oxygen to once  again feed your brain. Note: brain
will be functioning as if you just ate a handfull of
lead paint chips.

4) Open beer and marvel at what you've accomplished
and how you didn't kill yourself.  
