From: "Andy" <airhedz(-at-)alamedanet.net>
To: "Wayne" <mga60(-at-)optonline.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 10 Dec 2004 14:57:59 -0800
Subject: RE: [T2] Tires - was Discount Tires (and Snows!) for Busses

Wayne,

No. These tires meet VW's specifications for 1979, as I have demonstrated.
Remember, though, that the maximum load is rated at maximum inflation.
You'll have to adjust your tire pressure to make them meet the minimums.
Here's an informative quote from
http://www.falkentire.com/tech_tire_basics.htm :

begin quoted text

Replacement tires must have a load carrying capacity equal to or greater
than the capacity of the original tires,

>at their recommended pressures.<

Using the wrong size tire can lead to tire failure.

The door mounted tire information placard shows the size, load index, and
recommended pressures for each axle. While it is generally recommended that
any replacement tires have the same load index as the original tires,

>circumstances may allow a lower load index, but only if the replacement
tires can carry the same actual
loads as the original tires, although at different air pressures.<

Such a determination requires a sophisticated analysis of the load and
inflation charts for the original and prospective replacement tires, which
should be done only by a trained tire professional. We recommend you consult
with Falken or an authorized dealer for guidance in this area.

Additionally, Load Indexes may be "Standard" or "Reinforced". Some
Reinforced ratings will require additional air pressure to carry the same
loads as Standard ratings. Consult Falken or an authorized dealer for
specific guidance about air pressure requirements for Reinforced Load Index
tires.

IMPORTANT REMINDER: If you require different air pressures for your new
tires to carry the tire loads, you have the responsibility to ensure those
pressures are ALWAYS used.

We recommend you place an additional new tire information sticker (available
from Falken, or make your own) near your placard, with the new tire sizes
and required air pressures noted, so that any maintenance persons will know
there has been a change.

If that is not done or you do not personally check your pressures, there is
a high risk that your pressures will be set at the original requirements,
and your tires will be under inflated, which can result in tire failure and
accident.

end quoted text

If you can't find tires that meet or exceed ALL the values in the OEM specs,
or you want something different and can't do the calcs yourself, see a tire
specialist (not a retailer), someone who is willing to put his insurance on
the line in making a recommendation outside the OEM specs.

Andy McKinley
airhedz(-at-)earthlink.net
'79 Westy
'79 Kombi Sunroof
Alameda, CA


> -----Original Message-----
> From: Wayne [mailto:mga60(-at-)optonline.net]
> Group,
>
> It has been suggested that my Uniroyal Laredo HD 195/75 R14C light truck
> tires with reinforced sidewall and a weight capacity of 1435# at 50psi are
> unsafe for use on my '79 Westy.  Is this correct?
