Date: Fri, 10 Dec 2004 18:30:20 -0600 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] CHT Temps

> > Andy <airhedz(-at-)alamedanet.net> wrote:
> > calibrated at 75 degrees F, and the compensation is linear (i.e., one
> > degree in ambient temperature = 1 degree in CHT). 

Richard Atwell wrote:

> What does that mean? Their own support page states their gauges require
> interpretation based on the temp:

Correct. It means you have to have a thermometer mesuring ambient temp in
the engine compartment.

If it's 80 degrees back there then you look at your CHT gauge and adjust
the number you see downward by 5 degrees.

It's all manual calculations in your head by looking at two gauges and
doing some addition and subtraction while driving 60mph down the highway.

You can do the same thing with the VDO. Most thermocouple type senders
should have a linear relatonship from calibrated temp to actual temp.

That's what Don's suggestion about perma-mounting a cheap IR thermometer
was about -- doing it the "manual" way. Except an IR would give spot temps
where you point it and the thermocouple would be working from ambient temps
including that of the surrounding air. A regular thermometer would be
better.

Or, you could figure out some way to mount the cold junction in a block of
some type of heat conductive epoxy and use a thermostatically controlled
heater coil to keep that block at some temp higher than forseen ambient
temps in your area (100 for northerners or 150 for Arizonians). Then
recalibrate the gauge to read that much {minus 70 degrees} lower.

If you could keep the thermocouple cold junction at a steady temp you would
have the most reliable CHT gauge around. No "electronic math" required to
compensate for constantly varying temps. {That's all the compensating
circuits do -- they do the exact same math I described above then translate
the result and make the gauge read lower -- that's why they're seen mostly
on digitals}

Gerald
