From: "Christopher Renz" <midwestbass(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Date: Fri, 29 Aug 2003 17:57:00 -0700
Subject: FS SF/Bay area westfalia bus (and parts)

Let me start by saying, as what everyone else says, it kills me to do
this : 

http://www.thesamba.com/vw/gallery/pix/67303.jpg - took second place in
this show.
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/gallery/pix/67305.jpg - bike rack, shiny
paint
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/gallery/pix/70243.jpg - in use
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/gallery/pix/88864.jpg - interior, wood
flooring

flaws in the body : 

http://www.kellieandchris.com/images/bus_web/

I have a 76 Chrome Yellow Westfalia that needs a home. It is not running
at this time. The motor is caput as of 11:10am this morning.
Frozen/seized, done. It had about 80K miles on it total, never rebuilt.
The engine code is GE, and it does have the hydraulic lifters. (or did
anyway)

This is not the deluxe model, so no electric stove or propane. I have
the sink, but it has been removed and I covered the spot where it was
and finished it off, for more counter space. The spare tire cover/cab is
missing the laminated wood, as is the second biggest drawer, although
the rest are all there and in decent shape. The icebox is nice and
clean, from constant cleaning and usage. I have the little white shelf
unit that goes inside as well. 

It is fairly rust free. The floors under the driver/pass area are really
good looking still. Doglegs are great, only the windshield area and the
places where its been nicked or dented are showing signs of surface
rust. 

There is body damage to the nose. The pass side headlight is a little
cockeyed as a result. Everything still works, but that should at least
be fixed so the light points to the correct location. 

This bus would be a GREAT bus for regular usage, not to restore for
show/shine. The motor is shot, the nose is dinged, but there are
literally a TON of amazing parts on it. I don't want to part it out, but
afraid it is going to come to that. I am willing to take an amazing loss
if someone would be willing to buy it and everything I have that goes or
went with it all at once. If you have a shell of a Westfalia, I have
literally everything you need to complete yours. 

The list will follow below, CALL me for more information : 
415-781-6144 - home
415-706-7825 - cell

I have EVERY receipt from the day it was picked up by the original owner
(im the third) in Germany. 
The first from 1977 and everything since. Including tires, batters,
everything. I have the original manual. 

1976 VW Westfalia
Body has 199,903.6 miles on it. 
BRAND new Bosch starter
New Bosch driving lights
12 Volt Acc clock
VW logo mudflaps (white, rear only)
Brand new pop-top canvas
Brand new pop-top seal
Brand new oil cooler,
Brand new Daiken Clutch (new clutch cable, new throwout bearing)
Less than one year old battery and second deep cycle marine battery
Burg dipstick sender/oil temp sensor
New Gas filler boot (doesn't spill when full)
New engine compartment deal.
Hella Dual Battery kit
New plastic glovebox.
Locking engine hatch and key. 
I have one of those Hollywood bike racks that fit the VW busses
perfectly. 
New Crane electronic ignition unit
Installed hardwood laminate flooring.
One of the CV's is brand new, 
2 new tires, 
1 new spare tire
I have an super duty 21 inch SUV style lifting jack and jack stands. 
Soundproofed and put Dynamat all over the rear area. 
Sanded what little rust there was on the floor and POR 15'd it. 
Fresh rear breaks. 
I have new front door seals but not installed. 
I have a spare coil, 
Spare AFM. 
A full bolt of the original chrome yellow westy material for the
curtains. Spare plaid material for misc projects
I replaced the passenger seats padding both top and bottom. 
I have an extra deluxe style steering wheel. 
A nice suicide knob. 
Shifter extension with Wolfsburg castle (the nice tall skinny wooden
one, not the cheapo one.) 
Spare headlights, 
Spare clutch and acc cable, 
Spare distributor. 
Cargo container that fits in the roof storage area nicely, with tie
downs. 
All 3 of the VW bus manuals. Muir, Hanes, that other one.


PLEASE, someone buy all of these parts and this bus from me and put them
and it to use. I don't want to send this thing to the crusher and part
it all out. I can't do it, but I cannot fix it either. 

Call me, buy it, trade me, something. 
415-781-6144 - home
415-706-7825 - cell


Best,
Christopher
76 westy "jasper" - looking for a good home. =(



PS : but dear god, why? 


It will cost about $3,000 for me to get a new motor in Jasper and have
it up and running. 
At that time, the body damage will still exist. I cannot do my own motor
or body repair, so the body repair will run me around $2,000. 
I am moving to Minneapolis, MN in 7 weeks time. I need another car that
I can drive in the snow, and would need to store it someplace. 
I don't have an "extra" $3,000 right now. When I move back, I will be
without a job for an unknown amount of time.

I figure there is more than a grand worth of parts listed above. I am
willing to work out a favorable price to someone that will take
everything at once, preferably to make it work again, or just to use as
spares for their own project, but still take it all. If you are
interested in at least a few of the items on the list that would be
worth my parting with over, where someone may still want the rest of it,
let me know. 
