From: "Jerry & Melissa Jess" <vwstuff53(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Stanton, Jon \(E-mail\)" <JDStanton5(-at-)aol.com>, "vintagebus
Date: Sun, 31 Aug 2003 05:44:15 -0700
Subject: FW:Jerome Raffle Bus update==

Hey all,

Just thought I would give you an update on the raffle bus.

Of primaty importance is that it is now possible to go out, sit in the
driver's seat, turn the key and drive the bus!!

All electrical is done, checked and working.  This includes all engine
compartment wiring, all lighting (oh, 'cept for the rear dome light), and
even the working AM radio!.

The latest shipment from Ronnie came in, with the 2 small bulkhead panels, a
couple rolls of the fabric for covering the spare tire bumpout (need to
fabricate the panels), the front turn signal lenses, and a pair of rear
hatck hinge covers .

Deb and I went and got a starter switch, voltage regulator, and a few odds
and ends to finish everything that we could think of.  We got all the jail
bars polished up and instaled tonight, along with the fresh-air duct, fried
eggs and hinge covers.

Work remaining to be done includes, finish and paint the bumper blades,
finish/paint the deck lid and apron (Kyle's working on the apron), and
finish the upholstery (seat covers, bulkhead panels and front door panels).
We cannot install the kick panels until we get a chrome front emblem, other
wise the dash area is nearly complete.  I'll most likely be spraying the
parcel tray this weekend.

Items we still need (that I can think of):

chrome front emblem  (need soon!) ----Chrome front emblem donated by uj,
TWWM--Jon, I will bring to your workplace Tuesday--
front and rear bumper guards
front bumper over-rider
wiper arms and blades
sunvisors
horn button
rear hatch area panels and floor mat
washer bottle and squirters
air cleaner (the guy who donated the core engine says he has the correct one
he'll send, but I haven't seen it show up yet)

Harry Houck says he has a gear shift knob and rear hatch script he'll send.

Anyway, that's about it for now.  Time to quit.....

Jon
