Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Wed, 15 Sep 2004 09:23:18 -0700
To: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: California smog revision, vary un-cuth questions

On Sep 15, 2004, at 6:08 AM, Dave C. Bolen wrote:

> I've been to California and literally cannot understand the big
> draw...but, I'm not a fan of places(like LA) with a gazillion people
> either.

That's OK, I don't really like LA, either :-)  Come to San Francisco 
sometime.  It's really a totally different place.

While the new smog rules annoy me, they're certainly no reason for me 
to want to leave where I live.  Honestly, it's not even enough reason 
for me to get a '75-or-earlier Bus in lieu of a '76-or-later.

I consider myself lucky to live in the greatest city on earth.  I have 
the beach 40 blocks away.  I have wine country 45 minutes away.  There 
is picturesque farmland just over the Golden Gate Bridge, from which I 
can get the best tomatoes I've ever had.  Heck, there is the Golden 
Gate Bridge.  I have the mountains 4 hours away.  I have some of the 
best restaurants (ranging from ultra-fancy to grimy-dive) anywhere 
between 2 minute walk and 40 minute subway ride away.  I have cable 
cars, and the Top of the Mark.  I have a great ballpark that I can take 
the subway to, and a great team in a pennant race again this year.  I 
have cool, gray summers (I can always get hot and sunny by going over 
to the Mission neighborhood or across the Bay Bridge to visit friends 
in Oakland), and bright sunny springs, and bright warm autumns.  I can 
play softball year-round because the weather is so good.  I never have 
to store my Bus for the winter -- it's always camping season here.  I 
hardly ever have to drive it, either... I can run just about every 
errand I need to run by walking.  Most importantly, I can walk to 
coffee.

Whenever I go anywhere else in this country, I'm homesick for San 
Francisco within a few days.  I've never felt that way about any other 
place I've lived (and I lived in some pretty nice spots before moving 
here), and I wouldn't trade it for anything.

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
