From: "Rob Henley" <robhenley(-at-)baywindowbus.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 15 Sep 2004 22:35:21 -0400
Subject: brake booster hose connection

Since I removed the engine and reinstalled it the bus has not run to it's full
potential like it used to. The Weber carb would spit and stall. I found a
vacum leak at the rubber intake to carb connection and replaced it. It has
been running much better now, however there is still a problem....it does NOT
stall on me or cut off at stoplights anymore like it used to, and runs good at
speed and take off, however the Weber carb will spit and pop or "miss",
especially after slowing down and accelerating, ie if I am doing about 45 and
have to slow down for a light, the light changes and I don't have to stop, but
when I press the gas to get  going again the carb will pop or spit and it
sounds and feels like I am not getting gas or something for a second or two.
The bus also seems to be bogged down when trying to reaccelerate. If I start
off from a dead stop and accelerate strong it will go throgh the gears and get
moving fairly well.

Here is what I am suspecting or at least would like to know more about....the
brake booster hose has an inline "connector" on it, I believe this is a
leftover from the original FI setup (removed before I got the bus). It is a
connector that is black on one side and white on the other. It simply seems to
be a splice in the line. My 72 camper didn't have this connector. I replaced
all my hoses when I reinstalled the engine and when I got to this connector I
wasn't sure of the orientation. I noted that it seemed to be a one way valve
of sorts that would draw air through one way, but not the other. I am
wondering if I installed this connector backwards? Would it effect my engine
and cause the carb to pop? Can I do away with this thing altogether? The bus
ran like a top before I painted the tin and changed all the hoses.

77 Westy, automatic, single Weber carb, aftermarket generic electric fuel
pump. Points, dwell, etc seem to be fine.

Thanks for any insight!

Rob Henley
www.baywindowbus.com
