From: "Kelly Shop" <metwiz2shop(-at-)triad.rr.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 29 Nov 2010 07:31:56 -0500
Subject: announcment concerning "Metalwizard" Aka Kelly Brown Jr.

Can someone ck to see if this posted to vintage bus list if not please cross
post for me, I may have been dropped from it. I can still be found through
facebook under my full name, Womack's Suspension Werks is there too with his
contact info. It's been a good run.

www.Metwiz.com

Kelly Brown Aka "Metalwizard"

The purpose of this post is one thing, for everyone to get the straight info
from the source, me. Due to health issues I'm backing out of the
restoration, fabricating, welding profession.  I may do some on a small
scale till I find a job or figure out what I'm going to do. At this point I
have no idea what's next. 

Ok the issue. I had stomach issues last year and was messed up most of the
year. I lost a 1/3 of my stomach and some small intestine to an ulcer
abscess. About   2 months ago I got sick and was diagnosed with COPD
(Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease). An Aussie friend put it in plain
laymen's terms,  I got a cluster fook going on in my lungs. I'm not dying or
nothing, I just have to get it under control and get out of the nasty
conditions I have been working under for the last 15 years or so, of course
over 30 years of smoking did not help that either. I can deal with the
health issues. What's kicking my butt is giving up what I do and have done
all together probably 30 years total.

Right now I'm still working some small welding and some mechanical to make
the bills until I get something else going then I'm done. Womack Of Womack's
Suspension Werks  has been with me at least 2 years this last time and
pretty much carried the work load alone since the stomach deal started this
slide. I want to publicly thank him for the work he's done over the years
and for being the friend that he is. Hopefully I can stay in the Vw world in
some capacity;  we'll just have to see what happens. I got some parts buses,
a couple parts bugs, one bug with title as well, some parts stashed around
that I got to gather up then I'll be posting them up for sale. If I can help
anyone in any way feel free to yell. Thanks for listening,,Kelly

As far as recommendations I have 3 in NC.

Womack's Suspension Werks Greensboro Nc  He's a natural at it, loves Vw's
strives for excellence in everything he does. Honest and a straight shooter.
In the 8 or so years I've known him he's went from autobody  student to one
of the best at this  on the east coast. 

Mark Rafferty Charlotte NC Formerly from Tampa, the man is a legend. I've
known him a lot of years and his work ethics are unbelievable. Master
fabricator, Barn door guru and great friend.

Monkeynuts Vw  Charlotte Nc  The crew here are great, not know them all for
a long time but from what I can tell they are damn good at what they do,
Colby as a matter of fact worked here with me some as well. Damn good ,
quick learner and has come a long way as well.

P.S. Let me add here a thanks to all the other people that have worked for
me over the years as well, Brian, Tony, Mark, Steve, Warren, Colby, Alex,
Jr. Scott, Robert, Womack, And of course Kelly I. Aka "Punk". Hopefully
that's everyone, Later 
