Date: Mon, 28 Feb 2011 10:18:14 -0600
From: nate(-at-)aircooledtech.com
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: air scoops & mythbusters....

> From: "busdriver" <busdriver(-at-)nc.rr.com>
>
> I always thought that one scoop should face forward and the other backward
> to
> push air through the compartment.

I tried that and it didn't work.  The idea is to pack the engine
compartment with air so that the fan doesn't have to draw in air, then
push it through the tins.  That is why opening the deck lid is the
worst thing you can do.  Also, you can see real differences in temps
when you have no engine compartment seal.  On the heating side, I can
get gobs more heat with my scoops attached in the winter time, though
with them my oil temps are VERY cool (only reach around 160-170F on
the hwy when outside temps are in the 40-50Fs).

> hermine(-at-)endangeredspecies.com writes:
>
> how did  you measure the degree to which the scoops cooled things  off?

Basically, I drove up hwy 41 between Lemoore and Fresno, CA where it's
perfectly flat for literally hundreds of miles.  With a daytime temp
of around 90F IIRC I drove (-at-) 60mph with no scoops until my oil temp
gauge leveled off and I got a constant reading as a baseline.  Then I
added the scoops and drove (-at-)60mph until my oil temp again leveled out
around 10-12 minutes.  I did this several times in succession trying
everything from 1 scoop fwd to 1 fwd/1 aft both aft (which I don't
recommend at all!!) etc.  I posted the results on here and a couple
other places as well.  From memory I can't remember the exact amount,
but I think my oil temps ran around 15-20F cooler with the scoops both
facing fwd compared to the baseline in those tests.

I can say from using them every summer since now that I live in the
PNW, I have never seen my oil temps go over 220F and that's cruising (-at-)
70mph on the hwy pulling my trailer.  Love 'em or hate 'em, mine work
well and I'll be running them.  Scoops alone will not give a boost in
cooling if the engine compartment seal is in bad shape or missing.
That goes for the tins too.


--
Regards,

Nate M.
Owner, ProVolks
Anacortes, WA
www.aircooledtech.com/provolks/

Nate's AircooledTech
www.aircooledtech.com
