From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'Max Bronsema'" <max.bronsema(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: "'type2list'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 6 Mar 2011 21:40:09 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] back to sound proofing...

Hi Max,

Thanks.
I do have a camper-it is an ez-camper. Mine has always been pretty loud, but
there were many many reasons for that. Including-the window seals on the
crank out windows, were practically not there-so the glass rattled. I dont
know if any of the doors really sealed well. They still dont seal great,
but they are new, and seal much better.

Ez-camper actually did a decent job shoving foam behind all the panels of
the bus. There wasnt any rust under the foam either, which was good. I
really want a quiet bus, I like to either listen to the radio, or talk to my
passengers, and this was always difficult before. Also I noticed I always
got tired pretty quickly driving my bus on longer trips. I then read a post
on the list-linking road noise to fatigue, and it made sense. I want to be
able to take long road trips, without worrying about the road noise tiring
me out. I figure a quieter bus, means more road trips! Although I think if
it is too quiet inside, I will miss the noise of rain on the roof, which I
always loved ;)

I like the two tone on the seats, did you make the seat covers yourself? How
hard was it? I noticed you put a wood or faux wood floor in. I might suggest
putting a carpet in on the floors, I had that in my bus before and noticed a
difference. This helps absorb the sound pretty good. I used some carpet
samples from my office-they were an industrial carpet that had a heavy vinyl
or rubber type backing, it came in squares, and was easy to put in and take
out. I think I may use something from Flor, there product looks similar.

-Kevin
Jamaica Plain, MA
'69 single cab
'65 Kombi

From: Max Bronsema [mailto:max.bronsema(-at-)gmail.com]
Subject: Re: [T2] back to sound proofing...

Hi Kevin,

That looks fantastic. I did a very similar thing to my
bus, https://picasaweb.google.com/max.bronsema/KKLouiseInteriorRestoration?f
eat=directlink, though you did a superior job. 

I am not sure if yours is a camper. Without my camper interior in the bus
was crazy loud inside. After putting the sound dampener in it was still loud
but noticeably quieter. With the interior back in the bus is even still
quieter. The jalousie windows and my old door seals will be replaced next
and I bet that will help even more. 

You are going to have the quietest bus around, keep up the great work.

Max
