Date: Tue, 20 Nov 2007 16:15:05 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Marcus Schaper <mail(-at-)marcusschaper.de>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Engine/trans mounts

Marcus, I think the Vanagon mount may be a worthwhile improvement, the carrier bar has 4 rubber bonded mounts, all much heavier (at least in appearance) than the 2 bus mounts.  They distribute the load to two carrying up and down and two at angles (about 45 degrees) for up and down and side to side (which is what you need to resist torque) loading.  BUT, I'll say this, every real German bus style mount I pull out even today still looks something near serviceable, every Vanagon mount I ever pulled out, even German ones froom the day looked like crap.  Actually I've had the best luck in replacement with the INDIAN made ones compared to new German or Italian but YMMV.  I think the setup with the little cast carrier and the 4 is superior in concept though and certainly had no rear trans mounts in air or water cooled Vanagon.  I can't visualise off the top of my head if it will bolt right into a bus though and I don't have a full air cooled Vanagon setup (though there is a nice
 camper for sale for $500 in Anchorage right now, hmmmn) around, the only thing being whether it interferes with the ports to the heater boxes off the fan shroud that are not present in a Vanagon, but I don't think they will as the aluminum carrier is sandwiched between the case and the fan shroud I think and my gut reaction is the level of those is down below the heater boxes.  If I were you I'd probably do it and scrap the rear trans mounts assuming you have a nice HD front mount as well, 3 points should be fine, no different than a vanagon and I assume the Porsche box is a side shifter.
   
  John

Marcus Schaper <mail(-at-)marcusschaper.de> wrote:
  I am digressing here, but this post caught my eyes ... I have a Porsche 5
speed for my '76 camper and the one installation concern I have is the lack
of a transmission carrier. Now, if the Vanagons did not have it, would a
rear Vanagon bar in combination with the fairly beefy 911 mounts in front do
the trick? Any toughts on this? Engine is a 2L type 4, but will be replaced
with a torquier one at some point (2.4 or 2.7 type 4). Obviously, I'd like
to have drivetrain mounts that are up to this. Bus is a bare shell, so now
is the time to do it right.
