Date: Sun, 25 Nov 2007 13:27:36 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Rob <becida(-at-)comcast.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Brake line flare kit?

ISO (International Standards Organization) "bubble" flare.  Sort of an incomplete double flare like US makes use where the second flare isn't driven all the way down.  Bubble flare set costs anywhere from $40 to several hundred $$ depending on quality, manual vs hydraulic, etc.  The cheapo Chinese one I have does just fine IF you clamp the two sides of the block that holds the brake pipe together so they hold well enough.  I use a little Starrett hand vise to clamp it myself, also use the same on my US double flare set, just adjacent to where the yoke goes, and I get about a 75% sucess rate after I've done several in a row.  It is better from a hand flaring standpoint with such a cheap tool to used galvanized pipe NOT the plastic coated pipe as the plastic coated slips, from a lasting standpoint I don't know which is better the plastic stuff goes to hell when it gets a scratch, but is probably better if it stays intact, the galvanized coated resists scratching better.  Any
 type of double flaring is VERY picky on the distance the initial flare is put on (the distance the pipe is sticking out of the clamp blocks) and there should be a gage with the set to judge this, but they aren't always that correct in a cheapo $40 Chinese set so some experimentation may be required.  Regardless you can get good results, but don't be surprised if they aren't always right first time off which can be a real PITA if you already have bent and installed the line, always try to leave a little slack somehow if you need to retry.
   
  John

Rob <becida(-at-)comcast.net> wrote: 
  I have to replace the rear wheel cyls on my '79.
I recall that the VW does NOT use the double flare, is there a 
'special' type of flare tool to look for?
Thanks,



       
---------------------------------
Be a better sports nut! Let your teams follow you with Yahoo Mobile. Try it now.
