Date: Mon, 26 Nov 2007 12:15:36 -0500
From: Anymouse <honeybus(-at-)gmail.com>
To: mbjeeper(-at-)aol.com, "Type 2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: Vanagon BA6 gas heater into bus questions

You are getting the advice from the list on the BA6 heater.  This is good.
But while you have access to the Vanagon, think about the other pieces which
might serve you in the future:

I pulled a pair of calipers off a Vanagon and used them on my '78.  They
were much more solid looking ...  The rear drums would need to be pulled
with the backing plates.  This would give you the self adjusting features of
the Vanagon rear brakes.

How about the fuel pump for the gas-to-engine.  It may have different
fittings, but it will work well in one of your bay VWs

Also, the cuffs from the warm air bellows, if still there, would replace the
asbestos cuffs on the bays.  perhaps not now, but a few years down the line
they may be sought after.  If not, at least let the list know they are
available for 'karma' ...

I know, this is really minor, but the zerk grease fitting on the front
beam.  I put a jack stand under my front axle beam on my '78, wasn't
careful, and creamed one of the zerk grease fittings...  How are yours??

Of course the front seats....  The early air cooled Vanagon seats don't have
the captain chair arms, and the sitting down section is foam.  Slides right
in...

Yes, if it is a '81, then the speedometer is perfect!!  You may have to
drill a hole in your bay glass face for the trip meter reset arm, but it can
easily be done.  If it is an '80, you may have to go with a Plexiglas face,
vice glass....  Yes, there is a difference between the two, a BIG
difference, but either can be made to work.  (If it is an '80, the inside
rear mirror will work on your bays.  later year vanagons' inside rear view
mirrors are angled and won't fit the bays.  It will give you a much larger
view of the rear seat (kids, right!!), and even cover the right side rear
window so you can see someone coming up on the passenger side that would
normally be in the blind spot for your side mirrors.

Does it have black hanger straps?  Even if white, you can use them to pull
your rear hatch closed from the inside.  I attach the strap just below the
window on the inside.  There is a nice piece of metal there that you can
screw into.  You DO have the inside release for the rear hatch, don't
you!!!  It can be used as an emergency exit, even if the rear hatch is
locked from the outside with the key...

Lower both front door windows on both your bays just half way.  Slam the
doors.  Is the driver side door more noticeable noisy than the driver
side??  Could be that your window regulator is busted on the driver side.  A
simple fix,.  How is the Vanagon window regulator??  The vanagon window
regulator seems to be about $130, where the bay regulator is about $25.  The
driver side tends to go because of the extra usage

Exterior sliding door handle (any keys available??)

Passenger side vent window.  People tend to break the passenger vent
window to gain access to the Vanagon and bays, so that would be useful for
some poor soul.

Curtains??  Even just a few, someone might need...   Is this a Westy??
Black curtain straps (or brown,,,)



-- 
Barry Burneskis sends
Northern VA (Fairfax)   1978 Westy
