Date: Tue, 18 Feb 2003 18:47:17 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Fuse Block

>From: GDasson(-at-)aol.com
>Date: Tue, 18 Feb 2003 11:02:23 EST
>
>Another question about my '67. I don't want to put the original fuse block
>back in and was wondering if anyone had a suggestion for an aftermarket
>block using modern type fuses?

One thing you can do to an original fuse block is to solder together all
the places that are just pressed or riveted now.  This gives a more solid,
lower-resistance connection.  You'll need a fairly hot iron; a couple of
hundred watts is probably the minimum.

Since the pointy fuses are only available at obscure specialists like
Wal-Mart, I don't think there's a big availability problem, but if you do
want to go with "modern" fuses, your basic choices are glass fuses or
either size of plastic blade fuses.  Glass fuse blocks are commonly
available in parallel strips, like the original, which will simplify
connecting the wires.  Some of them even have the push-on tabs on the
end.  Examples are the Radio Shack 270-742 or the All Electronics
FHBL-42 .  If you look around you can find strips of 8 of these fuse
holders, but usually you find them in groups of two or four.  Auto
parts stores also sell four-way blade fuse holders, at least for big
blades.  Often, one side of all 4 fuses is common, which is not what
you want for a VW fuse box - you'll have to cut the strips to isolate
some of the fuses.

Probably the most important thing is to make sure your replacement fuse
box connects to the rest of the harness with 1/4" push-ons, just like
the original.  That makes it possible to easily replace wires later if
you need to, and also allows the next owner to go back to stock.

Another important point is to use the closest fuse ratings you can to
the originals.  In glass or blade fuses, that probably means 7.5 A for
8 A and 15 A for 16 A.  You may want to split up some circuits and have
more than 8 fuses, which is fine, but doing so will not change the level
of total power available in the Bus.  You're still limited by what your
generator/alternator puts out.

Matt Roberds
