From: "Keith O'Neal" <wko(-at-)lycosmail.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 19 Feb 2003 13:05:42 -0500
Subject: Practical Bus

This bus is a driver; I drive it at least 200-300 miles each week, swapping out with one of my other air-cooled dubs on other days. Im selling this bus only to thin the herd. Man I hate to sell this bus!!!

1600 dp OEM Brazilian engine installed in 5/00, currently has 29k miles, engine has run flawlessly and still going strong. Doghouse fan shroud with thermostat/directional flaps/hoover bit installed, adjusted, and working. All engine sheet metal is German and powder coated. 009 dizzy. 34 PICT carb. Tiger 801 CDI ignition. Stock muffler. Average gas mileage is 21.7 mpg city driving, 28+mpg on the road. Fuel consumption records calculated at each re-fuel.

Tranny built by Dave Folts of Anaheim, CA, installed in 5/00. 4.125 ring and pinion, 0.82 4th   gear. Installed NOS German trans mounts, shift rod bushings, the shift rods cleaned, greased up well, and correctly refitted to the hockey stick during this tranny install job. Factory correct- Shifts sweet! 

Has (5) correct 15 bus wheels that were sandblasted, acid etch primed, and painted L289 pearl white just two years ago. Running 195R82X15 Cooper radials (M+S rated) height 27.1.

Has epoxy enamel black undercoating under full undercarriage; 12 volt electricals, front pedal splash pan installed, installed Dynamat . over engine bay, all doors and walls insulated, and 5 ml plastic vapor barrier installed before interior was finished off; German brakes all around; KYB shocks front and rear; H4 halogens with 65/100 lamps; seat frames (springs remain cosmoline coated) were sandblasted , acid etch primed and epoxy painted black (reused the original hair seat padding). All headlight switch internal contacts have been re-soldered.

Recent front swing lever bushings/center pin replacement and rebuilt stock height Wolfgang king pin spindles installed (link pins inspected, cleaned, and micro-polished) makes this transporter factory tight!

Ceramic wool insulation with 12 mil foil backing on all heating ducts from heat exchangers to dash, long center heat tunnel replaced (used  2 <  galvanized ID exhaust pipe), heater box control flaps rebuilt and working correctly makes this one toasty warm bus! Dont tell me the stock heating system on a bus is not adequate- I routinely turn my heat knob down a few turns!

Has a few DeLuxe bus doo dads installed:  chrome speedo trim, rear hatch jail bars, crest horn button, chrome ashtray, rear seat with luggage bar, chrome door handles- looks nice!

Has all the CORRECT German interior bits:  aluminum trim molding on interior panels, seat trim panels on both middle and rear seats, church key and holder, ash trays, perfect original headliner, rear hatch hinge covers, door check straps, seat t-bolts/base clamps/support plates/wing nuts, sun visors, blue floor mat in cab, passenger seating armrests, factory seatbelts, remarkable original seat stand mats, uncut dash with original, working Sapphire V am radio, original steering column knee rubber, bilstein jack and lug wrench, plastic trim plugs on rear seat luggage bar ends. All the above-mentioned stuff is totally German. The interior upholstery is not original, but it looks very close because I designed it that way, (the material is actually a VW product), I think it looks closer than some of the newest TMI stuff that is out, you decide! Upholstery is not overstuffed like so many out there; everything sits at about stock height, look real original. Stainless steel slotted screws/finish washers used to install interior panels.

This bus was restored by me in 85, and now has that cool, classic, vintage aged look (though it is time for paint and a little body repair at pass side dog leg, cargo door rocker panel, and driver side rocker panel- see pics).

Did you get it all? Hey, Im an idiot, so what? Ask me what I will do with this bus if I dont sell it.
            

1965  Standard Bus  $8300.00

-- 
