Date: Thu, 20 Feb 2003 09:10:27 -0800
From: the Spaeth's <spaeth(-at-)gorge.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: Stuck drum...

You guys who are writing things like get "PB Blaster", although I can
tell you have best intentions at heart, you have never had a "REALLY"
stuck drum. I worked for a week straight on one. I have had many drums
that were tight and slow to release and whatever other terms you might
want to use. I thought I had dealt with stuck drums, until that fateful
day. I soaked the stubborn bastard with Kroil, PB Blaster, Liquid Wrench
and tried paraffin. I pounded and heated and broke 3 pullers. I even
used a Sawzall and cut into the nub, just to see if I could relieve some
pressure. Eventually it came loose but the drum had been heated red hot
and completely beat into submission with a large hammer. I did not jump
into using undo force. It built slowly as conventional methods, that had
always worked in the past, fell by the way side. As time and methods
passed I became less enamored with saving the drum and just wanted the
damn thing off. Amazingly enough the splines were fine. But there was
surface rust in all of the low spots THE WHOLE LENGTH where it contacted
the drum. Make sure and grease them properly so future generations don't
need to suffer through this type of aggravation. What do I think got the
drum to release? Absolutely all of it. I think the combo of heat,
pounding and lubricants eventually worked. Would they have worked
without destroying the drum? Maybe, given a month or a year but I didn't
have that much time to wait. What's the point of this rambling? I don't
know. Definitely keep giving your advice because it will help lots of
drum pullin bus drivers out there, just somewhere in the recesses of
your mind remember that may not be a stubborn drum or a "real bugger to
get off" drum it might be a STUCK drum. (I would bet there have been
drums more stuck than mine.) Oh yeah I did back off the brakes this
time, that is a whole nuther tale.

Mindless ramblings from,
Craig
the Gorge
