From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 21 Feb 2003 11:31:00 EST
To: bugginmiami(-at-)hotmail.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] 67 front brakes..

I've found that the brake parts use an 11mm fare wrench.  So you can just get 
the one.   spraying wd-40 or your favorite spraylube helps-   break it losse 
then wiggle back and forth (after spraying lube).  sometime the nut sticks to 
the line, and can make the line twist crack and break so watch to make sure 
it doesn't.   I grease threads when reassembling.  Grease is good.  Your bus 
loves grease.  grease grease grease.  Grease the threads. 

Do you have an Idiot book?  get one.  it has pictures and description for the 
non mechanic and even says what tools you needs for the procedure.   Bentley 
has photographs or the shiny new splitties, and more professional explanation 
(assumes you have done this before) and costs more, but it a great book, 
COMPLETE! and very useful.  

Ofhand I think the front are 27mm (or is it 24?) well one size is the 63 and 
earlier and one is the 64 and later.   I use an adjustable wrench for the 
outside nut, and a speciallity altered (thinned) wrench for th inside, as my 
adjustable wrenchs are too fat.  need to hold th inside when tightening so 
the tightness is correct.  Pull off yr hub cap (if any) and dust cap to check 
your nut size.   A new tab thingy for between the nuts is a good idea.  While 
you are getting some, buy some extras to throw iin your extra parts box that 
lives in the bus.  How are your wheel bearings?

I never had the line between the cylinders break.   BUT you may want to 
remove the adjust stars  and then crack loose the lines while teh cylinders 
are on the bus.  (with the nifty 11mm flare wrench)  Clean the stars threads 
and grease them so the brakes are easy to adjust.  grease where the stars 
spin in. 
Make sure the hold spring tabs are intact.   they keep the brakes from self 
deadjusting.
 

 In a message dated 2/20/2003 10:57:10 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
bugginmiami(-at-)hotmail.com writes:

<< I have ordered the (4) wheel cylinders and new shoes. I have 
 never done bus front brakes, id like to see an exploded or picture before i 
 break into mine if anyones got one. If not id REALLY like to know what tools 
 i should have. Im going to buy a flare wrench set (the cheapie set i found 
 was 10-15mm, will this suffice?). I read the archive and someone mentioned 
 the line between the cylinders was problematic, is there a good chance of 
 this breaking and me needing that too? Is the front drum held on like an old 
 bug with the twin crappy nuts? If so what size are these so i can grind a 
 wrench down in advance. Thanks
 jasonw in miami
 wide5.com >>
