From: "Mike Anderson" <mikeanderso(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 21 Feb 2003 19:57:53 +0000
Subject: sanding/bodywork ramblings...

Hello everyone,

As I slowly get closer to being "ready" to paint the bus, I am reminded of 
Prometheus in greek mythology.  After giving fire to man, his punishment 
from the gods was to push a great boulder from the base of a tall mountain 
to its top.  As soon as he neared the summit the the rock would tumble to 
the bottom, and he would be forced to repeat this activity for eternity.  I 
never realized how much area there is on a bus.  I have seen it said in many 
FS ads "When I was doing the resto, I decided not to get the drivers side 
long panel flat and perfect because I wanted to keep it looking vintage."  
Truth be known, they said that because getting that panel to come out just 
right is tedious work.  Not difficult, just requires large amounts of time 
and patience.

My "lessons learned" thus far:  I had the whole bus sandblasted.  I still 
believe that was a good decision.  My bus had been repainted and "modified" 
several times before it came to me, and after replacing both rear wheel 
wells, rockers on both sides, lower door skins on both cargo doors, and lots 
of slide hammer work on the nose, I figured why not.  There was a bit of 
distortion on my rear hatch, but really nowhere else.  It was nice to have a 
clean canvas to work with before I started with the bondo to cover up my 
weld seams, and the small bumps.  If I could go back in time, I would have 
spent more time with the bus in this stage.  Pass over the entire body with 
a body hammer, and the palm of your hand.  Hammer ouf the low spots, and try 
to massage the high spots back down.  Yeah, and do all this in a hurry 
because you don't want to leave the bus naked too long...

I assumed when I was doing the filler work that "the high build primer will 
cover the little stuff"  It does help, but I find myself doing alot of work 
with glazing putty, which is alot harder to sand since you have to do it by 
hand, no in line sander here.  Be critical of every imperfection while you 
are still in the filler/hammer stage.  Getting AR on it after you've put on 
primer makes for alot of work.

Of course, all of these are lessons that have to be learned the hard way.  
If you've already learned them, this info is nothing new to you.  If you 
haven't learned them yet, I'm not so sure my comments will make much sense 
to you.

All in all, it's alot of work, but it's really satisfying to look at a panel 
on the bus, and know that it is prepped "right," and that I won't have any 
regrets about my work a year after the paint has gone on.  Hopefully I'll be 
able to say that about the entire bus in another week or so...  Hats off to 
those that have restored/painted several busses.  My autobody career starts 
and ends on this bus!

Anyway, hope I didn't ramble too much, thanks for your patience.  Have a 
great friday, and a great weekend everybody.

Mike A.
'64 SO-34 in SLC
