Date: Fri, 21 Feb 2003 19:47:13 -0800
To: buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org,vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: Scott Fraser <kn6f(-at-)dolphinsci.com>
Subject: Bus Virus

BUS VIRUS, its contagious and it must be spreading.

I've have my '60 Double Cab, daily driver.  I get comments from my students 
and other's "I saw you in your truck, this weekend....",  Everyone equates 
Scott = Doublecab.

At the start of the Spring semester, I hired a new instructor and he drives 
a '65 bus.  So on Wednesday nights, there are two splitties in the parking lot.

NOW, I just got back from a day long road trip with another instructor in 
my dept. where John bought himself a '63 double door panel.  We drove out 
to check it out, test drive it and make a deal.  I had planned to follow 
him back driving his wife's chevy van but then he handed me the keys and 
said that he'd feel much more comfortable if I drove it listening for any 
problems that "didn't sound right".  I was jazzed and honored.  I figured, 
we'd stop a few times and check it out and then swap, but no, he followed 
me the whole way.

Very nice driver, everything tight, engine is just past the breakin stage 
on a 1600 SP rebuild.  The amazing part was, I had so much fun driving that 
bus that I completely forgot that ended up being just short of a four hour 
drive home. Just lost concept of time.

So....  in my dept, we now have three instructors, each with daily driver 
splitties :-)  Has the virus spread to anyone else's place of work to that 
degree?  John commented that it was a bit ironic that we teach such high 
tech stuff (electricity, robotics, automation) and then for all of us to be 
driving such simple "low tech" vehicles.

John will be using it both as a daily driver and to haul his music 
equipment from gig to gig on the weekends.  Check out his web site (and 
tunes) at
http://www.havanahurricane.com

If you want to have some fun, listen to the list of MP3s there on the 
site.  That's John doing the vocals and guitar (6 & 12 string), Dobro and 
Lap Steel.

He's not on any of the lists (yet) but is a frequent vintagebus.com reader.

Scott
'60 DC
