Date: Sat, 7 Sep 2002 07:02:09 -0500 (CDT)
From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
To: Janice Bartmess <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
Subject: Re: (long) was advice, now back to fi vs carb



Janice, I didn't include the original cause everyone knows it's the
FI v.s. carb question.

Ya just couldn't keep away from this one could you...<grin>.

Here is my take on it.

I've owned and worked on vw's since 1966.  

I didn't get into FI till last year on my 78 cause I was afraid of it.
You know....too complicated, too expensive, etc.

I've had a bus with the stock carbs on it and had no problems...but that 
was only a few years after it was new and the carbs were in fairly good 
shape.  Rebuilt the engine and carbs and once I read the instuctions on 
how to balance and tune, bought the right flow meters, it was great.
I got terrific mileage, could tool along with semi's doing 80 and had no 
problems.

Now I have a 78 that I bought last year. It had sat for 8 years.
I asked the same question of the list and the general consensus from most 
people was that it would run better with fi...

I decided to try and stick with FI.  Got out my trusty VOM and started
in on the tests in the Bentley...one by one.  Read a paragraph, run the 
test, think about the answer, leave a sticky note on that spot with the 
results.  Read the fi section, read it again untill you understand how it 
works.

After it was all said and done, I needed 4 injectors, a fuel pump,cold 
start injector and a fuel pressure regulator.  Price to replace was about
$400.  I wrestled with this one for about a week and decided to go for it.
Price for a crappy aftermarket carb and parts to go with it was also high.

Bought the parts, cleaned everything up, installed them and it started
on the 6th turn.  Runs well!...except for low compression problems.  I can 
run 80 on the interstate with a 132k mile engine and it runs fine.  No 
bogs, no hesitation, no problems.

At 10 degrees F or 110F, you just reach in and start it.  No preheat
problems, no freezing problems, no icing up problems, no vapor lock 
problems, no balancing problems, no linkage problems, no getting the jets 
right problems, no worn throttle shaft problems, no bog problems..

Please remember, this is from someone who was afraid of it and had no 
problems with carbs(kadrons, holley(yes, I still run bugsprays), or 
stock).  

Once you understand the stock fi, you wonder what you were ever afraid of.

The only thing that bothers me about stock fi is the temperature sensor
point of failure...easy to fix though.  Now, I am going to rip it out soon
and go to the Megasquirt.  Even fewer parts on the engine and you can tune 
it yourself...*and*, since you can tune it yourself, I can now use a cam
that says "not recomended for stock fi"!  

I suspect that after I get Megasquirt running on the bus and then rebuild 
the engine, I will branch out to fi on some of my T1's.

So, what's it gonna be?  Stay in the comfort zone, or expand your 
knowledge and understanding??<VBG>

Cheers, dave

-- 
[...]-------------------------------------------------------------------
"I'm more interested in getting it right, than being right"....dave



