Date: Tue, 8 Jun 2010 19:43:12 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Tuning up my bus, thoughts and input

Hi List,
 
Here is what kind of bus engine settup that I have and what I am doing to it.
 
*1968 bus
*1600cc DP Engine, with mild cam ( don't know the specs on that) Rebuilt less
than 5000 miles ago by local vw shop. No thermostat or flaps (I know, I know.
I am scared to install them as my last engine fried with them in) The oil was
just changed and the valves adjusted less than 50 miles ago by vw mechanic.
*113-905-205AJ distributor with compufire ignition and the advance hooked up
only on   the vac canister. It has a new cap and rotor and the plug wires have
about 5000 miles on them.
*Dual solex 32 PDSITs  from a type 3 1600cc DP ( jetted for the 1600cc DP used
on type3's)
*It has an alternator as well.
 
I took out the old 009 dizzy in favor of the DVDA distributor listed above. I
timed it at 7 deg ATDC  with the advance hooked up on the vac canister and the
retard side not used. I hooked the advanced vacuum hose to the vacuum port
that is above the throttle butterfly only giving it vacuum when the throttle
is open. The Distributor gives me around 38 deg of advance when the engine is
wide open throttle. When the accelerator is first pressed, there is a slight
stumble before it revs up. Is this a lean mixture problem? I found that with
the dizzy timed at anything under 5 deg atdc, the stumble is much worse, and
it ildes terrorably.
 
The engine lobbed when it idled. The number 3 cylinder seemed to be doing most
of the work. The number 1 cylinder did the least work at idle. I adjusted the
idle mixture control screws and smoothed it out quite abit, but the engine
still lobbs when it idles with #3 doing most of the work and #1 doing the
least. I am considering pulling the spark plugs and doing a compression test
and checking the condition of the plugs at the same time. Mabye the valve
adjustment did not go very well? It runs fine once you push the accelerator. I
dunno. Could the stumbling be that diaphram pump stroke on the carbs need the
stoke adjusted? I am going to replace the fuel filter too as it looks dirty
inside.
 
Where should I start Volks? I don't know where to begin.
 
Thanks!
David Kellly
volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com 
 
