Date: Wed, 9 Jun 2010 21:23:54 -0600
From: DurocShark <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: It's gone.

The Guac is on its way to KY. Finally. Took 2 days to make this happen.

I picked up the buyer at DIA. Place was packed, both garages were
full. Had to park out in BFE. Hauled my old butt into the terminal,
picked up the buyer and his son, hauled back out to the car.

The buyer wanted to have the ball joints replaced before he got here.
I thought that was a pretty good idea (if a bit ballsy for a vehicle
he's never seen in person) and took it to a shop last week. On Monday,
the buyer (Steve... easier to type than "The Buyer") called the shop
and talked to them. They decided the ball joints weren't bad enough to
worry about. Hmm...

We get to the shop after stopping for lunch, and the bus wouldn't
start. After putting tilly the two-ton battery in there, there's no
way it ran flat. I gave it a quick jump and it was idling like doodoo.
Finally it stalled itself out (probably why the battery was dead...
The shop probably left it idling) and I popped the engine compartment.
Couldn't see anything obvious, so I started it again and headed back,
accompanied by a loud hiss. I reach in and was able to stick my finger
through the large hole in the S-boot I posted about yesterday.
Luckily, I had the old German one still. Stiff as a board, but it
worked. Got it started up again and it idled great.

While on my way to the shop to drop the bus off, I had to use the
wipers and washers to clear the windshield from what my wife calls
"poo-rain"... 10 minutes of big fat drops... Just enough to dirty the
car. So I know they worked. Well, after we picked it up, the spindles
were spinning inside the stripped arms. ARRGGHHH!. Steve wasn't
worried. He's a Rain-X fan. I offered to tackle that job several
times, but he wouldn't let me.

We finally get to the DMV last afternoon and try to get the title
transferred. DMV wouldn't touch it. They didn't like where the sig was
or some such. Called Troy (it was his sig, I never got him removed as
lienholder... oops!). By the time we hooked up it was too late, so he
and I went back to the DMV this morning. (Troy rocks, guys, in case
you haven't noticed by all the time he's put into this list's server!)
Anyway, got that sorted today.

In the meantime, I had let Steve take the bus (he gave me a deposit)
to go camping with his son. I got a call this morning from Steve that
the muffler had fallen off on him. My new strap had snapped. Ack! He
came up with a reinforced rubber mount that worked better than the
stock strap. I like it a lot. He also got new tires since the Nokians
were down to 15% of tread, and starting to crack.  4-ply tires. Made
me nervous, but he likes them. Whatever, I guess. We don't need to
FART that one around again.

Finally this evening Steve came over to my house, gave me the rest of
the money and took the fixed title. And away he went. The Guac'll do
fine. I think it's gotten over its fear of leaving me. I hope so
anyway, because his new owners are super stoked to have him. I'm very
glad he's found owners who will appreciate him and drive him and use
him the way he should be used. I was sad at first, but the realization
of who's getting the bus made me feel better.

-- 
Don
-----
