Date: Sat, 12 Jun 2010 10:00:58 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: t2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] quad CHTs installed and datalogged

On Sat, Jun 12, 2010 at 9:36 AM, C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc.

> I've been playing around with my weber progressive,
 What is your jetting?

 I have 60/50 idles, 137/155mains, 165/160 air corrections.
 Seems lean judging from the spark plugs.

 Thanks,
 Chris

----

Hi Chris,

I'm by no means knowledgeable on carb jetting. What I can tell you is
that to solve this immediate problem I did a flurry of research on the
web about this. I can't remember everywhere I've been and everything I
learned, but I can tell you that there is more than one way to skin a
cat.

I found John Connolly had a thread on this on The Samba:

http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/viewtopic.php?t=386388&highlight=progressive

This is a good place to start, but he says no way no how on a Type 4
engine when I have had success with it on various ones I have owned.
The main problem is manifold icing in cold weather. Canadians have
been reported using electric manifold heaters, and one person even ran
a line from the muffler to the center manifold like EGR and reported
success with that. Here it is so hot that half the VWs I have seen
here have the choke disabled, so I have no issues with my Weber at
all. When I lived in Red Bluff, we did get icy mornings sometimes when
I went to work, but the electric choke seemed adequate and I only
needed an extra minute or less to get the engine warmed up and running
well enough to leave for work.

So I took a look at John's recommended settings. According to his
numbers, I should have never been able to get my carb to work without
getting new jets, but once I got it dialed in, I see that whoever set
up my carb knew exactly what they were doing as my air/fuel ratio is
very consistent across the entire RPM band.

The full report on that is here on this list in the full Solex
Rejetting thread, but I'll forward that to you separately so you don't
have to dig for it.

So take a look at John's recommended numbers, but you really need to
spring for an LM-1 to read your exhaust rather than depend on a visual
inspection of your plugs. LM-2 is now the current model if you have
the bucks for it. I got my LM-1 on ebay at a lower price.

When I took my Weber apart and recorded jet numbers, I was not aware
of the idle jets, so I don't have those numbers. Here are my other
jets:

Main - 137/155
Air Correction - 180/210

Good luck,

John
