Date: Sun, 13 Jun 2010 21:22:56 -1000
From: Samuel Kerger <swkerger(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: engine running rough...

Any help would be much appreciated.
1972 Bay w/ 2.0l w/ 1.8l heads, Weber Progressive, 009 and 091 trans.
fyi...I am no expert on the engine stuff... just able to do the basics so
take it easy on me.

it feels like a studder or not getting enough fuel... or maybe the timing is
off.
when i rev the engine it has a slight studder in the beginning but i can
"clear it" and revs up pretty nicely. When in gear (driving) it never
clears. low power, runs rough, but it will idle.

So i took it to my mechanic (well respected VW guy) and he couldn't figure
it out. He said that everything looked good, but while timing, it the timing
would "moved a little on him and wouldnt stay right on" What does this mean?
the stupid 009 has a compufire electronic ignition... could it be bad or the
009 itself? i plan to replace the distributor with a SVDA soon, but with the
engine running bad i am worried that something is really wrong.

Mechanic replaced the weber with another single solex double barrel and said
it ran "better" but still not perfect. Could it be the carb? Jetting? It use
to run good with this weber... well as good as it can with a weber.

Currently running a cheap after market fuel pump that was installed by PO
with no regulator. Fuel pump bad? It use to run good with this fuel pump.

Also i remember the end play being a little off when we replaced the
flywheel and clutch. i remember there being shims put on. So my question is,
will too much end play cause this sort of issue. And if so how?

i just replaced the coil so i dont think its that. SP Wires all "look good"
but i havent tested them. Checked grounds from batt. and trans. and cleaned
them.

Any ideas???What do i do first... i am pulling my hair out!

I have a post on the samba too with some history and same question...
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/viewtopic.php?t=413758&postdays=0&postorder=asc&start=0

Sam
1972 Hardtop Westy
2.0l w/ 1.8l heads, Weber Progressive, 009, runs like crap.
Oahu, HI
