Date: Mon, 14 Jun 2010 15:56:31 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] engine running rough...

On Mon, Jun 14, 2010 at 2:22 PM, Samuel Kerger <swkerger(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:

> 1972 Bay w/ 2.0l w/ 1.8l heads, Weber Progressive, 009 and 091 trans.
 fyi...I am no expert on the engine stuff... just able to do the basics so
 take it easy on me.

> So i took it to my mechanic (well respected VW guy) and he couldn't figure
 it out. He said that everything looked good, but while timing, it the timing
 would "moved a little on him and wouldnt stay right on" What does this mean?
 the stupid 009 has a compufire electronic ignition... could it be bad or the
 009 itself? i plan to replace the distributor with a SVDA soon, but with the
 engine running bad i am worried that something is really wrong.

I'd start with the distributor. I recently had the same problem with
my stock distributor. It turned out the advance plate was binding and
so the timing wouldn't move like it was supposed to, and would also do
like your mechanic described by spontaneously moving when it would
finally free up and move towards where it was supposed to be. Then
when I took it apart, I found the advance spring retainer towers
(plastic) had started to disintegrate, meaning the mechanical advance
was also unreliable. I solved the problem with a reproduction
distributor. Also, the 009 is problematic. Boston Bob used to have an
article about it, but the site is down since he passed away, so I've
copied the article below.

> Mechanic replaced the weber with another single solex double barrel and said
 it ran "better" but still not perfect. Could it be the carb? Jetting? It use
 to run good with this weber... well as good as it can with a weber.

It's about being set up correctly. If you follow the thread on "Solex
Rejetting" you will see my report on excellent results with my Weber
progressive. Since the problem was roughly the same after changing
carbs, I'm sure your carb was fine. I'd put it back since it gives
better fuel economy than the regular double barrel.

> Currently running a cheap after market fuel pump that was installed by PO
 with no regulator. Fuel pump bad? It use to run good with this fuel pump.

I'd suspect it if it caused a problem from day one. Some put out too
much pressure, but if it ran fine before, this is not a likely
suspect.

> Also i remember the end play being a little off when we replaced the
 flywheel and clutch. i remember there being shims put on. So my question is,
 will too much end play cause this sort of issue. And if so how?

You might get clutch chatter with loose end play, but the real danger
is when your engine can no longer maintain oil pressure because things
are too loose.

Good luck, and let us know how things progress.

John

--------------------

A Gearhead's View of The 009 Hesitation Blues '97
By Bob Donalds
   When your original distributor fails, or if you just want to get
the latest and greatest, you reach for the fully centrifugal 009
distributor or one of its cousins. When the 009 is used with the
30-PICT-3 or any 34 PICT carburetor, problems begin to happen faster
than you can turn the adjustment screws. Where do you time the new
distributor? Do you use the old timing mark?  What does the old timing
mark mean? Why won't my engine idle?

   First, most original distributors in the dual port were designed to
run with an idle timing of 5 degrees AtdC (After Top Dead Center). The
009 should be timed at 10 degrees BtdC (Before Top Dead Center).
Setting the 009 at a timing mark of  5 AtdC would give you an
inadequate advance of about 17 degrees total.

   Now your engine may idle nicely but you risk melting a piston. The
air cooled type 1, pre 72 type 2, and type 3 VW engine needs a total
advance of  32 degrees BtdC up at the fan belt where it lifts off the
pulley. When the 009 is set at 10 degrees, this timing change of 15
degrees raises the idle so high you need to lower it by turning the
idle speed adjusting almost all the way.  Naturally this shuts down
the idle circuit. The engine is now getting so little fuel;  it barely
idles.  If it does idle, it won't transition to the next carburetor
circuit without massive hesitation even with a good accelerator pump.
Also, the throttle plate if not closed at warm idle, will create the
same effect.

    On the dual port crank pulley there is a dent on the opposite side
of the original timing mark and slightly to the right. I take the
middle of this dent as 0 degrees. Take the points of an open-end 15 mm
wrench and lay the left side of the wrench in the middle of the dent
and the right side will fall at approximately 10 degrees BtdC. File a
new notch at that spot, I then mark it with red touchup paint. The
next step to a proper idle is to install a pop rivet in the hole of
the throttle plate. Trust me, it works. This is the brass plate at the
base of the carburetor that opens when you press the gas pedal. Now
all the air the engine draws in at a idle must come through the idle
circuit. You can now back out the idle speed adjusting screw,
restoring the idle by allowing enough air into the carburetor idle
circuits thereby picking up the fuel needed to obtain an idle. You can
now set the timing at 10 BtdC with your 009 distributor and have the
fuel needed for a stable idle and smooth transition to the high-speed
circuits.

When rebuilding engines, I lower my compression ratio to prevent
pre-ignition and overheating with a semi-hemi cut in the combustion
chamber. This allows me to run 2 to 4 degrees more timing without the
engine getting too hot. The carburetor might also need a larger main
jet. Does the engine run out of power just past the idle at 1500 rpm
or so and putting the pedal to floor isn't much help?  I find larger,
main jets commonly needed to help with this midrange hesitation and
additionally can increase top end. My best guess for main jet size on
a otherwise stock engine is # 135 the carb comes stock with a # 127.5
unless it's a 71 type 2 then it's a #125. Gene Berg Enterprises is a
good source for main jets. Changing the main jet to a larger size can
improve gas mileage because less gas pedal is needed to get up to
speed.  Rejetting is common when running a non-stock exhaust. These
exhaust lower the back pressure and tend to lean the motor out. Of
course before rejetting, be sure you have reviewed the basic tune-up,
having a proper pre-heater for the carburetor below 50 degrees. Check
your valve adjustment and make sure you have enough compression for
the motor to idle. Any cylinder with under 100 pounds compression will
not fire at an idle. Tuning for performance is done one change at a
time with a fully warmed up engine, and the test drive is the measure
of success. The original timing set up with the idle settings at 5
degrees BtdC was to reduce hydrocarbons for the now standard tail pipe
emission test. Be clear that the 009 distributor will increase tail
pipe hydrocarbons when timed . Depending on the emission laws where
you live, this can make the difference when trying to pass the tail
pipe sniff  test.
