Date: Tue, 15 Jun 2010 09:23:36 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Solex Rejetting

On Tue, Jun 15, 2010 at 1:14 AM, Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu> wrote:

> I would swap back one of the NGK plugs back to one of your previous plugs
 and see what temps you get.  I got the exact same temps after I switched to
 NGK B5ES plugs.  This is driving me bonkers!

I'd say the root of your problem is that you are pioneering
unconventional technology. I don't know the exact numbers VW engineers
were using, but John Connolly suggests "too rich" at 11 to 12:1. And
again, Hot Rod tuners are using 12:1. I'd have to check, but I think
the LM-1 quick guide also says something about 12:1. I'd stop bucking
the system and go back to conventional technology. I know the
potential rewards of GAMI lean-of-stoich tuning are great with today's
gas prices, but it's not worth the grief it is causing you. You might
make 2 setups -- one conventional, and the other experimental. Run
conventional tuning for daily use, and use experimental to explore the
issue and work it out. Easiest to switch back and forth with
megasquirt I suppose and have 2 tuning profiles. If this is on your
carb setup, you'd have to pull them and put something else on when you
are not experimenting.

> Btw, what year engine do you have and what exhaust do you have - is it the
 individual header and heat exchanger, or the combined header and heat
 exhanger?

That's a good question! This bus is a 1974 Type 4. PO told me it was a
2 liter, but engine code is for the original 1700. I asked the PO
about it, and he said didn't know enough about engines to know either
way. He only knew that his PO told him it was 2 liter. I got the
feeling that non-VW people just think of all Type 4 engines as 2
liter. I can't tell without disassembling the engine. I looked at the
lifters thinking if it was upgraded to 2 liter, it may have gotten
hydraulic lifters, but mine are not. I have the original 1974 exhaust
- combined exhaust manifold/heat exchanger unit - with stock exhaust
-- two muffler flanges that bolt straight to the heat exchangers.

John
