Date: Wed, 16 Jun 2010 11:14:04 -0400
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
To: "Pratt, Bob, VBABOST" <bob.pratt(-at-)va.gov>, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine rebuild

Hi Bob,

Back in the fall of 2007 I rebuilt the 1.7L engine in my westfakia and 
when I put it in the bus I couldn't make it run. Compression was only 
30PSI all around. Due to the way it had been rebuilt before I got it the 
deck height had been altered and the head gaskets were no longer an 
optional extra. So I pulled the engine and did some more work on it.

By the time I finished getting it done, it was January, and well below 
zero on a warm day. So I decided I would run the engine on my workbench 
before I put it back in the van.

I had lots of spare parts on hand, so in all it probably only took 2-3 
hours to build the test rig. I don't have a proper engine stand but 
instead sat the engine on top of a couple of 2x4s on top of a VERY 
sturdy steel bench. The 2x4's were there to elevate the engine and 
improve airflow away from the heads.

Here's what you'll need:
  Bell housing and starter
  Fuel pump
  on-off switch for coil power
  Push-button momentary switch for starter.
  1/2 gallon lawn-mower gas tank with a T installed for fuel return line.
  Ballast resistors
  Double relay
  Decel valve
  ECU
  Wiring and connectors for the components.
  Brackets to support the above, and the AFM/Air cleaner assembly.

Some (most?) of these parts can be removed from your bus if you don't 
have spares. Most of the wiring goes to and from the double relay and 
the D/R pin-outs can be easily researched in the library.

I was very happy when my engine lit up at the first press of the button. 
Even more so as its warmth gradually heated my garage.  For me, at the 
time, being able to adjust the idle speed and timing in the warmth was 
well worth the minor hassle of building the test rig.

YMMV.

Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario Canada
197x Westfakia "Bob the Tomato"
1987 Wolfsburg Weekender Hardtop
www.pottsfamily.ca

BUSES OF THE CORN - AUGUST 13-15th, 2010
www.pottsfamily.ca\busesofthecorn



On 6/16/2010 10:28 AM, Pratt, Bob, VBABOST wrote:
> Also is there any place I can take the
> engine to get it started before I install it into the bus?
