Date: Sun, 27 Jan 2002 12:22:30 -0600
From: Shawn <firefly1(-at-)intop.net>
To: All Knowing Bus List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: FS: 71 Westy

Volks:

As bad as I hate to, I'm selling my beloved Westy (named Rosemary) to
finance the purchase of a later model Westy.  I need something bigger to
pull my sailboat.  And my wife wants air conditioning:-).  Since
inspection may involve a drive for some, I'll list everything I can
about the bus and be as honest as possible.  I've owned her since my
sophomore year in college (1990).  I drove her for a semester before the
engine locked up on an ill-advised road trip.  She then spent the next 6
or 7 years in my father's barn while I earned the money and knowledge to
put her back together again.  I approached the restoration looking for a
dependable bus sparing no expense of time or 
money.  I have gone completely thru the mechanical stuff including a new
engine, brakes, drivetrain, etc.  I just started the body work (which
I'm no good at anyway).  That's the original paint! She has the typical
rust under the windshield, lots of bug dings on the nose, and small
(dime size) holes in the rockers on both sides.   The passenger side
rear corner was dented and bondoed.  I banged it out as best I could and
faired with bondo.  From there I worked toward the front using a dremel
tool with a grinding wheel to remove the small rust spots (scratches
that turned to rust).  I intended to approach it panel by panel and then
get someone to paint her. I've gotten to the sliding door.  
There's a dent in the sliding door which can be easily pulled and a
bumper crease on the opposite side.

So there you have it.  Mechanically, she's in top shape.  Just down to
the body work and She'll be an awesome bus. I'll put up a web page with
pictures later this week.

I believe $2500.00 is a fair price.

BAD:

     The brake booster just went out.
     Body Work to be done (see above and pics).  Rusty spots have been
POR-15'ed.
     Passenger seat upholstery split right down the middle
     Visor Keepers broken
     Windshield Washer lines leak

GOOD:

Engine rebuilt ~7000 miles ago.

     New AS41 Case
     New Crankshaft
     Rebuilt rods
     New Stock camshaft (had a hard time finding that one)
     New lifters
     New Mexican Heads
     New Cylinders
     Full Flow oil filter w/Berg pressure release valve
     Type 3 Kool Tin
     Rotationally balanced and static to 1/4 gram
     Never Overheated
     VDO Oil Temp and Pressure Gauges
     Pertronic Points replacement
     Rebuilt stock dual vac distributor

Fuel Injection - Bosch Continuous Injection System (CIS) from 78 VW
Rabbit
- Excellent induction improvement.  Lots more low end torque.  Seat of
the pants - about 10% more power, primarily below 2000RPM.  It could
really use a taller set of gears now.  I used the
manifold/plenum/throttle body from a FI beetle.  Air flow meter from
Rabbit.  Altitude compensated Control Pressure Regulator (Volvo 240).
See  Miller Fuel Injection.  Fuel milage varies from 16 to 22mpg,
depending on the weight of my right foot.  If you want the manifold to
convert back to a carb, it's here.  I don't know why anyone would want
to.  Trouble shooting this mechanical fuel injection system only takes a
fuel pressure gauge (included).

Eberspacher BN4 Gas Furnace
-fully functional.  Egg timer switch. Return air ductwork available. The
heater came from a late bay. After I mounted the return air grille, I
found that the plastic ductwork would not properly align in an an early
bay. I just never fabricated one as the heater puts out LOTS of heat.

Westfalia Camper

     All camper equipment in good shape
     New Pop-top Canvas (3 Window)
     New Pop-top Seal
     New vinyl floor
     New sink pump
     Ice rack and drip tray
     Childs Cot (good canvas)	
     Upper cot (good canvas)
     New cabinet handles
     Rear Screen

Misc.

     Hella H4 headlights
     Bug Self-retracting seatbelts
     Tranny de-greased and new outdrive seals installed
     CV's cleaned and repacked with new boots
     New Starter
     Rebuilt Front Calipers
     Front and rear brakes ~2000 miles ago
     8 ply Load D tires almost new
     VW clock installed in instrument panel
     Windshield Wiper Assy. R&R
     New Accelerator Cable
     New Shift Rod bushings/dust boots/shift rod coupler
     Straight Rear Bumper and a dented spare included
     Sliding door handle in good shape (spare included)
     Door panels and headliner in good shape

Shawn Clark
 firefly1(-at-)intop.net
Jackson, MS 
601.961.5629 day
6001.373.6686 nite
