From: "Frank Stroupe" <fstroupe(-at-)dixie-net.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 27 Jan 2002 14:07:30 -0600
Subject: Bus for Sale

Bus for sale:

1977 VW Bus/Transporter/Station Wagon

I bought this bus a couple of years ago from a dealer that knew nothing
about it. Bought it for a project, but haven't had the time or bucks to put
in it.  I assume that this bus spent its entire life in the south, probably
the Atlanta area.  I have driven it very little in the last year and a half,
I did drive it a couple of weeks ago.  Will crank and run right now, but
needs a battery.  Is at present being used for the second most popular use
for a vw bus, a storage shed for small
household items.  Hate to sell it, but don't forsee restoration in the near
future.  And I'm also tired of the sand rail guys coming by to ask to buy
the transmission.

Engine:  2L/Weber progressive  Most original tin, one piece is homemade but
fits fairly well. Seal is there, intact, but well worn.   Leaks some from
oil cooler.  Engine runs strong, have accidently had it over 85 on hwy a
couple of times.  Have replaced both sets of rear wheel bearings, but I
think that one of them is making noise.  Exhaust system needs replacing.
Heater boxes intact but rusted.  Bellows worn but usuable.  Needs heater
cables.  All gears are strong.  Shifts sloppy, probably needs adjusting at
transaxle.
Clutch is good, but I have no idea how old it is,  I have not had engine out
of vehicle.  Freshly rebuilt alternator, probably less than 200 miles since
rebuilt.  Has had starter relay installed.  Hard cranking in winter since FI
is not there anymore, no way to heat intake air.  Tires drivable, but well
worn.

EXT:  needs MINOR body work.  There is some rust and small damage at area
outside of battery box.  Rear bumper bent.  There is some surface rust on
all of the normal places, but NO CANCER!!!  UNDERSIDE IS RUST FREE.  Rubber
could use replacing, but all is still there intact.  Crack on side of
windshield, not really in driver's line of sight.

INT:  Headliner intact and good.  All panels present, but front door panels
worn.  All seats present, need brackets for middle seat.  Upholstery on
front seats worn but not as bad as many.  Rest of upholstery in good shape.
Of course, the dash is cracked.  Mat has been replaced at one time and is in
excellent condition.  Sliding door works well, but interior handle missing.
The electronics attached to the key switch wore out, and I hooked up a
generic ignition switch to it.  I did not cut a hole in the dash for the
switch.  The original can be reused, Ron has the part needed.

I'm asking $1000 obo.  Bus is located in Myrtle, MS, 40 miles north of
Tupelo, MS, 60 or so miles south of Memphis, TN, just off of US 78.  Email
me at fstroupe(-at-)dixie-net.com for more details or photos.

                                                        Frank Stroupe



