From: "Sean Bartnik" <seabar(-at-)rcn.com>
To: "Mark Dominesey" <muskeg(-at-)lostwater.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 28 Jan 2002 09:31:13 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Working Fuel Injectors, gaskets and manifolds

> Anyways, is there a gasket between the intake
> manifolds (where the injectors squirt into before it
> enters the head) and the haed?  Do I have to remove
> any cooling tin to take loose this intake manifold?
> There is dry backfires coming from this area and the
> stinking thing will not idle.  Also, there is smoke
> rising from this area as well.
>

Yes there is a gasket between the intake manifold and head.  It's a black
plastic block sandwiched in between two pieces of metallic gasket-ish
material.  Bus Depot.

Also there are seals around the injectors where they enter the intake
manifold.  Make sure you've got those in there.

You don't have to remove any tin to remove the manifold.  You do have to
remove that section of the fuel rail with the injectors attached.  Then
there are a couple nuts on studs that hold the manifolds to the heads.
Remove those and it will come right out.  If you are going to remove the
manifolds, you might as well replace those 4 big short cloth-covered rubber
tubes between the center portion of the manifold and the runners that go to
the heads.

> Also, there is a pretty good leak out of the drivers
> side, just above the heater box.  I am thinking, valve
> cover gasket????  How hard is that to replace?  remove
> the heater box and exhaust and take the valve cover
> off and will it come off?
>

Valve cover gasket is easy.  No need to remove the exhaust or heater box.
Pry the bail down and pull off the valve cover.  Remove the old gasket.  Buy
new ones of course, and get the cork ones.  Clean up the sealing surface on
the head and also on the valve cover.  Make sure they are smooth.  Some
steel wool on the sealing surface on the head will really help.  Run your
finger around it to make sure it's perfectly smooth.  Clean out the sealing
surface on the valve cover too.

When installing the new gasket, give each side of the gasket a light coat of
wheel bearing grease.  Don't use gasket sealer.  Put the valve cover back
on, make sure it's seated right and then pry up the bail.  It should now be
leak-free, assuming the valve cover itself isn't bent :-)

Sean Bartnik
Springfield, MA


