Date: Mon, 28 Jan 2002 10:58:48 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Brian Verbeek <verbeekb(-at-)dejazzd.com>
Subject: Valve noise

I've had this with most engines I rebuilt. I use grease 
on the cam, lifters and push rods because I tend to take 
a lot of time for these projects, to prevent rust and not 
worry too much about lubrication on first start up, knowing 
there is at least some lubrication till the oil gets there, 
I do tilt the engine from left to right and front to back 
to get oil all over the place just before installation, 
most of the time I'll start it up right after it's installed. 

I always had valve noise increasing quite soon after start up. 
The 1776 in my Bus had it the most I've experienced. New heads, 
new everything. The Berg pushrods were cut to lenght, and I 
think they got compressed a little more after being run for 
a little bit, the grease may have been in the way of adjusting 
the valves properly. The engine is heating up for the first few 
times and expands, heads get looser(?) (this may be where the head 
re-torqing comes from?). True, the valves seating should tighten 
it up, but I've never had it happen, with new VW assembled heads, 
or properly rebuilt heads (Ahnendorp, Germany). The Berg pushrods 
are very noisy btw. I think I need them as I push my VWs harder 
than average and I used to get shiny spots on the stock pushrods 
on several stock 1600s from rubbing against the push rod tubes. 
I wish I would have used hydraulics :) I run new VW rockers on 
Berg solid shafts and Porsche swivel adjusters (they are actually 
the -same- lenght as the Berg ones, contrary to what's written in 
How To Hot Rod VW Engines and are stronger as the Berg hex weakens 
the adjust it the wrong spot, I broke one off while adjusting the 
valves, it broke right at the bottom of the hex, and that was 
exactly where the nut touched the rocker). The Porsche ones are 
much more expensive though (Porsche PN 901 105 370 02, about $15 
each). Berg valve springs, retainers, keepers and shims, W100 
cam, Ahnendorp hardened lifters. I's love to hear experience on 
using the 1:25 VW lifters and if that would or may quiet down the 
valve train somewhat. 

Brian

'74 single cab
Looking for never driven Bug (sedan, no sunroof/ragtop)

