Date: Mon, 28 Jan 2002 16:25:58 -0800
From: sunbus <sunbus(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine replacement (long)

> >I would have to go with the dual weber
> >carbs otherwise. There is also fuel injection. Can I put fuel injection on a
> >73? (boy I bet that is gonna bring a lot of emails)
> 
> Sure.  Jack Stafford did it and I know a few others have also.  My '73 will 
> have fuel injection eventually.  You need to have ALL of the parts though, 
> including different gas tank, fuel pump, wiring harness, distributor, 
> etc..  You will also have to do some custom work when installing parts that 
> weren't there before, such as the brain, airbox, and misc. bits that attach 
> to the firewall.

Back in the '80s I installed dual Weber 40s on my 1.7L engine.
It took some fine craftmanship to make a decent throttle linkage.
At that time I was using a 009 distributor with no vacuum port.
If I stuck my foot in the carburetor(full throttle), that mule
would jump.  Once I got it all dialed in it ran just great.  I
went through two different jet sizes and finally drilled out the
smaller jets a tad so it would not run rich or lean.  It would
pass Calif's smog emissions test (but failed the visual inspection).

In '95 I could hear a box of hammers following my bus.  The dread
of rod knock.  That same week a '78 camper was totalled in a front
end collision.  So I bought the '78 camper's 2.0L engine, fuel tank,
FI, exhaust, etc and had a local shop install it in my '73 chassis.
It was easy to transplant when the two buses were side by side.  The
air filter bracket was moved over to my bus and so was the "firewall"
with the decel valve attached also welded on the FI fuel pump bracket.
Two holes were cut, one for the FI brain and a second one for the
throttle cable feed, which enters the engine room amidship.

I saved the bell housing, clutch, flywheel and starter in my '73.
The other bits are stock '78 vintage and it passes both the CA sniff
test AND the visual smog inspection.  
I DO have FI in my '73, but it is stock '78 FI on a stock '78 engine
with stock CA emissions. Probably more than you wanted to know.  
ramble ramble
-- 
Jack  '73 Westfalia  '82 300CD
Costa Mesa, California
http://home.earthlink.net/~sunbus/index.html

