From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Chris" <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>, "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 2 Dec 2008 22:12:27 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Running Hot

Hi All,
just wanted to let you know that Sunday I managed to get the time to put the
new plugs in the bus. Went from NGK BR5ES to B6ES, one heat range cooler. The
problem is that I haven't had a chance to do a good comparative test. By the
time I found a place (NAPA) that had the plugs that didn't want $8.00 a plug
to "special order them", and installed them, it was too out cold to get a fair
comparison. I'll have to wait until Saturday so I can take a rid in the
mid-day warmth. But, If the colder outside temps make my gauge read higher, I
might be on to something, maybe.  After driving my test route, the gauge read
below 400 degrees, about 370-380. Could be the cooler plugs have less
influence on the temp sensor, cold outside temps were cooling the engine
better, or I misread the gauge. It was dark and the gauge is not back lit, so
I used a flashlight to see it.

Expect to see the injector seals on Friday so I'll swap injectors (if needed)
after I do a test run and recheck with IR gun. Wish me luck.

Chris, what kind of readings are you getting with your sensor under the head
stud nut? Could you do me a favor and take some readings with your IR temp gun
and let me know what you get. I take my readings after the bus reaches a
stable temp cruising at 55 on the flattest road around here. Where I do this,
there is not much traffic. I shut off the engine with the clutch in at 55mph.
Pull over as quickly as safe, Jump out, run to the back, access the engine,
pull #3 plug wire and shoot the IR gun through the hole. I probably look like
a mad-man, jumping out of the bus with a gun shaped thing in my hand :~? If
you could take readings with the gun as close as possible to the hole and
shining the laser pointer on the following spots: on the spark plug nut (the
metal part your socket wrench fits on), and 4 spots around the plug as close
to the nut as you can without illuminating the nut with the laser (In front
of, behind, to the left and right of the plug). I think it would be
interesting to find out where if I'm anywhere near the ball park when compared
to a different bus. For all I know I may be getting concerned about nothing?

TIA!
Tom
80 Westy
Bus-ted minds want to know
