Date: Wed, 03 Dec 2008 17:10:42 -0600
From: Chris <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: Martin Strandgard <mnstra(-at-)unimelb.edu.au>
Subject: Re: [T2] Running Hot

Martin - that was a very good observation. I will look for that in the 
future should I have a high temp problem.

How about having a Timesert installed into the head with the temp sensor 
under the Timesert, then the sparkplug in the 'sert? It would eliminate 
the sensor moving around every time the spark plug came out. Admittedly 
the spark plugs don't have to come out that often but I ruined mine 
while chasing a misfire problem (bad wires) as I recall.

The other option might be adjusting the gauge so that it dealt with the 
lower temps correctly. Perhaps the needle could be bent or perhaps some 
electronic tech could take the lower signal from a relocated sensor 
(such as to a head nut) and adjust the signal. Would be like a signal 
amplifier I suppose. At 350 degrees the sensor sends out a millivolt 
signal and a tiny circuit mounted in the dash somewhere would take that 
and add a few millivolts to boost the gauge readout. Perhaps this boost 
boost could be adjusted with a  potentiometer so that it could be 
adjusted for whatever air cooled engine it was installed on.

I recognize that the reaction time might be longer. Any ideas on how 
long the delay might be?

The other option would be some sort of high temp epoxy that glued the 
sensor in place under the sparkplug so that removing a spark plug would 
not disturb it.

I just want to make it more long lasting and survive a few plug changes.

Chris in Cookeville
'78 Westy 2,7L

Martin Strandgard wrote:
>> Chris, what kind of readings are you getting with your sensor under the
>>     
> head stud nut?
>
> In all previous discussions I have seen of head temps, every alternative
> location for the sensor has produced cooler readings. The closest to the
> spark plug reading was for the sensor glued into the base of a slot next
> to the spark plug! ;)
>
> This brings me to another suggestion for high CHT readings. I had
> problems with the sensor sealing the spark plug caused by the sensor
> ring going oval shaped and so letting hot exhaust gas get to the sensor.
> This was evident by the blackening around the flat surface that the
> spark plug seals against. I solved it by replacing the spark plug with
> another that still had its sealing washer intact. This is easy to test
> if you have a spare spark plug kicking around.
