From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 5 Dec 2008 22:40:19 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Running Hot

Hi all!
Sorry I haven't responded to to replies in a timely manner, but work has been
crazy.

I received my injector seals and air filter today, so I'll try to make time to
do some comparative testing tomorrow and post some results.

Mike,
From the readings I got last weekend using my new IR heat gun, I'm getting the
feeling that having the sensor under the spark plug is giving me a combined
reading of the real cylinder head temp and the spark plug temp. When I would
take the temp of the aluminum right next to the exposed metal part of the
spark plug, It was much cooler than the metal part of the spark plug itself.
It seems to me the spark plug should be hotter than the head because the end
inside the cylinder is exposed directly to combustion temperatures inside the
cylinder and the fact that steel does not shed heat as well as aluminum.
Whereas the cylinder head is designed from the start to be a heat synch and
shed the heat to the air flowing over it. Granted, if the temperature was
running constantly at a given temperature, then suddenly increased in temp, a
CHT sensor mounted under it would alert the driver to a possible developing
problem, probably more quickly than a sensor attached to the cylinder head
anywhere else.

Chris,
I didn't realize you were powered by American machinery. Used to work with a
guy that restored Corvairs years ago. That engine was a great idea that Chevy
shouldn't have dropped. Thanks Ralph Nader :~( If you get a chance to take
some readings on that Riviera, that would be great.

Martin,
Your message said:
>In all previous discussions I have seen of head temps, every alternative
>location for the sensor has produced cooler readings. The closest to the
>spark plug reading was for the sensor glued into the base of a slot next
>to the spark plug! ;)

Interesting! Do you know what they were using to glue the sensor on?

I'll check for exhaust gas leakage at your recommendation, good idea. That
begs the question, If you got the plug to seal with the gasket in place, why
is it recommended to remove the spark plug gasket in the first place? I just
re-read the instructions that came with my CHT gauge and thermocouple. in
regard to the thermocouple location, it says, "The ring sender style probe is
installed between the spark plug and engine, usually replacing the existing
gasket."

thanks for the help guys, I'll post results as I get them.
Tom
80 Westy
Bus-ted minds want to know

  ----- Original Message -----
  From: Tom Shinn<mailto:turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
  To: Chris<mailto:joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net> ; Type2<mailto:Type2(-at-)type2.com>
  Sent: Tuesday, December 02, 2008 10:12 PM
  Subject: Re: [T2] Running Hot


  Hi All,
  just wanted to let you know that Sunday I managed to get the time to put
the
  new plugs in the bus. Went from NGK BR5ES to B6ES, one heat range cooler.
The
  problem is that I haven't had a chance to do a good comparative test. By
the
  time I found a place (NAPA) that had the plugs that didn't want $8.00 a
plug
  to "special order them", and installed them, it was too out cold to get a
fair
  comparison. I'll have to wait until Saturday so I can take a rid in the
  mid-day warmth. But, If the colder outside temps make my gauge read higher,
I
  might be on to something, maybe.  After driving my test route, the gauge
read
  below 400 degrees, about 370-380. Could be the cooler plugs have less
  influence on the temp sensor, cold outside temps were cooling the engine
  better, or I misread the gauge. It was dark and the gauge is not back lit,
so
  I used a flashlight to see it.

  Expect to see the injector seals on Friday so I'll swap injectors (if
needed)
  after I do a test run and recheck with IR gun. Wish me luck.

  Chris, what kind of readings are you getting with your sensor under the
head
  stud nut?
