Date: Sat, 6 Dec 2008 11:36:03 -0800 (PST)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Monitoring Temperatures

Mike, the CHT's will always warn you of impending doom due to excessive heat in the combustion chambers - IF you know what you're reading, have reference points and are using them correctly. If you are not monitoring all 4, then it's simply a decoration. If you monitor all 4 simultaneously, you have them all as cross-references. If you have a digital thermometer telling you the temp at the connector ends, you have a reference of how much the ambient temp is offsetting actual temp.

Comparing numbers between engines in other areas with other than exactly duplicate conditions and setups is worthless. I would prefer that all CHT gauges have no numbers on them so people don't get so all-fired excited over things that are meaningless!

If you monitor the EGT at where they all come together, it would give an indicator that something somewhere is happening. Then, you would reference the CHT gauge and see which cylinder has the problem. But if you have a quad CHT gauge, the EGT is redundant. 

If choosing between them, either way all 4 cylinders must be monitored to make them worthwhile. Another possibility is to have sensors at all 4 plugs and a single CHT with a rotary switch to change from one sensor to the next. This, combined with an EGT that monitors after the collector will work. When an unusual reading is seen on the EGT gauge, simply cycle through all 4 on the CHT gauge and you have your culprit.

If I ever build another aircooled, I'll likely do the latter as it solves all the probs with monitoring.

Scott Fraser was working on a cycling display that automatically switched through the cylinders, displaying on a digital display. Don't know if he ever made it. He was also working on a compensator circuit to adjust for ambient temp - the biggest reason why people get erroneously excited about CHT readings!

Yes, the shortest thermal route available between the combustion chamber and the outside world is through the spark plug.

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
