Date: Sat, 06 Dec 2008 16:46:43 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Monitoring Temperatures

Busahaulic wrote:
> Mike, the CHT's will always warn you of impending doom due to excessive heat in the combustion chambers - IF you know what you're reading, have reference points and are using them correctly. If you are not monitoring all 4, then it's simply a decoration. If you monitor all 4 simultaneously, you have them all as cross-references. If you have a digital thermometer telling you the temp at the connector ends, you have a reference of how much the ambient temp is offsetting actual temp.
>   
Or you get a dakota digital sensor that is temperature compensated :)  I 
think having one sensor is still better than none.  Plus, if it's 
showing too hot, you at least know that one cylinder is hotter than it 
should be.  Changing the sensor over to another head at regular 
intervals (monthly?) would probably give a good idea of which cylinder 
runs the hottest.  Monitor the hottest one (assuming that cylinder 
doesn't get messed up) and you're probably good.
> Comparing numbers between engines in other areas with other than exactly duplicate conditions and setups is worthless. I would prefer that all CHT gauges have no numbers on them so people don't get so all-fired excited over things that are meaningless!
>   
I completely agree that using other sensor locations are worthless.  I 
do, however, think the numbers are helpful, though, especially when 
people do compare temperatures at common testing points.
> If you monitor the EGT at where they all come together, it would give an indicator that something somewhere is happening. Then, you would reference the CHT gauge and see which cylinder has the problem. But if you have a quad CHT gauge, the EGT is redundant.
I think it would be much smarter to monitor the EGT in the exhaust 
manifold where you will get a usable number.  Putting it in the 
collector will give you a value, but there are too many variables 
introduced.  The temps drop significantly from the manifold only a few 
inches out so measuring at the collector will give you a temperature, of 
course, but it's kinda like putting your CHT on the head bolt - you 
don't have a reference as to what is too hot.  It is known that EGTs 
over 1250F mean you're killing your heads.  If you're measuring at the 
collector, the warning temp could be 600, 700, 800, ???  Plus, if you 
have your heater on or are driving fast, that's going to change the 
measured temps as well.

I would also think that EGT would be much more helpful than CHT because 
it's telling you the actual temperature of something that's going to 
destroy your engine.  CHT is a good indicator, but I don't think it's 
coincidence that Jake Raby and the other head and cylinder builders I 
have been speaking to also talk about EGTs when referring to dropped 
seats - none of them ever mention CHT.

> If choosing between them, either way all 4 cylinders must be monitored to make them worthwhile. Another possibility is to have sensors at all 4 plugs and a single CHT with a rotary switch to change from one sensor to the next. This, combined with an EGT that monitors after the collector will work. When an unusual reading is seen on the EGT gauge, simply cycle through all 4 on the CHT gauge and you have your culprit.
>   
I think one is better than none.  If you can monitor all four, even 
better.  Again, I think measure EGTs at the collector would be pretty 
meaningless.
> Scott Fraser was working on a cycling display that automatically switched through the cylinders, displaying on a digital display. Don't know if he ever made it. He was also working on a compensator circuit to adjust for ambient temp - the biggest reason why people get erroneously excited about CHT readings!
>   
Like I mentioned above, the dakota digital gauge is already temperature 
compensated.  The switch linked to below might be an interesting way to 
switch between multiple sensors, but it gets pretty pricey buying the 
k-type thermocouple wire and thermocouple extension wire:

http://www.edl-inc.com/pyrometer_accessories/multi-point.htm

Plus, they already make gauges that take multiple inputs; I think they 
have it at Aircraft Spruce..
> Yes, the shortest thermal route available between the combustion chamber and the outside world is through the spark plug.
>   
Wouldn't the shortest route be the exhaust?  It would make sense that 
the exhaust is the shortest thermal route as you're seeing much higher 
temps that are closer to the actual temps inside the cylinder.

Mike
