Date: Mon, 8 Dec 2008 11:06:04 -0800 (PST)
From: MerlinJ79 <merlinj79(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Synthetic Oil Road Test

OK, so after several years of rumors of wiped cam lobes (which is a pretty well documented phenomenon in the hot rod world) I did some research.

Philosphocially I was always a dino-oil guy, just cuz I don't drive a lot therefore I change oil on the calendar, not the mileage. Since I didn't push the mileage life of the oil, I figured dino was more economical and would do the trick...after all that's what our engine were design for, right?

Weeeeell...yes, but the oil that VW intended for us to use no longer exists on the mass market!

The government and/or auto makers have pressured the oil mfgs to reduce the amount of ZDDP (a zinc/phosphate compound) in motor oils (it reduces catalytic converter life). This has been phased in over the past several years as the oil standard has changed from SJ, to SL, and now SM.

ZDDP protects engine parts from damaging each other when metal-to-metal contact occurs. Normally, an oil film keeps the metal parts seperated but occasionally they might touch. On our older cars a solid pushrod and flat tappet combination puts a TREMENDOUS amnount of pressure on the camshaft lobe and tappet...can be 200,000 psi.

This is where the ZDDP is critical. Modern cars with hydrualic lifters and roller-tappets don't have quite the same need for ZDDP, so the mfgs can get away with lowering the content.

There is all manner of online discussion about various oils which have better content as well as additives (such as STP) which contain a ZDDP boost. I thought about using disel-engine oil which has more ZDDP, or using certain dino oils with an additive. I considered mass-market synthetics, but these still need ZDDP and have apparently experienced the same reduction as the mass-market dinos.

Ultimately I decided to go with a specialized synthetic which is geared towards performance engines, Royal Purple 20W-50. It is about ten bucks a quart, so not cheap but it should be good insurance.

The road testing has shown faster idle, noticeably more HP, lower oil temps, slightly higher CHT (supposedly synths don't transfer heat as well), and a quiter engine. I was concerned with leaks, but nothing on the driveway yet.

It sounds like I will still have to change it every six months though, to prevent contaminent build-up.



Rick
"Pumpkin II"
Stock 2L FI '77 Westy
CA Smog Stuff
