Date: Mon, 08 Dec 2008 15:09:17 -0600
From: Chris <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: Tom Shinn <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Running Hot

Tom Shinn wrote:
> I didn't realize you were powered by American machinery. Used to work with a
> guy that restored Corvairs years ago. That engine was a great idea that Chevy
> shouldn't have dropped. Thanks Ralph Nader :~( If you get a chance to take
> some readings on that Riviera, that would be great.

Something to consider was that the Corvair head has a boss cast into the 
bottom of the head that allows a dedicated GM head temp sensor to screw 
into the head vertically and puts the sensor tip close to the combustion 
chamber. I had no idea of the thickness of the head material at that 
point but because it is downwind from the head and cylinder airflow I 
would guess that the temps would be pretty consistent.

A question to ask would be where are the temp sensors mounted for other 
aircooled engines like the 911 or for the aircooled boxer aircraft engines?

The bottom location might be influenced by the exhaust temps but the 
Corvair heads also dumped their exhaust gases straight down as well.

Would it be possible to machine away a small area on the bottom of the 
head to allow a bolt to be screwed to the head and attach the ring 
sensor as well? Would the air flowing off of the head be the same temps 
as the head is? More a question of curiosity than useful fact I suspect. 
I think consistent temp readings are more important than absolute 
numbers since the trends indicate the health of the engine more than 
anything. Yes, I would want to know how the real numbers related to the 
sensor temps so I wasn't driving a time bomb such as if the gauge was 
showing 350 when the real temps were closer to 450 degrees F.

The Corvair engine was a good engine but was cast pretty sloppily. 
Machining takes care of most of those imperfections to make it a 
perfectly useful engine but the VW engine is a thing of beauty by 
comparison. The VW has straight and consistently sized fins. The VW 
cases are perfect inside and out (relatively speaking). I guess that was 
an era when German meant truly better than most other automotive products.

I have seen pictures of Corvair main bearing flanges for the crankshaft 
not lining up correctly (offset relative to each other). Some Corvair 
enthusiasts spend time cleaning up the castings at rebuild time. 
Corvairs also run hot sometimes but generally it is because the fins on 
the heads were imprecisely cast causing aluminum flash to obstruct 
airflow between the fins and through the open parts of the head. It is 
recommended that a mechanic take along 1/8th drill bit and pass it 
through these areas with a drill cleaning out the flash.

These Corvair engines last very well when these kinds of issues are 
taken care of. The lower end might last 175K miles but the top end needs 
the same care and feeding as a VW aircooled engine with new valves and 
maybe seats or guides well before that. Plenty of spare parts available 
too but some are vintage spares. I've put 3 engines back as spares. I 
figure my VW Westy will be my only Corvair powered vehicle and I don't 
expect to need 1 million miles worth of engine spares... :-P

Ideally would be a flat six VW engine... Oh yeah - that would be the 911 
engine... :-) 

No seriously, I would rather have a flat six version of the Type IV. 
Lower tech but reliable. I think somebody was working on this project 
6-7 years ago.

I'm Corvair powered in the bus but still Type IV powered in the Beetle 
so I'm interested in getting the temp sensor thing worked out too.

Chris in Cookeville, TN
'78 VW Westy 2,7L
