From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 8 Dec 2008 22:30:33 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Oil leak, here are my thoughts - make sense ?

I like baby powder for finding oil leaks. Clean the suspected leak area until
it's squeaky clean. In your case I would park the bus pointed down hill or
preferably park it on level ground and jack up the back end and support it on
jack stands. While you are waiting for the oil to migrate out of the engine,
pour some baby powder into a clean piece of hose, long enough to reach from
your mouth to your outstretched hand plus a little for sag. you always want
the powder in the hose to be lower than the end you will blow on. That powder
doesn't taste good and may not me healthy to ingest. Roll under the bus on a
creeper, point the hose at the suspected leak and blow the powder all over the
area that might have oil on it. then blow off any excess powder. You should
find that the powder on the clean parts of the engine pretty much plows right
off. The powder on the oil slicked parts stays put. The powder should show
where the oil is escaping.

I've never tried this, but my neighbor watched me diagnose a leaking oil
pressure sender on his Chevy using baby powder and he recommended using a
black light to make it easier to see the baby powder in areas that are in the
shadows. It might work if the powder glows under black light, most white
colored things do.

If the leak is coming out either end of a pushrod tube, I always try turning
the leaking tube while trying to force the tube deeper into the engine block.
If the O-ring is not cracked or otherwise wasted, you might seal the leak
without having to pull the tube. It's also a good idea to pull the valve cover
and check the wire spring that is supposed to keep the tubes from backing out
of their proper place. Make sure it is actually putting some pressure on the
leaky tube. If that spring wire got bent somewhere along the line, you could
have a recurring leak until you straighten the spring wire or replace it with
a good one. If the spring wire is missing or possibly not inserted right to do
it's job, you may have to pull the valve cover on the other side to see how
the wire is supposed to be located to hold the tubes in place.

If you find a tube is leaking due to a wasted O-ring, I recommend changing all
the tube seals, at least on the side where you found the leak. You need to
figure that an O-ring that's been doing it's job long enough to give up the
ghost, has some neighbors that were born and put into service on the same day
as the leaky one.

Have fun Courtney! You'll feel great after you get it fixed.

Tom
80 Westy
Bus-ted minds want to know
  ----- Original Message -----
  Is there anywhere else that could be causing this leak with the info I've
given above? I have washed the engine twice now, removed the tin and tried to
peak up there with a flashlight, but it is not easy to find the source of the
leak. Anyone like to jump in here?
  Thanks,
  Courtney
