Date: Sat, 13 Dec 2008 21:03:00 -0800 (PST)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Fw: Re: [T2] Oil leak, here are my thoughts - make sense ?

Been awhile! I forgot about not including the previous message!


 Date: Saturday, December 13, 2008, 8:54 PM

 Where the tube that the oil dipstick sticks into passes from
 the fan housing into the main case, there is a rubber
 bellows that connects them. It's actually 2tubes - the
 one in the fan housing and the stub sticking out of the
 case. The latter is flared like a funnel. That bellows is a
 really common leak location and it will act exactly as you
 describe it. It's about the only common leak location
 that acts exactly that way. The cooling air from the fan
 will blow it to cause it to look like the bottom ends of #2
 pushrod tubes are leaking.
 
 You can see this sucker from underneath if your exhaust
 components aren't in the way. It is a bear to replace,
 but can be done from underneath. The flared end makes it
 tough to get over, but once accomplished, it's not gonna
 slide back off. I used to secure them with nylon tie wraps.
 They don't cut into the rubber like metal clamps.
 (It's probably neoprene or something like that,
 resistant to oil, but "rubber" is easier!)
 
 -Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
 '79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74
 "Bus2"
 Hailing from Renton, Washington
 
 
  From: courtney hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca> Subject: [T2] Oil leak, here are my thoughts - make  sense ?
 
 Date: Monday, December 8, 2008, 2:17 PM
 Ok, if I keep my oil down just above the bottom line on my
 dipstick and park my van relatively flat, it will put a few
 drops oil on the ground. If I park it pointing downhill on
 an average grade, it will drop a goodly bit of oil, enough
 to put a 6" circle on the blacktop. If I point it
 parking uphill on the same hill, it will not drop any oil.
 It is dropping it on the engine end of the pushrod tubes,
 not the head end, on the passenger side. My thought is that
 it is the pushrod tube closest to the front of the  van, and
 pointing it downhill lets all the oil flow forward to
 this area where it pours out. Is there anywhere else that could
 be causing this leak with the info I've given  above? I
 have washed the engine twice now, removed the tin and tried
 to peak up there with a flashlight, but it is not easy to
 find the source of the leak. Anyone like to jump in here?
 Thanks,
 Courtney
