Date: Thu, 23 Feb 2006 08:57:33 -0500
From: Scott Lyons <slyons(-at-)germansupply.com>
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Warning : What a bad clutch driven plate will do to

On 2/22/06 9:36 PM, "Terry K" <CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net> wrote:

 
> If your buying cheap reman pressure plates & disc, your getting what you
> pay for.

As usual, Terry is sure he has all the answers, so I don't know why I
bother adding my .02 cents, except to clear up misinformation.

Most of the clutch assemblies for aircooled VW's are supplied by Sachs.
There are others, but Sachs has a big part of the OE market. You can get
German made Sachs and Brazil made. The German PP are nicely balanced out of
the box, the Brazil are not so good. These are both brand new parts, not
remanufactured or off-brand. They are balanced from the factory but the
balancing of the Brazil made units is not very accurate. I am not the only
person who has seen this, it is common knowledge that the Brazilian PP are
not balanced well. Since the Brazil clutches are as much as 60% less
expensive than the German, there is motivation for many to use them. I
prefer to use German parts myself, but sometimes it is not possible even to
get them. I have never sent a LUK pressure plate to be balanced that I can
recall, so no idea how they are, but they had better be good since a LUK
clutch kit is about 2x the cost of a German Sachs kit.

The thing is, if you are going to balance your VW engine, the clutch PP will
need work no matter who makes it. Engine balancing shops work to very tight
tolerances, much tighter than the clutch manufacturer, so "joe'e engine
balancing shop" will always be able to improve on what was done by the
manufacturer.

Just as a further comment, engine balancing works. If you are going to the
expense of rebuilding an engine completely, the added 150-200 is money well
spent. As the supply of German parts dries up, their replacements often have
inferior machining and casting, which balancing can help rectify. Like I
said before, the VW cranks never need much work don't to them, the rods
always do (and if they have been rebuilt they certainly will need to be
balanced) and for all the other parts a balancing shop will get the rotating
parts to a much closer balance spec than the factory ever did, which is a
good thing.

Scott Lyons
germansupply.com
http://www.germansupply.com

Parts Line 10am-8pm Eastern
416-717-0882
