Date: Fri, 24 Feb 2006 15:28:20 +0000
From: Lee Griffiths <l.s.griffiths(-at-)salford.ac.uk>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, "vintagebus(-at-)type2.com" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: New carb woes...

I guess it's the usual story/request for advice, but I've searched the 
forum and my question is a littler different than others. I'll set the 
scene:

'71 bus with 1600 (AM ? block). Started on the button, ran fine at 
speed, poor idle and icing on warm up. So I replaced the inlet manifold 
with one with nice clear heat riser tubes - no difference in icing! hmm. 
Replaced the dizzy with new SVDA and Compufire - I know it's not really 
related to icing, but just so you know the iginition is sweet. Hot air 
tube from exhaust to air box and thermostatic controlled flap is good - 
still icing and stalling : ( Original Solex carb 34-3 looked to be worn 
around the spindle so I put hand in pocket and bought a new "German" 
Pierburg 34-pict3

Installed it, tuned it up (althought was pretty good out of the box) and 
it fixed the icing and warm-up - no more icing stall since! hurrah

However... now the engine is a real pig to start.!! boo Now when I start 
up the engine turns over for ages and when it fires it sounds rich and 
chugs for a bit. Drives fine though and after a minute or so is fine 
from cold. Also difficult to restart from hot - again turns over for 
ages then chugs to life. By ages I really mean longer (5 - 10 seconds) 
than with previous carb. Original carb would start on first engine turn. 
Took some advice and swapped the main jet and emulsion tube from the 
original carb - no difference.  Checked the fuel level in the float 
chamber, a little low 25mm from top, but i'm on the thinest needle 
gasket - can I run without a gasket ? would it really make a difference. 
Set the choke up - it's fine. Swapped the cross over jet for the old 
carb's one too.

All in all the engine now runs great and I'm glad I fixed the icing and 
poor idle, but I'm dissapointed with the new starting it now exhibits.

Any ideas as to why starting is bad folks ?

Lee

'71 Westy
'57 deluxe
