From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 18 Mar 2004 22:17:24 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Rubberized Coatings - an Interior Rust Preventative?

Hi Richard,
We would not use a rubberized coating.  The rust once it works its way under 
the edges or through a scratch the rust will find the coating acts like a 
greenhouse for it!  As for vapor barrier, unless you plan on cutting venting holes 
in the exterior near the roof line like as done on houses, water will 
condensate inside the panels as long as there is the tiniest pin hole through the 
vapor barrier.  
  So far the only overcoat chemical that repels rust that we have seen is 
tar.  VW in the 1970s tarred on a thick tar paper square about 1' x 1' on the 
insides of the doors to help dampen vibration of the outer panel that otherwise 
acts like a speaker cone without this dampening.  In all of our year of 
crawling through junkyard we have seen many of these doors rusted out from the 
inside, but not in the tarred area.
   VW started in the early 1960s to use tar as a glue in spots to the floor 
halfs in bugs and KGs a tar paper, styrofoam, tar paper glued/sandwiched 
together used also as a sound dampener.  We have pulled up these sound dampeners and 
found rusty crusty sheet metal underneath and even holes through.  Under the 
tar and for an inch or so around the tarred spots perfect metal and factory 
paint protected by the tar.
  We are thinking of trying insulating our 1960 panel walk thru camper 
conversion for both thermal and noise control.  Gluing the mylar coated bubble wrap 
to both sides of styrofoam sheeting.  The side of the bubble wrap on the body 
panel side of the styrofoam with the bubbles toward the sheet metal to allow 
for ventilation, and the bubble wrap on the inner side of the styrofoam with 
the bubble side glued to the styrofoam.  Then glueing with tar to the interior 
of the body panels tar paper folded and glued also with tar to a thickness of 
1/4" thick and several inches square in a pattern like a five side of a six 
sided dice.  On these tarrred squares, tarring/gluing the sheet styrofoam with 
mylar bubble wrap on both sides.  We will also thinly paint on tar where ever we 
can easily reach in the inside sheetmetal for extra rust protection.
Eric&Barb
