Date: Fri, 19 Mar 2004 06:22:09 -0800 (PST)
From: John Baker <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>
To: "James G. Beyer" <beyerj(-at-)frontiernet.net>, Sunny Bus
Subject: Ohio Bus event reminder

Hey Y'all, Since it's Friday and all, here's an update
regarding the Fourth Annual VW Buses, Bands, & Brews
event in Oregonia, Ohio May 21-23. (36 miles north of
Cincinnati)
I have just recently confirmed the addition of another
musical act.  "Clark Gordon" will be playing on
Saturday afternoon approximatley 4:30-6:30 pm during
the homebrew tasting time.  If any of you have heard
Clark play, then you know that we are in for a treat.
I have NEVER heard anyone sing Neil Young as well as
Clark!!
I have confirmed with the campground owner that the
picnic shelter IS complete and will be ready for us to
use the entire weekend (so even if it rains, which it
WON'T, we will still have a nice large dry area to
congregate).  So Friday night will be a casual
campfire kind of evening, checking in and meeting
everyone. Then at 9:00 am on Saturday morning we will
be doing FMBC Breakfast Burritos at the shelter. Bring
your favorite ingredient and cooking utensils, YOUR
HELP WILL BE NEEDED!  I am still working to confirm
some demos for late Saturday morning.  There was talk
that a certain OVT'er may give a little Homebrew
seminar for us (is this still an option G.S?), if not
we will do something technical related to buses.  This
will happen around midday on Saturday.  Then at 4:00
pm the brew tasting will begin.  So if you make your
own beer or wine, you need to get that wort boiling
now! (I'm going to try to do mine this weekend).  If
you don't homebrew, thats OK, then we encourage you to
bring a few local brews from your home region to
share(however, if you are from Pittsburgh, please
DON'T bring Iron City! Just kidding!!). Clark Gordon
will entertain us during this time with his solo
guitar music.
About 6:00 pm we will be doing dinner. Unless I hear
from someone saying they want to volunteer to build a
giant pot of a meat-based soup product, then we will
do a "pot luck" style dinner at the shelter on
Saturday.  There will be an open grill available, so
bring something to share and we'll have a little
feast.  About 7:00 pm on Saturday, we will do door
prizes, raffle drawing, etc. BTW, If you would like to
donate any door prizes that would be GREAT, just give
them to me when you register!! There will be a 50\50
raffle drawing as well, with proceeds going to the
musical acts (since they have agreed to play for
FREE!) "Man Made Moon" begins playing music at 7:30 pm
and will play til about 11:00, then it's back to the
campfire!
So, with all that said, here's the web site link:
http://www.geocities.com/buses_n_boats
Oh, also, anyone is welcome to vend from from their
camp site, so if you have any spare parts to sell or
VW-related merchandise just let me know!
Oh, also make sure to pre-order your event tshirt,
info is at the site, there will be VERY FEW extras
available at the event and the cost will be more if
you do not pre-order, so do it now!!

=====
Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1967 Kombi soon to be camper!
http://www.buszen.com

"So we got into the red VW microbus with the shovels and the rakes and the implements of destruction and we headed on to the police officer's station..."
