From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K)
Date: Fri, 19 Mar 2004 23:12:55 -0600 (CST)
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re;Rubberized Undercoatings--Interior Rust Prevention--Not

Funny thing Eric,

My 57,59, 63 64, 67 Pontiacs, 53 Crosley, and all of the rest of the 300
some cars I've owned all had the asphalt treatment when new too-- And it
was all cracked and dried up just as tar will do---very much like a flat
roof will fail.
It has no permanent bonding capacity whatsoever.

This is one of the reason's GM's Rusty Jones and a few other franchised
undercoating outfits went belly up--and are history.

 However--my 74 Bus did have a bunch of a wax based product that still
remained on the bottom from new--it was hell getting off---I finall
resorted to my 3500 psi Aladin hot water pressure washer. It took it off
real easy.
Ahhh--Rhino Hyde urethane headliner I know is is guaranteed for a long
time--and I have had ( professionally ) no failures with the urethane
bed liner lasting--

And as I mentioned--it's been on the bottom, and in the interior panels
of all of my current vehicles with absolutley no lifting, melting from
heat--and is acid proof--great for battery boxes--

I have a customer with a 580 Case end loader--and once a year I was
refinishing the hood because of the excess stuff in the bucket when
loading semi's would fall out the back of the bucket and land on the
hood---

Three years ago I put a coat of black bed liner on the top of the
hood--it's still there--no rust,no lifting , no rock marks-- I've used
it in high traffic area's-like for a floor mat in heavy machinery--966
Cats--Terex 28 yard off road dump trucks--and the stuff is bullet
proof--
It don't move--and no rust ever has formed under it--
I've used the stuff in the most adverse conditions--and it stays put--as
does the surface under it--

You guys can pretty much do what you want---not my bus--not my Van---not
my problem.

Evils?

There are none that I have found--
Other that the fact that it's ain't cheap like a bucket of Ace is The
Place roofing tar.


I just offered my professional findings from 30 years of refinishing
experience.

Hasta,

T.K.
                 ______________

Hi Terry,
Thanks, but we will stick with a chemical that repels rust! Just because
something is old does not mean it has since been surpassed. That and our
VWs from the last millennium. We have seen the rusty evil of rubberized
bedliners. Eric&Barb
