Date: Mon, 22 Mar 2004 20:06:27 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Turn indicator

>From: "James Treanor" <jtreanor10(-at-)hotmail.com>
>Date: Sun, 21 Mar 2004 21:59:45 -0500
>
>I recently installed a wireworks harness in my bus, everything works fine
>but the indicator light for the turn signal stays on, dim at all times.
>Gets brighter when I use the signals, but wont go off and stays on when
>the igniton is off.  I have a two prong flasher relay.

The two prong flasher may be part of the problem.  What I find really
odd, though, is that the pilot light stays on dimly even when the key
is off.  Assuming this is your '58, and since you didn't say "semaphores"
assuming it's a US-spec Bus, the turn signal system should be wired to
only work with the key on.  Once you turn off the key, there *shouldn't*
be any voltage available to light that pilot light.

What might be happening is that the new harness is set up to run the
turn signals off the battery, or maybe some of the wires at the fuse
box got installed on the wrong terminals.  If either of those things
were happening, you might get the glowing pilot light.

It could also be the two-prong flasher.  You might do this test: unplug
all three wires at the flasher, then touch the pilot light wire (blue/
white stripe) to the 15 wire (black/white stripe) and then to the 54
wire (black/white+green stripes).  If either of those makes your
pilot light glow dimly, the trouble is probably at the fuse box, turn
signal switch, or ignition key.  If not, the trouble is probably in
the flasher.

If you've gone 12 V, you _might_ be able to get a #559 flasher at the
FLAPS.  They may try to give you something else, but only a #559 will
work the same way as the original flasher.  Or, you could use the
flasher out of a '70-'72 Bus.

If you're still on 6 V, and you're sure everything else is OK, you
might try rewiring the pilot light bulb socket at the speedometer.
Pull off the black wire and tape up the end of the wire.  Make up a
new ground wire (preferably brown) to go from the now-empty terminal on
the bulb socket to ground.  Make sure the blue/white stripe wire is
connected with the black/white+green stripe wire at the flasher relay,
and you should be good to go.

The original flasher had four connections.  It might only have had three
terminals - the grounding of the metal can is the fourth connection.  You
can think of it as two plain switches - one of them connects 15 (hot with
key on) to 54 (to the turn signal switch) to light up the outside lights,
and the other one connects the indicator light wire to ground to light
up the pilot light.

Cars that use a two-terminal flasher don't switch the ground to the pilot
light.  They basically put the pilot light in parallel with the outside
lights - the pilot light is always grounded and the switching is on the
hot side.  This is what you're doing when you rewire the socket in the
speedometer per the above.

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds
