Date: Sat, 26 Jul 2008 16:58:35 -0400
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
To: The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Subject: Buses Of the Corn  ** Pre-Registration and Merchandise Deadline

Hi Volks,

OK, here's the reminder... You now have only until 9AM Monday morning to 
order your Official Buses Of The Corn T-shirts and re-useable beverage 
containment devices. If I don't receive your order by Monday, you'll be 
subjected to the limited inventory and predatory pricing policies of our 
on-site sales agents. Trust me, if you want some of these goodies, it's 
best to pre-order. Use the following link for more info, or email me 
offlist.

http://www.busesofthecorn.com/merch.html

If you want to take advantage of the $5 pre-registration discount you 
need to get you cheque or paypal payment to me by Friday August 1st.

In other BOTC-related news; we are expecting great weather for BOTC, and 
the recent rain in this area has had an excellent effect on the local 
corn crop. It's gonna be a great year for corn in Ontario, and at BOTC 
we get it picked fresh and serve it up just hours after it's picked from 
the stalk.

Planning to attend? Here's a few pointers:

THINGS TO BRING:

FAMILY. BOTC is an all-ages event. I bring my kids *and* my parents.

FIREWOOD. We use a single group campfire, and the more wood we have, the 
better.

INDEPENDENCE FROM "THE GRID". This past winter the hydro lines to the 
campsite were downed by high winds, and the conservation area has 
elected not to replace them. This means we won't have ANY electricity or 
running water available on-site. Please help out by bringing your own 
wash-water and plan to charge your electric appliances from 12V rather 
than 110.

A LEASH FOR YOUR PET. Park policy states that all pets must be kept on a 
leash. Our campsite is part of a public trail system, and as such BOTC 
pet owners need to be responsible for their animals.

BREAKFAST BURRITO & DINNER CONTRIBUTIONS. On Saturday the group will 
enjoy a Full Moon Bus Club style Burrito Breakfast. When everyone 
pitches in with ingredients and helps cook or clean up the results are 
amazing. We also ask campers to bring a side dish or dessert to share at 
dinner alongside the incredibly delicious fresh buttered Corn-on-the-cob 
that this event is known for.



THINGS NOT TO BRING:

FIREWORKS. These are prohibited by the campground. That includes 
magnesium engine cases, or chunks thereof.

FIREARMS. Really, did I even have to mention that?

GENERATORS. No matter how quiet the advertising says they are; as soon 
as you plug in a percolator or a microwave oven you will disturb half 
the campground. If you don't own a propane stove let me know and I'll 
loan you one.

OFF-ROAD VEHICLES. These are specifically prohibited by the conservation 
authority. Technically we're even supposed to park our buses on the 
gravel parking areas; though thankfully that policy has never been 
enforced. If a vehicle doesn't have a street-legal license plate on it, 
please leave it at home.

I can hardly believe there's just two weeks to go until we'll be cooking 
dinner at the campground. If you have any questions, please visit the 
website or drop me an email.

Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/79 Westfakia "Bob the Tomato"
1987 Wolfsburg Weekender Hardtop
www.busesofthecorn.com
www.pottsfamily.ca
