Date: Sun, 27 Jul 2008 16:33:01 -0400
From: "George Gaudette" <gcgaudette(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Travelers in distress - '71 Bus in Boston

Hi,

I just talked to a group of 4 wayfaring twenty-something travelers -- and
their 3 dogs (!) -- who have been broken down for several days in the
parking lot of Target at South Bay Plaza (near Mass Pike and I-93) in
Boston. Not the best place to be broken down - no camping for miles. They
don't have enough money to get towed (I think they're gathering handouts)
but someone gave them a business card for Wood's garage 5-10 miles away in
Alston. I told them I'd write to this list in hopes that either someone
mechanically inclined in the Boston area pays them a visit, or that someone
gives them a call with mechanical advice.

Their cell phone: 908-670-5864

I'm a water-cooled Vanagon owner, and I barely know what I'm looking at with
either motor. Here's what I was told and observed:

 - they drove their ''71 Westy here from CO, and just stopped running on the
highway near where they're parked.
 - battery seems fine still
 - they say they have spark and fuel present, and have tried gas in the carb
 - they don't seem very mechanically inclined, but based on advice someone
gave them, they are concerned about compression. They don't know how they
can test this idea (neither do I).
 - when they turned it over for me, I expected to hear some putt-putt. But
then, I don't know anything about that motor. They turned the key, the motor
clearly turned over, but no putt sounds. Very smooth. Then, it backfired,
not muffled at all but loudly like a firecracker. This surprised them
greatly, as it was the first time.
 - It's a stick and they tried jumping it some. They're on a flat parking
lot now.
 - Dark smoke came out the tailpipe the next time they turned it over.
 - They say they had the oil changed just recently, and that they were
surprised at how black the oil is already when they checked its level after
breaking down.

I'm sure any help they could get would be greatly appreciated.

George Gaudette
Brookline, MA
1990 Westy, 147,000 miles.
