Date: Mon, 28 Jul 2008 13:31:21 -0400
From: Anymouse <honeybus(-at-)gmail.com>
To: toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net, "Type 2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: Takes forever to stop

Hey Todd.

You said:
* * * * * * * * * * *
. .  . but I really have to apply a TON of pressure in order to get
the Bus to stop. Whenever I apply the brakes, I can hear the engine
revving up a little bit (I assume this is because I am using engine
vacuum for the brake booster)
* * * * * * * * * * *
I don't know how you came to the assumption that you can hear the
engine revving up a little bit because you are using engine vacuum for
the brake booster.

I think you are incorrect  in your thinking.

The brake booster is always supplied with an "absence of pressure"
(vacuum) in an ideal and normal running of the engine.  It does not
get this condition because you put your foot on the brakes.

The "absence of pressure" is supplied to the brake booster at two
points (yes - via the SINGLE line from the engine compartment),  that
is, at one point at the front of the diaphragm, and at one point at
the rear of the diaphragm.

When you press the brake pedal down with your foot, you open the front
part of the diaphragm  to the surrounding atmospheric pressure, and
this atmospheric pressure helps your foot push the brake rod
backwards.

The back of the diaphragm  retains the "absence of pressure", and with
the positive pressure in the front, from the atmosphere, plus your
foot power, the brakes work.

The back of the diaphragm does not loose vacuum ("absence of
pressure").  This is important to remember.

When you take you foot off the brake pedal, and it returns to its
normal position, this closes the front part of the diaphragm from the
atmospheric pressure, and vacuum ("absence of pressure") is restored
on both the front and back of the diaphragm.

When you shut off your engine, or stall, the engine vacuum ("absence
of pressure") stops.

However, there is a one-way valve in the line between the engine and
the brake booster.  This one way valve stops pressure (atmospheric)
from going up the line; it is only a 'create vacuum' condition on the
line.

So when you put your foot on the brake AFTER the engine has stalled or
stopped, you will STILL have vacuum assistance, since there is a
vacuum ("absence of pressure") in the line, after the one-way valve,
through both sides of your diaphragm even AFTER the creation of vacuum
("absence of pressure") is no longer possible.  You will loose that
vacuum ("absence of pressure") if you put you foot on the brakes and
then remove your foot.  If your VW stalls, do not pump the brakes or
the brake booster will quickly 'bleed' atmospheric pressure into the
brake booster vacuum ("absence of pressure") system, and your vacuum
("absence of pressure") will disappear.  (Damn, if vacuum ("absence of
pressure") is NOTHINGNESS, i. e.,  the absence of SOMETHING, then how
can it disappear since it never existed in the first place.  I just
KNEW I was going to fall into that trap!!)

It could be that your have no "absence of pressure" at the brake
booster, and that causes your hard brake pedal.

Maybe your one-way valve is clogged and won't suck the line clean so
you have no "absence of pressure" at the brake booster to begin with.
Quite possible.

There could be a hole in the dry rotted "absence of pressure" line in
your system AFTER the one-way valve. Not likely, or your VW would
continuously run rotten since that would be affecting your "absence of
pressure" throughout your system.  Colloquially called a "vacuum leak"

There cold be a blockage in the line after the one-way valve.
Possible, particularly a crimp in a newly installed line,or a
collapsed line

The brake booster could be bad.  Only a few things could go bad

(1) Now, please check your (front) brake calipers. Do they have one or
two brake bleeder screws??

(2)  Now, check your front brake rubber hose lines.  Do they have a
small, plastic and movable ring around the rubber hoses, one that you
can turn or slide along the rubber section??  (No, don't remove the
rings.  This means you have ORIGINAL front brake hoses, and that is
the date indicator, so this would be the most likely culprit.)

(3) Does your emergency brake handle come 'almost' all the ways out
when you pull it??

You have to answer questions (1), (2), and (3) before any other advice
could be offered.

--
Anymouse
