Date: Mon, 28 Jul 2008 16:55:00 -0400
From: Anymouse <honeybus(-at-)gmail.com>
To: toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net
Cc: "Type 2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Takes forever to stop

On Mon, Jul 28, 2008 at 2:06 PM,  <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net> wrote:
> You like the "absence of pressure", huh? Hah...


Right.  Like I tell my kids, it's not COLD out side,  it is "the
absence of HEAT" out side.  So we are not letting in the cold into the
house, we are losing the heat.  Just a perspective, I know, and my
kids think I am a bit psychotic, but I reassure them that I cannot
tell the future.


> To simplify what you've said, basically, when I apply the brakes, the engine
> rpms go up. When I take my foot off the brake, the rpms go back to normal.
> This is with the Bus sitting completely still, and just idling.
>
> My guess would be then that I probably have a bad brake booster.
>
> The bus runs quite well though. I can easily get up to 60/65 miles an hour
> with little or no effort.
>
> Thanks. In all the cars I've had, I've never had a brake booster go bad. But
> I'm pretty positive that it's original.


I would bet 10 to 1 it is not the brake booster.  However, I cannot
imagine  what would cause your increase in RPM when pushing the brake
pedal.

That being said, here are my suggestions:

Check your vacuum at the air mixture box - manifold.  It should be 9
to 15 bars, with 15 being the good and 9 being the bad. I had 4.5 bars
once, and I was running normally, except I could not climb a hill.  I
was touring West Virginia at the time!!  I found my vacuum leak by
getting a can of starting fluid (I do this all the time, don't be
afraid.) and one of my Fuel Injectors was not entirely seated, causing
a large vacuum leak and the loss of torque.

I had  previously replaced all the Fuel Injectors and seals , and I
also changed the 2" hose section that connects the FI s to the fuel
rails.  Well, I had used 2 1/4" pieces of hose instead of 2", more is
better, right?  This had caused my #4 FI to be unseated from the
intake runner, and a large vacuum leak was the result.

When I sprayed the I with starting fluid, the engine immediately reved
up.  I was closing the leak by inserting liquid in the leak and it
fixed the vacuum leak for about 1 - 2 seconds, and the engine revved
up.

Could it be that you are at the low end of the vacuum scale, and when
you put you foor on the brake, it causes the vacuum leak to be solved
and you get a higher rev??

Mein Himmel!!  That''s it!! And you can see the vacuum activity by
putting a vacuum gauge at the air mixture box on a FI engine, and if
some one would step on the brake when you were watching, perhaps the
bars would increase?!?!?!?  Hope springs eternal...

Actually, I got a hank of 1/4" clear plastic vinyl hose from Home
Depot (I forget how long, but the single roll was enough Maybe 10
feet) and I stretched it under my '78 VW from the engine compartment
up to my glove compartment.  One end was connected to a 'T' off the
black air mixture box, and the other end to a vacuum gauge that I had
placed in my ash tray up front.  Like I said, the 1/4" clear plastic
vinyl  hose was long enough to reach the whole way.

So, while I was driving and doing my thing, I could watch the vacuum
gauge.  If you had that setup, you would know the engine vacuum
instantly and continuously,.

When the vacuum gauge fluctuates quickly in a 1 - 3 bar range, like
fluttering, this indicates that your valves may be an influence.  I
was running hydraulic valves, and I occasionally saw this fluttering
of the needle, but it was only occasionally, when the VW was cold at
startup.  Perhaps the hyd lifters had bled down over a week or two of
non-running, and they were just finding their strength...

I could see the vacuum drop as I deepened my foot into the
accelerator. So it does does make sense that if I had LOW vacuum to
start (West Virginia hills story- ), I would not get much success in
climbing a hill by more accelerator.

So if you can observe your vacuum , and at the same time run a timing
light while your friend (or even casual acquaintance) steps on the
brake pedal, then you would have two more pieces of the puzzle.
Timing light = is your engine advancing with the vacuum leak being
solved??

So, hey, gurus out there, don't let the cat out of the bag until Todd
has a chance to get his hands dirty....

Anymouse sends
