Date: Mon, 28 Jul 2008 17:14:57 -0400
From: Anymouse <honeybus(-at-)gmail.com>
To: toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net
Cc: "Type 2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Takes forever to stop

On Mon, Jul 28, 2008 at 2:06 PM,  <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net> wrote:

> The answer to #3 is definitely yes. The emergency brake comes out almost all
> the way, and even sometimes it has a hard time holding it.

>> (3) Does your emergency brake handle come 'almost' all the ways out
>> when you pull it??

Now we are getting somewhere.

Possibly your rear brake shoes need adjustment.  When the brake shoes
wear, or when ONE OF THE STAR ADJUSTERS backs itself out, the
emergency brake handle would come farther out.  Two of my VW buses had
the condition of a wandering star adjuster.

On one VW bus, the star adjuster would loosen (emergency brake handle
come farther and farther out -) and I would have to get under and
adjust that brake

On another VW bus, the star adjuster would tighten (emergency brake
handle did not move either way) , and it would lock that rear wheel.
in fact, it would lock it so much that it would be constantly braking.
 If I drove down a slight incline, the VW bus would be stopping
instead of maintaining or picking up speed.  Hit the brakes hard and
the VW bus would jump to one side.. These star adjusters can be
troublesome...

possible one of the emergency brake cables is the culprit, it may have
stretched (clutch cables 'stretch' before they break.  It is a built
in warning device, although the warning period could only be moments
long.  The other warning device is much more subtle.  I  think it is a
'ping' or 'twang' sound that can only be heard by experienced VW
mechanics.), or broken (probably not)

Now we have three points of reference; rear brake adjusters, vacuum,
advance timing when braking because of restoration of vacuum.

And if you have two brake adjuster screws on your front calipers, try
bleeding them from the TOP brake bleeder screw.  It only take a moment
and you probably won't loose much brake fluid...  (You DO have enough
brake fluid, right?  Your brake fluid would normally go down as you
use up your disk pads, and if you have a tight system on any vehicle,
it is a good indicator of worn brake pads.)


And there's always the brake proportioning valve to consider......
But that's for another day.

Hey, as long as your radio works, things aren't all that bad....
-- 
Anymouse
