Date: Wed, 24 Apr 2002 23:11:11 -0400
From: john Runberg <jrunberg(-at-)mac.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Need help estimating value of 78 champagne


With much regret I'm going to have to put my bus on the market. While I
really don't want to sell it, I just can't find the time to give it the
attention it deservers. Hopefully someone else can.

Would anyone mind telling me what it might be worth? I know what I have into
it, but that is rarely what it's actually worth, and I'd rather it go to a
good home than anything else...

The details:

1978 Champagne Westfailia
Body: California high desert bus. No structural rust, but some slight
surface rust after I towed it back to Virginia. Doglegs and rockers are
clean. Currently garaged in southern Virginia. Standard white over brown,
although the brown has been repainted once. Nose was hit once upon a time
and should be replaced, but looks fine from 10 feet.

Drivetrain: Engine was DOA when I got the bus, however I have a 78 FI engine
from my old bus which needs to be installed. The new engine has < 1000 miles
on it and was built locally by Whiteheads VW, a great shop. It ran great
when I removed it, although the cold start valve was leaking a slight bit.
Bus has a rebuilt transmission. Have receipts for all the pieces. New shift
linkage installed and engine bay cleaned and prepped. New fuel elbow and
intake hose. Have new fuel lines, throwout bearing (German), wires and misc
parts. I just do not have the time or motivation any more to work on it.
Sigh...

Interior: Complete but somewhat worn. All pieces are there and work - front
and rear tables, trash box, sink, stove, freezer. Never tried using the
stove or freezer. Original brown fabric in good condition, but rear seat
foam needs replacing.

Exterior: rear and side windows out to replace seals and clean surface rust
(the old seals were shrunk). Have new seals and pieces to put them back in.
Poptop has been painted once, but is OK. Canvas needs to be replaced.

Mechanical: Brakes are OK, but will need front bearings to feel safe. Have
new rear shocks. 

Have the title, records, manuals, window sticker from the PO and a decent
stash of parts. This is a good bus that just needs someone who has a few
hours to devote to her. Unfortunately, that's not me.

If anyone wouldn't mind giving me their opinions on this I'd really
appreciate it. I'm at the point of knowing that I'll never get to it and it
really needs a better home. I guess this is the first step...

Thanks,

John Runberg

