Date: Thu, 25 Apr 2002 10:46:48 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: '78 Westy Electrical - wipers/rear window defroster

We're working towards being road worthy soon. Presently I am doing 
electrical things. I've completed the headlight relays and a few days ago 
removed all the VW stuff I was storing in the bus so I could work inside.

It's been a while since I took it apart and I need some guidance.

Can someone take a look at their '78 Westy and count the number of relay 
boxes they have on the bottom of their fuse block?

I have space for one or two more relays. There is wiring there for at least 
one relay. I have not investigated what the color codes on the wires this 
week b/c I have not had the time. I know I can find the answer in Bentley 
but can anyone set me straight from memory?

I have two options on my bus I have not checked for operation yet. One is 
the rear window defroster. The other is that my bus is a Champagne Edition 
and it has factory intermittent wipers. Does this option use a relay on the 
fuse block? Is it the same relay as the blinker relay? Electrically it 
would work - the relay is a closed switch with opens once the load heats 
the contacts. The wipers would be the load and once the contacts open, the 
wipers would make one sweep and then park just like the driver had turned 
the wipers on and then off immediately in a basic bus without intermittent 
wipers.

Has anyone investigated adapting the Golf or Jetta or Passat "programmable" 
delay relay to the VW bus? I know it was discussed by one of the VW lists 
at one time. Basically you install this relay and based on a process 
involving how you turn the wipers on and off, you can set the delay.

I know JC Whipme has generic delay kits but I am interested in the VW version.

Thanks to any and all that can help.

Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


