From: Brown Jason <jbrown(-at-)DMCRecycling.com>
To: "'XTheDuckyBoysX(-at-)aol.com'" <XTheDuckyBoysX(-at-)aol.com>
Cc: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 25 Apr 2002 12:02:12 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] rust question??

Hi Matt,

	I live in NH, we get even nastier winters than you do in NY (unless
you live in Buffalo or Rochester anyway).  We typically have salt on the
roads from late October - early April.
	Your best defense against underbody rust is to make sure that there
are no holes in your undercoating.  The stuff VW used is pretty tough, but
after 20+ years, even the best products can fail.  I would try a bit of
POR-15 anyplace you see chips or cracks in the undercoating.  Rough up the
surface for about an inch surrounding the problem area and paint on a couple
of thin coats.  POR-15 is tough as nails and lasts a long time as long as it
isn't exposed to UV light (probably not a problem on the underbody unless
you park on a mirror).  I used this appraoch on my bus last winter and it
has worked worked very well so far. 
	Other people in the norteast swear by a light coating of "bar &
chain oil" made for chainsaws on the underbody. I have never used it
personally, but have known many people who rave about it.  This seems to be
one of the classic Yankee Ingenuity fixes in Vermont and Upstate NY.  I
would worry about the oil holding dirt, but have never head any feedback
about this from people who use this method.
	Pay special attention to your wheelwells, especially in back of the
front tires and at the top and front of the back tires.  These locations
tend to take massive amounts of abuse when there is salt and gravel on the
road.  Also if you have removed the middle or rear seats from your bus, the
little keyhole mounting plates like to fill up with muck and rust from the
inside out if you let them.  I have seen this in several northeast busses
(including mine...)
	There are many other spray on undercoating products out there that
work pretty well.  Unfortunately I haven't used any of these in years, so I
don't want to recommend anything...

								Hope this
helps,
								Jay Brown
								'72 Hardtop
Camper
	
http://www.geocities.com/vwcamper72

-----Original Message-----
From: XTheDuckyBoysX(-at-)aol.com [mailto:XTheDuckyBoysX(-at-)aol.com]
Sent: Thursday, April 25, 2002 11:14 AM
To: java1972bg(-at-)aol.com; type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] rust question??


Hey,
 i posted this message before, im not sure if anyone saw it or not but, i 
live in new york and i just got my first bus that was just shipped from 
arizona. its rust free and in great shape. since i live in N.Y. theres a 
better chance for rust to form. i dont have a garage, so what do you think i

can do to prevent rust formation (especially the under carriage)??? i was 
thinking about a bus covor but thats not gonna help the under carriage from 
driving in pretty bad weather conditions with the salty roads and such. if 
anybody lives in the new york area or anyone that knows something can can 
prevent this it would be a HUGE help!/ thanks alot
-Matt
*78 champagne edition bus*
