From: "Will Anderson" <will.anderson(-at-)tetratech-ffx.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <vwdormer(-at-)hotmail.com>
Date: Tue, 6 Jul 2004 17:28:27 -0400
Subject: best quote, foam rubber, friend's '76 for sale, LONG

I really think Michael's quote best describes my experience of 5 years of
Busing, this happens over and over . . . the new stories I mean:

> She asked "How do you know what to do with all this stuff?",
> I replied, " I just put my hands in there and it tells me what to do."
> Her,"What if it lies?".
> Me,"When I am done if it is wrong it will laugh at me
>     and tell me a new story, if it is right everybody is happy."

Thanks type2 list for 5 years of insights into life, wrenching, fweeming and
fahrfergnugen!!!  Be careful out there, be sure to back up jack stands with
a couple spare wheels because your life depends on it, and double check
neutral before jumping the starter, and fix the fuel lines, and the brakes,
and replace old tires, and worn-out ball joints and steering boxes and rusty
beams.

Pertinent current list content:  I have a friend in Morgantown WV (that's VW
backwards) who has a line on sheets of foam rubber cheap, he has sold it on
ebay (as an occupation) for a while but I'm sure we could do a deal for
listees, it comes in different thicknesses (1" to 4" and probably many
others), firm stuff but softer than most, he has used the thick stuff in his
truck bed to sleep on and as a futon at home (its about as firm as those
firm futons).  Pmail me if you want me to contact him for more info.
Somebody's idea of eggcrate foam on top of the firm stuff with a custom sewn
cover would be super cozy.

In other news, a friend of mine is selling an orange '76 Adventurewagen
conversion "Punkinbus", pops straight up, MUST SELL, $3500 OBO, that is Or
Best Offer which may be significantly lower, she is moving to NYC, don't ask
me why, fresh T4 rebuild with ~10k mi and smooth-running DRLA's, this bus is
in Very Good Condition, no visible rust (although I haven't personally
inspected thoroughly to verify yet), excellent body 9/10 very nice interior
8/10, pmail me for owner's info and photos, bus is in Durham NC, I might
bring to Smilefest and/or HCBF.  Only thing it needs is to fix the horn,
EVERYTHING else works, good maintenance history.  what a deal, drive it
anywhere, that's what she bought it for originally.  tempted to buy it
myself but I promised my bus I'd finally paint her this summer and I don't
have room for another.

Will A.
Atlanta, GA
'70 Westy "Rebertha" cruised 1000 miles last wkend, yay!
'67 bug soon to be for sale
'75 BMW 2002 fjord twins
