Date: Tue, 6 Jul 2004 23:21:43 -0400 (EDT)
From: Jonathan Farrugia <jfarrugi(-at-)umich.edu>
To: kjicehouse(-at-)hotmail.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Need help with welding Woes

i agree with the recommendation about the non-ferrous back up plate for the
hole filling.  if you can fit it in there you can use a piece of alum,
copper, or brass.  also to keep down heat keep a bucket of water and a
shop rag around and use that to wipe the welds after you finish to keep
the the over all heat soak down.  one general tip i have about welding
this kind of stuff is to "tack" the panel in first.  this means take the
mig and make welds the the diameter of say a pencil eraser.  make these
welds about a 1" to a 1 1/2" apart.  then after you have the whole panel
tacked in go and fill the areas between the tacks.  a general old school
sheet metal welders trick is to never weld more that a inch at a time.
this prevents heat build up and warpage.

working this way takes a lot of time but you don't get any warpage and
that saves you the time of playing with a lot of filler later.  when you
are filling the areas between the tacks i usually alternate around the
work.  thats to say i will fill between the tacks on one end of the panel
and then go to the other end of the panel there and fill that one in.
that helps speed up the process time and lets one end of the panel cool
down in the mean time. then before i make the next tack on the other end i
will wipe the area down with the water rag.

you didn't mention it in you post but i would suggest that you get a jar
of anti-spatter nozzle dip for the mig.  it greatly helps to keep the
splatter mess off the nozzle and the work in my opinion.  often i see
other peoples welders where the tips gas ports are completely plugged with
splatter that means not gas is coming out or at least its at a reduced
rate.  i generally flip the tension clamp off of the wire drive roller and
hold the gun to my cheek while pulling the trigger.  if you can feel the
gas on your cheek your good to go.

about the filling between the 1/8" gap you can use the non-ferrous back up
plate if you can get it in there but the general technique is this.  tack
on one side let it cool then tack on the other panel let it cool keep
doing that until you meet in the middle.  it takes a long time and
patience but if you don't do it you stand a good chance of burning through
and then you have a bigger problem than you started with.  depending on
the location you could also cut a strip of metal to go behind the gap and
then fill in the valley.

jonathan
