Date: Wed, 7 Sep 2005 00:01:49 -0700
To: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>, VintageBus list
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: Re: prepping sump plates gaskets and a punt

...
>
>The only one that comes in a spray and has "elastomeric" in the
>technical data sheet is "Permatex High Tack Spray-A-Gasket Sealant",

got it. will check a hardware store soonest, as i know flaps didn't have it.




>If "Loctite green" is #290, that seems reasonable.  ... But
>it won't stick when there's oil around, which there will probably be on
>...and hose it down with brake cleaner.  Also hose down the hole in
>the case

all this was done on assembly; totally kleeeeeeeeen case. kleen n 
prime AND brake cleaner, in fact. stud still unscrewed. remember, 
this is the AL crapcase: nothing works the way it should. i think 
they drilled the hole just an ooomph too big, as i can get the 
teensiest bit of wiggle on it. not to mention the fact that the other 
studs aren't even inserted SYMMETRICALLY! one or two always catch and 
tear at the gaskets and filter.

got some longer studs from aircooled.net on the way and will try the 
doublenut trick or somesuch. i also punted, and ordered their 
SILICONE sump gaskets; i figured it was $8.00 i'd either be spending 
on gasket sealers or gas to go get the correct chemical from a flaps 
that stocked more than RTV anyways.

had an entertaining conversation with a 'local' vwflap guy this 
morning: "dude, those gaskets NEVER leak. i bet it is your case nuts 
not tight enough. or your sump plate is warped; i use the nice chrome 
empi one. oh, you have the ALUMINUM billet one? THAT'S the problem 
right there." hmm. another employee at his shop had suggested i get 
the al billet one cuz they empi ones were crap! LOL!  actually, i got 
the al billet on the theory that it would match the expansion rate of 
the al crapcase better than a steel plate. the gaskets SHOULD take 
all that out of the equation, but figured it couldn't hurt.


if it drips, i'm considering something permanent - like tig welding!
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
