Date: Wed, 12 Sep 2012 11:55:08 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: 15" wheels - some parts numbers for the archives

So here are the notes I've made while hunting for wheel info that is 
pertinent to anyone that wants to hunt for 15" Mercedes wheels. The 
challenge to me was figuring out the myriad of Mercedes model numbers 
and years to look for. I'm posting these here to share and get the info 
into the archives for my own reference later. All of this info came from 
various replacement wheel websites so it might have mistakes. If anyone 
sees any glaring mistakes, please speak up so we can make corrections.

1993 MERCEDES CHASSIS TYPE 201
STEEL WHEEL, 18 HOLE
Wheel Size - 15" x 6"

1997 MERCEDES CHASSIS TYPE 202
STEEL WHEEL, 18 HOLE
Wheel Size - 15" x 6.5"
MSRP is about $130.80, high retail is about $75, can be had for less, 
just hunt the big online tire dealers for example.

MSRP is something like $130, high retail is about $75 and I've seen it 
for less. I've bought sets of alloy versions for ~$150, just watch the 
online auctions for example.

1995 MERCEDES CHASSIS TYPE 129
STEEL WHEEL, 18 HOLE
Wheel Size - 16" x 8"

MRSP is something like $160, high retail about $140, can be had for 
less, just hunt Craigslist for example.

The online tire dealers that also sell wheels won't discuss fitting 
Mercedes wheels on a VW Van - even steel wheels. Or at least that was my 
experience. Liability? Lack of familiarity with the VW vans? I don't know.

Go compare the weights of these heavy Mercedes cars and remember - 
stationwagon versions too - which are even heavier than the coupes and 
sedans. I feel confident that the steel wheels and some of the more 
solid looking alloys will handle duty in a sub-80 mph VW van that isn't 
doing off serious road duty nor wagging it's tail through the "Tail of 
the Dragon" with the sport bikes in North Carolina. ;)

Some of the Mercedes guys want to move from 15" rims to 19" wheels and 
some us VW volks often want to move from 14" to 15" wheels. A match made 
in heaven in the classified ads..

I thought a Dodge/Mercedes Sprinter would be an option for a 16" wheels 
but they use a 5x130mm pattern. The Mercedes Vito (minivan) wheels would 
work on the bolt pattern but I don't know if the offset would work. 
Besides the Vito was never sold here in the USA and like the Eurovan it 
is FWD. A quick look shows that some of the stock steelies were only 15" 
anyhow so a 16" steelie might be more rare. Used UK rims are inexpensive 
but then there is shipping. Ugh! ;)

If you are wondering what I bought for my bus, do a image search for 15" 
BBS RA alloy. They might be BBS Mahle RA wheels but the Mahle version 
seems to have a different center cap. (yeah, MAHLE as in pistons). 
You'll probably see 1000s of BBS RS or BBS RM pictures with that little 
line of allen head bolts like I did. No the same thing.

What's the difference? The BBS RM or BBS RS wheels are multi-piece 
wheels and MUCH MUCH more popular. People love those little allen head 
bolts and rubber band tires. ;)

Mine are 15" x 6" single piece wheels with a BBS center cap. They are 
much cheaper than the more popular RS and RM wheels. Mine cost about 
$150 for a 'A' quality set including center caps on that auction 
website. The price was part luck too - apparently I was the only one 
looking for these that week b/c I was the sole bidder. Mahle wasn't 
mentioned in the auction, only BBS but I'd guess the Merc guys know what 
they want and these ain't it.

These basket weave wheels were sold to every brand car manufacturer at 
one point or another it seems. Different diameters look different too. I 
like some diameters, and don't like other diameters. Go figure.

I've fitted them to look at them but not bought tires or modified them 
yet for the wheel studs/hub, etc.

To me 15" wheels really help update the visual proportions of the VW 
van. Function beats looks though for me. I wanted 15" wheels for the 
larger variety of tire choices with stiffer sidewalls for crosswind 
resistance. Our Westy was a handful on squirrelly overloaded little car 
tires way back when we lasted drove it.

Just wanting to enter this info into the archives for later reference 
for myself and everyone else too. Knowing where to look for the right 
wheels often relies on knowing which WHICH Mercedes has the right wheels 
and I didn't know. So now the list has the fruits of my research. ;)

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L
