Date: Thu, 20 Sep 2012 08:46:54 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: exhaust analysis - AFR

On 09/20/2012 12:56 AM, John Kolak wrote:
> Is there a FI analogy to this? Could gas siphon through an injector 
> stuck in the open position?


Yes. Twenty years or so ago I was living in Italy and I visited this 
carburetor man from time to time to have a carb rebuilt for myself or a 
friend. He was very open and showed me a few things.

They also did injector cleaning/testing. They had this rig they would 
test injectors with - looking like some sort of milking machine with 
power leads to each injector, a fuel loop, a brain box that would pulse 
the injectors and a compressed air diaphragm that would recirculate a 
cleaning solution through the fuel loop at the right pressure. 
Compressed air would push on a diaphragm that would pressurize a pot of 
injector cleaner that connected to the fuel line loop. They might push 
cleaning solutions through the injectors for 10 or 15 minutes. Start it 
up and walk away.

One of the tests they would do was to place test tubes on the bottoms of 
the injectors and leave them pressurized but closed (power off) and 
watch for drips. Since they were not using gasoline the drips would 
collect in the test tube but not evaporate and they could note if one of 
the injectors leaked.

Then they'd measure the flowrate (volume vs time vs pressure) in the 
test tubes to make sure each injector was flowing an equal volume. They 
could also check the shape of the injector spray as well.

If my bus was a garage queen that got driven occasionally, I'd pull the 
injectors and have them done. If my bus was a daily driver, I'd probably 
invest in a set of replacement injectors (new) and swap them or b/c my 
budget is one of a mere mortal - invest in a set of injectors (used) and 
send them off to be checked. See if there is a local service of course.

New fuel injectors range from $50 each to $100 each new one from the 
average FLAPS but only ~$40 from a Type II list supplier.

Keep those old injectors and have them cleaned for an easy swap in later 
if you need them.

Around my small town I suspect somebody does fuel injector cleaning - 
whether they think they shop recover the total investment of their test 
equipment on my one visit is another thing... LOL! I've tried to have 
rather simple things done here and be confronted with huge prices. Don't 
know what kind of boat payment they have but I can't afford to make it 
for them... ;) That's why I do my own work. Can't afford to hire it out. 
I also would not allow them to do the cleaning of the injectors on the 
vehicle. I would want to deliver them in my hand and them bench cleaned 
and inspected i.e. not one of the quickie lube places that say they 
flush the fuel system or the oil system or the transmission. I wouldn't 
let those guys work on my weed whacker.

Examples:

http://www.cruzinperformance.com/fuelinj.html

http://www.danoland.com/nsxgarage/injector/injector.htm

I have no connection to these guys, haven't even used their services but 
I've heard of them a few times.

Personally I have to wonder if the ethanol is doing long term things to 
our old VWs. Attacking rubber parts that may or may not be rated for 
ethanol with long term effects. A 90s car will wear out and get crushed 
before it has troubles. A 60s/70s classic? I dunno.

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L
'99 CR-V EX AWD 5MT (it's gone to the moon, now on the return trip)
'97 VW Cabrio Highline
Brenderup 1205S
