Date: Thu, 4 Nov 2010 14:10:07 -0400 (EDT)
From: accessys(-at-)smart.net
To: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: MPG falling ???

On Thu, 4 Nov 2010, Joe Average wrote:

> Do you have the correct fuel injectors in the bus? Didn't do any "upgrades"?

yup, had my stock injectors rebuilt by reputable firm about 5 years ago

> Pull the cold start injector hoses and add a short piece of fuel line 
> bypassing it.

have unpluged it.
>
> Check the fuel pressure regulator. Check for vacuum at the fuel pressure

new hoses

> regulator. What happens if there is a vacuum leak there? Fuel pressure go up? 
> If the pressure goes up the engine is going to consume more fuel. Check the 
> fuel pressure at the rail while the engine is running.

have checked while driving, ran line up to dash and zip tied it on holds 
steady in the 35-36psi range

> Check the temp sensors I and II. Check them for correct resistance at cold 
> and hot temps.

checked #II at the ohmage is on the numbers.  it also was replaced about a 
year ago.

> Look around for vacuum leaks. My bus ran terrible and had low mileage when I

put all new vacuum lines one when replacing engine in June, ran the same 
as before


> the EGR valve because the pipe that connected it to the exhaust was rusted

my EGR port was blocked when I got the engine with a well made cap, looks 
solid.

but wouldn't engine run poorly and it isn't it is running fairly well with 
decent power

> Pop the plastic cover on the AFM and see if the contact track is clean. See

visually it looks good

> using a multimeter if it is delivering a clean signal as you move the flapper 
> open and closed.

would need to do this but I don't see how that would affect fuel 
consumptiion, last time I had that problem it was erratic running.

> Basically I would start with the list wisdom, work through my list and then

am here but first I went thru the VW Fuel injection trouble shooting 
manual for my bus (yellow book) and did the step by step testing following 
the flow chart. that is until I got to last block where it says "replace 
ECU"

> for vacuum leak hunting (with the red spray straw), and your multimeter and 
> check every component. Don't forget to do a full continuity test on the 
> wiring harness.

have replaced every vacuum line and all are solid and tight, can find no 
leaks.
wiring harness was replaced by a new Kyle unit about 3 years ago 
everything is solid.

> start injector. Do the easy stuff first, the cheap stuff second and try hard

have done all the easy things I can think of or the list has suggested.
did the cheap stuff too.  only expensive part I have thrown at it was a 
cold start valve and that was already on my list to be replaced soon 
anyway

had a couple spare ECU's so is not difficult to stick one in, just not the 
exact right one.  I have 78 auto tranny which calls for an "AH" ECU and 
the closest I had was a 77 manual tranny "S" ECU.  althtough on the test 
drive it seemed to work fine if that is the problem I will try to hunt 
down the correct "AH" version of the ECU

I've had this bus for over 15 years and is a daily driver so am pretty 
sure of the componentry and have over the years been replacing and in one 
or two cases upgrading components.  trying to get it mechanically sound so 
I can get back to bodywork which it desperately needs

my welder misses me.

Bob
