From: "Troy Wical" <troy(-at-)wical.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 24 Apr 2005 19:19:40 -0600
Subject: EB 2005 Trip Report

Well, I am finally getting around to the trip report :-)  

 

We decided well in advance that we wanted to take the Double Cab.  It's more
nostalgic and it was simply the thing to do.  Our plans to leave on 8th did
not last long.  Our original plan was to leave on the 8th so that we could
take our sweet time and not worry about rushing the truck.  Even though I am
not sure that it could be rushed if we tried.  Not knowing Type 1's that
well, we had the truck looked over mechanically and had several items taken
care of so that we could rest a little easier.  But, as we all know that
does not always tame the nature of the beast.  Our departure on 12th (yes 4
days later than planned) soon proved this.  Our initial drop into Kansas had
been going quite smoothly.  Although in the beginning I planned on taking
highways and staying off of the interstate, the truck was pulling strong at
55mph so it was comfortable enough for us to cruise the interstates.
Thankfully, this made the trip much more straight forward since we were
running day's behind. So, after being in Kansas for a good 50 miles, we
start getting this hesitation from the engine.  The hesitation was very
intermittent though.  When the hesitation did not occur, the engine ran
strong as if no issues.  My first thought's were some type of disruption in
the fuel flow to the carb.  So we stopped at a rest stop and took a look.
Everything seemed to be ok from a connection standpoint.  As mentioned by
other's I checked to make sure no fuel lines were running next to any items
that would heat the lines.  Also checked the timing a dwell which checked
out fine.  Made a call or two to FasterLaster and Joe (bustedbus) and
further confirmed the likelihood of a fuel supply issue.  After some more
staring, I realized there was no fuel filter.  At least, there was not one
in the engine bay.  I called the previous owner who had installed a 25
gallon marine gas tank.  He confirmed that there was one right before the
carb but that he had not installed one near the tank.  DOH!  Ok cool, we
have a couple with us so I slap one in and on we go.  There was absolutely
no pattern though to make out.  Sometimes it happened on a hill and
sometimes it didn't.  Sometimes I was floored, sometimes I wasn't.  We
decide to rest on it for the night and see what the morning bring.  

 

After spending the night in Colby and still having the same issue in the
morning, we realized that there was no way we were going to be able to
continue without figuring this out.  The filter had not become immediately
filthy so I did not suspect a bunch of crap in the tank.  I called Joe again
and asked if he could find a shop in the area that we were in to see if
someone could help us out.  Thanks for everyone's reply to the list by the
way.  Much appreciated.  We ended up stopping by a shop in Salina, Kansas.
I believe the shop's name was Woosters and a man by the name of "J" helped
me out.  Turns out that Friday was the last day the shop would be open as he
was retiring.  In any case, a quick investigation showed that no fuel was
running out of the line from the tank like it should be..courtesy of
gravity.  Our thoughts were that the aftermarket gas tank was probably not
as high up as it should be or the fuel line was not running the correct
path.  J offered a quick solution of a small EMPI fuel pump that would
provide about 6 psi of fuel to the carb.  We got this installed, and J also
adjusted the fuel mixture a bit since we had dropped quite a bit in
elevation.  Got it running much better but he said the carb should be looked
at further.  Seems that he was having to use the idle adjustment screw and
the cam on the carb to get it to idle right.  Mark Dearing also pointed out
while at the campout that I should check the idle jet as well.  I still have
not gotten around to that even though I wanted to before we left back home.
So we get back on the road and all seems well.  No more hesitation and
engine is running very nice.  We plow through Kansas and stop somewhere just
East of Kansas City.  My mind fails me at the moment.  Our plans then were
to try and hook up with FasterLaster by the end of the next day.  A long
haul but worth a shot.

 

Thursday (05/14)

After crashing for the night we woke up super early at around 1030 am :-)
First on the list, hit the gas station and grab some grub.  Besides the fuel
delivery issue, filling up every 350+ miles is quite nice.  We hop on the
road and cruise for a few hours before giving Jason a call.  Seems we might
actually be able to get to their place before they leave.  So, we focus and
sit.  And sit.  And sit some more.  At least we had the looks from the rest
of the public to keep us entertained while on the road.  With no VW emblem
on the front, only those who had been around them were positive that it was
not some homemade kit gone wrong.  We took I70 to I64 to I57 to I24.  I
think I got that right.  Anyhow, we stop just outside of Clarksville and
give Jason a call to let him know where still moving along.  We hop on 48 in
Clarksville and head over to Jason's.  I'll remember this night for some
time.  Driving 48 late at night (a road I have never driven) is much like
flying down 221 from Boone to Marion in NC..but with the twist that you have
to stay above 45 and have no previous knowledge of the road.  Those who
haven taken 221 will know what I mean.  I was thankful to see the lights of
Dickson..needless to say.  After hooking up and saying our hello's with
Jason we pack up a bit and decide if we want to head out right then, or take
a quick nap.  We decide to take a couple hour nap and then head out.

 

Friday (0515)

We head out super early.seriously this time.  We check our cargo and get the
kids all loaded up and ready to go.  CB channel 20 and off we go.  Jason
lead the way most of the trip and I was immediately impressed.  Now, I
considered his Westy to be quite loaded.even without the trailer.  But boy
was he able to cruise still.  I was definitely the slower of the two.  Once
on the road everything seems quite smooth.  Were holding a descent pace and
Jason mentions the goods in his trailer, wondering if they are doing well.
I reply that the items in the trailer are solid and look fine.  Moments
later, I had to that comment the fact that one of the cot's on his roof rack
just tried to jump onto the front of my bus.  We pull over and hop out with
our flashlights to track back.  As Jason stated, we found it remarkably
preserved.  We opt to toss it and the other cots in the back of the double
cab and off we go again.  We make descent time the rest of the way,
considering traveling with 5 kids.  A stop here and there, and one at
Wal-Mart so Jason could swap his DOA GPS system in.  He has it replaced and
turns it on.  A few moment's later, he confirms that we are indeed where we
are.  He confirms his existence several times throughout the weekend with
the gadgetry :-)

http://wical.com/gallery/main.php/v/vw/gatherings/2005/eb/2005_EB_0240.jpg.h
tml

We pull into Hagen-Stone park in the mid afternoon after sifting through a
near-collision with several big rigs.  Doc Ric and party saved us a couple
spots and we started setting up camp.  The evening brought about a chilly
and windy surprise so most were huddled up around the campfires or under the
shelter of the pavilion.  The rest of the night was spent mostly wandering
around a chatting with those we haven't seen since out last EB in 2001.  We
crashed late that night after having enough of the wind and chill's.

 

Saturday (05/16)

We awake to sounds of the Full Moon Bus Club breakfast burrito fest.  We
didn't get a chance at them but heard they were great.as usual.  Well done
on feeding such a mass of people!  Not long after the feast, the moonbounce
was setup.  Kids flocked from everywhere and had a blast.  Jason had been
talking about finding a geocache that was located in the park so we headed
out to find it with kids in tow.  While we were out, the wives tried to sell
more raffle ticket's for the 50/50 raffle.  The choice was either half of
the money raised, or a full set of Koni shocks from the type2 list group
buy.  We find the cache after hunting for a bit and saw that it had been
discovered by several other bus'ers 

 

Troy Wical -|- Aurora, CO

troy(-at-)wical.com -|- www.wical.com

'63 Double Cab

'78 Transporter

'78 Transporter
