Date: Mon, 25 Apr 2005 13:22:50 -0700
To: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Pettibon, Jeremy" <jeremy.pettibon(-at-)cingular.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] Electrolytic system update (also, ordered a new 

The reason I had not posted results or photos yet is because I had no
luck at first and wanted to try some different configurations.  The
problem was not with the system, but with the shape of the wheel.  Rust
was removed just fine, but only from the parts of the wheel that were
either flat or close to the anode plates.  Electricity follows the path
of least resistance, and there seemed to be two preferred paths in this
case.  With the large, flat plates acting as anodes, most of the rust
came off the outer part of the rim or the flat hub area - so either the
closest part to the anode or the part with the straightest
"line-of-sight" from the cathode to the anode.

I tried a couple of other approaches to get the rust off the curved
inner part of the wheel - first I used the bottom I had cut off the
stainless basket.  I zip-tied it to the back side of the hub using
spray-can caps as spacers and gave that a couple of hours.  No luck - no
idea why, but two hours should have resulted in at least some visible
change.  I thought maybe I needed to insulate the center of the anode
from the center of the hub, so in place of the caps, I used a lid from a
plastic cookie container, but still got nowhere.  Next I soaked an old
golf towel in the solution, rolled it up and pushed it into the space
where the stubborn rust was, and sat the anode on it.  Verified that
there was juice running through the towel - only about 1 amp, but at
least some.  After a few hours of this, pouring more solution on the
towel every once in a while, no luck.

About the only reason I can think of why my process wasn't effective is
that my container was too small so my anodes were too close to the
wheel.  Perhaps if they were a foot or so away instead of an inch or
two, more electricity would have flowed from the other parts of the
wheel.

I spent so much time on this that I might as well have wire-brushed the
rest of the wheels like I did the spare.

I haven't posted photos of the failed attempt yet, but I will when I
have time.  I still think electrolysis can be an effective way of
removing rust, but these wheels are just not very good subjects as far
as I can tell.  I might keep experimenting, but for now I'm considering
taking the wheels somewhere to be sandblasted and painted.  I hate to
have to pay for it, but stress and frustration are not worth saving a
few bucks

Jeremy
Bothell, WA
76 Campmobile


-----Original Message-----
From: Dave C. Bolen [mailto:dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com]
Sent: Wednesday, April 20, 2005 2:43 PM
To: Pettibon, Jeremy
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Electrolytic system update (also, ordered a new
engine!)


Jeremy,

Maybe no pics of the wheels yet, but a description of how it worked????

Inquiring minds want to know!
