From: "Craig Ayres-Sevier" <n7cas(-at-)gbis.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 3 Jun 2002 20:43:38 -0700
Subject: Thoroughly Depressing

I just made an appointment to get my bus back into the shop so they could
put in a new gas tank, the seals of which on the original had their last
stress-test gasp, apparently, when they advised that a pressurized gas cap
was required.

The list here has confirmed my initial dismay, when I exclaimed, gee, I was
sure a 67 Bus needed a vented gas cap.

And what's that silly puddle of expensive, odiferous liquid on the asphalt
once subscribing to that false advice? Must be some pesky flashback.

Contacting this morning that shop, and cearly demonstrating the conclusion
by leaving their pressurized gas cap OFF the filler tube -- and thus
experiencing a nearly zero crop of gas puddles, I received not an "oops" in
culpability or responsibility, but get this, a patronizing lecture in the
physics involved in gas expansion which had already demonstrated itself
quite clearly.

More than a little dismayed, I countered with an enumeration of the
empirical experience and also the corrobation of this generous list
(print-outs)regarding my apparently faulty, first-hand garnishings of
knowledge, but get this, all I got back was a sincere admonshment about how
the 67 was the only bus REQUIRED to have a pressurized cap.

Gak! Unsolicited, they mistakenly put on a pressurized gas cap, and then
told me they're the professionals and the guy who's driven a bus for 24
years is a neophyte, like any other car driver of the given vehicle at hand.
The moon is made of cheese. Fingers in the ear. La-la-la-la-la. I wonder if
these people vote and put representatives into office. Or, worse, drive on
public streets. Better yet, consult a manual to see if they can back up what
appear to be arbitrary generalizations.

The sheer conviction and previous competency of their husbandry of my bus
flew in the face of liquid, smelly fact. Leaving the pressurized gas cap off
all day today, guess what! I had no repeat of the vast expanse of gas on the
ground. Yet they assure poor, misinformed and apparently hallucintating me,
the customer, that the pressurized cap in not the problem. So, "Bring it in.
We'll look at it." Ka-Ching. All I wanted them to do was admit the error and
replace my now compromised gas tank. Hell, just give my back my original gas
cap. My confidence is not wavering; it's leaping off a cliff.

To be fair, they are sincere. But that is perhaps what is so, what's the
word, absolutely amazing.

Craig

