Date: Tue, 4 Jun 2002 03:32:03 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Help, red light on

>From: "Christian Figenschou" <fig(-at-)zebrasafari.co.za>
>Date: Mon, 3 Jun 2002 13:12:33 +0200
>
>When reinstalling the formerly leaky engine in my Dormobile, I
>accidentally cross connected the DF and earth cables to the
>generator (12V) and then started and ran the engine for a short
>time.  Since then the red light has stayed on. It stays on with
>either of two good generators fitted, so I suppose it's the
>regulator?

Oops.  You probably full-fielded the generator which means that
its output was unregulated and could have gotten up over 24 V.
If you raced the engine a lot you *might* have burned out the
field coils, but if it was a short time at idle or relatively
low speeds it may be fine.  

In normal operation, the regulator switches DF to ground.  If its
DF wire was grounded, the regulator would be just connecting
ground to ground which wouldn't hurt anything.  If the regulator
coils got a big dose of much over 15 V, they may have burned out.

It's also possible that the generator isn't polarized right
anymore and this is an easy fix.

So, to test: Take off all regulator wires at the generator and
tape them up so they can't short out.  Connect a wire to DF on
the generator so you can ground it easily, but don't ground it
yet.  Start the engine.  Hook up a voltmeter between D+ and ground,
and then jump the DF wire to ground -- you should get around 12
volts on the voltmeter.  Quickly rev up the engine and measure
again -- the voltage should go up to 24 volts or more.  As soon
as you've verified this, unhook the DF wire from ground.  The
idea is to have the DF wire grounded only as long as necessary
to get a reading - not over "a few seconds" per Bentley.  When
you're done, shut the engine off.

If this test passed then the generator armature and field coils
are probably OK.  If it didn't then the trouble is probably in
your generator. 

You can also try polarizing the generator.  Take off all
regulator wires at the generator and tape them up so they
don't short out.  Take the belt off and jump DF to ground.
Run a jumper wire from the battery positive terminal to D+.
This should make the generator spin like a motor; let it do
this for a second or two and then disconnect the jumper wire.
Hook the regulator back up and try it out; if the red light
goes out then you've fixed it.

It's hard to test the regulator with tools most people have.
If you've checked out the generator and made sure that the
connections to the regulator are clean and tight, and you
still get a red light, then it's probably in the regulator -
swapping in a new one is probably the simplest check.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds


