From: ILoveType2s(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 4 Jun 2002 12:46:50 EDT
To: scscomp(-at-)bellsouth.net
Subject: Re: [VB] Looking for tips for Metal replacments and sandblasting

--part1_176.93f79ba.2a2e48fa_boundary
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="US-ASCII"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

       First, please no flailing with hammers!!  Although some body shops use 
this method (I worked at Macco for a total of 2 hours before I walked out the 
door-theres things I won't do even to an American car!), it's not advisable 
unless you like buying body filler by the case. This is no way to straighten 
metal.  Always back your metal with a dollie to keep it from being pushed to 
far passed straight and becoming either a dent or a high spot.
       As for sandblasters, I bought a small pocket blaster of the Mac truck 
about 3 years ago and it still keeps going.  I'm sure with a little shopping 
around you might save a few bucks, but at $50, I'm still very happy with it.  
It's basically a pistol with a sand receiver mounted on top.  It comes with 
several different rubber nozzle covers which help contain the sand when 
blasting where you don't want sand flying around (like blasting inside your 
bus).  Or you can remove the rubber and blast away on your dog legs or what 
have you.  The only draw back is you have to refill it often.  Also something 
that should be addressed is what about the sand that does end up inside the 
bus (you still always have some in the nooks and crannies even with a pocket 
blaster).  The first temptation is to grab an air hose and blow it.  This is 
a no no as it will just push the sand deeper into the nooks.  A shop vac does 
a much nicer job.  This is also true for cleaning out the door when you first 
pull the panel.
       In the past I've seen posters saying that painting over bare metal is 
okay and now failing.  So please, think before you swing that hammer and 
check the archives and several posts before you start working on your baby.  
As I can tell you from experience, the price of body work goes up when it 
comes to fixing  screw ups!!!
                                                                 Peace,
                                                                       Frank
       
       

Disabled Auto Body Tech
AAS Auto Body & Fender Technology
Happy owner of 13 happy Volkswagens

--part1_176.93f79ba.2a2e48fa_boundary--
