From: "Steve Bradley" <scscomp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 4 Jun 2002 23:31:16 -0400
Subject: Re: [VB] '59 SC....bed refurb


Well, at the risk of being corrected again, I'll tell you how I'm doing my
'65 DC bed.

Mine was the same as yours except the bed was also warped where heavy
objects were carried (and sometimes tossed) in the bed by the DPO. Large
areas of the bed had 1/2 to 1 inch deformations in the areas between the bed
supports.

I already had the gas tank and engine out so, I could get to all areas of
the bed. I used the peen end of a dead blow ball peen hammer to get to the
raised corrugations and the flat face to get to the flat ends of the
corrugations. I used a 4 foot rule to test the straightness of the
corrugations. The peen face of the hammer is very broad so, there really
isn't a problem with the hammer leaving hammer marks on the metal. If I have
to hit really hard, sometimes it will leave a hammer mark but, I just go the
other side and hammer the mark out.

I used a smaller ball peen hammer with a smaller peen end to get to the
small dents. I'm not using a dolly because I'm on one side of the bed and I
don't have 12 foot arms to hold the dolly on the other side. There is a
problem getting access to the sections of the bed over the wheel wells,
can't get a good swing with the hammer because the area is so confined. I
got around this by using a stud puller along the 2 or 3 ribs on the edges of
the bed. Fortunately, these areas weren't badly deformed on my truck. I also
had to use the stud puller to get to the areas over the bed supports. Oddly
enough, this bit of "high" technology took the most time. I had to weld my
studs in a line along the dent/deformation and slowly pull the metal up with
the slide hammer.

I don't really see how someone would use a porta-power on this job because,
the porta-power has to push against something to be able to push the dent
out of the bed. This would work on the part of the bed that runs directly
over the engine because you could push against the ground. But, where would
you be pushing on the other areas? Against sheet metal that is the same or
smaller gauge as the bed. I don't understand what would keep the porta-power
from bending your cargo floor, wheel wells, or battery trays.

I've been working 3 days on it, working about 6 to 8 hours a day and I've
got the bed straight with no large dents and all the warped sections
straightened.

I'm going to use fiberglass filler for the small pin holes, the defects that
were caused by the stud-puller and some places that were so badly mangled by
the DPO that they can't be fixed using metalwork. Fiberglass is pretty tough
and it will remain waterproof even if future owners decide not to keep paint
on the bed. I'll cover that with 2 coats of epoxy primer just for good
measure.

Steve Bradley
Bradley Auto Body

> I've been slowly sandblasting the bed of my '59 Single Cab. It's a
> solid bed with no holes in it. As I'm blasting away the old crusty
> paint and surface rust, I'm seeing that there is pitting in the metal
> where rust has attatcked it some. There are even a few pin
> holes...which are almost "not there".  Also, the bed was used like
> you'd expect a truck to be used. It's got small dents and
> imperfections in the "ribs".
>
> Now, I'm not looking for a perfect truck. But I would like to make it
> look good since I'm gonna be painting it eventually. But i want to be
> able to use the truck. So, what's the best way to fill the pits? Can
> I use filler primer and let it build up, or even glazing putty or
> something?


