From: "Smith, Ted (T.A.)" <tsmit137(-at-)ford.com>
To: "Vintagebus (E-mail)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 6 Jun 2002 14:48:34 -0400 
Subject: On the subject of copyright and bogus parts

Some of you have asked how Ford deals with this issue and I found this today on our intranet.

Ted Smith
PCV ETA Systems Technican
FORD MOTOR COMPANY
313-248-2267 voice/fax
313-990-4998 pager


Ford Fights Illegal Counterfeit Business in Central Europe 
By Predrag Zezelj
Special to FCN Online 
BUDAPEST, Hungary, June 6, 2002 -- Ford has launched another assault on parts counterfeit and the misuse of Ford Motor Company trademarks by unauthorized workshops and dealers across Central European countries. Its Parts Brand Protection Group (PBPG) recently started a series of inspections and audits in the region.
In the first round, specialists carried out inspections in the Hungarian, Croatian and Slovenian markets. Further trips to countries in the region are to follow shortly. a final report of the conducted market audits is currently under preparation. 
Counterfeit auto parts have long been a global phenomenon in the automotive industry. While customer safety is the main concern, they also result in brand devaluation and decrease in revenues for the manufacturer. 
Steve Barrow, operations director for Ford Customer Service Division in the Region, comments not only on fake parts but also fake dealers: "It is vital that we in the industry take action to protect the lives and interests of our customers. Every time customers visit a Ford dealership they are putting their faith in our products and in the services of our authorized network. That's why we as manufacturers are also duty bound to protect our customers from the cheats who fraudulently pass themselves off as genuine dealers" 
The role of the PBPG is observing and analyzing a market, including FMC dealers, parts wholesalers and counterfeiters. In order to effectively fight this industry-wide plague the PBPG has joined forces with a whole network against piracy. As part of that, Ford is an active member of anti-counterfeiting groups and global investigative agencies. Furthermore it co-operates with other vehicle manufacturers by sharing intelligence resources to better detect organized trademark infringement. 
Once the PBPG group has gathered information about a significant number of trademark violations, its specialists visit the market and carry out audits. International copyright laws leverage their work, as they give manufacturers the right to raid outlet operations they suspect of trading with counterfeit parts. When the group detects infringements, it either initiates legal steps or negotiates compensation and royalty agreements. 
Alistair Fergusson, head of the PBPG operations, says: "Piracy in the automotive parts trade not only defrauds vehicle manufacturers, it can also threaten lives, as many illegal parts are of inferior quality and reliability. And car owners can hardly tell the difference between the genuine and the counterfeit parts, until they fail or break and have caused major damage." 
Being a member of the World Customs Organization, the PBPG Group also arranges training missions to a number of countries, in order to educate customs officers to improve their efficiency in detecting counterfeit product being shipped across borders. 
Since its launch in 1994 the group has detected 42 parts suppliers selling parts bearing false Ford trademarks. 

