Date: Wed, 16 Aug 2006 15:55:42 -0400
From: Anymouse <honeybus(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 8.5 volts at FI fuel pump - what's up??

For  <rickair7777(-at-)xxxxxxxxx <rickair7777(-at-)DOMAIN.HIDDEN>>

Rick, I was reading 8.5 V  at the wire that comes out of the harness to the
fuel pump.  I had the multimeter grounded to the frame, and then I had the
multimeter grounded with the ground wire (brown) that came out of the
harness to the Fuel Pump.

My FP came from a late Vanagon (within the past year) and I had to bolt on
male electrical connector(s), similar to what you use on the ignition coil.
I put on three pronged male connectors because that is what I had in my
stash.  So, I was also able to read voltage directly off the FP also.

At home, I ran a wire directly from my dash rear window defogger switch
under the VW to the fuel pump.  Remember, I have three connectors on the +
and three connectors on the - posts.  When i pulled the switch I could hear
the fuel pump running (in my garage, quiet).  I shut it off, ran back to the
engine compartment and looked at my fuel pressure gauge.  Zero!!  I got
nothing!!  Fear gripped my heart.  I screwed up somewhere.

OK, back under the FP and I noticed the ground wire to the Fuel Pump was
weakly attached (see 'hints from Heloise #12'), and as I was trying to get
the proper fit, I kept hearing clicking noises from over my head somewhere.

It sounded like a relay kicking on and off and on . .  ..  I went up to my
resistor pack/double relay and discovered that the double brown ground wire
that connects to the machine screw between the resistor pack and the double
relay had come undone!!

Eureka, or so I thought.  Simple problem; simple solution.  I attached the
double brown ground wire really well, and recharged my battery.  I tried
again.....

Engine turning with the starter for a good 10 seconds and no results.  The
VW did not start, and I got no fuel pressure (the fuel pressure gauge is
permanently mounted on the DS fuel rail).

Back to square one.

My mechanic said that there is a black ground wire that comes out of the ECU
that sometimes gets loose.  He said I should check that wire.  He also said
the gremlin was in my double relay (as was also suggested by richard Atwell
in hte first reply to my plea for help) and that it WAS NOT in my AFM....

Has anyone else heard of something like that??  A black ground wire coming
out of the ECU??  Where would it normally connect to??

And I found and measured my elusive 0.08 amp drain at the Fuel Pump -
terminal to the brown ground wire in the harness.

Barry sends


-- 
Anymouse sends
