Date: Thu, 17 Aug 2006 15:42:14 -0400
From: Wayne <mga60(-at-)optonline.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: High Head Temp (Long)

I wrote about this before but now have more details - they should answer
some of your questions.  

First - on the whole the engine sounds and runs great.  Starts up all the
time, even when hot (has hot start relay).  Hydraulic lifter(s) are
sometimes a bit noisy when the engine is started after sitting a week or so
- this quiets down in less than a minute.  Oil pressure seems high when
engine is cold ~60-70 psi - goes down to around ~30-40 when warmed up and
driving and ~ 7-10 at idle.  Here are some more details.

1979 Westy

Stock engine (as far as I know)
Dwell 46 degrees
Timing 7.5 degrees BTDC (vac off) - as best as I can tell with old timing
plastic "thing".
Idle 800 rpm
Recent oil change - Castrol 10w40 Semi-Synthetic - new oil filter
Thermostat installed and working - flaps open when engine warmed up
All tin in place along with foam surround
A/C compressor in place - no fan belt - foam in place around it
Some rubber bits missing:
	No sparkplug rubber in tin
	No alt adjusting rubber in tin
	Rubber around oil pressure sender is torn
Fan is in place - it was taken off and cleaned earlier this summer.

Gauges:

Head temp - Dakota Digital (older style)
Oil temp & pressure - VDO
Oil temp sender installed in Porsche Taco Place with cover and rubber
grommet in place around wire
Oil pressure sender remote installed with aircooled.net flexible hose

Now for the high head temp info as it related to today's test drive.

Today's outside temp ~ 83 degrees
Oil temp ~ 230 degrees
Oil pressure ~ 30 psi
Head temp runs around 400 +/- degrees on flat ground at ~ 65mph
On moderate up hills (I live in Connecticut) head temp rises and after long
up hill or steep hill it will hit 450 until I get off gas

Spark plug color looks like Nestles Quick Powder (my old standard) that
would make me think mixture was OK

I checked mileage for the first time today and it's only around 10mpg...
this may not be accurate as most of my recent driving has only been very
short trips around town and I've been idling a bunch to test other things
out - also, it was only a 4.5 gallon fill up.  I will be following up on
this more.

I've not yet checked for mouse of other varmint nests under the tin - that
is my next task.  Or possibly very dirty cooling fins on the cylinders -
there are oil leaks around some of the push rod tubes.

I don't think I've left anything out :-)  Your thoughts would be
appreciated.

Wayne
'79 Westy
