Date: Sun, 04 Aug 2002 11:52:13 -0700
To: Rogelio Palomera-Arias <rpalomera(-at-)attbi.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Charging problems..

At 09:35 AM 08/04/2002, you wrote:
>a corroded battery ground cable. I changed it and the problems went
>away for couple of days.  This morning it would not start, like it has a 
>dead battery.
>
>Any idea what could be the cause?

Yes, indeed, the generator has been trying it's d**dest to feed amps 
against the long standing ground cable corrosion. It took several years of 
constantly increasing resistance to get to the failure stage. All that time 
the battery was over stressed, the starter was overstressed and the 
generator was overstressed. Keeping the battery and cables cleaned yearly 
is reasonable maintenance that will vastly increase the functional life of 
all these primary high amp components.

If you have quicky type terminals on your battery, replace the cables 
complete with properly crimped and sealed terminals. Can't hurt at all to 
go one size larger cables than stock for very little more money. Make the 
ground strap mounts clean bright metal and tight. If there are more than a 
very few broken wires in the ground strap, replace it as well. Use bite 
washers at the stud terminals, the kind that look like they have tiny fan 
blades around the inside or outside diameter. Put the washer on the stud so 
it bites into the body steel, then the terminal so it gets bit too, then a 
large flat washer to spread the load of the nut torque. Rightous contact 
for grounds.

Always, at the very first instance that a tiny bit of corrosive residue 
should show its self, clean it thoroughly now and remount. Never let them 
progress to the stage of un-cleanable.

Replace the generator. Remove the voltage regulator, then it's cover, for 
inspection. If you see evidence of heat stress, burned contacts or rosin 
weaping from solder joints or perty purply colors on the hardware, replace 
it as well. At the first sign of starter weakness, replace it. Same for the 
battery. Then keep the batter case and all the primary cables clean and 
tight. When maintenance is reasonable many batteries will give 2 to 3 years 
more life than their warranty period and never create undue stress on the 
generator/alternator/regulator/starter. Not to mention overheating and 
burning of the ignition and starter switch contacts and the terminals of 
those critical circuits.




