Date: Sun, 04 Aug 2002 12:32:48 -0700
To: kyle j pendleton <mine441(-at-)juno.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Worn out calipers

At 11:36 AM 08/04/2002, you wrote:

>Hey all.
>I have a question concerning the calipers on my 71 bus.  I have taken the
>front wheels off, as well as the calipers.  For one, the bleeder valves
>are both broken off, and I'm talking flush.  What should I do?  The
>calipers look in hard shape.  Should I rebuild these,

I have found in recent years that the cost of new calipers is not a lot 
more than brand name rebuilds.  Until you remove the pucks, clean and 
inspect the cylinder you can't know if they are re buildable. If you can 
obtain a clean bright surface with 320 grit, they can be rebuilt. If there 
is more pitting than that, buy new or reman. Be very shy of no name white 
box reman anything, particularly if they are priced cheap. That is 
generally the case as they are of aforethought designed to be cheap, 
through compromises in skilled labor and process.

As regards removal of the broken bleeders, if the calipers are otherwise 
re-buildable, a machinist should be hired to remove them, and redress the 
seat if needed. Don't think you can get them out with an easyout if they 
were frozen enough to shear the bleeder. It just ain't gonna happen over 
95% of the time.

For any vehicle, if the calipers haven't been bled since Moses due to 
broken bleeders or just plain lack of maintenance, I would advise new and 
be done with it. The rotten fluid that rusts bleeders in place and corrodes 
the calipers generally is the same stuff that hardens into varnish and 
kills seals and swells the flex lines as well. If one part of the hydraulic 
system is contaminated, the whole system is contaminated. Periodic flushing 
and bleeding the whole system will prevent this problem from ever getting 
started. This is PM that will decrease your pennies/mile ratio 
tremendously. It keeps the insides of the system as clean as the day it was 
assembled indefinately.

Note: the first thing to do before replacing any hydraulic part is flush 
the fluid. You don't want the new hydraulics to ever see anything but clean 
fluid. I've seen too many brake jobs where the new parts were just bleed 
and start their life from the get go contaminated. Not good for cost per mile.




