From: "Justin L. Smith" <nikkies(-at-)charter.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.Com>
Date: Sun, 4 Aug 2002 22:57:42 -0400
Subject: What I Learned by Means of Disaster (long)

Hello all.

I recently returned from a month-long sojourn some 250 miles from
home.  I gleefully took my 78 Westy in order to take advantage of
the camping possibilities in the area...

"Petunia" ran great all the way down, but once there, started
that 'hiccuping' which, in my experience, resulted from:
a) Bad or loose #3 cylinder head temp sender
b) Poor timing
c) Warped flywheel
d) Loose clutch
e) Broken motor mounts

I checked my #3 cht sender, and it was fine. I checked timing,
discovered it off a bit, and re-set to 7*btdc. This seemed to fix
the lurching in low RPM, so I continued on driving for about a
week.

Unfortunately, it returned, only this time with a vengeance.  I
pulled over in a GA State Park (knowing that, should all else
fail, I at least had somewhere to sleep).  I knew my flywheel was
good, because it was brand-spankin' new. I then tightened my
clutch just a hair - no joy.  I examined my motor mounts and
found them O.K.  Quickly running out of ideas, I turned to the
ignition system.

Removal of my distributor cap revealed the center contact had
eroded to nearly nothing,  and I had developed a nipple on the
contact points (despite having just over a thousand miles on
them!).  So, I bought a new cap and set of points - on they went.
This seemed to resolved the issue, or at least lessen the
problem - until another fifteen miles down the road when
"Petunia" became very insistent that something was very WRONG.
What was once a lurching became exceptionally powerless and
inconsistent running, and she would flat-out die at idle.

I just-barely made it to my hotel parking lot before she gave up
entirely.  She now wouldn't start at all, no chugga-chugga, just
a whirring starter.  I tested my regulator per Bentley and Muir
with a VOM and learned that it was shot.  Eureka!! Perhaps this
was the cause of all my troubles.  Replaced it, still nada.  I
then pulled the coil wire and discovered no spark.  Off I went in
a friend's car to buy a new coil.  Installed, still nothing.  I
then cleaned the battery terminals and ground strap, and suddenly
she would JUST start, but still running horribly.  (Incidentally,
it was at this point that my VOM crapped-out (dead fuse) - and I
was consequently unable to conduct any further electric tests.)

I was now completely out of ideas and tried to baby it to a local
ACVW shop at which I would desperately plead for help.  She died
again, completely, and I was forced to ask for a tow.  I had to
go to school in the morning,  so I left Petunia to the mechanic's
devices.  I was called the next day and told that everything was
fine now, I just had a weak battery, probably drained because of
corroded terminals/bad ground, and since the ol' FI required 9.6V
to run, she was dead in the water.  (I remember Muir saying
something to the effect of: 'If you have one of these new FI
cars, be prepared to always have a properly-charged battery. Or
two.')

I came, I paid the $81 for an 'electrical inspection' and $55 for
a NAPA battery, waved goodbye and headed back to my hotel.
Halfway there, dead again. Damn!!!  I called the mechanic, and he
said, well, it sounds like your alternator might be dying. I was
of course very dismayed at this revelation, given that I had just
paid for an 'electrical inspection'.  Consequently, he sent one
of his lackeys with a fresh battery.  We toiled in the summer
sun, replaced the battery, and STILL NOTHING.  "Petunia" refused
to run.

I am livid at this point - I have to make the return 250 miles
home the next day.  I read, re-read and pray over the Bentley and
Muir manuals.  No epiphone.  I then made a mental check:
"Okay, there's a new battery. The terminals are good, the ground
is good.  There's a new coil, a new set of points, a new
distributor cap, and a new regulator."
I couldn't check the regulator again, remember, because my VOM
died.  It is at this point that I crawl under the Bus, fumble
around looking for a loose connection and discover a COMPLETELY
MELTED and consequently USELESS
alternator-to-starter-and-regulator harness.

All that "chugging" around the last week or so was apparently the
result of a shorting alternator-to-starter wire.  It was VERY
difficult to determine where the short was, as there was very
little of the thing remaining.  Because the rubber grommet
through which this wire passes was missing, I suspected engine
vibration here played a part and probably wore through the
insulation.

Nick, the young lackey the mechanic sent, and I pulled the
alternator and harness.  (P.S. One can remove the alternator on a
Type IV from the REAR (RIR) if you remove three pieces of tin and
the oil filler tube.) We headed off to NAPA in the hopes that 1)
my alternator didn't fry, and 2) we could rebuild the harness.
From a bench test, we learned that sadly, my alternator DID fry,
so I ordered one to arrive next-day.  We then focused on
rebuilding the harness, using the stock connectors.  Some time
later, the piece de resistance was complete, and I was given a
ride to my hotel.

The next morning, my alternator arrived, so Nick and I installed
it and threaded the now-encased-in-electrical-conduit harness
through the tin, forward through the firewall and down to the
starter.  All connections made.  Nick was off to the side when I
brought the ground strap to the battery.  Some inch before the
connection is made, there's lots of arcing.  I stop, and reflect.
Nick insists this is normal.  I'm doubtful but make the
connection anyway.  HUGE MISTAKE!! Popping, smoke - LOTS of
smoke.  Toxic stuff.  I reach in and remove the battery cable and
run to the cabin where I grab my fire extinguisher.  Thank God,
no fire erupted.  After the smoke cleared, I leaned in and saw
the now-familiar completely melted alternator-starter-regulator
harness.

What the hell?  Again we pull the alternator and its lifeless
harness.  I have an idea.  Maybe the alternator B+ terminal is
shorting against the alternator back plate?  I don't know if
anyone of you has thought of this before, but it's pretty
difficult to check.  One really can't see inside to see if the
terminal is contacting the back plate.  I now had Nick's working
VOM - and poked it through the wiring access hole.  I ran the
positive lead to the terminal and the negative to the back
plate - no ground short.  Hmm.  Then it occurred to me.  I had
tried this test w/o the harness installed.  Perhaps the addition
of wiring terminal and a nut increased the height of that
terminal JUST enough to short against the back plate.

EUREKA!  VOM says that's it!  So off comes the alternator back
plate where it meets the crude justice of an air-powered dremel.
I cut out the section under which the B+ terminal is located so
there was NO chance of a short.  A new harness was prepared, this
time with a battery-gauge wire (huge, I tell you - took lots of
soldering) to run from the alternator to the starter (actually
the starter).  Everything was re-installed, re-connected and
VROOM!  Back to life, great power, no lurching!  All 250 miles
home, it was a pleasure.

Oh, but I learned some things.  Perhaps some things that might
help a lurking listmember?

Lessons:

(a) A working VOM should be in everyone's emergency tool kit.
Plus a spare fuse.
(b) If there is sparking at the battery ground terminal when you
make the attachment, this means there is a SHORT somewhere.  Muir
says to pull each fuse one-by-one and check for spark at the
terminal.  This will help you determine the circuit in which
there is a short. Good advice, but it wouldn't have helped me:
there's no fuse for the alternator-to-starter(solenoid) circuit.
(c) Rubber grommets in the cooling tin are there for a reason.
If they are missing - REPLACE them.  If you can't find them, use
electrical conduit (as I did) or SOMETHING to prevent the
rubbing.
(d) ALWAYS have a fire extinguisher.  The www.type2.com page
always refers to fuel-line fires - and they're certainly very
likely and dangerous - but don't forget electrical!
(e) If you're going to check the fuel lines RIGHT NOW, check the
electrical connections, too.  I heeded the fuel-line advice at my
engine's rebuild. But I failed to check for cracked wiring in
inconspicous places.  Perhaps this would have saved me the
enormous headache.
(f) Check the little rubber boot that protects the alternator's
B+ terminal from shorting against the alternator back plate.
Mine was gone, and the terminal had been electrical-taped over by
some idiot P.O.  (This tape obviously failed.) If the rubber
around your 30 y/o Bus's windows is crap - I'm betting it's bad
there, too.

Okay.  I won't get into my dealings with the mechanic after the
discovery of an incomplete "electrical inspection", but suffice
it to say I lost.  Nonetheless, I hope my tale here helps some
hapless, weary traveller today or tomorrow.  If anything, it'll
make it to the archives.

Regards,

Justin L. Smith
78 Westy Deluxe "Petunia"
nikkies(-at-)charter.net



