Date: Mon, 5 Aug 2002 09:46:06 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: stevo <stevo(-at-)efn.org>
Subject: re-establishing EGR in my FI 

yep, i'm gonna do it. yesterday i began the process of reviving the EGR
system along with my fuel injection components on my 75. however, this 1.8L
engine has the full-on later fuel injection system - AFM, EGR valve on the
air distributer, no throttle switch, nor temp switch.

i began by cleaning and unplugging. first i tackled the air distributor.
inside the distributor are two tubes that expell exhaust gases into the FI
system. those tubes have little holes that got clogged along the way, and
they backed up the tubes. i shot it with engine degreaser, picked the holes
and tubes with an assortment of tools, tiny wire brushes, and then blew
clean with my internal compressed air system. what a messy gooey vile
cocktail with which i've come to know and love so well. leaves you looking
like a coal miner too. later i got my hands around the EGR valve which was
equally encrusted, packed tight with carbon. finally i removed the
non-stock RTV silicone stoppers from the two-bend pipe that lives between
the filter to the EGR valve with a degreaser-soaked rag that i fished
through and reamed back and forth. the throttle valve was equally
disgusting and i took time to clean the entire thing paying special
attention to the butterfly flap because a relatively hugh amount of crud
was hunkered down on that flap and the area around it.

now i am ready to pile on the fuel injection onto the engine along with
clean EGR parts. however i have two questions as i go along: regarding the
EGR valve, when i found it encased with trapped carbon, i found what
appears to be something like a thick counter-sunk washer on the end of a
threaded item. not sure what it does or how it works, and i wonder since it
fits in loosly do i simply lay it on the threads and button it up...? any
explanation on how this works and correct installation is much appreciated.
second, i am missing the linkage fron the EGR to the throttle valve. i
suppose once the connector pipe was plugged with silicone the linkage was
tossed. does a listee have a spare.   - steve


