Date: Sat, 12 Jan 2002 00:00:48 -0500
From: Jim Mowreader <xpr3(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Paint question - Thanks (more than you ever wanted to

Access Systems sends:

> and then there is that paint that changes color as you look at it, I have
> been told it is over a thousand dollars a gallon........a scratch in that
> IS a crying event!!  wonder if anyone has ever painted a bus with that??

They don't sell it by the gallon. They sell it by the quart. One quart is
anywhere from $242 (Sherwin-Williams) to $357 (DuPont). IOW, $1000 to $1400
per gallon if you buy four quarts. (I was thinking about painting the...
would "chair rail" describe the little bulge just below the windows on a
Loaf?...with this paint.) In comparison, red Sikkens Autocryl costs $105 a
quart, and red is the most expensive color (and Sikkens is the most
expensive paint that doesn't contain color-shift pigment). All prices are
local to me.

The laydown sequence on it requires you paint your car with a colored
basecoat (usually black), shoot two coats of the color-shift paint and
clearcoat the whole thing. Which means that unless you're painting a semi
with the trailer, you don't need a gallon of the expensive stuff.

One of the selling points for this material is the ease of repair. Unlike
regular paint, all of the colors of this come packaged from the factory. And
there's no blending the repair with the preexisting paint--just remove the
clearcoat from around the area, shoot a little black to fix the scratch then
shoot two coats of the color-shift paint over the black. Clearcoat it and
you're done.

There are two paint stores in Fayetteville who handle this material. One,
the DuPont store, asks for a three-day wait while they have it shipped in
from wherever it's made. The other store, who handles Sherwin-Williams and
House of Kolor, keeps the Sherwin-Williams in stock because the local bikers
like it. Apparently, you can get four Harley gas tanks on a quart of this
and a quart of black. I'd imagine the PPG store and the NAPA stores that
sell Martin Senour could get it if you begged, but I don't believe in
begging a merchant to get me something the guy down the road has on his
shelf.

The colorant in this stuff is totally different from any other paint on the
market in the way it handles light. Inks and paints normally absorb light--
if you have painted your bus green, the paint will absorb all of the light
rays except the green ones, which get reflected back to you. This color-
shift paint is full of little prisms which scatter light--the red rays go
this way, the blue this way, the green another way altogether and the paint
absorbs no light. (Which explains why you put it over black--the color that
absorbs all wavelengths of light. The prisms are specially designed to
reflect only certain colors of light; witness Jeff Gordon's car for The
Winston 2001, which would have been red at the exit of Turn 2 and gold at
the entrance to Turn 3 if he hadn't driven it into the wall in Turn 1. The
other colors go through to the base coat, which absorbs them.) These
pigments are what makes DuPont ask $11 per ounce for this stuff.

I don't know if anyone's painted a Bus with this paint, but last week I was
driving past a used car lot that had a very small SUV--we're talking a
Korean SUV-sized vehicle--painted with it. In the window: "$2500 Paint Job."
-- 

--jmowreader
xpr3(-at-)earthlink.net



