Date: Sat, 12 Jan 2002 00:15:08 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Charlie Ford <cjford(-at-)altamaha.net>
Subject: The Altamaha Wilderness Adventure Challenge, AWAC

Hi folks,

I want to invite all you VW bus owners to an event my company, Three 
Rivers Expeditions, will be sponsoring Memorial Day weekend, 2002.

The first annual Altamaha Wilderness Adventure Challenge, "AWAC" for 
short, will happen May 25, 2002.

The AWAC will be an outdoor course challenge that will include 
canoeing/kayaking, mountain biking, and an obstacle course.  This is 
not a race!  teams of 3 or individuals can participate.  The course 
is being designed for folks that love good physical activity, but 
also know the value of sitting in a recliner.  You get my drift...

The entry fee for participants is $40.00.  We will be providing 
canoes (or you can bring your own), but you will need to furnish your 
own mountain bike.

We will provide a free low country boil for all particpants.  There 
will be bluegrass music and opportunities all weekend to paddle 3 
fine rivers for all who attend (rentals will be available at a 
discount to bus owners).  Camping is primitive (no electricity), but 
also free.

My business doesn't really allow me to venture off on weekends so I 
figured I would try to lure as many of you as possible to come where 
I live.  I would love to see lots of VW busses in attendance.  I 
actually miss you guys and gals.

South Georgia is a beautiful area and the AWAC is attracting lots of 
attention.  Should be lots of fun with lots of celebration.

Sorry about the lack of bus content but I just wanted to offer ya'll an invite.

Thanks for tolerating the ramblings,

Charlie Ford

PS:  Five years ago on January 12, the Mothership and I were on our 
way to Oklahoma City and into our third day of travel.  I was scared 
to death.  I still am.  : )

http://www.type2.com/~keen/charlie/charlie.html

-- 
Three Rivers Expeditions 3.R.E.
Hazlehurst, GA/Lumber City, GA
(912) 379-1371/Cell:1 (912) 223 7499
http://www.3riverexp.com

Mama said..."Go outside and play!"

cjford(-at-)altamaha.net

