From: ILoveType2s(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 12 Jan 2002 11:57:07 EST
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: On the subject of paint (sorta long)

--part1_50.4cf79c8.2971c4e3_boundary
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="US-ASCII"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


> can't see just grinding them all down because the sheet metal would get
> > flattened. So is this a smart use for Body Filler?  How about for the 
> pits

Grinding rust is a no-no.  You can actually grind the rust deeper into the 
metal.  Most folks consider metal a stiff non-yeilding material, but after 
you work with it enough, you start to understand how metal flows.  Metal is 
just a much of molecules,  Most of the time they are stationary, but add an 
outside force, heat or a dent and the molecules move father apart.  So fixing 
dents is a matter of putting the molecules back were they are supposed to be. 
 I myself like to sandblast the rust, this way you get all the rust out.  If 
you have enough rust and no compressor you may be able to farm out the 
blasting.  On to rattle can, the trouble with rattle can it is a porous 
primer, it is not a "stand alone product" that's body shop talk for your 
gonna have rust again.  Your gonna need a primer/sealer-you way you can fly 
primer till your ready for paint.  The trouble is I don't know of any rattle 
can primer/sealer.  Body Filler can be your friend or it can be your enemy.  
A lot of the problems is just plain miss-use of the stuff.  I got a job at 
Maco about 3 years ago, I worked for them for a total of two hours and I 
loaded up the tool box and said bye bye.  There are something's I wouldn't 
even do to a Chevy.  They basically skip panel replacement and instead throw 
layer upon layer of body filler at it.  Body filler wasn't made to fill 
dents, it is made to smooth over the imperfections of metal work.  The 
general rule for most good shops is no filler thicker that 1/8 of an inch or 
none if you can get away with it.  Metal finishing is great, if you have the 
time and actually sometimes its easier and faster to metal finish some of the 
smaller stuff. 



> left after a patch seam?   How do those folks that do "all steel" work deal
> with this?  My guess is replace the panel, is it right?
Panel replacement is a gas and is my favorite aspect of body work.  It is 
possible to do it all in metal, but it takes hours and a hell of a lot of 
patience.  The main mistake of panel replacement is getting things to hot.  
The causes warpage and you actually end up working backwards. Meaning making 
more work for yourself.

If you can score a class or two in auto body great.  I myself ended up with a 
college degree in it.  There is so much more to body work than just banging 
fenders.  As for drive way body work, I honestly don't know, I've got more 
money in tools than I care to think about.  If I had to recommend tools for 
the new commer, it would be a pick hammer, toe dolly, body file, grinder 6 
inch, and a stud gun.   If you buy good stuff your looking at about $450.  
The good news is, you can use this stuff forever and with an extra tip for 
the stud gun you can shrink metal.  You might also think of a small 
compressor and a paint gun.

     Well, I hope this helps, sorry for being so long winded.
                                                                              
                  Peace,
                                                                              
                    FWT



Disabled Auto Body Tech
Happy owner of 12 VWs '57 Double Door, '58 Kombi, '57 Bug, '64 Bug, '72 
Cabriolet, '71 411, '73 412, '73 412, 69' Riveria, A Sand Rail, '73 Thing, 
'85 Cabriolet and 20 plus years of spare parts.
My web site under construction <A HREF="http://www.angelfire.com/or3/ilovevws/">http://www.angelfire.com/or3/ilovevws/</A> 

--part1_50.4cf79c8.2971c4e3_boundary--
