Date: Wed, 27 Mar 2002 19:43:50 -0500
From: Jim Mowreader <xpr3(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Type2 List <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Subject: It's not completely lethal... (Glasurit 90 Line paint)

Last week I said I'd go over to the Glasurit dealer and pick up some
technical data on the 90 Line waterborne paint system. It's right around the
corner from my shop, so I went at lunch, got an MSDS for the Glasurit Here
goes:

I own a lot of clip art--the old fashioned kind that's printed in a book,
and you cut out and paste down to the artboards. One piece from the 50s is
an ad for bowling; it has "A Healthful Recreation" written on it.

No one will ever make an ad like that featuring a guy painting a car.

With that in mind, let's look at the 90 Line.

Glasurit 90 Line is a waterborne replacement for Glasurit 55 Line Polyester
Basecoat. It is a low-VOC paint (between 3.8 and 4.9 lbs/gal; Sikkens
Autocryl has 4.6 lbs/gal VOC) with a typical flash point of 99 degrees F;
Sikkens Autocryl has flash point of 73 to 84 degrees F.

The MSDS-reportable ingredients in Glasurit 90 Line, plus their functions if
I can find what they are, follow:

Chemical I can't find:
Ethyl 3-ethoxypropionate (propionic acid is a food preservative; this may be
a paint preservative)

Colorants:
Nickel compounds
Mica
Chromium oxide
Iron oxide
Rutile titanium dioxide
Carbon black
Aluminum oxide
Titanium dioxide
Bismuth vanadium oxide
Yellow iron oxide
Silica hydrophobic amorphous fume
Aluminum
Barium sulfate
Graphite

Organic and other flammable Solvents:
Heavy petroleum naphtha
Butanol
Aromatic hydrocarbons
Trimethylbenzene
Methoxybutanol

Coalescing agents:
Ethylene glycol monobutyl ether
Propylene glycol monobutyl ether
(These chemicals are in most latex house paints. Those paints can smooth out
the brush marks, and these monobutyl ethers are what make it happen. Another
reason I think there's latex in this stuff even though they're not admitting
it on the MSDS.) 

Mutual solvent: 
Dimethylethanolamine
(A mutual solvent is used when attempting to combine two chemicals which
ordinarily would not go together--oil and water, for instance. As we all
know, "oil and water don't mix." Anyone who's taken off their oil cap to
find Castrol Mayonnaise in there would surely disagree with that statement,
but in general, oil floats on water and doesn't mix in. Add another
chemical, like an ethanolamine or some glycols--ethylene and diethylene will
both do it--that will dissolve in both oil and water and you solve that
problem. If you put oil, water and a mutual solvent in a container and stir,
the mutual solvent will dissolve in the water and take the oil with it. In
this case, the ethanolamine carries the water into all of those hydrocarbons
I already listed.)

This paint requires no hardener. This makes it attractive because what's in
the hardener is Isocyanate--very dangerous stuff indeed.
-- 

--jmowreader
xpr3(-at-)earthlink.net

Congratulations to Kurt Busch for winning the Food City 500!

