From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: "'Daniel W Nelson'" <visibleinks(-at-)hotmail.com>, "'Type2List'"
Date: Tue, 3 Jul 2007 08:42:12 -0600
Subject: RE: [T2] I killed the hot dog bay.

Daniel,

IMO the bay turned hot-dog stand is honorable.

I help Chris up at BustedBus frequently part out buses. He is very careful
about what he recycles. He only sends buses to the crusher that are really
not going to make it. I think a Hot Dog stand, Lemonade Stand or any other
custom end to a bay is better than the crusher.

Case in point, I am putting  the finishing touches on an outdoor sculpture
that uses recycled bus mechanicals, recycled Jeep spring plate mounts and
other selected recycled objects. Whatever Bay the parts came from will live
for years as art in a permanent outdoor public collection. 

Whether it be folk art, high art or advertising or something not yet
discovered; taking these buses and extending their life is a honorable thing
- In My Opinion.

Jon Stiles
Outdoor Artist and Bus Enthusiast
'68 DoubleCab "Sgt. Pepper"
'78 Westy "CamperJack"

-----Original Message-----
From: Daniel W Nelson [mailto:visibleinks(-at-)hotmail.com] 
Sent: Tuesday, July 03, 2007 8:28 AM
To: Peter T. Owsianowski; Type2List
Subject: RE: [T2] I killed the hot dog bay.

The hot dog guy specifically wanted a bus that was basically on the way to
the
crusher. Do I feel bad about what I did to this bus or that I can go across
town and buy a hot dog out of it? Hell no. I see it as recycling, this bus
will continue to live on unlike so many that are crushed and turned into
dildo
motors.

I sold this bus to the guy knowing what he was going to do. I bought this 71
Basketcase for $175 bucks, very rusted underneath. Sat for years and year -
electrical ripped out. No title.  Both the engine and transmission were
rebuilt and are running in my Westy (drive it everyday). Other things like
the
fuel tank were cleaned up as well. 8 CV joints out of the two buses yielded
4
good ones. Glass, interior parts, random mechanical parts and even things
like
screws that were missing are now in/on my bus.

I had to move suddently and no longer had room for the bus. The hot dog guy
randomly came up to my house as he spotted my Westy looking for a bus
exactly
like what I had.

And sure someone with a welder and loads of time and cash could have saved
it
but those buses are really common and few people want to save bays like
that.
And sure I could have had my bus down for a long period of time and shelled
out alot more cash for parts but I'm cheap that way.

Peter, how many rusted out basket case buses have you saved and are now
driving today? If you need some more I know of probably 6 within 50 miles of
my house that are perfect for you.


-Daniel

> Turned into a hot dog stand called: "I Dream of Weinie..."> >
http://my.tennessean.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20070702/MICRO02060601/7
0
7040359>
