From: jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net
To: bob(-at-)lifeasbob.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 05 Jul 2007 15:31:01 -0400
Subject: Re: Alternator and EGR Light on, 77 automatic.

bob writes: 


> 1.  Is it possible I "crossed" the two wires leading
> to the thingy ((regulator?) on the firewall ?

The regulator has a 3 prong connector. I doubt you could cross them if they
are still in the plastic connector. 

There is a Blue wire at that connector.. from the d+ terminal of the alt..it
is labelled in the connector... that goes to a matching blue wire single
connector in the wiring harness.. that goes to the dash. 

There is no EGR signal wire coming from an egr "switch"... there is only a 
control at the dash that records the amount of time the alt is on..and when 
it has reached a certain time,, it turns on the egr light... 

you couldn't have crossed an egr wire with an alt wire at the engine.. there 
is only the one blue wire that does both... 

Here is the part I am not familiar with ,, like I said the diagram shows,, 
both the
EGR and the Alt light  [K2 and K21 ] are on the same circuit ... the EGR
lamp has a diode in the control ,,, It appears to me as if they are supposed
to come on at the same time if the alt isn't putting out.  The diode stops 
the ALT light from coming on
when the EGR switch closes.. but allows the 2 lights to work when the alt is
not charging.... 

I am going to guess ,, 

you forgot to attach the B+ wire to the starter.. this large gauge wire goes
from the alt to the starter.. or it can go directly to the battery positive
terminal. 

or for some other reason.. the alt is not charging 


> 2.  Battery sat for 9 months while I hunted for
> transmission and time, I charged it for three days
> before putting it in, could it be "over charged".

You can check the state of charge with a voltmeter.. connect the meter..
should be above 12.5 volts. below 14 volts
turn on the headlights,, voltage will drop.. but not below 12volts
disconnect the coil, so the engine won't start.. and turn over the starter
for 10 seconds.... voltage should stay above 11 volts. 

that is a fair test for the battery .. if it meets the above.. it is good 

> What do I test ?  This is a fairly new alternator (4
> months before tranny died ; so I don't really want to
> have to replace it, what I can't figure out is why the
> EGR light is on too !

turn the key on,, assuming the alt light and egr light are still on.. using
a jumper from the battey positve to the blue wire at the voltage
regulator... disconnect the VR and connect the jumper to the wiring harness
connector on the body... the lights should go out. 

tried to send pmail,, but bob(-at-)lifeasbob.com bounced...
