To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "Jeff Tickner" <JeffT(-at-)softlanding.com>
Date: Wed, 21 May 2003 13:47:13 -0400
Subject: 79 CA dist - long sorry story

I'll say right up front that you guys warned me, but I didn't listen. Now 
I'm listening. 
Last spring I upgraded my 78 federal to the 79 CA dist and ignition. I got 
it from my ACVW mechanic and he did not have the coil. He said my blue 
coil would be fine. There was a good bit of dissension on the list about 
this, but a couple people said they had been running blue or red coils 
fine with the 79 CA dist. So I used that setup all last year just fine, 
very happy with it, maybe 5K total driving.

So we were leaving for long trip 2 Saturdays ago, just had the spring 
service done by my mechanic, and the bus dies on the highway, no spark. I 
think back to all the warnings about coils and decide I will throw in my 
spare coil, a little old bug coil. The bus starts right up and I decide to 
get off at the next exit to find a better coil, whereupon the bus dies 
again and we coast to a stop right across the street from a small auto 
parts store. No spark again, I trot across the street and buy a generic 
coil, all they have in stock. Still no spark. I check the coils finally 
and they are all fine, no shorts. 
At this point Gil stops by, he owns a 67 splittie and seeing a bus in 
distress tries to help out, doesn't know too much about Hall effect 
ignition tho.
I take off the dist cap and discover you can spin the notched shroud 
freely, so during my testing I turn on the key and spin the shroud, I can 
hear the module clicking and I check the positive coil terminal with a 
test light, sure enough the test light flashes. So I put it back to gether 
and have my wife crank it (did I mention that my wife and 2 kids are in 
the camper?) and the test light just stays on. Like the module has decided 
to stop working.
Gil calls his ACVW and we try the VW dealer and junkyards for parts, no 
luck. I happen to be carrying an 009 as a backup dist, but when I pull it 
out it has no points in it! Oops, and of course the little parts store has 
no points for it.
At that point I call my cousin who just picked up a 76 automatic I found 
for him and he pulls the dist on that and brings it over. We throw it in, 
check dwell and set the timing,  I set it for 8BTDC with the retard 
disconnected, and away we go. points aren't in great shape but they are 
working.

Then we drive from MA down to Hatteras, NC have a nice vaca, and drive 
back. On Sunday driving from the in-laws to our home in NH my wife reports 
that the bus feels weak and she is pulling off at the next exit, as we 
slow down for the exit she notices we are smoking. The engine has 
overheated... badly... by the time it cools down I have assessed our 
options at 6PM on a Sunday in Boxboro, MA are limited. I check the dwell 
and timing thinking the timing has crept and we are advanced, but as far 
as I can tell it's OK (won't really idle). The bus starts up, popping and 
leaking oil from #3, making a squeaking noise (which I believe is a broken 
ring). We limp home on 3 cylinders. I don't know why it overheated unless 
the timing had changed. It was hotter in NC then it was on Sunday in MA.

So I'm going to hit the junkyards looking for an early Rabbit or Vanagon 
to find the right coil, and ignition components. I'm making the assumption 
I damaged the module with the wrong coil? Could it be something else and 
how would you test?

The camper is at my ACVW to get the engine damage assessed. This engine 
has about 35K on it since a good rebuild with Mark Stephen's heads, I'm 
desperately hoping that, even in the extreme heat, somehow his magic heads 
came through unscathed, even if he was still around I don't think he would 
honor his lifetime warranty in this case. I have a parts engine and 
another 78 with a tired stock engine that I might borrow so we can finish 
the camping season without a major $$$ infusion. I guess I'll be breaking 
down and purchasing the head temp gauge and oil temp gauge to prevent 
something like this... 

Jeff Tickner
Technical Support
800-545-9485, Ext 536
SoftLanding Systems
