Date: Mon, 30 Sep 2002 09:00:39 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <Doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com>, Type2
Subject: Re: [T2] Need exhaust manifold advice

>Please talk to me about diagnosing and fixing an exhaust manifold leak on 
>my rebuilt 76 two liter.
>
>I have about 30 miles on the newly overhauled original engine, and today 
>one of the cylinders has started blowing fire out around it's exhaust 
>manifold pipe, where the pipe enters the head.
>
>The exhaust header from the cylinder on the passenger rear is allowing 
>visible flames to come out at the place where the header mates with the 
>underside of the head. And it is LOUD.  I tried tightening the two nuts on 
>the studs at that cylinder, but it didn't help, and I was afraid to go any 
>tighter because I think there is aluminum alloy up in there somewhere.

Yeah - the whole engine!!! <VBG>

Seriously the studs go right into the aluminum heads so I would not over 
torque them. On my rebuild I had about 6 out of the 8 studs pull. I was 
using a torque wrench.

>Do I have to replace that header, or can I take it off and devise/find/buy 
>a gasket of some kind that will seal up that space?  The other 3 cylinders 
>are tight at the headers, but this one is showing fire when I have the 
>bottom plate off and it is just sitting there idling.
>
>Or, is this possibly a problem in the head? Could this be a cracked head? 
>I'm hoping that talking this over with the type-2 list will get me moving 
>in some reasonable direction toward resolving this problem.

You could have a leak between the head and cylinder or a leak between the 
head and pipe.

Here's what I learned. I removed the header pipe and replaced the copper 
washer that sits in the joint between the head and pipe. The engine gasket 
kit should come with these.

I used a hammer to drive a screwdriver through the gasket 90% (or so) in 
two places opposite of each other. Don't go too far or you will ruin the 
gasket surface and then your SOL. That I would guess would require a bit of 
welding to build up the aluminum and some machining to get the gasket 
surface right again.

Anyhow once the new copper gaskets are in place - gather up a piece of 
glass. Put your pipes on the glass with the ends that mate with the head on 
the glass. Do they sit flat on the glass or are they allowing light through 
in different places? I suspect they do not lay flat on the glass. I also 
suspect if you will look at the ends of the pipes where they mated to the 
heads you will notice soot around part of the pipe end indicating an 
exhaust leak.

Take a long file for working metal and work both pipe ends together at the 
same time. I used a bit of oil to help to process along. I also filed only 
when pushing the file away from me, and lifted it off the pipe for the 
return stroke. Obvious to some, but until I was 15 or so I never knew this. 
The file only cuts one way, and the old fellow that explained files to me 
pointed out the return stroke only dulls the file a bit.

What I do is lay the file across both pipe ends together at work them both 
at the same time. If your file is too short then go buy a long one.

Anyhow this will eventually get both pipes parallel again and they will 
seal properly. The pipes warp with age and the head bolts are not strong 
enough to pull them down flat if the pipes are warped.

When you get them right you'll notice that the pipe ends are shiny all the 
way around. I would not stop working the pipe until this is true.

Reinstall and you're done. Should take 20-25 mins each I think if they were 
really warped like mine.


Chris Mills in TN
