Date: Tue, 1 Oct 2002 09:37:55 -0700 (PDT)
From: giles clement <gilesclement(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Oil in Plenum, #1 cyl fouling. Connection? Help

Hello All,
Well Anya is still running and actually doing ok. Se
made it all the way from California, to Utah where I
replaced the right side head, (burned seat) then on to
kentucky, Ohio, Up to Chicago, over to Michigan, into
Canada and New York where I'm giving her a rest before
heading to South Carolina. Oil leaks are temporarily
stopped and I managed to run a bolt into the case
halves (the horizontal one holding the oil strainer
up) and have it bite into something and take about
10ft lbs without stripping. It's still running a
little hot which is partialy caused by false air being
pulled through the rubber gasket between the plenum
and intake butterfly. However... yea you knew it was
coming :)... the #1 cylinder while still blowing
120lbs is fouling with oil. I'm out in NY whith a
place to work so this morning I tore into it. I pulled
the filter everything down to the Plenum. The first
thing I noticed was oil in the tube going into the
plenum and in the plenum itself. This is, I assume,
coming in from the breather which it shouldn't be
doing. Right? Now, is it possible that the oil is just
running into the #1 cyl? that's the only one that's
fouling up and the other 3 look like they're running
well if a little lean. The only thing I could think is
that the oil is running along the side of the main
intake tube, and then kind of oozing along the side of
the plenum and into the #1 intake. What do people
think? Possible or am I hoping to hard that I can just
replace the breather instead of another cylinder head?
I can't hear detonation yet but I'm deaf in one ear
and my other one is trained to ignore fatal noises. 
  I'm not sure what the Breather is meant to look like
but this one is pretty gummed up and looks like crap.
Any ideas how to overcome this hurdle would be
appreciated.
Giles
1978 T2 "Anya" 2.0 L
