From: "Jackson Burgess" <jb(-at-)nv.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 9 Jul 2002 08:05:56 -0700
Subject:  RE: Type4 2.0L horsepower/torque (Was Oil Cooler)


Thanks Nick, I've decided to give it a shot with the stock oil cooling
setup. What really interests me about what you say is that you can do
70-75 as a norm. 

>I can do long hauls at 70-75 with ambient temps in the 90's and still
keep >oil temps in the 220s. Now, I also run a CHT gauge, and slow down
if heads >go to the high side of the 350 mark. (Which has only happened
twice hauling >large loads over the grapevine and
>shasta.)

That, along with other posts in response to the original oil cooler
thread is really making me wonder whether something is drastically wrong
with my motor. For me to do that kind of frwy speed I have the pedal
right to the metal, and I'm talking about a level road, not uphill. I've
posted many times that it doesn't feel much stronger than did my old 62
40-horse camper, and not nearly as strong as a couple 1600 squarebacks I
owned over in Hawaii, but no one seems to think that's unusual. I've
been putting it off to the weight of the Riviera build, but now you say
you have a Riviera, and I believe the 77 has the same 1970cc motor and
L-jetronic FI system as my 79. I can get to 75, but it's a chore, and
once there I can cruise if I'm on level ground, but the poor motor
really labors to do so and any slight uphill will quickly drop speed.
Plus, at that speed, any overtaking cars and especially SUVs or trucks
really shunts my back end across my lane. I'm trying to find some
Bilstein shocks for the back end to help that out, but so far no luck.
I've seriously thought about pulling out the forward cabinetry--table,
sink, water, reefer--to reduce weight and increase response, but now I'm
thinking I need to have someone take a serious look at the motor and
what horsepower/torque it's developing. Trouble is, I don't know anyone
down here in SD who's capable of doing that. Can you, or anyone, think
of any tests I can perform to tell whether my output is restricted in
any way?

I'd like to hear more about the drivability of your bus, just anything
you can tell me may help. Meantime, today I'm going to have a good look
at some things, like making sure I'm getting full travel on the
accelerator cable. Tell me, which plugs do you use, the hot or cold?
Have you tweaked your motor at all, and if so, how? I will be doing
<some> off-road down in Baja, and of course I'll be keeping speeds down
on the roads down there, but I do plan to head up to Canada in the
spring, so I'll be seeing a lot of freeway driving also. My concern is,
if my engine really is running weak, it certainly will be laboring and
won't last the distance, so I'll want to take care of that before I go,
which will set back my departure. 

Thanks again. I look forward to hearing from you on this. Anyone else
with an opinion, please jump in.

Jaxon Burgess
San Diego
'79 ASI Conversion


-----Original Message-----
From: Nick Palmer [mailto:nicholas(-at-)slackers.net] 
Sent: Monday, July 08, 2002 11:42 PM
To: Terry K.
Cc: Jackson Burgess; type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: Oil Cooler

I believe in the wisdom of St. Hoover. The stock cooling system is
adequate for enignes up to 2L UNLESS you want to run in extreme ambient
temperatures, or at high RPM for long stretches.

Being a freeway flyer myself, I fall into the or section of that sage
advice. I added an external oil cooler to my '77 Riviera and have been
very pleased with the results. I can do long hauls at 70-75 with ambient
temps in the 90's and still keep oil temps in the 220s. Now, I also run
a
CHT gauge, and slow down if heads go to the high side of the 350 mark.
(Which has only happened twice hauling large loads over the grapevine
and
shasta.)

However, if I was going to take the bus for some serious off roading I
would take the cooler off. (And the rear sway bar, since that just kills
the ground clearance!) Since this is not how I use my bus, I am happy
with
the cooler and the plumbing under the bus, and the low hanging sway bar.


I say keep it stock, make sure it is in tune, and the tin is in good 
shape. Drive slower (after all, you ARE off road) and you will be fine.

YMMV.
-Nick

