To: volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: mikeg(-at-)pcisys.net
Date: Tue, 9 Jul 2002 10:18:22 US/Mountain
Subject: 914 motor into a bus (was 0mile engine)

>You will have a couple of problems:
>1) The FI system is D-jetronic like a Type 3.
>2) The spark plugs are on a different angle and bus tin won't work. 
>The plug holes don't line up.
>
>This engine has 3 studs and nuts holding the intakes down, correct? 
>Not 4 like a bus engine with L-jetronic.

This information is, of course, correct.  But there are always solutions :)

You'll need to use your existing BUS sheetmetal - not the sheetmetal from the 
Porsche motor.  If this engine was rebuilt with the Porsche 2.0 heads, you'll 
need to drill holes (using a keyhole saw) in the correct location for the spark 
plugs and then patch up the old holes.  Fiberglass is easy to work with and 
works quite well for filling extra holes in sheetmetal.

If you're going to use fuel injection (either d-Jet or L-Jet) or a single carb, 
the easiest thing is to get a couple of 914 2.0 runners to deal with the 3-bolt 
heads (readily available for just a few bucks).  If you're going to run dual 
Solex carbs, you'll probably have to modify the manifolds to match the 3-bolt 
pattern.

The only other problem you'll have to deal with is the dipstick.  It's too long 
to easily remove with the engine in the bus.  An easy solution is to cut off an 
inch or so of the tube and a corresponding amount of the dipstick (don't forget 
to make a new "full" mark 1 inch higher up the stick).  Flare the end of the 
tube just a litte bit too.  If you remove the sump plate, any shavings from 
cutting the tube will fall right out the bottom.  The problem with this 
solution is you can't quite see the tube after you pull the stick so you have 
to feel for it.  I've toyed with the idea of welding on a curved tube to the 
existing one (so the end of the tube faces towards the back of the bus) and 
using a longer flexible dipstick (much like the vanagons have).  Maybe 
someday...

If your new engine doesn't have the 914 breather with the screw-on cap on top, 
find one and swap it out.  Nothing could be more of a pain-in-the-ass than 
having to remove the whole breather to add oil.

Of course, your other option for the heads would be to replace them with bus 
2.0 heads and sell the 914 ones on eBay for more than enough to cover the new 
bus ones :)

Mike g.
73 Westy (w/74 914 2.0 d-Jet FI motor)


---------------------------------------------
This message was sent using Endymion MailMan.
http://www.endymion.com/products/mailman/


