From: "Tom and Thanh" <tom.loan(-at-)rogers.com>
To: "List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 9 Jul 2002 14:51:29 -0400
Subject:   This seems to be the answer re GL4/GL5 trans lube.

...but wait, here's more!...

 To add my 2 cents worth... Bob Hoover is quite right, the first GL5
 standard is slightly corrosive to the bronze in VW gearboxes when it's hot.
Volkswagen used to use BRONZE syncho rings.  Bronze is an alloy of copper
and TIN.  In one of their many 'improvements' Volkswagen went to a cheaper
BRASS  synchro ring.  Brass is an alloy of copper and ZINC.  Unfortunately,
in trying to save a penny or so per synchro, VW decided to use an alloy of
brass that contained a significant percentage of aluminum.

  Then along came GL-5 tranny lube, which contained a new anti-oxidant,
supposed to allow you to extend the replacement period of the oil, which was
fine for differentials and steel gears and even for the older BRONZE
synchros, but pure hell on those new, improved, save-a-penny
aluminum-copper-zinc synchros.

 Bottom line:  GL-5 caused the newer synchros to 'honey-comb.'   I don't
recall the half-page explanation but GL-5 attacked the zinc in the synchros
and they would break.  So VW issued a Service Bulletin telling all of their
dealers to NOT use GL5 on transmissions manufactured after a given date
(about 1967, as I recall... which I don't, all that clearly).
  So use GL-4.  Or make sure your tranny is rebuilt using the old style
BRONZE sychros.
 (quoted from Bob Hoover)

Once the oil companies discovered this, they improved the GL5 standard to
GL5-MTI (VW aren't the only gearboxes to have bronze components), which is
NOT corrosive to VW gearboxes and is quite safe to use. GL3 and GL4
standards are quite OK too.

 The normal VW gearbox oil is 85w90 or 80w90 Hypoid.  The 80w90 is better if
you live in an area of snowy winters - it will make for smoother gearchanges
on cold mornings.
The Synthetic gearbox oils are often 75w90, and this is fine too -
 making for even smoother changes on cold mornings.  So long as it's GL5-MT1
and NOT the original GL5 standard.

 (these quotes are  from the site Richard Atwell dug up)
 Tom

70 High Roof


