From: "Jackson Burgess" <jb(-at-)nv.net>
To: "'Nemo, the Bus Captain'" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 9 Jul 2002 17:14:05 -0700
Subject: RE: Type4 2.0L horsepower/torque (Was Oil Cooler)

Thanks Captain,
Well, I have to agree about everything you say, except the dyno. When
you buy a bus and have nothing to compare performance with except a
completely different bus almost 30 years ago and a gut feeling that
something is wrong, the only way you can really tell if the thing is
performing the way it should in the absence of any obvious problems is
to compare performance figures with a known benchmark. Jake Raby was
kind enough to send my his dyno output from one he rebuilt, so if I can
get some reliable output myself I can see if I'm chasing a wild goose or
this motor is putting out what it should. Yes, it'll cost me about $75,
and that's a lot of tortillas, but I'll pay it for knowledge gained in
the form of my own benchmark, and peace of mind.

I do intend doing all I can myself, and always have with VWs (although
admittedly I probably won't do any more majors--over the years I've
rebuilt two 40 horses, two type3s and one 914 type4 and that's enough
for me--as I already have a job). I've ordered tools and guages, but
they haven't arrived yet. I did have a leakdown and comp test done
before I bought the camper: no probs with leakdown and comp was 135 140
130 135. The thing passed Cal smog easily (which leads me to suspect
it's somehow detuned!), has no acceleration flat spots and no backfiring
on deceleration, so I doubt timing can be that far out. Still, it does
feel very sluggish.

As for the Muir book--I wore out the first edition in Mexico with my
first bus, and the 18th Edition is about one foot from these keys ;>)

Jaxon Burgess
San Diego
'79 ASI Conversion


-----Original Message-----
From: Nemo, the Bus Captain [mailto:nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com] 
Sent: Tuesday, July 09, 2002 4:02 PM
To: jb(-at-)nv.net; type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: Type4 2.0L horsepower/torque (Was Oil Cooler)


Are you talking dyno testing?  No you don't need
that.  What you need is to know the general
condition of the engine.  Notice I said you,
because, especially with the hourly rates in
California, you shouldn't pay anyone else to do
this stuff.  Buy a compression tester, vacuum
guage, timing gun (Muir be damned- even supposing
you are satisfied with TDC timing, which you
should be, you cannot test your dizzy with an
idiot light), a tach/dwell, a voltmeter, and a
fuel pressure guage (for FI engines).  And then
you must learn how to use them.  (Snip)

