Date: Mon, 7 Apr 2003 14:22:08 -0400 (EDT)
From: Miles Erickson <miles(-at-)pair.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: (long) RE: GEX, online parts vendors

Todd -

On the GEX engine: Chances are it'll run once you get everything together.
Just don't expect it to last as long as a "new" engine should.  Be sure to
read the engine break-in tutorial in the technical section on
aircooled.net, and be sure to break it in with straight 30-weight oil.
If there's oil in it now, drain it out and start over.

I'm still a relative novice when it comes to VWs, but I've been fixing up
my '71 Bus and have experience with several online parts vendors.  I may
as well write it up for the benefit of all, so here goes...

For new parts online:

busdepot.com -- Type2 listees love the Bus Depot, and Ron Salmon, their
owner, is a listmember himself.  Decent prices and a huge variety of new,
high-quality parts.  I've ordered from them once so far.  One of the VDO
wiring kits in my order had been raided for connectors -- which I ended up
buying at NAPA rather than wasting time with an RMA -- but everything else
was as expected.

aircooled.net -- not Bus-specific, and with more of a high-performance
emphasis than interests most Bus owners, but they sell stock parts too.
Lots of useful technical information on the web site.  Higher prices than
the Bus Depot.  Lots of satisfied customers.  Their owner, John, used to
be an active list participant.  He has a reputation for being quick to
answer technical questions.  In my experience, order processing is an
issue: when I ordered a stock Bus muffler, I received, drop-shipped from
some parts distributor, a Bug header instead.  Similarly, when I ordered a
new engine, my instructions to call and arrange shipping details were
apparently not noticed, and a near-fiasco resulted: since no one was
expecting it, no one was present to sign for it when it arrived.  John was
committed to solving these problems as soon as he became aware of them.

btlmex.com -- for brand-new Mexican Bug parts that happen to fit Buses.
The quality of Mexican and Brazilian parts varies.  I just placed my first
order with them, for new retractable seat belts, a few days ago.

JC Whitney -- all I've ordered from JCW is a service manual.  I have no
firsthand experience with their parts.  The reputation is that they're of
fair to marginal quality.  On the plus side, they processed my order very
promptly, and they were the only vendor that e-mailed a tracking number
when the item shipped.


For used parts online:

I always check with Ken Madson of thebusco.com first -- partly because
we're in the same city, but mainly because he always has what I need, he's
a fine person in general, and his prices are better than fair.  I
recommend him highly.

Bustedbus.com is another good source.  I've ordered from them once.  One
item, an engine seal (new, not used!), was left out of my order by
accident, but they were quick to send one when I e-mailed to ask about it.


General impression: there are excellent sources for quality parts
online, and I'm thankful that they're in business.

However: when I order a book or a toaster or a computer part online, I
expect to receive a shipping confirmation with a tracking number.  When I
open the box, I expect it to contain exactly what I paid for.  Not so with
VW parts: I've learned not to expect the usual level of communication, and
I've learned not to be surprised if the box doesn't contain exactly what I
ordered.  In my experience, the vendor is always helpful in resolving
problems, but it's a shame that the problems occur so frequently.  I think
the higher quality and lower prices found online are well worth the
occasional hassle... but I really hope that the vendors are working on
improving their order handling, too.

Hope this is useful!

- Miles



miles(-at-)pair.com
206-251-3791
