Date: Fri, 22 Mar 2013 10:03:21 -0400 (EDT)
From: accessys(-at-)smart.net
To: "C. Dreike" <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Gauge mounting on my 64

On Thu, 21 Mar 2013, C. Dreike wrote:

> Trying to figure out where and how I should mount a couple of gauges
> on my dash.
> Where/how have any of you folks mounted yours?

I have a three slot top of dash bubble for my guages, this was formerly 
avaliable commercially but don't think  the three holer is any more. I 
have mine mounted right of center near the radio speaker grill, in fact I 
ran my wire thru a speeker hole that was no longer used by current 
speaker.  it is angled toward the driver.  is nice flat black and almost 
perfectly matches the dash color.  I found I didn't even need to anchor it 
as the wires keep it from moving around and with the guages and stuff in 
it was heavy enough. should I ever wish it attached I would probably use 
double stick foam.

might be able to find one on e-bay or something, I think I got mine from 
Rocky Mountain so that is a long time back, but someone like busted bus 
make come accross one in a bus they are disassembling

very easy to see and read. (currently houses oil temp/oil presure/air-fuel 
ratio guages)  if I add any more guages I was considering putting them 
where the ash tray was, I have it blocked off now and a couple extra 
switches mounted there but guages would also fit I think.
I agree below the dash is too low to be easily visible, and I don't like 
the overhead ones,  some years ago I saw someone who had made a custom 
housing and had about 5 guages on the front left A pillar, was slick and 
convienent but since each guage had to be angled it looked like a lot of 
work to make, he was in the fibreglass boat business so he whipped it up 
in his spare time..  have no idea what ever happened to him or his pretty 
tricked out bus.  think the bus was wreaked and scrapped and he moved on 
to other things. this was a lot of years ago.

let us know what works out for you, good luck
Bob
