From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 25 Mar 2013 10:21:43 -0400
Subject: RE:looking for advice on a new camper

Well.I made it. 

Thanks to all of you for your suggestions/comment and hints. The Bus is
great! It drives very smoothly, and the guy I bought it from was very nice,
and very particular-he really did a great job with anything he touched, and
anything he didn't touch-he maintained very well. 

 

The body is missing some paint in certain areas-that I'll need to continue
to aggressively wax(as he had been doing) or will need to re-paint. It has
no rust whatsoever. 

 

There were a couple odd things that I may need some help figuring out - I'll
post my question in another email.

 

As for the trip - I flew into LA, took the train to Union Station, then
another train to Claremont. Met with the seller reviewed the bus for a
couple hours. Then a bit of test driving, then I drove away with it. I met
up with an old friend who now lives in LA-whom I had not met up with for
many years. That was great-they were very impressed with the bus. I got up
the next day, and headed out after a late breakfast. I drove up the coast,
picked up one hitch hiker on the way. Stopped near the Hearst Castle at
Washburn Campground. Then in the morning - I wanted to cook up some
breakfast-but had no cooking utensils. So into town (Cambria), a local
diner, grabbed some breakfast. There was a decent outdoors store in town, so
I got some camping cookware-so I could at a minimum make myself some tea.

 

I got back on the road, and headed north. I stopped a few time to enjoy the
view, make myself some tea, and read my book. Overall the drive was nice,
the weather good. I think this is a pretty good road to test the bus out
on-it is hilly and twisty. The bus held the road probably as well as a bus
can hug the road. 

 

Eventually I made it to Mtnview so I could park it at my friends. I had some
time to pick up a few other camping items I thought my wife and I might need
when we fly out. The trip was good-but I was a bit nervous, as I could not
miss my flight-so even though it was running great-things happen. I wasn't
on a trip with much leeway for getting back. 

 

The bus has CHT, oil pressure, and Oil temp gauges. I watched those pretty
closely while driving. The CHT was basically around 350 for the majority of
the highway driving, and maybe got up to 375/400 on some of the steep
climbs. My first experience with a CHT gauge-but from my recollection on
readings, this is a good temp range.

 

Overall trip was great to get the bus, it is really a fantastic driving
vehicle. It looks pretty good, not show quality-lots of rock chips, and
paint chips, couple minor dings.but NOT a rustbucket, everything shuts and
works nicely. Only downside of trip-I can't wait to get back there!

 

-Kevin Guarnotta

Jamaica Plain, MA

 

'69 Singlecab

'65 Ez-camper
