Date: Mon, 08 May 2006 21:29:28 -0600
From: Gundesens <gundesen(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Megasquirt on 82 Vanagon

Thanks for the interest. I will eventually get pictures and a story up 
on my website.
Benefits to me:
Well, my existing stock setup was giving me a new problem to deal with 
every couple of months. This was attributable to 24 year old wiring 
being heat damaged so it snapped instead of flexed when bent.  Also the 
ECU was flaky, verified by swapping with a federal ECU which ran poorly, 
but had different issues than the original California one.  I just 
recently opened up the Cal. ECU and was surprised by the amount of 
corrosion which had crept inside it, but no surprise it was flaky after 
seeing that.  By the way, I was going to try and salvage and use the 
injector resistors which I thought were built into the ECU (not external 
on this model), but could not find them.  Perhaps Bosch used some sort 
of pulse width modulation (PWM) to control the current on the stock 
unit?  The resistors should be big and obvious if they were part of the 
circuit.
Right, back to the benefits...  I would have had to rebuild the wiring 
harness almost from scratch to do it right (no-one supplies rebuilt FI 
harnesses AFAIK), and find another old ECU which worked reliably (or 
paid the big bucks for the rebuild if available).  The alternative I 
chose was the Megasquirt.
Advantages:
- have the fun of building it (sort of like the fun of building a model 
airplane kit, but more of it)
- Learn something about fuel injection and engine tuning in fair depth
- simplify the whole system hardware-wise >> eliminate the AFM, 
coldstart valve, thermotime switch, double relay, decel valve. I also 
got rid of the digital ignition set-up except for my hall-effect 
distributor.
- Gain a new modern fuel injection system which is totally user 
programmable (or self-tuning to an extent), for at least as good as 
like-new performance. I had just rebuilt the engine, it now has ~750 
miles on it.
 - The current Megasquirt version WILL control ignition advance as well, 
but I need to get the fuel right before going there.

Stock components:
- fuel injectors
- air filter and housing
- temp-II sensor
- oxygen sensor (Cal. Vanagon)
- distributor (so far - will remove the centrifugal and vac advance 
mechanisms when I let Megasquirt control the spark)

Custom or modified:
- interface flange/tube between the S-tube and the air filter housing
- added a GM intake air temp sensor in the air filter housing
- modified a throttle body from a 914 to accept a Bosch potentiometer 
type throttle position sensor (TPS) - std Volvo 850 part. I couldn't use 
the original TB because the shaft did not extend out the bottom for the 
needed TPS.
- put in an MSD ignition system, wires and a zero ohm distributor rotor 
(hey Richard! Niehoff WA307 - it has the narrow contact nose, but zero 
ohms without modification ~ $7)
- added a new 'double relay' set-up for main power and fuel
- added an add'l fuse panel to handle the MSD, fuel pump, injectors, 
megasquirt, and main power (term. 30)

That's the story so far.

GG
'82 Calif Vanagon Westy - going Megasquirt
Calgary, Alberta



-
