Date: Wed, 10 May 2006 10:41:49 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] More Insurance Questions 

>>It is my understanding that if you don't have
comprehensive from *your* insurance company, that
the other insurance company is not going to pay
anything either....or at minimal, blue book.

Dave, whether or not your vehicle is covered by
comprehensive insurance doesn't figure into the
equation at all. The tortfeasor's (bad guy's)
insurance will pay your for damage done to you
and your property.  

I don't know if you've looked at blue or black
book lately, but I doubt many of us have busses
worth more than that.   

>>On the other hand, whether it is your fault or
the other guy's fault, *your* insurance company
will pony up the bucks and then *they* fight with
the other insurance company about the amount.

True.  But your insurer tends to fight far less
agressively than if you hold out and refuse to
settle with the tortfeasor.  You insurer's
interest is in closing those files as quickly as
possible.  Adjusters do not like to have files
open.  Open files are wild cards.  

>"Agreed Value" (or whatever your company calls
it) is only if you have
comprehensive coverage, correct? It doesn't
matter for liability? 

>I'm betting that for items like agreed value,
they have a "gentlemen's"agreement on the
settlement.  

Back to agreed value.  The value of your vehicle
is the value of your vehicle.  For sure, the
value of your damages is subjective and what that
means to the other guy, the other guy's insurer,
you, your insurer, or a jury could be many
different things.  But the value of your vehicle
is the value of your vehicle.  You will need
evidence to back up that value, either at the
time of the claim or when you are trying to pay
more for an agreed value.  

There is no reason to pay more for agreed value. 
Either your vehicle is worth a certain amount or
it is not.  EVEN if you have an agreed value
policy of say $20,000 on a $2000 bus, YOU WILL
ONLY GET $2000.  Period.  I posted in the
archives about the concept of "insurable
interest".  Check it out if you have any
questions.  If you bus is worth $20000 and you
buy a normal policy, you will get the value of
the vehicle.  

Agreed value is the "whole life" of auto
insurance.  Insurers sell it, but no educated
consumer would buy it.  

Shark, the fact that you have an "agreed value"
vis-a-vis your insurer has nothing to do with
damages that a tortfeasor owes to you.  
