Date: Sat, 10 Aug 2002 12:01:00 -0700
To: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Pre-purchase Inspection was:climbing on board

You cannot know the value of any vehicle, new or used for whatever period 
or whatever miles, the actual condition, without an actual inspection, 
beginning with review of existing service history. Don't even consider 
seriously any candidate that cannot produce a maintenance history for at 
least the last 60,000 miles. Then compare the actual maintenance with the 
Bentley procedures.

Then consider how the vehicle was used. The maintenance must reflect 
suitability for that type of use.  So consider, was it a 2 mile daily 
commuter with the oil changed every 3 years and 3000 miles??

Check out the shops who's receipts are represented. Are 5 different shops 
in the same area all trying to fix and repair failures with maintenance 
invoices few and far between?? The PO is inept at finding or hiring a 
mechanic. He is always displeased with the bills cause he never budgets for 
maintenance, just waits for failure, then hopes the $99 tuneup and 80 point 
check list inspection will fix it. When, not if, it doesn't fix it, it's 
the mechanics fault and he should fix whatever it is and not cost me a dime 
over 99.

When complete histories are available, the minds of the PO's can be read 
like a book as to their attitudes toward maintenance and repair. Consider 
the quality of the information given. A dealer stamp in the Maintenance 
Book proves little unless by the invoice describing the parts and services 
actually performed that the stamp represents. I've seen a great many dealer 
invoices for stamped intervals that leave a great deal un-addressed in the 
spec procedures.

Lots of things pop out of the documents. I saw one recently listing 10/30 
oil put in a 78 Westy. They put 10,000 miles or more wear on that motor in 
the next 3000 miles. They don't know the specs and the mechanics don't know 
or don't care about the specs.

Reviewing the past service history is the first step in ANY maintenance 
inspection, because it helps to identify what to inspect and what to expect 
as needing attention at this inspection.

No documented history, as-is where-is clear title for cash?? Then move on 
to the next step in the inspection, the physical evidence. Start kicking 
the tires. But if you limit your search to only owners who can and will 
gladly show you the carefully maintained documents that prove a reasonable 
level of care, very few if any repairs, the result of thorough maintenance 
adjusted for the way the vehicle was used, you may have found the premium 
vehicle that might well be worth a premium price, subject to what the 
physical inspection would reveal.

With regard to long time with low miles, after 15+ years every piece of 
rubber or plastic can get hard and shrink just from contact with air. As 
long as they remain undisturbed, they may last many more years, but more 
than likely will begin weaping and leaking in the next few weeks to years. 
If you see receipts showing all the seal replaced in the last 5 years, 
you'll know to put a check mark in the premium column as you document the 
current inspection, whether before or after purchase.

If your going after an as-is T-II with no document but title available, 
along with a layman inspection from the hip without the Bentley open and 
active in the process, with a whole bunch of hear-say from the current and 
soon hopefully to be the 5th PO, allow a couple grand for possible problems 
a real inspection could reveal. Tell me, how many laymen pull the rear 
drums to inspect the brakes in a pre purchase inspection. The only time I 
don't is if I see it has been recently done by a shop I know by reputation 
to do proper work, in the history.

Pre-purchase inspection is the only opportunity you have of knowing the 
value of a particular vehicle BEFOR you even ask, "I know how much your 
askin', how much will you take??"


>>IMHO, for the average owner it's better not to inherit the original brakes,
>>rotors, cv boots, gas tank, fuel lines, paint, etc.

If your pre-purchase inspection is real, you can allow for all the 
weaknesses noted. If you actually pull a wheel, you can actually inspect 
the pads, calipers, rotors and hoses. You could measure them and compare to 
specs. You can well know if the brake system has value and to what degree, 
as opposed to the need for expenses to remove the risks, BEFORE risks of 
purchase at an arbitrary price based upon assumptions and hear-say.


>Suddenly, I agree with you.  :)  But with our busses, it's really not 
>important as you either get an old bus with low miles, or an old bus with 
>high miles.  And in this case, the old bus with low miles is of course 
>preferable.

Since all the T-II's are now 20 to 34 years old, you must verify all the 
seals, and if they are original and still just weeping, you should allow 
they need to be replaced sooner rather than later,  as a part of routine 
maintenance, not emergency failure.

All genuine Lobro CV's are stamped with the date of manufacture. If you 
have to scrape off a half inch of crud buildup to find the stamp, you know 
you have more than weeping of the tranny seal and/or the CV lube. If you 
can just wipe it clean with a rag and see the 2 year old stamp, well in 
either case, you have evidence of remaining value or expense on the 
horizon, regardless the hear-say and without assumptions of risk/value.

My first question to any seller is, "Is the history documented??". The 
response to that question determines how much more pre-inspection time I 
might be willing to invest before I will have a clue as to the actual value 
of the candidate to me. Watch out for "NEW MOTOR" that doesn't document the 
machinist every bit as much as the documented FLAPS invoice. Follow up. Ask 
the FLAPS who does the machine work and assembly. If it's NW ConRod, I keep 
a poker face, cause I know it will have potential for great service and 
value. If it's GEX, etal, you know to make a substantial entry in the 
expense column.

Poking screwdrivers at a purchase candidate leaves too many risks 
unevaluated. Admit it, how many of you bought your current T-II without 
doing an actual compression test, or at least finding a recent test in the 
documented history??? That's only valid if the assumption is that the cost 
of a rebuilt motor is allowed for prior to purchase and considered in the 
offer. Why do that if not necessary?? Let's say it's running on 3 
cylinders. The current owner assumes a bad motor. It might just be the new 
Champion plugs or old HT wires. Would that knowledge verified be of value 
for negotiations?? Hmmmmm!!!

I drove new motored Bug once that ran great, good smooth power, but the 
crank end-play was way loose. I didn't need a compression test to know that 
motor had no more than a year or two of value, having been assembled by the 
ignorant and/or incompetent. The owner of course wanted new motor value in 
his price, so I wasted no more than 10 minutes on the inspection and walked 
away, and wishing the owner good luck in finding his buyer at that price. 
It surely wasn't me.


