Date: Sat, 10 Aug 2002 12:55:40 -0700
To: "Christopher and Kellie" <midwestbass(-at-)hotmail.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] big trip maintenence

At 12:38 PM 08/10/2002, you wrote:

>Hello,
>
>Any suggestions or thoughts on what types of maintenence to do to your bus 
>before a really big trip? 3 weeks on the road, going up and over mountains/etc.

Document existing maintenance history. Compare to Bentley maintenance 
procedures. Consider type of use and adjust intervals accordingly. Do 
everything in the given procedures that is due or past due. Drive on with 
no worries.

>Hydraulic lifters on the motor in my bus, do you adjust those ever?

The hydraulic motors need to have the valve cover gaskets replaced 
periodically, and at that time checking the initial setting takes but a 
little time. Sometimes this results in much smoother running and idle due 
to wear being accounted for. Never checking something because it's not on 
the maintenance list is not very rational. You should verify periodically 
every adjustment whether on the schedule or not.

>I am going up to see a new friend at Valley Wagonworks in San Anselmo on 
>Sunday morning and going to go over some things and make sure everything 
>is up to par.

Verify specs and you will be shooting better than par in no time. Example: 
procedure calls for periodic replacement of the brake fluid. If this is 
done, the fluid and reservoir will be clean, as well as the whole insides 
of the system, indefinately. If the brake fluid and reservoir are black and 
cruddy in and out, the whole system is non spec and subject to failure from 
contamination issues. A whole lot of risk can be assessed with eyeballs and 
common sense alone. The spec is clean fluid at all times. Maintenance is 
variable dependent upon actual conditions of use. In hot desert conditions 
every three years could be adequate. On the wet side of the Cascades, 
yearly renewal is rational to prevent contamination from getting STARTED 
and reducing risks of brake issues in the boondocks.


