From: "Kelly Aka \(Metalwizard\)" <metwiz2(-at-)triad.rr.com>
To: "Type2(-at-)Lenti.Type2.Com" <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>, <Jollivier4(-at-)cs.com>
Cc: "H Steven Dolan" <dworkin(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Date: Sat, 10 Aug 2002 18:31:27 -0400
Subject: RE: newbie repairing totaled bus

Yea Steve called me on this so here's my thoughts, ANY bus can be fixed ,
the question is do YOU want to spend the amount of money to do it, and is it
worth it after you get done. Danny Morganelli is a prime example his 62
hatch top was the first vw i did professionally he won around 25 or so 1st
place trophies and such with it on the east coast. This bus got me my start
in the VW world , in late 98 on his way to HCBF which was last month, the
bus was lost to a engine compartment fire. I said i intended to bring it
back to life since it was my first and had brought me so much attention to
my work and business. After gettin the bus here to the shop and looking at
it very close and debating allot of possible courses of action, i realized
that i could fix it but i would loose about 60% of the original bus that i
had restored previously. That's the only way it could have been done right.
So it has gave up its parts to several other busses to keep them alive and
other folks to fulfill what parts they needed to finish their projects.
 As i said your bus can probably be fixed , but ( the big but word) its not
a task for some one who has never did it. You have allot of things to think
about keeping everything straight , in alignment , to proper specs and also
the safety issue of splitting the rear frame section if it came to that. I
have done several frame sections toward the front and its not a pc of cake,
I jig the units out to hold everything in line and also beef the area where
it was spliced. A butt weld in such an area for a novice welder would be a
mistake . I've welded everything in my past from 60k trailer and truck
frames to beer can thin stuff, but when it comes to doing a frame section ,
i think long and hard.
My advise leave it to a pro, not some backyard shade tree with a arc
welder.( no offence meant guys its just experience beats enthuasim hands
down, and ambition over good sense could get someone hurt.)
Cost wise it would not be cheap there alot of work involved in that yrs
style of frame remove if i rember correctly, you might be better off finding
another one and switch your saveable parts to it. hope this helps , and
folks this in MY thoughts if its not yours, thats your right forgive me for
being honest. later
Custom Welding & Automotive
Kelly Brown Jr.
5112  Clifton Dr.
Archdale, NC. 27263
336-434-4259
www.metwiz.com



