Date: Sat, 10 Aug 2002 21:46:30 -0400
To: type2(-at-)lenti.type2.com
From: Stephen Wills <spameater1(-at-)oniboshi.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] STOP ! ! (please)

>Well, it can be a constant, if the driver modulates the brake pedal to
>maintain a constant decel.  I worked at the GM desert proving grounds and
>we used to do this all the time, watching a "decelerometer" stuck to the
>windshield to keep us honest.

Sure it can be; & I bet a test driver such as in this situation kept 
it there...  My question was, where'd that number come from?

>I'm willing to bet that they used the distance and initial speed to get
>all the numbers, assuming constant deceleration.  That's why the numbers
>work together so well!  The differences in the quadratic roots are
>probably due to rounding errors in the input numbers.

Really??  I wouldn't have guessed that.  Shows what I know; I thought 
time would be easier to measure.  :)  But George, are you sure this 
isn't just a GM thing?  "Making it as complex as possible."  :) 
<teasing>

So what we're looking at, sum total, is about 4 seconds & 167 ft for 
a 71 bus to stop, 0 to 60, from the time the driver pushes the pedal? 
This sounds pretty respectable to me; while 4 seconds feels like a 
really long time in that situation, 60mph is scary fast (any light 
aircraft takes off before reaching that speed!).  Just 'cause so many 
habitually drive much faster than that doesn't make it 'less fast.'

& finally summing up, (I forget who said it...) the result of the 
thread is, "don't follow too close."  :)

Say, do you other bus drivers find that rather than you following to 
close, it's the other drivers that follow you too close??  Even 
though I keep to the right lane & generally break the limit by ~5mph, 
you can bet at any given time a whole car is lurking beneath my 
line-of-sight in the rearview, peeking out occasionally to curse me 
for driving so slow in the right lane...  This makes me nervous 
'cause I've already replaced one bumper...  & my bus can stop in 167 
ft from 60.  :)
-- 
Stephen Wills - spameater1(-at-)oniboshi.com
'78 Westy
"We are only in junior high!
  We don't get that much allowance!" - Madoka Ayukawa
