Date: Sun, 11 Aug 2002 12:26:32 -0400 (EDT)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To: Jim Kirk <captain(-at-)indy.rr.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] To Sump Or Not To Sump?

On Sun, 11 Aug 2002, Jim Kirk wrote:

> I was speaking with a guy at the Columbus Ohio VW show. He and I both have
> 1971 busses. Mine a stock 1600. His an 1835. He was telling me his bus had
> been running a bit hot until he added a 2 quart oil sump. Something about
> it hanging a bit lower down in the air stream.

Is that "air stream" or "rock stream"?  These used to be quite popular,
they are really designed for, and at their best in, high RPM and hard
cornering situations (read: racing)  However, the following is from the
Gene Berg web site:

"Sumps are not designed to provide much extra cooling. They may contribute
a couple of degrees, however, are not sold to cure any cooling problems.
If you have a cooling problem the source of the overheating should be
fixed and not the after affect. Oil cannot get too hot by itself; it must
get too hot from some other problem in the engine that needs to be fixed.
See GB 801-COOLING and GB 801-CR."

As your friend says, they do add capacity and *some* cooling, both of
which are good things; but as Gene Berg says, they don't add much.

They have becoem less popular thru the years. The reason (and the bad
news)  becomes clear the first time you back into a parking place at
McDonalds and the aggresive parking blocks they have pop your lower sump
right off.  If you are lucky, the sump breaks away from the case or the
studs pull out of the sump or case.  If you are not lucky, the sump breaks
away with a big piece of the bottom of your case attached.

Gene Berg Does not talk about this except to repeat four times how little
their sump reduces clearance.  (:-P Not that they have ever heard of
anyone having a problem, mind you :-)

Lots of people have driven long distances with extra sumps.  Most never
have a problem.  Some do.

> Mine runs a bit hot on warmer days.
> Any ideas?

Well, they all do.  You may have to slow down on the scorchers, but you
ought to be able to drive it comforably year round.  Below are a bunch of
cheap suggestions that will help you survive the heat...

First, make sure the engine is tuned and that the fuel mixture is correct:

 o Set the dwell, set the timing, make sure the timing is advancing
   properly  (tune up)

 o Get a vacuum gauge, check the vacuum.  Lean mixtures are a *big* cause
   of overheating!

 o If you can't check vacuum (some T1 engines have no manifold vacuum
   port) take it by a station that does pollution testing or pre-testing
   and have the fuel mixture checked at idle and at 2500RPM.  If it is
   lean at idle consider vacuum leaks, if it is lean at higher
   RPMs consider rejetting.  David Schwarze is the list expert on this.

Second, make sure it is getting all the cooling air it can:

 o Tonight... take a drop light and put it under the engine, then stick
   you head in the engine compartment.  See any light?  Close those
   holes!!!

Last, if you can't get it cool, make sure it survives the heat:

 o During the summer months run SAE-50W straight-weight oil.

 o Get an oil pressure gauge.  Drive by it!  Strive to keep pressure over
   30psi, stop driving when it gets belwo 20psi.

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail



