Date: Sun, 11 Aug 2002 15:39:37 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] newbie repairing totaled bus

You'll have to do the numbers to see if you think it is financially worth 
it but consider this before you make any decisions about your '78.

Assuming that the bus was in very good condition:

Have the insurance company pay you off. Be sure that you provide them with 
bus for sale advertisements because this way you will be able to prove the 
bus is worth more than the typical blue book value that they want to pay you.

Then ask what the buy-back price is: what does it cost you to keep it with 
the settlement?

You might be able to get a few thousand for your bus, give them back a few 
hundred and then either have more money to fix it or transfer it's best 
parts to another van that you can buy cheap and once it is all over - you 
might be a better bus in the end or you might have a bit of money left over...

IF you pursue getting this fixed I would replace any bolt on any parts to 
save on labor costs. If something like the frame is damaged be VERY careful.

I fixed a 1966 Moostang (my first car) after a drunk driver cut me off and 
totaled my car and her's too. The family had a reputation of burning folks' 
homes down (unproven at that point) and the local law and my parents did 
not want to tangle with them so I got stuck with the blame.

A few weeks after their car was replaced they wreck it too - so hard that 
the headlights and taillights were almost pointing the same direction.

I took my car apart, provided replacement parts for a frame shop and had 
the frame pulled by this old guy in North Georgia. It was a low buck fix 
right out of my pocket. The car was never quite right again. It handled 
weird. I think with more money it could have been fixed but I did not have 
the budget and the car was rusting away so fast it really wasn't worth it.

A fellow wanted to buy it after I finished the repair and paint. I informed 
him of the accident damage and still wanted to buy it. I sold it and bought 
a 1964 and a half Moostang convertible (in pieces) and a late model 
hatchback Moostang with the money. That was back in the mid-eighties when I 
was into Moostangs.

If your bus needs frame repairs think very hard before you start pay a 
frame shop. It may never be quite right and you might be better with an 
unwrecked bus that needs cosmetics and love.

These are all decisions for you to make. I wish you good luck!!!



Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


