From: "Paul and Kathy" <pa.ka(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 11 Aug 2002 21:14:59 -0400
Subject: Re:T2] Starting problems in the DEATH BUS - and other buses too

Hi Volks,
    Well, it's not just the DEATH BUS that has starter problems this time of
year.  It seems that each year when the weather turns hot that this becomes
a popular topic on the type2 list.  And different people have different ways
to solve the "hot start" problem.  Some spend big bucks and just keep
throwing new starters (or solenoids) at their bus,  others spend about $25
dollars and add the infamous "hot start" relay.  Me, I go about it in a
different way.  Each year as the weather turns warm I give my starter and
electrical system some attention.  First I remove the battery and clean and
service it.  Yep, I said clean.  You see, dirt on the surface of the battery
can leak voltage right from the + to the - terminals.  Not much, but some.
Also, I clean the terminals.  Next I check and fill the battery water as
needed.  Then I give the battery a little while on my charger.  Before
putting the battery back in check the specific gravity for each cell using a
hydrometer, this will give you a general idea of the battery's general
health.
    Next I check the battery cables.  Clean the inside of the battery
connectors and make sure the negative cable doesn't have corrosion where it
grounds to the chassis.  Also, if there is corrosion evident where the
battery connectors are swaged onto the cables, replace the cables.  Your bus
also has a grounding cable that connects the engine/transaxle to the
chassis.  Make sure that is in good condition and the connections are clean.
    I also remove my starter for cleaning and servicing.  It gets completely
disassembled.  This is the time to replace brushes if they are worn down.  I
also clean up the commutator and all exterior electrical connectors.  All
mechanical parts get cleaned, inspected, and lubed at reassembly.  There are
different starters for different years and models of buses, check your
Bentley manual for details.  Also, don't forget to clean up the connectors
on the starter wiring.  Polish them until they are clean and bright.
    By doing this, I haven't had the dreaded "hot start" problem in many
years.  The best part is that I get to deal with the starter when and where
I choose.  You know, at home in the driveway on a cool day when it isn't
raining.  If you're going to do this follow all SAFETY procedures.  As a
matter of fact, this is only one of  a few items that I do on a regular or
scheduled basis and I hope this info keeps someone from having starter
problems.

Paul A.
Huntington Station, New York
71 westy

