Date: Sun, 11 Aug 2002 21:15:32 -0400 (EDT)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To:  <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] 3500 mile Road Trip-1 problem and Starting problems in the

On Sun, 11 Aug 2002, dougz2 wrote:

> Does this hot start usually occur in the Morning when its cool outside?

Doug,

Read Sean's article.  It certainly can.  The problem here is that the
electric path from battery to switch to starter is very long on a bus,
with lots of connections.  The current goes:

from the + side of the battery to the lug on the starter (junctions (j) 1
& 2)
from the junction on the starter to fuse #9 in the fuse block (j3)
from fuse #9 to fuse 8 on a jumper
from fuse 8 to terminal 30 on the ignition switch (j4)
from terminal 30 thru the switch and out terminal 50 (j5)
from terminal 50 (switch) back to terminal 50 (starter) (j6)
from terminal 50 (starter) thru the solenoid to ground on the trans (j7)
from the trans to the trans groudn strap (j8)
from the trans ground strap to the frame (j9)
from the frame to the battery ground strap (j10)
from the battery ground strap to the - side of the battery (j11)

In addition, you have two exposed 10' runs of wire that can build up
corrosion internally.

As those connections build up corrosion, you get resistance.  With
resistance comes a drop in current flow.  Eventually, the current drops
below the level needed to operate the solenoid.  This is referred to as a
"hot start" problem because it usually starts occuring when the bus is
hot, but it can occur at any temperature.

The alternative solution is to remove each of the junctions listed above,
clean them to "as new," and reattach them.  This will cure the problem as
well, but is a lot more work.  Since you posted that you have tried two
different starters, I am betting the starter is not the problem, I am
betting the wiring is.  I may be wrong, maybe you did get two bad
starters, maybe your ignition switch is dead, but that's my story and I am
sticking to it :-)

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail

