From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 7 Aug 2003 11:01:29 EDT
To: djaeby(-at-)hotmail.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Steering wheel

if they replaced your drag link, that could well result in the steering wheel 
being turned.   the way to adjust the steering wheel is to pop one end of the 
drag link off, adjust the length of the drag lebth by unding the clamp and 
spinning one end, and installing it the rightlength to make the wheel straight 
while the bus goes striaght.   I get the impression that most car you un blot 
the wheel, and put it back on the splines difernt, but our splitties don't have 
splined wheels (except early barndoors).  

This job is not so big a deal as long as the drag link threads aren't rusted. 
  But most places don't know how it's done.  Are you saying the horn button 
wores was free from the bus?  Goodness.   I dunno it is was like that, or if 
they tried to undo the bolt and turn the wheel, and found the wheel is a bugger 
to remove,  and had pulled the wire out while they did that, or it was like 
that before.   

I recommend getting a copy of the splitty workshop manual by bentley.  It's 
the reprint of the original 1963 ed transporter workshop manual, and its THE 
book for splitties, and shows all the body stuff and everything.  other books 
work of motor and brakes, but that book has all the other stuff as well.   
explains horn wires (not tricky to run a new one, but you feed it up from 
underneath) and all kinds of stuff.

Congratulations of fixing the mirrors.  Undoing rusted fasteners can take 
much MUCH longer than it ought to.  Grease is good.   Using grease and lubing the 
bus at recommmending intervals including hinges and all and greasing 
fasteners when you install them makes life easier when the bus needs maintenace later. 
 Some people like the silver never seize, but "grease is good" is more poetic.

In a message dated 8/7/2003 5:56:13 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
djaeby(-at-)hotmail.com writes:

<<  posted that when I got my bus back after doing the tie rods that the
 steering wheel was turned the wrong way, so the divider blocked the odometer.
 I told my "ace-mechanic" about it and of course they promised but didn't fix
 it.  If I unscrew the bolt, is it as simple as turning the steering wheel ??
 
 Also, last week when I was driving down the road, the horn button just popped
 off - shot in the air and landed on my lap.  Thought I would have a heart
 attack because I didn't see where it came from or what it was for a few
 seconds.  Then the insides of the horn button were just hanging there by the
 wire.  TELL ME IF I AM BEING TOO PICKY but .. When the Ace's worked on my 
bus,
 I guess it was bothersome for them so they just tore the wire and the button
 insides out and put it in the back in my parts-box.  Even though the horn
 didn't work [ I am not sure there is a horn under there, I haven't looked, 
but
 will] won't the fact that they pulled it out, wire and all .. make it that
 much harder for me to install a horn now that the wire is gone ?? I don't 
know
 how hard it is to feed a new one through the hole ..
 
 SORRY .. so many questions and complaints.
 
 -- >>
