Date: Thu, 7 Aug 2003 20:38:24 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: KCW DC progress and more questions

>From: "Diane" <djaeby(-at-)hotmail.com>
>Date: Thu, 7 Aug 2003 08:42:32 -0400
>
>Totally different subject ... Daily driver .. I think there is nothing
>strange about using your 36 year old car as a daily driver.  Yes there
>will be mechanical problems, but isn't that the case with any car ??

True.  And once you've owned any car for long enough, the same problems
happen again...it goes a lot faster when you fix them the second time.  :)

>And repairs should be WAY less money than on the newer cars.

Yes and no.  I have a theory that the cost of doing stuff with cars
follows sort of a "bathtub curve".  When you buy a brand new car that
has just been totally redesigned, the parts can be expensive because
they are scarce.  As more copies of that model are sold, the parts
price comes down...sometimes quite a bit.  For several years the parts
are cheap and plentiful, especially for very popular cars.  Gradually,
though, the cars go off the road for whatever reason (wreck, trailer
queen, whatever).  The supply of parts from the manufacturer dries
up, giving the aftermarket people a bit of a boost, but then they
can't sell things cheap to a dwindling market.  So, the cost goes
back up again.

IMHO, you can get almost anything you need for a ~71-up Bug out of
a catalog.  Back through the mid 60s it's not too bad, but go past
that and there starts to be a lot of parts you have to hunt high
and low for.  Buses follow kind of the same pattern, perhaps a
little more heavily as there were fewer Buses made.  Ghias, even
more so.

On the other hand, when VWs were designed, some of the "modern"
developments like sealed tie rod ends, sealed bearings, etc either
hadn't been invented or were prohibitively expensive for a cheap
car.  VWs therefore need a lot of maintenance, but are designed so
that most of the regular maintenance is easy to do.  Newer cars
tend to have lots of sealed, "no maintenace" sub-assemblies that
are swapped out wholesale if problems are suspected.

On the foot, the expensive stuff on new cars - the electronics -
are actually amazingly good at telling you what's up when the systems
they control are going wrong.  For around $100 you can get a "scan
tool" that plugs between your PC and your car; for $300 or so you
can get a hand-held unit.  Expensive, yes, but having that little
code flash out at you can save a lot of time.  (Some carmakers
have even retained the readouts first popular in the 1980s, where
plugging in a jumper wire will blink the codes at you.)

On the other foot, there's lots of stuff on a car that the computer
still can't help you with.  If you've got a warped brake drum or
a bad wheel bearing or the alignment is out, no scan tool can help
you.  That's when you have to, in Muir's words, "sit in the driver's
seat and scrunch your butt around" to figure out what's going on.

I better stop now as I'm out of limbs.

Matt Roberds
