Date: Fri, 8 Aug 2003 01:29:18 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: Diane <djaeby(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Please speak slow so I can understand ..

I'm a bit backed up and late in catching up with this list, but this
posting from Diane needs responding to...

On Sat, 2 Aug 2003, Diane wrote:

> I will have them fix what they caused to break.  The case .. I do not know how
> the case broke.  The mechanic said it was a common thing .. it seemed
> impossible for that to be so, but I don't know enough to debate him .. I will
> if you help me.

There is NO "common" case/block breakage scenario, period. The heads may
develop cracks, but that's a different ballgame. Cases (or blocks) only
break when abused. Rarely, a case will develop a crack around cylinder
number three due to old age or overheating, etc. If your case has been
damaged, and it isnt a crack near a cylinder, then it's been abused.

> 3)  here is the order in which things started to fall apart.
>
> Took the bus home and noticed that when I pushed on the clutch, it had to go
> all the way to the floor to shift gears.

Clutch cable is out of adjustment.

> I could hear the clunk almost all the time .. Brought it back .. said "did you
> hear that when I pulled up?"  They MUST HAVE .. but all said . "didn't hear
> anything .. "  I moved it .. it clunked .. they just shook their heads and I
> assumed I was losing my mind.

Don't assume anything - you heard it, it happened. They're lying their
a$$es off.

> A few days passed .. still clunk .. still leaking oil .. "vw don't leak oil ..
> they just leave their scent .."  That was the comment .. I insisted that with
> my new [rebuilt] engine, I shouldn't see oil .

When a 'mechanic' makes a comment like that, you need to get your car out
of there. A rebuilt, or even an old VW engine only leaks if something is
wrong. My engines don't leak unless my front seal is bad, or I've been
lazy in changing a gasket.

> and valve adjust .. After I paid my bill he told me about the crack.  Told me
> it was so common .. etc etc .. Couldn't explain why it happened .. just "that
> is how they are .. blah blah .. "  You can say anything to someone who is as
> ignorant as I about mechanics.

You need to bone up on your bus, if you want to keep it. Buy the Idiot
Manual - John Muir, and read it thru like a book. Even chapter 15, Engine
Overhaul.

> So here is what I need to know.  When they pull the engine etc etc .. put it
> back together .. How can I be sure I am getting the engine I paid for ??? and
> not something they just threw together.

You can't ever know until after the fact, when someone else or you takes
it apart to find out what's wrong with it.

> One thing that really gets to me is that if you ask ANYONE in my city .. part
> stores etc .. they will all say he is about the best vw engine guy in town.  I
> think he is covering for his sons screw up .. Could they have installed it
> with the motor mount already broken ?? there is a motor mount right ?? is
> there more than one /?

There are two mounts, but they are known as transmission rear mounts. The
engine attaches to the transmission with four bolts/studs. The two rear
transmission mounts take the combined weight of the tranny and engine.
They go bad - they rot after a while. Replace them every five or so years.
Not a big deal once you remove the engine - also not a big deal.

I don't know who the 'anyones' in your city are, but they prolly don't own
vintage buses or bugs. At this point, you're starting on an interesting
life path known as owning a vintage vehicle. To succeed on this path, you
must buy some tools, buy the John Muir book, and do the simpler repairs
and maintenance yourself, using that book, and this list, for advice and
guidance. After a while, you'll get to understand the stuff that is talked
about on this mailing list, and your questions will get more intelligent
and complex. You'll begin knowing what needs to be done, and how to do it
properly, without some A-hole mechanic to deal with. You will become the
Mechanic In Charge. Which is who SHOULD be in charge of the upkeep of your
bus. Plus, you'll feel good about it.

regards, cal
