From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "Keith O'Neal" <wko(-at-)iname.com>
Cc: "vintagebus vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 8 Aug 2003 09:16:42 -0600
Subject: Re: [VB] Ultimate Engine

----- Original Message -----

>reliability/longevity  and power as the main goal. What displacement
engine? carburetion? Cooling? Compression? Heads? Exhaust?
>

Me personally, I plan on trying a 2.1 WBX in mine in the next couple of
years. All it is is a T1 engine with water jackets, has an oil filter stock,
and holds 4.7 quarts in stock form. Big valve heads, accepts a T-1 exhuast
and everything. The stock FI injectors don't look like they'll clear without
cutting some metal, but we've found intakes to adapt the WBX to carburation
so no metal cutting would be needed. I've even figured out how to 'stealth'
some radiators, but that's my secret.  :-) You can usually find a running
longblock for about $500. A quick freshen up, and it's good to go. Plus, a
'real' heater in the winter, that makes it tempting too! If I can do it all
without cutting any metal (looks like it will clear just fine), i'll be a
happy monkey.

But if we're talking about leaving it aircooled T-1, I would go with an
82x90.5, built for all out torque. Keep the heads mild (L3's), to keep the
port velocity up, and also allows the use of heaterboxes still. Run a stock
length rod for plenty of low end, and also keeps the motor narrow so it will
still fit in the bus. Open up the combustion chambers to 60cc's, and put a
dish on the piston, set the deck height to .090" (7.6:1CR), run a webcam 86A
with some 40IDF's on it. A simple 1 3/8" header with muffler and it's all
set to go. This is not a motor that you bolt together, but one that you
build (there is a difference). Seems most people look for off the shelf
parts to make a combo from, but I see that as something that sets limits and
more often than not, results in bastard combonations that don't work well
when you try to build large displacement engines. Clearancing a case and cam
for a long stroke takes money, as does doing a custom set of heads. The
heads are the big one. This would be an expensive motor though.  :-)

Everyone that replies will have a different answer/opinion. This one is
mine.

Eric Allred
64 Bus
