From: "Diane" <djaeby(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "Vintage Bus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 10 Aug 2003 21:34:44 -0400
Subject: She said .. He said

She said ... He said ...

As you will see .. I was doing my VERY VERY BEST to be a nice person .. and
this is how I am treated by Import Engine - Winter Park, Florida
My email starts with:  Bruce, Making a list and mental note of a few finishing
touches that I would like to take care.  I believe these should be covered
under warranty same as the engine case..

His reply starts with:  i informed your friend that when i got a short block
built-up we would schedule you in as agreed, and i would need the bus for a
couple (2) of days.

But he ends it with:  until you talk to me in person and we discuss what you
would like to do, and schedule it in on a "NO-RUSH" time frame, i can not drop
what i am doing and do your bus when you dropit off at YOUR convenience...i
have other customers that really do "schedule" their jobs....

I said: The clutch still needs one final [I hope] adjustment. Have to try TOO
HARD to shift without grinding the gears. I think it is just an adjustment.

                   He emailed back: the older busses grind gears when
shifting, that also may be improper procedure on your part...

I said: Brett [must have been him] pulled the horn off. The button broke and
was hanging there by the wire, but he [or you or Bian] pulled it out. I don't
want to have to pay someone to wire it back, so would you please have him
[whoever HIM is] re-run that wire again? I am looking on eBay and in parts
places for the button and the horn .. I like to use the horn, AND OFTEN ..

                    He emailed back: . the horn was not working, center button
was broken and horn would not stay where it was supposed to. I un-plugged it
to prevent it from tangeling up in the steering wheel.

I said: When you installed the gas tank, was there a float or whatever it is
that makes the gas gauge function ?? I don't want to try and hook up the
wiring to the gas gauge, only to find there is not a whatever it is .. that
tells the gauge how much gas there is .. is it called a sending unit or
something like that ?? Being the tank is where it is, I figured to find this
out while the engine is out .. know what I mean ???

                He emailed back: . sending unit is in tank, wether it works or
not is agood guess..you seem to forget that we do only limited electrical ,
get a good electrician that is familiar with vw's. (perhaps , scooter)

I said: The brakes are just a tiny bit too hard .. I read that on long drives
that can cause a problem. I don't think that Steve knows how to adjust them ..
or I would just have him do it this weekend. I will ask him though .. same for
the clutch.

            He emailed back: brakes are SUPPOSED to be hard , thats what makes
them work, you mash em, they grab drums, bus stops.

Diane
67 MicroMess
