From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 28 Aug 2002 10:48:27 EDT
To: ventwing(-at-)yahoo.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] putting together a transaxle

Nice deal!!!

so check the fulcrum plates and crown gear for wear- and the spade ends of 
the axle shafts- use the best ones- and even swap them side to side-- so the 
not worn side is the push side.   

wear at the crown gears/FP makes a thunk when you step on the gas, or let off 
the gas, unless you are real careful.   

So check RGBearings for wear as well.  Some folks might say buy new, but i 
say see if they are okay first.  

replace shift rod bushings in bus
"""  shift tube boots (WW has repros)
"" front tranny bushing- where hockey stick goes into nose cone- a usual drip 
source
--new tranny boots
--drain old oil. put fresh oil in the tranny.  Change oil after about 300 to 
500 miles.
--If you want to get fancy you can paint (or powder coat) the axle tubes etc.

myself I'd remove the side cover and count the ring gear teeth on the old (no 
4th) and new (used) tranny,  divide that number by 8 - for 8 teeth on pinion 
shaft for tunnel tranny-   to get the r/p ratio.  Like a 4.125 is 33/8.  If 
35 teeth the ratio is  35/8 is 4.375.  Just FYI.


...In a message dated 8/27/2002 1:55:56 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
ventwing(-at-)yahoo.com writes:

<< 
 Just made an awsome score. 
 My '60 panel just recently lost 4th gear on the way
 back from High Country. Had to drive home most of the
 way in 3rd...
 
 The guy 
......had the old one
 laying around, apparantly in great shape, not popping
 out of any gears. It was just taking up space in his
 garage, so he let it go for $50! woohoo. 
 So now, I've got to put the axles back on, get
 everything together, and install it in the bus. I've
 got the Bently manual, so I should be able to figure
 it out, and I've read through all the posts that came
 up under "transmission" in the archives. But I was
 wondering, is there any maintenance I should perform
 on the tranny while the axles are still off of it? Any
 pointers on putting this thing together would be much
 appreciated. Thanks,
 -Russ Henry
 
 PS: I already have a big nut tranny in my bus, so I'm
 confident everthing will fit ok without having to buy
 any adaptors.
  >>
