Date: Mon, 30 Oct 2006 13:03:29 -0800
From: "Larry(-at-)comcast" <LarryEdson(-at-)comcast.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Need Better Freeway Gears

This seems to need mentioning about every year. Back in the early bay 
window Bus days Volkswagen decided to jump on the band wagon and put 
radials on their higher end vehicles. When they did this with the Bus 
they elected to keep their work trucks (single cab/double cab/panel) 
with heavy duty bias ply tires. When they went looking for radial tires 
for the campers and deluxe Busses the closest they could find was a 
185R14. The problem is that tire, while being wide enough, has a smaller 
diameter than the existing bias tire that the gearing and speedo were 
designed for. VW did not fix this problem until the mid '70s.

So changing your tranny will only solve half your problem. Fortunately 
we now have a tire available that is very close to the diameter of the 
bias. Its a Continental Vanco 195R14. That will fix both your problems 
and allow you to  keep up with traffic.

Larry

<-------- Original Message --------

Date: Fri, 27 Oct 2006 07:38:48 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: mccomas(-at-)intercom.net
Cc: doug(-at-)mckayarchitecture.com
Subject: Need Better Freeway Gears

Doug,
      Maybe this isn't the place to address the question, but it is a Friday...
so here goes.  I think the average speeds at which people-in-general are 
driving (on Interstate highways in particular) have increased.  It is not 
seemly to do an indicated 55 on a 55-limit road.  Yes, I know about speedo 
error.  What I see well exceeds any 10% effect.  I think many motorists have 
got the idea their relative 'invulnerability' is at a new high, perhaps due to 
anti-lock brakes, stability controls, air bags, etc.  Bottom line, I am not 
comfortable driving any vintage VW on freeways -- except at times when no one 
would be expect a need for speed, that is, getting to work (let's say).  Sorry 
for the pessimism, but IMHO the wonderful air cooled VW products are no longer 
suitable as daily drivers, if you have to drive on roads posted above 50 mph.  
Just my 2" worth...... Glenn>
