Date: Mon, 30 Oct 2006 13:42:08 -0800
From: Nathaniel Poole <npoole(-at-)telus.net>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Need Better Freeway Gears

The tech issue aside, I'm with Glenn. I bought my first Vanagon ('80
aircooled) a few months ago and drove it 800 kilometres to my place, mostly
on freeways. I wanted to baby it a bit being an unknown, so I slowed down
for the hills and avoided putting the pedal to the floorboards to keep up.
Most of the time I did the speed limit or a few kPH below it, and I swear
sometimes it seemed like I was parked judging by the speeds of those passing
me -including tractor trailers. There is little doubt in my mind that people
are driving much faster these days and these old VW rigs are an anachronism
-designed for an era when going a few miles slower than max didn't mean
someone was going to drive through your rear window. The positive side is it
makes me drive slower, which by and large is a lot more peaceful and
relaxing. Like sailing, riding one of these rigs is about the journey not
the destination. It's great watching the tailights of the maniacs
disappearing over the hill ahead of me ;)

And recent research bears out what Glenn is saying -vehicles are much safer
than they used to be, but this improved engineering is almost being
nullified by people's overconfidence and taking more risks while driving.
Design a safer car and some people will push it until it is no longer safe.
Human nature.

Nathaniel 



> Doug,
>       Maybe this isn't the place to address the question, but it is a
> Friday...
> so here goes.  I think the average speeds at which people-in-general are
> driving (on Interstate highways in particular) have increased.  It is not
> seemly to do an indicated 55 on a 55-limit road.  Yes, I know about speedo
> error.  What I see well exceeds any 10% effect.  I think many motorists have
> got the idea their relative 'invulnerability' is at a new high, perhaps due to
> anti-lock brakes, stability controls, air bags, etc.  Bottom line, I am not
> comfortable driving any vintage VW on freeways -- except at times when no one
> would be expect a need for speed, that is, getting to work (let's say).  Sorry
> for the pessimism, but IMHO the wonderful air cooled VW products are no longer
> suitable as daily drivers, if you have to drive on roads posted above 50 mph.
> Just my 2" worth...... Glenn>
