From: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 1 Nov 2006 9:50:54 -0500
Subject: Re: sliding door glass.??

If there is any way that I can convince you otherwise...

I bought a pair of those sliding windows for the mid-section (sliding door and the opposite fixed wall), and it really REALLY helps open up the inside of the Bus. it makes it feel more "open".

However, first thing is, it sounds like the sliding window is installed incorrectly. It SHOULD be installed so that the outter most pane (of the two) is closest towards the front of the Bus). This is because, unless you drive backwards a lot, you don't want wind or rain to be going in between two panels. For example, the forward most window pane of the slider should be overlapping the rear-most window panel from the outside. Otherwise you're "catching" wind and rain so to speak. The slider knobs should BOTH be on the INSIDE. There is one that's meant for the left side, and one that's meant for the right side.

These sliding windows were never originally offered in the earlier year Bay Busses, but set I have came from a Champaign bus that was being parted out at Busted Bus (beyond repair apparently).

I am REALLY REALLY happy with them. 


Don't quote me on this, but I DO believe they sell SOLID pieces for those mid-section windows. I BELIEVE that I may actually have one too. I'm not totally sure, but I'll check. If I have it, you're more than welcome to have it for the cost of shipping. (I even have the gasket for it). 


Your OTHER alternatives for that windowed area is to install jalosey windows (did I spell that right?). As you know, those are the ones where you turn the crank and a series of narrow paned translucent glass (overlapping) open up vertically. This window also allows the use of a screen on the inside (comes with it).

There is also the "standard" window option which is the SMALL vent window which I believe is no larger than 1/4 the size of the entire window. I'm not really a big fan of these, but I think they work well in the back windows. I know that the Bay Bus only came with ONE in the drivers side, and not one on the passenger side because it would interfere with the sliding door if it was open. However, you can install one on there if you're dilegent in making sure you don't try to open the sliding door while the vent window is open. This would be my next choice.

I'd recommend having some sort of window there... especially since you have the sliding glass already... the Bus doesn't have a whole lot of air flowing through it with the smaller windows (or no openable windows).



Todd
