Date: Sat, 20 Oct 2001 12:31:17 -0400
From: jamie rivers <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: David Bell <bellky(-at-)charter.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Electric Fuel Pump Relay

Ah, Maybe I am mixed up,, but if you use the stock oil pressure switch,, it only
makes the circuit to ground when there is no OIL pressure,, you would have to
use a normally closed contact on the relay so that when there is NO oil pressure
it is open, and the fuel pump is off,,,

and when there is oil pressure, the power circuit to the relay coil is open, and
the normally closed contacts close,, making the circuit to the fuel pump

This logic leaves the relay coil energized all the time that there is no oil
pressure,, or all the time your engine isn't running, I see a dead battery in
about 2 days time....
that is if you used a "hot" lead from the battery,, now if you used the hot lead
that is from the ignition switch then you will not leave the coil energized,,
but the ignition switch now has to carry the current of the fuel pump

I assume there are 2 pole oil pressure senders,, and one is N.O. and one is N.C.
contacts,, this way you could use the n.c. contacts for the oil light and the
n.o. for the fuel pump... works great for the carb engine, cause there is enough
fuel in the bowl to get the engine running to increase the oil pressure, to
close the switch to make the fuel pump operate,,

I think the easiest way to connect an electric pump, using a relay, is to
connect the "hot" lead to the relay coil to the blue wire from the alternator..
as soon as the alternator starts to spin it will power the fuel pump relay, and
the fuel pump
install a fused hot lead from the battery to the fuel pump ,, chassis ground the
other side of the relay coil and the fuel pump and your in bidness 
This works just like the factory installation of the aux heat fan in the engine
bay of a 73-74 

Jamie Rivers
 



David Bell wrote:
> 
> Thinking that it would be a good idea for the fuel pump to shut off when the
> engine stops, especially in the event of an accident, I have been following
> the thread and considering how to do this on my bus. (74 T2/T4 Carb) Has
> anyone tried running a hot lead to the relay coil, then grounding the other
> side through the oil sending switch? Seems to me that would do the job, but
> I could be wrong. Wouldn't be the first time. (Maybe the third time)
> ((Today))
