Date: Mon, 22 Oct 2001 08:03:03 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Bill Martin <martinbi(-at-)u.washington.edu>, TYPE2(-at-)TYPE2.COM
Subject: Re: [T2] exhaust stud woes... any ideas?

I don't know if I would suggest you do this yourself because the risk of 
drilling too deep BUT I installed Chevy exhaust manifold studs on my Type 
IV. The Threads are much more aggressive than the VW threads and a larger 
(slightly) diameter. Much more coarse...

You could check with a machine shop and see what they would charge.

I rebuilt my engine and had 6 out of 8 of the studs pull. I installed them 
with only a hand held power drill, a tap, and the studs (purchased from 
Advance Auto -- in other words ANYBODY should have them). Mine were found 
in the 'HELP' section - generic replacement parts section.

I used brass nuts so they would come off next time easier or they would be 
easier to cut.

I did this while the engine was installed in the Westy but out of the Westy 
would be much easier.

Be careful because if you go too far you drill right into the intake runner 
or combustion chamber. I did not drill too far so I do not know for sure 
what portion of the head you would drill through! <grin!>

I also had to drill the manifold mounting holes out a bit too to match the 
l;arger diameter of the Chevy studs but now many, many miles later 
(10-15K?) all is still well.

While you are at it replace the copper gaskets between the heads and 
manifold pipes.

Also be sure to file the pipes flat - long metal file, run it across both 
pipes at the surface that presses against the head at the same time. File 
until edges are bright all the way around the opening on both pipes.

My pipes leaked before, they have not since.

Hope this helps you...



Ciao!

Chris M. <Busbodger>
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE: 	Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing, otherwise 
complete (make offer)

