Date: Mon, 22 Oct 2001 08:15:03 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: Andree Hurley <ahurley(-at-)viewit.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Buying a van with 180,000...


Watch out for a poorly installed motor. If it was a factory long block
assembly, they should be able to show a reciept or invoice. If there is no
documentation on the motor, watch out. If just the heads were replaced, and
by a backyard owner, watch out. Check the radiator and the pipes underneith
for coorosion. Verify that it has either the blue factory antifreeze or the
orange GM spec. If it's the green standard type, it is proof of just one
unacceptable compromise. How many other compromises were in the work??? Did
they reuse the water pump??? If not, bad procedure.

Look at the brake/clutch fluid reservoir. If it's full of black crud, allow
a bunch for brake work. Also is proof posative of poor/no maintenance. 

Review all service records. If the original motor made 180k, that's
evidence of better than average maintenance that should be verified by the
service history. If that is the second motor, don't expect the radiator and
pipes to last much longer. At 180k an original tranny could be near need of
rebuilding. If the documented history shows nothing but "tune-ups", quicky
lubes and repairs, watch out. There is likely a whole bunch of stuff on
there essentially unmaintained and prone to failure.

Verify genuine parts. If you see a NAPA oil filter or clutch parts,
discount heavily the value. Look under the dash for quicky splices. Review
the condition of the fuzes and relays and their holder. Heat stress says
watch out. If the fuel pump is original is may be lasting not much longer. 

It's the quality of the service records only that can testify. Did you get
a written report from your mechanic friend??? What specifics did his report
show??? No written report with specifics means no real inspection can be
relied upon. 

A properly maintained vehicle with 180k can be a much better risk than an
80k with poor maintenance. That being said, a very small percentage of
third or fourth owner vehicles will be in good and proper order throughout.

At 05:01 AM 10/22/2001 -0400, you wrote:
>
>Hi,
>
>I'm still looking at vans...I saw an 83 the other day that is in beautiful
>condition, no rust, clean, engine rebuilt 6k miles ago (it is water cooled
>however). A mechanic friend of mine went to look at it with me and thinks
>it is way too many miles, despite the good care. I'm under the impression
>that with the body, etc looking so great things are replaceable otherwise
>(bearings, etc.). It also has a new clutch assembly. I think the previous
>owner did most of the work. It had two long term owners, and then this
>young couple for a short time. They seem to be very careful with it.

T.P. Stephens
Doktor Tim's

