Date: Fri, 09 Jan 2004 10:58:24 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Towing a bus

At 09:23 AM 01/09/2004, you wrote:
>On Fri, 9 Jan 2004, Steve Pribyl wrote:
>
> > I need a sanity check.
> > Can I use my Volvo 850 Turbo Wagon and a tow bar to do this?
> > The Volvo can tow about 3600lb, I think??

Verify both the Owner's manual towing capacities and instructions, know the 
actual weight of the load. If that is within the specs, it can be done, but 
with several cautions as others have advised.

1. Brakes, check them properly. Verify specs, rotor thickness, run out and 
surface condition. Replace the pads if worn half the spec, i.e., if 2mm 
remaining is standard min. spec, replace sets that are at or near 4mm. Know 
that factory specs have meaning only when using factory pads. Verify tire 
pressures then break in new pads properly. Final test is flat surface at 50 
miles per hour, very light hands on the wheel, stab the brakes hard. If 
they pull slightly either left or right, something is not spec. Don't 
forget to flush and renew the fluid if it's been more than a year in there.

2. Tranny, verify clean fluid at proper level, after a standard maintenance 
service if anywhere close to due.

3. Suspension and steering, inspect all mounts and bushings and joints and 
fasteners.

4. Speed and winds, In order to not exceed a normal functional max load for 
engine, brakes and tranny, SLOW DOWN. If you have side winds in play, you 
may need to run at 30 mph to ensure control. Don't even consider a south 
Wyoming route. Towing a Bus in such a situation would be like towing a sail 
boat with the sail up. Same for grades, more grade = less speed, to limit 
heat load on the tranny. The first time a semi trailer gets involved with 
you in the adjacent lane, you again can be subjected to a whipping Bus on 
your tail. Very dangerouse at 60 but manageable at 30.

Bottom line, verify specs, double or halve them as the case may require to 
allow for safety under extreme stresses, catch up all maintenance, check 
the weather forecast for low winds, allow for twice the time, half the 
speed, of a no extra load transit. During the towing, at every stop, verify 
the fluids, tire pressures and tow fittings. Keep both rates of braking and 
acceleration as modest as your anticipation, sight distances and stability 
will allow. You provide for both safety  strain margins primarily by 
SLOWING DOWN.
