Date: Wed, 19 Jun 2002 16:23:09 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] megasquirt and bus FI - reality check.

First - I'm not telling you are stupid for considering Megasquirt. It works.

Second - I don't know what your personal electronics abilities are. You may 
be an electronics engineer. This isn't a flamejob that I am tossing at you.

Third - I figure you are like the rest of us, good under the hood, always 
eager to try something new and more power is a good thing.

However - there are alot of folks here that are brand new to tinkering. I 
don't know where you fit in the lineup so don't get your feelings hurt by 
my message. If you can get do this than teach me how too.  I just don't 
know if you know what you are in for with the Megasquirt system.

Subscribe to their list and see if you know what they are talking about. I 
warn you many of those folks don't tolerate stupid questions because they 
are working on "heavy" stuff. There really should be a beginner's list for 
Megasquirt. I joined, lurked, and watched a newbie jump out there and get 
hammered and so I lurked some more. I never could quite understand the 
whole picture so I unsubscribed.

Megasquirt as I understand it relies on mainly domestic sensors and fuel 
injection parts. In most - if not all - of the pics I've seen they have 
been using GM injection parts. MAP sensors, injectors, some of the 
ignition, whatever. The pics all look like GM. They also have a list called 
Megajolt where they are designing custom programmed ignition systems too.

I too have been giving the Megasquirt concept a critical eye and for many 
months subscribed to their list. The list is VERY technical with discussion 
of things I don't even have the slightest understanding about and I fancy 
myself to be a competent mechanic that can learn alot when I have too.

The brain box is alot of work - you have to assemble it and then program 
it. Of course you also have to adapt the fuel injection components to the 
VW engine as well. No small task.

The brain box is about $100-$150 each but then you have to have another 
couple hundred $$$ of parts to make it work and if you have to farm any of 
it out (like MIG welding bungs into a revised intake manifold) expect the 
money to climb quickly.

That buys alot of spare OEM VW brain boxes at swap meets. I have a couple 
stuck back.

You can repair the OEM VW injection brain. The circuit is rather simple 
with Radio Shack parts generally. I can't repair mine - the electronics are 
beyond me but quite simple to a friend I know who does electronics repair 
professionally. If you can build a Megasquirt control box then you can 
troubleshoot the OEM VW brain box. Seems like there was somebody that was 
repairing them at one time.

If you want more modern fuel injection you might be time and money ahead to 
futz around with more modern junkyard VW systems that utilize oxygen 
sensors. Then you only have to fit the system to your vehicle and go 
instead of designing all of the computer program parameters to drive the 
system. The basic program is there for Megasquirt but you still have to 
adjust it to your needs.

For example I am still working towards a 110 HP Corvair transplant. More 
power, more torque, slightly more mpg. Like the Type IV it is a robust 
engine that lasts along time is treated right. A 110 HP engine is worth 
between 95 and 100 HP on modern gas and with modern HP ratings. It's a very 
good start. Much better than 67 Hamster Power. Will enable me to run a 
modern highway speeds - ~70 mph.

I am just starting the cleaning and refurbishing process of the engine. I 
do want fuel injection and have spoken and read quite a bit about adapting 
modern GM fuel injection systems from the very common 3.1 liter V-6 to the 
Corvair 2.7 liter. That is a modern multi-port system and should cost me a 
few hundred dollars but it will run right out of the box as it were right 
after I get home from the junkyard (riiiiight!).

Many of the Corvair owners claim between 10% and 25% increases in power, 
gas mileage and torque (but not all at once). I'm just seeking less 
pollution (I can run a cat), a bit better mpg, and a bit more power is 
always welcome. Good cold morning behavior is a plus over Corvair carbs. 
The carbs found on a Corvair are okay but never famous for their 
performance - and neither were the 95/110 HP heads with very restrictive 
intakes and exhaust.

I can modify the Corvair heads (refine them) and gain significant HP by 
going with custom fuel injection manifolds that mimic triple throat 
Webers/Solex/Zeniths as found on a Porsche and do some porting and 
polishing and gain maybe 40-50 HP I've been told and have read - assuming I 
can do a good job. All that head refinement generally allows slightly 
higher compression ratios and a better cam and better exhaust and the 
air/gas flow in and out of the combustion chamber will rise (I'm still a 
novice so take it all with a bit of salt).

Another popular time intensive project is adapting 2.0 Type IV pistons and 
cylinders to the Corvair to take the displacement to 3.1 liters. Requires 
some internal clearancing.

So my point is learn to fix what you've got (which isn't that bad nor that 
hard to repair even if the brain is cooked if you can build a Megasquirt 
system), or consider an existing junkyard fuel injection system.

Megasquirt doesn't guarantee you results - it does guarantee you the 
opportunity to tune a fuel injection system to your needs. If your needs 
are ordinary then an ordinary fuel injection system will do the job - 
vintage or modern. If your needs are extraordinary (racing, turbo, 8000 
rpm, etc.) or you really want to take the plunge then Megasquirt is for you.

If you go after building a Megasquirt then please keep us updated! Sounds 
like a really cool project and I would love to hear about the results.

Remember I am assuming that your abilities are average and you haven't got 
any experience with programming chips or building circuits. If I am wrong 
then I'm wrong. If I'm right - take the time to read their list for a 
while. When I first started reading the list I was ready and willing to 
send the money away right away for my kit....

On a side note I got to look over a CB Performance turbo kit the other 
afternoon. Neat setup. The fuel injection is standard GM though with a 
custom brain box (driver adjustable). Was strange to see the sensors 
without any serial numbers on them - guess that sends you back to them when 
you need a new MAP sensor or a new injector vs. a trip to the local FLAPS.

See ya.

Chris Mills in TN

