From: "Edward Theobald" <edtheobald(-at-)starband.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 20 Jun 2002 06:48:03 -0500
Subject: I have MegaSquirt on my '77 bus ...

Folks,

I have MegaSquirt (MS) running on my '77 bus. I have the engine out right
now to fix a couple of issues not related to MegaSquirt, but I should have
it back up and running in the next couple of weeks.

I'd like to clear up a few misconception regarding MegaSquirt and provide
some info regarding my installation:

- I am using the stock injectors, intake manifold, throttle body, fuel pump,
fuel pressure regulator. The MS replaces the ECU, AFM, double relay, cold
start valve, ballast resistors.

- You need to build the kit yourself or find someone to do it for you. You
may be able to find someone with an assembled kit for sale however. If you
are familiar with soldering electronics it probably will not be a big
effort. Stuffing and solder the PC board took me about 4 hours.

- You need to create a new FI wiring harness. The MS kit comes with the
'brain' connector. You need to provide the wire and terminals for everything
else. You could use your existing injector connectors by just clipping the
wires off and splicing into your new harness. I bought new connectors for
about $1.50 apiece from a guy on the MS Yahoo group. I also bought a
standard GM intake air temp sensor from him for about $15.

- You need to install an oxygen sensor somewhere on your exhaust manifold.
This is needed in order to 'tune' the MegaSquirt brain. For me this was very
simple - I just drilled a hole just the right size to provide a snug fit for
the sensor part of the oxy sensor (not the threaded part!). Then I simply
twisted it into the hole and used wire wrapped around the manifold and oxy
sensor to hold it in place. Perhaps a very slight exhaust leak, but I cannot
even detect it! I did this on my 'J' tube - this is the tube right before
the heat exchanger - some other year busses don't have this so you will have
to find a spot to mount yours.

- I am using my stock throttle body without any TPS (throttle position
sensor). The TPS is used primarily for acceleration enrichment. The stock FI
on my '77 bus had none and I've found that it runs fine without it. I may
modify the MS code to provide enrichment based on Manifold Absolute Pressure
(MAP) changes - but it does not appear that this is needed.

- I am using the stock head sensor as the 'water' temp input to the MS. No
code changes were needed to do this - I just changed one of the resistors on
the input circuit to scale the input voltage so the standard MS code works
fine. Simple.

- I removed my AFM/Aircleaner and replaced with a home-built setup that uses
a standard air filter I got from my FLAPS. I used PVC plumbing stuff - I
think the whole thing (not including air filter element) cost about $7. It
only took a couple of minutes to make! I'll post pictures somewhere when I
get a chance. I would suggest that you remove your AFM if you are going to
convert to MS - removing it will allow your intake to 'breath' much better
(translate - more power).

- There is NOT allot of additional expense beyond the cost of the MS kit
($110 in the current group buy). Here are my guestimates at my additional
costs:
Wire and terminals: 10.00
Relays: $14
Injector terminals: 7.00
Intake air sensor: 15.00
Air filter hardware: 7.00
Oxy Sensor: 25.00
Looks like my total additional expense is much less than $100. But I already
have a laptop for tuning the unit, and serial cables to connect to the MS,
etc. Note that I also started with the stock FI setup, so I am starting out
with injectors, fuel pump, etc. YMMV

- I have my setup tuned *pretty* well. I still need to fool around with the
cold start enrichment parameters.

- Don't forget that this is an *experimental* FI setup. Only about 25 cars
are currently running with MegaSquirt worldwide! This is very very new!
There have been some issues with hardware and software during this initial
phase of bringing the MegaSquirt into the public arena - but the 2 guys
behind it (Bruce Bowling and Al Grippo) and first rate in terms of helping
folks and following up on updates, etc.

- The last problem I was having was an occasional CPU reset - This seems to
be caused by ignition signal input energy causing spikes on the PCB
groundplane. I looks like running a separate ground wire from the ignition
input chip will solve this problem.

- I ran my setup without modifying any code. The CPU comes pre-programmed
with the kits. I also ran my setup with modified code since I wanted to
change the oxy sensor voltage setpoint. The point being that you do not
necessarily need to program the CPU.

Folks, I've spent hours and hours and hours over the last few years on the
stock FI setup. I put an oxy sensor on my bus to try to adjust the stock FI
and that's when I realized just how poorly my stock system regulates
fuel/air ratios. I'm just thrilled with my MegaSquirt thus far.
One of my fondest memories is taking that blasted AFM off of my bus for the
very last time!!!!

I realize that MegaSquirt is not for everyone, but if enough people get it
running on busses it will be that much easier for others to try it. I'm
willing to provide help via this list to anyone wanting to try MegaSquirt.
The Yahoo group is very helpful in my opinion - quite a few air cooled folks
there.
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/megasquirt/

Once your go MegaSquirt, you never go back!!!

Ed
'77 Westy



