Date: Thu, 20 Jun 2002 09:28:50 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Bob <rehaufler(-at-)mac.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Front Brakes Question,


>I let a mechanic prepare my '72 for state inspection-last year.  Ball joints
>were needed.  Now, getting ready for inspection again, I discover that he
>replaced my nearly brand new '72 rotors with crappy ones, my rebuilt
>calipers with worn out old ones, and all my new german wheel bearings that I
>install have morphed into worn out chineze bearings.  I was not told about
>any of this.  No hint of this major switch-er-roo is apparent in my bill.

I guess the questions I would want answered would be - did he switch them 
for the aftermarket junk commonly found at the local supermarket style 
FLAPS (I used to work at one - AWFUL stuff) or did he switch them and put 
your parts which I assume were good on another vehicle????

If it was the second one - you are going to have a hard time proving it. 
Might be worth a face to face meeting with a microcassette recorder in your 
pocket. I have heard - check this - that as long as one person knows (you 
in this case) that it is there, that it is legal.

If it is the first, then better start shopping for replacements if the 
system isn't working well. If it is working well I would leave it alone but 
proactively inspect the parts when you service the bus. Chinese rotors are 
often sold in cheap FLAPS that are just barely thick enough to mike out as 
passing based on the vehicle manufacturer's minimum thickness standards. I 
had one customer bring his worn 200K mile p/u rotor in to the store where I 
worked and the new replacement Chinese rotor was too thin right out of the 
box new and about equal thickness to his worn rotor. The ones I bought for 
my Accord back then warped in under 6 months despite my care not to sit at 
stop lights and stop signs with my foot on the pedal (very hot pads sitting 
on one portion of the rotor while the remainder of the rotor was cooling).

Let us know what happens...
Ciao!

Chris Mills
Cookeville, Tennessee
ICQ# 5944649

