From: VWTGS(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 25 Mar 2006 12:24:21 EST
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Worked for me   was Project for sale, must go

Don't misunderstand what I was saying. I didn't say they were using it as a  
metal sealer or a primer filler. My point was it does adhere. It does last. is 
 it the best? No. Does it ruin a car that it's applied to?? No.  Not  
everyone has the money to put $500+ into paint suppies but, wants a decent paint  
job. <allot.>>

"Give me the name and the address of this  place---
It'll be a place to avoid like the plague."
Just  because you don't agree doesn't mean it doesn't work or is the wrong 
way. Not  just the best way

"No spray gun priming--just rattle cans.
Oh-Boy--nothing but the  best."
I can't tell you what's best for the money but, for little to no  money I can 
tell you what works. 

There is so much better available in paintland to promote adhesion,  and
seal the metal prior to painting--why would any body shop use  rattle
cans?
I used it on my bus and it turns many heads. Is it  perfect no but, it looks 
as good as many I have seen that the person spent  $2000+ to get painted. My 
main point was to correct what was said that "it  didn't work". I can say it 
does. My paint looks good, 4 years later and the  paint is still on there and 
will be for many more years. So this isn't an  opinion, it's look at my bus fact.
"Nuts---"
Not everyone has $1000s  of dollars to put into paint and bodywork. I got my 
paint and body work done  parts and labor $800. That "plague" shop made mine 
look as good as most I've  seen at campouts and shows. If you want to see my 
rattle can bus I'll send out a  photo or you can go to FMBC site. Lickity Split 
is the screen name. Rattle can  primer under paint won me a "I want your ride" 
trophy. 
 
I understand there is a best way to do everything and the quality makes  the 
difference. This is for the not so best way that looks make the difference.  I 
agree that it's not the way to go. If you want a show ride or a very nice  
daily driver use primer filler and primer sealer. If you want to get that junky  
bus out of the back yard and want it to look good for some years and you have 
 $500 in your pocket use spray can and Macco. I'm not trying to start a 
debate  about right way and wrong way. Just again proving that rattle can works for 
 short term 3-5 years maybe more.
 
Ronnie Pugh
lickity split
