From: JDStanton5(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 2 Sep 2003 01:31:28 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Jerome Jamboree changes

Hi all,

I has been brought to my attention that there are still some folks who don't 
know that the 'official' caravan to Jerome Jamboree is now scheduled to leave 
Phoenix on Friday morning at 9:00 AM.  It will still meet and leave from the 
Home Depot parking lot on Thunderbird Road, just east of I-17.  There is, 
however, a small glitch in this.  The "OFF-Ramps" from I-17 to Thunderbird Road are 
CLOSED.  You will need to exit I-17 one exit early and make you way to the 
Home Depot on the surface streets.  The "ON-Ramp" from T-bird onto I-17 is open, 
so the caravan's departure should not be affected.

There will be another 'un-official' caravan leaving Phoenix on Saturday from 
the same Home Depot parking lot.  This is basically being put together by a 
group of folks who can't make it up Friday.  No problem!  It's always better to 
caravan in a group than to travel by yourself.  We knew this would happen when 
we made the change to Friday, and it's good to see some folks taking the 
initiative to do this.

In addition, there has been a small change is the vending policy at Jerome 
Jamboree.  Swapping of old VW parts is encouraged, as it always has been, at 
your campsite.  This has not cahanged.  The change is for "NEW ITEM" vendors only 
(anyone selling new parts, clothing, whatever).  You need to be 
Pre-registered by sending in your fee of $25 (for one vehicle for the weekend) and we will 
send you your 'vendor's certificate'.  You must have this prior to the event, 
as you will be required to show it at the gate in order to get in.  (Yeah, 
yeah, it's a bit of a pain, but it is what it is).  In additon, "NEW ITEM" 
vendors will be required to set up on "Vendor Row" only.  On our website 
(www.arizonabusclub.com) there is a small form to print, fill out and mail in with your 
fee.  

You can email me or call me at (623)877-8662 if you have any further 
questions.  Thanks for your time and understanding in these changes.

Jon Stanton, Pres.
Arizona Bus Club
