Date: Thu, 4 Sep 2003 20:38:34 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Japanese site (fwd)

---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Thu, 4 Sep 2003 19:06:45 +0900
From: Michael J. Turner <airmike(-at-)fx.syscom.ne.jp>
To: cjay(-at-)well.com
Cc: ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com, scmills21(-at-)tntech.edu, ratwell(-at-)mac.com,
     captoaster(-at-)cox.net, msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu, keen(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Japanese site

Dear Mr Grant and friends,
You guys don't know me. My name is Mike Turner. I'm a retired navyman living in Japan. I've been working as an aircraft maintenance type for the last several years. Over all I've spent a bit over twenty years out here (when not home back in Washington state)  I've been lurking on the type 2 list for over a year mostly to keep in touch with the bus scene which I hope to get back into when I get home later this year. There are lots of VW's out here also but thats another story!
I'm writing to let you know I saw your "thread" on those little micro VW's and thought I might throw my two cents in.
I've seen those little cars here and there but never gave it much thought untill I saw your note. I work at the Atsugi Naval Air Facility.
We're located about 35 miles south east of Tokyo. I took the liberty to snoop around a bit (as you might expect my Japanese wife speaks real good Japanese :-))   I've learned these cars are sold  "almost around the corner" from where we live, a fifteen or twenty minute drive. For any one familiar with this area (Kanagawa prefecture) the dealer is located in Sagami-hara city. I plan to visit in the next day or so. When I do I'll get pictures and forward them. If anyone speaks english well enough to handle writing I'll get an address so you can write if you interested.
What I've learned so far is the cars cost about ten thousand bucks (in yen of course)!   The cars come in several styles not only the VW bus style. Now heres the kicker....I'm told these cars are imported from GERMANY!!!   The brand name of the car and the company building them is "BRUDER". I'll attempt to follow up on this, but if any of you folks have leads in europe, you might want to check 'em out. There also another web site you can visit. Don't bother with the translation program it doesn't help much, however the pictures are really neat!! (And for what its worth they are strictly for domestic market customers, they will never make it to the states!)
go to:    http://www.modest.jp/bruder.htm

Well hope this helps somewhat! Will E-mail pictures when I get 'em.
Regards,  Mike Turner
