From: <VW(-at-)insightbb.com>
To: "Sonney Hinson" <bigdog(-at-)yournet.com>, "vintage"
Date: Fri, 5 Sep 2003 10:01:38 -0500
Subject: Re: [VB] BNNTA

Funny I was wondering the same thing.   I would post a report, but I only
experienced a couple hours of the event.
In case anyone is wondering how to blow an entire weekend  for 2 hours of
BNNTA, listen up:
Friday am I got off work and began to load the double cab with gear and
daughter, a fellow bus freak.  Wife and kids decide they want to go.
(uh-oh)  The double cab goes back in the garage because while it technically
carries the 7 of us on occasion, we reserve those times for local spins
where we feel less neglectful about trying it.  Fast-foreward to Saturday
when the 7 of us show up to an all VW event in a Suburban.  We got some
really strange looks and I now reflect on them and chuckle.  I can still see
that area of the world where for an instance VW busses were everywhere and
the guy in the chevy was the weirdo daring to be different...heh-heh...how
alternative.
Anyway, I saw a couple of old friends and met still more.   Bill Bowman and
friends do a great job and I regret not getting to see Bill.  I hadn't been
to this event for several years and had never seen the 'new' location near
Hannibal.  I think the change of venue took some of the wind out of it's
sails as there were 69 registered busses as of Saturday compared to over 100
that I was used to.  Nonetheless it was good but we weren't prepared to camp
so we went on to St Louie.  The next day we hit the zoo and yes... stopped
at the arch.
Well, the kids and I decided we need to trade the 60 truck for a deluxe
bench seat bus. Anyone have a spare 58-61 in good shape that you're itching
to unload?  While I'm dreaming, could you deliver it to my house and then
just GIVE it to me?
I can't wait to hear the official unofficial reports from BNNTA.
Later,
Jay




> Isn't anyone going to post a report? We had planned to go, then backed out
> when rain was forcast. ( The Mrs. ain't as tough as I am, I'd a done it,
> rain or shine )
