From: "Bill Bowman" <BussesByTheArch18(-at-)msn.com>
To: "\(msge\) VintageBus List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>, "\(send msge\)
Date: Fri, 5 Sep 2003 12:42:12 -0500
Subject: Quick debrief on the "BNNTA #19" event...

Hi all,

Since a VB listee was looking for a debrief on last weekend's BNNTA event, I
thought I'd pass this brief official summary along.

The "Busses Nowhere Near The Arch #19" VW camping event that Kathryn and I
hosted for NEATO and LiMBO members last weekend was quite successful, despite
the eventual rain.  Friday and Saturday were unseasonably cool and dry, and
most of the structured part of the event fell on Saturday.  The high temp on
Saturday was only about 78 degrees.  Thanks in part to the cool weather all
weekend, no one seemed to have mechanical trouble (no engines were out on the
ground being tweaked on).  We had approximately 72 VW's from at least 14
different States (between California and South Carolina!) registered and
camping for the weekend.  On Saturday morning 31 Busses and one Beetle joined
us for the scenic countryside caravan across the Cannon Damn which holds back
22 mile long Mark twain lake and then over to the historic city of Hannibal,
MO (Samuel Clemens/Mark Twain's old stomping grounds).  The oldest Bus in
attendance was a '59 Single cab, and the newest was one of four Eurovans.
Listees Phillip & Catherine Harkins easily won the longest distance driven
award.  The DBG Club won best Group/theme campsite (a festive Halloween theme)
with the always impressive Buskatiers running a close second.  Isaiah Hanback
won the coveted Best Bus at BNNTA award with his beautiful '61 Flip-seat
Westfalia with factory tent.  Lots of cool VW stuff was donated and passed out
in the door prize drawing, with only 8 participants "not" receiving a door
prize!  The steady rains started up on Sunday morning and were forecast to
last thru Tuesday, so later in the day on Sunday, many campers broke camp and
headed home, although a few stayed on until Monday.  All in all, an slightly
abbreviated, but luckily successful event.  We'd like to thank everyone who
attended for enjoying another safe, trouble-free and fun, festive weekend of
VW Type 2 camaraderie!

For those of you who already have 2004 calendars to mark up, the 20th BNNTA VW
camping event will be held next year over the Labor Day holiday weekend Sept
3, 4, 5 & 6th, 2004.  We hope you can make plans to join us!

Bill Bowman
www.BNNTA.com
