Date: Mon, 21 Jun 2010 09:16:12 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Solex Rejetting

On 6/21/2010 8:36 AM, John Kolak wrote:
> That's really a lot of changes, Mike. Are you not running a stock cam?

Well, those are all the changes that are made to the camper special 
engine.  Everyone has sang praise for that kit and it doesn't have temp 
issues, so he's done something right.  And I'm running a solid (stock 
grind) cam, which is not stock in a 78.  Jake is die-hard against 
hydraulic cams and I honestly don't mind checking the valves to check on 
the condition of the heads.  Also, it's repeated on pretty much all the 
forums that the stock VW cam is purposely set up to keep the heads hot 
to pass smog.

> And I thought lower compression was cooler. I've been thinking about
> you since the comment that your compression is too low, and I have
> remembered that VW is very tolerant of low compression. The industry
> norm is 10% variance between cylinders, but VW allows much more, and
> also allows down to what, about 75 psi as acceptable? Which
> corresponds to about a 5:1 compression ratio.

Got me!  Maybe lower compression also means less power so you have to 
push the engine harder to create more heat?  I wish I could explain what 
is causing the temp issues.  Maybe it's the changes in gas over the 
years that's causing it, who knows.  As per my request for help to Jake, 
this is another reply that he sent my way:


"What you have done is the same thing that VW did in the 70s that 
CREATED issues for the TIV engine.. The combination that you retained is 
the same combination that VW used, with the exception of the heads.. 
They too were "worried" with smog and that worry resulted in poor 
performing, hot running engines.

There is a very good reason why I do not, will not and have not sold a 
stock TIV camshaft in 13 years.."


So yeah, I'll be talking to him this Wednesday and we'll see what he has 
to say.  Should be interesting to see what I need to do.

Thanks!
Mike
