Date: Wed, 23 Jun 2010 15:06:36 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Garage Discussion with DIRECT bus content

OK I'll be a little capricious here, and I'll be on topic.
 
I think some direct bus content garage discussion is a welcome and wise
thing.  Now as to concrete color I don't know, but I'll make some general
points I made to Alan via pmail since you only get 1 time to do this right.
 
First, if buses are in the future, think height, lots of it.  Height of doors,
height of inside of garage, height on a lift in your future, height of a pop
top popped to dry, height for a high top (well that is pushing it for
practical door height unless you already own it) but if you will live there
for 20 years, think about it.  Height, height, height.  And height of the door
mechanism as well.  A 12 foot ceiling doesn't do crap for you with a 9 or even
10 foot door if the door takes up most of the garage and the opener runs at 9
or 10 feet.
 
Next, reinforced concrete with the little polyporpylene chopped strand, you
will like it later, I don't care what color.
 
Next, if you have ANY thought to finding a lift some day, section in center
(again think height, height, height of your current and future buses) with an
area 2x10 feet or so with a built in 6-8" (at least) thick sort of semi footer
to put that lift on.  You might find a 2 poster for $400-500 (I have 2 I've
paid that for) and if you don't have the concrete or the height, height,
height, you are SOL.  I have one that would fit my current garage, but the
concrete is lousy and barely 4".
 
Last big tip.  Just say no to the ubiquitous floor drain in the center.  Damn
near 1/2 the time, it ends up higher than the dip down to it so you have your
wading pool around the drain.  The dip never ends up draining the whole floor,
never, ever, then you get the little carved trench to wherever to drain that
section.  Simply do a flat floor, gentle slope the whole way across down
towards the door, don't need much slope.  Then a trench drain adjacent to
door(s) the whole width of the garage formed by 1 2x4 with greased plastic for
"mold release" and the drain off the end of the trench, and you just drive
over it.  Or better even with a 2x4 then something actually a 2x6 cut down to
a real 4" wide tacked to it on top to form the trench and you lay in 4" steel
grate the whole way across.  The floor now just has to be finished flat
(easier for even an idiot concrete contractor) and the whole area can be hosed
out to the door/draining trench.
 
Hope that is on topic enough, but this is a real important thing.  I'm
building a new 4 car late this summer, mostly for the 2 lifts I own and buses
and planning ahead while you got the chance is better than regretting spending
$1-2k now and cussing it forever later.
 
John
 
 
