Date: Wed, 23 Jun 2010 17:05:32 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: LJ Evans <ljevans01(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Canoe on top of poptop?

Hell there are the two Rivi's for sale right now in town (Anchorage), he even
has the one back down to $2500 after getting it running fully, they must be
dirt common up here actually.  Anyway he has been asking that money for
months, and I still bet he will take less, might be worth a spare???
 
The Rivi tops always looked pretty solid to me, but I haven't put a canoe on
one that I've owned
 
As far as frame around.  I had at one time a commercial set of "high" clamp on
rain gutter brackets that would fit over a westy top, though I feel a Rivi is
a hare higher.  I've had several identical sets of "low" ones that worked fine
on steel top busses and vanagons but wouldn't be tall enough for a Westy or
Rivi (unless you got creative and installed them backwards out beyond the top,
with spacers to your home fabbed cross bars.)  These are just brackets that
clamp to the rain gutter and then screwed into a 2x4 you wrapped with
indoor/outdoor carpet.  I have owned probably 5 sets of the "low", only one of
the "high" got em at a Manassas Bug Out in the early 90s.  They were all the
same brand which escapes me but was one of those trendy the brand is the name
of the product sort of things.  I think in the day there has been discussion
and that Yakima made a "high" set of rain gutter clamp on adapters for their
line back in the 80s-90s, whether
 they still do or not, who knows, nothing has rain gutters anymore.  Worth
surfing the bay for something I'd say.  Sort of a PITA though, as you can
obviously imagine, cause you got to pull it to pop it.  I'd still be inclined
to do the bolt on ones with a larger home fabbed aluminum backer plate, maybe
even glue the outside plate on with epoxy and take my chances spreading the
load over some area if the boat is under 130-140lb or so.
 
John

--- On Wed, 6/23/10, LJ Evans <ljevans01(-at-)hotmail.com> wrote:

However, after reading all the different aspects I'm leaning against putting
the canoe up there because it's NOT a Westy top. Mama mia, it would be such a
pain to fix it or replace it from AK if the fiberglass broke. So question is
changing: those of you said you have a frame that goes AROUND or OVER the
poptop and you put the canoe on top of that instead of directly on the
fiberglass, got any photos of such a rig, or more info on what such a frame
is
called or brand name or...?
