From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net, vintagebus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 1 Apr 2002 17:59:47 -0800 
Subject: RE: [VB] new aluminum case problems?

   There is a minor problem with the center main webbing, but only on a
couple I have heard and these were built to monster strokers.

   On big strokers that run higher oil pressures, the gally plugs have
started to seep a little. These should be tapped and plugged

   On the 25 or so out there I know of no crank alighnment problems.

  1 case was decked 5000th on one side more then the other,

  I'm building a 82X94 for my bus out of one, should be done in a couple
weeks.

  Not a bad deal for the money, but take your time and check everything
before you assemble it, just like you would on ANY new case,

  The flanges are brittle and if you try to pull the engine in with the bolt
you could crack the flange (head of one so far)

ronnie  

my supplier of these just got in the super cases also, a lot more money
though


-----Original Message-----
From: bus-snob [mailto:hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net]
Sent: Monday, April 01, 2002 6:30 PM
To: vintagebus
Subject: [VB] new aluminum case problems?



hi. i am considering buying one of those new 
aluminum cases in the not-so-distant future. i have spoken to a shop who has

assembled a few already and they have told me of two problems, and i was 
wondering if anyone else had heard of these problems or has experienced them

first-hand, or any other problems. (by the way, the guy who built the
engines is 
no schlub, and has been building quality engines since he was factory
trained in 
1963.)

problem 1: the webbing inside the case, on the half 
with the generator pedestal mount (right side), #2 main bearing webbing is
not 
properly machined, thus not allowing the crank to properly turn, 
and when setting end play the crank rubs on this, not allowing proper end 
play setting. this was "remedied" by a simple grinding off of ecxess 
material.

problem 2: the face for the oil pump is machined 
too much (approx .040"--forty thousandths) and when tightening the oil pump,
it 
causes the pump to bind up/crank+cam bind. i didn't get enough info to find
out 
what they did to remedy this, but the builder assured me it was a
modification 
to the oil pump, and not to the case to fix this.

he had also mentioned that one of the cases was not 
bored right (not proper bearing-to-crank clearance--too tight and crank
bound up 
uopn tightening the 6 "big" case half studs), and to fix it, they had to
line 
bore it to 20! this was only one case (so far), but if so far each case has
had 
a problem or more for them, what's the deal?

so, if anyone else has had these problems, i'd like 
to hear about it, or any others. and for those who have bought them, maybe
you 
should check these areas just to be sure.

thanks,

jon

 

 
