To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 2 Apr 2002 10:09:50 -0800
From: "Adam K. Crosier" <veadelcro(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Re: [WetWesties] Why VWoA protects its darn logo so fiercely

As far as this whole subject goes, I totally understand VW's stand,
though I'm bothered for nothing but selfish reasons.  

All I can think about are the old days when the only emblem you could get
for your split bus was at a junk yard.  I'm scared to death of when I
lose a hubcap.  I was going to replace the hardened mudflaps on Gretchen,
but I would want the emblem on them.  

VW's legal arguement is certainly valid, but in my opinion, if you want
to safeguard the quality by limiting the logo to factory parts, then MAKE
factory parts.  I'll buy them!  I just want the VW logo on my hubcaps.  I
don't care where it comes from.  At least if VW made them, they wouldn't
rust so fast.  I'll TAKE your quality.  Just OFFER it.  

VW is exercising it's rights, protecting itself, and attempting to
protect it's image.  But let us keep our cars looking good.  What kind of
image will they have if all their old cars look lousy because the
replacement parts aren't there?  Anything with the logo is cosmetic. 
READ: Image.  ACVW's aren't going to go away.  If they really are
embarrassed, if they truly are worried about what image people conjure
up, don't force the image to be an ugly stripped beast.  The aftermarket
parts to keep them running healthy will always be there.  Our VW's will
continue to populate the highways.  We just won't have the nice looking
hubcaps, or mudflaps, or nose emblems on our busses.  What image does
THAT present?  

I'm getting ready to buy a new German car this summer.  I was waiting for
the W8 Passat, but I think I'll go with an Audi A6 instead.  In fact, I'm
even considering an A4 Avant, despite the difference in room (but more a
peer to the Passat price).  Now, I know that the companies are closely
linked, and I can't help that they're connected.  But it's not that I'm
boycotting VW.  But if I go with Audi, I don't have to hear the name
VWofA, or see it on the subsequent mailing you get when you've purchased
a new car.  The bad taste in my mouth from this whole thing lost them a
formerly loyal NEW VW buyer, strictly because of THEIR image.  I'm just
one person, but how many will it take?

Adam

Adam, Verna and Elisabeth
1962 Standard Micro - Gretchen, 1961 Deluxe Micro - Jessel
1959 Deluxe Beetle - Uncle Horst

