From: "Heath, Raymond E" <raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com>
To: "'hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net'" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>,
Date: Tue, 2 Apr 2002 14:20:36 -0800 
Subject: RE: [VB] new aluminum case problems?

Well, your statement that the case builder was "no Schlub", as you put it,
and all the problems you described with the case leads one to believe that
either the case builder IS a schlub, or you got a green case that didn't get
the finish machining done to it. To me, an aftermarket case with that many
imperfections is definately reason to get my money back and to start an
adverse advertising campaign agaisnt the shoddy work from this individual.
IMHO

67 Single Cab, DP 1641cc 34PICT
71 Trike 1776cc 32/36 Progressive
VolksAir 1585cc 28 PICT
Ray, Kent WA
A loose rattlesnake in the living room ends discussion of animal rights


-----Original Message-----
From: bus-snob [mailto:hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net]
Sent: Monday, April 01, 2002 5:30 PM
To: vintagebus
Subject: [VB] new aluminum case problems?



hi. i am considering buying one of those new 
aluminum cases in the not-so-distant future. i have spoken to a shop who has

assembled a few already and they have told me of two problems, and i was 
wondering if anyone else had heard of these problems or has experienced them

first-hand, or any other problems. (by the way, the guy who built the
engines is 
no schlub, and has been building quality engines since he was factory
trained in 
1963.)

problem 1: the webbing inside the case, on the half 
with the generator pedestal mount (right side), #2 main bearing webbing is
not 
properly machined, thus not allowing the crank to properly turn, 
and when setting end play the crank rubs on this, not allowing proper end 
play setting. this was "remedied" by a simple grinding off of ecxess 
material.

problem 2: the face for the oil pump is machined 
too much (approx .040"--forty thousandths) and when tightening the oil pump,
it 
causes the pump to bind up/crank+cam bind. i didn't get enough info to find
out 
what they did to remedy this, but the builder assured me it was a
modification 
to the oil pump, and not to the case to fix this.

he had also mentioned that one of the cases was not 
bored right (not proper bearing-to-crank clearance--too tight and crank
bound up 
uopn tightening the 6 "big" case half studs), and to fix it, they had to
line 
bore it to 20! this was only one case (so far), but if so far each case has
had 
a problem or more for them, what's the deal?

so, if anyone else has had these problems, i'd like 
to hear about it, or any others. and for those who have bought them, maybe
you 
should check these areas just to be sure.

thanks,

jon

 

 
