Date: Sun, 22 May 2005 21:45:17 -0700
To: jkolak(-at-)byu.edu
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Cc: VintageBus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] re:speaking of oil

one thing that puzzles me about the 'no higher than 212 on the oil or 
kablammo' statements: the oil MUST be heated above 212 degrees on a 
routine basis, or you get the dreaded mayonnaise in the oil cap; 
unless the oil passes the temp at which water can be boiled out, the 
stuff is gonna get whipped to merengue from routine condensation.

also, even if your sump sender says the oil temp never passes 190 
deg, that is an AVERAGE... at various points, the oil is gonna be 
much hotter.

it seems to me the slant of the argument should be that
1) you don't want your oil too hot because if the gauge says 230 you 
can bet the stuff is near those 400 deg flashpoints somewhere  and
2) the longer it stays hothothot, the worse for the oil - esp the 
cheap stuff. and the more you abuse the oil, the faster you'll have 
to change it to keep it as a lubricant and not an abrasive. also it's 
gonna stop being so cushiony between the whirly metal bits!

just because the manufacturers use a low temp test to measure 
viscosity (to get higher numbers - this is called lying. or, in the 
ad business, marketing), doesn't mean the oil MUST be run at that low 
a temp.


however, i have to imagine that even generic oil can take the abuse 
for some time. the only clear diff between the 'cheap' and 'good' 
oils seems to be how LONG that interval is, and ho wlong before an 
oil change is necessary, or damage is being done to the motor. hey, 
if ya feel like changing the oil every 100 miles, put canola in it!

i thought the most interesting post was about how the new cars want 
5w-30 or some such... not because the oils now are so good, but 
because the reduced engine drag squeezed out a few more miles per 
gallon for the feds! LOL! screw the consumer, we need that 1 mpg more 
for the lying dept, er, marketing division.

more food for thought: when the wife's car needs an oil change, the 
mpg DROPS. so i'm not sure how that squares with the oil getting 
thinner. course, the filter could be constricting flow due to dirt, 
making a drag on the oil pump....

ah, thought problems!

karl, i just wanted to make sure you understand: I AM NOT >ARGUING< 
WITH YOU. WE ARE CHEWING THE FAT :)
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
