From: "Christian Figenschou" <fig(-at-)zebrasafari.co.za>
To: "vintagebus list" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 26 May 2005 21:47:59 +0200
Subject: SCORE!!! A dream comes true...

Hey Volks

WOW! I can still hardly believe it!

It's a long story, but the short version is that I found (or it found me!) a
brand new, never been fitted, original poptop tent for my 63 Dormobile! That's
right, a NOS red-and-white candy-striped vinyl tent for a split bus Dormobile
roof! How many of those can there be in the world?

And now for the long story. This is an out-take from my trip report (WIP, to
follow) on my 2,000 mile round trip in my 63 Dormobile from Johannesburg to
Cape Town for the first-ever Cape Town Kombi Owners Club camp-out.

The full story starts earlier this year, when I was considering that the
Dormobile, which I have owned for 10 years now, will one day need to be
restored. Right now it is patinaed and somewhat tatty, but there are some rust
issues that will have to be dealt with sooner or later. While thinking about
restoring the dormer, I wondered what I would do about the torn roof tent. I
didn't want to relace it with something non-original, but who knows where one
might find a material similar to the original textured, candy-striped vinyl.

So my thoughts progressed into a fantasy, where a little old lady had a split
Dormobile in her youth. At some time she ordered a new roof tent, but, for
whatever reason, never fitted it. Later, she sold the Dormobile, but kept the
tent. And now, in her old age, she wants to get rid of it. All I had to do was
find her ... Hahaha. Nice fantasy! But I'd probably win the lottery before
finding a NOS Dormobile roof tent.

Fast forward to the KOC camp-out. Shortly after I arrived (unannounced!) at
the camp-out, in the grounds of the Brandvlei prison near Worcester, and set
up camp, which involved popping the Dormobile top, one of the KOC guys,
Hennie, approached me and asked how I intended to restore the torn roof tent.
I repled that I didn't know, but that I didn't want to use canvas.

Then Hennie said that he just happened to know someone who could help me. He
explained that after an article about the KOC had appeared in a Cape Town
newspaper, a little old lady of 89 had telephoned him and said she had some
split bus parts to sell and invited him to tea. There she showed him
photographs of the 1964 Dormobile with Devon interior that she had owned in
the 1960s and 1970s, and in which she had travelled all over South Africa,
both alone and with her children. She then explained that she had ordered a
replacement roof tent in the 1960s, but had never fitted it. When she
eventually sold the bus, the new roof tent was lurking somewhere in her garage
and it did not go with the bus. She asked Hennie if he knew anyone who could
use such a thing. He replied that he had never seen a Dormobile, and he really
didn't think he'd be able to help her find a buyer.

At least not until I popped my dormer's top at the KOC camp-out!

Two days after the camp-out I met Hennie and his wife at their home in Cape
Town and we all went to visit the 89-year-old Mrs Collins in her flat, where
she has lived for the past 37 years. She was like a bright little bird, sharp
of mind and eye, and she got very excited when she saw my Dormobile, and told
us lots of stories about her travels in her Dormobile, and showed us some of
her photographs.

And then she brought out the Holy Grail. It was wrapped, in true old lady
style, in about six plastic shopping bags, which only served to prolong the
delicious anticipation before I finally saw the prisitine red-and-white candy
stripes of the NOS Dormobile poptop tent, assembled to pattern, and with all
the correctly positioned tabs for the internal ribs. Even though I knew this
was what I had come to see, I could still not believe my eyes!

And Mrs Collins was overjoyed that the tent that she had carefully stored for
more than 30 years had finally found a home. She had already told Hennie how
much she wanted for it and I had the cash waiting. It was a reasonable sum,
but probably a fraction of what I could get for a NOS Dormobile poptop tent on
a web auction. But that's irrelevant, since it's not for sale!

And I still can't believe that my little fantasy about the old lady and her
Dormobile tent actually came true in every detail!

Don't be afraid to dream!

fig
Johannesburg, South Africa
