Date: Sun, 29 May 2005 17:52:31 -0700
To: VB list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Cc: VB list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: screwed by the al crapcase again

by this point, i've been screwed so any times by this case, my anal 
sphincter loosens up just looking at it.
i'll save the loong boring rant about the teardown at a local shop 
(i'll post a link later for those whose masochism surpasses mine, and 
wish to read it) and get to the point:

i was putting together the case today, and when it came time to snug 
up the case nuts, the crank froze. hmmm. opened it up.... all 
bearings seated, cam in place. rolls like topsy when you push on a 
rod.

tried again. when you hit a matter of INCH pounds on the case nuts, 
it locks.   ----SONOFA.........

opened. #2 shows clear signs of pinching. those with long memories 
will recall that i had this problem initially, but had the case sent 
to nw conrod to fix it (.002" shaved off #2 bore).

so there are 2 possibilities: the aluminum web has moved over time 
and closed up... but why wouldn't it have been pinching before the 
teardown?
or the bearings - tho part # and casting numbers are identical  - 
might be a different size. i did mic them, and within the level of my 
skills they seem to be identical in thickness - but my level of skill 
on a curved item may well encompass the aforementioned .002".  i'd 
try reusing the old #2 bearings (less than 2k on em), but the shop 
i''d been at had chucked them in a box of nuts and bolts. they'd 
THROWN OUT the others.

now what? the easy answer of 'take it to be nicked again' ain't gonna 
happen. i have NO more money available for this POS.  any other 
things to try? shoot, at this point i'd shave the bearing. hell, at 
this point, i'd get some iron filings and make a thermite bomb outta 
this case.

the cruel irony is i was at a garage sale this weekend that had a new 
case, 69mm cw crank, new p&c, new cam and lifters, etcetcetc.  prices 
were good, but the bank balance wasn't. bought some nos rockers and 
shafts cause i'd wanted em for years, and a bluepoint valve adjuster 
tool (like the schley one) for the same reason. $50.
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
