Date: Tue, 31 May 2005 16:08:08 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: the dead horse to be beaten ( High oil temps on

>From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
>Date: Tue, 31 May 2005 10:35:35 -0400
>
>Was writ:
>"i put a buzzer on mine as well"
>
>I was just thinking that I should do something like that this past weekend.
>How did you do it?

Basically, you need to connect a buzzer suitable for your Bus' voltage
between a wire that is hot when the key is on and the wire to the oil
pressure switch - in other words, in parallel with the oil pressure
warning light.

Radio Shack has a few buzzers that are suitable.  Some of them are piezo
buzzers (beeeeeeeeep or beep beep beep) and some are electromechanical
(bzzzzzz).  If you select a piezo, make sure you get what RS describes
as a piezo _buzzer_ (apply DC voltage, it makes noise) and not a piezo
_element_ (which is like a speaker and requires extra circuitry to make
noise).  The piezo buzzers can usually work over a wide voltage range,
so they might be a better choice if you're contemplating moving the
buzzer between 6 V and 12 V VWs.  But, you might prefer the tone of the
electromechanical buzzer.  Also, some of the buzzers have pins and some
have lead wires; if you aren't comfortable with soldering to the pins,
choose one with wires.  Later (12 V) VWs had buzzers for the seat belts
and these often look like a little cube with two male push-ons sticking
out.

To hook it up, you'll need at least the buzzer and some push-ons.  If
you can find the push-ons that have a female socket and a male tab in
the same connector, you can connect these directly to the buzzer wires.
Radio Shack doesn't sell these, but many auto parts stores have them.
Get the red-insulated (18-20 gauge) ones if you have a choice.
Alternatively, get the adapters that have one female socket and two male
tabs (Radio Shack has these) and put female sockets on the buzzer wires.
Again, use the red-insulated sockets on the buzzer wires, and even then,
the buzzer wires are probably going to be a lot smaller than the crimp
barrel.  It may be helpful to strip the buzzer wire longer than usual
(like 1/2" (12 mm) or more) and fold the stripped end over on itself to
make a bigger bundle for the crimp connection.

Whatever you end up with, disconnect the battery negative cable first,
then make the connections at the speedo.  Pull the wire off of the oil
warning light socket.  If you have the dual push-ons, plug the wire you
just took off onto the new push-on you've crimped onto the buzzer
negative wire, and then put the new push-on back on the oil warning
light socket.  If you have the adapters, plug one onto the oil warning
light socket, and then plug both the original wire and the new buzzer
negative wire onto the adapter.  Look carefuly at the plastic holder
that the oil warning light socket slides into; there should be a metal
strap that contacts the metal shell of the socket.  Follow this metal
strap to find where a black wire (from the ignition switch) is pushed
onto it.  Unplug the black wire and connect both the black wire and
the buzzer positive wire to this connection with the dual push-on or
the adapter like you did for the buzzer negative wire.

Make sure that none of the new push-ons or adapters are touching metal
they shouldn't (like the dash, or the metal case of the speedo), then go
back and reconnect the battery negative cable.  Go up front and turn the
key on; both the oil and generator lights should come on, and the buzzer
should sound.  Start the engine and the buzzer should stop when the oil
light goes out.

Matt Roberds
