From: "Phil Parker" <phil(-at-)pagenumberone.co.uk>
To: <VWBrain(-at-)aol.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 31 Oct 2007 19:09:38 -0000
Subject: Re: [T2] Missing damper

Don't worry, the new axle was rust free when I bought it, so I scraped the
paint off it and coated it with POR15 and then oiled everything before it went
into dry storage. Once installed it's going to get properly greased. This time
I'll remember to treat the towers too - my cross tubes are solid but the tower
rotted where it attached to the tube. I blame the previous owners of course.

I can't believe this part only lasted 36 years. Hope quality control has
improved :-))

Anyway, steering and braking seem fine so I'll keep to short occasional
journeys for the next couple of weeks until the new suspension is fitted. The
silver lining is that with the new beam I can probably justify a Just Kampers
handling kit next year...

Thanks

Phil
  ----- Original Message -----
  From: VWBrain(-at-)aol.com
  To: phil(-at-)pagenumberone.co.uk ; type2(-at-)type2.com
  Sent: Wednesday, October 31, 2007 6:55 PM
  Subject: Re: [T2] Missing damper


  In a message dated 10/31/2007 2:31:45 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time,
phil(-at-)pagenumberone.co.uk writes:
    Sorry, I mean shocks. I understood that all they did was damp the
springing
    from the torson bars in suspension, hence I called them dampers. My bus is
a
    '71 so it has both but the horizontal steering damper (and driver side
shock)
    is fine.

    Thanks

  hey Phil  I kinda thought that was what you were talking about. shouldn't
really be dangerous mostly cause you are down there and I am up here LOL   .
slow ,short trips maybe OK,  If you keep driving then the torsion bar could
break and bus would sit cockeyed and probably drive like crap.  You might as
well bitr thr bullet and swap out the axles.  I would recommend to rust proof
the inside of the axle in the housing where it bolts to the body before
installing the other one.  later  mark dearing
