From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: "'Ned Savoie'" <ned(-at-)harbourlight.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 2 Nov 2007 11:48:11 -0600
Subject: RE: [T2] replacement body panels

Ned,

 

My "opinion" is that since all panels on a bus are structural, being that it
is a uni-body design, welding is the best technique for repair. However, if
adhesive can be used in situations where welding will damage the surrounding
metal or welding is just too difficult, I would consider it. 

 

Off the top of my head, I don't see how a bus would necessarily benefit from
adhesive because of the way the joints interconnect with spot-welds to form
a cohesive structural element. The spot-welds have to be drilled out to
replace many of the panels, so in theory they should be re-welded to obtain
the factory structural rigidity. Perhaps a combination of both would be
best, but I would shy away from just the adhesive.

 

My 2 cents.

 

Jon Stiles

'68 Double Cab

'78 Westfalia

 

From: nedsavoie(-at-)gmail.com [mailto:nedsavoie(-at-)gmail.com] On Behalf Of Ned
Savoie
Sent: Friday, November 02, 2007 11:36 AM
To: Jon Stiles; type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] replacement body panels

 

Hey Jon,

I think they only make panels for splitties, from what I can see. Also,
Brian is suggesting we use the body panel adhesive. He says they only weld
if it's structural. I know there's been opinions about this before, and it
would probably be fine for the rear corner, but I would think the doglegs
need to be welded. 

Thoughts on this?

On 11/2/07, Ned Savoie <ned(-at-)harbourlight.com> wrote:

Hey Jon,

Thanks for the note. I'm going to be working with him, and his shop is about
200 yards from my office, so it makes it pretty easy to keep up on it. He's
a good body man, but hasn't done buses, so I'm trying to get as much advice
from the list as possible to help guide him. He is extremely open to
suggestions. 

Man, 15k! Wow. It must look great.

Ned

On 11/2/07, Jon Stiles < jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com
<mailto:jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com> > wrote: 

Ned,

Kelly at Metwiz.com recommends using KlassicFab replacement panels. There is

evidence they are of higher quality and design. This will help with the body
work. Buses are not that difficult to repair the metal, but being unibody,
expect more rust than you see.
