To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Tim Frank <timros(-at-)netspace.net.au>
Date: Sun, 4 Nov 2007 17:33:47 +1100
Subject: White smoke

Attempted to start bus yesterday.  Had been sitting for about a week  
which in our situation
is not unusual.  Never had problem before, other than the occasional  
flat battery when left
too long, which was easily remedied with a jump start from the deep  
cycle battery on the
other side of the engine bay.
Yesterday, ignition lights on, starter motor turned motor over  
slightly.  No problem, now live on
a hill, will roll start it.  Slight push out of driveway, ignition  
on, into 2nd gear, roll start, nothing.

Roll a little further, try again, nothing.  Pull into parking spot.   
Try starter again, just lights, no
action.
Pulled battery, walked back up hill, put battery on trickle charger.  
Went out for 4 - 5 hours.

Came home, reinstalled battery.  Starter turned motor over just.   
Tried several more times, with
slightly varying results: sometimes nothing, sometimes a turn or 2 of  
the motor.  Got underneath
checked solenoid connections, both OK but quite warm.  Put jumpers  
across from deep cycle
battery.

Slowly wound over, then a couple of quick turns, then slowly, finally  
another couple of quick
turns and fired.  WHITE SMOKE pouring out of tail pipe.  Gave a few  
revs to see if would clear.
No improvement, but no odd sounds, revving cleanly, no misses.  Drove  
back up to house
leaving smoke screen behind & backed into drive.
Checked oil level, fine.  Check for any visible oil leaks, etc.  
zilch.  Decided to leave for an hour
or so.
Restarted:  NO SMOKE.  Decided to give it a run out to my sons home  
(40 km round trip).  Got 1/2
km down road & smoke started again.  Trailed white smoke for most of  
the trip out to sons house
but had stopped by time got there.  No smoke of return trip.

Used bus today for about a 50 km trip & no smoke.  Any suggestions  
appreciated.

76 2.0 litre with twin carbs.  Generally sits level fore & aft but  
with slight lean to drivers side (that's
passengers side for the Northern hemisphere) when parked.

Thanks in advance,

Tim & Ros
76 Poptop
Tasmania
