Date: Sat, 15 Jun 2002 10:56:28 -0500
From: Scott & Barb Stothers <kintail(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Repro (Japan) Front Safari Window Seal report

--Boundary_(ID_8ZD7SEL8Of22h+5aCL356g)
Content-type: text/plain; charset=iso-8859-1
Content-transfer-encoding: 7BIT

I mentioned this spring that I had purchased a pair of repro front window safari seals. Having just run thru a day with 4" of rain, I can say they did out perform the originals. I just had a slight trickle at each bottom corner.....I would say that if the original seals leak 20% of the time these would be less than 5%.

The seals feature a soft hollow tube with the addition of a flat surface that the safari frame seals against when it is latched down. The hollow tube is slightly larger then the original and, as a result, the rivet holding the slider to the frame catches the hollow tube slightly when the window is pushed in and out. The rivet edge should be ground down and covered with silicone to prevent the tube from being cut from constant use. This also happens to a lesser extent with the original front safari seals.

For installation, I cut notches in the seal where the safari brackets interfere slightly. By doing this, it eliminates any bumps, so that the window can make a smooth seal. In hindsight, I should have notched the originals around the brackets to make a better seal.

These repro seals are the exact size and "welded" into one piece. Installation is no hassle, and in addition, I also ran a thin bead of black silicone sealing the seal to the body. Air leaks/whistling are also eliminated.

Cost is a reasonable $60 US plus shipping for the pair when I ordered mine. Contact Kazu at Old Car's Market if your interested (-at-) 
  ships(-at-)oldcars.co.jp

Funds were shipped to a contact of Kazu's in California. Kazu promptly e-mailed me when funds received and seals arrived in no time at all. No problems!!

If you want original front safari seals with original leaks, that's fine.... but I like these a lot better when running into a full blown rain storm on the rare occasion. The original seals now are safely tucked away in storage....... 
 
Scott
'67 Westy


--Boundary_(ID_8ZD7SEL8Of22h+5aCL356g)--
