From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 17 Jun 2002 12:21:16 EDT
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Wheel torquing  was  Re: [VB] Wheel Powdercoating not a good thing?

--part1_117.131efddd.2a3f667c_boundary
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="US-ASCII"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

Claralw(-at-)aol.com writes:
> only time I ever had a wheel come loose is when I drove my bus after my ex 
> boyfriend had changed the gear oil (or for some reason he took the wheels 
> off), and he forgot to tighten the lugs.  

Hi volks,
That reminds us of the time we helped an ex-SO of Clara's.  They had found an 
all original 53 BD with lots of surface rust on the exterior out in the 
Kettle falls area which is in the NE corner of Washington State.  Clara had 
to go back to the UK to have a leg rebroken and straightened from a much 
earlier scooter accident she had back there.  So we volunteered and loaded 
our 1960 panel camper conversion with her then SO, tools, a 1600 DP, four 15" 
wheels, and all the brake suspension parts to get the BD on the road.  We 
spent three days exploring the area and some helping get the BD up and 
running.  Eric looked everything over and told Clara's then SO that we should 
pull over just outside of town and retorque the lug bolts with the stock lug 
wrench.  We also told him that we would flash our headlights if we saw 
anything wrong with the BD.  We almost got out of town when the BD ahead of 
us slowed down and coasted into a parking lot of the town's biggest employer 
the lumber mill!  So there we were on a Saturady night with the sun getting 
down close to the horizon, and a few minutes later the cops showed up and 
parked accross the street to keep an eye on us.  Turned out the flexable 
shift coupler in the rear had sheared.  So we had to remove it via the BD 
access plate under the rear seat, just like a bug!  Eric hand drilled it 
multiple times and wired it together with some bailing wire we kept handy.  
Got back under way in about half an hour.  Got outside of town and we kept 
waiting for the BD to pull over so we could retorque the wheels.  Finally we 
flashed our headlights for several minutes till the BD pulled over.  Clara 
then SO got out and asked us what was wrong and we reminded him that we 
needed to retorque the wheels.  Were apon he blew up at us and told us we 
were idiots to bother especially since we just had gotten out on the road.  
Eric just walked over to one of the wheels and started to wrench on the lug 
bolts.  Some of the lug bolts needed half a turn more, and the others needed 
up to one and a half!  Seeing a couple of these lug bolts tightening up 
stopped the flow of complaining.  After that stop we had the front of our bus 
coated with oil not once, but twice due to external oil cooler hose failure 
on the BD we were following.  Tons of fun trying to drive, flash headlights 
and see through the oil!  The oil cooler was mounted on the left exterior 
hanging from wire hooked into the engine vent of the BD with hoses flapping 
in the breeze going to the engine.
  About an hour after sunset we pulled into a parking lot posted with "no 
camping" of a state park following the very dimly lit BD.  Figuring we were 
not camping, but just passing out in our buses we got ready to bed down and 
had a park ranger show up.  She told us we could not camp there.  We 
silienced the BD driver who was verbally too aggressive to the ranger and 
explained the dimly lit BD and very dark roads we had been traveling on.  The 
park ranger relented since we were going to leave early the next morning and 
mentioned that the ranger of the morning shift who was an automotive 
enthusiast was going to get a blast from seeing the old BD.  We got up the 
next morning and never got to see the morning shift ranger.  
  When we finally got over the Cascade mountains the BD driver zoomed off 
ahead of us doing speed higher than we had agreed to.  About ten minutes 
later we caught sight of the BD parked along the side of the one lane each 
way highway up near Monroe, Washington.  We pulled over and made sure the BD 
was doing well, and as we got back into our buses to take off an american 
pickup passed us with driver rubbernecking.  Not watching where he was going 
the pickup drove right into another pickup that was towing a trailer with a 
large boat on it.  This shoved an outboard motor propeller through the 
radiator!  We pulled out and as we passed the two pickups that had pulled 
over up ahead of us to exchange info, the rubber necker came running out to 
the edge of the lane we were in to jump up and down, gestering and shouting 
at us what looked/sounded like "Look what you made me do!".  
  Then when we pulled into Tacoma to refuel some bearded long hair fellow 
came running up to us to beg that we drive his car somewhere from where it 
was now parked several blocks away.  Turned out he was driving without having 
a valid license and was going to have his car towed off if it was not moved 
by a licensed driver.  Due to a mixture of limited time before night fall 
while escorting a shaky BD with practicly no lights and some from not wanting 
to stick our necks out for someone who obviously had dug himself into a hole 
that he should have known better about.  We bowed out and took off and 
fortunitly arrived home.  Overall it was a good trip, even with the several 
near disastors, and some interesting human interactions.
Eric&Barb

--part1_117.131efddd.2a3f667c_boundary--
