To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 6 Nov 2002 22:09:28 -0600
From: myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Re: [T2] canvas clearout

ok, i believe he said the material was 62 inches wide... maybe it was 60
and 52 (there were two widths). what confuses me is that it was all solid
colors, no stripes, so did the manufacturer make both? anyway, the wider
fabric was dark blue (what i want), turquoise, lighter blue and perhaps a
maroonish color.... little hazy on what all there was. the narrower
fabric was mainly maroon. there was also a white which was narrower than
the maroon, and it was $7/yard, but i think it was another kind, and i
think it was thicker. i will go back and get more info if you really
want... it is just down the road from my house, so it is no trouble at
all. OH! forgot to mention, this canvas has a rubbery backing on it to
make it even more water resistant. if that is normal, forgive me... i
didnt know, lol. (BLW~i'm in oklahoma)

ronnie, my sewing machine is a new one, but i believe it said it would do
upholstery. i think this stuff is thin enough that i should be able to
sew it on my own machine... if not, i work at an upholstery shop and i
can use those machines. unfortunately, they are belt driven, but they are
old cast iron industrial strength singers... it skips a step every once
in a while, but it sews through many layers of vinyl and padding when
necessary so think this stuff will be easy. i also have an old cast iron
singer, myself, but i cant always make it work properly. how much do you
know about adjusting these damned things? my new one is even acting up
right now and i think i changed a setting and i cant seem to get it back
to where it was.

waving,
chris
70 westy, hoping to soon have a new pop top canvas as there is currently
nothing there!

On Wed, 06 Nov 2002 19:56:55 -0500 "Michael Benthin (MUTS)"
<benthin(-at-)prodigy.net> writes:
... What state are you in & What is the max width of the material?  I may
 be
> interested in using it for an awning cover.  Given my color scheme,
> Green/gold would be nice.  Please check my homeade side tent (took  18
> yards, no floor).  http://www.geocities.com/mike_benthin
