From: william(-at-)clanbooks.demon.co.uk
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 07 Nov 2002 09:50:33 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] Gas Mileage.

Hi Volks,

 George Lyle writes:

> The biggest problems with establishing mileage figures for our buses are:

> too few data points
> inconsistant methods of measurement
> widely variable conditions

 All true, as are the other comments that have been made on 
statistical issues with these polls.

 The thing that struck me when I did my collation of figures, was that
the results I got were (IMHO) surprisingly consistant. With occasional
exceptions I think it's reasonable to assert that you can expect
something like the numbers I summarised at the end of the table in the
type2 library. With careful driving, good road conditions and a light
bus you can hope for something like 25mpUSg. A late (ie type4 engined)
bay with some weight on it being driven unsympathetically in town will
drop down to something like 16mpUSg, maybe worse. More typically, the
general view of the list seems to support an expectation of about 
18-19 mpUSg for a late bus, a bit better for an early one.

 That seems to answer the (F.A.)Question "what mileage should I be
getting from my bus?" reasonably well. Someone who's new to the 
vehicle can find it useful to know that they will have to try pretty
hard to see better than 25mpUSg but that if they are getting 15mpUSg
on the open road, there's probably something not quite right.

 I think this is probably the sort of answer that Willis was looking
for. It's not scientific, let alone precise, but I think it does 
give you a framework to make some useful judgements.

 What I'm (still) intrigued by, is that Ian Bond is getting unusually
good figures, better than I would expect from even a careful driver.
 I'm trying not to suggest that he's bullshitting, but that I feel
there ought to be other factors to take into account. To my knowledge
he's the only person on the list who's averaging over 22mpUSg from a
type-4 engined bus when driven loaded. Closest are claims for 22mpg
on road trips. Even VW's claim for average mileage from a '73 is
18mpUSg- in controlled conditions as described by George. Ian is
bettering that in town with a load on, when most of us are seeing
a good bit less.

 I'd like to use Ian's figures as a benchmark- this is what can be
achieved if you really want to keep your fuel costs down- but I
don't feel comfortable with the methodology. Ian- would you mind
explaining how you arrive at your figures? Are you logging all 
your fuel, or just taking samples? Checking your recorded mileage?
How fastidious is your maintenance? Typical road conditions?
driving style? How many miles on your engine?

 Like I say- I don't want to appear rude, I would genuinely like
to know more.

Cheers,
        W.
