Date: Thu, 07 Nov 2002 08:28:03 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Corvair spark plug seals

http://www.corvair.org/

That is the address for CORSA, the national Corvair club. Join it I 
suggest. You get all sorts of good reading with your membership.

For the Corvair e-mail list go to the same site and look for Virtual Vairs. 
Free join up, I suggest you consider a CORSA membership 'cause they've got 
bills and will be after you to join. I joined after over a year.

FastVair is a Yahoo group dedicated to vintage racing Corvairs. LOTS of 
good tech discussion. Free.

VV-Talk is also a CORSA list for general Corvair owner discussion of 
non-Corvair topics like politics, other brands of cars, religion, current 
events. Interesting stuff. It is accessible from the CORSA list.

VW content: when I began working towards my Corvair conversion on my '78 
Westy I asked the Type2 and Vanagon lists for opinions and info. I got some 
good info about what I needed. When I joined VV I asked the same few 
questions again and got LOADS of good information that was very specific to 
the engine and tranny that I needed (including engine sizes, gear ratios, 
etc.) and what it took to make it last. The Corvair is mechanically as good 
as the VW if they are serviced properly. They suffer from many of the same 
ailments due to similar engine design and also from the same ignorance and 
misconceptions of the driving public and their mechanics. Fix it right and 
it's good for 200K miles and twice the HP of the VW right out of the box!!!!

A few months after I joined one of the CORSA board members (they have a 
very organized club with a chain of command) offered me a NOS Trans-Vair 
kit for cheap ($150 vs. the catalog price of $650). I bought it and was 
very, very happy with it. It's currently powdercoated and waiting for an 
install.

I see these kits used (and dirty) on the list from time to time.

>Hey there! Could you please give me the web add. of the Corvair site you 
>are talking about? I'd love to join.





Chris Mills in TN 
