Date: Thu, 07 Nov 2002 12:46:57 -0500
From: Benoit Huot <huotx(-at-)videotron.ca>
To: type2 main e-mail <type2(-at-)type2.com>, cfaen(-at-)netscape.net
Subject: Re: [T2] Is it feasible with my bus! (low compression)

----------------------
Plenty of good information and answers, but...

Why hasn't anyone mentioned the low compression readings reported,
especially in #3?
----------------------

Small mistake, i forgot to mention that this was the compression reading
before i re-torque the heads and adjust valves!
Both heads studs (8) were loose!!! the upper one could be unscrew by
hand!!! So loose that I had oil coming out of # 3 sand #4 at the base
(near crankcase) of those one! No leak now.
Even with all I can do without opening the engine, it's still on the low
side but acceptable.  I now have about: 105(#3), 115, 115, 120, but from
the PO invoice and maintenance record (yes I do have those), the
compression as been around those measurement for some time (over 30k
miles).

I am not scared at all of that compression, around 110psi is fine with
me! If I get to low on my trip (compression going in the crankcase =
flash over = fuel in the oil) I will take 2 days and change the
cylinders and pistons! I only Hope this will happen in the sun and not
at 25F near a nice beach.

I have no pressure in the crankcase for now and oil consumption is
acceptable.

Remember that if I put new pistons and sleeves right now, I won't have
the time (to cold up here) to break the engine properly. I won't do a
trip like that with an untested/rebuilt engine, this is worse than a
somewhat low compression. The margin /difference (PSI) between the
cylinder is acceptable. This is the most important thing.

Just so you know I did more than 40 complete engine rebuilt in my life,
most of them were air-cooled motorcycle engine. My "Pleasure" is head
rebuilding; I still do many heads job:
http://www.letambourin.com/ben_head.htm

This is why I am not rebuilding the 2 spare heads I am bringing with me
as spare one (they are in good condition), if I get the "dreaded valve
seat popping out" I don't want to put freshly rebuilt head on old
pistons and sleeve, for sure I will get compression in the crankcase if
I do that.

In conclusion I think that a somewhat middle life T4 engine should be at
around 110 -120 psi, no more. If you have more and unequal compression
it means that you have heads carbonization, this is worse than low
compression.

Cheers, Ben
http://www3.sympatico.ca/huotx/engine1.htm
