Date: Thu, 07 Nov 2002 12:44:18 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Kelly Fowler <fowler(-at-)midicorp.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] JC Whitney heater in bus

>Of course, now that I have a bus (or will have, when I go to pick him up on
>Saturday), I have some more questions.
>My new bus has had his heater flaps wired shut- and I've heard that even if
>I get them open, the heat is not very good.  So I want to add an additional
>heat source.  One of the items I have found that seems plausible is a JC
>Whitney heater (see link below). Has anyone had experience with this sort of
>heater? Is it reliable and safe?  Easy or hard to install?  or does anyone
>know of any other (relatively) inexpensive options I should look into?

"Efficientuses hot water from engine to heat vehicle"

There's the rub, you've got an aircooled engine that has no water anywhere
in it to run through the heater.

Heat is a VERY common topic on this list and the archives are FULL of good
discussion on how to warm your bus.

Here's the short list or works/doesn't work:

12 volt cigarette lighter powered electric heater: NOPE, wouldn't warm your
left foot. Limitations of a cigarette lighter and a 12 volt system.

12 volt blanket or seat heaters: works

Gas heater: stock, found in many VW's, many varieties - safe and heats very
well. Educate yourself before you buy. You will have some learning to do
here. List has many gas heater experts. I am not one of them...

OEM heater boxes and heater system already on your bus: if in good
condition and absolutely complete it is worth having or repairing. May cost
upwards of $400 to get good heater boxes (rust free) and replace missing
tin. It ALL has to be there or it is useless. It is not a difficult system.
You can do the work yourself. Buy a Bentley manual and start studying. The
list is more valuable than the book. I'll climb out on a limb and guess
that your bus is missing about half a dozen rubber seals and pieces of
cooling tin on the engine. Replace them ASAP. Protects it from overheating
and protects you from carbon monoxide.

Propane space heaters: beware, may not be suitable for a moving vehicle or
such a small confined space (carbon monoxide hazard).

Oil cooler heaters: may work, oil only gets hot enough after extended
driving.

Auxillary blower kits: save your money and visit a local boat store. The
kit in the VW mags that sells for $75+ is based on an $18 blower called a
bilge blower made by Atwood. The rest of the kit is $5 of switch and wire.
Read up on these bilge blowers in the archive. They have pros and cons.

To do list: replace and repair OEM heaters. May be as little as $50 of
little parts. May be as bad as needing two $200 heater boxes. Won't know
until you look. Put up a curtain between the front seats and the rest of
the bus if you ride alone. Traps heat up front. Replace all of the door
seals that are even slightly suspect. Most old VW busses are breezy inside.
Cover the cowl vent with a piece of magnetic sign material (every town has
a sign shop that can supply this material). The cowl vent leaks on just
about every VW van out there. This is a good seasonal fix for a leaky vent
system. Buy a good carbon monoxide monitor. A carbon monoxide problem can
originate with the heater boxes, any leaks in the heater system that might
allow exhaust into the airflow, or a bad gas heater.

These busses will make good heat if the system is 100% and if the door
seals are 100% for all but the Alaska and Canada dwellers. Good enough to
keep it 50 degrees inside anyhow.

I'd start searching the archives for "heat". You'll be reading all week but
you'll be an expert at the end. Good links too.

If this bus is new to you then THIS WEEKEND replace the fuel lines. Too
many busses burnt up with rotten fuel lines!!!!

Good luck to you!!!


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
