From: "Jay Brown" <jayb(-at-)coedsportswear.com>
To: <Javabus(-at-)aol.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 7 Nov 2002 16:33:54 -0500
Subject: RE: 2.0Ll engine builder

You are in luck.  One of the best Type IV engine rebuilders anywhere is
located in the northeast just a few hours outside of Buffalo.  Bob Donalds (-at-)
http://www.bostonengine.com has years of experience with the Type IV and one
of the best reputations in the business.  Since you are only a few hours
away, you could probably even drop off and pick up your engine to save on
shipping costs if you wanted to.

If you are looking to add some serious power to your bus, check out Jake
Raby's Monster Type IV (-at-) http://www.aircooledtechnology.com.  Jake has the
reputation of being able to coax more reliable power out of the VW Type IV
power plant than anyone else.  He is in GA, so you would have to ship, but
if you want sick power, this is probably the way to go.  His engines are not
cheap, but the quality of the parts and workmanship is high, and the ability
to pass people on hills would be pretty cool if you ask me.

Both of these guys do premium work and have many satisfied customers on the
various bus lists.  But before you decide to have someone else rebuild your
engine, you might want to consider doing it yourself.  Armed with some basic
tools, a few good books and a bit of patience, you will be able to fix
anything on your 2.0L.  Just about any part you could possibly need is
available from http://www.busdepot.com or the other list vendors.  Taking
this approach will help you form an even closer bond with your bus than you
have now, and it will give you a great project for the frigid Buffalo
winter...  Just something to think about.

						Good Luck,
						Jay Brown
						'72 Hardtop Camper
						'85 Vanagon Westfalia
						Newmarket, NH
						http://www,geocities.com/vwcamper72




Date: Thu, 7 Nov 2002 13:40:34 EST
To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
From: Javabus(-at-)aol.com
Subject: 2.0l engine builder
Message-ID: <102.1e4d3bc8.2afc0da2(-at-)aol.com>

I am looking for a good engine builder to send our 2.0l case to and have it
built, hopefully with 96 mm pistons. Anyone had any good experience with
someone close to buffalo NY or we can ship.
