Date: Fri, 08 Nov 2002 15:35:28 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] '78 Westy: Three Questions

>Volks:
>Please visit this page for questions + pictures and post replies to this
>group or me personally. Thanks.
>http://princessann1.home.mindspring.com/threequestions.html
>Mike Keenan in Asheville, NC

#1 put the jackstands under the ends of the moustache bar mount (NOT THE 
BAR ITSELF) if you like. I usually just jack it up there and place the 
stands under the jacking points or the torsion bar housings. Jack stands 
under the suspension sort of scare me because they move as people crawl in 
and out of the vehicle. I would hate to have it move around enough that it 
fell off the stands. The torsion bars and frame do not move no matter what 
you do in the van.

Keep the jack under there too for added support if you can.

Beware of jacks or stands sinking into the driveway asphalt. Use 3/4" wood 
under the jack stands to aid in stability on asphalt. I just prefer 
concrete all around.

#2 Those pipes used to have flexible hoses (much like the ones that connect 
the aux blower to the heater boxes) that connected to the heater flappers - 
the flappers are at the front of the heater boxes. Notice that when the 
heat is off that hot air is dumped out of the flapper boxes. These flexible 
pipes took the heated air out to the two pipes near the wheels and dumped 
it. Keeps the air circulating through the heaters and thus cooling the 
heaters a bit. Makes the heaters last a bit longer and probably (more 
likely) affected the air pollution output of the engine as that is the only 
reason VW seemed to make many engine updates (gotta save every $$$!!!).

You can replace the long missing hoses with flexible exhaust pipe found at 
most FLAPS and if you start getting cold reach up and see if the flapper is 
leaking heated air out. If it is you could close off the external outlet so 
ALL of the air is directed forward into the interior of the vehicle. EVERY 
air cooled VW I've had came with leaky flappers on it.

#3 The round thing is the power brake booster. The wires are the brake 
light switches. Look for replacements from Bus Depot and VW dealers. There 
is also such thing as brush on electrical sealant available from most 
larger home improvement stores and real hardware stores or real electrical 
supply houses. You could then tear off the old boots and coat everything 
with the goop.

If you find real replacements I want to hear about them 'cause mine are 
shot too.

If you are new to VW vans flush the brake system, replace the fuel lines 
(all of them), and seriously consider replacing the flexible rubber brake 
lines. Keeps you and your van from bursting into flames and running over me 
'cause you can stop. I would CERTAINLY replace the steering coupler at the 
bottom of the steering column and top of the steering box. Not a hard job 
and the part costs $20. Mine was scary rotten.




Chris Mills in TN
