Date: Tue, 22 Jan 2002 13:42:56 -0800
To: Glen <gw240d(-at-)yahoo.com>,
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] volt meter hookup

At 09:48 AM 1/22/2002, Glen wrote:
>Got a VDO volt meter outta a crushed Rabbit
>convertible.
>
>1. What's the best way to wire it in my '68 bus?

Wire it directly to the battery.  Yes, this means you will need to add a 
long hot wire back to the engine compartment, but it doesn't need to be a 
thick wire.  18 gauge is fine.  Put a 1 amp fuse on it and ground the 
negative side of the meter to the chassis.  If you're *really* anal you can 
run a separate negative wire back to the battery too, but only an extremist 
would do that.  :-)  If you want, you can wire a switch in to turn off the 
meter when the bus is parked for long periods of time.  Not really 
necessary though as the meter does not use a significant amount of current 
and is not likely to burn out if left on indefinitely.

>BTW
>what will it tell me that will be helpful?

It will tell you the condition and state of charge of your battery and the 
condition of the rest of your electrical system (i.e. alternator, 
regulator, wiring).  It should read as follows:

~14.0 volts when the battery is fully charged, engine running, no other 
electrical loads.

13 - 14 volts with engine running and other electrical loads besides the 
ignition on (i.e. lights, stereo) depending on the load.  Note: At idle, 
voltage may drop below 13 with heavy electrical loads.

~12.8 volts when the battery is fully charged, engine off overnight.

12.5 volts or less with engine off means your battery is weak or dead.
Less than 13 volts with engine running at 2500rpm with no other electrical 
loads means your electrical system needs repair.

If you hook your meter to the nearest convenient source of 12 volts in the 
dashboard, your readings are going to be skewed by other electrical loads 
on the wire you hooked into.  You would probably see the meter dip to less 
than 12 volts when you turn your headlights on, for instance.

Any more questions, just ask.

-David





