Date: Tue, 22 Jan 2002 16:15:59 -0500 (EST)
From: david raistrick <keen(-at-)type2.com>
To: Chris and Kell <midwestbass(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] brake stuff. I dont know what im talking about....

On Tue, 22 Jan 2002, Chris and Kell wrote:

> They said to me that the right rear Cylinder is leaking and needs to
> be replaced, that I should just do the left also while im at it. The

A pair of roughly 10 dollar parts. A few more for german cylinders.

> top of the rotor is wore down, but they can resurface them. (is it odd
> that the top of the rotors wore down way further than the bottom? does
> that even make sense?)

Rotors are round, they dont have tops or bottoms...fronts and backs, sure.
inside/outside, sure. top and bottom? no way.  (they're also readily
available new, though I'm not sure of the price.)

> There are 4 shoes in the back alone, and all need to be replaced.

another 10-20 dollars in parts, depending on who you get them from.

> They also said that my front right hub bearings are loose, and there
> is a bunch of stuff that would need to be done to correct that.

Maybe.  It COULD just need to be readjusted...that is a standard
maintenance item that is often left undone.  If it is undone to long, the
slop causes excessive wear on the bearings, and they eventually need to be
replaced.  Not a hard job on these, though.  Can be done in under ten
minutes without special tools...I dont know the exact price on the
bearings, but there are 4 total if you count both sides. (one inside, one
outside, on each side of the bus.).  Figure 10-15 dollars per bearing.

> Now that I know what they think needs to be done, I can either take it
> someplace else and get another opinion as well as hopefully a bit of a
> better price (they said everything would run around $340) - or try and
> do this stuff myself. I am a little hesitant to do brake work myself,
> mostly cuz if there is one system I would really rather not mess up,
> its the one that helps me stop. =)

It's not hard.  Get a bentley, though. What's a bay book running these
days, 40 bucks? 20 if you shop hard?


The rear brakes require wheel removal, then the easily removable part of
the drum comes off.  (no special tools..)

Remove the shoes, a bit of an annoyance, but not hard. (admittedly they
get easier with experience...).  Unbolt the old wheel cyl, be very gentle
on the brake line union nut...a good 11mm will help, or better yet an 11mm
wrench designed for the purpose...the name escapes me.  You'll need a good
(...get the one with the 6 point box end on it.) 7mm wrench for the
bleeder valve.  If you break the one on the old'n off, no big deal.

installation is reverse of removal.  You'll have to adjust the brake shoes
in before you install the drum...then bleed the brakes.  Can be a bit
messy, but doable. Use two people, or buy more tools.


Fronts...if memory serves, the front rotor has the hub integrated...so
removal of the rotor (for, say, turning on a lathe..) will require
disassembly of the bearing area.  The shop will probably just pull'm,
cover'm, and reinstall.  They /should/ clean, inspect, and repack/replace
as needed.  The races are easily removed with a combination of hand tools,
you dont really need a press.  If the rotors are replaced, the races will
HAVE to be changed...the new rotors wont have any, and races do not swap
between bearings. (at least, you shouldnt. :)

Installation of the turned or replaced rotors will require proper
adjustment of the bearings.

As for irregular wear..this could be caused by caliper problems. Or other
things. (...misadjusted/bad front wheel bearings, for example..)


Its not hard work, but it isnt for everyone. BE SURE you trust whoever is
doing the work completely..if they give you a bad feeling, run, dont walk,
away. Way to many bad brake jobs come out of some of those major
chains...at least on old VWs.


...david


--
David Raistrick  '66 SO-44 Westy		keen(-at-)type2.com
/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign 				in Orlando Fl
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail          http://www.expita.com/nomime.html


