Date: Tue, 22 Jan 2002 15:19:29 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Glen <gw240d(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Insulation Ideas


>FYI: Just did some insulating this weekend.
>Experimented a bit on this first run. used a
>combination of reflectix and styrofoam board (that has
>foil side) and carpet on the floor.
>
>I thought the foam board would deaden sound better and
>it was cheaper than reflectix. (especially because I
>had a leftover piece in the shed.)

There are basically two schools of thought on sound proofing. I'll mention 
them in a second. Keep reading.

>1. The bus is noticably warmer inside.
>4. Squirt expando insulation foam in all the ribs and
>voids.

Good choice I think. Don't obstruct drainage though.

>6. Full ear-coverage headphones for the radio.

The local fuzz might have something negative to say about those earphones. 
Also you might want to hear some of the bad noises your bus might make 
(impending doom - engine rattling and pinging on a hill on a hot day) and 
hearing horns and other traffic noises is helpful if nothing else to keep 
ya from running over me on my moto-chickle. If I honk I want 'cha to hear me.

The two schools of thought about killing noise basically involve either 
deadening the sound by reducing the  reflecting sound or stopping vibrating 
metal from making the noise in the first place.

To kill the echos you're kinda going to have to steer towards soft things 
like foam and upholstery.

To stop the vibrating panels you'll have to layer them with materials like 
asphalt mats and such.

If you have not found it there is a great site by a fellow called 
Bulley-Hewitt (or something close to that) about soundproofing a VW bus to 
the extreme. All good info but I worry about his methods trapping moisture 
in different cavities and causing rust. I'm working towards similar goals 
on my bus but at a much lower level.

My methods include asphalt materials on the floors, and upholstery on all 
the door panels and potentially upholstering the ceiling panels as well. 
All the upholstery and foam will keep the sound echos to a minimum.

I'm so glad to hear from somebody who has tried the foam panels b/c that 
was one material I had considered at one point. Now I know more than I did.

Please keep us all updated!


Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE:       Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing and exhaust 
- $100
                 5 Beauty rings for 13" wheels, very nice, no dents, packed 
ready to go, $40 (was my cost)

