Date: Mon, 21 Dec 2009 10:21:25 -0700
From: "pilot(-at-)type2.com" <pilot(-at-)type2.com>
To: benthin(-at-)prodigy.net, type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] latest project - xantrex freedom HF install in my '78

Mike Benthin -MUTS oboe support wrote:
> Battery under rear bed?  Any concerns about vented Hydrogen or tipping 
> over?  PS, where did you get the Espar heater + cost (is it for 18 
> wheelers?), and why kerosene- and is there no way to run the filler neck 
> to an outside port


Mike,

As far as the battery under the bed goes I was very hesitant to cut 
holes for the 2 2AWG wires to route to the aux battery which was located 
in the engine compartment until the Xantrex unit came into the picture. 
    Didn't Westfalia put the Vanagon aux battery under the passenger 
seat?  I'm not too concerned about it tipping over.  It's strapped down 
pretty good.  I plan on replacing it with an optima yellow top in the 
very near future.

The espar was purchased from the local Thermo King (of Denver, CO).  The 
unit is designed for heating the cab of the 18 wheelers.  It produces 
more heat than I know what to do with.  Thermo King wanted $300 more 
than the "buy it now" price on ebay, and they did come down to the ebay 
price.  It was pricey, but I cannot put a price on safety and peace of 
mind.  Truth be told I have around $1200 in the heater project, and by 
far without a doubt it's the best money I've spent on the bus.  Why 
kerosene?  It smells a little better and according to Thermo King 
kerosene will cause the espar to run cleaner, less build up, and so on. 
  They also stated that the trucks are starting to run extra tanks for 
kerosene to feed the espar.  I didn't want to cut any holes in the side 
of the bus for a filler tube.  I've managed to not have any kerosene 
spills so far.  It's likely that the entire heater is going to be 
relocated to make room for the TruckFridge or similar device, so not 
cutting the hole for the fuel neck was a good decision.

My main goal in all my upgrades is to make them appear as stock as 
possible.  The Xantrex is all hidden and uses existing Westfalia 110 
inlet and outlet.  The heater is all hidden in the cabinet.  I have a 
hard time bringing myself to cut holes in the metal.

Dan
