From: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc." <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: "Gerry Donathan" <gerrydonathan(-at-)hotmail.com>,	"type2"
Date: Wed, 30 Dec 2009 19:16:06 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] 32/36 DFEW Weber Progressive two-barrel

Hi Gerry,

First, you need to install a fuel pressure regulator between the fuel pump 
and the carb. Those webers can only take about 3 psi max. The pump will put 
out 6-8 and will force fuel past the float valve and pump it thru the carb. 
Mileage will be about 12/gallon.

After that use about a 50 or 55 idle jet on the first barrel and a 60 on the 
second. After that use 135 or 140 main jet down in the bottom of the bowl 
and a 140 or 145 on the second barrel.

Set your idle 'speed' per specifications, tune the idle 'jet' per 
recommendations (start at 2 turns out)  and then reset the idle speed. Be 
sure to warm it up well before you make the adjustments. Make sure the choke 
flaps work or at least stuck open.

Good luck. I fought with mine for several years on and off until I found the 
second barrel was cracked open a snitch. Adjusted the screw to close the 
butterfly and all was much better.

Chris
64 DD camper.


From: "Gerry Donathan" <gerrydonathan(-at-)hotmail.com>

Greetings list!
Anyone have a good resource for what size jets I might want to put in this
carb? it is currently on a 1600SP upright. We would sure like to go back to
stock, but the girl that owns this doesn't have the money to buy a new carb
and intake at the moment, so I am trying to just kluge her engine to last 
till
she can have it all done proper. I found a good article in the archives, and
some other resources that give sizes for more high performance applications,
but we are looking to actually downtune things a bit. her carb currently 
dumps
so much fuel at idle that I was sitting in the exhaust stream while fiddling
with some things and came out smelling more like gas then spent exhaust. 
High
performance isnt an issue for her since she only commutes about 4 miles a 
day
round trip.
thanks,
Gerry
