Date: Thu, 31 Dec 2009 01:12:15 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Gerry Donathan <gerrydonathan(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 32/36 DFEW Weber Progressive two-barrel

Gerry a couple things.  I'd have to go look at the one sitting on my shelf and
tear it apart to look at jet sizes, but it ran quite acceptably as my backup
carb that I've used countless times to retrieve a not running bus I've bought
for a couple hundred bucks that the FI has died on.  They got a bad rap, it
isn't all warranted.  Now I can ressurect an L jet or D jet setup from my box
of parts, with the best of them.  But I've also owned at least 5-6 buses that
came with DFEVs that I've got to run well and sold with em on.  I use to
use the one on the shelf for on the stand breakin of stock sized motors as
well.  In WV 3 season it did pretty well, those seasons oddly more spring,
summer, and winter.  Cool damp falls were where I had issues.  I solved it
seeing the way VW solves it on the euro waterboxers that have a single central
2 barrell with long runners, I bought a genuine VW 12V heater element of a
euro 1.9 waterboxer intake manifold and
 milled a spot for it then attached it to my manifold centerpiece, made a
world of difference.  Unfortunately those manifolds getting pretty uncommon
even on German *bay.  I mention this though because up her in AK I've taken to
buying (for a whopping $12 each) these red silicone 110V heating elements that
you silicone onto your oil pan, they come in like 3x5 and 4x6 inch for $8 and
$12 up here.  I've meant to experiment and see what one would do on 12v at
5-10 amps or so, and what they will indeed try to pull on 12V.  They are
pretty slick as oil pan heaters, got em on all my cars, and I've glued one
onto the side of my Kubota diesel block in my Bobcat cause I can't fit the
standard block heater in the thing.  If they work on 12V, the small one would
make a perfect "hot spot" for the center of the DFEV manifold.  Some other non
jetting related things, the runners are often VERY poorly welded (many people
have made em over time) with leaks or
 giant globs of weld into the flange at the head.  Fix it there.   Some
runners are bigger as well, some are very small, try to find the bigger ones.
 Run them with the manifold to the head with a heat conductive gasket (I think
2 bug exhaust gaskets fit, but I'm stretching memory here, it has been on the
shelf for 7-8 years now) to avoid icing as well.  On a 4mi daily trip though
it is tough to warm up anything, make sure the choke works.  Mechanical choke
heads are availble as well BTW for these carbs in other applications, I think
they call that one the DFAV, tons of iterations of that carb out there, they
used to sell a manifold on JC Whitless to put that carb on anything that had
3-6 cylinders between 1 and 4 liters probably, and probably for a Mazda rotary
as well for all I know.  I've personally gotten routinely 14-15mpg and even up
to 17mpg out of one of these in even a heavy automatic bus westy.  They are
damn simple, damn reliable
 carbs.  Not ideal, work a lot better on the bug, and on lots of other
applications, but nothing cheap ever is ideal, is it?
 
John

--- On Wed, 12/30/09, Gerry Donathan <gerrydonathan(-at-)hotmail.com> wrote:


she can have it all done proper. I found a good article in the archives, and
some other resources that give sizes for more high performance applications,
but we are looking to actually downtune things a bit. her carb currently
dumps
so much fuel at idle that I was sitting in the exhaust stream while fiddling
