From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'John Rogers'" <jnrogers(-at-)verizon.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 8 Feb 2012 12:35:04 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] RE:Gas heater

Oh yeah, now that you mention it I remember that mechanism in the switch on
the unit itself, which is then controlled by the switch under the seat.



I donbt know if Ibd install an ambient air thermostat-maybeb&would be
kind of funny to install one of those programmable one you can install in your
house. Ibm sure I could find one that runs on 12V. J



As for the bfindb it was a NOS heater, the only thing missing was the knob
for under the seat. Everything else was good-or was good except for that
rubber connector. When I did my renovation, I filled the hole I cut under the
seat with expanding foam, to cut down on engine noise in the cabin. So now if
I get the heater working again, it will introduce a bunch of noise that I
spent a lot of time trying to kill. Maybe I can fabricate some odd ball sort
of muffler to keep the noise down. The original or rather regular heat on the
bus travels through bmufflersb of a sort.



As for getting the heater going b I would love to get it going. I generally
donbt drive the bus in the winter(I used to, but the salt on the roads
destroyed it). Now that Ibve gone to the trouble of repaintingb&and more, I
donbt want to salt it again. Then again-this winter we have not really had
any snow, and therefore no real salt on the roads. So-if I had the heater
going, I could take the family on a trip. As it is my wife will probably think
it is too cold to drive in it, especially with a newborn.



Lots to think about, and lots to work on. For nowb&Ibve still trouble
shooting that radio issue. ;)



-Kevin Guarnotta

Jamaica Plain, MA



'69 Singlecab

'65 Ez-camper



From: John Rogers [mailto:jnrogers(-at-)verizon.net]
Subject: Re: [T2] RE:Gas heater



The Eberspacher too has a control for increasing or decreasing the heat
output. It basically works by expanding and contracting the distance between
two contacts that are spring loaded and temperature sensitive so when the
temperature is hot enough they either (I forget which) make or break contact,
turning the gas burning on or off. This does not, however, address cabin
temperature, which an ambient air thermostat does.
