Date: Thu, 9 Feb 2012 02:54:51 -0800 (PST)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
Cc: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: Radio Static

Kevin,
         Try another antenna.  One has to break troubleshooting down into
chunks.  Especially radio troubleshooting.  Any random car antenna plugged
into the radio will provide another data point.  Don't have to mount it to the
body for a test. Antennas are cheap.  Alternately, take your antenna out and
try it another vehicle's radio.

By keeping on plugging the same two parts together, how can you expect a
different result?    Plug ->static, plug ->static, plug -> static....  even a
rat eventually stops going down the tunnel with no cheese. 

If we could handle the components for a close up visual inspection, and/or
test them with diagnostic equipment, more help could be provided.  However,
working remotely the fastest technique is "change it out".  Works for aviation
and much of any complex modern electronic system where up-time is important. 
Break the problem down.

Even a piece  (e.g. 6 inches in your high signal area) of insulated primary
wire pushed into the center contact of the radio antenna receptacle.  Good
sound ->change the antenna, more static -> radio, or connector problem.  

The connectors on car antennas/radios are crude, simple, and extremely
reliable.  Very few problems.  You might have a bad connector, but I would
suspect something else in the antenna wiring if the radio puts out good sound
with the antenna near but not plugged in.  Think of how many coat hangers you
have seen jammed into a broken antenna stub as you drive around Boston.  Work
fine, last a long time.  What else original remains of those antennas is good
inside-the-car wiring and plug.

jon

"Eat a good breakfast. Take a rucksack with a gas mask and swimming goggles.
Write your name on your arm. Write your details into a message on your mobile.
And go to the Square." Tweet from Tahir.
