Date: Thu, 9 Feb 2012 11:05:07 -0800 (PST)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Bob Pratt <ka1dza(-at-)verizon.net>
Cc: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: Radio Static

Hi Bob/Kevin,
        "How about some ferrite cores that clamp around the coax?"

Adding stuff doesn't isolate a problem (in most cases).  Got any ferrites on
your antenna coax-?  No?  Me neither.  I bet there aren't ANY cars out there
on the road with ferrites on their antenna coax unless it is a special
situation.  e.g.  an amateur radio operator with a trunk-load of radio gear. 
Clamping random ferries around FM antenna coax is just that, a random shot. 
Since every other car works great without a ferrite, wouldn't it be better to
isolate the problem; i.e. rather than  gobbing something on that may, or may
not, make an improvement. 

Kevin's radio works great with a signal source near the radio's antenna jack.
In his reception area, it probably would sound just as good if he waved a pack
of Marlboro Lights near the radio antenna jack.  Just doesn't work when he
plugs the same old antenna into the jack.  We don't know which part of his
existing antenna is acting as the signal source (It isn't actually behaving
correctly as an antenna when he waves it near the radio), but for sure when he
plugs it in, it stops working.    Humans NEVER stop going down the tunnel with
no cheese.

Since I cant test it, this is just a SWAG.  I think the antenna center
conductor is broken inside the coax or shorted to the shield.  Typically
either at the plug or at the antenna when some PO twisted it at some point. 
Once the coax is plugged in, the shield becomes grounded and does exactly what
it is supposed to do i.e. shields the inner conductor up to the break, or the
shorted antenna kills what tiny bit of signal was getting to the inner part of
the radio socket.  Normally the center conductor connects to the bare part of
the antenna sticking above the body (which intercepts the radio signal) and
does not touch the shield at any point.   Since no part of the inner conductor
is exposed to the radio signals, or it is shorted out, there is no signal for
the radio to work with.  The radio runs it's AGC (automatic gain control- part
of the circuitry) up to max and amplifies everything that it CAN get- i.e. a
tiny bit of signal and tiny bit of
 NOISE.   Since they are both about the same level it sounds like "staticy
signal" to you. Give it a little bit of good signal, the AGC ramps down and
the signal to noise ratio improves to the listener  = no perceived
"static".    In actual fact, there is the same amount of "static", just that
you have more of the signal that you want. OK. 

For the purists amongst us replace "static" with "noise" throughout.

Don't add anything. Change the antenna.  Tell us the result.  Get more help.

jon

More than you really need to know, but I cant seem to get a bit of basic
trouble shooting going and really help the original poster.


"Eat a good breakfast. Take a rucksack with a gas mask and swimming goggles.
Write your name on your arm. Write your details into a message on your mobile.
And go to the Square." Tweet from Tahir.
