Date: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 09:27:05 +1300
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: RE: [T2] RE: Radio Static

C Dreike recommended:

>  Try coupling the antenna through a .01 microfarad 50 volt or higher 
>capacitor.

	Many of the best AM radios (e.g as used by hams) do indeed 
have an adjustable capacitor coupling the antenna to the 'input' i.e 
the antenna coil within the receiver.  Indeed, the setup which has 
given Kevin the best performance so far has just that, viz.  the air 
gap between the plug and the input.  This 'air gap condenser' has 
disadvantages, e.g. not fixed, may fall apart, bigger losses than a 
proper one, etc.  But I do believe Kevin has stumbled upon an 
accidental antenna capacitor, so I think all he has to do is indeed 
as advised.

>
>
>Any other of you electronic wizards have an idea?

	Being as how it's Friday, let me admit that at 7 I made a 
crystal 'set' (i.e receiver), and lusted after electronics; but I 
turned out to lack the talent, and never got past a 1-valve (that's 
1-toob to youse yanks <:-| ).   I have good friends who have for many 
years tried to lure me into ham radio, but have remained a mere 
short-wave listener unable to grasp how a transistor works, let alone 
design RF circuits.

	One of those buddies (then ZL1AN, now ZL1DD) enlisted my help 
in erecting a loop using 5 60' trees ringing a large paddock in a 
very quiet rural district in our Far North.  We used a crossbow to 
shoot monofilament off a fishing reel up over each tree, which then 
pulled over stronger multistrand.  Scrap telephone pair (ends 
shorted) ran thru a porcelain egg at each vertex.  The house we were 
staying at, on one edge of the field ringed by the trees, was fed by 
ribbon from the shorted ends of the pair.  I named this antenna The 
Pentagon.
	We eavesdropped on a very loud ham in S.C. boasting to an 
Aussie about his 100' steerable tower topped by a 10-element yagi and 
a 1500W 'Exterminator' or suchlike brand tx. (This was about 15y ago 
when 1500W had apparently just become legal for hams in that country 
-  not here.)  While listening to this, Barry  used his morse key to 
tune his variable antenna capacitor at a 'neighbouring' frequency  - 
this is a std polite way to say "I'm ready to talk to one of youse". 
Barry took up the S. C. braggart after his Melbourne conversation 
ended; we listened to the Big Numbers again, and then Barry murmured 
modestly "I'm QRP at the moment  -  just using a little 10W portable 
Yaesu".   The Big Boy could not disguise his astonishment  -  "but 
you are Fahv & Fower!"   We asserted that plenty metal high up is 
still the way to go.  He couldn't argue.
	That same cobber Barry won the NZ Hams annual 24h contest one 
year with a 1926 replica shack  -  a 1-valve crystal-controlled tx 
and 2-valve regenerative rx.  I accept the claim that, if you know 
how to drive it, a 1-valve regen rx such as I made when a child is as 
sensitive as anything today with thousands of transistors.


Summary: Kevin's bus radio works OK if the antenna plug is some 
distance out from the metal socket.  That implies he formalise the 
arrangement by slapping a capacitor into that gap.  I predict he will 
then listen transfixed as the Kingston Trio croons out of his radio " 
....  and he changed for Jamaica Plain".


-- 
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600dp Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
