Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 13:24:38 -0600
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] anyone ever heard of Multiplaz

Thanks for the link. I'm going to read up on this and see what it is.

Looks to me to be like a plasma cutter using boiling water instead of 
compressed air to blow the molten metal out of the way. I think they 
also are able to control the heat and the blow enough to allow you to 
weld with it.

I'd like to see a demonstration to see if a person can control the heat 
precisely enough to weld with it like a TIG welder.

The price is $2,000 and you can buy a very good Lincoln or Miller 
inverter TIG welder for less. Plasma cutters aren't that expensive 
either though you do need a ready access to compressed air to make it work.

If you wanted to get into cheaper TIG inverters you could try on of the 
Asian imports like Everlast or Longevity brand welders which are about 
50% cheaper than the American brands. Still haven't established if they 
will last. Looks like a limited number of the Asian inverter welders 
arrive DOA but if you get one that works it continues to work. They are 
almost universally knockoffs of some of the mainstream welders like 
ThermalArc (I think).

I have a Lincoln 180T MIG here at home. At work I have two 180C MIGs and 
I just purchased a Lincoln 225 TIG/stick and we have a Miller plasma 
cutter. We just replaced an AirGas (?) TIG/Stick from the 1980s that was 
having random problems. Anyhow all of these welders have been very good. 
The Lincoln 180 is a 220V welder. You could buy a Lincoln 140 (or the 
Miller/Hobart/Esab cousin) and do just about anything on a VW with it.

So for the price of the Multiplaz - you could buy an Everlast TIG, 
plasma cutter, Morgan compressor (R&R'd Campbell-Hausfield compressor), 
and some Northern Tool quality air tools that allow you to do many more 
things.

Yes, I know these tools are not as good as professional grade tools from 
other sources but we are talking about a hobbyist mechanic for whom a 
tool that lasts 100 hours might last years. I have cheap tools here at 
home that are years old now just b/c they don't get used often. ;)

Chris
