Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 19:48:58 -0800 (PST)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: alternate alternators

Hi Folks,
             Well, as John said, I'm looking for an alternate to the spec
alternator for my AC vanagon.  Aircooled VWs and porsches are rare in my P n
P's.  So I cant easily find a cheap spare to refurb and put on the spares
shelf.  As I understand it, there are pro crews looking for any and all
gearbox and engine cores in the  P n P's.  By the time I see them, they are
pretty much gnawed down to the stump.  In 22 years I have seen one 914 and it
had hit something going backwards or been hit hard from the back and there was
no way to get to the engine with the tools I had.  However, there are rows and
rows and rows of water cooled euro cars, many (most?) of which have bosch
alternators.  I find it hard to believe that bosch got together with VW and
made a unique frame/winding/rotor package just for vanagons.  Although, after
working on it for a month nothing would really surprise me from those folks.
However, there was/is really no
 need.  Pretty much any application for the same power (volts x amps) output
can be served by a pulley (rpm range) and bracket specific to the motor. 
Basically you buy alternators by the pound.  30 amps at 15 volts = x lbs.  70
amps at 15 volts = 2x lbs.   Yes, you can trick the plan by rewinding with
larger wire, running more rpm, etc., (just ask the car audio guys) but
eventually you run into magnetic saturation and heat dissipation losses that
make you go to larger hardware = more lbs of alternator, or a very short
life.  Manufacturers try to make them as efficient as they can, and long
lived, so it ends up 
that way.  High zoot brand name car manufacturers  just
charge more, 
because they can.  They don't have special electrical rules.

I figure the vanagon bosch alternator frame has to be used in some thing
else.  The question to the group is what make and model of (non air-cooled
VW/Porsche) euro car uses it?

jon

"Eat a good breakfast. Take a rucksack with a gas mask and swimming goggles.
Write your name on your arm. Write your details into a message on your mobile.
And go to the Square." Tweet from Tahir.
