Date: Sun, 13 Jan 2002 10:52:33 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: AFM Tuning - Another Take

So, we've all been fooling with our AFMs by adjusting the spring tension
to ultimately fix a rich or lean mixture.  It seems like the right thing
to do for obvious reasons which most of us know by now.  But, I think
there are side-effects to changing the spring tension which I haven't
seen discussed.

My reasoning for this is as follows: When my AFM spring was tighted to
compensate for a rich mixture, it leaned out my engine, but it also
caused some strange behaviour.  When I'd be cruising at a constant
speed, let's say around 40-45 in 3rd, going slightly uphill so it wasn't
accelerating, I'd notice that there would be a slight stutter.  I'd
describe it as a wah wah wah wah.. speeding up and slowing down.. within
probably a 10-20 rpm range at about a 2hz rate.  Very slight, but
noticeable.  So, I pull over and I loosened the spring tension almost
back to the original setting and there is even less of an oscillation.

(physics people please correct me if below sounds incorrect):

Here's my take on what's happening:  I think that the AFM spring is
tuned for a specific tension to avoid oscillations at all airflows.  If
the spring is too tight, the car bucks strangly because you press the
gas, the flap opens, but then, do to the inherent property of being a
spring, it springs back and closes a bit, but closes too much, so it
opens again, and then closes... kinda like it finds a resonant frequency
and gets caught there.  I would also venture to guess that the
performance would be mushy if the spring would be too loose, but I
haven't actually tried it...

Earlier, I was thinking, let's say I adjust he wiper arm but don't
change the spring tension.  Will the flap deflect the same amount at a
given RPM range for two different wiper arm settings (which would
obviously cause different mixtures)?  I am guessing YES.  I think that
the engine always wants to pull the same amount of air for a given rpm
range regardless of fuel consuption.  For that reason, the spring
tension is calibrated to the amount of airflow, not to the amount of
fuel needed.  Yes, changing the spring tensions will in-fact change the
mixture, but it will also put the flap at the incorrect tension and
cause stuttering side-effects.

For this reason, I think that the spring is not the right thing to mess
with if you're trying to change the fuel mixture, but instead the wiper
adjustment or the screw on top of the AFM.  However, changing the wiper
settings does have its side-effects, namely the fuel-pump shutoff arm,
so this would need to be checked after adjustments to make sure it still
performs as intended.

What do you guys think about this theory?

Mike
-- 
[...]
