Date: Tue, 19 Apr 2005 22:25:55 -0500
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: Vintage Bus List <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, Type2 Bus List
Subject: Everybus Trip report

I put some pics up here:
http://www.fasterlaster.com/gallery/EB2005


Everybus 2005

Ahhhhhh! Spring is in the air, last minute bus projects not nearly done, kids
driving parents up the walls. Must be time to kick off the bus camping season.
Unfortunately this year I was only able to get off for one day from work so a
late night drive was required to make it at any decent time. Just days before I
finished the hitch needed to mount my new single wheel trailer to the bus so
this would be it's first outing as well.

Troy Wical was on his way from Colorado, but I expected that he would be quite
further on the trip than we were by the time we left. However around the time
we started to get packed on Thursday night I received a call from Troy. Turns
out they were quite close to us and stopping by. A bit later his double cab and
family roll into the driveway. A bit of discussion and we decide to all take a
quick cat nap before heading out. By 2:45 am everyone was buckled in and ready
to go, so the trip officially began. As we approached Nashville a casual voice
came over the CB from Troy, "looks like you just lost your cot". ??????? So
much for that. We pulled off to the shoulder and walked back expecting to see
30 pieces of something that once resembled a cot. To my surprise it only
suffered some road rash and was completely fine. Just to be on the safe side we
stowed it in the DC and continued on. 

The rest of the trip was pretty uneventful with no major (or minor) mishaps.
Stopped in Knoxville for breakfast and coffee. I also exchanged my new GPS
which didn't work out of the box for one that did work. Cool toy, I geeked out
with it the rest of the weekend. Other than nearly being involved w/ a semi
pileup on I-40 in Greensboro we pulled into Hagan-Stone around 3ish, and
started to setup camp. Ric and Slay had saved us some room next to the pavilion
so that is where we started. After the necessary hour of playing musical buses
trying to fit them all in place we settled on an arrangement that worked, and
proceeded to drink from red cups. As soon as the sun went down so did the
temperature. Between the very gusty winds and the temp it got COLD. Real
freakin' cold. I think someone said 37. 

Before socializing the heater situation was explored. We had 5 buses that all
had some sort of electric heaters, but only one plug. An arrangement was struck
that provided heat for anyone w/ kids, but left others out. Next year I will
bring a propane mr. buddy just in case, as I was left out in the side tent
while the rest of the family was in the bus under an electric blanket. Better
than trying to squeeze 6 people in a std westy bed though. The rest of the
night was spent visiting old friends, attaching names with faces and general
"shooting the breeze". Got to meet Rob Laffoon finally who gave me some great
tips about traveling to Yellowstone this summer. I finally crashed around 1:30
with lots of people still up. 

The morning brought light into the tent, but nary a bit of heat. The wind was
still quite strong, but I managed to wake from my slumber to take on the day.
The FMBC came through as usual with fantastic breakfast burritos, although I
feel a bit horrible since I didn't get a chance to help out. Olivia had not
seemed herself the previous week and continued to feel bad Sat morning. I spent
most of the morning trying to comfort her and get her to sleep. I did however
get a few small chances to see all the kids enjoy the second year of the moon
bounce. Unfortunately I was unsuccessful in talking Steph in participating int
he campout competition that Greg Potts put on, and had to pass on it. The kids
also got to participate in a art contest. I didn't get much of a chance to see
the artists at work, but sure loved the final products.  Now that I had my GPS
I wanted to go geocaching, and knew of a cache in the park. Me and the kids as
well as Troy and child in tote all struck off trying to find a cache located
.88 miles from us. It was quite a hike for the kids, but in the end we found
it. This was my first cache find, and loved it.  We were the fifth group from
Everybus to find it that day, so next year I might setup a scavenger hunt for
the cachers. 

We made it back with no problems (but very weary children). I did miss watching
the camping competition though. I bet that was a lot of fun to watch. The rest
of the afternoon was spent looking for parts I needed and helping collect money
for the type2/vintagebus 50/50 raffle. As the day progressed the chili started
to cook throughout the camp. This created quite a nice aroma to try and peddle
tickets in. Thanks to everyone who bought in. This type of thing always helps.
MUD and his international group of judges began to see who made the best EB
chili this year, and as time approached for the dinner it became apparent that
the entries this year used quality instead of quantity. Steph and I had already
decided to cook solo this year, which was a good thing this time around as
there really wasn't enough to feed everyone as hearty as in years past due to
less entries in the contest.  Hopefully next year this will strike a chord and
everyone will bring something for the dinner. 

Following dinner the award ceremony began. Our host Chris started to give out
door prizes for the lucky winners, and IIRC Bruce won the T2 raffle and took
the cash. Everyone seemed to have a great time, and after that we were treated
to some good bluegrass music. It's a good thing I like it, because we were
right next to the band. The remainder of the night was spent sitting around and
enjoying the company. I tended to move from campfire to campfire and didn't
stay any place real long, but had a great time visiting with everyone I met. I
turned in around 12ish and slept pretty sound. 

Sunday morning was spent tearing down camp and trying to say bye to all the
people that were much quicker packing up than we were. Finally around noon we
had everything stowed. I finally found John Y right before leaving, and got to
chat for a few minutes (sorry John had to get moving). We carabused back with
Mike D, Travis, Eddie, Slay, Troy and Ric. When 421 left I-40 we split. The
trip was pretty uneventful until our Marion stop. We said our byes to Troy and
went to leave. Got in the bus and nuntin'. Engine would not turn over
what-so-ever. Messed with it a few minutes, but could not get it to start.
Relay clicked, but still no sound from the starter/solenoid. We ended up having
to tow start Butch because I was pointed uphill with no room to back up. After
getting it started she ran fine. We drug the Slaymakers to Hardees for some
good greasy food and parted ways after dinner. Had to keep the bus running at
stops so I didn't have to push start it. With Steph taking the wheel for the
last 50 miles we pulled into the drive around midnight. Everyone was exhausted.
We rolled out of the bus and managed to drag all the kids to bed.

Fantastic trip like always. Bus ran great. I used about a quart of oil over the
trip and drove roughly 900 miles. I noticed an increase in vanagons this year
(especially syncros) and what seemed to be a reduction in the number of
eurovans. Splits and bays seemed about the same. Weather was a mix of near
freezing night temps with incredible day temps. All in all a great time.


-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
1979 Sportsmofakia 2000cc                        www.fasterlaster.com
1966 Westfalia SO-42 "Butch"
