Date: Wed, 14 May 2003 08:10:20 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Baker <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>
To: bus list <ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, "James G. Beyer"
Cc: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>, list vintage bus
Subject: VW Buses n Boats- ALLLLL ABOOOOOAAARRRD!

Howdy Y'all,
Allright, this is ABSOLUTELY the last message you will
receive from me before I see you at the Third Annual
VW Buses, Boats, n Bands Bash in Ohio this weekend
http://www.geocities.com/buses_n_boats
Here's some final info:
First of all, if you have any trouble on the road or
need to reach me anytime after Friday morning, you can
call my cell phone, the number is (513)313-9546.  The
campgound is just off of I-71 Exit #36, the Wilmington
Road exit. Regardless of whether you are coming from
North 71 or South 71, you will turn RIGHT off the exit
ramp onto Wilmington road, go about a quarter of a
mile and the Olive Branch Campground will be on your
right. 
Follow the signs back to our area of the campground,
Do NOT register at the Campground Office. Follow the
signs back to our camping area and register at the
green awning with the Peace Sign Flag, this will
likely be attached or near to my Yellow\White 71
westy. This is where you will register, pay for
camping, sign up and pay for canoeing if you are
going, buy a 50\50 split the pot raffle ticket, pick
up and pay for your event t-shirt (I will have VERY
FEW extras to sell on hand, you can buy one at
registration while supplies last).  If you arrive
after 9:00 pm on Friday, then you can register with me
on Saturday morning. The fee for camping is $10 per
person per night, or $25 for a family of 4 or more.
It looks like there will be no permanent wooden
shelter (it is not finished yet) so we will have a
community campsite where we will have a nice fire,
awning, tables, etc. This is a COMMUNITY site, so
don't be shy, come right on up and sit a spell with
us. This is where most of the action will take place,
including meals, fires and the Band. There is nothing
formal planned for Friday evening, just hanging out at
the community campfire and a possible acoustic jam,
and refreshments.  Saturday morning at about 9:00 am
we will be serving Full Moon Bus Club Breakfast
Burritos to everyone, so bring your favorite
ingredient to throw into the mix. Suggested
ingredients for you to bring are: tortillas, sausage,
peppers, onions, mushrooms, eggs, tomatoes, salsa,
cheese, etc. We will also need stoves, pots, pans,
knives, etc.  Please bring your own
plate\bowl\utensils for all community meals. We will
need plenty of help to prepare the breakfast, so if
you want to volunteer, just show up about 7:30 or 8:00
am and we'll start getting ready to cook.
At about 11:00 am, Morgans Canoe Livery will be
picking us up for the canoe trip.  The canoe trip is
optional, but you need to let me know at registration
whether or not you will be going canoeing. It will be
a 6 mile trip on the National Scenic Little Miami
River, which is Class I family friendly. There is an
additional charge of $10 per adult for canoeing,
children in the same canoe are free. This fee includes
all transportation to and from the Olive Branch
Campground, paddling gear, and safety equipment.
The canoeists will return to the campground
approximately 3:00 pm.  
One of the MOST SPECIAL treats for Saturday is that
Frank Biffath will be preparing a gigantic pot of his
award-winning chili for a community dinner on
Saturday. Dinner will be scheduled for approximately
5:30 or 6:00 pm. Franks chili has won the Everybus
Chili Cook-Off competition for the last 2 years
straight. He tells me he can feed 100+ people, so
prepare yourself for a culinary delight! We encourage
you to make\bring a side dish for Saturdays dinner,
and we'll have a good old fashioned community pot-luck
dinner with Frank's Chili as the main course, again
bring your own dish and utensils. To help Frank cover
the expense of making chili for 100 people, there will
be a donation jar where you may choose to drop a
little something in. In the event that the donations
are larger than the chili expense, anything extra will
be donated to the Type2 mailing list. During dinner,
we may have a special guest entertainer on acoustic
guitar playing us some lovely dinner music, but this
is yet to be confirmed.  After dinner, we'll draw for
Door prizes, and we'll draw for the winner of the
50\50 split the pot raffle. You can buy 1 ticket for
$1 or 6 tickets for $5, the winner of the drawing gets
half of the money pot, the other half will go to the
other members of the band to help them cover camping
expenses, guitar strings, etc. Here's some background:
I have pressured the band "Man Made Moon" 
http://www.manmademoon.com  (of which I happen to be a
member) into playing this event for FREE for the past
3 years, no big deal for me because I am there anyway.
But the other guys in the band are doing this as a
favor. This year, they actually had to turn down a
paying gig at a high-school reunion to play the BnBIII
show for free, so as a show of gratitude I'd like to
do something for them just to cover their camping
expenses and what not. All the money raised will go to
the OTHER members of the band, not myself, I want to
stress this fact.  Anyway, the band Man Made Moon will
be playing at 7:30 pm. Imagine Bluegrass and Classic
Rock 'n Roll getting together and having a love-child,
then neither one will claim it, this is how I would
describe MMM's brand of music, it is sure to please a
wide range of musical tastes.
After the band, we'll have more hang time at the
campfire.  There is nothing formal planned on Sunday,
but there will be some folks hanging around to go
biking, hiking, flea-marketing, etc.
About the campground: The event is being held at a NEW
location this year, The Olive Branch Campground, about
4 miles from the pevious years' event. The Olive
Branch Campground is privately owned. Amenities
include: Electric and Water hook-ups, Hot showers,
large playground, a fishing pond (no fishing license
required), hiking trails, heated game room and laundry
room, swimming pool, large field for sports\games and
more.  Alcohol is permitted. However, if you are going
to be drinking AWAY from your private site or away
from our community site, I would ask that you keep it
in a cup. As always, please exercise restraint and
discretion in your consumption.  Pets are also welcome
as long as you keep them on a leash and clean up their
doo-doo, yummy!  Also, please respect campground quiet
hours and rules and let's all make a pact to leave our
area even cleaner than it was when we arrived.  Thanks
for all your help guys, and I am excited to see
everyone.
As always, please feel free to contact me if you need
anything.


=====
Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1972 Deluxe
http://www.buszen.com

"So we got into the red VW microbus with the shovels and the rakes and the implements of destruction and we headed on to the police officer's station..."
