From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 14 May 2003 11:20:52 -0500
Subject: Isopropyl Alcohol to Water to Gasoline Ratio?

Esteemed List:

	Bus content - I finally got my '73 Deluxe back from the nameless,
faceless person who "borrowed" it, took it to Oregon and wouldn't give it
back.  Mad props will be issued shortly to all who responded to my "Sad, Sad
Bus Story" post last October...

	It appears that person or persons unknown thought it would be fun to
dump at least a gallon or so of water in the gas tank, and run the motor or
fuel pump until the Dellortos filled with water.  Buses don't run very well
on water, but at least it wasn't sucrose.  The inlet line to the fuel pump
was disconnected, the water was let run, all fuel lines were purged of
water, and the carbs were field stripped and cleaned, several small bottles
of Iso-heat brand of water-getter were given, but upon returning the bus
home, it's still showing traces of water in the float bowls.  Not a lot, but
enough that it tells me there's still aitch-2-ohh lurking in the system.

	Does anyone know just how much isopropyl will "get" how much water?
Thimking to score a gallon of it, run the tank down and/or drain it, and
give it a dosing it will never forget...  Looking for approximate ratios
here, plus a maximum "not to exceed" concentration limit of
gasoline:isopropyl if anyone happens to know...

	PS Plat plugs in an air-cooled "spec" motor are heinous.  My brother
watched the smog check guy test his '67 Squareback with known good plats and
then with good ol' Bosch Supers.  HC emissions were cut in HALF with the
installation of the Supers, which then allowed the smog guy to tweak it the
rest of the way to smog standards and he got his paper.  Plats on "spec"
motor = waste of $$$...  Got something else going on?  Maybe a different
story.

	TIA

	Jim Hayden
	'72 Westy Weekender - getting a 2260 this weekend!
	'73 Deluxe - now sportin' a "SAVDBAZ" number plate!
	www.savethebays.org
