Date: Wed, 14 May 2003 15:51:12 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] Spark Plugs Bosch vs NGK

...
...


At 09:24 AM 05/14/2003, you wrote:

>On the topic of plugs, I have been running Bosch W7CCO in my 78 westy FI.
>This recommendation came from a long time VW mechanic friend.  The car seems
>to run a bit better, and rev a little freer.  It might just be me, but it
>really seemed better.  Anyone else runing these?

If the used plugs were worn beyond spec, a new set of stock plugs will give 
you the same better running. Were adjustments to timing and mixture made at 
the same time the plugs were replaced?? You can't compare new different 
plugs with used stock plugs. I suggest you put a new set of stock plugs in 
and compare that to your new non stock plugs. Do that seat of the pants 
experiment and you have apples on both sides of the balances. I expect any 
felt difference would be imaginary. However, if you run these and note mpg 
over life, then put in the new stock plugs and record the same mpg data for 
their life, you have one piece of data.

The CCO's were only specified for a few years of the WasserBoxer and a 
Golf/Jetta engine. Those are very different combustion chambers and another 
iteration of ignition systems. About twice the snap of a conventional 
ignition on the 78. The cost for the ignition module alone in the later 
design will pay for all parts and labor for a very complete engine 
inspection service on a 78 at my shop(what I would do rather than a 
"tune-up").

The stock plug is $0.99 as a periodic weekend 4 color 4 page loss leader 
FLAPS flyer item and will last 10k easy in a engine properly operated and 
serviced. The CCO will run you $3 to $6. Will they last 3 to 6 times as 
long??? Not all Flaps that carry Bosch plugs will have the CCO in stock. 
The stock plug will more likely be found even at a FLAPS that carries but a 
foot of shelf space for the 12 most popular.

The CCO and the ignition it is integral with, working together, was 
designed to double plug life to 20K. The SYSTEM was upgraded, they didn't 
just change the plug specs. To expect the plug alone to give double life 
with an ignition not even considered in it's design, well, I can't see the 
plug alone as something that will double useful life. And even if you 
doubled useful life, they cost at least 3 times the money.

There is one other substantial difference of certainty between the CC and 
CCO, the gap. The CCO has a gap new that exceeds the max worn out gap 
specified for the 78 ignition with stock CC's. Not at all spec for the 78 
and not an electrode design that can be adjusted. This is fact. Installed 
new the CCO is out of spec as to gap for a 78 Bus. Not in my or my clients 
cars. But you may try things on your own car if you wish. If you keep good 
notes, someday you will have data that might show measurable differences 
and help with the answer to your question and relieve you of the need to 
rely on just seat of the pants subtleties.
