From: "Timo Schairer" <timo.schairer(-at-)student.uni-tuebingen.de>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 15 May 2003 15:09:40 +0200
Subject: Re: [T2] Banned in the EU

Hi all,

living in Germany and driving an old bus isn't an easy task...
There are two groups not wanting you to drive an old bus:

First, it's the TUV...
You have to do security inspections by the TUV (technical surveillance
organisation)
every two years and do smog testing every year. The TUV is very very strict
regarding
your brake system, structural/body condition and modified (meaning
non-stock) parts
on your bus. Having to do the TUV-test this month, I checked the brakes (all
new lines,
hoses, brake-cylinders, master-cylinder, brake-shoes, fluid, ...), the
engine (a rebuild with
only 5000 miles) and electrical-parts (lights, ...). Looking under the bus I
saw two minor
(in my opinion) rust problems at the back part of the inner rockers. Two of
the water drain
holes rusted a bit making them double in diameter. Checking with a heavy
hammer to ensure
the rockers don't have structural damage, I thought everything ok, let's go
and get the bus
checked. BTW, I have spent a lot of money and afford to get the bus in
decent shape (no
rust on the outside, new paint, under-body treatment,...), it's not some
rusty crappy bus.

The TUV-guy checked everything (brakes->very good, rest of the bus also)
then he checked the body of the
bus and said that I won't get the bus through the test with this mayor rust
problem...
First I did not believe him, but he wanted to mark the bus as "unsafe" and
told me that I can
drive the bus home, but only because he is such a friendly man (!!!), others
would have removed
my licence plates and I would have not been able to drive the bus home.
I have to get two new inner rockers, maybe I replace the outer rockers, too,
but this will cost
a lot of money and I wanted to spend the money on a summer trip and not on
some unneccessary
repairing.

Second it's the police...
Driving in a 1978 Westfalia bus seems to be the clear sign for them that you
must be a big guy
in the drug-business (especially in marihuana-dealing). So if there are
routine traffic-checks by the
police, I'm almost every time the one who's pulled over.

BTW, the ZebraBus was taken off the road near Stuttgart (that's very near to
where I live...).
I feel very sorry for the crew and I like to excuse myself for the german
bureaucracy and narrowmindedness.

Timo Schairer

'78 westy
'84 beetle
