From: "Karl" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: <sethmatteson(-at-)att.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 15 May 2003 06:37:45 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Re:Timing Help?'s

> I got a reply the other day about finding TDC by removing the #1 spark plug and sticking the eraser end of a
pencil down the hole and whe thy piston is at it's highest point you got TDC. They also mentioned something
about it not being the exhaust stroke? Can someone elaborate on that and how to tell if this is the exhaust
stroke or not?


On a 4 cycle engine, the piston will come to TDC twice. If you start at TDC the 1st time you get this
happening to get 4 cycles, simplified:
1) Intake valve opens, piston goes down, draws in mixture, reaches bottom.
2) Valve closes, piston goes up, compresses mixture, reaches top, plug fires.
3) Combustion power pushes piston down, reaches bottom.
4) Exhaust valve opens, piston pushes spent mixture out, reaches top.

Got all that? Just file it away and don't even worry about it. Put the pencil back behind your ear. On any
even cylinder engine, 4 or 6 or 8 etc, you can instantly tell where any piston is by looking at the valves
move. Forget where the dist is pointing. Hell, it could be put in wrong and leading you down th wrong path
real easy.
When a piston is at TDC either its valves are rocking or the opposing cylinder in the firing order has rocking
valves. Rocking valves are when the intake just closes and the exhaust will just start to open. All 4 cycle
piston engines do this. Does not matter about cam lift or duration or overlap, they all will rock at one
point. If your cam timing is dead on zero you will rock the valves on each cylinder at TDC at the end of #4
above. When one piston is at the end of #4 above, the opposing piston in the firing order will be at TDC also.
Always.  Using VW's firing order of 1 4 3 2, that means 1 and 3 oppose and 2 and 4 oppose. Watch the valves on
#3, when the exhaust JUST closes and the intake JUST starts to move, #1 is at TDC to fire. Always. At this
point, you can stop and look at the timing mark on the crank pulley. It should be at zero. But this also
depends on the pulley you have. Some VW pulleys have a zero mark, some have a 5 after mark, some just have a
7.5 before mark, others have combos of 2 or 3.....

Watching the valves move is the best time to adjust them. Forget the part about going up and down and turning
the engine backwards and watching where the rotor is pointing crap. It could be wrong and you are adjusting
all the valves wrong!

Get a remote starter button and turn the engine in the direction of rotation. Watch ANY pair of valves. You
will see the exhaust open and close and then immediately see the intake open and close. Remember the part
about rocking valves? [If  the intake opens and close and the exhaust....you are going the wrong way!]
When an exhaust valve is JUST starting to open, the same cylinder intake valve is on the heel of the cam. When
the intake is JUST closed, the same cylinder exhaust valve is in the heel of the cam. Always.
Now adjust the valves:
When an exhaust valve JUST starts to move open, stop.
Adjust that cylinders intake.
Rotate engine, exhaust opens, exhaust closes, intake opens, intake closes. STOP when that intake JUST closes
and adjust the exhaust.
Next cylinder same thing:
Exhaust JUST starts to move open, adjust intake.
Intake JUST closes, adjust exhaust.
