Date: Thu, 15 May 2003 09:27:22 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Jackstands

I know you shadetree veterans know this but for the newbies a message from 
a car acquantance:

I was working on my first Corvair, a 1963 convertible. I had jackstands
under both rear jacking points.
While installing the motor, I was working on the underside bolting
everything up, the left rear jackstand collapsed.
The car fell driver's side first (as the jackstand failed) leaning even more
to the driver's side as the stand failed such that it forced the Corvair to
move to the left as it fell. The motion of the jackstand falling caused the
passenger side jackstand to tip to the left (driver's side) and it too fell.
I remember I had time to say "oh-shit"... then I remember the weight of the
car on my chest and not being able to breathe... I tried to call out to my
dad who was helping me, but my chest was compressed so that absolutely not a
sound would come out.
I vaguely remember my dad putting a factory scissors jack near my head, and
my hair getting ripped out as he jacked up the car. I felt my head being
pulled by my hair coming out, but oddly enough, there was no pain associated
with this... just the sound of my hair ripping out and the force of being
pulled. At some point, I passed out.
Next thing I remember, I'm in an ambulance on the way to the hospital.
Sum total of injuries: Ripped out hair and bald spots and sore all over for
weeks.
The ONLY reason that I'm not dead or wasn't seriously hurt is because when
my Corvair fell, it fell to the driver's side and BY ABSOLUTE LUCK, fell
onto a ramp that just happened to be sitting there... allowing the driver's
side of the vehicle to remain a foot or so off the ground, and keeping the
full weight of the Corvair off me. The only reason that the ramp was there
is because it is the ramp I drove the Corvair up onto before I jacked it up
and was too lazy to put the ramp away... but rather, just left it off to the
side while I worked.
Sum total of lessons learned:
1. Don't under any circumstances, purchase cheap Jackstands... NO MATTER
how cheap you are nor how little money you have.
2. Never rely on Jackstands to hold up a vehicle while on asphalt on a hot
day. Asphalt doesn't take point loads very well and can allow the
jackstands to "dig in" on one side, precipitating failure.
3. Don't work alone when you are doing heavy installs such as the
powertrain. No father helping Joe... no Joe.
4. Even when you use jackstands, leave the JACK under the vehicle as a
secondary support in the event of a failure.

Sum total of long term side effects:
1. I think of the Corvair falling on me each and every time I crawl under
any vehicle when it is jacked up... no matter HOW well I have it jacked up
and no matter how many backup jacks I have under the vehicle.
2. I am conscience of how I am going to get out from under any vehicle
while I am working under it and ALWAYS make sure that I have a clear path
for as quick an exit as possible. I don't block myself in under a vehicle.
3. I am completely uncomfortable working under any vehicle from the second
I crawl under it until the second I get out from under it.

If this post makes anyone think for a nanosecond before they do something
stupid... it was worth sharing.
Kind Regards,
Joe West 
