Date: Thu, 15 May 2003 08:15:17 -0700
To: <vwstuff53(-at-)msn.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Plugs  Bosch vs NGK

At 09:35 PM 05/14/2003, you wrote:

>Ok-- Here I am asking about my 1641 motors, two uprights,--  and my 1776 low
>compression upright--I run these in those Funny VW buses with the two
>windows in front--If I go to NGK  what do I use ? As of now, All have the
>Plain Jane Bosch and they run VWonderfull.   Is it worth a try?

If you must have better than VWonderfull, others will have to help you with 
that. If you want it to stay VWonderfull, go stock.

>--Emissions
>on my 1967 will be TOUGH in AridZona.  It may call for changing the Main Jet
>to get through--then change again to run normal--

If you set the carbs with jets that provide stock idle and off idle mixture 
and the mix jet is within a few turns of travel from closed, when you get 
to the high pass pulling you can adjust mix a bit and head on, adjust again 
when you go back down to low grounds. Finding the right jets for modified 
motors must be done with exhaust gas measurement by someone with solid 
experience and skill. Any mechanic can swap jets, but it takes a lot of 
notes and charts and calculations to prove the right jets with the least 
iterations.

For VWonderful from the plains to the top of the Rockies, you don't have to 
be changing jets to prevent damages if you prove the right jets are 
installed to begin with.

>Remember we have 5+ months
>of 100+ degrees.  I'm Always running straight 40 W dino oil--

As to heat stress of oil, all that is required is inspections. Check the 
oil every fuel stop, or at every pullover. If you monitor frequently and 
always park on flat ground, you will watch as the extreme condition produce 
more oil use, faster carbon loading and faster thinning. If the oil looks 
and feels good, top up. Never exceed the full mark. It's only half a liter 
from the add to the full mark so take care not to overfill. When you see 
the oil getting dark or thin, change it. Have a 2 gallon container for 
waste oil and you can do three of these on a T-I on the road before you 
dump it at any friendly FLAPS. If you do it this way, you can use 15/40 for 
normal driving and 20/50 for heat and load extremes and reduce carbon loads 
and deposits over straight 40wt.

The biggest issue I see for you is getting the non-stock long blocks jetted 
properly for normal uses. You have to verify whether stock jets are 
adjustable within acceptable range or which jets are needed to get there. 
You need to find someone who accepts the assignment to PROVE correct 
mixture at all rpms and loads. If they can't show you notes and calcs and 
results figures in writing, they haven't done it. Make sure they understand 
this before you hire them. Without the docs proving correct results there 
will be no payment. This will prevent you from know it all mechanics who 
will swap things by guess and by golly and give you nothing but an invoice 
that says "Adjust carb" with a list of new "wrong" jets to be paid for, and 
maybe a holed piston half way up the first hot, long grade or plugs fouling 
fast from excess mixture.
