From: "Casting Fool" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 15 May 2003 12:08:41 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Jackstands

From: "Chris Mills" <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
> Never rely on Jackstands to hold up a vehicle while...

Here in Georgia most dirt surfaces are really just sand with some dirt mixed
in for color.  You can't safely use ramps, stands, etc. without placing
something under them to provide support, or by working on a concrete
surfaced area.

I carry plywood squares for placing under the jack and/or stands, and blocks
for the wheels, when I can't find a suitable surface for the work (like 3 in
the morning on the side of the road changing a tire).

Many years ago, I was across and down the street from our (then) pastor's
home when his car did the same thing that your Corvair did, but he didn't
make it.  The tires were still on the car, but the man was heavily built and
the chassis was close enough to the ground to keep him from breathing.  He
was working alone, and had jacked the car up on a sandy surface...

... ON TWO ORDINARY BUMPER JACKS.

I was totally blown away that anyone would try this and get under a vehicle.
Especially someone I trusted to have more sense than to use bumper jacks as
the only support to hold up a car.

The family lost their dad/husband, the church lost their pastor, and I still
shudder a bit to think that it was his 5 yo son who found him and went back
into the house to tell Mommy that Daddy was under the car and wouldn't talk
to him.

Heck, after a few close calls of my own on previous vehicles, I'm even
uncomfortable sliding under my bus when it's sitting on it's wheels, let
alone on any sort of jack or stand.  My hope is to one day have a drive
where I can install a shallow mechanic's trench and/or a lift to make
under-the-bus work safer.

Listen to Chris' advice on jacking up your baby, Newbies, he's right on the
mark.

TTFN - Mike Jackson
`77 Bay, "Giacomo"
Casting Fool & Son
Augusta, GA  USA
http://www.cfnson.com
