To: VW - Type 2 mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Chris Slaymaker <nurofiz(-at-)knology.net>
Date: Fri, 8 Jul 2005 21:02:27 -0400
Subject: Chunder in right valve cover - what is it?

I spent some time underneath/behind Lurch today.

I ran an errand this morning and when I came home I adjusted the rear 
brakes first so that the engine could cool for a valve job.  Rear brake 
adjustment is such an easy job for the benefits (better stopping).

I thought I would torque the lower four head bolts (nuts) since I had 
been suspecting loose heads.  YIKES!  I found shiny flakes of metal in 
the right valve cover toward the front!  I have known for some time 
(3,000 miles or so) that the #1 exhaust valve was tight, but nothing 
serious - I could still get the feeler blade in there.  All the toques 
were a *little* low, so just about every nut below the rocker arms (on 
both sides) got about a half turn.  The left sided valve cover was 
fine.

I then adjusted the valves.  Torquing the nuts didn't change the 
clearances that much.  Interestingly, clearances (valve lash) changed 
more for the cylinders 2 & 4 than for 1 & 3.

I then changed the points, set gap, checked dwell (50%), and checked 
timing - it didn't need to be changed.

Next was changing the oil.  It looked fine.  I skipped the tune-up 
3,000 miles ago, so things went close to 6,000 miles without the 
routine maintenance.  The oil was OK.  It had that sheen in it from 
everyday wear and tear, and there was maybe 2 cubic millimeters of 
sludge attached to the drain plug magnet.

Turning to the spark plus and compression check, I noticed that #1 and 
#2 sparks plugs where greyish white.  I think the intake boot on that 
side might be leaking.  Compression readings where thus:
#1 - 135
#2 - 130
#3 - 130
#4 - 125

I made a trip to Sears to get a new battery.  Do I HAVE to get a group 
42?

All is OK now, except I think I need to get a new oil pressure sender.  
The needle pegs at maximum sometimes.

Chris Slaymaker
Knoxville, Tennessee
1971 Westfalia  "Lurch"
"...at least I'm enjoying the ride."
