Date: Sat, 9 Jul 2005 18:00:27 -0600
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: I just had a fun 4 hours...

NOT!

Running errands this morning bus was getting kind of hard to start. It
would start eventually, but took a bit.

Leaving a place at 2pm I got a block away and zero power. Dead in the
water. I coasted to the side of the road and start digging for what I
figured would be a loose wire. But nothing was found!

I verified 12v to the coil.
I verified fuel delivery.
I verified the distributor hadn't moved and changed the timing.

Crap. And all my parts and real tools were at home 20 miles away. I
knew I should have left that box in the bus!!!

Call the wife. Get chewed out because she and the baby had just lay
down for a nap. I offer to sit in Denver until she woke up (there was
a bar across the street..heh) She saw through my offer and said she'd
be right there, but she wasn't touching my tools or parts. Sigh. 30
min later she arrives. I jump in the Volvo and we head home for me to
get my stuff.

Volvo's running hot. No biggie, I think. I need gas anyway so I'll
just get water too. Except not a single friggin gas station has water!
They all have air and vacuums, but no water! Arrrgghhhh! Fine. It's
just a little warm, it'll make it. Who knows how long the wife's been
driving it like this anyway.

I get to the bus and the first thing I do is check spark with my handy
dandy spark checker. Nada.

Ok. It must be the mallory stuff I put in there. It was used after
all... I disconnect the module, swap coils, and wire it back up in
stock trim. But no start. No spark either. WTF?

Oh. No. Not that. You know where this is going...

I pull the distributor, remove the brand new Pertronix. Go to get my
points and condensor, swap 'em in, put distributor back. Crap. I
knocked a bunch of wires loose from the cap. 1-3-4-2? BAM! oops.
1-4-3-2. BAM! WTF? Front is Front. #1 is forward of #2.

After thoroughly berating myself I put it right. Varroooom!!!!

This Pertronix is only a couple weeks and a couple hundred miles old.
Guess I need to send it back. Grrrr.....

***Note***

I left the Mallory stuff disconnected for now. I'll play with it
later. It wasn't the problem so I'm not worried about it. But there
WAS a noticeable power loss without the Pertronix and Mallory stuff.
I'm going to put the Mallory stuff back on and we'll see if that's
where the power went...

--
Don
