From: "J Barry Burneskis" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 11 Jul 2005 03:47:13 +0000
Subject: Brake Pedal => Excessive Travel

I need some help / hints / insight here.

This is a 1972 Westy that was not on the road for the past 12 years.  I just 
got it mobile last weekend.

The brake pedal goes down towards the floor pretty much.  I just have 'three 
fingers' space between the pedal and the floor before it catches.  I am 
afraid to take it out on the road like that.  I cannot pump it up and get 
more brake pedal.

I have only driven it to the end of the block and back twice, and it is 
pretty scary.  Not like my other two type 2's ('76 and '78).  I am familiar 
with the brake system on the type 2, but there may be something I am 
overlooking,

Here's what I did:

Rebuilt front calipers w/new pads;
rebuilt master cylinder;
new rear wheel cylinders,
solid shoe lining at rear wheels;
turned rotors and drums;
replaced all four brake hoses;
new vacuum hose from engine to brake booster;
one-way backfire valve tested fine.

All new brake fluid and brakes bleed.  Rear brakes bleed again this morning.

I adjusted the rear brakes again tonight, and tightened the shoes with about 
4-3 teeth from each of the star wheels.  Usually when I do this, the 
emergency brake handle get tight [improves], and I only have to pull the 
emergency brake handle out just 1/3 of the way. but today I only imagine 
that I got very few notches benefit.  The emergency brake handle comes out 
about 3/4 of the way.  It does hold, though.  And the brakes DO stop, but I 
am generally going VERY slow when I use my brakes

Could there be something about the brake booster that I missed??

I don't know the history of this '72, other that it was a 2 owner, and the 
PO was a responsible VW lover and home mechanic.  He got too old for this 
stuff.  The original owner had it serviced at Metro VW Inc, 2121 8trh Ave, 
Seattle Wash.  I don't know what the brake pedal was like when it was on the 
road some 12+ years ago, so I don't know if this is the way THIS brake pedal 
is suppose to act.  I hope not.

Suggestions??  Is there any adjustment that I might be overlooking??

Thanks

Barry
Springfield VA
