From: "J Barry Burneskis" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: turbo2cv(-at-)gmail.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 11 Jul 2005 13:34:38 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] Brake Pedal => Excessive Travel

Thanks for your advice and suggestions.  I do appreciate them, and I am 
responding to see if there is anything else I may have forgotten


Barry,
A few suggestions
- Maybe you adjusted the brakes in the rear the wrong way. If the
handbrake does not grab earlier than before, there is something wrong
with the adjustment you did.


Arnaud, yes, it is confusing.  Righty - tighty, lefty - loosey.  When I was 
under the car, I could imagine the correct way to adjust via that axiom.  
But the threads visible through the adjusting port said otherwise.  It took 
ne a while to get it right.  Usually I have a bolt and star wheel in my 
adjusting packet so I can match them up to the brakes and see for sure 
what's correct.  When I adjust the [rear] brakes on my '78, I get a high and 
solid brake pedal, and a short pull on the emergency brake handle.  In fact, 
it is usually the long pull on the emergency brake handle that develops over 
time that causes me to give the rear brakes some attention...


- Double check that the system was bled properly. Maybe after driving
around a bit, a big bubble will show up somewhere.

Arnaud, thanks for the encouragement.  It may be that some road travel, at 
least 100 miles, will settle things down.  But these are the BRAKES that I 
am worried about!!!


- Mark the level on the brake fluid reservoir, turn the engine on (to
have power brakes) and pump the brakes hard several times. Does the
pedal go to the floor eventually ?

Arnaud, nope, the pedal keeps that 'three finger' distance from the floor.


Does the fluid level go down ? That
would say fluid leak or faulty master cylinder.

Arnaud, everything is cleaned; the reservoir, the tube to the master cyl 
reservoir, the master cyl reservoir itself, and I am using GREEN brake 
fluid.  I can get a good visual, and the VW is in the garage so MOST fluid 
dripping would be seen on the concrete floor.  Nothing changed in the 
behind-the-seat reservoir level.

Arnaud, the brake booster was examined pretty careful some 3 years ago, when 
I started this brake refurbishing procedure.  The original MC, when I added 
brake fluid some 3 years ago, was draining through the weep hole, but not 
into the brake booster.  I pulled the brake booster and held it in my hands 
and cleaned it up some 3 years ago, and I could not determine that anything 
was wrong.


Arnaud, keep those thoughts coming.

Barry
