To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: Vanagon List <vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM>, ovt list
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Fri, 3 Aug 2007 09:43:31 -0400
Subject: Reminder: Buses of the Corn - August 10-12

Hi Volks,

With just one week to go until we opens the gates of BOTC at noon  
next Friday, I thought this would be a good time to send an update on  
what you should and shouldn't bring to BOTC.

BRING:

1. A Bus.
Any year VW is welcome, from the barn door splitty to EuroVan. Bring  
a sunroof, camper, panel, kombi, double-door or singlecab. Vanagons &  
Rialta's are welcome too. It doesn't have to be a camper, there is  
plenty of room for tents or trailers if you want to bring one. You  
can also camp in your show car if you want to, but be advised that  
there's a half-mile of dusty gravel road to get into the campground.

2. The Family.
BOTC is not a judged show & shine held on a hot asphalt parking lot.  
It's not a 48-hour party for hopped-up hooligans (;-P.) BOTC is a VW  
camping event with something for the whole family. I'm bringing my  
wife and kids and I'd be happy to have you bring yours too. The kid- 
friendly activities will include frisbee golf, crafts, Tie-Dye  
workshop, afternoon water fight and scavenger hunt.

3. A Leash
If you're bringing a pet, bring a leash too.  Campground regulations  
state that pets have to stay on a leash. Thanks.

4. A red cup. (Or other beverage container)
Campground rules prohibit alcohol on-site. If you're gonna bring it  
anyway, I don't want the ranger to see it. "Just keep it cool". "Nuff  
said.

5. Door Prizes.
If you have something nifty to contribute, bring it along. We have a  
fair number of items already, but more are always welcome.

6. Food.
There are two communal meals at BOTC; we start out with Breakfast  
Burritos in the morning, and we also ask people to bring a side dish  
or dessert to share at the corn roast. There is an ingredient list  
for the Breakfast Burrito's online at www.busesofthecorn.com/ 
Burrito.html

7. Something to swap.
No, I'm not talking about your significant other!!  But if you have a  
spare VW part you'd like to sell or trade for something you're more  
in need of, BOTC is the place to do it. Swap meet space is free to  
registered campers, and the swap meet starts after the Burrito  
Breakfast on Saturday.

8. Something to Tye-Dye.
Also free to registered campers is the Saturday morning Tie-Dye  
Workshop. We will have a small quantity of BOTC T-shirts available  
for purchase on-site but if you prefer to bring your own item to dye  
you are welcome to do so. If you want to pre-order a shirt please  
email me with size information and I will tell you where to send the $ 
$$.

9. A musical instrument.
Bring it to the Friday and Saturday night campfire and we'll have a  
good time.

10. Quarters,
One reason for the cheap camp fees is that the showers are pay-as-you- 
go. Less than a buck's worth will get you squeaky-clean!



DON'T BRING: (a much shorter list)

1. Electrical Appliances.
Our campsite doesn't include hookups. Please plan to camp with  
propane and 12V. The electricity that is available is already  
reserved for group cooking and medical purposes.
(NOTE: If you need electricity for medical reason please email off- 
list)  If you insist on bringing a generator, please restrict its use  
to mealtimes.

2. Fireworks.
That includes engine cases. Campground regulations prohibit fireworks  
and firearms.



OTHER DETAILS:


WHEN IS IT?
Just one week from today. Gates open officially at noon on Friday  
August 10th, and close at noon on Sunday August 12th. You don't have  
to go home, but you can't stay at BOTC.

HOW DO I GET THERE?

BOTC is held just north of Whitby Ontario Canada, half an hour's  
drive east of Toronto. GPS Co-ordinates: 43.9292 78.9812

Exit 401 at Brock St. (HWY 12) in Whitby. Go north on Brock St. 3.5  
miles to Taunton Rd.
Turn left onto Taunton Rd and go 1 mile west  to Country Lane Rd.
Turn right on Country Lane Rd. and go north about 1.5 mile to its end  
at Lyndebrooke Rd.
Turn right and go east on Lyndebrook Rd.  Follow Lyndebrook about 100
yards to a parking lot with a gate on the right.
Open the gate, drive through, close the gate behind you. Follow the
gravel road about half a mile to the group camping area.


WHAT DOES IT COST?
$25 for the weekend, $20 for Saturday only.


WAIT, I NEED MORE INFO!
Visit the website! - www.busesofthecorn.com


Here's hoping we see you at "The Corn"!!!



Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/77/79 Westfakia "Bob The Tomato
www.pottsfamily.ca
www.busesofthecorn.com
