Date: Sun, 05 Aug 2007 08:24:41 -0500
From: David Schwarze <dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net>
To: XsystemMods <xsystemmods(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] High Top Camper?

There is information on this in the archives at type2.com.  I was in the 
same situation as you nearly 20 years ago, and knowing little about VW 
campers I bought a Safare high roof.  The biggest drawback is not being 
able to fit it inside a garage.  I also had to be careful at drive 
throughs as some are very low.  The issue of looks is subjective, of 
course.  I have to admit I prefer the classic Westy look.  Despite all 
of that, I have held on to my Safare all this time because being able to 
stand up inside is just too cool.  It is also "different" and relatively 
rare.  It will carry more than a Westy (I have used it to transport a 
6-foot palm tree and full-size arcade games).  You can put things on the 
roof (solar panels, antennae) without worrying about what happens when 
you pop the top.

Some may argue the fuel economy/wind resistance issue.  I have found 
that the bus is less willing to exceed 75mph than a Westy.  This is not 
a big deal to me.  :-)  I have seen literature from Adventurewagen 
stating that the high roof is actually more aerodynamic than the Westy 
roof.  I won't argue with this but I think they might be stretching the 
truth.  It might have a lower cd but I bet the larger frontal area 
results in more drag overall than a Westy.  I have not done extensive 
wind tunnel testing though.  Just 150,000 miles of highway driving.

Overall, I'd say that if everything else about the camper is good, buy 
it.  In other words, don't reject it simply for being a high roof unless 
you think of some reason that you definitely don't want one.

-David

XsystemMods wrote:
> 
> I have been looking around for a while now for a good camper for the summer.
> I have found one that I like but, its a high top. That means that it has a
> permanent high roof. Does anyone here have any experience with these and,
> any advice / pros , cons to owning one versus a pop top?
