Date: Mon, 6 Aug 2007 19:20:13 -0600
From: "Jason Meyer" <thesykboy(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Type 2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: How embarrassing...

So I took off work early today so that I could watch my boy while my wife
goes and does a house showing. I get home and decide to take Jacob for a bus
ride to pick up my brother to run an errand.

We get all strapped in and Jacob just looks as content as can be. He loves
riding in my van because he is sitting up high enough that he can see
outside really well.

We head off and I am just tickled to see how much he is enjoying the ride.
He is got this half smile that totally tells me "Dad, can we just keep
going?" It was a great feeling.

Next thing I know, a guy in an older black Blazer eases up to me and points
at me and says what I think is "leak". We both hit a stop light and the guy
says, "hey man, you're leaking!"

I immediately pull over thinking that somehow my oil plug came out, and low
and behold, I have gas coming out near one of the heads like a waterfall!!!
I look in the engine compartment and feel around to find that the fuel line
hooked up to the passenger side fuel rail is just cracked beyond belief and
is just POURING gas out of it.

I manage to get the line hooked enough for me to get home and I turn back
home only to see a line of gas on the road following me all the way home. It
is of course at this time that I start thinking about that nice tool bag
that DurocShark made and how helpful that would have been.

As I am pulling into my street, the engine starts to hesitate, and I just
know I about to run out of gas. I turn off the engine and coast into my
driveway.

Later on, I went to my FLAPS and got a replacement fuel line that fit the
bill and took my boy down to fill up the tank.

After the fill, I looked at my log book... Before the incident, I managed to
put 85 miles down before the leak began. When I filled up, she took 12
gallons.

Ouch. Lesson learned. Expensive lesson learned.


-- 
-thesykboy

Wanna see change? Either put up or shut up!
www.barackobama.com
www.ronpaul08.com

www.thesykboy.com
