Date: Fri, 25 Apr 2003 07:55:02 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Baker <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>
To: bus list <ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, type2 list
Cc: airwesty(-at-)yahoo.com, Sunny Bus <sunnyvw72(-at-)yahoo.com>, Full Moon Bus
Subject: Ohio Buses n Boats Event info

Hey Y'all, Happy Friday!
I can't believe that the Third Annual VW Buses, Boats,
n Bands event is almost here!! The dates are May 16-18
in Oregonia, Ohio, which is 36 miles north of
Cincinnati and about 30 miles south of Dayton.
All details may be found at the web site:
http://www.geocities.com/buses_n_boats
The weekend will feature camping, canoeing, LIVE
music, and more!
For those of you who know you are coming, here is some
more info:
When you arrive at the Olive Branch campground you
will NOT check in at the campground office. Follow the
signs back to the campsites area and register at the
Green Shelter awning with the PEACE SIGN flag hanging
on it, which will likely be attached to my bus
(yellow\white 71 westy).  If you arrive after 9:00 pm
on Friday evening, then just set up your site and
register with me on Saturday morning.  At the
registration table you can also sign up for the
Saturday morning canoe trip, buy an event T-shirt, buy
a 50\50 split the pot raffle ticket, and register for
the door prize drawing. BTW, I NEED SOME DOOR PRIZE
DONATIONS!! So if you have anything VW you would like
to donate as a door prize, let me know.
Of course, we will be pitching in to make the world
famous Full Moon Bus Club Breakfast Burritos on
Saturday morning, so bring your favorite ingredient to
throw into the mix. Also, if you have a stove or
cooking pots, we'll need some of those as well.
There will be an "open community" grill set up and
blazing for Saturday dinner about 5:30 or 6:00 pm, so
bring your favorite grillable to throw on for
yourself.
The band will start playing about 7:30 pm after
dinner.
Most of the sites we have reserved can fit 2-3 buses
on each site, so feel free to do so. There WILL be
electric and water hook ups at all sites.
Everyone come out and let The Ohio Valley Tribe of the
Full Moon Bus Club show you some good ole' fashioned
Mid-western Hospitality!!
As always, feel free to contact me for anything.
PEACE!!

=====
Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1972 Deluxe
http://www.buszen.com

"So we got into the red VW microbus with the shovels and the rakes and the implements of destruction and we headed on to the police officer's station..."
