Date: Fri, 25 Apr 2003 13:34:29 -0700
To: "Hoare, Brian S" <brian.s.hoare(-at-)boeing.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] High oil pressure - 79 Westy

At 12:47 PM 04/25/2003, you wrote:

>I noticed high oil pressure in my '79 CA bus yesterday on the way to work.
>When I started the bus to go home the oil pressure went to 10 psi on start,
>hesitated, then climbed up to 40 psi. On the 35 mile freeway drive home the
>oil pressure remained high, close to 60 psi at freeway speeds.

Those are some of the best numbers you could have, unless due to using oil 
too heavy for conditions. Are you comparing with figures that were 
different prior to you last oil change??? Was this change in pressure 
associated with an extra chilly day?? Or, did you just install the gauge 
and these are the first figures you've seen??? If you have those numbers 
with the correct weight oil for current temps you are blessed with great 
lubrication. However, if too heavy an oil is in play, the extra pressure is 
from poor viscosity, too thick, and oil volume delivered will drop. That's 
not good. Hot idle pressure is not to worry at 10 psi, but hot running 
pressure should be at least 45 pounds for a health engine with the proper 
viscosity for conditions.

>  After parking
>the bus in the driveway and coming out of the house a little while later I
>noticed a dollar bill sized oil patch under the driveway. It looks like
>there is a leak at the front main seal.

Verify you haven't inadvertently overfilled the crankcase. Verify crank 
breather system clean. I don't see this as related to the oil pressure 
issue. If this is a new leak, make sure the crankcase is breathing, and the 
level is correct.


>Does this indicate that the oil pressure relief valve is stuck, or are there
>other possibilities?

If you had lower pressures before and suddenly you had much different 
figures, yes, I would verify the pressure relief was free and clear of any crud.
