From: "Air Cooled VWs" <aircooledvws(-at-)cox.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 26 Apr 2003 19:08:50 -0700
Subject: Different Sound After Adj. Valves

Friends of the list,

	I was working on my friends 1976 Westy today and did a full
tune-up including adjusting the valves, oil change, spark plugs, adj.
carb,  and set timing. 

	His Bus was running pretty good, but was just in need of regular
maintenance. We had let his Bus sit over night where I was going to do
the tune-up so I wasn't worried about it being warm.

	But, my question is? 

	His Bus had a much more meatier and deeper sound as he has done
lots of modification to his engine including adding 1700 heads, 96mm
pistons and rings, bigger cam and crank, Weber progressive carb, and a
Monza exhaust.

	I adj. his valves to .006 and made sure the valve guides were
set in place and the retaining wire was adj. properly. I started with
cyl. 1 and turned his pull counter-clock wise till they were all in the
up position verified by a dowel rod in each cylinder before setting and
also on the "0" mark on his pulley guide. 

	He had asked me to set a gap of .30 on his spark plugs (Bosch
Premium) and also replace his wires.

	He is running a 009 Distributor with Petronix ignition and a
Bosch Blue Coil.

	The carb was just a little dirty and sprayed it out and replaced
the fuel filter and air filter.

	By the book everything was done correctly. Even when the Bus is
running it sounds solid and you can hear each cylinder hitting. Just it
now has a much higher pitched sound, it sounds exactly like my uncles 78
Westy he has but he hasn't done any modifications to his bus.

	Why would this Bus now have a more higher pitched noise (I
rechecked the valves too and all still set to .006)? I even cut down his
idle some to even it out, but this is just really got me wondering and
wondering if I will have to be making a midnight run to go pick up my
friend as his Bus is now dead somewhere.

	I would appreciate any and all ideas or corrective measures I
could take.

Thanks so much !!

Mike and Leigh
71 Westy
