Date: Sun, 27 Apr 2003 10:04:14 -0700
To: "Thewlis, Richard   N" <richard.thewlis(-at-)imperial.ac.uk>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] T2 - 1982 Vanagon 1588cc Air Cooled - Air Filter

If all the air getting to the carb is filtered and unrestricted by warm up 
air flaps, I would first try stock idle and mixture adjustment at full 
operating temp. This setup will make you cold blooded, meaning fussy until 
the motor is warm. This can be compensated for to a small degree by turning 
the choke a bit richer. You just can't go very far here, or you will get 
the kind of cylinder wash that allows damages. All that adds up to is good 
motoring when most of the miles are at full running temps. However, if most 
mileage is short runs, on the warmup cycle, you will build up raw gas in 
the oil in a few weeks and have much monkey snot build up from condensed 
water. Change the oil and clean the breather and fill cap and valve covers 
often in this case.

Best would be to get the warm air for warm up thingies all working stock if 
you can. Otherwise, consider how you might rig the warm air flaps with a 
wire so you can operate them manually. Leave the warm air on for chilly 
weather and off in summer, and make appropriate mixture and choke 
adjustments twice per year.

I do use my carbed T-II for short runs primarily and change the oil every 6 
weeks or so, about 500 miles. I set my choke for as lean as I could stand 
without warm air input. I have to tap the throttle to keep idle at the stop 
signs on the way to work or it will stumble. By the time I make the shop, 
it is just approaching it's own warm idle off choke. I just do the 
maintenance this type of use requires to prevent the oil from becoming over 
loaded with gas and water contamination.

At 08:33 AM 04/27/2003, you wrote:
>I am currently running my air filter system and air cleaner assembly as
>such.  Upper housing has 4 inlets with temperature regulator on the inside
>of the air cleaner housing and a temperature switch.  The 2 inlets with the
>temp' reg' are connected to the Vacuum Unit on the air housing and the inlet
>manifold.
