To: vanagon(-at-)gerry.vanagon.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com,
Cc: Jnvw(-at-)aol.com, Bill and Brien Deuterman <bdeuterman(-at-)triad.rr.com>,
From: everybus <everybus(-at-)mindspring.com>
Date: Sat, 9 Apr 2005 13:03:43 -0400
Subject: EveryBus 2005 - new stuff!

Hi Everybody!

I've been sick for most of the last 4 weeks so I have not done as much 
updating as I would have liked. I am finally starting to feel better so 
I took advantage of the opportunity and did some important updates to 
the EveryBus web site located at www.everybus.com

Here is the Reader's Digest version

EveryBus starts Thursday 4.14.2005 at Hagen-Stone Park located just 
south of Greensboro, NC. This is the 7th annual EB and I expect about 
150 VW buses, Vanagons and Eurovans. The event is primarily a campout 
but there are several fun activities for kids and adults that will take 
place during EB.

To get right to it go to 
http://www.mindspring.com/~everybus/activities.html

I am proud to announce the SUBURBAN DESIGN CORE team is coming down 
from Canada and will be providing goods and services that will include 
Tattoos, pin striping, cool t-shirts, glass art and perhaps something 
to quench your thirst. Details are here

http://www.mindspring.com/~everybus/SDCshoppe.html

This year the Canadians return with the most excellent pancake 
breakfast on Friday morning. Although nothing formal is in place, 
Saturday is usually the volunteer burrito breakfast. Before lunch the 
moonbounce should arrive for the kids and there will be some other fun 
kid stuff after lunch. Also after lunch the VW camping competition will 
begin. Greg Potts is running this event and it will be a blast. The 
gist of it is

The Bus Camping Competition - Greg Potts will preside over this event
  From a rolling start, the clock starts when the bus wheel's stop 
rolling. The crew must then:
  1. Pop the top, make a bed and get horizontal.
  2. put away the bed and set out a meal. (table, plate, cutlery)
  3. clean away the meal, and get relaxed in a lawn chair with a 
beverage.
  4. pack up and put the roof down, when everyone is aboard and the 
wheels are turning the clock stops.

This could be the most fun ever had at EB. In order the make the prizes 
commensurate with fun we will put up the following

1st place 512K iPod Shuffle
  2nd place Your camping fees refunded
  3rd place Pair of camp chairs.

Saturday evening will be the annual chili cookoff. See the website for 
details.

http://www.mindspring.com/~everybus/chilinotes.html

After the chili has been judged the pot luck will begin.  After supper 
we will clean up a little and hand out some door prizes. Saturday night 
will be filled with socializing and perhaps some music.

There have been numerous updates to the carabus list.

http://www.mindspring.com/~everybus/carabus.html

People are coming from as far as Denver Co. Boston MA, Quebec, Ontario 
and Miami FL.  Please check the list and if you wish to be added let me 
know.

If you have any questions feel free to contact me.

Chris
www.everybus.com
RED CUP!!!
