From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "Vintage List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 11 Apr 2005 09:14:50 -0400
Subject: re:tires

Hi Guys,

I'm just going to go on about tires what I'm learning-looking for
corrections or agreement on these statements.

I notice in my bus when driving on the highway-and a truck passes me-the
whole bus sways. So I think I want to go with a stiffer sidewall. I think
the current tire I have are wrong. Poor tire shop recommendation. They are
one ply sidewall.

According to the library I should be looking for a tire with a weight rating
in the 1500-1700 lbs range. And 4-ply sidewall. I could get either 185 or
195. I guess 195 is a little taller-this would give me better mileage,
right? Is there a big difference between these two-in terms of ride or any
other factor? Are there potential problems with the larger tire having
trouble fitting? I think I read that a larger tire(larger than OEM
recommendation) can cause extra stress on the steering box.

I think I want a pair of all-season, as I don't think I can be bothered with
changing my tires every winter/summer.

I used Ronnie's suggested search on Tirerack.com, and only two show up as
all-season-the Continental Vanco-8($66) or the Michelin Agilis($101).
According to some tests the Hankook outperforms the Michelin. Hankook is not
available on Tirerack.

I checked the specs on the Bridgestone Dueler A/T D693 w/UNI-T(on tire
rack)[recently suggested by some list-members]-they are only rated for 1435
lbs. I think that this sidewall has two-plys. 

The Continental Vanco 8 gets a load rating of 1874 lbs, (they are also made
in germany ;). I'm not sure how many sideplys they have. This has also
gotten some rave reviews on Tirerack from VW bus owners. Price $66

The Michelin Agilis is rated at 1875 lbs. good reviews by Vanagon owners on
Tirerack. A bit pricier.

The Hanook RA08 has is rated 8ply-I'm not sure if that is side ply or not.
If so-I imagine this is a very stiff tire. Price - $105 locally, or $70 from
bus depot, N/A from tirerack.

I'll keep the list updated as I learn more...

Thanks for any responses/feedback/corrections on this information...

-kevin
'71 sqbk
'65 kombi
somerville, ma 
