Date: Mon, 11 Apr 2005 21:52:34 -0400
From: rob coerver <iamdonquixote(-at-)comcast.net>
To: DasList <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: re: tires

Mike sent this to me cause it wouldn't go through. The vintagebus list 
is very ASCII happy and pefers plain text, use a browser that asks you 
which type you want to send (plain text or html etc ) or set it through 
preferences.  Also leave out the trailer message etc.  I think their are 
some use guidlines etc somewhere on the site or in the subscribe emails 
you initially receive.  Other who actully run the list may pipe in here 
and let you know what else.

Hi Rob,
tried to send this to you and vintagebus list. VB kept sending it back 
because there was
to much "quoted" materiel. I never heard of such a thing!
Anyway, wanted to reply to your post....and didn't want to rewrite mine 
so here goes.
Another point of view.
Mike Turner
 
I'm probably gonna get slapped, but if you'll allow me to ramble a bit, let
me throw my 2 cents in.....
My bus is a 1963 split window deluxe. a seven passenger, walk through model.
Although I've owned it for ten years, working in Japan as a civilian for 
the
navy kept me
from putting many miles on it. We've been home about a year and a half now
and
plan to try a few trips this year. After reading an earlier tire "thread",
my
attention was drawn to my own tires.
I'd been running 165SR15's from Michelin on 15 inch bug "smoothie" rims.
The tires were in great shape but several issues came to view. The load
rating was 1130 LB's.
The BENTLEY and my owners manual show these will work, load wise, but a
little close for comfort.
Also my speedometer was way off I discovered. I decided to upgrade my 
tires.
First, with help from friends,
I purchased five, stock, 15 inch bus rims. You know these rims are dated.
Would have been neat to have them
all the same month and year as the bus. I'd probably be about 110 years old
when that came about, however.
So, you pays your money, and takes what you can get. With regard to the
tires, after doing some searching,
I was all set to go with the 205/75/R15's that are so popular.
Living on Whidbey Island, I planned to buy and have them installed at the
local Les Schwab dealer in Oak Harbor.
It just happens I know a local fella, working there, that's also a
Volkswagen fan. He drives a clean
65 bug. Anyway in swinging by to chat with him prior to leaving the store,
he advised me that
installing 205's on 4.5 x 15" rims might not be so good. "Rims are kinda
narrow. I know folks do it."
"But, you know what?" he said "you can get original size tires from COKER.
Their POLYESTER, bias ply.
They should be a little stiffer in the side wall then radials  and their
weight rated for your bus."
"No kiddin?" sez I.
 "Yeah". he replied "And, you can get 'em mounted here. We mount COKERS all
the time,
on a lot of different older cars. COKERS is about the only place you can 
get
original tires for them old, 1930
and '40, Chevy's, and Ford's, and stuff."
"HHmmmm" I replied. Well, to make a long story short, I ordered a set of
five, 6.40-15 polyester tubeless tires
thru the Les Schwab dealership. They mounted and balanced them on my stock
15 inch rims.
At this time I've put about three hundred miles on them. The tires were
actually manufactured by B.F. Goodrich.
I'm carrying the stock pressure as recommended in the owners manual, 28 in
the front and 32 in the back.
They seem to ride firm and are a good match for the Bilstein shocks on the
bus. I admit I've not gone out into any
"NorWester" type wind storms, nor have I tried to run any "18 wheelers" off
the road, but neither have I done any
"slow rolls" while in hiway traffic. What I really enjoy is having a
speedometer that accurately reflects my speed.
I can now actually shift gears in my bus using those "tick" marks on the
speedometer. The sound of  the engine seems
to agree with the indicator. And, wonder of wonders the spare tire fits 
that
"wheel well" in the rear as it was meant
to do. Steering is light and positive.
Like that old song refrain..."different strokes, for different folks"   who
knows? perhaps next year I'll sing
a different song, but for now....I'm a happy camper. And that's my 2 cents
on
15 inch Bus rim tires.

Mike Turner
