Date: Mon, 11 Apr 2005 21:02:36 -0700
From: "MICHAEL TURNER" <airmike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <slojason(-at-)charter.net>,	"rob coerver" <iamdonquixote(-at-)comcast.net>,
Subject: Tire stuff

With regard to the load rating of the COKER  6.40-15 tires
I multiplied 1190 X 4 and came up with 4760 gross weight.
The GVW for my bus in the ' 63 owners manual is 4145
So I figure I'm good by at least 600 lb's.
Since this is the original OEM tire sold with the bus and I'm running
in stock configuration I feel comfortable with this load range, and believe
it's correct.
I think the load range issue comes about when people want stiffer side walls
for
bettor handling in winds and dealing with large trucks on the freeway.

As far as how common stock 15 inch bus rims are to locate. I'm not the expert
on that, I have seen them for sale on the samba web site. If your looking for
a complete
set of five rims, I might guess your looking at one hundred to one hundred
fifty dollars
ball park figure. If you can buy 'em local where you live or near by you'll
save on shipping.
I was able to get most of mine in the Seattle area through Clara and
Eric and Barb, super folks who dragged them out to Puyallup (VW show) where I
picked them up.
Several of the rims needed new hub cap clips. The ones on the 15 inch rims are
different then those on
14 inch rims. Their just a bit taller. I purchased German clips and rivits
from Ronnie at
OLD VOLKS in Arizona. Not cheap they ran about 75 bucks but they work good.
I had the rims media blasted and powdercoated at KENS in Spanaway, Washington.
He does super work
at about $ 39. a rim. That's how it went for me.
With regard to the dates, I don't know if it's still done but on early split
window buses the rims were
stamped with a manufacture date of month and year. I've met some folks who's
bus has a matched set of
rims with the month and year of their bus stamped in the rim. Perhaps it's
vanity but the thought crossed my mind
how neat that might be. It's really not important and certainly bears no
reflection on how hard or easy the rims are
to aquire.

As far as one size being better then another, I think that's up to the owner
to decide. One issue you have to be
aware of though. If your bus came with 14 inch or 15 inch rims and tires as
OEM equipment, and you swap
sizes it usually throws off the speedometer, sometimes way off. Something to
think about I guess.

Mike Turner
