From: "Eric Allred" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 13 Apr 2005 13:40:35 -0600
Subject: Re: [VB] Most important of all, . . . these days

I've found my mileage changes most depending on what speed i'm trying to
drive the bus.

My old 64 bus was getting 28mpg at 60mph and 25mpg at 65mph. These were
figures I gathered while driving back and forth from Vegas to SLC with the
bus loaded up with housewares while moving a couple years ago. Had cruise
control installed in that bus (no joke!) so the mph figures represent about
200 mile stretches at a very steady pace. But I am at altitude (about 4200
ft) so I don't know how it would have faired at a lower altitude.

Currently trying to milk 30mpg out of my 79 Fatchick westy (it's ugly, but
rocks as a camper). I haven't been able to really test it on a road trip yet
this year to see if i've done it, but I think it should be close. A cam
change would definitly put me there, but the motor runs great and doesn't
leak, so I can't justify doing a cam swap right now.

In my experience, the three biggest things i've found to get more mpg from
the engine, is a vacuum advance distributor (properly timed), a CDI
ignition, and PROPER jetting using a wideband A/F meter to dial it exactly
in. Both ignition mods have always given me 2-4 more mpg in whatever i've
installed them in, and getting the A/F mixture right on always makes a huge
difference. I've found I can always run a size or two smaller main jet with
a CDI installed for some reason which helps even more.

Tire pressure is another, don't forget to check those. As well as running a
roof rack, or worse, load a bunch of gear on it. I prefer to load stuff on a
rack, I don't like the interior cluttered, but if you want the best mpg
possible, put all that stuff inside!

A free-er flowing exhaust really helps out a lot too. The stock muffler is
quite restrictive. Pick up a few more mpg's by swapping over to a basic
header and single quietpack. I've got the stock muffler on a bugpack header
on my 79 which helps, but I also have a freeflow muffler to bolt on if I
really want to milk the mileage. It's a bit louder though so it's a tough
call.

And if driving around town, don't drive it like you stole it. Easy
acceleration and braking will net you the biggest gains there.

Eric Allred
