Date: Wed, 13 Apr 2005 17:57:06 -0700
To: <vwstuff53(-at-)msn.com>, "'Chris M.'" <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>, "'type2
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Cc: "'vintagebus \(E-mail\)'" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: [VB] RE: [T2] FW: SEMA Legislative Alert: Arizona Emissions

...

>The collector insurances we've had (there have been several
>over the years) usually allow 1500-2500 miles a year.
>The new law isn't perfect, but it's better than what we've had.

jerry and i have discussed this, and i have to disagree; even my POS 
70 was able to pass emissions - and they chose me for the tougher 
dynamic testing both times.  most busses can pass with some work, 
even if the motor is in that configuration JUST to pass, and gets put 
back to 'normal, drivable' right after the test.  personally, i think 
most folk want to avoid the testing just because it is a hassle, or 
from anti-gubmint issues, NOT due to worries of failure.

be careful what you wish for:  mark my words, states using this 
bill's language are halfway to REQUIRING collectible insurance to 
continue to drive the vehicle... meaning no daily drivers, no road 
trips. trailer queen/weekend driver time.

i sometimes drive my bus more than 2000 miles a year, usually in one 
long road trip, and i almost NEVER am driving in parades or to shows; 
i would be forced to buy a newer car if i have to carry collector 
insurance on the bus. which is PRECISELY the point of these bills.

yes, i am glad i don't live in california, where they know what 
missing equipment to look for on busses; christ, the scottsdale test 
center i go to didn't have anyone who could drive a STICK! yes, i 
hate sweating it out each year. yes, i hate having to come back if i 
fail, or pay gross polluter fees or whatever your state declares... 
but i'd hate not driving my bus  more.

with respect to all the hard work jerry et al have done, remember 
that  they come at this from a different perspective: generally older 
hobbyists, with nicer cars; better dressed, often socially a bit 
conservative,  middle class or better, better-heeled. they have the 
image and the $$$ (or appearance of $$$) to get noticed by 
politicians. those of us anarchosyndicalist beatnik nogooders who 
drive trashy (but SMOGGED) busses as daily transports? if 200 of US 
showed up at some state capitol to demand a bill for us, all we'd get 
is:

TOWED.


'course, its all moot:  gas will cease to exist in 10 years time or 
less, ANWR, invasion of iran or venezuela or??? notwithstanding.  oil 
is too important a resource to be pissing it away as gasoline for too 
much longer...............
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
