From: "Eric Allred" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "Vintage Bus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 21 Jul 2005 11:51:51 -0600
Subject: Re: [VB] Porsche Pulley 

> Jake Raby tested it, and says it lowers head temps by
> 25 degrees on any shroud:
>
Yea, we know Jake pretty good. Super nice guy to talk to on the phone.

One thing to keep in mind though. All of Jakes cooling testing is done on a
climate controlled dyno.

Now don't get me wrong, i'm not trying to play Devils Advocate, but rather
"Let's check it from every angle".

I've seen Jakes testing, and on the dyno, it is pretty thorough. So if Jake
has seen a 25 degree head temp drop with the smaller pulley, i'll buy it.
I'd like to see the comparitive data though. A 25 degree drop compared to
what? What rpm, what HP load, etc, etc. If you think about it, "a 25 degreed
temp drop" is pretty vague. If we dont know what the two comparisons were
from, what real good does this information do for us? If it runs 25 degrees
cooler with a 75hp load, well that does us no good. It takes about 50 hp to
push our buses 70mph (about), so is the 25 degree drop in temp with a 30hp
load, a 50hp load, higher? Across the board? It's incomplete information and
because of that, it should not be the final word if you know what i'm
saying.

But, what this tells me is that the stock doghouse cooling system does not
supply more air than than the stock heads are able to take advantage of.
That's a good thing. As it sits, the smaller pulley can make you run cooler
(or conversley, a larger crank pulley). But how much cooler is still not
real avaliable information. To be fully informed, we need to know
before/after conditions, as well as engine load.

Then you also have to take into account that it is a climate controlled dyno
room. Unfortunatly, that is not the real world. Stick a Type 1 motor into a
split bus, and you're going to discover that all the temps are completley
different at that point. And what the biggest difference between a dyno and
a split bus is, on a dyno you have an unlimited supply of air. Nothing is
being choked. In a split bus engine bay, the stock louvers do not flow
enough air to feed a doghouse cooling system. At higher rpms, you start
developing a vacuum in the engine bay. Since the fan shroud must produce
PRESSURE in order to force air past the cooling fins, plus lesser known
restriction that the cool air hitting the fins expands, creating a bit of
backpressure. If the air the cooling fan is taking in is under vacuum, then
the total amount of air pressure it will creat is going to be less, and
reduce your cooling systems effectiveness. Spinning the fan faster with a
smaller pulley is not fixing this problem, it is only trying to cover up the
issue that there is not enough air intake area for the engine.

So providing more intake is key. As :Lou did with his bus by adding a 3"
dryer duct hose he increased his intake surface area by 7 square inches. May
not seem like a lot, but consider that the stock louvers on a bus have a
total opening of about 107 square inches (yes, i've measured it). That's an
increase of about 6.5 percent.  That difference can help quite a bit. What
can help even more? Remove the front tin (the piece that straddles where the
engine and trans meet). That tin has about 100 square inches of surface area
that becomes intake area. Nearly doubling the stock intake area for the
motor. Doubling the intake surface area into the split bus engine bay when
running a doghouse cooling system is the difference between pulling water a
few inches up a hose to no longer having any engine bay vacuum at all. Head
(and subsequently, oil) temps go way down due to the increase in cooling
capacity the engine is able to provide.

Increase engine bay intake area, and you can no doubt take advantage of the
added cooling a Porsche pulley might offer you. But if you are stuck with
being determined to keep every piece of engine tin in there, I don't think
you're accomplishing all that much by speeding the fan up due to the
restrictions.

Then I have people say that it probably isn't smart to remove the front tin.
They say things along the lines that it's not a good idea to second guess
the German Engineers and all that jazz. Well, anyone that sticks a doghouse
cooler into a split bus is second guessing the german engineers and how the
split bus was designed to run. The split bus was not designed to have and
engine that pulls as much air as a 1600 dualport with a doghouse shroud and
run cool. By the time VW put a doghouse in a bus (1971), they had scooped
the intakes to relieve engine bay vacuum to assist in cooling. In fact, 1968
to 1979 bay window buses all took advantage of "scooping" the air to create
engine bay pressure on the highway to help run cool. Even my 79 Westy will
pressurize the engine bay with a big ol' Type 4 sucking in the air while on
the highway. Yes, the VW knew what they were doing when they designed the
bus. That's why you cant put a later motor in an early bodies VW (not just
buses!) without increasing the air intake area. VW increased the intake area
as they went with larger motors. If you put a larger motor than stock (for
your year!) in your bus, you better make sure you increase everywhere else
that it's needed.  It's an over-used phrase, but here you go: "It's all in
the combo".

Take it or leave it. But don't second guess it until you checked it all out
for yourself.

Eric Allred
