Date: Thu, 21 Jul 2005 19:00:00 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Eric Allred <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
Subject: Re: [VB] Porsche Pulley 

On Thu, 21 Jul 2005, Eric Allred wrote:

> Then you also have to take into account that it is a climate controlled dyno
> room. Unfortunatly, that is not the real world.

No, it's better.  The "real world" is a horrible place to test chantes in
engine configuration.  Too many uncontrolled variables.
>
> Then I have people say that it probably isn't smart to remove the front tin.
> They say things along the lines that it's not a good idea to second guess
> the German Engineers and all that jazz.

Well, opening the engine bay up for hot air recirculation doesn't seem too
bright to me.  The "dryer duct" idea was much smarter, provided that the
ducts were carried far enough forward to get them out of the dust kicked
up by the front wheels.

> Well, anyone that sticks a doghouse
> cooler into a split bus is second guessing the german engineers and how the
> split bus was designed to run.

Well, the engineers would have put a doghouse cooler in the split bus if
it was available.  They might also have increased the intake area to
match.  Even with the stock intake area the doghouse is a good idea, since
there is always a little tolerance designed into every system.

> The split bus was not designed to have and
> engine that pulls as much air as a 1600 dualport with a doghouse shroud and
> run cool. By the time VW put a doghouse in a bus (1971), they had scooped
> the intakes to relieve engine bay vacuum to assist in cooling.

Not really true.  Take a look at those "scoops" and you'll see that the
plane of the opening is about 60 degrees from the fore-aft axis of the
bus.  They face more sideways than forward!  The outer lip only extends
about 3/4 inch out from the bodywork of the bus, which means that it is
completely within the boundary layer

Also note that the size and shape of the scoop did not change from the
'68-'70 "non-doghouse" buses to the '71 "doghouse" buses.  It wasn't until
the type 4 engine arrived that the scoops were enlarged.

I'm not saying that the bus won't benefit from an increase in air intake
area.  However, the increase must be engineered carefully.  "Quick fixes"
like leaving the front tin off might be disasterous under adverse wind
and/or road conditions.  Attention must be paid to preventing
recirculation and keeping the intake air clean.  There's a reason that the
fabled German Engineers went to all the trouble to put the intake vents
high on the sides of the baywindow bus.

George
