From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 21 Jul 2005 23:39:03 EDT
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Porsche Pulley 

Hi George & Eric,
Whoa guys!  For the most part it seems to us that you two are arguing  wether 
the glass is half full or half empty.  
  Yes testing in a controlled enviroment is good because one can  replicate 
results, BUT it is also good to test in the real world because there  is always 
the possibility something one has not thought of can occur.   See the example 
of "Tacoma Narrows Bridge", AKA "Galloping Gertie".
  As for removing the front engine tin...  To us it is not a good  idea.  
Yes, one always has a chance to suck up something through the stock  vents, but 
at a much lower chance than underneath the bus.  The wheels  do kick up all 
sorts of things and even just road dust is not good for the  engine to get coated 
with.  See Australian SCs with factory engine vents  all the way up and 
forward over the front windshields.  We even have seen  a SC with the factory vents 
on the backside of the cab.  All  to reduce dust problems.  Plus without the 
forward tin there is  an increased chance in cool weather to suck up more 
exhaust gas and monoxide  poison those in the bus, especially at lower speeds.  
Probably the best  solutions would be either to manufacture a duct to go all the 
 way forward to just under the front bumper and add a screen to keep  stuff 
out, OR make a fake 1960s air conditioner condensor setup that is actually  an 
air scoop on the rear of the roof and duct air from this down into the  engine 
compartment.
  Of course in a perfect world the engine compartment would keep the  same or 
even more air pressure as outside, but the more the engine  compartment 
increases in vacuum the more air flow into the engine  compartment.  Remember there 
are plenty of automobiles functioning in  altitudes of 13,000 ft and higher 
and even piston powered aircraft doing 30,000  + ft..  All functioning in 
atmospheric pressure that is much less than  at sea level.  What would be more 
interesting and perhaps a better  test indicator is how much the fan shroud 
pressurizes with different  pulleys, fan widths, and a bell curve chart of pressure 
at what fan  RPMs.
  For us it has been a long road to get our engines to work well and  long.  
We put many years of 20,000 miles driving per year, just on our  walk thru 
panel van camper conversion, and had plenty of cooling problems.   Just adding 
the Porsche pulley is one of many modifications we did to get the  engines to 
run cooler than 220 F oil temp while doing 3,000 engine RPM as a  cruising 
speed.  It has helped very much to keep the oil below this  temp.  Especially on 
our trips to Sacramento, in the Redding to Sacramento  and back part of this 
trip.  Before the Porsche Pulley we used to have  to back off RPMs from 3,000 
engine RPM down as low as 2,800 RPM to keep oil  temp just below 220 F in weather 
in the low 90s F.  With the  Porsche Pulley we only twice got barely above 
210 F (-at-) 3,000 RPM twice  for just a few minutes each time.  Most of this part of 
 the trip the oil temp was about 200 F.  This in the hours it  takes to do 
that route going North, with again outside temps in the lower  90s F.
  Eric&Barb
