Date: Fri, 22 Jul 2005 10:27:38 -0700
To: VB list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: argument clinic

ah yes, the end stage of 
soooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
many debates on vb and t2:

>As for me, i've tried to share my hard work with the community, and I get
>the impression that it's a waste of my time. George, you can have the last
>word on this if you want, i'm done with it.

'i'm taking my toys and going home.'

i have taken wisdom from both these posters, and hope to do so again. 
whether oil, tires, flaps or something else, there are gonna be 
debates - hopefully civil. barring a flame war, i don't see the point 
of getting DEFENSIVE and/or INSULTED  when someone  questions 
statements made here; nor do i see a benefit to claiming 'things just 
ain't so cuz i say so.'  <-- simplifying a bit, here  :)

eric: find  a willing, unmodified bus. measure compression, c/r, CC, 
gear ratios, spark plug number, tire size.  drive it while measuring 
rpm, oil temp, outside air temp, engine bay temp, head temp, 
humidity, elevation, speed, a pitot tube in laminar flow, and one 
outside. plus vacuum measurements from the engine bay relative to 
cabin AND relative to outside (like on the roof).  drive a level road 
at differing speeds, then an incline at varied speeds.  record all 
measurements.  drive it with all windows CLOSED, then for fun open 
different windows in combo or singly.

george (and clara or anyone else who has fooled with these problems): 
explain to eric what instruments to use, how to use them properly, 
what to measure, what to look for.  then the two of you can work 
TOGETHER  exploring and explaining ANY mods made to the bus, and the 
resulting numbers from the resulting, identical drives.  ONE 
modification at a time!!

otherwise, this is all just piss in the wind. dr. porsche didn't say 
'mine auto ist so gut;' he repeatedly tested the beJAYzus out of it - 
with instruments. he then had a leg to stand on.

until then:  i BELIEVE the splittie bus DOES have some airflow 
problems with a larger-than-1500 cc motor. not sure if 'engine bay 
vacuum' is the culprit, but it seems clear VW changed the intakes 
later. they changed them again when the motor got even bigger.

i KNOW i am not taking off my front tin - after driving home from 
jerome across the mountains on a railroad rightofway, a torn seal 
gave me enough dirt to change the engine bay from green to brick red. 
EVERY SQUARE INCH.  now, the fresh air vent behind the front bumper, 
routed to the front tin, seems like a darn good idea. didn't berg 
mention that once?

and i KNOW that unless someone goes to germany and digs out the 
engineering archives, or does these repeated, instrumented tests, its 
all synthetic-vs-dino jawboning.


my .000002 cents.
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
