Date: Fri, 22 Jul 2005 20:37:08 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: Re: [VB] argument clinic

On Fri, 22 Jul 2005, craig wrote:

> george (and clara or anyone else who has fooled with these problems):
> explain to eric what instruments to use, how to use them properly,
> what to measure, what to look for.  then the two of you can work
> TOGETHER  exploring and explaining ANY mods made to the bus, and the
> resulting numbers from the resulting, identical drives.  ONE
> modification at a time!!

I've tried, including how to make a proper manometer instead of juggling
a glass of water, but it seems that I've been dubbed an unworthy pure
theorist.

This is rather amusing considering all the instruments and probes I've
stuck in various parts of my bus over the years.  Being a physics
geek with access to lab equipment makes this kind of inevitable.

> until then:  i BELIEVE the splittie bus DOES have some airflow
> problems with a larger-than-1500 cc motor. not sure if 'engine bay
> vacuum' is the culprit, but it seems clear VW changed the intakes
> later. they changed them again when the motor got even bigger.

Vacuum in the engine bay is certainly a symptom that can be measured, but
isn't always a negative.  For example, you can easily get rid of the
vacuum by removing the engine seals, but this won't promote cooler engine
temps!  There will always be a couple of inches (H2O) of pressure
differential as it is needed to move the air from the outside into the
engine bay.

The idea of using ram air has occured to some, but there is a good
reason not to depend upon it.  The most demanding situation, heat-wise,
is climbing a steep hill on a hot day.  Losing the ram-air effect when
climbing a hill at slow speed is not what we want!  The VW has fan-forced
cooling for a good reason!

> i KNOW i am not taking off my front tin - after driving home from
> jerome across the mountains on a railroad rightofway, a torn seal
> gave me enough dirt to change the engine bay from green to brick red.
> EVERY SQUARE INCH.

I've had the same experince driving dirt roads in Nevada with good engine
seals all around.  The talcum-like dust will find its way in through any
tiny gap.  After a couple of hundred dirt miles there was a layer of dust
on the entire bottom of the engine bay, around the inner surface of the
pulleys, etc.  The entry points were obvious, and the gaps at those points
were feeler-guage thin.

George
