Date: Wed, 27 Jul 2005 16:43:48 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: need suggestions onloading busses

>From: Kevin Howlett <kevinhowlett(-at-)bellsouth.net>
>Date: Mon, 25 Jul 2005 15:21:08 -0500
>
>They have been striped of all the good stuff, including front axle beams,
>and rear transaxlea.  Here is my problem, I have no idea how I can get
>them onto a trailer with no wheels on them at all.  Any Suggestions?

I think I once saw someone making up a board with casters on it that
bolted to the bottom of the Bus for this situation.

How is the lower bodywork on these Buses?  If it's trashed, I'd say to
just drag them up on the trailer with a winch or come-along.  You might
use some pieces of plywood with one end sitting on the back of the
trailer and the other end sitting on the ground to help the bottom of
the Bus slide up onto the trailer.

If you're trying to keep the Buses nice, you might be able to make a
skid bar.  I've never done this, but thinking about it: you'd need a
structure that looks like this (use fixed width font):

   |   |
__|___|__

The horizontal piece at the bottom is the "skid plate" and should
ideally be about as wide as the track of a Bus.  The vertical pieces
attach to the underframe.  In front you could use the holes where the
side plates of the front axle beam bolted onto the frame.  In the rear,
you might be able to use the holes that the tranny carrier bolted to.
You can probably build this out of metal or wood and have it work
equally well.  If the ground the Buses are sitting on is very soft, it
will help for the horizontal piece to have a wide "foot" on it - that
is, it shouldn't just be a 2x4 or some 2" metal tubing or whatever, as
that will sink in.  Bolt on a 1' wide sheet of 1/4" plywood, or a 1'
wide sheet of thin plate steel, as a "foot" to keep the Bus from sinking
in.

Depending on where the Buses are and what your trailer is like, you may
only need one skid bar.  You'd jack up the Bus and put the bar on the
far end of the Bus.  Then, you may be able to lift the near end of the
Bus to trailer height with a winch or come-along, and start winching the
near end of the Bus onto the trailer.  As the far end of the Bus (with
skid bar) nears the trailer, you could either remove the skid bar and
slide the rest of the Bus on, or use a couple of 2x4s or metal tubes or
whatever as ramps to get the skid bar up onto the trailer, then remove
it.

Other ideas: Dig down the dirt in front of the Buses so you can back up
your trailer to the Bus such that the trailer bed is just below the
frame rails of the Bus.  Jack the Bus up a little bit and put several
smooth round logs, 6" diameter or better (or 6" or bigger metal pipe)
under the frame rails of the Bus.  Winch the Bus onto the trailer, and
as the rear log comes out, move it back under the front.  Dozens of
pyramids can't be wrong.

Find a crane company (land vehicle or helicopter) and buy the owner
enough beer that he or she will agree to lift the Bus onto the trailer
for you.

Get a bunch of husky free-loaders to pick up the Bus and carry it onto
the trailer.  I am told that this is called (among other things)
"piss-anting" by the Army.  I know that a sufficient quantity of
reasonably athletic guys can pick up a fully working late-80s Ch(-at-)vy
C(-at-)v(-at-)l(-at-)(-at-)r and move it around the parking lot, so it can be done.  This
may also require plenty of beer to operate.

Matt Roberds
