Date: Wed, 27 Jul 2005 17:22:29 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: wiper motor question

>From: "May, Russell" <rmay(-at-)primephotonics.com>
>Date: Sat, 23 Jul 2005 12:12:46 -0400
>
>I cleaned off the terminals, found the loose wires, got out the wiring
>diagram, put the right wires in the right places, and sure enough,
>when I reconnected the battery, everything's copacetic.

Good deal!

Just for reference, and briefly, the way this works: On the self-parking
wiper motors, the hot wire from the battery/ignition goes two places:
the switch in the dash, and the motor.  The switch switches the hot wire
to one (one speed) or two (two speed) other wire(s) that go(es) to the
motor.  The motor is always grounded through a jumper wire to one of the
mounting screws.  So far this is just like most other electrical things
on the Bus: a switch in the hot wire, and a device that is always
grounded to the body of the Bus.

The wiper motor, though, also has a cam switch connected to the shaft.
The hot wire from the battery/ignition is connected to this cam switch.
This switch is closed most of the time - it only opens when the wipers
are in the "park" position.  One of the speeds from the motor can be
powered EITHER by the wire from the switch in the dash OR by the wire
from this cam switch.  When you shut off the switch in the dash, the cam
switch keeps the motor powered and turning until the wipers get to the
park position, and then the cam switch shuts off the motor.

The brown 31b wire is an additional refinement.  The cam switch and dash
switch work together with this wire to _short out_ the motor windings
once the motor is in the "park" position.  This makes an electromagnetic
brake to help stop the motion of the wipers... otherwise the inertia of
the linkage might tend to move the wipers a bit more.  This is the same
idea as "dynamic brakes" on a diesel-electric locomotive.

>I think I'll take Clara's advice, and go ahead and grease everything,
>now that I've got some time.

I can vouch for this.  I did it to the single-speed 6 V motor in my '64
and it sped up the wipers considerably.  Besides the dried grease
slowing the gears, in mine, it seems like either the lighter (oily)
parts of the grease had separated, or a PO had put some motor oil in
there, because there was light oil running down the shaft and fouling
the commutator and brushes.  Some brake clean solvent helped that out
a lot.

Matt Roberds
