From: "Joseph Ames Jr" <joe.ames(-at-)comcast.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 27 Jul 2006 09:58:56 -0400
Subject: FW: Spill-proof cans -- suck!

FYI -- I followed through with Blitz and got this reply.  I think Holly's
advice to complain to our state and federal reps is good -- the people are
restless and our Masters in Washington etc might actually listen this year
to keep their jobs come November.

(FWIW, I spilled about a half-gallon of gas on my lawn mower trying to use
the new Blitz nozzle.  If you take it off and try to use a funnel, the lack
of bleeder hole makes it "burp" and splash!)

Joe

From the desk of:
Joseph Ames Jr  MBA, MS
Malvern (Philadelphia), Pennsylvania
Site of the Paoli Massacre, 9/20/1777

-----Original Message-----
From: Joseph Ames Jr [mailto:joe.ames(-at-)comcast.net]
Sent: Thursday, July 27, 2006 9:55 AM
To: 'Consumer Service'
Subject: RE: Spill-proof cans -- suck!


Holly -- I will be delighted to tell my Congressman about this -- and all my
state reps too.  Pennsylvania just fired almost 18% of our state assembly in
the last round of primary elections.  Why?  They gave themselves a 25% pay
raise in the middle of the night last year before adjourning.  Now that the
people have a taste of true power, I imagine bureaucrats and utterly stupid
legislation such as CARB will be next on the hit list.

BTW:  on re-reading my email, I see it came off harsher than I intended so
far as Blitz is concerned.  Sorry!  I love your "real" products and use them
quite frequently.

Joe



From the desk of:
Joseph Ames Jr  MBA, MS
Malvern (Philadelphia), Pennsylvania
Site of the Paoli Massacre, 9/20/1777

-----Original Message-----
From: Holly Brandon [mailto:hbrandon(-at-)blitzusa.com] On Behalf Of Consumer
Service
Sent: Thursday, July 27, 2006 9:21 AM
To: joe.ames(-at-)comcast.net
Subject: RE: Spill-proof cans -- suck!



We are very sorry to hear of your dissatisfaction with our gas cans.. Blitz
is very committed to customer satisfaction. The design of the spill proof
can is now mandated in your state and was not designed by our company. It
came about by trying to illiminate emissions from the air. Unfortunately
they didn't address the every day consumers like you and I as far as user
friendly devises goes. We have no controll of the design, it is an idea that
came about by CARB. This stands for California Air Resource Board. We have
cetain guidelines for which we have to follow from start and testing all the
way through manufacturing and distribution.

If I might recommend you contacting your congressman.with your concerns.
This is the only way things will change. We truly appreciate consumer
feedback and use this information in improving products and new product
development. Thanks for letting us know where you stand with us.

Kind regards, Consumer Services Below is a link that might help explain to
you the regulations mandated in your state that are not under our control.

  <http://www.arb.ca.gov/enf/advs/advs189.htm>
www.arb.ca.gov/enf/advs/advs189.htm
Sent:   Wednesday, July 26, 2006 6:13 PM
To:     Consumer Service
Subject:        Spill-proof cans -- suck!

Words fail me when trying to tell you how sucky your spill-proof cans are.
I know it's not your idea -- it's Big Brother's -- but you might continue to
sell "REAL" gas cans in spite of some bureaucratic hack's determination to
"make the world a better place".

As for me -- it's Army surplus until gas cans that aren't idiot proof
return.

Regards,
Joe

From the desk of:
Joseph Ames Jr  MBA, MS
Malvern (Philadelphia), Pennsylvania
Site of the Paoli Massacre, 9/20/1777
