Date: Wed, 19 Dec 2001 23:34:48 -0500 (EST)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To:  <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] water injection (was alternate fuels)

Volks,

Now, as the constant pessimist of the list, let me say....

There are up sides to water injection, fersure, but there is a dark side
as well.  Probably more than one, but the one I *know* is that water
injection is very, very hard on exhaust systems.  What happens goes like
this...  one of the main measures that they go for on emissions is NOx.
The reason is that in the combustion chamber of your engine, the temps get
high enough to split the normal N2 molecule into single Nitrogen atoms
that are lookin' *hard* for a partner... like a teen at a high school
dance!  If you have extra oxygen, then all the nitrogen can combine with
is that oxygen and you get NOx, which has bad effects in large quantities
in major cities (see: LA, Denver :).  If, on the other hand, you add a
shot of water (H2O), then there is (a) more oxygen and (b) loose hydrogen
running around! Now, as promiscuous as nitrogen is, and as willing to
combine as oxygen is, *nothing* wants to pair as bad as hydrogen! With all
three present, it is more than likely that they will get together and you
will get more than a bit of HNO3 as a combustion product.  HNO3 is more
commonly known as Nitric Acid and it eats metals for lunch!  It is also
happy to eat metals for breakfast and dinner, given a chance.  And this
glutton for metals is headed straight out your expensive-to-replace
exhaust!

As with the 009 distributor, water injection is a valid racing strategy,
where every HP counts and you are willing to tear down the engine after 2
hours of run time.  In a tractor, with a minimal exhaust system, it could
also be effective to provide that critical extra HP. On military jets,
water injection is fairly common to provide an extra boost...  On the
street, with heater boxes running $2-300 per, I don't think this is a
cost-effective strategy.  YMMV, of course.

On a side note, the original post mentioned a combination of water,
hydrogen peroxide, and alcohol as an alternative fuel.  The good news is
that you *could* power a car off this combo.  The bad news is that you
would *NOT* want to.  There are a couple reasons.

First, in the trio, as has been discussed, the water adds nothing but
extra expansion force.  The "fuel" is the alcohol which is oxidized
(burned) by the peroxide.  Alcohol provides the fuel and the peroxide
provides the oxygen.  Both are more expensive per gallon than gasoline,
even in bulk, and alcohols have a lower BTU/lb energy content than
gasoline. As a result, you would consume more of each than you would
consume of gasoline to go the same difference.  Your overall cost of
driving would more than double!

Second, peroxide is not a "friendly" substance in the concentrations you
would need to make this work.  Toward the end of the second world war, the
Germans made a plane that used peroxide and methanol to generate thrust
(http://www.warbirdsresourcegroup.org/LRG/me163.html).  Worked like a
champ for the 3-4 minutes that the fuel lasted... unless there was a leak,
in which case, the peroxide *DISSOLVED* the pilot!  Peroxides in high
concentrations are nasty pieces of work!

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail


