Date: Fri, 17 May 2002 14:18:04 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Eron Crites <emcrites(-at-)msn.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Looking for Alternator Conversion Kit for 71 Westy



On Fri, 17 May 2002, Eron Crites wrote:

>
> 	Just out of curiosity George, why do you believe that a powerful auto
> stereo would have to be 'annoying'?

Because if played at the intended volume in an urban setting it subjects
everyone within 50 yards of the vehicle to the musical tastes of the
stereo owner.

  I have personally installed dozens of
> automotive audio systems, and I have never designed one that I would
> describe as 'annoying' to listen to, let alone "very_annoying".

I've installed quite a few stereos as well, and I've gone through the "big
amp" phase of life myself.  Now I realize how inconsiderate I was of those
around me, and I was only playing with 50W per channel or so, not the
kilowatt that is the current norm.  Face it, when some yahoo comes up at
a light with his stereo thumping away it is annoying, not impressive, to
the majority of the people forced to listen to it.

  As for
> amlifiers drawing power in terms of wattage, they are actually rated as
> drawing amperage.

Wattage is power, the product of voltage and amperage.  The relationship
between the power and current is porportional at constant voltage.  It
doesn't matter which term is discussed.

  A typical, high current, class A/B two channel amplifier
> will draw between 30 and 50 amps(apples) of current at full output of its
> rated wattage(oranges).  (This is only at peak levels as you correctly
> state, but the averave current draw may still be rather large, compared to
> the rated output of the alternator, especially when you account for lights
> and other accessories.)

In a small enclosed space, an audio level of 30W continuously is loud.
Peak levels are momenatary only and do not use significant power.

>  Much of that power is lost as heat, but the thermal
> resistance is not really a factor for this discussion.  Running two or three
> of these(not uncommon) in a triple crossover design would triple the current
> draw from the battery.

The typical bus driver would not run such a system.  Of the 250 buses at
BBBVI, I only saw a couple with big sound systems.  A blanket
recommendation to "anyone running any kind of stereo amplification" to buy
an expensive modified alternator is not good advice.  For most bus drivers
with modest stereos as it is a waste of money and can lead to problems
down the road when the modified alternator needs service or replacement.

I run a 100W amateur radio tranceiver in my bus, and have made provision
for a 1kW amplifier by running a separate heavy power bus from the battery
to the front.  This is what I need, but I'm not going to tell someone
installing a 5W CB rig that they need to go to the same extreme just
because it is a transmitter.

  Add an air conditioning compressor's charged-clutch
> coil(30 amps),

30A??  I think that this is a bit high.  Perhaps the inital surge, but
once the field is established the current should drop.  There are a lot of
cars out there with A/C, quad headlamps (220W total) and 55A alternators
and I don't see them flattening their batteries.

> My statement that a larger alternator would be a good idea, especially if
> you are adding  multiple loading devices to the charging system, seems (to
> me)to be 'sound' advice.  Oh, the statement that a 75 amp alternator doesn't
> charge a battery faster than a 50 amp alternator, is as correct (when taken
> to extremes) as stating that a 1 amp trickle battery charger doesn't  charge
> a battery any faster than a 30 amp battery charger.

Not true.  The alternator is regulated by voltage at a level slightly
above that of a fully-charged battery.  The charging current into the
battery is limited by the internal resistance of the battery and
the terminal voltage.  A 75A alternator produces the same voltage as a 50A
alternator.  The only way the charging current could go over 30A or so is
if the battery were completely dead, and even then the current would drop
rapidly as the terminal voltage increased.  High charging currents are not
all that good for batteries either, particularly deep cycle batteries.


