From: "Bryan \"bc\" Castles" <bc(-at-)version3.net>
To: "George Lyle" <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>, "Eron Crites" <emcrites(-at-)msn.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 17 May 2002 13:45:00 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] Looking for Alternator Conversion Kit for 71 Westy

On Fri, 17 May 2002, Eron Crites wrote:

>
> 	Just out of curiosity George, why do you believe that a powerful auto
> stereo would have to be 'annoying'?

>Because if played at the intended volume in an urban setting it subjects
>everyone within 50 yards of the vehicle to the musical tastes of the
>stereo owner.

And a ton of other things are equally annoying including typical Harley
exhaust systems and the overly popular diesel powered trucks.  The fact that
some people find these types of stereos annoying has little to do with
alternator requirements.

>kilowatt that is the current norm.  Face it, when some yahoo comes up at
>a light with his stereo thumping away it is annoying, not impressive, to
>the majority of the people forced to listen to it.

Again, the fact that you dislike these systems has little to nothing to do
with alternator requirements.  And the fact is, despite the fact that a VW
show there are only a handful of people with high power audio system, that
doesn't make the advice to upgrade any less helpful.  It is far less trouble
to upgrade the alternator to support higher usage, than it is to find out
you do have a bigger draw than average, and try to do something about it
after it has killed your battery and stranded you somewhere.

>In a small enclosed space, an audio level of 30W continuously is loud.
>Peak levels are momenatary only and do not use significant power.

Talk about terms being used incorrectly...  audio level can't be measured by
wattage.  It is that simple. Wattage results in an audio level in this
discussion, but how much is greatly dependant on the efficiency of the
speaker, the enclosure it is in, the ambient level of the "small enclosed
space" to name only a few.  A 30W system may be fine for your ears...  but I
could certainly not hear every nuance of my favorite song at 50MPH on any
30W system in my bus.  It would take much sound deadening and speaker
placement to make that fact otherwise.

>The typical bus driver would not run such a system.  Of the 250 buses at
>BBBVI, I only saw a couple with big sound systems.  A blanket
>recommendation to "anyone running any kind of stereo amplification" to buy
>an expensive modified alternator is not good advice.  For most bus drivers
>with modest stereos as it is a waste of money and can lead to problems
>down the road when the modified alternator needs service or replacement.

I agree that the statement could have been re-worded to make you happier
George, but I have to agree with Eron on this one for this fact:  If someone
took the advice to just get the smaller alternator without anyone knowing
just how big the system is, it would be bad for everyone when it ended in
more trouble.  The statement may have been better if it had included details
related to higher end systems, but that does not make it untrue.

Your 100W amateur radio does not pull the kind of instant or even continuous
current that a true high end system would. Having installed "several
stereos" by no means makes anyone an expert on the power requirements of a
true high end system.  So I'll word this easier.  Having worked in both
sales and installation of the premier Audio Chain in Dallas, TX (Earmark Car
Audio) I can tell you that there are plenty of systems that would benefit
greatly from the alternator upgrade.  You mentioned all of those cars
running around with the 55A alternators and I can tell you this:  I can kill
any of those charging systems in less than 12 months with 100watts of rated
power.

Just install two Orion 225HCCA's and run them mixed mono, pull the mono
channel down to 1 ohm on say 4 DVC 10" subs...  I'd be surprised if the 55A
alternator made it long at all.  And lets don't even get into the short
lived battery in this scenario.

Maybe a "blanket statement" should not have been made to upgrade...  but
call all of your local high end stereo shops and I think you will find that
most of them will recommend this upgrade for most systems running a medium
to highly amplified stereo system, particularly if you will have more than
one battery in the system.  In face, most of our high end systems had a min
of 110 Amp alternators put in because they could make huge demands on the
system.  Overkill would be a giant alternator and a bank of 6 batteries for
a little Wal-Mart purchased Road Thunder amplified rated at 200W.  It is
certainly not bad advice for someone running a few hundred watt Phoenix
Gold, Rockford Fosgate or <enter your favorite high-end brand here> system
to upgrade to ensure the best delivery of power.

Just my extra $.02

Bryan Castles
Arlington, TX
USA

'64 Sunroof Beetle
'70 Bus (Ex-Westy)
'73 Square
www.version3.net



