Date: Fri, 17 May 2002 14:39:22 -0700
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Looking for Alternator Conversion Kit for 71 Westy

At 09:44 AM 5/17/2002, George Lyle wrote:
>Air conditioning only pulls electricity for the fans and clutch, which
>don't amount to a lot of current.

My air conditioner has two condenser fans, two evaporator fans and the 
clutch.  Measured at over 10 amps continuous.  I rewired my condenser fans 
from series to parallel and now total current is over 15 amps.  I was 
worried about the large current draw so I wired the A/C loads to my aux 
battery which generally does not get charged by the alternator (the aux 
battery is kept fully charged by a solar panel).  Only point is that A/C 
can take significant power, and of course the older busses were never 
designed to accomodate that since none left the factory with A/C.  IMO an 
air conditioned bus may need an alternator depending on the efficiency of 
the the system.  Admittedly mine is more powerhungry than most.

>The 75A upright alternators are modified units and I have doubts about
>whether they truly produce that current and whether they can do so without
>overheating, since the cooling provisions are the same as the 50A
>alternator.

That has worried me also, and is why I haven't pursued a larger alternator 
for my bus despite the fact that I have the aforementioned A/C plus a 
300W** stereo amp, 12" subwoofer, 600W inverter and 12V fridge.  Anyone 
ever measure the additional power requirements of a CD ignition?  I hear 
it's substantial, to the tune of several amps.  Also whoever posted about 
the A/C clutch drawing 30 amps, I don't think so.  It's an 18 gauge wire 
which never gets warm, so I can say with confidence that the draw is no 
more than 2-3 amps max.

-David

** Why the 300W amp you ask?  Well it's like this - I ordered an 80-watt 
(40x2) amplifier from Damark a few years ago.  They sent me a letter saying 
that they were permanently out of stock on that item and would substitute a 
similar amp if it was okay with me, and I agreed.  What showed up at my 
door was this monstrous (about a square foot!) amp, 4-channel with built-in 
3-way crossovers.  I'm no pimp but something about the gold-anodized 
boat-anchor appealed to me, so I went ahead and installed it.  The 12" sub 
is home-built by me because a friend gave me the speaker for free - it just 
barely fit between the seats.  Now I hate thumpin' stereos as much as the 
next guy so I never play my stereo at volume except on the freeway, but 
it's nice to be able to drown out the motor at will on long trips.


