From: "Bryan \"bc\" Castles" <bc(-at-)version3.net>
To: "George Lyle" <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Cc: "type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 18 May 2002 02:36:06 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] Looking for Alternator Conversion Kit for 71 Westy

>You were not asking about power requirements, you were asking why I found
>high power stereos annoying.  The fact that other things cause annoyance
>does not lessen the annoyance caused by high power stereos whose owners
>don't know the proper place and time to crank 'em up.


No, Eron was.  I was actually jumping between the two and pointing out that
it is just not good practice to mix a negative opinion with the advice a
poster asked for, no matter how much training you have.  It's just bad
manners.  If it wasn't intended, then fine...  but you have to remember that
one of the most important things in human communication is missing in
email... tone of voice.


>OK, if you want to get technical, we have to talk about decibels, and we
>have to have a reference level to work from.  I was
>referring to the power being delivered to speakers of ordinary efficiency
>in a fairly typical vehicle interior.  30W into four channels is capable
>of delivering about 90dB sound levels (quite loud) without excessive
>distortion in a
>typical bus interior.  I've measured these levels (both sound and power
>input) with the appropriate instrumentation.

Since you know all that you know, then you also know there is no typical
speaker, and there certainly is no typical bus interior.  Particularly not
when they are an average of 30 years old, and all have their own resonance,
exhaust and rattle problems.  You simply can't have a reference for a
vehicle so varied now.

>No, the statement should have been reworded to make it clear that you were
>only talking about very high power stereo systems, say of 200W or more.

You aren't disagreeing here, not sure if you know that.  You made your
point, and it was for general usage.  I said that when Eron made his he just
should have said that his advice was for higher end stereos instead of just
disagreeing.  That way anyone reading the thread could  have used both
pieces of advice.


>Both routes have consequences.  Why swap out the alternator before you
>know what the true need is?  Simply adding up the maximum current draw
>of all the parts is not a good way to size the alternator.  The modified
>alternator is likely to be less reliable than the stock alternator.  Have
>you considered this possible consequence?

Do you know anything about the Phoenix Gold alternators?  I'd put them
against any stock alternator any time.  It may not outlive them all...  but
it certainly won't be short lived just because it is "modified". I'm sure
lots of home grown mods would suffer from this, but not all of them.  It is
a very broad assumption to make.

>No. but the 800W (output) amplifier might give it a run for its
money!

Apparently not if you don't think people need to consider these power
upgrades.

>If you're pulling more than a couple of hundred watts
>continuously with an audio system while you are inside the car, then you
>are either deaf or you have spectacularly inefficient amplifiers and
>speakers.

Yeah, okay.  Everyone driving around with these systems is just deaf.  You
really made a huge point there.  If these systems don't make the heavy
current draw that you are speaking of I must have imagined all of the "other
guy's" customers who had results to the contrary.

>No, but the fact that my installations have been from scratch, from raw
>components, and including custom speaker enclosures and door panels might
>mean that I know something about this equipment.  Having an engineering
>degree, 15 years in industry working with avionics and sonar equipment, as
>well as being a full time physics teacher might mean that I know
>something about how to deal with units and size power systems.

And?  There are a billion easy door panel tutorials out there...  and custom
speaker enclosures are rarely impressive until you get to forms, and higher
order band-pass.  Having an engineering degree also does not make you an
expert on car audio products.  I'm not saying that your aren't...  but just
stating "I've done this" doesn't mean that you are.  Example...  My
grandfather is a Master Electrician, has been for year. I have seen him work
and I wouldn't let him change the bulbs in my rear tail lights. Being
certified at a technology doesn't make someone an expert on all related
fields, no matter how many people on this list like to claim so.  Doesn't
mean they aren't knowledgeable, but you expect everyone to treat you as an
expert in all related fields.  I worked in and was very successful in
exactly this field, that is why I thought my opinion was valid and called
for.

>Yes, if you have a full-blown system.  99% of bus  people are happy with
>less.  If I were selling such systems, I'd probably push the "ups" too.

And because they haven't asked you about their stereos before you now know
what they are all happy with?  I wouldn't make that kind of assumption.  I'd
much rather allow them to get most of the info from various members of the
list and make a decision based on the details that best suit their
situation.

>Funny, lots of folks install a couple of hundred watts of off-road lights
>on such vehicles without ill effect.  What is special about a 100W stereo?
>Why would it take 12 months?  Your statement sounds more like sales talk
>than verifiable facts.

They don't run around town with them turned on almost all of their driving
time either do they?  The 100W stereo is rated power.  See that was my
point, you may have tons of electrical related knowledge, but you weren't
even aware of the rated vs. output power I was talking about.  I'll just
explain so you'll know what I meant. There is no reason for this point to be
an argument.  See, if you look at the amp I was talking about, it is rated
at 2x25 watts at 4 ohms.  But you can bridge it mono and it runs a rated 100
watts (not double) to the mono channel at 4 ohms. By wiring one dual voice
coil sub to it you can take the resistance down to 2 ohms further increasing
the output.  By adding another parallel sub, you can take it down to 1 ohm,
increasing the output even more.  But what is more about this amp is that it
will run mixed mono... meaning you can still run the stereo 4ohm channels
while running the 1ohm bridged mono channel.  This makes for a VERY power
hungry amplifier.  I've seen it (first hand) do terrible things to an
electrical system at low volume (with no capacitor).  Now, two of these
would certainly make the electrical system starve.  And the rated power of
the amps would only be a total of 100W.  This was a great way for people to
place high in the Consumer 250W and under class at competitions. I couldn't
listen to it like that, but we built a lot of systems with that kind of
crazy balls.

The 12 months was just an arbitrary value I put out there...  an alternator
should easily last past this time with a run of the mill 100W system, I was
pointing out that this 100W system would definitely yield different results.

>You don't understand the function of an alternator regulator.  Its
>first job is to regulate voltage.  Its second job is to limit current so
>that the alternator won't overheat.  No load will induce the
>alternator to produce more than its regulated current output.  If you try
>to draw more, the alternator voltage will drop until the load is taken up
>by the battery.  If the battery voltage drops, the alternator voltage will
>follow it down to maintain the maximum current output.

I understand it's function, but the system does not work EXACTLY like that
all of the time and you know it.  It is easily possible for you to draw more
current than the regulator will allow, if even for a moment.  Do that tons
of times, and see what happens to the internal regulator on these stock
alternators.  Once they go, the alternator may having problems putting out
enough power, and in some cases may overheat because of the draw.  I wasn't
suggesting that suddenly the stereo is asking the charging system to deliver
200A continuous power, but those peaks and dips that this type of system
does create is real hell on a stock setup.  Again, we are talking about a
pretty high end system for most of that, and anyone doing an install like
that should know that capacitors should go in place for those types of quick
power demands for the lives of both the amps and the charging system.

It isn't some kind of sales crap...  please take your degree and tell the
engineers at Phoenix Gold that they are building "overkill" equipment that
will probably fail prematurely and is only really required by 2 people on
the planet.  I may not be able to show you that you aren't all right about
it (being just a lowly sales guy and all) but I'm sure they can defend
themselves and their successful line of charging products just fine.

Sorry for the confusion there George.


Bryan.


