Date: Wed, 2 Apr 2003 07:38:39 -0800 (PST)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: Paul <paul_f(-at-)ntlworld.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Spring plate angle - lost settings...

On Wed, 2 Apr 2003, Paul wrote:

> With using the rain gutter on each side, the bus can have a different
> inclination on each side from back to front, as long as the difference is
> the 20 degrees required - correct me if I am wrong in assuming this please!

Paul,

By mentioning use of the the rain gutter, I am assuming that your bus is
as straight as mine is... you basically need to find what you consider to
be a true horizontal body part to use as your reference plane. The rain
gutters are, to my knowledge and personal experience, a good reference,
as they, and the body in general may be assumed and expected to be
parallel with the ground, ie horizontal, when the bus is properly set up.

The rain gutters are usually undamaged and unmodified, so they are flat,
and may be properly used as reference plane. I always compare the gutter
and the bottom of the rocker panel for agreement.

> Will definately use the anti sieze on both ends - the fact that they were
> seized caused most of my problems

Yes, that has always been the main problem here too. Both sides are now
easily removable for service, as are my rear brake drums, etc. They all
come off by hand, no tools needed.

HANDY TOOL TIP:

If you buy a 12-16" range turnbuckle ($10) with a hook on one end, and an
eye that fits the shock absorber bolt on the other end, it makes a fine
tool for raising and lowering the spring plate as needed, without any
other 'special tools', or multiple jacks. Grease the threads well before
use. I keep two in the bus at all times for this repair. Graingers and
McMaster Carr both sell this item. Turn it with your 17mm wrench or a
screwdriver.

> properly....  I thought if I just popped off the spring plate it was easy to
> put it back due to the fact that it was quite obvious it was in the right
> place.  However the spring plate got stuck to the torsion bar and the
> torsion bar came out and then the torsion bar came out of the spring plate.
> Luckily catched the torsion bar so no damage was done.

Hehe! Sounds like my first time ;-)  Don't panic - you can reinsert them
quickly and adjust them easily, once you've thought out the process. You
become a pro after one time doing this adjustment/repair. The nice part is
setting the bus down, rolling it out to get it level again, and beaming at
your work.

cal
