From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: David Mayes <mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com>, "Vintagebus(-at-)Type2. Com"
Date: Thu, 3 Apr 2003 07:15:13 -0800 
Subject: RE: [VB] car shows... i'm bummed

  It's that yuppy thing, get out of bed at 8ish, go to the show around 11ish
leave the show around 3ish go to Starbucks for a computer uplink and a cup
of burnt bean JO and some fu fu pastry thing.
  I like being at shows the crack of dawn and being out of there by noon or
so.
  Kelly Park has the same rule of once you are in you can't leave till 3 or
so, never stopped me though, load the bus up and just start driving out, let
them try to stop me!!

ronnie

NW flame suit on

way out in BFE southwest AZ, close to nothing

-----Original Message-----
From: David Mayes [mailto:mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com]
Sent: Thursday, April 03, 2003 7:30 AM
To: Vintagebus(-at-)Type2. Com
Subject: [VB] car shows... i'm bummed


Hi All,

 

I just feel like I need to vent and either get some supporting words or
some words to tell me to get a grip.

 

I was planning to make it up to the Puyallup show in April and bring an
interesting bus (not the tipper or the v80) with me to show off. no, not
in the show area but rather in the swap area.  I thought it would be fun
to bring some rare vintage speed items for display, some stuff for sale,
and have a good time.  This to me would be a first as I'm usually the
one rooting around in peoples junk for an odd ball bolt or washer.  I
was ready to make my reservations when I found out the gates would be
locked until 3 or 4 in the afternoon.. Now for someone in the general
area, that isn't a problem but if you have to make a 6 hour trip back
home, not counting time to load things up and possibly stop for a bite
to eat, it puts me home too late on a Sunday night,  especially when I'm
already asking a friends favor in using his truck and trailer to bring
said 'interesting bus' to the show.  Last year at the vintage meet in
Seattle, we were told repeatedly that the show would end at 2 and at
3ish, we finally left before they even started with the awards.  Do
people have no sensitivity to those that live outside of the Seattle
metro area?  Shows in Cali end at noon or shortly afterwards and I've
been told that most all the European shows end at noon especially if
they are on Sunday.. What's up with this ending so late in the PNW?

 

 

Flame away.

 

 

 

David

Way out in Bum F*ck Eastern Oregon.. 
