From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 3 Apr 2003 12:38:11 EST
To: bueses(-at-)earthlink.net, glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com, CONKLINC(-at-)lawgate.byu.edu
Subject: survey: testing cooling etc [VB] was side scoops 

 In a message dated 4/2/2003 1:07:10 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
bueses(-at-)earthlink.net writes:
<< > 
 > The turbulant flow near the bus doesn't have as much velocity as the
 > laminar flow further out, so the pressure available is smaller.  That's
 > why the scoops on F1 cars and such extend quite a ways away from the car...
 
 The way George explains all this stuff almost makes me want to go back and
 study Physics again, instead of just trying to get thru it!
  >>
...............................
funny about that.  I'm currently tackling a physics class, which is rather 
uninspiring, though that probably has less to do with the material that the 
professor.   Anyway, now I have to develop a lab project for this academic 
quarter, to start next week.   I'm now thinking of dropping  the wave nature 
concept and doing something with VWs. http://www.offroadvw.net/tech/tech.html 
 is a website that some guys did with actual tests of cooling with differnt 
crank pulley sizes.  Though they seem more into how much power you can get 
for the bajaed bug that concern with cooling for a laden bus in hot weather.

there seems to be a reccurent question on the list "and where is your 
documentation to back up you claim of this or that is better?"   so maybe I 
could get college credit for finding out some answers.   
Anyway, maybe I could get suggestions for some useful thing to check.   Keep 
in mind that this will only be 2-3 credits, and can't take up ALL my time, as 
I have other stuff to do.  I could probably make a reasonable agrument that 
it involves physics.   Hopefully there will be equipment at the college that 
I can use to help figure some stuff out.  I mean, I do have access to 
expensive equipment (very cool! Isn't that a good reason to go to college?), 
I just don't know what they have that is useful for this sort of thing, but 
the lab people are very helpful.

Clara
