Date: Fri, 12 Nov 2004 11:04:56 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Re: [T2]oil coming out of dipstick(update)

...


>I have ran out of Ideas, it has to be a blowby problem
>but I don't see why.

If you have a blowby issue, a compression test will show the weakness. A 
leakdown test on the weak cyl/s will confirm poor ring/cylinder seal. 
Caused by warped rings due to overheating or broken rings or lands or just 
wear of rings/cylinders.

If crankcase pressure is excessive due to blowby, more venting will not 
correct the problem. Don't waste time/money trying to get around a proper 
fix. Do the leakdown test and verify ring/cylinder bypass. More than 10% at 
100psi and you have found the cause of the symptom. The only way to 
actually see this weakness is to pull the cylinder and rings, install the 
compression rings one at a time into the cylinder using the piston to 
orient them at the top, center and bottom of normal travel and hold it up 
toward Ra (The Sun God), or use a flashlight or lamp, and look for the 
sliver of light leaking by ring and cylinder showing empirical proof of 
poor seal. Best to use the proper instruments and procedures to verify 
absolute necessity of teardown and empirical confirmation via sliver of Ra.

I have seen this issue with just warped rings. Cylinders in spec, no bad 
wear or problems. In that case, new pistons and rings properly fitted with 
a new cross hatch of the cylinders brought everything back into spec. The 
cause in that case was poor seal of the motor compartment compromising the 
cooling system. Do not reuse the pistons. If the rings got hot enough to 
warp, those ring lands will be weakened, even if they meet specs. New cross 
hatch and rings will load them a magnitude or more of what they have seen 
for many miles the first time you hit the starter motor. Failure before 
breakin is just too much risk for me.

Continuing to run the motor puts the crank seals in jeopardy as well.

If this was my motor, oil from the dipstick is just a symptom. I would do a 
complete standard factory maintenance inspection of the motor in situ. 
Added to my documented history on the motor, I might find and correct the 
clogged breather. If not that simple, just proper maintenance doesn't solve 
the problem, at least the problem is danged well verified via applied 
science. I can then make a rational decision as to whether a partial 
overhaul by me or NW ConRod reman goes in there. It doesn't take much 
overhaul time to make the full reman more prudent for long term value, 
especially if you have an undocumented history on the motor. The reason I 
always have the luxury of time/money to always confirm best fix is because 
I waste not one dime on compromises that cannot fix the underlying cause of 
the symptom.

Oh, nasty oil leak issue, small problem, shouldn't cost much to fix, NOT!!!!

When I use the word "verify", it means factual confirmation by known 
procedures properly applied. Yes, that one word means all that in every 
case. Otherwise, every action you take is based upon assumption or WAG. 
This is the surest way to separate yourself from a lot of time/money with 
lack of results in the form of redo, redo, redo. 
