From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 14 Apr 2003 12:47:00 -0400
Subject: New Wiring Harness - Question

Hey guys,

	Well.. I had to do it. I tried to start the motor again this
weekend, but no luck. The wiring harness in the Bus is COMPLETELY trashed...
I mean.. it's BAD. There's something like 14 feet of wire front to back in
the bus, and it's chopped up in like 15 different places. The main positive
wire going to the front is split in several places.. even contacting the
frame in some cases.. so the wire was apparently replaced with speaker
wire?! Half the wiring harnesses in the engine compartment are chopped into
little pieces, and the ones that aren't, are attached by those squeeze
fittings.

In any case, I've decided to go with the Painless Wiring harness. The
generic 12-fuse unit. It comes complete with everything I'll need.
(Supposedly). I have a feeling I'll probably need longer wires.. but this is
still a good start. 

It brought up a few questions to me that I wanted to know before I start
tearing out the old wires.

1) The engine in my Bus is a 1800 hydraulic Type 2. Now, from what I can
tell, it's got a points type Bosch distributor, with a "Universal" ignition
coil. Now... I remember a few years ago, I purchased a 1976 Chevrolet
Camaro. Someone had dropped in a 1974 350 4-bolt from an Impala Police car
into it before I got it. They also installed the distributor as well. This
particular distributor was also a points type distributor and apparently
required the use of some type of cermaic resistor. From what I understand,
this resistor allowed the FULL voltage to go to the distributor at starting
time, but then reduced the amount of voltage once the car was running. Does
my volkswagen have this? And... do I need it?

2) I don't fully understand (I guess), how the whole process of starting
goes. Correct me if I'm wrong. When the ignition is in the "ON" position,
power goes to the main power fuse box, and powers all the accessories (fuel
pump, etc). Then when I turn it to the START position, it sents power to the
SMALL terminal on the starter which engages the arm to send the starter gear
towards the flywheel. The starter begins to start. ONCE the car is running,
then I release the key. This in turn stops the power going to the small
terminal on the starter, the arm retracts, and the car runs as normal in the
"ON" position. Now.. my question is. Is power going to the distributor and
the ignition coil the ENTIRE time the car is in the "ON" position? Or is
there something to tell the car to send power to those two items IF and ONLY
if the starter had been engaged?

Thanks!!! I hope these questions aren't TOO dumb.

Todd Jaspers - Programmer
AmeriPath IT - Fort Lauderdale
954-377-3291

> CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments, is
> for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential
> and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or
> distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
> contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original
> message.
