Date: Wed, 14 Apr 2004 15:02:36 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Casting Fool <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>, Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Bilge blower Conversion Questions

> > Do I not recall some discussion of a need to keep positive pressure in the
>heat exchangers (upstream of the flaps) to avoid overheating them?

Yes. That was the design of the late baywindows. The cooling fan blew air 
through to the heater boxes full time and the control valves for the 
heaters were really diverters - moved air flow from being dumped outside to 
inside to keep your tootsies warm.

>I was under the impression that the engine fan provided some of the air flow
>through the heater system, and that the fan only supplemented this action.
>If this is the case, then

The standard late baywindow (with fan assist) heat had two back flow 
flappers (actually 2 types, 4 total).

The heater assist fan has one between the hose and the squirrel cage fan 
itself. Mine were gone.They are made of plastic and do seem to suffer from 
heat damage after a couple decades. They control cool air but the engine 
compartment heat may cook them. Took a while to find replacements because 
there are few of those fans around here in junkyards.

There are two more flappers (aluminum) at the base of the Type IV fan 
shroud where the heater box couples to the fan shroud. One per side.

With dual bilge blowers you can leave the lower flappers alone but you'll 
need flappers for the new blowers right where the old ones were - between 
the fan and the heater box. I have not yet installed my bilge blowers but 
plan to create a flapper, have not yet. Also don't have a design (using 
hardware store materials) that I'm happy with yet.

Another option would be to use two VW assist fans with 1 blower outlet on 
each blocked.

Regardless of whether you choose to go with stock heaters and the 
super-duper bilge blower conversion - make sure that all these flappers are 
present and functional. Without them the engine loses some cooling system 
effectiveness. My aluminum flappers were bent and stuck open.

I plan to make one of my bilge blowers a recirculating blower - recirc the 
interior air. The other will supply fresh air.




Chris Mills in TN
