Date: Mon, 14 Apr 2003 13:46:30 -0700
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] New Wiring Harness - Question

On Monday, April 14, 2003, at 11:54AM, Eron Crites <emcrites(-at-)msn.com> wrote:

>Is it just me, or has anyone else replaced their fried, original harness 
>with a working replacement that they pulled from another vehicle?  I have 
>done this very thing.  I even pulled myself an extra for safekeeping-fusebox 
>and all.

It certainly seems the least expensive and least effort route with good results. Anything in the engine compartment and under the body will likely need repairs but anything inside is usually in good shape.

I was looking into wiring harnesses and it seems you can't find anything except for a 68, 69 or 72 bus. RMMW seems to be the main distributor of harnesses which are all supplied by Bob Nodvik (Wiring Works of San Pedro, CA). Bob doesn't have enough demand for anything later (beetle or bus) so you're out of luck if you want a new one. WCM has recently started to make their own harnesses but they are also sticking to the vintage stuff (25 years old isn't vintage enough for VW folks :-( apparently).

Forget about the L-Jet FI harness. You'll need to at least salvage all of the special connectors and DIY but it's only about 6 feet long and most of the wires are white under the sheath.

I was looking into doing my own repairs for baywindow folk, small jobs etc but the cost of the color coded wire is prohibitive if you want to make one that won't drive the next owner insane. www.waytekwire.com is the primary supplier of the color coded wire that Wiring Works uses for their harnesses. They probably get a huge discount because they order 10,000 ft. at a time and just built their 2,000,000th harness (that's 10k ft. of each color!). For you and me, small amounts of wire are going to cost a minimum of $25 for a small spool of just one color so it could require selling a lot of harnesses just to break even and this goes beyond a hobby for most people.

--
Richard
1978 Westfalia CDN
Cupertino, CA
