Date: Mon, 14 Apr 2003 18:23:44 -0700
From: Nicholas Palmer <nicholas(-at-)slackers.net>
To: wink <karmabooga(-at-)bellsouth.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] strange oil temp sensor

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

wink wrote:

|If the gauge is in the front, at the dash, and the battery is at the
|rear...Are you suggesting i run another wire all the way back to the ground
|strap just for the gauge? Seems a little extreme. And why would this occur
|only now?

That is exactly what I am suggesting. This is what the gauge 
installation instructions recommends for the gauge I got. Some theory 
may help you understand why this is important.

The temp sensor is called a thermistor. Which is a fancy way of saying 
that the resistance of the device changes as temperature changes. One 
end of this thermistor is connected to the ground which is your case. 
The other end is connected via a long wire to the gage. The gage 
operates as an Ohm-meter and measures the temperature by measuring the 
resistance to ground through this wire.

To do this it uses voltage supplied by the charging system to create a 
current through the wire, and then uses the good old V/I=R to get the 
resistance and thus the temp. It uses the ground you supply as the 
reference to measure the V part in this equation. Remember that voltage 
can only be measured as a difference between two points. In this case 
the hot and the ground you supply to the gage.

The gauge relies on the fact that the ground for the thermistor and the 
ground you connect to the gauge are at the same level. If there is a 
large amount of resistance on the gage ground then your reading will be 
off because the voltage measured is smaller than it should be. Some of 
the voltage the gage would measure if it had a good ground is going 
through the corroded ground strap. The current going through the 
thermistor is unchanged, since the difference between the high voltage 
supplied at the gage and true ground of the case has not changed (at 
least not much if your charging system is working right.)

Now, when you use the same ground for the gage as you use for all the 
other electrical, when more current flows through the bad ground for the 
system, more voltage is not seen by the gage. V=IR, so if current goes 
up because you turn on the lights, and the resistance of the strap is 
the same the voltage drop across the strap has to go up. Thus the 
voltage measured by your gage goes down and the gage changes it's reading.

So the solution to your problem with the gage is either to fix the 
ground for the system (most likely the tranny ground strap), and/or run 
a wire for the gage to either fix or prevent the problem from occurring 
again.

Let me know if you still have questions. I like explaining this kind of 
stuff, and hope I did a good job.

- -Nick
'77 River
'71 Project


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.2.1 (GNU/Linux)
Comment: Using GnuPG with Mozilla - http://enigmail.mozdev.org

iD8DBQE+m18gR42/Somtp0QRAsMIAJ4ixKzrwibi1fyOShrf2HMoEXTvBQCfRnbC
bb4Fba3ssysTPToCQ7C63SY=
=xHxE
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
