From: Kafertoys(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 24 May 2006 08:02:50 EDT
To: ddixon683(-at-)comcast.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] generator problem

In a message dated 5/24/06 6:12:10 A.M. Eastern Daylight Time,  
ddixon683(-at-)comcast.net writes:

Hi  Guys,
Here is an adventure. Does anyone have any ideas what they would  recommend? 
My 38 amp generator appears to have malfunctioned. I took a long  drive on the 
freeway for a few hours. I looked down and saw the red light on  on the dash. 
I didn't smell anything so I just pulled off the freeway exit,  came to a 
full stop, ran back to the engine to take a look-see. Nothing was  out of the 
ordinary. The fan belt was fine. The engine temp was normal. The  dip stick 
wasn't too hot to hold. All the wires appeared to be connected. I  had replaced the 
voltage regulator a few weeks earlier as I had upgraded the  engine to 12 
volt. I removed and replaced the brushes. They appeared to be  fine. They were 
almost the length of new brushes. The commutator was shiney.  Again all the 
wires appeared to be solid and good connections. The red light  stayed on. So I 
bought a rebuilt generator. It came in the mail yesterday. But  now the 
generator light went out and appears to be working fine. The light  comes on when 
I turn the key to the first notch. I start the engine and  the light goes out 
as it should. I did try a test: disconnect the two wires  from the generator. 
Connect a voltmeter to the generator. They registered zero  volts. I haven't 
reconnected the voltmeter to the generator yet again now that  the red light 
has gone out. If I do, I expect it to read what, 13 or 14 volts?  Do you think 
there is a loose connection inside the generator that has  reconnected for a 
while? Is an intermittent charging generator something that  anyone has 
encountered before? Should I just replace the damn thang now, let  it fail, or what? 
Maybe if I hang with it a little longer, I can learn  something more about 
generators. As long as the battery stays strong I'm not  too worried.
Any advice would be appreciated.



_http://www.nls.net/mp/volks/_ (http://www.nls.net/mp/volks/) 
 
This is Speedy Jim's, he is a master at VW electrical systems and has all  
the info for testing your generator. If you follow his instructions for testing  
your generator and find it bad, I would recommend replacing it.
 
Hope this helps
 
Mario
Vintage Werks resto.
