Date: Wed, 7 Jan 2004 11:34:18 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] KYB Gas-a-Just rear shock too short?

Esteemed List Volk:

BTDT...  and blew through a couple sets of KYBs both white and silver
flavors.  I "believe" that the root of the problem is that the shocks
sold by KYB are REALLY intended for use on the pre-'72 buses with Type 1
motors, and that when the Type 4 motor was installed there were slight
changes made in the dimensional specs of the rear suspension.  I
"believe" that the guru of bus obscurata hisself (Karl - you out there?)
showed us all once years ago that when Bilstein made their nitro-shocks
for Bays, there indeed were two different listings in their parts
catalog/fiche/whatever...  Since many of our post-'72 buses suffer from
the dreaded SBS (Saggy B*tt Syndrome), the early Bay shocks will fit
(sorta/kinda), but the first time they go into full extension on the
bottom stop, guess what becomes the NEW lower suspension stop?  (3
guesses and 2 are wrong)  Compounding the troubles - the white flavor
KYBs have no internal buffer like the silver flavor...

So what's a poor Bay driver to do?

Get on the horn to your parts supplier and tell them that you need to
order a set of the GR-2 "silver" shock for the Ch*vy *str*-v*n, KYB p/n
344082.  The eyelets are metric, so they don't require any further mods,
but the length of the metal eyelet piece is a touch long.  You can
shorten them, or scrounge your favorite local boneyards for another set
of the lower shock bolts and use them in the upper holes.  If I had
access to a grinder I'd probably do the former rather than the latter,
but I don't so I didn't and scrounged bolts...  BTW I got all the p**p
regarding the Ch*vy pieces DIRECTLY from KYB theirselves back in August
of '98 and back then I spoke with one "Chuck" who was their technical
applications guru.  He specifically warned NOT to use the white flavor
version as the valving was wrong, i.e. if you thought your teeth would
fall out on the VW white flavor, you'd be spitting pieces with the Ch*vy
white flavor.  If anyone cares the August '98 telephone number for KYB
was/is (630) 620-5555.  The applications people didn't know from squat
and told me flat out no-one had ever complained that the catalog listing
was wrong - eventually they referred me to Chuck.  In less than five
minutes consulting his computer he concluded that the Ch*vy pieces would
do the trick!  The Ch*vy silvers are not as firm as the VW whites, but
firmer than the VW silvers...

One last thing WRT to any overextended ruint white KYBs you may have -
Chuck said if'n I still had the receipt I could send them back to my
parts volks as a lifetime warranty return ;-)

HTH!

Jim Hayden
Buncha Buses with Ch*vy KYBs
www.savethebays.org
