From: "David Bell" <bellky(-at-)charter.net>
To: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 1 Feb 2002 19:19:56 -0600
Subject: Trip Report (long)

We're back home again after a week and over 1200 miles in 'Rivka'. We left
western Kentucky, headed down through Nashville and eastern Alabama, winding
up in Panama City, FL.

While in Panama City, the headlights and dash lights started going funny and
I quickly deduced that the voltage regulator (a recently installed 'World
Parts' model) had failed. I called the "Air Cooled Parts a Specialty" place
listed in the yellow pages and he actually had a Bosch regulator on the
shelf! That's better than anyone around home or I wouldn't have had that
cheap regulator in there in the first place. He also had a few older Beetles
and a couple of busses out back, but they were all client's cars so not
available for sale or parts.

Panama City turned out to be not our idea of paradise so we loaded up and
headed west to Gulf Shores, AL. We were tooling along Highway 98 outside of
Navarre, FL when I spotted the back end of a yellow Beetle peeking out from
behind a fence. I pointed it out to my wife just as we went past and she
says, "Whoa! Look!". Behind the fence was an old metal shop building with a
collection of bugs and busses in various states, as well as one Porsche. I
immediately found a turn-around and went back. The gate was open so we went
in and started to snap a few pictures when a voice came out of the shop
saying, "There's a charge for pictures." The owner came out and we made
introductions all around. He told us to go ahead and look around. There was
a 72 camper out front with a decent interior and an awning rig over the
slider. The awning alone looked worth the $150 he gave for the whole bus. In
back was a 61 splittie in excellent shape that was in for a tune-up. The
rest of the vehicles outside seemed to be parts hulks, including the porsche
and the two type 3's. Inside the shop he had tow bugs and a ghia opened up
for engine repairs. We were getting ready to leave when my wife poked me in
the ribs and reminded me that I've been looking for a steering wheel for my
74 Riviera. Mine has several large cracks and is all chipped down around the
horn button. The guy searched around inside and out, coming up with a wheel
that had only one very fixable crack in the hub. Other than that it needs a
good cleaning and painting. The price? $10.00 including the pictures! I
drove off a very happy camper.

The rest of the trip was unremarkable, VW-wise, but very enjoyable. For the
first time I did see another bus actually on the road at a Wendy's
drive-through. (Florida must not have vehicle inspections, though.)

On a final note, we drove through Tennessee, Alabama, and Florida on
interstates and state highways and never got so much as a second look from
any of the police we saw, not even the ones who were hidden on the side of
the road just waiting for someone to pull over.

Regards,
Dave

