Date: Thu, 30 Apr 2009 07:38:38 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Baker <busvwzen(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: ovt <ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, t2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>, cow
Cc: Ted Finesman <tedebare(-at-)one.net>, kdvolk(-at-)msn.com, Kevin Robbins
Subject: 9th Annual VW Buses n Boats Campout- May 15-17

Howdy Y'all,
Sorry for slacking with the updating info...
The Ohio Valley Tribe of the Full Moon Bus Club invites you to the 9th Annual VW Buses 'n Boats Camping event May 15-17 in Morrow, Ohio (32 miles north of Cincinnati).  The camping site is BEAUTIFUL, right on the banks (and I do mean RIGHT on the banks) of the beautiful Nationally Designated Scenic Little Miami River.  The event will feature bus camping (of course), a 6 mile canoe trip on the scenic Little Miami River (optional- and we have had a dry Spring so unless we get monsoon rains between now and then it looks like the canoe trip WILL happen this year!), kids stuff, adult stuff, big fires and much more!! We'll be preparing a community "Cincinnati-Style" chili dinner on Saturday evening.  I will be providing the chili, so bring a side dish or item to compliment (recommended: Spaghetti noodles, hot dogs, buns, shredded cheese...)
For those of you not familiar with the Little Miami River Valley, it is now a protected Nationally Designated Scenic Park Area.  The Little Miami Bike trail (paved-Rails to Trails) runs right through the campground and it is a GREAT trail, you can go as far as Cincinnati in one direction and as far (or farther than) Dayton in the other direction, a beautiful pedal either way.  Also, the campground cannects to a municipal park right next door which has athletic fields and a new playground for the kiddies!
Camping fees are $10 per adult per night, and children under 17 are FREE with paying adults.  If you choose to go canoeing, then canoe rental (which includes boat, equipment, and transportation) will be approximately $12 per person.  You will register and pay for camping at the campsite with ME when you arrive.  You will register and pay for canoeing at the canoe rental office Saturday morning.
There will also be a 50\50 raffle drawing and the proceeds will benefit the "Firewood Fund", (wood is expensive you know, it doesn't grow on trees!!)

Anyway, when you arrive at the campground, I have rented the entire section of the campground from, and including, the Picnic Shelter all the way north upstream to the end of the campground.  No one else will be in this part of the campground but us, so park anywhere in that section.  As I said, I have also rented the shelter, so feel free to drop any stuff under it if you need to and we have it to use for meals or in case of rain.

For Newbies, this campground is a privately-owned facility so no worries about Park Rangers to hassle us, and open display of alcohol is permitted, so no need for the "Red Cup" policy.  HOWEVER, with that said, All OVT events are FAMILY FRIENDLY affairs (all my children and others will be there and there may be people in the other section of the park) and we expect everyone to respect the property, our fellow campers, and the basic rules of courtesy... in other words, Don't be a dick!!!!  

So then, check out the website for directions and links to the campground and Canoe Livery sites at:
http://www.geocities.com/buses_n_boats

If there is anyone on this list who has never come to an OVT event, then you simply MUST come, this is the longest running OVT-sponsored camping event.  I have even heard somebody say...."You know, it just doesn't get any better than this!!!"

PEACE! 
John Baker


"...So we got in the red VW microbus with the
shovels and rakes and implements of destruction and headed on toward the
police officer's station..."
