From: "Bill Bowman" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
To: "List - Buskatiers" <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>, "List - Vintagebus"
Date: Thu, 25 Aug 2011 08:45:27 -0500
Subject: About a week to go until the 26th BNNTA campout...

Hi all,

We're in the final stretch around here in getting ready for the VW camping
festivities for the upcoming 26th BNNTA VW camping weekend.  The cost of gas
is thankfully down, the weather is a bit cooler, and most of our
administrative event stuff is well on the way to completion.  I gotta pack up
the event van with supplies, show awards, t-shirts and easy-ups, etc.
Speaking of awards, I actually added three more trophies to the competition,
so now we will have a new award for the "Oldest Transporter" (not oldest
driver, sorry!), and new second place awards for both the best "individual"
and "group" campsite theme decorating.  The dash plaques, t-shirts and
registration window stickers as well as the 26th BNNTA event graphics were
designed by long time friend and participant Tom Janiszewski and look GREAT.
Thanks again Tom!

The Rangers are already looking forward to our arrival.  I believe that they
may again unlock and open the gates to our private location (the "group"
campground at the Indian Creek Recreational Area on Mark Twain Lake) a day
early, on Thursday around noonish, for the early arrivals.  Please note that
if you take advantage of this, you are responsible to pay the Rangers for that
days camping fee.  Your BNNTA event fee (only $30 for the entire holiday
weekend) only covers your camping per vehicle from Friday at noon through
Monday at noon.  Thursday is your own responsibility, so please pay the
Rangers or we might risk loosing this early-opening privilige.

So pack up your VW (any year, any VW model) with your family and camping
supplies, some chow, some liquid refreshments, your water toys, and your
campsite decorations for a long holiday weekend with lots of VW friends right
on the lake.  Let's close out the Summer VW camping season with a bang!  Take
your time and drive your VWs safely to join us!

Bill & Kathryn

www.bnnta.com

p.s. could someone please forward this to the Vanagon and any Eurovan List?
Thanks!
