From: "Bill Bowman" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
To: "List - Vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, "List - Type 2"
Date: Tue, 6 Sep 2011 10:26:44 -0500
Subject: The BNNTA #26 campout is a "wrap"...

Hi all,

A huge thank you goes out to all of you who joined us for the long Labor Day
holiday weekend! We had Buses and other VWs from S.Carloina, New Mexico and at
least 12 other States. The newest was a 2011 Jetta and the oldest was a '59
Double Door Panel Bus. But hands down, the longest distance winner was Robert
and Jeremey from Carson City, NV in a 1970 Westy!

The weekend started out hot, then mellowed, and eventually got downright cool
the last two days! It was an awesome time to hang out with great new and old
VW friends. We had at least 88 VWs and their enthusiast owners, families,
pets, camping accessories and decorations, swap parts, vintage bikes and lots
of canoes/kayaks for the lakeside weekend. 15 trophies were presented, lots of
awesome campfire cooking was shared with friends and campsite neighbors
(thanks Jim Kirk for all of that awesome pulled pork you made for everyone!),
piles of door prizes donated (thank you all!) and then given away! Huge thanks
to Tom Janiszewski for his awesome talents and for designing the event
graphics, stickers, dash plaques, the bitchen' t-shirts (sold out the first
day!).  And thanks again to Gary Hanson, my sister Kathie and partner Craig
for staffing the event also.  And it sounds like everyone got home roundtrip
just fine too! We had an awesome tailwind scootin' us back towards St. Louis!

Again, Kathryn and I really appreciate all of the wonderful friends we've make
while hosting all 26 of these BNNTA events over the past 20 years, and hope
you'll all mark your 2012 calendars for the 2012 Labor Day weekend and that
you and yours will join us for the 27th BNNTA festivities! Now we are going
down for a well-deserved nap!

Please feel free to go to the BNNTA#26 thread on the Samba.com or the same
thread on aircooledmissouri.com and reply to this thread with your favorite
photos and comments about the weekend!

Bill Bowman
your BNNTA host
www.bnnta.com
