From: Neithammer(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 6 Sep 2011 18:52:54 -0400 (EDT)
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Update on 71 Westy "Tachometer Problem"

Background: This all started with my VDO tachometer acting up like it first 
 did when I installed it, before I added the diode, on my 71 Westy (1600 
DP,  stock carb and distributor).  The tach, with the diode  installed, had 
worked just fine for a number of years, until this year  when the tach flaked 
out again.  The first time, I discovered that the  diode was fried (leakage 
current under reverse bias).   I  replaced the diode and it was OK for a 
short while - a few hundred miles.   The next time, the diode was still good  - 
no leakage current, but the  dwell was high and timing was late, from when 
I had last set them to spec.   Suspecting burned points, I replaced the 
condenser with a used spare (all I had  at the time), and reset the dwell and 
timing back to spec, and the tach was  OK, again for a while.  Carb and vac 
advance are both good - I  checked.
 
On the next trip, after a maybe a hundred miles, the tach was  flakey 
again, and again the dwell was high and timing was late, same as  before.  So 
this time, I replaced points, condenser and coil with new  components (Bosch 
blue coil, points & condenser from Bus Depot), reset dwell  and timing to 
spec, and the tach is steady again and I now hope for the  best.
 
 
Each time, when the tach started to act up, the bus would miss  
intermittently, most noticably under accleration.  And each time, when I  made 
corrections, the miss cleared up.
 
Oddly, when it was acting up, the tach got more flakey the harder I pushed  
on the gas pedal, even if the engine was not actually speeding up.
 
Looking at the points I removed, I don't see any unusual rubbing block  
wear, nor do the contacts look pitted or otherwise worn,

 
My question is, is there anything else that could be the cause of  this?  
What about the tach itself?  Cap & rotor (I have not not  replaced them)?
 
I must be missing something, but I can think of anything left to check that 
 would be the likely cause of this.
 
Rusty
