Date: Sat, 17 Sep 2011 17:45:13 -0600
From: John <vanagonvw(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: vanagon has to go....

Hi all. I posted recently  about having to send my 81 vanagon to the
crusher. Time is up, and it has to go. I am in west valley city, Utah.
Several of you were interested and I am here to emphasize that I am not
scamming, or trying to jerk anyone around. My life is simply a shambles, and
my time to live in a house is up the last week of this month so I am
scrambling and have far too many priorities.

The van lives besides the garage and no matter how much I try, every winter
the tarp blows off:-) and so spring means bath time and a nice coat of wax
to make it nice. Its not one of those vans you see rusting away in backyard
somewhere, its in unreal shape for its age Didn't do it this year because of
my health and finances I simply do not have the time to move it out, clean
it up, and photograph it. All I can say is I hope someone could find a home
for it. I will provide all the details anyone wants. It runs well, but has
never been broken in since the motor overhaul as disaster struck and put me
out of commission before I could get it done.

Any interest should be directed at jmbrush(-at-)gmail.com as I am on digest, and
simply haven't gotten it changed over to email from the listserverr.
I am in salt lake city. Anyone who buys it can slap on a temp registration
and drive it home as it sits right now. My intentions were a van to last
another ten years, so its not a half sassed, tossed together vehicle.

If you contact me, I will tell you anything. Part of the damage from my
stroke is I cannot type worth a shit as my hands are goners, so phone calls
to someone interested would be okay.

Got a Bentley, two spare heads, exhaust system in decent shape including a
cat which I figured to need due to emissions testing. Even toss in the
portable toilet strapped in behind the driver's seat. :-)

Please let me know if you can think of a better fate for a wonderful old
friend who gave me so much happiness for so many years.  The junk yard says
if I drive it in, they will give me $400,. I can drive it in, but have to
pay the registration fee and do some deal with my insurance, so $500 from
someone who would drive it away seems fair

jmbrush(-at-)gmail.com

John
