From: "Michele & Gene Cornelius" <mizamook(-at-)sonic.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 23 Aug 2001 07:15:19 -0700
Subject: Yet another:  Lost Coast Scouting

Well, we found not quite what we were seeking last weekend near Orick, and
spent most of our time looking around and taking every side road to find
that perfect property.  The place we went up to see was 40 acres about an
hour inland from Orick on a dirt road that left the engine compartment
blanketed in thick dust.  After all that driving (I had to use the
windshield wipers to see through the dust), we ended up at a place that had
neighbors right there, and with the logging, and the VW-killing drive, we
decided to look elsewhere.  We did see a black bear foraging at the side of
the road...I forgot how to drive and put on the brakes to a stop, killing
the engine in the process while I fumbled for the camera, but he was gone.

But we did find the Lost Coast of California.....Redway is a real cool town,
it seems....and we drove westward...it was a great bus ride....found some
more dirt roads....and some wonderful third-gear cruising on the
paved...interesting place!  The people were all nice and VW friendly...lots
of smiles and waves.  The only splitties we saw were two on the whole trip.
One was (I think) by the side of a house in Laytonville...it had been
rolled, but looked as though it was still drivable....and the other was a 62
or back deluxe with corner windows...welded to the top of a school bus...in
front of a burned-down house.  Now how did that house burn...hmm.

So we are heading back up there this Friday night....to look at some more
properties.  We'll be bumbling around Redway, Garberville, and the
surrounding areas.

Engine note:  I installed the oil thermostat from Bernie Bergman in the oil
lines (after the filter, before the cooler), and the oil temp now stays at
180 all the time...perfect!  Except for hard hot highway...it gets a bit
higher, but not much.  In thinking about the theory that you have to get the
oil to 210 or above to boil the water off, I think that that is not true.
Water steams below that, and if the drive is long enough, it will all
eventually go away.  I've had no problems with that oil smegma anywhere, and
the oil is still fresh-looking and viscous like new oil after a little over
2000 miles.  Let's hear it for System One filters!  (I did change the
oil-bath air cleaner after that first dusty road!)

We were getting terrible mileage the first part of our trip last
weekend....about 16 mpg.  Then I checked the timing at a fuel stop, and
found that I was running at 4 deg. BTDC!  Damn points wearing, I think.  I
advanced it to 8 deg. BTDC, listened for pinging, found none, and enjoyed
the smoother, more powerful running, which (I think...yet to be determined
empirically) gave us 17-18 mpg.  Still could be better...my goal is 20...but
I know that if I keep running hilly, windy highway stuff at 60 mph with a
3/4 loaded bus, I'll not attain that.  More jetting/timing experiments to
ensue....

We are running a 1776 with 050 dizzy and 34PICT-3 carb.  Tranny has a 4.12
in it, and standard tires.  70 mph (They accelerated when I tried to pass)
turned the engine at 4000 rpm.  65mph yields 3800.  My doublecab has better
numbers than this, but I think it has to do with the bigger rear tires.
Blah blah blah.

Hope to see anyone out there!  (Loving those tunes and those 4 new GR-2
shocks)

Later on,

Gene

