From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 23 Aug 2001 14:44:35 EDT
To: djohnson1(-at-)snet.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Engine rebuild - What would you do?

In a message dated 8/23/01 11:07:30 AM Pacific Daylight Time, 
djohnson1(-at-)snet.net writes:

>  The 65 is different. The motor runs well, has good compression, and
>  starts right up every time.  The three problems with it are: high idle
>  1800rpm(dual Kadrons) that I've tried to mess with, but that's as low as I
>  can get it,  oil seems to be leaking everywhere, (but pressure guage still
>  shows 35 - 40) and it backfires due to rusted out exhaust (I believe).  I
>  know nothing about the history of this engine.  I don't have that kind of
>  money right now, but I do have time, and am fairly mechanical, although 
I've
>  never rebuilt an entire motor before.  This is by no means going to be a
>  show car, just a splittie project that I hope to get back on the road, to 
be
>  driven and appreciated.
>      Also, I am signing up for an automotive repair basics class at a local
>  technical college for the fall, and was even thinking of maybe pulling the
>  motor to donate as a guinea pig, or lab specimen.
>  
>  Question:  What would you do next if you were me?
>  
 check engine end play using the push pull on lower pulley method when engine 
is at TDC - should move around .004 ", a hair,   You could also do a 
compression check- oh you did- what was it?  But sounds like the motor is 
okay, you have seal and carb issues. Maybe your timing is a bit advanced.

Me, soak the engine compartemnet and engine underneath with somple green
drive to carwash, and clean that puppy, including around in Front of Fan 
housing, and under push rod tubes

drive home
look for where the drips are
pull motor
drain tranny oil, clean magnets, dont forget RGBoxes, replace trans boots if 
torn or cracked, fill with oil
do you have all the tin there?

replace fuel line (check fuel sock?- which means draining all the gas okay), 
engine to body seal, 
pull FW, replace main seal and o ring check clutch
remove fan housing, change oil cooler seals
do you have a doghouse?   Now is a good time to swap, and/or install the 
thermostat set up if it is missing.
get rid of Kadron,
might as well pull over cylinder tin and torque upper head nuts  now.  pull 
rocker arms and do lowers too.  adjust valves when cold.  easy to 
inspect/swap plugs now.  install a 30 pict one or 30/31 solex
inspect muffler- change if needed but the backfiring may be your timing
was it leaking from the oil sender?
points/ condensor

Put it all back together and put in bus. 
how is your engine lid seal?

install light in engine compartment- dome interior light,  on roof at right 
of motor to shine on checking oil, from split using 12V 10W bulbs no cover 
hot from battery with inline fuse 

start up, adjust timing and check with strobe light. 

this is the reseal and replace used stuff in the engine area procedure for a 
new to me bus to make it happier, seal the engine compartment for better 
heat/cooling, and not pee oil everywhere.   a clean engine compartment is 
good.
