Date: Thu, 23 Aug 2001 16:05:19 -0500
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)infohiwy.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: more tire pressure

spoke to bridgestone the other day... the secretary at first refused to
connect me to anyone, as "it was sensitive information" and couldn't be
given out; i pointed out the load/psi charts are often available in the
tire shops.
she connected me to the akron flagship store, where a very cautious
salesman agreed to give me some 'ballpark' figures, off the record.
sometimes i think the world would be better off without lawyers.........

anyways:
when vw specified 185R14s on bay busses, this DID NOT mean radial - it
meant reinforced. same on the splits.
so saying that a 185 radial tire is all you need is wrong; if it is a
passenger-car tire, it at least has to be reinforced. better is a truck tire.
second: the tires your bus came with were european tires (michelin,
continental, etc). different dimensions, slightly.
third:  those tires may have been constructed to slightly different
specs than american, tho he couldn't say for sure.  but the tires made
TODAY are not the same as the tires your bus came with - hopefully they
are better :)
he asked what make/model i had, and approx. what weight (i said 5400
lbs), and what the vw inflation was (30/40 to 30/44 loaded); his opinion
was that those figures were a bit low for modern tires and that weight -
he suggested 35/45, and go up if the ride and tread wear allowed it. he
strongly urged more pressure if the van was fully loaded, or towing. but
BE SURE to maintain the specified front/rear inflation ratio.

his postion was (off the record) that tires made in the last 10 years
might not meet the ride standards that vw was shooting for 'back in the
day' at those lower pressures.
for another, he pointed out that most car makers deliberately lower tire
pressures to improve 'drivability;' what this means is that the ride is
spongier, more 'car-like' on our busses, because americans like that.
your ride might be much more 'active' and responsive at the higher
pressures, but you might not enjoy it :)

the last thing he stated was that we should all go buy a GOOD tread
gauge - 'properly inflated at ANY load will mean that the tread gauge
shows ALL the channels to be the same depth straight across the top of
the tire, ie, in a plane. if you are overinflated for your load, you
will see a bulge with the gauge that is not visible to the eye; too  low
will result in the side channels getting deeper.'

for fun, i'm going to call my uncle in akron (who was on the firestone
indy team in the 60s) and see if he can get me a load/psi chart from any
old buddies still in the factory.

so there you go. make of it what you will, argue that a spec made nearly
40 years ago must NEVER change with changing technology, state for  FACT
that you run 5 psi and never get any tread wear and it handles like a
ferrari, you have your tires at 70 and they sound like rapping on teak
when you tap em, whatever. 35/45 is where i'm at. i figure the people
who made the tire know what is best for THAT tire... in point of fact,
that is the essence of the explorer/firestone case: ford recommended an
inflation pressure up to 10 psi lower than firestone in an effort to
make a TRUCK ride like a CAR. whether the tires were defective and would
have blown anyways is anyone's guess; whether they would have blown and
no-one would have thought anything of it if the lousy design of the
explorer didn't make 'em roll like sausage is another.

for me, 5 extra psi seems like cheap insurance.

craig
65 pritschenwagen
70 neunsitzer
