From: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 8 Aug 2005 8:29:10 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Good to see mid-70s T2 being saved...I hope...

You know, everyone I talk to thinks these cars are extremely cool. I don't think I've ever met a single person who doesn't think the VW Bus is at the very least, nastolgic and cool. And the truth is, the VW Bus is one of the most inexpensive cars to restore. If you don't require any body work, you could basically build a shell into a perfect street worthy Bus for as little as a couple thousand dollars. I don't know ANY other vehicle in the world that you can do that with (except a VW Beetle).

My 81 TransAm (last year of the 70s design) has been the most expensive car I've ever had the privledge to restore. I mean, they don't even make replacement rear quarters for anything newer than 1975. To have the dash redone is $650 dollars. To get new SMC fender flares is like several hundred dollars....

So when I see the potential that each Bus has, I just don't understand why someone wouldn't take the opportunity to repair them. The problem I suppose is that a lot of these Busses require some body work. However, as far as I can tell, you can basically get any body part for any Bus you could possibly want. Someone with a budget of 5-6 grand looking for a reliable, inexpensive classic car to restore that they can have fun with, and will fit in the garage, the VW Bus is one of the most convenient vehicles to restore.

I can't tell you how many Busses I see in just the ONE junkyard I frequent here in South Florida. (U-PULL-IT in Davie, Florida). I go there once every other week, and every time I'm there, I see about 2-3 VW Busses. They're always different ones as they go through their entire stock of cars in about 2-3 weeks. I've seen busses that are basically near-mint condition... probably with nothing other than a mild engine problem.

It's a real shame... because most of the Busses I see are the ones with the rounded bumpers, which tells me of course that they are clearly pre-74... with that in mind, they're also emissions exempt so anyone could buy it, fix it up, and not have to worry about passing a stringent visual emissions inspection.

:(

If I owned plenty of land nearby, I would buy up these busses left and right and just store them.


Todd


>Date: Sun, 7 Aug 2005 21:20:01 -0700 (PDT)
>From: Cliff Rhoton
>Subject: [T2] Good to see mid-70s T2 being saved...I hope...
>
>This Sunday afternoon, I passed a T2 that was being
>trailered. The T2 was a mid-70's ASI/Riviera Plan
>one. 
>Hope it isn't being scrapped. My wish is the new
>owner loves T2's and will give it a new lease on life.
>
>Clifford Rhoton
>Portland, Oregon
