Date: Tue, 09 Aug 2005 10:45:27 +1000
From: Martin Strandgard <mnstra(-at-)unimelb.edu.au>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Weber 34 ICT woes

I have a 76 2l bus that had a weber progressive on it when I bought it. I 
(finally) installed a set of 2nd hand weber ict 34's on it and can't get 
them running right. The jetting they came with is as follows;

idle 65
main 140
air corr 160
emulsion F5
acc pump 50
acc pump bypass has had the numbers filed off.

Also:
float levels checked + balance tube fitted
timing set to 28 deg max centrifugal (about 6 deg idle). Vacuum advance is 
working.

(Note that all comments about screw settings in the following are with 
reference to the starting point, not cumulative.)

Initially to get the engine going I wound in the idle speed screws until it 
ran. I know, very bad but after spending months accumulating the parts that 
didn't come with the carbs I just had to hear it going! The result was it 
had reasonable pick up at low speed but almost had the acc pedal to the 
floor to maintain 60mph. I then decided to set the carbs to lean best idle. 
This involves initially setting the idle speed screws to 1.5 turns in and 
the idle mixture to 2 turns out. With this combination the engine wouldn't 
fire at all! I had to wind the idle speed screws in 2.25 turns to get the 
engine to run (at about 500-600rpm). At this point the best idle that could 
be achieved with the idle mixture screws involved screwing them in about a 
turn. At this point the idle was only about 700 rpm. To get the idle to 800 
rpm required the idle speed screws in 3 turns. The resulting performance 
was very similar to where I started. This description sounds like it's 
running too lean but idle jets of 65 seem about right from what I've read. 
I can't find any vacuum leaks so I am looking for other potential problems. 
The only thing I can think of is the fuel pressure. It may have been just 
enough to run the single progressive but not enough with the extra 
resistance of the extra hoses and tee piece of the duals. The only 
indication I have that something is amiss with fuel delivery is that the 
fuel filter only gets about 1/2 full.

Any suggestions?

Cheers,

Martin.
