From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: "'VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com'" <VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com>, Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 25 Feb 2002 20:11:06 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] Type 4 oil cooler mod

I feel the reason they didn't use them on the type4's was that there was a
lot more room in a type 4 and it was easier to add a row on a type one
cooler then the complexity of the Tight finned type 3.  One of the reason I
also feel that everyone uses the type 4 cooler is that they are easier to
find then the type 3 tight finned. I have found 5 in 5 years so the rarity
of them is more then likely the reasoning of using the type 4 not for
superior cooling. If you look at pure mathematics and take the square inches
of cooling in a type 3 verses a type 4 you will probably find the same
amount. Also when you modify the shroud you have altered the amount of air
that was designed to flow, thus reducing air volume through the cooler and
are counting on the size of the cooler more then the air through it for
cooling. It always reminds me of the buggy's with a oil cooler mounted in
the air, counting on the air from movement for cooling. I run big engines,
run hard and loaded and have never had a heating problem and live where it's
100+ degrees half the year and drive one of my VW's everyday and have never
had an engine failure due to heat. I have also tried the type 4 coolers and
did not enough difference in it and the type 3 to warrant hacking up the tin
to make it fit. I just went with OG engineering with an improved (yet hard
to find) oil cooler.

Ronnie  try it you'll convert

ps. One of these days I will hook up the stinking gauges, I have four
senders on 2 of my engines, 1776 single port and the 1800 stroker. 1 on the
cooler, 1 on the drain plate, 1 in the pressure relief and the last one is a
dip stick.

-----Original Message-----
From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com [mailto:VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com]
Sent: Monday, February 25, 2002 8:21 PM
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Type 4 oil cooler mod


In a message dated 2/25/2002 2:31:35 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
tainlay(-at-)sbcglobal.net writes:
> I'm thinking about doing the type 4 oil cooler mod.  Anyone done this?
> Looking for feedback, pro or con
.

Hi Thomas,
Both Clara and we have done the type 4 converison into a doghouse shroud.  
Both have simular oil temp drops of about 10F.  Ronnine was going to do some

gauged testing between the doghouse cooler and the type 3 cooler, but we 
never heard the outcome.  We believe the type 4 cooler is better due to 
having larger air passages through them.  Which allows the cooling air going

through the type 4 cooler to expand and cool the oil better than being 
stuffed through the smaller type 3 passages with apparently same surface
area 
as the type 4.
We also posed the question if the type 3 cooler was as good or superior why 
did VW not use it on the later type 4?  VW was very stingy about outlay for 
tooling to make parts unless there was a worthwhile improvement in 
performance and the type 4 was out and about long enough to field test this.

This was even more paramount when in the 1970s to keep up with pollution
laws 
the ACVW engine was under more and more heat stress due to leaner and leaner

mixtures to pass emissions.
  Make sure to use a 34mm or better yet 35mm wide (Inside measurement) 
cooling fan on any type of doghouse shroud.
Eric&Barb
