Date: Tue, 26 Feb 2002 00:11:04 -0500
From: Doppelkabine <chrhobbs(-at-)mindspring.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Hoover Sermons...

FYI Mr. Hoover just posted this message on RAMVA:

Subject: The 'sermon' files
Date: 25 Feb 2002 07:40:47 GMT
From: veeduber(-at-)aol.com (Veeduber)
Organization: AOL http://www.aol.com
Newsgroups: rec.autos.makers.vw.aircooled

To All:

Everything I have ever publicly posted to Usenet or to the several
VW-specific
Mailing Lists remains in the archives and may be read by all simply by
going to
the respective archive and doing a search using 'veeduber' as the seed.

For background, the late Richard Kurtz asked and received my permission
to
extract some of my postings from the various archives and created, at
his own
expense, a separate file, which he named 'The Sermons of Bob Hoover.'  
(Why
'sermons'?  I've no idea.  But to poke a bit of fun at Dick, I began
adding a
'sermonette' to the end of my postings.) 

A lot of people did not agree with what I had to say and spent a lot of
time
sending me anonymous flamers, mail bombs, hate mail and the like.  Other
idiots
insisted anything posted to the Internet was NOT covered by copyright
and added
my material to their web sites and newsletters, often under their name
and for
their financial gain.

Abuse of any privilege guarantees that privilege will be be withdrawn. 
In
1998, after putting up with the morons for more than four years, I asked
that
the file be dismounted.  There's more to life than Volkswagens and as
recent
events on ramva have shown, it takes only a couple of idiots to convince
useful
people they are wasting their time.  

An abridged version of the 'sermon' file was published on CD but that
generated
its own round of problems, including lots of mail from idiots telling me
how
easy it was to burn fifty copies for their friends and what was I going
to do
about it.. sue them all? hahahaha  (Well, yes.  Since such a message is
a
virtual guarantee of a directed verdict.)

Since withdrawing the 'sermon' file I've been revising it, adding photos
and
drawings to most of the articles with the thought of one day publishing
the
material in book form.  It has been slow going because of all the new
projects.
 The fact I no longer post messages about my travels or projects doesn't
mean
I've stopped traveling.  Quite the opposite, in fact.  Ditto for the
projects,
such as a complete how-to on thermal barrier coatings, significant
enhancements
to the cooling and lubrication systems, a whole batch of electrical
projects
involving ultra-bright LED's, auxiliary batteries, better cabin heating,
more
durable (and less expensive) wipers for the bus and so on.  Indeed, the
only
thing that has changed is that I've stopped sharing that information
with the
internet VW community, for the reasons mentioned above.

Yeah, I know... it wasn't your fault.  But it wasn't mine, either, other
than
trying tell newbies how to keep their ride running right.  And as I said
at the
outset, most of the original 'sermon' file remains available to anyone
who is
seriously interested.

-Bob Hoover

dbsitebuilder wrote:
> 
> Does anyone know if his sermons are available anywhere?  I remember reading
> in the past, and also reading the archives, that they were discontinued.
> Anyone?...

-- 
Chris Hobbs and family, Leesburg VA
'67 Type 2 DoubleCab (stock)
two '74 412 wagons
'74 Beetle sedan (standard)
'79 Beetle cabriolet
