Date: Fri, 20 Aug 2010 08:34:11 -0400
From: Mike Benthin <muts(-at-)verizon.net>
To: "Martin Jr., D. Michael" <martinm(-at-)montevallo.edu>
Cc: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Camping Checklist

Couple of points from experienced camper on 2 month trips:
-Make sure flashlights include one you can hold in your teeth as you lie 
under the bus looking at that starter, there are LED single AA ones or 
the ones that hold 2 AAs and a bit longer.
-We keep newspaper under the bed pads for firestarting.
-I cut down the handle of a splitting maul to hatchet size and use it to 
reduce firewood or get kindling or bang out dents if so unlucky; we call 
it "the persuader".
-Tent for those campgrounds where only tent sites are available, then 
you have a "conveyance" and proper tent set up.  They were real 
sticklers about this in Assateague, we had to look like we were not 
sleeping in the van!
-$5 refillable snake neck lighter from Home Depot, keep with the Coleman 
stove, the one with grill on one side we have, LINE it with foil under 
burner for easy cleanup.  BTW, a wad of foil makes a good grill scrubber.
-Speaking of stove, we carry a single burner that fits on the wide 
propane tank to be about 10" high, good for in van cooking/heating with 
it on the floor if it is storming outside.
-Get the can opener that cuts the outside rim of the caan; then the can 
can be "recovered with the lid, and it can be used as a cup or quicie 
pot.  Get those handles that grip the can edge to heat soup in the can 
over your single burner.
-Really quick awning is a 12' by 18-24' tarp you sling over top of bus 
if you have no poptop and tie to rear air scoop and front door upper 
door hinge-carry 2 extendable poles and tie front to ground.
-You can custom deepen the glove box using cut cardboard lined with 
sprayglued felt.  The stock opening can have a wooden bottom wedged in 
that is glued to the top of the airscoop housing in back. Pmail me for 
pics of this and many other mods; the web site that hosted these is gone.
-Pmail me for pics of an easy to make pod that fits on the roofrack; 
it's masonite bent over a base, with doors at each end traced from the 
resulting "mailbox" curve.

Martin Jr., D. Michael wrote:
  I am trying to compile a "Camping Checklist"
