Date: Sat, 21 Aug 2010 19:13:41 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] horn grounding

On 8/21/2010 5:53 PM, Max Bronsema wrote:
> When I press the button I now get a very faint chirp from the horn. At
> the hot wire I am only measuring 11.4v. Does the horn need 12v+? Is it
> possible that the switch is bad and thus not giving a complete ground?
> If so, how would I test that? Can I cross the ground and hot wire to
> see if the horn sounds?

Ok, so the way that the horn works is that it is supplied 12v to one of 
it's terminals (doesn't really matter which).  Now, the other terminal 
then runs through the bus, along the wiring harness, up to the steering 
column, and then makes its way across the gap between the key housing to 
the movable steering wheel.  Then inside there is a switch that connects 
that wire (which came all the way from the horn) to ground.

So, the switch is not supplying power to the horn, per se, it's really 
connecting the circuit to ground.


The first thing I'd do is make sure you have a good 12v supply to the 
horn.  Looking at the bentley for 1971 models, this should be a black 
and yellow wire that runs from the horn to the fuse box; the color isn't 
horribly important (if the PO decided to mess with wiring) - what's 
important is that you have +12v - so test to make sure you have a +12v 
supply and make sure you have a nice positive 12v.  If it's low, test 
the voltage at your battery - if the battery is low, then it's the 
battery.  If the battery is good (at least 12.4), then it's the wiring. 
  Not *that* big of a deal as it should jump up when the engine is running.


Anyways, hook up that 12v wire to one side of the horn.  Next take any 
random wire, cover your ears, and connect the other terminal to ground 
(anywhere on the bus) and the horn should sound... good?  If it doesn't, 
or the horn sounds funny, change the horn or adjust it per the bentley 
instructions.


Next, you'll need to test the switch circuit - the easiest way to do 
this would be with a continuity tester that you find on a multimeter. 
This will beep if the circuit's good (i.e. you touch the leads together, 
it beeps - you touch either end of a wire, it beeps - etc).  If you have 
a wire that you think runs up to the horn, disconnect it from the horn 
(if it's connected), hook up one lead from the continuity tester to that 
wire, and then go inside the bus and touch what you think is the other 
end - the meter should beep (you might need to use an extension to reach 
around from the outside to the inside of the bus).

Now you can go along the horn circuit and test it at various points - it 
should beep at every point up to the switch.  I would test it where it 
jumps from the non-moving steering column to the wheel.  Then test it 
inside the wheel, the switch, and so on and so forth until you find 
where the break is.  Obviously, if you test on the other side of the 
switch, it won't sound until you press the switch, or not at all if the 
switch is bad.


That said, after writing all of this, I'm not sure if you're model 
actually has the switch on the wheel or the steering wheel column - 
either way, it all works the same - the switch grounds the circuit.


I hope that helps!  Lemme know if you are still having trouble.  It's a 
pretty simple circuit so don't overthink it: +12v from the fusebox to 
one terminal of horn, other terminal of the horn wired to a switch, 
switch grounds the wire...

good luck!
Mike
