From: "Bill Bowman" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
To: "List - Buskatiers" <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>, "List - DBG"
Date: Fri, 27 Aug 2010 10:05:51 -0500
Subject: Update... the 25th BNNTA  VW camping weekend...

The latest update!

Exactly one week from today lots of VWs will be streaming into our private
campground at Mark Twain Lake in NE Missouri for the festivities at the 25th
BNNTA VW camping weekend. We got a lot of our administrative work done and are
pretty much ready to go to host all of you on Friday through Monday of the
upcoming Labor Day Holiday weekend. The trophies, dash plaques, the T-shirts
(awesome!) and some of the door prizes are already here and waiting to be
packed into or event Bus, the '59 DD panel.

Hot VWs Magazine will be featuring this event in coverage in a future issue, I
believe that the illustrious John Lago and his incredible "Bondo Condo" will
be joining all of us again, and I haven't heard a peep out of any of the Clubs
about their entries in the competition for the best "theme" campsite
decorating contest (which is always histerical!). And if you want to bring
some VW goodies to sell or swap you can lay them out on your campsite anytime
you want to. If you have any cool VW-related items to donate to the door prize
pile bring them along and we'll give them away to some lucky participant on
Saturday evening at the award presentation. The scenic caravan over to
historic Hannibal, Mo will be on Saturday morning at 11 am.

The Rangers at the Indian Creek Recreational Area are ready for our arrival
and looking forward to seeing the first arrivals as early as Wednesday! If you
plan to arrive early, camp in the normal "main campground at Indian Creek at
the prevailing daily rate. As a favor to us, they usually open the gates to
our "group campground" early, usually on Thursday around noonish. I lease the
entire campground for our event as of Friday at noon onward, so if you happen
to settle in and camp there on Thursday, expect to pay the daily rate for
Thursday to a passing Ranger if asked to so.

The weather this far out sounds good (but no matter what the forecast we'll
all be there), so pack up your old or new VW (any model) and have a nice safe
drive over to the 25th BNNTA camping weekend on Sept 3rd through 6th, 2010. We
look forward to greeting your arrival!

Bill Bowman
www.bnnta.com
