From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K)
Date: Thu, 22 Apr 2004 11:50:12 -0500
To: firesong4ng(-at-)hotmail.com (James Jackson)
Cc: tim(-at-)cwo.com, WetWesties(-at-)Yahoogrous.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: POR 15 Corrosion Control Process

Tone?
Turn the treble up a bit.
No it's not my way James.
Wasen't even going there.

I am conveying the accepted practices of  rust removal and restoration
processes, in any run of the mill vehicle body shop repair
facility.--nothing out of the ordinary.
It's all pretty much run of the mill proceedures.

POR products don't even come into conversation at any of these place's--

Maaco, or Earl Sheib, doesn't use the stuff. 

I understand that All the folks witn a Bus, Van or whatever don't have
the means to do the job right--
And this is why this POR product came to be.
It was an easy to use temporary stop gap measure.

Now there are or have been a bunch of other product out there too---that
folks believe in--and use-- from Slick 50--Amzoil, to water injection
systems-- and a pill you can drop into your cylinder's that fills the
gap between the pistons and cylinder walls-and they all will all tell
you the stuff works.

Great.

Do what a gotta do.

All's Im saying is --yep--I used the stuff on one of my prior rust prone
GM vehicle's as an experiment--the area's in question rusted out just as
fast--in matter of fact faster--that the the proper way.
I called Eastwood--and they told me --"Oh-Well' in so many words--

So with this all in mind--and seeing as I do this kinda thing for a
living , I though I just might pass the correct way to get the job done
--with longevity in mind, and at least drop some reading material, and
some correct options to the back yard method's.

Yep-the subject--( this time) did start on wheel refinishing--
BUT POR 37  wasn't the issue if you recall--it was powder
coating---vs--- Boat Urethane--and then somehow the POR thing jumped in.

I think I'm going to go outside and put a coat of that Miracle Wax on my
Van's, Bus --and my Bike, and pour some lighter fluid on them all and
light them all up---with a blow torch--

I hear this stuff is the best--- it is on television anyway--

LOL---

I'm glad the POR 92 stuff worked out well for you--



Later 

TK



<Another thing is.. have you used the POR 15 product and seen how it
works? Or just seen the ads and said.. 'another snake oil product' ? 
J 
I'm really not trying to start a flamer.. just want to say that your
messages have that 'my way or the highway, everything else is wrong'
tone>
