Date: Wed, 21 Apr 2004 21:17:16 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] 113 905 205T dist in a 1800??

At 11:40 PM 4/5/2004, Duncan Newberry wrote:
>I have a vaccum advance dist # 113 905 205T (68-70 MT
>bug) would this work in a 1974 1800 T4 with dual weber
>ICTs?

Why yes, yes it will.
I have been having a problem with my bus recently that involves poor 
full-throttle acceleration combined with jerkiness and hesitation.  Part 
throttle acceleration was fine though.

Now I should mention that I have thought about replacing my distributor 
with an SVDA from aircooled.net, but the price has held me back.  Please 
don't think I'm a cheapskate - I know that quality parts cost money and I 
am not afraid to spend, but at the same time I hate throwing money at 
problems - that's a strategy used by shady mechanics, and the feeling I get 
after spending lots of money without solving the problem makes me want to 
sell my bus and buy a Toyota... so I avoid that situation whenever 
possible.  I will get an SVDA someday but it will be an upgrade, not a 
repair.  A Christmas present to my bus perhaps, and not purchased under duress.

After scratching my head for quite a while, I decided to check the 
points.  The gap looked awfully small, so I loosened the screw in order to 
open it up a bit.  When I was using the screwdriver to move the points, I 
noticed that the plate the points were mounted to was moving... from side 
to side!  Not good, I think.  It's supposed to rotate around the shaft, but 
not move sideways.

I had two spare distributors and after checking the numbers in the type2 
library I found that they were both bug distributors.  One was fairly new 
with good quality points and condensor.  I decided to try this dizzy in my 
engine tonight, to see if it would cure my acceleration 
problems.  Wouldntchaknowit, problem gone like magic - acceleration nice 
and smooth again.

I took a closer look at my old dizzy on the workbench.  When the vacuum 
advance is activated, instead of rotating the points and advancing the 
timing, it opened up the point gap (and no advance, either).  In fact, it 
about tripled the point gap, which would throw dwell way, way off.  This 
was probably the cause of the jerkiness and hesitation, while the lack of 
advance was probably the cause of the flat spot.

In any case, you can use the bug dizzy in your 1800.  It may not have the 
ideal advance curve for your engine, but it will run and drive.  I would 
get a proper dizzy as soon as you can, though.

-David
