Date: Fri, 23 Apr 2004 09:28:49 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>, T Berk <tberk(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] POR 15 yes or no

I used Mar-Hyde's "One-Step" product to prep the westfakia, and I have 
been very happy with the results. Previously undetected (and untreated) 
bondo repairs have bubbled up since it was repainted but the "One-Step" 
has held up fine for three full seasons. YMMV.

FWIW I used the same stuff. Cheap! I had a Swiss cheese battery tray on the driver's side. I knew it was going to be time to replace it soon but I wanted to extend it's life until I could afford to do it right. 

Wire brushed it to death, removed all the flaking steel, coated it twice or 3 times with "One Step" or "Extend" (can't remember but it was from the local flaps and cheap - the key factors is that it is BRUSH ON. The rattle can version was USELESS! Tried that on a previous car. Waterbased even I think.). 

Anyhow I filled the battery trays with Metal to Metal Epoxy body filler (silver Bondo like product, does not abosrb moisture like Bondo, has aluminum in it as a filler), sanded it down, coated it a couple times per the rust converter instructions. Lightly sanded it, covered it in cheap spray gun applied primer (rattle cans do NOT provide think enough paint - has to be thinned too much to spray out of a rattle can, and there is not as much volume of paint as with a gun), sanded it, and then applied a couple coats of spray gun applied acrylic enamel with a bit of hardner in it. Generic auto body supply store brand... 

5 years later - with a battery sitting on top, and with the vehicle sitting outside the whole time - the battery trays are good top and bottom... Makes me happy... Repairs cost about $20 or so and was about the same amount fo trouble as cuting and welding new trays in BUT I didn't have to worry about cooking the paint of of the exterior of the body work. 

The cheapie water based converters WILL wash off I think if they are not top coated... 

Chris
'78 Westy w/Corvair implant
