From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "'jowils(-at-)unx.sas.com,'" <jowils(-at-)unx.sas.com>, >,
Date: Thu, 20 Mar 2003 11:48:44 -0600
Subject: Re: getting rid of joulise (sic) windows

	Joel, Warren, List, et al...

	I was going to pitch in my quasi-worthless thoughts on the subject a
couple days back, and got distracted by personal bizzyness.  Here they are
anyway ;-)

	First:  WTF do you want to do that for?  Seriously...  Are you
trying to make your Westfalia look like a Westfakia?  If'n your jalousies
are in need of fixing up seal wise 'n stuff, go visit the Wolfsburg West
catalog and see their jalousie window restoration kit - very nice, comes
with the perimeter seal (all that used to be availabobble), and all the
welting 'n stuff to reinstall the glass to the frames, and the frames to the
main structure of the jalousie.  And not very expensive either IIRC...

	Second:  If you think the cost of the WW jalousie kit is going to
make your j*nk shrivel and sph*nct*r(s) pucker, just wait till you find out
how much a "regular" cargo compartment vent window seal costs (about $40-$50
depending) - you're going to need 2, and let's not forget the cost of the 2
"fixed" window seals.  Don't know where either of you all are in the world,
but even here in hyper-inflated, sunny SoCal, the internal vent window
frames rot with digusting regularity.  You will also need one specific to
the sliding door - the internal frames are composed of two pieces riveted
together, with the larger approxi-squirtly U-shaped piece being universal,
but the vertical piece being R & L handed.  So even assuming you could find
good left-side frames to dissemble and use on the sliding door, the vertical
piece is bowed the wrong way and the chrome catch mechanism thingie (note
proper spelling) is going to be on the wrong side, blahblahblah...  Friends
in RHD planets, please stand in front of a mirror while reading these specs,
and adjust your monitor accordingly.  Don't even ask how I know this
arcana...

	Third:  Since the mid-70s, all my aircooled cars get equipped with
genuine Hella E-code, non-DOT approved H4 light assemblies, propelled with
55/100 bulbs, Hella if possible, but I've recently scored some German mfg'd
xenon-filled 55/100 bulbs from a motorcyle store...  I'm drive in places
that are darker than the inside of a mine-shaft cat from time to time.  Dead
is not good, and is hazardous to one's health...

	Oh wait, that's another thread - sorry!  That is all...

	Jim Hayden
	who prefers his windows sealed, his roads well illuminated, and his
nuts on tight
	www.savethebays.org   
