Date: Thu, 20 Mar 2003 13:10:19 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: j baker <bakerjohnf(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Bay windshield installation

>When installing a windshield into a bus, is it best to first attach the 
>rubber seal to the glass, THEN put the whole thing onto the bus using the 
>string method. OR is it better to first attach the seal to body of the bus 
>THEN use the string method to place the glass into the seal? I have read 
>about it both ways.

I learned from an old glass man - seal on glass (no lubricant between glass 
and seal) and then string and lubricant on seal then seal and glass into 
bus and then pull.

I usually set it up so the string is wrapped around the seal twice so if 
the first pull doesn't get it seated then the second pass will.

We also set it up so the string ends are at the top, sit seal and glass on 
the bottom of the window opening. Pull downward and push inward on the 
glass and seal. Try to seat the seal to the body opening as closely as 
possible. Pull upward when the string is at the bottom of the glass and 
downward when the string is at the top of the glass. Rightward at the left 
and leftward at the right side. Hey is leftward a real word?

We have used liquid soap but prefer silicone spray. Source at the hardware 
store and some better FLAPS. Install the glass after the paint work of course.

When done look for any bulges in the seal that will indicate the glass too 
far left or right. Ours was too far left slightly but because of the 
silicone spray I was able to slide it right so that everything seated 
correctly.

FWIW I did not use any glass sealant to make it seal. Neither did the factory.

Hope that helps.


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
