From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "'wfp3(-at-)lycos.com'" <wfp3(-at-)lycos.com>
Date: Thu, 20 Mar 2003 15:56:40 -0600
Subject: Re: getting rid of joulise (sic) windows

	Joel, Billy, List, et al...

	OK, so it's a matter of taste, can't fault you-all for that...

	I'll claim late-bay ignorance here, but aren't the sliding window
perimeter seals NLA'd and/or non-repopped or is all the antacid I took in
the 70s just kicking in ;-)  I see the sliders in the 'yards from time to
time, but really don't understand the logic of re-installing a window with a
used seal...

	Billy - you want that I should bag the next set of sliders I see?
See you at The Classic or something?  Seriously though, check out the WW
jalousie kit, it's got everything in it to quiet down those noisy beasts -
your windows I mean, and not the kids :-)  Thorazine in the sippy-cups
should handle that little problem ;-)

	Joel - I'm impressed, and I'm not trying to pick on you...  You have
oodles of the mega-one piece middle and slider door windows?  I'm no
super-duper M-code bus guru (there's others wearing that crown), but I've
only seen one set of those in recent trips to the yards, and I've been going
semi-religiously to my local L.A.-area 'yards about 15 years now.  My point
being that the much more common sight is the window / vent-window combo
(assuming the frames are not rusted), and if that was what Warren was going
to use as a replacement rig, it would be much more cost effective to simply
order up the WW kit, which I seem to recall being on the order of $25-$30...

	I can only imagine how comfortable it must be in the back of a Westy
where the only ventilation comes from the driver and passenger windows (now
being the smarty-pants)...  Oh yeah, and I also found some of those early
bay Westy interior weather-strips for a $1 each (2.5 sets) that everybody
lusts after too - the Lucky Charms (tm) leprechaun pointed them out to me,
an' Howeird Hughes, Sandy Claws an' the Tooth Faerie gave me hand popping
them out!  That's my story and I'm sticking to it...

	Jim Hayden
	now crawling back under the rock from whence he emerged
	www.savethebays.org
