From: "Dave Dixon" <ddixon(-at-)mbay.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 3 Sep 2004 05:05:32 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] another lurker peeks out from behind the bushes

This is great. Lots of new perspectives and ideas. Yesterday I pulled my
freshly rebuilt engine (1600 single port, dog house, pertronix 009 extractor
exhaust) out of the 65 combi to recheck the torque on the flywheel and to
replace it with my engine (1600 sp, dog house, pertronix vacuum advance,
stock bus exhaust) that is also freshly rebuilt. It took about 2 hours for
the engine swap without rushing. After giving it a good inspection, I plan
to put this engine into my 58 panel. The current engine it the 58 panel is
my mystery engine (1600 dp, dog house, pertronix 009, extractor exhaust)
that has been going great for the last 10k mile with no problems. I will
make this engine my spare. It sure feels good to be good to go with back
ups.

So yesterday a friend of mine asks me if I went up to check out the single
cab he told me about that might be for sale. He said it had been sitting in
one place for a loong time. After thanking him for reminding me and
admitting that I hadn't seen it yet, I decided to drive up and see what's
up. Yup, it was there in the front yard all dirty with the drivers side drop
gates down and the passenger door handle missing. It has a dual muffler on
an extractor exhaust. Also has Porsche hubcaps on white painted bug wheels.
hmm.

I continue on my daily journeys...I pull into a parking lot with my 58 panel
and this guy says hey, nice bus, what year is it? Then he says he has a 61
single cab. I say, Oh yeah where do you live? He tells me where. It turns
out to be the same single cab I was looking at earlier. Once again, I get
this small world experience!! He thinks his single cab is worth $7k. I'm
thinking he really like it and would sell it for anything. He tells me he
has a 1776 with dual 40 mm carbs. I'm still looking for a single cab or dual
cab.

Dave

> Since we're all chiming in here, I have been on this list for a couple
years.
> So, We're out here, keeping these moving museums on the road!
> Keep the split view alive!
