Date: Sat, 11 Sep 2004 08:16:29 -0700 (PDT)
From: Tracy Bonin <icculus22420(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 65' Splitty single port, redid alot, no start, help UPDATE 

Hi everyone thanx for all the great ideas. I think that theres something wrong with the idle circuit in the Carb on put on (31PICT) On Tues on got it to run good, I enrichined the idle mix on the carb, and after some help by my hand it was holding an idle proving  to everyone at work that yes it will run, and the engine sounds good. Again I had to manually keep it running until it would run on it's own, which I think is  sometthing with the choke circuit. Anyways, I timed it some and did some stuff, when I shut it off on Tues it was running decent. Still needed to do a valve adjustment, so after the rains let up on Fri I went out again on lunchbreak to start just that , and much to my dismay it is back at the won't run on it's own and won't hold an idle on it's own. I think that I've ruled out the fuel pump cause if it was that it wouldn't run when I "make" it run. Note I make it run by manually moving  the throttle so it  doesn't die. So I called Dave  at BugCity who is an awsome
 dude, and he said that it  sounds like my idle circuit, and choke circuit in the carb aren't  working properly, he told me to make sure I had the wiring OK, which I just switched off the old carb, (which brings me to the question does anyone know how the wiring shouold be to and from the carb so I have something to reference when I check it on Mon??) Anyways I was thinking that  if it was the wiring then it wouldn't have ran on Tues. He also said i can try cleaning those circuits, or rebuilding them. I've had to do that at school, and  I don't think I wanna get involved with that because I know it's a pain tto rebuild carbs. Does anyone have any ideas on this, and or know of any carbs for  sale?? I don't quite have enough cash to by a new one, but it any of you guys have one that  you know works then that would  be good.....

lemme know,

Thanx,

Tracy in CT
