Date: Tue, 14 Sep 2004 16:34:36 -0700 (PDT)
From: Matthew Henricks <mjhenks(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca
Cc: type2 <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE. lil' pivoting window seal replacement

John,

Just did this last weekend.  This is what i do.  (It
can be done with one person but two makes it easier.

Take a rag and drape it over a vise.  Put your piece
of glass into the vice with the rag protecting the
glass and tighten down on the glass.  (You may want to
place a few pieces of wood in there to protect the
glass and spread out the load from the vise)  That
should secure the glass.  Make sure the edge of the
glass that goes into the frame is UP.

Take the replacment rubber piece that WCM sells and
stretch it out as much as you can.  Now take the
rubber and stretch it around the edge of the piece of
glass.  The tighter you can do this the easier it will
be to get it into the frame.  If you can, clamp the
ends of the rubber to something to hold it after it
has been stretched.  (I use the edge of my bench)  If
nothing is available then use a second person to hold
the rubber while you tap the frame in place.

Lub up the rubber with something.  I use Windex. 
Start sliding the frame over the rubber starting on
the end with the latch.  Make sure you get the rain
gutter in there sonner rather then later or you will
have to take it back apart.  Use a rubber mallet and
lot's of lub and start tapping the frame in place. 
You will have to hit the bottom of the frame to seat
the latch into the rubber as it can be tight.  Keep at
it till the frame is seated on the glass.  Work both
sides of the frame or you can damage the frame.  You
should not have to wail on the frame with the hammer. 
Just some firm taps.  If you do have to wail on it
then the rubber is not stretched enough.

After that release it all and trim the rubber.  The
toughest part is trimming it under the rain gutter.  I
took an exacto knife blade and heated up the tip so i
could bend the end 1/8" 90 degrees.  I can then slid
in under the gutter and cut the rubber.

Wala....  With a little patience you can have this
done on both windows in less then an hour.  If you
have any Q's feel free to ask.

Matt Henricks
