From: "Bill Bowman" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
To: "List - Vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, "List - Vanagon"
Date: Fri, 22 Aug 2008 23:33:16 -0500
Subject: BNNTA is a week away!

Hi all,

The trophies are on the way, the registration packets are ready, and the door
prizes are coming in.  We're six days out from the start of the 23rd BNNTA
event over the long Labor Day holiday weekend coming up.  The rangers at
Indian Creek Recreational Area are readying the entire group campground for
our arrival.  I've booked the entire place for our exclusive use and only VWs
(of any type and era!) will be allowed to remain in the campground.  Even
though the BNNTA event officially starts on Friday, a little birdie told me
that the Corps of Engineer Rangers "may" again unlock the gates to the group
campground sometime around noon a full day early, on Thursday for the early
arrivals. "They like us, they really like us!"  By the way, if you arrive
early, the rangers may collect a normal one night camping fee for Thursday
night, and then the BNNTA event fee will cover Friday, Saturday and Sunday
nights!

The price of gas has thankfully fallen back to about $3.45 a gallon near St.
Louis lately, and best of all, the weather has been surprisingly nice for
August.  Lately we've been seeing daytime highs of around 85 degrees.  So be
sure to pack a long sleeve shirt in case it gets cool at night.  Saturday
we'll have our traditional scenic backroad tour of buses over to the boyhood
home of author Samuel Clemens (aka, "Mark Twain") so that everyone can tour
the historic sites in Hannibal, MO.  The Bus Show happens Saturday afternoon
with awards and door prizes handed out on Saturday evening.  Our campground is
right on 22 mile long Mark Twain Lake, so be sure to pack your water toys!

So change your oil, air up your tires and pack up the VW for the journey to
the upcoming BNNTA VW camping event this next weekend.  We'll look forward to
your arrival for all the fun in just a week.  Drive safely and well see you
soon!

Bill Bowman
http://www.bnnta.com  for event info and map

p.s.  could someone please forward this over to the Vanagon List for me?
Thanks!
