Date: Tue, 26 Aug 2008 21:54:58 -0400
From: "Peter T. Owsianowski" <pnoceanwesty(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "List - Type 2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>,  "Vanagon List"
Subject: Buses by the Beach Bus Boo - September 12-15th!

Hey, VolkFolks!



It's almost time for everyone to be together again at "BUS BOO!" Buses By

the Beach annual fall campout and Halloween *before* Halloween party in
Grand

Rapids, MI Sept. 12th, 13th & 14th.   It looks like we are in for another

great turn out of Bus Pilots and VW lovers from all over the country. So,

bring your musical instruments for some campfire jamin'.   Remember, it's
not

about sounding good, just feeling good!



If you have not made reservations please call the campground so we can plan

for camping space. Call Grand Rogue at 1-616-361-1053 located at 6400 West

River Drive, Belmont, MI 49306. Make sure you tell them that you are with

Buses By the Beach group so they can group us all together.

http://www.grandrogue.com/

Again  this year will be a *"Family Friendly" camping area* that will have a

quiet hour of 9pm. If you are interested make sure you let them know when

you check in.



Back by popular demand, we are camping during the *West Michigan Living*

*History and Educational Association* presentation of Early America
Encampment

at Grand Rogue Campground. Visitors can view first hand what life in early

America was like. There will be period craftsmen demonstrating their skills,

including a blacksmith and a woodworker. Working with hand tools, they show

how everyday implements were made in early America. At the Encampment,

history buffs wearing authentic period clothing and living in period

shelters, present programs throughout the weekend. Activities will include

musket and cannon firing, men's and women's period fashion shows and

tactical demonstrations. For more information on the Early American

encampment go to: http://www.westmichiganlivinghistory.com/



Weekends activities include:

*        Early American encampment.

*        Halloween Theme campout.

*        Bus to Bus trick or treat.

*        Award Ceremony:

1.      Best Halloween Site Decoration Award

2.      Best Kids Halloween Costume Award. (There will be three first place

winners)

3.      Best Adult Halloween Costume Award

4.      Oldest Bus Award

5.      Longest Distance Traveled Award

6.      Bus In Most Need of Restoration Award
7.      Department of Homeland Security Award (Bus most likely to get pulled
over)

8.         Annual Buses By the Beach Chili Cook Off.

 9.        Famous Buses by the Beach Tie Dye - Bring your favorite
pre-washed 100% cotton item to Tie Dye.


-- 
Pete
'79 Westy "Aardvark"
'87 Westy "Joe's Van"
WWW.Busesbythebeach.com
