Date: Fri, 29 Aug 2008 07:50:16 -0700 (PDT)
From: Joel Sell <justthesells(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Complete '79 2Liter FI motor for sale

Bus has 111K original miles on it, and as far as I can tell, the engine is all original, except for the oil filter (duh). I bought the bus at the beginning of the summer from the 2nd owner who only had it for about a year. The original owner took GREAT care of the bus. I can send pictures of the bus if you are interested. 
The 2nd owner bought it in perfect shape, and had visions of learning to work on it if anything ever went wrong. Unfortunately, the demands of college and a problem with the engine killed his dream. Here's what I know about the enigne problem:
The PO told me, "my mechanic said I had a bad valve". That's about as tech as he got. I don't think he was intentionally trying to be vague, I think he honestly didn't know much about cars. The bus started and ran on the test drive around the neighborhood, and then I drove it on the highway from Baltimore MD to Philadelphia, PA (about 100 miles). It was underpowered, but not so bad that it was terribly noticeable. No knocking, ticking, slapping or anything funny. The bus started immediately and drove fine EVERY time I drove it over the next month- no stalling out at stop signs, hesitating, nothing. I didn't drive it much, just around the block, pick up the kids, in and out of the garage, etc. 
I am selling it because I am converting the bus to an electric vehicle, and don't need the engine. 
The engine is 100% COMPLETE. NOTHING is missing from the tranny back, except for the clutch, which, if you can wait a few weeks, you can have that too (it's in great shape, so I guess it's not original). ALL hoses, vacuum lines, wiring, harnesses, battery cable, FI equipment, the FI "brain", voltage regulator, fuel injectors, MAF sensor, etc. Every piece of engine tin, screw, nut, bolt, washer, rubber grommet, that little plastic oval piece that caps the hole for the alternator adjustment screw. Also included is the entire fuel system- gas tank, fuel filler neck, fuel lines, fuel filter, fuel pump and whatever else goes with that (all are in great shape).  
My engine bay is BARE. I took out EVERYTHING. 
I also started to take the engine apart, so it's NOT in "bolt-in" condition. To be specific, I took off all the FI stuff to get the engine out and then took off all the tin to get a good look at the longblock. The exhaust is in good shape, and I did NOT remove that. Heaterboxes are NOT rusty. I did not go inside the longblock. 
So there you have it- a used engine running strong on 3 cylinders with EVERYTHING you would need to slide it into an empty engine bay. 
No, I won't part it out unless you are willing to pay well for it. I just don't have the time to disasemble the engine any more, box stuff up and stand in line at the post office. 
I'm looking to get $800 OBO.
Oh yeah, I WON'T ship the engine. It's pick up ONLY. I live in Philadelphia, PA. 
Joel in Philly
