To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Tim Frank <timros(-at-)netspace.net.au>
Date: Sun, 31 Aug 2008 20:12:46 +1000
Subject: Water injection

Earlier in the year I installed water injection on our 2-litre 76  
Poptop (dual carbs).
This was just prior to our annual trip to mainland Australia to see  
our grandchildren
& assorted friends, family, etc scattered across the eastern side of  
Aus.

I used the only syringes I could lay my hands on at the time which  
were the units
supplied to drug addicts.  Unfortunately, the actual needles are  
extremely fine, probably
around 29 gauge.

While the whole unit only took about 2 hours to rig up and install,  
the results taken over
5000 km of driving were disappointing.  Only about 1.5 litres of a 3  
litre supply bottle were
consumed during those kilometres while we used about 580 litres of  
fuel (approximately
$1000.00 worth at an average of $1.70 per litre of premium fuel (95  
RON)).

Understandably any differences to fuel consumption were not  
measurable though we did
note a lower oil temperature average for this trip (taken same time  
over last 5 years).

Have not played with the system since our return some 2 months ago  
until I sourced some
18 gauge needles on that well known on-line site.  I replicated the  
system using 6mm
clear hose and the 18 gauge needles.  Another hour or so.

Took the bus for a run.  Ran fine at cruising speeds but stuttered  
and hesitated under full
load.  Obviously too much water.  Left bus for a later 'fix'.  Went  
to start next morning to be
greeted with a solid 'clunk'.  Had noticed that a reasonable amount  
of water seemed to have
  been consumed in the 20 km or so run when I checked the next  
morning.  Putting 2 & 2
together I knew where the water had gone.  Remove plugs, disconnect  
coil, turn motor over,
clean the water from top of engine bay.

Tried to source smaller needles to no financially accepted avail  
(found a site in Florida that
had a full range of needles in the correct gauges and lengths at  
really good prices -- $2 -3.00
per 10 -- but the shipping was approximately $40.00 US to send to the  
southern hemisphere.
Sigh.

Left for a day or so, then laying awake about 1:00 am unable to sleep  
I had minor brain-wave.
Next day found some standard 2.5 mm multi-strand electical earth  
wire, stripped out 1 strand
and inserted this up the centre of the 18 gauge needle.  The copper  
strand was quite a loose
fit in the needle which is what I wanted.  The 2 needles were then re- 
inserted into their
respective positions.

I ran the bus today on a 85 km round trip with no adverse effects.   
Unfortunately, the day was
only about 17 C (63 F) so testing cooling was not feasible.  Tried to  
test the bus up my usual
hill which in the past has shown a drop in speed from a 100 kph start  
to less than 80 kph.  I
started at 102 kph (as indicated on my satnav unit and was only down  
to about 90+ when I had
to back off to avoid a small popular Japanese car blocking my lane.   
So a proper test will have
to wait until probably next weekend when I have time to try again.

So far with admittedly very limited miles since the alteration, it  
appears as if the 'jetting', if that is
the correct term, is about right.

My next project is to install a larger 5 litre water bottle under the  
passenger side (sorry, drivers
for the northern hemisphere) rear compartment under the auxilliary  
battery.  There appears to
be already a small hole with a plastic plug in it there which would  
let the water hose go into the
new container.  I just have to get the parts together to install an  
arrangement to top up the water
without removing the container.  This will be situated just behind  
the tail light assembly next to
the auxilliary battery using (I think) 3/4" garden fittings.  Will  
let you know how that goes.

The bus is being serviced next Thursday by it's usual VW specialist  
(who owns a 72 dual cab &
a 07 GTI Golf) so we will see if the WI has any effect on the tuning.

Tim & Ros
76 Poptop
Tasmania
