Date: Tue, 02 Sep 2008 08:23:23 -0400
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
To: benthin(-at-)prodigy.net, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] How is the gas crunch  affecting your tripping?

Hi Mike,

A 20MPG bus rates very close to a prius when you consider the Miles per 
gallon per cubic foot of cargo space. Given the choice of going camping 
with 5 people in one VW bus or two Priii, I'd take the bus. A 35MPG 
hyundai just doesn't compute.

The miles per gallon PER SEATBELT ratings of my 7-passenger weekenders 
(Baywindow and Vanagon) are not too shabby either.

Personally, the cost of gas isn't a primary concern. My tripping 
criteria is more impacted by the cost of the location I am headed to and 
the amount of time it will take to get there. In my case the cost of 
Road Food and lodging for a family of five plus hangers-on is usually 
more than the cost of gas anyway.

Luckily for me there is a pretty active VW community in Southern 
Ontario. A bunch of us carabus down to EveryBus in April, and then wait 
about six weeks until BusFusion. Then there's Buses By The Falls, Buses 
Of The Corn, The Peterborough Bus Volk Festival, Warsaw Caves on Labour 
Day, and at least three or four more events to come before the end of 
October. This past weekend's event was only about 80 miles from home, so 
we took both the Baywindow westfakia AND the wolfsburg weekender in 
order to help house our family of five and two of the kids friend's who 
came along with us.

I have noticed that some events have had smaller attendance this year; 
EveryBus was "down" at around 150 buses, BusFusion 2008 (canceled last 
June and resurrected in March) was a mere 140. BOTC was halved to 28 
buses (Largely due to heavy rains that weekend). OTOH, the True Canadian 
Winter Bus Campout was bigger than ever with 15 buses, and the Warsaw 
Caves event we just got home from yesterday hosted 30.

But it's not like there's anything wrong with smaller events. You get to 
spend more quality time with people when you don't have to split your 
time amongst so many. There may be a few less ingredients at the Burrito 
Breakfast, but it's not like there's not gonna be enough to go around.

The next event on our local Calendar is "BusQuinox", which is just north 
of Hamilton Ontario on the weekend of September 20th. Anyone interested 
can p-mail me for details, or search facebook for the event listing.

Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/79 Westfakia "Bob the Tomato"
1987 Wolfsburg Weekender Hardtop
www.busesofthecorn.com
www.pottsfamily.ca

Mike Benthin -MUTS oboe support wrote:
> I just read this article about Airstream owners (Airstreams also stay in 
> use for decades and "clique" like us bussers).  I smile when I see it 
> takes 11 mpg vehicles to tow them. 800 characters to the link, so here 
> is the tinyurl:
> http://tinyurl.com/5kvfof
>   So how the current cost of travel affecting your tripping?  RV sales 
> are down nearly 20%, and people are camping closer to home. Is the 18m 
> mpg daily driver status of your bus looking wan compared to a 35 mpg 
> Hundai? Joel Sell, gotta see your electric bus when it's finished!
>    -For us in NJ, we had to forgo VW shows and some campouts, having 
> only gone to Everybus (because we were headed for Savannah) and 
> Riverside Westies in Vt (love the drive, river tubing, and Newfane flea 
> Mkt).  We will make the Assateague, Va campout because it is on the Way 
> to Busch Gardens where we want to take in the Halloween weekend.  Ron 
> Salmon's BUSDepot campout in Oct. is also an hour away. We have 2 busses 
> (campers) in our family, and it is just too much to have Nyssa bring 
> along her own bus 7 hours away, so it's squeeze in our camper or bring a 
> tent with her hardtop.  Jamestown Beach campgroundkles  near Busch Gardens, 
> here we come!
