From: toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 02 Sep 2008 16:19:28 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] How is the gas crunch affecting your tripping? 

Hah, Carabus...

If there were some Vanagons in the mix, would it then be a Caravan again? hah.

Yeah, what's affecting my tripping, is the fact that I'm scared to take my Bus out in the rain because I don't want to get water spots. Also because I still haven't had time to figure out what's up with my brakes, and because my wife doesn't like to camp. Aside from that though, it's great!!!

That said, my Bus runs awesome. The idle is perfect, the power is excellent... as far as I'm concerned, the motor runs beautifully. The engine runs a little hot, but I think I may just need to fix some holes in the engine compartment (the original owner (a few POs back) cut a large section out to make room for an A/C compressor). The shifting is a little messed up, but my goal is to get the Bus running "top". I've got a set of dual carbs (brand new) that have never seen gas in their lives. I'd like to install them once everything else is sorted out. I figure the dual carbs will probably yield slightly better fuel economy, a bit more top-end power, etc. 

But otherwise I'm thrilled with the way the motor performs now. And it's a GEX!!! When I first got it, it ran like crap. I ended up replacing all the rocker arms, lifters, everything, and I run Shell Rotella exclusively in the Bus now. The lifters never lose compression. I can let my Bus sit for like almost 2 months, hop in, two pumps of the gas pedal, and it'll start immediately... no valve clatter, nothing. Starts up beautifully.

Damn this Bus is awesome. Even though I only occasionally drive it to the grocery store, and to the gas station or auto parts store... I love this thing.

I'm totally rambling now, but what the hell. My wife is pregnant, and I decided I would try to thin out the fleet, so I sold an 81 Trans Am that I've had for 7 years, and I sold a 1984 Porsche 944 that I had basically completely restored (it was REALLY tough for me to get rid of this car... it's still painful). So I'm left with our three daily drivers, my 73 VW Bus, and my first car... my 1987 Pontiac Fiero. 

I'll NEVER get rid of my Bus... 

I'm looking forward to being able to share the Bus with my daughter that's on the way.


Todd

-------------- Original message from type2-digest-help(-at-)type2.com: -------------- 
> From: Greg Potts 
> Subject: Re: [T2] How is the gas crunch affecting your tripping? 
> Hi Mike, 
> 
> Luckily for me there is a pretty active VW community in Southern 
> Ontario. A bunch of us carabus down to EveryBus in April, and then wait 
> about six weeks until BusFusion. Then there's Buses By The Falls, Buses 
> Of The Corn, The Peterborough Bus Volk Festival, Warsaw Caves on Labour 
> Day, and at least three or four more events to come before the end of 
> October. This past weekend's event was only about 80 miles from home, so 
> we took both the Baywindow westfakia AND the wolfsburg weekender in 
> order to help house our family of five and two of the kids friend's who 
> came along with us. 
> Happy Trails, 
> 
> Greg Potts 
