Date: Tue, 4 Sep 2007 09:46:57 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] Problems with 78 after new points

Devin Dutcher wrote:
>After several more attempts I readjusted the points and am running a solid
>44-45 degree dwell.

	The main variables in ignition timing are deg advance at 
ldle, and some idea of the advance curve with revs.  We gather a 
digital timing light is a v good instrument for those.  Dwell, which 
you'll no doubt be able to read also on the digital timing light, is 
of less importance than those first two variables, because if both of 
these primary variables are right the dwell can't be far off specs 
(given that the fibre heel (syn. rubbing block) is following the cam 
freely).  I'se bin into more detail  - see archives  -  but those are 
the basics.


>  I think initially my problem was that the rubbing block
>was not seated properly.  The bus is now running again.  I also put my old AFM
>meter back in, because I keep stalling out.  I drove for over 1 hr  (in the
>mountains) with no problem's. (crossing my fingers).  I do not own a gas
>spectrometer

	not a kosher name; best to stick to common terms.
	instruments analysing exhaust gases usually measure 
absorption of IR at wavelengths characteristic of the main gases 
which have dominated theories of air pollution (esp photochemical 
smog).  Gas chromatographs (separating the respective gases) aren't 
generally needed.  Mass spectrometers, shattering the mixture into 
all possible molecular fragments, can be used but are needlessly 
expensive.
	At leat one IR exhaust gas analyser  -  U of Colo I think  - 
works as you drive past at ordinary town speed, reading by an IR beam 
across the street.


>and suspect that because I made no adjustments to the FI that is
>why I keep stalling out after running for about 15 minutes.

	In many parts of the USA the eqpt for these measurements is 
common, primarily for legal enforcements of exhaust pollution limits 
but also in all serious tuning shops.
	If at least one 'comeback' is included in the official 'smog 
check', could you use those measurements to some extent?  Anyhow, 
surely you can make a reasonably cheap arrangement with a tuning 
shop.   Try for a massive discount by saying the tuning is for 
'Daughter of Little Miss Sunshine'   -)


>  Sounded like it
>keep flooding out and would not restart till after the engine cooled.

	Ease of detection of flooding with a carb is just one more 
reason why I'm in no hurry to move to FI  ;-}

-- 
Robt Mann
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
