From: "Melissa & Jerry Jess" <vwstuff53(-at-)msn.com>
To: "type2" <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>, "vintagebus \(vintagebus\)"
Date: Tue, 4 Sep 2007 12:02:58 -0700
Subject: AridZona Jerome Jamboree

September 14, 2007 - September 16, 2007 - Jerome Jamboree Gold King Mine,
Jerome, Arizona The Arizona Bus Club proudly invites all VW Drivers to join
us for the Seventeenth Annual Jerome Jamboree. The 1963 Standard Raffle Bus
is looking great and you may be the lucky soul who drives it home...all we
ask is that you show up in a VW; non-Volkswagens are not allowed through the
gates. Our venue is located at the historic Gold King Mine (5 minutes from
Jerome

Arizona.) Events may include the Pet Show, Body Art Contest, Chili Show,
Slow Drags, Childrens Activities, Raffles Galore and whatever else we dream
up between now and then. Mr. Bus Burger will be serving up Burgers and Dogs
near the front gate! The Gold King Mine offers tours and is a destination in
itself. Swapping of parts is strongly encouraged and a sense of humor is
mandatory. Anyone wishing to sell new items must pre-register as a vendor
(see the ABC website) to reserve their spots in vendor row. The caravan out
of Phoenix Friday morning is legendary and could change your life! Check our
website www.arizonabusclub.com for updates or email jdstanton5(-at-)cox.net for
more information. Admission is $10 per night per vehicle for campers and $3
a day for walk-ins. Sorry no walk-ins after sunset. Proceeds donated to
local charities including the Jerome Volunteer Fire Department. Gates open
at sunrise on the 14th - sorry no early admittance. If you can bring
something for our stage raffle we'd sure appreciate it. Come to a monthly
club meeting in Tempe to get all the juicy details and meet some new
friends. 

 

 

 <http://www.thesamba.com/vw/shows/index.php#3874> September 14, 2007 -
September 16, 2007 - Volkswagen Wedding Chapel (-at-) Jerome Jamboree Jerome,
Arizona Volkswagen Wedding Chapel - Jerome Jamboree 17, September 14, 15,
16, 2007 Get Married to your sweetheart in the best possible place on earth
- Jerome Jamboree. This is the second year for the Wedding Chapel. We've
transformed a 1958 Single Cab into "Mission de Samba". I am a licensed
wedding officiant in the metro Phoenix area and would love to marry you
around your Volkswagen family at this year's Jerome Jamboree. 

Weddings or Vow Renewals, both are beautiful in the setting that is Jerome
Jamboree - 300 VW buses of all ages, looking like something out of a
Grateful Dead Movie! 

Registration before the event is required (desired). If you are planning on
marrying at the event, a marriage license is required so you would need to
figure that out, I can help you with you that. Walk-ups are fine also! 

Last year I performed 2 vow renewals for 2 great couples. The one couple
ended up winning the raffle bus! Maybe it was a little magic that I worked
with upstairs??!?!!! 

The Volkswagen Wedding Chapel at last year's Jerome Jamboree was the main
focus of a Valentine's Day pod cast about Volkswagen themed weddings. Both
of the vow renewal couples were interviewed for the event. This is really a
great opportunity to have that dream theme wedding or vow renewal you always
wanted. Please call me today and we can begin planning your ceremony! 

Special Thanks to the Arizona Bus Club for hosting such a great event! 

 

Volkswagen Wedding Chapel, Jerome Jamboree - Sept. 14, 15, 16, 2007 Rev.
Marnie Olsen ceremoniesyourway(-at-)cox.net 480-560-5487
www.AzCeremoniesYourWay.com 
