Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Thu, 6 Sep 2007 08:37:54 -0400
To: Eric Janssen <borther(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Introduction

Hi Eric,

If you still have the receipt, tae the 009 electronic ignition back  
and exchange it for the version that fits your vacuum advance  
distributor. Otherwise sell it off on ebay or whatever.

If the bus is running well on the vacuum advance distributor then the  
009 will NOT be an upgrade.


Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/77/79 Westfakia "Bob The Tomato
www.pottsfamily.ca
www.busesofthecorn.com




On 6-Sep-07, at 2:22 AM, Eric Janssen wrote:

Hello all, my name is Eric I'm new to the list.  I live in  
Sacramento, CA, and drive a bone stock '68 Westy.  (I previously had  
a '69 camper (no poptop) that I cut my teeth on.)  I've had my bus I  
think since 1996.  I do all the maintenance and most repairs on it  
myself, but have been taking it in to a mechanic for larger repairs  
and the few times I've been stumped recently due to time getting  
sucked into a mystery vacuum by 2 small children.  This bus has been  
from Sacramento, CA to Guanajuato, Mexico and back, including several  
side trips to the Pacific Ocean (Nayarit and Michoacan) when I was  
down there.  All of which is to say that it has treated me very very  
well and I in turn try to "be kind to my ass for it bears me".

Current to-dos: (1) fix the accelerator pedal linkage (basically get  
it ship shape because I'm only getting a little more than half  
throttle, which interestingly enough, will let me cruise at 65mph/ 
3000rpm); (2) figure out why the interior light by the back bench  
seat isn't working; (3) experiment with electronic ignition gizmo in  
an 009 distributor (I've got the stock vacuum advance distributor in  
there now, and purchased the electronic ignition on a recommendation;  
had an 009 laying around in the garage).  I've been enjoying the tech  
archive and library this evening and look forward to more education  
from the list serve and website, in addition to sharing what meager  
knowledge I have myself.
