From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: "'Shad Henderson'" <shenderson(-at-)thegeekgroup.org>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 7 Sep 2007 21:04:41 -0600
Subject: RE: [T2] From EFI to carbs

Shad,

You can ditch the EFI harness and everything associated with it, you won't
need it. You can send all your EFI stuff to me and I'll pay postage!
Seriously.

The wires you will need to run:
Hot 12v wire to the coil, which comes from the ignition switch
Hot 12v wire to the reverse lights
Negative wire to the condenser of the distributor
(or look under the hood of any type 1 Bus/Beetle and copy it)

With 36x42 heads, you better run 40 - 44mm carbs! I wouldn't run a center
mounted weber progressive with that kind of engine. Dells are excellent, but
hard to find. Ask Chris at BustedBus about his experience with big 'ol Dells
on big motors.

If you really want a performance engine and since you were confident with
your EFI, you could go with a CB Performance EFI system. They just released
a self-learning computer with a wide-band 02 sensor. Much better than having
to get-your-geek-on by choosing megasquirt. Avoid the Redline/Weber EFI. It
has been giving me issues that are not easily diagnosed and their throttle
bodies are not well crafted.

Dude, that sounds like an awesome project. Not many people are brave enough
to build a type 4 motor. 

Jon Stiles

-----Original Message-----
From: Shad Henderson [mailto:shenderson(-at-)thegeekgroup.org] 

Hi All, 

Before the flames begin, let me say that I have nothing against fuel
injection.  The EFI on my bus has server very well since it rolled out
of the factory.  But I'm rebuilding an engine, and have gone a little
more "performance" [snicker] with the engine.  94mm flat topped P&C,
36x42 HeadFlow Masters heads, and a European Motorworks "E" grind cam.
The moving parts will be getting a .5 gram balance at a local machinist
experienced with the Type 4 engine.  

My question concerns the wiring.  I've never done an EFI to Carbs swap
on a bus before.  I know that the double relay and resistor pack goes
away, as does the brain.  But how I need to alter the existing wiring
harness, I don't know.  I'm looking over the wiring diagram, and it
makes sense, but my woeful knowlege of the type 2 electrical system is a
hole I'd rather not fall into blindly.  But rest assured, I won't just
go attack the wiring harness with a set of side cutters and "figure it
out later"   

At the moment, all I've done is removed the engine.  All the wiring is
still in place sans the EFI harness that came out with the engine.  

Anybody care to share from the voice of experience?  

Thanks!

Shad H. 
