From: "Joe Luther" <jluther(-at-)alfons-haar.us>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 1 Jun 2008 12:49:03 -0400
Subject: Getting closer - I'm firing on the right side cylinders only

Hello everyone;
 
I'm still trying to fire the 75 bus up, getting closer all the time.  Heck
of a learning curve going on here.  
 
I decided the best use of my mystery fitting was to run a manifold vac line
to the EGR valve to replace what was missing.  
 
First test crank showed me that the OEM braided fuel line from the pressure
regulator to the right/pass side injector rail had a few slight pinholes.  I
replaced that line and tried again, no signs of starting but cranking well
the same as before replacing the leaking line.  I pulled the most convenient
plugs, front and rear on the drivers side (3 and 4) and they were new
(Autolites, which will be replaced with NGK or Bosch Supers ASAP) but they
were totally dry.  No other signs of leaks.  I got the lawn chair and
Bentley back out to do some reading and quit wrenching for the night.  
 
Overnight, I remembered/dreamed that there seemed to be some pulses of
combustion evenly spaced apart when cranking.  Reminded me of a diesel with
a few dead glow plugs so after church, I pulled the back plug on the pass
side (2, I think) and it had a smell of gas so it's getting fuel.  It seems
what I am hearing is combustion on part of the cylinders, at least #2.  
 
I've already replaced the fuel pump and filter (they were AWOL when I got
the bus) and ran a new line from the tank to the filter and between the
filter and pump.  I'm going to head up and get more FI line and clamps, as
well as some better plugs and get back under there.  I released the hose
clamp on the flexible fuel line going into the rail on the driver's side and
there was no sign of fuel there, although I haven't pried the line off of
the rail yet and it has a good seal.  If there is fuel at #2, it could only
get there by going past 4, 3, and 1, correct?    The 1976 fuel line diagram
on ratwell.com is pretty straightforward.  
 
It seems odd that I am getting combustion on the cylinder farthest from the
fuel pump at the end of the chain.  I've cranked for 15 to 30 seconds at a
time, maybe 4 times total.  Have I not given the system enough time to fully
pressurize?  The cylinder nearest the regulator seems to be firing.    
 
I checked the firing order and the wires are on the cap correctly.  
 
I'm going to continue reading and testing but if anyone has any suggestions
or experiences to help me, I'd love to hear them.  I'd like to get the old
girl running today if at all possible.  
 
Thanks in advance, 
 
Joe
