Date: Sun, 1 Jun 2008 10:26:19 -0700 (PDT)
From: MerlinJ79 <merlinj79(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Getting closer - I'm firing on the right side

In order to get fuel to a cyclinder you need two things

1) Fuel pressue in the rail (sounds like you have that).

2) The injector for that cyclinder needs to fire.


To be safe, you should probably get a fuel pressure gauge and check that the correct pressure is present in the rail while cranking. A bad pump or regulator could cause a problem. Also the regulator MUST be installed correctly, and it also has a vacuum connection IIRC.

Then make sure that the electrical connectors to the fuel injectors are connected correctly.  You can also test each injector by removing it from the manifold to observe fuel spray while cranking (DANGER: Explosion hazard...be very careful).

There also several electrical connections required to make the fuel pump operate...it is possible for it to operate during cranking, but then to stop after you release the key.  The usual symptom here is that it will start, run for a few seconds, and then die.

Also double check your ignition...make sure your timing, gap/dwell are set.  These can only be set approximately without a running engine, but make sure they are in the right ballpark.  Sometimes the timing gear that drives the dizzy gets installed wrong, in which case you have to rotate the dizzy 90, 180, or 270 degrees off the mark on the dizzy. Ensure your coil is providing good spark.

The bentley manual and type 2 library has some great info on fuel injection.

Most FI problems are usually electrical in nature.  There are several ground wires in the FI system which commonly get missed, make sure they are connected and corrosion-free. 



<SNIP>
It seems odd that I am getting combustion on the cylinder farthest from the
fuel pump at the end of the chain.  I've cranked for 15 to 30 seconds at a
time, maybe 4 times total.  Have I not given the system enough time to fully
pressurize?  The cylinder nearest the regulator seems to be firing.    



Rick
"Pumpkin II"
Stock 2L FI '77 Westy
CA Smog Stuff
