Date: Mon, 2 Jun 2008 11:00:22 -0700
From: "John Peters" <jpeters(-at-)smud.org>
To: "type2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Electronic gremlins, run for your lives!

Hi Volks,

My '71 Westy has been suffering from a case of electronic gremlins
lately.  The generator light was lit dimly on a recent trip, then would
get brighter as I increased acceleration, then glow bright red if I
turned on the blinkers or the emergency flashers (only the flashers
would actually work).  After perusing the archives, this weekend I set
about trying to troubleshoot.  I had a bad ground from the battery,
which I resolved, but I think that was unrelated, as the gen light and
signals still exhibited the same behavior.  I did a cursory job of
cleaning the turn signal switch and since it was really loose on the
column, I tightened that up.  I replaced the front turn signal bulbs
(1034), which looked crusty white, and used a wire brush to clean the
sockets.  The rear bulbs looked clean, and so I didn't replace them.

Now the generator light is off with the engine running (and signals on
or off), which is good, but the turn signals still don't blink and the
emergency flasher doesn't blink.  Exterior bulbs don't come on, but the
green lights for the turn signals on the dash both come on and stay lit
while the signals and flasher are on.  The flasher won't come on at all
if the key isn't in accessory position.  I'm pretty sure the flasher
should come on even if the key isn't on.  Anyway, I'm not very good at
following complex wiring diagrams, and the turn signal is one of those
that I'm having trouble figuring out.  Parking lights/headlight/brakes
don't do anything weird, so the problem appears to be limited to the one
(?) circuit.  All fuses appear to be intact.

Any ideas out there on what might be bad?  Could I still have a bad
ground on the turn signal relay that would exhibit itself this way?  Or
a bad ignition switch or bad relay?  *sigh*  I spent much of my day
yesterday in the driveway fiddling with things and running to the FLAPS
for bulbs and battery.  If I had a spare relay handy, I would try
throwing it in there.  I didn't have any electronic cleaner spray,
either, and I need to remember to go buy some of that for better
cleaning the turn signal assembly.

Thanks a lot,

John
