Date: Mon, 2 Jun 2008 21:07:16 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: John Peters <jpeters(-at-)smud.org>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Electronic gremlins, run for your lives!

Hello John,

First, take a deep breath and take a step back to think about the situation. As for the gen light, check your fan belt to make sure that there is only 1/2inch of deflection in the belt and no more. A loose belt will make the light come on. It possible that the brushes on your generator are warn down. Does the battery seem weeker than normal? Crank up your bus and disconnect the battery while it is running. (CAUTION: do not do this if you have fuel injection. You could damage the brain) Does your bus die or does it keep running. If it dies, you generators brushes need to be replaced. You can buy new brushes for your generator and replace them if need be. It is easier to do than it sounds.

I am not clear, did your turn signals and emergency blinker work before the gen light starting comming on? If so, I would be willing to bet that your problem is solely related to an action you took since that point. I wouldn't touch any other part of your bus until you recheck everything you have done since your gen light came on. 

Your flasher and turn signal circuits are actually one big circuit. I would take out the light bulbs that you just reinstalled. make sure that there is plenty of tension between the contact finger(s) in the light bulb sockets and the contact on the light bulb. If there is not a good connection between ALL of the light bulb sockets and the light bulbs, your flasher/turn signal system WILL NOT WORK.You should(this one sounds stupid, but I did it) look on the back of the bulb and see if it has one contact on the back or two. Now look in the socket that you pulled it from. Make sure there is the same number of contact fingers. IF you have to, bend the contact fingers inward a little so they put more pressure on the bulb contact when you reinstall the the bulb. Also, the light bulb sockets are known for coroding. Make sure that the sockets are all clean. A small wire brush or piece of emery cloth/sand paper will do fine. If the bulb feels loose int he socket,
 there is not a good connection. Try wiggling the light bulbs in there socket when all of the lights are suppose to be on.  Also, stick your head in the engine compartment and look at the wire connections on your taillights. Make sure that you did not bump any wires off and make sure they are on good and tight.  Of course, check and make sure that you did not pop out a fuse or burn one out. twist each fuse a little to make sure all are making contact.


Keep up posted and good luck. Try everything that I mentioned first before you start throwing parts at it or start diging in the rats nest called the wiring harness. Things get ulgy when you start doing that.

Regards,
David Kelly
volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com


John Wrote:
 My '71 Westy has been suffering from a case of
 electronic gremlins
 lately.  The generator light was lit dimly on a recent
 trip, then would
 get brighter as I increased acceleration, then glow bright
