Date: Tue, 3 Jun 2008 08:43:23 -0700
From: "John Peters" <jpeters(-at-)smud.org>
To: <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] Electronic gremlins, run for your lives!

Hi David,

I originally thought it might be the belt, so I tightened it one
washer's worth and it seems to have about 1/2" of deflection now.  The
battery is 6 years old, but I brought it to my FLAPS and they told me it
still had 535 CA and was still good.  I replaced the ground cable and
really cleaned the terminals and the positive connector.

The signals and flasher worked before the gen light came on.  In fact, I
used both going up to the Sierras Memorial Day weekend (particularly the
flashers!).  Weather was clear, and just about when we arrived at our
destination, I noticed the weak generator light.  I tried to forget
about it and enjoy my weekend, but the next day I fired the bus up and
the light was still there.  I tightened the belt and didn't see any
change.  The day we left, the light was off (it was dim, though, so
maybe I'm just thinking it was off).  We got down to the flatlands again
and I had to stop for gas.  I then noticed the light was back on, and
that my turn signals didn't work (and caused the gen light to get fully
bright).  Emergency flasher caused the same effect.  Once at home, I
started fiddling with bulbs, the battery, and cleaning sockets and
tightening the turn signal assembly on the column.  The biggest
difference occurred when I replaced the front turn signal bulbs and
cursorily cleaned the sockets - the gen light went off and the turn
signal indicator lights on the dash came on solid with either flashers
or turn signals (but still nothing with key off).  The bulbs have 2
contacts on the ends and I did pull at the contact plates inside of the
sockets to create a little more spring.

I've got full power to both sides of the fuse on the flasher circuit and
all the other fuses seem to be intact, although I haven't tried twisting
them around.  I also verified that I have a full 12 volts to the
emergency flasher while the key is off.  If I can figure out where the
relays are, I'll test power there, but since I haven't messed with the
wiring harness, I'm hoping/expecting the problem is with the sockets,
the relays, or the turn signal assembly itself.

On a side note, it's good to know that replacing the brushes is an easy
job.  I'm sure at some point it'll come up.

Thanks,

John

-----Original Message-----
From: David Kelly [mailto:volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com]
Sent: Monday, June 02, 2008 9:07 PM
To: John Peters

I am not clear, did your turn signals and emergency blinker work before
the gen light starting comming on? If so, I would be willing to bet that
your problem is solely related to an action you took since that point. I
wouldn't touch any other part of your bus until you recheck everything
you have done since your gen light came on.

Your flasher and turn signal circuits are actually one big circuit. I
would take out the light bulbs that you just reinstalled. make sure that
there is plenty of tension between the contact finger(s) in the light
bulb sockets and the contact on the light bulb. If there is not a good
connection between ALL of the light bulb sockets and the light bulbs,
your flasher/turn signal system WILL NOT WORK.You should(this one sounds
stupid, but I did it) look on the back of the bulb and see if it has one
contact on the back or two. Now look in the socket that you pulled it
from. Make sure there is the same number of contact fingers. IF you have
to, bend the contact fingers inward a little so they put more pressure
on the bulb contact when you reinstall the the bulb. Also, the light
bulb sockets are known for coroding. Make sure that the sockets are all
clean. A small wire brush or piece of emery cloth/sand paper will do
fine. If the bulb feels loose int he socket,  there is not a good
connection. Try wiggling the light bulbs in there socket when all of the
lights are suppose to be on.  Also, stick your head in the engine
compartment and look at the wire connections on your taillights. Make
sure that you did not bump any wires off and make sure they are on good
and tight.  Of course, check and make sure that you did not pop out a
fuse or burn one out. twist each fuse a little to make sure all are
making contact.
