Date: Tue, 3 Jun 2008 19:27:27 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Martin Strandgard <mnstra(-at-)unimelb.edu.au>
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] I weighed my bus

It is actually pretty amazing we are only 10 pounds
apart. If you disected each bus you would see they are
very different. David has his diesel conversion, I, my
Subaru conversion. I have a lot of extra steel up
front extending the frame and housing the radiator. He
has added steel mostly in the back. My toolbox is
easily 200 pounds and I'm closer to 250 than 175 by a
long shot! Mine was weighed while returning home from
a week of camping and had all my camping gear. What
surprised me most when weighing mine is that the
distribution was exactly 50/50. If I centered the
front axle on the scale, it was identical to when I
centered the rear axle on the scale. Those two added
together were higher than 3800, but with both axles on
the scale together and bus centered, the total was
3800.

Mine is a standard roof day-camper conversion with all
the original conversion removed and home-made cabinets
and bed made mostly of old signs (plywood)- still much
lighter than particle board though. The alloy wheels
remain, but they are probably 3X the weight of stock
steel rims! (at least 2X) - BaH

--- Martin Strandgard <mnstra(-at-)unimelb.edu.au> wrote:

 --- David Schwarze <dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net> wrote:
 >Weighed my bus today at the Ennis Bug-In show.
 
 3790lbs total
 
 
 ---Busahaulic busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com wrote:
 
 >Mine is 3800 on the button, travel-ready with me on
 board.- BaH
 
 Meaning you only weigh 10lbs? :)
 
 Seriously though, I wonder what the big weight
 difference is. The high roof?
 As I have often written, there is a lot of scope to
 reduce weight of our vans,
 particularly campervans and hence reduce fuel use
 
 Martin.
 
 

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
