Date: Thu, 5 Jun 2008 08:43:55 -0700
From: "John Peters" <jpeters(-at-)smud.org>
To: "George Lyle" <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] RE: Electronic gremlins, run for your lives!

Wow, you're not kidding.  I pulled up the fuse box last night and wasn't
quite sure how to wrangle that thing around to actually get at the
relays.  It looks like the prongs of the center relay are actually
attached with tiny screws.  No idea how to rotate the fuse box to avoid
damaging something - it's pretty snug in there.  Is there a trick to
doing it?

Also, which relay corresponds to what?  I'm guessing that the middle
relay (the 2-prong) is the emergency flasher relay.  Then there are two
similar looking silver square relays on the left and right of that one.
They appear to be easier to unplug and I could probably remove them
without as much difficulty.

My testing on the signals was limited to further cleaning of the lamp
connections.  I also also applied dielectric grease to the sockets.
After doing so, I turned on the emergency flasher as a test, got a few
clicks from the relay (but the light on the flasher knob didn't light
up), and then it just stopped.  Now I get absolutely nothing, no lights
on the turn signals.  Generator light back on.  Very disappointing.  I'm
pretty sure my turn signal lamps are in there properly because I can
turn on my parking lights and get a solid connection.  Beyond that, I'm
still stumped without testing the relays.  I broke one of the fuse
filaments while twisting it around to make sure I had good connections
at the fuse box.  Stupid thing was that it was actually the last one I
was doing that with.  Finally found a spare in my Bug, but by then the
wife wanted to go to dinner.

Thanks everyone for your suggestions so far!

-John

-----Original Message-----
From: George Lyle [mailto:glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com]
Sent: Wednesday, June 04, 2008 2:16 PM
To: Martin Strandgard
Cc: John Peters; type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] RE: Electronic gremlins, run for your lives!

On Wed, 4 Jun 2008, Martin Strandgard wrote:

> >However....  (and here's a real rookie question)  Where in the world
> are the flasher relays on a 71?

They are plugged into the bottom of the fuse block under the dash.  You
have to unclip the thing and lift it up to expose them.  Be careful, the
plastic is fragile and you're disturbing a lot of wires.  Disconnect the
battery ground before fiddling with this, as it is easy to ground things
out on the body.

George
