Date: Sun, 8 Jun 2008 15:55:34 -0700
From: "John Peters" <jpeters(-at-)smud.org>
To: "VW List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] RE: Electronic gremlins, run for your lives!

Huzzah, I figured out the problem I've been having with the signals and
flashers!

As a recap, I was having some problems with the turn signal switch and
emergency flasher - when engaged, the gen light would turn full on and
the fuel gauge would drop to empty.  When not engaged, the gen light
would come on weakly and get brighter as the engine was revved.

After replacing bulbs, cleaning sockets, cleaning battery terminals,
visually checking fuses, I went through the process described in an
archived article by Janice Bartmess in 2002.  I cleaned the tranny to
chassy ground strap as a number of other folks have also suggested.
Although the tranny side was fairly grungy, it didn't clear the problem
up.  I then disconnected the battery and pulled each fuse and tested for
continuity between hot side and ground.  Using my ohmeter, I got
readings of 1 on fuses 8, 10, and 11.  The remainder all read either
0.00 or 0.01 on a 20k scale.

Side question: Can anyone explain why those 3 circuits would have
infinite resistance with the fuses removed?  I tested the bottom side
(which I presumed to be ground) and connected to the chassis, and got an
expected 0.00 or 0.01 on each.  But from the top/hot side, I got an open
circuit (1 on the ohmeter, right?).  Something to do with the ignition
switch?

Anyway, in pulling the fuses individually, 2 of them practically
crumbled apart.  Without pulling them, I would not have suspected they
were bad.  So after replacing them with fuses from my Bug, and cleaning
the hot wires to the starter solenoid, the problem was fixed!  I'm
guessing one or two of the fuses were bad, but not blown.  The contacts
on the starter solenoid wires had a bit of crud on them, but not too
bad.  In any case, a methodical approach to the problem eventually
solved it.

Only 2 problems left: fixing my double-pump brakes and the booster, and
getting the Bus to consume less then 1 gallon every 15 miles, with
occasional high hot idling (I'm suspecting some sort of vacuum leak).

Thanks to everyone who helped out!

-John
