To: aufever(-at-)hotmail.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 09 Jun 2008 07:51:10 -0400
From: neithammer(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: Hesitation Blues

No 009 for me - stock DVDA distributor, pretty sure it's the part number you
listed, timed as you (and Bently, etc.) say, and I verified that the vacuum
advance and retard are both working - watched it with my timing light,
disconnected hoses to verify that each vacuum element was doing it's
respective thing.

One thing I know I need to fix is the aiming of the accelerator pump nozzle.B 
When I got my carb back from RIMCO for throttle shaft bushings, the nozzle was
twisted slightly so that it was pointedB right at the placeB where the
throttle plate meets theB inside of the bore - i.e, the point that first opens
when you touch the gas pedal.B I twisted it straight so that it points
straight down the bore, and positioned it midway between the the edge of the
bore and the main jet spray nozzle thing (not really sure what that is, but
its part of the casting).B  I've since gotten some advice that the way RIMCO
had it was correct, so I need to fix that.B  At the same time, I'll check to
be sure the accelerator pump is actually pumping.


-----Original Message-----
From: Karl von Salzen <aufever(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: neithammer(-at-)aol.com
Sent: Mon, 9 Jun 2008 1:01 am
Subject: Re: Hesitation Blues


Was written:
B 
My 71 Westy (all stock), despite having had much recent TLC and newly
rebuilt carb, is still acting up a bit. This happens when the engine is hot,
after
having been driven for a while. When you step on the gas right off idle, it
want's to die and has not pickup. After the RPM's come up just a little,
it's fine and accelerates briskly (relatively speaking).

Before I rebult the carb, I had a Brosol 34PICT-3 in - same thing. The
carb I rebuilt is a Solex, had the throttle shafts redone and everything.

Not sure where to go from here.
B 
----------------------------------------------------
B 
All stock including the correct dual vacuum unit dist, part # 211-905-205Q,
timed at 5 after WITH vacuum working on the retard side?
B 
Or are you running the NOT stock 009, centrifugal advance only, dist that
consistantly has this stumble problem?

Now you can invite friends from Facebook and other groups to join you on
Windows Liveb" Messenger. Add them now! =
