From: "John" <vanagonvw(-at-)gmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 9 Jun 2008 11:16:02 -0600
Subject: replacing pistons, 81 air cooled

Hi folks,

My 81 AC engine is finally up on a bench where I can work on it. It has a
bad cylinder and so I will be ordering a new set and pistons and rings, and
doing both sides.

Tore off the left side, and have to ask a few dumb questions. This is a low
budget job. Let's face it, 22mpg a $6 a gallon is a stupid investment. I
just want it back on the road for selling it, or driving it off a cliff when
things get much worse for me  IMO, if I get 15K miles out of it, I will
have succeeded, as that will be five or six years of use, based on the past.
Plus, with tire prices going through the roof, it won't be easy to keep it
around longer than that.

Not having any good luck getting the pistons off using the circlip tool,
mostly just as a matter of getting it to hold still, and accessing the
clips. Do I have to get the clip off of both ends, or will one come off, and
the pin slide out the other side?

Is it stupid to unbolt the connecting rod and get the piston out onto the
bench to make it easier? That would lead to the next question, is it
possible to replace the connecting rod bearings without splitting the case?
Is it that  good idea? The mileage is approaching 200K, and it has alway run
as smooth as glass, so I hate to dig in too far, and upset the apple cart,
raising the cost of the work beyond where I can go..

When it comes time to fire it up, I have a problem in that the van is no
longer registered and inspected, having missed that date a long time ago, so
I will have to sneak around the city to break it in and hope not to get
caught. Recommendations for how to initially fire it up, and break it in,
would be appreciated, as I can get a 5 day temp registration (5 whole
days....) if I have to, but after that, I will have to hope not to get
caught. Can I get it broken in in five days, enough so that I can pass the
emissions testing. I would think it has to seal up pretty good to pass that
test, so I am looking for advice or suggestions.

FWIW, the heads are a whole nuther issue, but I think I have that all worked
out.

Thanks so much for all the help you guys always offer up.

John

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of smile.gif]
