From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'John Kolak'" <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 21 Jul 2010 17:50:50 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] gauges

Wow, thanks John that is a great response. I'll read that article you
reference, and hopefully I'll be able to understand how oil temp can go when
head temp goes down. 

-Kevin
Jamaica Plain, MA
'69 single cab
'65 Kombi


-----Original Message-----
From: John Kolak [mailto:jkolak(-at-)gmail.com] 
Sent: Wednesday, July 21, 2010 8:18 AM
To: Kevin Guarnotta
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com; type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] gauges

Hi,

The CHT will do the most to protect your engine. Overheating the head
results in snapped valves and dropped seats.

Note that when oil temp goes up, head temp goes down, and vice versa.
High RPM yields more cooling air and more engine friction. Low RPM is
less engine friction and less cooling air for the heads.

Oil pressure will tell you if your pressure relief valve is correct,
if your bearings are retaining pressure, and if you are using the
right viscosity of oil. Also if you have enough pressure for
protection at idle.

So I run all three in a VDO underdash gauge bracket, plus a
tachometer. Note that a type 1 engine without a counterweighted crank
is good for 5000 RPM according to Gene Berg, but according to more
recent gurus, max engine life will be had if RPM is limited to never
over 4000 rpm, even to shift, with an ideal driving range of 1800 to
3200 RPM.

The VDO gauge is not a bad choice for economy, but you have to
mentally correct for ambient temp calibration. Easier to go with
Dakota Digital which is self-correcting and doesn't cost much more.
They have a bus length sensor now.

The Napa sender you are looking at is most likely for a water cooled
engine, and there is no calibration information for it.

I would like to add voltage and amps and vacuum, but the cockpit
starts looking like an aircraft. Some make an overhead gauge shelf.
Speakers can be added too. Voltage keeps you advised of the health of
your generator / alternator / battery, and amps tell you about the
current flow - charging and consumption. I love watching the ammeter
go down after starting the car. Tells me when the battery is
recharged. It's a long reroute for the wiring, though, on a system
that is already challenged from electricals too far from the battery.

Here's some good advice on interpreting head temps. It's oriented
towards Type 4 owners, but the general principles should be
applicable:

http://www.914world.com/specs/JakeRabyHeadTemps.php

John
