To: jkolak(-at-)gmail.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 22 Jul 2010 01:37:56 -0400
From: claralw(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: [VB] gauges

The "running cooler when the rpms are higher" idea is partly true.
When you rev up the motor it creates more heat.
When you rev up the motor it blows more air.

So there are reasons for it to get warmer, and reasons for it to get cooler.
 It is like throwing salt water and antiseize on the threads before you bolt
something down
Which is stronger?

What I found is that the coolest engine speed is about 2800.   From idle you
rev up and it will get cooler, then after about 2800 rpms when you rev it up
higher it will get warmer.

If you suddenly stomp on the gas the extra air will cool the heads down some,
but if you keep your foot on the gas the heat made from the work done, against
the drag (which is related to the SQUARE of your road speed) will be stronger
than the cooling fan blowing air directly proportional to the engine speed.

so rev it up... so you don't lug it by putting it in a higher gear when you
are only doing 2500 rpms.     Don't rev it up to 5K thinking that will make
the engine run cool.

Generally, I found oil temp went up with head temps, and down with heads
temps, but head temps fluctuated real quick with rpms, or with any grade you
might be driving up or down and oil temps took a while longer to catch up.

Another thing to think about is you want it not too hot and not too cold.  But
juuuusst right.
  I ran one of those smaller generator pulleys once, and the engine was too
cold.  I went back to a stock generator pulley.
 The oil temps barely got to 170F after an hour on the freeway.  and dropped
down from there when I went to the surface streets.  it was April.


-----Original Message-----
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com; type2(-at-)type2.com
Sent: Wed, Jul 21, 2010 4:43 pm
Subject: Re: [VB] gauges


On Thu, Jul 22, 2010 at 4:50 AM, Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net> wrote:
 hopefully I'll be able to understand how oil temp can go when head temp goes
own.
It's just that when the engine is spinning faster it heats up the oil
ore, but the heads love the extra cooling air.
John
