From: "Tom and Thanh" <tom.loan(-at-)rogers.com>
To: "Timo in  Hawaii" <rcaviator(-at-)webtv.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 22 Aug 2005 11:11:15 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] '72 distributor in a '68

Some type 4 distributors had way too much advance for a type 1 engine. This 
timing must be set at full advance. That's the only important number here. 
You could fry the engine if it advances too far.
From the deep TDC notch, measure over to the right 1 3/4" around the curve 
of the pulley. File a little notch, reconfirm the 1 3/4" measurement several 
times, then paint it with whiteout. Set the timing at full advance, revved 
right up to like 3000rpm or more, till it stops advancing.  That mark is 
28BTDC. You can go to 30, slightly further. Don't trust setting it at idle 
or staticly.
Tom

70 High Roof

Here's the library article from Ken Hooper: It's applicable to any 
distributor.



Timing the Bosch OO9
by Ken Hooper


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The thing about timing is that what matters most is what happens at cruising 
speed, maximum advance--that's where you can burn up an engine quickly if 
your timing is too far advanced.

But: The Bosch 009 does not have a predictable advance curve--the German 
ones are different from the Brazilian ones and the worn ones are different 
from the new ones and on it goes. The natural result of this is that just 
because you've timed the 009 properly at idle does not mean you have any way 
of knowing what's going on at highway speeds.

So while the stock vacuum advance distributors can safely be timed at idle 
(or even timed statically per Muir, although this is never optimal), the 009 
has GOT to be timed to about 30 degrees TOTAL ADVANCE with a timing light. 
Which means you have to rev it up until the distributor stops advancing 
before you can dial it in.

It takes three hands and if the process isn't painful, you aren't doing it 
right. =^ ) It's okay to time it statically at around zero degrees in order 
to get the engine started, but you have to finish the process dynamically by 
making lotsa noise.

It is very easy to find 30 degrees without a degree wheel as long as you 
know where top dead center is. From TDC, measure an inch and three quarters 
(1 3/4") to the right around the diameter of a stock pulley. That's about 28 
degrees, go a tinch further and mark it with fingernail polish or something.

If you don't know where TDC is, then you have to pull the #1 spark plug and 
push the eraser end of a pencil in the hole and rotate the engine and feel 
the piston until you figure it out.

A basic timing gun is ~$20, get one and carry it with you, it's an 
irreplacable tool.
