Date: Tue, 23 Aug 2005 09:09:11 -0500
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: "Messa, Corbett (GE Infrastructure)" <Corbett.Messa(-at-)gefanuc.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] General BD tent questions and floor vs no floor

On Tue, Aug 23, 2005 at 09:13:51AM -0400, Messa, Corbett (GE Infrastructure) wrote:
> I am getting ready to place an order today for a tent from The Bus
> Depot. I thought this would be an easy decision, but I am struggling
> to decide.  Actually my wife is making me struggle to decide :)

I would say any of them would be a good move. see below for more
comments
 
> I am looking at these 4 tents. http://busdepot.com/details/tents.jsp
> I was thinking that the top one would be the best since it was the
> cheapest. But, my wife wants a floor. So the next step up is the
> model with the sewn in floor.... another $100. 

I have the Koln (the cheapest one) and completely love it. It allows
our family of six to camp with enough room. The add on room is
completely worth it if you need additional sleeping area. I was a bit
wary about no floor, it it really isn't much of an issue. Especially
when we get to camp like I like, off paved areas in the grass. Not
much nicer than natures own carpet.

> One option is to get the cheaper one and get the add on room with
> ground sheet.

We still have not used a ground sheet, the sleeping cabin is basically
a completely seperate unit. With the floor as part of the walls that
attach to the inside of the main tent. It keeps the interior pretty
clean and dry. I still cary the ground sheet, but have not used it
yet.
 
> What about the people that have these tents? How do you like them
> overall? IS the quality good on them, what about setup?

I have owned this tent for about 1.5 years now. It has gone camping
with us at least half a dozen times on multiple night trips and holds
up well. The real test was a 2.5 week trip which It was setup and torn
down daily. put away wet, bounced around and generally used. It held
up quite well. One person can set it up, but it is quite a chore. two
is ideal. Where it attaches to the bus works well if you have the tent
channel like on split buses. I can attest to it working well in high
winds, rain and even hail. We tried the pole that sets in the gutter
one night at Yellowstone to make it easier to drive away. That is a
miserable disaster with inclimate weather. Rain seemed to channel it's
way right in to above the doors, so we spent part the night crammed in
the bus.

I'll try and sum up pros and cons here:
Pros:
- Large with enough space
- Sleeping cabin sleeps 2 easily with cots
- with tent channel on bus, creates good weather tight seal
- when windows open, quite cool and breezy
- multiple "doors" for different site setups
- packs up fairly small

Cons:
- it is large and can get tight in crowded camping areas
- tricky to setup if damp or wet (poles grab the nylon)
- the fairly small package it is, tends to be heavy
- the gutter pole mount totally stinks in inclimate weather
- elastic in poles will break over time
- metal "holds" in some poles break even sooner

Wishlist:
- I would love to have quick-set poles on this tent, sliding the poles
  through the tent all the time gets a bit old. Since the bottom of the
  tent is held together by straps the "curve" of the tent makes
  inserting the poles a challenge some times. A design that allowed
  the poles to remain in the tent, and just fold/lock in place like
  some hiking tents would be worth it's weight in gold.
- An alternative to this would be quick-releases where the bottom
  straps connect to the tent. This might allow the tent to be laid out
  flat and poles inserted in quickly and easily. I've considered
  trying this, but have not yet done it.
- A tension rod or elastic at the "threash hold" flap that connects
  the main of the tent to the bus. In rainy weather, the slack in this
  area allows rain to gather right there.


A lot more information than you asked for, but after using it for
quite a while I have formed quite an opinion. BTW I would love to have
that huge tent just once, to setup and park the bus in ;)


-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
1979 Sportsmofakia 2000cc                        www.fasterlaster.com
1966 Westfalia SO-42 "Butch"
