From: "J Barry Burneskis" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 23 Aug 2005 16:47:12 +0000
Subject: RE: [T2] rebuilding the ZBed and upper Bed - man, this is way

    * From: Alan Beck

"Has anyone rebuilt the upper bed and Z Bed for increased comfort because 
the factory foam is now very hard due to age?"

1978 Westy

Alan, the hardness is needed for support, but softness is to be added for 
comfort.

In anticipation of my tour of Florida this past June (what a debacle that 
was!!), I re-did the Z-Bed on My '78 Westy.

I had an extra set of Z-bed pieces, both the sitting down area and the seat 
back area - both pieces of foam and hardboard.  I also had some extra foam 
pieces that I used for the area over the engine deck.

OK, for those of you who don't know me, I am mister cheap-o.  Of course, for 
those of you who DO know me, I am STILL mister cheap-o....  So the object is 
to get to a desired end results with the minimum out-go of funds.

I went to the Target store and bought a bunch of bed pillows at 2 for $5, 
like about 8 of them.  And they had some really ugly quilts on discount sale 
at $8 per quilt for a twin bed size.  I figured the quilt fabric was a 
bargain, considering the amount of material I was getting for $8.

Simply (and cheaply, of course), I stripped 2 pillow guts from their covers, 
and noticed that they were just roughly rolled up stuffing.  I unrolled the 
guts of the pillows and laid one, then the second, pillow's guts on the seat 
sitting down area, and laid half of one quilt over the two sets of foam 
[square original seat foam, and 2 pillows guts -foam- on top] and stapled 
the quilt to the hardwood with my Stanley electric stapler ([Hint from 
Heloise:  If you push REALLY hard against the material with the stapler, the 
staples will do a much better job.]

Same with the other part of the Z-bed.

For the part over the engine compartment, I had a long piece of foam from 
some donor bus, and it was double the thickness of the original foam 
normally seen over the engine compartment.  I measured and measured and 
found that I could cut the foam in half, and probably glue it together.  I 
was right.

With a bit of Elmer's spray on glue, I could abut the two pieces into one, 
and I wrapped some duct tape around the joint, just to keep the old VW 
Indian spirit alive [a day without duct tape, is a day that your VW will not 
want to come home.].  I could move the two pieces as one.  Very light, but 
firm foam, which is desirable.   Success.

I trimmed the piece appropriately, and put another 2 pillows' guts over the 
foam, and covered the whole thing with a single quilt.  The quilt was just 
about 18 inches longer than needed, but what the heck.....  I just tucked 
the extra piece in.

Then, and I expect some measure of respect and awe and amazement from the 
audience now, I SEWED THE QUILT ON THE FOAM SET  B Y   H A N D ! !   Every 
stitch.  Eyeball weary, fingers cramped and needle stuck, I got it done.

So I have a 6-7  inch high Z-bed that I can still remove and replace with 
ease shuld I plan a normal reversion to stock.

Now, the top could probably be done the same. Cover some new foam with 
fabric.


Do not screw up the foam pieces that are up there.  Get some more cheap-o 
foam and cover that.

So, how, you ask.

OK, this Spring, my neighbor was throwing out a an old foam full sized 
mattress.  You know, the kind you can fold over; the kind without springs 
inside...

[Hey, cut to the chase, Barry, I have other messages to read ! ! !]

Right.  BTW, this mattress was WAY too heavy to just cut up for the Z-bed.

I found out the mattress was made of three layers.  About 1.5" on the top 
and bottom, and a 4" thick piece in the middle. 7" sandwich mattress.     
Layered, similar to the way futons are many times constructed [yes, I did 
consider futons as a possible throw over the z-bed, or to replace the upper 
mattress, but futons are too heavy, and too expensive.]

The 1.5" piece that is glued to the 4" piece is only glued at the edges.  
There are spots in the middle where the 1.5" is glued to the 4" [or, for 
those of you in Australia, the 4" is glued to the 1.5"].  With a large, 
sharp knife [that gets dull really quickly], you can cut the outside foam 
from the inside piece at the mark, and after you get about 6 - 8" in, the 
rest will peel off.  I measured the width of the piece of foam I wanted, and 
I cut about 4" off the other side of the whole mattress so on that side of 
the mattress I had less to slice away.

That slicing and sharpening really was a tedious process.  I also had a 16" 
long serrated knife that I bought [$0.50] to use, but it made too rough a 
cut, so I stayed with a knife edge blade.


Notice on your top bed where one piece folds over on to the larger piece??  
Did you notice that one piece of foam is 2' long, and the other is 4' long?? 
  So the 2' long piece flops over onto the 4' long piece, leaving 2' in the 
back that is just extra storage space for some flat items (crab nets??) or 
blankets.

Well, if you get a piece off the mattress that is TWICE the thickness of the 
original foam, you can make a mattress on top that is in 180 degree 
rotation, where the 2' section folds on the 4' section AT THE REAR of the 
bed, leaving the double sized final 2' of the 4' section to nestle [isn't 
'nestle' a much nicer word than 'guts'??] under the flop-over wood section.  
So, under the flop-over wood section there were two pieces of Westy foam, 
and now just one piece of double-thick mattress foam.

To set the bed into operational condition, pop the top, flip open the 
flop-over wood section so you have a full 6' feet up there, drag the larger 
mattress forward and jump up there and unfold [backwards] the 2' section at 
the rear.

Does anyone want to see any pictures of the final product??  I know that I 
certainly do, so if anyone actually creates this double thick mattress, 
please share some pictures.  Possibly Mike Benthin has done something like 
this.

Thanks for listening

Barry sends
Springfield VA [if anyone really cares]
