Date: Wed, 9 May 2007 17:31:59 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Kevin H. Roberts" <bopsax(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Cc: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] 'retractable' seat belts

Well, that's interesting, but I've been in a couple of bad accidents with the inertial belts and they worked great.  I think you may have had some badly designed belts.   My problem is that with the existing belts, they're such a pain that I have a hard time making myself wear them.   Somebody runs out in front of me and I get scared enough to use them but eventually get slack again. I start thinking, hey I'm just going a few blocks to the post office.  Problem is, when my SHO got totalled, I was right down at the end of my street sitting still.  Some 18 yr old rear-ended me.   But the bus windshield wouldn't be a fun place for my head to end up with my guts wrapped around the Ralph-Cramden-worthy steering wheel.  Perish that thought!  Cheers...KR

Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz> wrote: HeyBopaReBopSax interrogated:
>
>Say, what model Jetta's were the retractable seat belts a bolt in 
>replacement for a late bay?  I've got to get on that

 Before you do, weigh the advantages against the disadvantage 
which you may not have thought of.
 I assume the 'retractable' is what Kiwis call 'inertial'  - 
universal on new vehicles for the past decade or so.  The belt will 
reel out at slow rates, but locks up when jerked.  Sounds very 
attractive ...
 The advantage is being able to reach across to the glove box 
with your belt fastened.
 The disadvantage I discovered in a crash.  A dog ran out on 
State Hwy 1 two cars in front  ...  the two cars stopped without 
collision, but my driver (aged 82) hadn't quite the reflex time and 
rammed the car immediately in front of us.  My lap-&-diagonal 
inertial belt turned out to allow my trunk to pick up enough momentum 
(slang physics here, please forgive me Geo) before lockup when it 
slammed into the diagonal belt that my breastbone was bruised  -  a 
type of injury I'd never heard of, but had ample time to reflect on 
as I lost many h of sleep over the next fortnight.  There was no 
bone-break, and no treatment, but I sure gobbled bulk painkillers (to 
little effect).
 I hate that type of belt and am glad to have now on my '73 T2 
proper lap-&-diagonal belts that are clamped firmly (after any 
adjustment needed for what clothing I'm wearing), so I'm held 
properly.
 A further advantage is that as I drift thru S-bends on snaky 
highways I don't sway from side to side getting seasick and therefore 
need not invest in Recaro racing seats  ;-)

RM


       
---------------------------------
Ahhh...imagining that irresistible "new car" smell?
 Check outnew cars at Yahoo! Autos.
