From: ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 13 Oct 2005 16:05:47 EDT
Subject: Re: [T2] This list

In a message dated 10/13/05 3:10:52 PM, busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net writes:


> Never will forget Road Atlanta Brit car show Dad told me me about. They 
> drove their Austin Healey down (1980's show). Skies opened up and everyone got 
> soaked - except the Morgan club who had a "circus" tent with chandeliers and 
> catered food. Invited nobody into the tent and turned away quite a few. Mom 
> and Dad were parked right next to the tent. Do you think they were invited in? 
> Not hardly. Dad remembers sitting there in their little car with some fellow 
> standing there under the edge of the tent drinking wine, eating something and 
> watching my parents. Last Brit car show they ever went to.
> 
> 
   Really quite amazing when you think about it...Morgan has a long history 
(started
in 1909), but was always a small car builder. The first Morgans were 
three-wheelers
because of English tax laws (Triumph had a three-wheeler, too...), and 
"trikes"
were taxed at a lower rate than cars with four wheels. Morgan made a big 
change
in '36, and brought out a four wheeler (the 4/4, four wheels/four cylinders), 
but
the factory never made any of the mechanicals (except for the sliding piller 
front
suspension which it still has), the engines, trans, rears, etc. were sourced 
from 
other cars (and since it was "built to a price"), those sources were usually 
from
the budget end of everybody else's parts bins...The factory still builds its 
trad-
ditional cars the old fashioned way...A steel chassis with an ash framework 
bolted
to it and body panels "tacked" to the ash frame..."Coach-built"...
Today, the factory still has a line of "traditional" looking cars (circa 
1930's), but 
although the car is pretty much the same car as it was, the price and 
attitude
has changed and gone VERY upscale...The car is unique in that it's the only 
car
that looks like it does without being a replica of something else...That 
being said,
the present owners have changed (from the younger buyers who might have
bought one rather than an MG or Triumph) to an exclusive group of mostly 
older
buyers, who buy it for it's cachet of looks and rarity...Second hand newer 
Mor-
gans usually have very low mileage, so it's probably a second or third car to
many owners...I love the car (but not so much the factory) but if you want a
real car that looks like it, it's the only show in town...My first choice of 
cars
(after I hit the lotteries) would be a Squire, but that's not gonna happen, 
so
my Pile 'o Morgan sits in various places around my house, waiting for me to
getarountuit...





Tony in NJ
W.A.S.T.E.
