From: Bookwus1(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 15 Oct 2005 13:38:48 EDT
To: vw(-at-)radom.org, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] cv boots

Hiya Dan, 
It will be a lot easier to drop the entire halfshaft. So just undo the tranny 
side and the axle stub side and drop it as a unit. It is not light, but it's 
not pressing 250 lbs either.  You can handle it.  Take it over to your 
workbench and do the job there. 
I know your objective is simply to replace the boots, but you might as well 
treat this a CVJ renewal. Since you mentioned replacing the grease, you might 
already be thinking along this line. In any event, clean out all the old grease 
from your CVJs. You'll need to take them off the shaft to do a good job of 
this. Make everything shine. Inspect for any galling on the balls or the race. 
Replace if needed (and if you replace one CVJ, replace both of them). Once you 
have everything apart you'll be able to get it back together again 
easily............EXCEPT for the CVJs themselves. Be very careful how you reassemble 
these CVJs - Muir has an excellent write-up in the Idiot Book about how to do this 
important step. 
And a couple of hints............ 
Make absolutely sure that the bolt heads securing the CVJ on the halfshaft in 
place at the transaxle and the axle stub are scrupulously clean. Depending on 
the year of your Bus they will either be allen or 6 pointers (?) and need to 
be clean in order to prevent stripping the heads out. 
When you regrease your CVJs make sure they are on the halfshaft. Set the 
shaft (one CVJ pointed down) on a piece of plastic wrap (about 15 inches by 15 
inches) Dollop an cup of Moly grease on top of the CVJ and then wrap the plastic 
wrap up and around the CVJ and shaft. Secure it with a zip-tie. Now you can 
knead and work the grease into the CVJ without all the mess. And this method 
will allow you to force grease into the recesses of the CVJ. Much more efficient 
(and a heckuva lot cleaner) than doing it out in the open. 
Mike 
1970 Bus - The Ruptured Duck 
