Date: Tue, 11 Oct 2011 11:29:09 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "vintagebus(-at-)type2.com"
Subject: Cheap Air compressor review (was Re: [T2] Captive nut broke)

Something I was going to mention back when I bought it and I'll take this
opportunity now that I have some time on it.  I've posted about
compressors/painting for years on the list.  I had 3 at the house.  One a
Korean war surplus Briggs powered 2 stage DeVilbiss (remote build site
compressor), a 20 SCFM (-at-) 150 psi 2 stage Quincey, and a smaller 70's vintage
Sears import (my first compressor from high school.)  I guess I had 4 if you
count the 150 SCFM scroll unit (Ford V-4 power) bought to blast the house.  So
I got some compressors.
 
Anyway been working extensively on the roof and 3rd
floor of the house this summer.  Even the damn Sears unit is 220V and weighs
150lb, more than I could anemic from chemo lug up 3 flights of stairs.  Last
summer I'd been stringing 150' of hose up though a window, didn't want to this
year (damn bee's, wife is allergic.)  So headed to the HD to buy a cheap
pancake/wheelbarrow style to run on 120V and sit on the roof.  Looked at what
they had, Porter Cables mostly, oiless (always suspicious to me,) looked to be
junk (even the $250-300 one.)  Then looked at the cheapo Chinese "Husky"
compressors.  At the time the horizontal tank 8 gallon, 1.5 hp, 4.0 scfm (-at-) 90
psi was on sale for $89 from $99 and even had a "2 year warranty."  It was the
biggest of the cheapo small Husky units.  Although direct drive it has a
single stage (single in fact) cast iron cylinder, with splash oil lubrication,
I liked that.  I thought more of it looking at it than the
 $150-250 Porter Cables, and it was $89.  I figured WTH, and mind you I
didn't/don't expect much out if it (paticularly after noticing at
homedepot.com that several of the smaller Husky units are selling refurb.)
 
Instead I have been tickled to death.  It will run a roofing or framing nailer
all day long (and has for me days on end.)  It will run a good 1/2" impact for
a good couple of minutes, though flat out (sinking 12" lags into logs) the
impact will drain it with only 4.0 SCFM, and you must pause and wait. 
Regardless, it is super cheap, relatively portable (65lb), and relatively
compact and I've been impressed as hell.  You could probably run a classic
high pressure spray gun fine with it, probably no way to run most true HVLP,
though I haven't tried either.  My point here anyway is that this is not at
all a tremendous outlay, and 3 months on it is running fine, and I'm still as
impressed as when I bought it.  If you don't have a lot of room (apartment
dweller,) or a lot of cash, this thing and a IR 231 impact will combined set
you back under $250 (under $200 if you watch for a deal on the IR 231), and
will do all you need to do for occasional work,
 tire changes, etc.  Are you going to run even a small countertop blast
cabinet, or any large air tool with it.  No (well at least not for more than
30-60 seconds or so) but you didn't pay much, and it will do more than you
expect if your expectations are realistic (low.)
 
Also a bit on impacts.  Buy
an IR 231.  Period.  Don't cheap out there (sorry Chris but I do feel this.) 
Don't buy a plastic IR gun, don't buy a cheapo Chinese HF set, don't buy a
Sears or CH, sure buy a Mac or Snap-On if you want to pay more, but I'd just
buy the IR 231.  My original one is going on 20+ years, left with my dad 8-10
years ago, never been rebuilt (though kits are cheap.)  The plastic IR I
bought to replace it seemed great, light, less fatigue, more ergonomic.  Would
do fine (crack upright gland nuts all day long) when new, 8 years on, will
barely crack a lug nut torqued to 100 ft/lb and oh, they don't sell rebuild
kits for it, oh yeah.  The 231G I've replaced it with I'm sure I might need to
rebuild 20 years from now with even my more than average hobby level of use. 
You can find them under $100 -120 new if you look, even less rebuilt which if
done well is probably fine, much less used if you take a chance.
 
Anyway just
some thoughts.  By all means if you can afford, have space for, and need a big
compressor, get one.  But if you can't, don't have the room, don't expect to
run any air hogs, this little piece of Chinese junk has so far proven for me,
to be a wonderful little unit, and just what I needed.
 
John


----- Original
Message -----
From: Joe Average joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net

On 10/09/2011
12:14 PM, Joe wrote:

I priced all sorts of air compressors avoiding the
rotary compressors. The rotary compressors don't last I'm told. I wanted a
traditional piston compressor.

The hotdog compressors were $300-$400 and
seldom came with a piston compressor on top.

I settled on a reman
Kobalt/Campbell-Hausfeld compressor from Northern Tool - it was branded a
Morgan and upright with a 60 gallon tank for $350 plus the extended warranty.
In retrospect I should have skipped the warranty b/c I didn't use it enough
immediately due to other things like work and my wife's schooling keeping me
out of the garage. The warranty expired before I put many hours on the
compressor to test it.
