Date: Tue, 19 Sep 2006 18:00:53 -0700 (PDT)
From: Beto Pina <betocyniepina(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Bay List <type2(-at-)type2.com>, Split List <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Jerome 06 trip report

Well....where to start?  At the beginning, I guess.
   
  After prepacking the bus on Thursday, then getting a few last tidbits on Friday...we left Cali around 1 pm.  Was gonna be me and my two girls sans wife.
  Weather was wonderful, nice temps, nice tailwind....cruised about 70 mph.  We took I-10 and then up 60, 71 then 89 up through Prescott and had dinner and cruised into Jerome at 9pm.  Not bad, 8 hours with a sit down dinner.  Maybe these baywindows aren't so bad..hehe.
   
  Shoot the chit with the Fu's and Tom Buese, make a quick round to say hey to Ronnie, JP and John Kyte then headed to put the girls to bed.  Had to listen to some chitty band on the stage until around 11:30PM.  Woke up to the wonderful sounds of Don firing off Big Bertha at 6am.  Got situated and had my morning smoke, brushed teeth and got dressed.  Fired up the propane hetaer to warm the bus for my girls.  They woke up soon after and got dressed.  Looks like it got down in the mid 40's last night.
   
  For those that have done Jerome and missed this year...it was awesome. No dust!!!  looks like the rains had pushed the dust below the rocks this year.  Awesome temps, light wind, just beautiful!
   
  Spent the day eating, talking, playing, drinking, meeting, blah blah.  Was in a great spot with Chris George out of San Antone, Tome Buese from Utah, da Fu's from Flag, Evelyn from Phoenix and a Thomas from Texas.  Had the buses rounded up to corral the kids in.  Lotsa food and catching up.
   
  Finally broke my raffle drought and won some stuff-woo hoo! Made some rounds, and caught up with friends and met some new ones.  Watched Ronnie, VW Howard and others play cornhole (not how it sounds) and took the girls and put them to bed.  Watched Ricky dance around with a blanket over his head looking like an old woman from an indian painting and Kyle sporting the latest in Scottish workwear.  Had to go to bed after that....nightmares to follow.
   
  Woke up Sunday to Big Bertha again, but this time followed by hoots and hollers from the camp.  Cooked breakfast, mulled about, didn't win a bus and packed up.  Said goodbyes and went with Tom to the Fu rancho and showered.  Finally drug my ass outta there at 4pm and headed home via I-40 and I-15-windy, windy, windy!.  Got home around 1am and called it a weekend, unpack later.....
   
  As for the bus....
Although we've got a few weekend camping trips/shows under our belt since getting it in April, this was the first long distance trip for us.  Even though I miss my splitties, man oh man, is this one sweet camper setup, especially if you've got a couple of kids.  The poptop bed just makes it a breeze when camping--so much room!  There is just no way we comfortably fit in a splitty camper anymore.  
  Kudos to the ABC for a great weekend.  Good seeing all the old faces and some new ones too.
  
Overall a great trip, gotta check out some clutch/TO bearing noise this week too.  Bus ran like a top.
   
  See y'all in Havasu.
   
  Beto
79 Westy
Temecula, CA
