Date: Mon, 02 Oct 2006 18:02:09 -0700
From: "GNS" <gns.wagnon(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Rebuild/Trip Report - long time coming

Volk-A-Maniacs,

This summer, I had some time off from work [paid time off... :o)] and spent
half of it getting my '63 panel/camper bus (Annie) ready for its longest trip
ever.  Yellowstone was the target.  The goal was to get there... and back.

First thing to deal with is this crazy knocking sound that seems to have
appeared out of no where during a recent 300 mile trip.  Mechanic says it
sound like the cam shaft lifters are loose and knocking around.  Sound bad?
Well, it was.  It turns out the engine was on the verge of melting the front
cams (no carbon on 3/4 of #3 and #1) and a number of other overheating issues
that I have since blocked out.  Anyway, some payments later I had the rebuilt
engine back in my possession and running in the bus.  To better understand my
overheating issues, I finally broke down and got an oil plug temp sender and
gauge installed.  Whew, only two weeks before I embark upon a huge trip...
hope this all works.

While the engine woes were being worked out, I had to dive into Annie's
interior, which has always been less than stellar.  Clearly a product of some
rough years by PO's and a few neglected years from me too.  Anyway, I started
by removing all the camper interior carefully as I was intending to use it as
a pattern for the new stuff.  That, as it turns out, was the easy part.

"Holy &*%*#%!  What is all that rust on the roof?  Crap."  It seems the foam
padding insulation between the roof panels and the inside of the roof not only
collects some nasty dust, but it also traps moisture.  Then it molds itself to
the rust crusties that form as a result.  After much upside-down grinding, I
finally found some metal and luckily, there were no holes.  Long story
averted... it all looks ok after some treatment and POR15.

During the process, I cleaned up all the nooks and crannies and found some,
what would seem to be 'typical' trouble areas.  But then, there were some
parts that I would rather have not had to deal with; the roof corners in the
rear and along the top side.  I knew I would be getting into something nasty
with this when I started, but being able to put my had through it after
tearing off all the bondo and fiberglass patches was a little beyond my hopes
for this little nightmare.  In the end, I couldn't afford the time or the
money to have someone do it "right" (cut roof sections off a donor bus and
weld/hammer/hammer/hammer/hammer back into shape), so I paid beer to a welder
friend of mine to patch.  It isn't too bad after everything we did, and since
I am mostly looking for functional out of this bus, its all good.  Along with
the roof treatment and paint mentioned above, I may have goober'ed in about
half a quart of POR15 into the inside corners of the roof to fill any
remaining pin holes.  Like I said, functional is the goal, I am not
necessarily shooting for pretty.

Now that I have the whole interior of the bus cleaned out, treated against
future rust, and POR15'ed to death (it kind of looks pretty all shiny black by
the way), I started in on reproducing the interior cabinetry.  First thing was
to get some material that would bend and flex in the areas against the wall
and ceiling.  Off to the multi-national home improvement store... I found some
fairly inexpensive plywood (some call it 'door skin') and started in on the
cutting.  After a few days of this, I had pretty much everything in place.  I
then look at my watch and my wife tapping her foot by the door with the kids
and all our luggage for the trip.  Oh crap, we are leaving in the morning and
its currently 5pm.  I better get the carpet and the seats/bed in place.

Pictures of the above posted here:

In the end, I got-r-done (in typical redneck fashion) and just put it in place
so as to be able to clean it up later.  Remember my motto for this bus... just
make it functional.

Well, off we went.
- Leaving Portland, to our first stop in Bend.  Not a bad trip and it went
faster than I had expected.  Visited some family.  Having never had a chance
to test the oil temp, and not knowing what was 'normal, I started to note the
behavior or the temperature as I drove on different terrain.  Oil temp was
roughly between 220 and 260 depending on the highway driving conditions.
- Off the next morning through the desert early in the morning to Burns,
Oregon... what a hole (sorry for anyone that lives there, and likes it, but
this was by far the most expensive gas I came across....... and I was
desperate so I had to get it!!!).  Then to Boise, Idaho for the night.  Spent
the day touring Boise... never knew it had a history like that, so it was
actually nice to take a leisure day there.  Oil temp was pretty much the same,
even in the ~50 degree morning driving across the desert at 60mph (flat
driving), but it spiked to 280 and I got nervous so I backed off to 50 so I
could get the temp down under 260 again... seemed like a good idea.
- Up early the next morning, then on to Idaho Falls.  The falls are
impressive, but the bugs (flying, not driving) were annoying.  Oil temp in the
hot morning going across southern Idaho (HWY 84/26/30/86) kept under 260 with
appropriate driving... under 55.
- Up early again and up through the Teton Pass (8431 ft) to Jackson Hole.
Wow.  This place is beautiful.  Oil temp was manageable, but it seems pretty
hot for what we are pushing this bus to do.
- Up early again and drive through the Grand Teton National Park.
- Up not so early and entered Yellowstone National Park through a south
entrance.  Wow.  Spend the day checking out the scene.
- Spend two days touring through the park looking at animals, geysers, trees,
a million Rent-An-RV's, and a lot of amazing scenery.
- Spent last day at the north end of the park staying in the Yellowstone's
Mammoth Hot Springs Hotel.  What an amazing place!
- Off to another relative's house near Helena, Montana.  Montana is a very
majestic place for a drive.  A lot of really amazing mountains to see.
- Up early and off to Coer-d-Alane, Idaho.  Another nice place.
        Side note:  heading north toward the waterpark, there is a junk yard.
On the top of their 'fence' is an older bug.  I didn't get a chance to stop
in, but someone should probably check this place out for bus parts.  :o)
- Up early and heading back home through the desert that is western Washington
state and the Columbia Gorge of Oregon/Washington border.  Oil temp was hot,
as the day was hot, and we were burning some speed heading home from a long
journey.  At one point, I had to pull over to dip the family's toes to cool
off and to give Annie a break as well.

All told, it was 2478 miles, average of 18.3 mpg, and nothing fell off.
WHOOHOO!!!!!!!  Still wondering about the temperature issue though.

Summary
1. Rebuilt engine
2. Rebuilt interior
3. Drove wife, kids (1.5 and 4.5 years of age), myself, and Annie (43 years of
age) ~2500 miles
4. Had the time of our lives

:o)

Greg

1963 Panel/Camper the hottie... 'Annie'
1959 Single Cab 'G|nter'
