From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 24 Oct 2006 12:40:10 EDT
To: Corrie_Sigler(-at-)saksinc.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] VW Microbus Assistance

Actually being able to drive round in a bus is more fun than looking at a 
taken apart money pit in a garage.    Okay.... I am with the 'get it running' 
crew.  

have you looked at the classified ads on thesamba.com/vw ?

You HAVE to use some aftermarket parts... there is not a big enough supply of 
NOS stuff... some aftermarket is good, some is sub-par... Sometimes good used 
is better than repro.  The new rubber is fine, new brake parts of course.  
Stay with good old German engine tin (no aftermarket engine tin please)

Go to some VW shows, too.   There's the Bulli Brigade and Bug Jam in Florida 
in November.   There'll be LOADS of buses at Bulli Brigade.  Find a local club 
and check out other people's buses... maybe you'll decide you want a VW 
truck, or a camper, or maybe you want a bus of some kind (with lower cosmetic 
standards, perhaps) to drive round while the 21 is getting worked on, in addition 
to the 21.  ;)

...........

In a message dated 10/17/06 3:10:48 AM, Corrie_Sigler(-at-)saksinc.com writes:

<< All -

My entire life I have always wanted a VW Van and am finally beginning
the journey.  I am looking for any advice I can find. There seems to be
two schools of thought here: restore to original and just get the thing
running. I have not found as much information on line as I was hoping. I
am in Mississippi (but am a California transplant)  and am searching the
country for a body with straight sides. I have found several on eBay
that are already restored however I really want to do this myself. I
would really really like a 21 window(?) but know that finding a frame
for that model is slim.

My husband is very familiar with VW air cooled engines, we have a paint
and body man already as well as an interior guy.  Now all I need is a
frame. What is the thought about after market parts? Sacrilege?  What
publications would you recommend? Are there advantages to joining the
National Club?

Corrie Sigler
