From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 2 Jan 2003 19:03:10 EST
To: tsmit137(-at-)wideopenwest.com, danielbnelson(-at-)hotmail.com,
Subject: Re: [VB] got my first split, questions

The only reason I could see for switching (not upgrading) to 12V is there was 
no motor and I had a spare motor and 12V stuff kicking around.   Once 
switched a 59 SC back to 6V because I had access to a 6V set up.  I got the 
6V stuff from a guy who absolutely had to have a fat stereo in his 63 bug, so 
my truck got a stylin 6V 40hp.   If you have to have a bitchin stereo you 
need 12V.

top speed of 47?  could be gearing.  are the rear axle nuts 36mm or 46mm?  if 
36 the reduction gears make it go lower speeds.  Also, sounds like it needs 
the 60K miles service.

I really recommend the factory airfilter.  It is oil bath (bong action) and 
install yr pre heat hose for anti carb icing problems.   Look in  the 
vintagebus.com gallery and search for 'air filter'.

Did the windsheild wipers used to sound really noisey?   When you pull the 
knob, does it make a complaining noise like a sick cow?    I'd remove the 
motor, take the cover off (the side with the screws) scrape the old rusty 
grease out of it, clean it, pack with fresh clean grease, and put it back 
together.    On the other hand, a wire might have fallen off (no noise),  but 
actually cleaning & greasing the wiper motor makes it really smooth and quiet.

welcome to your bus.   Sounds like it has some delayed maintenace, but it's 
easy to sort it out and your bus will appreciate it and give you many happy 
miles of fahvergnu:gen.

In a message dated 1/2/2003 3:03:13 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
tsmit137(-at-)wideopenwest.com writes:

<< She's a 66 13 Window, og paint, still 6 Volt, engine is a factory rebuild.
 
  I took her on the interstate and she would get fast enough to get in 4th
  gear, top speed was about 47 mph. What would cause this?? It doesn't have a
  airfilter, i'm going to get one today. Would that cause the lack of power?
 
  The wipers were working but they stopped, any ideas on that?
 
  Also, what are the reasons for upgrading it to 12 Volt?
 
  Thanks in advance,
  -Daniel
