Date: Wed, 9 May 2007 10:29:42 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] $65,000 bus

>In a message dated 5/7/2007 6:20:08 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time, 
>rcaviator(-at-)webtv.net writes:
>
>Wouldn't  it be cool if it ran on wood gas!?
>
>
>hey guys  we did this when I was going to Va. Tech in 1984 . ran  a  6 cly
>chevy engine on wood smoke,  green wood would gum up the  engine fairly quick.
>real old dry hard wood worked fairly well. didn't produce a  lot of power but
>did run.

	Gasifiers have been developed to a peak in NZ  -  during W2 
mainly using coke, more recently using wood (Fluidyne Co of 
Henderson, NZ).  The muck Mark remarked on is removed mainly by a 
cyclone (not mentioned by anyone so far in this thread but essential 
in any practical gasifier) and filters are also desirable.
	Paraplegic Dan Hansen of Wilderland, a rural commune nr 
Whitianga, has a Fiat van -  small motor, only 1100cc I think  - 
with the gasifier on one corner of the back bumper and the cyclone on 
the other side, a length of downpipe connecting them.  (This is quite 
strong enough as the motor is sucking thru.)  More downpipe takes the 
gas fw over the roof  -  acting also as an intercooler  -  to a 
manual flap valve just behind the driver.  Dan starts by sucking with 
a 12 V fan especially mounted behind his head; tosses a piece of 
flaming newspaper into the gasifier; diverts the sucked air by the 
flap-valve out a waste-gate just behind his head (a hole in the 
pillar).  After a few min he languidly waves a further bit of flaming 
paper out the driver's window into the air stream from this 
waste-gate; if it produces a flame-thrower about a yard long, the gas 
is ready to divert by the flap-valve into the engine.  The 
flame-thrower proves useful also if you're pulled over by a cop who 
parks behind you and walks up the side of the van expecting to speak 
to you  -  quietly switch the flap-valve & fan, and as the cop looms 
in your outside mirror elegantly wave out the window whatever you're 
smoking  ...  I expect this routine to feature at least once in any 
future movie about a van made of compressed marijuarnuh being driven 
by Cheech and plus, if my memory serves, Chong.
	An intermediate between coal & coke  -  brand Raycarbo  - 
has been Dan's favourite fuel.  Coal or wood produce so much muck  - 
smoke, tars  -  that they're hard to scrub out.  Fluidyne were the 
kings of wood gasifiers.  They drove their own vehicles to work daily 
powered by wood.  The same firm (3 bods) made the top bypass oil 
filter using a roll of toilet paper  -  you may recall ads for this 
type of filter in Pop Mech / Pop Sc, c.1950  -  a very good thing 
indeed to which I ascribe (along with re-refined oil) the longevity 
of The Water Wagon's motor.
	I fear Fluidyne is now defunct.
	For the T2, the gasifier & cyclone would presumably go on the 
front bumper.  The intercooler pipe over the roof would of course 
tend to interfere with your popup roof; but it could be made readily 
removable.  You might expect instead of 50 bhp from a 1600 DP perhaps 
30 bhp.  Artwork would have to be pretty groovy to make up for the 
embarrassing lack of performance, but you would keep going when 
decadent petrolheads were immobilised by  ...

	Now here's the kicker: during W2 in NZ civilians could get 
only about a gallon a month of petrol so the mighty Munro slapped a 
coke gasifier as panniers on a Triumph Tweed Spin (one side) and 
scrubber (the other pannier), covering thousands of mi.



-- 
Robt Mann
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
'69 Renault 10  -  The Water Wagon
http://www.dave-cushman.net/misc/mannject.html
