From: "Todd Olson" <todd.olson(-at-)charter.net>
To: "'type2 List'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 8 May 2007 22:48:46 -0400
Subject: Buses By the Beach - Bus Benefit May 18th -20th - Grand Rapids,

Hello Fellow Volks Folks,

It's almost time for everyone to be together again for Bus Benefit in Grand
Rapids, MI May 18th - 20th! It looks like we are in for another great turn
out of Bus Pilots and VW lovers from all over the country. If you have not
made reservations please call the campground so we can plan camping space.
Call Grand Rogue at 1-616-361-1053 located at 6400 West River Drive,
Belmont, MI 49306. Make sure you tell them that you are with Buses By the
Beach group so they can group us all together. http://www.grandrogue.com/

 

Helpful tips for those coming this weekend:

1.	Plan for all of your meals except for Sunday Morning. We are going
to have a breakfast for all the campers. 
2.	Alcohol is permitted, Drunks are not.
3.	Please don not bring firewood. Please help stop the spread of the
Emerald Ash Borer. 
4.	Kids are welcome. Grand Rogue Campground is a very kid friendly
campground so feel free to bring bikes or toys for them to play with.
5.	There will be lots of activities on Saturday at the Burn Survivor
Car Show. They will be holding an auction with lots of great merchandise
that has been donated by local retailers. And there is an activity area for
kids. More info at http://www.burnsurvivorcarshow.com/flyer/
6.	AJ's Family Fun Center is within walking distance of the car show on
Saturday. They have go-carts, mini-golf, large video arcade, and other games
to keep the family entertained. More info at  http://www.ajsfamilyfun.com/
7.	There are grocery stores, restaurants and many other retail shops
close to the campground in case you need supplies.
8.	The campground runs canoe and kayak trips for those that would like
to go. Make arrangements at the campground office.

 

Schedule of Events:

Friday:

12:00noon - 10:00pm: Check in and set up. Then join everyone around the
campfire for conversations. Say hi to old friends and meet some new ones.
There may be some live bluegrass music. Things are still in the works.

7:00pm: Train Ride through the campground and in the woods.

 

Saturday:

8:15am: Line up for the Burn Survivor Car Show. We will be driving six miles
down the road to the 5/3rd Ball Park. Plainfield Fire Dept. is coming to
give us an escort with a fire truck to the car show. Please make sure to
turn your hazard lights on and stay together. Yes we know it is early but it
is a great time for a great cause!

8:30am: Leave for Car Show

9:00am-3:00pm: Burn Survivors Car Show at 5/3rd Ball Park.

4:30pm: Train Ride through the campground and in the woods.

5:00pm-6:30pm: Dinner on your own.

6:30pm: Buses By the Beach VW stuff Raffle. Be sure to buy your tickets
early.

7:30pm: The first showing of the 5th Year Anniversary Buses By the Beach
Documentary produced by our own Billy Hirt. 

8:30pm - 11:30pm: Gitchel Family Band will be entertaining us with their
very special style of traditional music. The Gitchel Family Band won't allow
themselves to be pigeon-holed into one genre of music. On any given night of
a performance you may find yourself singing along to a gospel favorite,
tapping your toes to a lively bluegrass song, clapping to the beat of Cajun
fiddles, strolling down memory lane with a Dixie Land tune, or watching as
they resurrect the memory of Hank Williams.
http://www.gettinpicky.com/gitchel_family.htm

 

Sunday:

10:00am: Buses By the Beach Breakfast Brunch Bonanza for Bus Pilots. Special
thanks to the many volunteers that make this happen. We would like to send
everyone off with a full belly to thank everyone for a real good time!

 

Wishing you many miles of smiles as you travel in!

The Volks Folks at Buses By the Beach.com

www.busesbythebeach.com <http://www.busesbythebeach.com/> 
