Date: Thu, 24 Feb 2005 13:24:31 -0800 (PST)
From: John Baker <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>
To: bus list <ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, vwtype1(-at-)yahoogroups.com,
Subject: Fifth Annual VW Buses 'n Boats Event in Ohio Camping Event

Howdy Y'all,

I am pleased to announce that plans have been
finalized for the Fifth Annual VW Buses 'n Boats event
in Morrow, Ohio (32 miles north of Cincinnati),
sponsored by the Ohio Valley Tribe of the Full Moon
Bus club.  The dates will be May 20-22, 2005.  Going
back to our roots, this years event will feature
river-side VW bus camping, a 6 mile canoe trip (2-3
hrs) on the Nationally Designated Scenic Little Miami
River, Live music (acoustic), Door Prizes, World
Famous Full Moon Bus Club Breakfast Burritos, Kids
activities, 50\50 split the pot Raffle drawing
(proceeds going to firewood fund) and MORE!!  We have
had 30+ buses for each of the past 2 years, so this is
a good sized event.  Sure to please! The new location
will be a private camping area owned and Operated by
Little Miami Canoe Rental. It is a LOVELY secluded
stretch of woods\river bank with a nice big shelter
right in the middle of our area.  This spot is
absolutely BEAUTIFUL, definitely the best yet!!!
Unfortunately, There are no electrical hookups in the
camping area.  We are only a few hundred yards hike
from the Little Miami Canoe rental central facility
where there are HOT SHOWERS and FLUSH TOILETS. There
will also be a couple of port-o-jons right in our
camping area.  I can't say enough about how awesome
this site is, you will love it! And the best part is
that the price is right, Camping fees are only $10 per
Adult per night, children under 16 years camp free!
Canoeing fees are $12 per paddler (children canoe free
with 2 paying adults) which include ALL equipment
rental AND transportation, canoeing is an OPTIONAL
activity. So here's the link to Event we page, check
it out!!
http://geocities.com/buses_n_boats/
Vendors and parts sellers are welcome, bring your old
parts and make some bread!!
I am confident we can make this the best event yet!

=====
Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1971 Double Cab
1971 SuperBeetle Convertible
1968 Karmann Ghia Convertible
http://www.buszen.com

"So we got into the red VW microbus with the shovels and the rakes and the implements of destruction and we headed on to the police officer's station..."
