To: "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Miles Erickson" <miles.erickson.type2(-at-)gmail.com>
Date: Thu, 24 Feb 2005 14:33:16 -0800
Subject: Electrical Adventure

Hey all-

I got up this morning after a visit to my grandmother in Everett, needing to
drive to Bellingham, which is roughly 60 miles further up the road.  I started
the engine and discovered that the radio and turn signals were no longer
functioning, although the headlights were.  I decided that perhaps a fuse was
blown and, there being plenty of daylight and functioning turn signals not
being required by law, I proceeded up the road using hand signals to signal
turns and lane changes.  I discovered in this process that an arm stuck out
the driver-side window is a much better change-lanes-to-the-left signal than a
flashing light -- somehow, people don't feel inspired to accelerate and cut me
off when I signal with my arm instead of a little flashing light.  Maybe it's
the personal touch.  I shall remember.

About 30 miles into the trip, I realized that the fuel gauge was also
inoperative.  Not remembering how far I had driven since the last fill-up, I
took the next exit and filled up -- 11 gallons, almost close -- and then
decided to look at the fuses.  None were blown but one in the center of the
row seemed to be at kind of an odd angle.  In my attempt to straighten it, I
inadvertently caused it to fall into the great abyss below the fuse panel.
Fortunately, nothing that was working before had stopped working as a result
of this particular fuse being missing.  I realized that although my airplane
carries spare fuses, my Bus currently doesn't -- silly on my part considering
all the other spares I carry on every trip, and something that I'll rectify in
short order.  I fiddled with a few other fuses and decided to continue with my
trip.

When I started driving again, I realized that the fuel gauge had ceased to be
inoperative.  However, the headlights had stopped working, the generator light
had come on (but only after engine start, not before?!), and the fuel gauge
would immedately drop to empty if I attempted to use one of the turn signals.
(Previously, the turn signals had no effect at all.)

After I reached my destination, I spent some time troubleshooting.  The fan
belt was loose, so I tightened it, but unsurprisingly, this had no effect on
the generator light.  I decided to do more fiddling with fuses.  (Really, the
only thing that qualifies me to be a Bus owner is that I'm willing to mess
with stuff that I wouldn't have dreamt of touching three years ago.)  Since I
wanted to be able to observe the effect of my fuse adjustments, I decided to
brave the risk of 12-volt electrocution and do my fiddling with the power on
and the engine running.  (So, yes, I probably would live longer if I were a
woman.  Oh well.)  When I reached the last fuse on the rightmost end of the
fuse panel and fiddled with it, there was a little spark at one end of it, and
then, all of a sudden, everything returned to normal.  The radio came on, the
turn signals started working with no adverse effect on the fuel gauge, etc.  I
tested every single electrical device (including, with the help of some
strangers, the brake lights) and couldn't find anything not working, despite
that I still hadn't replaced that mystery fuse that I dropped into the abyss.

I drove the 90 miles home to Seattle with no further difficulties.


Moral, if the story needs one:  When something's not working, mess with it.
You might get lucky.  And, I suppose, cleaning the contacts on the fuse panel
might not be a bad idea.


Cheers!

- Miles


Miles Erickson
'71 Dragon Bus
