Date: Fri, 25 Feb 2005 08:22:40 -0600 (CST)
From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
To: Skyler Hinkle <skylerrrr(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Electrical Ghosts

Skyler,

My pet peeve!  Set aside a whole Saturday for this.

Go slow, do it well and your electrical will be good for another 30 years.

Start in the engine compartment and replace both your negative and 
positive battery cables with *modern* non-leaded ones.  While you have 
these cables off, clean all of the cable contact points and cable ends on 
the starter motor with a dremel(wire brush) or lightly with 320 grit sandpaper.
Clean the battery terminals and install the little felt anti-corrosin 
pads.

Bare metal where the ground wire contects to the frame.

Find the transmission strap ground(at the front of the trans) and remove 
it.  Do the wire wheel trick on it and the surfaces it attaches to.

Look around at all of the wires in the engine compartment.  Find the 
grounds for the tail lights.  Wire brush or 320 wet sandpaper them.

While you are at it, look at *all* spade lug connectors.  If they need 
replacing, then go buy some good ones and the right tool to use to replace 
them...also some "shrink wrap"...this goes on the wire before you put the 
new terminal on....then slides over the back end of the terminal and gets 
heated so that it shrinks and provides a good seal.

Look at, take off, wire brush(dremel) or wet 320 grit sandpaper every 
electrical connection you can see.

Then, and only then, move toward the front of the bus.

Start there by taking every fuse out and gently wire brushing(dremel) 
each fuse holder contact.  Look, no, I mean really look at those fuses 
where they touch the fuse contacts....I have fixed more vw electrical 
problems than you can imagine by simply rotating the fuse in it's holder.

Get new fuses if you need to.

Then, see how things work.  Study the electrical diagram in your Bently.

Work on only one fused circuit at a time....slowly...with battery 
disconnected.

If things still don't work right, comeback and let us know!

Electrical problems in a VW are pretty much 95% bad ground problems, 4% 
evil previous owner bad wiring problems and maybe 1% for everything else.
There are a *lot* of grounds under the dash....find them and clean 
them....all of them.

I guarantee that things will work that probably haven't worked in years 
and it gives you a good starting point from which to work on anything that 
doesn't work correctly after that.

The Old priest is the list, the young priest is you, the holy water is 
your dremel tool and wet 320 grit sandpaper, and the crucifix is the 
VOM(volt ohm meter) that you need to buy.

Almost  of the things mentioned above can be found at Radio Shack or the 
local FLAPS.  Go forth and beat the electrical demons out of your 
bus!...LOL!

Cheers, dave

-- 
-------------------------------------------------------------------
"I'm more interested in getting it right, than being right"....dave


On Thu, 24 Feb 2005, Skyler Hinkle wrote:

> Hey folks,
>      Thanks for all the help I've been given so far. The bus is almost up and running great..... 
except for a few little things.
>      I'm thinking that I might need an old priest and a young priest, 
and some holy water, maybe a crucifix. 
I think my electrical system is haunted. Or at least some contacts are dirty or something. 
>      I learn that the oil and gen warning lights are the most 
important things, (other than guages and those dice that hang from the mirror) 
so I should get mine going, because neither were working when I bought the bus. 
lots snipped here....electrical probs.
