To: VW - Type 2 mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Chris Slaymaker <nurofiz(-at-)knology.net>
Date: Sat, 26 Feb 2005 16:57:37 -0500
Subject: Cracked bosses, busted exhaust stud, what's next?

I went out this morning to spend what I thought would be a leisurely 
morning with my bus.

First a little history.

For the longest time, I've been driving around with only the two top 
bolts on the mustache bar holding the engine in.

I went "backpacking" with some friends and we went down a jeep trail 
which I had a little trouble negotiating.  Long story short, I rock 
reached up and busted the oil temp sender and knocked the bottom of the 
mustache bar back about 3 cm, bending the upper two bolts.  It also 
busted a whole in the header and jammed the header up about 3 cm.  It 
also busted a hole in the muffler.   :(

Had the hole in the header welded up and bought a new muffler and put 
it on, saving the rest for another day.

Fast forward to today.

Took the exhaust system off to paint it with high temp paint.  That's 
when I broke the exhaust stud.  Man, it sure didn't take much.  I'm not 
even going to try to fix that myself.

Took the mustache bar off to tap the bottom boss and finally put that 
bolt back in.  That's when I discovered the cracked bosses.  :(

I swore some of the foulest oaths I knew and went inside and had a 
beer.  I called the guy who does VW work that I'm either too lazy or 
too stupid to do, and he allowed that he could fix the broken stud 
(using the ever increasing drill bit size technique), but the only way 
to fix the engine mount problem was to use the oil pump mounting 
technique.  What to do, what to do?

I went ahead and put everything back together as much as things would 
allow.  There are three bolts holding the mustache bar onto the engine, 
but for how long?  Will I be driving down the road, and then suddenly 
drop my engine?  EEEEEEWWW!

The exhaust system looks nice!  :)

Chris Slaymaker
1971 VW Westfalia
"What's your hurry?"
