To: vanagon(-at-)gerry.vanagon.com, VW-Eurovan(-at-)yahoogroups.com,
From: everybus <everybus(-at-)mindspring.com>
Date: Sun, 27 Feb 2005 09:10:48 -0500
Subject: EveryBus 2005 - coming right up!

Hello bus campers!

EveryBus 2005 is coming up soon - April 14-17th. For those of you not 
familiar with EB, it is one of the larger VW bus camping events of the 
year on the east coast and serves as the unofficial start of the bus 
camping season  for many, especially our friends from the often frozen 
north. EB takes place just south of Greensboro, North Carolina and 
welcomes VW Transporters of all ages - from Barndoors to Eurovans. EB 
is also a family friendly event with fun activities for kids and 
adults.

For the time being the most updated version of the web site is located 
at

http://www.mindspring.com/~everybus/index.html

and you may want to bookmark that for now until everybus.com gets 
straightened out.

EB05 will follow the format of previous years and the camping fees will 
be $20 per night per vehicle. And this year we have a new and exciting 
event - The VW Bus Camping Competition. Greg Potts will be the Master 
of Ceremonies and there are some really cool prizes for the top three 
winners. Check out the details on the website.

On Monday I will begin the regular updating of the Carabus page so 
please let me know if you are coming, from where, and what you are 
driving. If you want to send a reasonably sized pic of your bus, I will 
put that up too.

PLEASE NOTE THE FOLLOWING
-Everybus is a camping event and not a car show. There is not an 
official vendor area  but you are welcome to bring parts or crafts to 
sell. Just set up shop in front of your bus and the people will come to 
you.
-Pets are allowed such as dogs and cats but they must be on a leash, 
attended to at all times, and please clean up and properly dispose of 
all waste products generated by your pet. There are a lot of folks 
especially kids running around with and without shoes on and there is 
nothing worse than stepping in it....
-Please try to keep the main camping area for VW Transporters:  Spilts, 
Bays, Vanagons. and Eurovan based vehicles. There are two adjacent 
camping loops that can accommodate tent campers and other types of RVs. 
If you are driving a VW Transporter that is a passenger based vehicle 
but are camping in a tent please camp in the main EB camping EV area. 
Same goes if you are pulling a camping trailer behind your VW.
-Please review the Hagan Stone Park rules posted as you enter the 
camping area and be conscious of the fact that we will be close 
neighbors for a few days.

If you have questions or comments regarding EB please send them to 
everybus(-at-)mindspring.com.

Thanks
Chris

RED CUP!
