From: "78vwbus" <78vwbus(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 27 Feb 2005 10:16:35 -0500
Subject: [T2] '78 Westy Starting Up Problem

Hello there, I have a 78 Westy with a type IV F.I. engine....    I have
recently rebuilt this motor and have maybe 1000 miles on her....

We went to Edisto Island on the 18th and she drove down great....   We got
there, had a great time(go to Freeze Yer Toes if youve never been)....  She
started great leaving too, but when we got to a gas station on the way back,
she started up fine and I was waiting for all the other buses, and saw my red
dash light were on, and the bus died.....    She would not start up, I had
just gotten fuel, so it wasnt that...

It wouls act like it was startin, you could hear her start to fire up, but
then MMMMMmmmm.....    Down she goes...   Tried again, and gave a bit more
gas, nothing.....  Tried again, she starts to get there, and its very
convincing, but even if I layed on the pedal, nothing........

Then, 1 time you could catch her just right, and then you  could get somewhere
and she would stay running, after a good revin'...
 Then she would idle just fine......

Happened 2 other times....   Once when I was guving a pal a jump for his bus,
and had to keep moving back, cuz he had short cables...  A little more, a
little more....    I chalked it up to starting up too many times in a row, and
the brain got confused...

Then yesterday, the same thing..  Starts up great when I leave in the first
place, but then when trying to go home, she would not start....

I would turn the key, and Vroom, she would fire, but then no follow-thru...
Eventually, after trying for a while, I could get her started again, seemed
like I had to keep the key turned, and the gas at the samr time, and hold it,
til she would stay on....  But then the drive home is like nothing ever
happened.....   Ill bet if I got out there right now she will start......
But I cant feel comfy knowing that there is something going on there, I like
to drive her too much for that....

I live in NC, so its not too warm here, she has been running pretty cool since
the rebuild......  I assume I have good compression, cuz we just rebuilt it,
and she seems to have some power when running down the road....    Ive heard
of issues of starting up when its hot, but the thing that worried me, is that

a: its not getting too hot
b: she died on her own after starting up great, THEN wouldnt start
c: she has done it 2 other times in less that 1000 miles

I think the motor is probably OK, but I would love to hear from all of you


Sorry for the novel
Aaron
 :D
