To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Date: Sun, 27 Feb 2005 11:50:16 -0800
Subject: Digital photography (thanks to Dave Bolen)

Digital photography completely transforms engine building. It was Dave 
Bolen who suggested to me that I photograph the engine at each step, so 
that I could look back later (when it was covered up) and assure myself 
that, yes, I lined up the timing dots on the crank and cam shafts.

But now that I'm done I would take the whole thing much further than I 
did (this is a problem of having lived most of my life in the era of 
silver halides).

I would photograph everything, and print out most of it.

First of all, it turns out that it's a lot easier to see dirt and rust 
in a picture than in 3D reality. Take a picture, print it out, and 
circle things that need more work. (One reason for this is that unless 
you really think the process of building through, and organize to suit, 
you're problem working with less than ideal light much of the time. I 
was. But the flash on a digital camera does not allow self-deception.)

Second, I wish I had thought to photograph the case from six primary 
angles once I had put it together, printed out the pictures, and 
circled the case bolts. It would be easier next time to find all the 
bolts and nuts, and I could share the pictures with other people.

Third, it is so easy to turn up the brightness in a program like 
iPhoto, print in black and white, and then make notes on the paper. I'd 
rather waste some paper than waste a lot of time.

In addition to using the camera more, and while I am reflecting on the 
process, I'd add two things. One is that I would love to master the slo 
-teardown: take things off an engine that I'm tearing down only as fast 
as I can clean and organize them. Demolition is the Greek god of 
testosterone, so that would be hard. I'd like to master it anyway. The 
other thing is a luxury: I'd like to work with some way to shrink wrap 
things. Baggies work, but I would really like to lay out all eight nuts 
and spring washers for the rockers on a labeled card, all clean, and 
then shrink wrap them so I can set them, count them, know that they are 
ready for use.

Mark
