Date: Wed, 6 Jan 2010 09:47:53 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Cc: VB list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: new motor, old woes (long)

After parking my bus in texas for 2 years, dragging it to oregon and 
spending another year gathering parts and the time to put them 
together, i FINALLY have a new motor in the 70. Sadly, i have some of 
the same woes the OLD motor had!

For starters, a while back I saw a post mentioning aluminum cases, 
and that they thought 'some guy on VB had one, and was eventually 
happy with it' That was me, and the answer is no.  You can search the 
archives if you wish, but it was a nightmare; and while the motor 
ran, it had mystery issues that needed a machine shop to hunt down, 
and I was done with it. I never trusted it, and except for  trips to 
Jerome and the Superstitions, never took it out of  city limits with 
the family on board.  At the end, the (new) carb developed serious 
flooding issues, and i decided to just start over.

A new, full-flow magnesium case was ordered from aircooled.net, along 
with .10+ CW crank, machine in 88s, torque cam from Schneider, and 
sundry bits. I was going to build the same motor  the aluminum one 
was supposed to be, but with OUT the craptacular POS aluminum case.

Sadly, i got the case and thought 'deja vu all over again.' The 
brazilians just can NOT be bothered to do a decent job... the edges 
were incredibly sharp; I spent a week just knocking down the razors, 
casting flash, and rough spots. It was actually dangerous to handle 
without gloves.  I had to radius nearly every corner internally; not 
only to prevent stress risers, but just to get bearings in without 
cutting them! Then I found a few saddles too wide, and the  cam 
thrust surface was wide as well.  Nothing that some work couldn't 
cure, but I had never had so many problems on a German or Mexican 
case... one or two, but not all in one case.  I mic'd everything 
until it was all within spec.  I also forgot to specify the UNIVERSAL 
case, so I had no T3 sender hole; AL motor had a Serg shorty temp 
sender there and I liked it a lot.  And don't buy a billet cam plug 
unless you remember to order the case to be machined for it!  Oh well.

Jake  Raby had kindly balanced my rotating bits - but 'couldn't find 
your numbers.'  This made me sad, as that is what happened to my last 
motor with a different shop, and they had NOT balanced it. Luckily, 
Raby's balancing methods are different than others, and the  machine 
work they had done was obvious, so I know they DID it  - i just hate 
not having the info.  All this took about 6 months between waiting 
for parts and shop work, and my neighbors were starting to comment on 
the motionless bus...


After all the prep, assembly wasn't too bad; a minor bearing pinch 
that was quickly sanded out. I put on my T3 cool-tin ala Hoover and 
Van Ness.  CR ended up just shy of 7.5; more than Berg suggested, 
less than John at aircooled recommended for my cam/P&C setup. I live 
in Oregon instead of Arizona now, so a little extra motor heating 
might not hurt.  I decided that I was glad I didn't have the billet 
cam plug, as I used the 'rubber' ones and decided I liked them.   The 
only snag was a broken bolt on the left side heat riser tube - a 
supposed grade 8 bolt had the head snap right off without warning as 
i tightened up the muffler. Shank stuck solidly in the threads, of 
course.  I put some sealant on it, tightened the other side and 
shrugged... a minor exhaust leak  for now is ok if that's the worst 
that happens. Got the motor in in 20 minutes while working on a 
downhill slope of 5%. Felt pretty good about that!  Went to put in 
the rebuilt carb and discovered that the accell pump check-ball was 
stuck, and would not respond to any attempts to release it (need to 
drill out plugs next).  Grabbed the old carb, rebuilt it and hoped it 
worked; jetted 125 main, 125 air, and 55 on idle and pilot for 
starters.

I used some 10w-30 left in house by previous tenant, some Schneider 
break-in lube, and pumped to pressure, then fired it up.  Started, 
but vibrated like mad for a minute or two, then evened out a bit.  No 
bad noises, and break-in seemed to go ok. EXCEPT - too rich!

This was one of my troubles with the old motor; the carb ran so rich 
that black smoke poured out, and it would often simply chug slowly to 
a halt. Jets had no influence - I had the main so small it was 
backfiring at 1500 rpm, and it STILL pumped smoke.

The fuel pump rod was set to spec height, the float was set with one 
thick and one thin shim (about 1.6 mm). I was also getting tremendous 
carb icing - odd, as I blew through the heat riser and it was totally 
clear.  I do wonder if there is a leak at my busted-bolt side, and it 
is allowing the exhaust to pass too quickly through the riser instead 
of warming it (that is why the left side gasket has a small hole to 
restrict flow).

The car does run and drive, it just runs too rich. Again. Chugs like 
crazy up hills, stalls at stop signs.  As i now live on top of a 
steep hill, this is not acceptable.   I need to check the accel pump 
output, and put some more gaskets on the fuel pump flange, but other 
avenues to pursue would be welcomed.

I'm hoping the vibration is an ignition problem that will straighten 
out when the fuel is right. It would suck if there is a deep-seated 
mechanical issue after all that measuring, balancing and weighing!  I 
have to say, the quality of parts now is sooo bad that if this motor 
blows, I am done with VWs. After 22 years.  I do not have the time or 
money to do machine work on parts that should just FIT.

Sorry for the length. But hey, I've barely posted in 3 years, so I 
have to make up for it  :)
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
