From: Patrick Harris <1971vwwestfalia(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: t2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 12 Jan 2010 10:10:18 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] curtain question

I don't recall if the curtain over the driver's side windows used  
anything like this; I know the 71 I currently have just uses a flat  
aluminum rod and you sew a pocket in the top margin of the curtain for  
the rod to slide through.

If you have the original tracks over the sliding door you can purchase  
the sliders from IKEA but you will have to file the shoulders by a  
fraction of a mm to get them to fit.

KVARTAL is the product line and I see that the correct term is "glider".

\\http://www.ikea.com/us/en/catalog/products/90079367

The gliders are on rows 1 and 3.  I sewed this directly to my curtains  
since I didn't have any curtain tape.  Unfortunately IKEA does not  
sell the cloth tape which would be sewed to the top margin of the  
curtain - it actually has the loops for attaching the hooks - look at  
their ready made curtains to see what I'm trying to explain.

The hooks which attach to the curtain tape and then to the glider are  
on rows 2 and 4

The 2 objects at the bottom would be for attaching a wand/handle to  
the end of the curtain - you would use it to actually slide the  
curtains open or closed.  In Germany the curtain "track" is mounted  
very high up - usually on the ceiling and you need a long handle to  
slide the curtain.

This type of "set-up" is the way curtains are "hung" in Germany and  
other parts of Europe.

When making your curtains you should consider using material at least  
double the width of the window, providing you can find material thin  
enough; that way when they are used to cover the window they will  
still have some 'fullness" which helps to make them more difficult to  
see through.

I goofed and made mine about 2 inches too short.  On the 68-71 they  
need to actually lie on the table top when it is erected, otherwise  
they will be too short to stay under the "elastic wire" which secures  
the bottom.

Pat








.
