Date: Tue, 12 Jan 2010 11:03:26 -0800
From: Avocado Tom Tarka <tommy(-at-)roadtrip.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: weird starter issue

Volks,

I'm debugging a weird starter/battery issue on my 1971 bus, and I thought I'd
post it here even though the question is a bit muddied because the starter is 
that of a jetta turbo-diesel (as I'm in the midst of converting from aircooled 
to TD), because starters seem to be fairly simple animals.

The background is that I've had hard starting issues with my '71 for a long
while now (including when it was air-cooled) where it basically wouldn't
turn over.  Usually these were "hot start" conditions, but the problems
persisted even after the installation of a hot start relay.

Anyway, the story goes like this: 

I'm hooking up my battery and I put my multimeter on the positive and negative 
battery terminals just to test the voltage in the 20degF weather.  12.95 V.  Good.

I turn the key to see if the gas gauge is working and I get no power.  Hmm...
hazards don't light up either...must be a bad connection.  I test the voltage
from the positive cable (an inch away from the terminal) and the negative terminal:
0.16 V.  Ok, we definitely have a bad connection.   So I then twist the positive
cable on the terminal to try to get a good connection (or push it down harder)
and  WOAH!  The engine is turning over!  What????!

Removing the positive cable and negative cables (as well as what the positive
leads are connected to) I determine that whenever positive lead from the
battery is connected to the bolt on the starter, I have no voltage at the
positve cable. Gotta be a short, right?  Or perhaps the solenoid is stuck open?

(As an aside, f I just connect the battery to the red/white primary power wire 
to the fuse box that's usually also on the starter terminal, I do have power, 
so the short isn't there) 

I did futz around with my solenoid a bit, and there's the possibility that 
have it flipped 180deg and therefore wired backwards, so I test out connecting
the starter wire to what would normally be the motor lead (as opposed to the 
solenoid lead) and voltage drops to 10.6V, meaning there's some sort of load
(maybe that the starter motor is trying to turn the engine over but doesn't 
have the CCA?)....

Any thoughts?  Is my solenoid stuck open or some such?  This just seems very
weird to me.

Thanks for listening...

Cheers,
   Tom

-- 
\ FrostburnPGH.com: a Winter arts, camping, and survival festival, Feb 12-15, 2010
 \
  \      "It's better to burn out...than it is to rust."  - Neil Young
