Date: Wed, 13 Jan 2010 12:32:25 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: John Dillon <johndillon(-at-)bellnet.ca>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] propane fittings ...

John assuming this is a standard older vanagon non OPD tank there are 3
fittings.  I don't have one sitting here so don't quote me and it SHOULD still
have steel stamped tags at each (thought they rust off, as does the Manchester
tank ID label.)  Anyway the large right (or left, I just don't recall but I
think the outlet/regulator goes forward on a vanagon) one is I recall the
fill, it will take the standard dual internal/external fill valve, should be
labeled FILL.  The other large one is the outlet, takes a standard old outlet
valve that the 2 stage regulator screws into.  It might be the one that looks
different because it has a pipe that goes up in the tank to above the fluid
level to pull vapor.  The small one is an 80% overflow fill tap.  It takes a
fitting with a small rubber plugged fill.  In the day before the federal gov
decided we were idiots, this is all you needed.  You fill until liquid comes
out the 80% tap, and then you are done,
 and safe, unless the grade school kid pumping you propane doesn't understand
the 80% valve and overfills it.  They are still legal for the moment in situ
(I think), though I wonder about for reinstall.  I do think the modern ones
BD, GoPayMeForaWesty or whoever sell have OPD idiot valves on them.  These
original tanks rust BADLY under the manchester tank (the main maker) ID tag,
like can be 1/2 rusted through the thickness of the tank, so look carefully at
that.  In the day any good local propane place (AmeriGas in WV) sold all of
these fittings for about $20-40 each for the large ones, $5-10 for the
overflow tap, in fact gave them away for free for a while when they became
"illegal" on regular old BBQ tanks.    You also need a dual stage (two
little circles in line) pressure regulator ($20-40).   I'd start local first,
telling them it for an RV install and is the old non OPD style.  Most of the
time (in WV at least) price was right in line
 with online, and you can look them in the eye with the tank in hand. 
Perusing online RV parts places shows that the new OPD valves for retrofit are
reasonable ($20) but you'd have to find one that would be appropriate for the
tiny Vanagon tank, and I don't know that any are.
 
John

--- On Wed, 1/13/10, John Dillon <johndillon(-at-)bellnet.ca> wrote:



I picked up a propane tank form a vanagon westy . it came sans valves and
fittings . anyone have a source for em? My tank has three inlets . one is
very small, the next two are the same size but one of em sort of has a lip
inside. Anyone know what valve's/fittings goes where?
