Date: Wed, 13 Jan 2010 16:23:45 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] propane fittings ...

I would go one further (although I often do use soap and water) and suggest
springing the $5 for a quality liquid leak finder at Lowe's or your favorite
hardware store.  AND, whatever sealent you use must be good for LPG, regular
"white" teflon tape IS NOT, I use a 20 year old tin of a commercial quality
LPG/NG and high pressure rated sealant (though the brand escapes me.)
 
As I have of course mentioned, a real, real fine reason to take the tank, to a
good local LPG distributor, who can probably has the valves for $70-80 total,
and install them and leak test (and even fill though that is inconvenient for
mounting) for 30 minutes labor.  A good RV place would be a choice as well,
these are the same valves used on every manchester tank, which are probably
used on 85% of all older RVs on american roads.  All that being said, I'd do
it all myself, so don't be scared but be careful.
 
The footage mentioned raises one more concern I've hinted at.  On a used tank
(even from sunny CA) one has to be VERY careful about the condition,
particularly UNDER the Manchester ID tag.  I'd bet these things have a safety
factor of at least 3-5, but I've seen half the thickness rusted through
beneath the welded on tag, with the tag bulging out from rust underneath, on
what I would consider to be a not heavily rusted tank.  I usually seal up the
ports (residual propane risk) grind off two of the welds holding the ID plate
(legally should be installed, though they will fall off from rust and might
already be half popped off) sandblast and inspect the area, then epoxy (PPG
DP40) prime the tank, bend the tag back down, sealing it down with a good auto
seam sealer, DP40 again, then topcoat the tank.  Eurovan tanks are even worse
in my experience as Manchester went to a more "dureable" in their minds
"plasticky" powder coat which is great until a stone
 chip gets it, then it peels off in sheets.  Make sure the tank you are
retrofitting looks GREAT folks, otherwise, BD has em for like $350 or so?  You
and your vans, and perhaps your neighbors life.  LPG on a hot day, on even a
properly filled tank gets some real pressure.
 
John

--- On Wed, 1/13/10, Jamie <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net> wrote:



always use soap and water to check for leaks...
