Date: Wed, 13 Jan 2010 17:08:05 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: becka(-at-)eastlink.ca, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] winter driving

Doesn't suck in some ways, they are fun to drive, but it does do a number on a
bus rust/corrosion wise.  I drove my '78 daily for 2 winters over the Eastern
continental divide, Allegheny front, ususally in 10-20F weather, often with
snow.  Alan standard things, make sure heater is top notch (seal all joints,
wire the boxes open if you can't get the cables to work), think about a
recirculating rig, this can be done cheaply and easily with good effect
(improve 20F or more outlet temp at the dash) on a T4 engined bus by taking a
hose from the electric blower inlet to the interior.  Have a good thermostat
installed and correctly adjusted (getting $$$ to do if a T4.)  Think seriously
about a set of studs on the rear at least, or all round if you will be in any
snow (the bus is actually a great vehicle in the snow, and you can get by with
rear studs, but peruse local craigslist, you may get a deal on an LT rated 195
or 205 width 14", problem is 14" tires
 getting rare of course.)  Chains for real snow driving fine as well as a limp
by, but if you got some sort of highway rib (Yoko 356s) you need a real tire. 
If a westy, plug that big ass hole in the roof with 4" of used cushion foam
from a thrown away couch.  Repair your neglected, leaking, unworking
windshield wiper sprayers, and use EXCLUSIVELY the yellow Prestone stuff. 
Consider a good winter wiper (does Bosch make a short enough ICON? would
probably work nicely for winter.)  Headlights in top notch shape, can't beat
the ones BD just listed, install with good Halogens and a relay and heavy
seperate feed if you can.  And as I've said many times if you have a garage,
DON'T garage it if in the salt belt, constant melting and putting it in
solution is far worse than leaving it on.  Drive it, wash it when it warms
above freezing if you can, but otherwise keep it cold.
 
My first thoughts.
 
John

--- On Wed, 1/13/10, Alan Beck <becka(-at-)eastlink.ca> wrote:



It would appear that I am going to be forced to drive mine, and that
sucks.

I rustcheck religiously.
