Date: Thu, 14 Jan 2010 14:54:38 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: becka(-at-)eastlink.ca, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] H4's

Alan and others, although this got a lot of consternation when I asked the
question on the vanagon list (about how they would work in a late vanagon), if
you want real light, particularly from a good 7" round formfactor (ideal)
reflector, one word.  HID.  Retrofit kit.  Even as cheap as $85 on *bay.  Now
what caused the do gooder consternation when I merely asked the question, is
yes they are illegal in the US.  So are H4 relectors in the US still I think,
so there.  So were H4 reflectors 20 years ago and higher watt bulbs when I put
them in my '78 Rabbit in 1988.  Now I don't know how tight regs are in
Canada.  I put a set (oddly enough, they end up being H4 bulb form factor) in
my wife's 2001 Rav4, just the lowest wattage (30W) cheapest ass set I could
get (I randomly bought from someone with 5000+ feedback and 99.9%
satisfaction.)  The light output is phenomenal, and I did countless
"drivebyes" as various speeds to verifty I thought they had
 no ontoward glare to oncoming traffic.  In 1 year we have never been
"flashed" for having them.  Then I put a set in old (high quality) Cibie 7" on
my Triumph TR4A.  They are simply AMAZING.  I used 5000K which is white, but
not blue, and the light output is simply incredible.  From 30W current draw
(even less actually when I measure on my regulated supply) they put out 2-3
times what a 55/60W Silverstar in the same H4 reflector does (seat of my pants
opinion.)  Probably 10 X the light output of the 25 year old sealed beams in
the Triumph.  For any classic vehicle the 30W output ones are a PHENOMENAL
idea because you can keep your stock wiring and they pull no more current than
an incandescent bulb for 5-10 x the output of your dingy old bulbs.  Doing it
again I'd spring the $125 or whatever they want for "slimline" ballasts though
in a bus mounting the old "regular" ones would be no issue up in the nose. 
They are strictly illegal of course,
 and in a bus, no one is going to think, "well maybe it came stock with them"
so you are on your own, if Canada or your US locale is strict and it worries
you, not for you.  If you want to see down the road, without annoying anyone
(with a correctly adjusted 30W job in a good reflector, they are incredible in
a "classic car."
 
With Ron's sale you could be under $130 into an HID set and his good Bosch
relflectors.
 
YMMV.
 
PS as many informed me and I learned, they are phenomenal in stock square
vanagon reflectors as well for anyone that drives a vanagon.

--- On Thu, 1/14/10, Alan Beck <becka(-at-)eastlink.ca> wrote:



I would love to know more about how I can obtain a brighter light. And
where to get them in Canada.
