Date: Fri, 15 Jan 2010 15:28:31 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] H4's & HID retrofit kit (sorry long)

Since some people asked some questioned I'd answered to Allen, I'll add my
answer to him in here.  This is exactly what I suggest Kevin, and everything
simply comes as one kit (make sure it is 2 bulbs, not a motorcycle 1 bulb
kit.)  So you'd order the reflectors/housings from BD.  Then you hit the bay. 
You are looking for bi-xenon H4 HID kit.  Problem is there are 1000s on
there.  There are 4 types in most bulb forms (we want H4 bulb form factor here
for the new reflectors).
 
#1.  Only has one "filament" (well really it is a gas fille pocket with sort
of a miniature spark plug inside it), only works on low beam, even though they
are the correct dual beam mounting factor (physically fit the reflector),
sacrifices high beam.  Can be as cheap as $15 !!!
 
#2. Has one filament and a little servo that flicks the filament back and
forth a couple mm to center in presumeably where the high and low filaments
should reside. The people selling the better ones knock these for
unreliability (moving part,) but I've run em for a year+ working and moving
just fine.  These go anywhere from $50-100 depending on "slimline" ballast or
not and who is selling.  Most of the "bi-xenon" kits are these, I'm not
honestly sure if #4 exists in H4, I tried to get one on my second set and
still ended up here.
 
3. Has an HID low filament and a regular old halogen high filament.  An OK
thought, but doesn't solve reducing current draw on aging wiring when on high
beam which I feel is another main benefit of HIDs.
 
4. Has two HID filaments true "true Bi-Xenon" (but everyone on the bay calls
their kits bi-xenon and like I said, I'm not even really sure these exist for
H4 bulb form.)
 
Problem is it is VERY deceptive to figure out what you are ordering.  If the
price is too good to be true, for example someone claiming #4 for $85, it
probably isn't true, this suckered me on my second set, but they are still
nice.  They also come in 35W, 50W, and I think now there is a 75W or so, but I
think even the 50s might get undue attention from the law, and frankly the 35W
is again easily seat of the pants 2-3 times the output (both bulbs side by
side in the Rav4) a new 55/60W Silverstar.  I don't recall who I ordered from,
like I said, just picked one with 1000s rating and a good 99% feedback, that
claimed in stock and shipped from USA (they are all China made, but although
most ship from China/Hong Kong I just felt better out of CA.)  Up here in AK
they are very popular and I could have found nearly the same price (probably
$120-150) had I driven the 45 minutes into Anchorage but I felt lazy, the PO
delivered to my mailbox, and I saved
 $40.
 
Now these truely pull only a few amps on my regulated supply, the wiring to
the ballasts is no more than 18g, probably 20g.  They are the single most
impressive thing I can imagine doing for safety on a classic car which is
daily driven.  And although I only marginally care I did truely drive by the
Rav at many speeds in high and low beam countless times, they are obviously
HID but have no excessive glare to my 40yo eye at least, and again we never
get people highbeaming up, a friend with the 50W set does BTW.  Anyway you
want 4300 to 6000K color, anything more color temp is too blue and I think the
max light output is the 4300 (which is a bit "yellow" but not nearly so as old
incandescents.)  I like the 5000K, it is very white light with an ever so
subtle "blueness" that lights moose up well, and really pops off reflective
road signs covered with snow.

On install you do need a hot all the time wire, but this does not have to be a
big heavy current thing, I've not done a bus yet, I'd probably try to get
crafty and rewire the fusebox for a constant (not through the relay) supply to
one of the 4 headlight fuses in the fusebox, and then use that, but most
people aren't going to be up to that  (I've put an entire '76 box into a '69
before folks and got it all to work the first time I put the battery back
in.)  Anyway you don't need much, as current draw of a 35W set is less than 5
amps.  Would a nice HD wire back to the battery be better, probably simply
because of the age/corrosion of the main feeding the fuse box in most busses,
but I don't think you have to, didn't in the Lucas ridden '65 TR4A.  Then
there is a connection for a little relay which may be built into the ballast
or not, that has a headlight connector that triggers the high/low off your
existing headlight switch, but this is a
 trivial current draw (couple 100 mA I'd bet at most) now being fed by the old
high current setup for the original bulbs.  BTW the slim ballasts are smaller,
probably worth the extra $5-10, you'd mount them attached ideally to a bit of
heat sink (smaller than a pack of cigs, can probably screw nicely to the
airbox up there the nose or if the high tension wire is too short, to the side
of the headlight buckets) and run the high tension lines out to the new
reflectors and bulbs.  My '77 is still down in the 48 and I'm dying to get it
up here, and to install a set of these things but haven't like I said done a
bus yet.
 
Anyway the last thing you need is a 200A alternator to run the 15" MTX subs
and hydraulics that common law states you have to install with these, and some
ear plugs for when you put that chrome coffee can tip on the exhaust....   Oh
sorry there, but my point is I'd ignored these things thinking they were for
that Civic set only for several years, and am a FIRM believer in them now. 
I've put them in the wifes new car, my beater Suburban, my beater syncro, the
TR4A and reccomended dad toss a set in his '00 Eurovan.  I am a firm
believer.  But they are illegal as shit apparently.  YMMV.
 
John

--- On Fri, 1/15/10, Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net> wrote:



Ie how do you figure which bulb kit to get, or do you just get the Temp &
wattage you want, and then fabricate your own adaptor?
