From: "Frank & Nancy Wise" <macmhuirich(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: <VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com>, <Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 12 Nov 2003 01:27:04 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] Cooling air, gas heaters, and J tubes & Engine Damage

Well, Eric&Barb, I'm in No. Cal.  The problem cropped up after I drove it to
work a couple of times -- 25 miles away and one hill that's about 10 miles
long!  The final straw came on a cool morning.  Lost power and I coasted to
a stop at a restaurant (hmmm... maybe I shoulda had breakfast!). Any way, I
could get it started, but it wouldn't continue to run without my foot on the
pedal and it would die if I even thought of putting it in gear. I had it
towed home.  I haven't had time to do anything to discover what the problem
is. Being a rank novice to auto mechanics, I'll probably be wrong, but I
believe I blew a head gasket. Um... is my ignorance showing?  I don't hear
anything out of the ordinary as you'd expect like missing, or any unusual
mechanical noises. I think there's excessive blow-by 'cause apparently I've
had oil blow out through the breather. The oil in the stick appears and
smells fine. When I get some time to myself, I'll plug in the compression
gauge and maybe (just maybe) I'll know more.  What I should do is just pull
the engine and rebuild it. Who knows what else the former owner has done to
it?  BTW: The engine SN begins with AE which would make it a 1971 1600cc.
Since I don't know the piston size & stroke, I can't be certain of the
actual displacement. One thing's for sure: Its not going out of the driveway
without a thermostat & a full set of gauges!

FYI: Electric fuel pump with regulator set to 2.5.

Angus

------------
If the weather is cool where you are then not having the thermostat is part
of your MPG problem.  ...  Also check the smell of the oil on the
dipstick.  If is smells badly of fuel shortly after an oil change and you
are
running a mechanical fuel pump its diaphram is probably leaking into the
engine
case.  If you have an electrical fuel pump without a pressure regulator or
one that is not adjusted low enough it will over pressurize the carb float
and
spraying excess fuel down the throat of the intakes.  Could also be your
carbs
are badly jetted!
BTW  Did you figure out which engine you have?
Eric&Barb
