From: "Diane ::: 67 VW Bus :::" <v_uu(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 14 Nov 2003 15:00:29 -0500
Subject: There REALLY IS a point here, I promise.

History:  The "mechanics from hell" installed the engine, tranny and just
about every other part in my 67 Bus starting in June this year.

I returned to have them:

    1)  Adjust the clutch, which they told me was NOT really grinding, the
problem is the driver. [I have only been driving VWs 1969, so maybe I need a
little more practice.]

    2)  Install a new center pivot bushing & tie rod ends.  My steering was
quite a mess, I was all over the place.

    3)  Locate where a VERY audible "THUNK" was coming from.  Although for the
first couple of times that I asked about it, they didn't hear anything.  But
as it got louder and louder and happened more frequently they determined the
noise was due to a bad "flower" something in the axel.

That was the last time they saw or heard from me.

After "the mechanics from hell" [TMFH] installed the center pivot bushing and
tie rod ends and rebuilt the rebuilt engine I purchased from them in the very
beginning [the engine with the cracked case] they tampered with the steering
job that I had finished [drag link replaced] by another mechanic.

This steering "adjustment" that "TMFH" did, without my prior approval, screwed
up the alignment I did right after the drag link was installed.  SOOOO....

I had another alignment yesterday to correct the mess TMFH did because I had
just bought 4 BRAND NEW TIRES and I was tired of leaning over to get a look to
make sure my oil light hadn't come on.  The light never has come on, I check
and change my oil on a regular basis, but I still would like to be able to see
it, should it come on,  but the steering wheel center divider blocked the view
after TMFH adjusted whatever they adjusted to throw the bus out of alignment
... which also wore out my tires to the point of wires poking through them in
4 months.  BRAND NEW tires which TMFH bought and put on the bus in the
beginning.

TODAY:  I went to my new mechanic [the drag link mechanic] he was going to
adjust the clutch and locate where the "THUNK" was coming from. I got there
late because I was having a really bad steering problem.  Felt like I was
floating .. I was .. too much air in the tires and MORE.  The new mechanic
asked "has someone worked on the bus since I did the drag link?"  And I
explained the above to him ... He told me that 1)  The drag link was very
loose, and he tightened it 2)  The center pivot bushing has either gone bad or
wasn't reamed correctly in the first place because now that is where two
thirds of my steering wheel play was coming from.

Being I was late, he didn't have time to adjust the clutch but we talked some
more about shifting weirdnesses - something about how the shifter POPS out of
reverse, rather than just slide out of reverse .. but that sometimes it does
just slide out and when that happens .. there is no grinding in gears for a
minute or two.  He said sounds like "something" can't remember exactly now, so
please forgive my ignorance .. but what I remember is .. something about swing
plate maybe ?? and gear box maybe .. So he goes to the back .. looks
underneath and asked, "who installed your tranny" to which I replied "THE
MECHANICS FROM HELL" of course.  He says that the bolts that connect the swing
plate to the gear box are ALL LOOSE, except one, that one the head of the bolt
is broken off.  He also said "that is where the clunk is coming from."

The plan is to get the broken bolt out and tighten down the others next week.
[if I can't get it done myself before then.] Adjust the clutch and if I can't
live with the play in the steering wheel, talk about re-doing the center pivot
bushing.  JEEEEZ !!!!

So the point of this long winded post is to ask quickly:  How difficult is it
to do the tightening and removal of these bolts myself ? [with the help of my
son or boyfriend of course.]  The mechanic said that what he is talking about
.. where the bolts are loose etc .. will be VERY OBVIOUS once I get under
there.

The rest of the post .. 99% of the post was to just blow off steam I guess.

Diane
