Date: Fri, 14 Nov 2003 15:25:06 -0500
From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
To: v_uu(-at-)hotmail.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re:RGBox bolts [VB] There REALLY IS a point here, I promise.

IT IS VERY UNSAFE TO DRIVE WITH THE RGBox BOLTS LOOSE or BROKEN!!!! 

If you lie under the back of the bus and look to each side just forward of the motor, there is a flat plate, well it's flat vertically, and it tilts down to the back.   The Boxes are attached to these, so they are just to the inside of the rear wheels.   Each RGBox is held to a spring plate by 4 bolts, three in a column and one forward.  Your Bentley has the specs for torque, which should be something like 70ft lbs off the top of my head (check your book).   Use split washers under the bolts, which should have either 17mm or 19mm heads.   (pics in your bentley)

IT IS VERY UNSAFE TO DRIVE WITH THESE BOLTS LOOSE or BROKEN!!!! 

If a RGBox comes loose it will be messy.  don't do it. 

Use a torque wrench and tighten the loose ones.  wait, get new split washers, only remove one (1) bolt at a time, and clean the threads with a die or wire brush before reinstalling with the new washers.   

the broken one will be a pita.   If you are good with a drill you can start with a small bit right in the exact center and drill straight in, then move up a size, until there is so little of the bolt left that you can use a tap to clean it out.  If you are not comfortable with this, get the nice mechanic to do it.

may be easier with RGBox off the plate (remove drum &wheel) maybe not.

did I mention it's unsafe to drive with the RBox bolts loose or broken?

hey, I recommend staying with the second mechanic.  He sounds sensible.   (and you *can* do your own clutch adjustment.  says how in Muir's Idiot book.)



 In a message dated 11/14/2003 3:00:29 PM Eastern Standard Time, v_uu(-at-)hotmail.com writes:

> So the point of this long winded post is to ask quickly:  How difficult is it
> to do the tightening and removal of these bolts myself ? [with the help of my
> son or boyfriend of course.]  The mechanic said that what he is talking about
> .. where the bolts are loose etc .. will be VERY OBVIOUS 
> once I get under
> there.
