Date: Tue, 23 Jul 2002 21:43:38 -0500
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org (craig k)
Subject: new engine plans

ok, you may remember my recent post about my 2 1600s; when i pulled the
daily driver one, i found a #2 journal beginning to pound, as well as
varying degrees of damage to the other bearings in the case, and a bit of
chewing on the dizzy drive gear (the diz gear was likely the sound of the
noises i was hearing, as #2 was -barely- knocking... it had a dime-sized
spot where the copper was showing, but the crank showed no scoring/wear).

so. time for a rebuild.  the original case was already cut to .40, and one
main bore showed some signs of fretting, so i wasn't real comfy cutting it
again. luckily, i have an aluminum case from ronnie oldvolks, so i'm gonna
start with it. now, i've long wanted to run a CW crank, so i figured i'd
get one from berg (i haven't heard much good on the other makes... any
positive opinions/folks running the scat/empi/etc ones?)... one problem,
they insist on a good, standard vw core, and are picky about it. my core
prolly wouldn't do; the cores available to me around here were $40-50.
pricing a new one was $150+. berg CW 69mm cranks run ~$250, plus buying a
core, $300. hmmmm.

i ran across a berg CW crank and lightened/wedged flywheel on ebay for $350
and bought it, saving a few bucks when you consider costs of sending them
my flywheel to put on the CS and balancing.  plus, no core worries (and i
can use the old one/case to make a beater to run around for parts with!).
cool.

my next step is the top end; i currently plan on putting berg 88s in the
case, which will require cutting the case and heads to fit. i'm also gonna
have them run thru the aluminum case and check it for quality, as well as
tap it for full-flow, as i have a berg bus oilpump cover and full-flow kit.
i can re-use the practically-new lifters and rods from the case i just tore
down.
i have some berg swivel-feet valve adjusters, but i'm not sure i'll use them.

when i'm done, i hope to have a bus that is slightly more tolerant of heat
and load, as i am moving to phoenix next year, and may be required by the
wife to re- install A/C!

i'm looking for any comments you folks have on this plan; from  those who
have done similar mods, to extra things to do while i'm burning cash (tho a
lot of the berg stuff came in a stash i bought some time ago), cries of
don't do it, etc. maybe someone runs stock jugs and ratio rockers and likes
them better? anyone running a lightened flywheel in a bus and hates it?
have you built one of these aluminum cases up, and had problems? where do
you run your full-flow filter?

i'll be taking pics and writing it all up, and will keep folks posted.

Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen


