Date: Wed, 24 Jul 2002 00:11:59 -0700
From: Westfalia <swharris(-at-)adelphia.net>
To: craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>, Vintage Bus Post <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] new engine plans

Craig,

Take this for what its worth as I've only built two complete engines in
my day.  The second one and my almost daily driver is a stock 1600
running a Scat (cast) 69 mm CW crank, rebuild VW rods, stock fly wheel,
CB filter pump, Ronnie suggested cam from CB (I forget the # but was
told it was better for a bus and milage..I think it needs more carb than
what I'm running) stock SP heads/valves, berg swivel feet/rocker shims,
stock 1:1 ratio (DAMN expensive) and stock exhaust, 30/31 carb, all tin
and dog house cooler.

I took great pains (read a long time cuz I'd never done it before) to
balance everything and had all rotating parts (crank/gear, rods,
pistons, FW and pulley) dynamically balanced (don't use RIMCO!...long
story).  I had Berg semi hemi cut the heads and made sure I had matching
combustion chambers and a dead on 6.9 CR.  Bought most everything
through Ronnie...sept the crank.   Oh yeah one more IMPORTANT thing I
think (Berg thought this too)  a NEW case!

So far this thing runs smooooth. Not as much power as my 34Pict DP but I
could run it at 4K all day if I had to.  I think with more carb it would
wake up.  I had a few bugs at first, most were valve adjustment related,
but now its as reliable as a Swiss watch and almost as quiet.  I have
about 3K on it and need to do the 500 mile pull and torque (I'm a bit of
a procrastinator Ray ;-)

Anyway I was told about the cast cranks, and to be truthful, there was a
bit of an end play problem with the crank that necessitated trimming the
rear main bearing.  I didn't call CB re: that...should have though.  I'm
never going to rev past 5K anyway, so the extra money for the forged
unit or a Berg was a waste to me.

Just my limited experience...your mileage may vary.

Steve

PS:  Pictures of your AC setup would be great!!!
