Date: Wed, 24 Jul 2002 05:23:44 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] dim headlights/voltage ?'s (plus trip to canada)

>From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
>Date: Tue, 23 Jul 2002 07:25:41 -0400
>
>some suggestions included replacing the three prong headlight connector.
>[...] anyone know where to get a decent version of this thing?

It's possible to use three separate push-ons without the molded piece
that goes around all three.  You just have to be more careful when
you change a burned-out bulb - do one wire at a time so you don't get
things mixed up.  Also, these push-ons are wider than the standard
1/4" push-on.  If you're worried about the exposed terminals, wrap
them with electrical tape or heat shrink tubing.

If you want to really do it up, get the push-ons and some polyolefin
heat shrink tubing.  Polyolefin heat-shrink has a matte finish and
works; the other stuff has a shiny finish and doesn't.  Pull the
little plastic barrel off of the push on - you don't use it.  Cut
a one-inch piece of heatshrink that is about half again as big as
the wire, and slide it over the wire.  Crimp the wire into the
push-on really well, making a couple of crimps to get good contact
all along the barrel.  Now, get your soldering iron and solder the
connection you just crimped.  Make sure the heat-shrink tubing is
pushed several inches down the wire so it doesn't start to shrink
while you are soldering.  Let the joint cool for a while, then slide
the tubing up over the solder joint as far as it will go on the
push-on.  Use a heat gun or hair dryer to shrink that tubing down.
Now cut another 1" piece of bigger tubing - big enough to fit around
the end of the push-on.  Slide it over the push-on and shrink it
down - this insulates the terminal completely.  This is about the 
best connection a mortal can get, short of just soldering the
headlight wire to the lug on the sealed-beam.  You can make it a
little better with a ratcheting crimp tool if you have an extra $100
or so burning a hole in your pocket, but using a heavy hand on the
manual crimp tool works well.

>ps i am off on another trip-this time north to canada.

Cool.  Have fun!

Matt Roberds


