Date: Wed, 24 Jul 2002 07:43:10 -0600 (MDT)
From: jk <jkyte(-at-)unm.edu>
To: craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: Re: [VB] new engine plans

On Tue, 23 Jul 2002, craig k wrote:

> i'm looking for any comments you folks have on this plan; from  those who
> have done similar mods, to extra things to do while i'm burning cash (tho a
> lot of the berg stuff came in a stash i bought some time ago), cries of
> don't do it, etc. maybe someone runs stock jugs and ratio rockers and likes
> them better?
Hi Craig,
I'm running a similar set-up, but no lightened flywheel.  I have run a
lightened flywheel on my bus in a Berg engine, but I blew that up so no
comment until I tear the engine down.  I'm really happy with the 1679.
It's all balanced.  It's hard to get the Berg dipstick sender to come on.
I've run the thing across the Mojave going to OCTO and I have an external
oil cooler/fan, but never really the fan.  I was going fast too.
(for a bus- 70mph)  It doesn't climb hills like the Berg 2L but it runs
all day flat out an doesn't complain, it's very quiet.  I think you'll be
real happy with this engine.  My 1679 was in the 67 big nut/4.12 215 15
tires.  It's now in the 58 3.88 small nut trans 215/15 tires and matches
up to those both very well.  I think next time I might try 74 stroke and
aluminum case.


> have you built one of these aluminum cases up, and had problems?

No, I was talking to the local VWFLAPS (Foreign Aide) and their engine
builder doesn't like them because they require a lot of work by the
builder to get them right.  It's just that it is a pain to have to fix all
the stuff and slows the process down.  This is $ when building engines.
He said they have built about 15 engines using them and after fixing stuff
have had no problems with them. They do work, and are probably a good
deal.  They have some nice things about them.  If you are having Berg check it
out and get it set you should be fine.


where do
> you run your full-flow filter?

There is a hole on my bus right above the bumper mounts.  I put one bolt
in there, and drill another.  I tilt the filter assy. forward on the
bottom so the top edge of the filter mount is parallel to the ground
making the filter tilt at about 45 degrees.  This is right behind and
inside the rear tire.  I originally saw this on Ellis' RFH and thought the
filter should hang straight, but it's been fine for me.  I use K&N 3001
filter.  550psi burst and heavy can.  Also good media.  Do not use Fram if
you want to protect your engine.  I think Mobil and Amsoil make some good
filters also.  They are all in the $10 price range.  I also run 72 plate
cooler and fan right in front of the torsion housing.  You might be
concerned about the filter being hit with rocks from the tires.  I'm not.
These are heavy filters, my tires pick up some good size rocks and I often
go down a dirt/gravel/rock road for a couple blocks.  I've found a dent
once in the filter and it didn't hurt a thing.  The filter is mainly
inboard of the tire.  You could make a shield if you wanted.

John


