From: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: <andrew.stockton(-at-)sbcglobal.net>, "VW List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 26 Nov 2008 16:24:18 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Road Salt and Salt Spray on Roads

----- Original Message ----- 
From: "Andrew Stockton"
>   The new method of keeping the roads
> from freezing is to spray a salt solution snip Is the new method less
toxic that the old  sand and rock salt
> method as far as 1970's vehicles are concerned?
>

Andrew, I don't know if it is more toxic... I guess it depends on the
solution.
I have heard some places have tried beet juice mixed

I do know of a road that appears to have rusted! .. the stones in the road
are stained brown instead of the normal tarmac black - grey,, and it has
taken all summer for the tire tracks to come back to black... I have been
asking around the works yards to see if I can get the lowdown. it looks like
stone from high iron content quarry was used in the asphalt. and then the
brine oxidized it.... or.. they are spreading a mixture like beets ,, which
should be reddish brown..   I dunnu.. but the stains are along the road,,
and are coincident with county lines and appeared during the salt season
last year.

I talked to a Krown Rustproofing rep at a large truck show.  He had a
published article on the new damages to the fleet truck due to the way the
mistures are spread. body rusting.. brake lines,, etc
One thing his company couldn't provide rust protection for,, but he used to
demonstrage the new issues was a brake shoe. The thing was a mess.. and
turns out they claim the mixture on the roads wafts into the drums much
easier.. and gets between the shoe steel and the braking material... that
turns in to blisters in the steel.. which press up on the braking material
like a volcano.. and reduces the braking effect by reducing the surface area
in contact with the drum.

In another example,, the power company usually relies on the weather to
clean the insulators on the pole lines.... but recently some lines which are
near roads... mostly higher speed roads... are starting to arc over the
insulators and fail.  This has been attributed to the mixture that is spread
on the road misting more and quicker and the wind carrying that mist laden
with salt up onto the insulators.  Snow would usually act something like
sandpaper and wipe that build up from the insulators,, and the power company
didn't have to do any maintenance.
This brine mixture gets further ,, faster,, and clings

Earlier this year.. a member of another list I read reported having "salt"
stains on his bus... long before the winter season was supposed to be here!
.... but some other members knew the weather had been predicted to be black
ice or some snow accumilation to the west ... and therefore the cities had
gone out and coated the roads in preparation.

yuck!

I say.. use rustproofing oil.. and keep it washed...

Jamie
