From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>, "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 26 Nov 2008 19:44:20 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Injector Testing?

Eric & Jamie, Thank for the replies!

If you have been reading my posts about my bus trending to higher temps, I
think you might up those percentages . I have a set of injectors that I
already sent out and had rebuilt/cleaned. I would just like to get a look at
the spray patterns on the ones that are in the engine right now, before I send
them for cleaning/rebuilding.  I'm just waiting for a new set of seals from
bus depot before I swap the injectors.

I sent my currently in use set and my spare set to Cruisin Performance about 4
years ago to have them all rebuilt. The report they sent back showed them to
be greatly improved after they fixed them up. I think the ones in my bus right
now are just getting gummed up with fuel varnish because I don't drive the bus
enough. It may sit in my driveway for 3 to 4 weeks between outings sometimes.
I'm starting to wonder if I should be putting some Stabil or Seafoam in with
each fill up to keep them clean. I've used both products in my bikes with good
results.

I did a little test last winter when I stored one of my bikes with stabil in
the tank. Put about an ounce of gas in 3 small jars, put a dash of Stabil in
one jar, A dash of Seafoam in the next jar, and no additive in the 3rd jar.
Stored the jars with the bike for 4 months. When the bike and jars came out of
hibernation, the additive free jar had a jelly like substance on the bottom of
the jar, and the fuel didn't smell good at all. The other jars with additives
looked normal and smelled like gasoline should. So I guess those products work
well to preserve the fuel. The bike started right up on the first kick after
storage without having to rebuild the carb like the previous years
hibernation.
Tom
80 Westy
Bus-ted minds want to know
  ----- Original Message -----
  From: airic<mailto:airic1(-at-)comcast.net>

  80% chance they are 20% blocked,

  ----- Original Message -----
  From: Jamie<mailto:jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>

  I know what you're up against..  in my opinion,, if it comes down to - I
  dunno what the injectors are doing,, and they are suspect,, I take them
out,
  and have a rebuild shop "calibrate" them...

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of Emoticon3.gif]
