To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 26 Nov 2008 21:45:08 -0500
From: mbjeeper(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: type2 Digest 27 Nov 2008 02:00:01 -0000 Issue 9947

Date: Wed, 26 Nov 2008 16:24:18 -0500
To: <andrew.stockton(-at-)sbcglobal.net>, "VW List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Road Salt and Salt Spray on Roads
Message-ID: <002801c9500d$57cc3f10$d31b70cf(-at-)userc2v2j9xztq>

----- Original Message ----- 
From: "Andrew Stockton"
>   The new method of keeping the roads
> from freezing is to spray a salt solution snip Is the new method less
toxic that the old  sand and rock salt
> method as far as 1970's vehicles are concerned?
>

""Andrew, I don't know if it is more toxic... I guess it depends on the
solution.
I have heard some places have tried beet juice mixed  ""

Well, here's my input.
I work in a chemical plant here in the RUST belt that uses a brine solution that is extracted from deep wells as an ingredient in several basic chemicals (the same company that made probably all of your jalousie windows).We use the brine solution right from the pipes to spray on the roads and parking lots in the plant when there is snow and ice cover
.  It is murder on the vehicles.  We just rebuilt the rear of the tank truck that does the spraying on the roads this week.  After 2 winters of use the entire rear crossmember and platform where the spray nozzles were was rusted to the point of falling off.
Trucks and vans typically only last a few years before the wheelwells, rockers, and cab corners are completely shot.
Brake and fuel lines last less time than that.
So, my guess is that the brine solution will be be as hard or harder on vehicles than the old fashioned road salt, depending, of course, on the mix ratio.
I would LOVE to drive some of my aircooled VWs during the winter like I used to, but the road salt is just too destructive.  I can't find $100 dollar VWs around here anymore.  And whatever the salt misses, the cinders manage to destroy.  Cinders sandblast the wheelwells and rockers, then the salt has bare metal to attack. And cinders are really hard on the front paintwork and windshields, too.
 
I put too much work into repairing the rust to just go out and ruin everything again.  So, regretably, my Beetles and Buses (and my Mustang Fastback) stay in the garage until the spring rains have washed the salt and cinders into the ditches.  Bummer, really, but I guess if I want to keep the cars that's how it will have to be.
So here we are relegated to cheap, disposeable Japanese and Korean beaters that we can sacrifice to the salt with a clear concience.  The only unique vehicle that I am able to drive in the winter is my WW2 Willys army jeep.  I take it out when the roads are too bad for even the salt trucks to move!
Greg in WV
