From: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <busbarn(-at-)prodigy.net>
Date: Thu, 27 Nov 2008 16:29:02 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Woodstoves in your bus

----- Original Message ----- Rick Taylor wrote


> I have seen a couple of split window busses which used wood burning
> stoves for heat.  One bus was used for ice fishing and had holes cut
> in the floor and used lawn chairs for the front seats.  A nice wood
> burning stove sat behind the drivers seat.  That was a really cool
> bus, even had a pull starter on the engine in case of battery or
> starter problems.

Hi Rick
I have seen that camper too! .. it is really Cool! [as you said].... some
folks jump to conclusions that some weird guy is involved,, but in fact
there is a plenty of good thinking !
The front seats are actually hand built ,, they look like lawn chairs as
that is the webbing he used.. but they are structural sound stainless steel
tubing .

The wood stove is a thing of beauty! .. he made it  fit a regular size stick
of wood.. and didn't want to fuss with kindling.. so he made a ring that
looks like a coleman stove element .. runs on gas.. so he pumps up the
reservoir. turns on the gas.. tosses in a match.. and then inserts his first
"log".. once it is going.. he turns off that gas ring.

That worked soo well.. he made another gas "burner" so he didn't have to
fire up the wood stove when he was summer camping. It is designed to flip
out of the way in the winter,, He can cook the beans right on that gas
burner on top of the wood stove.

He put a glass pane in the door to enjoy the light flicker of the flame,,
and modified the door to accept a hot dog holder ! He puts the weiner on the
stick,, slides it into the holder,, and closes the door .. he can spin the
handle to ensure it gets toasted all around....

the chimney is telescopic.. mostly to keep it above the snow line.. as he
has pictures of FEET of snow on top of the bus during one of his vacations
on the ice ,, being on the ice for 3 weeks at a time gives you a few hours
to think of what to add, change for next season!   He really loves ice
fishing!  Wisconsin gets bloody cold!

I am from Ontario Canada.. and it only gets Stone Cold here!  lol

Jamie Rivers
