Date: Mon, 01 Dec 2008 16:16:52 -0600
From: Chris <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: mbjeeper(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: type2 Digest 27 Nov 2008 02:00:01 -0000 Issue 9947

Are there any alternatives to the salt? I grew up in Chattanooga where 
salt was not used in the 70s and 80s. We used sand. It worked okay. Some 
folks had chains and some folks had studded tires I think back then. 
Usually these were folks who kept an old truck or Scout or Wagoneer 
around for bad winter weather. They had them sitting in a garage all 
suited up for winter use. We got about 3-4 good snows back then that 
would keep alot of folks home for a day or so. If you lived way out on 
the end of the power line like we did there might be a week without 
power b/c the icy trees would down a power line in 8-9 places and the 
crews might not get to fix them for a few days. We kids would play 
outside all we could stand and then come in to warm up next to the fire, 
play with our toys, etc.

Now all these towns brine the roads anytime something MIGHT happen. The 
state government is having serious budget problems and complaining they 
might not be able to salt the roads. Good! Our cars will last longer. 
It's that indirect cost that hurts. For the folks who buy a new car 
every 3-4 years no big deal. The rust sets in after they have sold it 
off. For folks like us who drive old cars even part time in the winter, 
the salt is murder.

What are the other methods used in the snowy parts of the country (or 
world)?

I am satisfied with staying home a day or driving very carefully like we 
did when I was a kid. Plenty of 4WD vehicles out there now that should 
not NEED the salt.

FWIW I drove our bus for three winters after we bought it and it 
immigrated from New Mexico. I've got rust in the front wheel wells at 
the front of the rocker (only), bubbles at the end of the frame rail on 
the back end and the front seat belt bolt plates near the front doors 
will have to be cut out soon and replaced. The plate is okay but the 
steel that it is tack welded to is ruined. Already have fixed the front 
and rear window sills. Not sure that this had anything to do with salt 
though.

These days I don't even want to drive our "disposable" vehicles on salty 
roads. These are the average daily drivers that we don't intend to keep 
past 250K miles.

Chris in Cookeville, TN
'78 VW Westy
