Date: Mon, 1 Dec 2008 17:56:55 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Road Salt, was: Re: [T2] Re: type2 Digest 27 Nov 2008

Some random thoughts,
 
This is an interesting bit.  In AK as I've found out of course (but wouldn't
have expected otherwise) absolutely no salting.  Rarely do they even sand. 
Everyone runs real snow tires, often microsiped versions that accept studs as
well.  Studless are still considered a bit idiotic by most, have made some
inroads, but I bet it is 60/40 studded vs studdless.  We are running one set
of each on out cars.  Everyone is expected to actually know how to drive of
course, but still insureance premiums are dear, about twice what even
ludicrous insureance crazy WV had.
 
The salt issue was closer to me in WV for busses as of course, the state
salted heavily to no apparent avail, except for destroying cars and
infrastructure.  Perhaps the latter to assure state highway jobs was the real
reason.  Same for PA, OH even worse, even finding a rust free Vanagon in OH 10
years ago was tough.  In WV comincally, the famed New River Gorge bridge being
made from pre-rusted but very sensitive to salt, Core-Ten steel must have salt
trucks stop salting a mile in advance less it dissapear into the gorge some
day.  Our next door neighbor and ex engineer for the state asserted that this
wasn't exactly as planned or intended, who knows.  Another bit, my best friend
in college was from ND (they plow, no salt) and was driving a very neat car, a
Dodge Challenger from the late 70's, by this time a grand old name applied to
a Mitsubishi captive import (Plymoth Sapporo was same as well.)  I think the
car was a '78 and it was a
 technological wonder (really.)  Now this was in '89 or so and I had never
seen one in WV.  The reason became apparent, although the car was spot free,
absolutely new in appearance after 10+ years in ND, after one WV winter it was
ugly, after 3 it was rusting away.
 
The issue of actually having beureaucratic idiots stop water softener use is
beyond moronic, don't they get it that eventually the water will find its way
back to the sea???
 
Finally for a good read, get "Salt" the book volks, a fascinating tale of
world history through salt.  Truely an interesting technical and historical
read.
 
John
 
George wrote:
 
>Back in "the day" they didn't even plow the roads over the Sierra.
>They just sanded them so folks were driving on a couple of feet of ice and
>sand!
