From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 12 Jul 2002 21:49:33 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Spray-in Bed Liners

> Jan,
>
> I'm curious why you wouldn't fill in the floor.  That was one of my
> primary intentions to avoid the use of plywood or something that might
> get wet a rot.  I would think the Rhino-liner would seal and protect the
> floor and give some cushion.
>
I don't think that this material (Rhino-liner) is designed to fill or build
up that high with. It's designed only to make a uniform coating, so far as I
know. If it doesn't cure completely and just makes a skin, you're going to
have a mess on your hands.
There must be some material that would do what you want to do, but I doubt
that this is it. I think that this Rhino-Liner is a sort of synthetic rubber
product, designed to stay flexible and resilient. As such, it may, as I
suggested, only make a skin and never fully cure underneath.. or when it
does it may crack and pull in.
Also, personally, I prefer to keep things as original as possible.. which
doesn't mean that there are some super modifications or some good reasons to
make them... a lot of those would be personal.
If you are really sure that you want to fill these spaces in, there may be a
much more appropriate material. With so many materials out there, I would
take my time and put some research into it.
I will tell you this much.. I had a really crummy, rotten old Sundial
conversion that I bought from a surfer for $600 many years ago. It was
transportation, and that's all. I never put anything into the body.. just to
keep it running. It was in poor condition when I got it, and by the time
some idiot sideswiped it on the curb, it was pretty much a dilapidated
rustbucket. Too much colateral damage.. time to say "goodbye".
We proceeded to strip it, and in so doing, I realized (for the first time)
that this was a Sundial camper once, and that the thick plywood floor had
not been put there to fortify a rusty floor (as I had supposed), but to form
the base for the camper interior. That plywood floor was in real good shape.
I was surprised, because this bus was leaky and had a poor quality sunroof
installed.
By the way, I have come to believe that about the best money you can put
into your bus is to at least make sure you always have good door seals..
That's how the water gets in (follows the gutter and down the door frame)
and that's how the front floor rots out. But you really shouldn't get much
water or rust on the main section of the floor..if the door seals are bad,
maybe.
There is some other stuff.. white stuff... that the RV'ers put on the roofs
of their rig. It's a modified rubber of some sort, and it's supposed to
stick real well to almost anything with a simple cleaning. It also cures
well and lasts a long time, like 15 years, even in direct sun. It cures well
and sort of tightens up as it does. It has good elastic properties. You can
use it with an open cloth tape to fix bad spots. You can get all this at the
home building centers. I think that this would compare very well with
Rhino-Liner, and it may be cheaper if you are concerned with cost. 5 gals
should cost about $100 and should do three or four buses.
I just don't think I would try to fill in that floor.. It's not going to
accomplish anything that I can see, and it may cause some problems. If you
do this, I would consider to lay in some 1/2" electrical conduit sections,
cut to length, and randomly spaced, to serve as possible tracts for future
speaker wiring or? I would stabilize or pad those at intervals so that you
don't get any rattles, and just lay my plywood over that, then your carpet
or whatever.
But as they say, there no "just one way". I'm sure you'll find out what
suits you, then you can tell us all about it.  Jan B


