Date: Sat, 28 Jan 2006 15:20:06 +0100
From: Erik Meltzer <ermel(-at-)ermel.org>
To: Type2 Mailing List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] wanted: watercooled replacement engine for 1973 Bus

Hi Volks!

Timo in Hawaii wrote:
> Rabbit diesel could be made to work. As the others have said, it's not
> that easy and takes time and money to implement. Probably not going to
> do much for the resale value either. 

The conversion to a Rabbit (or rather, Vanagon) inline four
Diesel is not exactly commonplace here in Germany, but it's
well proven and has been done dozens of times.  Trouble is,
you need lots of parts from a Diesel Vanagon.  Its engine is
mounted not standing upright like in the passenger cars, but
tilted to the side quite severely.  This necessitates a 
different oil pan and lots of other engine peripherals.

There are two ways to go for transmission: a), keep the Bay
tranny and mate it with a Diesel Vanagon bellhousing (is
that the word?), or b) use the Vanagon tranny (five speed,
yummy) and fabricate new shift linkage.  The latter method
involves hacking in a place to mount the Vanagon gear shifter.
NOT pretty!  But you need to hack some tin in the engine bay
anyway, so going back to aircooled is not an easy option.

The radiators are usually tucked away at the sides of the
engine compartment, and fitted with huge ventilators to make
up for the loss of airflow that normally comes from the 
movement of the bus.  This works well.

What's it cost?  Well, one who did this put it this way:
if you have the Bay and an operational Diesel Vanagon parts
bus on two car lifts side by side, it'll take about a week
of labour and a couple hundred Euros worth of parts.

I know several such Bays and their drivers personally.  They
all clock up lots of miles a year (which was the reason for
the conversion), and they all get great gas mileage: between
45 mpg (1600cc non-turbo in a camper, driven like a camper)
and 22 mpg (1900cc turbo intercooler in a workhorse half-panel
highroof, driven like there's no tomorrow with another Bus on 
a trailer behind it).  And most of them use cooking oil for
fuel.

> Bay window buses powered by diesel engines were available
> to the European market, 

That is not true.  Diesel buses first hit the market in 1982
here, which of course were Vanagons.

Airhowlingly yours,
   Erik.
-- 
"It's just me face."
        -- Ringo Starr on why he always looks so sad
