Date: Wed, 5 Dec 2012 11:50:17 -0500 (EST)
From: David Raistrick <keen(-at-)icantclick.org>
To: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: water in air swaps

On Wed, 5 Dec 2012, John Kolak wrote:

> That's right. I forgot diesels are smog exempt. Thanks for sharing the
> 2 threads. TDI looks like an interesting conversion. Do you have an
> estimate on the cost? I was also wondering if 2 half-size radiators
> could be placed on each side in the stock intake air flow from the ear
> muffs.

Going back many years to when John A and I used to talk about doing TDI 
(and TD) swaps before they were cool (oh the good old days of 
irc.type2.com), that was the solution I proposed - and I've mentioned it 
many times over the years in other discussions...

You need to make sure you seperate the ear airflow (cold side) from the 
fan air flow (hot side), so the two can't mix.  you'll need to figure out 
adequate fans - you'll be fully dependant on fans to pull your air, since 
bus air intakes don't have a natural air flow.   you'll want to duct the 
hot side of the rads to the fans to make sure you get efficiant pull.

as far as the rads themselves - custom built rads aren't that pricey any 
more.  so might be easier to figure out the cooling capacity requirements 
and get a pair built to fit.


More and more waterpumper conversions are being done these days... the 
other reasonabily successful radiation position seems to be under the 
floor, between the frame rails, mid bus.   but it complicates bleeding, at 
the very least.   others are putting the rad in the decklid - pusher bus 
style. yuck.

Of note, though - Raby is now doing subaru conversion on late bays - and 
he's using the 2 rads in the ear airflow method.   He's not sharing 
detailed pics, but I do know his rads are custom spec...



--
         David Raistrick    http://www.netmeister.org/news/learn2quote.html
keen(-at-)icantclick.org             ascii ribbon campaign - stop html mail
                                      http://www.asciiribbon.org/
