Date: Sun, 9 Dec 2012 18:35:12 -0800 (PST)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Max Bronsema <max.bronsema(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Squeaky front wheel

Three kinds of noise from the front of 2-wd vehicles.  Squeaks come from
brakes, rumbles come from bearings, rattles come from suspension parts. 
Simplified, but good enough.  You describe a classic, repeating, squeak. 
Something that happens every time a wheel rotates. eeee....eeee.....eee.  
Does it repeat faster as you drive faster? High pitched sounds are un-dampened
by other substances. i.e. transmitted through air only .

 I have had an unusual case where the full size trim rings on my Tercel
squeaked where the retaining clips rubbed on the wheel rims.  Only happened at
very slow speeds.  Solved by removing the trim rings but some brake lube would
have solved the issue.  Sold the car at 275K; still have the rings!!!


The brakes heat up just by doing their work.  It's rare that you drive for a
long time with no brake applications.  Even if you do, the pads don't pull off
the discs perfectly.  Especially with old calipers.  So, there is always heat
in the pad and caliper to some degree.  The friction material is designed so
that brakes actually works better as it heats up; until enough heat is
transfered to the brake fluid that the fluid boils. Another topic, ditto
carbon-ceramic brakes. So as the pad drags a little it is actually getting
better friction.  They're probably squeaking a bit when you first start out. 
Just not as much and at a different, less noticeable, frequency.

What happens with the brakes is a tiny vibration sets in and makes the squeak,
a high frequency chatter feeds into the structure.  The lube allows the parts
to move without friction and feeding the energy  into the structure  The
shims, which are thin, springy, AND seem to be the producers of most of the
sound, also get dampened by the lube (or dampening) material, and that dulls
the noise below irritating frequencies and sound level.

A brake job is a good beginner project.  As you commune with your van, you
should start doing them.  Parts are cheap and there is plenty of help on the
list/web.  Good to keep an eye on the brakes.  I check my pads/shoes every
time I change my tires over on my DD, and at least once a year for other
rigs.  I have a lot of road miles and know by now that I'm easy on brakes and
clutches, other folks may need to check more often. 

Brake fluid is hygroscopic (absorbs water) should be changed every two years. 
If you bleed clean fluid through you will greatly reduce hydraulic part
(calipers, cylinders) deterioration due to rust.  $5 of fluid every two years
is much cheaper than $300+ of new parts.

More than you wanted to know. jon

"Your present circumstances don't determine where you can go; they merely
determine where you start." Nido Qubein

Hi Jon,

Thanks for the quick response. You seem fairly certain the ee--ee--ee sound
has something to do with the brakes. If something does not have the right
lubrication it would begin to squeal after it warms up. Is that the logic?

Thanks again,

Max
