From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'david meade'" <meade.david7(-at-)gmail.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 10 Dec 2012 14:03:10 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] Gas Heater & Sean Bartnik

Hi David,

 

I don't know much about the heaters-I have heard great things about the
propex heaters. I know the  stock heat can be a bit lacking. With my stock
heat in my '65, I could keep the front cab area warm(by shutting the
curtains behind the front seats) down to the high 30's. If the temp gets any
lower, the stock heat doesn't do much. 

 

The gas heater I'm working on supposedly puts out 20,000 BTU's, I've heard
it can keep the bus toasty (think t-shirt weather) down to really cold temps
(ie below freezing). I am looking forward to that!

 

One major thing to be aware of-check all your door seals, window seals etc.I
installed all new insulation in my bus, and replaced all the seals, and it
is much tighter bus now. It you have drafty doors or windows there is
probably no way to heat your bus.

 

Now a Westy heater is a whole nother package-which I have not heard much
about, I would check to see if you can use these while driving, I think
there is some issue with some of the heaters-as far as using them while
driving. 

 

One last question - is ugly the name of your bus, or it's condition?

 

-Kevin Guarnotta

Jamaica Plain, MA

 

'69 Singlecab

'65 Ez-camper

 

From: david meade [mailto:meade.david7(-at-)gmail.com] 
Subject: RE: [T2] Gas Heater & Sean Bartnik

 

Kevin 
It was Sean i suppose, im starting to build my 77 bay and the po stripped a
lot of things he shouldnt have.I have no duct work anywhere on the motor,
the fan is still there, butt not connected to anything. Just pulled the
motor(t4)
not sure about it yet except it has a terrible oil leak in the oil filter
area.
I suppose my question about the heat is -- would it be easier to source out
some westy heater parts or go with propex( i think thats the name of it) it
looks way easier but its a little pricy, it gets cold here in the Tn. valley
so im trying to get the beat heat i can.

David Meade
Tennessee 77 bay  ( ugly )
