From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 14 Dec 2012 20:46:48 -0500
Subject: Gas Heater & what I did to my bus these past few weeks...

Well, just to update you guys on my last few questions-I apologize for the
long post, but Ive been busythanks to all your input, and old archive
posts



I got the gas heater working with a 12V to 6V adaptor from e-bay. It was a
bit pricey, but it was rated for 100 watts, so it should cover my heater. I
hung the adaptor from the top of the engine compartment with some zip-ties,
and a small piece of foam between it and the metal, or prevent it from
scratching the engine compartment. I fabricated a small piece of metal duct
with some aluminum flashing I had lying around my shop, to connect the
heater to the rectangular duct that goes through the firewall. It was kind
of fun trying to make that piece. I taped all the seams with some good
quality metal tape. I am quite proud of that connector piece. Way better
than the original rubber piece that disintegrated.



This thing seems to crank some good heat, I am actually looking forward to a
really cold day, to see what it can do-but driving around now with the temp
in the 30s, I was warm.  Ive still got to fabricate a piece for the spot
between the rectangular duct into the cabin.  Right now it is just blowing
the air under the rear seat. I found a local sheet metal guy that can
fabricate a small piece to connect these two thing-but Ive got to draw it
up for him. I can try to figure something out based on the photos David
pointed me to. I would like to install some sort of diffuser on the end of
the duct work similar to this -
http://www.nostalgicairparts.com/air-conditioning/2-5-inch-pro-series-round-
vent-426.php I want to be able to close this diffuser, as this is basically
an air tunnel into the engine compartment-which helps transmit noise into
the interior of my bus.



For my test drive today, I was driving with the rear seat removed-but I want
to put that seat back in there, because it is my dogs favorite seat.
Regardless, my bus is now toasty warm!



I had also been working on the cleaning and painting the middle section
under my bus. I was unable to reach this section last time when I was
painting the underside. I got it this time-and discovered the main metal
duct that transfers the heat to the front was pretty much rusted out on the
ends. I took this out, and got a piece of 2 = exhaust tube from a local
muffler shop. They were very nice, it was an easy piece for them to sell (a
little over 4 long). Pretty cheap, heavy wall pipe. Fits nicely. Only about
$25.  The simple thing to do is to slide it in place, and then seal the
ends. I will need to paint this piece, then figure out a way to insulate it.
Maybe I can use the original insulation, which is in pretty decent shape.
Maybe Ill use that ayr-foil , silvery bubble wrap stuffany suggestions on
insulating this pipe?



I am tempted to install a muffler on this section of pipe, again to reduce
engine noise. I know when I turn my heat on, I can definitely hear it
through this pipe. I found a short piece of straight muffler, that would do
the trick, but Ill need to get some couplings for it, as it is the same
diameter as the exhaust tube I bought. At this point I dont know if it is
worth it. Then again the muffler is a glas-pak type muffler. So that glas
pak stuff should actually be a great insulator for the duct. Im just not
sure if that is ok to use for air that you breathe. Anyone know, or anyone
else try this. The only repairs I see to this online are with PVC, which I
definitely dont want to use.



That is the end of my update right now. Next project is to find a way to
secure a baby seat, so I can take the whole family. I had been putting him
in the front, but his new car seat no longer fits there. Ive got a bunch of
different products to try to figure something out.





-Kevin Guarnotta

Jamaica Plain, MA



'69 Singlecab

'65 Ez-camper
