From: "Craig Ayres-Sevier" <n7cas(-at-)gbis.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 2 Nov 2001 16:59:38 -0800
Subject: The value of this list


As time... marches... on... (I hate that phrase), I notice, more and more,
how less and less there is which defines the number of qualified vintage bus
mechanics at a given locale for those of us who love the bus but need a
professional for those unseemly occasions where said bus pilot has exhausted
all his/her clues.

More and more, it's becoming a a field, mechanically -- where, if one is
only a devotee of the thing and not omniscient as to every aspect of its
maintenance or repair -- then one is S O L., and an otherwise salvageable
bus joins its untold brethren in a scrap heap of nasty, lifeless corpses by
virtue of it being, vis a vis today, an alien, simpler technology.

I have always, always endeavored, at great  and
I-don't-care-if-I'm-late-on-rent expense, for the opposite.

Maintenance, no problem. This is what "cars" usta be: change the oil (now,
there's businesses making money doing something that should be a criminal
offense, that exploitation).

But for things I couldn't handle, though, I used to take said Trusty Bus
with hefty confidence in their assistance to one particular shop. When the
owner retired -a marvelous man, a gregarious, coincidentally German native
who loved the bus and resolving the more intricate problems  --things slid
slowly into absolute, black oblivion.

Others tried to pick up the slack in the overall cognizance of the VW Bus
deal, but, generationally, it's no longer "no one has clue." No, that was
perversely consoling. Now,  it's "no one has the question."

Now (at least in my locale)?, you can bring a reasonably well-maintainted
bus to the same place(s), and it's
"your business in not wanted" -- and, this is the rub,  if it is, they can't
perform most of the tasks that require someone else performing them.

You can wave cash in their face, and they'll take it...but your bus will
still leave the place with the problem unresolved.

I  would prefer to not imagine the world on the road through anything but a
set of dual windows. I drive a lot, and I love that view. I can hear when
the engine doesn't sound right thankyouverymuch, but I can't hear that the
problem's been fixed when it has not.

But now my bus is dieing big time, everything failing, everything failing
like a cascade.

I acquired this poor thing in hopes of rescuing it; I can do basic
maintenance but I cannot do major repairs. Now even the basics are of no
avail. Petitioning a local shop -- which advertises as itself as being VW
Bus >specific< -- only gives , and I am not kidding, a worse-running bus
than when I bought it and tuned it up myself-- except now their handiwork
leaves it dieing at stoplights and a drastic drop in engine compression. I
know because I note the comrpesssion figures every morning during warm-up.
Like, in a note book.

And their NAME is VW Buses.

(Although this cool guy who worked there, doesn't.)

The value of this list, despite its meanderings (which is VW in itself), is,
that here we have one source where a person in this predicament (say, me),
doesn't feel adrift in the corporate chorus of just buying a 2002 Ford
Excursion.

Craig Ayres-Sevier, N7CAS
n7cas(-at-)gbis.com

