Date: Fri, 2 Nov 2001 21:37:56 -0800 (PST)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: Richard Palmer <rapalmer(-at-)unity.ncsu.edu>
Subject: Re: [VB] Gas smell after driving



Richard,

My bus (67) used to do this too. It seemed to only do it when I filled the
tank to the brim, then parked it on a typical dished street at the
curb. Apparently gas will leak out of the filler cap area, and somehow, in
a way that i never figured out, the fumes enter the interior, and gag the
driver. I stopped filling it all the way to the top of the filler tube,
and I avoid parking on slanted roads which allow gas to spill out, and it
has ceased occurring. If I have a 3/4 or more filled tank, I'll back the
right rear tire onto the curb to level the rear of the bus to prevent the
smell, if necessary. Never have figured out why this occurs, but
it happened on my 64 also. I just don't over fill the tank anymore. I also
don't fill the tank too full unless I am in the midst of traveling longer
distance, so the gas won't spill out. 

cal
67 deluxe, just drove 4400 miles, from San Francisco to New York. 



On Fri, 2 Nov 2001, Richard Palmer wrote:

>  I'm sending this to both lists because I have a late model gas tank (~71)in my '67 camper. When I rebuilt the bus 5 years ago, I had the tank professionally boiled out and recoated by a radiator shop.
> The problem is that I've noticed after driving for a while, like more than 5 minutes, after parking, the bus starts to smell like gas inside the bus. Engine compartment smells fine, but somehow vapors are getting the bus, and it's driving me crazy. I have checked all the fuel lines from the tank to the carb, and everything seems fine, newer lines, rubber in good shape, and not leaking, I can't find any leaks anywhere.
> I have noticed that when I stop, I can open the gas cap, and it makes that whooshing sound of de-pressurizing. 
> This first happened a couple weeks ago, when I filled up with gas right before going up some very bumpy roads. I thought something might have spilled out, but why would it smell inside the bus and not in the engine compartment?
> Argh! Any advice/hints/leads will be greatly appreciated, as this is giving me a headache, in more ways than one.

