Date: Mon, 22 Apr 2002 22:21:20 -0400
To: BayBusses <type2(-at-)lenti.type2.com>,Splitties <vintagebus(-at-)lenti.type2.com>
From: Mad Uncle Dave <MadUncleDave(-at-)charter.net>
Subject: EB02

Just when I thought it couldn't be bettered, Chris came up with the new and 
improved Everybus.  I took Friday off just so we could get there and have 
time to set up and get relaxed and watch the buses roll in.  Glad we did that.

Maybe I better put it in Reverse first.  We left the Kermarosa about 8:30 
with an ice stop on the way.  The route was simple, out 18 to 421 to Hagen 
Stone Park Rd.  Instead of 2 buses, we took the reliable Tinkertoy and the 
Fordbus single cab for the usual overflow of stuff that absolutely 
positively can't be done without on a 3 day camping trip.  The Award 
Winning Burrito Express has a flat exhaust lobe on #2/4 so it minded the 
farm while we were gone.  The trip down was just fine, running at whatever 
speed 180 degrees on the oil temp gauge meant.

The reality was it meant I had a lot of pissed off people in a hurry behind 
me but I don't care about their problems.  I waved back with ALL my fingers.

Got to the park about 10:30, rolled up to the Full Moon Bus Club private 
reservation and spa.  Found a nifty spot out of the way, unloaded the 
Fordbus single cab and hid it behind someone else' site.  Hooked up with 
Chris for the side tent he's held on to forever until we could meet (Thanks 
#2 Chris) and to pay for our luxury accommodations.  Put up the side tent 
with no unkind words spoken and set up camp.  The side tent sure was nice 
when the rain came down, we sat inside and stayed dry just like the poor 
rich folks do.

Watched buses roll in, met old and new friends, renewed acquaintances,  and 
walked around some more.  Drooled on Kelley's (Metwiz) 59 Binz.  Talked 
about all manner of things both great and small.  High 5'd the members of 
the acclaimed Tennessee Mechanized as they rolled in.  Made Turkey stew for 
anyone that wanted some.

Saturday Morning - Burrito Time!!.  Those of you who have yet to try the 
gastronomic delicacy known as the Full Moon Bus Club Breakfast Burrito are 
living sheltered and deprived lives.  This year I learned to make my own 
Chouriso so i wouldn't have to try and hunt it down in a 
store.  Mmmmmm.  The cooks cooked, the eaters ate, and we cleaned up the 
mess afterwards.  The rest of the day was spent again with old and new 
friends.  Then came the moment all were waiting for (no, not the door prize).

Chili cookoff!.  The competition was fierce.  The contestants snarled and 
poked at each other with cooking implements.  The esteemed international 
panel of judges (1 Canadian) tasted.  We got Doc Ric and Chris to sing 
while they served the judges.  I had to 'Uneat" a chili that had an 
ingredient that I have an allergy to.  (That chili won the meat 
category).   The winners won free membership in the Full Moon Bus Club, 
mostly because I forgot to buy the Beano I usually give as prizes.  If you 
winners are reading this, please p-mail me because I lost the paper with 
your info on it.

The restless crowd ate the chili then the door prizes and stuff went 
out.  Chris did a fantastic job as host (Thanks #3), Meredeth and Debbis 
won $277 in the 50/50 raffle.  Then the band started.  If you've not been 
to Everybus, you may not know that there's a Bluegrass band that practises 
at the park Saturday nights.  I won;t go through the setlists, but you 
haven't lived until you see a nice little old lady that could well be your 
Mom playing Friend of the Devil on Dobro.

Up until about 2 or 3am playing guitar and visiting.

I hate Sundays at campouts.  Even when the Canadians serve pancake 
breakfast.  That's because I have to leave aver 300 of my closest friends 
and return to the real world.  The last bit of excitement was when Derek 
dropped his Nissanbus doublecab while he was changing a flat tire.  Instead 
of trying to get a jack under it, we just got 6 beefy guys to pick up the 
truck while the lovely and talented Crazy Auntie Sherry put a jackstand 
underneath it.  After all that excitement I forgot the chain mail I was 
working on on a picnic table and left it there when we departed to carabus 
with the Tennessee Mechanized through uncharted parts of Greensboro.

John Erikson rescued my Chain Mail and has snailmailed it back to me.

Thanks to Chris for another terrible campout, thanks to my select panel of 
chili judges and to all those who tried to bribe me to win the competition, 
big thanks to the Full Moon Bus Club for the Burrito breakfast.  Many 
thanks to the Canadians for pancake breakfast with real maple syrup!  Most 
of all, thanks to everyone that came to help make it the biggest and best 
Everybus yet.

And ye think he was mad BEFORE the Normans raided...

