Date: Mon, 22 Apr 2002 22:43:12 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] towing question

At 07:29 PM 4/22/02 -0700, you wrote:
>This thread can become like religion with people weighing in on both sides.
>Myself, I've pulled three buses by dolly this year, fresno to Van Is, Oregon
>to Van Is, and from Hope to Van Is. One thing I've found is a dolly pushes
>you and your brakes less than a trailer. Easy to see why,a dolly weighs a
>fraction of the weight of a trailer and a good part of the weight of the
>towed bus is on the ground. One thing I have to worry about that most people
>dont is ferry cost, a dolly is shorter and a whole bunch cheaper to cross
>with. That said, check your load and check your trans fluid and be carefull
>of your downhills and you should be fine.BTW anybody remember the original
>UHaul tow bars that clamped to the bumper, now those were scary!!

I've towed a number of buses with 4 on the ground and tow bars, but to tow
my EVC back I bought a very nice super heavy duty commercial tow dolly
with brakes.  I'll never ever tow with a tow bar again.  It is incredible,
I like
it better than a full trailer even one with brakes.  And the hydraulic surge
brakes are beyond wonderful.  The '93 (4400lb) braked better with the 5800
pound EVC in tow than it did without a load, and I had to make one panic
(idiot pulled out in front of me) stop.  I've towed one bus about 300 miles
on it and some other cars and it is like they aren't even there.  The only
down side of mine is that it is a full 8.5' wide on the outside and can be
a real bear to handle in town.  The other MAJOR MAJOR thing about it
compared to a trailer is YOU CAN'T BACK UP.  So you have to really
plan ahead.  I understand that if you get really good with them you can
learn to reverse short distances completely straight but steering and
reversing doesn't happen as you got two pivot points.

FWIW if anyone around WV ever needs to borrow it within reason I'll
consider it with some way to hold against it's value.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu


