Date: Tue, 23 Apr 2002 09:53:17 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: "R. Morehouse" <marty(-at-)jackpine.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] battery/city power?

The receptacle under the seat is separate from the power supply under the 
back seat for the fridge.

The power comes into the bus and is sent to the circuit breaker and then to 
both the outlets and the power supply - one does not affect the other.

Sounds to me like the 120v to 12v power supply has gone bad.

I would check the fuse for the fridge in the panel above the fridge. Check 
the pwoer supply to see if it is putting out 12 volts. Bet it isn't.

My power supply went out and I replaced it with an Exide brand 12 volt 
battery charger that I find more useful because rather than rely on the 
Westfalia timer to cut the power supply off when the aux battery is charged 
- this battery charger will automatically adjust to the battery's needs and 
other load that I might want to power. It fits in the same location as the 
original power supply.

The original power supply put out a constant power apparently - was not 
automatically adjusting for the needs of the load and battery. That could 
overcharge the battery and thus the reason for the time on the wall above 
the fridge. This system required you to check the battery charge every hour 
when you wound up the timer again.

Hey - there is an idea - does your timer work? Is the power supply coming 
on when you set the timer to charge the battery?

Let us know what you find out.



At 11:17 PM 4/22/02 -0400, you wrote:
>I took Elvis out for 'our' shakedown camping cruise this past weekend and 
>had a little problem with the city power (I think). The fridge would work 
>when on battery power but would not on city power. However, the receptacle 
>below the rear seat did work fine as I ran a portable electric heater all 
>night long. Kind of a bummer to not be able to use the fridge though. I 
>put a new auxilliary battery in before I left and I was wondering if maybe 
>I did something wrong? Another thing, how do I fill the water tank? Is it 
>through that pvc thing next to the sink or do I hook a hose up to the outside?
>Thanks,
>Richard
>'78 Westy Deluxe "Elvis"

Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


