Date: Tue, 23 Apr 2002 08:23:43 -0700
To: "David Bell" <bellky(-at-)charter.net>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Rap on distributors, and all your other posts

At 08:18 PM 04/22/2002, you wrote:

>One small question: In the absence of more sophisticated methods, how
>reliable do you consider the color of a spark plug tip to be as a guage of
>fuel mixture? I've got NGK's showing light tan after 2000 miles in an 1800,
>T-IV, Weber progressive, Bosch SVDA.

Reading plugs is basic engine inspection procedure. Very quickly you know 
if your mixture is off, or any one of a number of other defects. Blackness 
on all 4 is too rich. Blackness on one is a poor injector spray or other 
problem in that one cylinder. Oily plugs is worn valves/guides and/or 
piston oil control ring/cyl issue. In 10 minutes or less it gives you 
empirical evidence of actual running condition. All Haynes manuals have two 
pages showing examples of plugs in good to bad condition and the causes. 
Have a look at any at your local library. Buy one for your T-II as a fine 
augmentation to the Bentley.

Lots of people swear by NGK's. I have no experience with them except 
replacing them with Bosch. When stock is readily available at low cost, why 
do anything else?? I have serviced thousands of plugs in every Euro mark 
you can name. The only problem I've seen was with Bosch was with Platinums 
in a big 6 BMW. The platinum electrodes wanted to creep out of the 
insulators. Against advise, he had to have the Platinums. Stock in this 
case is a Silver Bosch specifically designed for that engine. They cost 3 
times as much as Supers and twice as much as Platinum, and they are the 
only plugs that will give 20k miles with no problems every time without 
experimenting.

I recall one of these Bimmers coming in running very ragged. They'd just 
done a "tune-up". I removed the brand new Champions, put in the stock 
Silvers, did the various checks and adjustments. Result, "Gee, I hasn't run 
this good since we got it!". All I did was verify STOCK equipment and 
settings. This is not wizdom. It's bone-head simple. Follow instruction 
given by those who know the most about the design, the ones who designed 
it, if you want the type of trouble free results and long life they 
intended the machine to have. In many many ways, their expectations were 
much higher than yours.


