Date: Tue, 23 Apr 2002 11:07:59 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: pacbell <mkullman(-at-)pacbell.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] re:Missing engine parts

Get out your Bentley book and look up the cooling system. Careful study of 
the diagrams will show what is missing on these engines.

The engine fan sends air into the heater boxes. The electric fan in the top 
of the engine compartment sends air to the heater boxes too when the right 
heater lever on the dash is all the way down. It blows harder than the 
engine cooling fan when in town and the when the engine is at low speeds. 
There are small metal flappers in the base of the type IV fan housing. They 
are pushed closed by the air pressure of the electric blower. When a 
certain rpm is reached the engine blower pushes two little plastic flappers 
shut in the electric blower and it is now no longer useful (but not hurting 
anything). Without these flapper intact and functioning your heater system 
will be poor in the winter. Without the flappers in the heater blower the 
air that was intended to blow through the heater will back flow up the 
tubes from the heater boxes and out through the electric blower. Without 
the tubes between the electric blower and the heater boxes the air just 
leaks out all over. Now your not making heat for the cabin and in the 
summer when you don't want heat for the cabin you are loosing cooling air 
when you need it the most. And lastly because there holes (big ones too) in 
your tin where the hoses were supposed to be you are allowing hot dirty air 
into the engine compartment and your engine is now being "cooled" with hot 
dirty air. You can't cool with hot air very well and a dirty engine won't 
cool very well either.

At the other end of the heater boxes be sure that you are not blowing 
unregulated heated air out under the bus  (if the heater box flapper is not 
connected to the bus) if you have a '72-'74.

  If the you have a late baywindow (fuel injected) the system is designed 
to blow heated air all the time into tubes that hang along the bottom of 
the fender wells which carry it away from the engine.

It's just this simple - you should not be leaking cooling air anywhere. 
Also the top of the engine where the fan draws cool clean air should not be 
open to the bottom (hot) of the engine where dust and heat can be picked 
up. That means the engine compartment needs to have good seals around all 
the wires and cables and tubes - metal and cardboard. That means all of the 
metal needs to be complete and tight. These are the most common faults 
found on an previously neglected VW.


><Close up all of the heater system - you are loosing cooling air to the
><outside air. You can overheat your bus this way.
>
>Are you talking about the hoses from the electic fan to  the heating system?
>What about the heating system under the bus? If it is not hooked up to the 
>ducting, should it be blocked off?

Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


