Date: Tue, 23 Apr 2002 13:50:33 -0700
To: "Donnellan, Michael" <Michael.Donnellan(-at-)usdoj.gov>,
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Overheating generally (& Degreed Pulleys)

At 10:42 AM 4/23/2002, Donnellan, Michael wrote:

>1)      replacement carbs are not jetted correctly (too lean) for a 
>bus.  Verify the jetting and try to match stock jets (see specs in 
>Bentley).  The air correction (AC) jet is very important here--bigger AC 
>jet means leaner mixture.  I am still trying to find a stock AC jet for a 
>71 bus--which is what you need for a 1600dp in a bay window.

Vee Parts in San Diego had every size Solex jet I asked them for.  If you 
still can't find it, let me know what size you need - I may have it 
(assuming they are the same jets that are in the Solex PDSIT carbs).

>3)      Degreed pulleys are nice as a concept, but I was unable to find 
>one worth having.  Two issues: 1) weight: Accd to the Gene Berg catalogue, 
>a crank pulley should not be too light or it affects efficiency in a daily 
>driver.  Most all degreed pulleys are lightened (good for drag racing but 
>not daily drivers).

What?!?  I would love to see some hard data to back that statement up.  If 
they're referring to the reduction in rotating mass making it harder to get 
rolling from a dead stop (a-la lightening the flywheel), the lower mass of 
the pulley is practically insignificant.  In that case, "affects 
efficiency" would be the wrong term.

A lightened pulley, like a lightened flywheel will INCREASE efficiency 
during acceleration and deceleration because it eliminates rotating mass. 
**  If Berg is saying that a light pulley DECREASES efficiency, I would 
first say, "BS" and then "Prove it".

>Sump plate temp sensors tend to measure case temp (which is cooler) rather 
>than oil temp.  I personally noticed a huge difference in readings.  I 
>like the VDO dipstick sensor.

I just want to point out (again) that in a type 4 engine, the VDO dipstick 
sender will give you an identical reading to a properly installed sump 
sender.  They measure from exactly the same point in the sump.  This does 
not (necessarily) apply to the type 1 engine, so I am in no way disputing 
your above statement.

-David

** I know some of you will say, "But when you expend extra energy spinning 
up the extra mass, you recover it once the clutch is let out".  True, but 
that likely amounts to a small percentage of the times you accelerate and 
decelerate the engine.  Every time you accelerate in gear and then slow 
down via brakes or engine braking, you throw the energy you used to spin 
that mass up right out the window as heat.  And yes, I agree that at 
steady-rpm cruise it will be no less efficient, but again we don't always 
drive at a constant rpm.

