Date: Fri, 11 Aug 2006 17:15:08 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] oil temp?

Bernard  of Fort Langley, B.C.  asked about oil T & P gauges. 
Goodwill surges across the Empah!

>  I'm in the process of putting in a rebuilt 2.0L f.i. engine in my '77
>westy.  I want to make sure that I keep an eye on the oil temp and oil presure
>as my test drive will be a drive to the Okanagan for my holidays from the
>Fraser Valley.My question is what range should the temperature be to be safe
>and which kind of sending unit do you recomend  to use?  I was told about one
>  that goes into the presure relief valve ,is that good?
>

	I would prefer an oil pressure gauge as the more informative 
instrument rather than an oil temperature gauge.  And I say that as a 
fan of oil-t in that I used it in '68 to prove the large cooling 
effect of the hand-width strips down the rear of the Splittie's flush 
cooling intakes which I claim the factory then took to heart for the 
high-level intake scoops from the late '60s thru to the recent 
Brazilian airbus.  You could lose oil pressure for various reasons 
and then drive merrily along for a while until the oil temperature 
gauge changed much.  Oil-p actually serves as a kind of subtle oil-t 
indicator  -  it's lower when you cruise flat-out than at, say, 
half-throttle (under given ambient conditions). 

	I am in the process of organising oil-P but now give oil-t a 
considerably lower priority.  Cyl-head thermometer CHT is more 
informative, but harder to do than oil-t on the dipstick.
	If there is an oil pressure light, as on many or all VW, you 
can add oil-p by inserting a brass T-junction where that sender now 
is.  I believe this is, as as you suggest, at the pressure where the 
pump relief valve does its thing.  These T-pieces are not easy to 
come by, in my experience.  People can't even tell you what threads 
to specify for the male thread on the brass T-junction that goes into 
the engine where you took out the electric sender for the oil-p 
warning light, and then the two female threads in that T-piece have 
to accept
  (1) that old sender  -  if working OK  -  and
{the other} the sender if you use an electric oil-P gauge, or the 
male brass thread clamping in the narrow tube to take oil to your 
dash if you go for a mechanical oil-p gauge.
	Some oil-p gauges are sold new including a T-piece which 
however may or may not offer the right threads for your purpose.
	Mech oil-p needs only surprisingly weak piping  -  some cheap 
plastics are OK, if protected from melting or abrading.  Copper is 
better, but harder to instal, and has its own failure modes from e.g 
work hardening.



-- 
Robt Mann
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
'69 Renault 10  -  The Water Wagon
'61 Norton 600 Domiracer
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
http://www.dave-cushman.net/misc/mannject.html
