Date: Fri, 11 Aug 2006 10:20:57 -0400 (EDT)
From: Adam Narraway <adoom(-at-)rogers.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, the_bug_pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Subject: BOTC Reminder!

Hello everyone, Greg is still away, so I am again
reminding everyone about BOTC coming up fast!

T-Shirts:
The deadline for T-shirt orders is today! At 4pm.
Please note that we will not have very many (read
"zero") shirts at the event, so if you want a shirt,
please order now! For ordering instructions visit
http://www.busesofthecorn.com 
I will be sending out a confirmation to those who have
ordered this coming monday. 

Driving Skillz:
New for 2006, sobriety. 2006 will see the return of
the Driving Skillz Challenge! New and improved the
Driving Skillz Challenge tests even the most
"seasoned" bus pilot. It's a lot of fun for everyone,
spectators included. Please note, I am making the
Challenge a little earlier in the afternoon this year.
Please refrain from consuming anything that has "___%
Alc" on it before the contest. There will be plenty of
time for Red Cup revelry following your shamfull
display of driving finesse. 

Tye Dye:
Hmm, you may be thinking "but what will I tye dye?"
how about that BOTC shirt that you just bought! The
BOTC shirts are white, in hopes that people will have
some tye dye fun. The tye-dye will again be in the
pavillion, and will again ensure that people who
always wanted purple skin, will have their chance. 

Food:
It's called "Buses of the Corn".....

Fire:
Bring your guitar, fiddle, xylaphone, or susaphone,
and join us at the fire for a good old fashioned game
of "I dunno...what songs do you know? nope, I don't
know that one" Usually we end up "faking it" until the
wee hours of the morning.

Friends:
Bring them. The event is called "buses of the corn",
but having a bus isn't a pre-requisite. Arrive on a
bicycle, motorcycle, or by foot. Just get there!

For more details, please visit
http://www.busesofthecorn.com or call Greg Potts' name
repeatedly into the air. Greg will be back from
vacation next week. 

Yours in cussin', bussin', and disgustin'
Adoom
Suburban Design Co.
