From: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>
To: "Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Fri, 21 Jun 2002 09:29:09 -0400
Subject: Keepers

This is one of those thought provoking e-mails.  I received it and
immediately thought of my grandparents and their thrift (which to this day
eludes me on how frugal they are), but also I got thinking about how this
same philosophy can be applied to our old VWs.

With it being the "official" drive your VW to work day, I thought this might
be enlightening as well as to why we put up with these old cars.

---------------------------------------
Some things you keep. Like good teeth ... warm
coats. Bald husbands. They're good for you, reliable
and practical and so sublime that to throw them away
would make the garbage man a thief.

So you hang on, because something old is sometimes
better than something new, and what you know is often
better than something strange. These are my thoughts;
they make me sound old--old and tame, and dull at a
time when everybody else is risky and racy and flashy
and all is new and improved in their lives. New careers,
new thighs, new lips, new cars...The world is dizzy
with trade-ins. I could keep track, but I don't
think I want to.

I grew up in the forties with practical parents. My
mother, God bless her, who washed aluminum foil
after she cooked in it, then reused it. A father who
was happier getting old shoes fixed than buying new
ones. They weren't poor, my parents, they were just
satisfied. Their marriage was good, their dreams
focused. Their best friends lived barely a wave
away. I can see them now, Dad in trousers and tee
shirt and Mom in a housedress, a dishtowel in hand.
It was a time for fixing things... a curtain rod,
the kitchen radio, screen door, the oven door, the
hem in a dress.

Things you keep. It was a way of life, and sometimes
it made me crazy. All that re-fixing, reheating,
renewing, I wanted just once to be wasteful...Waste
meant affluence. Throwing things away meant there'd
always be more. But then my mother died, and on that
clear autumn night, in the chill of the hospital
room, I was struck with the pain of learning that
sometimes there isn't any 'more.'

Sometimes what you care about most gets all used up
and goes away, never to return. So, while you have
it, it's best to love it and care for it and fix it
when it's broken and heal it when it's sick. That's
true for marriage and old cars and children with bad
report cards and dogs with bad hips and aging
parents. You keep them because they're worth it,
because you're worth it.

Some things you keep. Like a best friend that moved
away or a classmate you grew up with, there are just
some things that make life important....people you
know are special ... and you KEEP them close!



Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Microbus Westfalia "Biscuit"
1967 VW Microbus Standard/Westfakia "Dino"  
1979 Porsche 911 SC "Cochese" 




