From: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>
To: "Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "Thomas Ainlay (E-mail)" <tainlay(-at-)sbcglobal.net>,
Date: Fri, 21 Jun 2002 11:13:50 -0400
Subject: Dual circuit MC install review

As many of you may know or remember, I am in the process of some front brake
changes.

Yesterday, I put in the new dual circuit MC (a 71-79 baywindow unit).  The
kit I used was from Wolfgang International (PN: 2611011) and does not look
like much for $40, but installs like a champ!  Very clean and neat
installation.

The toughest part of the install is getting the union nuts lined up and
threaded into the MC holes.  The brake lines themselves were pretty easy to
bend and get generally lined up to the new MC holes (just like Wolfgang
claimed!).  The trick to getting the union nuts into the MC is leave it
loose and move the MC to get the nut perfectly lined up, they are very
finicky to thread in.  Once the union nuts are in snug then tighten up the
two MC mounting bolts and then tighten the union nuts and you are all done!
In my case I disconnected the clutch cable to get better access in there,
but if you are nimble with your hands this might be unnecessary...  Granted
I am happy that I disconnected the clutch cable because the bolt was almost
worn in half from years of use.

Factoid:  The union nut is a 10mm x 1.00 thread nut...  If you strip the
union nut I have not been able to find a 10mm x 1.00 die anywhere.  So be
careful.

I was happy that I did not need to "T" off the lines like I originally
thought I would after reading Eric&Barbs write up.  Granted I could see this
being an advantage and still necessary if you need extra line or something
like that.

As a warning someone earlier posted that the German 71-79 Bay MC will not
work with the Wolfgang conversion kit.  What I used was Brazilian, so I
cannot verify that either way.

Another warning is that the Bay disc/drum MC should not be used with a split
drum/drum setup.  Apparently the pressure check valve is not in the
disc/drum Bay MC like the single circuit or '67 unit.  I wonder if the
drum/drum 68-70 bay MC could be used easily as a drum/drum split bus
alternative though?  My opinion is that the '67 only MC is totally worth the
$150 or so it costs for the dual circuit in a drum/drum application.  

You now may be wondering what the heck I am doing then?  I am putting on the
Old Speed early 944 disc front brake kit...  Hopefully if the Porsche shop
will hurry up and get the dang bearings in the hubs I can get it done to
have a report for everyone on Monday.

While we are talking brakes, does anyone know where to find a blank (no bolt
holes) rear drum for a 71-79 Bay?  

  
Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Microbus Westfalia "Biscuit"
1967 VW Microbus Standard/Westfakia "Dino"  
1979 Porsche 911 SC "Cochese" 




