Date: Wed, 19 Nov 2003 17:38:44 -0800 (PST)
From: David Pierce <kd5fvm(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: what a whippin...

Got the engine in the 78 Westy Sunday night... man
what a pain in the rear (no pun intended) Doin that by
your lonesome is a job and a half. Got everything
hooked up Monday and started the GE 2000 for the first
time in 23 years. It had been in this guys barn... I
had to remove all the FI stuff and put a 2bbl Weber on
it for the reason the PO had gutted the wiring in the
engine bay.... anyway, after makin sure it had oil
pressure, hooked up the coil and boom... it fired
right up... lifters sounded kinda noisy tho, but it
ran like a top. Then I start the ole "climb all over
it to inspect" routine... didnt take long to run to
the front to kill the ignition. Oil was at a very fast
drip off the filter,... so I replaced that, same
results. All I could figure was that after settin that
long the rubber seals had hardened and cracked... so
Tuesday & today I followed David Schwarze's
instructions on how to get to the rear mounts just so
I could get to the cooler & filter mount... (thanks
David:) but it was still a PITA:) , only have an hour
after work before the sun goes down, hate workin with
just a droplight... but as usual, I gotta go a few
steps further... since Im gonna clean up the fan
housing, might as well pull all the upper tin and
blast & paint...glad I did. Found a few push rod tubes
were leakin too when removin the front engine tin...
so tomorrow gonna take off ALL the tin, exhaust, and
heater boxes to get to the tubes... well, might as
well pull the heads to get to the cyl to head gasket
ring, and pull the P&C's to put the spacer under the
jug just so later on the ring wont start leakin like
they end up doin.... Was planin on takin it to
Carlsbad Thanksgivin to see sum friends... looks like
itll be done in the truck, not enough time to get the
bus goin... was lookin forward to that, the bus has so
much more leg room than the truck:) Iggy is bummed out
tho, was gonna take him along, but theres just no
place for a 4 1/2 foot iguana to set in a SC:(
Just another "one thing leads to another" post I
guess.... 
Later
David Pierce    
62 SC (the truck)
78 Westy (the dead dudes bus) 
Free Pop-Up Blocker - Get it now
http://companion.yahoo.com/
