To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Stevie Havoc <s.havoc(-at-)telus.net>
Date: Thu, 20 Nov 2003 10:38:16 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: fuel filter location for carbureted engines

On my 73 Safare (1700, Dual Carbs) I have a fuel filter before my pump 
and just for the sake of paranoia one located after. The PO had put a 
fuel filter before, one after AND one before EACH CARB ON ORIGINAL FUEL 
LINES, so needless to say I replaced lines and narrowed down the number 
of filters/clamps/potential leaks/FIRES in there.

Anyways, I have a fuel filter located almost directly after the outlet 
of my tank, I run a short section of hose to from the outlet to the 
filter and then from the filter back into the engine bay following the 
stock positions and openings. I have also never had any air in this 
first filter as the fuel runs down into it (gravity etc <grin>). If you 
slide under your bus (after taking the appropriate precautions not to 
be crushed by it, blocks, brakes, gear) and work you way back to the 
tranny you will see the fuel tank outlet, in this nice big space is 
where I located my first inline filter. Replacing this one requires 
either an emptied tank or fuel in the eyes <grin> I've tried both and 
suggest empty the tank if you put one here.

My second filter is after the pump which is a Bosch 12v electric pump 
that I have mounted beside the spare battery tray (drivers side), I 
have a shortish section of hose, the filter and then a hose runs to the 
metal T and then to each carb. The filter sits nicely in the area 
between the battery tray and the engine seal.

On another note, the PO  had the fuel line to the T connected to one of 
the top arms on the T and then running to one carb from the bottom of 
the T and one from the other arm of the T, I'd had some problems with 
one carb running poorly (thus the cylinders on one side) when I re-ran 
my lines I connected the line to the T in a fashion that made sense to 
me, the incoming line to the bottom of the T and the carbs to each of 
the arms at the top of the T, she ran much smoother afterwards. Anyone 
else have something different ?

I had issues with the bus running badly (jerking, cutting out) shortly 
after I drove it home from the POs, there was considerable air getting 
into the fuel system from somewhere and its not surprising, but 
replacing the lines and filters solved it.

Steve

As everyone has said before me, good clamps and good hoses, don't cut 
costs here !


>  FWIW, I would
> PREFER to locate the filter ahead of the fuel pump, and if I could 
> figure
> out how to make it work on my bus, I would do it.  So if anyone has any
> suggestions, I'm open.
