Date: Fri, 21 Nov 2003 10:11:54 -0600 (CST)
From: "Thomas J. Tarka" <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: fuel tank pull

Tidbit of the week:

Fuel Tank Pull, 1971 Bus

First and foremost, you need to remove your engine and drain your gas 
tank.

Next, you need to remove the firewall behind where the engine was, which 
hides your fuel tank.  

To remove the firewall, you need to remove the 10-12 screws from the 
engine compartment side of the panel, AND, 4-6 screws that come up from 
under the bus.  These aren't necessarily easy to find if you don't know to 
look.  One of these latter screws is also obscured behind the starter, 
so you might want to drop the tranny a litle farther down.

Once all 16 screws are removed (count 'em), you should be able to pop the 
firewall tin out.  It's probably been there for 31 years now, so it might 
take a little prying to get it separated.  There's also a 31 year old seal 
which is somewhat like weatherstripping or rubber that's keeping it 
"stuck" to the bus.  Be gentle, but do what you have to do.

Next, you'll need to remove the bolts which attach to the tank hold-down 
straps.  These bolts also come up from under the bus, and you probably 
saw them when you removed the screws down there.  I put the handle of a 
screwdriver between the strap and the tank to keep the strap from twisting 
and both bending and marking up my tank.  As the strap loosens, you might 
want to put two scrwedrivers/handles in there to keep it in place.

Once the straps are free, you'll want to remove the nut on the bottom of 
your gas tank (giving you a little more clearance) and loosen the clamp 
connecting the fill hose to the tank.  You can see if you can pull off the 
fill hose or the breather hose off now, but I couldn't and they come off 
just fine when you pull on the tank.

At this point your tank should be relatively free and with a bit of 
wiggling, you should be able to pull it right out!

       -tom
       -71 bus
       -67 kombi (i think)
