Date: Fri, 28 May 2010 21:38:46 -0400
From: "Peter T. Owsianowski" <pnoceanwesty(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Vanagon List <vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM>, List - Type 2
Subject: Buses by the Beach Bus Benefit 2010 Pictures & Short Trip

Hey, Volks:

Took me all week to edit down the pics and get the trip report going.

The party just gets better and better for the Buses by the Beach gang.  Many
cool buses, 6 bands, good brew, hot dogs, a kickin' raffle and silent
auction with an awesome handmade Buses by the Beach quilt with each square
created by a bus pilot and a special Buses by the Beach edition Ayers guitar
with the BBTB logo inlaid on it.

I took off from South Bend, Indiana for Belmont, Michigan Thursday morning
in JoesVan (Top end rebuild, refreshed trans - ran well, thank you!) and hit
the ground running.  Standing outside the bus looking around when an honest
to goodness Bald Eagle cruised by the small lake looking for lunch.  Great
way to start a great weekend!  This was followed by an awesome float down
the lovely Rogue River with Todd Olson, Brien Dews and Todd's Dad, Jerry.
Only marred by one flip of the canoe as Todd and I were navigating down
through the boulders. Got back to the camp, dried off in the bus, got
dressed and started stuffing goodie bags for the morning.  About 20 buses
showed up Thursday night - what a cool way to spend a Thursday night!
Friday spent checking out the cool buses, taking pics, catching up and
starting to sell raffle tickets.  Friday night we had Roosevelt Diggs and
the Stone Boogie Band entertaining whilst tasting the great beers from
Hopcat Brewery.  What a life!

Saturday was the Nick James Band, plus Tim Struthers and the Pioneers
kicking it off, followed by the big raffle and silent auction.  Just before
this was a fundraising hot dog dinner.  Hawks and Owls String Band, Jen
Sygit and Sam Corbin rounded out the bands for the evening. Much mirth and
merriment, going from fire to fire and visiting with friends and making new
ones.  Sunday was a fantastic community breakfast (scrambled eggs, sausage,
pancakes) followed by the carabus to the blessing of the buses at lovely
Townsend Park.  Went back after the blessing and hung around in the sun for
awhile before hitting the road back to Indiana

The weather cooperated except for a huge downpour Friday night lasting about
40 minutes.  The storm rolled on and everyone got back together around fires
and under awnings. The pics on the Picasa link show most the above as best I
could get around and take pics.  Some list members present included John
Meeks, Jeff Lincoln, (Jeff's new ride, Gertie the junkyard rescue is in the
pics with a plate that says "Magikbus") Todd Olson, Brien Dews, Roger
VanTill (The awesome clay figure in the jar in the pictures is "Rog-Jar"
created by his talented wife, Mary!)  Mary designs all our
logos/flyers/awards and has had some award -winning designs for Bliss Fest)
Cecil Eastman and maybe some others I missed.

So, a really fantastic time, good weather and great people.  Our efforts
raised over $10,000 for the Phoenix Society for Burn Survivors and we got to
have fun doing it!  It is truly one of the finer things our families share.

Thanks so much to all who helped out, stuffing bags, cooking breakfast,
welcoming newcomers.  Also, thanks to all our awesome after market vendors
and event participants who donated really great items!  It is absolutely
amazing to see this thing come together bigger and better every year!

Check out the pics here:  *http://tinyurl.com/38yjnr7
*
First couple of pics are of my house and JoesVan.  Next are of Grand Rogue
campground in Belmont, Michigan and weekend events as best I could get the
shots.  Last shots are of the blessing of the buses at Townsend Park.
Really a cool thing.  Our buses were blessed with a drop of straight 30w
right under the front bumper for safe and reliable travels.  That felt good
after having JoesVan down all last summer! *


*

Pete
'79 Westy "Aardvark"
'87 Westy "JoesVan"
WWW.Busesbythebeach.com
