From: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: <cochise3300-lists(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: "Type2List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 31 May 2010 17:31:55 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Adjusting my valves ('74 bus)...trying not to screw it

----- Original Message ----- 
>From: "Steve" > The problem is, when the rotor is pointed at the notch, the
notch on the pulley IS NOT pointed at the "0".  When >I get the pulley notch
pointed at the "0" the the rotor is off.
>
> What am I not understanding?  It doesn't appear that I can get both lined
up.
> Thanks for any help.
> Steve
> '74 Westy

well,, first,, MUIR is good bathroom reading... and nice art......    leave
it at that.

here is a tried and true way .. copied from type 2 dot com  as written by
Karl von Salzen  r.i.p.

Karl said
I tried the VW way of adjusting valves and found it to be the most idiotic
and
confusing mumbo jumbo crap 40 years ago. Up down turn back up down turn
back.... is the dist in right? up down. Screw all that crap. Here is the
easiest fool-proof way to adjust the valves:

Get a remote starter button and forget that old school 'turn the engine
backwards CRAP' . Pop off both valve covers. Connect remote starter to the
starter battery post and the solenoid post. Press the button and watch ANY
pair of valves. When the exhaust JUST starts to move, STOP, and adjust that
cylinders intake valve. Press button again, exhaust will open then close,
intake will open then close. JUST as the intake closes, STOP, and adjust
that
cylinders exhaust valve, Move on to next cylinder. Exhaust JUST starts to
move
open, STOP, adjust intake. Intake JUST closes, STOP, adjust exhaust. Real
easy
once you get the hang of it. None of that back-breaking up down up down
CRAP.
Go under bus once and come up once DONE!

Does not matter WHERE the distributor is pointing. You don't even need one
in
the engine. Does not matter WHERE the timing mark is pointing. You can test
that later.

And if you want to check your base setting of the distributor and the zero
mark of TDC 1 and 3: Watch #3 valves. Turn the engine in the direction of
rotation. The exhaust will open and then close. JUST as it closes, the
intake
will start to open. STOP. You want both rocker arms at the point of rocking:
exhaust just closed and intake just about ready to move [VW has no real
overlap to worry about]. Stop. Look at the dist, the rotor should be
pointing
at the index mark for #1. Look at the mark on the crank pully, it should be
dead on zero.
