Date: Mon, 31 May 2010 23:45:56 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Adjusting my valves ('74 bus)...trying not to screw it

On 5/31/2010 1:53 PM, Steve wrote:
> The problem is, when the rotor is pointed at the notch, the notch on
> the pulley IS NOT pointed at the "0".  When I get the pulley notch
> pointed at the "0" the the rotor is off.

If you're having issues with the distributor not lining up where it's 
supposed to, you first need to verify that the distributor drive gear is 
installed correctly.  If you (or the engine builder) haven't done this 
already, you should really start there.  It's not difficult to do and it 
will save you some sanity down the road.  Here's how you do it:

While someone is watching the #1 valves, turn the engine clockwise (when 
looking at the engine from the back).  Once your helper sees the intake 
valve close on #1 (top part of the rocker moves away from the engine), 
keep turning the the crank until the timing mark on the fan lines up 
with zero on the timing scale (approximately 90 degrees of crank 
rotation) - you are now lined up at the #1 firing position and the rotor 
should hopefully be pointing at the mark on your distributor.  If it is 
not, remove the distributor and look down the hole.  This is how the 
drive gear should be oriented:

http://www.ratwell.com/technical/FAQ/images/31-DrivePinion.jpg

If it's not, the drive gear can be lifted out and easily reoriented.  If 
you need help, let us know.

If it installed correctly, put the distributor back in.  If the rotor is 
not pointing at the mark on the distributor then rotate your distributor 
body so it is (if possible), fix the distributor drive dog orientation 
(sometimes installed 180 degrees off), use the correct distributor (009 
is off by 90 degrees), or just do what many people do and install spark 
plug wires accordingly which confuses everyone else that works on the 
engine.  In the end, it really doesn't matter how the distributor is 
rotated as long as #1 is lined up to fire when it's supposed to... with 
all the plugs firing in the correct succession.

Btw, what type of distributor do you have?  Is it stock?  Is it a vacuum 
advance or an 009 (no vacuum can).

Mike
