From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 5 Jun 2010 07:24:11 -0400
Subject: truck won't start

Help appreciated.

My truck which was recently in an accident has been at the shop for a bit.
He finished it-and it came out great. He does amazing work-no bondo at all!

 

So the body shop guy told me he tried to start it once to move it, and
couldn't get it to  start. He tried so much he drained the battery.  We
tried a jumper battery, and it still wouldn't start. I recharged the
battery. I tested it at my FLAPS, they said it was marginal. 

 

The engine turns over nice and strong, it just doesn't want to start up.

 

I went through the idiot manual-and did the following:

1.       Checked fuel, there is a fuel filter between the fuel pump and the
carb. It has some fuel in it, but I thought if I keep turning the engine
over, that it should fill up completely. This is not happening. I
disconnected the hose at the filter, and hand cranked the engine. Fuel
trickled out of the hose. I interpret this as -fuel pump working.

2.       I checked all electrical connections in engine
compartment-everything looks still connected.

3.       I disconnected coil wire from distributor. Hand cranked engine
while holding wire near engine, and I get a spark. I interpret this as
having spark.

4.       I swapped distributor back to 009 from the Aircooled SVDA
w/Petronix kit. I thought maybe this thing had gone bad-although it is less
than a year old, and has few miles on it. 

5.       I sprayed starter fluid into carb.

 

Here is some info on engine:

1.       It has an alternator on it.

2.       I had changed the distributor to the SVDA w/petronix.

3.       I believe it is a 1600.

4.       Carb is solex H30/31 Pict

 

The engine turns over really strong, which I think means battery is fine.

I have spark at distributor.

I have fuel.

 

Is there, or could there be a shut off on the carb, preventing fuel from
getting into the carb?

 

Any suggestions appreciated.I'll start trolling the archives now too. 

 

 

-Kevin

Jamaica Plain, MA

'69 single cab

'65 Kombi
