From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'Joe Average'" <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 5 Jun 2010 09:29:45 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] truck won't start

Hi Chris, thanks for the quick response...

I forgot to mention that I did remove the plugs, and cleaned them. They were
a little fouled, but not too terrible.

As I was writing my questions to you all, I began to think about the
solenoid on the carb. I'm glad you suggested it. How do you test that? Can I
just take it out, and plug the hole?

I know the timing was correct before I swapped out the distributor. I will
read about getting the timing set. I will also check the points in the
distributor.

To make sure I understand the "really easy test" After doing what you are
suggesting, should I smell a ton of gas, or see the fuel filter full of gas,
ie how do you know the engine is flooded? In the past, I just assumed if
trying to start it, and I smell a ton of fuel, that I have flooded the
engine. 

As far as "old pro" I would say I have been tinkering for about 10 years
thanks to the list, but I still consider myself a newbie...well maybe an
oldbie?

Thanks...

-Kevin
Jamaica Plain, MA
'69 single cab
'65 Kombi

-----Original Message-----
From: Joe Average [mailto:joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net] 
Subject: Re: [T2] truck won't start

I'd argue that the plugs need to be cleaned. 

Next you'll want to see if the solenoid on the carb is working, if the coil
is getting 12 volts. See if the timing is right. See if the points are
opening and closing and if the contacts in there are clean. Likely one of
these items is the problem.

Really easy test - put your foot on the floor and hold it there while 
you crank. See if it is "flooded". No pumping of the gas because that 
will make it worse. 30 seconds in two 15 sec sessions ought to reveal 
that. 15 sec on, 15 sec off, 15 sec on. If it tries to fire try more 
without taking your foot off the gas. If it starts up run it at 1200 rpm 
for 2-3 mins to warm it up, get the oil moving, and let the engine clean 
it's cylinders out.

If you're an old pro- sorry for the newbie advice. GRIN!
