From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'Joe Average'" <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 6 Jun 2010 06:12:02 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] truck won't start

I figured the solenoid was to stop flow-I think I read that in the Muir. The
PO cut then end off it, I could only tell by the pics online. I didn't
really know what the end was supposed to look like. I read that is helps
prevent dieseling of the engine, but a properly tuned engine should not
diesel anyway. So not having it work properly seems better to me-ie if it
diesels, it means something is wrong. 

As far as feeling it-the thing accelerator linkage was moving fine, it was
the thing that is sort of half-moon shaped, with little steps on it, that
the throttle arm screw steps down as the carb warms up. It was stuck away
from the throttle arm screw. I think if it is stuck in this position, the
carb is closed, not allowing any fuel in, so even if I sprayed starter fluid
in the intake, it would just sit on top of the butterfly valve(I think that
is what that is called).


-Kevin
Jamaica Plain, MA
'69 single cab
'65 Kombi


-----Original Message-----
From: Joe Average [mailto:joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net] 
Subject: Re: [T2] truck won't start


If you didn't know that solenoid was to stop the gas flow when the 
engine is turned off. I think to cure run-on. You could put a brass plug 
in it's place I suppose. I had one of those PO "customized" solenoids too.
> The carb was stuck shut...I think it is called the Idle Cam Lever,
> was stuck, which I believe shut the butterfly type valve  in the carb-so
my
> engine was not getting fuel, even though the pump wanted it to get it.
Couldn't feel feel that in the pedal? (Not jerking your chain, just 
wondering).

I think the throttle arm screw has to be turned until it props the 
butterfly open just a bit. I think three turns after it touches the 
choke cam? Your truck is the same year as my Beetle but there is very 
little 1965 left in it (it's Type IV dual 36mm Dellorto powered).
