From: Jim Arnott <jrasite(-at-)eoni.com>
To: Diesel Vanagon <Diesel-Vanagon(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, Vanagon List
Date: Sun, 6 Jun 2010 10:15:44 -0700
Subject: Fwd: Pop-Top Canvas Replacement Video

<forwarded with permission>

Curt Long (founding WetWesties member) filmed professional upholsterer  
Kris Knight (Fine Auto Trim, Boise, ID) replacing the canvas on a late  
Vanagon at last year's WetWesties/Bus Pilots ReUnion. This is how a  
professional does it.

Jim


Begin forwarded message:

From: "Curt" <jc-long(-at-)comcast.net>

Repeat from the Wet Westies List, but since many Syncros also have Pop- 
Tops, I thought this would be relevant here too:


Kris Knight was kind enough to come to the 2010 Union Reunion and  
install my second Pop-Top Canvas in front of everyone.

I shot video of the entire event and have now finally assembled the  
2-1/2 hour demonstration into a 16-1/2 minute final product.

This video is hosted on the Vimeo Site and I have saved it so that you  
can download the video and pass it around or even reduce it to a  
smaller format. However, to download it you need to register as Vimeo  
User (it's free). You do not need to register if you only want to  
watch the streaming version.

This was shot with a Canon HD Camcorder and exported at 1280x720 HD so  
the file is about 730 Megabytes in size. but it will be on that site  
for a long time.

Kris was a little far from the camera and his voice did not carry well  
so I did my best to increase the volume to full when he talked while  
dropping the volume back down to the bottom when I or others talked.  
If I had it to do over, I would get much closer for better audio and  
some close ups but this one will at least give you an idea of what's  
involved. It's NOT a full day project if you follow Kris's tips and  
instructions. And notice that he does it with no help.

The link is here:
http://www.vimeo.com/12165017

I have other non-Westy videos there too and of course, you are free to  
view what
you want.

Enjoy,
Curt Long
Maple Valley, WA

P.S.
I might add for those with slower connections that you can turn off  
the "HD" button for a faster load..

And if the streaming view pauses often while viewing, just pause the  
video and let it finish loading before clicking the play arrow again.
