Date: Mon, 07 Jun 2010 11:08:52 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Question about diodes and Compufire ignition

On 6/7/2010 9:40 AM, David Kelly wrote:
> Well, I found a compufire ignition for my distributor. From past experience
> with these things, the two ways to kill one is to hook up the wires backwards
> or to let one of the wires touch the cam. The second can only be helped by
> carefully placing the wires.

I think most anything wired backwards will mess up the device (unless it 
has internal protection).  I would write a big red plus on your coil if 
you're really that worried about hooking it up incorrectly.

As far as wires touching the cam, how would that happen?  There's a 
grommet to protect against chafing and the wires ends are already on 
connected to the coil.  You'd really have to be doing something funky to 
ground the wires.

Also, your logic doesn't completely make sense.  Assuming that the wires 
are connected correctly, allowing the positive end to short to the cam 
(ground), is not going to fry the compufire - it's going to fry wires 
leading back to the battery, starting at the point of the short to 
ground.  Shorting the signal wire is going to complete the circuit back 
to ground and charge the coil (internally in the compufire, it will 
short ground to ground - nada).

Remember, only one of the two wires going from the electronic points to 
the coil supply the power to the unit.  The circuit positive is supplied 
via the positive on the coil, and the base of the compufire acts as the 
ground.  The electronic points then open and close the connection 
between ground and the other terminal on the coil 4 times for every 720 
degrees of crank rotation.

> Let me know. I may just have to try it to find out. If it worked, It should
> help to keep the module from frying when accidently hooking it up backwards.

Why not change the connectors?  It's already a pretty foolproof device, 
and adding more circuitry might adversely change the circuit and make it 
less reliable.
