From: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: "Troy Wical" <troy(-at-)wical.com>, "'type 2 List'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 12 Jan 2006 22:11:33 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Battery light woes

----- Original Message ----- 
From: "Troy Wical" <troy(-at-)wical.com>
> I have been fighting my battery light for the past couple weeks.
> I've looked through the Bentley, Muir, and archives, but was wondering if
> someone could help clarify a way to test the alternator and the voltage
> regulator.

First,, check that your battery is fully charged... 12.3 -12.5 volts....
Connect voltmeter to battery terminals... disconnect coil power,, turn 
engine over while watching voltage,, it should not go below 11 volts after 
running starter for 30 seconds  if it does,, the battery is weak, recharge 
and test again,, or replace

Quick check,. Alternator [or generator] charging. First, connect a voltmeter 
to the battery and note the voltage. A battery in a good state of charge 
should read about 12.5v  Then start the engine, the voltmeter should now 
read close to  between 13.5 to 14.5 volts
If not,, shut off engine...

Check drive belt tension

Inspect wiring, make sure all connections are clean and tight.  from the alt 
or gen to the battery including the positive and the ground strap. Look at 
the brush length and condition in the generator.

Test Generator on T1 [67-72] T2 [67-71] and T3 only,,,
disconnect the D+ and DF leads on the generator... Connect the DF terminal 
of the gen to a ground using a jumper wire. Connect the voltmeter pos lead 
to the D+ terminal of the gen. connect the neg lead of the voltmeter to a 
good ground. Start the engine. At 800 rpm, the voltmeter should read 12v... 
at 1600rpm, the generator should read 36 volts.... caution == do not 
continue this test longer than 15 seconds. shut off engine

Test gen voltage regulator on T1 [67-72] T2 [67-71] and T3 only,,,
Disconnect the wire from B+ reg terminal,, tape and secure that wire away 
from contact with anything. Connect pos voltmeter lead to B+ reg terminal 
and the neg term to ground. Run engine at fast idle 2000 rpm note the 
voltmeter reading.. it should be between 13.5 and 14.5   Reduce the idle to 
600 rpm and raise speed slowly. noting voltmeter reading.. as engine reaches 
700- 750 rpm the voltage should rise to between 12.4 and 13.1v  shut engine 
off and watch the voltmeter,, is should read zero . If regulator meets all 
above, it is ok,, if not , replace it.

Test Alternator with internal regulator
connect the voltmeter to the battery terminals.. connect a tach.. Start the 
engine, run it at fast idle between 1500 and 2000 rpm,Voltage should be 
between 13.5 - 14.5 volts,  continue to run the engine at the same speed 
till the voltage reaches its highest point, which should be less than 
15volts

with the engine still at fast idle, turn on all electrical accessories, pull 
the wipers away from the windshield and turn them on,, the voltmeter reading 
should drop about half a volt
If the voltage readings are higher than 15v anytime,,check the alt grounds 
and retest,,  the internal regulator is defective , replace alternator
if the voltage readings are below specs,, replace alt.

Test Alt with external regulator
connect voltmeter to battery,, and install tach. start the engine and run at 
fast idle. 1500 to 2000 rpm. the voltage should be 1 -2 volts higher than 
the battery voltage reading.
With the engine still at fast idle.. turn on all electrical accessories.. 
the battery voltage should drop about half a volt
If the voltage is within specs, check regulator...  if it was too high or 
too low,, replace the voltage regulator and retest.

Test alternator voltage regulator
Lights and accessories all off.... battery fully charged... alt working as 
above..... connect voltmeter to battery terminal,, and install tach.  Start 
the engine and run it at fast idle. 1500-2000 rpm, voltage should be about 
13.5 tp 14.5 volts.  If it is more than 2 volts higher than the battery 
voltage... let the engine run until it reaches it highest value..
If the voltage keeps climbing, or remains below 13.5 volts,,, the regulator 
is faulty..

Road side test,,
connect voltmeter to battery,, start engine and let idle,, connect jumper 
wire from battery pos terminal to regulator green wire marked DF , this will 
full field the alternator and should draw enough HP to try to stall 
engine... you will hear the rpm decrease and the voltage should rise ... do 
not continue this test for more than 15 seconds. That tells you the 
alternator is working and the regulator is defective.

Hope that helps
Jamie Rivers
