Date: Thu, 12 Jan 2006 23:02:37 -0500
From: Jules <jules.herr(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Head replacement update

Hello,

A status update on my head replacement. Recruited the help of a
friend, coincidentally the PO. We got the engine pulled, stripped off
the necessary tin, doghouse, etc. Broke my first exhaust stud, luckily
on the head I was removing. Removed exhaust. Removed intake, carb,
removed more tin. Removed rocker assembly, removed head. Old head came
right off easy. Confirmed #3 exhaust valve indeed stretched
(visually). Being new head install.

Now for the fun part. Torquing the head. Get them all set at the light
setting, following helpers instructions and tightening order relayed
from the Bentley. Ok, time to set them to full torque. Slow and even
he says. Crank, crank, crank, SNAP!. Bummer, broken stud. Reverse the
tightening order, head comes back off. Get a vice grip on the stud
(luckily it breaks at the head end)  and luckily again, it turns right
out.

Now a fun task, finding a new stud at 5:30 PM. Call foreign FLAP. They
don't have it in stock. Call all the big chain FLAPS, ha. They barely
can tell what I'm talking about. Call the local VW repair shop, "yup
you need 8 or 10 mm?" he asks. Yay, someone who understands what I
need. Rush across towns in rush hour, he's closed but waiting for us.
Better get 2 I tell him, cause, ya never know.

Get back. Stretch out pushrod tubes. begin process again. Everything
torques down light. I set my torque to 21. Go to torque number one in
the process, the stud I've just replaced. Crank, crank, crank, hey
why's this nut feel like it getting looser? Reverse the tightening
process. This time the #1 whole stud comes out. Either the nut or the
stud has stripped out. OK, bad stud maybe, thats why I got two, cause,
ya never know.

OH, did I mention I'm using brand new nuts I bough for the purpose?

OK, start the whole process again. Stretch the tubes. Head nuts, light
torque, crank, crank crank. Move up to heavy torque, crank, crank,
slip. Damn! Stripped another nut/or stud. Pull everything apart. Clean
up. Ponder. Back home and here I am.

What happened? 2 bad studs? Improper nuts? Sigh. The hunt continues in
the morning for new studs, and nuts hopefully, if I can find them.

peace
jules
'71 westy 1600dp - "the toolshed"

(thanks for listening)
