Date: Fri, 13 Jan 2006 14:28:35 -0500
From: Mad Uncle Dave <MadUncleDave(-at-)charter.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com,  type2(-at-)type2.com,  NC BusCampers
Subject: Today's fun - workin' on the bus (conclusion)

Got up this morning and went back out to the barn to finish up.  Not a 
lot left, give it plug wires, finish hooking up the fuel lines, heater 
hoses from shroud to heater boxes, fill the oil, install rear valance.  
Turn the key.  It fires.  Stomp on the gas pedal.  It goes to the 
floor.  OOPS!  forgot to hook up the throttle cable.  Simple process, no 
unkind words there.  Adjust the choke (it was cranked waaay over to "on 
all the time".  She fired once the carb got gas, settled into fast 
idle.  Take her off the jack stands off we go for a test run.  Good 
power for an upright in a fairly heavy bus.  A bit of a stumble at light 
throttle, probably just carb adjustment - I had rebuilt the carb and 
never adjusted it after.

Going down the big hill hit the brakes.  Hard pull to the left.  Felt 
like the right front didn't release all the way.  Onto the main highway, 
could really feel the brake grabbing.  After 4 miles on the highway I 
pulled over to let the RF brake cool and release because the brake 
wasn't releasing.  Settled back and read the Gospel according to St. 
Muir because that's what there was to read and I still to this day like 
the way he wrote.  20 minutes later off we went with released brakes, 
still running good.  Into the corner gas station for less than 3 gallons 
of gas for $7.00 and back to the house with a slight detour because I 
didn't want to hit the brakes again and a whole line of traffic came 
along at just the wrong time.  Into the driveway we went, parking the 
bus under the cedar tree because it's supposed to rain tonight.

Once we cooled off a bit I looked and there's a slight oil leak still 
but nowhere near what was.  I guess that crack in the case is indeed 
terminal but I'll drive her for a while like it is and save my pfennigs 
for the rest of what I need to build that 1700 stroker that's mostly 
already purchased and waiting in the basement for assembly.

I'm thinking that either I have a lump of dookie in the line to the RF 
brake or the master cylinder push rod is too tight. If anyone has other 
theories on why that brake's misbehaving I'd love to hear them.

Either way I'm taking a couple days off from wrenching.  Got fighter 
practice 2 days this weekend if the weather allows and I've got to 
babysit inmates all 3 nights.  I need the break from spinnin' wrenches 
for a bit before I tackle the brakes.

Mad Uncle Dave
