From: "Jerry Azevedo" <jwazevedo(-at-)gulfislands.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 13 Jan 2006 16:37:44 -0800
Subject: That old ignition switch problem

Hi Folks,

The situation is this: Starting this fall my '70 bus has had an intermittent
problem with the ignition cutting out.  I'd be going down the road, and the
ignition circuit would go dead, sometimes for a couple of seconds and
sometimes a bit longer.  It never stayed dead, so I couldn't troubleshoot it.
That changed last night.  Coming home on the late ferry in a driving rain, the
bus stopped in the middle of the road, and no jiggling or incantations could
get it going again.  So I did the jumper thing from the regulator to the coil,
and I made it home fine.

This morning it's still dead.  I suppose I should be thankful.  Now it's a
yes/no, on/off matter and not this frustrating intermittent stuff.  But I'm
not an electrical wizard, so I want to check with the group before taking
things apart.  (I have Bentley and Muir and have looked through the archives.)
Can you tell me whether my logic is right here...

It seems like the hot from the battery goes via the starter 30 terminal to the
headlight switch 30 and from there out another 30 to the ignition switch 30.
From there a thinner black wire off the switch 15 goes through a double cable
connector block and then to the bottom of the fifth fuse.  Another black wire
comes off the bottom of the third fuse and goes back to the coil, completing
the long trip around that I've shorted with the jumper.

Since I have headlights, power is getting to the headlight switch.  If I were
to jump from the 30 on the headlight switch direct to the bottom of the fifth
fuse and if then I were to see the idiot lights, I can assume the problem is
in the wires to/from the ignition switch and not in the wire running back to
the coil.  If I then run a long jumper from terminal 15 on the ignition switch
back to the coil (as per Muir) and get it to start, then the problem is in the
fuse block area; otherwise it's the switch.  Does that sound right?  Any other
caveats, besides the ever-useful tip to disconnect the battery ground?  I
really hate to dip into the rat's nest around the fuse block, but I think my
hand has been forced.  It's either deal with it that way or resign myself to a
lifetime of jumpers and kluges.

Thanks,
Jerry
'70 bus
Galiano Island, BC
