From: "Jerry Azevedo" <jwazevedo(-at-)gulfislands.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 14 Jan 2006 14:36:56 -0800
Subject: Re: That old ignition switch problem (update)

Hi Folks,

The first thing to learn is that the schematic of the fuse block in Bentley is
looking at it from the backside.

So I eventually found the right fuses for the ignition circuit and put a
jumper to the headlight switch.  Everything lit up.  Bad switch, I thought.  I
dropped the steering column back enough to get at that tiny screw holding the
switch in and got the switch out.  Then I tested it.  Worked fine.  And this
is where I entered the Twilight Zone.

One of the 15 terminals on the switch was broken off.  I traced the other
wire, and it went to an aux circuit the DPO put in.  That's why my door light
doesn't work.  So the broken terminal must have been the wire going to the
fuse block.  But there was no broken wire there.  From the bottom of the gang
of three ignition fuses, one black wire went back to the coil, and one black
wire went (unfused!) to the windshield wipers.  There was no wire just hanging
there.  There was no 12v source.  No wonder the bus stopped running.  The
miracle is that it ever ran.

I eventually gave up looking for that broken wire.  Needing to get back on the
road, I spliced in another wire to the remaining 15 terminal and ran that to
where it should be on the fuse block.  Then I moved the wiper wire to the
fused side.  Before buttoning up, I had to figure out where to reconnect those
three wires that pulled loose when I removed the fuse block.  One big white
one I guessed went to an empty fused terminal on the block; one blue one went
to the signal flasher, and the last one remains a mystery.  I put everything
together and tested all the critical systems, and all seems to work now.

Someday, some day when the sun is shining and the birds are singing, I'll need
to look at that wiring again.  It's a mess.  And someone (I don't think it was
me) substituted 25A fuses for most of the circuits (which I'll take care of
next time I get to town).  Wires go nowhere.  Colors don't match Bentley.  I'm
starting to understand those of you who've thrown up your hands and decided to
start over from scratch.

See you on the road,
Jerry
'70 bus
Galiano Island, BC
