Date: Tue, 20 Jun 2006 17:10:58 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: WATER-INJECTION  ON  a  VW  1600cc

		WATER-INJECTION  ON  a  VW  1600cc

			Robt Mann  June 2006

	The carb on the '73 1600cc VW bus has no high-vacuum nozzle 
such as widely available on similar-looking Solex carbs (Renault, 
Benz, Austin etc).  The vacuum line to the distributor turns out to 
have less suction in it than those other types.  This means the 
typical arrangement with a 0.63mm or 0.71mm needle gives negligible 
water feed on this VW.
	The biggest needle commonly available, used for blood donors, 
turns out to be the answer.  Upon installing this big needle and 
starting the engine, no water moved up the pipe from the water bottle 
at idle; but on revving the engine a little, I immediately saw water 
moving up the pipe at much the same rate as I'm used to with the 
hi-vacuum arrangement and much smaller needles.
	So the schematic is as shown in 
http://www.dave-cushman.net/misc/mannject.html but the VW lo-vac 
nozzle requires a bigger needle.  And blood donation is a good thing 
to do, even if unpaid as in NZ.
	You may as well substitute a clear plastic pipe for the black 
rubber carb-to-dizzie tube.  Then you can see the end of the needle 
in operation.  I've found 3.5mm ID flexible clear plastic (sorry, 
dunno what sort) pipe fits the carb & dizzie nozzles.  Check whether 
the glue you used does seal around the needle where it goes into the 
vac pipe; air leaks will interfere with not only suction for water 
but also the ignition timing curve.
	Remember, gravity feed is disastrous; and you don't want 
power to change during an unbanked turn, so the water level in the 
bottle had better be several cm below the needle. The bottle I've 
used is a 5-L plastic, filled to only ca.4 L.  The spark-plug leads 
help to hold it in place, but lashing is also required e.g. 
temporarily remove a self-tapper screw from the front wall of the 
engine compartment, slap a biggish washer under it, poke the screw 
thru the middle of a couple ft of bicycle inner tube, and replace the 
screw.  Firm-fitting fixed metal boxes may alternatively emerge to 
inhibit bottle-flail.
	Another option for mounting the bottle might be outside the 
engine compartment, in the very rear corner of the body.

	Kgun  y'  {I hear my Yorkshireman friend asking} 
kgWOHNteefaaah  benefits of this quaint mysterious technology?  The 
data will have to be compiled under several headings  -  on which few 
entries can yet be made.

1.  FUEL  ECONOMY
	My first 1255 mi on my '73 Devon, mainly wide-bore rural 
driving, avgd 26 mpg (22 mpgUS).  Plugs, spark timing etc were then 
adjusted slightly to specs, so this is not the best comparison; but 
the preliminary comparison with water/fuel at % is  mpg.

2.  POWER
	Some dynowanker may do some measurements  -  with no ram air 
being scooped in  ...  make sure to turn powerful fans across 
underside of crankcase, or you may run a bearing  ...
	Meanwhile that bad index of power, top speed, seems to have 
gone from 71 to   mph.  Much more important is the better torque at 
low-to-medium revs, permitting less frequent gear-changing.

3.  EMISSIONS
	The prediction from previous experience is: carbon monoxide 
halved, nitrogen oxides (NOx) considerably decreased, unburnt fuel 
ditto.  Will appraise  -  similarly static  -  when I can get the 
spare part to go in the exhaust from my old Vane Tunescope.  Will 
also request regional authority air pollution experts to make 
readings in motion at 30 mph as developed in Colorado.

4.  COOLING
	Ain't got no EGT, CHT, oil T or even oil P yet - let alone 
oxygen sensor in the exhaust.  The more heavily instrumented buses 
will I hope give us some readings before long.

5.  VALVE/SEAT  LONGEVITY
	This will take quite some time to get illuminated by data. 
Rate of closing down of exhaust valve rocker clearances may be some 
preliminary guide.  But who records that?

6.  OPTIMAL  FEED  RATES
	To establish accurate fuel consumption figures at different 
water/fuel feed ratios (using different needles) will take a few 
thousand mi of careful testing.  Let's get started.  If you try 
water/fuel above say 10%, take special care to keep those throttle 
openings small while the engine is cold, or else you may condense 
water in the sump oil.

	Some Yanks evidently have difficulty believing this Kiwi 
development is worth any response.  They probably also think the 
Wrights did a powered takeoff before the Kiwi Richard 'bamboo' Pearse 
(31-3-1903).  They may even be unaware of the genius Burt Munro who 
was to motorcycling roughly what Pearse was to powered flight.  They 
will almost certainly be unaware that of the widely-agreed top 3 
scientists (Newton, Faraday, Rutherford) none is a Yank but one a 
Kiwi.
	But isn't the prospect of saving a gallon or two per fill, 
for negligible capital & running costs, appealling no matter who 
worked out how to do it most easily?

	Anyways, there you have the simplest way to slap water into 
the combustion air of lo-vac VW carbs.  Give it a try!  I look fw to 
cooperation from other enthusiasts - some of them Yanks.

R
