Date: Wed, 21 Jun 2006 19:59:46 -0400
From: Will Anderson <wha(-at-)alumni.princeton.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: SOS from Jackson WY westbound

Hi all from internet cafe in Jackson Wyoming. 
and a special circle of VW hell for valvetrains.

well my hi-po t1 engine doesn't have hi-po rocker shafts, and I'm in a 
world of hurt.  really, just a world where all the aircooled veedubs 
have gone the way of the dodo bird--the state of Wyoming.  last time I 
needed a part in 1999 I got it in western MT at a place near Butte 
called Brax.  but this time I'm heading through Idaho to Reno by Friday.

still rolling but limping badly.

long story short--rocker arm busted spring washers, mushroomed valve end 
(#3 intake) .  I had a whole set of spare adjusters and I am down to 2.  
got spare rocker arm parts in northern Colorado yesterday morning, have 
gone ~300 miles, on the way I used up all the spare parts I had got 
there. stopping every 50 miles to fix a busted part--the mushroomed 
valve end is causing side loads to bust up whatever stock shims, spring 
washers, clips I throw at it.  so it looks like a head pull soon--or 
some funky fix to make the rocker assy more sturdy (I've been thinking 
of lots of ways--the most ideal being the racing solid-shim 
bolt-together assy.)

so out of parts, I pulled the pushrod from #3 intake so I don't lose a 
valve keeper etc. . . running on 3 cylinders, seems so cliche here. 

I have a strong hunch there is a hot rod bug shop in SE Idaho 
somewhere-- please someone call me and tell me where--or if there is 
someone close by who has stock parts--not even the mechanics in Jackson 
do aircooleds anymore, all the hippies were priced out long ago.  I just 
talked to Jeremy from thesamba forum and he had some leads.

trip report:  all good from Atlanta to Asheville sendoff, through WVA to 
PA to pick up a kayak in Ohiopyle, across Ohio and Indiana, Illinois 
(red state where they don't wave back), St. Louis MO to fix 
grandparents' computer, bad crosswinds in Kansas, on to beautiful hip 
Salida Colorado where I camped downtown at FIBARK whitewater festival 
with some nice folks in a 79 westy from Grand Junction, then to Hot 
Sulphur Springs for a theraputic day of soaking (and parts hunting) 
luckily there is a bus guru in town there.  yesterday was the most 
discouraging to stop 6 times to fix the left rocker arm assy in BRUTAL 
**crosswinds in south central wyoming, a desolate place.  stayed in the 
Sweetwater Valley on the old Oregon trail, then up the Wind River Valley 
from Lander, beautiful view of the Tetons coming down.

I'd better call out to some folks in ID right now to see if they can 
help in the morning.

I need--either a racing rocker assy (easier fix) or 40mm intake valve 
and keeper, someone to help with the engine pull and head work. . .

thanks,
Will A.
'70 Westy "Rebertha"
678-517-6578
