From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Green on Green <kamax8g(-at-)yahoo.com>, Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 23 Sep 2003 08:55:27 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] And the saga begins

  Back in the days when I restored 356 Porsches for a living people were
very anal as to what a restoration was. If we did a 356 not correct ie; ALL
ORIGINAL (color, interior etc.) it would not be allowed to be judged in the
concours or even the street concours classes.
  Out of this came a new term OUTLAWS a whole new class of judging for NON
ORIGINAL 356 Porsches and believe it or not, these NON ORIGINAL 356's sold
and are still selling for more money then original ones, why you ask?
Because they have a personality of there own, one off's, beautiful
interpatations of the owner/builders idea of what they THINK the car should
have been. This is the theme I am doing on my DC. I am doing it the way I
think it would have been done today if VW still built them, a little
modernization of an old idea. Improving the drivability and the appearance
for comfort, saftey and looks. 
  I also have a 1960 SC that I am ready to finish, (after I get over the
sticker shock of the DC), that is going BONE ASS STOCK (the SC) except can I
still call it restored being I did replace the BASTERD 40 hp with a newer
model 40 hp engine but still retained the original basterd fuel pump, tin,
dizzy etc?

  So for the VN's this bus could not be called restored being I do not have
the original engine, but it's far from being a custom!!!!

ronnie  to each there own

ps. in some of the other vintage circles they call any car redone, restored
but base it on a points system of 100% for a absolute original to whatever
percentage the car has been altered from it's original state, but then again
I have seen RESTORED vintage street rods, Barris Customs and So Cal Speed
shop cars. At SEMA a couple years ago George Barris was there with his
Bubble car TOTALY RESTORED so if you "RESTORE" a vintage custom what do you
call that? Even the original Batmobil has been RESTORED?
  I just thought of another restored car, Vic Edelbrocks (spelling) dads
original 32 Ford Rodster (the car that started the empire) was just RESTORED
here in Havasu with Vic himself calling it a restoration, of course with his
money he can say what he wants!!



-----Original Message-----
From: Green on Green [mailto:kamax8g(-at-)yahoo.com]
Sent: Tuesday, September 23, 2003 8:10 AM
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] And the saga begins


Sheesh, where do you come from? Lighten up. This isn't
the R&R Forums.
In a way, you are jumping on a non-thinking bandwagon
that accepts anything as a resto. Yeah, "Resto-Cutsom"
would be a better term for all this, rather than
straight out "restoration", since (again) even Ronnie
isn't even calling it a restoration. IF (and that's a
big "if") Ronnie was to enter it in a show, in a
"Restored" class and won, imagine how upset the people
who actually had a restored bus would be. Wouldn't
you? I hear it all the time, peole bickering about how
custom stuff gets thrown in restored classes and they
win because people think that a pretty motor and fancy
interior work is original. 
My dictionary (Webster's Unabridged 1989 edition,
definiton #3) states: "restoration": a return of
something to a former, original, normal, or unimpaired
condition.
Maybe, in general, it would be a good idea to look at
the way other groups of automotive enthusiasts applies
the term "restoration", and get away from the "Hot
VW's" definition of things. 
Eric, I'm not flaming you and I really don't care what
you think or how you feel about it. 
*I'm just glad that Ronnie is getting a DC like he
wants it.* 
baaa baaa baaaa :)

--- "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
wrote:

> Wow, guess what? I still call it a restoration, do
> you know why? Because
> where I come from, there's different kinds of
> restorations. That's just how
> it is up here. It's called "not being a sheep".
> Think for yourself. Just
> because a group or a majority throws thier voice out
> there, doesn't mean i'm
> going to jump on the bandwagon just to fit in or be
> accepted (the biggest
> problem with the VW community). I've pissed of
> enough people doing that, and
> i'm sure i'll piss off a bunch more.
> 
> So to me, yep, I sure do consider it a restoration.
> Technically correct, no,
> but tough **** if you don't like it. I do call
> things custom or vintage
> resto's, and you don't. Sorry you don't like it. Oh
> wait, no i'm not......
