Date: Tue, 23 Sep 2003 22:08:08 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Wir fahr'n fahr'n fahr'n auf der Autobahn

So, the weather is nice and I have plenty of pollution credits built up
from driving the Prius, so I decided to get the Bus out and play with
it for a while.  Drove it to work on Monday and today; the people at
work liked it.  I got elected to drive to lunch - for some reason, they
thought it would be even roomier than the Cr(-at-)wn Vic we usually take.
Two of my just-out-of-college co-workers found the Idiot manual in
the back seat and laughed at the chapter headings, but I am trying to
convince them it is a masterpiece of technical writing for a non-
technical audience.

Among many other things that it needs, I want to get a more correct
vacuum or combination advance distributor on it.  I have an 009 on
there which is better than the Porsche one it came with, but you can
tell that it doesn't kick in until ~2500 RPM.  Rebuilding the engine
(tired "mystery motor" with 57+ Kmiles) would probably help too, but
for now I just wanna drive it.

It actually will go on the freeway, and once or twice I have even
passed a car or two.  Semi drivers tend to be cool about giving you
room to merge or get over; if they're fully loaded, they probably
have the same "challenges" of acceleration and braking that I do...

Little things: The ones digit on the odometer doesn't move continuously
like most American cars.  It stays centered in the window until it's
about to roll over, then rolls over to the next digit and stays centered
for another mile.  Cool.

People don't believe you when you say it's a 3/4 ton or 1 ton truck.

When I open the door, no lights come on.

I'm pretty sure the light on my gas gauge burned out tonight.  I work
a few blocks away from the only VW dealer in town; I am really tempted
to go in there and complain and ask for another 6 V light bulb under
warranty.

Die Fahrbahn ist ein graues Band.  Weisse Streifen, gruener Rand...

Matt Roberds
