From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: harmony(-at-)buszen.com, type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>, Full Moon Bus club
Date: Thu, 25 Sep 2003 08:51:58 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] New welder for body work

  Buy an inert gas welder, don't cheap out. I have a Hobart 250 (industrial)
mig welder and just purchased a Miller 175 suitcase mig welder (not as good
as I thought it should be). It seems that the Miller has a weaker grounding
system then my Hobart and I get a lot more splatter from the Miller then the
Hobart (even though Miller now owns Hobart). I thought I was crazy with this
problem so made the rounds of all my friends shops to see what they use and
found half and half Miller 135 and 175 (suitcase) and the other half
Lincoln. I asked them all about splatter and the general conclusion was that
the smaller Millers have this inherent problem, not that they don't weld
good, just messy, where as the Lincoln didn't appear to have this problem.
Now mind you I have been using the Miller to it's top ranges on 1/4 inch
metal. I believe in testing things to the max and found it to start
weakening up the longer I weld (low duty cycle). 
  So in conclusion buy a Miller, Lincoln or even the Hobart suitcase style
110 volt inert gas welder, use .023 oo6 spec coated wire, low heat ranges,
stitch weld the panels, don't go crazy and take your time. The extra cost of
a quality welder will more then offset the frustration of using an inferior
product.
  

ronnie  a nickel worth today

-----Original Message-----
From: John Baker [mailto:harmony(-at-)buszen.com]
Sent: Thursday, September 25, 2003 8:02 AM
To: type2 list; Full Moon Bus club; list vintage bus
Subject: [VB] New welder for body work


hey Y'all,
Has anybody used one of those wire-feed welders
(gasless, flux core wire) for welding body panels on a
bus?  How do they work? What was your experience? Any
tips for a rookie welder?

=====
Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1972 Deluxe
http://www.buszen.com

"So we got into the red VW microbus with the shovels and the rakes and the
implements of destruction and we headed on to the police officer's
station..."
