From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 20 Mar 2005 02:02:39 -0700
Subject: Engine install update. First impressions on the road

Today was a good day despite the cold wind, rain and snow in Northern Arizona!
I finaly got my 80 Vanagon off its blocks and took it for a test drive. I was
grinning so much that my face hurt! :~) This is only the second time I have
actualy driven it in the 2 years I've had it. I purchaced it in "as is"
condition, at the time, not running and leaking gas all over when you would
try to start it! The P.O. told me that it needed some work to be road worthy,
his mechanic said it needed major work to get it running. At LEAST a new set
of heads was his professional opinion. It pay to know most of the mechanics in
town even though I do all my own work.  After a little tinkering and a new set
of points I got it running only to confirm a dropped valve seat and low oil
pressure even when cold.

Now, after flattening a fat wallet full of money, and lots of blood sweat and
tears, I have installed a rebuilt engine from a list recommended rebuilder.
Much easier than rebuilding it myself but I'm left with that nagging feeling
in the back of my mind as to the quality of the rebuild. I have no foundation
for these feelings except for the fact that I didn't see all the work and
skill that went into this power plant. Time and miles will tell the story.

I could almost hear my bus say "Aahhhhh, thank you", as I backed her off the
blocks and slowly onto the road. My first excursion of 4 miles at 20 to 45 MPH
was quite uneventful. Drove around the neighborhood and even a short run on
the highway. Good oil pressure, reasonable head temps, no knocking, pinging,
clicking or tapping. Just a nice smooth throaty exhaust note, and posibly a
haunting voice from the back of the bus saying, "Push that pedal down some
more, I want to show you what I can do." I kept telling myself almost outloud,
"no no, take it easy. This was major surgury. Gotta make sure she's healed
before you turn her loose."

After 4 miles I forced her back into the driveway for inspection. No leaks, no
smoke, oil level still at full mark. Let her cool down while I had lunch, then
went out for drive number two. 2 1/2 miles down a flat road and back, 5 miles
down a gentle hill and 5 back up the hill. Got a little nervous as the head
temp rose while pulling up the hill, but it never got to 350 degrees. As I
crested the hill the head temps quickly dropped to about 300 deg f. I finaly
relaxed a little.

I could now start scrutinizing other things about the bus. Ohh, I shure can
tell new tires all around are in order. That bumpy, shimmy, stiff feeling of
old tires, too long in one place is a dead give away. Oh well, it's in the
budget. Steering was otherwise tight and straight tracking down the road. No
squeeks, rattles or thumps on a bumpy stretch of road except for the annoying
sound of the loose silverware the P.O. left me in the drawer right behind my
seat.

So far I'm thinking, money well spent. Knock wood! Time for sleep now and
dreams of the open road. Isn't it wonderfull when things go right!

Thanks and cheers to all you list members who have advised me and gave support
durring the rebirth of this bus. Without you, this would have been a much more
trying experience.

Tom
75 bus "Turtlebus"
80 Westy "as yet unnamed"
As Dr. Frankenstien said, "IT'S ALIVE!"
Bus-ted minds want to know
