From: "John Rogers" <jnrogers5555(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "Neale Green" <tigger(-at-)neale.org>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 27 Jan 2003 07:53:22 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Horn wire long shot question

Neale

Many times the horn wiring on these buses is not what it was when they were
built, because of fixes and modifications by past owners. If that is the
case what I am writing below may be of only marginal value.

The original wiring itself seems rather odd. It consists of a hot wire that
goes to the horn and from the horn attaches to a clip (male spade connecter)
at the base of the steering column which itself is then "hot."  If you take
off the horn button a wire should be clearly visible attached to the horn
ring. When the horn button is depressed a circuit is completed between the
hot steering column and this wire. This wire then goes back down through the
middle of the steering column and attaches to one of the bolts on the
steering box and thus grounds. Thus the circuit is completed and the horn
sounds.

Now assuming this is how the wiring is still in your bus, many things can
happen. The good news is it sounds like the column is still hot. The bad
news is is sounds like it is shorting when the wheel is turned. It is hard
to know why but at least you are in the ballpark for exploration.

A very simple possible cause is this. The hot wire from the horn that
attaches to the spade connector at the base of the steering column is
supposed to be snugged away from the connection to the steering box. It may
no longer be snugged away and over time by rubbing against the connection
has lost insulation. Now when you turn the wheel and thus the connection to
the steering box, a portion of the no longer insulated wire makes contact
with the steering box connection and completes the circuit causing the horn
to sound.

I would begin here, and if this is not the cause go on to a methodical
checking off of all possible shorts. You will need a meter and nice weather
but it should be doable and maybe even fun.

Good luck,

John
