Date: Mon, 27 Jan 2003 09:51:50 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Jon DeVos <hippygarden(-at-)comcast.net>, type 2 mailing list
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: A revision of a brief question...

>I asked the guy about retorking the heads but he said that I couldn't
>because of these metal gaskets.  He did say they weren't really gaskets
>per say, but some metal, possibly shims, that had blown through.  I got
>this bus shipped here from a used car lot in Cal. It was in 5 year old
>car shape with less then 100,000 miles on it.  The engine has never been
>rebuilt so any thing factory is still that way.  I also am not sure the
>guy said to replace the gasket, it could be just to remove them.  The
>cylinders can not be retorked while these are there.

Those help the heads seal to the cylinders basically. If you remove them 
you will raise the compression ratio. The Beetle did not use these. The bus 
does if it is a Type IV (I won't comment on a Beetle powered bus as I have 
never had one).

They are stock OEM items and I would recommend that for a bus engine you 
put them back in. VW put them in there for a reason.

I have seen them on all of the bus Type IV engines. They are pretty thin 
once installed.

If you remove them one side and not the other the engine will have an 
uneven compression ratio for one side versus the other side. DO NOT LET HIM 
DO THIS TO YOUR ENGINE.

If one has ruptured I could surmise that the head was loose and the 
compression gases pushed it out. More likely though is somebody removed the 
head and as they were reattaching it to the engine the gasket moved and got 
crimped as the head was torqued.

If this guy doesn't know anymore than this I would SERIOUSLY get your bus 
home and learn to do the job yourself. He is likely overtorque the exhaust 
studs and cause them to pull (and then tell you that they were defective, 
etc.). Tell him you just lost your job and don't have the $$$ right now or 
something. Drag it home or whatever. Good reason to buy a good stout tow 
bar and borrow a tow vehicle.

If the factory put these gaskets in there and torqued the heads at the 
factory, why can't you and I do the same now 20 years later? Put the 
gaskets in there and be rid of this guy. At least if you do remove them, 
remove them on both sides.

It is simple. Disconnect exhaust (leave manifold torqued to the head if it 
is not leaking). Remove tin. Remove rocker arms and push rod tubes. Remove 
head. Replace gaskets. Reinstall in reverse adding all new gaskets and 
paint if you prefer. I would say it could be done in the bus but I would 
remove the engine and strip the engine down replacing the gaskets, fuel 
lines, popping the tin off to look for rags or leaves or rodent nests. 
Replace all the gaskets and clean, clean, clean.

Whole project won't cost maybe $100 if you provide all of the labor.

You'll be much more prepared to do emergency repairs far from home if you 
do a few repairs at your leisure at home.

There are certainly more experienced folks than I on this list and at least 
listen to one of them versus the guy you're talking to in NJ.


Chris Mills in TN
