From: "Robert S. Williams, MD" <rwill(-at-)arkansas.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 27 Jan 2003 15:53:39 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] AVP longblock Rebuild: Head failure(-at-) 15K Miles

Well, the head was pulled and the burned exhaust valve was removed. There
were marks of leakage (soot) at one point of the head shim/gasket and also
at the valve guide on the spring side.

The mechanic (>40 years experience with VW service) feels that the valve
guide was improperly placed because he discovered 5 cracks on the aluminum
surrounding the valve guide. Also he notes that the valve seat was ground in
a non-concentric fashion leaving one area thinner than the other side and
this lead to burning of the valve at one edge.

He thinks the head was perhaps welded at one spot near the spark plug hole,
but said that this was common practice and the spark plug insert wasn't a
problem. He attributes the failure to a bad job at rebuilding the head at
the #1 exhaust valve...... the non-concentric valve seat and the poor
placement of the valve guide causing pinching and undue stress on the rocker
arms ..thus pulling out the rocker arm assembly stud. the tip of the valve
under the rocker arm was pinged-up (rough) while the same areas on the other
valves were nice and smooth. The exhaust valve stem was not bent.

AVP was called by the mechanic and they want the head returned to them
before they will comsider compensation. Therefore I will have him install a
locally available rebuilt head and wait to see what AVP will do.....this
will have my bus back up-and-running in a couple of days instead of having
to wait weeks for the head to make the round trip to AVP and back.


                    Thanks for your suggestions.


                    Robert
----- Original Message -----
From: "Vanagon man" <vgonman(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Robert S. Williams, MD" <rwill(-at-)arkansas.net>
Sent: Sunday, January 26, 2003 6:57 PM
Subject: Re: [T2] AVP longblock Rebuild: Head failure(-at-) 15K Miles


> 15 thousand miles in 3 years is part of the problem.  Cars need to be run.
> It would appear to me that the failure was caused by a lack of maintenace.
> Aperformance issue should have brought you to stop the car immediately and

> see the prob.  Not continue to drive.  These things happen to new engines,
> too.  When your rocker started messing up, you kept driving, thus causing
> the head gasket to fail on the low cylinder.  Easy fix should take you
half
> a day max.
