Date: Thu, 31 May 2007 10:16:25 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: courtney hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>, type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: wetwesties <wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Possible areas of oil leak?

courtney if it has oil laying on the tin under the fan pulley it might likely be the rear main seal but if not i would like to know cause my wifes 73 is having the same issue,..,., she dont have oil laying on the tin under fan pulley though so i am still confused as to what her problem is as yours...
  if you figure yours out please let me know...
  i thought hers might be the oil pump also but i dont see the amount of oil i would thin in that area...   i have also changed her push rod seals as well as her dipstick boot.. have you looked at your dipstick boot? course that should sling it at anytime not just shut off..
  hers also spills a good bit of oil after shut off and has gotten real bad last time she drove her and now we cant drive it till we figure this one out.,.
  thanks
  chai 
   
  and good luck to you...

courtney hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca> wrote:
  I have been having a leak on my 2.0L 77 Westy since I got it, and thought it was the passengers side inner pushrod tube seals where they go into the block. I crawled under last night after removing the rocker arms, and although two of them are weepy, they wouldn't cause the amount of leak I'm seeing after I park and shut it off. On closer inspection, I see it quite wet up around the area of the oil pump/engine backside, but of course it's tough to see what it is for sure up in there. 
1) Could someone perhaps suggest what might be a possible cause up in that area?
2) My Bentley is not clear on what has to be removed to inspect this area. I am thinking the fan housing assembly. Do I have to remove the cooling sheet metal along the back of the engine to remove the fan housing assembly, and will this let me see the various places that might be leaking?
I'd appreciate any thoughts on this, as it would be nice to get rid of the leaking as it's causing the engine to get really dirty.
Thanks in advance,
Courtney



                                                          1976 HighTop(Grace)
   
  1973 Westy(Olive)
   
  1968 Beetle(Glory)
   
   
   Define Your Happiness
   www.HappyKyndArts.org
