Date: Fri, 1 Jun 2007 05:21:52 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Weber Progressive advice required.

hey greg i had this happen to me on my 76 and every time i changed the throttle adjustment the timing went up or down...
   
  i had to loosen the idle screw till it wasnt toouching at all.. 
  then i turned in in just till it touched but not pushed against ...
  i had someone crank the vehicle and turned slowly until i had something i could work with and then adjusted timing and barely had to touch the idle screw again ... this time the fan pulley mark and timing stayed steady..no biounce... to it..
   
  make sure there is no pull what so ever on that throttle cable and that you have a good spring on there .. 
   
  this may not be your case but i had this happen to me and this was my fix..
  good luck bro
  chai

Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca> wrote:
  Hi Volks,

Imagine the horror. Me, the cheerleader of L-Jetronic and proponent 
of MegaSquirt.... Suddenly I am forced to deal with a weber 
progressive in the family fleet.

See, my Dad bought a 1975 westy ("Franklin") about 5 years ago and in 
order to get it mobile ASAP we threw in a turnkey engine acquired 
last year at John Brown's Buses. It came equipped with a dual-vac 
distributor with no vac lines attached. That distributor had to be 
replaced as the lobe was severely rusted (engine had been sitting 
outside for a year or so). We are now using a dual-vac distributor 
from a 1975 FI bus.

I am wondering about the correct timing spec for this carb/dizzy 
combo, if there is one. I have been aiming for 7.5 BTDC but I can't 
seem to get the rpms stable at that point as soon as the rpms change 
the timing goes with it. If the rpms drop, the timing drops too. If 
the rpms go up, the timing advances. It just doesn't want to stay 
stable at 7.5.

We're looking to get this thing mobile so I can test-drive it locally 
for a few days before my brother attempts the 4-hour trip to 
BusFusion next weekend. Help in getting this carb sorted out would be 
greatly appreciated.


Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/77/79 Westfakia "Bob The Tomato
www.pottsfamily.ca
www.busesofthecorn.com



                                                          1976 HighTop(Grace)
   
  1973 Westy(Olive)
   
  1968 Beetle(Glory)
   
   
   Define Your Happiness
   www.HappyKyndArts.org
