From: "John" <vanagonvw(-at-)gmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 1 Jun 2007 12:21:51 -0600
Subject: Decel valve, 81 air cooled

Hi all. A lurker coming forth, looking for help.....

I have major backfiring when decelerating, from my 81 2.0L, and have been
looking at the decel valve, hoping to find the source of the problem. Been
hassling folks on lists for answers,  and I understand enough now, to see
that it could cause the problem, but I don't know how to actually prove it
as the source, without replacing it, which seems to be way too expensive for
my wallet at this point in time. Seem to cost about $140 new, and I don't
know of any junk yards with vanagons at this moment...

So, first and foremost, is there a way to prove the valve is causing the
backfiring, by eliminating it, temporarily? I removed the small control
vacuum line, and tried to inhale the valve, lacking a vacuum tester. There
seems to be nothing in there to create a vacuum. (which is odd, because
their is no indication in the way it runs, to suggest a big vacuum leak....
Runs great, 20mpg, and just passed the emissions sniffer test...... Runs as
well as it did before the backfiring showed up, and the idle speed has not
gone upl....

I plugged that small line, then pulled the big hoses from the other side,
and blocked them off as well, and the backfiring is still there, maybe
worse. Of course, plugging those hoses rather well chokes the engine when it
decelerates, as far as I can understand it, so basically, doing that, is the
same as having a bad valve, near as I can tell.

I have gotten a lot of help, and done the things suggested, and now am faced
with the notion that the valve is bad. Where I get tangled up is, okay, its
bad, but I simply cannot afford $100+ just to prove that it is causing the
backfiring. If I knew for sure, I might could swing it, but to lay out the
cash, and still have the backfiring problem, would be a bad thing in my
present condition   I  hope that makes sense......

That said, lacking any way to prove the valve is the source of the problem,
anyone know of a cheap one laying around, or whatever?

Just rambling, as I really want to fix it, but simply want to make the
necessary repairs, and leave the uneccesary for another day.....

Thanks for any and all advice or suggestions

John

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of smile.gif]
