Date: Sat, 2 Jun 2007 04:47:50 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>, Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Thoughts on locking engine compartment

I had to put a engine lock on my bay....
  I came out of wal mart one day and there was a guy standing there with my engine bay open looking at it...
  I asked could i help you and he says nope and went on looking at the engine...
  i said sir that aint right.. he says what i aint hurting nothing i said well that might be true but something dont seem right about you all up in my engine bay like i know you and the vehicle has some sort of connection to you... he got pissy and finally walked away after i walked up and stood there and then grabbed the engine bay and shut it on him... the nerve of some folks..
  that irritates me as bad as someone a stranger walking up and just start opening my closet cabinet in the bus or lifts up my seat just to see whats under there and yes that has happened also...
  come on man this is my home away from home...
   
  that threw me off so bad..... so i came home and got me a latch that would lock and had it rekeyed to fit my other locks...
   
  now i make it a point and habit to unlock that lock first everytime i go towards the bus...
   
  then i unlock my doors...
   
  there has only been one time and none time only that i have forgot to unlock it... it only took once...
  i thought about fire as well and that little reminder helps me to rememember to unlock it ,,,
  

Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:
  I always wanted to put a lock on there, but then I
decided that the time I forgot to unlock it before
driving would be the next fire. One fire was from a
wire that I had installed without circuit protection -
for what, I don't remember - but either it was too
light in gauge or the insulation softened from being
in contact with something hot - I don't remember. I do
remember that it was shorting out on the steel fuel
rail line and that the steel had definite burn pitting
in it. That scared me pretty bad and got me to pay
more attention to doing things right.

If the engine compartment had been locked, I would
have lost the bus.

For a time I had a locking pin that I had drilled a
hole somewhere for the pin to fit into and prevent the
door from opening. The pin was easily accessed if you
knew where to reach for it.

Eventually I decided that the only people who would
maybe want to steal anything from me would be other VW
bus folks and they're 99.99% honest folks, so I
haven't bothered since.

Maybe I lead a charmed life, though. My #3 car was my
Duster. I had forgotten to take the keys out of the
trunk when I had gotten something out of there. It was
about three months later that I noticed them hanging
there. I live in a predominately low-income housing
area and all the neighbor kids used to cut through my
driveway and back yard to access a trail... and the
keys were hanging there most of summer vacation. My
worst thieves are those who ask to borrow tools! -BaH

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.



                                                          1976 HighTop(Grace)
   
  1973 Westy(Olive)
   
  1968 Beetle(Glory)
   
   
   Define Your Happiness
   www.HappyKyndArts.org






























       
---------------------------------
Got a little couch potato? 
Check out fun summer activities for kids.
