Date: Sat, 2 Jun 2007 05:43:50 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Kevin H. Roberts" <bopsax(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Thoughts on locking engine compartment

Careful, though.  When I lived in Houston, I went to the little grocery store down the street for a bag of ice about 9 PM.  I had a cheap Renault Encore that I bought for the gas mileage.  50 MPG on the highways.  But it was so ugly I never thought of anyone stealing it.  I didn't have anything on but gym shorts and a t-shirt.  No pockets for the keys.  So I left them in it for a sec.  Some guy had trouble with a check in front of me and I couldn't see it out the front door.  But you guessed it, it was  as they say, gone in 60 seconds. 

The cop was nice who gave me a ride home.  About a week later I get a call from the FBI.  They'd had the car for a week. The next day two Mexican looking guys had driven it to Humble, TX and relieved a bank of almost $40,000 with it.  Ditched it a couple of blocks away.  I had to get fingerprinted, interviewed, etc.  They didn't think I was involved but wanted tons of info on what was inside it when it was stolen.  The only thing of value was about $300 worth of golf clubs that did me little good anyway.  

Moral of the story:  you just never know what evil lurks in the minds of men. Better lock up.   But then that was Houston.  Cheers....KR

Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:

Maybe I lead a charmed life, though. My #3 car was my
Duster. I had forgotten to take the keys out of the
trunk when I had gotten something out of there. It was
about three months later that I noticed them hanging
there. I live in a predominately low-income housing
area and all the neighbor kids used to cut through my
driveway and back yard to access a trail... and the
keys were hanging there most of summer vacation. My
worst thieves are those who ask to borrow tools! -BaH

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
