From: "John" <vanagonvw(-at-)gmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 4 Jun 2007 09:26:56 -0600
Subject: Still backfiring...very sad

First off, I would start by offering a really heartfelt thank you to
everyone who filled my inbox with  pmails concerning the backfiring issues
with my 81 vanagon. I tried to pmail a 'thank you' to all, but probably
missed more than a few. Please accept my thanks...

The sad news is, no luck. The decel valve seems to behave properly. No
vacuum leaks, nothing cracked on the big tube going to the throttle. The
timing is on the red dot, and the dwell is a bit up there at 54, as the
points are a bit old.....

In desperation, I set cylinder number 2 so the exhaust valve was open, and
filled er up with 50lbs of good old compressor air, blocked off the
tailpipe, and discovered an whole lot of air flying around the weld from the
muffler to the flange, so I was happy for the rest of the weekend.

This AM, I took it to the muffler expert who had put it on, and he could not
find any leak....Blocked the tailpipe, and it stalled right out. I told him
I wouldn't be up at 8AM if I hadn't found it to be leaking :-) so he
indulged me, and touched up the weld. I mentioned the backfiring, and he was
rather adamant, that backfiring isn't caused by an exhaust leak. He has been
around for years, really has a great rep, and I tend to think he knows of
what he speaks, but this flies in the face of what so many have told me....

Now it backfires even when I just run the revs up high, and snap the
throttle shut....

Meanwhile, I have no van, and am considering just getting rid of it to the
junk yard.  I am in northern utah, quite weary of this kind of thing, so if
anyone might want to grab a pretty nice 81 van, clean, and well cared for,
that sounds like downtown Iraq when you back off the throttle, just know
that I might be back to see if anyone is interested before I scrap it.

I am very upset, but I do want to start the week by saying thanks for all
the support and great advice. From here, I have no clue where to go....

John
