Date: Wed, 28 Nov 2012 00:43:14 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Mike <manikmike(-at-)gmail.com>, type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Checking valve height on rebuilt heads with a straight

I'd be a bit different and say, MAYBE.  I'm going to talk of all the
possibilities here, though Mike states things are new for him...
 
So depends
on a couple things, the first and biggest would be are the
tips of the valves
ground.  If they are, and even though they shouldn't
be sustantially (less
than 0.010") it is unfortunate practice to often take
even 0.020"+ off of em,
and can obviouslly be done pretty randomly
from valve to valve.  That will
move the tips down and change rocker
geometry, but will not of course change
spring pressure as the location
of the lands for the keepers isn't affected by
that, but it will change the
straight edge position.  But you do state new
valves so...
 
Now of course grinding the valve itself will change the
position of where
the keeper sits in relation to the head, effectively
lengthening the stem
if you will and thereby reducing the spring pressure.  
And grinding seats
will also put the valve further into the head, effectively
lengthening the
stem sitting out past the head and again reducing spring
pressure.
But again you state all new valves so...
 
All this makes what you
see less tough to call.  All new valves of good
quality in the head at
different heights (presuming that the new
valves are in spec for length) means
seats ground irregularly.  Does it
matter.  Probably not if under 0.010-0.020"
if the seats are still ground
correctly angle wise with proper face contact
width and the shallow
angle hasn't cut out into the head beyond the seat.
 
Is
it optimal NO, will it run YES, will it give optimal service NO.  The bigger
worry, if this is a T4 is that it likely means the seats were not replaced,
and unless you are talking under 50k known miles on a set of German
heads that
you know have NOT been abused, it is false economy to
simply grind them and
rebuild them in a "standard" manner if you hope
to get much more than another
75k out of them.  I actually used to do it
myself with my Sioux set, but I
carefully inspected the core head, and
have very realistic expectations for
what I'm going to get out it.  I've had
sets go another 150k, I've had sets
drop a seat in 15k, all carefully
inspected and looking OK before I ground
them.  If there was any
question they used to go to Bob Donalds, RIP Bob. 
Anyway If you
accept these qualifications to service length and didn't pay a
whole lot
for the work, you have to decide what it means to you from a comfort
position, if you payed a lot for the work, bitch.
 
If the seats were
replaced, and all new valves of reasonable quality,
then it is a sign of
relatively dismal craftmanship, and I'd certainly
question bitch.
 
YMMV.
 
John


----- Original Message -----
From: David Raistrick
<keen(-at-)icantclick.org>
  
On Tue, 27 Nov 2012, Mike wrote:

> before any
install, I notice on each head there are one or more valves at
> different
heights, easily seen and confirmed with a straight edge.
> 
> This should not
be the case unless there is a seating issue (new valves and
> guides), and
should be addressed with the shop in question, correct?

Mike West said YES!
http://www.type2.com/~keen/west/valves3

"Then the valve springs have to all
be the same height in closed
position. The valve springs also have to have the
same tension in
open or closed postion."
http://www.type2.com/~keen/west/darkness.html

for the rest of the
collection....

RIP Mike.
