Date: Wed, 28 Nov 2012 13:30:33 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] CV Joints Pics - '72 Weekender

I agree with Mike on this, that one isn't "that" bad.  One pit in one spot
there is getting a bit worse.  I would reverse the running/loaded direction
and that joint should still go a long time if it isn't audibly clicking and
knocking.  You can have wear to just a soft cage that will loosen things up
and need replaced before the races wear, but it isn't common.  Balls should
either click into the cage, or just barely drop in.  I certainly wouldn't
scrap it, would clean, pack, and keep it bagged for a spare if nothing else. 
Although a lot of people have their favorite grease, Swepco, genuine Lobro,
whoever, I have good luck with any quality synthetic EP myself, usually Mobil
1 or the Valvoline semi-synthetic, whatever is in the gun.  For racing or high
HP use, sure go with the Swepco like the 911 or offroad guys use, but for
normal bus use I wouldn't pay more than $8-10 a tube myself.
 
As to boots,
that is tough, German rubber used to be the way to go, but it isn't usually
German anymore, and even if it is, rubber can be pretty varied as to it's
longetivity, I've had Lobro branded boots last 15 years, I've had em fail in
2.  Generally speaking I have better luck for longetiviy out of a quality
urethane boot, but don't currently know who is quality.  The one's on my '77
have been on it since '93 and still look brand new when washed off.
 
YMMV
John


----- Original Message -----
From: Mike Soultanian
<mike.soultanian(-at-)csulb.edu>
 
Those look better than mine (I had some pitting)
when I cleaned mine and that was 50,000 miles ago.  Are they knocking? 
Usually when they go bad they knock because they've gotten really loose.

If
you are going to change them, I'd probably change them as a pair so that you
don't have to figure out which was the new one and which is the old.  That, or
make sure you engrave the new/old ones so you know which are which.

> Any
suggestions on where to get decent boots are appreciated - I
> heard some are
crap.

I think lobro are the good ones.
