Date: Tue, 4 Dec 2012 11:25:38 -0700
From: Jonathan Stiles <misterstiles(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Monty Rowden <montyrowden(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] 1974 BUS FIND

Monty,

Sounds like a good find. Contact Chris at BustedBus.com or Ken at
thebusco.com for a good used dash and all the many, many, related parts you
will most likely need if it is completely missing.

As for your motor choice:

You may want to consider keeping the 1700/1800cc (depending on the
manufacturing date). This is of course if it is running it has many
advantages. The 1800cc type 4 engine is far more robust and better tuned
for the weight and aerodynamics of your bus. Your '74 would have come with
dual carburetors so there isn't any fuel injection to be learned. A 1600cc
motor was not designed to push a bus around, that is why VW invested an
enormous amount of money replacing it in 1972. Your mileage will be better
with your 1800cc motor if it is tuned correctly. With a 1600cc single
carburetor motor, you will be "pedal down" all the time, which can consume
fuel at an alarming rate.

Also, if it is indeed a rust-free bus, pulling the original motor will also
damage the value of the bus if you wish to resell it. Typically, American
market collectors or buyers do not see a 1600cc swap as a positive
modification.

This list exists to help you out if you decide to keep your bus original.

But if you have your heart set on it, you can get a fiberglass Type 1 into
a Type 4 conversion here. They are very high quality and a better option
than trying to find original German pieces.

http://vwparts.aircooled.net/Engine-Conversion-Tin-Upright-Engine-in-T4-Bay-p/engine-filler-panel.htm

Good luck with your project. Let us know if you need any other help
regardless of which power plant you choose!

Jon Stiles
Aircooled Outfitters



On Tue, Dec 4, 2012 at 8:18 AM, Monty Rowden <montyrowden(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:

> Hey volks, I just got ahold of a 74 bus, original paint, no rust!  It's
> missing the dash though.  What years of dashes will fit in it?  Also, I
> would
> like to put a standard 1600cc engine in.  I don't want the pancake engine.
>  I
> need to find the Euro tin for the standard engine to fit in the bus
> though.  I
> just needed to know these couple of things.  THANKS, Monty
