Date: Sat, 01 Sep 2001 23:02:22 -0700
From: Scott Fraser <kn6f(-at-)dolphinsci.com>
To: Doppelkabine <chrhobbs(-at-)mindspring.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Excuse me/Splittie gun racks?

Doppelkabine wrote:

> This brings up a topic I've been wondering about.  I don't believe I've ever seen a splittie doublecab or singlecab sporting a gun rack.  Since I live in the Old South maybe I should think about getting one.  Anybody have any recommendations or experiences to share?  Will an off-the-shelf gunrack do, or is it necessary to have one custom-made?    B^)

I could just see my DC now humming down the 405 fwy in SoCal, giving the CHP a heart attack with its recently fitted gun rack and tools that look suspiciously like rifles.

No thanks, ... things like that get turned around here.

I was sitting in my family room one morning watching (3am) TV when I heard something out by the cars in the driveway.  Having a security cam aimed at the DC, I changed channels and checked the cars.  Imagine how high my heart leapt when I saw someone messing with my wife's car.  Keeping a cool head, I then looked out the side window and saw that it was
just a couple of boys that knew my daughter toilet papering the house.  I slooooowly walked out of the house and right behind both of them admiring their work.  (Got my DC good).  Next thing they heard was me in a nice loud "GOTCHA!!!!".  One kid was SO startled that he dropped his backpack (and who knows what else) and set the world's record for the 1
mile run.  The other stood there, white as a sheet and just couldn't think of anything to say.

Now here's what all this has been leading up to....
I told him that I didn't mind them TPing the house but the cars were a bit much, and it was a good thing that I had not come running out with my shotgun thinking it was a car theft going on, especially since it was 3am.

Next thing, I start getting calls from parents (completely unrelated), "did you pull a shotgun on johnny?"

Imagine how that story got blown out of proportion.

For the record, the shotgun remained LOCKED up during the incident and never came close to being unlocked.

It was a pain cleaning all the TP off the DC.

Scott


