From: Scriznap(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 3 Sep 2001 20:18:25 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: AIRS request Attn: Phoenix Listees

Hi All, I just got this message from an AIRS member(?) stuck in Peoria, It 
sounds pretty bad and he's looking for a reliable mechanic in the PHX area. 
Please reply directly to him as he is not on this list. Thanks, Reed Shaw.

-----Hey Reed,
I'm havin' some serious engine problems. Maybe you educate me a little.
I've got a ''77 Transporter w/a 2.0 liter engine. I was recently
experiencing some carb. problems, nothing major, or so I thought.
Anyway, I went to Flagstaff on Saturday (9-1-2001). And on Sunday
morning (8am) it took about 15mins. to get my bus started, normally it
takes one turn of the key. So I left back to Phoenix. When I'd get goin'
about 65-70mph (normally not a problem) the bus would start sputterin'
as if choking or getting too much gas. So right as I was rounding the
corner pulling into to Camp Verde area the engine made a "popping" sound
once, the engine went off (No smoke or anything poured out the back),
and coasted about 3 miles downhill until I could call for help. It did
leave a large spot of oil which it never did before (only little spots).

When I stopped in the safety lane I attempted to start it, it did. But
behind the pulley while idling (barely) the engine was making this awful
screeching sound (internally). The towtruck driver thought maybe I "spun
a bearing" or "blew a seal". I tried to drive it after this happened,
but it has no power and sounds really crappy idling, more of a
screeching sound. I don't want to turn it on anymore for fear of ruining
something internally. I ended up getting it towed to Peoria ($250.00).
My question to you is, since I'm not familiar with this type of break, I
am search of a decent mechanic private or a shop who can guarantee their
work. The last mechanic left me with the situation I'm in now, and that
cost me $1500.00 on May 15, 2001. Now I can't even reach the guy. Can
you suggest someone reliable that could fix this in a timely manner. As
this bus is the only vehicle I have and I'm limited in experience as to
the work I can do on it, not to mention, I have a limited tool
selection. I would really appreciate your help if possible. Thanks for
hearing my story. Call me (-at-) (623)-210-6112 -cell or (623)-334-3416 -hm.
or E:mail at: lostsailor99(-at-)hotmail.com.
Thanks alot, Aaron
