Date: Tue, 16 Aug 2005 14:46:01 -0500 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: What VWs other than the Type2 came with power brakes??

First, PLEASE CC any replies to my address as well as the list. I currently
have 4,827 unread messages in my type2 folder due to some family issues
that kept me away from email for a while in June/July.

Not EXACTLY a type2 question -- but since the part is on my Rivi...

What I am looking for is a good PICTURE of a Type 4 master cylinder to see
if that's what was installed on my bus as per the message below. I decided
to send the message here as well because all I've been able to get after
lots of internet searching and long distance phone calls is "I don't know".
This list has a LOT of members who are knowlegeable about VW's in general
rather than just the Type2.

Thanks,

Gerald

Some ***hole PO replaced the entire brake master/booster with one from
another model.

So, what VW's other than the bus came with power brakes? Type4, type3?

There's a VW stamp on the (broken) master that's installed but no part
number that I could find under the rust. 

The front circuit has been bad at least since the last brake job. I got a
look at the pads he took off and they are essentially brand new. So,
whoever did the last brake job also didn't give a sh** that the front
brakes didn't work. The back ones work great.

No more grinding in left turns though. He said that right rear wheel
bearing was in BAD shape. The only thing left to do is figure out what
master cylinder I need.

One thing I'm not real sure about is if maybe it's the design of this
master that is causing the front not to work. It is designed for 4 wheel
independent brakes. It has 6 holes. 2 for switches and 4 for lines. The PO
blocked 1 front and 1 rear circuit hole with crimped lines.

Sending this message (or toned down versions of it) to TCB, VVW, BSKA, and
the Aircoolers list. Skipping the type2 list since it's turned into a
not-type2 question.

REALLY don't want to have to swap out the whole drum/master from the '74
since the Rivi is a '73 and I'm not sure if the bigger booster will be a
bolt-on swap.

G2
