From: "Oly" <olyolsen(-at-)bresnan.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "'VintageBus list'" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Wed, 17 Aug 2005 23:19:53 -0600
Subject: Early Bay Seat replacement

Recalling a recent thread re: alternative seats for a Bay Bus I thought I'd
share these pix of the install I just completed in my son's 71 Riviera.  (he
just purchased it from me last month)
I posted some pix at: http://photos.yahoo.com/olyolsenmt13
His older brother has sucked the life out of an 86 Jetta and we're getting
ready to send it to the scrap yard.  The seats however were pretty clean, no
rips tears or errors, minimal stain.
The seats in the Rivi were shot, you could feel the springs in the driver's
seat!
What I discovered it that by cutting the two rear posts/pipes that support
the Jetta seats at approx 1/2 inch from the bottom catch, they rested quite
solidly in the bus.
I mounted two bolts with double nuts that the posts sit over, preventing any
lateral movement.
I then mounted a 1.5 inch wide piece of angle iron to the front of the bus
seat pedestal and then drilled a hole in the front rail of the jetta seat
and bolted that to the angle iron. 
It acts like a crude hinge on the front and the bolts in the rear keep the
seat stable laterally.
I'm 6'2" and my older son is 6'3", we both are comfortable and can see
easily out the windshield.  The seats feel like they were meant to be there!
The photos appear to show the Vanagon retractable seatbelt installation but
look past that to see the details of the bolt/nut placement.
The down side is no adjustment front to back for any less-tall drivers, but
in our family it's not an issue.
You would need to determine the best front to back position for your own
application, there is quite a bit of room to vary your placement.
Let me know if you have any questions, this write up in likely clear as mud
and if one took more time in the planning stages it would probably turn out
cleaner.


Oly Olsen
Great Falls Montana
'71 Riviera
