From: "J Barry Burneskis" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 18 Aug 2005 17:37:05 +0000
Subject: RE: Starting engine questions

Chris said:

"my 79 and lo and behold she
cranked and fired, but will only run for about 3 seconds or so before
stalling out. So here are my questions if anyone has answers please
email me!..."

Gosh, Chris, before the answers start flowing in, let me share my last 
years' experience with you.

H Steve Dolan helped me (actually did most of the hard work, public thanks 
to Steve) on a '76 FI Safare that had sit for about7-8 years.

After Steve replaced ALL the fuel lines (hint - hint), the '76 would only 
kick over for 3-4 seconds.  I guess it was running off the cold start valve 
or something like that.

I figured the FIs were not spitting out the fuel as they should have, so I 
added another [an extra that I had in my stash] dual rail to the left side 
of the engine by taking the hose off the left side of the cold start valve, 
and adding in this third dual fuel rail, with another link of hose back to 
the left barb of the cold start valve. I also had a FI pressure gauge 
(actually, a gauge from Sears that I got for a couple of bucks  - $7.95 - 
from the sump pump area.  Cheap and disposable and gave a good enough 
reading)

Then I attached two potential replacement FIs to the added fuel rail [I had 
space for 6 FIs, but only 4 FIs were plugged into the VW heads] and left 
them  so they would spit the fuel all over the place.

Then Ii took the electrical connections off the two FIs that were still in 
place on the left side, and put them on the two extra FIs. [6 FIs; 4 
connections]

Then I put some paper towels ( I guess anything that would catch the gas, 
even small plastic baggies) around the ends of the FIs (pintle side), took 
all the appropriate wires off so there would be no spark for firing off the 
engine.

Since I was by myself at that time, I just went up front and turned the key 
and let it turn enough [6 revs seemed right] to ensure that the FIs had 
enough time to spit out a few times.

Off the key, back to the engine compartment, and see if fuel came out by 
seeing some wet spot on the paper towels.

Even if BOTH FIs kicked out fuel, I swapped the electrical connections and 
did the dance again....  When you do it, and if all is well, replace the 
installed original FIs with the replacement FIs.

Now test the original FIs that you just pulled.  If they spit out OK, you 
can use them for the right side.  Then  check out the right side originals, 
just for the heck of it.

When I did get the '76 running, and fairly decently, I thought i had it 
licked.  When my daughter came to help me get the '76 home, she ran chase 
and I cound I could NOT get it to drive faster that 45 MPH at the best.  So 
back to the farm.

Next day, as I was pulling plug wires, I was surprised that I was running on 
only TWO of the FOUR cylinders.  45 MPH is pretty good for a two banger!!

It did not go that smoothly, actually.  no, no fires!!  Just that it seemed 
that one of the electrical connections on the left would not work on either 
'being tested' FIs, and when I swapped the positions of the FIs, I could 
still only get one FI to spit out.  But eventually, I got results on both 
FIs, even if I swapped the connections, then swapped the positions of the 
FIs and swapped the connections another time.  I tried ALL combinations.

It is all karma and clean living, and drinking lite beer that makes these VW 
work.  I don't care how many Bentleys your have, and if you are a personal 
friend of Tom Wilson.  ANd never, NEVER lose your temper with the 
machine....  Good luck and burn some sticks before you start.

Barry sends.







Readers Digest. Illiterates die of intestinal blockage.
