Date: Thu, 18 Aug 2005 15:12:32 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: olyolsen(-at-)bresnan.net, Type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>,  VintageBus list
Subject: Re: Early Bay Seat replacement

>From: "Oly" <olyolsen(-at-)bresnan.net>
>Date: Wed, 17 Aug 2005 23:19:53 -0600
>
>The photos appear to show the Vanagon retractable seatbelt installation
>but look past that to see the details of the bolt/nut placement.

If I understand the pictures correctly, the seat is supported at three
points: two tubes over bolts at the rear, and one bolt to the angle iron
at the front.  Does the front edge of the seat tend to flex?   In other
words, if you sit in it and press down with one of your thighs, does the
front edge droop down?

The Grade 8 bolts and double nuts are good.  Is there a back-up plate or
doubler on the bottom side of the bolts?  I can see the seat tearing
loose (especially that front mount) and moving forward in a crash.

I sort of wonder about the cut tubes sitting on the washers in the back.
I wonder if the tube ends will tend to get mushroomed over or cracked.
If that's a Grade 8 washer, it might make the wear take place on the
tubes, making the back end of your seat lower and lower as time goes by.

If you're wearing your seatbelt snugly when you run into something,
you'll probably be all right.  But if you're not wearing your seatbelt
(many would say that you deserve what you get in that case), I think the
seat will try to keep moving forward around the axis of that front
horizontal bolt.  If your butt stays in the seat (patented gripping
action), the seat motion will take your torso and head forwards and up,
towards the windshield and roof.  If your butt doesn't stay in the seat,
you'll probably get dumped on the floor, closer to all the excitement.

If you have a rollover, the seat mounting may complicate extrication.
If you're wearing your seat belt, the lap belt will be holding you up,
and the shoulder belt will be holding your torso more or less vertical.
As soon as you unlatch the seat belt or the fireman cuts it, your body
will want to go straight down, but the seat will want to go down and
forwards, pushing you towards the windshield.  There will be plenty of
people prepared to catch _you_ before you fall down onto the roof, but
they won't expect the seat coming with you and being in the way.

A humbler concern: what if you go over a big bump and the rear of the
seat lifts off the seat pedestal a little?  If all works well, the tubes
come right back down over the bolts.  If it doesn't, either the tubes
come down directly onto the seat pedestal (probably a bit of a jolt for
the driver) or land on _top_ of the bolts instead of slipping over them
(probably a surprise for the driver).  The Right Thing is some kind of
positive connection in place of the nut+bolt stack.  The quick thing
would be some kind of conical thing on the end of the nut+bolt stack,
to help guide an errant tube back on center.

Matt Roberds
