From: Brown Jason <jbrown(-at-)DMCRecycling.com>
To: 'Bus Gypsy' <busgypsy(-at-)msn.com>
Cc: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 12 Apr 2002 11:14:23 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] so we got in the red vw microbus, and headed toward the 

Hi Bus Gypsy,

	Since it is Friday and all I will give this one a shot.  I live in
Newmarket, New Hampshire and drive my bus at least 3 days a week when the
roads are not totally covered in salt.  In the 16 months that I have had my
bus I have put on about 4,500 miles all in the northeast.  I have yet to be
pulled over or hassled (knock on wood).  My bus is far from show quality and
I do have a couple of Phish stickers on her and a Phish reference on my
license plate ( NICU ).  
	I do make sure that all my electricals are working and that there is
nothing obviously wrong physically with the bus (blown muffler, bald tires
etc.).  I have known a few other bus drivers who say they have been
continually hassled while driving in the same area, but there has always
been a legitimate reason for this, such as non-working tail-lights or blue
smoke billowing from the muffler.  
	I think that most local law enforcement officers are a bit more
likely to pull over an old bus than they would be to pull over a Jetta or
something like that no matter where you live.  The classic stoner hippie is
definitely still thought of as the archetype for the bus driver by many
people.  It is just a fact of life that a great many people have chosen the
VW Bus to travel the country following their favorite jam band (Dead, Phish,
moe. etc), as it is about the best home away from home you could possibly
ask for.   
	On the other hand, it occurs to me that many people who drive a bus
are also well aware of their legal rights and will not allow illegal
searches of their vehicle, and will strongly object to continual harrasment
in their community from law enforcement.  Driving a bus (or any other 30
year old vehicle for that matter) can definitely make you more of a target
for getting pulled over and hassled, but with a little foresight and
preparation most problems can be avoided before they happen.  

						Of course I could be wrong..
						Jay Brown
						'72 Hardtop Camper
	
http:www.geocities.com/vwcamper72


-----Original Message-----
From: Bus Gypsy [mailto:busgypsy(-at-)msn.com]
Sent: Friday, April 12, 2002 10:41 AM
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] so we got in the red vw microbus, and headed toward the
police officer station!


Happy Friday everyone!  

 I'm doing a little survey, a bit of research you could say.  I have been
all over the country, but I have only had the pleasure of driving a bus on
the east coast, and the west.  Mass, and Cal. to be exact.  In California, I
had a 67 deluxe, and I had a 71 westie.  Driving a vintage VW is a lot more
common out there.  Very rarely was I ever pulled over by police, in fact,
never. And I lived out there for a while.  When I grew up, I lived in Mass,
and it seemed that just being in a VW bus put you at risk of being pulled
over, and hassled.  And a deadhead sticker on it, then you are really asking
for trouble!!!
I'm wondering if it is a problem everyone faces, or does it vary state, to
state?  If the bus is mint, is it different?  Answers, comments, and stories
appreciated!!  :)  
                                      Bus Gypsy

69 bus
"The Texas Belle"Get more from the Web.  FREE MSN Explorer download :
http://explorer.msn.com
