From: "Paul and Kathy" <pa.ka(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 12 Apr 2002 18:31:38 -0400
Subject: Re:so we got in the red vw microbus, and headed toward the police officer station!

Hello Listees,
(please read the following while humming the tune to Alice's Restaurant)
    The wife and I live on Long Island, New York and have been using a bus
as a daily driver for nearly 25 years now.  In all that time Officer Obbie
has only pulled us over 1 time.  As I remember it, it was a sunny weekend
afternoon some time in the last century.  Kathy was in the front with me and
our 2 sons were in their appropriate places in the "way back" with one
belted in his child safety seat and the other on the rear bench.  Well we
pull up behind Officer Obbie at a red light and waited our turn to go.  The
light turns green and the good officer makes his left turn, goes through the
intersection and then pulls to the right shoulder of the road.  I make my
left, and continue on the way to wherever our little family was headed.  As
soon as we passed the police officer car Obbie puts on his flashing lights,
sirens, and all sorts and manor of police officer equipment and pulls us
over.  Being the good citizen that I am, and knowing I can't outrun Officer
Obbie I pull over to the shoulder of the road and wonder what my particular
crime against society might be that Police Officer Obbie has made such an
effort to pull us over and keep us from performing our dastardly deed.  With
determination Officer Obbie  came up to my driver's side window and said to
me "Kid, your inspection sticker is expired.  I'm going to write you up
because not only are you a hazard to yourself, but you are endangering the
........................."  20 minutes later Obbie finished his speech,
wrote up our ticket, and handed it to me saying "Kid, have a nice day".  My
wife asked me "what'd he say?"  I told her that Officer Obbie told us to
have a nice day.  She was amazed that a trained and educated officer of the
law would take 20 minutes to tell us to have a nice day and asked me what
the ticket said.  I handed it to her and she read it to me, it said we could
go before the court and plead our case to a  judge and explain why we
committed our particular deed against society or we could just pay 25
dollars.  I said good, let's just pay the 25 dollars AND get the car
inspected so we wouldn't have to have another encounter with Officer Obbie
or any of his colleagues who were probably waiting and willing and wanting
to use all of their police officer equipment too.

Have a good weekend everybody.
Paul A.
Huntington Station, New York
71 westy

