Date: Fri, 12 Apr 2002 16:08:18 -0700
From: Scott Fraser <kn6f(-at-)dolphinsci.com>
To: Paul and Kathy <pa.ka(-at-)verizon.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re:so we got in the red vw microbus, and headed toward the 



Paul and Kathy wrote:

> Hello Listees,
> (please read the following while humming the tune to Alice's Restaurant)
>     The wife and I live on Long Island, New York and have been using a bus
> as a daily driver for nearly 25 years now.  In all that time Officer Obbie
> has only pulled us over 1 time.

I too had my encounter with "Officer Obbie" on his vacation out here to the left
coast.  He had to work a bit harder to catch me though.  He was also in a left
turn lane, soon to be heading north.  I was heading south and turned right at
the interesction to follow a detour as the southbound lanes were closed at the
intersection.
As I rounded the corner, I caught eye to eye with the officer at which I thought
"uh oh, who is he mistaking me for?"  It was one of those looks that you get
when an officer thinks he recognizes you from a prior bust.  I headed west a
block, turned left into the residential area, wandered through the area and then
finally back out onto my original street I was heading south on.  About a 1/4
mile down the road, I look in my rear view and see Officer Obbie, flying toward
me, lights and siren and in my lane.  "OH WEE, he's after me in this old bus".
I pull over, he walks up, asks for license and reg.  Doesn't say WHY he's
pulling me over.  Comes back and gives me a deal about the license not being on
file.  I then take the time to POLITELY explain that he needs to run the plate
with an H code for Ham Radio, its not a personalized plate. (woops, telling the
good officer his job).  He then launches into the reason for his hectic mad dash
and pulling me over.

My mufflers were too loud.  Yep. too loud.  I looked at him, kind of
dumbfounded, then I had an idea.  Show OO all the work done back there, explain
the exhaust system and make him a bus convert.  I didn't get much out when he
launched into a big diatribe about good thing its older than a 1964 and you
don't have smog equipment required.  "most people think that since they don't
have to get them inspected that they don't need smog equipment".  On and on.  I
followed up with, showing him how I replaced the carbs with fuel injection and
how as a result my emissions are lower than similar engines with carbs.  We went
back and forth like this for almost  15 minutes.

Then out comes the book.  I figured, OK time to bring out the big "guns".  I
stood there shaking my head, I said something like  "you know, I really can't
believe that its too loud, I volunteer for xxPD [city next to OO's city] and
none of the guys there have ever said I'm too loud."  The guy looks out from
behind the book, right into my eyes, "you work for xxPD?", "sure do, for 4 years
now, I keep their computers up and running:".  At which he mumbled something
about it not surprising him that nobody ever commented about the "noise".  (book
was still up at this point).  He stood there, then launched into another 5
minute surmon about safety, modifications and noise and then kicked me loose.

Almost would have been cheaper to take the ticket and go at the beginning.  Talk
about being late for where I was going.  My daughter was about to give up on me.

Scott
'60 DC w/2L type IV and "noisy mufflers"


