From: "The mailbox of Duncan Newberry and Jennifer Olander"
To: "type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 7 May 2003 9:58:45 -0700
Subject: Camper Electrical questions. mostly postscropt for PDXers.

Well, I went through the interior, and this is what I came up with.

The electrical refridge works (its alive!) when the camper is plugged in.
The random red and black wires running around the bus  were used to hook
the fridge to the main battery (very audacious, as the car was until
recently fuel injected and was used for camping. No 9.6 volts, no start and
its along walk to the main road to get a jump.) after the leisure battery
was brutally removed (cut wires etc). The hand pump for the sink is DOA
(broken cam) but its a Coleman part (3321) so I may have a shot at a
replacement, the fresh water storage tank is also missing. The electric
heater also works when plugged in. The stove needs the new overflow valve,
and I want the connections checked for leaks before filling the system up,
so I'm leaving that for the moment.

So here are my questions:

Where would one look for a water tank and pump?

If the fridge needs a leisure battery, then all I need (besides the
battery) is an isolator, right? That and replace the wires from the trunk
to the fridge OC.

Assuming that said leisure battery and isolator was installed, couldn't I
then add an inverter and run the electric heater on 110AC? Would this
require a high-output (RV) alternator. Where the heck do you get one for a
type IV? I'm ok with the more traditional aux heater (gloves and a hat) but
I am trying to get my tropics-loving girlfriend to love the bus.

I have never understood how the aux blower for the stock heater system
works. Having more than two wires, I assume that it needs some information
to start functioning, what it exactly does it need to know and where does
it get this information from? Mine appears to be functional but I cant get
it to spin, so where do I start troubleshooting? In the past I have used a
bypass (red wire with alligator clips w/ a built in fuse) but thats kind of
a fire drill (drive car around for maybe ten minutes, pull over attach
clips get back in car. When stopping jump out of car, remove wire) Id
rather go for a "more stock" repair, that is on that can be operated from
the drivers seat. The heater boxes seem OK and worked once the slack was
removed from the line.

Drove around yesterday and the car was a blast, even broke out a dead boot
leg (Europe 72) for the occasion.

Portland OR type2ers: 
Anybody up for Sat/Sunday cafe meet? My girlfriend is getting sick of my
Veedub talk. I usually go to Stumptown on Division or Mojos coffee Den on
SE Stark,  and if anyone wants to meet up and shoot the poo email me and
well set a time.

Duncan
75 AIS "Ezmerelda"
