Date: Wed, 07 May 2003 11:36:32 -0700
To: scott lyons <slyons(-at-)netrover.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Removing a head stud

BINGO, if the threads are good and they aren't bent, all you need do is 
insure they are tight. The only reason to remove them is if they are 
damaged or they pull the treads out of the head at spec torque which means 
they were over torqued at some point in the past, probably more than once.

Now someone said Red Locktite. If that is the case I would put it in the 
oven at 250 degrees for like a half hour, fully heated evenly to the core. 
Try 300 if you must but no more. If you just spot heat it with propane you 
will never get it that warm without warping the head. When you get the 
studs out, put it back in the oven, turn the oven off and let it cool down 
slowly. If that hot head gets quenched by a cool draft it's just risky. 
Leather welders gloves are ideal for handling
hot heads and suprizingly cheap from Harbor Freight or even FLAPS.

Stud pullers are available of several designs. The ones you need look like 
a deep socket and work by wedging needle bearings against the threads. The 
more you turn the tighter they grip. One of these with an extension and 
cross bar will get it or shear it off clean due to absence of side load. 
This is evidence of good technique but bad results. I can feel the 
difference between the threads loosening a bit and the bolt beginning to 
yield. It is very much like fishing for steelhead. It takes 2 years of 
practice to learn how to set the hook and move on to fighting fish. It is a 
very subtle feel that can't be taught, only learned.

  See SamStag Sales for the Stahlwille or Hazet metric stud pullers. S-K 
also has them in metric. Probably the first thing the machinist will reach 
for if there is enough nub to grab will be this special tool. But these 
tools will get any but the most foul offenders, usually heavily corroded 
exhaust studs. But I would be amazed if you have such issues with intake so 
would expect this tool to do the job with relative ease. This is a case 
where the right tool works great, and nothing else works at all.

And let's not forget the Bulley Tek. Use a peanut sized hammer and tap it 
lightly hundreds of times over and continuously for at least 2 minutes. 
These many tiny vibrations will loosen intimate bonds. Works very well for 
both taper fittings and threads. Helps penetrant penetrate, too.

If you do shear it off, then you will know you should have taken George's 
advice and taken it to the machinist in the first place. So that's 1)leave 
them as is, 2)Bulley Tek, oven, Bulley Tek, special tool or 3)take it to 
the machinist now.



At 09:43 AM 05/07/2003, you wrote:

>on 5/7/03 11:24, you related:
>
>they are seldom rusty, broken or otherwise in need of repair. leave them in
>if you can.
>
>scott lyons
