To: Type2 LIst <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
Date: Fri, 18 Jan 2008 01:18:45 -0800
Subject: Reproduction Fuel Filler Neck

I've been searching for a 74-79 pickup specific fuel filler neck for  
a while. The pickup filler neck is a different shape because the  
filler pipe is different to accommodate the body shape and position  
of the tank.

http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell/.Pictures/Maintenance3/315- 
PickupFillerNeck.jpg

While searching I came across a euro vendor who reproduced their own  
bus filler neck and said it fits both bus and pickup bodies. I'm not  
sure if this was intended or if the flexibility of the rubber allowed  
it to bend to match the pickup profile. Naturally curious, I had to  
get one and check it out.

Unfortunately it is not a very good reproduction. Besides the stinky  
chinese smelling rubber typical of lower quality reproductions the  
dimensions are way off:

http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell/.Pictures/Maintenance3/316- 
ReproFillerNeck.jpg

I measured these differences:

- smaller flange by 7mm (the screw holes are also 5mm closer together)
- the length after the bend in the neck is 15mm shorter.
- the opening is smaller (no big deal for unleaded pumps) but the  
pipe end of the neck is also smaller by a few mm.

It's as if it had shrunk during/after the molding process.

As a side of effect of contacting as many US vendors as I could  
trying to obtain it, I think the discovery of this repro has resulted  
in the import of it into their catalogs.

Apart from the fit issues, I don't think the rubber quality is good  
enough to last especially under the extra stress of stretching and I  
predict you'll be changing the fuel filler neck again much to your  
displeasure.

The fuel filler neck in the left side of the photos is the best  
available and came from Bus Boys and I'm sure is available at other  
vendors still. Before ordering a fuel filler neck I'd verify you are  
getting the best one.

-- 
Richard,
'78 Westfalia CDN
'76 Doublecab
http://www.ratwell.com/
