Date: Sat, 19 Jan 2008 15:33:04 -0500
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com>
Cc: andy <andy(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Subject: Re: M&S Tires-winter conditions

These winter driving tips appeared on a web site associated with a medical 
insurance company. I thought it reinforced some things already said, and 
has a few new ones.

Match Speed to Weather Conditions
A lot of people make the mistake of thinking that the speed limit is always 
a safe traveling speed in any conditions. "Speed limits are posted for 
optimal conditions," Weis tells WebMD. "More crashes involving injuries and 
property damage occur in winter months, and not slowing down is the main 
concern," she says.
Reducing your speed is the best way to avoid accidents and injuries. This 
means allowing for extra travel time during your winter workday commute or 
excursion. You will also need extra time if there is snow and ice to 
contend with before you step on the gas.
Increase Your Following Distance
Weis says increasing your following distance is also extremely important 
and a key in preventing collisions. Accidents and injuries often occur 
because of sudden stops. Leave adequate space between your vehicle and 
other cars; according to AAA, a following distance of about eight to 10 
seconds should suffice.
This will also protect you if the car in front of you is suddenly out of 
control, as was the case with Gilman. The bottom line: though you should 
never tailgate, doing so during poor weather is even more dangerous.
Clear Ice and Snow From Your Vehicle
If there has been a storm, allow the plows to do their job before you head 
out, Weis says. Have a brush to clear all of the ice and snow from your 
vehicle before you start driving.
Don't skip the roof of the car, because snow can fall on rear and front 
windows while you are driving, blocking your vision unexpectedly. Make sure 
your lights are visible and not covered with snow and ice as well.
You should also warm up your vehicle before you drive, but according to AAA 
don't do so in an enclosed space like a garage. Car exhaust is a common 
source of carbon monoxide, and adequate ventilation is necessary to avoid 
carbon monoxide poisoning.
