From: "Jason Z Upper" <jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 07 Oct 2002 11:44:57 -0600
Subject: 1979 Rear Wheel Bearings (long)

Hi Folks,

I just finished replacing the wheel bearings on the right-rear of Sweet Pea, 
and was surprised at how easy the job was.

I removed the axle nut with the help of a 3-ft breaker bar and some 
well-placed hammer blows, and the brake drum and wheel hub slid off with a 
little tapping.  I serviced my CVs a year ago, so they posed no problems 
when I removed the CV on the wheel side.  The stub axle needed some banging, 
but the trick of putting the axle nut on backwards and whacking it with a 
hammer and wooden drift worked well.  In fact, once I hit it a few times, it 
slid right out.  A 3-lb sledge is a great tool for this job!

The toughest thing to get out were the grease seals, but I managed to pull 
them with the claw of my hammer.  Once those were out of the way, the outer 
bearing's inner race and the inner spacer slid right out.  I scraped out all 
the old grease, and tapped out the inner bearing from the outside.  It hung 
up a little on the rusty edge of the bearing carrier, but finally succumbed 
to repeated hammer blows.  The outer race was more difficult to remove, 
simply because I was lying on my back under the Bus while trying to swing a 
3-lb hammer.  But, like the inner bearing, the outer one finally came flying 
out.  They were in decent shape, but I had new ones ready to go, so I tossed 
them.

After cleaning the bearing carrier and packing the new bearings, I got out 
my brass drift and went under the Bus again to drive in the inner bearing.  
It went in with a minimum of fuss and seated well.  The outer bearing was a 
little tougher to get started, but a few taps with a wooden drift got it 
set, and my brass drift sent it home.  Spacer and inner race in place, I 
pushed the stub axle in.  I had to tap it with the wooden drift to get it in 
enough to get the axle nut on.  Then, I  separated the wheel hub from the 
drum and slid it on and put the axle nut on.  With a thin bar (actually the 
lug wrench bar that comes in the VW toolkit) between the wheel studs and the 
axle nut tool, I was able to crank down on the axle nut and pull the stub 
axle in the rest of the way.

Once the stub axle was in, it was just a matter of putting everything else 
back together.  On the test drive, everything quieted right down once it all 
warmed up.  I didn't realize how loud the old bearings were, and I can now 
hear all the other squeaks and rattles that were being drowned out.  It 
feels so much better that I'm planning on doing the rear bearings on the 
other side soon.

Thanks again to The List for giving me some advice and pointers, and good 
luck to all who undertake this job.

Take care,
Jason Upper
Aspen, Colorado
1979 Westy "Sweet Pea"
http://www.jzupper.com/sweetpea.htm
http://photos.msn.com/support/worldwide.aspx
