Date: Mon, 7 Oct 2002 12:48:56 -0700 (PDT)
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Wheel bearing or something else?

On Monday, Oct 07, 2002, at 11:51AM, Brian Zweerink <wendyarmbuster(-at-)hotmail.com> wrote:

>  Long time reader, first time poster.  I have a '78 Westy whose handling 
>has always been less than nimble.  I replaced the cheapo car tires it came 
>with with BFGoodrich Baja Champions (27 x 8.50 R14LT 95Q, load range C), and 

When I did this it mostly lowered the noise level from the truck tires I had but I did move some furniture with those tires not long ago and without a reinforced sidewall or 8ply tire the bus either wobbled or was skittish because I had to inflate the tires to max.

>that helped a lot, but still not great.  I replaced the old, worn out shocks 
>with new KYB shocks, but still the handling seems vague, like the air 

This made a huge difference in my handling, especially on the highway.  Before, when *everything* under the bus was original, back in April, I couldn't safely drive at highway speeds.  It's was almost cartoonish as I wrestled with the steering wheel.  I eventually had to pull off the highway and luckily it was the only time because I was driving it back home for the first time after putting the engine back in.

>day I jacked up the car on stands and noticed that the rear wheels have play 
>when I push and pull at 12 and 6 o'clock, but not at 9 and 3 o'clock.  The 
>fronts are the same way, which I would think could be the ball joints, but 
>the rear?  The play at the top and bottom of the tires is less than a 
>quarter of an inch, but you can feel and hear it.  How much is normal?  
>Would this affect my handling?  What would cause vertical play in the rear?  
>Wheel bearings?

My bus has a little play in the rear bearings which I've still yet to replace.  My front bearing however were really loose and there was some floating.  When I replaced the fronts everything was firm as it should be and handling improved.

The final big improvement I made was to replace the original steering damper.  It claps out after 24 years of use and it will completely change the steering wheel feel for you. Before replacement, I would go over a speedbump and the wheel would twist and shake.  Not so now.

--
Richard
1978 Westfalia CDN
Austin, TX
