From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Tue, 8 Oct 2002 00:20:48 -0500 (CDT)
To: duke.geren(-at-)attbi.com (Duke Geren)
Cc: wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com, type2(-at-)type2.com (Type2)
Subject: Re: [WetWesties] Busted Shock Mount [Was: Rear Shocks]

Duke---
This is how I repaired my broken shock mount.

I ran a bolt into the hole--and welded it up--- ( to keep the mig welder
from splattering in the threads ) took the bolt out---and drilled a
1/8th" plate to accept the bolt through it---and welded the plate to the
frame as a gusset 
so it wouldn't blow out again---

I added a plate to the other side too---
No more broken rear shock mounts--

Ground the welds down a bit and undercoated the frame ---

About an hour job--

Good Luck--

Terry

 
E-mail message   
 
 
Well after going to the FLAPS to pick up a couple of CV boot kits and a
new rear 
shock, I discovered the worst when I pulled Kermit into the driveway and
started taking 
a good look at the problem. 
The almost two inches or so of metal around the upper mount has sheared
away from the 
rest of the frame. I am at a loss about what if anything can be done
about it. The damage 
looks pretty recent as the edges of the metal are very shinny and
jagged. I'm playing every 
thing back in my mind about the initial inspection (and I crawled all
over and underneath this 
thing) and test drive. I looked pretty carefully at the undercarriage
during my inspection and 
the only damage that still stands out in my mind was a dent on one the
left rear outrigger (opposite 
side from the shock in question. The banging sound didn't register in my
mind until about halfway 
back home from Seattle and not at all during the four or five miles
through bumpy Seattle streets 
on the test drive with the PO. 
I am definitely open to suggestions at this point. Anybody know of a
shop in the Portland OR / Vancouver WA 
area that can handle such a repair. I'm definitely not willing to write
it off at this point. 
Crying in my Pyramid Coastline pils, 
Duke 
'78 Westy "Kermit" <-- who is suffering from a broken flipper.
