From: "Sharpe, Steven (Facilities Planning)" <SSharpe(-at-)fac.unc.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, 'Eron Crites' <emcrites(-at-)msn.com>
Date: Tue, 8 Oct 2002 09:13:17 -0400 
Subject: RE: [T2] Allright Fine Ill Say what Oil I use:

The type of "toilet paper" oil filter that's mentioned is manufactured by
two companies, Gulf Coast Oil Filters and Frantz. Here are the best two
websites that I've been able to find for each filter:
http://www.wefilterit.com/ http://www.fuelpolishing.com/index.htm If you go
to the later site listed, you'll find a large amount of articles that
explains bypass filtration. Start at this article
http://www.fuelpolishing.com/msg3.htm and use the link at the bottom of the
page to go to the next article. Some of the articles don't pertain to oil
filtration, but if you keep using the link at the bottom of the page it will
lead you to some in depth articles. On my Jetta, I use a reusable
combination full flow / bypass filter manufactured by Trasko
http://www.trasko-usa.com/ . I have a outdated website that has a
description of what I'm doing with my Jetta.
http://www.infowest.com/personal/e/eyevee/StevesLittleOilExperiment.htm I
now have over 35,000 on my engine without having done a complete oil change.
I keep the engine topped up. It uses a quart about every 10,000 miles and I
end up having to add about another half quart during the 10,000 mile filter
change. I have my latest oil test, which I can scan and email to anyone
that's interested. It contains all my oil tests from when I started.

I used to be a skeptic, but now I believe that a modern engine may be able
to go indefinitely without oil changes. I hesitate to extend that belief to
the aircooled VW engine because its an open case design, however I believe
that because of that design, a VW engine needs bypass filtration even more.
Right now the majority of  aircooled VW engines in the US and Europe have no
filtration at all. That sump strainer screen doesn't count as a filter in my
book.

I would love to see someone conduct a detailed documentation of their
aircooled engine with a bypass filter. Eron, you interested?  My VW bus has
an aircooled Corvair engine in it. Its a sealed case. So it doesn't quite
fit the criteria. I've put a Trasko unit on it also, and will begin
documentation on it after I get it broken in. I'll let people know how that
goes also.

I bring this topic to this list because I believe that we are part of the
minority of people that are trying to make their vehicles last decades, not
years. I also believe that there are a good number of us that are
environmentally sensitive. Decreasing the amount of waste oil generated is a
good thing.

This is a very emotional topic. People in other forums have become very
emotional and very nasty when bypass filtration is brought up. This topic
ranks right up there with religion and politics with some people. I'm not
trying to get an argument started. I'm just trying to separate fact from
fiction. The use of a bypass filter is actually just a piece of a larger
preventative maintenance program. Oil testing is another major part of that.
All the literature that I've been able to find indicates that bypass
filtration does extend the lives of the equipment that they are used on. The
issue is cost and payback. For many the up front cost was too high and the
payback was too long. In my case, I'll be able to break even and possibly
save money compared to a 5,000 mile oil change.
