From: "Still a Swell Guy" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: TyPe2(-at-)TypE2.CoM
Date: Tue, 08 Oct 2002 13:35:07 +0000
Subject: VW Show 12 Oct in SE Pennsylvania

Birdsboro PA - VW show, put on by www.vwshows.com (of course)

2002 - Volkstoberfest, Daniel Boone Homestead, Birdsboro, PA, 
www.vwshows.com

Nothing big or great, just Friday night camping in the field, and a Saturday 
show.

Long weekend.  Great country-side in the fall.  Just 25 miles from Bus 
Depot!!  And camping at the State Park near Ron is NEVER full (Only one time 
in recorded history was the camp ground full)  Perkiomen Valley State Park. 
(Forget about French Creek State Park on this Columbus Day long weekend!!)

Mosey over to the show across the road for $5 entry, or give up $10 and 
enter your vehicle in the show an hour earlier, with probably parking 
amongst the busser community (please give me the correct spelling for 
'busser', or put me out of my misery...)

OK, the clincher - this seems to be a real casual show, 'cause there is NO 
EXTRA CHARGE for vendors!!  Mark I VWs will not be there, and I doubt Ron 
will be there, so now is the chance to get rid of all those things you 
wanted to throw away, but felt someone else wanted/needed.

Like, I am taking two junky rims (free), and two tires/rims ($10)and a right 
front (NEW!! - from Schofields) dog leg ($35), and some cross over pipes 
($20 - sorry, NOT '79), etc. All big stuff that needs to get out of the 
garage.

I may show my BN4 heater (complete- picture book included) and my RESTRICTED 
(like new) gas filler neck, or whatever..

So, if I can survive my 20th anniversary on Wednesday, and I can get the 
wife in a good enough mood, I will be up there about 4PM Friday from 
Springfield VA.

BTW, I will be recognizable by my license plate (  6PAC2GO  ) and my 
stumbling around (serious surgery on left foot, that causes stumbling around 
- or was it my RIGHT foot??) and non-sociability (kidding!!)

Be there or be ______ . (Please don't be alert, there are too many 'lerts 
driving around.)

Barry sends
'78 Westy
Springfield VA (but you knew that already)
