Date: Sun, 2 Mar 2003 19:39:19 -0800 (PST)
From: El Viajero <el_viajero_1963(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] new bus questions

everyone keeps talking about this vent that i cant find, ther is nothing there
we got the hood open and im trying to find the vin but its real messey back there.
i have to hold up the hood with a stick,so ithink its broke
its got big funkey lights in the back and they are round
it it jsut has some little lights screwed on the bumper in the front but they dont work
i will look for that book when i get some money but i spent all my money on the bus rigth now and i wanna drive it
all you peeps have been cool thanx for all the help
 Claralw(-at-)aol.com wrote:for the older splitties there is no number on the over head vent- you know, 
the vent's that metal thing running front to back on the roof in the front... 
it's an air vent for hot days. turn the lever on the drivers side to 
open/close it. So you gotta open the engine lid to find the number, and 
check yr oil etc.

the 65 and earlier buses don't have handles on the engine lid, there should 
be a square hole (in the round hole) (that may be covered by a chrome thing 
you can flip to the side, but usually teh chrome cover is missing) the 
Look at the flat area to the right side, it's between the battery and the 
engine, there should be a number stamped in the metal. Also there's a plate 
attached to the vertical surface to the right of the motor and forward- you 
need a flashlight and probly something to wipe the grease off. Then the 
numbers are really tiny and hard to read anyway.

a 61's VIN will have 6 digits, something like 701 432

caution- if you have an engine lid prop, you need to push the thing in on 
it's elbow, push straight forward to let the lid down. It'll bend it up if 
you just push the lid down like you can with the later props, then the prop 
is funkyd up and they are hard to find.

A 61 has the pointy little cool turn signals in front, and the stylee round 
glass taillights in back, though often someone chopped out the taillights and 
put bigger ones in. :( A 61 didn't come with a gas guage, but it did come 
with a reserve tap. that is the knob on the hump under the front seat to the 
right of the knob with bumps round teh edges. The little knob that looks 
like the dash knobs is for the gas reserve (pull/push), the bigger knob is 
for heat, the heat knob turns.

try picking up a copy of John Muir's "How to keep your volkswagen Alive", 
does your friend w/ the bug have one? Tuning up that 61 should be like 
tuning up a bug, try changing the oil and tuning it up- should help the power.

and enjoy the new bus!
