Date: Mon, 3 Mar 2003 16:26:57 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Emergency Flasher/ Wirirng Q's

>From: Sean Dorman <croftyest(-at-)yahoo.com>
>Date: Mon, 3 Mar 2003 11:51:06 -0800 (PST)
>
>So now I have a 12 volt flasher that works but my emergency lights are
>still messed up. All lights come on at the pull of the switch except for
>the passenger front, but none flash or pulse at all.  Sooooooo... Does
>anyone have a emergency flasher for a '65 bus or know the replacemnt type?

Buses only have one flasher for both turn signals and hazards.  For the
turn signals, the flasher is directly connected via the turn signal
switch to the front and rear bulbs on one side.  For the hazards, the
flasher is directly connected via the hazard switch to both rear bulbs.

The hazard switch also connects the flasher to the coil of a relay, so
the coil switches on and off with the rear bulbs.  One contact of the
relay goes to the battery and the other two contacts go to the front
bulbs.

The relay is there because the original flasher couldn't handle the load
of 4 bulbs.  With the relay, the flasher only has to handle 2 bulbs and
the relay coil.

If you have tested the relay like I mentioned in my previous post, and
you know it's bad, you can replace it two standard 12 V relays with 30,
85, 86, and 87 terminals.  Ignore any extra terminals.  You wire the
relays in parallel except for the 87 terminals - use one 87 terminal
as 87 and the other as 87b.  Here's a diagram:

wire to 30  -----+----- 30 (relay 1)
on original      |
relay            +----- 30 (relay 2)

wire to 85  -----+----- 85 (relay 1)
on original      |
relay            +----- 85 (relay 2)

wire to 86  -----+----- 86 (relay 1)
on original      |
relay            +----- 86 (relay 2)

wire to 87  ----- 87 (relay 1)
on original
relay

wire to 87b ----- 87 (relay 2)
on original
relay

If you haven't tested the relay, you can check it like I mentioned
previously.  Also, read on for some ideas on testing the whole system.

>The diagram shows a 5 prong but mine is only a 4. There is no "85" on
>my old emegrency flasher.

85 is the ground for the coil of the hazard relay.  It is connected to
the metal case of the relay, which grounds through the mounting clip.
If your relay is flopping around loose, that could be part of the problem.

>I found a 3 prong 12 volt flasher from a stash and hooked it up replacing
>my old 6 volt 3 prong flasher with no problems.

Is the 12 V flasher a VW part or a generic?  What are the numbers on
its terminals?  Some flashers can be hooked up more than one way and
still kind of work.  If your flasher is right, and the hazard switch
is working, then at least your rear bulbs should flash when you pull
out the hazard switch.

Here are some tests that should tell you what's what:

Take the hazard switch out of the dash.  Unplug the black/orange and
black/yellow wires.  Touch these wires to each other and to the
black/white/green wire that's still connected to the switch.  Both of
the rear bulbs should flash.  If not, you have a problem with the
flasher, in the wire from the flasher to the hazard switch, in the
wires to the rear bulbs, or at the rear lamps (burned out bulb, not
grounded).

If the rear bulbs flash with that test, plug the black/orange and
black/yellow wires back onto the hazard switch.  Pull out the knob.
If the rear lights don't flash, the switch is broken.

Once you get the rear lights flashing when the hazard switch is on,
if the front lights aren't both flashing, do this:

Unplug the red (orange?) wire from the hazard switch and jump it to
battery voltage (the right-most fuse in the fuse box).  The hazard
relay should click and both the front bulbs should come on steadily.
If not, un-jump the wire and go to the hazard relay.  Unplug the
black/green (87b) and black/white (87) wires.  Touch these wires to
each other and to the black/purple (30) wire.  Both front bulbs should
come on steadily.  If they don't, there is a problem in the wires to
the front bulbs, or at the lamps themselves.  If they come on with
this test, but they didn't come on when you jumped the relay to
battery voltage, then there's a problem with the wire from the hazard
light switch to the relay, the relay grounding, or the relay itself.

Once you can get both front bulbs to come on by jumping the relay
wire to battery voltage, plug the wire back onto the hazard flasher
switch and pull out the knob.  All four bulbs should flash.  If
the front bulbs don't flash, then most likely the hazard switch is
broken.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds
