Date: Fri, 27 Sep 2002 21:42:31 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: engine miss at high rpm

>From: John Moore <jem_93035(-at-)yahoo.com>
>Date: Fri, 27 Sep 2002 15:28:29 -0700 (PDT)
>
>A high rpm engine miss has rapidly developed in my 67
>Westy, 1600 DP with dual carbs, Brazilian Webbers.

I would generally associate a miss, especially at high speeds, with 
ignition rather than carburetion.  At idle, the ignition system has
a long time between plug firings to build up enough voltage to work.
This is a pretty forgiving environment, so even marginal parts will
work OK.  As you rev up the engine, the ignition has less and less
time to produce a spark, and can start failing on you. 

One simple thing you can try is to wait until it's dark, let your
eyes adjust, start the engine, and inspect the engine compartment
in the dark.  You're looking for arcs and sparks coming from the
coil, plug wires, etc that indicate failing insulation.  If you see
them, replace the part that's doing it and try again. 
 
Do you have a rev-limiting rotor?  They are designed on purpose to 
shut off the spark above some defined RPM, usually well above 3000 RPM
but if they screw up they could conceivably cut you off sooner.  If
you don't know, go to the FLVWPS, take your rotor in, and ask to see
an 009 rotor.  If yours is way huge compared to the 009 rotor, then
you may have a rev-limiting rotor.  You may want to replace it with
a regular rotor for your distributor number and see if that clears it
up. 

>points 009; cleaned and regapped

Do you mean you have an 009 distributor or that the clearance was
.009?  Do you use a tach-dwell meter to set the points or a feeler
gauge?  If you just use a feeler gauge, get a tach-dwell meter for
it and set the points for 50 degrees dwell, even if that means they
end up at something other than .016 .  On my Dad's Bug I usually
end up setting the points in the .012 - .014 range to get 50 degrees
dwell.  Haven't done the points often enough in the new 009 on my
Bus to get a good feel for their setting.

From what you've said (brown plugs) it does seem that the carb jetting
is in good order.  If none of the above has helped, what I'd try to fix
this is to replace the points and condenser, set the dwell (with dwell
meter), and then set the timing.  Go try it.  If that hasn't gotten it,
do the distributor cap and rotor, plug wires, and plugs.  Go try it.
If that hasn't gotten it, replace the coil.  Go try it.  If _that_
hasn't gotten it -- well, you wanted a new ignition system anyway,
right?  :)

Matt Roberds
