From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: "FAUTLEY, Paul (Gillingham)" <Paul.FAUTLEY(-at-)dds.delphiauto.com>, 
Cc: jezzina(-at-)ctc.net
Date: Fri, 27 Sep 2002 22:34:04 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] Dual circuit master cylinders

  Using a late bug master will work but give you real spongy brakes. They
will lock them up and stop but I really don't feel safe with them being so
spongy.          We did a long term test in a 64 21 window and the master
(bug) failed in 6 months. We placed the blame on having to press on the
brakes so far to stop the bus. When the 67 bus masters came around we
changed to that right away. 
  When people complain about the price of the duel circuit 67 only master I
always cringe, I have always felt my life is worth more then doing the
improper late bus conversion or using a bug and is worth enough to do it
right.
  The 67 masters are readily available and at a decent price now and should
be around for years to come. I am trying to locate kits for them now.
  They are a lot of other parts you can cheapen out on that doesn't
sacrifice the safety of your bus. 
  
Ronnie

ps. On the Porsche 64/65 disc brake cars we would upgrade to a early 911/912
master to get the duel circuit system (if I remember we also tried the 924 S
master, those I think are the same as a Audi 5000), straight bolt in
application, just a thought for those of you upgrading your bus to 4 wheel
disc.

-----Original Message-----
From: FAUTLEY, Paul (Gillingham)
[mailto:Paul.FAUTLEY(-at-)dds.delphiauto.com]
Sent: Friday, September 27, 2002 5:17 PM
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: jezzina(-at-)ctc.net
Subject: Re: [VB] Dual circuit master cylinders


> Why not use a late beetle master? I dont know about the oldspeed kit but
it
> works great with stock brakes. Some will say it is too small but it a
> helluva lot better than the old single circuit.
> as for reservoir, use one from a Volvo 240 if the reservoir holes are big
> and one from a rabbit if they are small. Credit to Mark Dearing for this
> info.

Didn't even think about that.  How small is it then?  Oldspeed are trying to
use this Golf/Jetta mc with a beetle with 944 brakes - so I would assume it
probably is a bit small for this application.
It would probably be good for my friend though (I help him with mechanical
bit he helps me with paint and body stuff).  
What is needed to fit this to the bus?

Thanks
Paul
