Date: Sat, 28 Sep 2002 02:38:26 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Back seat discovery

All,

I was cleaning out my Bus to get it ready for a show and made a discovery,
I think.  My Bus is a '64 Standard and when I bought it the middle seat
was missing.  I did get the special bolts and clamps for the middle seat,
but there are only four places for them and I have about seven clamp sets.

I looked under the back seat; it has the normal tubes running down from the
seat bottom but they aren't just clamped to the floor.  The outboard tubes
are each clamped to a gadget with a couple of levers on it and a longish
plate that is screwed to the floor.  It looked to me like the seat folded
in some way but I couldn't figure out how.

Also, there are a couple of hooks screwed to the sides of the luggage area
(over the engine) that go into brackets on the rear seat back. I had undone
the hooks before and tried to fold the rear seat back down but had no luck.
The vinyl on the back and bottom of the rear seat is a mint green that
matches the Como Green interior on my Bus.

Tonight I got the Bus cleaned out enough to experiment with it.  I unhooked
the rear seat back and tugged on the bottom cushion.  It started to come up
so I kept pulling.  The seat bottom comes up and forward and ends up sitting
level, but about a foot higher off the floor than normal.  The seat back
comes forward and folds flat with the seat bottom and the luggage area.
(There are more levers between the seat back and the inside of the wheel
arches to make this work; you can see them once you fold the seat bottom
forward).  The net result is that you have a bed that starts in the luggage
area and ends up at the back edge of where the middle seat would be, if it
had one.

So this is neat; I didn't even know my Bus had this!  The JRMC would have 
been more comfortable if I knew.  :)  My question is, what do I have?  Is
this in the direction of a Westy "Z bed", or does it sound like something
else?  I have found a few pictures of SO-34 Westy interiors with the Z-bed
deployed and it looks like what I have, but I'm not sure if I have the
real Westy part or some aftermarket copy.  I will have pictures in a couple
of days if that will help identify it. 

Matt Roberds
