From: "Dave Wolfanger" <dwolf(-at-)bluefrognet.net>
To: <pickit(-at-)bellsouth.net>
Cc: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 28 Sep 2002 21:38:14 -0400
Subject: Re: [VB] Forged or not

Kevin-
Empiral deduction requires you to make accurate measurements when
considering an engine rebuild , and this is as good a place to start as any.
Lock up the flywheel as Ronnie suggested, and get the accurate thrust
measurement.
Remember that half the wear you find is in the bearing shell, half is in the
case.
The thrust bearing depends on a firm clamping force from the case to control
crankshaft movement and provide proper oil pressure. In turn, that bearing
depends on the dowel to keep it from spinning. Loss of the clamping force
causes crankshaft whip and works on the dowel, causing it to oval it's
mount.
Movement of the front main at cold engine temps is less than at operating
temps.
My personal opinion is that any movement of the thrust bearing is
unacceptable.
To establish this repair with shims will put the endplay on the inside of
the thrust bearing,
and it does not go there. When it gets real bad, some people use 4 shims,
and that causes the crankshaft to be off-center in all bearing journals and
places additional stress on the off-center rods. " Factory tolerances-who
needs them "?
Just for kicks, fit a feeler gauge between  the crank and the front main
and report that dimension also.( oil clearance ).
Beyond this, it's time to split the case and mic the bores, as this
will best indicate the need to linebore. A look at the center main is good
too.
At this point, you can still reshim and get more miles out of your engine.
You will also be on the entropy trail. At some point, there will be too much
case damage to use it for another rebuild. It's possible to restore a worn
dowel hole, it's possible to linebore .100" oversize and  .080" thrust.
It's possible to cut the crank into the fourth dimension. You could wait
till then.
You may already have a linebored case and turned crank to start with.
The case will not heal itself, and it will never be any better than it is
right now.
Did I mention that I linebore cases ? Never ask a surgeon if he thinks you
need surgery !
Dave \X/



Kevin "VWguy" <pickit(-at-)bellsouth.net> wrote-
Sent: Saturday, September 28, 2002 7:38 PM
Subject: Re: [VB] Forged or not


> If this was the only symptom, I guess that would work. However, when I
removed the flywheel, shims
> and seal, and then moved the crank back and forth in the case, the front
bearing had movement in it.
> Not much, mind you, only about .001 or .002 in. but still movement.
>
> Most everyone now is telling me this is not acceptable. Continued use will
just cause more wear and
> further damage to other parts in the engine. I guess the prudent path
would be to rebuild. Agree?
