Date: Thu, 31 Mar 2005 19:53:10 -0800 (PST)
From: John Moore <jem_93035(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: re:  vibration in fan / alternator assy

Update-  I pulled the alternator out again and got
that spacer back in between the fan housing outer and
inner plates.  Those are the ones that bolt the
alternator to the fan housing.  I checked the
clearances between the fan and the inner plate and
confirmed it at .08 pretty much all the way around.  I
put it all back in and left all the bolts loose,
including the pedestal, carb, and fan housing.  Then I
pushed everything to create as much clearance between
the carb and the alternator and tightened it all up,
starting with the pedestal strap.  That's where some
of the vibration was coming from I think.  The carb
accelerator pump was hitting the side of the
alternator.  Last, I tightened the fan housing bolts
on each side and the one in the front.  A lot of the
vibration is now gone.  I also played around with a
little push-on clamp thing I found in the twenty year
can.  It's steel and weighs just a little.  I pushed
it on one of the fan blades and took it for a drive. 
Some places it vibrated more so I moved it a quarter
of the way around the fan and tried it again.  After
several tries I determined a place where the vibration
was at a minimum.  So that's where I stopped.  There
is some vibration but not nearly as much.  I could
live with this.  I'll probably take it off all
together and try it again cause I changed a few things
since I first put it on there.  Maybe I won't need it
at all.  I read in the Bently manual where running the
engine and disconecting the alternator could damage
the hazard warning light relay or alternator so I
didn't attempt to set up some kind of contraption to
spin the alternator/fan assy to balance it.  I guess
with the right setup it could be done.  That would get
it just right, kind of like balancing a wheel maybe. 
Ok, that's the story.  WAKE UP   Just
kidding...thanks.

John Moore
67 Westy
