From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 4 Apr 2005 13:36:59 EDT
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] field bus revives...

Day something... it's all a blur
 
 install a headlight, 
mess with making the round glass taillights ground.  the  left glass is in 
about 12 pieces, oh well. both are bright after the  connections and grounds are 
cleaned.  Dielectric greas eis my friend.   Need some connectors to install 
other headlight.  drive with one headlight  on errands, get connector, drop off 
stuff, swap batteries, install 2nd  headlight,  stop at Les Schwab to get 
tires removed from the original  rims for the bus,   go back to Isaac's, readjust 
and re bleed brakes,  they are better.   I always like to do that after 
putting all new  brakes in... drive around a few miles and then re adjust and re 
bleed  them.   pack up all our stuff, which means stuffing the panel almost  
full, convient to have teh loading doors on both sides.  Take care of  keys for 
rental bus, say good byes, hit the road, heading for Oregon
stop for gas just before the Oregon border.
get to casa de David Mayes around midnight.  there's a time change  between 
states, so I'm confused about time
 
Next Day...
hear voices, get up... but everyone just left.   Drank  their coffee and ate 
their toast (thanks!!!!!), read 70s VW  magazines.   Decided to adjust the 
valves and change the oil... turned  out it did need it... the engine had been 
stripped to a long block for cleaning  and transport, and everything resettles 
afterwards, half the valves were a bit  off..   The engine, though a fairly new 
rebuild, also had been  sitting, and the oil was definitely dirtier than it 
should have  been.  Some metal flakes too... how new a rebuild is it?    was 
there even 500 miles on it?  It starts snowing as I'm laying under the  bus.   
Change the fuel filter too.  Greg fixes the air vent so  the flap stays closed. 
   end up not leaving till early  afternoon, after acquiring a good split 
case tranny, and a big tasty  lunch.    getting the tranny means unloading and re 
loading  stuff.  some migrates up to the roof rack.   hit the road about  3pm 
ish.  
 
after going down the big hill, no more snow.  Get gas at the  Indian place 
where you can pump it yourself. At least the heater does pump out a  good volume 
of hot air.  However a panel with no insulation and  ancient door seals does 
not exactly excel at retaining heat.  get gas  at exit 17 on hwy 84 in OR.  
Bus has no issues along the way, get home  around midnight. 
 
A few day Later:
Accidently burnt rubber in the orangey bus last  night...   Damn, that thing 
is hella torquey with the 1600 and split case tranny. seems to  have more 
power when it is unloaded, for some reason. Even though it has a core  motor and 
spare tranny and some other stuff inside, it is still 'unloaded' in  
comparison. Noisier too. Seemed to find reverse gear.  hmmm.
 Greg attached the engine lid, and gas door lock,  now the church key is 
required.  He found that the ignition key   does work both cargo door handles, 
they were just stuck. A bit of PB  blaster does wonders. One key for all 5 locks!
..............................................................................
.........
http://home.comcast.net/~sunrisebus/sunrisebuswerk.html
