From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 7 Dec 2006 11:23:21 EST
To: johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Engine Tin - for 1641 into a 60

In a message dated 12/6/06 4:03:26 PM, johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca writes:

<< So ... I'm having a couple of problems.  I'm planning on putting a 1641 
into 

my 60 - it currently has a 40 hp engine.  What tin will I need?


Also - what do people use to attach the heater things to the bus in a 60. 

I'm currently using that flexible foil stuff - but that ain't right - ideas?


TIA

jdd  >>

A 1641 should slide straight into  60 w/o issues.  The only thing is make 
sure the FW and trans mate, I mean if you have a 12V FW and the trans never was 
ground out there'll be an isse.
Fitting a later engine in a 36 hp (509 1/2 and earlier) bus is a bit 
tricky... the heater boxes tend to hang up, there's a wiggle to do, but they fit..  
Though some people mash the rear tin.

wait... are you getting a bare long block?   Cause not all the tin from the 
40hp will fit.

Anyway, heater boxes... if you use the better, more common, later, big 
diameter heater boxes you wil find they are NOT the same diameter as the heater 
tubes in your bus.   They enlarged the tubes in ~ 64.  So  as well as the heater 
pod mufflers, the metal flex tubes with insulation, you will need either an 
adaptor, or just duct tape them well to keep the tubes connected w/ leaks.

I would not use PVC or other plastic in there, due to heat/plastic issues.   
I won't even use the later bug/bus VW plastic tubes, since I had a fan belt 
break and killed a fresh air tube so when I swapped fan belts I had to block off 
the fresh air tube for 10 miles until I could get a new fresh air tube.   
But... it was only a few miles until this horrible  burning plastic smell entered 
the bus.  I pulled over, jumped under the bus (in rain or snow, I forget) and 
pulled off the melting tube.  It had got too hot from lack of fresh air 
cooling the heater box.   

Now I stick to metal.  Steel is real.
