From: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: "John Anderson" <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 27 Dec 2006 13:40:51 -0500
Subject: Need Donations for Steve Dolan's engine

Fwd'd from T2 for "John Anderson" <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>

----- Original Message ----- 
From: "John Anderson" <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Sent: Tuesday, December 26, 2006 10:40 PM
Subject: [T2] Need Donations for Steve Dolan's engine


Folks,

  I rejoined the list briefly here after 4-5 years off, mostly because I'm 
on a mission.  That mission is to build a German parts only engine for Steve 
Dolan's '67 before I move to Alaska in July of this year and am too far away 
to conveniently deliver and install it.  Most of you may or should know 
Steve.  The Type 2 list continued to exist for a couple of years at least 
from both a financial and administration standpoint only because of him and 
his efforts.  Steve is probably the single most giving guy in the VW Bus 
world I've personally ever had the privilege of meeting.  As the list 
administrator he could be a real pain at times if he disagreed with you or 
if you were stupid, but the same can be said of us all.  Anyway Steve has 
also been having some health issues recently and has trouble even working on 
his '73 and '80 drivers, let alone getting much done on the '67.

       So a few years ago, pre wife, and now new child, I told him I'd build 
the engine for the '67 and I've been slowly collecting real German parts 
ever since to build an honest 1500 with all NOS German parts, which even 
against my advice (I wanted a counterweighted crank and a bit more modern 
induction at least) is what he wants.  At this time I have all the big bits, 
NOS German pistons and cylinders, cam, rods, and heads.  I'm looking for a 
few more bits, very reasonably priced or frankly donated.  I need a clean 
set of original single port tin, fan shroud with the slats, and fan, not 
looking for NOS on this, but real dry, clean, and rust free.   I will likely 
media blast and repaint though if clean enough I'd like an original shroud 
with the stamped numbers still on it.  Next a clean single port manifold, 
carb (is '67 a 28 PICT?), I have a couple of governors, don't need them. 
Need a German NOS oil cooler, and ideally oil pump.  Would like a set of NOS 
German lifters.
  Need an NOS German fuel pump.  An appropriate dizzy and a generator in 
clean rebuilt shape wouldn't come amiss though I think he has the electrical 
bits.  Those are the parts that come to mind, though small bits like a real 
clean crank pulley, etc would also come in handy.

  Anyway like I said, anybody who ever met Steve knows what a great guy he 
is.  I've had the privilege of knowing him for about 10 years, and have 
helped him a fair bit with projects but have had him help me as free labor, 
or storage, or whatever far more, and I'm sure a lot of metro DC area list 
members have had the same.  If you've squirreled away a little NOS bit here 
or there you may never really use, and are feeling generous or at least 
reasonable, give me a yell.  If someone could forward this message to 
vintage and vanagon I'd appreciate that as well as I don't want to sign up 
just for the begging.

  Thanks,

  John Anderson
  (many sigs and many buses over the years....) 
