From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "Vintage List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Wed, 25 Sep 2002 08:25:44 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] steering box

I agree with you-it doesnt makes sense that you wouldn't change the
oil/grease. i can't imagine that the box is so sealed-as to preclude any
dirt from getting in there. maybe due to the fact that the wheel does't turn
continuously at high speeds, except when I rally race my bus ;), but over
time this can't be good for the gears.

the thing is i don't want to open the steering box if that means i would
then need to make some adjustments to my steering wheel-because my steering
is pretty good right now. it probably isn't perfect but right now i dont
want to add (what vould potentially be)another tricky job to my plate.

so if i take the 4 bolt off, and clean the area out with some spray lube,
why do you glue the shims back in? and where do you get aviation
sealant-would my FLAPS carry this?

thanks for more insight.

-kevin
somerville, ma
'65 kombi
'67 sqbk

-----Original Message-----
From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com [mailto:Claralw(-at-)aol.com]
Sent: Monday, September 23, 2002 9:40 AM
To: cjay(-at-)well.com; kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net
Cc: VintageBus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] steering box


The 66 standard my then bf was driving wouldn't turn the front wheels one
winter morning.  The water in the steering box had frozen.  Okay, that bus
had sat in the low part of a field the previous winter, so it was sort of
in
a seasonal pond.

I didn't change the steering box oil in my 65 till I had had it a couple
years.  Good God! There was water in it!.  Never sat in a soggy pond AFAIK.

I think draining the oil is not a bad idea, actually.  Ya, you undo the 4
bolts on the bottom of the box.   I'd spray some lube through it to help
wash
all those crusty things out of it.  Let it drip a while.  Clean up the thin
metal shims real well.  I glue them back on with aviation sealant, same goop
I use for engines.

I heard mixing  grease and gear oil is good goo, and you can squirt it in
with a plastic squeeze tube.  Like a ketchup container, with the pointy top.
I'd filled mine with straight 90 wt, and still have a drip years later, so
next time it's the mix.


