From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 25 Sep 2002 11:46:49 EDT
To: a1gtivw(-at-)hotmail.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] oil filler probs

re oil filler-  take a cardboard box, and cut a grommet/washer/shim out of it 
to put between the filler and the filler neck, one that just fits around the 
funny nut that you have to keep tightening down.

don't know which outlet thing on the fan shroud you mean is broken.    do you 
mean the 2" spout for the fresh/cooling/heating air?   Oh, bad.   Got someone 
around would can tack weld it back in place for a beer or two, or a spare fan 
shroud?

re coil wire- spread the dist wire end thing out that goes into the center 
plug of coil- so it is a snugger fit. a phillips screwdriver works.  Check 
all your plug wires- they should be supple and no cracks or tears anywhere.  
If they are marginal, get a new set of Bosch plug wire for about $30- they 
make your bus run faster and more gas efficient and more powerful that crusty 
old wires.

re points frying- the only time I've had that be a problem is if the ignition 
got left on.  is your condensor and coil good?   Roger Nang has the coolest 
coil testing tool- you hook it up and turn ignition of bus on and a spark 
jumps continuously an inch or two across the board of the tool and crackles, 
very mad scientist.   turn a knob to the best spark, and if it is within a 
certain range it's good.   So evidently the old coil in my 65 is good.   I 
guess they can work marginally for a while.   

Heard that is the condensor is good, the bump on the point is in the middle, 
if bad it wavers off to one side.

In a message dated 9/25/2002 8:12:47 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
a1gtivw(-at-)hotmail.com writes:

<< 
 Barely made it to work today!  My oil filler thing just keeps backing of the 
 neck.  I have the little tool and keep tightening it to no avail! ....... 

 and my filler thing is almost off and the right top fan shroud opening for 
 the heat exchanger hoses if completely off :0
 ...the little outlet thing  broke the tack weld.  Is it cool to just tap the 
shroud and bolt it? 
 
 Today bus is acting  up (timing)  I replaced the damn points saturday (the 
 archive is full of me whining about my bus eating points!) .....and my coil 
   plug wire keeps falling off (thankfully on the coil side no sparky!  
 Anyway need tips on oil filler, and fan shroud thing.  Also if I burn points 
 wouldn't this excessive abuse fry an pertronix? >>
