Date: Tue, 11 Mar 2003 20:57:37 -0500
From: scott lyons <slyons(-at-)netrover.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Rod bearing play

On 3/11/03 5:21 PM, "Greg Potts" <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca> wrote:

> Hi Volks,
> 
> Last night was "Franklin Night" with the Potts Bros, we try to get
> together weekly with Dad to work on his 75 Westy, "Franklin". So far
> this winter the work has been progressing well, we have the interior
> removed, the backing plates replaced, the 1.8L FI engine is out and the
> heads have been removed and are soon to be sent out for service. Pretty
> soon we can start putting things together.
> 
> However...
> 
> Last night we were scraping crud off the engine case when we noticed
> that there was some play in the rod bearings. Each of the the pistons
> will swing about 2-3 mm of arc in the direction of  the crank. It also
> slides fore-and-aft on the cam bearing slightly, but what concerns me
> is the rotation.
> 

Greg,

Can you take another try at describing the "play" that you felt, it is a bit
confusing. The part about fore and aft on the "CAM" bearing in particular,
as the rods are not connected to the cam, maybe that part was a typo.

Without splitting the case you can measure crankshaft end play and rod
journal side clearance and that is about it. You can check the clearance
between the pistons and pin by removing the pins (note the location of each
beforehand) and checking the fit in the small end of the rod. They are a
press fit when new, meaning you have to push them into the rod with very
slight pressure. You can't check the other bearings but if the engine is out
and partly taken apart, I see no reason to stop tearing it down, in fact I
would say you'd be foolish NOT to tear it down completely.

> Is it time for a teardown and bottom-end rebuild, or is this within
> spec? Will I also want/need new pistons and cylinders?

Like I noted before, you can't answer this question without measuring the
parts. A machinist might be able to judge by feel if the motor was
drastically worn out, but the true test is always measurement. You are
dealing with very small variations in size between parts.

The pistons and cylinders can be measured as well. The wear limit is .008
clearance and the details of how and where to measure are in the Bentley.
This will determine if you NEED new P&C's. At a minimum you will need new
rings. Be careful what rings you buy, the 93mm size are very hard to find in
good quality. 

You can also look at the cam without opening the case. Remove the lifters
and make sure to keep track of which hole they came from - an egg carton and
a sharpie marker are good for this. Use a small flashlight to look at the
lobes of the cam and look for divots on the tips of the lobe or curved wear
lines on the ramps, while rotating the motor. Type IV cams normally need to
be replaced when rebuilding, but you might get lucky. While you have the
lifters out, look at the cam ends of them inspect for wear. They should be
slightly crown shaped - higher in the middle than at the edge. On an older
motor they are usually the opposite - low in the middle. Hold two of them
together with the wear surfaces touching and if you can't see any light
between the two lifters, they need to be replaced. If the lifters are worn
the cam will be as well.

> Is this the perfect time to upsize the engine to 2 litres?

As far as going up in displacement to 2.0, you can do it but you need a new
crankshaft and rods, as well as 94mm P&C's. The heads you have will work on
2.0 cylinders. It is worth noting that the 1.8l motors made the same HP as
the 2.0. 

Scott Lyons
