Date: Wed, 12 Mar 2003 09:50:46 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: martin mountford <type2vdub(-at-)beeb.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Whats goin' on?-type 4 gurus

>Symptoms ;Type 4 1800 engine which starts and runs fine until you stop and
>shut down for gas or whatever-start engine and the engine  starts but will
>only just run until you have held the gas pedal down ,eventually the revs
>slowly pick up until its reving at full with lots of smoke,smoke clears and
>bus runs fine until the next time this happens-any ideas type 4 gurus

What color is the smoke? If it is grey or black then it's fuel and your 
engine is flooding out. By holding you foot on the floor you are providing 
enough air to balance with the excess fuel and your engine smokes and 
coughs until it burns off the excess fuel and reaches the normal mixture.

If it is blue then it is oil and you have problems with worn out 
pistons/cylinders or head problems.

I'd guess that your float valves are leaking or the carb floats are set too 
high or the carbs are too rich.

What kind of carbs - stock or Webers or Dells or???

Do this - recreate the situation where your hard start situation will 
happen. (Drive it, get it hot, shut it off). Open the engine lid, remove 
the air cleaners and look down the carb throats (ENGINE OFF!!!) with a 
match (JUST KIDDING - use a flashlight). Are the carbs dripping every so 
often?

Note where the carbs are dripping from.

Is the fuel mileage miserable?

Are the vacuum hoses cracked / leaking?

Are you using the stock mechanical fuel pump or an electric one? If it is 
an electric one figure out what type of fuel pressure it is putting out. It 
should be around 3 psi I think. Anymore and you are forcing gas through the 
carbs instead of the correct method where the pump keeps the carbs filled 
and waiting for air flow to grab a bit of it. There are alot of electric 
pumps that put out WAY more pressure than you can use. You could even 
POTENTIALLY have a pump that puts out over 100 psi but the engine would not 
run okay... <grin>

Are the chokes in place and working?

If you don't have it and if you area newbie you need to spend a bit of 
money. Buy the Bentley manual and the Muir manual. The Muir manual puts 
your bus in perspective - layman's terms. The Bentley has the better 
procedures and pictures.

These books will keep you out of the hands of a mechanic much of the time 
(I haven't been to a mechanic for years now...).

Good luck. Write anytime.


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
