Date: Wed, 12 Mar 2003 15:42:47 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] door restoration?

What do you need to know. I spent weeks on my doors it seems (also a '78 
Westy Champagne Edition).

My reassembly was opposite of the disassembly. Get thee ziploc freezer bags 
and a Mark-All marker. Group pieces and mark them and bag them.

I removed the door and placed it on two saw horses.

Removed the rotted weatherstripping.

Removed the inner cover of the inside door latch handle. Remove screw. 
Remove trim.

Pop the crank trim off removed screw, removed crank handle. Catch the 
plastic washer that lives between the crank and the door panel.

Removed armrest screws. Removed armrest.

Rear vent trim is attached to door panel. Leave it alone for now.

Remove door panel. Mine was rotted at the bottom from water damage.

Remove plastic inner liner.

Crank window down until you can remove the 10mm bolts at the bottom of the 
glass. This will disconnect the glass from the regulator.

Push glass up and away. Remove the 3 or 4 ten millimeter bolts that hold 
the regulator in. Remove regulator through bottom area of door.

Push glass down in track. Using screwdriver remove inner scrapper rubber 
piece. Do not damage the wire retainer. Save the retainer wire and leave it 
in the OEM rubber (however damaged the rubber is) to check it's orientation 
when you assemble with new rubber.

Remove the fuzzy tracks. There are two pieces. The vertical vent window 
track is one piece. It stops at the top. The other starts at the top corner 
created by the door and the vent window frame and run backwards along the 
top of the door and then makes a radius bend to go down inside the door. 
This creates the top and rear guide for the window.

Remove the fuzzy track on the vent window. Use a small flat screwdriver. Do 
not scratch the vent window frame.

Now remove the top and rear piece (single piece). It is held by a half 
dozen clips in the top of the door and the rear vertical portion of the 
door. You should be able to slide the track forward to disengage the clips 
from the door. SAVE THESE CLIPS. They are not made of top quality spring 
metal because if you bend them too much (especially the locking tab that 
holds the clip to the door) they will break.

You may have to squeeze them a bit to bite into the new track material.

Now remove the Philips head screw at the top of the vent window frame. 
Remove the 10mm bolt at the bottom of the vent window frame (bottom of the 
track created by the vent window. It should be near the crank handle hole I 
think.

With the glass sitting on the bottom of the door, the vent window frame 
should tilt back at the top and then slide upwards and out. There is a 
slight bit of flexing of the metal to required.

Now remove the door glass. I prefer to stand it on it's edge and pull it 
out of the top of the door (where it would slide upwards). I suppose you 
might be able to lower it out of the door on the inside but I doubt it.

Now the only thing left in the door are the latches. There is a screw on 
the edge of the door behind the door handle. It is a larger Philips (#2?) 
screw. Remove this. The door handle will now hinge outward and forward. 
Remove and put the screw back into the handle so you don't loose it.

Remove the inner latch handle. Remove the control rod between the inner 
latch handle and the door latch. Remove the lock button (unscrew it).

Now remove the 3 or 4 large Philips screws at the rear of the door above 
and around the latch mechanism.

Lower it inside the door and remove.

Remove the outer stainless trim IF necessary. The replacement trim is a low 
grade aluminum. The OEM was slightly better, stiffer, brighter, and 
stronger. Don't replace it unless you have to. It is held around it's 
perimeter with small spring metal clips. The replacement clips are made of 
thin aluminum with NO SPRING qualities. I was quite disappointed with the 
replacement clips.

I created custom clips by buying generic nylon GM door panel and trim 
clips. I then used some large Sears pruning shears to trim the round head 
to a narrow straight head about 1/8" wide. I will hold better than the OEM 
clip from the VW factory and MUCH, MUCH better than the aftermarket 
equivalent that you'll get with your new replacement trim. And because it 
is nylon - no rust.

REASSEMBLY

Clean the latch and grease lightly and/or oil it.

Remove the pinch screw and bracket at the bottom of the vent window. 
Grease/oil the vent window pivot pin.

Oil the hinges.

Clean, clean, clean.

Remove the inside rear door vent trim and apply it to the new door panels. 
Some years came with tiny plastic nipples that pushed through the door 
panel and were secured on the inside of the door panel with 1-way metal 
clips. I usually break most of these nipples trying to remove the clips. 
Some year baywindows came with trim that hooked onto the edge of the 
opening for the trim in the door panel at the bottom of the hole and 
snapped over the edge at the top to hold the trim in place. I prefer those. 
They are interchangeable.

Line the door with a Dynamat like material. Took mine from sounding like an 
empty barrel to a solid thump when rapped from outside.

Spray inside of the door with some sort of rust preventative of your choice 
(bar oil, Waxoyl, etc.).

Assembly is the reverse of the disassembly.

Did that help?




Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
