Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2002 05:39:58 -0400
To: Bookwus1(-at-)aol.com
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <Doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re:Fan Funnies 

Date: Sun, 11 Aug 2002 17:39:07 EDT

 >Hiya List,
 >I recently purchase a pair of cooling fans (out of a 74, if the seller is
 >correct) for my 70 Bus. I took them down to a reputable local
 >auto/electronics shop. They disassembled, cleaned, and inspected the fans.
 >They were pronounced "good to go". I installed them in the Bus and they ran
 >great............for about five minutes. Then the fuse blew.
 >I wired them in exactly as Bentley shows. A dedicated fuse (8 amper) for
 >this circuit only. They run fine for awhile, then blow.
 >I separated them and each runs fine by itself.

............It could be that you are using a fuse with a rating that is too 
low for your power draw. You can try a larger fuse, within limits, or you 
can rewire to a parallel circuit. I suggest that you consider the rewiring 
option. I'd also consider using  relays of suitable capacity to trigger the 
system. One for each fan.

..................Check this web site for examples of extra capacity 
relayed automotive electrical circuits. It is mainly for improving the 
lighting systems, but you can learn a lot from the diagrams and parts 
lists. And the company (Texas)is a parts 
source.  http://lighting.mbz.org/tech/how_to/relays

............In the parallel circuit, you could try using two fuses and two 
feed wires, each  about #10 size. Using a #8 tap directly from the battery 
+ post, you could split it into two #10 wires and put a 20 amp, or even a 
30 amp fuse in each wire, and run each wire to a different fan. Then you 
use a #10 wire from the fan to your ground.  I think your problem of blown 
fuses is due to having the fans wired in series, with small wire, and a 
small fuse and probably a small ground wire.

............Incidently, I have a big radiator fan in one of my cars fused 
with an 80 amp circuit breaker. I don't want the circuit to fry if the fan 
locks up and burns out, and an 80 amp circuit breaker will blow if that 
happens. I could probably get away with a 60 amp circuit breaker. I just 
want to avoid having it blow when the fan starts up and is a peak current 
draw in the first instant of operation. Big fans use a lot of current and 
you need to measure that current and then pick a big enough feed wire (and 
a big enough ground wire) and an adequate fuse that will give you a safety 
factor.  Or, you could just try a bigger fuse in the existing series 
circuit if the existing wire and ground are already adequate, and see if it 
blows.....Try a 10 amp, and if it blows go to a 15, and then a 20, and then 
a 30, if the feed and ground wires are already big enough.  If that doesn't 
do it, consider a rewire with a parallel circuit and dual 20 or 30 amp 
fuses. And use at least #10 wire. After spending some time at the suggested 
web site, visit an automotive audio shop that specializes in rewiring cars 
and trucks for big amp sound systems. They have rolls of great wire to do 
it with, and also have great connector blocks and fuses, and good 
experience with wiring. Talk to them.        Doyt in Ohio

 >But when both are wired -
 >blammo after a few minutes. Also this malfunction SEEMS to be tied into
 >revving the engine. If I rev it up they will blow but only after revving for
 >a minute of so.
 >Ideas?
 >Mike
 >1970 Bus - The Ruptured Duck


