Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2002 08:10:53 -0700 (PDT)
From: Mike Charnoky <noky(-at-)nextbus.com>
To: type2 VW mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: post rebuild: no power, running hot

First off, many thanks to all the listees who've guided me through my
first engine rebuild.  The bus actually runs at this point (got it smogged
and registered which is a big relief), but the poor gal still ain't ready
for her first trip.

Here's a brief synopsis: '79 CA Westy, original problem was dropped valve
seat in #3.  I replaced both heads with rebuilt ones from AVP.  In the
process, also replaced the oil cooler (new German), clutch kit, fuel
lines, cracked air hoses and a few other odds 'n' ends.  After assembly,
it would only idle if the throttle was opened a bit; it definitely would
not drive.  Compression was rather low, ~100psi in all cylinders.

Took it to a local Berkeley VW specialist.  After 4 hours at $90/hr: they
found and replaced a hyd lifter that came apart.  Compression came up to
about 135psi all the way around.  Yay!  Timing wouldn't stay, they had to
replace the distributor (oh no, more dough.)  At this point (which is
where it is now) it had little power and would overheat like crazy
(260deg after driving a few miles), at which point the oil pressure would
drop (from 50psi at startup) down to the point where the oil light would
come on.

I picked up the bus to deal with all the legal crap (smog, reg, etc) and
tried to see what I could find.  I'm clueless!  Help!  The air flaps are
in the open position (can't find a thermostat, so they are fixed this
way).  All the tin is in place.  The engine _sounds_ great (the smog
guy complimented me), but starts to _smell_ (smells, well, hot) as it
heats up.  Using 30wt oil at this point.  Am about to set the timing from
5deg ATDC to 7.5deg BTDC (the VW guy said this is where it ran the best
according to the gas analyzer).  Any advice here?  What can I check?  It
is really gettting frustrating, as I've sunk soo much time and money into
ol' Dandy at this point :^(  Hoping I don't have to head back to the
shop...


noky
'79 CA Westy

