From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: <myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com>
Cc: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2002 12:30:52 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Don't scrap your Buses!

> i have seen bilboards here in tulsa, ok for people to donate cars, boats
> and other things to charities. i never looked into where they go, though.
> now i have to wonder! then again, if they are scrapping them, then why do
> they need to be running? i dont know if it matters if it runs, here.
>
> chris
>
This is another one of these lucrative scams that the
government-industrialists and lawyer/politicians have invented, creatively
sold to us as "environmentalism". Government agencies have been leaning
heavily on industry for the last two decades, using fees, fines, and
forfeitures as a way to supplement tax income. Now, industry has been forced
to find ways to work with government to reduce or mitigate the bite, or at
the very least to see that critical areas don't get bitten. Think of
government as a cross between a junk yard dog, a traffic cop, a collection
agency, and a gatekeeper. Make a mistake and get a ticket. And if you feed
the dog an offering, you might get past the gate where you need/want to go,
without getting bitten. Don't feed the doggy, and pay with your leg, or
worse. With me so far? OK..
So, an industry or corporation wants or needs to go a certain place, but
everything they do, they have to ask permission and pay a fee. Pay at the
tollgate and continue your journey. But beware, because this road is
infested with traffic cops, hoping to gain other revenues for the big boss.
You've got to know the rules and obey them. No excuses. Pay for play,
survive or die. There's a big fine for manufacturers if they violate
environmental and air/water quality laws.. New and more demanding rules are
on the books every year, as legislators, working with ever-more-unreasonable
special-interest groups raise the standards and tighten the loopholes. It
has become the growth industry of the new millenium, but like all forms of
parasitism, sometimes too great a toll is exacted on the host, and the host
succumbs or expires. This is a good part of the reason why our manufacturing
industries are failing ("got job?"). It is literally too expensive to keep
manufacturing on US soil. Of course, these are very complex issues, but I
wish to further elaborate no further. But suffice it to say that industry is
being squeezed hard these days by government regulation.
Most things under the big round domes in this country come down to
creativity and deal-making, and this is no exception. Inscrutable to the
common man are the ways of the legislators and lobbyists (Too bad we don't
have lobbyists, isn't it?..Someone to work for US! But then, that's what our
elected officials were supposed to be).
Unable to make further improvements to their plant without undermining
profitability to a fatal extent, corporations which produce or use fossil
fuels have agreed instead to pay higher fees to run their existing
equipment, the proceeds of their negotiated contributions being used to
reduce other forms of pollution in the private sector..namely, "gross
polluting" vehicles. This would be older, privately-owned cars. The
automobile industry lobbyists may have had a hand in this, too, yes...In
fact, since they are one of the largest fossil-fuel consuming manufacturing
industries remaining in the US, they would save three ways.. More cost
savings realized by not investing in new plant, more direct tax benefits,
and more old cars taken off the road.. Because the fees are invested to take
in and permanently dispose of (crush) old cars. For each car paid for, the
corporation realizes an immediate, 100% tax benefit and a reduced cost of
plant operation. Eventually, they may sell more cars, too.
Before you decry the "greedy, evil" corporations, remember that your old
Aunt Sally is depending on her GM stock or her mutual fund which is heavily
invested in GM stock, or creditors of GM.. and the vast amount of corporate
profit eventually goes to shareholders and private investors and pension
funds. The high-salaried executive with their stock options usually only
have a short, albeit stellar go-around. Remember that without corporate
profits, lay-offs and devastated pensions result.
The same kind of tax-credit deal was done several years ago between
electric/gas companies. This scheme involved the buy-back of old,
energy-inefficient refrigerators. We would not be too surprised, by the way,
if we were to learn of a few cases of cronyism or conflict-of-interest in
regard to who gets the lucrative contracts to crush and recycle the old cars
and refrigerators. Heck, most of the steel probably goes to China to fuel
their manufacturing, because last I heard, they were not able to produce
high-grade steel needed for machinery. They would get that by melting down
German cars.
Now, you can say that this doesn't apply to old VWs, and that I have
violated a list rule by taking it this far.. But I see this as being highly
relevant to our old cars. You'd better get what you want and take good care
of it, because one day you will look around and there won't be any more to
be had. Those that there are may go for a premium price. Right now, we're in
that sort of icky, in-between stage, where there are still a smathering of
old beat-up buses out there, and a few good ones, but most of them available
for reasonable prices. That won't last more than a few years. Mark my words.
To qualify for the gross-polluter credit, the car must actually be currently
operating and running. So, the sad thing is that a lot of owners are giving
up perfectly good, cherished automobiles, never dreaming that they are going
to the crusher.
Very rarely, a charity will actually take physical possession of an old car,
apprenticing young people or recovering people to teach them a trade, then
putting the vehicle back onto the used car market. But it is usually not
cost effective. Usually, the charities that are soliciting these donations
are only window dressing for highly organized, high-volume boiler room
operations working for those charities in name only, and they never see the
cars. The actual charities don't have any hand in it, either, and only get
pennies on the dollar in exchange for the use of their name and bringing in
additional benefactors with old cars. The cars are virtually all crushed and
their value is split between the salvage industry, the charity fund-raising
industry, the corporations in the form of tax credits and reduced cost of
business, and government in the form of taxes and administrative fees. The
charities lend their name, but recieve the very least of all of them. These
charity car drives are just a Judas goat for the salvage industry.
The scheme will be replayed, almost identically, in almost every state,
since a great deal of copy-catting goes on in legislation and fund-raising,
and some are set up on Federal models. There are usually big rebates and tax
incentives which require that states comply with the guidelines to get the
money. The Federal government cannot legally impose their programs and
violate states' sovereignty, but they can dangle a pretty carrot and get
what they want anyway.
Jan B


