Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2002 18:21:28 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Hal Landvoigt <hal(-at-)sitespecific.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine Pulling Experience and Questions

First suggestion:  Put some carriage returns in your lines!  Your text
editor might be wrapping the lines, but they aren't being sent out that
way.  Look for a "linewidth" setting and set it to 70 or so!

On Mon, 12 Aug 2002, Hal Landvoigt wrote:

> Over the weekend I pulled the engine out of my 71 Westy to change out
the clutch.  Overall it went extremely well, but I ran into a few snags
that I could use some advice on for the future.
>
> The engine came out very easily with a small shop jack.  However the
tranny dropped as I pulled the engine away and hung down at an angle
after I seperated the engine and transmission.  This angle made putting
the engine and gearbox back together again a bit of a hassle and I ended
up using blocks to raise up the transmission so that the pilot shaft
would meet up with the engine at the right angle.  In the Idiot book Muir
suggests simply rolling the bus away from the engine (and back toward for
installation) but I'm not sure how you can accomplish this with the
transmission hanging down at an angle.

You can roll the bus away with the earlier models without the rear support
and the late models with the upper transmission support.  With the middle
models you have to support the transmission to remove the engine.  Hope
you didn't damage your CVs or boots by dropping it!

> Second, the moustache bar that supports the rear of the engine was in
the way when trying to reinstall the engine.  Do people remove this and
the muffler before removing or instaling the engine or do most people
just keep it all attached and work around it.

I keep it attached.  If you keep the transmission in position everything
will slide into place easily.  I use a small floor jack under the
transmission so that I can adjust its angle easily.  Make sure that the
bellhousing and engine flange are parallel and the engine high enough for
the moustache bar to slide onto the "ears" on the frame.  Also, be sure to
remove the lower bolts on the rear rubber mounts.  the mounts should stay
on the moustache bar!

> Third, I had a bear of a time getting the rear tin (the upright piece
that acts as a firewall) to stay in place against the top of the engine
 and fit in with the rubber seal reinstalling the engine.  I eventuall
just took it off, reinstalled the engine, and then monkeyed it back into
place after the engine was installed.

Hmmm, I've never had a problem with this.  Perhaps the piece is tweaked or
something is missing.  putting the tin in after the engine sounds like
the really hard way to do it!

> Next to last, I dont seem to remember the top surface of the rear apron
getting hot, but it seems to warm up right next to where the air hoses go
through.  Can someone tell me if this is normal?

The muffler lives right behind that apron, so it can get pretty warm.

 > Last, I drained the oil and did added new oil after I was all done.
 Now the Drain Bolt seems to leak.  Am I supposed to use a new washer each
time?

Yes, or just put a little Hylomar non-hardening sealer on the washer.
This stuff works well for valve cover gaskets (on the cover side only, not
the head side!!)

> Thanks to all for their wisdom!  The new clutch is like a magical
butter clutch!

Don't forget to grease the cable, and did you replace the fuel lines?
Very important thing that, if you don't like fire.

George

