To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2002 22:33:36 -0700
From: myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Re: [T2] I'm sorry

whoa, take a chill pill, man. i havent heard anyone "whining" except you.
besides, if alot of people here had the space and money and lived closer,
i am sure they would take you up on your offer. but we just can't, for
one reason or another. that is no reason to get pissy with everyone. if
you were getting frustrated and just wanted it to go to someone locally,
you could take out an ad to find it a good home instead of passing the
blame to a bunch of well meaning innocent people.

On Mon, 12 Aug 2002 21:06:12 -0400 "Mike Clark" <fatmac99(-at-)mindspring.com>
writes:
...  It does not mean  giving them
> to someone in Canada because they feel too unfortunate to go find a 
> Bus for themselves.
That was just rude...

... It does seem strange to me, that with the volume of people on this 
list,
> that no one is seriously interested in a couple pretty cheep Busses.  
I'm
> not whining.  But those that do whine about "oh no we are losing 
another
> Bus" get out your checkbook.  Whining and not doing anything about  it
is
> pathetic.  If you really can't do anything about it, but have no  other
> positive offerings, shut the h* up.
did YOU try printing an ad in your local paper advertising these "cheap"
busses? did the ad specify all or nothing, no parting out? some annoying
calls and e-mails can be filtered out if you use phrases like that.
otherwise, just ignore the idiots (i know there are alot out there, but
one would lose one's mind if they didn't try to ignore as much BS as
possible)
 
... I will not ever mention selling my Busses here again.  Answering 
ridiculous
> emails is almost as bad as fielding ridiculous phone calls. 
gee, ya coulda saved us the attitude and just made this decision. you
dont want rediculous e-mails, then dont put yourself out there and ask
for it. i dont know what kind of crazy messages you got, but that happens
anywhere you try to sell anything. it is just a occupational hazard.
 
... That's it I'm done for the night.  Thanks for putting up with me.
there is no reason we should have to, but thanks for pretending to care
how we feel after that assault.
 
> Mike Clark
> 76 and 79
> Stockbridge, Georgia

chris
70 westy
not close enough to GA to "save" these busses... sorry
