To: raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com
Cc: dwolf(-at-)bluefrognet.net,vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 21 May 2003 18:13:33 -0700
From: wilden1(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Full-Flow System Oil Pressure

I aim for pressure, of course. As the oil heats the pressure will drop
with the viscosity of the oil. Little pumps need big help. Bernoulli
Interval: Do I really have enough data to draw a valid conclusion ?
------------------------ Clip --------------------------
I often read the Bernoulli Interval statement that you post with each
list reply.
Although I'd speculate that most people don't have much application for
putting the proverb into practice.
Over the years I have found that to trouble shoot engine failures, you
need lots and lots of engines.
The one engine in your Van isn't going to give you all the information
you need.
I've been buying dead VW engines from wrecking yards for many years,
those that aren't dead would have died soon.
Dismantling these engines and doing the detective work is very
educational. After tearing into a half dozen engines of the same type
patterns start to develop.
On type I engines I find that oval main bearings are the most common
cause of low to no oil pressure. This hammering out of the main bearing
shell and battering out of the block is caused by over revving the
engine.
Just one event of over revving an engine can hammer out the soft
magnesium case and deform the bearing causing a drop in oil pressure.
Blaming the lower resulting pressure on the pump is just avoiding the
truth.
I admit that starting with higher oil pressures and higher viscosity oils
might stave off the pressure loss for a good while, the end result is
inevitable.
Type I engines were engineered to be run at 55 mph on highways and then
they were expected to run efficiently for about 65,000 miles.
If you change the rules of the game with higher speeds, newer cleaner
fuels, but better oils it is still possible to get good service for the
intended mileage.
In my crazy tinkering I started running engines in with a big magnet on
the oil strainer plate.
I found an exceptional amount of iron residue after the first 20 minute
run in on newly rebuilt engines.
After an oil and filter change and a 200 mile controlled run in at 2000
rpms or less I was still getting an exceptional amount of iron particles
magnetized to the strainer plate.
This collection of particles continued right on through 5000 miles and a
total of four oil changes.
This in itself proves nothing except from ten years of cleaning strainer
plates I have always found sludge in the strainer plate, I now find iron
and sludge.
I speculate that, although I haven't trapped all the abrasive iron
particles from the oil flow to the bearings, I have caught some and more
was caught in the filter ............... because a great deal of oil is
passed to the bypass and it simply never goes through the filter in one
20 minute run cycle.
If your oil bypass valve is functioning properly you could be bypassing
as much as 80% of the oil back to the sump area.
At 20,000 miles on a type IV engine I experienced NO drop in oil pressure
from the first run in on the new engine. There was none of this "High
pressure, then settling in." scenario.
Since the big magnet was free to me and when I went shopping for a better
round magnet I found donut shaped 3.5" x 1/2" thick magnets for as little
as $4.00. They don't require installation, just reach under there and
stick it to the sump plate. If it blows off or is washed off by sloshing
water on rainy days ........ it wasn't strong enough and you should get a
better quality magnet.
This isn't a fix for anything, but it's cheap FuFu that might give you
longer engine life.

Stan Wilder
