From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 22 May 2003 11:32:59 EDT
To: mizamook(-at-)starband.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Projected Fantasy: Cross Country

In a message dated 5/21/2003 2:10:24 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
mizamook(-at-)starband.net writes:

<< Drive across the country in a bus with supected serious kingpin trouble?  
Are
 you out of your mind?!
 
 Yes.
 ...................................
before taking a VW on a road trip, I like to have a firm feeling that it has 
resolved its  issues and won't throw a hissy fit and refuse to play anymore.

Usually this it done be driving the beastie around town for a few weeks to 
work out the kinks, and doing a thoughrough tuneup before leaving.   You really 
want to inspect the whole bus,  while you can choose where to work on it.

So you want to buy a bus, jump in, and drive a long way?   Yes bad kingpins 
are a real PITA to drive with as the bus suddenly decides to go any hich way.   
It is an afternoon job to replace them.  Plus you can go through the front 
brakes at the same time, wghioch is a good idea.

 Are you sure it is the kingpins?   What else is wrong with the bus?  maybe 
the steering is bad from a bad tie rod.   Is there someone who can look at it 
and give you a list of what exactly needs doing?  If you make a check list.   
then you know what parts to bring

You can buy a bus in not good shape and drive it hundreds of miles home.   I 
spent three full days (with my then bf) in the dust  working on a 54 kombi to 
get it going to drive it home, after it sat for 20? years.  Went through 
brakes, electrics, installed motor, battery, greased everything I could think of, 
new engine to body seal, grommets, etc.  That little blue bus had been 
neglected, worked hard, then parked and ignored for decades.  It  needed TLC and 
therapy.   It also had no shocks (the backs were bad) and bad steering.   drove it 
500 miles home, then found good bd spindles and tie rod, and found shocks for 
it.  Nice thing was that after doing all that work at first, that bus never 
had any issues that I remember.   Drove it around a lot for a year or so.   
useful for moving house,  as a bare kombi can carry lots of stuff.

Ya, new shocks is a good idea.
