Date: Thu, 22 May 2003 14:36:50 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: voltage regulator - update part 2

>From: "Too much coffee man" <tom(-at-)groundzeroroasting.com>
>Date: Wed, 21 May 2003 19:23:37 -0700
>
>I have not yet had a chance to drive it (other issues to sort out,
>cooling and what not) I will get a VOM on it tonight to see if it
>is doing what it should.  Are there ant rec.  procedures for testing
>the output of the alt/ funtionality of the VR?

The first test is the most basic one: turn the key on and the red light
should be on; start the engine and the red light should go out; shut
down the engine, leaving the key on, and the red light should come on
again.  If you turn on a light (dome light, parking/dash lights) before
you start the car, you should notice it get a little brighter once the
engine is turning.  When you turn off the key, it will get a little
dimmer.

To test with a voltmeter, shut everything electrical off and measure
the voltage at the battery terminals.  It should be 12.6 volts for
a fully charged 12 V battery.  Start the engine and rev it up a little;
measure the voltage at the battery again and it should have gone up at
least a volt to 13.6 V or more.  Turn on the lights, turn signals, etc,
and measure the voltage again - it may be down a little but should
still be more than 12.6 V.  It'll probably go up a little when you rev
the engine.  If that's working, go for a nice drive to charge up the
battery and check it again - you shouldn't be able to make the voltage
at the battery go over about 15.0 V by revving the engine.

The later Bentleys (70s and up, for Buses and Bugs that came with an
alternator stock) may have specific alternator advice.  One thing the
Bentley may want is an inline ammeter that can read to 50A or 100A or
more, which most people don't have.  (Most digital meters are fused at
10A or 20A).  If you have a clamp-around (inductive pickup) ammeter,
that can probably serve in place of the inline one.

Matt Roberds
