Date: Tue, 09 Oct 2001 16:25:51 -0700
From: Jim Arnott <jrasite(-at-)eoni.com>
To: Eric <strandedvw(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Stranded in Colorado

Troubleshooting 101:

Verify that you knocked nothing loose in your previous foray.  Check 6
wire connector at AFM especially. Also ascertain that the white wire is
connected to the points side of the coil. It's the trigger signal for
the injectors.  Verify that the #3 cylinder temp sensor is connected. 
(Open the hatch, it's the black (IIRC) wire at the front (FIF) left hand
corner of the engine.)

Verify that you have spark at the spark plugs.  Buy an extra plug and
pull each wire in turn.  Insert new plug into connector and hold against
something metal.  Have assistant crank engine.  Strong blue spark?  You
have ignition.

Verify that the fuel pump is operating.  Remove cover from top of AFM. 
Turn ignition switch on and rotate the shaft there revealed.  You should
hear the pump operate.

If all checks out so far, check the static timing.  Remove the wire from
the 12v side of the coil and put a test lamp in series.  (series = wire
- lamp - coil) Remove the distributor cap and locate the scribe mark on
the perimeter of the distributor body.  Turn the engine clockwise until
the rotor is about 1/2"  before that mark.  Turn on ignition and
continue to turn the motor clockwise until the lamp just goes out. Note
the location of the timing mark on the fan hub in relation to the timing
scale.  Anything between 10 deg and 0 deg is okay. (7.5 is correct.)
Timing okay?  Remember to turn the ignition back off.

Check the valve clearances.  With the rotor pointing toward that scribe
mark on the distributor and the mark on the fan lined up with the 0 mark
on the timing scale, remove the passenger side valve cover.  Check the
front pair of valves for .006 gap. When that's correct, rotate the motor
180 deg COUNTER clockwise and check the rear pair of valves. Replace the
valve cover and remove the one on the drivers side. Rotate the motor
another 180 degrees CCW and check the front pair on the drivers side. 
Another 180 deg. CCW and check the last pair. 
Valves are now set.

If it still won't start, you may have to invest in another's time.  You
will have checked all the common stuff.

Hope you find it.  It's getting cold here too. (20 deg F tonight)

Jim Arnott
WetWesties
Union, OR

PS, one more thing you might try... Run a wire from the + terminal on
the battery directly to the 12v side of the coil.  Might be a bad
ignition switch...
