From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: "jason vidas" <jasvidas(-at-)yahoo.com>, "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 9 Jan 2005 11:23:13 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Bad ges smell won't go away.

Much like the earlier bay window busses, the Vanagon has a fuel vent system 
that is prone to leaking after more than 20 years. There are several rubber 
gromets on the top of the tank that should be replaced if the tank is 
suspected of leaking. Does the gasoline oder decrease as the fuel level in 
the tank goes down? If the answer is yes then it is probably this vent 
system, If no the problem may be else where.

You mention that you have an heater booster that doesn't work. Are there any 
signs of rust on it or other damage that might affect the isolation of the 
cumbustion chamber of the heater from the fresh air chamber? You may have 
fuel leaking past the heaters fuel pump into the cumbustion chamber. The 
first thing I would do is to remove the belly pan from underneath and locate 
the fuel filter and fuel pump on the inside of the  right frame rail. 
Between these you should find a T fitting with a small fuel line running 
towards the front of the bus and connecting to a small fuel pump on the 
cross member behind the gas tank. This should be the fuel supply for the 
heater booster. Remove the hose from the T or the heater booster pump and 
plug it. Take a test drive. If the oder goes away start investigating the 
heater booster. There is good info in the Bentley on how to trouble shoot 
the booster.

Tom
75 bus "Turtlebus"
80 Westy "as yet unnamed"
Bus-ted minds want to know




----- Original Message ----- 
From: "jason vidas"

> it smells terribly of gasoline.  I think there must be a fuel leak near 
> the top of the tank so I drive it a bit to air it out.  There are gas 
> fumes coming from the heater.  I think okay, it just has to evaporate from 
> under there. I wait, letting it idle to clean out the heater duct.  It 
> won't go away.  I have searched for leaks and found none.  Since that 
> first day the van only smells of gas when I am running the engine and the 
> smell is coming from the heaters.  When I crawl around under the van I 
> cannot smell gas.  How would the smell get into the heater duct and
>  why would it stay there?  It is a gasoline smell and not an exhaust 
> smell.  There is a heater booster in the van, but I don't think it works, 
> could that have something to do with it?  If my heat smells like gas are 
> the only possibilities something around the fuel tank?  I don't really 
> mind taking off the fuel tank if I can be relatively sure the problem is 
> in there somewhere.  This is killing me, please help.  Thank you in 
> advance. 
