Date: Tue, 11 Jan 2005 09:18:08 -0800 (PST)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: FS: Early westy baywindow in Tigard, OR

Like the subject says, there's an early westy bay for sale in Tigard OR
for $400. I don't have a number for the owner, but if you're
interested, its parked at the Chevron station at the intersection of
I-5 and Carmen Drive (next to the Burgerville) when the owner works
(swing shifts).

What I know about it: 
very little, other than word of mouth and a brief look-see. The guy
that turned me on to the bus (Joe) knows the guy selling it (Brian) and
has heard / seen it run. I haven't, but apparently the owner drives it
to work at the Chevron station, so it must move somewhat. I can't pin
down the year, but my guess would be between '69 and '71 (upright
motor, small rear lights, square reflectors). Neither of us had time to
run through the bus when I spotted it, but here are my observations,
accept them with the understanding that I really don't know what I'm
doing ;) Brian just nodded and pointed at the bus between customers
when I asked about it.

Exterior: Red. Not rusted. A few small dents/dings, but the rear
corners are right. Missing rear bumper. Has a pea-shooter muffler.
Poptop has the classic PacNW moss starting on it. Didn't get under it,
nor did I climb up top to see what the luggage rack looked like. It's
probably safe to say the luggage rack bars and some of the underside is
rusty.

Interior: seems complete. wood headliner over the z-bed in front of the
headbanger shelf is broken off. Seats, bed are that yellow
vinyl-looking sort. Missing front kick panels. Wood cabinet,
sink/icebox have good looking wood, and appear complete. Didn't see the
little stool, but that's not surprising.

I can't say if anything works nor can I say for rust-free it is, but I
would gone back for a full run-through if (a) I didn't already have
more projects than time and (b) I had the space to park it long enough
to get to it. The guy selling it isn't advertising it, nor has he put a
"for sale" sign on it. It was still there on Friday, 1/7/05. Sorry I
didn't pop the engine compartment - the seller was working, so it
wasn't really cool to crawl over the bus. If anyone on list buys or
looks at this bus, I'd love to hear how it works out for you.

Paul Manning
Lake Oswego, OR 
1972 Westy (Hapy - interior pulled for replacement on Sat. 1/8/05)
