Date: Mon, 07 Jan 2002 16:50:14 -0500
To: ifogata(-at-)earthlink.net,type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] Exhaust leaks

>system. I now have some leaks. I know I will have to take apart and work
>to flatten and square all the parts to each other. The problem is that I
>did this when I put it back together (not as well as I could have,
>admittedly) the first time. I will do this again, and work harder to get
>it right, but it sure would be nice if there was a product or procedure
>to help when the surfaces just don't mate quite right. Is there such a
>thing?

There is just such a product, Wurth's exhaust joint compound.  Boston
Bob used to swear by it, I have had excellent luck with it.  Costs about
$14 the tube, the only source that comes to me at the moment is a FWD
VW place.  New gaskets obviously should be used and go a long way as
does taking a portable belt sander to all the flanges for a sec or two.  Also
good to jig everything sort of loose and tighten it all down as a system in
little bits.  Anyway the Wurth stuff isn't magic but is good stuff cures to
an almost ceramic like consistency.  Particularly good on copper rings
on round port heads.

http://www.eurosportacc.com/fluids2.htm

has it, that is about the right price, I paid a shade more locally.  If that
doesn't work directly go to www.eurosportacc.com then go to the fluids
section, then to Wurth products.  Wurth stuff is always expensive, but
usually worth it.  Some other thoughts that always make good sense are
to drill out the flanges matching the heads slightly larger so there is play
up there, and I tend to use 304 stainless fasteners 5/16" american style
with serrated flanged nuts and liberal antiseize for all the fasteners instead
of metric stuff, excepting the head studs for which I use Genuine VW
exhaust nuts with the stainless wire inserts, they rust but don't rust on
the studs.  It can be real critical to make sure the flanges meeting the
heads are still parallel as well, as often they aren't and take the heater
box or header pipe to a big belt sander to attempt to true them up.  Also
inspect the few spot welds at the joint from that flange to the tube as they
crack from vibration then the whole exchanger or header can crack off the
flange.  A few more spots or a continuous bead with the MIG around the
joint can be a fine idea.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu


