Date: Mon, 7 Jan 2002 16:02:46 -0800 (PST)
From: Nicholas Palmer <nicholas(-at-)slackers.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Trip Report and Help!

For the holidays, I took the bus (a '77 FI Riviera) to Tucson from
Sacramento. Unfortunately we did not have a trouble free trip. The bus had
been ahving a missing problem before we left, and I had taken it to
Bugformance here in Sacramento, and they fiddled with the wiring and got
it running again.

The trip from Sacramento to LA was pretty uneventfull until we where about
15 miles from the place we where going to stay. We stopped in LA to see
some friends and their new baby. The missing problem started again just
outside of LA. 

So I poked around in the wiring for a couple of hours, and I found a break
in the wire running from the dual battery isolator to the starter. So I
replaced that line, and put dielectric grease on all of the other contacts
on the wiring harness, and had no more trouble all the way to Tucson. I
was convinced that the fraying wire had to have been the problem.

Well, at a gas station in Phoenix, I filled up as always, and then I
walked around the back of the bus to get in, and I noticed that there was
gas leaking from under the left side battery tray. So I pulled out the
battery, and sure enough there is gas all underneath, and dripping from
somewhere higher. It turns out that there is a small piece of fule line
that connects the two metel lines for the tank breather. I touched that
line, and it crumbled in my hand. I had just replaced all of the other
fuel lines, but didn't know about this one. So I replaced that bit, and we
where back on the road.

Well, we get to just before Quartzsite, and the bus starts missing again,
and the problem is worse than it has ever been. So I pulled over and
fiddled with the wiring for a couple of hours, until it started to get
dark, and coudln't figure out the problem. So I pressed on the short
distance to blyth, sputtering the whol way.

Long story short, (yeah right!) we ended up renting a uhaul, and an
auto-trailer and towing it back up here to Sacramento in order to make it
back up in time for new years. I don't have time to work on it this month
really, so I have droped it off at Bugformance to see if they can really
fix the problem this time.

So does anybody have an suggestions? I have checked both temp sensors, the
plugs spark plug wires and distributor cap. The AFM aux air regulator, the
decel valve, and also I have checked for vacume leaks. I also checked the
combi relay, and the coil, all to no avail. I am stumped.

-Nick
'77 Riviera Camper with a sever missing problem.

