Date: Tue, 8 Jan 2002 00:47:51 -0500 (EST)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Unknown Timing

Oh, my... this has gotten complicated!

First and foremost,  David Schwarze asked in his post today:

> Steve, are you saying that there is *no* difference in timing
> requirements for all of those engine types that Bob listed from
> Bentley?  In other words, if you put the same distributor in each of
> those engines and timed it to the specs of the distributor, it would
> always be 100% correct?

David,

I don't know any more.  For years I have run on the advice of various
friends, mechanics, and gurus.  That advice was that the maximum advance
that a T1 case could sustain without running hot was 28 degrees BTDC and
that the maximum that the T4 case could stand was 34 degrees BTDC.  I was
also given the advice I transmitted which is to time to the distributor. I
have followed that advice myself for the ~30 years I have been running VWs
and have not come to grief with it, so I still regard it as
"provisionally" safe.

I have spent this evening charting the specs given in Jim Thompson's page
in an attempt to convince myself that this was provably the case, tho, and
after that effort all is can do is quote from the eminent Prof. D.P. Gumby
of the Institute of Hitting Yourself on the Head with Walls... "MY BRAINS
HURT!!!"

Your recomendation (and Bobs) that you run the proper distributor on your
engine has my complete and unqualified support.  You all know I am a
"stock freak" (in polite terms), so I could hardly think otherwise.  In
all my posts, however, I try to keep in mind that as of this year the
youngest air-cooled bus that exists in the Unites States is old enough to
drink.  There are very few all-stock buses left (see the description of
mine, below :)  and we have to consider that in our advice.  I would like
very much to have a statement I could pass along that would be safe for
everyone, no matter what beast of an assembly they bring home from the
DPO's place. I still cannot go with "time to the engine code" I am sorry
to say, Bob.  It is far more complicated that I had initially imagined,
however, and my advice to time to the distributor doesn't seem to work
either.

I think David's "(b) Do exhaustive, accurate measurement and testing of
the engine/distributor combination that you have." may very well be the
case at this point, with added research on carb jetting/fuel mixture
thrown in.  The ignition, it turns out is one small part of "the
system" and all the parts have to work in concert.  Even the basic "time
it to 30 degrees total advance" does not seem to work out.  Some of the
distributors for 1600 engines seem to advance to 40 degrees and least one
of the late distributors seems to produce a total advance that is 28
degrees, altho the vacuum advance/retard distributors have my head
spinning!

At this point, I don't know.  Later in the week, after what looks like a
*lot* of research and calculation, I will try to post something coherent.
One of the data points I have to consider, BTW is my own case.... Imagine
the future owner of my '73.  It has a Vanagon block, a Bay fan shroud, '78
heads, '78 FI and a CA Vanagon electronic ignition.  In so far as timing
goes, when Karl sent me the CA electronic ignition system to install (on
the '73 body with '78 FI, '78 heads, and a Vanagon block), he told me that
since the '78 throttle body does not have the take-off for the vacuum
retard, I should just leave the retard spigot on the distributor open and
time it to 7.5BTDC.  It works!  The bus runs beautifully and does not
overheat at all.  Why?  I have no idea at this point!!!!!  What do I tell
a buyer???  and what does she tell the next guy?

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail



