Date: Tue, 08 Jan 2002 09:51:30 -0800
To: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Unknown Timing

At 09:47 PM 1/7/2002, H Steven Dolan wrote:

>I don't know any more.  For years I have run on the advice of various
>friends, mechanics, and gurus.  That advice was that the maximum advance
>that a T1 case could sustain without running hot was 28 degrees BTDC and
>that the maximum that the T4 case could stand was 34 degrees BTDC.

As an aside, ever wonder why the huge difference in those numbers?  What is 
fundamentally different about the typeIV that allows so much more total 
advance?

>I was
>also given the advice I transmitted which is to time to the distributor. I
>have followed that advice myself for the ~30 years I have been running VWs
>and have not come to grief with it, so I still regard it as
>"provisionally" safe.

I will agree that it is much safer than "timing to the block", but at the 
same time I don't want anyone to think that they can simply "time to the 
distributor", go on their merry way and not have to worry about damaging 
their engine.  I don't think it's that simple.  Is that 34 degrees total 
advance at 1500rpm or at 4000rpm?  The tolerance of the engine will be 
different at different RPMs because of the dynamics of the valve train and 
the air-fuel mixture.

>Your recomendation (and Bobs) that you run the proper distributor on your
>engine has my complete and unqualified support.  You all know I am a
>"stock freak" (in polite terms), so I could hardly think otherwise.  In
>all my posts, however, I try to keep in mind that as of this year the
>youngest air-cooled bus that exists in the Unites States is old enough to
>drink.  There are very few all-stock buses left (see the description of
>mine, below :)  and we have to consider that in our advice.

Agreed, and IMHO it just strengthens the need to verify that you are 
running the proper distributor and if not, find the proper one and install it.

>I would like
>very much to have a statement I could pass along that would be safe for
>everyone, no matter what beast of an assembly they bring home from the
>DPO's place.

The only such statement I would feel comfortable making is, "Time it at 28 
degrees total advance and drive cautiously until you are able to verify 
that you have the correct distributor.  Then, verify that the distributor 
is operating correctly and set to the factory specification."

>degrees, altho the vacuum advance/retard distributors have my head
>spinning!

Ya know, I thought I understood them too but in the not-too-distant past, 
Karl had to set me straight about one point I was completely wrong 
about.  Even now I'm not 100% sure I understand what they were designed to 
accomplish but I think I have the basic operation down.

>One of the data points I have to consider, BTW is my own case.... Imagine
>the future owner of my '73.  It has a Vanagon block, a Bay fan shroud, '78
>heads, '78 FI and a CA Vanagon electronic ignition.

Same here - 73 case, 72 heads, 81 Vanagon internals (2-liter hyd.), 
Dellorto carbs.  I'm still running a stock '74 dizzy but I don't begin to 
think that it is set up optimally.  Eventually (probably loooong time from 
now) I want to have all '79FI parts.

>In so far as timing
>goes, when Karl sent me the CA electronic ignition system to install (on
>the '73 body with '78 FI, '78 heads, and a Vanagon block), he told me that
>since the '78 throttle body does not have the take-off for the vacuum
>retard, I should just leave the retard spigot on the distributor open and
>time it to 7.5BTDC.  It works!  The bus runs beautifully and does not
>overheat at all.  Why?  I have no idea at this point!!!!!  What do I tell
>a buyer???  and what does she tell the next guy?

It works because the operation of a dual-vacuum distributor with the retard 
disconnect is very close to that of a single-vacuum distributor.  The 
vacuum retard function on the dual distributor pulls the timing back about 
12 degrees at idle.  Therefore, if you disconnect the vacuum retard on the 
dual dist., you need to advance your base timing by about 12 degrees (from 
~-5 to ~+7) to compensate.  I'm actually running the same way at the moment 
- did it as a test last year and never put it back to stock.  It increases 
emissions at idle (which I think is why they brought out the dual-advance 
dist. in the first place) but the advance curve under full throttle will be 
identical, which is why your bus still runs beautifully.  At part throttle 
though, you will be getting somewhat more total advance, which may or may 
not be a problem.  With an engine that is prone to detonate, it might make 
the difference between pinging and not pinging - it would go something like 
this:  With a dual-vacuum dist. with both hoses connected, it would never 
ping.  With the retard unhooked and the timing bumped up 12 degrees, it 
might ping under part throttle but the pinging would go away upon 
transision to full throttle (this is because at part throttle, the 
vacuum-retard is also pulling out some timing - not the full 12 degrees, 
but varying between 0-12 with throttle position - more throttle equals less 
retard, not linear but sloped more steeply at higher vacuum).

Another aside, because of what I just mentioned above, switching from stock 
dual carbs to Dellorto DRLAs changed my timing curve drastically!  I have 
less total manifold vacuum and as I depress the accelerator, the vacuum 
drops off much more sharply than it did with the stock carbs.  This is 
because of a) bigger throttle plates, and b) vacuum is pulled from only one 
cylinder instead of four.  The net result of the carb swap was a 
significant increase in advance at part throttle!  Therefore I've set my 
base timing back a bit to compensate.  I think I am running around 4 
degrees BTDC instead of 7.5, to be safe.

I guess this sort of makes me a hypocrite in that I have no clue whether or 
not my current timing curve matches the requirements of my engine.  The 
difference is that I am aware of it.  One thing's for sure, there is 
nothing simple about the function of the distributor and it does cause the 
brain to hurt!

-David

