Date: Tue, 08 Jan 2002 15:17:21 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] Tools - Valve Spring Compressor

>As for a valve spring compressor, do get the C-clamp type not the 
>thumbscrew type.  I seem to remember getting mine from Sears for a 
>reasonable price, and I've ended up using it several times, not to mention 
>the times I've loaned it out.

FWIW if anyone is near DC or WV Dolan has my old home made T4
compressor (will not work with heater boxes installed due to the way
I made the handle) and I have a factory Matra unit.  I will loan either
personally to someone I see with my own eyes (if you come and get
it.)  I also have a home made T1/waterboxer unit I will also loan.  FWIW
if you got a welder, a grinder, and a spare old rocker arm it is pretty
easy to make one, and they work a lot better than either the C-clamp
or thumb screw type.  Maybe Steve will post some pics of my home
made T4 unit, crude, ugly, works.  I'd do it a little differently today but
again it works.

That said the average Lisle tool one from any parts store for $15-$25
works very nicely as well, but a little thing on any of the generic style
ones to note is that the little teeth on the arms that go round the spring
often are too long and hit the aluminum boss on the heads inside the
spring that the guide gets pressed in, this makes it impossible to fully
seat the arms down on the last coil, which you pretty much have to do
in order to get the spring compressed enough.  Easy solution is just grind
the points down a bit, and everything will become a lot more user
friendly in the future.  The Lisle is a "thumbscrew" type but is a real
darn industrial "thumbscrew" type, I like it, use it on FWD VW or when
I can't find the T4 one (I lost my home made one for 2-3 years.)
On mine I substituted a bolt for the hand cam shaped thing that clamps
as I never had luck with the cam shaped bit.  The down side of those
style is they can't be used on double springs on waterboxers or T1 or
T4 heads so modified whereas the C clamp and factory style tools
can be.  Still if you go down to Autozone it is what they have.  I got
my Matra T4 one of *bay for $35 BTW so it pays to follow VW tools
there now and then.  It is a joy to use and even came with the little
cast plate for holding up the valves so you don't have to find a scrap
of wood.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu

