Date: Tue, 08 Jan 2002 14:15:05 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Good books - good resources for you

Hey folks - just spent the past few weeks reading Smokey Yunick's book on 
wringing a few extra (alot actually ) horses out of a small block V-8. Lots 
of good engine building theory though little of it directly applicable to 
our VW situations. A bit dated but still good information.

Basically it made me scratch my head and realize that though I can 
successfully take apart and reassemble an engine that will last for (my 
needs) a long time - I really don't know Jack about building a major RPM 
engine. Read it - good stuff.

Also starting another book - dated 1972 - called "Aircooled Engines" by 
Julius Mackerle. It discusses anything and everything you could imagine 
about the theory and reality of aircooled engines. Looks to be quite 
technical but was recommended by one of the engineers on the Corvair list. 
At first glance it covers EVERY detail you could imagine - even details on 
the theory that air cooled engines are noisier because the cooling fins 
vibrate and make noise of their own...

I work in a University library presently while I complete an engineering 
degree and I wanted to mention to you a little known freebie! Many 
libraries - general public libraries and university libraries - share books.

For example I wanted to read the above mentioned air-cooled engine book and 
the Ralphie Nader book "Unsafe at Any Speed" but our library neither in our 
collection. One of the librarians upstairs sent off a request and in a few 
days I had in my grubby hands both books - free of charge - for several 
weeks - with the option to renew them if I was not done with them. I live 
in Cookeville (halfway between Nashville and Knoxville) and these books 
came from a Louisville, KY public library several hours away. I know that 
this also applies to the full range of multimedia too - music recordings, 
movies, etc. Our library has a pretty good collection of old movies, music, 
and documentaries - VHS, cassette, records, DVD, CD-ROM, etc. etc.

So if you are looking to expand your knowledge about just about anything 
and would like to have access to materials not found in your local library, 
be sure to ask if they belong to an Inter-library loan system.

That said - what other good titles do you good folks suggest for the 
general automotive enthusiast or the VW enthusiast (we are truly a breed 
apart!!!)?

I'll be looking for more books from the same publisher of the Smokey Yunick 
book I read (which I cannot remember right now).

Hope that interests a few of you!

Chris M.
Cookeville, TN
<Team Slowpoke>




