From: "Robert S. Whitaker" <rswhitaker(-at-)pplant.ucdavis.edu>
To: "'type2(-at-)pon.type2.com'" <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Date: Tue, 8 Jan 2002 14:41:26 -0800 
Subject: Re: First time engine puller needs help. . .

You must have some adapter kit to have the type I engine in the 72.

It's really quite easy to do. Only 4 bolts hold the engine to the tranny.
You just need to detach all the control cables, wires and fuel line. Pick up
"How to Rebuild Your Volkswagen Air-Cooled Engine". It's a great book for an
amateur (like myself). Get one of those engine carts that you can pick up
for about 20 bucks. I use a 2.5 ton floor jack to lower the engine onto the
cart. If you place the jack properly the engine will balance perfectly on
it. My first time I dropped and replaced the engine entirely by myself but
be careful not to lose it and have it topple off the jack. Of course mine is
a '71 which is REALLY easy because the rear apron unbolts and the engine
slides right out without having to jack up the bus.

The oil cooler is no biggy and the throw out bearing is easily accessible
once the engine is out. Replace the rear main seal while it is out too and
you might as well replace any other seals as well. You can get a complete
seal kit for under 10 bucks.

While the engine is out is the time to do any cleaning/painting/rust control
inside the engine compartment AND on the engine itself. If you have any
reason to access the gas tank now is the time to do that too. If you need to
replace the battery tray now is your chance. It's a lot easier to  cut and
weld in there when the engine is absent.


>I have a 72 westy(Type I engine), and is planning to pull the engine out
>soon, and this is my first time pulling the engine out myself. I live in
>Fullerton, CA and need someone to guide me with this project. I will be
>happy to compensate monetarily. I worked on many other things, but never
got
>to pull the engine out, and I need to change out oil cooler(leaking) and
the
>throughout bearing. I also need the person to advise me things to replace
>when the engine is out.

