From: "Gene Cornelius" <mizamook(-at-)starband.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 6 Apr 2004 23:41:16 -0700
Subject: Trip Report (Rambling)

----- Original Message -----
From: Gene Cornelius
To: buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org
Sent: Tuesday, April 06, 2004 11:30 PM
Subject: [BSKA] Trip Report (rambling)


Success!  After languishing for over a year and a half in a field, with a
crunched passenger area, my '66 Westy carried us over hill and through vale on
a nice little weekend jaunt of three days and 515 miles.

I told you all about the fixing of the smoosh, and then left off having to do
basic work like engine tune-up, tranny lube, front end lube, etc.  Well, I did
all that stuff...even checked the brakes, which work dandily, after the rust
got worn off.

Engine ran ok, but stuttering a lot (I figured it was the old gas) on the
curvy 2-lane into town, but once on the freeway, even with brand new plugs,
cap and rotor, I was having problems getting up to speed.  Hoping that I
packed the spare carb, I stopped, and luckily, there it was.  Now I've got a
34 PICT on there already, and the spare is a 30/31, and I'm not sure which I'd
rather have on a 1776, so I swapped main jets.  After some crappy running,
with black carbon flying everywhere, it started to run better, and once back
on the freeway, I found speeds of 70mph easily obtainable, although the low
end torque I remembered was not all there.  Oh well...she's running pretty OK,
as long as I don't accellerate too hard (causes stuttering), so off we go.

Got to Eureka without incident, and then to Arcata, where we went window
shopping at the Outdoor Store, and then to the Food Co-op, where we got some
really yummy lunch, which we ate overlooking the harbor at Trinidad.

Almost to Trinidad, we saw a '60 Kombi cruising the side road by Clam Beach,
so we honked.  Later, at Trinidad, while we were eating, we heard a honk and
there it was again!  So I followed them dowm to the wharf, and met them...a
guy named Jim and his copilot Laura (I think).  Anyway, he's from someplace I
don't remember, but in central CA, I think.  An experienced VW engine dude.
Cool to meet these folks.
'
OK...back to northward bound.  Got to Crescent City, temps still fine,
headwind strong, could explain the 16 mpg...got some Lucas "Tune-up in a
Bottle" to stick in the tank, and some carb cleaner just in case I have to get
more thorough, and off we go...to 199. Jedediah Smith Redwoods, Smith
River...Patrick Creek, our destination.

Found out our timing was really bad...fishing closed on the river that very
day!  So we camped at one of our favorite spots, made spaghetti, looked at the
moon, eventually went to bed.

Morning saw us making breakfast, me spilling coffee off the stove into the
cooler below (I made a door-mounted stove, the top of which is held open by
the jalousie latch, but one has to be careful!), and finally, off we went to
find a lake at which we could fish.

Saw SOMEONE (not sure who) driving a pickup with a trailer, who honked and
waved a lot...

Got info from the ranger station, the road to the lake we wanted to go to was
closed, so we headed up the South Fork of the Smith River, and took a turn up
Hurdeygurdey Creek, to a place around 2000 ft called Dry Lake.  The lake was
the palce, that is...but it wasn't dry.  It had a school of goldfish, and
several nice-looking trout that refused to grab at the various baits that were
dangled in front of them.  An older fellow came by, and talked briefly, and
then went to his own spot.  Not too long after, he came out of the bushes and
asked if we liked trout.  Well, of course we accepted the fish he would have
otherwise thrown back, and a good thing, too, for we caught none ourselves.

Later, everyone else left the little lake, and peace and quiet prevailed for a
while.  We moved over to the primo spot, and prepared to camp, and suddenly
some boisterous teens came to camp, so we packed up to seek quieter place to
be.  Near the bottom of the valley, there were some campsites, and inviting
roads, and it was that way we headed.

Found an entrance to one of those roads...it had been "bouldered" shut at one
point, but someone left enough space for a bus...so in we went, and found a
neat spot overlooking the deep Hurdeygurdey Creek, and totally private.  Made
dinner, drank too much wine, and enjoyed the night.  Note:  Jiffy Pop that one
finds in a bus is not necessarily good stuff, esp. when one can't remember
where it came from...bring REAL popcorn cooker next time!

I toasted a hubcap getting out of the area the next morning... a little too
close to one of those rocks!  Good thing it was a repop!  Then we went back
the way we came on this gravel road, and checked out some other potential
sites for later camping, and then back on South Fork Highway to head back
home.

Saw a sign saying "Rattlesnake Lake 3miles", and some other stuff...up a jeep
trail.  I just had to head up it....what's this lake like?  It was pretty
steep, and very rocky, with occassiona; true challenges, but not too bad...a
lot of feathering the clutch in first gear, though, and one moment of bumper
bashing through a dip.  We ended up turning back when we came upon a
ravine/gully area, that would have the bus bottomed out in some spots, or
alternaltely leaning a lot.  Since we were alone, and had no spare tire,
besides the 2 cans of Fix-a-Flat, prudence had to take over the
decision-making process.  We walked up around the next couple corners, but
still no sign of this lake.  Surely we had gone 3 miles!

Took pictures on the way down, but none of them do the road or the driving of
it justice.  It was actually more challenging than any Shasta Trip driving!
Well, sorta.  Being alone in the wilderness makes people more careful maybe!

Back on the pavement, we stopped and took more pictures, and then suddenly,
depressingly, we were headed back into civilization.  As we approached
Crescent City, the engine SUDDENLY dies.  I pull over, and check...lo and
behold...I KNEW I should have found a tensioning bolt for the coil clamp
before we left!  Oh well...just wrap some electrical tape around it so it
doesn't slide down again, and we drive through to Klamath without incident.

In Klamath, Salmon Row, we stopped to get some of Paul's world-famous smoked
salmon, and also some fresh, and went to Trinidad to cook and eat at the beach
parking lot.

Stopped at a famous mansion in Eureka for some pics, stoopped downtown Eureka
for some chocolates from the chocolate factory, also stopped at a yard sale,
and a cool art gallery inhabited by dark-robed personages, and then finally,
we were home.

Upon getting to Redway, it was becoming quite dark, and I started to rely on
my headlights for visual cues as to which way the road went....alas, the
lights that were functioning perfectly (albeit un-aimed) no longer switched to
hi-beams, and I was starting to suspect that the brake lamps were not working,
either.  But I made it...partially driving by road braille, and memorizing the
road (good thing I was already familiar with it), and later, I found that my
taillights were totally defunct.  Not sure what happened...all lights worked
when trip started, but I think the jeep trail might have antagonized a fault.
When I got into it to fix them, I found problems with the column swith (like
burning contacts when brakes on) and intermittant functioning.  But I got it
all going again eventually, and hopefully will soon be passing a brake and
lamp inspection so I can get this "salvage" vehicle properly registered.

Anyway, it sure is good to have this bus back on the road, and I must say I am
very surprised that after getting hit in the passenger side hard enough to
destroy a door, a dogleg, and fold a rim, the only apparent damage to the
suspension was the drag link, which I replace (It had popped up through the
floor!)  The bus drives as well as she ever has, excepting the engine
hesitation, and it will only get better!

Whew!

Later!

Oh...I forgot to mention that after putting in the main jet from my spare
carb, I am now getting 21-24 mpg!  I think it is still too rich, that maybe
the reason for the stuttering on accelleration, but the mileage is better than
it has ever been!  Maybe the Lucas stuff helped?

Gene
