Date: Thu, 8 Apr 2004 12:45:52 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Baker <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>
To: bus list <ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, type2 list
Subject: I am so cool now...who knew..oil temp ramblings

A little history:  I have a 71 Westy, stock 1600 DP
setup.  Runs like a champ, never let me down. However,
I always had trouble on the interstate with engine oil
temps.  I could drive back roads and stop & go for
hours and never get an oil temp higher than 200
degrees, BUT, whenever I drove at a sustained speed of
55 MPH for longer than 20 minutes, my oil temp would
creep up over 220 degrees. Whenever it got this hot I
ALWAYS backed off to about 50 MPH, and it dropped
right back down.  I have done everything right, all
engine seals in place, change oil MORE than necessary,
kept valves adjusted perfectly and regularly. BUT,
whenever I drove at sistained speds of 55 for any
length of time, the oil temp reached 220 degrees.  I
did all my research and couldn't find any problems, so
I just accepted that this is how hot my engine runs.  
I see myself as a fairly knowledgeable person
regarding the mechanics of a bus, and I have been on
this T2 & VB list for about 3 years, BUT I never knew
until two days ago (after someone on the list
mentioned it) that 71's have a thermostacally
controlled flap in the air cleaner assembly which
changes the intake air flow path from the heat riser
tube in cold weather, to cold air intake form the
engine compartment. Well, my flap was stuck in the
cold weather position, so basically all my intake air
was coming form the heat riser tube!  So I got it open
and too kthe bus on the interstate for about 50
minutes of 60 MPH sustained speed. The oil temp
hovered around 190-210, never made it past 210
degrees!!
Woohoo! This is going to make long trips much easier!!!

=====
Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1967 Kombi soon to be camper!
http://www.buszen.com

"So we got into the red VW microbus with the shovels and the rakes and the implements of destruction and we headed on to the police officer's station..."
