Date: Fri, 9 Apr 2004 13:35:15 -0500
From: "Graue, Chris" <Chris.Graue(-at-)benham.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Loose ends

Thanks Mike for wondering about my story and thanks for the concern and
compassion that the entire VW community showed at such a horrible time in my
life. It was hard to deal with the loss and no one but those who have been
through such a thing can truly understand what I went through. Hearing e-mails
from friends who were on different lists about the generosity and sympathy of
everyone made it much easier and for that I will be eternally grateful.

With what was left of my trip money, I bought a cheap Cabriolet just to get me
around while I waited to get another bus. People asked if I was going to be
afraid to drive a bus again and I said I didn't think so... but later, I
realized that being behind the wheel of another early bay would remind me too
much of the terrible thing that happened, and so I was afraid of how I might
feel driving one of those. I knew a splitty had a different look to the inside
and would probably be OK. Besides, I always wanted a splitty, and help or no
help, that's what I wanted to find this time. When I bought my 70 Westy, I
didn't have a nework of bussers to help me find one for a decent price so I
got what I could get, just to finally have a BUS at all (being a long time
beetle driver).

Unfortunately, there WAS much heated posts regarding what kind of bus should
be bought with the donations for which I am truly sorry. I know I had no
control over those posts, but I still feel sorry that anyone may have had
negative feelings towards others because of what they believed was right on my
behalf. Ultimately, it was in the hands of very few people to make a choice
and no matter how many people spoke for either side, it wasn't going to make a
difference, so the arguing was pointless and that is what makes me feel bad. I
completely understand BOTH sides of the argument and appreciate every single
person who cared. That is just one reason I love these cars and will probably
never drive anything else.

In the end, a fellow Buskatier saw how much I wanted a splitty and offered to
sell me his 66 Sundial for less than he was originally going to sell it for.
With the money raised at BBB8 (which I am told did not specify what kind of
bus), I was able to afford the Sundial and I love it. I think it is ironic
that my "new car", the Cabriolet, is my backup car and the OLD BUS is my
"reliable transportation". I have had to do more work on the Cabbie and it
still has issues, but the bus hasn't needed a thing. I've had the Cabbie for a
couple of months and I am afraid to drive it very long, but I'm not afraid to
leave town in the bus.

We've already been camping in it once so far, only had it about a month! Drove
2.5 hours to get to Devil's Den State Park just south of Fayetteville,
Arkansas. Aside from lacking some curtains and various camping supplies I lost
in the fire, it was great to camp in a bus again... can't wait to do it
again!

I have gradually replaced some of my daughter's toys that got melted by the
spreading grass fire or damaged when I threw them out of the bus. She lost a
wheel off her Barbie Beetle and when I asked her if she wanted another Beetle
like that one, the covertible Beetle or the Barbie "Bus", guess what my little
camper said... the BUS! That's my girl! Did you know it actually honks??? I
know it isn't really a bus like ours, but she loves it and at least it's a
VW... more or less. She lost her bike helmet so a fellow Buskatier sent her a
Barbie one and gave my son a toy, too. Another Buskatier gave me a copy of the
Muir book since mine must have gotten burned by the grass fire. I know I
pulled it out of the bus, but it didn't make it home with me. Others have
helped in other ways and some anonymously, so I can only say thanks publicly
and hope they know how much I appreciate them.

Anyway, thank you all for your compassion and words of encouragement even if I
didn't see or hear every one. Just knowing that so many people I had never
even met had posted messages of concern made my heart melt. I can't tell you
how much it meant to me.

Chris
'66 Sundial "Serenity"?
'85 Cabriolet "Fawkes E. Cleopatra"
'65 Euro Sunroof Beetle "Sunny" (not currently running)
RIP-"Patience" 70 Westy
"Not all who wander are lost... some of us are just looking for the next VW
campout"
