Date: Thu, 17 Nov 2005 13:25:32 -0500
From: R C <rcnotes(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Valve adjustment, observations (questions)

I adjusted the valves on my 79 EFI bus motor w/hydraulic lifters,
Pertronix, stock distributor, and made some observations. This  (GD
series) motor has AMC heads with about 100 km since the previous
owners complete rebuild. I'm seeking information on what my
observations might indicate (and helpful hints on my technique).

The motor has had some occasional valve clatter, very likely from a
lifter not getting pumped up. The noise greatly diminished after
mixing a half pint of Seafoam with the engine oil, taking an hours
drive (on one the last nice fall days here in SE MI) and then changed
the oil with Castrol 20w50. New filter.

The next morning I started the engine for about a minute to see if the
clatter was gone. It was.

I removed the sparkplugs in order as I adjusted each cylinders valves.
The plugs had about 2500 miles on them. All of them were in similar
good condition. Nothing oily, nothing burnt. The Haynes guide
indicated good if slightly rich combustion.

Rotating the alternator nut set each cylinder at TDC. Then I adjusted
both valves for each cylinder. I'd read about determining TDC for each
piston by inserting a thin (14 gage copper) into each sparkplug hole
while rotating the engine. This method says that when the wire begins
to get pinched (do not force!) the valves are closed in firing
position. The wire does eventually get pinched and won't move, but I
can rotate the cam past the point of pinching with seemingly no ill
effects.

What pinches the wire inside the cylinder? Is it necessary to set each
piston at TDC to adjust valves with hydraulic lifters?

I removed the valve covers and noted the position of the slot for each
adjuster before loosening the locking nuts. I counted the number of
turns to undo for each adjuster, while holding pressure against the
rocker arm to prevent the to the push rod dropping. Two of them did
anyway, but I got them seated with a little help from a long narrow
screwdriver to nudge the push rod back into place against the lifter.

The rockers looked good and oiled. The insides of the valve covers
were clean, but  a little oily. I observed the rocker operation with
the engine running. Oil seemed to be dripping equally along the rocker
shafts.

I did notice some black oily/carbon sludge against the shiny aluminum
in a kind of oval pattern near the intake valves on #1 and #2, nothing
like that on cylinders #3 and #4. (I'm reckoning that the intake
valves are the bigger ones in the middle of the head, in between the
two smaller outside exhaust valves)

What does the oily carbon buildup indicate?

While holding the rocker arm against the push rod I removed each
adjusted and noted its condition.

#1 Exhaust- 1 1/4 turns to undo. Adjusting screw has an elongated
slightly oval wear pattern with some hammer marks. Convex end on
adjuster
#1 Intake- 1 1/4 turns to undo. Adjusting screw is  hammered flat with
a slightly raised ring on the edge of the adjuster.
#2 Exhaust- 1 1/2 turns to undo, good oval wear pattern but some
pitting. convex end.
#2 Intake- 1 3/4 turns to undo, oval wear pattern, convex end
#3 Exhaust- 1 3/4 turns to undo. Good oval wear pattern, center
pitted, convex end.
#3 Intake- 1 5/8 turns to undo, good wear pattern, convex end.
#4 Exhaust 1 3/4 turns to undo, good wear pattern, but slightly oily
and gummy and the end. convex end.
#4 Intake 1 1/8 turns to undo, slightly raised edge ring on edge of
adjuster, Flattened end, elongated oval wear pattern.

What does the condition of the adjusting screws indicate?

I adjusted and set all the valve adjusters to 1 1/5 turns past making
contact to the valve stems. Gapped plugs to .028

I put it all back together, replaced the valve covers with new
gaskets, started it up and took it for a drive. She runs good, engine
feels strong, no valve clatter.

I haven't checked the timing or set the idle.

But the engine still has a low idle on start up. The engine will dies
until it gets warm and even then the idle seems low. There is still
some popping from the exhaust when backing off the accelerator. I took
a drive today (It's about 25 degrees F here today), the bus fired
right up and the drive was fun if cold.

Any ideas, suggestions, comments? Does my valve adjustment technique
and observations tell the more astute mechanics here any more than I
may be interpreting from my observations?

I rode my bike to work this morning and man, it was COLD!
--
"Plans are nothing. Planning is everything."
Dwight D. Eisenhower
