Date: Sun, 20 Nov 2005 12:03:17 -0600 (CST)
From: Darren Evans-Young <darren(-at-)bama.ua.edu>
To: dan radom <vw(-at-)radom.org>
Subject: Re: [T2] heater aux blower fan

On Sun, 20 Nov 2005, dan radom wrote:

>I've heard rumors that these have been
>replaced with a similar squirrel cage fan used in bilge pumps in boats.
>Does anyone know if that is a drop in replacement, or does the plastic
>blower unit that the fan attaches to need to be modified or replaced?
>Any ideas on cost of these bilge motor fan things?  I don't need much,
>but I do need some forced air at idle.

Check out http://www.iboats.com and do a search for "blowers".

I have 2 of the Detmar blowers. Worked great last winter. However,
I did not have any flap mechanism in place. At the time, I didn't
understand it's importance. Well, I paid for it this past summer.
My oil temps here in cental Alabama ran up to 255F, head temps
up to 450 and a little higher some times.  It didn't matter how
fast or slow I drove. If I drove long enough my oil temp would
settle at 250F or so. Still not understanding the significance of
the flaps, I removed the bilge blowers and blocked off the heat ports
in the engine compartment to keep things from falling in while I
designed some sort of flap system. Well what do you know, my oil
temps leveled out a 220F and head temps no more than 425F at its
highest.  Then I RE-read Richards article on the heating system.

http://www.ratwell.com/technical/Heating.html

where he states:

"From the tin, there is a metal heat riser tube on each side that connects
the hoses from the engine compartment to the heat exchangers. Quite often,
the PO has removed the booster fan and the paper tubing and simply left
the heat exchanger risers open to the engine compartment. If you do this
your oil and cylinder head temperatures will increase by 30-35F because
the hot air from the heat exchangers will be ingested by the impeller
fan."

And he's right! So whatever you do, you MUST have some sort of flap
mechanism to keep the engine fan from sucking hot air back into
the engine compartment.

What I wound up doing was cleaning up my original fan and testing it.
It worked just fine and moved a LOT of air, so I re-installed it and
it works just fine for me.  I may try to hunt down an old fan and
steal its plastic housing with the flaps to see if I can figure out
a way to use the bilge blowers.

My next project is to wrap the long paper tube with insulation.

Oh, I did solve my hung right heater cable. Turns out it was the rubber
boot, plastic plug, and circlip by the flapper valves. I removed them
and just hooked the cable up directly to the flapper valve and I have no
resistance operating the cable. I need to figure out a way to keep water
out of the heater cable tube though, as I'm sure that's why that stuff is
there.

I'm also investigating a way to control the flapper valves electrically
instead of a cable...my project after next. :)

Darren Evans-Young
1979 Federal FI 2.0L
