Date: Sun, 20 Nov 2005 19:34:47 -0500
From: Eddie Goodwin <eddie(-at-)shitzthecat.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Exploded air flow meter and my new parts bus

Hello all,

I brought home a '73 Westy parts bus today. Heres how I got a hold of 
this one.

About two weeks ago I went to check out this bus that was in a local ad. 
The owner said it had a 2.0 from a '76 that was rebuilt by Boston Bob 
45,000 miles ago. He was having trouble getting it going. It was 
starting and then immediately dying. I did the appropriate diagnostics: 
Replaced the double relay with a good one that I brought: no change. 
Hooked up a test light to the injector harness: good signal. At this 
point I started dreading tracking down an  elusive vacuum leak ....I 
took at look at the air flow meter. First pulled the old one out and 
tried to replace it with a good one I brought.... It had the later style 
with the extra pin (temp sensor) and the one I brought was the older 
...damn... I guess it has a later than '76 fuel injection system. So I 
then proceeded to remove and open the AFM in question. When I opened it 
I realized that the bottom (YES, the bottom) had been blown (?) off. If 
you flip over an AFM you notice that the bottom is a metal plate that is 
riveted to the housing and sealed with a rubbery sealant ( the same kind 
of sealant used on the top cover). On this one, that bottom plate was 
bent and 4 of the rivets had pulled out. It looked like something in it 
had exploded. There was a 2 to 4mm gap on all of one side. HUGE vacuum 
leak. That why she wouldn't stay running... the engine was sucking the 
air right through the gap and the flapper in the AFM would never move. 
To get the bus going I used a pair of locking pliers (the big C-clamp 
style ones I use when welding) to hold it closed to temporarily fix the 
leak.  Started her up and she began to purr.

The bus was towed to my house today. I took the AFM out, drilled out all 
the rivets on the bottom of the AFM and  removed the plate. I 
straightened it out with a vice and two pieces of thick steel. I then 
drilled new holes in the AFM housing and re-riveted the plate back on, 
using RT sealant to make it air tight.

How in the hell can this happen to an AFM? It had been sitting for 5 
years, being started once in a while. Could a backfire cause that kind 
of force? That metal plate was pretty strong and hard to bend. Could 
weather be a factor? It sat in Boston and we see some cold winter 
months, but that might be a stretch (no pun intended).

The AFM seems to work fine now, but I haven't really driven the bus 
anywhere further than up and down the driveway. Could this be a sign of 
other bad things in the fuel injection? It does start to run like crap 
after its warmed up, but I'm sure thats because of other vacuum leaks 
and maybe a bad temp sensor.

This poor bus has exceeded its useful life having fallen victim to rust. 
The torsion bar on the drivers side is completely snapped in two. the 
back wheel is pinched in (eek!). I didn't even know that a bus could 
rust there. I'm gonna pull the engine and tranny this week. The bus is 
free to anyone who wants it... you just gotta come get it. I'll hold it 
for the first person who commits to taking it, but its gotta go within 
the next we weeks. It's a '73 Westy, most of the interior is there.  
It's in tough shape... Its sad to see buses get neglected. It's on Cape 
Cod, Massachusetts.


--Eddie Goodwin
'74 Westy
