Date: Sun, 20 Nov 2005 18:48:54 -0800 (Pacific Standard Time)
From: Courtney Hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: VWMike <vwmike(-at-)telus.net>, type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: &*^&!!!! oil filter interchange!

 Now you've done it MIke, the dreaded oil filter debate is going to explode
any second. :-) As far as I'm concerned, the VW engine can survive with any
filter, just realize a Fram does not have the internal filtering quality of
a Mahle or Mann etc. Apparently the amsoil ones are awesome but also 11
bucks. When Busdepot sells the originals Mann ones for 3.99 each it's pretty
easy to make that choice though. I'm with you, I can buy Purolator or Wik or
Fram or Crappy Tire for cheap and just replace it at every oil change
instead of every second. I'm also going to run synthetic ONCE I figure out
where my oil leaks are coming from. 

Did you get my message about 5 spoke wheels? I might just buy 5 spoke wheel
covers instead, in the states at Wallymart they're 15.99 a set, and a pretty
good imitation.



Court



-------Original Message-------

 

From: VWMike

Date: 11/20/05 18:35:07

To: type2(-at-)type2.com

Subject: Re: [T2] Re: &*^&!!!! oil filter interchange!

 

Just curiouse but,

I've been running bigger than stock oil filters on type 4's for a few years

now. I don't see any reason not too. The way the filter is mounted

vertically on the engine, it's not about to drain back into the sump and

cause any over filling issues. One perk, since I don't live close to any

autoparts store, let alone one that caters to imports, is that the bigger

filter that fits in there is the super generic L30001(purolator) or the fram

PH8A if you like the walmart house brand :) They always have a dozen in

stock, and I just find it much easier to access and get it off than the

small stock filter, and it doesnt't hang down below the bottom of the

engine, sits about flush, and of course it seams to be cheaper than the

smaller filter and my local flaps. So am I right or wrong? Is bigger

better or not? Not trying to start a debate, just curious to know if anyone

has any experiences with this. Thanks

Mike
