Date: Mon, 17 Oct 2005 12:46:31 -0700
From: "Pace, Nick" <nickpace(-at-)rand.org>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "Pace, Nick" <nickpace(-at-)rand.org>
Subject: Why would I get tight valves on 1E, 2E, & 4E?

I bought another '71 Bus earlier this year; stock 1600 DP but with a Pertronix
ignition and an exterior oil cooler and filter (the cooler and filter are
mounted about half way between the front and rear wheels).   Everything else
is unremarkable.

About 5500 miles ago, I did a valve adjustment for the first time on this
particular beast.  My notes say that "only a few needed adjusting" but I wish
I had paid more attention.

About 200 miles later, I put a new Bocar 34-PICT-3 carb on it because I just
didn't like the performance for some reason and since the carb was the only
unknown quantity, it was replaced. Timing was about 0 at idle (it's the stock
dizzy with vacc advance and retard except for the Pertronix stuff) and 31 at
max RPMs.  Pretty standard though with my Pertronix, the "dwell" reads a
constant 63 degrees.  I don't think I will ever get used to that but according
to Pertronix and this list, dwell means nothing when you use these magnetic
triggers.

I adjusted the valves again about 2600 miles after the new carb.  I found the
exhaust valves for numbers 1, 2 and 4 cylinders too tight and I think they
were less than .005.  I didn't remember pushing the beast too much at any time
but these things happen I suppose.   Plug color at the time was sort of a
light tan on 1, 2, & 4 and dark tan for #3.   Subsequently, I developed a leak
in the right side manifold boot and put on a temporary split boot.

On a whim, I checked the valves again in 1600 miles.  Again, exhaust valves
for numbers 1, 2 and 4 cylinders were too tight.  At the same time, I did
permanent replacements of the manifold boots and manifold\head gaskets.

After another 1200 miles had passed (yesterday) I checked them again and sure
enough, exhaust valves for numbers 1, 2 and 4 cylinders were too tight.

Timing, et al, is as described above.  Compression is about the same for all
four cylinders (about 130 according to my very old gauge).  I haven't noticed
an inordinate amount of overheating but I live along the coast and drive on
flat land almost all the time.  I sometimes think it "ticks" a bit more than I
would like when I turn off the engine but I might be hyper-sensitized to the
idea of heating problems. I've got a oil pan temp gauge but all it tells me is
about heating on a relative basis and except for the occasional freeway drive
on a very hot day, the needle remains in what I consider the cool\normal
range.  Oil pressure is fine.  The fins on the exterior cooler are undamaged
and when I check it after running, the cooler is warm (which tells me that oil
is indeed flowing where it should).  I've checked the fan and there isn't
anything blocking the vents or intake.

Now, after nearly 30 years of driving and maintaining these things, I've
always found that if there is an overheating problem, it'll be the number 3
exhaust valve that gets tight over time.  But in this situation, it's all the
exhaust values except 3E.  Intakes are fine.

Any ideas?  The curious thing is that just these three cylinders are to blame.
I suppose I'm going to suck a valve at some point but I'd like to know why
first.


Nick

--------------------

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use,
disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended
recipient, please contact the sender by reply email and destroy all copies
of the original message.
