Date: Mon, 17 Oct 2005 14:38:17 -0700
From: "Pace, Nick" <nickpace(-at-)rand.org>
To: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "Pace, Nick" <nickpace(-at-)rand.org>
Subject: RE: [T2] Why would I get tight valves on 1E, 2E, & 4E?

Dave C. Bolen had a number of good ideas about valve issues and possible
overheating on a '71....

"Check for proper thermostat/flap operation?"
--> No.  I've never pulled the engine out of this one and I must admit that I
am not intimately familiar with the internals.  In every other 1600 I've had,
I always hardwired the flaps in full open position (no flames please).  My
guess is that this one lacks the flaps (I don't remember seeing that little
wire from the thermostat that hooks on to the flap lever and I don't remember
a flap lever either) but I'll certainly check tonight.  Good idea.

"Check for the presence of debri around the heads/cylinders(blocking air
flow)?"
--> I would think that I would have noted anything strange in my limited
noodling around.  I suppose something could be jammed up there so I'll look
for that as well.

"spark plug seals not sealing well on just those 3?"
--> No worse than on any I've ever run before and a lot better than most.

"How many total miles on the heads?"
--> 30k is my guess based on the work orders I found in the glove
compartment.

"Bottom air deflectors on and tight?(the ones between the cylinders)"
--> Dunno.  I'll check those too.

"Same plugs all around?...yes I know, some of these are silly, but IBTDT."
--> Yep. I replaced the ones that came with it with a set of Bosch platinums
after a couple of the tight valve adjustments and before recent ones so that
can't be it.


Thanks for the ideas.  We'll see....

Nick

--------------------

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use,
disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended
recipient, please contact the sender by reply email and destroy all copies
of the original message.
