From: "John Connolly, Aircooled.Net" <john(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "Richard Atwell" <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>, "Dave C. Bolen"
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 17 Oct 2005 16:24:54 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] Why would I get tight valves on 1E, 2E, & 4E?

the "heat removal" aspect of the plug is to prevent the plug from
overheating, it has nothing to do with cooling of the cylinder head.
Basically heat moves the opposite way many intuitively think it is; the heat
range of a plug tells you how much of the insulator heat is moved to the
head. Excessive heat build up can cause pre-ignition as the glowing
insulator ignites the air/fuel. A hot plug doesn't transfer much heat from
plug to head, a cool plug transfers a lot of heat to the head. The easy way
to view this is that since the plug sticks INTO the chamber, it's the
hottest part thing in there. Since there is no such thing as negative heat,
heat can only move from plug to head, the key is how much.

My testing of platinum plugs showed they did not work as advertised. But
this was prior to a lot of my  understanding of ignition systems and engines
in general (I know more now ). My experience was that platinums worked "OK"
on FI cars, but were awful on carbureted ones. I suspect the reason is the
platinum plugs actually run cooler then conventional plugs, and in most VWs
(which are almost always too rich), they fouled. It's possible a heat change
in the platinum plug would solve this issue, but I stopped there because if
the plug companies couldn't figure out which heat range was correct, I
wasn't about to 2nd guess them and try to figure it out. It's also important
to note that most carbureted VW engines are very very rich; most pre-71
engines are 11-11.5:1 A/F stock! I have found the best results in the low
13s A/F, which would likely reduce a lot of this plug fouling, even with the
"wrong" or "too cold" plugs like platinums.

But I have since run normal plugs in everything, with very good results
(best is with NGK). The proper plug gap is a tricky scenario, and one of the
biggest mistakes made on our engines. I run .025" on Kettering
(points/compufire/pertonix), and .040" on CDI equipped engines. I remove
.010" if the engine has NOS or boost. I also really like projected tips over
conventional, they run better and stay cleaner, less prone to fouling.

As an aside; I recently had an intermittent misfire on my family's 87' Turbo
Vanagon that was driving me nuts; made no sense. I thought it was bad gas,
then a bad fuel pump, etc etc. It missed off/on from 1800-3200RPM under
partial load, then cleaned up. I finally got sick of the bucking enough to
dig into it this past weekend and discovered it was simply too much plug
gap; since they grow as the plugs wear. I re-set them to .030" and it's
smooth as molassas now once again. :-/

John
Aircooled.Net Inc.
