Date: Mon, 17 Oct 2005 20:33:10 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Lori Chapin <Squeejinx(-at-)charter.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Heater... too much of a good thing!

Lori,
There is a duct that goes up from the floor to behind the dash.  Just 
below the plastic "Y" duct, there is a little vane.  This vane will 
direct air up to the dash or down below to those vents at your feet. 
You should be able to see a cable hooked up to it and you can try moving 
the left red lever on your dash to see if it actuates anything, but most 
likely it's broken.  If that's the case, you can just move the lever (on 
the left side of the duct) by hand and it will direct the airflow down 
to your feet instead.

as far as turning the heat on and off, that can be a royal pain in the 
ass.  A couple months ago I put new cables in and it was sure tough. 
Turns out that the old cables rusted themselves in and I had to cut out 
the old guide pipes and I run new copper tubing to the back.  It was NOT 
a fun job and I would never wish it on anyone else.

If you are the type that likes to get grungy, I'd follow the cables from 
the dash, down under the front of the bus (you need to remove the 
cover), then to the back where they connect to the heater boxes.  Do be 
sure to wear some protective eyewear so you don't get all that crap in 
your eyes.

If you're not the type, then I'd find a mechanic that you trust and talk 
about the issue.  If you are getting heat, then your heater system is 
working as it really has nothing to do with the engine flaps or 
thermostat - it's more the exhaust system.  You'll just have to fix the 
cables so they are able to actuate the flapper boxes in the back of the bus.

btw, I did all of this without removing the engine.

Mike

Lori Chapin wrote:
> Hi, All:
> 
> I recently purchased a 78 Westy --  runs great and I'm in love, except the
> heater is baffling to me.  The mechanic says "you have no flaps and no
> thermostat, so your heat is on all the time."  This is okay during those
> dreadful winter months (Pacific Northwest), but what about the more mild
> temperatures?  He said that he couldn't fix the problem without removing the
> engine...  said that he manually directed the heat to the windshield...  Is
