From: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 18 Oct 2005 10:53:53 -0400
Subject: Emissions Stuff / Fuel Lines

Hey guys,

	Im almost done, redoing my bus, and I wanted to work on some safety related stuff. I have a 1973 VW Transporter with the 1800cc motor in it. The Bus was totally gutted when I got it. Although it has a new gas tank, the lines that were there were totally rotten away. I replaced them with steel lines and they have worked really well for me. (I use an electric Purolator pump). My e-mail specifically is about the fuel evaporative system. I notice that my Bus has these tubes that run along the inside of the rear quarters. These tubes as I understand it are fuel expansion tubes, or part of the evaporative system? Judging from Buses that Ive seen in the junkyard, I believe Im also supposed to have some sort of huge charcoal canister attached to the roof of the engine compartment just rear of the top hatch panel. I have some sort of bracket, but there is nothing connected to it.

To be completely honest, I seem to be missing everything related to the fuel evaporative system. Id really like to replace all of it. 

I have tried to keep my Bus complete, and stock looking from the outside (stock wheels, stock paint scheme, no exterior modifications of any kind), but I think from the engine standpoint, Id like to keep it functioning as its supposed to, but with modern technology.

My question is is there anything wrong with me getting, say a huge Fuel Evaporative canister from like, a Chevy Pickup truck from the 80s? I would of course get a brand new one, but these evaporative canisters have a built in purge valve. The canister would catch the fuel vapors from the tank. I would have a vacuum line routed to the purge canister and when I start the car it would suck out all the fumes and I could go about my business.

Does anyone see anything wrong with me doing this? Or is the original system vastly superior? The reason why I bring this up is because Im missing everything related to this (previous owner removed it all). 


Thanks!

Todd
