Date: Thu, 22 May 2003 13:10:33 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: stevo <stevo(-at-)efn.org>, Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>, Type2
Subject: Re: the seal deal

>i think its crap and would never use it again. they are one of my last 
>choices for new rubber.

I've bought rubber for several different brands of cars. Mustangs (64 1/2 
through 66) use alot of rubber that is generic and is just cut from a roll. 
Some of it was good and some a sorry thing.

Beetles - put a whole bunch of rubber from JC Whipme in my Beetle. Gone in 
a year. Looked like it was 50 years old.

>i've mentioned in the past it is more practical to hunt low-mileage, 
>outside scrapers from boneyards.

WCW  is certainly the most visible supplier. Advertising dollars doing what 
it is supposed to.

I didn't think the WCW  rubber was so bad. Maybe it is TN weather versus 
where you are. I don't know. I paid for rubber that looked right, fit 
right, lasts a reasonable amount of time, reasonable price and seals out 
the weather. So far - with the exception of two cracks on the rear most 
side windows it has accomplished all the above. Those cracks may be the 
beginning of the end of course. I wish I could say the aftermarket rubber 
is as good as the OEM stuff which has certainly lasted pretty good over the 
past 20-30 years.

How do you extract window seals from a junker without tearing the rubber or 
breaking out the glass? My windshield gasket was OEM and a dried out mess 
when I replaced it. Cracked and leaking.

My alternatives? NONE. Our local boneyards have not a single VW bus in 
them. I haven't seen one yet around here since about 7 years ago when I 
found a burned out hulk of a '78 Baywindow in one.

As far as I know I have only two alternatives right now. VWOA (South 
American factory rubber) and WCM. What are the alternatives besides JC Whipme?

Without the aftermarket suppliers my option is to try to make rubber 
weatherstripping that I can get in bulk fit right. I doubt bulk rubber for 
a Ford or Chrysler is going to do me a bit of good. (Look at AUVECO 
Supply). <grin>


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
