To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Fri, 21 Jan 2005 07:59:04 -0500
Subject: Fwd: [T2] Yep, it's a PCV valve ... sort of

Hi Richard,

I think the trend got started during the recession in the early 80s 
when interest rates soared and EVERYONE started cutting inventories and 
switched over to "Just-In-Time" manufacturing processes. That in turn 
killed the railways and flooded the interstates with 53' 
tractor-trailers and it cut the time required to get a new model to 
market.

Now we have record-low interest rates, but because the auto mfg are 
hooked on the "crack" of J-I-T they can't afford to introduce a model 
and not change it every year to keep up with the competition. And the 
railways have already pulled up the track and sold their excess rolling 
stock, so they couldn't take up the slack even if we wanted them to.

In the early 90's Kawasaki experimented with going back to a static 
model with the Concours touring motorcycle. They promised not to change 
the design for five model years, and from what I'm told they lived up 
to it.  For the first year or two the motorcycle press thought it was 
OK, but in the later years they kept referring to it as "Dated". But it 
was still perfectly adequate for lots of riders, and it was fairly 
popular in the sport-touring niche. I'm sure that the Kawasaki parts 
departments probably loved that model. AFAIK, no-one else has even come 
close to this in the automotive sector other than fleet trucks. And 
even that is just a guess.

This is a situation where freedom of choice gets twisted by the free 
market into gross excess. $160 for a PCV valve is insane, but that's 
just my opinion.

Here's the link back to Chris's post: Driving an obsoleted vehicle 
means not taking part in the new game.

Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.busesofthecorn.com


P.S. I'd like to see an iniative to design a barebones Open-Source 
vehicle with no changes for 20 years. Design the specs around safety 
and emissions and don't worry about styling. Once the commitment to a 
220-year production run is made then the manufacturers will be able to 
get costs down through economy of scale, and the gov't could make it 
cost-effective by mandating its use for all official functions. If Open 
Source can develop an operating system there's no good reason it can't 
design an automobile.


On 21-Jan-05, at 12:29 AM, Richard Atwell wrote:

> What does any of this have to do with the fact that car companies make 
> money
> by selling new cars and obsoleting old ones through the elimination of
> parts?
