Date: Sun, 12 Nov 2006 13:22:01 -0500
From: Dave Jersey <djersey(-at-)yadtel.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com,  vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Thanksgiving Misgivings, the trip report

Since I left the FMBC web forums, I discovered I had more time on my 
hands.  So much, in fact, that I realized that I had time this weekend 
to go to the local Thanksgiving Misgivings campout.  That suited me 
fine, since I really like to eat Thanksgiving dinner with the fine 
people in the club, and I really like to camp.  Seems to me that the 
best of all worlds was not that far from my front door.

The Puddlejumper still has need for a new motorvator, the current one 
having a horrific oil leak so I borrowed the car hauler from work.  
Loaded the Puddlejumper Wednesday morning, then loaded the Puddlejumper 
Thursday morning.  Worked late Thursday eve so I could learn how to 
refurbish sport fencing foils, got up early Friday and went back into 
work to get the day's commerce out.  The post office guy didn't show up 
at this appointed time and the shipping computer kept insisting that I 
postmark everything for Monday so it seemed that I would be unable to 
ship anything Friday anyhow.  I got the orders done any packed and 
billed, started working on foils when the boss says "why are you here?"

My reply was "I think I still work here don't I?"  Fortunately Walter 
has a sense of humor and knew where that one came from so his reply was 
get out of the shop and don't come back until Monday!  So I left, had a 
couple letters to toss in the letter box, imagine my surprise when I 
walked into the post office and was greeted by the postmistress 
herself.  They weren't closed after all and it seems I made a wrong 
conclusion when the computer said I couldn't ship Friday and the mail 
carrier failed to arrive at his appointed time.

Bummer to have to leave work at noon on a Friday when there's a campout 
to go to huh?

So back to the farm I went, loaded up the cooler and the last minute 
things you always remember you forgot.  Fired up the Fordbus singlecab 
that already had the Puddlejumper on the hauler behind and off we went 
in anticipation of deep fried turkey, camping, and whatever else the 
weekend might hold.

Up one hill, down the other side, round the corners we went, saw a 
really nice yellow splitty at a house on the way, wondered if it's 
anyone who reads the lists (yellow splitty on 67 East of Boonville are 
you out there?).  Ease on down the road, arriving at the campsite 
sometime around 2-ish, back the hauler into a site that appeared to have 
hookups, my having paid for the privilege of power and water, after 
following the dwindling leaf-covered campground road into almost seeming 
nothingness.  I even said an unkind word, I'm so ashamed...

While getting essentials out of the bus a lady in a purple Monte Carlo 
arrived and started asking around for me!  That's all well and good 
except I don't know anyone who owns a purple Monte Carlo!  Turns out is 
was Dianna, someone I had traded some e-mails with and was up in the 
area looking for employment.  I had mentioned the campout somewhere 
along the way and she decided to come check out what people in VW buses 
do when they camp.  It was way cool, meeting a new friend and seeing all 
the old bus camping friends. 

We had Reubens and a most wonderful bean and tenderloin soup for dinner 
thanks to Sarge's humans, walked around admiring buses and generally 
doing the campout scene.  Finally to bed, waking up in a bus is a most 
wonderful thing to do.  Up around 9, cook up the chourizo for burritos, 
carry that down, remember the refried black beans up the hill to get 
them, back down the hill (repetitive theme going here, me with a bad 
knee).  Since I started the breakfast burrito tradition all those years 
ago, I feel honor bound to ensure the quality has not diminished so I 
ate 2.  Yep they're still tasty.

Dianna left to continue the job search, Dave Slick and I went off to the 
Kitty Store for last minute groceries and to locate a turkey fryer.  I 
have 2, had promised to bring 1 and of course left them both here at the 
farm.  All items located, we returned to the campout, got the propane 
bottle for the fryer filled, and re-joined the FMBC version of campout 
reality. 

My little sister Sharon arrived, we got caught up on goings-on, went 
down to assist with turkey frying and general dinner makings, sliced the 
bread I made Thursday night, loaned the sharp knife for carving, had a 
Thanksgiving dinner that couldn't be beat.  Only thing missing was the 
red VW microbus with rakes and shovels and implements of destruction.  
There were red buses there but no red splitties.

Sharon's daughter was not feeling good and did not join us for dinner so 
Sharon took her home, bummer because they're both fun to be around.  A 
sick kid is not fun though so I guess it was for the best.  Dianna 
returned though because she was so impressed with all the people there.  
So we hung out, campfire hopped after delivering the wood I had in the 
back of the Fordbus singlecab, watched the people doing campout things 
while the wind blew and the rain came. 

Kids and big kids throwing marshmallows at each other, listening in to 
the conversations around us, telling a joke or 2, life couldn't be any 
better.  Off to bed at who knows what time, listen to the wind blowing, 
gently rocking the bus, and me, to sleep.  Yes that was the wind rocking 
the bus.  Rob, get your mind out of the gutter or I'll steal the thong 
collection!

Sunday wake to the wind and buses starting and people waking up.  What 
an awful sound, that of a campout's end.  The wind was strong enough 
that I knew it would just be an exercise in futility to try to make 
coffee on my cooker.  So fill the bus up with the camping stuff, hook up 
the Fordbus singlecab, off in search of coffee and breakfast.  Whilst at 
the Awful House we saw a large contingent of buses come in the parking 
lot, then they left again.  Bummer that they left, any excuse to spend a 
little more time with some of the finest folks in the world.  I'd have 
gladly given up my seat for a fellow moonie.

Dianna and I said our goodbyes, she off to Florida, me back to 
Boonville, up one hill, down the other side, round the bends and into 
the driveway, so ends another chapter in the ramblings of Mad Uncle Dave.

Before I go though I want to thank all of the fine folks who made this 
year's Thanksgiving Misgivings the best ever yet.

Mad Uncle Dave
