Date: Mon, 13 Nov 2006 04:44:59 -0800 (PST)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: John Rogers <jnrogers(-at-)verizon.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2]76 Brakes (update) HeLP~!~

so what yall are saying is just crack one bleeder at a time with no jar or hose hoooked up to it...? and then let gravity take the fluid out the cracked bleeder..? will it not suck air back in....
   
  i am positive that the mc is good i just have air in the line....still...
   
  i can slow down with fifth pump and stopn the 6th pump of the brake pedal when going down the road.... so at least i got some brakes....and am not as irresponsible at it may seem I guess..?
   
  i wont have a chance to work on them again till tomorrow evening after work though... hopefully getting them right...??
   
  and yes i can do all sorts of stuff but the brakes are giving me a fit... can have the wifes engine or my own out in less than 30 minutes by myself and back in ,in less than hour and running by myself on bus or beetle either one but these brakes just dont like me very much.. once i get this though learning the hard way i wont ever forget it thats for sure... thanks for everyones help here on the list and locally....
   
  peace'
  chai

John Rogers <jnrogers(-at-)verizon.net> wrote:
  Terry K wrote:

"Fill the master up, and crack one wheel bleeder at a time---start in the
back of the Bus first.
Let the fluid run for a minute or two--
Fill the master up--go to the next wheel--do the same, do all the wheels
the same way.

"Let gravity do the work for you."

--------------------------

I'm glad someone else discovered this trick. It frustrated me for years that I was able to do everything including removing and installing engines and trannys, but still felt dependent on someone to help bleed brakes. Then I discovered that just letting the fluid trickle out by gravity works. In fact since adopting this technique my brakes have been harder and tighter than ever before. 

Cheers,

John



                                                                Better start thinking about sealing up those windows and leaky doors....
  Winter months are on there way,dont forget to break out the heater and Lets Go CamPing~!
