Date: Mon, 13 Nov 2006 14:32:32 -0800 (PST)
From: "Kevin H. Roberts" <bopsax(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: window problem

Hey, guys.  Just some advice.  Listen to Mike Benthin.  I did my window today and didn't.  I thought it would be easier to remove all of the screws and follow Bentley to fix the broken window lifter.  WRONG!  It's a royal pain in the arse to do it Bentley's way.   And he had it all wrong anyway.  "Press the window front guide channel forward on it's bracket.  Then, through the gap thus formed, pull the window lifter assembly downward and out of the door."  WRONG!  You can't remove the lifter assembly without taking the front vent window loose.  And that is a very elusive screw up inside the upper window channel.  The problem is that the cable snakes up over an A-shaped piece in the upper part of the door.  (That you can only see by peeking inside the window channel)  And you won't be able to get it out because it's right up against the bottom of the vent window frame.  

Mike found a way to replace the part that connects the window to the lifter assembly without removing the window.  I didn't have any suitable pieces of wood for the shims so I decided against it.  And it cost me an entire afternoon and a whole lot of words that I wish I could purge from my vocabulary.  Contrary to Bentley, the window will not come out from the bottom.  Which means you have to remove the scrapers and the upper track.  (OK, you try getting everything back in straight.)  I'm going to have to do some more work to get it to slide as easy as it did.  But for now I'm just thankful to have it back in and working.  

Thanks a ton to Chris at BustedBus.  He sold me the part and was great help on the phone.  I would have never found that elusive screw without him.  And would have never figured out how to get the lifter mechanism out.  

If you do this, make sure you have the window in the tracks before you put the vent window back in place.  And be sure you straighten out the lifter cable.  It should be an upside-down 'U' shape with no bends toward the outside of the door.  You probably won't be able to get it out without bending it.  But it won't go back in and not contact the window if it is bent.  Better yet, search for Benthin's post and follow it to the letter.  Believe me, you won't regret it.  Now I'm going to have to order new scraper material as I really screwed that up.  Cheers...KR
