Date: Mon, 10 May 2004 07:41:54 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Baker <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>
To: bus list <ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, type2 list
Subject: Bus for sale\trade-Tranny needed near Cincinnati

Hey Y'all,
Through some rather interesting and complicated
circumstances, I now have a 78 westy that I do not
need.  We have discovered that there is NO FOURTH GEAR
in the tranny, it just grinds when in fourth.  The 2
liter engine with a Weber progressive carb runs well,
but is leaking some oil from the push rod tubes.  The
interior is in very good condition and most all
camping gear is present, with the exception of the
poptop canvas, it is gone. The plaid upholstery on the
back cushions looks new, but the front seats are
showing some age but still use-able.  The fiberglass
top is pretty moldy, but should clean up well enough. 
In our test drive we also dicovered that the metal
brake lines need replaced.  This is a complete bus
needing only brake lines and a good tranny (along with
a few other minor things like wiper motor, which I
have) to be road-worthy.  There is through rust on the
rear wheel well, and on the drivers floor "step-up"
under the door, other than that, looks like mostly
surface rust spots here and there.  There is NO
structural rust, all frame looks good.  Pictures
available tonight.
Soooo, I am entertaining 2 options, and I will do the
FIRST one offered to me. So I will sell the bus for
$700 FIRM in its present condition OR I will buy a
good tranny to install and keep the bus for myself. 
If you want a bus, buy this one. OR if you have a good
inexpensive tranny, I'll buy it! I m located in
Pleasant Plain, Ohio about 25 miles north east of
Downtown Cincinnati, Ohio.  I amy also trade the bus
for a good running bug or watercooled Vanagon.

=====
Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1967 Kombi soon to be camper!
http://www.buszen.com

"So we got into the red VW microbus with the shovels and the rakes and the implements of destruction and we headed on to the police officer's station..."
