Date: Tue, 11 May 2004 20:13:53 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Andy P." <kombi1976(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Sean Dorman <croftyest(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] TheSamba & Everett B get some recognition

Sean Dorman <croftyest(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:
I agree on both counts. Though to be honest I think a nod from HotVW's would be a little respected.

Sean 


To be blunt, I believe that Hot VWs is very prescriptive and formulaic. The buses shown reveal nothing of the wide gammut that exist within the Type2 scene, and with the exception of one '70 Panel I've seen nothing pre'68, which is fine if that's all you want but very blinkered considering the number of Bays out there.

 And if that isn't enough, a majority of the Beetles are Cal Look, BRM & 48 IDA adorned, Der Kleiner Panzer look-a-likes, which much like the buses, are fine as a style or period but show no inventiveness or originality. I've found myself buying VW Trends & UK mags like Ultra VW simply because of the variety of cars shown in those publications. 

Hot VWs has some great stories on full restos, all-out sand rails & tech articles, but even some of the drag cars shown, while being very well detailed, aren't exactly much to write home about in terms of performance. Here in Australia 4 all-out drag beetles turned up to a recent meet, 3 with turbos & one with dual super chargers. Every one of them also sported EFI, something which seems to have avoided the US scene despite its efficiency. One of the turbos holds the world record in its class & the other 3 bugs are serious contenders. Surely there are cars like this in the US.

Finally, Hot VWs seems to have changed into a big collection of ads surrounded by some articles. I realise they have to make money but I seriously doubt things have become that dire.

There, I've said it. Correct me if I'm wrong. And the best sort of kudos for Everett would be from an industry Net magazine, which of course we all believe he deserves.

:o)

Cheers & God Bless

 



Andy P
http://geocities.com/kombi1976

Club VW Southern Tablelands, NSW, Australia
http://www.geocities.com/clubvwsouthtable
