Date: Thu, 23 Dec 2004 10:48:06 -0600
From: John Mileham <john.mileham(-at-)us.army.mil>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: '62 Westy for sale  CAVEOT EMPTOR

Just wanted to share with the group my experience with Mr. Rene Mireless.
After a series of 10 emails or so the night he offered his bus up for sale, he
still wouldn't give me a price that he would sell it for.  He stated he would
call me the following afternoon, but did not.  (No biggie, I'm flexible.)
This seemed a bit odd, but so are SO35's, right?  lol  I did tell him in one
of my emails that he should listen to his gut, it sounded like he was having
trouble letting go of it.  After sending him an email that second evening, he
agreed to sell me the SO35 for $3900.  He did call me that evening, and sent a
message out to the list saying the bus was sold.

I started making plans to come to SoCal to retrieve the bus, modifying X-mas
plans and enlisting the aid of a friend who agreed to help make the journey.
Went as far as offering to help another VB listee get a Vespa from Sioux Falls
to Phoenix, which although slightly out of the way on both ends, seemed like a
nice way to help another listee out and defray my gas costs a bit.  (Sorry
Dan, it's now a no-go...)

Well, with things nearly in place, I get an email last night from Mr. Mireless
stating that "i have some bad new's, theres a problem in the motor, today i
try to turn it on and some thing is wrong. I think that is something with the
clutch, nothing big".  He goes on to say "And the most important, i think that
$3,900 is too cheap, i still getting a lot of emails of people interested in
my bus. sorry but i need a better offer".  Gee, what a coincidence!  The bus
chooses now to break down....lol.   Didjs notice the "and the most important"
part????

Anyway, if you're one of the folks that are telling him this, you might be
interested in knowing the following:

It is missing the cargo door cabinet, the folding chair, the hanging light &
all of the original door/cab panels.  I can't say for sure, but I'm guessing
it is missing the water bottles as well.  It will need a new rear corner (he
thinks this is original...who was I to burst his bubble...) and wheel wells,
along with metal repair where the deluxe trim was added.  Additionally, there
are holes on the front sides of the two forward most rear cabinets, as well as
holes on the panel below the seat which runs along the drivers side.  Little
things, such as absent mirrors and wiper arms, and crappy tires, will add up
too.  There is additional damage (water) to the cabinets on one side, along
with the wooden portion of the ceiling.  (But no rust, ever!  lol)  Needs work
on the fuse box, missing a child's cot hook and the child's cot...  This is
before you start on the groovy TJ paint job and upholstery of course, but to
each his own.  At least those two things are obvious, some of the other stuff
isn't.

Oh yea, there is bondo on one of the sides, he's not sure how much BUT he did
just have it painted...lol.  All the pictures show the bus in Mexico, he
claims the bus is registered in Cali, with a title in his name - but he can
only be reached at a number in Mexico...  He claims that he's owned the bus
for 5 years, and that he's currently 20 years old...

I don't know, you make the call.  I should have figured this was going to
happen, and halfway did.  If you're close enough to the bus to check it out,
it might be a good deal for you.  I wouldn't drive across my own state to see
it after seeing how he works, and certainly wouldn't drive half way across the
country...  So like the subject says, CAVEOT EMPTOR!

Oh yea, in case you've read this far - it does have the full length blue/white
privty tent style awning.  (Had to throw in a positive here.)  No sides and no
poles...  (And Rene, if you're reading this, that isn't an OG roof rack for
this type of vehicle, you're mistaken once again...)

Perhaps I'll return the favor and send him an offer (that he can't refuse)
from another email address....lol.  But I'll make sure the latest "high
bidder" has sufficient time to make transport plans, etc. before I do....
(just kidding...lol)  But I DO feel better now that I've hammered on the keys
a little bit.  *You BLEEPING little EXPLETIVE EXPLETIVE*  lol

Easy come, easy go.  (Shortest case of buyer's remorse ever, thanks guys!)
