Date: Wed, 14 Jan 2009 08:00:38 -0500
From: Anymouse <honeybus(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Type 2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] '78 tailight housing to body seal

Mike asked:

From: mike ashley <sugarloafflyer(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: '78 tailight housing to body seal
>>  B/D is on back order, any other sources or ideas?

OK, I have an idea!

Take one of those new, worthless front door seals from Mexico, the fat one
that doesn't let you close your door...

Trim off a strip of about 1/4" to 5/16" of the seal, cutting the rounded
"pointy" edge of the seal off from the fat door seal. (you will need /
use almost all of the seal.)  I used a scissors, and was pretty successful.
What you are cutting off will be the GOOD part, not the 90% of the seal that
is remaining.  If you cut off too fat a piece, you can trim it later.  My
first test piece was about 1/2" PLUS and I was able to re-trim that down to
size.

Now you have a long, thin strip of rubber seal that is formed [cross section
view] like an isosceles triangle, with a somewhat rounded top at the top of
the triangle.

This rounded pointed part of the seal will fit quite nicely into the groves
of the tail light housing.  You can also use this same rubber thin strip of
rubber for the housing-to-lens seal, so you are hoping to cut a piece [or
four separate pieces] that will be used for all four seals..  You get four
tail light seals from one worthless rubber door seal

The neat thing is the the rounded pointy edge fits PERFECTLY in the tail
light housing grooves, and the rubber is 'compressable' and is forgiving of
the rough edges you made when you cut with the scissors.

[Larger is better than smaller for the lens-to-taillight housing because
there will be a distinct separation where you can actually see the seal for
the lens-to-housing between the bus and the lens.  I got a pair of the new
units from BD, and they  didn't seem like they would fit properly without
this extra meaty rubber seal to keep the lens off the VW paint.   The seal
for the housing-to-body can also be overly big, because you will not see
that seal; it seals the housing-to-bus on the inside of the engine
compartment.  But the bigger this inside seal is, the closer the lens will
fit to the VW body / paint and the bigger the outside seal has to be.  Oh
well, .]

And you do not need any rubber seal glue, either, it fits fine in the tail
light housing.

I did this just last month with some new Bus Depot tail light housings - BD
was NIS at that time, too..

PS...  Who knows, perhaps the 90% left over door seal rubber will find
another use....
-- 
Anymouse
