Date: Sat, 17 Jan 2009 15:27:06 -0800 (PST)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Curing deteriorating performance (Busaru)

When ya got power and smoothness, it is easy to overlook declining power and smoothness - even to the point to where it becomes a problem. Here in the Seattle area we just went through a couple weeks of cold and (for us) massive snowfall amounts. I switched from driving the 30mpg Saturn back to Bussy for the Nokian snow tire, ground clearance, driveability and just plain joy of driving!

In the really cold, starting became an issue, then sluggish performance and stammering and roughness. I knew it was well past time to check everything out, but I had gotten started with the replacement of the Oxygen sensor a few days before the cold hit us. Now there was something else. It got worst when the rains came and the Melt began. Moisture was everywhere.

I started with spraying LPS1 on all sensor connectors to moisture proof the electrical connections. I pulled a spark plug and the "V" electrode was a single rounded stub. I replaced those. Everything I did offered a boost in performance and solved one or more of my long list of symptoms. Through the process some symptoms got worse, like stammering on acceleration. Odd. I checked all the sensors to confirm that everything was "in-range" and they all were (airflow sensor, throttle position sensor, water temp sensor, timing was right on...) I changed the PCV valve and got rid of part of my acceleration stammer - but not all of it.

Then everything went south and I had trouble keeping the engine from dieing in normal driving. It acted like the computer had put it into limp-home mode. I re-checked all my tracks and discovered that the water temp sensor was not fully latched at the connector. I worked that a few times, ran it around the block, and all was well with the world once again!

Now I had but one bother - on cold starting, the engine had to be kept above 1000rpm to stay running. On acceleration after a speedbump, for instance, there would be a little catch - a slight hesitation. I decided to dig up my spare airflow sensor and plug it in to see if there is a difference. First, I could remember reading about cleaning hotwire type MAF sensors so I looked online for that info. CRC now markets a MAF sensor cleaner spray. I bought a can of that, pulled the sensor out of its housing and liberally sprayed the two tiny wires, then the surrounding area, and finally the connectors and general area. Popped it all back together and hopped in, turned the key and it was instantly running. Checked the tach and it was a steady 600 rpm on a cold engine. Drove around the block and could not induce any hesitation at all.

I'm glad I thought of cleaning the MAF. The performance gain and smoothness gain was phenomenal. It stands to reason that those tiny hot wires are going to get coated with all the stuff that is in the air and it just bakes on there, making them less and less effective.

Next time you change the air cleaner on your #2 car that probably has a MAF sensor (Our buses and Vanagons do not) buy a can of CRC MAF cleaner and prepare for a solid performance enhancement!

We often look for "the" cause for declining performance - I know I do. Sometimes, it is a cumulative effect of many different items that all deteriorated over time and maybe most of those just made whatever is the key item a lot worse! Therefore, starting with a generalized tune-up, step-by-step approach is the best start to troubleshooting. It eliminates items along the way and ultimately allows you to do a proper diagnosis and proper repair.  I hope the story helps you with your own diagnoses problems!

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
