From: Shad <shenderson(-at-)thegeekgroup.org>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 20 Jan 2009 11:10:15 -0500
Subject: Loss of power after warmed up

Hi All, 

I'm stumped.  

I recently rebuilt a 2L GE engine for my '77 bus.  

New bearings, bushings, and seals throughout.  
New cam (highway grind)
Lightly used big valve heads from HeadFlow Master, about 4K miles on
'em.
Initially used the prior P&C from the DPO rebuilt engine (94mm flat
tops), but #3 had a bit much slap for my taste, so I swapped those for a
set of Porsche 914 94mm shallow dish pistons.  Problem persisted with
both sets. Both sets got new rings.  
Dual Kadron 40's.  Very slight leakage at the shafts, one carb tapped
for vacuum for the SVDA. 
SVDA dizzy, used on the previous engine. No problems with it then.  
 
I'm anal about my engines.  This thing was triple-checked during
assembly, and everything is within dimensional spec and torque spec.
Other than some valve clatter (solid lifters), it's quiet.  I want to
replace the valve lash adjusters, as mine are probably mushroomed a bit.
But that wouldn't cause my current problem. 

The engine idles and runs well when cool.  It has plenty of power (for a
bus) when taking off, and is a bit peppier at 2500-4500 RPM due to the
cam.   But once it's been on the road at 45-55mph for a few miles, it
develops a bad miss at speed and has no power.  Idle drops and it will
stall when stopped. On the road, it's about all it will do to hold
45-50mph, flat on the floor.  That's unnecessarily hard on the engine,
as you're abusing the crap out of the working cylinders.   

Valve lash is set to .006 when cold, timing is "workable" but not
perfectly dialed in yet, the carbs aren't synced by instrument, but
again, they're "workable" and I have enough experience with multiple
carbs to get 'em close enough to run tolerably well.  

So my to-do list - 

  Get 'er up to speed and heat so the problem surfaces, then start
pulling plug wires until I find the miss.  
  Run a compression check when hot, and replace the (new Bosch) plugs
with new NGK plugs. Note to self - break torque on plugs before running
the engine hard.  
  Check valve lash when hot - should be nearly equal across all valves
or at least across intake/intake exhaust/exhaust pairs.  Exhaust valves
will be a bit hotter due to their job. 
  Replace SVDA with 009+Pertronix for testing, though the SVDA ran well
on the previous engine (had stock EFI)
  Replace DPO installed IGN coil with stock unit.
  See if I can borrow another set of Kadrons, see if that helps the
problem.  

  After that.... I'm drawing a blank.  CHT on #3 (DD CHT gauge) shows
about 380-ish at 55mph, which is a tad warm, but if that's the side
that's doing all the work, plus the rings aren't worn in yet...  I'll
hook up the old VDO CHT on #1 just as a reference.  

  Since the problem occurs at speed, and when the engine has warmed up,
that points towards fuel starvation. But even if I shut the engine off,
then turn the key back on to run the 'leccy fuel pump for a minute, then
drive, the problem persists, so I doubt it's fuel starvation.  The
Kadrons are jetted at 55 & 150, by the Friendly Local VW Mechanic, which
may be a tad rich, but there's no bad raw fuel smell after the problem
starts, which would indicate flooding on one bank.  

No oil leaks, and good pressure, unless the oil pressure sender is lying
to me.  Light goes off about 1-1.5 seconds after startup and doesn't
flicker at idle when the engine is warmed up. 

It *could* be electrical in nature, given that the wiring harness is 31
years old and the DPO was none too kind when adding/removing
accessories.  But I would expect the problem to be intermittent both at
speed and/or at idle, at any engine temperature if it were related to
the harness.   No rain for a decent while, not even a heavy dew within
the last week or so.   So that counts out water-based problems...  Still
worth looking at.  

I can't think of anything in the dizzy's advance mechanism that would
bind up from heat, but now that I think about it, it may be worth
watching the timing advance when the engine is hot.  Of course, swapping
in the 009 would pinpoint that issue, if it exists.  

I honestly don't get it.  These are simple engines, especially when the
EFI has been removed.  I *COULD* put the EFI back on, but that's a bit
of a bother, especially as the S boot is cracked, and the connectors are
all "iffy" at best.  Rebuilding the wiring harness isn't out of the
question, I'd just have to hit the pick-n-pull for new connectors to
splice in.  Besides, putting EFI on an engine that might have another
issue could be an exercise in futility.  The EFI is rock solid when
working well, and frustratingly irritating when it's acting up.  

Hmm.  What else?   Ideas? 

Thanks!

Shad H. 
