Date: Thu, 18 Jul 2002 09:03:43 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Kerosene:


>>Anything that I can't recycle easily gets poured over the "bills" and 
>>sticks that are in the burn barrel in the back yard. All goes away.
>
>Goes Away?!  Are you serious? Please enlighten us as to where it goes and 
>what form it takes. It seems you've stumbled upon the answer to the 
>environmental crisis.
>
>But as long as it's easy.

We have oil recycling here but often they get fussy about taking Kerosene 
or Diesel. I don't know what the rules are so I don't know if they are 
supposed to or not. I have in the past mixed it with the waste oil when I 
had enough.

I can put it in the burn barrel though and burn it. I'm certainly not going 
to put in my gas tank - we tried that when I lived overseas. You can burn 
it but the car doesn't make but a portion of the power it should and 
naturally it's not good for the engine (I have run a VW 40 HP engine on a 
mix of lacquer thinner, kerosene, gasoline, diesel, carb cleaner, STP, etc. 
etc. It was a time of necessity and it worked but I only made about 1/2 of 
the normal power).

I have two choices at my house - burn it or dump it in the ground. So I 
burn it. And it goes away...

Not the ideal solution but like I said - it beats pouring it in the ground.

I do have a good burn barrel. With some experimentation I was able to 
regulate the air flow so that it burns very, very hot. Much of the time the 
wood and paper that gets burned in there leaves no ash hardly and it burns 
so hot that there is very little smoke and no smell. I'm going to 
experiment with attaching my leaf blower to it and see what air injection 
does for the process.

I recycle my plastics, paper (that isn't full of account numbers), 
cardboard, and oil. The garbage goes in the county dumpster and we try to 
create as little waste as we can. I'm far from the success of the folks in 
my Mother Earth News magazine but I know we are doing much better than most 
of the suburban people we know.

We do not buy stuff to use up and throw away half used like most folks do 
with cars, electronics, and such. We buy things that last and we treat them 
very carefully. I get 200K+ out of my cars and I never sell them 'cause I 
am tired of them - but because they are worn out. My VW has 190K miles and 
with the fresh rebuild of it I hope to see 400K miles. I fix my cars up the 
best I can, am careful not to mis-represent them when I sell them as 
anything but a 200K+ car and sell them. My last Honda I misjudged as well 
worn at 198K miles. I still see it occasionally. It looks very good and has 
255K+ miles on it. My current 1999 Honda (purchased new - never do that 
again!!!) I expect/plan to get 300K miles out of. Much better than the 
typical 125K most of the people I know get out of a car before they find 
themselves bored with it and begin lusting after a new car payment - - - I 
mean car...


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


