Date: Fri, 9 Apr 2004 09:40:19 -0700 (Pacific Daylight Time)
From: Larry Edson <sonofed(-at-)karmannghia.org>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: turn signal trouble

It seems to me that you might have a combination of problems in order to
get that symptom. First of all, I had a friend point out to me that my
brake lights were different brightness and that I probably had the brake
and turn signal wires reversed on the unit. Sure enough, and when I
changed them around my blinker light in the dash started acting correctly
on the side I swapped. The second thing I suspect you have wrong is that
your brake and signal wire is also swapped at the blinker unit causing the
light on the other side to blink at the same time. A color wiring diagram
will be your best friend.

Larry
sonofed(-at-)karmannghia.org
www.ghiatwins.homestead.com
 O o\ /o O

> Date: Thu, 8 Apr 2004 19:48:38 -0700 (PDT)
> To: type2(-at-)type2.com
> From: Stephen Byers <byersinc(-at-)swbell.net>
> Subject: turn signal trouble
> Message-ID: <20040409024838.20076.qmail(-at-)web80401.mail.yahoo.com>
>
> Fellow listmates and esteemed bus pilots,
> A few days ago someone wrote in about turn signals not working when they applied the brakes.  I had a similar problem on my 69 and thought that I might find some answers.  My right turn signal would not work when my parking lights were on. The left worked just fine.  With the lights off the right would blink correctly but the left would blink simultaneously,  only faintly.  That was two days ago. I checked grounds, cleaned contacts checked bulbs, everything I could think of.  Now  I have NO turn signals - with parking lights on or off.  My hazards still operate.  If I engage my turn signals, my radio quits working. Turn the switch off and the radio comes back on. I pulled the signal switch out to check for foreign matter and found a loose wire (white with brown stripe) traced it to the headlight relay.  My frustration runs pretty high right now.  Any suggestions would be greatly appreciated.
>
> Steve
> 1969 Westy
> Wichita, KS
