Date: Fri, 09 Apr 2004 12:48:55 -0400
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Chris Chubb <cchubb(-at-)codegurus.com>
Subject: Free Bus / Vanagon Stuff in DC area!

Hello all,

I am doing some spring cleaning in preparation for moving to Florida. So, I 
have to dig into the deep, dark back of my shed and utility room and start 
getting rid of some of the things I have been keeping "just in case...". 
All of these items are in the Falls Church area of Northern Virginia. All 
are free to a good home. All are for your personal use or a friends use 
only please. I don't want to see them for sale on EBay next month. No real 
hurry to remove them immediately, as I am not leaving before the end of the 
summer, but I figured I would get a head start on the cleaning. I really 
don't want to ship anything.

1) Top fold out cot from a Westy. The kind that fold in half like an army 
cot. Has hardware and canvas, but the canvas is pretty rotten.

2) The whole sliding door from a 81 Westy, blue.

3) A baywindow transmission. I don't know the type. How do I find out? I 
think that I took the nose cone off and put it back on, but without all of 
the sealing goop. (Just to see what was happening in the nose cone and 
compare it to mine.) Dirty.

4) A type IV short block. Coated with white lithium grease before putting 
away about 2 years ago. Was dreaming of a type IV powerplant for my '71. No 
idea of the condition of the internals, nor mileage.

5) Some spare rubber mats from the floor of a baywindow. I don't remember 
if they are early or late, but I think that they were from a '69 or '70.

6) A jalousie window from a baywindow. I am pretty sure it works.

Things I need / want that if you have would be appreciated: (All for a '71 
7 passenger deluxe)

A) vent windows for the rear area.

B) New rear hatch glass.

C) Any left over rust repair panels, rocker panels, front floor repair 
panels, or 20 gauge stock sheet metal.

Let me know if you want something and put the word out to others that might 
want it.

Chris
