To: "type2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Miles Erickson" <miles.erickson.type2(-at-)gmail.com>
Date: Sun, 10 Apr 2005 07:33:14 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] vacuum advance

Hi Kevin -

As I understand it, your original distributor would have had both centrifugal
and vacuum advance.  The "009" mechanical-only distributor was all the rage
for a while, despite being inappropriate for a Bus.  Presumably, at some
point, some previous owner or mechanic found fault with your stock distributor
and replaced it with a 009.  My Bus has a 009 and it runs well enough, but
will have better power and acceleration at low RPMs whenever I get around to
buying and installing an SVDA distributor.  BUT to install an SVDA
distributor, you need to have a carburetor that provides the correct vacuum
outlets to interface with such a distributor, and I have no idea whether your
Weber qualifies.

Using a timing light is really important.  Your Bus's 009 needs to be timed
for full advance, and static timing doesn't do this accurately because the
amount of full advance varies significantly from one 009 to the next.

The running-on that you describe is called "dieseling."  As I understand it,
dieseling is caused when (1) there is still residual fuel reaching the engine
after ignition shutoff, and (2) there are "hot spots" that provide an
unofficial source of ignition inside the engine.  There could be carbon built
up on your plugs or inside your cylinders.  If I recall correctly, Muir
suggests a rather creative way to burn off such deposits.  If you really feel
that you're running "too lean" to avoid this, be VERY careful, as this
typically leads to problems like overheating and burned exhaust valves.
Aircooled VW engines simply don't have the excess cooling capacity to make up
for running extra-lean.

The "idiot" book that people talk about isn't published by Haynes.  I haven't
seen the Haynes book, but I don't think many listmembers use it as their
primary reference.  The "idiot" book is "How to Keep Your Volkswagen Alive, A
Guide For The Complete Idiot" by John Muir.  The consensus of the list is that
the "idiot" book is valuable but occasionally offers poor advice --
particularly with respect to timing and distributors, in fact!  It also could
stand to have more illustrations.  The official VW service manual (the
"Bentley" book) is therefore a must-have, as it is replete with drawings and
photos.  The two books complement each other well: for example, sometimes I
don't have the correct tool for the Bentley procedure, but Muir offers a
"backyard" way to accomplish the same thing.  Sometimes I need to do something
that Muir doesn't really cover, but it's in the Bentley... you get the idea!

Cheers,

- Miles

Miles Erickson
'71 Dragon Bus

please send personal replies to myfirstname(-at-)myfullname.com
