Date: Sun, 10 Apr 2005 13:09:25 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Nick Palmer" <nick(-at-)sluggardy.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Project for sale.

Hey All,

I have been accepted to a masters program in Amsterdam, and while I would
love to keep both of my buses, I have decided that storing one for two
years is enough. So I am going to let my '71 project go. If your
interested in a project read on, if not move along. :)

This bus is currently stored here in Orangevale, CA near Sacramento. It is
a primer grey delux with all the chrome trim. The gas tank, tranny and
engine are all out right now. The gas tank has been steam cleaned so no
rust problems comming your way. The tranny is original and probably has in
excess of 125k on it, but still works. The engine has about 5000 miles on
it, so very low milage. I have a westy Z-bed for the back and the frame
for the middle seat, but it would have to be redone. I also have a brand
new wiring harness just waiting to go in. Loads of other parts too.

There is very little body work that still needs to be done. A little bit
in the floor up front and a minor ding here and there, but it is very
straight. I am looking to move it quickly, as I will be selling the house
soon, but would like to see it go to somebody that is really going to
restore it, not part it out. (Being such a desireable year and all, what
with the last year of the upright and the first year of disk breaks, and a
delux at that.)

I am flying to Amsterdam for a week tomorrow. So if you are interested,
make an offer this week via email and I will let whoever has the best
offer know on Tuesday of next week. (So no rush to reply first. Take time
to _really_ consider if you want this project. You must come get the bus
before the 29th, as that is when I anticipate the first showing of the
house. I will let whoever I select know on Tuesday the 19th. Think of this
as a silent bidding process with emphasis on the bus going to a good home.

When making an offer I would like to know what your budget for the
restoration is, when you can pick it up, and how much you want to pay for
it. Keep in mind that I am looking for somebody who is going to actually
do the restoration and get this bus back on the road, so the clearer your
plan for restoration is the more likely I will pick you regardless of the
amount of your offer. I would like to get the money that I have put into
the bus (a fairly small amount) out, but realize that it is a project, so
the offer for the bus should be only a small fraction of your restoration
budget. I will take a loss on it if I really believe that you will truely
resotre this bus. Bonus points for telling me which vendors you would use
for what and rough estimates for different parts of the project. (Paint,
rubber, chroming trim, interrior, mechanical, etc...)

All replies must go to nick-bus(-at-)sluggardy.net to be considered (Note that
this is _not_ the address I am writing from. You must add the -bus so that
your offer gets filtered to the correct folder for consideration. You have
been warned.)

Good Luck and Happy Bussing!

-Nick
