Date: Mon, 11 Apr 2005 10:01:55 -0700
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] The factory's official take on Pertronix electronic 

On Thursday, March 31, 2005, at 01:06PM, Pace, Nick <nickpace(-at-)rand.org>
wrote:

> I just called the friendly folks at Pertronix (909-599-5955)...
> He stated that there was no way to adjust the dwell on these
> systems as they come factory preset, not even by changing the gap between the
> rotor donut and the sensor.

I have to bite my tonque after saying the pertronix was not adjustable for
dwell earlier. Is it adjustable: just not as sensitive as points.
 
> Furthermore, according to Karl, the dwell reading
> itself is irrelevant with an electronic system.

I don't believe this. Pertronix is a modification to the primary side of the
coil and as such it is merely a switch that determines how long it will
allow the coil to saturate as any given rpm.

The coils that come with electronic ignitions seems to have a very low
primary resistance. This allows a larger current to flow through which the
electronics are designed to handle. The result is a better spark.

With points, the current has to be limited to extend the life of the points
and this results in less spark energy. Given that the pertronix contains
electronics that require a 1.5-3 ohm coil I would guess that the 79 CA
ignition capable of a better spark just judging by the coil specs.

> The OEM has to have a
> specific set figure for mechanical points because the distributor's designers
> have to compensate for the eventual wear that will take place over time.

The wear range is 42-58 degrees. My opinion is that 42 degrees is to short a
period to allow the coil to charge and the result is a weak spark. At 58
degrees the coil saturates but the points are so close together that they
have trouble breaking the circuit as the current briefly jumps the points
gap.

This is a mechanical problem but considering that the timing drifts with the
dwell, that limit is also imposed.

> With
> electronic points, that's not an issue and the spark can be far hotter with
> this system without worrying about any damage to the points that will cause
> the timing to change.

True as far as the coil and module compatibility are concerned.

> A dwell reading of 64 is, according to Karl, not a
> problem at all no matter what the "normal" specs might have been.
> So I guess
> I have to believe this gentleman rather than assume that dwell can in fact be
> adjusted on Pertronix systems or assume that a dwell reading outside of a
> range of 48-50 on one of these things is cause for alarm.

The plastic feeler gauge you get with it measures out to be 0.80mm. This
gives me a dwell of 54 degrees and I believe most people following the
instructions end up with a similar dwell.

I managed to close the gap to 0.40mm and the dwell dropped to 53 degrees.
Any smaller of a gap and it seemed the risk of contact was too great even
though I rotated the sleeve 4 times in case it was out of round. The gap is
far less sensitive that points which originally let me to believe no
adjustment as possible.

When I opened up the gap to 2mm the dwell increased to 58 degrees. This
results goes against all advise and expectation I've ever read on the list.
In this position the Al mounting plate as it comes in the box was getting
close to the distributor body: the advance plate has to move so don't let it
contact the body.

These adjustments explain both variation and lack of variation in dwell from
various posts. For the people who read 45 degrees on their dwell meter after
installation I can only assume it was a manufacturing difference and opening
up the gap would help.

For your reading of 64 degrees, I would guess that this is good. I don't
understand why a large dwell would be a problem for an electronic switch.

I'll have to attempt some more adjustments and measurments and report back
to the list.

-- 
Richard, 1978 Westfalia CDN
http://www.ratwell.com/
Cupertino, CA
