To: "type2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Miles Erickson" <miles.erickson.type2(-at-)gmail.com>
Date: Tue, 12 Apr 2005 00:08:16 -0700
Subject: =Re: [T2] maiden voyage

Hi Tim -

Here's the bottom line: you should enjoy your Bus as much as possible.  For a
select few people in this world, that might mean turning their garage into a
museum....

Here's a story to illustrate MY approach to this problem: when I bought my
1967 Cessna 150 two years ago, she was in beautiful condition and had spent
many years as a hangar queen with shiny paint but nowhere to go.  I've flown
her about 350 hours (i.e. 35,000 miles) in the two years that I've owned her,
including two trips from Seattle to Alaska, and three from Seattle to Southern
California.  Hangars at Boeing Field cost about ten times what my plane is
worth, so she lives outdoors now.  Her paint isn't quite as pristine, but you
can tell by the smile on her face that she doesn't mind.  Mechanically, she's
in better shape now than when I bought her: due to lots of long flights and
diligent owner-assisted routine maintenance, she's now free of all the little
quirks that tend to exist in vehicles that haven't been used enough.  I like
to think that she's a much happier airplane than she was when she lived in
that lonely little T-hangar in Chico.

It seems clear to me that YOUR garage is NOT meant to be a museum.  In fact:
from now on, your garage should be a launch pad for Bcamping trips, because
that is how you will enjoy your Bus as much as possible!  Therefore, camp
early and often.  Do not keep your Bus inside on rainy days -- instead, drive
to someplace beautiful and then listen to that selfsame rain pit-pattering on
the metal roof while you *ahem* dance around buck naked behind the curtains.
Smile and thank the people who compliment you on your Bus at gas stations.
For that matter, smile and thank your dancing partner, too)  You will learn to
love your Bus even more, and you will learn to take good care of it.  Your Bus
will be happier and so will you.

Cheers,

- Miles

Miles Erickson
'71 Dragon Bus

please send personal replies to myfirstname(-at-)myfullname.com
