Date: Fri, 15 Feb 2002 14:02:53 -0600 (CST)
From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: what I learned this week


78 Champagne edition stock 2l fi

Folks, remember, I took out the engine to get to my gas tank.

Decided it was the perfect time to pull the trans, clean it up a little,
replace the cv boott and grease them up also.  Might as well pull the
shifter out and replace the bushings while i was at it as well.

Now comes the interesting part.

MY shifter had 3! bushings.  All the books and pictures show only two...is
this something that just doesn't show and everyone knows about, or is mine
different.  The front one had a metal ring under the front bushing.  The
two rears are the ones shown in the catalogs.

But first a complaint...not against the vendors, cause I got bushings from
two different vendors.  The bushings are not the right size and the little
buttons on them that are supposed to fit in the shifter are
oversize.  After installation, they also do not meet properly around the
circumference of the shift rod.

Now for a question....frequently as I am doing some piece of maintenance,
I wonder how they asembled things properly at the factory and the putting
the shifter back in was one of those deja vu moments.

You need to put grease on the bushings as you slide them in, but you know
dern well that the grease you put on is not going to end up where it is
most needed(where the bushing ends up living after final installation).

How did they do this at the factory??? A grease gun with a very small
capilary tube that would slide past the rearmost or frontmost bushing and
then inject grease all over when the felt they had reached the middle
bushing??

If I had measured a rod end to bushings, I might drill a small hole in
the carrier tube and force grease in at the bushing site with my pump
grease gun.....but I didn't, so I am still trying figure out how to get
those bushings really greased up good....

Next question, If cv joint grease with molybedium is so good, why not use
it everywhere???  They cost difference is not that much....

Any comments on that one?...Why is it so good for cv joints and not good
anyplace else?

Happy friday, dave

-- 
-------------------------------------------------------------------
"I'm more interested in getting it right, than being right"....dave



