Date: Fri, 5 Aug 2005 16:15:27 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, Type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Friday: Trip report and toy spotting

All,

A couple of weeks ago (21-26 July) I took a trip from Tulsa to the Great
Smoky Mountains National Park and back.  Unfortunately this happened in
my T*y*t*, so a full report is not possible.  Bus content: A few miles
east of Memphis, I noticed someone on the south side of I-40 with several
(fairly rusty) VWs in the yard; didn't get a chance to check it out.

When I got to the campground in the national park, there was a school-bus
yellow '78 Westy set up, complete with Full Moon Bus Club stickers and a
custom-made sign on the rear hatch that said "To infinity and beyond!"
Randy, the owner (not a listee), was from Sevierville, TN - just north
of the park.  We spent a few minutes talking Buses.

Judging by the license plates I saw when wandering around the
campground, this particular campground is a favorite of the "locals".
The "short way" in is about eight miles of twisty turny one-lane gravel
road that takes about 20 minutes to drive, which is probably an effective
filter.  There is another way in (which I didn't drive) but it's about
15 to 20 miles of gravel road.  I saw some fifth-wheel campers in the
campground and I think they took the "long way" in - I'm not sure if
you could get a fifth wheel through the "short way".  The reward for
putting up with the gravel road is a small campground (about 25 spaces)
that is full of tall trees and has a creek running alongside.  It's
about 10-15 degrees cooler there than it is down in the valley.  There
are real flush toilets, but no showers, and no RV hookups.  You just
have to remember to lock up your food in the car at night so the bears
don't get it.

This week, I saw a radio-controlled Bus toy at the store, a tie-in to
the new Disney movie.  It was a fairly big thing, about 18 inches (45 cm)
long.  It's a split and looks like it was modeled after a '63-up (big
rear window) 15-window sunroof.  The wheels and VW logo on the front are
"chrome".  You can see into the cab and there is at least a steering
wheel and gear shift, but I couldn't make out any other details through
the packaging.  The front doors don't open.  The side windows are opaque -
it's like the cargo area of the Bus is blocked off.  The cargo doors were
on the back side of the package, so I don't know if they open or not.  If
they were thinking about it, they filled up the whole cargo area with
batteries so it can go a long time on a charge, but I doubt this is the
case.  It's even painted like a split - white above the beltline, solid
colors below.  Interestingly, the sides are not plastered with stickers
or pre-printed stuff - it's just a solid color - so it looks like it
would be easy to add your own paint job or graphics.  I saw it at
Wal-Mart, but it is probably available elsewhere as well.

Matt Roberds
