From: "Eric Allred" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "yo-soy-quixote" <iamdonquixote(-at-)comcast.net>, "Vintage Bus"
Date: Mon, 15 Aug 2005 08:53:20 -0600
Subject: Re: [VB] switched to dual carbs = lower mpg

----- Original Message ----- 
> >Yes, dual carbs are capable of better mileage than a single carb.
>
>
>
> that' s interesting - afaicr, all the posters i read mentioned
> slightly worse mpg; after all, you now had TWO holes to pour gas down
> :)

You have two barrels, but you still have the same displacement of air going
through the motor. When jetted RIGHT (which most people have no idea how to
do), dual carbs will always provide better mileage than a single
centermounted carb.

Double the carbs does not mean that twice the air and fuel are feeding
through the motor.

Now for the reason. A long intake runner allows the fuel to fall out of
suspension with a single center mounted carb. Intake manifold heat helps,
but does not eliminate it. To make up for the fuel falling out of
suspension, the engine is jetted a bit richer to make up for it. With dual
carbs you have very short intake runners and fuel has very little chance to
fall out of suspension. Jetting can be dialed in much closer to result in a
much more efficient engine.

On the flip side of things though, dual carbs also give you more ability to
have poorer milege with the "lead foot" effect. But all things being/driven
equal in normal conditions, duals will result in better mileage.

As for jetting, you can't go by plug readings anymore. Todays fuels just
dont' seem to make much of a visual anymore. If you pull a plug and it's
white as paper you would think that it were lean. Not always. My drag motor
was this way and running a wideband meter on it showed that it was still
rich. I jetted even leaner to get 12.3:1 under WOT and picked up almost 3
1/2 tenths on the quarter mile which trust me, is HUGE gains when you go
from a 12.14 to an 11.82. Correct jetting makes all the difference.

You say that "afaicr, all the posters i read mentined slightly worse mpg",
but that's because none of those people are using the correct equipment to
get things right.

Eric Allred
