Date: Wed, 12 Jun 2002 10:47:15 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Hydraulic clutch info for you

As you might recall from a previous episode of the never ending armchair 
engineering portion of my Corvair engine and transaxle (really the ONLY way 
you want to do a conversion like this) I was pondering on ways to do away 
with the VW clutch cable AND how to avoid any weird transplanted Corvair 
clutch cable arrangements.

My solution: a hydraulic clutch. More trouble than it's worth? Maybe if you 
are driving a stock VW or a stock Corvair, but once you mate the VW to the 
Corvair - the hydraulic clutch arrangement is your best friend.

You need in addition to hydraulic line, a reservoir, and some basic hardware:

MASTER CYLINDER - source: Fiero. I know this works per a Corvair race car 
owner. You may also find that other master cylinders work like from a 
Vanagon or a Honda.

There is a bit of math here that you've got to take into account if you try 
an oddball master and slave arrangement. I know the Fiero/Speedway Motors 
7/8" bore slave arrangement works.

The math compares the master cylinder bore vs. slave cylinder bore AND 
length of stroke. If anyone knows the math please let me know.

I have access to a Honda master cylinder and some math beforehand might 
save me some work ahead of time.

You can gain or lose some mechanical advantage here making the pedal harder 
or easier. Also the stroke can be adjusted by how far from the pivot point 
the master connects to the clutch pedal lever or how far from the pivot 
point the slave connects to the clutch arm on the tranny.

SLAVE CYLINDER: Summit Racing has a pull slave cylinder for $48, push type 
for $65 - both HOWE brand. Speedway Motors has both versions for $50 or so, 
brand unknown.

If you want to do the whole job using parts from your local FLAPS - try a 
master and slave cylinder for an early 60's Ford p/u truck. I don't have 
the part numbers, specific model information, or price. This is based on 
info from an old Hot Rodder I know.

I hope this helped a few folks.
Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


