To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: mike.gensler(-at-)concert.com
From: mikeg(-at-)pcisys.net
Date: Wed, 12 Jun 2002 09:47:32 US/Mountain
Subject: Bus Handling (LONG)

I mentioned not too long ago that I though my 5-yr old KYB's were getting soft 
and I was going to replace them.  I ordered new ones from Bus Depot and pulled 
my old front ones off last night.  Much to my surprise, the old ones were every 
bit as stiff as the new ones right out of the box and they required the same 
amount of pressure to compress as the new ones (seat-of-the-pants measuring).  
The rebound time was only slightly different (less than 1 second difference).  
So I put the old ones back on and the new ones on my shelf.  I haven't checked 
the rear ones yet.

A couple of years ago I bought front & rear sway bars from www.aircooled.net, 
but never got around to installing them.  I can't install the rear bar becuase 
it interfers with my 5-speed tranny.  But I decided to put the oversized front 
one on and see what it would do.

The difference is nothing short of amazing.  Instead of my bus rolling to the 
side and then turning in, now it stays very flat.  I drove it in to work today 
on the interstate with 10-15mph side winds and barely noticed them.  I have to 
say this is a VERY worthwhile investment.  Of course, that being said, if the 
rest of your front-end components or your tires aren't up to snuff nothing will 
help you.  I've got new-ish (4 year old) tierods, ball joints, link pin, drag 
link, and brand-new Michelin Agelis 185r14 tires.  I'm going on a 900 mile trip 
this weekend across WINDY New Mexico an into the WINDY Texas Panhandle.  I'll 
post next week to let you all know how the swaybar handles 50 mph winds.

I've also ordered a pair of the Monroe coil-over shocks for the back (thanks 
Jamie Rivers for the great info on this 
http://www.globalserve.net/~jrivers/74Loadlevelers.htm) .  They haven't arrived 
yet, but I'll report on them when I get them installed.  I'm not convinced I'm 
going to leave them on, but I just wanted to try them out and see what 
difference they'll make.  If anyone's interested, www.shockwarehouse.com has 
them for about $85/pr - just look it up as an 88 Chevy Astro Van and choose the 
Monroe Load Levellers.

On a side-note, a friend of mine found a rear sway bar at a swap meet and put 
it on his 72.  It's a different shape than the new one that I've got and it 
would clear my 5-speed tranny.  I'm trying to talk him into trading for my new 
one (it'd give him a lot more clearance underneath since his hangs down lower), 
but so far he's not interested because of the time and effort to swap them.  Oh 
well, I'll keep trying.  Anyone out there have an odd-shaped rear bar that 
hangs down a good 3 inches in the middle under the torsion tube that they'd 
like to trade?

Mike g.
73 Westy


---------------------------------------------
This message was sent using Endymion MailMan.
http://www.endymion.com/products/mailman/


