Date: Wed, 12 Jun 2002 11:12:01 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 79 CAMPER BUS


>I'm looking for an external oil cooler that can mount to the driver side ( 
>I saw one on a 70 bus ) .

Pep Boys sells a cooler, a fan, and a thermostat for the fan. I bought a 
MESA cooler from CB and the Pep Boys cooler and hardware looked to be the 
very same thing for a bit cheaper. You'll want an oil thermostat to control 
temps so you don't over cool the oil. Where you take the oil from on the 
engine is another topic. You can buy a part that sandwiches between the 
engine and oil filter but there are some drawbacks. One is the oil lines 
might gain heat if the air coming out of the lower shrouds is constantly 
blowing on the oil lines. Another is some folks say these are restrictive. 
Lastly you might find your oil filter is much closer to the road and thus 
more in danger.

A better solution would be to use a kit that relocates the oil filter to 
another location using an adapter and oil lines. You can tap into these oil 
lines also and add the oil thermostat and cooler.

Lastly you can tap into the main oil pressure galley of the engine 
someplace. Where? I don't know maybe the list does.

Before you go through all of this excitement you probably ought to measure 
the oil temps and add a gauge to the dash. These gauges are typically not 
perfectly accurate but it does give you a benchmark - - if the needle is 
pointing to a higher temp than yesterday and the day before you have 
something to worry about.

Typically VW's don't need an oil cooler... You can run synthetic oils if 
you are worried about oil breakdown due to excess temps. Some folks will 
advise you to not switch to synthetic between rebuilds b/c of the danger of 
regular oil deposits breaking loose due to the nature of synthetic oils and 
clogging something up.

It's all tradeoffs.

>Also , my bus has the automatic transmission , I would like to get an
>electronic ignition system and a few more horses so it can handle highway
>speeds better .

Electronic ignition won't guarantee you anything except that you won't have 
points to worry about. There are two ways to do this project - one is to 
add a Petronix which is an electronic gizmo that simply replaces your 
points. The other is to get the complete ignition system from a Vanagon. 
Same idea as the first solution.

You're not going to get any real additional power from any little changes. 
Might get you to 60 a few (maybe 3 seconds) sooner and gain you 1 mpg. That 
still puts you in the slowest thing on the highway class.

If you want to spend some money then there are some folks on the list that 
build custom engines that make real power. It costs real money though. 
Don't confuse these engines with the junk you typically see in JC Whipme or 
the VW mags.

http://www.bostonengine.com/

http://www.aircooledtechnology.com/

(among others)

Like the old saying goes: Speed costs money - how fast do you want to go?

Unless you are a veteran mechanic, I would spend the first few months 
getting to know your bus, and learning to keep it tuned and fix all it's 
aliments first. If you are still in love with it, go for it. Chances are 
that it's previous owner neglected it alot and you'll discover much that 
needs to be found and replaced.

On that topic - replace those fuel lines today!!! Lot's of VW vans burn to 
the ground b/c if a fuel line splits and catches fire, the gasoline in the 
tank will feed the fire b/c it will gravity feed until it is all gone. This 
is a good time to learn the 20+ year old fuel system and to buy a fire 
extinguisher.

Lot's of hack jobs already out there b/c the previous owners did not 
understand their VW or that had grand ideas that never came to light. Lot's 
of legend and lore - few facts from the typical car shop or shadetree 
mechanic. This list is full of experienced VW drivers and mechanics.

I'm not lecturing you 'cause it's your bus, your money and your time. Just 
a bit of commentary. Fix everything before you start customizing. Gas, 
brakes, and then the fun.


Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


