From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 20 May 2004 01:01:39 EDT
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Subject: Red Rover moving on.

Hi Volks,
A friend of our's by the name of Debra just sold her 1959 DD non-walk thru 
panel bus.  Due to some past life choices (including moving away from Washington 
State (and us) to New Mexico six or so years ago) and now for her struggle to 
get a better education for a better life.  While on a very limited budget.
  Eric first met her over the phone ten years ago when she called Wolfsburg 
Warehouse (then in Seattle) looking for parts and info.  At that time he 
volunteered one day a week to help the owner Bill D. keep his VW shop/hobby open.  
Deb had bought her bus without any mechanical knowledge and from a DPO that 
seemed to have even less.  Eric offered to help her learn to work on her bus at 
our place.  She showed up with the bus, met Eric and Barb face to face and a 
great friendship began.  Engine tin was missing and/or incorrect fitting, fan 
shroud had been hacked to allow the use of an external oil cooler without the 
stock cooler and switched back without closing up the hole in the shroud, 
external oil cooler still mounted over the inside of the left air vents, gas line 
was thinnest pure copper line that shattered in Eric's hands when he tried to 
slightly bend it to keep it off the heat riser, front suspension that had not 
been greased in decades and what came out when the zerks were greased looked 
more like thin slimy soupy stuff used in "Ghost Busters" movie, and a tranny that 
when drained had gear oil the color and consistancy of chocolate milk, engine 
seals crumbling apart or missing completely, missing reserve fuel switch, 
thermostat and flaps missing, wiring a mess of electrical taped, twisted wire 
connections, bad tires, and a lot more problems.  
  Debra does want to get another bus once she has a better education and 
income.
  Well, here below is her beautiful, poignant account of her bus passing to a 
new owner.  Plus, how bus ownership affects and expands most volks horizons.
Eric&Barb


   ============  JOURNAL ENTRY  ============

It hasn't sunk in yet, but yet another era has passed.

I signed away Red Rover today.

I sold a member of my family for $600.

Those of you in the know - well, you know.

Anyone else - well, Rover is a '59 VW bus. Panel van, split screen, and a one 
of a kind - windows on the passenger side panel doors; stock from the 
factory, although they weren't normally manufactured that way.  Seriously, one of a 
kind.

Rover was my introduction to a completely different way of life. Having a 
volkswagen - one of the older ones - is a kind of ticket into a community. You 
have a free pass to go as far into this strange little world as you want. If you 
are the kind of person who really wants to live the life - the kind of person 
who works on your own car, not one who just farms it out to someone else - 
you learn a lot of things.

Your vehicle is completely unique. It will have aches and pains that, like a 
human, if attended to and treated while they are minor, can be resolved 
without too much trouble. Your vehicle has a distinct personality - it isn't exactly 
like any other bus or bug, even of the same year - it's joys and complaints 
will always have a specific twist. What works on one may only be similar to 
what works on another, but at the same time it will have more in common with 
another vehicle of it's kind than any Mazda or Chevy or Subaru on the road. It 
will be like it's owner - an individual, with a history. It will appreciate being 
treated like one.

Like a human, your vehicle requires regular, kind attention. It needs you to 
listen to it - listen for the sounds that indicate potential trouble. Listen 
to it when it's healthy and happy - so that you can be happy about it's 
healthiness, too.

Your vehicle appreciates a lifestyle that gives it a chance to take things 
slowly, look around. It doesn't like to be rushed, overheated, stressed. It 
likes to live it's life in the far right lane, letting others rush around if they 
wish. It likes to stop and rest sometimes. If you don't let it, it will 
sometimes do it anyway.

Your vehicle likes to socialize. It likes to go to gatherings where it can be 
appreciated by like-minded individuals. It likes going to meets where humans 
can walk up to it and say, "I remember your bus. It used to live in Arizona. 
Sweet." It likes to give you the opportunity to meet other people who will show 
you ways to treat it and give it new toys (parts) and reminisce with you 
about the good times they've had with their vehicles, too. It likes to be thought 
of, recognized, remembered.

Your vehicle enjoys going with you to unusual places and doing unusual 
things. It can also make going to the most normal place in the world into a kind of 
adventure. When you get out of a bus, you're just a little bit different than 
the rest of the people around you who are getting out of cars that look just 
like each other, cars that can be lost in a parking lot. Your bus makes any 
journey seem like a field trip.

Your vehicle teaches you to remember that you are never as separated from the 
elements as you think you are. It shelters you, but it doesn't coddle you. 
You must bundle up in the winter and you will be very much aware of the heat in 
the summer. Your bus is not the climate-controlled artificial atmosphere found 
in most cars. You are as much a part of the world being in your bus as you 
are outside of it. Your bus takes you into the world, not out of it.

Your vehicle will encourage you to do things and go places you might not 
consider or be able to get to in another kind of car. It will take you up the side 
of a mountain, over roads too rutted for the low-slung undercarriage of 
another car, and it will take you, not just up to, but into the waves of the ocean. 
Small ones, at least. And it will take you back to solid ground - it won't 
leave you stranded, waiting for Triple A. 

If your vehicle finds that it has a problem that neither of you can attend 
to, no matter where you are, it will attract someone that will really want to 
help you. People who know and understand your vehicle will automatically know 
and understand you, and they will be your friend, if only for a few hours or a 
day. You will all be a part of something, of finding a solution, and you will 
have common ground for conversation. Tools and parts will change hands, and 
then stories will be exchanged. You will have a common language. You will always 
remember each other. You will each be a part of a new story that will be told 
at a time, like this, with another person.

Rover and I have been together for about 10 years now.
Jesus Sweet Christ. She's been on the sidelines for about the last three. 
This weekend, someone will take her away to a new home. Fix her up the way I 
couldn't anymore. Live out her last days with her.

My grandmother and I reupholstered her interior together. I met two people 
that I would go on to consider the brother and sister I never had because of 
Rover. Barb and Eric and I spent several years, nearly every weekend, taking 
things apart, putting them back together, finding or making the parts we couldn't 
find. They are closer to me than any member of my 'real' family, and all 
because of Rover. If I hadn't moved 2,000 miles away from them, Rover would still 
be on the road with me.

I signed the registration and handed over the keys today, but Rover doesn't 
leave until this weekend.

When Rover rolls out of my life - 

Oh, $%^& it. I'm already crying. 

Someday, I'm going to find a way to buy another ticket to that way of life 
again. And when I do, I won't be too surprised if I don't see Rover somewhere 
out there again. 

That's another thing about volkswagens. Old volkswagens never die. They just 
go on to teach another person how to slow it down, enjoy the scenery, and live 
with themselves and the world around them.

Goodbye, my friend. Good thoughts, until we meet again.
