Date: Fri, 21 May 2004 06:00:29 -0700 (PDT)
From: Jim Ellis <ellisjames(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Randyf1020(-at-)aol.com
Cc: VW_VINTAGE_list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Bus fo' Sale --> used to be mine!  Es Bueno Bulli

Randyf1020(-at-)aol.com wrote:
> wrong bus
--------------------------------|

No, not correction, clarification. Yes, I have been known to have owned an
overtouted green and white westfalia that was often hitched in front of a 68
Eriba Puck. I slipped up and justified the expenses of that restoration with a
momentary "But-buh, buh, Bay-bee, I'm building for you!". I stood by my word
and allowed my wife to drive that bus as she saw fit (daily!!! eek) even though
it regularly kicked anus all up and down the west coast for a year or two.

The bus that I mentioned in Thursdays post [see above thread title] was MY bus
that I did up MY way. Being sick of the self-imposed Vintage Nazism, I intended
to do this bus the way that I preferred. Prior to selling I intended to
eventually go toward a badassed (can we say that here?) South Afrikan brush
bar, skid plated industrial, full-length racked bus with expedition lights on
all sides- perhaps with a roof tent. I added a 1964-67 3.88 flyer tranny and
the frontend is a 64-67 big brake, single circuit affair, not the 63 and
earlier smaller brake unit. It drives tighter than anything that this
middle-aged guy has seen in years. Double entendre' intended.

As life would have it my life included a 26 mile eachway commute in Central
Phoenix, in the heat coupled with the need for hauling things including two
young kids in the preferred air conditioning. Beto and I had opposite desires
so we worked a deal for partial trade for his 1994 Ford F150 and some dinero my
way. His current asking price is not too far off of his purchase price BUT I
know that he has maintained and reworked the mechanicals during his tenure- not
to mention a new engine, tasteful and usable completion of the camping interior
and safaris. I'd love to repurchase this bus knowing how solid it is. Reality
bites and it is not in the cards for me and mine at this time.

So, yes, I know of which I speak. Beto's bus is not the "wrong" bus. It is a
very right bus for the right (lucky) person. Step up and nab it!
