From: "Rob and Chris King" <hoopty(-at-)pipeline.com.au>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 22 May 2004 19:30:11 +1000
Subject: Farewell Old Faithful

It was raining the day I picked them up. Grey clouds scudded overhead as I
reluctantly made 
my way to the Post Office. Registered mail. I had a sense of foreboding but
maybe the sudden 
change of weather was getting on my nerves. ....

They came in a sack. I remember thinking that nothing good comes in a sack.
Good things come 
in parcels wrapped with cheery wrapping paper and with a card. Or from
Creative Engineering. 
Nothing good comes in a sack sent from up north....

It all began two weeks or so ago. A phone call from one of the Buggy Boyz
up north. Hard men who 
build strange vehicles and break them. A lot. It gives them pleasure. The
buggy boyz are singing the 
siren's song to my children.  Teenageers attracted by the  outlaw
lifestyle.......

Buggy Brad had some spindles he wanted me to look at. Australian Country
Buggy spindles. An ungodly mix 
of parts with splitbus kingpins. He wondered if I could handle them. I'm
not young anymore and buggy 
stuff is tough. Real tough. My hands and eyes aren't what they used to be.
But I had no choice. I owed 
the buggy boyz some favours. It was pay back time.....

I opened the sack. Hard spindles. Dry spindles. Rusty spindles. Unforgiving
spindles. They looked like trouble. 
Big trouble. Like a cheap strat copy. Like a Mickey Spillane novel. The
smell of trouble filled the air......

http://www.splitbusaustralia.com/CBspindles_1.jpg

I reached for old faithful. We'd been partners for ten years now and
cracked open many spindles together.
Like me, old faithful was getting past his prime. But we'd never failed.
Together we'd take these tough 
looking critters from up north.

We didn't touch them. The country buggy spindles from up north took old
faithful down before either of us 
knew what had happened. He screamed as they tore the life out of him. Ten
years together. The spindles 
that came from up north in a sack glinted at me manevolently. I slowly put
old faithful in the metal recycling 
bin and said a quiet prayer.

http://www.splitbusaustralia.com/brad1.jpg

No bad boy spindle from up north was going to take me. I needed more
firepower.

I went to see Costa. Costa's a 2nd hand metal dealer. We've been friends
for a long time. Costa's connected. 
I told Costa I needed something special for a special job. He opened the
safe. I bought some 15mm plate and 
some solid 25mm round stock. And a shoulder holster. I went home and cut
the whole thing down. When finished 
I had a new partner. Godzilla would make those spindles from up north pay.

http://www.splitbusaustralia.com/brad2.jpg

I used the overhead hoist to move godzilla to the press. The bad boy
spindles from up north looked nervous for the 
first time. Godzilla wanted them bad and kept leaping against the chains. I
put one of the bad boy spindles in the press. 
The metal was cold and sweating. Godzilla pinned it and we pumped up the
pressure to about 15 tons.....I reached for the torch.....

The bad boy spindle from up north broke like a 6 footer on the reef at
Rincon. We left it in a sobbing heap on the bench..

http://www.splitbusaustralia.com/brad3.jpg

The spindles from up north are getting better now. The years of hard life
have left their scars on them. But I'll machine 
them next week and fit them up with some nice new oversize brass bushes.

http://www.splitbusaustralia.com/brad4.jpg

I threw the sack away. 

It's not needed any more.....................

Farewell old faithful.
