Date: Sat, 30 Oct 2004 23:45:38 -0500 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] cuts out

On Sat, 30 Oct 2004 20:01:06 -0800 stevo <stevo(-at-)efn.org> wrote:

> i changed the regulator.  
> i put in used wires this morning
> 
> i guess it goes with saying that trying to fix with used parts is a drag
> and not very scientific. i'm scrounging these buses along. that said, i
> think it should be flooded with all the starting and turning over going
> on [with the jump starts by other cars]. what i can't gather is why it 
> doesn't smell like gas. at the breakdown site last summer i changed
> filter and pump with known good spares, and have not driven it since.
> perhaps i'm up against the dreaded FI components. dual carbs?

I don't know squat about FI. I do know electricity and heat. The outer
strands of copper in an insulated wire can crystallize and degrade from
heat long before the insulation shows signs of melting/burning off.

And 11.5 volts after an overnight charge says battery with VERY dead cell.

11.5 volts should keep you rolling down the road after start though -- so
cutting out after it got started indicates something wrong in the charging
system as well.

Don't start messing with the FI yet. Get all the electricals working and
get 12+ volts everywhere that bentley says you should have it in the engine
compartment with key on, key off, AFM flap activated (see the FI section),
etc.

If it still doesn't start then move on from there.

Primary troubleshooting logic in a multi-system unit. Do not work on more
than one system at a time. 

Swapping out parts can lead to false conclusions. New parts are not
necessarily good parts -- used parts even more so. 

If it doesn't start and you don't troubleshoot but simply REPLACE "two
wires, the fuel pump, the double relay, and the distributor cap" you've
just messed around with 3 or 4 different systems in the "unit". It *might*
have been one bad wire -- and you swapped in a good wire, but the fuel pump
you put in was bad (and the old one was actually still good). So, you fixed
one problem and introduced another at the same time -- with the same
symptoms after the "fix".

Gerald
