Date: Sun, 31 Oct 2004 11:22:04 -0700
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: VW - Type 2 mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: OG Sachs shocks?

Someone a few weeks ago was asking if anybody had one of the original
shocks off a bus. I think it was Richard, but not sure.

I just pulled my shocks off my 73 and guess what was on there? 

The shocks have the VW logo and Sachs. The top half is soft plastic,
and all metal is painted green (what I could scrape enough gunk off to
see anyway). Do you still need one? Let me know before I toss these.

I just installed my Cofap steering damper and GasAJust rear shocks.
Took less than an hour for all of 'em. Didn't even have to jack up the
bus. =D Did it on the street too!

Couple of quick tips: 19mm socket for the bolt heads on the rears.
17mm wrench on the nut on the bottom. Top bolt has the nut welded in
(whew... I was afraid I'd have to figure out how to get a wrench up
there...heh)

Oil filled shocks may be easier to compress by hand, but these beasts
definitely weren't! I made the mistake of loosely attaching the top
and then cutting the compression strap before putting the bolt in the
bottom. Full extension. Weak muscles in my arms. Took much grunting
and groaning and cursing to get the shock compressed enough to get the
bottom bolt in. So for the other side I made sure to put the bottom
bolt in the shock and guide it as it expands so the bolt pops into
place without the above mentioned cursing.

Aside from the cursing, it all went smooth as silk.

I also found that my brake booster ISN'T leaking! Woot! The hose had a
small crack that I missed in the dark. Woot! I went and bought some
heater hose at the new Kragen that just opened up literally across the
street from me. 5/8" ID fits nice and snug. Not stock, but
functional...

Now I'm off to pick up some valve cover gaskets. It seems one of mine
blew out of the valve cover! I saw it while underneath installing the
shocks. Scary... Not much oil loss though thank goodness.
-- 
Don Tuleja
Great White:
http://www.donimages.com/1973bus/
