Date: Thu, 15 Nov 2001 18:33:13 -0500
From: Jim Mowreader <xpr3(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Heating with water - seeking what-if-ideas

Terry Kay sends:

> I have simpler solution to the interior heat---
> Use an oil cooler with a fan behind it to create BTU's in the cabin.

Okay, how about this? (Warning: not stock and won't work if you have two
batteries.)

Start with an oil cooler, as you mentioned. Devise a good way to send oil
from your engine case to the oil cooler; I was thinking having it drilled
and tapped would work. The oil outlet and inlet should both be above the
tin.

Build a sheet metal box to hold the oil cooler. It must fit on the driver's
side battery tray. Put an air inlet in the upper rear left corner so you can
draw air from the side scoop. Put an air outlet in the bottom so you can
attach a hose that goes through the battery tray, and which leads to the
stock heating system. Install the most powerful fan you can get in the top
hole, and make a little "wall" in the box that completely seals the box into
a top compartment and a bottom compartment. Cut a hole in it the size of the
oil cooler and bolt the oil cooler into it.

Cut a hole the size and position of the air outlet in your driver's side
battery tray and mount the "heater box." Make sure that when you screw the
side cover on, there is a good seal in there. (Come to think of it, you may
want to devise another way of getting air into the box.)

Now you need plumbing and wiring. Connect the fan to a switch in the cab; a
two-speed fan motor would be nice. Connect the outlet to your Bus's standard
heating ductwork. (If you're slick, you can integrate this new line with the
old lines coming off the heat exchangers.)

Oil plumbing: You need two three-way ball valves. They will be mounted
securely somewhere you can easily get to them. A three-way ball valve looks
like a T. The stem of the T goes to the engine, on both valves. One crossarm
outlet of each valve goes to the oil cooler. The remaining outlet goes to
the other valve. I would get a short little piece of pipe with threads on
both ends, and screw one valve to each end so that the handles are on
opposite sides of the setup.

When you want heat, turn the handles so they're pointing away from each
other. The oil will flow into the oil cooler. No heat? Point the handles
toward each other and the oil will go through the little pipe and right back
into the engine.

It's a major engineering project but if you can pull it off, you can be just
as warm as a dump truck driver.
-- 

--jmowreader
xpr3(-at-)earthlink.net

Congratulations to Bill Elliott for winning the Pennzoil Freedom 400!

