Date: Wed, 14 Aug 2002 09:46:13 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, Mike Clark <fatmac99(-at-)mindspring.com>
Subject: Looking for used motor mounts '68-'71

Am still gathering parts for my Trans-vair conversion.

I am looking for motor and tranny mounts. I need both the rubber and steel 
bracket portions of the moustache bar and the front tranny mount too. 
Anyone got these laying around someplace?

Since the rubber portions of the mounts can be bought new as replacements 
($10 each for the moustache bar), I am mostly looking for the steel 
portions used.

Again that is the steel moustache mounts - the portion that bolts to the 
frame and looks sort of like a J in profile. I don't really know what the 
front tranny mount looks like but I suppose I need the whole thing that 
bolts to the torsion bar housing and the tranny.

Looking for used to fit my thin budget.

On a brighter note we got our '78 Westy out for a wash and then cleaned the 
interior clutter out. I put in place the two Vanagon seats I got from Shawn 
in Mississippi a while back and let me tell you they are WONDERFUL! 100% 
better than what was in there OEM.

Started up the VW engine and got it good and hot. I wanted to charge the 
battery a bit and move the oil around. It ran good but the gas in the tank 
must have an octane rating of 25. Man was that rotten stuff!!! It sputtered 
on 1 cylinder a little towards the end but I am pretty sure I am out of gas 
or very, very little left in there. Still sounds good.

Tonight it will get some more wiring done as I progress towards actually 
getting it ready to drive around town. For the first time in 4 years? We 
actually will have a need for a second car this fall semester....

We'll get it going on VW power and switch to Corvair later this season...




Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


