Date: Wed, 14 Aug 2002 12:21:50 -0700
To: "Just A Swell Guy" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Valve guides

At 11:35 AM 08/14/2002, you wrote:


>Now I am embarrassed by my feeble efforts to 'rebuild' my extra two type 2 
>2.0 liter heads. (from a '77, scheduled for a '78)
>
>Well, I ordered the valve guides and valves and I am ready to go.

You cannot get the right valve guides until you have removed the old ones 
and measured the bore in the head. Typically, you either must ream the 
bores to an oversize or turn oversize guides down to fit with the proper 
spec. This is critical, and requires heating the head in an oven to proper 
temp for removal and install, as well as cooling the new guides. This is an 
interference fit and not to be attempted by any Chevy machinist. The VW 
factory advises only new heads if the guides are worn. That's how difficult 
they consider the procedures required to insure against failure. However, 
Porsche gives the procedure for the 356/912 motors. Find a qualified 
Porsche machinist and they can advise.

An alternative is to knurl the guides and ream them to std dia for new 
valves. A thread forming tap is used to create thread from both directions. 
This is not a cutting tool, but a swaging tool. It both work hardens the 
metal and diminishes the diameter which can then be reamed to spec. You 
must also regrind the seats and valves for this procedure. Note this 
procedure enhances oiling of the guides. Heat transfer appears to be little 
affected.

>  However, some little bird (C&M Machine shop Alexandria VA) said that if 
> I press in ANY valve guides, I MUST regrind the valve seats.

True. At the same time, the valves must be reground. If they are done 
properly, lapping is not necessary. If you have a used valve and guide in 
spec otherwise, lapping those is all that is required.

>So, if the valve guides do NOT have to be replaced, then don't!!

True, but it is rare to find the guides meeting spec. But if they do meet 
spec, by all means just replace worn valves with new.


>Another piece of advice is to fly cut the type 2 heads (-at-) $35 each.  But I 
>look at these heads and why can't I just use the $.99 head gaskets, 
>properly RTV'ed onto the heads?? Won't this provide the proper seal, just 
>as well as fly cutting?  ( don't fly cut - comments??)

WRONG. There is no place on the engine assembly where RTV is called for. 
You can use the same lapping compound to lap the cylinder/head interface if 
they are in good condition otherwise.

>   ( use solid lifter valve springs - comments??)

Yes, and do verify the spring weight balance at installed height and full 
lift. Reject any springs that show the least bit of pitting under a hand glass.

>  ( valve keepers - comments??)

Reusable as long as they pass inspection for wear.


