Date: Wed, 14 Aug 2002 14:42:51 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Glen <gw240d(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] if it ain't one thing...


>I have a ? for you, that i may put on the list. Some
>folks have recommended I replace the gen. with an
>alternator. I've never even thought about that...what
>would I gain?

Not a bad question...

The alternator is a step up in technology from a generator. It is the 
current type of charging system found on common cars today.

Advantages:

It will actually charge at low rpms. Most generators will not charge the 
battery or will only do so at a very low level when the engine is idling. 
This is important if you spend alot of time in traffic with high load items 
like a/c or a large stereo or alot of lights on.

The regulators are better on alternators than generators I am told. 
Generators typically use old style regulators with points inside while many 
alternators use solid state regulators. In theory this is supposed to be 
better for the battery and more reliable. I've seen about as many failures 
of both versions in my time. Maybe if I was a real mechanic versus someone 
who just acts like one on my time off I would be able to say that one 
version was better than the other with experience to back it up.

The generator regulators use points and coils to control the charge rate. 
The ones I messed with simply turned the generator on and off rapidly or 
slowly depending on the load. Heavy loads they would stay on more than off, 
and low load off more than on. Alternators have solid state regulators that 
regulate the amount of electricity fed into the field. The more the field 
is excited, the more power the alternator makes. This field circuit is a 
gradual up and down voltage versus the on/off generator. Do you have to add 
alot of water to your battery? Something is amiss. Maybe charging too much 
(either the alternator or generator).

Lastly I hear the alternator is a more efficient beast. Does this mean it 
uses less HP to do it's job? I don't know and I doubt it.

My opinion:

If the car is nearly stock and you aren't running alot of heavy loads or 
running heavy loads at idle, you're probably just as well off with the 
generator as the alternator. If you are spending alot of time in stopped 
traffic with the lights on, it might be worth your money.

I guess the real question is: does you battery always have enough juice to 
start the motor when you want it to? In other words is the stock generator 
keeping the battery fully charged? If the answer is yes - keep what you've 
got. If you happened across a used alternator then I'd jump on it and sock 
it back for later. Please note the parts that you will need.

Save your $$$ for now and spend it on something else your VW's need.

Lastly - use my opinions above as a foundation for further questions and 
study. It's been a while since I converted a generator powered car to an 
alternator powered one so my details are fuzzy.



Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


