Date: Thu, 24 Aug 2006 18:10:12 -0500 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] engine height in inches

On Thu, 24 Aug 2006 17:03:25 -0500 Jeremiah Stutte
<jeremiah.stutte(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:

> hello all,
> 
> does anyone know the height in inches of a 1800 
> '75 ED engine w/ the FI removed.  i need to drop the
> engine and am trying to find a way to get her high 
> enough 
> 
> jeremiah

1. You will never get it right with a ruler. Jack placement for lifting the
bus. Height of the jack you lower the motor with. Placement of the jack you
lower the motor with. All will screw with a basic measurement.

2. Brieng a friend to the pulling party.

3. Take off the back bumper. You'll gain more than you would think by
looking at it.

Method 1

1. Put down a good thick piece of cardboard under the motor.

2. Lower the heater boxes onto wood blocks just tall enough to allow you to
remove the jack after it's down.

3. Reach through the top hatch and grunt one side of the motor up enough
for the friend to pul the block out -- lower it to the ground. Repeat on
the other side.

4. Now, with the bumper off and the motor on the ground loosen the lug nuts
on the driver-rear wheel. Jack up the driver side with the jack under the
spring plate (for maximum height).

5. Remove the wheel.

6. Drag the cardboard (with motor along for the ride) out toward that side.
The open wheel arch will give you a bit more room to grab and pull AND
provides a little extra height if there's still something taller than
you've lifted the body.


Method 2

1. Use the friend, THREE jacks, and a GOOD set of jackstands. 

2. Lower the motor to where you have it sitting on jack #1 waiting to be
rolled out.

3. Set the jackstands (lowered fully of course) under a sturdy support
point on each side of the bus.

4. You and friend each use a jack and SLOWLY raise the bus at an equal rate
on each side. Reset the jacktand height every time the bus is high enough
to get them to catch "one click higher". Don't jack the bus all the way up
THEN raise the stands all at once.

5. Give the motor (on jack #1) a test pull every few inches once you've got
the bus up where you think it's almost high enough. You don't want it any
higher than you absolutely need it to be.

Method n...

Pulling the motor is really an individual preference thing. There could be
hundred of "tutorials" on doing it the "right" way. If you're used to doing
it with the bus being on ramps before you start then go buy a $10 Harbor
Freight "come-along" hand winch and drag the bus up on the ramps. DON'T use
another vehicle to pull it up. That's just asking for an "oops, TOO FAR!"
accident. 

If you don't have two jacks to raise the bus then go to a lumber store and
buy a chunk of 4x4 or 4x6 long enough to reach all the way fron side to
side. Use that with your jack in the middle to raise the bus evenly.
Raising the bus one side at a time and putting jackstands under it is
dangerous (unless you have professional grade stands with about a 2 foot
square base). Lifting with a floor jack also drags the bus to the side and
can cause a "regular Joe" stand to tip over.

OK, I quit. Running on about an hour's sleep in the last 36 and customers
keep bugging me on the phone. Every time I answer a call then come back to
this I have a new idea that I just HAVE to type out. ;-D

G2
