Date: Sun, 27 Aug 2006 06:47:05 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Tony Moore <tony-moore(-at-)juno.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Another Hitch Q - Front or Back?

 High Tony .... this is just the hitch i ended up getting... if you are  looking for qauilty hitch i would go with jaimes.... 

times being what  they were i needed one that weekend to go get my trailer... and this ended up  working for the better........ not to forget that my bumper sucked

lot of  folks emailed me for pics...
heres two i took yesterday.... you can see where  i had to turn the actaul reciever part upside down.. because it hung way to low  to the ground....
works fine now..
and the what was the bottom is now a  table for me everytime i have to do something in the engine bay....
i have a  magnet ashtray i put on there and the tools lay right where i need them...or  even without the magnet its a flat surface for ratchets etc...LoL
 it pulls my little trailer fine though...
 and ha even pulled the 68 beetle cross town once or twice now .....funny  now but wasnt then... hehehe
  
 http://s85.photobucket.com/albums/k79/locovwbus/Bus%20Reciever%20Hitch/?sc=3




however.......i  dont know about using a front hitch on a bus maybe someone can say diffrent but  seems some of us talked about this around a campfire not to long ago and  although i dont remember the actual conversation it was  agreed on a front hitch  for your bikes wasnt such a great idea...?

now me i havent ever seen one  and dont know if it would be a good idea or not but curious to it all...
 i would worry about my bike being on the front though pushing against the  wind...???
 i dont know maybe wrong thinking but thinking that this could warp  rims?>? i dont know how much resistance those rims can take at a side  angle??
 i have seen them on Rv' though in the front so this is my wonder... 
   
 Chai








                                                                Better start thinking about sealing up those windows and leaky doors....
  Winter months are on there way,dont forget to break out the heater and Lets Go CamPing~!
