Date: Thu, 29 Jan 2004 12:28:55 -0600
From: Chris Mills <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Brian Tuley <btuley(-at-)eggersteel.com>, "type2(-at-)type2.com"
Subject: Re: [T2] Covair Conversions

>I would think that since the corvair had a much shorter production run then
>type 1/2/4 motors, finding parts for a Vdub with a Corvair conversion would
>be even more challenging and costly.

Nah. Not harder to find. There are several Corvair venders that sell 
EVERYTHING you need for any type of repair. They recently just released a 
production run of new cylinders and new pistons are already available.  I 
expect heads to be produced one of these days if the demand warrants it.

www.corvair.com
http://www.corvairunderground.com/
http://corvairpitstop.com/
http://corvair_club.tripod.com/ (our local club that has a parts stash 
enough to last a lifetime...)

There are a dozen more suppliers for Corvair parts new and used. Once you 
get into the Corvair "loop" you can get anything you need and usually 
reasonably priced. Locally there are 4 dozen Corvairs and about 6 VW Buses 
- non in the junkyards.

>Right now on E-bay there are 42 Bus/Vanagon's, 105 bugs, 29 Karmanns, 3
>things.. and other weird stuff. That's (C)  200 vehicles.  There are 16
>covairs.   sort of the case & point of limited part resources.

That in my opinion measures popularity not availability unless you shop 
e-bay only.

>With current mods affordable and available for our beloved VW power plants,
>does it really make sense to wedge a GM Corvair motor into a type II frame?
>Or Subaru for that matter...

Depends what you want and like. I like the idea of 100HP and a lazier 
loafing engine. I don't dislike my 4000 rpm screaming VW engine,  but with 
more horsepower I feel my bus is better able to operate closer to the 70 
mph speed limit without slowing too much for the hills. I really worry 
about getting run over when I'm running 50 mph up the mountain and the 
traffic is running 75 mph. The secondary roads are nice and I prefer them 
but if I expect to reach North Carolina for a weekend of camping I can't 
spend 5 hours reaching the border on Friday afternoon after work. I need to 
use the interstate safely. I'm  told that with the Corvair 80-90 mph  can 
be achieved with ease but I assure you that is not my goal. 65-70 mph will 
be just dandy and doing that at maybe 3000 rpm is a bonus.  I also plan on 
investing in sway bars, replacing all the rubber brake lines, and staying 
away from the other traffic to stay safe.

Whether I build a nice bulletproof Type IV engine making  100 HP per the 
Raby recipe or a "standard" Corvair 140 HP - the price is the same - more 
or less. The Corvair is said (by the Corvair people) to be a bulletproof 
engine . Check back with me in 30K miles and I'll tell you if I agree.

What I have seen is a good engine often suffering from the same previous 
owner syndromes as our beloved VW's - pieces missing, back yard repairs, 
Bubba engineering. In addition to that was some sloppy GM assembly and 
sloppy GM castings.  The Corvair national club CORSA and it's technical 
materials can show you all sorts of mods and tricks to make your engine 
last a long, long, long time. 150K miles are easy  with no effort beyond a 
few repairs and maintenance just like our VW engines.

The Subbie is an even better candidate but alas I don't want a water cooled 
engine in my aircooled bus. Personal preference thing.

>I guess I may be in the dark never having driven one.  I've got a stock '78
>westy automatic.  The FT engine will go 80 or better if I "have to", but
>then again it's a Vdub, so... why?....  It's the Karma...

Just fast enough not to get run over is good... <grin>

>as a side comment... we don't exactly have LA traffic in South Dakota.  Most
>of it still looks like "Dances with Wolves" ... we can see the horizon's
>landscape till it drops of the curvature of the earth and most likely count
>all the traffic between here and there.

Had a roommate from Fargo for several years. Saw lots of pics. Hope to 
visit some day.


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
1972 Hodaka Wombat 125cc moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
wife, kiddo, dog, and various slightly used cats
