Date: Thu, 29 Jan 2004 13:59:53 -0600
From: Chris Mills <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Brian Tuley <btuley(-at-)eggersteel.com>, "type2(-at-)type2.com"
Subject: RE: [T2] Corvair Conversions

>I hadn't realized Corvair stuff is available.  We don't see many here... 
>that popularity thing..

Maybe that rust thing! <grin> I had not seen alot of Corvairs around back 
when I got started.

>How do corvairs heat?

The Corvair engine thermostats close the cooling air exit point under the 
engine where the VW regulates the flow of cooling air to the engine. The 
whole thing is much like the early "stale air" VW heating systems.

When it is cold the thermostats keep the doors closed most of the time and 
the heated air is collected under the heads and cylinders and off the 
exposed exhaust manifold and sends it into the passenger cabin. I am told 
that the Corvair has a much more effective heater than the VW... Probably 
just more effective because there are few places to leak and fewer parts to 
lose.

BUT any oil leaks in the engine heads, valve covers, pushrod tubes or 
exhaust leaks will pollute the heated air. That is the main reason I'm told 
that so many Corvairs were parked with low mileage (my donor car had only 
65K miles on it). The OEM pushrod tube seals were made out of the wrong 
rubber and they failed quickly under normal use. The average car owner may 
not wanted to pay someone to do this replacement annually. The current 
seals are made out of Viton just like our VW's and make it right long term.

There is one Corvair fellow attending college in the north east this winter 
and he reports his Corvair makes GOOD heat at any temps.

>Worst thing about SD is the winter.  17 below zero past couple days on the
>way to work.  needless to say the Westy is in hibernation till march or so.

I am working out in my head an exhaust system for my bus right now. Because 
of the kit crossmember the stock Corvair mufflers won't fit (I don't 
think). I'm thinking of using dual exhaust 180 degree bends back to 
straight pipes along each side of the engine to a cross over and then 
through a bus system quiet pack system if I can figure out how to hang it 
all. Those straight pipes could be replaced with stock '78 heater boxes as 
supplemental heat... <evil grin>.





Ciao!

Chris M.
Cookeville, Tennessee
ICQ# 5944649
