To: busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net,type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 30 Jan 2004 14:48:50 -0500
From: Todd M Jaspers <toddjaspers(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Corvair engines and complete cars

Ouch!!! Just to add my 2 cents in here... (kinda goes along with the
theme), I cringe at the idea of a classic or rare car being crushed. 
Rather than having the shell or body being sent off to the crusher, it
can't hurt to throw it up on eBay. You're likely only going to get 25-50
dollars from the crusher anyway, but you are likely to get the entire car
sold on eBay (or just the shell or whatever) for a couple hundred. 

For whatever reason... South Florida is THE haven for classic and rare
cars ending up in the junkyard. I go to the yard every weekend and scope
out the cars. I see Bandit TransAms, Jaguars, Mercedes, Porsches....
EVERY time I go there, there are at least 3 complete busses. Just last
monht, there was a completely RUST-FREE squareback wagon (type3). The
doors were missing, and the engine / transmission were missing, but
everything else was there. It had a nice paintjob, the car had NO rust on
it anywhere!! Sitting directly adjacent to it was a late 70s Fiat 500 or
something.. (definitely under a liter, and for small people). I see MGs,
Triumphs, BMWs, Mercedes, Cadillacs.. I sometimes see current generation
DeVilles and SeVilles. I even saw a rust-free 1963 Cadillac Broughnam
Talisman DeVille, complete.. interior was immaculate. The paint was
faded, and that was it. Probably had a bad main bearing.. nothing a
simple rebuild couldn't fix. A couple years ago, I saw a mid 70s Masarati
2-door convertible Bi-Turbo get crushed because it had a warped head. The
car RAN, but just mixed oil and coolant (nothing a little searching on
eBay couldn't fix). 76-77 Grand Prixs.. forget it.. I've seen 4 crushed
here. 3 years ago, I saw a pair of AMC cars, an AMX and a Javalin, they
looked to both be the same year. Both were missing engines, but BOTH of
them were complete, had actually very decent paint, and both of them had
COMPLETE interiors (and clean) also rust free. It completely eludes me
how these cars end up in the junkyard... I just don't understand it. 

JUST 2 weeks ago... (and I'm still reeling from this), I saw a Jaguar XJS
coupe sitting in the same junkyard, I lifted the hood, and what did I
see? A Jaguar V12. What is a V12 doing in the junkyard? I dreamt about
that car all night, dreaming that I had rescued it, and bought a set of
12 Webber fluted carburetors and got it running... man.. and guess what
was sitting next to it in the junkyard (not in the dream)? A Jensen
Healey with a DOHC 4 cyl in it, the 907 Lotus Slant-4 motor...

HOW.. WHY do these cars end up in the junkyard???

That's why I HAVE to say.. if you have a car wherever, and you're
planning on just sending it to the crusher.. find out first how much
they're willing to give you for the car, then, go on eBay, set a reserve,
and sell the hulk on eBay. I guarantee to you, if it really is something
worthwhile, you're going to get someone who's going to buy it from you...


Even though the Green Party hates Corvairs, and even though I doubt "I"
will ever personally own one. I emplore you guys to try to save them, and
not crush them. Save the Bays... and save the other rare cars too...


Todd


-----------------------------------

>My point is moving the whole car is more trouble than moving just the 
>drivetrain BUT sometimes it is easier to work out a deal with the seller

>and if you can recoup some of the investment, why not?
 
>FWIW my donor car was QUITE restorable but in the end the shell went to
the 
>crusher and the rest into my shed.
 
>Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
>Cookeville, Tennessee
