Date: Fri, 30 Jan 2004 14:48:58 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "Jason Z Upper" <jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] type IV fan fell off

Big J:

You spake thusly:  "...The fan on my '78 engine is held on by 3 bolts
with 1/2" (12.7mm) heads, and is not
held on by one big nut.  Since more than one of you has mentioned the
fan falling off, should I worry that mine might someday as well?..."

The single bolt being referenced is the the one that holds the
Woodruff-keyed impeller HUB to the crank, and NOT the 3 bolts that bolt
the impeller to the impeller hub.  Other than torquing all of them to
spec, and maybe using a dab of the proverbial kewl-bloo loctite on them,
I'm not sure there's much more to be done.  With all due respect, I
would NOT use any of the red-flavor loctite on either the impeller hub
bolt or the 3 impeller bolts - it takes a mess of heat to get it to
loosen up, and the idear of having to poke the ol' flaming propane torch
down into a dank, and perhaps petroleum product smeared, filthy crevice
for a few minutes JUST to get that single bolt loose???  Absolutely does
NOT float my boat nor blow my skirt up, thanks very little :-)  The blue
flavor works just fine here, and requires absolutely NO heroics to get
it to loosen it's grip...  Think about your flavors of loctite very
carefully, volks - it's kewl and all to keep your sh*t squared and
rolled in tight little balls, but how ya gonna get it APART when the
time comes??  And dollars to donuts says that the next time it needs to
come apart, it WILL be in the dark (and probably raining/snowing), near
or by the side of the road, AND you WILL be a long way from a source of,
as Hank Hill would say, "God's own gas..."

The red stuff is fine for things you really need to keep secure AND you
can heat to your heart's content away from, well let's see...  Is there
ANYTHING easily flamed up in the engine compartment, Dear List?

Jim Hayden
"Don't shoot yer ownself in the foot, and don't be a D*$#(-at-)!*%&PO,
m'kay..."
www.savethebays.org
