Date: Fri, 30 Jan 2004 17:21:21 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Crank Fan, and flaps? + GEX?

Whoa, Richard!

You said:  "...You can see the tool in Bentley. It's a c-shaped circular
plate that goes between the hub and the case and with the screws you
turn it into a puller. You can probably make up something very
similar... "  Eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee!  Nooooooooooooooooooooooooo!
Perhaps it's been too much antacid during the 60s, but didn't somebody
on the List crack their case using that stylie tool?  I might surmise
probably from a D*#$&!(-at-)#&$^PO having used red loctite, maybe?  Sorry
all, but I have just had it up to HERE with people who "overkill" things
together, and not giving a flying f*rk at a rolling doughnut for the
next poor sap who's gotta lay a wrench to it...

[Walks off into sunset wondering/cursing about the j*ck-hole who BRAZED
a nut/bolt together on the e-brake lever to brakeshoe assembly, or the
some other d*p-sh*t (probably the same one) who torqued the axle nuts SO
tight it caused a THREE QUARTER inch drive 1" diameter breaker bar
handle to bend.  This was after oxy-acetylene heat "to glowing red"
applied to the nuts to eliminate the possibility of lime-flavored
loctite.  The nuts eventually had the cotter pin cut-outs milled down to
then break the nuts using a chisel just to get the hubs off the stub
axles.  Whatta maroon!  I trashed the stubs - probably had WAY over
1000lbs/ft on them - eeeeek!]

Todd asked about just getting the three bolts off for the impeller -
Todd, engine in yes?  Just put the bus in gear + E-brake to hold it,
watch the wind-up and undo the three bolts!  What's the torque spec
(Bentley not handy) - like 14-18 lbs/ft or somesuch?  YOU DO NOT NEED TO
REMOVE THE SINGLE CENTER IMPELLER HUB BOLT!!  Just undo the 3 and you're
good to go - wiggle off the impeller...  The center one gets a few more
lbs/ft on it, but it doesn't need to be touched in the instant matter.
Just keep yer gol-durned hands AWAY from the cherry-flavor loctite...
Out where we can see them, mister!

And Tom said (smartly):  "...I'm assuming the engine isn't in the car?
Then the best and easiest way is with a flywheel lock which is a < $10
item..."  'Zactly!  Out of the car - use the flywheel lock!

Ok, I'm "almost" done ranting...  almost.  We're indeed a pretty
happy/friendly/twinkly bunch out here, Duane, but (again) with all due
respect - Todd got publicly spanked by Admin David S. for a committing
one of The List's biggest Seven Deadlies - pimping an *-bay auction; his
own to make matters worse.  It's in the charter; right up in front by
the Type 2 Loyalty Oath, bigger than sin and twice as ugly.  Todd was
big guy and apologized for his error, and mad props to him for it.
Remember the sign at All-American Burger in the movie "Fast Times...":
"No shirt.  No shoes.  No dice..."  Read it, know it, live by it.  We're
livin' it, we're drivin' on, and we're getting along just ducky...

Non-Rant Content: Having finally gotten wise after many years of making
vain attempts at pulling things, I've invested in some GOOD 2-jaw and
3-jaw pullers, as well as a GOOD tie-rod "popper-offer" tool.  St. Muir
and his #&!(-at-)(%^*! Propane torch and two-hammers method...  Wow!  My
goodness gracious and all the little creatures in the sea - I did ALL
the tie rods and the drag link on my '72 in about an hour-forty on one
boring Sunday afternoon - I had so much extra time left over, I had to
drive to the store and get another 6er.  St. Muir and his #&!(-at-)(%^*!
Propane torch and two-hammers method, indeed...  The GOOD 2-jaw puller
took care of the Pittman arm debacle when it was time for a steering box
replacement, plus some heat and some well placed BFTaps from the
BFHammer.  The GOOD 3-jaw puller can do stuff like remove the crank gear
stack on a T4 crank, and (saints-be-praised) the impeller hub itself off
of the crank, too.  Tension it down a little on the hub, a little heat,
some well placed LFTaps from the LFHammer, some Kroil, and
"sproingggkkkk!" - you're done!    The cheap multipurpose harmonic
balancer puller tool pretty much stripped it's center bolt the first
time I used it, the much more expensive one from Lisle (I think) - I
keep forgetting where it is...  But the GOOD 3-jaw puller?  I know where
that thing lives!

And when it all goes back together?  The crank taper snout / impeller
hub interface gets a reasonable smearing of anti-seize...  for the next
poor sap :-)  Now if you'll excuse me, there's a Class 5 off-road car
down in Mexicali I gotta go perform the "laying-on of hands" to it's 44
IDFs - race is tomorrow!

Jim Hayden
"Having the right tools ROCKS my world!"
www.savethebays.org
