From: "David & Susan Bell" <bellky(-at-)charter.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 31 Jan 2004 16:46:41 -0600
Subject: Bus Karma Strikes Again!

Dear List-

My wife and I were homeward bound on Friday evening from a week-long
vacation trip from Kentucky to Florida. We motored along the back roads of
Georgia all day and finally ended up stopping for the night in Monteagle,
Tennessee. (A nice place that I highly recommend, by the way.) We did not
take our 74 bus on this trip due to some shifting issues and time
constraints. During the entire trip we saw only a very few busses; one 73
parked in a lot in St Augustine, one eurovan camper on the road somewhere,
and one vanagon on the other side of the expressway.

Now comes the good part.

After checking into a motel in Monteagle on Friday night we went down the
road to the Bluewater Lounge, a really good barbeque and seafood
restaurant/bar. As we pulled into the lot we noticed a white and blue
splitty camper parked a couple spaces away. The place was jam-packed and we
ended up being seated in the bar area at a small table wedged in amongst
several large tables. By leaning back precariously in my chair, I could just
see the front edge of the splitty through the window. My plan was to watch
for the owner to return to his bus, then rush out and make his aquaintance.
I figure, he's driving a bus, right? He won't mind being accosted in a
parking lot late at night by a fellow bus driver.

While we're waiting for our food to arrive and struggling to hear each other
over the din of conversation in the small room, my wife picks out the sound
of "vee-dubble-you" coming from the very next table. After hearing this a
few times she finally leaned over and asked "Who drives the splitty parked
out front?" Lo and behold, it was none other than our very own
'Faster-Laster' from here on the list! With him at the table was 'Doc Ric'
and Chris Slaymaker! What are the odds that we'd end up being seated right
next to the very people we wanted to meet? Bus karma was working overtime
that night is all I can think.

To wrap this up, we had a nice conversation with all of them and made some
tentative plans to carabus to Everybus in April.

I apologize if this is more of a Friday post, but at least it happened on a
Friday!

Regards,
Dave
74 Riviera, 'Rivka the Viking Bus'
