Date: Sat, 31 Jan 2004 20:03:07 -0500
From: "R. E. Haufler" <rehaufler(-at-)mac.com>
To: <Javabus(-at-)aol.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] propane conv.

I am interested in this also.  I like that my bus will be more
environmentally friendly and it is an interesting project.  There are great
products and info here:

http://www.impco.ws/

The key difference between water cooled and aircooled engines is that the
propane (which is a liquid in the tank) must be a gas when going through
propane carburetors.  In water cooled engines, this is accomplished by
devising a heat exchanger with the coolant.  It does not take much, but one
must address this.  The tank is more sophisticated, the propane is a liquid
at high pressure at normal temperatures, something like 120-150 psi (temp
dependent, of course).  Fuel delivery should have failsafes.  The filler
coupling must be compatible with fuel vendors, etc.  One must plan for
obtaining fuel.  I suspect that one could get a used storage tank, like
those seen frequently in rural areas (god's gas is propane), and tank you
bus from home.  One could also plan to use the small "blue rhino" when
desperately in need of fuel.

I believe that one could inject liquid LPG, must like a gasoline fuel
injection, if one had a completely tunable fuel injection system (like a
Megasquirt).  The normal delivery pressure is always over 100PSI, so it is
possible that one would not need a fuel pump.

LPG is a nearly pure fuel: something  like 95%+ propane (CH3CH2CH3) and is a
very good fuel to use.  Benefits that I have read about include a much
cleaner engine.  Gasoline is an incredibly complex mixture, that varies
greatly from supplier to supplier and from season to season.  LPG will
always be propane.  Costs are similar to gasoline, fuel mileage and
performance are also similar.  The exhaust is much much cleaner.  You can
run your engine in your house and it will not kill you.  I am pretty sure
that this fuel is sourced from pretty much the same places that gasoline raw
materials are, though.

Last I checked, the fed gave a $2K deduction and my state (VA) gave $200 for
an alternative fuel vehicle, which this would be.

I have read that most motor vehicles in the Netherlands run on LPG.  There
is a company that imports new A/C busses from Brazil to England and converts
them to LPG fuel.

This is completely possible, but not simple.
