From: "Craig Ayres-Sevier" <n7cas(-at-)gbis.com>
To: "BUS LIST" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 4 Oct 2001 18:50:50 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] Hippy Bus Needed

I, too, had an experience with Hollywood in my '67 bus five years ago. I was
drivin' down the road, mindin' my own business, in my trusty, thoroughly
thrashed "Alias" (that was its name because on the outside it was several
different shades and densities of spray-painted grey, but on the inside I
had a very high-tech amateur radio station), I was stopped by a scout who
implored me to hand over my bus. They couldn't find any "hippie" buses.

At first I said no because I couldn't see how this was a stereotypical
"hippie" bus. It's grey -- all artsy craftsy, true, but none of the iconical
stuff the "straight" world expects -- plus, boing, this is my transportation
and I'd like to get around. But I reconsidered when they took Polaroids of
it, showed it to the director and he insisted that they needed my bus.

So I took all the radios out, uninstalled the antennas, no small feat, and
handed it over for a week. And for a week I walked to work and back, with a
couple of exceptions when the production crew gave me a lift.

But one night I went downtown to where they were shooting, downtown not
being the most secure place in the world and they usually were shooting
between 1 and 3 a.m., and they had already wrapped for the night. There was
my bus that I'd had for 19 years, sitting "on location," unlocked, windows
open and keys in the ignition. 2 a.m. downtown.

I was a little dismayed.

To their credit, there was a cop down the other end of the block assigned to
look after the entire area, so I went and got him, identified myself and
told him I was going to lock up my bus. "Hey! '67?" he said, "I used to have
'63! Cool!" From the perspective of my generation, that was kinda weird
hearing from a cop, since what we usually heard back then was first and
foremost was some guns-drawn overadrenalized "Get out of  that thing and get
your hippie ass on the ground!" S'kinda cool how times change. 'Cept the
creak in the gun leather sounded just the same... But the guy was genuinely
cool himself. Rather encouraging on the social scale of things.

The icing on the movie experience, though, was going through all that,
walking for a week, my love of my life left bereft on some downtown city
street, and only two seconds of it are in the film. And although the two
stars, Robin Williams and Billy Crystal were, well, Robin Williams and Billy
Crystal, the film wasn't that good, either ("Father's Day").

Robin Williams did say, "Hey... cool bus," though, which was kinda a Moment
In Your LIfe experience, and I got, oh, a whopping $300.

So, bad and good. In my case, no harm done -- but there was the potential
due to the carelessness of the production crew just leaving my bus there,
downtown, unlocked with the keys in the thing.

Craig

'67 Sondemodel

