To: glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com
Cc: Claralw(-at-)aol.com,SSharpe(-at-)fac.unc.edu,General(-at-)OldVolks.com,
Date: Tue, 29 Oct 2002 20:51:48 -0600
From: Stan Wilder <wilden1(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] RE: [T2] Snake oil or real product

As it is, a quantity of oil remains above the sump plate even when the
oil stops dripping.
------------------------
I'm going to first describe a type IV oil strainer plate.
Its basically a cup that sits below the aluminum plate on the strainer,
well out of any oil action.
Anything that gets down in there has to arrive between the mounting shaft
and the hole through the aluminum strainer base plate. In spite of this
handicap it always collects sludge and with a magnet it collects metallic
particles and they remain there until you clean them out. Once again its
is the lowest part of the engine.
On to Type I II and III, I'm pretty well convinced that there is always
some oil that remains in the engine after an oil draining. In the
lifters, in the galleries, in the oil cooler and in the cup created by
the boss for the drain plug.
I believe that the reason for cleaning the strainer is to get this
residual sludge out of the engine. It is possible that with a high flow
of light solvent the sludge might be removed if sufficient volume could
be directed at the strainer plate. Then with continued high volume of
flow it could all be flushed out.
In my situation I consider myself spoiled, most engines I get my hands on
are low mileage and the crank cases are very clean throughout. Even at
140K my engine case was clean on the inside because I run a quart of
Marvel Mystery oil with the existing oil for about 300 miles before I
make each oil change.
In retrospect I've performed three oil changes on a VW Type IV engine in
48 hours. Starting with crankcase contents that looked like road tar, I
ran Gunk engine flush with the existing road tar oil, when I drained it
the appearance was like glug, glug and it took a long time to drain even
with the engine temp up around the normal operating range. 
I installed new oil / filter with a quart of Marvel Mystery oil and ran
the van about 150 miles, drained it again, still looked like tar. 
Ran another quart of Gunk engine flush and changed the oil / filter again
adding a quart of Marvel Mystery oil and running it 150 miles. 
This time the oil looked more like waffle syrup  I once again ran
crankcase solvent but this time I ran 16 oz of Berryman B12 for twenty
minutes with out changing the oil / filter, the crank case was way
overfilled but at idle speed it still ran. This extremely thin mixture
drained quickly and looked like strong tea.
The third and final oil / filter change with a quart of Marvel Mystery
oil showed clean after an hour drive. 
I am confident that the owner of this van had never cleaned the strainer
and I suspect that they seldom if ever did more than add oil. From the
filthy, oily engine bay and all around the rear of the van I'd say they
probably used cheap oil that quickly blew out the multitude of leaks from
the engine.
I consider myself blessed that the original engine in this one owner 83
Westy with a verifiable 85,000 miles could be resurrected from the depths
of hell.
So here is my conclusion: 
If you had the original engine in your van, you could probably neglect
and abuse it 21 years and for close to 80,000 miles before old Uncle Stan
got it for $360.00
Have we changed the subject yet?

Stan Wilder
