From: "Bob" <bobpetzel(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "Andrew Strom" <the-andyman518(-at-)charter.net>, "VW_VINTAGE_list"
Date: Wed, 30 Oct 2002 21:50:31 -0800
Subject: Re: [VB] Transmission Gearing

One more option is a 3.44 r&p. Transform offers this option for freeway
flier RGB trannies. After splitting my OG tranny in half at the axles in my
'61 SC, I had their 3.88 freeway flier built with stock 1st-4th. I ran
235/75r15's(wish I could remember what rims I used) and a 1600 SP stock w/
header & 009 70-75 mph(when possible on So Cal fwys) was a breeze. Never
took it for a long trip that I could open her up. But the trans was great
and never missed a beat. The main question is what rpm do you want to run at
that speed? Also what kinda MPG you looking for? Speed = pushing more air =
more HP needed = less MPG. I work for Freightliner and a study done on that
subject found that going from 65 to 75mph that the 10 mph more took 100 hp
to acheive and maintain in a big rig. Also every post on speed relative to
MPG has been that the sweet spot for a bus is 58-60 mph for the best fuel
mileage. I have tested that myself and it is true. At 58-60 I get 24 mpg.
More than that it starts dropping off. And even with a freeway flier pushing
75-80mph your probably looking to lose 5-7 mpg maybe more? Your engine will
be working harder to move your bus at those speeds and depending on what is
the best rpm of the power band for the gear ratio. Another consderation is
your motor set up. Trans gearing and motor power band have to work together
or you could be really disapointed on performance. Talk to the rebuilder
also and see what he has to say as to what combo for the engine you are
going to be running and what your goal you want to attain. Most good
rebuilders have had years of feedback from customers as to what worked and
what did not. With all the input as to which is best your gonna have a hard
decision.

Fuel mileage has really never been a real concern to me before this kombi
and being on this list. The list has made me try different things to acheive
this or that. Alot of experimenting. It is alot of fun and really
interesting to boot. Thanks to all here on the list! In the 62 bus owners
manual they mention how aerodynamic a bus is....boy I got a  good laugh out
of that. Granted they do have some aerodynamics but it ain't no winston cup
car.

Bob
'62 Kombi Swivel
