Date: Fri, 1 Nov 2002 14:09:52 -0700
From: "LilBlauWagen" <wades_wagens(-at-)qwest.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Hoops on a binz question

To anyone that has ever taken the time to look at a binz bed, did you notice
how the front hoop was attached to the bed? Since binz extended the cab back,
they of course got rid of the threaded hole that a normal sc would have in the
bed for the front hoop to attach and it looks like they never bothered to
remake it. However, at least on mine and multiple others, binz went to the
trouble to still make the "flat spot"  in the outer 2 ribs, so the front hoop
could sit down flush on the bed. I know of a binz that has some custom looking
brackets welded to the bed to attach the front hoop. I guess im also wondering
if anyone knows of any binz that has Mcode 070 hoops on the birth certificate
to see if they have the holes or something else on their bed in that spot. the
other people i know with a binz and hoops are running them without bolting the
front hoop to the bed (but still gets bolted to the bulkhead)

Howard? Metwiz? others?

Interesting binz info: My binz still has the og wood screws in it for the wood
slats and you can see that a wood slat runs all the way up to the bulkhead
right thru the spot where the hoop would sit , and my birth cert doesnt
mention 070, so obviously my binz was never intended for hoops, yet binz still
went ahead and hand formed that flat spot anyway. The proud owner would've had
to remove and cut the outer slat if they wanted to put on hoops as well as
drill and install the screw in a farther back location. You can tell that binz
ran the slats straight across up at the bulkhead area, yet they staggered them
at the back of the bed like VW did. Ill bet they took original slats and cut
them off shorter due to the shorter bed, so they didnt bother trying to
stagger at the front. I think mine were originally practically touching the
front bulkhead, the screws are pretty close to the bulkhead. Probably looked
nicer that way with the blunt cut ends pushed up against the bulkhead since
they didnt make the taper.


Any hoop info appreciated
thanks

-Wade
VW trucks only (-at-) http://dropgates.com
Binz 181
