Date: Thu, 19 Feb 2004 12:11:48 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Heater Flapper Boxes

Wise and All Powerful List:

Jason hypothecated thusly:

"...Blowing exhaust-temperature air into this area MIGHT contribute to
hot-start problems,..."  [full caps added for em-FA-sis]

And then the omnicient Karl opined as such:

"Yes, Jason, you are correct in their function..."

And here's my observation - it does not contribute to hot-start
problems, nay, my fellow pilots of the bus, it is one of the prime
SOURCES of hot-start problems on the later Type4 powered buses, all
other issues being addressed (see below).  Begininng from the first
moment I dropped a 914 2.0L into my old '65 Variant S, I chased the
overheated solenoid gremlin with a vengeance.  The extremely annoying
part of it - you can't heat soak the solenoid for a long enough period
of time to reproduce the effect by an hour or two or three of local
drive time.  Oh, NOOOOOOOOOOOO!  It takes a precise number of driving
hours for the heater box bleed air wafting gently over the starter to
wake the gremlin to his dastardly deeds of pestilence and vexation.  In
the case of the Type 3, about 10 hours to be exact, and I could push it
out to about 11 hours if the heater was on the last hour or two - no
bleed air; all hot ducted to the interior.  In the first instance, this
pretty much corresponds to 3 gas stops on the autopistas of Mexico, in
the latter - 3 gas stops and a p*ss-stop or 3 gas stops and PGR
checkpoint :-0  Once past the magic number of hours, the solenoid
refused to kick out and a push start was the order of the day.  As
readers of this epistle can deduce - the length of time for this
phenomenon to occur coincides with what is referred to in the vernacular
as a "road trip"...

Anyone want to guess what was one of the first things I've rounded up
for my 2 buses?  Anyone want to guess how many times I've been left
sitting in a gas station on road trips with an overheated solenoid in
either of my buses?  If you answer "late model heater flapper boxes" and
"once" you are correct.  Fortunately, in my neck of the woods - the
heater flapper boxes tend to be left behind and are dangling by a wire,
ripe for the plucking.  Get all your ducks in a row, good cabling, good
electrical portion of the ignite switch, good ground straps, good
new/remanufactured BOSCH starter, the infamous Bosch WR-1 "hot-start"
relay kit, a set of the new/improved heater flapper boxes, and you can
pretty much kiss your heat-soaked starter troubles goodbye!  For those
of you unable to procure some of the later model boxes post-haste, "one"
field-expedient fix is to pop-rivet a strip of sheet metal (tin can
works here) to the "mushroom" shape, in alignment with the
starter/solenoid, such that the air is no longer blowing d*mn near
directly onto the solenoid - look at it closely and you'll get the
picture.  This also works on a 914 where the heater flapper valve is
situated d*mn close to the fuel pump on the pre-'75 models, and the
bleed air is expelled in 360 degrees.  And d*mn if hot air doesn't rise
up to warm the fuel pump on a 914.  Who'da ever thunk that the
starter/solenoid gremlin would jump ship between air-cooleds and go live
in the FI fuel pump?

If I didn't know any better, I'd also say that the heater flapper boxes
on the air-cooled Vanagons appear to constructed similarly as the late
bus, and that they also appear to be made of the same material as the
skin of the Vanagon heater boxes - stainless or a stainless-like
substance??  Anyone confirm/deny this observation?  Anyone?  Anyone?
Karl?  Buehler?

Jim Hayden
How many aircooleds?  Let me count the ways...
www.savethebays.org
