Date: Sat, 15 Dec 2001 17:09:04 -0800 (PST)
From: Robert Taylor <rtaylor(-at-)geog.ucsb.edu>
Subject: Re: (-at-)!$! CA emissions test

> He held his hand on the EGR recirculation pipe in the engine bay, and
> said that it was not hot enough, so the EGR system must not be
> operating properly. I pointed out that if I disconeccted the link to
> the throttle, and pushed the valve all the way to the full throttle
> position, the engine that it was not hot enough, so the EGR system
> must not be operating speed would rise indicating that the exhaust gas
> is no longer being recirculated. (However moving the lever on the EGR
> valve all the way to the left does not cause the engine speed to rise as
> expected, which indicates that _something_ is wrong with it.)

The inspector is supposed to do a "functional test", which means he's
supposed to actually make sure it works. They usually disconnect the link
to the throttle and close it by hand while at idle. A functioning EGR is
supposed to cause engine rpms to drop noticeably.

You could spend a lot of time looking for someone who will skimp on the
test and pass you. Maybe you'll find one. or you could just fix it.

If you have the EGR valve and the pipe that connects it to the filter and
the filter that connects to the exhaust system, then your problem is
almost certainly that it is gunked up with carbon deposits somewhere.
Probably in the valve itself and/or in the perforated tube inside the
plenum.

Remove the parts, clean them out with gentle reaming tools and elbow
grease- a piece of speedometer cable mounted on a power drill to spin it
works pretty well. Lubricate the cleaned EGR valve, put it all back
together and it should work.

As I understand it, the valve should be closed at idle, open at mid rpms,
and off again at full throttle. So if you are just idling, I'd expect the
EGR pipe to be cool even on a correctly operating system.

My filter is now an empty can- all the filter steel wool inside it has
long gone- and I still pass inspection with it. Good thing, since new
one are hundreds of bucks if you can find one at all.

Good luck,
Surfer Bob
1978 Westfallia, the surf/luvbus (up for CA smog test again this year, uh oh)

