From: JRAVEN222(-at-)cs.com
Date: Sun, 7 Jul 2002 05:16:10 EDT
To: toddle(-at-)punkmusic.com
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: In-dash tunes

Todle
Some suggestions:
If you want to improve your sound system and make it for cheap...get good 
speakers.  Try to find them from an on line supplier...Like 
MCMElectronics.com. (there are others too) They have an on line catalog, but 
you can order the complete print catalog also. 
The front speakers I got from Costco, they cost $50 for the 
pair...Advents...Heavey plastic...with mounting brakets...I chisled out the 
vent duct to the front of the front door, stopped at the forward seam. 
..painted and presto! they looked like they belonged there, sound good too (I 
also added 10 ft of speaker wire cause they are easy to remove.)
Use regular house hold extension wire for all the speakers.  From MCM or used 
or clearence item , get power amps (35w/channel min. but the more the 
better)for bothe sets of speakers, use your RCA jacks on the back of the head 
unit... get a passive 10 band eq with front and rear outputs and most have 
subass outputs too (You can add that later) 
I wired the speakers under the carpet or mat and the power lines under the 
Van (76 w/74 westy interior) and used lockstraps to attach them to the frame. 
At Wallmart they have wiring kits for your power supply and a long RCA jack 
for a power amp.  If you dont have an aux battery, wire it direct to the 
regular battery, fused (in the kit) right to a gold fuse box (MCM again), 
then from the fuses to the  2 power amps,the eq, and the head unit (suggest 
you continue to use your Pioneer,  and, when you can, get an FM tuned 6 Cd 
changer...they are cheap, sound good, and no wires...also run this through 
the new fuse box.  Mounted my rear speakers under the seat in the wood (works 
great to enhance base.)
You should be able to do this for under $300 (except multi cd and subbase). 
Let your project be known to your freinds and family...you never know 
whatmight drop in your lap for pennies or free, along with maybe some good 
advice.
Hope you end up witha killer system. I love mine.
Aloha
Jeff Raven
