Date: Sun, 07 Jul 2002 06:55:18 -0400
From: JonR <jon.hathaway(-at-)verizon.net>
To: toddle(-at-)punkmusic.com
Subject: Re: [T2] XM Radio



Toddle Snyder wrote:

> Actually now I found out that there are two major satellite radio stations to choose from...so does anybody know a way to compare/contrast their features?  Like a side by side comparison or something, to pick out the best one for me?
>

There are two different sat radio broadcasters, but XM is by far the larger... It will be like choosing between VHS and BetaMax...

My buddy has had the XM service for 6 months with the antenna in the back window of his '73 Superbeetle.  After 2 months of tweeking on the mounting and placement of the antenna he has finally gotten to where he is satisfied with the
reception.  He gets 360 degree reception which the XM engineers say is nigh impossible (they are looking to buy his design).  The only time he looses signal is when he is driving down back country roads where you can't see the sky for
the trees over the road.

His '73 Deluxe Bus project is nearing completion and he will be getting a second unit and subscription for it.

Currently in the SB he has a crappy little AM/FM/Cassette player and 4 decent speakers (2 Infinity and 2 Alpine).  There is a noticeable improvement in sound quality between Sat radio and standard AM/FM.  Satellite is a fuller, richer
sound.

It also has the added benefit of 35-40 commercial free stations.

From what we've been told there are currently one East Coast and one West Coast Satellites with a few dozen ground repeaters around the country. As more folks subscribe to the XM service they'll build more repeaters in the areas of
largest subscription density.

Right now the receiver and antenna are a bit expensive, but the more they build the lower the price gets...  Once they get down around $100-$150, I'll probably sign up myself just to get rid of the hassle of dragging around cassettes and
CDs...

                JonR

    NH area LiMBO rep

