From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 4 Oct 2002 17:13:29 EDT
To: a1gtivw(-at-)hotmail.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Buckin' Bus!

34 carbs are notorious for having problems, either they don't idle or don't 
accelerate.  This is common if the carb has sat for a while, and is a real 
PITA to clean and get going properly. Trying using an adaptor and a cleaned 
out SP carb.

Check your wiring vs a wiring diagram to make sure the wires at the speedo 
are hooked up correctly.  You can get one from vintagebus.com.  You really do 
want the idiot lights working in case something goes bad.   In the meantime, 
make sure your fan belt is good and not cracked.

Was the fuel filter full of gurk?   Has this bus sat a while?  If so, you may 
well have rust in the tank.   Using a magnet in bag on stick(wire clothes 
hanger) down the filler neck really helps.  Though people may disdain cheap 
easy solutions, it extracts rust particles from the tank without any need to 
remove engine and tank and thus is less work and expense.   

Clara
..........................
In a message dated 10/4/2002 7:28:08 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
a1gtivw(-at-)hotmail.com writes:

<< Hey All,
 
 Every since the generator pulled out of my shroud I've been having bucking 
 behavior.  Bus only is cool on the highway.  Now that is even getting bad.  
 My idiot light r still acting up.  I'm still holding charge though.  I 
 definitely have some kind of electrical gremlin and a spark or fuel issue.  
 Replaced point, fuel filter, set timing to no avail.  Going to replace my 
 condesor (009) Sat.  Coil is about a 1.5 yrs old (cheasy chrome job).  I'm 
 thinking my carb is gummed up.  Going to slap on my dinky 30pic1.
 
 Any advice on my gummy 34pict3?  I was told the screw on the side below the 
 choke cover can be blowed out w/ compressed air.  This carb has never liked 
 to idle!  If that screw hole is clogged will that make the bus jump?  I 
 don't want to rebuild the carb as of yet.  Can I soak it w/o damaging the 
 seals?  I'm tried carb cleaner in a can, no fix!  Any carb ideas are grately 
 appreciated, as is any other spark/fuel trouble shoots.  I know if the gen 
 ground on the shroud comes off it runs similar.  Could I have a grounded out 
 wire causing all this?  Voltage regulator?  Been driving like this for 500 
 miles w/ lights sometimes and the battery is golden!
