Date: Fri, 4 Oct 2002 20:38:13 -0700 (PDT)
From: Jim Ellis <ellisjames(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: VW_VINTAGE_list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Crying kids and road trips- what music calms them

I love thinking up the UFO Friday questions. Firstly, they seem to draw out
previously unknown lurkers who seem to be immediately accepted as old friends
who, eerily are familiar with me and my rep. Whoa! Secondly, the questions give
an opportunity to craft ways in which to vent or expand my horizons.

Thanks to those who have contacted me so far. I thought that I had the
endlessly crying three month old all mellowed out with defrosted mothers' milk
and Nora Jones playing at medium volume. Tom Rush on vinyl, Miles Davis on
uncut Methadone, OG Billy Holiday and Sarah Vaughn in any form and Sting's
Brand New Day or Nothing Like the Sun on the hit parade. Dad (self)was in the
red yard sale rocking chair sucking in the Nora Jones gloating in beddy-bye
time success with the 3 month old and then the (nearly) three year old went off
like Angela Davis jailed for contempt in a Chicago court house! MFr! All heck
breaks loose and I remember that I will be trying to retire when she's going
through College, Bush is about to spark WWIII and my career is teetering by a
string (like everyone else's). 
As an aside, the first word that I taught the 34 month old was "Scholarship". 
I retreated to the sliver of the backyard that I have and commadiered a 40 ga.
AVO Maduro Uvezian left over from Jerome Jamboree and an O'Doul's Amber wishing
for several Vicodain 80's, a six pack of Fat Tire 1554 Belgian Style Black Ale
and a shot of El Tesro tequila to smooth me out.

I found out earlier in the evening that a generation gap is emerging as the
kids revolted against Terapin Station and Go to Heaven but embraced Crystal
Method-Vegas, Mo Vida and Square Pusher. Hahahaha! I won't tell them but I
wouldn't own those CDs if I didn't dig them too.

What the heck, we find ourselves watching Lawrence Welk reruns and going to bed
early on Saturday nights. Haven't lasted until Saturday Night Live for years.
After hours now equates to anything after 20:30hrs. Oops, time for bed...
- Ellis\
Phoenix, AZ
Faith Hill - Exclusive Performances, Videos & More
http://faith.yahoo.com
