From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "Vintage List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 5 Oct 2002 22:52:01 -0400
Subject: half productive day/Hoover bit ? (long)

well the day of the specialty tool!

I started by cleaning up my work area-i wanted to get a fresh start to the
projects for the weekend. Dan was coming over from brookline today to give
me a hand today-go to make the work area appear half decent...anyway it was
is first time seeing my bus-so i gave him the quick run down(my bus is kind
of on the hospital bed-engine out-shift rod/shifter disabled, front end on
jack stands)

then we got down to business- I needed his help removing the crankshaft
pulley so i could pull the oil pump, and install the CB Performance filter
add on. well, luckily i borrowed this flywheel tool from my friend last week
in anticipation. Dan used the tool to grab the flywheel- i turned the
bolt-and it popped right off.

then we tried prying the pulley off-but it wasn't moving, and in fear of
doing any damage to either the pulley or the case i called around to locate
a pulley puller. autoz**e had one i could borow(basically you buy the part,
then return it-unscathed and they give you your money back-they call it a
deposit) so we wrestled with the puller for a little while trying to get it
to fit and do its job. after a little jimmying with the thing, and right
around when I was about to give up on the tool($21 what do you expect) it
worked. popped the pulley off.

then attack the oil pump. the cover came off no problem-but i couldn't see
any possible way of jimmying the pump wih a screwdriver-so i checked around.
and again i wish i lived in CA or AZ or somewhere where they have even 1
decent vw shop around-so i don't have to mail order everything. no chance of
an oil pump puller-I need to wait until monday to try and get one from out
west.

anyway-the good news...i moved over to working on the shift rod coupling. i
got that installed. hint for the easiest way to install the shifter. it
takes 1 beer. dan had left-and i couldn't possibly figure out how to get
this thing bolted together-as one part is inside the cab, and one underneath
the cab. Matt explained some way-but it sounded like he had 9' long arms.
anyway, dan had left, so i called my friend duco-he came over, i gave him a
beer, he climbed under the bus,and i got in the cab, and started both bolts.
no problem. actually i had time while waiting for him to come over to go to
the hardware store and pick up new bolts-the old ones were quite rusty. 8mm,
1.0 pitch i believe.

so now i am done with everything i wanted to do on the front end-fixed
accelerator linkage, new boot on the accelerator linkage, new brake return
spring, new shift rod bushing(with liberal amounts of synthetic grease)new
boot over end of 2nd shift rod, splash pan secured with all but one bolt,
emergency brake lubed, as well as all front end-all 17 nipples, steering box
oil topped off.

next i thought i might try to fashion a hoover bit, as i have a doghouse oil
cooler, and realized with the engine out, that i don't have one. i am going
by dale mueller's drawings posted on the net. while waiting for the oil pump
puller, i will try to fabricate this little doohickey. has anyone ever done
tests on this thing to see if it actually does get the engine to run cooler?

i also have been trying to locate this internal pipe wrench. i guess i need
to try a plumbing supply house, or more FLHWS. the largest i have been able
to find is a 3/4".

i am also installing a new header, and exhaust. i think i will wait until i
am all but ready to install the engine before i put the header on-as i want
to paint the header with the high temp paint-1500 degree. the thing is with
these high temp paints-you need to bake them on within 8 hours of
application. as i dont feel like sticking this in my oven, i am going to try
to bake by running the engine. it says on the can-you can run the engine for
1 hour as an equivalent to baking in an oven. why don't the header
manufacturers bake their finish on-the paint on my new header would fall off
if i just rubbed my hand over it.

just an update on my progress.

-kevin
somerville, ma
'65 kombi
'67 sqbk
