From: "Andre Hryn" <hryn(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "VintageBus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 6 Oct 2002 14:53:41 -0500
Subject: Bus is finally home

Finally....It's been seven weeks since I paid for it and six weeks since I
paid for shipping... my 1961 DeLuxe has finally arrived! Yesterday a couple
of cowboys drove it off the trailer and into the parking lot behind my
office. What a feeling! I'm glad it's home. To be honest I'm surprised in
two ways... good - I didn't expect it to ride so well and bad - it has way
too much rust for an Arizona Bus. It's not perfect but heck! it's a 61 and a
15 window Deluxe..... what else would you want? Engine is fresh, well taken
care off and runs like a charm, starts right away. Bus is missing the entire
interior ( I knew that), exterior is so so....not really straight. I'm gonna
need nose skin (it was hit and has not been fixed right - I knew that), I'll
also need driver door as the existing one is bent out of shape, rusted and
cracked in a few places. Engine lid hinge is broken off. Not to mention that
rear wheel wells have been cut and for now the Bus is riding on wheels taken
probably straight off a Baja Bug. All the pop-outs are frozen solid... seems
some kind of sealant has been used to stop leaks. One of the pop-outs is
broken and also one of the corner windows is cracked..... now this one is
gonna be the challenge to replace.
All in all.... I'm pretty happy with what I've got. I need to register this
baby in order to drive it home... for now it's sitting at my parents garage.
Brakes have to be adjusted or fixed.... it pulls to the right pretty bad.
Other than that.... I know I'll drive it till the first snow shows.... and
then it'll be sitting in my garage. I think that through the winter I'll be
able to replace the nose skin, replace the driver door and weld rear wheel
well pieces on. After that I'll need to work on the interior. Baja rims and
tires will be for sale soon.... some EMPI rims are in the works...

I'm glad it's home now.

thanks all,

Dre
61 DeLuxe - Daisy
