From: "Virginia Prins" <inanda1(-at-)mts.net>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 20 Jul 2005 20:19:55 -0500
Subject: Trip report - Summerland to Winnipeg

71Zanderbus gave me a wonderful drive from BC to Manitoba.  (Was Stuck in
Princeton) in April.    Great garage for aircooled is Valley West Automotive
in Summerland BC  Valleywestauto(-at-)shawbiz.ca

Also a great wreckers yard.  Lots of buses, single cabs, all kinds of vws.
Was like a kid in a candy shop.  This was my first VW yard.  I went around
making a list of what I wanted so have a good haul of goodies.

Left Summerland to find road very busy with many trailers/campers/RVers all
heading south for long weekend.  Quite slow, no passing in many places.
Passed an 18-wheeler that must have just flipped on its side, with tins of pop
all over.  Must have just happened but others had stopped so I didn't.

Alberta welcome area -in the rain.  Canada Day so flags and celebrations
there.  No free maps though.

Drove up the Icefields Highway from Lake Louise.  Took it slowly, gawking at
the wonderful scenery,many stops for photos, --Lilium philadelphicum along
roadside,  in places so thick that roadside was red instead of grass green.

Jasper, too full of tourists. A town of B&B's and other touristy places.
Campgrounds far too noisy/crowded.  Carried on to Hinton avoiding sheep &
moose on the highway.

Found a decent campground "Ponderosa"
but it was party time.  Explored Hinton next day and ended up in the Ramada.
Didn't want to drive during long weekend.
Ended up planting all their empty flower containers and fixing  landscaping
slightly, in return for my room.  Good deal.

Hinton is full of gas well teams.  First time I've ever seen a notice on lobby
door  "Please remove muddy boots before entering building".  Only saw a couple
of  buses after leaving BC but 2 ferraris in Hinton.  Drivers looked to be in
early or late 20s.  Must be all that oil/gas $$.

Monday, off to Edmonton, explored West Edmonton Mall and the hotel.  Great
museum.

Highway 1 to Calgary.  Detour about 35 miles due to flooding.  Not good for
Zanderbus.  Albertans drive at 100km + so instead of being able to travl in
the slow lane of the highway, had to try to keep up with traffic on detour.
Was actually bumped here by an impatient SUV.  Finally turned onto a side road
next to an RCMP car who was blocking the road.  He told me to get back on the
road.  I told him I didn't intend to blow my engine so sat there and slept for
rest of afternoon.  Carried on in cool of the evening to Drumheller, Royal
Tyrrell Museum (dinosaurs).  Camped in parking lot of museum, total peace.

This is a do not miss museum.  Get there for 0900 when they open.  By 1100 it
is very crowded.

Good camping in Sk. The rest areas have BBQ and picnic tables.    Stopped in
heat of the day.  2 buses checked to see if I was OK.  Gave me a good
feeling.

Hated to see so many 'For Sale' signs,  rotting  and unplanted fields, miles
and miles of brown unseeded fields.

Good place to camp is the Portage spillway.

Flooded fields on way into Winnipeg  Don''t know how prairie farmers will
cope.  Maybe the border opening to cattle will help - if it stays open.

Ginny glad to be home.
