To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Robert_S_Taylor(-at-)nps.gov
Date: Thu, 21 Jul 2005 08:52:25 -0700
Subject: Is the end near? Few VW buses seen at premier hippie gathering!

Hi friends,

I'm just back from a marvelous 2 week trip to and from the Oregon Country
Fair from my southern CA home. Got our engine troubles out of the way
early; alternator light on 1.5 hours into the trip, on Friday eve of a
holiday weekend. After the 4th auto parts store told me they couldn't get
us a replacement before Tuesday I was starting to think we were pretty
hosed. My family spent the night in the parking lot in front of an auto
parts store (manager was great- said, "If anyone tries to roust you, tell
them the manager said it's OK!"). Auto parts call #5 came through. We drove
across town on jumper battery power, out with the old and in with the new
in a parking lot behind a nice little alternator shop, and we were back on
the road only half a day behind schedule.

But that's not what I came to post about. I'm here to note the relative
dearth of VW buses I saw at one of the premier hippie gatherings in North
America.

Friends, it was a little discouraging to see so few VW buses on the road or
in the campgrounds in Eugene Oregon this month! That venue used to be lousy
with them! Are we, after all, members of a dying breed? Say it ain't so! I
may have seen a dozen other VW buses during the whole 2 week trip. Not so
good. In earlier times I would have seen several dozen.

Another thing I noticed is that, where bus folks used to wave to me in my
bus all the time, on this trip I mostly got peace signs. Not waves. Were
these statements against our nation's current war footing? Was this simply
an indication of the extreme hippiness of the event? Or have VW buses made
a transition from viable transportation option to symbols of an abbreviated
'60's iconography in the collective unconscious (hippies in VW buses
flashing peace signs) such that peace signs, not weaves are now the call?

What do you all think? Anyone else getting more peace signs than waves
these days? Are you seeing a marked drop in the number of buses on the road
in your area?

Surfer Bob
1978 Westfalia, the surf/luvbus
