From: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 21 Jul 2005 12:40:28 -0400
Subject: Re: Is the end near? Few VW buses seen at premier hippie

Well... here's my take on this.

As far as lack of Busses where you are, I think that may have to do somewhat with the harsh attitude of the state towards automobiles. Although the Bus is sort of an icon to California (in a whole other way, but I'll mention that later)... it still suffers from the same laws that other old cars do in California. I suspect that that would have a significant impact on pretty much any car (or Bus) that's newer than 1974. I've never been to California, but I have relatives there and they typically tell me they see Busses everywhere (usually at the beach).

I live in South Florida, and I actually do see a fair number of VW Busses. Most of the ones that I see are either TOTALLY restored, or totally beat up. I remember seeing one pass right by Lincoln road in South Beach (there is a road, forget the name, that intersects with Lincoln road and it allows traffic). The Bus was so badly beat up and rusted, he was using coat hangers to keep the bay door in the back attached to the roof. I don't suppose it was such a big deal because the door was so badly rusted that it weighed little enough for the coat hangers to work!

Hopefully I won't upset anyone with these comments, but I typically see 3 or 4 "types" of people driving VW Busses.

1 - Car Collectors (normal car guys, or retired hippies)
2 - Dead Heads ( I see several Busses with Jerry Garcia stickers, pot leaf stickers, etc...)
3 - Surfers (usually people in their early 20s to late 30s). 
4 - It's very rare, but I do occasionally see people actually USING their Busses as a method of transportation / work vehicle.


I think ultimately, the VW Bus represents the 60s as an icon of the generation, more so than basically any other car produced. I mean, sure, Muscle cars were great, and popular, but they didn't seem to have as much impact culturaly as the VW Busses did. But it seems there are two kinds of stereotypes that the Busses have...

1 - As a Surfer Bus
2 - As a hippie Bus


But as far as lack of hippies go...  most of them were in their early 20s in the 60s... that was 40 years ago! hahah.... so the majority of them are probably all in nursing homes.  ; )



Todd

>Date: Thu, 21 Jul 2005 08:52:25 -0700
>From: Robert_S_Taylor(-at-)nps.gov
>Subject: Is the end near? Few VW buses seen at premier hippie gathering!
>
>Hi friends,
>
>...
>
>Friends, it was a little discouraging to see so few VW buses on the road or
>in the campgrounds in Eugene Oregon this month! That venue used to be lousy
>with them! Are we, after all, members of a dying breed? Say it ain't so! I
>may have seen a dozen other VW buses during the whole 2 week trip. Not so
>good. In earlier times I would have seen several dozen.
>
>What do you all think? Anyone else getting more peace signs than waves
>these days? Are you seeing a marked drop in the number of buses on the road
>in your area?
>
>Surfer Bob
>1978 Westfalia, the surf/luvbus
