Date: Fri, 28 May 2004 11:50:59 -0400 (EDT)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: "Christopher M. Gause" <ubunet(-at-)comcast.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Cheap/Easy HP boosters? 

On Fri, 28 May 2004, Christopher M. Gause wrote:

> Disconnect the Charcoal Canister from the intake.

This will lower your power, decrease your gas milage, and increase
pollution.  The charcoal canister collects gasoline that has vaporized
from you gas tank and injects it into the intake air stream.  In vented
systems that gasoline was going into the atmosphere.  With the charcoal
canister system it goes into the engine and generates power. Disconnecting
the system is the same as dumping that gasoline on the ground.

> Turn the Full Throttle Valve to always on or always off, I forget witch.

If you have a full throttle enrichment switch on your FI throttle body and
the proper ECU then "fixing" it so that it is always closed will provide
slightly more gasoline to the injectors at all RPMs. This will slightly
increase power and slightly lower gas milage.

> Disconnect the EGR valve so you don't re-burn gasses.

This will have no measurable effect on power or milage but will increase
engine operating temperature.

> Install Full Flow/Unbaffled muffler.

Might increase power marginally.  Will warn other drivers that you are
coming.

> Install Electronic Ignition (i.e. pertronix)

Will increase power and milage if installed according to instructions and
correctly tuned.

> I put split-fire plugs into my honda once. Made a big differance, do
> they do much in VW engines?

In combination with an electronic ignition may provide some increase in
power.  In a stock system may provide some decrease in power.

> Any other ideas/myths/theories/methods?

The number one thing you can do to increase your performance is to tune
your engine.  Compressions over 100 and even, dwell at 50, timing set
correctly for your distributor, new air and fuel filters, air/fuel
mixture set to factory specification, and manifold vacuum at idle at or
above 18".

The number two thing to do after the tune up to increase both gas mileage
and safety is to check your tire inflation.  The right tires properly
inflated can have a large effect on gas mileage and on stopping distance.

                             OOK!

Litera Scripta Manent
