Date: Fri, 28 May 2004 20:50:00 -0400 (EDT)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)everybus.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Disc Brake Squeal

Volks,

I have spent the evening trying to cure a truly annoying case of brake
squeal on the '80.  I don't know if I've licked it but would like to
solicit opinions on a couple things...

First what I did.  Last fall I put new front pads on.  During
installation, I noted a packet of "stuff" (looked like an antiseize or
moly grease) in the box with the new pads.  Figuring it for an anti-squeal
dampener, I put a light coat between the squeal shim and the new pad.
All winter I have had brake squeal from hell!

Second, what I planned to do this evening.  Figuring that the possible
causes of squeal are:

caliper not releasing... I got new flex hoses.  They are only 4 years
old but are cheap and what the heck.  I also figured I'd check for
sticking in the piston during pad replacement.

Bad pads... I bought new pads (again)

That wasn't anti-squeal... I vowed to remove that "stuff" whaever it was.

Third, what I did:

I did replace the flex lines.  They were clear, as I thought they would
be.

I removed and measured the pads.  All were within 1/1000 so the wear was
even with no grooves.  In removng the pads I compressed the pistons back
into the calipers without incident (I love my Vice-Grip 12LC!)

I did take all the anti-squeal shims in and cleaned them thoroughly.

Things I also did/found:

One of the anti-squeal shims (on the squealing side) was quite warped.  I
banged it flat without much confidence.

Some of the pistons were severely rotated in relation to the catches on
the ant-squeal shims.  I rotated all into position and banged the tabs
out.  All now "catch" the notches in the pistons.

Ny questions:

In with the new pads I found another pack of "stuff" this time labelled as
"caliper lubricant"  WTF is "caliper lubricant" and where would one lube a
caliper?

One of the boots on one of the pistons is misfolded and I cannot get it to
fold correctly.  Will this alone provide enough force to keep the pad in
contact with the disc?

Is there an *EASY* way to rotate the piston in the caliper to bring it
into alignment for the tabs on the back of the anti-squeal shim?  I pryed
and banged them around with an assortment of wrenches and screwdrivers but
it was <euphemism>difficult</euphemism>.

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail
