Date: Sat, 29 May 2004 00:19:30 -0700
From: Eric Sedgley <esp(-at-)designthebest.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Electrical (&other) issues - pt II (quite long)

(74 - 224)

Well, it was raining today. I hooked up the battery (actually, PO's
battery - mine won't hold a charge) that I had been using, and the red
battery light came on, as expected. (No key in ignition.) I went back to
the engine compartment, unhooked the ground cable, and ran my test light
from ground tab (where ground wire connects to chassis/frame) to ground
post - light on, still appears there is a short. Darn, the VW fairy
isn't shining on me.

Then, I hooked the battery back up and turned on the engine, seemed a
little weak on start, but trouble light went out. It was raining, so I
figured I should make another attempt to get the wipers to work. Here's
what I have. I have a wiper switch, with four positions up and down, and
a pull-washer. Out of this switch comes four wires, one green, one
black, one black with brown stripe, one black with white stripe. (the
solid black may have a stripe too, unsure) Now, I have a wiper moter.
From it comes four wires, three in a rubber/plastic VW clip. These are
the black, black w/brown, and green. The black with white stripe goes to
a second VW clip with one insert for a female connector on one side, and
two on the other. This would appear to be a basic splice type of thing.
Also, there is a black with white stripe wire coming from the fuse
block, with switched (ignition) power. So, in the splice clip, I joined
the black with white stripe wires, (one from switch, one from wiper
motor, one from fuse block), and then I matched the other three wires
from the switch and motor through the other clip (black - black,
black/bwn - black/bwn, green-green.) No wipers. Nothing. No whir, click,
humm, anything. Looking back at the wiper motor through the slot where
the radio used to be, it appears that all wiring is firmly attached to
the motor. Using the test light, I confirmed that all black/white stripe
wires were receiving power. The green wire appears to be getting power
from the pull-washer switch. (actually, wondering about this too -
pull/release power on, pull/release power off, not what I would expect
for a washer switch.) The motor does not appear to be getting any power
except from the 12+ going along the black/white stripe. I attempted to
give it +12 on the black line as well, no effect. I do remember the
wiper motors working previously, but that was months ago. (while still
in the possession of the previous owner. So, no luck here. I decided to
taunt danger and drive without wipers in the showery afternoon.

So, not only do I taunt rain, but I taunt the law. I have expired tags
(about three months), no insurance on the bus, and I don't think I was
wearing my seat belt for most of the adventures. I intend to remedy most
of those issues within the next few weeks. I also have no turn signals,
as documented previously, due to having no turn signal switch. I do have
a good left arm, although it did not always make it out into the showery
afternoon to signal appropriately.

I take a little trip, first to a used bookstore to get a Bentley book.
They have none. At the bookstore, the engine exhibits similar behavior
to previous occasions. Once warmed up, the engine does not like to turn
off. After I have turned off the ignition, the motor continues to cough
and sputter for a bit, jumping about, and then finally die with a sigh
and a lot of smoke (coming mainly from the heater boxes, from the tubes
where the blower fan used to attach. A key to the ignition on position
will imediately restore engine, so it seems that after it stops
receiving spark from ignition input, it is still trying to turn over and
run. I would assume this is a points/dizzy issue, or perhaps plug
cables? I know precious little about points and dizzys, so I'm not
entirely sure. I know if you rotate the dizzy a bit, timing changes. I
know that certain plug wires need to be on certain posts. Beyond this, I
am generally clueless. The little wire from the coil is pretty damn
essential. I had a jeep that had a problem keeping this wire connected.
(and the jeep sometimes exhibited similar behavior!) Anyway, for the
rest of the day, I stalled the engine against the transmission and brake
with much better engine ending success.

Then I go to the gas station, and decide to fill it up. This is the
first time I have filled it fro a pump, the only other gas I put in was
a gallon or two of Chevron 87 octane from a jerry can. Anything else in
the tamk is likely about a year old, and possibly contaminated with
water. (bus had no gas cap when it came into my possession, since
remedied with an old locking cap from that old AMC jeep - fits fine!)
Anyway, I thought I had run it out of gas at one point (directly before
I added the jerry-can gas), but at the gas station, it only took about
5.5 gallons (of 89 octane) to fill it. So, something isn't quite right.
Further, the gas gauge actually showed a full reading (first time I have
observed it giving any reading at all.) But, not all was good.
Throughout the rest of the day, the gas gauge readings were erratic at
best, and I don't think it was giving a reading when I finally got home.

Anyway, off I go from the gas station, and head out on the highway. Got
the thing up to about 68 mph downhill in rain. Pretty stoked about that.
Stopped by an ATM, got some cash, and went to the boneyard. I was just
curious if 1) they ever got any buses, even old VW, and 2) what they did
with the batteries out of the cars that came in. They recycle to
batteries (drat, I was hoping to score a cheap one) and they
were reluctant to give any answers to VW, except for they hadn't seen a
bus in their yard for a long time, if ever. Oh well. I guess that should
be a good sign. So I left there. Now I'd probably traveled between 10-15
miles, and my starter seemed a bit weak on start again. I was heading
another 5 miles away from home, and shortly after leaving the boneyard,
my battery light came back on, flickering at first, along
with a trouble light (orange ?) mounted in the instrument panel dash
plate between the speedo and where the clock should be. I don't know
what that light is for, and it may well be aftermarket. I know the
battery light while driving isn't good, and from it, I am inferring that
1.) my weak starts are a sign the battery is now about dead. and 2.) the
charging system is not doing its job. So, I make my way a bit more
cautiously, intending to get a new battery somewhere along the way. I am
now noticing some transmission issues more acutely.

It seems, as things got up to temperature, the transmission is having a
harder time going into first gear after decelleration. Second gear
wasn't happening easy either, although I think I may have been slipping
it over into reverse on accident, Not being able to find a gear is a bit
frustrating, and it seems to be perhaps sticking in third or perhaps 4th
as well, as during one frantic exchange at a stoplight, where I could
not find first gear, I stalled the engine (still in another gear!)
whilst pumping the clutch. I suspect perhaps a worn throwout
bearing/clutchplate may be to blame here, or just my impatience with
shifting. Also, loose shifter linkage may be an issue. Another problem I
am having intermittently is a lot of stuttering coming
into first, but if I take it really slow, I can avoid it. A lot of that
is likely my foot, which is unused to shifting after several years of
automatics. I'll need to inspect... Besides, the tranny could likely use
a thorough going over, new fluids, etc. In any case, I'm stuck in an
intersection, with gen/trouble light on, no cranking power, and a big ?
as to whether or not I will have gears .. lucky for me, VW engines don't
take much of a crank to start, and I managed to start it on the dead
battery, barely. Pissed off a few drivers, I'm sure. But, I headed off
down the highway, determined to continue my idiot's test drive.

So, I reach my next stop, leave the bus running for 10-15 minutes in the
parking lot, got back in, and drove to WalMart. That included a 4 mile
freeway jaunt, where I was very pleased that my bus could move with
traffic, at least somewhat. I make it to walmart, even though whilst
turning down the drive to the parking lot, I once again could not find
1st gear, and so I used 4th. (the only one it seemed to want to be in)
to nudge the bus into the lot, and find a space waaaay in the back. No
need to fuel people's paranioa of bus owners and their maintenance woes.

In Walmart, I picked up: a new battery! (29.99 after core refund) wiper
blades (-at-) $2.50 ea., an anolog multimeter for less than $10, and some
wiring supplies, red wire, black wire, butt-end connectors, electrical
tape. So, I put the new battery in, and returned that core that I
couldn't get to charge, leaving Josh's battery for me to charge and
return to him.) My battery compartment is mostly rusted out, but a
piece of plywood cut to size has temporarily remedied things. It has
room for two batteries, and I may resort to always carrying a spare. In
any case, the new battery had post posiitons switched from the last one,
which made things a bit easier. Plugged in battery, and gues what! no
red battery light with keys out of ignition.  Started engine, no
complaints, but the battery light and that other light came back
on. Shoot. Drove home, sans headlights, saving what battery charge I
could. Grabbed 6-pack and pizza on the way.

Now, back at home, I re-tested for the short at the battery (key out,
remove ground lead, test light between ground and ground post) and NO
LIGHT! . . I would take this to mean NO short. (no drain on battery
while at rest.)

Now, it's really hard to troubleshoot problems when the symptoms reverse
themselves. My only answer so far is that the voltage regulator or
alternator was damaged before, even though I thought I tested for the
short with the regulator harness unplugged, provided that the dealy
mounted high on the firewall on the passenger side that looks kind of
like a big relay box is, in fact, the voltage regulator! -- and then while
driving, the regulator/alternator finally gave up, and the short became
simply a non-functioning unit. Now I have a multimeter, and I have a way
to tell if the battery is indeed getting a charge whilst the motor is
running. (and an ammeter that can assist in finding a short.)

So, based on this, I am fighting to get this bus in running order to
move myself 200 miles north to Seattle in three weeks, and haul cargo. I
have very little spare cash to do so, no time to really work on it
during daylight hours, and no garage to work in, all work is done on the
street outside my apartment building. (or in a parking lot
somewhere...)( So, the main hurdle is the charging system and primary
electrical. I can forgo wipers for now, the engine can be stalled to
stop it without the spasms. The tranny issues will be annoying, but
until the clutch falls out in my hands, I can let it slide for the next
few months. This is not a daily driver, it is more of a weekend project
for me, and I am not intent on restoring it, merely having
a good vehicle for hauling cargo. Dropping the engine is not an option
at this time, although I would like to eventually. Fuel hoses / fire
extinguishers are a priority, but I need to get this charging correctly
first.

>>Eric
http://www.mediaconspiracy.org/mcSoapBox/esp
