From: "Marcus Schaper" <mschaper(-at-)gvpt.umd.edu>
To: "'Type2'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 29 May 2004 11:23:43 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Disc Brake Squeal

I have three thoughts on this ...

1) Anti-squeal compound - yet another great use for copper paste. Works
great behind all my brake pads and you should also never install a muffler,
manifold - or anything else were a bolt or stud gets both hot and rusty -
without it. Works great for rear brake adjuster stars, too.

2) Caliper grease - this is more of a theory than experience ... Some
calipers are of the floating type (my '80 Ford Fiesta had these): Pistons
are on one side of the rotor only and part of the caliper moves - both to
bring the non-piston-side pad to the rotor when you apply the brakes and to
compensate for wear. For this kind of caliper it is neccesary to keep the
two caliper parts moving freely. I would assume that caliper grease is meant
to facilitate this process. My Fiesta would always wear down the piston-side
pad a lot quicker than the other - precisely because the caliper part was
stuck.

3) There is a special tool for resetting pistons - never had one though.

Steve,
What is the size of vacuum line again that I should be bringing over - I
keep forgetting ...

Marcus

Steve wrote:
Volks,
I have spent the evening trying to cure a truly annoying case of brake
squeal on the '80. I don't know if I've licked it but would like to solicit
opinions on a couple things... First what I did. Last fall I put new front
pads on. During installation, I noted a packet of "stuff" (looked like an
antiseize or moly grease) in the box with the new pads.

In with the new pads I found another pack of "stuff" this time labelled as
"caliper lubricant" WTF is "caliper lubricant" and where would one lube a
caliper?

Is there an *EASY* way to rotate the piston in the caliper to bring it into
alignment for the tabs on the back of the anti-squeal shim? I pryed and
banged them around with an assortment of wrenches and screwdrivers but it
was <euphemism>difficult</euphemism>. Steve Dolan
