Date: Sat, 29 May 2004 09:29:01 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Gould <franklinstower48(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Jack Dinan <jdinan(-at-)cox.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] "Stuttering" under load?

Jack, I have '72 westy and I put a 2.0 ltr engine it.  I run Dual 36 Dellorto carbs.  So it was necessary to install an electric fuel pump.  The general rule with electric fuel pumps and dual carbs sez you should never have more than 5 psi of fuel pressure.  The dual carbs are recommended to run at 3.5 to 4.0 PSI. Excess fuel pressure can over power the floats/needle valves and then your carbs never have the correct float level.  So it is a relative common practice to use a fuel pressure regulator and set it to 3.5 PSI.  Apparently my pressure regulator was restricting the fuel flow too much especially under load when the consumption was greater.  I have not taken the pressure regulator apart to check out the problem with it, but on my way up Crystal Mountain for some freshy pow, my bus kept cutting out and loosing power.  It definitely felt like i was having either a fuel problem or an ignition issue.  I knew my fuel tank was suspect with rust in my fuel filters and deduced I should
 first start with the pressure regulator and move towards the fuel tank.  So I removed it (I had extra fuel line) and ever since I have not had a problem.  That was the first week of March.  A had remembered a friend having the same problem keeping his 914 running.  He too removed the pressure regulator and never had the problem again.  On the other hand, my BMW 2002 has dual side drafts with a pressure regulator installed and I have never had a problem with that one....

 

Paul: I'm afraid I don't understand your post. I have this problem, 
so I'm hoping your advice works. Please expand on it for me.
Jack

> had a similar problem, it ended up being the piece of crap Fuel 
>Pressure Regulator (Facet). Removed it and and haven't had a problem 
>since. Paul.
>
>
>
>.This is new.
>
>I've got a crappy little 99c plastic fuel filter (like you see on bugs all the
>time) in there now. I finally chased down a larger metal can filter that I'm
>going to put in tonight (I hope - Just got a root canal yesterday. Still
>hurts.) Is it possible this is the problem? Anything else I should be 
