From: "Casting Fool" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 29 May 2004 20:37:19 -0400
Subject: Wondering about a wire...

Just got the bus back from the shop, and had a question about a wire.

It seems to be part of the original harness.  Comes out of the tin just
forward of the passenger-side heater widget (where the hose from the aux fan
hooks up), and seems to lay naturally across the engine just aft of the
(single) carb to where it ends in a round hole wire connector next to the
coil.  It's not connected to anything at the moment.

The wire is in a protective sheath which ends about 6-8 inches from the
connector on the end.  The exposed wire has red insulation on it, but I
can't see what the color of the insulation is under the sheath, and the wire
has been replaced.  There's a wire-to-wire connector just where the sheath
ends.

The bus runs fine without this wire hooked up, so I'm guessing that it might
have something to do with the original FI.

I just don't like any wire in my engine compartment just floating around
unconnected.

On another topic...

I took the bus for a test drive, about 3 miles round trip.  Ran fine until I
started back (with frozen/refrigerated groceries in the bus, of course) and
he just puttered out about a .25 miles short of my mech's shop.  It's on the
way home, just a stones throw from my place, very convenient!

Hadn't put any of my tools or stuff back in the bus yet, so I only had my
multi-tool.  Got the fuel line loose, figuring from what I'd heard here that
it wasn't getting fuel, and lo and behold nothing came out of the fuel line
when I hit the key and got the electric fuel pump going.  Took one of the
fuel filters off, the one before the pump, and spent the next hour or so
coaxing the bus down to my mech.

He also agreed that it was probably a fuel problem and gave me a new filter
to get home on.  Voil`, it ran.  When I removed the remaining filter to
replace it with the new one, the gas that came out was not nice to look at.
Yeech.  The bus sat up a long time waiting on me to catch up with the bill.
Figures.

When I got home I added a glass bodied replaceable element filter before the
pump.  I can now see the insides of both filters as the other is clear
plastic.  Gave the fuel line back into the tank a few puffs of air just in
case it was tank debris making the problem worse.

AND, I figured out how to modify the captains seats that I got from a fellow
fixing up his RV and they fit in the bus!  Can't adjust them front to back,
but that's a small loss.  They still recline and have adjustable lumbar
support.  Very cushy. [grin]  Just four bolts per seat that required
drilling holes, but the holes are just inside the original seat slides and
don't interfere with installing original seats later.  Nice.

Now I have the old original seat, only the one left over.  It desperately
needs reupholstering, but I'm not interested in doing it now that I have the
other seats installed.  I wonder what it's worth to another bus person?

TTFN - Mike Jackson
`77 Bay, "Giacomo"
Casting Fool & Son
Augusta, GA  USA
http://www.cfnson.com
