Date: Sun, 25 Jan 2004 11:49:47 -0500 (EST)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Perplexing Oil Leak(s)

On Sat, 24 Jan 2004, Ted Kitch wrote:

> I drove a 78 bus back from Provo and it had a slight oil leak right under
> the coil that was easily managed by checking and adding to the oil every
> time I stopped for gas.  Right now it won't hold oil for more than 2 minutes
> and leaks from the following places: under the coil, from above the heater
> box for pistons 3 & 4 and from the front (or is it rear, next to tranny)
> main seal.

Ted,

The classic spots for a leak to occur are as follows.

Oil pressure switch: just replace the switch.  The plastic part of the
switch cracks or separates from the metal part and can leak a lot of oil
very quickly.  Interestingly it tends to spray down despite its location
on top of the block.

Dipstick gasket:  This is the rubber bellows tube that connects the
dipstick tube passing through the fan shroud to the dipstick tube on the
block. It is alomost certainly the original and almost as certainly
perished. If you are agile you can replace it with the shoud on the bus.
Remove the dipstick, remove the old bellows, insert the new bellows, and
replace the dipstick.

Oil cooler gaskets: again, replace them.  Replacement will require pulling
the fan shroud to get to the cooler.

Pushrod tubes:  There is a procedure in the type2.com library at
http://www.type2.com/bartnik/pushrod.htm which details the steps to
replacing the pushrod tube seals.  The vital step is to make sure the
bores in the case, the bores in the heads and the seats on the tubes are
clean, Clean, CLEAN!  O-rings depend heavily on a clean seating surface.

cam plug: if you have a large amount of oil leaking from the drain hole at
the bottom of the transmission/engine junction then suspect that the plug
that seals the end of the gallery where the camshaft rides has come out or
is leaking.  In order to repair this you have to remove the engine and
remove the flywheel.  At that point you may have a machinist tap the bore
for a plug and install one or you may choose to split the case.

All of tht having been said, however, the root cause of many oil leaks is
not the instant cause.  In the case of the dipsick gasket or oil pressure
switch simple replacement is probably a permanent cure.  In the case of
the cam plug (after the first 10K miles) there is a fair chance that
either an oil gallery is plugged or you are running SAE50 oil in freezing
weather.  In the case of the oil cooler and especially the pushrod tubes
the root cause is likely to be excessive case pressures caused by engine
age.  Before you sink a lot of money or time into repair of these I would
recommend having a leak-down test done. If it comes back high, then
recognize that your repair will be a temporary expedient to allow you to
save for a rebuild.

                             OOK!

Litera Scripta Manent
