From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 26 Jan 2004 10:21:37 -0600
Subject: brake line fittings anti-sieze

>From: ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com
>Subject: Re: [T2] brake anti-seize
>Message-ID: <79.2136ac45.2d443241(-at-)aol.com>
>
>Lost a brake line to seizing - MC to equalizer - Any recommendations
>for a "brake-safe" anti-seize on the fittings for future use...?
>
>Tony in NJ
>W.A.S.T

brake line fittings anti-sieze compound

There is such a product that can be used for brake line fittings. I have
been using such a product since I first destroyed a rusted on brake line.

Please do not trust the idiots who work at the auto parts stores to give you
the correct product. Please do not trust the idiots who work at the
stealerships to give you the correct product. They will sell you the wrong
product and they will mindlessly tell you that it is the correct product to
use. They will tell you that the grease they are selling you can get inside
brake parts and mix with the brake fluid and not destroy your brakes. But
they are stupid and they will kill you and the innocents you run into when
your brakes fail.

There are very many different kinds of  "brake lube" labeled products.

All of those products are only for use on the OUTSIDE metal sliding parts of
the calipers or on the metal parts of the shoes where they contact the drum
or on some parts of automatic adjusting brakes. All of those products will
destroy the rubber (neophrene, etc.) parts inside brake cylinders. All of
those products will contaminate the brake fluid and destroy all the rubber
parts all throughout the entire brake system: from individual wheel
cylinders (in calipers): and pressure balancers; and mastercylinder.

The idiots give you those incorrect products because the products have
stupid names like. "Brake Lube" or "Caliper Lube".

The only products you can use on the inside of a brake system are those
products that are called "brake assembly lubricant" . That product can be
applied to the inside of brake parts that are bathed in brake fluid. I also
use this "grease like" substance on the external threads of brake line
joining fittings to prevent rust and perform as an anti-sieze compound. If
some of this "brake assembly lubricant" gets on the inside of the fitting
and mixes with the brake fluid, then no damage is done.

I am sorry, I can't remember the exact name of the product I use, so just
read the lables very very carefully.

I usually use generic metal brake lines . They only have a thin film of oil
for rust protection while on the shelf. I degrease the outside of the lines
and I paint them being very careful to keep any paint out of the inside of
the lines. I blow the lines out with clean air and when installed I really
flush out the system with plenty of brake fluid.

Nothing can come in contact with brake fluid . Contamination destroys both
the rubber and metal parts. Contamination causes rubber rot which destroys
the hydraulic pressure action and causes debris which clogs vital
passageways. Some contaminants soften the rubber and can cause it to stick,
etc. Contamination causes the brake fluid to rust and pit the metal parts.

If you just have to wash brake parts, wash with brake fluid and rinse with
clean brake fluid.

Do not contaminate the dry brake lining material of drum brake shoes or disk
brake pads with anything.
