From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <badkarma(-at-)ttlc.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 26 Jan 2004 23:54:09 -0600
Subject: fuel line grommet redesign fixes

>In an effort to make my '72 a little bit safer I went to the plumbing
>section at my local hardware store and came up with this setup:
>

http://www.geocities.com/vwcamper72/FuelLineGrommet.html

>It leaves a nice
>smooth pass-thru for the fuel line and is most likely a bit more on the
>heavy duty side than lamp hardware. Total cost was about $5.00. Not a bad
>price for one less thing to worry about...
>

nice website and a good idea, albeit a bit time consuming and expensive.

I am going to label your method:

"The Expensive Store Bought Method" of repairing the fuel line through tin
design flaw.

I still like my idea better, because my idea doesn't cost anything.

My idea is to change the sharp edged hole into a smooth edged tunnel.

"El Cheapo" procedure of repairing the fuel line through tin design flaw:

Find a 3/8" drive socket that just fits into the firewall tin fuel line
hole.

Call this socket "the tunnel former socket"

This socket will be tapered.

Find a 3/8" or =" drive socket that the "tunnel former socket" will just
barely fit into without getting stuck

Call this socket "the big socket".

If the firewall tin is out of the vehicle, find a big hammer.

Put the "big socket" on the ground on a piece of board.

Put the tin on the socket with the firewall tin fuel line hole centered over
the socket.

Put the "tunnel former socket" into the firewall tin hole.

Hit the "tunnel former socket" with the hammer until you have smashed it
through the tin

This will form a perfectly smooth tunnel for the metal fuel line to run
through.

Look in your parts stash or the trash can and find a piece of rubber fuel
line that will fit over the original metal line and will also fit into the
new dull edged tunnel.

Call this 3"-6" piece of rubber fuel line some kind of fancy name like:

"Shock Absorbing Superior Re-Engineered Replacement for Stupid Short Life
Span Grommet".

Slit the rubber fuel line and put it on the metal fuel line where the metal
fuel line goes through the firewall tin.

You can glue the rubber fuel line to the metal fuel line or you can put a
hose clamp on it on both sides of the firewall to hold the rubber cover in
place and also hold the fuel line in place.

If the firewall tin is installed in the bus, then leave it in place.

Remove the fuel line, notice the missing or torn grommet, through away the
grommet. Notice the scored or cut through metal fuel line and get a new one.

Instead of forcing the "tunnel forming socket" through the tin by pushing it
with a hammer, find a long threaded bolt and nut and washer that will fit
through both sockets. And get a buddy to help you, one of you will be laying
on the ground under the bus and the other person will have to lean over and
reach into the engine compartment.

Then put the "big socket" on one side of the tin.

Put the bolt through this socket;

and through the hole in the firewall tin;

put the "tunnel forming socket" on the end of the bolt sticking through the
tin;

put the washer on the exposed threads;

put the nut on the bolt and tighten the nut ;

tightening the nut will automatically pull the "tunnel forming socket"
through the tin;

forming a perfectly formed smooth edged tunnel.

this method costs nothing except a little time and it can be performed
without having to make a trip to the hardware store.

If you don't use the expensive store bought plumbing method, or my
"el-cheapo" method, and you insist on using the original "planned
obsolescence by way of gasoline fire destruction" design, then check that
grommet and metal fuel line often. It is too common a cause for gasoline
fires in the VW air cooled engines in bugs and busses. If VW tried something
stupid like that with a newly manufactured vehicle in America, there would
be a recall and class action lawsuits.
