Date: Tue, 25 Feb 2003 10:08:59 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: harmony(-at-)buszen.com, type2(-at-)type2.com, ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: [T2] F.I. to Carb conversion on late bay

Dellorto 36mm DRLA. I've done this. The 2000 FI heads and cam are very 
conservative so you need conservative carbs.

Got mid-20's mpg in a Beetle with the 2.0 engine dragging a '91 Hyundai 
Excel from VA to TN.

>Anyone ever taken off the fuel injection system on a
>late bay (2000 cc) and replaced it with a carb\carbs?
>If so, what carb is best for the replacement? I know
>Weber progs have icing problems, so are there other
>carbs that make a good replacement?

To combat the icing you need dual carbs on short manifolds. Also a heated 
aircleaner helps on the centermounted progressive Weber.

If you put better heads (bigger valves, port/polish job) on and a better 
cam you can go after bigger carbs like 40mm or 46mm.

However they might make better power but you start to get reduced returns 
in the mpg department. Smaller carbs limit top speed performance but I 
don't know many folks with busses that need good power at 100 mph! I don't 
think you'll run out of carb at normal highway speeds with 36mm carbs. Most 
of us do alot of low speed trips and the smaller carbs offer better vacuum 
signal for the idle circuit which is what you're using around town at lower 
speeds. Bigger carbs flow more air and offer less vacuum signal so their 
idle circuit is much less responsive - i.e. sloppy and results in lower mpg.

I have a Porsche Performance book that has a good equation for sizing carbs 
to an engine and based on displacement, stroke, and valve sizes the stock 
Type IV 2.0 is best mated to a 36mm carb throat with a 33mm venturi. (I'd 
have to check my notes on the venturi it was either 32 or 33 or 34 mm).

That said you can buy really crappy parts and have a less than good 
results. You need good manifolds, linkage, etc. I got my carbs for FREE 
when I lived in Italy and I still have $500 or so in the parts (jets, 
manifolds, air cleaners, linkage, etc.).

$500 can go a LONG way towards resurrecting a stock Bosch EFI system on a 
bus. I don't think you'll gain any mpg, but you might see a bit more power 
(a BIT) mind you. The best reason to go to carbs is if you modify you 
engine (wild cam, bigger valves, etc.) and your EFI is not capable of 
operating correctly.

Bosch and VW built a very mild engine that would operate with the 
rudimentary L-Jetronic EFI. That required a smooth intake of air (lack of 
pulsation) so that the AFC wasn't flopping around wildly confusing the 
computer.

If I wanted a better mousetrap I'd go with the '80s vintage Rabbit CIS 
system (it's been done - check the archives) or a late model Japanese 
system. A good rule of thumb is to look for something that has similar 
displacement and power output. Reports of better power AND mpg. Good combo 
in my mind.

Good luck!!




Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
