From: "Tor" <apophasis(-at-)kitcarson.net>
To: "Miles Erickson" <miles(-at-)pair.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 25 Feb 2003 14:16:01 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Buses on very bad roads (rather long)

-snip-
>...ends of unmaintained forest roads, the kind that are severly washed out,
> potholed enough to kill a Honda in a mile, ponded a foot deep, under two
> inches of flowing water like a meadow trail in springtime, you name it.

I once forded a flooded road in a wicked storm in Oregon that was about two
feet (!) deep in water.  When the water hit the heat exchangers, it turned
to steam which was pumped in large volumes into the bus...  Instant sauna!
I had to roll down the window and stick my head out into the 100 MPH wind to
see and continue.  Probably not the greatest thing for the engine, to be
immersed in cold water suddenly, but I've put another 20,000 on it since
then with no oil leaks and flawless operation...  But do be conscious of
your immersion depth!

> The Bus obviously has more clearance.  It also seems to have better
> traction than the front-wheel-drive Subaru.  It also appears to care
> less about bumps than the Subarus do -- which I find impressive, since
> your average SUV will bounce around when it hits something that a Subaru
> will just ignore.

I've never had a clearance problem, even on some really extreme approach
roads to hikes, climbs, etc...  Just be conscious that the lowest part of
the Bus in back is the oil pan and other delicate motor parts like exhaust,
heat exchangers, etc.  If you're planning to really crawl around on rocks,
think about fabbing a skidplate, and/or going full-tilt Baja and raising the
thing.  However, all around, I think the stock Bus makes the best truly
ALL-purpose vehicle on Earth

> Can a carefully driven Bus negotiate such terrain, or am I foolish to
> even have such thoughts?  Are there frame/suspension parts that, given
> proper maintenance and absent rust, still can't handle a rough road?
> How far do you have to tip a Bus before it decides to roll over?  How
> easy is it to get a Bus hopelessly stuck?

I think a properly driven and well-tired Bus can do anything you need done.
I have done a lot of relatively high-speed driving on bad roads (rutted,
rocky, potholed...) and as you say, the Bus handles it all (even nasty
impacts) in stride.  I drive 60MPH on bumpy dirt, and my Bus just keeps
absorbing it without complaint.  Actually, I finally bought a Bus after
riding with a maniac friend in his, and saying, "Okay, these things are
TOUGH!"
As far as tipping over, they will.  However, I have several times explored
the actual point of rollover in my Bus, a Highroof no less, which obviously
has a higher CG than your garden-variety Loaf, and at that point, the
feeling in the driver's seat is, Oh My God, this is really leaning!  Try
parking sideways in Esalen Institute's parking lot in Big Sur sometime...
As far as determining ultimate rollover angle, do this:  Get ten of your
biggest, bravest, and stupidest friends to sign waivers.  Next, construct
(or find somwhere, like a berm or embankement) a long, gentle, stable ramp
system, about two or three feet wide, like the 4WD guys do, and use 1. a
plumb bob hanging from your rearview or better yet, 2.a real inclinometer on
the dash.  Drive SLOWLY up the ramp with one front tire with your friends
"spotting" the Bus on the downhill side.  Drive to the point where the Bus
is balanced with all weight on the non-ramp side tires, and the friends
being the only thing preventing the Bus from falling over on its side.
Calibrate the inclinometer, bob, and/or seat of your pants.  "So that's what
rollover feels like."  Repeat for other side.  Obviously, a short and
somewhat dampened bob is preferable to some long thing that just swings
around...  This will give you an idea of the ultimate balance point for a
static rollover, and therefore a ballpark idea of your sidehilling
capability.  Of course, most rollovers are caused by dynamic forces, and you
can roll a Bus just about anywhere if you really try.  Also, if sidehilling
at the limit, don't hit a rock, or over you go!
>
> Thanks for any and all advice.  Neither I nor my heirs shall hold any
> listmember responsible for any damages I may incur on account of your
> replies.

Yeah, and I will in no way be responsible for any damages, loss of life, or
other havoc caused by anyone attempting the above procedure (like ten
squished friends...) but that's the way it's done by rock-crawlers, and
nobody usually gets squished...

BTW, My '71 has gotten me through more miles of nasty, insane roads than I
can count, and required only minimal and reasonable service in return.  Go
for it, Miles, you've got the right name to go the distance, for sure!

> - Miles ('71 Bus - 700 miles on new Mexican engine, running strong!)

Tor
'71 Mystery Highroof "Mo"
'00 Cannondale "Lefty"
