From: "Jason Z Upper" <jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: rjcash11(-at-)juno.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 15 Aug 2003 06:39:50 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] How do you set up your camp?

>My question is with
>all of this equipment how do you pack the bus and is there any room left
>for you? I have never camped in a vw so any help is appreciated.

Hi Ralph,

I have a 1979 Standard Campmobile, and I took out the sink cabinet when the 
pump quit.  Even without that big cabinet, I have found plenty of places for 
good camping stuff.  Here's what I keep in the Bus:

Under the backseat:
Camp chairs, tarp, rope, spare parts, box o'fluids (WD-40, Liquid Wrench, 
etc.), electrical stuff, breaker bar, Duraflame logs, door mat, folding 
table

In the side cabinet next to the icebox:
Single-burner propane stove, propane catalytic heater, plates, cups, pots, 
pans, utensils, bungee cords, emergency flares, tie-downs, hand winch 
(come-along)

In the tall cabinet next to the backseat:
Sleeping bag, towels, spare clothes & swimsuit, frisbees

In the upper cabinet above the engine hatch:
CD changer, first-aid kit, maps, repair manuals, trash bags (emergency rain 
gear)

In the cubbies by the tailgate:
Coveralls & wrenching clothes, bug screen, front curtain, work tarp & towel, 
rags, Huggies

In the engine compartment:
Spare oil, gas can

I usually keep my toolbox behind the driver's seat along with my jackstands. 
  When I actually go camping, I stop at a store for supplies, and keep them 
in a milk crate I put in the Bus especially for the occasion.  I pack all my 
clothes in a duffel and use one of those 2.5 gallon water containers for my 
cooking and washing water.  That's about it!  I find that the more you camp, 
the more you can hone your camping supplies and pare down the clutter to the 
bare essentials.  In addition, with all that stuff permanently in the van, I 
can sleep pretty much anywhere and make myself at home.

Good luck, and enjoy your stay!


Jason Z Upper
1979 Westy "Sweet Pea"
Asheville, North Carolina
