From: "tank" <bedhead(-at-)pacbell.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 15 Aug 2003 14:06:10 -0700
Subject: oil entering the carburetor

Hi, Volks.

Some of you may have read my post from last night about the timing vs.
carburetor adjustment issue (1971 Camper). Going into my garage this afternoon
to make use of some of your advice, I stopped and stared a minute and noticed
something that simply did not look good.

I saw a fine spray around the gasket where the top of the carburetor bolts to
the main carb chamber. (Immediately, I know there is a vacuum leak right
there. Okay, fine -- I'll need to fix it.) But I noticed this stuff was very
dark, and it looked like engine oil. It was.

Now slightly panicked, I removed the oil-filled air filter arm from atop the
carburetor, and found exactly what I feared: It, and the inside of my
carburetor, where slime-coated in filthy black motor oil. My stomach turned.

You may recall that I am new to VWs, as of this vehicle. And I find the notion
of motor oil being sucked into the carb rather scary. Then again, it IS
attached to something with 30W in it, and almost seems likely to happen to
some degree.

So, I need to know if this is normal and healthy and fine, or every bit as
deeply troubling as my gut tells me it is. This is about as scary as finding
out that I was missing the entire thermostat/shutter assembly -after- the
engine was in, which I later found (via a tour of wrecking yards to get the
parts) was entirely unnecessary for my area and fine and dandy and probably
even helpful to be without. I hope this has a similarly happy ending.

On a related but different note, I found that I may have been setting TDC
wrong on my pulley. The mark we had thought was it may not be it at all. Out
of the corner of my eye a few minutes ago, while lamenting over the oil in the
carb, I noticed a little tiny arrow on the wheel that was not obvious as such
in the way I had looked at it before. Is THIS my TDC mark, or is it the little
notch-looking-thingy I had been using previously? Maybe that's why she is so
screwed up in her timing and won't idle for me.

With Gratitude,

tank

PS: I pulled a horn from under a 70 Beetle today at the wrecking yard, then
ended up not needing it. If anyone in the CA Bay Area needs to replace their
horn but is too lazy or time-constrained to go pull one, it's yours for a
six-pack of decent beer. Otherwise, back to the wrecking yard it goes the next
time I'm there.
