Date: Fri, 15 Aug 2003 22:03:05 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Rogelio Palomera <rpalomera(-at-)comcast.net>
Subject: RE: [T2] Adding wiring under the bus.

Dave,

I also have added wires (twice) under the bus for gauges. I recommend using 
outdoor weatherproof rated multiple
conductors wire (the number of conductors needed depends on how many gauges 
your are going to install plus a
couple extra for future use) Run the wire next to original wire harness 
under the bus. Don't try to put it into the original
conduit.

The way I did it was using electrician fishtape (fishwire? or a stiff metal 
wire).  I found it easier to push the fishwire from
the back towards the front.

Start by pushing it through the firewall, then go under the bus and push it 
through the first section of frame after the
starter, then move forward and push it through the next section of frame, 
and so on until you get to the front of the
bus, making sure you are following the same path of the bus wire harness.

Once you get the fishtape in the cabin, attach the wire to the fishtape 
eyelet and cover the union with electrician tape, trying to make a smooth 
joint from the wire to the fishtape.

Get under the bus, at the front, and start pulling the fishtape until the 
wire shows up. Start moving backwards pulling
the fishtape and wire incrementally through small sections of frame at a 
time. This way, you control the process and
you can reattach the wire to the fishtape if it gets loose while pulling 
(it might happen).

Wish I had pictures of when I did the process, but back then I didn't have 
a camera....
Good luck,

Rogelio
'69 Bus "La Vebe"


>I am shortly going to be running some extra wires under my bus from front to
>back for gauges.  Anyone who has done this before, I would like to know the
>best way of doing it.  Did you run them alongside the existing conduit,
>somewhere else, did you put them in their own conduit/sleeving?  Is it worth
>trying to feed them down the existing conduit or would that just be a waste
>of time?
>
>Any tips gratefully received.
>
>Dave
>
>--
>Dave Horrigan, Hull, England
>1978 Devon "Sally"
