Date: Mon, 30 Jun 2003 21:49:05 -0700
From: Tom <turtlebus(-at-)netzero.net>
To: Alex Wisniewski <awisniewski(-at-)comcast.net>, Type2 <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Fuel injectors made by GP-Sorensen?

Thanks for the reply Alex,
I only got two other replies, I rather suspect that not many have tried 
them. I typically say Bosch is the way to go but sometimes the wallet 
says otherwise. You are quite correct about the seals that come in the 
box with the injectors. I had problems with the large O-ring pulling 
through the hole in the bracket that holds the injector. Fortunately I 
remembered I had a new set of seals I got about a year ago. On 
comparison of the large seals I found the outside diameter of the German 
seals to be larger to the point of perfect fit in the bracket and the 
rubber much denser than the Sorensen seal. I also found that the German 
small seal is slightly longer than Sorensens small seal and the slightly 
tapered shape of the German seal seams to seat on the injector hole much 
easier.

On testing the Sorensen injectors, They appeared to have a healthy spray 
pattern and ZERO leakage. After doing a fuel pressure test, I took a 
lunch break. When I returned, maybe 45 minutes later, the gauge still 
read about 25 psi. I suspect most of the pressure that was lost went 
through the pressure regulator or the fuel pump. Don't get me wrong, I 
would bet a new set of Bosch injectors would hold pressure at least as well.

On completion of the install, I found my bus to run a little smoother 
and a little cooler. This is what I wanted out of a new injector so I'm 
satisfied. Now if they work as well as the Bosch units I just removed, 
27 years from now, I'll be impressed.

P. S.
I'm keeping the old Bosch units, just in case.

Thanks again for your observations.
Tom
Alex Wisniewski wrote:

>Hello Tom,
>
>Did you get any private replies to your question? I didn't see any
>on the list so here is mine.
>
>I'm running a set of the injectors on my '77 bus with a '78 FI system.
>They seem to work just fine, but I haven't used bosch so I can not
>compare it to them. I was restoring my bus to FI and decided to go for
>new injectors even though i had 2 sets of used unknown mileage bosch
>injectors. 
>
>The only problem i've heard is that the tiny O-ring seals can be
>troublesome to get seated. When I installed mine i was very careful
>and made sure the injectors were perfectly lined up before securing
>them. I didn't have any vacuum leaks so may it was just hearsay, but
>do be careful and check for leaks after the engine is running. By the
>way *DO NOT* use the supplied small O-ring seals that are installed
>on the injectors, buy good german quality ones from a VW shop. John 
