Date: Wed, 02 Jul 2003 06:07:58 -0700
From: susan <a451301(-at-)Access4Less.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: oregon 4th of july camping opportunity

thought i would extend the invitation to nw folks on this list also. there will be a 
campout at westfalia acres (drain oregon) this weekend. very casual, unstructured, 
creekside, outhouse, no amentities, 35 acres, field, trees, pet and kid friendly,.

people are coming for the whole weekend, part, day trips on saturday.  potluck on 
saturday evening and usually sunday morning most other meals some sort of sharing 
also but those are the intended ones :-)

some pictures from an event last summer are on my webiste but i am really behind in 
keeping new ones up.  i am including directions in this message as i won't have much 
time on the internet to provide them individually for the next few days.

if you happen to be planning a vacation any other time save the directions vw's are 
always welcome overnighters advance notice nice but not necessarily required if you 
just happen by you won't be shot!!! :-)

susan


Directions:

coming from the SOUTH  on I-5 take the Yoncalla/Drain exit after Rice
Hill truck stop.  I think it is #150.  proceed north on Hwy 99 through
Yoncalla and into Drain. At the mini mart take a right onto Hwy 38 (join
other instructions.)

coming from NORTH on I-5 take the Reedsport/Drain exit #162.  Proceed
south on Hwy 99 to Drain.  There is one blinking light after the
Hometown Foods store with a free right.  (go right)  At the mini mart you
have the right of way and proceed straight onto Hwy 38

BOTH:  proceed 3.2 miles west on Hwy 38.  At mile post 47 put on your
left turn signal.  You will be taking the next left driveway (not
visible yet) (you are on a curvy road 45 mph speed limit.)  About 500
feet from mp 47 is a black mailbox with the name STOLLERY
and 3626-28 on it.  Turn
left on the west side of mailbox.  turn between mailbox and tree with posted sign. 
WHEN YOU GO TO TURN IF YOU CAN SEE AN ONCOMING
CAR...DON'T.  IF YOU CAN'T THEN YOU HAVE PLENTY OF TIME.  IF YOU PUT
YOUR TURN SIGNAL ON AT MP 47 CARS BEHIND YOU WILL HAVE SLOWED DOWN....
  proceed down driveway through white gate down blackberry lane past
large green barn with mr Bubblehead on it, past wood shed, past the back
of my house to the front of my house.
OK if you missed the driveway don't panic you get a second chance.  300
feet further around the corner are 2 mailboxes and another driveway.
  This is the other end of my U shaped drive.  Take this driveway and
turn left at the pinetrees and
proceed to front of house.
If you still didn't get it and get to the Sunnydale Grange or the
passing lanes turn around and come east.  at the little red house take a
really hard right around the hairpin drive way or keep going to STOLLERY mailbox and 
come on down!

The actual address is 3720 Hwy 38.  i have no mailbox or marking on
highway.  There is a for sale sign in western driveway.  My phone number
is 541-836-7859




-- 
Susan Dolvin
78 Riviera 'Patch' and 66 Dormobile ' Zapper'
Westfalia Acres Drain Oregon   http://westfalia_acres.tripod.com/
WetWesties site: http://www.wetwesties.org/
