From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "rjl" <rjl(-at-)mvwe.org>
Cc: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 30 Jul 2002 15:50:19 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Got the 'cant get the new engine to work right' Blues

so I buy a new 34PICT3/4 from the local VW shop.

If I was buying a new engine, I would certainly want to spend the extra and
buy a new stock carb and dist... keep the old ones for spares. Old
carburetors have a way of developing their own vacuum leaks around the
throttle bushings and so on. But I doubt that this is your problem. It
sounds to me like your carb isn't drawing air into the fuel/air mixture
properly.


> Well, darn it, I can't adjust the idle high enough - with the tach, I
can't
> get past 500.   The carb adjustments have almost NO effect. Its tuned
right
> otherwise, valves, points, plugs, filters are fine -and there are still
less
> than 100 miles on the engine and less than 500 feet on the carb.

Just because a carb is new in the box doesn't mean that it is properly
adjusted. That carb, if it is new, should have come with its own complete
adjustment instructions.


> Everyone I talk to says that a vacumn leak will cause a high idle, not a
> slow one.  Still,I tried the carb cleaner test and it had no effect.

Well, what is that telling you? It sounds to me like you're not getting
enough air.. the fuel/air mixture may be too rich. Aren't you also having
problems with the engine oil smelling like gasoline? Have you tried
adjusting the idle air jet screw? I think that this is the fat screw in back
of the fuel jet adjustment.. I think it's usually set into a little flanged
area, so it almost looks like it's not supposed to be adjusted. But in
simple carbs like this, typically you set the fuel first, then the air, then
readjust the fuel. I know that when you do the final adjustment on that fuel
jet on that particular carb, you turn clockwise until it begins to die or
stutter, then go back until it runs smooth, then go back 3/4 turn more. That
is how my memory has it, anyway.. But you'd  better check it out.
As far as vacuum leaks, these engines are so simple that the possibilities
are somewhat limited. But don't forget to check your manifold.

My theory is that it is usually the most obvious thing that drives you the
most crazy.. but makes you laugh the most when you find it.  Jan B



