Date: Tue, 30 Jul 2002 16:35:15 -0700
To: DrBen <bwtimmons(-at-)ucdavis.edu>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Getting my 78 Westy "Smogged" in Sacramento   Help

At 01:42 PM 07/30/2002, you wrote:
>    Can any list members assist me in getting this engine ready for 
> "smogging" and helping me set it back afterwards or direct me to someone 
> who cqan do this wiithout costing me a month's pay?

Get the Bentley. It's essential for understanding of the systems.

Pull the plugs. If all show clean burning and not more than 0.1mm electrode 
wear, re-use them. Otherwise, put in new spec Bosch Copper plugs. Then 
verity you got a hot blue flash at the gaps. If not, look to replacing the 
cap/rotor/ht wires, or suspect an ingnition module/coil issue with the 
electronic Cali system.

Verify spec timing. Nothing different will improve clean running.

With the key off, disconnect the oxy sensor. Start the motor and adjust the 
idle to spec or a bit more if not running smoothly. Hookup a volt meter to 
the wire from the ECU that connects to the oxy. It should be 0.5 volt and 
steady. If not, punt, cause that means to a 98% probability that the ECU is 
toast. It is 0.5v?? Congratulations, continue on. OK Now hook the voltmeter 
to the oxy terminal. It might say 0.2 volts or 0.7 volts or it might be 
jumping up and down between those values. If not jumping up and down across 
the 0.5v stociometric boundary, then turn the mixture screw until it is, 
then turn it out until it starts to lose idle rpm, then back in a 1/4 turn. 
Reset idle and recheck oxy flux. That's as lean as it cam be set and not 
develop a dirty idle. Now hook the oxy wire back up, key off, then hook up 
the volt meter at the connection, start it up and rev the engine and hold 
at 2000 rpm for a few seconds, then let it idle. At idle the oxy signal 
should show a voltage flux from 0.3 to 0.7v. If not, you may have a dead 
oxy or a dirty exhaust that no tweeking will fix, like a low cylinder or 
leaky injector. If it takes more than a second or so to cross the boundary, 
the oxy is too slow and on it's way out, replace it. Don't try this with a 
peg hook supermarket multimeter. They will give you nothing but bad data at 
low readings, volts or ohms.

So you must do an inspection, and verify spark energy, timing, idle and 
mixture adjustment. Without an exhaust gas readout the multimeter 
monitoring of the oxy will get you home.

After the test, just turn the mixture screw in a 1/4 of a turn to run a bit 
richer, then reset idle. If a functional oxy pegs low, your too lean. If it 
pegs high, your too rich. Good oxy flux verifies spec tuning and clean running.

