From: "John Rogers" <jnrogers5555(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "dgrauer" <dgrauer(-at-)sasktel.net>,
Date: Wed, 31 Jul 2002 08:33:17 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Steering box crisis?

Logan,

Run, don't walk to your nearest FLAPS and pick up some hypoid sae 85W90 Gear
Oil API/GL-4. Then find the plastic cap at the top--there is one--pry it off
and fill it up until you can feel the oil with your finger tip.You do not
wish to risk injury to a working steering box by letting it get low on oil.

Now you did not specify the year, so I am going to assume a 68-72. If so,
the refill cap thingie is at the top near the shaft, probably covered up
with muck. Here's the good news! That might be where your leak is coming
from, if you have lost the cap. In which case email me, I may have a spare.

If that is not the source of the leak you will have to take the steering box
off the vehicle to service it. I strongly suggest you obtain a Bentley
Service Manual if you don't already have one. It gives excellent
instructions for removing and serving,  including diagrams and photos.

So here's your dilemma. You may need a new oil seal, and you may have
trouble finding one, although your good VW dealership can probably help.
Even so, pulling, opening, repairing and replacing is a lot of work. On the
other hand a rebuilt steering box is around $279, which climbs to over $300
with shipping (two ways, you gotta give up your old).

So, the question may be, do you want the work and trouble of rebuilding the
one you've got or spending big bucks for a rebuilt box? Or can you want to
live with a leak that may cost you 50 cents worth of oil from time to time?

If you decide to pull the box write me off list and I may be able to help.

Cheers,

John Rogers
-- 70 Westy


----- Original Message -----

Logan  <dgrauer(-at-)sasktel.net> wrote:


> Now the bad news:
>
> My steering box started leaking sometime this summer.
> While dry this spring, its is now covered in goo in
> line with the shaft. Looks like it is leaking from the
> top bearing (not sure how though).  I read the archive,
> but I still have questions:
>

>

