Date: Wed, 25 Jul 2007 16:25:03 -0700
From: "zach drew" <zachula(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Type 2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Fun with exhaust!

Howdy list!


Spent the last couple hours reading about exhaust and some better
practices for getting it to seal properly.  I still have some
questions.

77' 2L FI engine, solid lifters Type IV.

My extractor was cracked and my muffler was acting more like a loudener.

Replaced the extractor and muffler and noticed that one of the bolts
connecting the heaterbox to the J-tube/Header was missing its bolt.

Last night I decided to tackle that little problem.  Pulled the heater
box, this is on the 3/4 side btw.  Due to some interference between
the "lip" on the sides of the heater box and the jtube/header the
flanges didn't line up very nicely.  I handled this issue with a
pneumatic angle grinder.  It went together MUCH better.

I had to chip the old gasket out as it had become one with the flange.

I noticed that the flanges weren't completely flat on the mating
surfaces and tried to use a file on them but there was a little too
much material on there for the file to be a worthwhile time
investment.  I was hoping that would be enough with the extra thick
gasket to solve my problem since it was getting late and I was running
out of light.

It didn't.

So here are my thoughts.

I don't want to pull the headers, since I feel that it is better to
let sleeping dogs lie and they aren't in bad shape nor are they
leaking.

I could take my grinder and just grind the mating surfaces so that the
gasket is compressed evenly around when I put it all back together.

I could try doubling the gaskets(does this even work? Is it not recommended?)

I don't want to be that (-at-)#$$&*# PO sometime down the line.

I also don't want to have to pull the headers and jtubes and get out
the BFH to beat my flanges into submission.

Cost is an issue and I would rather not have to track down the parts
esp if I can salvage what I have.


Other things to consider.
My tranny is leaking from around the passenger side shaft.  The CV
boots look good.   No cracks and no leakage from them.  The leak does
not appear to be significant, no puddles of tranny fluid under the bus
or anything.

I also noticed a little leakage from where the bell housing seals to
the block.  It was mostly dry and very thick, did not give the
impression of a serious leak.

I also suspect my oil cooler seals are leaking OR my distributor seal
is bad.  I tend to think its the distributor seal because of where the
oil is coming from.  It seems to cover the oil cooler and I get some
on the top of the block as well.  I haven't ruled out the dipstick
boot but I am not sure about that because everything I have read about
the boot going bad talks about losing a considerable amount of oil.  I
don't have an excessive amount of oil loss nor does the bus
aggressively mark its territory.

Eventually I want to pull the engine and just give it some love, maybe
convert to mega squirt.  replace most of the seals maybe pull the
lifters and inspect for wear that sort of thing.

Lastly, I have a hot spark that I want to put in.  I have been putting
it off because timing seems intimidating.  I have a timing gun, a nice
metal timing scale, replacement rotor, new plugs, both the bently and
the muir book.  Do I really NEED a dwell meter to set my timing?

I see alot of stuff talking about using a dwell meter but have a hard
time finding any hard examples of how they work or how to use them.  I
don't think I need one for electronic ignition.
