Date: Wed, 25 Jul 2007 23:20:48 -0700
From: "zach drew" <zachula(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
Cc: "Type 2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Fun with exhaust!

> Excellent questions, hope you don't mind if I give my 2 cents? I have the
> exact same setup on my '78. '77 solid lifter motor etc...

Thanks for the Encouragement!  Always nice to know that I was easy to
understand and not too far off base.

> The oil at the front of the case needs to be run down. Throw a new Dizzy
> seal (super quickie test). It won't change the timing if you don't loosen
> the clamp. Check your dipstick tube, not a quick fix, but a simple one. They
> can be a little tight to get on, just use some grease a small dull pry tool,
> it will slip right on. (word to the wise, buy two since they are so cheap)

I thought it might be the oil breather gasket, so I replaced it, I
suspected the dizzy seal and bought a spare when I was doing my
pushrod tube seals.  I figure when I convert to hotspark I am going to
take the dizzy out since I need to do my timing if for no other reason
then to get the experience.  I did the pushrod tube seals on the 3/4
side last summer.  Long story but I only did the one side.  I figure
almost stripping a pair of irreplaceable high perf aftermarket heads
once a year is enough stress for me.

My exhaust leak is minor enough that I am just going to roll with it
this weekend since I have a camping trip to goto.  IIRC minor exhaust
leaks aren't a show stopper, but left too long can cause above average
wear....feel free to correct me on this if I am wrong.

> If you rule those out, re-post. BUT, if you can live with a dirty engine,
> wait for the day you pull it to re-seal it. I do it to every bus I have
> owned, but I'm a neat engine-bay freak.

I'm a bit of a neat freak.  Not A-R(although I didn't forget the
hyphen...) but I do like to see things in good shape and not coated in
oil.   A clean engine is a cooler engine as far as I am concerned.  My
ambition is directly related to the level of effort involved in
resolving the leak.  I want to do it as well for the experience and to
make sure that its done correctly and so that I know exactly what I
have and how its in there.  If the effort proves to be too much, the
leak isn't THAT bad and I can live with it until I can pull the
engine.


> Timing is a cinch, go for it! The Bentley has a great primer as does the
> Type2 articles. You really can't hurt anything unless you are wearing a tie
> and are missing your fan shroud.

A tie is just a pretty noose.  I avoid them at all costs!

> The hot-spark can be installed without removing your dizzy. I would though.
> Just don't move the clamp, keep the wires on the cap so you know they are
> correct and yank it. Follow the instructions implicitly! They need silver
> oxide thermal paste and a resistor block that is not included (Radio Shack
> and Napa Auto Parts). Just email the hot-spark guys with questions. They
> have the best customer service I have ever seen in the VW world (tied with
> Wolfsburg West). They actually LIKE answering questions and really support
> their product.

Good to know.  I haven't gone through the docs all the way yet and
will make it a point to do so before I proceed.


> Hope this helps, ain't buses fun? Woohoo!

They are....love mine.  I cant think of any other vehicle that I would
rather burn myself, skin my knuckles, or lacerate myself on than a VW
bus....maybe a bug...or a ghia.

Thanks for the info it was a great help.

-Zach

> Jon Stiles
