Date: Thu, 26 Jul 2007 10:54:18 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Oregon Trip Report (long)

What a great trip!  I actually did a similar trip last year, and yes, I 
still haven't finished my journal... I'll get on it right away ;)

So, this trip originally started as a rafting trip with my friend's 
family to the Rogue River at Indian Mary's campground, or at least, that 
was my only intention.  First, though, I cruised up through SF to visit 
my parents for the weekend as I don't get to see them too often.  I also 
got to hang out with my sister and her three kids (Alaska, Dakota, and 
Montana (two boys and a girl)).

But before the trip even started, my sliding door wouldn't close.  I 
ended up taking the whole rear lock assembly off thinking that the back 
part was messed up.  There was some slight wear, but nothing that 
significant.  I had an extra one so I cleaned it, regreased it, and 
threw it on there and thought I had everything fixed - that was until I 
noticed the handle was moving waaaay too much.  Great.. it was actually 
the FRONT mechanism that was bad.  So, I grabbed my extra lock assembly 
and swapped that out.. it worked like butter.

So, back to SF.  While I was up there, I thought I would work on my 
MegaSquirt2 project.  I have been using the MegaSquirt for the past 50k 
miles or so and it's been working great, but I really wanted to upgrade 
to the new version.  Problem is that I've been having strange tach 
issues and can't get a reliable tach signal.  I played with that a bit, 
but I didn't have that much time so I put that away.  Instead, then I 
focused my attention on my aux battery.

While I was in SF, I thought I'd try out my luck with the standard relay 
just for kicks.  A little side-note.. Per the advice of Jim Hayden, I 
purchased a battery isolator from Hellroaring technology.  They make 
isolators that have nearly zero voltage drop, but because I didn't have 
that much time at the moment, I thought I'd see if the relay setup even 
worked.  Well, some of you probably remember my posts about the random 
wire in the engine compartment and trying to figure out which wire to 
use to trigger the relay.  Well, I got a new relay and tried to install 
it, but I could never find the correct wire to trigger it and gave up.

Also while I was up in SF, I got myself a new regulator and fill valve 
for my propane tank.  I figured it was a good time to do some 
preventative maintenance because the fill valve was getting leaky and 
the regulator was original.  Cheap enough to fix, so why not.

After spending time with the family, I went up to Oregon and did some 
rafting on the Rogue.  That was a nice time, and it was cool because I 
got to spend some quality time with the bus - sounds strange, but only 
the people on this list can really understand ;)  I *finally* got to 
spend some time and read through the directions to install the isolator 
which involved cutting and crimping 8 gauge wires to the batteries and 
the isolator.  I spent about 3 or 4 hours because I wanted a nice clean 
install and it came out really nice.

For those of you that are not familiar with the isolator from 
Hellroaring, I'll give you the rundown.  I put it in Aux battery 
isolation mode and it installs between a thick wire run from the + 
terminal of the starter battery (essentially alternator) and the + 
terminal of the aux battery.  When it senses the voltage go up 
(charging), it turns on and allows current to flow to the aux battery. 
When voltage drops (car stops running), the aux battery is in isolation 
again.  The gauge and length of wire used between the two batteries 
dictates how much current is "allowed" to be pulled from the charging 
side.   There is also a remote control which allows you to disable the 
unit, have it in automatic mode (as described above), or in override 
mode where it combines regardless if the car is on or off.  Anyways, my 
car radio kept killing my starter battery so that's why I wanted to do 
this so bad!

So, I got it all installed with the wires run all nice and pretty and 
fired up the bus.  The green light turned on like it was supposed to and 
I was pretty excited.  I took the bus for a drive around town and after 
a little while, the light started to flicker and then eventually turned 
off!?!?  What!?  It broke already!?  Aw man!  Well... that's what I 
thought at least.  I did some tests of the voltage on the line after the 
car had been running and it was around 12.5.  It was the stupid 
mechanical voltage regulator dropping like they do after they heat up, 
but it was dropping too much!

By this point, I was fed up with these mechanical regulators (I'd 
swapped out all 3 that I had with no luck).  Per Richard Atwell's site, 
I knew there was a solid state one that was supposedly better so I 
figured I would get that before I purchased an Balmar ARS-5 (much more 
advanced regulator) that Jim Hayden recommended.  Plus, it was only a 
$40 loss if it didn't work.  Ultimately, I was determined to get that 
aux battery charging on this trip!!

So, a quick message posted to the type2 list and Jim Thompson from Old 
Volks Home directed me to a parts store in Medford.  I called them up 
and they had the part in stock!  I cruised on down there (about a 25min 
trip) and picked up the part.  I threw the regulator in there and voila! 
I had the green light again!  And it stayed on!  And I have never had 
better starts on my bus before!  I highly recommend everyone swap out 
for the solid state part!  (0192 062 007 = Bosch Short Number 30 048) 
Ok, enough exclamations..

This was cool.  I finally had my aux battery working after forever. 
Now, originally my plan was to just go to the Rogue and then head back 
down to LB.  I told my boss that I was going to be gone about a week and 
a half so I had quite a bit of time.  But during my stay at the 
campground, I had talked with a few people there and they said I just 
*had* to check out Bend.  I'm an outdoorsy person and I'm trying to find 
somewhere cool to move, so I thought, what the heck, I'll go check it 
out.  But first, I wanted to go to Portland one more time to check it 
out there.

I posted a message that I was heading up to Portland and started my 
journey upwards.  I think it took me about 4-5 hours and soon I was 
touring the city.  There was a light drizzle and it was actually kinda 
nice.  Things were working well, except my driver's side door was 
getting a little difficult to open.  Whatever, no biggie...

Somewhere along that trip, I stopped to make some dinner.  Every time 
I'd been making rice, it would taste funny - like soap.  So, this time I 
made two different batches of rice using two different pans (I thought 
it was soap left over in the pan?).  But after the rice was done, it 
STILL tasted like soap, so then I made ANOTHER batch of rice, except 
this time I used bottled water instead of the water from the reservoir. 
  WOW, what a difference!  So, it seems that the water sitting in the 
reservoir is being affected by the plastic.... Unless someone knows how 
to get rid of that nasty taste, I guess I'll just use bottled water for 
cooking from now on.

After my cooking test, I check my email again and I got an email from 
Paul Manning that he was up near Portland, however we were unable to 
meet up that night.  So, I headed up to the city and wandered around for 
a little while and hit up some clubs until around 2 in the morning.  It 
was neat to get out and dance for a few hours.  I got to bed somewhere 
around 3 in the morning... I love just being able to park anywhere and 
sleep ;)

The next morning I tried Paul again and this time we were able to 
connect.  I cruised on down to his place and we talked about buses for a 
good hour or so.  I showed him my megasquirt setup and yapped about all 
the other usual bus stuff.  He was bummed that he hadn't taken his bus 
out because of house work and family - come on Paul.. priorities!! 
hahahah... anyways, that was a great visit and it was great to meet a 
listee.

 From Paul's house I cruised on over to Hood River.  I wanted to say hi 
to the owner of the Kayak Shed (people I kayaked with on my last trip). 
  On the way there, I passed another late bay and gave the usual wave. 
I passed them and they waved back and flashed their lights.  I *thought* 
they were just returning the greeting, but then another car came up next 
to me and told me my engine hatch was open... whoops!  I guess I had 
left it open when I was over a Paul's.  Hopped off the freeway, closed 
the hatch, and back on.  Cruised by the bus again and this time I just 
got a nice wave back.. no blinking lights ;)

When I got to hood river, the owner from the Kayak Shed wasn't there, 
but I did happen to see that bus that I passed on the freeway.  I 
stopped next to them to say hi and thank them for letting me know about 
the engine lid.  The were really nice and we had the usual bus chat 
session talking about all the ins and outs of our buses.  It was sad 
because the girl had rolled her bus not too long ago and it was pretty 
much in perfect shape except for the dented in rear vent and some upper 
body damage.  But she and her friend we're still really happy about the 
bus and we had some great conversation.

I wanted to make it to Bend that day so I hopped on the highway and 
started on my trek southbound.  I think it took me about 3-4 hours to 
get into Bend and it was a great drive through the wilderness.  I got 
there in the evening and cooked up some dinner.  All this time, my 
driver's side door had been getting more and more difficult to open with 
the key from the outside, and eventually I couldn't even turn it 
anymore.. or, at least, it would turn, but it wouldn't push the lock 
up.. GReat!  Now I had to either leave the vent window unlocked or open 
it from the inside.  To add to that, the sliding door wouldn't open 
either?!!?!?!  Argh!  I pulled off the big panel and tried adjusting the 
cable and that didn't seem to make a difference.  After staring at the 
mechanism for an hour, I finally realized that the part that grabs the 
rear catch was seizing up and releasing slowly.  When I first cleaned 
it, it was kinda sticky, and I guess the rain had got it sticking again. 
  At least now I knew what the problem was and now I just had to help 
coax the rear of the door out.

When I was done eating, I stopped at the local bar and played some pool 
and met some great people.  Did I mention, btw, that the voltage 
regulator and battery isolator were working GREAT!  My bus was starting 
like a champ and I was blasting that stereo the whole way (I have a big 
amp, too).  But back to Bend... so, hung out at the bar, met some cool 
folks.. very neat people.  I really like the town.  I think I'm still in 
denial that people are actually different outside of LA, but it was neat 
because the people I was hanging out with asked me if I wanted to come 
mountain biking with them the next day!  I was like.. whaa?!??  you 
never get asked that in LA!

Unfortunately, I couldn't go riding with them the next day, but I did 
have a great time in Bend and I am seriously considering heading up in 
that direction.  During my stay up there, I saw a TON of Vanagons and a 
bunch of late bays, as well.  I knew that it would be a place where my 
bus would be happy.

 From Bend I made my way south and I thought I'd stop at Crater Lake 
because it had been on the way.  I had been there once before when I 
first purchased this bus, but the bus didn't have very fond memories of 
that trip (burnt a hole through the piston after owning the bus 5 days). 
  So, I thought I would do it again to wipe away the bad memories.  The 
trip up to the lake was pretty uneventful and beautiful as expected.  I 
even got to take a nice hot shower at the camp store - I was SOOOO happy!

The rest of the trip took me south through Reno, Tahoe, back through 
Reno, and then on south down the 395.  It was really nice in the 
mountains and HORRENDOUSLY hot driving down south past Mammoth.  I 
couldn't believe how hot it was!  For much of the drive I drove in 3rd 
gear because I had a headwind and I didn't want to push the car too 
hard, especially because I was driving at peak heat time (2-4pm).  I 
made a few pit stops along the way at various scenic locations and 
eventually made it safely back into long beach.

Overall it was an awesome trip and I'm glad I took the time to head up 
to the north part of Oregon.  Hopefully, I'll be able to head up there 
again, but I have a feeling my next trip is out to Colorado.  Anyways, 
that's it for now.. Thanks to everyone for their help on this trip and 
look forward to the next one!

Thanks,
Mike
