Date: Thu, 26 Jul 2007 18:04:55 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: zach drew <zachula(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Fun with exhaust!

There is a product from Victor (gaskets) called
Muffler Seal. It's at a lot of FLAPS - a white and
orange tube. It is the consistency of toothpaste and
you smear it on to the uneven surfaces, bolt 'em
together and it sets up like concrete! Down the road
when you get everything out where you can work on it
in the open, you can chip the stuff back off and do a
proper job. I use it on all header joints. Unless the
gap is extreme, I use just the muffler seal. It will
handle 1/4 inch gaps! 

Before you settle on a leak source, pop the little
rubber boot out of the hole for the oil pressure light
sending unit (behind *forward of* the distributor) and
just watch that sucker while the engine is running.
Many of them seep oil. Quite a few ooze oil and a few
gush oil. It's right above the oil cooler and in a
high wind area so oil travels from there quite a bit.
Buy two different brands - it's a lottery to find one
that seals! -BaH
--- zach drew <zachula(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:

 Howdy list!

 
 Spent the last couple hours reading about exhaust
 and some better
 practices for getting it to seal properly.  I still
 have some
 questions.
 
 77' 2L FI engine, solid lifters Type IV.
 
 My extractor was cracked and my muffler was acting
 more like a loudener.
 
 Replaced the extractor and muffler and noticed that
 one of the bolts
 connecting the heaterbox to the J-tube/Header was
 missing its bolt.
 
 Last night I decided to tackle that little problem. 
 Pulled the heater
 box, this is on the 3/4 side btw.  Due to some
 interference between
 the "lip" on the sides of the heater box and the
 jtube/header the
 flanges didn't line up very nicely.  I handled this
 issue with a
 pneumatic angle grinder.  It went together MUCH
 better.
 
 I had to chip the old gasket out as it had become
 one with the flange.
 
 I noticed that the flanges weren't completely flat
 on the mating
 surfaces and tried to use a file on them but there
 was a little too
 much material on there for the file to be a
 worthwhile time
 investment.  I was hoping that would be enough with
 the extra thick
 gasket to solve my problem since it was getting late
 and I was running
 out of light.
 
 It didn't.
 
 So here are my thoughts.
 
 I don't want to pull the headers, since I feel that
 it is better to
 let sleeping dogs lie and they aren't in bad shape
 nor are they
 leaking.
 
 <<Snipperooned>>

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
