Date: Sat, 28 Jul 2007 09:48:59 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "Accessys(-at-)smart.net" <accessys(-at-)smart.net>
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Problem Solving: Taking a Fresh Look!

It's amazing, isn't it? Try as you might to remember
something - like a name - and you can't. Go off and do
something that occupies your mind for a bit and
totally distracts your concious mind from the
"search," and out of nowhere, it comes to you.

I was working on Bussy the other night, finally had
the engine all buttoned up and ready to go... I turn
the engine over and it just gasps and wheezes. The PO
told me he had put a new cam belt in it for me. I
popped the end covers off and saw the problem. The cam
sprockets were timed to the wrong set of marks. I took
it down the rest of the way and popped the cam belt
out, aligned all the marks, reassembled and cranked it
over. Nothing! I double checked. I triple checked. I
double/triple checked!

It must be something else also, I reasoned. I put the
timing light on and it flashed so I knew I had spark.
I loosened the fuel rail line and knew I had fuel. I
put the timing light on #1 and referenced the crank
pulley marks. 1/4 turn off. I reverted to triple
checking my double-checking and when I was satisfied
there was nothing inappropriate, it was time to go
inside and relax for awhile and refer to the book as
well as work step by step through the basics - the
most basic of the basics, because I obviously had
overlooked something that was quite likely right in
front of my face!

The most basic-basics include stuff like, "Is this a
demo-version engine that sat in a Subaru dealer's
entryway and was never intended to actually run? Stuff
like, is the engine harness really totally hooked up?
A few details were different on this engine, so I
looked through it all again. #1 injector plug was on
#3 and that would certainly be a problem, but it would
still run - sorta. Could the coil be installed
backwards since the manifold it mounts to has been
inverted? Could be. I'm getting inconsistent flashing
on the timing light, so something else is wrong...That
engine ground strap that grounds every connection
related to all the sensors and the ECU... I don't
remember tightening that bolt... Nope, it never got
installed.

Forgetting totally about the apparent timing problem,I
try it again with new hope for a brighter result
and... NUTHIN! Okay. How shall I say this? Okay,
"potty time" or time to sit down with a good book...
Maybe this Subaru manual would be appropriate. Hey -
these pictures - THAT looks familiar. Oh Man! I set
the cam sprockets to the correct timing marks but used
the wrong mark on the crank sprocket. A damned ROOKIE
mistake - One feeding off the other!

Once again, I pulled the cam belt off and re-adjusted
it. I snugged the bolts up and cranked it over: IT'S
ALIVE!!!!

God, that feels good!

Now another coupla daze werk and tie up all the
half-dones and the gotta-be-re-dones and it should be
drivable. -BaH



-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
