

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1
 
To whom it may concern,
 
This letter is my affirmation that David S. Raistrick is qualified
for a full-time position in a UNIX work environment.
 
To justify myself, I offer my professional background; For a "hobby",
I am the Senior Network Engineer for Digital Galaxy Networks (DGN) of
Seattle, Washington. DGN is a full-service Internet Solution Provider
that is 98% UNIX-based, flavors include (but not limited to)
FreeBSD, HP/UX, BSDi, and Linux. I also headed up 2 other UNIX-based
ISP's with the help of Mr. Raistrick, and have been working with UNIX
and Mr. Raistrick since late 1995. In my full time job I am a network
consultant who specializes in UNIX-based applications & security,
CISCO integration, and WINDOWS NT SERVER applications.
 
Mr. Raistrick has shown he can hold his own weight when it comes to
UNIX administration and UNIX security. He has helped me personally
administer countless machines running almost any given flavour of
UNIX. David has also shown his keen eye for security when it comes to
UNIX machines that are "open" to the world (i.e. on the internet). At
DGN, David, is our liaison for one of our Co-Located UNIX clients.
Without David constantly maintains their machine, holding their hand,
and keeping hackers & crackers at bay, we would have probably lost
this client. David also plays a big role in the day to day
environment at DGN, constantly keeping an eye on our machines;
alerting us to new exploits, DOS attacks, and mistakes we make on a
regular basis.
 
To give some examples...
 
When the CEO and myself have to compile a program, deploy new
technologies, or just do regular maintenance, 90% of the time we get
the job done. There are however times when we just can't seem to do
it for one reason or another, and with the help of David, we can
accomplish the job on time and on budget.
 
As of this writing, a few weeks ago David alerted me of a new exploit
against 90% of the UNIX OS's out there today. I had not seen it yet,
and didn't see anything on it for another 6 hours. Thanks to David we
were able to address the issue, and fix the problem before the
"Script Kiddies" could wreak havoc on our networks.
 
David is always trying new configurations of UNIX-based machines and
testing new technologies. He dedicates himself til he gets the job
done, even after I've given up and passed the job down the line of
our engineer's.
 
In short David is a valuable asset to Digital Galaxy Networks and any
company who would consider him for employment.
 
John C. Carson
 
jcarson@digital-galaxy.net
Senior Network Engineer, Digital Galaxy Networks.
2226 Eastlake Ave East, Suite 159 Seattle, Washington 98102
206-510-5129
 
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: PGPfreeware 6.5.2 for non-commercial use <http://www.pgp.com>
 
iQA/AwUBOJp2xsGw3BIBmT0xEQI3pgCgq2frNyIP3+IZgeWqauYtTzpax08AoLeM
mK1H703Gs/SvFSSsU5RtiUaC
=XNrX
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----



1/31/00

To Whom it May Concern,

This letter is to state my unqualified support of David Raistrick for a
full-time position in UNIX support and, especially, system administration.
I have worked with David for well over a year as he has administrated our
co-located server through digital-galaxy.net. He has been our exclusive
customer service/support contact and server admin, and we have not had a
single unresolved complaint during that time.

We run a co-located web/mailing list server that serves a specialized
segment of the antique auto collector community. Our mailing lists have
about 1450 total subscribers and our web domain serves around 1.5 million
requests/month for about 9 gigs/month of throughput. It's fairly demanding
for a hobbyist domain. David Raistrick is the server admin who keeps all
this running reliably, tending to maintenance, software installs, upgrades,
security, and our nearly constant requests for extra attention and
hand-holding.

We have not had to worry about cracks, hijacked relays, CGI exploits,
etc.--there has not been one single incident. Down time has been minimal, in
my recollection approximately nine hours over the past year, most of it
attributable to network issues beyond the control of digital-galaxy.net. We
are consistently happy customers and that is mostly because of David.

If I can be of further help, please do not hesitate to contact me:

	(901) 495-3544 days
	(901) 371-9619 nights


Regards,

--Ken Hooper   bighouse@type2.com
--Webmaster, www.type2.com
--ITS Macintosh Support Specialist, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital
--Memphis, TN

--Ken		Greasy Fingers Smearing Shabby Clothes
		type2.com Webmaster

