Date: Fri, 30 Nov 2001 21:03:15 -0600
From: Shawn <firefly1(-at-)intop.net>
To: All Knowing Bus List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: <Fri>AMEN ADMIN!

Volks:

We'll.  In keeping with my idea of praising the efforts of those who
have provided this list for our access by storytelling, here's mine:

Of the MANY times the list has saved my bus, including saving it from
the scrapyard, here's one bus story that I hold especially dear.

I was tuning up my bus for a fishing trip.  You see, one of my best
friends was getting married.  As is usual when planning nuptuials, his
schedule was especially covered.  So, when his best man offered to put
together a fishing trip for the guys, the only weekend he could find
open within the 2 months prior to his wedding was the day he and I were
scheduled to take the Professional Engineers exam.  For those of you who
haven't or don't know someone who has endured this humiliating
experience; it's an eight hour exam in which you must complete 8 of 12
engineering problems.  Basically, 8 hours of pure hell.  The test cannot
be taken until you have worked for 4 years under a licensed engineer. 
So they are asking you to work stuff that you haven't seen in at least 4
years and never really learned anyway.  We were leaving immediatly
following the test. Incidentally, the test is worth a 17% raise where I
work, so passing is a must!

During study breaks the week before the trip I was prepping my bus for a
6+ hour drive.  My bus only had about 500 miles on a new rebuild, which
the list talked me thru over a 3 month period.  The day before we left,
I watched the weather forcast which called for rain; damn, I haven't
used the wipers.  Well, they suffered the same fate as most after
sitting for 8 years.  Just barely could cross the windshield.  So, I
scoured the archives and found the tune up info.  I pulled the assembly
and lubed everything.  When I was re-installing the wiper shafts, I
decided to check the torque on the retaining nuts.  It was something
rediculuous like 14 ft.lbs.  Now, I don't know if the spec was wrong, or
if my wipers were just weak, but the nut sheared off the bolt.  So, off
to the junkyard.  I found a suitable replacement, lubed the heck out of
it and went to reinstall.  While restling the assembly into place I
managed to pull off not one, but all of the wiper connections to the
wiper switch.
"No Problem" says I, "I have a Bentley wiring diagram"...which SUCKED! 
I wrestled it for hours, blowing 10+ fuses.  It's now well after dark
the night before the biggest test of my life and 5 people are counting
on me to take the bus on a fishing trip (my other vehicle is a truck). 
I posted an urgent message to the list asking for help.  Within 30
minutes someone responded with wire color and post numbers.  10 minutes
later the wipers worked flawlessly!

We made the trip without a hitch.  5 buddies riding in a bus on a
bachelor trip.  How much fun is that?!?!  Having the bus proved even
more invaluable when we arrived at the fish camp to find bunk beds. 
After about 5 minutes of drunk snorers, I retired to the bus for a
wonderful nites sleep.  The next morning we had our limit of Red Fish
within 35 minutes of fishing!  

So, THANK YOU LIST ADMINISTRATORS!!!!!!!!!!
For providing the resources and comraderie of fellow bus nuts.  For the
hours of entertainment and entrigue, AND

the simple fact that my bus is such a joy to own now.  

It wouldn't be possible without the time, effort and heart you put into
it every day and the complete selflessness in which you approach it.

Again, thank you.

Shawn Clark
71 Westy 1.6 CIS FI
"Rosemary"
