Date: Sat, 01 Dec 2001 09:54:03 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: <magicbus1974(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] antiques of all kinds

At 05:17 AM 12/01/2001 -0800, you wrote:
>
>By definition a car that is 30 years old or older is
>an antique.
>  That has been my understanding  of the definition at
>least... right? wrong? anyone?
>----------------------------------------

My Porsche was considered Antique at 25 years for insurance purposes as an
antique. I would check Hemmings for their definitions of Classic, Milestone
and Antique. The rates for stated value antique are very low, like I pay
less than $200 per year for $16,000 stated value. But the use of the
vehicle is highly limited. You are not covered for daily driving, or parked
in a motel lot or camp site overnight unless registered for a car club
event. And total milage per year is limited to a few thousand miles. My
policy also requires that the vehicle be garaged under lock when not in
use. This would be ideal for early Westy owner's who limit their use to
regional club events as a center to their Bussing use. 

>------------------------------------------
> I see a lot of comments about hippie culture these
>days.. some positive some negative. As with any other
>"group" there were the good, the bad,& the ugly.
>Most were/are good people. 

Then as now. The good people didn't get drunk or stoned enough to blow
their education. The majority just experimented, creating no problems for
themselves or others. The small percentage that got out of line would have
destroyed themselves regardless the accepted or unaccepted drugs of the
society. It is as always a matter of character and self discipline. Then as
now I suspect, most have it and some don't/wont' get it. The former become
the producers of value and the latter are carried on their backs by having
to address the negative value of those who can but won't produce.

>In general, lumping people into one catagory, in my
>opinion, is a result of a thought process that is
>lacking in real information. (ignorance) 

Yes indeed, the foundation of most racial, religious and cultural disharmony.

>  Unless you were there during that time it probably
>is best to educate yourself on the subject first.

It is irrational to state you have an opinion if your only input is TV
soundbite opinions of others. Most "NEWS" is very heavily biased. A very
small percentage of reliable truth comes through. It is absolutly contrary
to scientific method, which seeks every possible procedural amendment to
identify and remove bias to the greatest extent possible.  

Several of the intelligent people I know around here are currently reading
books giving info on the Afghan and Muslim cultures. They recognize their
ignorance of the culture and pursue relief from new knowledge which allows
them then to form their own opinion. I consider this to be a responsibility
of citizenship. 2/36ths of the Louisiana Purchase was set asside for
citizen self-education. 2 full sections of land in every 36 square mile
township for the local settlers to fund and establish community schools. It
was an endowment designed to guarantee the opportunity for every ditch
diggers child to develop themselves into citizens capable of meeting the
definition of knowledgable, and improving their power and control over
themselves and their government. 

Two references for anyone who wants knowledge or understanding of the hippy
"culture". First, Aldous Huxley's "Doors of Perception". This was a primer
for the psychedelic experience read by many at the time. Then, Tom Wolfe's
"The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test", which will give some understanding of
the rituals of the times.

Bus culture is made of people who seek any of several basic things. Some
just recognize the excellent utility and economy the machine provides and
don't wave if a Bus has flowers painted on it, afraid they will be infected
by any interface with the creatons inside. Others buy busses primarily for
the image aspects in a neo-hippy experience, and wave to all T-II's and
beep at any vehicle with an eco-sticker. Who needs the economy and
functionality or multiple use more than a Dead-Head doing parking lot
parties and camping across the country following their cultural icons??? No
wonder that the T-II became a part of that ritual. Just another example of
something that the consensis proves is of highest utility for a particular
purpose.   


T.P. Stephens
Doktor Tim's

