From: mathisbeth(-at-)bigfoot.com
To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
Date: Sat, 01 Dec 2001 16:22:14 -0800 (PST)
Subject: '78 2.0L Rebuild

OK, I've just bought a rebuild kit and Jake Raby's Rebuild video (which I'm 
sure will prove invaluable during the rebuild process!)  I'm a first-time 
rebuilder and have some questions.  I'm at your mercy!

The reason for the rebuild is lots of clutch slippage in first gear, especially 
when clutching in a slow crawl.  This became very obvious in the Art Car Parade 
last year, and has now gotten bad enough to slip when moving the bus around my 
driveway, even from a dead stop.

My first impulse was to replace just the clutch.  The engine, and I believe 
clutch, are original and have 140K on them.  I eventually decided that as long 
as I was pulling the engine, I might as well go ahead and rebuild even though I 
have no engine troubles at all.  It starts immediately every time I try it, 
doesn't leak any oil, doesn't overheat according to my Gene Burg dipstick 
temperature gizmo.

Anyway, I consulted Muir, who said that clutch slippage could be the result of 
a problem with the flywheel (warped?).  Is this something I should suspect as 
the cause of the problem?  Once I remove the engine, is there any way to verify 
that my flywheel is reusable, or should I just buy a new one?  Of course, they 
are cheap cheap cheap for the older years but muy expensive for the '78.  Just 
my luck.

Jake Raby recommended new camshaft, which I will of course get.  He also 
recommended pistons and cylinders.  How can I tell if mine are reusable?  
Should I just automatically buy new stuff?  Can a machinist check them out 
while he's working on my crankshaft?

Does anyone know any good machine shops in Houston?  Hold that thought:  I'm 
even desperate enough to mail my stuff off, so will take advice on good machine 
shops in the U.S.!

Jake:  How do I get in touch with WebCam, your camshaft supplier?  Forgive me 
if it's at the end of the video, but I'm been overwhelmed and have run through 
disassembly and the beginning of assembly several times - haven't made it all 
the way through the video.

Any other parts I should just automatically replace - besides what's in a 
rebuild kit?  I'm open to any suggestion.

Thanks much for all your help!

Beth

---------------------------------------------------------------
Get Free Internet Access And WebEmail At http://www.address.com
