Date: Sat, 01 Dec 2001 16:09:21 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: Stan Wilder <wilden1(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Three oil changes

At 04:12 PM 12/01/2001 -0600, you wrote:
>
>Solution #1: Check the oil, found it like tar. Sent her after quart of
>Gunk Engine Flush, quart of Marvel Mystery Oil and case of oil and a
>filter.
>Ist measure: Drain enough oil to put a quart of Gunk motor flush in the
 Oil still real dark
>almost immediately. 

(Oil change)

 I pulled the
>dipstick and the oil was still black as tar (with only 35 miles on it
>*#(-at-)^7*&). whats going on here?).

(Oil change) 

 Checked the oil, yes
>black, yes thick, lifters still noisy. 

(Oil change)

 still very thick, very black. Removed and
>cleaned the strainer, installed new filter, 

>Seems in her leisure time she had called the widow of the previous owner
>and got the report that he always used a quart of ATF with each oil
>change for the ten plus years he owned it 

>The miracle: She drove this van 160 highway miles to get it to my house
>with that molasses viscosity engine oil.

So, my speculation is, the 3/4 load of detergents that a 3 qt oil/1 qt ATF
(ATF has no detergent addatives) oil change obviously let the varnish and
tar build up bigtime in the motor. That, added to change intervals no doubt
much too few and far between, meant the buildup was huge. Just amazing that
the motor survived without losing it's lunch. Varnish and tar build up
never BEGIN until the detergents are all busy and can no longer carry the
contamination. By definition, if your motor has varnish/tar inside, the
lube intervals have been inadequate to contend with the contamination. The
oil is a primary heat remover from the backsides of pistons and the case.
Think about the thermal transfer through even a 1/4" of tar. Nothing like
the same as bare metal. Something that happens as well is this buildup gets
backed to hard carbon inside the underneith of the pistons and begins to
break off in chunks of various sizes. This causes piston weight imbalance
and the bigger particles will clog the pickup screen and the smaller ones
will go to the oil pump for grinding into carbon sand thence on to the
filter to clog it very fast then bypass on to the bearings and cam lobes
for custom machine work in-situ. 

I had a Volvo in this week with the same problem. Had been diagnosed by
others with excessive blow-by. Confirmed compression from 175-129psi. Min
spec is 128psi. Max varience between cylinders is 28psi. Leak down of
weakest cylinder confirmed rings leaking. I told him of very much the same
procedure as Stan used in the above case. I told him as well there is risk
of a big load of junk loosened by the aggresive solvent addatives clogging
the pickup screen and lunching the motor with this process, not a big risk,
but it can and does happen. A safer method is more short run lube changes
with just clean oil, no solvent addatives. Far less chance of dumping a
bunch of asphalt into the pan and clogging the screen. Change the oil
filters, too. It might take only a few miles/minutes running to send a
lifetime of contaminants to the filter. After most of the heavy tars are
drained through repeated oil changes, then add a solvent to penetrate the
last vestiges of contamination remaining. 

Once you get to the point that you can run oil only 1000 and it's just
dark, not black, then your treatment can go to regular oil change intervals
determined by inspection, and you can then do a compression test to see if
the engine is viable. 

Expect the crankcase breathing system on these very poorly maintained
engines to be viciously clogged and clean it all out immediatly while
waiting for the first drain of tar globs and goo. Otherwise the pressure
buildup inside the crankcase can blow your oil passed the crank and pushrod
tube seals and the valve cover gaskets. In extreme case, it can blow the
crank seal lip right out to a badly puckered situation that requires a
bunch of wrenching to fix. Anyone who has problems with oil leaking should
first confirm the breathing system is clear and functional. This is more
espezially true if it still leaks after replacing seals or gaskets. You
will find cleaning of the breather in the Bentley maintenance listings,
just one more of the many items left off the "tune-up" and "quicky lube"
intinerary.   
T.P. Stephens
Doktor Tim's

