Date: Sat, 01 Dec 2001 20:29:43 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] '78 2.0L Rebuild

At 04:22 PM 12/01/2001 -0800, you wrote:
>
>OK, I've just bought a rebuild kit and Jake Raby's Rebuild video (which I'm 
>sure will prove invaluable during the rebuild process!)  I'm a first-time 
>rebuilder and have some questions.  I'm at your mercy!
>

Hold the phone there, Beth. The way to know when it's time or near time for
a rebuild is to do a compression test. Even at 140k, if the compression
balance meets specs (and the oil leaks aren't more than you can bear) drive
on. 

If compression is still good, pull the motor. Measure end play before you
remove the flywheel so you can make that adjustment if needed with a new
shim before you install the new oil seal and flywheel. Review Bentley or
Haynes for flywheel inspection procedure. Have it reground. I have yet to
see a flywheel so worn as it couldn't be reground. I have rejected a few
that had lots a purdy colors all through the metal as evidence of extreme
cruel heat. Too much chance of cracks running amock.

If you treat these motors to lots of clean oil through their whole life,
they can make 200k plus before finally failing a compression spec. Don't
assume you need rebuilding, confirm by standard procedure if a rebuild is
required or prudent. 

For the heads, pull a valve cover. Set an exhaust valve just pushed off
it's seat a coupla mm. Then push back and forth on the top of the valve
perpendicular to the horizontal meaning vertical. If it wobbles a bunch
(see specs) pull the heads for replacement and look over those pistons and
cylinders that still giving good compression seal. Be amazed by 140k of
finely oiled and mated surfaces with a very small ridge indeed. Set the
piston just below top dead center and feeler guage between the piston and
cylinder. Compare measure to spec. If it's out, do a complete long block
cause the bottom end is not likely to last as long as new heads and
cylinders will if assembled and operated properly.
T.P. Stephens
Doktor Tim's

