Date: Sun, 02 Dec 2001 11:24:12 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>(by way of Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)pop3.rockisland.com>)
Subject: addendum:::Re: [T2] Oil light flickers 


At 10:00 AM 12/02/2001 -0500, you wrote:
>> Now I wonder if there was some mix up and I actually have
>>someone else's crank. No way to find out at this point. 

>I mark all parts before sending to the machinist and check them when they
>get back. You only learn to do this kind of thing if you do more than one
>motor every 10 years.

Other things your learn about motor rebuilding when you start doing 3 or 5
or 7 motors per year.

Upon return of parts from the machinist, verify the balance of rods and
pistons. If those are good, then any resulting vibration can be know to be
elsewhere. If those are bad, like one piston is 8 grams out and you paid
for 0.5 gram, you can discuss it with the machinist and see about sending
everything back for verification. Or eat it and send it all to a better
machinist. Verify every spec you can yourself BEFORE assembly. 

Doing the right thing and replacing all the rod nuts??? Congratulations!!!
Count the nuts when they arrive. Guess what happens if there are 9 nuts.
You don't see the extra nut till it's together, then the only way to
confirm you didn't miss one is to tear it down. And if you risk it and in
fact you missed one, the rod comes off and gets hammered by the crank on
the next rotation and slams the rod throught the case. The case/crank/rod
are trash, the cam is likely bent, some lifters fouled and valves might get
bent. If the set is a nut short, good to know that before you get to that
last rod, then have to wait till next Saturday to continue your weekend
project. Certainty takes only counting all the parts before assembly and
best as soon as they arrive.

Verify the details. Use a hand glass and good light to look over all
critical parts. I sent rods to a top notch machinist once. When they
returned, I noticed vice jaw marks stamped into the the necks. I never
looked them over closely before I sent them. I know enough about this
machinist to know he will suffer no Turkey Necks in his shop, so it's safe
to assume in this case they came out of the motor that way from the PO's
last rebuild. When I asked him, "When you saw the stress risers, why did
you then go ahead and put the time/money into them for rebuilding and
balancing???" His comment, "I'm not responsible for the condition of the
client's rods." I sent them back and he supplied a good set with credit for
the first labor. These weren't VW rods. Each rod new cost about three times
the cost of a full set of new VW rods.

You really shouldn't do complete motor assembly without inside and outside
micrometers, a depth guage, a precision strait edge, and a trip balance or
scales. And guess what??? I'm not talking Chinese Cheese instruments
produced to sell in sets that cost half as much as just one real
micrometer. You have no way to verify specs and tolerances otherwise.
Plasti-Guage and feelers can relieve you of some micrometer duties, but not
all. Do you want to be that 1 in 100 client that the 99% perfect machinist
serves??? Verify empirical measures with redundant procedures. Take
repeated sets of measures to create effective means on critical running
clearances. You can prove .0002 inch with a .001 micrometer with proper
iterative measurement sets. It requires the very simplest statistical
principles only. Digital readout instruments are superb because most allow
push button conversion between metric and inch equivalents, and they
greatly reduce scale reading errors and blunders. Only good procedures can
prevent the inevitable human errors/biases/assumptions from getting into
the finished work. 


