Date: Sun, 02 Dec 2001 13:33:53 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Transmission - TRANS-VAIR - LONG


>
> > How much power can the Bus tranny put up with on a regular basis?  Some
>people use the Bus tranny for the Corvair conversion, what if you hopped up
>the Corvair 6,  I also saw an adapter for a Quad 4.  Any thoughts?
> >
> > Mike Clark

And Mike if no one warned you - you have to completely rebuild the Corvair 
engine so that it will spin backwards to match the input direction of the 
VW tranny. That is to say the Corvair spins backwards normally from the VW 
engine. It can be done with a reverse rotation cam, flipping the pistons, 
new distributor drive BUT why do all that work for a transmission that is 
still geared too low for all the new found power?

There are two methods: bolt a Corvair engine to an adapter plate and then 
to a VW tranny. Remember to reverse the engine so you have 4 forward gears 
and 1 reverse instead of 4 reverses and one very low forward gear. Anyhow 
the engine will last a long time rotating in reverse and the tranny will 
last a few years (I can usually find replacement trannies cheap every few 
years). If you are gentle with the tranny and keep it full of clean oil 
(probably a synthetic) I'll bet you'll get a long, long life out of it. 
Forget hard banging shifts as you race from light to light though. (Does 
anyone do this?)

If you are sure you want to go that route I have an early model engine and 
adaptor plate available for $125.

I went with the Trans-Vair conversion kit (there are used ones out there if 
you look long enough). A new kit from Clark's Corvair is about $650. Then 
you'll need an Corvair engine and transaxle. This is MUCH more expensive 
but also a better conversion. All the details needed get attention. 
Apparently you do NOT have to cut the VW to fit the engine in there (unless 
you are building a split window conversion???) but you will have to cut the 
Corvair tin to fit the VW.

I've got my pieces and am waiting (and reading) and talking with everyone 
that has ever done one of these and EVERYTHING looks good. The Corvair is 
not a bad engine but most need a little (cheap) attention in a few 
categories. Things like new oil seals (pushrods) so the heat doesn't stink 
of hot motor oil, carb rebuilds, cleaning up casting flash from the factory 
so it cools better, etc. Typical old aircooled engine stuff.

And yes putting a 1965 engine is a 1978 VW is a step backwards but not if 
you plan on adapting fuel injection etc. (Of course no worse than a 
carburetor converted 1978 Type IV engine). Not much was improved from 1965 
-> 1978 in engine design - that is crankshafts and connecting rods and such 
- the biggest improvements were external and those I can improve.

I hear 80 mph highway hill climbs are quite easy and I can't wait to pass 
my first slowpoke VW bus with mine (that will be hard because they are few 
in this area).

The VW is certainly restricted by it's drivetrain and it's suspension/brake 
package to operate at high speeds on the highway. That acknowledged - I 
hope to see more modern speeds with decent fuel mileage, and the ability to 
keep up on the hills. Everyone I have spoken to has said this is no 
problem. Carefully built Corvair cars can get 30 mpg or better (especially 
if they have had ignition and fuel injection improvements made). There is 
even a five speed transmission being offered - it mates a Corvair 
differential to Borg Warner T-5. Hmmm - how long 'til the 6 speed is 
offered? Did you know you could get factory positraction differentials for 
Corvairs? $$$!

I am happy with 60 mph but feel that here in the eastern hilly Tennesssee 
it's increasingly unsafe to be out there on the interstate running 10-20 
mph less than the surrounding traffic. I have no urge to run 80 but 70 (the 
speed limit) would be nice. We have certainly kept away from the crowded 
urban interstate areas when possible.

On a recent trip from TN to KY and back to adopt an English Setter we were 
running along at 75 mph in our Honda on open highway when we caught up with 
a tangle of traffic. Everyone was slowing, getting in the left lane, and 
rushing on. We caught up and passed a late bay Westy bopping along at a 
happy 60 mph. I understood but doubt our fellow motorists and truckers did. 
I saw that as a significant safety risk being the slowest thing out there.

We also caught up with a senior citizen fellow in a Buick running 45 MPH 
(!) in a 70 mph zone. It was dark and we were following another car which 
was not paying attention and which swerved to miss the Buick (boy did we 
get a surprise!). We slammed on the brakes b/c I could not jump to the left 
lane b/c of a big truck.

It's good to keep up.

Ciao!

Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE:       Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing and exhaust 
- make offer
                 5 Beauty rings for 13" wheels, very nice, no dents, packed 
ready to go, $40 (was my cost)

