Date: Tue, 03 Sep 2002 12:33:30 -0400
From: "Mark A. Thomas" <markt(-at-)duke.edu>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: door locks don't work

I'm having problems with the door locks on both driver and passenger 
side doors on my '66 bus (push button releases on handles).  They 
won't lock, either with the key or by pushing the handles on the 
inside.

I've taken the entire mechanism out of the door (several times) and 
think I understand how it works.  When the key is turned or the 
inside handle pushed forward, a metal catch is pushed into the way 
that blocks another metal paddle when the door button in pushed. 
When unlocked, the door button pushes in the metal paddle and the 
latch opens.

The mechanism seems to work smoothly when all disassembled.  And, if 
I reinstall the outside door handle very loosely (don't tighten the 
allen-head bolts very tight, so the handle is literally loose with a 
gap between it and the car), it will lock!  So, I figure that when 
the door handle is tightened down, it's parts press against parts in 
the door mechanism and keep the metal catch from moving all the way 
into position when you try to lock the door.  You can even feel that 
the key doesn't turn quite as far as when the handle's out.  But it 
just doesn't look like there's anything to get in the way, and you 
can't see what's going on once you get everything back in the door -- 
only when it's all taken out.

This happened gradually.  At first, you could sometimes get them 
locked, but they got worse and worse until they're completely bad 
now.  One door went bad about 6 months or a year before the other 
(which is pretty close timing considering it took around 33 years for 
them to go bad).  I was figuring that some metal flange was worn.  Is 
there something I can file or bend a little to get them to work?  It 
doesn't seem that there's anything wrong with the tumbler/key 
mechanism itself, but with the rest of the gizmo.  The key turns 
great and works fine on the middle door and rear hatch (ignition has 
been replaced).  The locks are originals, and the car has only abot 
128,000 miles on it, but mostly all city driving, getting in and out 
and using the door locks all the time. (It's been in the family since 
purchase, so I know the history.)

Any insight is appreciated.

thanks,
	Mark T.
	markt(-at-)duke.edu
	'66 De Luxe 13 window, 246 155 285

