Date: Tue, 3 Sep 2002 17:47:55 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Ronniemotor

>From: "Bob Getz" <bobg(-at-)carpartsinc.com>
>Date: Tue, 3 Sep 2002 14:48:42 -0400
>
>One odd thing though. Engine off, put on a blinker and the gas gauge 
>needle jumps in rythym.  Engine on, no needle jump but the blinker
>indicator light in the speedo no longer blinks. Weird.

You're using an aftermarket flasher relay with only 2 or 3 terminals.
The original VW part had 4 terminals and a slightly different circuit.
On all three kinds of flashers, one terminal is for the power input and
another is for the pulses to the lamps.  On a 2-terminal aftermarket
flasher the lamp pulse terminal is also the pilot light terminal.  On
a 3-terminal aftermarket flasher, the third terminal is for the pilot
light.  2- and 3-terminal aftermarket flashers are designed for most
American and Japanese cars, where one side of the pilot light is
grounded.  The pilot light terminal on the flasher switches +12v to the
pilot light to turn it on.  In a Bus, one side of the pilot light is
connected to +12v, so the flasher switches ground to the pilot light
to turn it on.  The VW flasher has a fourth terminal - ground - so it
can do this.

In your Bus, with the key on, one side of the pilot light is connected
to +12v.  When you turn on the turn signals, the other side of the pilot
light alternately has no connection or a connection to +12v.  No current
will flow in either case, so the light stays off.

With the key off, one side of the pilot light is still connected to
everything that only works with the key on - gas gauge, ignition coil -
but not connected to the battery.  When you turn on the turn signals,
the other side of the pilot light alternately has no connection or
a connection to +12v.  When the other side has no connection there's
no current and it doesn't glow, but sometimes the other side has +12v.
The gas gauge and ignition coil (if the points are closed) provide
a low enough resistance to complete the circuit and light the lamp,
but the current going through the gas gauge makes the needle jump.  

If you want to try an experiment, hook up your test light like you are 
going to set the timing and turn the engine by hand until the light
goes out (points closed).  Go up front and turn off the key, then hit
the turn signals.  Probably the pilot light will work and the gas
gauge won't jump, because the ignition coil is a better ground than
the gas gauge.

If you can get a #559 aftermarket flasher, it has 4 terminals like
the original VW part and will fix this problem.  If not, then you
need to do a little re-wiring on the back of the speedo.  The turn
signal pilot light bulb socket should have two push-ons - one with
a couple of black wires (+12v) and another with one blue wire (to
flasher).  Unplug the push-on with the two black wires and tape
it up.  Make up a short wire, preferably brown, 18 gauge is fine,
and put a push-on on one end.  Plug that end onto the empty terminal
on the pilot light socket.  Run the other end of the new wire to
a good ground - maybe put a ring terminal on it and put it under
a screw.  You have re-wired the pilot light to be between the
flasher output and ground, instead of the flasher output and +12v.

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds


