From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "Heath, Raymond E" <raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com>
Cc: "vintagebus vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 13 Aug 2003 17:34:12 -0600
Subject: Re: [VB] Engine sealant-found some good stuff

----- Original Message -----

> "Thick as toothpaste" and "never hardens", that sounds scary! Especially


Why does that sound scary? It works perfectly. "thick as toothpaste"
describes how it comes out of the tube, and "Never hardens" does not mean it
doesn't dry! It means it remains flexible, even at high temperatures.
Besides that, it's made by Elring (the friendly folks who make the engine
gasket kits for our VW's). It is designed to seal between machined surfaces.
Here's what it says on the tube:

"It forms an excellent seal where abnormally high internal pressures exist
even at extreme temperatures. Specially designed for finely machined
surfaces. Especially suitable for combustion engines, exhausst gas turbo
charges, gear units, turbines, generators, pipe threds, etc. Surfaces
recieving the sealant should be cleaned from grease and dirt. Apply thin
layer by brush or other suitable means. Cure time 5 to 10 minutes approx.
Unaffected by : extensive curing time.
Temperature range is from approx. -40 degreed celcius to approx. +250
degrees celcius.
Keep out of reach of children"

250 degrees celcius is about 482 degrees farenheit. It remains unaffected up
to these temps. Sounds good to me, as even the heads themselves (should)
only reach 375 under normal operating.

I hope someone that read it found it interesting or useful. I'm not trying
to sell it to anyone, nor am I challenging anyone to tell me of another
sealant that is better, i'm not trying to start a "my sealant is better than
yours" thread. Just a "This worked great for me, here's some info on it if
anyone else is interested".

BTW, crack open a recent motor from the VW factory in Mexico, and check out
the sealant they're using. Identical to this stuff, except it's blue instead
of green. There are a number of serious engine builders out there using this
stuff, because it doesn't leak, and when/if an engine has to be torn down,
it cleans up incredibly easy. I've seen engine's that have been assembled
for years using this stuff and no leaks yet. This is the first time that I
have actually used it myself, and thought I would pass on some first hand
experience.

"I would be interested on the longevity of your engines."

Is this to say you don't think I can build a motor that lasts? Am I reading
this the wrong way?

Eric Allred
64 Bus
