Date: Wed, 13 Aug 2003 19:51:51 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: 6V Starter

>From: Westfalia <swharris(-at-)adelphia.net>
>Date: Wed, 13 Aug 2003 06:01:19 -0700
>
>I have a 6v starter that I can't get to spin.

Not to belabor the obvious, but make sure you're hooking it up right.
Battery negative to starter case, battery positive to big bolt on
the solenoid.  Use a piece of 14 gauge wire to jump battery positive
to the small push-on or screw solenoid terminal.

Can you spin the armature by hand?  If you can, turn it a little and
try putting the juice to it.  If it doesn't spin, take the juice
away and turn a little more and try it again.  (Don't try spinning
it by hand with the juice on; if it starts moving it may eat your
fingers.)  If you have a bad winding or two on the armature, you
might be able to find a good winding where it will start moving.
If you put a starter like this in the Bus, sometimes you'll have
to put it in gear and push it a foot or three to find the sweet
spot for the starter.

>I pulled the end cap off thinking I would clean up the brushes and
>comutator, but my soldering iron would not get hot enough to remove
>the brushes from the bracket.

For all the starters in the Bentley, you don't have to unsolder the
brushes to get the end cap / brush holder off, but yours might be
different.  Are the springs pushing the brushes firmly against the
commutator?  Is one of the brushes very much shorter than the others?

Two of the brushes should be grounded to the starter body.  The other
two should connect to the field coils.  The other ends of the field
coils connect to the big bolt on the solenoid via the wire or strap
that comes out of the side of the starter body.  An ohm meter or a
powered test light should show continuity between that wire/strap
and both brushes that are connected to the field coils.  If not, you
have a bad connection or the field coils are open.  You should not
show any continuity between the wire/strap and the starter body,
or between the field coil brushes and the starter body.  If you do,
the field coils are grounding out on the body somewhere.

If you take yours to an auto-electric shop (not a chain parts store)
or maybe even an electric motor shop, they may be able to rebuild or
rewind it.  Make sure they understand it's 6 V and you want it to
stay that way.

Matt Roberds
