From: "jdd" <johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 13 Aug 2003 21:44:31 -0400
Subject: Re: [VB] re:cup holder

There is a guy from ... NJ.  He is a cabinet maker.  It's his bus that is in
a number of, I think, Wolfgang Int. ads that appear in the first few pages
of Hot VW's.  It is a 65 or 66 with a dormoble top.  It's lots of different
colours - there is a word to describe the pattern but it escapes me.
Anyway, his camper is very cool.  It has a jump seat and the back of the
seat is on hinges such that he can store stuff back there.  The bottom of
the jump seat has a door where he keeps a portapottie.

Anyway,  he has a cup holder that is made of wood and clips on the parcel
tray.  It's kinda hard to describe.  I'm sure I can't describe it but ...
anyway.  There were two pieces of wood that ran parallel with the doors -
maybe 8" long and maybe 4" high.  The end that went on the parcel tray was
cut out kinda like a C or a G.  If you imagine a G shape with the parcel
tray fitting into the opening of the G or a C and the bottom of the C <--- 
sticks out further to the right then the top then you have a shape that will
stay on the parcel tray with out just falling off.  Like if he cut a large C
out of a piece of wood and slide it over the parcel tray it would just fall
to the floor.  But, if you extended the bottom of the C the right amount it
would be stable and not fall to the floor.  Anyway, he had two boards with
the C or G shape cut out at one end of each and those boards ran in the same
plane as the doors.  Then he had two boards that ran in the same plane as
the floor - one above the other.  The upper had two holes drilled in at
about 2 1/2" in diameter through which you dropped your cups.  The lower
board was solid.  The two boards were identical in size.  Maybe 6" by 3
1/2".  The two boards with the G or C cut out were placed about 6" apart and
the two boards were screwed between them.  My description is awkward but his
cup holder was very elegant.  I plan on making one just like it.

jdd 60 std, 78 westy
