From: dave jersey <maduncledave(-at-)charter.net>
To: kombi1976(-at-)yahoo.com
Date: Thu, 14 Aug 2003 08:34:24 -0400
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Thoughts on modified Sp heads

Andy and all

The 1300 heads should be fine.  The placement on the case studs is the same
as the 1500/1600 engines.  The ports are a bit smaller so they won't flow as
well as the later heads.  You mentioned an oil starvation issue in the donor
engine.  Look well at the rocker assemblies for wear, galling and spalling
(cool words anyhow).  For head to case studs torque specs, use what is listed
for the year engine case, but the 1300 specs for the rockers.  Check and see,
I think the 1300 heads have the short rocker studs.  The Wilson book and St
Muir both cover that aspect.  Torque accordingly.

Also, the 1300 heads, having the smaller intake port, have a similarly sized
intake manifold.  Off the top of my head, I don't recall the stroke of the
1300 so am unsure if manifold width would be an issue.

Did I mention be particular about which torque specs to use?

Seems to me that SP heads will do well on almost any engine.  What I tend
to keep in mind is in reality it comes down to what is it you want from the
engine?

They may not flow as well as DP heads with monster valves and mirrored ports,
but you're putting it in a bus right?  If you want 200+ hp and smoky
burnouts, sell the bus and buy a japtoyhondatsaccord.

If you want a solid reliable engine for your bus they should do fine.
 As it stands, I prefer single to dual port.  They tend to not crack around
the spark plug hole.  I believe they have more metal and that they tend to
run a little cooler, though I have no measuerments to prove it.

One of the project engines I'll be doing in the nexy year or so is a SP 1776
doghouse topped with a PICT 30 carb for the 65 doublecab.  I know it sounds
funky but I believe it'll work fine.  If anyone out there has already built
one, please let me know how it worked out.  I know the PICT30 sounds small
but I'm building for bottom end, asnd I already have the case, jugs n'slugs
etc.

Mad Uncle Dave
