From: "incynr8" <incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 15 Aug 2003 09:07:28 -0400
Subject: FW: [VB] What the son said [67 rebuild - cracked case]

Co---BULLSHIT!---ugh!!! AGHM...

I'm not going to assume there really is a 912E motor or some type of mega
power type 4 conversion. That aside, there is no 'motor' brace, unless we
want to count the transmission. The trans mounts to your torsion tube at the
front with a big mount, and onto a cross piece with two isolators.  The
front one toast should creat shifting problems, and life isn't good if the
rears are shot too in shift land.

Your engine mounts to the tran with two studs and bolts, and 2 large bolts
with two bolts into nuts, one nut is captured into the case in later stuff.
THERE ARE NO OTHER BRACES UNTIL BAY WINDOWS CAME OUT. These buses had
another brace across the pulley area of the engine and a splitty doesn't
have or need it, even if it is the rare 6-12v converted 1967... Not that
adding one would hurt, but it's not required to prevent a case from
'flexing'...

You also can't FIX a cracked or damaged anything by reinforcing it, that
won't undo any damage. I am uncertain as to how your case is damaged, I
suppose it is likely it is cracked about a mounting point/hole if forced to
guess. To 'fix' that, you need a new case, which bascially means rebuilding
the entire thing again, if it is to be done right at all.

Having been f'ed by self proclaimed 'experts' in the past, my best
suggestion is to get in bus and drive away, and forget about losses.
Sticking around will just cuase those painful numbers to increase.
There are people here that are good vendors and builders, wish I found them
before I burnt over 2Gs myself with looser shops that think they have a
clue. It took another 2Gs and months of patience to overcome my screwing,
but the piece of mind that an honorable person who takes pride in doing it
right means a lot to me.


Motor flex..... My (-at-)ss.... "Yeah, your 57HP SP was SOOOO powerful due to
that 'header' you have it cracked it's own case under flex.." Sure....
Pardon my jaded coarseness, I hate reading this stuff worse then when I was
the one writing it...


Oh yeah, incynr8 is back after hibernating all summer....
66 DLX, soon to be on pavement again (well, besides the driveway)




...
I called to see how the progress was going on the bus .. The father wasn't
there, but one of the sons answered. I said "have you figured out what
caused the case to crack."  He said .. "that the motor flexing."  I said
"huh ?? what does that mean .."  and he stumbled around for words and
basically said "we are fixing it with a brace."  Anyone have any idea what
he is saying or what it means ?? I will drill the owner better if I know
what I am supposed to ask.

Diane
