Date: Wed, 11 Jan 2006 16:59:07 -0500
To: "Billy P" <wfp3(-at-)lycos.com>
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Accident

Date: Wed, 11 Jan 2006 14:54:46 -0500

Guy runs a red light in a pickup and is halfway into the intersection by the
time I see him because I'm too busy verifying the fact that I have a green 
light before
proceeding thru.

I swerve, but not enough, catch his front bumper on the bottom of my front
door, steering overcorrection brings the rest of the bus back on his bumper
from mid-slider to the last few inches right over the bodywork and paint I've
been doing for the last month.

.................Were you stopped at the light before you entered the 
intersection? If so, it is illogical to believe that you who were lawfully 
stopped at a red light had suddenly decided to illegally start your bus 
through the intersection against a red light. And judges at least should be 
logical.  And if you were legally entering the intersection on a green 
light, that implies that the pickup driver was in the intersection on a red 
light, because the yellow goes off when the green comes on for cross-street 
drivers.  If you present it this way, and have a witness that saw you start 
through the intersection on green, then you win in court.

Impact knocks me over the yellow lines and off the road up onto the grass on
the other side.

CA plates with 'barely' expired tags gets no love from the cop.

Guy seems cool, but later reports a claim to my insurance saying he had right
of way.
Insurances will likely deny each other's claims, and I have liability only so
I'm a$$ out.

......................but your insurance company will want to prove that 
the accident was not your fault, and will fight the case in court if you 
give them evidence that you were stopped at a red light and only went into 
the intersection when your light had turned green. And if they win, then 
you can require the pickup driver to pay for the damages he caused while 
running a red light. And his liability insurance  will be required to pay 
those damages.

I have a witness, but the cop didn't put him in the report because he left me
his phone number before the cop got there.

.........................you have a witness to what? (A) That you were 
stopped at the red light? That would be good. (B) that you started through 
the intersection when your light turned green? That would win the case for 
you and substantiate that the pickup driver ran a red light and hit 
you.    Doyt

Thoughts?

Billy
M'boro, TN
