Date: Tue, 02 Mar 2010 17:44:05 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "T.P. Stephens" <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] WARNING!!!! (related to Steering box)

At 05:05 PM 3/2/2010, you wrote:
>euromax on the whole seems to me to be a primarily price driven
>company.

Name any dozen VW parts suppliers. 11 of them are just like euromax.

Most VW newbies buy an old VW because they think they are CHEAP cars.
As what they bought has been juris rigus by 7 prior CHEAP PO's, they
need LOTS of parts. Not lots of real parts, but lots of CHEAP parts.
The vast majority of the market screams for CHEAP. The vendors supply
them per market demand. The vendor won't buy real parts cause they
can't sell them so they don't order them. So the manufacturer of real parts
quits making them. No sense making things that won't sell.

>  they have a huge breadth of product, and some is good
>quality but most is economy grade product. in the past few years i
>have seen more and more euromax parts in the market and most or them
>are marginal in terms of how they stack up against the original
>genuine VW parts. we need big companies like euromax to wake up to
>the new reality that the vintage VW parts market has changed and
>people want, and will pay for, quality parts.

I wish it were so.

>  i don't buy the
>argument any more than all VW people are cheapskates and only want
>the cheapest parts. it simply isn't so any more. people want quality.

Oh, come on. How in the world do you think China can control 80% of our
market for consumer goods. Cause FEWER people want quality, and
fewer of those DEMAND quality. No, the vast majority want factories run
on a bag of rice a day for to pay the coolies to hand file that sucker round,
cause that's CHEAPEST.

That's the way it is in the USA today. And that's why things don't roll so
smooth anymore, and this bumpy ride were now on is no mystery at all
to me.

I sold the shop, the Porsche and the Mercedes. I still got the Bus. And
I bought a BMW R100RS. Just bought last week 80, countem 80, NOA NOS
spark plugs for that puppy. I'll hoard enough for my machine and sell the
rest when the last of those who want the right plugs will pay a hefty
premium. Let em put their money where their mouth is. I search the world
every day for REAL parts. Do likewise and don't be worried about the masses.
They don't want what we're after anyway.
