Date: Wed, 03 Mar 2010 19:31:00 -0500
To: Michael Rule <manikmike(-at-)gmail.com>
From: mikes(-at-)flatsurface.com (Mike S)
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] tires - wheel size tangent

At 03:23 PM 3/3/2010, Michael Rule wrote...
>A New Q:  During an off-the-cuff chat with another list member, it was
>suggested that my Vanco2 tires are incorrect for my 79 as they are not
>"commercial/ reinforced", regardless of  the Vanco2 'D' Load Range, 
>Load
>Index of 1764lbs and 8ply sidewall.
>
>That is, "The number of plys means nothing, if it isn't rated
>commercial/reinforced."
>
>I disagree,

And you're absolutely correct, to some extent.

There are only 2 things that matter - the load rating, and whether 
you're looking at passenger car or light truck tires. I have a Vanagon, 
so the numbers below apply there. The breadloaf is similar, though.

VW considers the Bus/Type2/Vanagon, etc. a light truck. When they 
originally spec'd tires, light truck tires were rated by ply ratings 
(6PR, 8PR, etc.) and/or letter load ranges (A, B, C, etc.).  For light 
truck tires, they spec'd a 185/14 6PR/load range C. (6PR is the same as 
load range C, so either marking is OK).

For passenger car tires, they spec'd a reinforced tire. "Reinforced" 
(the term "Extra Load" is also used) in this context only means that 
the tire is specified to have a significantly greater load handling 
capacity than a standard passenger car tire of the same size.

With the tire designation system in place at the time, all of those 
ratings, PR, letter load range, and "reinforced" (or "extra load"), 
would modify the load rating of _the base tire size_. Think of them as 
multipliers. The standard rating for a given size is in a table in some 
SAE spec somewhere, I suppose. It predates the web, I'm not a member of 
the SAE, and haven't found any authoritative source for that info.

Back to the subject, a 6PR rated tire of one size might have a 
different load carrying ability than a 6PR rated tire of a different 
size - but in a given size, 6PR carried more load than a 4PR. Those 
ratings still appear on tires for backward compatibility with older 
specifications. (i.e. for someone looking for a 185R14C 6PR light truck 
tire or a 185R14 reinforced passenger car tire, like VW van owners)

The more modern system uses numeric codes to indicate the _actual_ load 
a tire can carry, _regardless of the size_. A 97 (1609 lb) rating can 
occur on tires of different sizes. This makes things MUCH simpler, 
especially if changing tire sizes. When using this system, the PRx, 
reinforced, etc. ratings simply aren't needed.

So, the actual load capacity of a tire is the first thing to consider.

Next, when used in a light truck application, passenger car tire 
ratings need to be derated by 9% (because light trucks have a higher 
center of gravity, so weight shifts are more severe, are expected to be 
loaded near capacity more often, etc.).

Reference: http://www.tirerack.com/tires/tiretech/tirespecskey.jsp

For use on a Vanagon, a passenger car tire must be load rated 97 (1609 
lbs). And that is exactly what VW used when they provided passenger car 
tires as original equipment on the Vanagon, toward the end of its life. 
When derated by 9%, that 1609 lbs becomes 1464 lbs. That is the closest 
match to the GAWR-rear (the heavier axle (-at-) 2866 lbs., 2 tires on a 
axle, so tire rating of >1433 needed), without going under. The next 
step down, a 96 (1565 lb.) rating, would derate to 1424 lbs., too low 
for the Vanagon's weight rating.

If VW were spec'ing tires today, they would say use a light truck tire 
of load range 93 (1433 lbs) or greater. That _exactly_ matches the 
GAWR-rear (maximum rear axle load) rating of 2866 lbs. Or, use a 
passenger car tire of load rating 97 or higher, which when derated 
properly, is as close as you can get without going under.

That's all.

Tires don't have to be 6PR, or have a "C" at the end, or say 
commercial, or anything else. They just need a light truck (i.e. derate 
passenger car tires by 9%) load rating which matches up to the GAWR. 
Simple, once you understand the history and marking systems.
