To: muts(-at-)verizon.net
Cc: mikes(-at-)flatsurface.com,doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com,type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 3 Mar 2010 21:24:28 -0800
From: baillybusbarn <baillybusbarn(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] tires - wheel size tangent

I guess I might as well get my two cents worth in here too.

To experience the difference between "good" and "not so good"
tires on a Bus (NOT "WEDGE", Vanagon) you have to drive a couple 
of hundred over a period of 30+ years.

There is a remarkable difference between the "correct" reinforced
sidewall tires and everything else, regardless of weight rating.

I am running 10 year old Conty Contact tires that have the proper 
pressure rating AND reinforced sidewall plainly printed on the 
sidewall.... its dark so I am not going to go out right now and 
read what all else is on there.  

Unneeded but installed anyway, (for the winter of no snow) I bolted on
my studded snows of forgotten brand. Not reinforced, Max 35 psi, C load
rated and thought I had flats in the rear for several days before I just
got used to holding on much tighter at any speed over 50 in the wind.

With the Conty's the handling is so much more secure, and the difference
is
that the sidewalls don't fold under the weight of my Riv.  Follow another

Bus with weak tires sometime and it will shock you just how much movement

there is in the wrong directions on turns. 

I have driven Buses with every possible tire combination there is from
maypops
to mud terrains to the very best Michelin.  Get tires of the correct
size, with 
reinforced sidewalls (look at the number of plies in the sidewall....
should be 
AT LEAST two) keep them inflated close to the recommended factory
pressures and 
your Bus and your passengers will be much happier.  

Nearly correct tires are out there.   Search 185/80 14 at Tire rack.

Like EVERYTHING else in the automotive world, tire technology really
hasn't changed all 
that much in the last 50 years or so. Tire design is much the same today
as when the 
first "radial cord" tires appeared. They are just cheaper to make, from
lesser
materials and for most new cars are installed with very little safety
margin.  Our
chosen method of transport is heavy, has a very high center of gravity
and tiny 
tires, but they handle well and can carry just about anything you can fit
inside,
if you have the right tires.  Get as close as you can to "factory"...
you'll be 
glad you did.



Larry................back at the barn
When do you want to go to Haiti?  I can make it happen.
I have my tickets for my next trip to Haiti.  I'll be there 
from April 7 to April 21.  In the next year I hope to be making
a trip back to Vietnam (I was there on a different type of mission 
40 years ago).  Army 1968-1970
