Date: Thu, 04 Mar 2010 05:00:23 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "T.P. Stephens" <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] tires - wheel size tangent

At 08:21 PM 3/3/2010, you wrote:
>Somewhere in my memory (of 71 Camper days) I thought the 8 ply 
>rating was when tires had bias ply construction and fibers not as 
>strong as today's?  So now they can be rated 8 ply when they 
>actually have less, but what does this do for the stiffness?

The new age fibers are both much stronger and lighter than the nylons 
of the past. But they are used to create a large variety of characteristics.

The characteristics of the commercial tires we need are as follows:

It costs more to make such a tire. They will never be found in the 
tire store weekend loss leader ads. Expect a day or two at least to 
get them from the warehouse. Special orders from the warehouse are 
always exempted from the "buy three get one free" sales specials.

They don't come in light load ranges. If it is commercial rated the 
carrying capacity will take care of our Buses load spec just fine.

The sidewalls are very stiff. The no. of sidewall plys is virtually 
irrelevant. You can make an 8 ply sidewall with great flexibility. 
You can also make it very firm with fewer plys. But for our Buses, 
very firm sidewalls make a very big difference in handling. If you go 
from a typical LT tire to a spec tire, this characteristic will stand 
out immediately, as it is just stunning. The Bus becomes very nimble, 
firm in the corners, and just drives like it is happy. No more 
slumped shoulders, now princess, shoulders back, book balanced on 
head grace. You cannot get this from just pumping up the pressure 
till the eagle grins on any passenger or LT tire. I can drive any Bus 
without looking at the tires and tell you if the tires are spec via 
this characteristic alone.

The pressure maximums are very high. Just typical of commercial truck 
tires who's primary purpose is high loading of cargo.

  Very few tire salesmen will have a clue. They see a light van drive 
up so they just assume they got a tire for you. They are highly 
skilled in directing you to something in stock that fits. Their job 
is to get your money NOW. If they can sell you bigger wheels and 
tires, they just get giddy in anticipation of the bonus commission in 
their paycheck. The primary tools of the pro saleman are the tricks 
of the charletans of all times. Expect "no problem, lady" "yeah you 
bet in stock" "yeah, you bet, we specialize in VW vans" "and I can 
give you a special price today only".

Very few manufacturers will make them in small sizes. That's why they 
are never in stock at the local tire store. The smallest typical 
vehicles that use them are 1 ton and larger, 16 inch wheels and 
larger. Think in terms of Ford F350 and F450 cube vans and the 
smallest of the big brown UPS local delivery trucks.

I has always been and always will be difficult to find 185x14C tires. 
I just looked, and the C spec Continentals I got some 6 years ago are 
no longer made or at least do not show in any USA supplier of 
Continentals on the web. I've got about 30k on them and they are not 
half used yet, but I have a lightly loaded Kombi. Still, when I need 
a new set, I expect an effort of weeks or more to identify a 
source.  It just is not going to happen with a few clicks on the web.

I haven't checked to see if Les Swaub still supplies the Chen Shin 
they always had in past years that was indeed correctly rated for ALL 
Bus specs. If you go to a Swaub shop in a big metro area out west, 
you have a good chance of finding someone who knows indeed the 
special needs for the VW Bus/Vanagon, as they supply several dozen 
sets per year (so just might even be in stock), not just 2 or 3 like 
most shops. It would be of interest to swing by the local VW 
dealership and just see what is being mounted to the current 
production T-5 vans. Who knows, they may well still supply real spec 
Vanagon tires that will fit our Buses. Just another possibility not 
be be ignored.

I know this. I will not put one dime down on any tire until I have 
first put my eyes on it to VERIFY it meets ALL specs.
