Date: Thu, 4 Mar 2010 15:39:29 -0800
From: Andy McKinley <airhedz(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] tires - wheel size tangent

So much has been written about tires on this list. I think that's why the
archives are broken.

See: http://tinyurl.com/ydsscjo

I, too, finally gave up looking for any good mud and snow tires in 14". Yes,
you can get the hankooks or vancos, but they are basically street tread.
Yes, I know the hankooks are "rated"M+S. I used to run the Bridgestone
Dueller AT's, but they quit making them in 14".

I hade these 15x6.5" rims made from original centers at Stockton Wheel in
Stockton, CA. I don't recall the offset, but I'll look it up if anyone is
interested enough to pmail me.

I have absolutely no problems with this setup. I don't have the fender
clearance issues that are advertised by the vendor of the 15x7" rims. The
only clearance issue I do have is a slight rub of the tread on the bumped
out area as shown in the last picture, and it only happens when the wheel is
turned fully to one side and the suspension is compressed. Obviously, a
shorter profile tire would work fine.

These tires are a good bit taller than the stock spec tires. My speedo reads
a little closer to actual now, as verified via onboard GPS. The 79 fuel
injection/electronic ignition limits the revs. so my top speed has increased
(to what I don't yet know, but it's more than 94mph. Yes, it was downhill).
The decrease in "pull" is hardly noticeable. Ground clearance has increased,
and these tires will roll over a curb or parking block without hesitation.

I have had correct reinforced tires, passenger car tires, correct LT tires
and now these 15" LT tires on various vans over the years. The passenger car
tires are definitely a hazard. The handling quality of the LT and reinforced
tires are the same. Tire quality and good shocks make more difference, IMHO.
I have the Koni shocks on all for corners, adjusted to the mid setting. The
handling and braking is, quite frankly, amazing.

From the horse's mouth. I've got it, and it works.

Andy





On Thu, Mar 4, 2010 at 9:05 AM, C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc. <
c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net> wrote:

> With all this knowledge and brainpower working on the tire problem, anyone
> have some insight into 15" tires for the older buses? I'll soon need to
>



-- 
Andy McKinley
airhedz(-at-)gmail.com

Love your country, but never trust its government.
-- Robert A. Heinlein.
