Date: Thu, 4 Mar 2010 17:58:13 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] tires - wheel size tangent

First up for all of this  HAS ANYONE NOTICED THE BFG T/A KO IS NOW COMING IN
195/75R14!!!!
 
Hate to shout, but it deserves it, that is simply incredible, an incredible
tire, all time best thing in 27x8.5R14 ever for a syncro now in a size likely
to fit a bus easily, AND a D loader with 65psi inflation !!!
 
When did (and why the hell) did they start making that, I can't imagine the
market for it, perhaps early Ford Rangers.  $125 from TR though, ooof, and I'm
in AK, ooof.
 
Anyway, I've been resisting getting into this fray, but...  I'll second Andy
here.  First of all, I'm a firm believer of putting on good tires when you buy
new sets and can $$$, but I've had scores of buses and vanagons come to me
that I've passed on riding on everything from crap passenger tires to very
nice D loaders.  If the tire was new, I drove it, and probably sold it with em
on it unless horribly bad.  I've had 3-4 blowouts in 20 years, 35+ buses,
vanagons, EVs, 2 of them admittedly with the same crap Michelin but sold by
Sears passenger rated tires (on 2 seperate vans) whose specific model name I
don't recall (though I visually knew that tire by sight in the 90s) and one
oddly with a near new Yoko D loader, the one that had a modicum of tread (the
Y372? I don't recall now days.)  I for one agree, all current offerings, even
the Hankooks are worthless for real snow, though they are certainly better
than the Vancos.  I've hated every
 Conti Vanco ever offered in bus/vanagon/EV size, and I hated the Agillis as
well when still in bus size.  Best tire ever for traction/year round use IMHO
was still the lowly reinforced XZX, for shame on Michelin for the Agillis, I
still don't understand how I could drive 2wd vanagons where I did in snow on
XZXs.
 
Anyway point is I've also had more than 1 bus come to me with 15" MBZ alloys
or some odd steels running "low profile" (in an 80s sense, though in todays
world that is a woeful misnomer) tires in 205/70, 205/75, and EVs in 205/65
15s.  Not all have even been LT rated, 2 of my 5 EVs with just passenger
tires, though the LT do help.  The lower the sidewall profile, and wider the
tire, the more the load carrying capacity, and the less sidewall flex, whether
it is truely reinforced or not, and as many have long mentioned the higher the
speed rating (at least in the day) likely the stiffer the sidewall.  
Generally speaking I've never much felt an improvement comparing a set of any
iteration of Vanco's or Agillis to any reasonable name brand tire that has
come to me on a rig if the load rating was at least a 95-96 and the inflation
good for at least for 44psi (and that takes in a LOT of better mere passenger
tires volks.) Have better tires I've had with
 102 or better load ratings felt better, sure, but I've had those same good
tires feel far worse than passenger tires when on buses with worn shocks, tie
rods, and steering boxes.  All this said, I think I emailed Chris weeks ago as
then he might have been looking for a bigger size to run on 15's.  For that
the utility seems less to me, as if you want to go big for real, have the
power to spin em, and a way to fit em, you can still likely get a couple
27x8.5R14s, though geez I see today TR has only a crappy General Grabber.
 
I guess my point to all this is don't think that cause a bunch of loud mouth
idiots just like me that have been on this list forever say you need to have a
D loader tire that going and dropping $500-600 on a set is going to make your
bus handle a bit better, they might, they darn well might not that much as
well.  If you need new tires, sure do it (and I'd get the BFGs if you don't
mind a bit of road noise.)  If you got something on there with under a 92 load
rating though, and a 35psi inflation or less, you do risk a blowout, plain and
simple, if you are unloaded one person in a non camper, sure you MIGHT be OK,
if not those I would take off.  Oh but my '69 SC is coming with a new set of
just those sort of tires....   Hmmn guess I better not ever put anything in it
for a while.   Hmmn, there are a set of pre-Vanco Conti's out on the syncro
(which I do like), but those must be 15 years old...  Wonder which is worse. 
Hmmn, wonder how much to
 ship those BFGs to Alaska.
 
Anyway I do like these talks, cause times do change, and 14" tires in general
are dissapearing.  Like I said last time this was up, wish Coker or someone
would start molding some 185R14 XZXs on a reinforced carcass, though their
offerings admittedly sometimes are better suited for trailer queens.
 
Final thought I notice surfing TR, General Altimax an "all season" XL
passenger in 205/70R14 with a respectable 98LR (1653lb) and 51psi inflation
for a whopping $59 each!!!  Might be a very nice budget choice, might be crap,
who knows...  Price is right though.
 
John


--- On Thu, 3/4/10, Andy McKinley <airhedz(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:



I have had correct reinforced tires, passenger car tires, correct LT tires
and now these 15" LT tires on various vans over the years. The passenger car
tires are definitely a hazard. The handling quality of the LT and reinforced
tires are the same. Tire quality and good shocks make more difference, IMHO.
I have the Koni shocks on all for corners, adjusted to the mid setting. The
handling and braking is, quite frankly, amazing.
