From: "vanagonvw" <vanagonvw(-at-)gmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 5 Mar 2010 12:23:58 -0700
Subject: Great Video on Dangerous Tires

> Had a bunch of members contact me off list about the video I posted
> responding the other day, thought it was worth sending out to the
> group as a
> whole.
>
>
>

Information is a good thing, but just flat lying is a disgraceful concept.
Where are the  statistics about accidents caused by old tires? How often
does it happen? This video is typical John Stossel because it offers no hard
facts. The sad video clip of the tires along the highway that they showed
several times, are photographs of 18 Wheeler recaps that blow apart all the
time, and are not the same issue as older tires.

No doubt, we would all be better off if we all had brand new tires every
five years, but until someone shows the stats that reveal how many incidents
of a tire coming apart cause accidents, its kind of an alarmist attitude. I
would focus on drunks, cell phones, makeup artists, and lunch eaters before
I got too worried about the age of a tire.

If anyone is like me, I own three vehicles. Does anyone really expect me to
throw my tires away after 6 years or less, on all three vehicles? Given the
cost of easily $400, and much more for most tires mounted and balanced, that
are probably already two or three years old (not too much to expect) its
impossible and ridiculous to consider that action. Each vehicle goes maybe
8K miles per year. I buy tires guaranteed for 70,000 miles, and have to
throw them awaybefore even their half life? Don't wait up for that.

Just the tire companies wanting to make more money, and another reason for
the government to step on our toes, and make our lives miserable, and our
wallets more empty.

Again Mr. Stossel, we need hard numbers. The death of one person is
unspeakably painful and a waste, but how many regulations do we need, and
will that guarantee that not one person would die from a bad tire anyway?

Tough call, but I am loathe to believe that the tires sit for four years,
and when I buy it, I only have two years to use them before my life is at
risk. Seems a bit over the top to me. Always good to pay attention to your
tires, and not just ignore the possibilities, but good grief. Toss them
after six years? Never gonna happen.....

Happy Friday,

John
