Date: Fri, 21 Nov 2008 07:59:50 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: fw: GM must re-make the mass transit system it murdered

	Being as how it's Friday {in New Zealand}, and several 
listees have lately opined similarly on USA mfrs, here's a vigorous 
attack on GM.
	Mind you, how much more can be said for VW just now is 
evidently hard to guage.  Few of these gangs are making what we think 
people need.

RM

=====

http://www.freepress.org/columns/display/7/2008/1696


Harvey Wasserman

GM must re-make the mass transit system it murdered

November 16, 2008


Bail out General Motors?  The people who murdered our mass transit system?

First let them remake what they destroyed.

GM responded to the 1970s gas crisis by handing over the American 
market to energy-efficient Toyota and Honda.

GM met the rise of the hybrids with "light trucks."

GM built a small electric car, leased a pilot fleet to consumers who 
loved it, and then forcibly confiscated and trashed them all.

GM now wants to market a $40,000 electric Volt that looks like a 
cross between a Hummer and a Cadillac and will do nothing to meet the 
Solartopian needs of a green-powered Earth.

For this alone, GM's managers should never be allowed to make another 
car, let alone take our tax money to stay in business.

But there is also a trillion-dollar skeleton in GM's closet.

This is the company that murdered our mass transit system.

The assertion comes from Bradford Snell, a government researcher 
whose definitive report damning GM has been a vehicular lightening 
rod since its 1974 debut.  Its attackers and defenders are legion. 
But some facts are irrefutable:

In a 1922 memo that will live in infamy, GM President Alfred P. Sloan 
established a unit aimed at dumping electrified mass transit in favor 
of gas-burning cars, trucks and buses.

Just one American family in 10 then owned an automobile.  Instead, we 
loved our 44,000 miles of passenger rail routes managed by 1,200 
companies employing 300,000 Americans who ran 15 billion annual trips 
generating an income of $1 billion.  According to Snell, "virtually 
every city and town in America of more than 2,500 people had its own 
electric rail system."

But GM lost $65 million in 1921. So Sloan enlisted Standard Oil (now 
Exxon), Philips Petroleum, glass and rubber companies and an army of 
financiers and politicians to kill mass transit.

The campaigns varied, as did the economic and technical health of 
many of the systems themselves. Some now argue that buses would have 
transcended many of the rail lines anyway.  More likely, they would 
have hybridized and complemented each other.

But with a varied arsenal of political and financial subterfuges, GM 
helped gut the core of America's train and trolley systems.  It was 
the murder of our rail systems that made our "love affair" with the 
car a tragedy of necessity.

In 1949 a complex federal prosecution for related crimes resulted in 
an anti-trust fine against GM of a whopping $5000.  For years 
thereafter GM continued to bury electric rail systems by 
"bustituting" gas-fired vehicles.

Then came the interstates.  After driving his Allied forces into 
Berlin on Hitler's Autobahn, Dwight Eisenhower brought home a passion 
for America's biggest public works project.  Some 40,000 miles of 
vital eco-systems were eventually paved under.

In habitat destruction, oil addiction, global warming, outright 
traffic deaths (some 40,000/year and more), ancillary ailments and 
wars for oil, the automobile embodies the worst ecological 
catastrophe in human history.

Should current General Motors management be made to pay for the 
ancient sins of Alfred Sloan?

Since the 1880s, American corporations have claimed human rights 
under the law.  Tasking one now with human responsibilities could set 
a great precedent.

GM has certainly proved itself unable to make cars that can compete 
while healing a global-warmed planet.

So let's convert the company's infrastructure to churn out trolley 
cars, monorails, passenger trains, truly green buses.

FDR forced Detroit to manufacture the tanks, planes and guns that won 
World War 2 (try buying a 1944 Chevrolet!).  Now let a reinvented GM 
make the "weapons" to win the climate war and energy independence.

It demands re-tooling and re-training.  But GM's special role in 
history must now evolve into using its infrastructure to restore the 
mass transit system---and ecological balance---it has helped destroy.

--

Harvey Wasserman's SOLARTOPIA! OUR GREEN-POWERED EARTH is at 
www.harveywasserman.com, along with HARVEY WASSERMAN'S HISTORY OF THE 
US and A GLIMPSE OF THE BIG LIGHT.  His "Solartopia Show" airs at 
WVKO-AM/1580, the Air America affiliate in Columbus, Ohio.
