From: "Todd Jaspers" <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 20 Nov 2008 16:28:50 -0500
Subject: Re: GM must re-make the mass transit system it murdered

I agree to some extent, but disagree in others. It may be true that GM took 
away potential profit and money that would have otherwise been directed 
towards mass transit, but most of the cities I've lived in have excellent 
mass transit (with the exception of South Florida). When I lived in 
Washington D.C.... the metro system is probably one of the most advanced and 
organized systems I've ever had the pleasure of living with. Even the bus 
system is acurate... and on the dot every 30 minutes. I can't say the same 
for South Florida unfortunately... who I think would really benefit from a 
by county based rail-system to connect the Tri-Rail system we have.

Anyway, GM (as well as Ford) didn't kill mass transit... they allowed 
Americans (and through the lead) other countries the ability for people to 
be able to travel easily like they never had before. I can't imagine my life 
without a car. I can pick up at any point and drive to the most remote area 
on this continent.

GM DOES build excellent cars, but they are forced to do so with no leeway 
whatsoever. Despite the fact that they are cash strapped, they also have to 
deal with the union fees (The UAW is also a corporation mind you... they 
exist to make money, and make a profit). Ford shouldn't really be lumped 
with the rest, because they've been building alternate energy vehicles as 
long as Europe has. You could buy a CNG powered Ford Taurus or Ford Ranger 
as far back as 1989.

GM's VOLT is a bit more expensive than it should be... but they're trying to 
market it not as a Prius type car, but as a Toyota Camry type car... not 
sure why...

I think they need to file for bankruptcy, disolve all the union contracts 
(the US government is required by law now to pick up all pensiums anyway) 
re-organize half the upper management, and allow them to start back up at 
half the expenses with everything they have now. They can continue to pay 
the union employees the same pay they make now... but without having to pay 
the union dues, they'll automatically pay 10% less employment costs, and 
then they can hire back thousands of new employees at lower, more 
competitive pay.


Emissions and "Global Warming" aren't such an easy subject. You can't just 
say "build an emissions friendly vehicle". In the 70s when they mandated all 
of the emissions stuff on vehicles, they didn't take into consideration the 
MPG equation. Fuel efficiency went WAAAY down. Cars were now forced to burn 
30-35% more gasoline to drive the same distance, on a vehicle that produced 
20% less emissions. See the problem here?

If you focus on engine efficiency, emissions will be decreased due to the 
fact that less fuel will need to be burned. Take my Pontiac Solstice for 
example. It uses an engine that's far more advanced right now than anything 
that Toyota or Honda has produced yet. It's a direct injected, VVT inline-4 
with a 64-bit RISC OBD-2.5 computer system. It's so efficient, that it 
doesn't even have any kind of an EGR (exhaust gas recirculatory) system. The 
only emissions stuff my car has, is a pair of oxygen sensors with a SINGLE 
catalytic converter (no pre-cats). I get about 18/19 miles to the gallon in 
the city, and 28/29 on the highway. That's not so spectacular, but it's a 
sports car, and gets better fuel economy than most of the other vehicles in 
it's class. The Turbocharged version actually gets better fuel economy since 
it has to use less energy to accelerate at the same rate.

I would like to see ANY of the car companies produce a useable, decent car 
that anyone can buy that gets excellent emissions, fuel efficient, and easy 
to maintain. (One more point I'd like to bring up about the Solstice, 
there's almost nothing going on in the engine bay, it has coil-on-plug 
ignition, a main wiring harness, the ECM, the throttle body with DBW, a MAF 
sensor, the 2 o2 sensors, and nothing else.

Water pump is driven by the timing chain but easily removed without having 
to pull the motor out or anything (it's longitudinally mounted). There are 
no vacuum lines in the enigne bay, just a PCV, and brake booster line... 
nothing else. Very simple... very efficient. And it's a butt-ass cheap car. 
It was $22,900 off the showroom floor which is impressive. GM could build 
something with similar technology, the lesser non VVT echotec, on a very 
simple platform, in a simple vehicle... and could easily price it for $7,500 
bucks. No one wants to do that? Not Honda, not Toyota.... not VW.

Todd



----- Original Message ----- 
> To: VW type 2 late aircooled
> From: Robt Mann
> Subject: fw: GM must re-make the mass transit system it murdered
>
> GM has certainly proved itself unable to make cars that can compete
> while healing a global-warmed planet.
>
> So let's convert the company's infrastructure to churn out trolley
> cars, monorails, passenger trains, truly green buses.
>
> FDR forced Detroit to manufacture the tanks, planes and guns that won
> World War 2 (try buying a 1944 Chevrolet!).  Now let a reinvented GM
> make the "weapons" to win the climate war and energy independence.
>
> It demands re-tooling and re-training.  But GM's special role in
> history must now evolve into using its infrastructure to restore the
> mass transit system---and ecological balance---it has helped destroy.
