From: "Martin Jr., D. Michael" <martinm(-at-)montevallo.edu>
To: Todd Jaspers <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>, "type2(-at-)type2.com"
Date: Thu, 20 Nov 2008 16:12:15 -0600
Subject: RE: [T2] Re: GM must re-make the mass transit system it

On some points, I agree and on others...

1.  Mass Transit - The United States does NOT, by and large, have a mass
transit system.  Rail exists in very few areas but when you look at the
majority of the US, nothing exists.  I would love to see mass transit systems
in the US but without some large program like the WPA or CCC that was building
bridges and roads during the depression, nothing is going to happen.  We need
a national initiative, similar to when the Interstate system was originally
built, that puts the mass transit infrastructure in place.  Heck, use the area
around the Interstates for the light rail system (like they do in many cities
like DC) for the rail.  As it stands now, our rail system in this country is
for hauling freight, NOT people, and until that changes no company will be
able to build upon the infrastructure to profitably (even at a breakeven
level) exist.

2. Unions - If you haven't ever worked in a line of work with Unions or had
family in a Union you will NEVER understand.  Unions have been historically
necessary because there has never been satisfactory oversight of big business.
That is why the Wall Street, GM, the oil companies, etc... are all in the
position we are in now.  We "trust" business to do what is right and hope that
the "trickle down" will help us all out.  Is there corruption?  Of course.
Wherever there is people you will have greed and corruption.  But blaming
Unions for GMs downfall is like blaming the teller for the financial problems
with the Banks.  The US has some of the hardest working, most efficient, and
best workers in the world.  That is why VW, Honday, Hundai, etc... are coming
to this country to build their autos.  Besides, if we haven disenfranchised
the rest of the Western Hemisphere (South America, Central American, and even
Canada) we could all work together to give the rest of the world a run for its
money.  There is more oil, natural gas, and other natural resources in the
Americas than we need but we ship most of our oil to Asia because we don't
have the refining capacity to handle it.

3.  Cars that can compete - It's just like what we were saying on another
thread about VW...  GM, Ford, and others are too busy doing business as usual.
The executives have lost touch.  They don't listen to you and I and, for the
most part, don't really listen to their heritage that made them great.  The
ingenuity is gone.  The common sense is gone.  Most people on this list with
the right tools and resources could make a better vehicle at a better price
than the big car companies.  I see it every day in hot rod shops, basements,
garages, etc...  If you watch PBS, Discovery, TLC, or just about any channel
you will see that innovation, entrepreneurship, and the spirit that originally
built the auto industry is alive and well.  Unfortunately, the big auto
companies aren't any better today than they were when they killed the Tucker
(the movie is great by the way... not totally accurate but the concept is
there).

The problem is the status quo.  Every existing auto company has better
vehicles and marketing elsewhere in the world because the rest of the world
demands it.  VW could bring in the Bays from Brazil.  Ford and GM could bring
in their vehicles from Europe which get better fuel mileage, more options for
alternative fuels, etc...  Honda and Toyota should import their Asian vehicles
for the same reason.  We need to stop thumbing our nose at the rest of the
world and actually listen and follow sometimes.  True innovation can be taking
a good idea and making it better NOT throwing the baby out with the
bathwater.

I got an email from a friend of mine today in Denmark.  Her husband is working
on a 65 splitty, she has a 72 bug, and they drive a Touran.  Do you think you
can buy a Touran here in the US?  The VW Touran can even parallel park itself
and isn't a rewrapped Chrysler.  This is just one example of one company that
is wasting money to suit what they think the US wants and needs.  All the auto
companies need to stop wasting and just use good old fashion common sense.
Common sense is what we used to be good at here in the US.

OK...  I'll get off my stump now.  Heck, it isn't even Friday.

- Michael in Montevallo




PS - Please excuse the rant.

:-)

---------------
On Thursday, November 20, 2008 3:29 PM
Todd Jaspers [mailto:toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net]
Wrote:

> most of the cities I've lived in have excellent mass transit
> dissolve all the union contracts
> I would like to see ANY of the car companies produce a useable, decent car
that anyone can buy that gets excellent emissions, fuel efficient, and easy
to maintain.

----- Original Message -----
>> To: VW type 2 late aircooled
>> From: Robt Mann

>> GM has certainly proved itself unable to make cars that can compete
