From: "Todd Jaspers" <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: "Martin Jr., D. Michael" <martinm(-at-)montevallo.edu>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 20 Nov 2008 17:29:40 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: GM must re-make the mass transit system it

I just want to make one point... in response to this. I understand that 
unions were importat at one time. But what right does the union have to tell 
corporations who they can and can not fire and at what price they are 
allowed to pay them? Unions were important back in the industrial era to 
ensure a safe work environment and adequate benefits. It's gone WELL beyond 
that at this point.

Every professor, reporter, and professed expert on the unions always seem to 
forget one big aspect of the UAW. It's a corporation. They make money... 
their MOST important asset is bringing in cold hard cash for their 
investors. If the UAW and other unions were a "Not for Profit" organization, 
that would be a completely different story. Look at any, and every company 
in history that has a union... see what has eventually become of them, or is 
happening to them now. Take a look at England's automotive industry. 
Obviously, there isn't one anymore, but it was one of the world's most 
robust at one point... but the union WON! They WON the battle... and 
successfully put every automobile manufacturer out of business in england. 
They showed them! That's for sure.

If you really think the Union is doing "their part" then take a look at 
Black Lake Golf Resort. It's a 630 million dollar golf resort in Michigan 
that's built, owned, and operated entirely by the UAW. They also own a theme 
park, and numerous other "investments".

The UAW doesn't just stop at the automotive industry too.. their evil 
corporation has spread all over. Why, I have a brother in law who works for 
Broward Teachers Union (which is owned by the UAW). It's a union that's 
organized to protect the rights of teachers in Broward county, South 
Florida. He gets some amazing benefits. He gets an excellent pay (I commend 
him for it), but he also gets a pension, AND... he also gets a 25% automatic 
deposit into a 401k. That's right... they calculate how much 25% of his pay 
is... and then give that to him on top of his existing salary and pension, 
and put it into a 401k for him. He also gets a gym membership, free 
massages, a company car, free hair-cuts, free dry cleaning, a company cell 
phone...

I'm happy for him, I really am. But do you know who pays for that? Not the 
teachers... but the PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM. Yes, it does come out of the 
teacher's dues... but that money comes directly from the public school 
system which could otherwise be used to buy books for students, improve 
scholastic facilities, or even increase the pay of teachers.

You tell me... do you really think unions are an important part of today's 
society? All the rights they've fought for are now protected by the US 
government. Their purpose is over. I say, become not for profit, or the 
unions can go to hell.


Todd

----- Original Message ----- 
From: "Martin Jr., D. Michael" <martinm(-at-)montevallo.edu>
To: "Todd Jaspers" <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>; <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Sent: Thursday, November 20, 2008 5:12 PM
Subject: RE: [T2] Re: GM must re-make the mass transit system it murdered


On some points, I agree and on others...

PS - Please excuse the rant.

:-)
