Date: Fri, 21 Nov 2008 10:45:07 -0600
From: Chris <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: "Martin Jr., D. Michael" <martinm(-at-)montevallo.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: GM must re-make the mass transit system it 

Martin Jr., D. Michael wrote:
> I got an email from a friend of mine today in Denmark.  Her husband is working
> on a 65 splitty, she has a 72 bug, and they drive a Touran.  Do you think you
> can buy a Touran here in the US?  The VW Touran can even parallel park itself
> and isn't a rewrapped Chrysler.  This is just one example of one company that
> is wasting money to suit what they think the US wants and needs.  All the auto
> companies need to stop wasting and just use good old fashion common sense.
> Common sense is what we used to be good at here in the US.

Isn't ironic that the car companies constantly go on about the global 
markets won't actually let the global market function here by trying to 
sell their truly global products here? Oh sure VW tried with the Eurovan 
but seldom advertised it. GM has brought the nice Astra here but I have 
yet to see ANY promotion or any Astras on the road either. Usually when 
a game changer come to our shores they remain some sort of secret. The 
Merkur of my childhood - very seldom seen in the wild, never advertised.

The non-car folks I know won't recognize these cars. They might really 
like them but without some reassurance from the marketing department or 
their neighbor who just bought one - won't go buy one.

My grandfather made a comment after we bought a used late-90s VW Cabrio 
that he didn't realize that VW was still in business. He was really 
surprised to hear that VW was one of the largest car companies in the 
world. He also walked around the back and asked to see the engine. <griN!>

I'd like to see the federal safety and pollution standards be 
internationalized. Our standards might still be too high to let in 3rd 
world vehicles but I think we'd have ALOT more choice b/c there are many 
products that don't come here because the companies that build them 
don't want to go through the trouble and expense to federalize them. Of 
course a person might argue if those companies won't federalize them 
then those same companies won't take customer support very seriously. 
Well - I'd expect some entrepreneur to form an auto group that would 
sell, service and warranty those vehicles. The aftermarket would likely 
arrive with spare parts as well.

Car companies prob want to sell disaster proof vehicles b/c anything 
else might get a customer killed and the companies sued into oblivion.

Detroit's big 2.8 and the UAW don't want to internationalize the 
standards here though because they might lose even more market share. 
Already most of those companies are way too large for their market share 
which makes the bailout money they want seem a little ridiculous. They 
are going to have to shrink or suddenly become a trio of car companies 
that forces Toyota and Honda (among others) to back up. I don't have 
much faith that the Detroit 2.8 can unless gas continues to be $1.75 per 
gallon and we expereince the second coming of large vehicles. Don't have 
much faith in that but then last summer I never expected to see gasoline 
below $3 a gallon. Funny that gas would drop by 50% and I have seen 
several articles explain demand has dropped less than 10%. Hmmm - 
something is fishy here.

I'm frustrated with our domestic car companies. They spent their big 
profits from the 90s and brought nothing unique to the market. Well we 
got a glimpse of electric car ownership and then they crushed their 
products so nobody could buy them. Heck Chrysler is going to crush the 
latest run of Chrysler Aspen hybrids. Sales have been so low that they 
are going to crush them (unsold vehicles!) so Chrysler doesn't have to 
maintain a spare parts inventory for them. Or so I hear. How about some 
sort of purchase agreement that releases the corporate mothership from 
all liabilities and responsibilities relating to these vehicles and then 
sell them cheap? At least they wouldn't go to waste. Will bailout money 
change this? No.
 
Detroit has hybrids but several of them are hybrids in name only 
delivering only marginally better mileage their straight gasoline 
versions of the same products. I won't even begin to compare these 
hybrids with the competition's hybrids. Detroit's business plans are 
setup such that they can't make much money from compact cars so they 
don't work very hard at it and an "average" product results. That said 
even an average product these days is pretty good compared to the 
"average" products we were happily driving in the 80s so I'm not going 
to be too hard on them. I for one am quick to stomp my foot and demand a 
new but very basic vehicle. GM is delivering that with the Aveo. 
Unfortunately the fuel mileage is the same as a larger sedan. Not quite 
as bad as smacking your forehead and saying "I coulda had a V-8" but a 
Buick V-6 gets comparable fuel mileage and is a much better product even 
if it is a little bit of a styling snoozer from the "Beige Class" of 
vehicle (aka not offensive to anyone. Not very appealing to many either 
though.). Will bailout money help this situation? No. GM and Ford at 
least could sell most of their European products here and get the higher 
mileage they need to meet the higher CAFE goals set by the gov't. The 
2008 Vauxhall Zafira (Opel Zafira) is a six passenger people carrier 
that gets 37 MPG. Reasonable size, great utility and we can't have it.

The unions maybe a problem or they might be a scapegoat for the 
automakers' problems. Tough to be on the outside making a fair wage and 
then look at these guys bolting doors on vehicles and making much more 
while complaining they aren't getting enough pay and benefits. I agree 
with comments made before me that to fully understand the unions you 
have to work in a union factory or come from a union family. I have had 
only a small exposure to them through my previous job and various 
projects but that was eye opening. They have an important place in 
history. Much of what they accomplished for labor has become the law of 
the land. Do they need to go away? I don't know. Depends on whether the 
companies where the UAW is in place could function fairly and justly. 
Obviously the transplant companies try hard to maintain good relations 
with their workers. Not sure if the big 2.8 are capable of this. Maybe 
this will be part of the final chapter of the American car companies. 
One of several reasons they might be doomed to fail - the inability for 
the company to get along internally enough to produce a desirable 
product at a fair cost for a fair price. A fundamental inability to get 
along for the greater good of the company that writes all their 
paychecks. Will bailout money help this situation? No.

When you have top level management making $40K PER DAY then $75K per 
year for assembly line workers doesn't seem like anything to feel guilty 
about. When the top level guys are demanding paycuts for the assembly 
line guys but continue to get $40K per day and big bonuses the UAW 
worker is going to have some hard feelings about the company. When the 
assembly line workers are seeing the company fade and knows there is 
nothing he or she can do about it then of course they are going to be 
frustrated. The assembly line worker can't control product design or 
marketing. All they can do is get the job done. All that said all of the 
union shops I've been in had sharply defined shop rules and an 
adversarial environment (management vs labor). It's too bad because I've 
been in plenty of other factories where there is a much more team-like 
spirit where communication is much more direct and much more 
constructive. It'll be interesting to see how the big 2.8 cope with the 
immediate future and how the management/UAW relationship develops - or 
doesn't. Ron Gettlefinger said the other day that having seen all of the 
finances of the big three - he rated Ford the healthiest and Chrysler 
ahead of GM. I found that sobering. I've thought of Chrysler as being 
the weakest of the three for my entire adult life.

It will interesting to see if state's which have union shop rules 
requiring all new employees to join the union will consider changing 
their laws. Aren't those states suffering the most as manufacturing 
leaves for overseas locations or at least heads south?

I can't write or talk about the plight of America's auto industry 
without spreading the blame around a little more. The automotive press 
and marketing agencies get some of the blame. The car mags are in my 
opinion just as stale as any entrenched company. They offer little 
constructive criticism and it easy to find articles which are more 
advertising than writing for enthusiasts. We could argue that this is 
what the reading public want but their decreasing revenues say 
otherwise. I think those magazines need a dose of Consumer Reports. 
Instead of a car's review being about whether the author liked it - they 
need more real analysis. Instead of telling us what new cars are around 
the next turn, they need to educate the readers with more relevant 
information. Perhaps taking up writing out repairing cars too and not 
just polishing them. Maybe they need to quit writing about minutia of 
cars (hard interior plastics we love to hate, plastic molding seams 
visible, only returned .89 on the skidpad, the first car was clearly 
faster with a 1/4 mile time .06 seconds faster than the second 0-60) and 
get back to writing about how to make cars last longer, how to get more 
out of cars, things the owner can do with their cars, or places they can 
go with their cars - with equal emphasis on the where as well as the car 
itself.

I quit reading the shiny mainstream car mags regularly about 10 years 
ago when there was an article about the Eurovan Weekender. It was 
clearly written by someone who just didn't get the van or the idea of 
camping in  van. I read like it was written by a sarcastic teenage girl 
at that stage of life when many teenage girls are truly too cool for the 
rest of the world. If the author and editor couldn't be objective enough 
to write about a vehicle they had little personal interest in, then I 
was done with them. They completely missed the fact that the vehicle was 
large and boxy and much more useful than most of the competition 
available here back then. They (as I recall) nailed it for being slow 
and not car like enough. Perhaps they were doing a good job - they knew 
who their magazine customer was and were writing to that fellow. I don't 
know. All I know is that I haven't bought a mainstream car magazine 
since. I really don't think a Corvette kind of guy/girl needs to write 
about Eurovans anymore than a Ford pickup guy needs to write about 
vintage Beetles.

Lastly I'll aim at the average American consumer. We've gotten fickle. 
We've gotten picky. We've forgotten how to think for ourselves. We are 
putty in the hands of the advertisers (and by extension the shiny car 
mags). We're missing alot of good products and instead just following 
the herd from this product class to that product class. Amazing how at 
one time so many of us needed a minivan. Then so many of us suddenly 
needed a 4WD SUV or truck. Wants vs needs - when it really counts - 
don't get them mixed up. Seems to be fewer people who will think outside 
of the box anymore. We seem to have become a herd of Sheeple.

Once upon a time I was a Mustang guy. Had a '64 1/2 'vert basketcase, a 
'66 coupe and then an '81 hatchback. Then I moved to Europe for three 
years and discovered the joys of lightwight cars that could handle while 
making the most out of 100 horsepower - or less. I came back dragging 
along a '65 Beetle and driving a mix of Hondas and VWs. I became 
enamored with the expectation that my cars would last beyond 200K miles 
when the vehicles of my friends were lasting much less - either due to 
the materials they were made of, the design or the owners - I've never 
figured out which mix of those three. I love being able to zip through 
corners, get good gas mileage day after day, and these cars are fun at 
legal speeds while capable of much more than legal speeds.

I want to buy another domestic vehicle or two. Just haven't seen 
anything that really appeals to me. Looking at the current fleet of cars 
in the used market - all of the ones most appealing are imports or like 
the Saturn Astra come from foreign designs. Apparently if I was a good 
consumer I'd rush out and buy one of the many bulky looking "manly 
vehicles". Don't want them. Don't even want the bulky look of the 
domestics. No reason for all of the heavy looking styling. No reason for 
the extra weight of the vehicle or the V-6/automatic required to haul it 
around. I'll take a lighter vehicle with a proper four cylinder and 5 
speed thanks.

Its because I liked my VWs and liked my Hondas. I have had a half-dozen 
of each. My taste in cars may depart VW and Honda next time for a little 
change by taste for smaller vehicle remains the same.

Chris in Cookeville
'99 CR-V 168K miles
'78 VW Westy ~190K miles
'97 VW Cabrio ~156K miles
'65 Beetle ~120K miles and attacked by steel eating termites (In 
protected storage)
