From: toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net
To: Chris <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 21 Nov 2008 19:08:28 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: GM must re-make the mass transit system it 

(I'm responding to your post in the order in which you mention things)


Remember the car that Buick sold over here during the 70s? I think it was an
opel. Not the Opel GT (although that was a cool car too), but the Opel
something or other... let me do a quick search:

The Buick Manta (Opel)
http://robson.m3rlin.org/cars/wp-content/uploads/2007/11/1973-opel-manta-gt-0
1-copy.jpg
http://robson.m3rlin.org/cars/wp-content/uploads/2007/11/1973-opel-manta-gt-0
2-copy.jpg

Totally cool looking, but rather underpowered comparted to what else was
available at the time.

This is pretty cool too, if anyone hasn't seen this, a camper made especially
for a VW Beetle:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=56XL0TysIn0




I would doubt seriously if we ever saw a mandated safety and emissions
standard across the world. For one, if we did have it, it would probably need
to be voluntary, otherwise we would basically be forcing the rest of the world
to agree to it (India, Pakistan, Russia, etc...) and it would be almost like
an act of war. Not that it wouldn't be a neat thing... but remember that the
crappy cars we all have now are crapy in part because of most of the standards
we have now. You could never build a VW Beetle or Bus like we're used to with
the kind of standards we have now. You're almost not even allowed to have
bumpers anymore...


The Buick V6s actually get the fuel economy that they get because of the
gearing. They aren't the quickest cars, but they have very tall gears that
allow them to cruise at very low speeds on the highway. The average Buick
sedan that gets over 30 miles to the gallon on the highway utilizes either the
GM 4T60E or 4T65E automatic transmission. It's a 4-Speed with a taller than
normal 1st gear, a modest 2nd gear, very tall 3rd and 4th gears, with a
converter lock-up feature.  If you look at their in-city fuel economy, it's
basically the same as most cars. It's surprises me why companies don't offer
these kinds of transmission options in other vehicles. For example, the 4T60
is available in most of the FWD GM vehicles, but that particular gear set is
only offered in the Buick.


The "concern" for the industry is that we don't want workers losing their
jobs, and we want them to be able to continue to make the pay they make now. A
REAL simple solution for all of this, is simply to force the unions to become
NOT FOR PROFIT. The problem is, like I mentioned in my other e-mail... unions
are corporations. They are in the business of making money. They spend
millions of dollars to lobby the government so that they can continue that
income. If the UAW was a not for profit organization, then they would be
focusing on trying to pinch every penny from the auto makers, they would be
focusing on representing the employees they are supposed to represent, and the
union fees would be SIGNIFICANTLY lower (reducing the burden on both the
employee and the employer). But... alas... the UAW is a corporation, with
investors, and a revenue goal...


The unionized states are the ones that are suffering the most. Honda and
Toyota were smart. They built all of their plants in right to work states and
therefore do not have to deal with a union. They get acceptable pay, and the
same basic benefits that you or I do that work for any number of normal
corporations of that size. Inexpensive life insurance, a subsidized health
plan, etc... they get all of that, and the cars they produce are JUST as good
as the ones built by GM, but without even really having to try.


That's always bothered me about magazines like "Road & Track" and "Car &
Driver", and magazines like that. You are SO right, they do write all of their
car reviews as if they are totally annoyed to even have to write them. As if,
unless it's a Ferrari or a Lamborgini, it's just a huge pain for them and
they'd rather not even bother. I've found this is NOT the case when you get
magazines that cater specifically to a brand or segment... for example, High
Performance Pontiac. They think all Pontiacs are awesome. They'll be honest,
but always give you positives about the vehicle. Likewise, when you read
articles from Road & Track, you have that guy Chadda Chabba (or however the
hell you spell his crazy name), who absolutely hates every single vehicle that
comes from America with the exception of the Corvette... and even when he road
tests the Corvette he always starts off with "I really wanted to find
something wrong with this car... but I just couldn't..."  On the other hand,
the really fat asian guy who's his co-worker, absolutely loves all the
American cars, but the poor guy is too large to get decent road test times out
of most of the cars, or fit easily in most of the vehicles...


You said: "I'll take a lighter vehicle with a proper four cylinder and 5 speed
thanks."

You mean like a Pontiac Solstice?

$19,995 base model when I first bought mine (with the options I ordered, it
came in at $22,900 with MP3 player, Posi-traction, Anti-lock brakes, Air
Conditioning, and Power Windows / Doors / Mirrors).

But you could literally roll out of there for under $21,000 for a 2-seat,
sports car that ran mid 15s in the quarter, excellent handling, superior
braking, and a 5-Speed manual. Part of me really wanted to get something that
was totally stripped out... NO options at all except the limited slip
differential. I wanted crank windows... I even wanted radio delete... but I
knew my wife would never drive in it with me.

http://www.PontiacPerformance.net



Todd


-------------- Original message from Chris <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>:
--------------

> The non-car folks I know won't recognize these cars. They might really
> like them but without some reassurance from the marketing department or
> their neighbor who just bought one - won't go buy one.


> I'd like to see the federal safety and pollution standards be
> internationalized. Our standards might still be too high to let in 3rd
> world vehicles but I think we'd have ALOT more choice b/c there are many
> products that don't come here because the companies that build them
> don't want to go through the trouble and expense to federalize them.

> Not quite as bad as smacking your forehead and saying "I coulda had a V-8"
but a
> Buick V-6 gets comparable fuel mileage and is a much better product even
> if it is a little bit of a styling snoozer from the "Beige Class" of
> vehicle (aka not offensive to anyone.


> They have an important place in
> history. Much of what they accomplished for labor has become the law of
> the land. Do they need to go away? I don't know. Depends on whether the
> companies where the UAW is in place could function fairly and justly.

> It will interesting to see if state's which have union shop rules
> requiring all new employees to join the union will consider changing
> their laws. Aren't those states suffering the most as manufacturing
> leaves for overseas locations or at least heads south?


>I really don't think a Corvette kind of guy/girl needs to write
> about Eurovans anymore than a Ford pickup guy needs to write about
> vintage Beetles.


>I'll take a lighter vehicle with a proper four cylinder and 5
> speed thanks.
