Date: Fri, 21 Nov 2008 14:57:00 -0600
From: Chris <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: GM must re-make the mass transit system it 

toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net wrote:
> Remember the car that Buick sold over here during the 70s? I think it 
> was an opel. Not the Opel GT (although that was a cool car too), but 
> the Opel something or other... Totally cool looking, but rather 
> underpowered comparted to what else was available at the time.
Wonder how it tested against the VW Type IV powered cars, the more 
pedestrian BMW 2002 cars, the Audi 100 cars, and the Ford Capri? Those 
were fairly slow cars too weren't they? I'll bet the Opel was faster 
than a run of the mill Beetle and certainly faster than our buses.

I drove several of those era Opels and they were indeed basic. Like 
smaller and lighter Ford Mustangs. RWD. Not much power. Basic, basic, 
basic. But fun just because it was different from a modern heavy FWD 
vehicle that isolates the driver from so much. The average modern 
American might not go for something that basic which 'nixes out a few 
early VW products that I daydream about having come back to life as a 
brand new car I could afford. A new vintage Beetle? A new vintage Westy? 
A new vintage fastback? A new vintage Syncro? I think our economy would 
have to supernova before we'd see cars return that were that basic. 
Doubt we'd get anything that stylistic and basic in the same package. We 
seem to be able to buy cheap or buy style. Never at the same time. 
That's why I love the late 60s and early 70s VWs and BMWs and other 
brands. Collector cars that can still be used as daily drivers if you 
don't expect to beat modern cars off the line. Tough to do that with a 
Ford Model 'A' that tops out at 40 mph.
> This is pretty cool too, if anyone hasn't seen this, a camper made 
> especially for a VW Beetle:
> http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=56XL0TysIn0
Very cool little (LITTLE) trailer. Would love to see the inside. Saw a 
version for a full sized domestic sedan in an old magazine once. Big 
normal trailer with the same long neck. Riding a Beetle through the 
Smokey Mountains with 60HP, two adults, two kids, bikes, and a weekend's 
worth of stuff would qualify you for a t-shirt that said "I saw the 
Smokey Mountains in 1st gear". <griN!> Wonder what that high tow hitch 
would do to the rollover characteristics of a car (any car)? My Beetles 
have always had alot of body roll b/c they had soft suspensions. Pays 
off if your town has bad roads or like in Italy where I lived - lots of 
cobble stones.
> I would doubt seriously if we ever saw a mandated safety and emissions 
> standard across the world. 
Yeah I think you are right. Maybe just Europe and America. FWIW I 
recently saw a news blurb somewhere that said China is matching their 
new car standards to Europe's standards. Wonder what the standards are 
like in Mexico and South America? Detroit is going to be hurting when 
China comes to America to sell cars. How do you compete with cars that 
cost $8K? I can imagine Chinese cars being really, really cheap. Like 
early Daewoos or Kias or Yugos (which Fiat pulled the plug on this week).

This is why the federal bailouts worry me. The bailouts are really loans 
that depend on the car makers becoming profitable again to pay back the 
loans. What if they never become profitable again? No payback AND we've 
got a couple million folks out of work (potentially). Maybe it is as 
simple as printing more money. Dunno what that does to inflation. The 
consumers and automakers and the labor unions all have to adjust their 
games to a new playing field. Meanwhile VW is building a new plant in 
Chattanooga and the Chinese want to sell us some cars, etc. The market 
becomes ever more fractured. Good for the consumer eventually since 
we'll have more choices - if we've still got a job and money to buy 
anything with. Maybe the old aircooled VWs could come back once we are 
only rich enough to buy old style vehicles which are simple to build, 
and simple to fix.
> A REAL simple solution for all of this, is simply to force the unions 
> to become NOT FOR PROFIT.
That's a neat and imaginative idea. I like it. I wonder if they are 
capable of changing the union culture to allow that idea to fly? I keep 
wondering how bad things can get before the unions reinvent themselves. 
VW prob thinks they'll save huge money not dealing with Germany's 
unions. Still wonder why they didn't just open another factory in 
Mexico. Are these guys looking 10 years down the road when the Chinese 
arrive on the scene? Do they anticipate North American tariffs meant to 
hurt imports and by building the Chattanooga plant they would be 
grandfathered in? Do they anticipate higher fuel prices to justify 
building cars in America instead of shipping stuff back and forth to 
Mexico? Want to be perceived as "American" cars like the transplant 
factories?
> ...right to work states and therefore do not have to deal with a union.
How bad does it have to get before the union rules states ditch the rules?
>  ...unless it's a Ferrari or a Lamborgini, it's just a huge pain for 
> them and they'd rather not even bother.
Yes and a tiring part of Fifth Gear and Top Gear too. <griN!>

The supercars are super but as a middle aged guy with a family who knows 
he won't ever have one of these cars in his lifetime, I'm not as 
interested as I was when I was 14 years old. Let's talk about VWs and 
Citroens and so forth. Ordinary cars just not from here. Of course I'm 
not part of the those shows' intended audience. <griN!> The British are 
likely not entertained by seeing their pedestrian cars on TV just like 
we would be seeing our pedestrian cars on TV unless it is some sort of 
stunt causing the destruction of a car we know well like the Citroen 
getting blown apart by a jet engine blast. Imagine an America car show 
that spends real time with the Kia Rio - yeah we would be watching 
MotorWeek <griN!>
> ...Chadda Chabba (or however the hell you spell his crazy name), who 
> absolutely hates every single vehicle that comes from America with the 
> exception of the Corvette...
I know exactly who you are talking about. An American version of Jeremy 
Clarkson? <griN!> Hmmm...
> You said: "I'll take a lighter vehicle with a proper four cylinder and 
> 5 speed thanks."
>  
> You mean like a Pontiac Solstice?
Well in the current stage of my life I'm probably thinking a Mazda 5 
mini-minivan. The reason that I drive a VW Cabrio and not a Solstice or 
Miata or Porsche 914 (or Boxster) is because I have to have that 
backseat for another 15 years. Not a Mustang guy anymore. Not a four 
cylinder oriented car anymore. So if I want a drop top and a chassis 
suited for a four cylinder I'm looking for an import. Can't think of any 
other four cylinder "domestic" convertibles (what does domestic mean 
these days anyhow?). I'd be happy with a VW Polo or Rabbit or maybe a 
Focus or a Mini (love it!) or Astra for hard top happiness. 
Unfortunately VW won't sell us a Polo here yet (ever?). My daily driver 
could be (want it to be) electric because it never leaves our county. 
Even 10+ year old EV-1 technology with NiMH batteries would exceed my 
needs. Thank Chevron for locking the NiMH battery patents away until 
2015 and GM for selling them to Chevron.

Then reality sets back in and we drive what we've got for 40K-50K more 
miles with the VW Westy for backup family hauler duty. Need to get it 
back on the road and see if we are satisfied with it as a part time 
family hauler. If we are then we can continue to downsize the daily 
drivers and rely on the VW Westy for weekend trips because our trips are 
almost always 200-300 miles or less with 95% of them being only 100 
miles each way. As a four cylinder vehicle it was happiest at about 62 
mph which seems dangerous on 75 mph interstates. With the Corvair 
implant I'm hoping for similar fuel mileage at 70 mph without slowing 
down on the hills. Then there is the question of reliability. If the 
engine is good then the rest of the van will be too b/c it always was 
and when something did fail we still got home or got a warning from the 
van telling us that it was sick with plenty of time to fix it.
>  $19,995 base model when I first bought mine (with the options I 
> ordered, it came in at $22,900 with MP3 player, Posi-traction, 
> Anti-lock brakes, Air Conditioning, and Power Windows / Doors / Mirrors).
Sweet! I wanna ride.

Enjoying the conversation.

Chris in Cookeville, TN
'78 VW Westy among others
