From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 23 Nov 2008 14:26:31 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Running hot

Here are some test results:
Pulled all spark plug boots and looked under the tin with an inspection
mirror. No mouse nests or other trash on the cylinders or head. I did notice
the air flap that directs air flow into the oil cooler was closed. This is not
related to my troubles but still not a good thing. Looks like I need to get a
new thermostat for my air flaps as it is not contracting when cold again. I
had replaced it with a good used one a couple of years ago, thanks to one of
the list members here. Are the typeII thermostats still out of production? do
I need to convert a type 1 thermostat? Is there something better available
these days?

Checked all the electrical test listed in the fuel injection of my manual.
every thing is within specifications according to the manual. The temp sensor
2 read 4027 ohms. air temp at the time was 45 degrees but had been much colder
last night, so I figure this reading is ok being the engine may have been
colder than the air temp before I started it.

Fuel pressure was 34 psi at idle with vacuum hose connected and 38 psi with
vacuum disconnected. Once again these readings are slightly high according to
the manual, but I wonder if being at 7000 ft elevation may have an effect on
the accuracy of my gauge. The difference between vacuum and non-vacuum
readings seems to be on the mark. I'm not worried about these high readings
because I would suspect only low readings to have an effect on lean conditions
at higher RPM. Could these higher readings be an indication of the injectors
not passing enough fuel? I'm thinking this is probably not the case because
the fuel pressure regulator should bleed off excess pressure even if the
injectors were not passing any fuel. Is this idea right?

After checking the fuel pressure with the engine running, I rechecked the temp
sensor 2. The reading was now 326 ohms. If my cylinder head temp gauge is
anywhere near accurate, I'll accept this as a good reading according to this
chart,
http://www.ratwell.com/technical/TempSensorII/TempSensorIIGraph.jpg<about:bla
nk>
(Thanks Richard! Your site is still the greatest! Are you still on this
list?)

It has been about 1/2 hour since I shut the engine off and I still have 34 psi
on the fuel pressure gauge. A good indication none of the injectors are
leaking. This is not really relevant to my problem, but I thought I'd throw
that in also.

I'm beginning to wonder if this testing has narrowed my possibilities down to
just a few things.
1. Dirty injectors not passing enough fuel.
2. Higher ethanol content in my gas causing the engine to work harder to make
enough horse power to get down the road.
3. CHT gauge going bad and causing higher readings.

I have a spare set of rebuilt injectors that have never been used since I got
them back from being cleaned. I don't have any new gaskets for them. Has
anyone reused these gaskets without any problems? If I could swap these
injectors, that would prove/disprove the dirty injector theory.

Thanks,
Tom
80 Westy
Bus-ted minds want to know
  ----- Original Message -----
  From: Tom Shinn<mailto:turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
  Here is my situation:
  Engine starts, idles and runs great. Nice and smooth with no stumbles,
  backfires or popping. According to my cylinder head temp gauge, things are
  getting quite hot at speeds above 45 mph. I don't know how much I trust the
  gauge but it does show a trend here. Up to 45 mph I get temps around 300
  degrees to 350 degrees depending on terrain.  If I go over 45 mph The temps
  climb to 400 degrees. I realize these temps are probably not entirely
accurate
  because this gauge is not temperature compensated, but I never used to get
  temps above 350 degrees.
