From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 23 Nov 2008 15:35:42 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Running hot-may have found the trouble?

I found the instructions for checking dizzy advance in my Bentley manual.
1. The book says to disconnect the vacuum from the distributor and set the
timing to 7.5 degrees btc. this was ok to start with, no adjustment needed.
2. Run the rpm up to 1600 rpm. Should get 9-14 degrees. I got about 19
degrees.
3. Run the rpm up to 3400 rpm. Should get 21-25 degrees. I got about 31
degrees.

Is my distributor advancing too far at higher rpms? If so what can I do about
it? How can I be sure I have the correct dizzy in my engine? It is a vacuum
advance dizzy and seems to keep timing stable even at 3600 rpm. I'm thinking I
need to set the initial timing lower than 7.5 degrees  to lower it in the
upper rpm ranges, but won't that cause low power coming off idle, and less
power at highway speeds? Does this have something to do with worn out advance
springs in the distributor?
Thanks
Tom
80 Westy
Bus-ted minds want to know



  I'm beginning to wonder if this testing has narrowed my possibilities down
to
  just a few things.
  1. Dirty injectors not passing enough fuel.
  2. Higher ethanol content in my gas causing the engine to work harder to
make
  enough horse power to get down the road.
  3. CHT gauge going bad and causing higher readings.

  I have a spare set of rebuilt injectors that have never been used since I
got
  them back from being cleaned. I don't have any new gaskets for them. Has
  anyone reused these gaskets without any problems? If I could swap these
  injectors, that would prove/disprove the dirty injector theory.

  Thanks,
  Tom
  80 Westy
  Bus-ted minds want to know
    ----- Original Message -----
    From: Tom Shinn<mailto:turtlebus(-at-)msn.com<mailto:turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>>
    Here is my situation:
    Engine starts, idles and runs great. Nice and smooth with no stumbles,
    backfires or popping. According to my cylinder head temp gauge, things
are
    getting quite hot at speeds above 45 mph. I don't know how much I trust
the
    gauge but it does show a trend here. Up to 45 mph I get temps around 300
    degrees to 350 degrees depending on terrain.  If I go over 45 mph The
temps
    climb to 400 degrees. I realize these temps are probably not entirely
  accurate
    because this gauge is not temperature compensated, but I never used to
get
    temps above 350 degrees.
