Date: Mon, 24 Nov 2008 13:05:46 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] Running hot-may have found the trouble?

Tom 'Bus-ted minds want to know' Shinn said:
>
>1. The book says to disconnect the vacuum from the distributor and set the
>timing to 7.5 degrees btc. this was ok to start with, no adjustment needed.
>2. Run the rpm up to 1600 rpm. Should get 9-14 degrees. I got about 19
>degrees.
>3. Run the rpm up to 3400 rpm. Should get 21-25 degrees. I got about 31
>degrees.
>
>Is my distributor advancing too far at higher rpms?

	An end-run around this problem, and a backup pending the 
problem's direct solution, is to slap on water-injection.  10 or 20 
deg extra advance causes no trouble; no pre-ignition or overheating, 
and no running-on from 'glo-plug' effects of coke on 
combustion-chamber linings (piston or head).
	Those results are from a water-cooled motor (Renault 
'Sierra') with higher CR   -   8.5:1   -  than you probably have.
	Now all we have to do is to figure out where to slap in the 
water, in the mysterious configurations of VW aircooled intake vacuum 
connections.  Few reports yet to hand  ...
	I see where you have FI so I'd advise two big needles 
(blood-donation stainless is good) stabbed as radii from underneath 
the narrowest part of the air intake after the air cleaner.  The 
needles to be fed from a water-bottle at lower altitude (including 
all parking postures!) thru a Y-junction.  Penty-hose nylon reigns as 
unchallenged champ for the filter pickup at the bottom of the 
water-bottle  -  see diagram in my rave 
http://www.kuratrading.com/HTMLArticles/writings.htm .

	I don't mean to go so far as to suggest that your 
distributor's timing curve doesn't matter, Tom; but it is true that 
the potential for damage from excessive advance is enormously 
diminished by water-injection.  I had 30 deg extra advance on my 
Renault 10 1108 cc with no trouble.


Good luck

-- 
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
