From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Chris" <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>, "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 24 Nov 2008 18:31:03 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Running hot

Hi Chris & thanks for the input,
I'm fairly sure the gauge is as accurate as a non compensated gauge gets. I
have a long probe dial thermometer that's normally used by HVAC technicians to
check the output of industrial heating coils. To check the gauge I picked a
day at the end of summer when temps were around 70 degrees, so the gauge
wouldn't have much air temp induced error. Started the engine and placed the
probe end of my HVAC thermometer next to #3 spark plug so it was touching the
head and the ring of the gauges sensor. As the engine warmed up the gauge
matched the thermometer pretty closely. I then removed the thermometer and
buttoned up the bus and went for a run up one of the long hills near my house.
Got the gauge reading 375, pulled over and shut the bus off. Ran to the back
and put the thermometer back in. It read the same as the gauge as best I could
tell.

After I installed the rebuilt engine and got it broke in, I had some
reasonable temps. On flat highway doing 65mph the gauge read just over or
under 325 depending on outside temps. Going up an average mountain grade, the
gauge would typically top out at 350 degrees. Now the same flat road gets me
350 to 375 degrees, and any grade sends the temps up to 400 degrees. It may
get hotter than that if I kept going, but I baby this bus too much to ever let
it get over 400.

I have all the tin and flaps in place. Even the little pieces that often get
left out.  All the joints in the tin are sealed with a bead of high temp Rtv
type sealer. and the seal around the engine is in good condition. My
thermostat needs to be replaced, but I have made sure the flaps are in the
fully warm open position as they would normally be once the engine is warmed
up. These 2 Liter engines flaps are designed to fail to the open position as
long as the return spring is properly installed. I do realize the importance
of a working thermostat as it relates to the life span of an engine and will
get one ordered as soon as I figure out if I need any other parts.

Question: Is it still possible to find a thermostat for the 2 liter engines,
or must I convert a type 1 thermostat?

I'm running a totally stock engine with stock fuel injection and good
compression all the way around.

More info: Last night I took the bus out for a run to get the temps up close
to 400. Shut the engine down and coasted to the side of the road. Pulled the
plugs to take a look, glad I remembered my leather gloves. I wouldn't say they
showed signs of lean running but they were lighter colored than I like to see
them.
Almost like the old Procol Harem tune,,, A lighter shade of Tan (Pale).

Tom
80 Westy
Bus-ted minds want to know

  ----- Original Message -----
  From: Chris<mailto:joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>

  I would try to figure out if your gauge has gone bad for one. Has anyone
  tried an infrared temp gun and where do we "shoot" to get a reliable temp?

  Has this engine run hot from the beginning? (after the rebuild)

  If so - ever checked the compression to see if the compression is too high?

  I once had a Beetle with a catalog engine that had issues from before my
  ownership. In the end it died. One of the crank journals got sloppy,
  lots of hammering, and still alot of heat. We came to the educated guess
  that the line bore wasn't straight or the compression was too high.

  All of the cheap chrome tin from ??? (JC Whitney?) wasn't sealing or
  doing a good job either but the hot engine problems continued after we
  replaced everything with good VW factory tin.

  Do you have all of your tin? Do the flapper work well? Is the thermostat
  in good condition? Cable intact?

  Are you running a carb retrofit or stock EFI?

  Chris in Cookeville, TN
  '78 Corvair implanted Westy
