Date: Fri, 13 Feb 2004 12:27:14 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] voltage regulator toasted

Happy Friday All:

First and foremost, no flames meant/intended.  But (and a very big but
here) there is a VERY compelling reason to make the move to a
better/different VR and it has to do with the changes in battery
construction.  I unearthed this interesting little twist as I was doing
research on the multiple battery layout for my bus some years back.  The
stock OE voltage regulator is designed to work best with the old time
"wet" or "flooded" batteries, and will do a splendidilly-iferous job
keeping such a battery charged at a rate specifically kept pretty low to
keep the electrolyte from being boiled.  All well and good!  How many of
you out there in List-Land have such old time batteries?  And if so,
you're fine - that old school VR is most likely perfect for you.

Fast forward to whenever it was that the sealed or maintenance-free
batteries were developed and marketed.  Such batteries NEED a higher
charging voltage to be kept properly charged, and the stock OE VR is
simply not up to the job, and will only partially charge such newer
batteries.  And as we all know, a partially charged battery goes
ga-flooeey that much faster, and probably gets turned in for another
before the warranty is up.  And having your charging system checked out
will only create as many questions as it answers.  It'll check out fine,
does what it's supposed to do, but the newer batteries will keep dying
an early death.  And you'll keep scratching your head, as I did for many
years running the maintenance-free batteries in my various air-cooleds,
and wondering - "Everyone else is running newer style batteries
successfully. Why I am having trouble?"

If you've really stepped up to the plate, as I did, and have opted for
the spiral-wound, "starved electrolyte" type of battery, then those bad
boys require an even higher charging voltage than the sealed or
maintenance-free batteries.  As such technology has come into play,
guess what, volks?  The manufacturers have spec'd different charging
rates for their VRs - but we're still stuck in the stone age, or the
'70s (which ever comes first).  I have seen, but not used, the Bosch
solid-state VR that looks just like the old-school
"dumber-than-a-sackfull-of-hammers" Bosch VR.  Same external can, same
plug arrangement on the bottom, but pop them open, and it's different
world inside - I'm told some models of Volvo (with sealed or
maintenance-free batteries as OE) use them.  Imagine that!  Those crafty
Swedes...  I bet they know a thing or two about keeping batteries
charged up, eh Beavis?

If you've got a full-tilt, trailer queen special with NOS Cherman
air-in-the-spare, and a battery with lead plates smelted by Black Forest
elves, then you know what to do - send your money and your kudos to the
good Herr Doktor for leading to the path of enlightenment.  If you're
doing a daily driver, and want the utmost in reliability using more
modern bits and pieces, then our friend David has provided us one way to
achieve that goal -  a big "List thank you" to David, and for providing
the Wells part number - a somewhat crucial piece of info that I've been
personally wondering about.  If we take ANYTHING away from this
discussion, it's the fact that all parts of the system need to be in
harmony with each other for the most effective operation.

OK- I'm off the box and I'm putting down the tube of  "red" loctite and
walking away.  I got my hands out - see?  Nothing in the left and
nothing in the right, and nothing up my sleeves...  Peace out, y'all!
It's Valentine's Day weekend!

Jim Hayden
www.savethebays.org
