From: "David & Susan Bell" <bellky(-at-)charter.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 13 Feb 2004 19:51:26 -0600
Subject: Strange Tranny Action [long]

Here's one for all you tranny-men to puzzle over' First, the basics: 1974
Riviera Weekender, 1.8 ltr built on an FI case running a Weber progressive
carb, stock manual transmission. The engine/clutch/pressure plate/TO bearing
have 35,000 miles on them. The tranny has ??? miles, possibly as much as
184,000.

10,000 miles ago I changed the gear oil in the tranny, using a GL-4 spec
90wt gear oil. The clutch cable is in spec adjustment with the pedal having
maybe 1/2" of free travel. There are no overt noises, grinds, or  growls.
The tranny pulls really well, never slips and never pops out of gear.
Lately, say within the last 3000 miles, I have had an interesting situation
develop. And, like all really good automotive situations, this one is
intermittent.

When I'm coming to a stop I push in the clutch and coast until applying the
brakes. Here's when the fun starts: sometimes after coming to a complete
stop and keeping the clutch pully depressed, if I let off the brakes the bus
will 'creep' forward just like an auto tranny will if you let up on the
brake. When this happens I shift to neutral and the creeping stops, however
it is difficult to move the shift lever out of gear and into neutral. It
takes significantly more effort and the shifter will balk before 'thunking'
out of gear. Then it will be very hard to shift into first, usually
impossible unless I muscle it into fourth gear first. After it goes into
fourth it shifts through all the gears smoothly until the next time I stop.
I haven't had any trouble shifting gears while under weigh, and like I said,
it pulls well and never pops out of gear.

Does anyone have ideas about what is happening here? My only thought so far
is possibly a dodgy pilot shaft bearing that grabs at the pilot shaft thus
causing the shaft to turn even when the clutch is disengaged. Anybody have
other thoughts. All ideas, reasonings, and speculations are welcome

Thanks in advance,
Dave
