Date: Sat, 14 Feb 2004 09:30:16 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Strange Tranny Action [long]

OK, my next guess is check the cable. The play adjustment may seem fine, 
but if under tension it is stretching it may not be allowing full release. 
If the adjustment wing nut is near the end of the threads and it is the 
right cable, it is proof of cable stretch. Also do verify the pedal 
mechanism. A loose bolt there might explain while adjustment seems good but 
full release is not being achieved. Before going further I would also try 
adjusting the cable for just a very small slack to see if or how much 
difference it makes. Turn the adjuster a coupla more turns and see if or 
how much difference it makes.

Oh, just thought of something else to verify. On the side of the tranny is 
the Bowden tube that the cable runs through. At the rear end it is held by 
a metal bracket bolted to the side of the tranny. Eyeball that bracket 
while someone applies the pedal. If it moves just a bit tighten the 
mounting bolt. Bad threads here are found from time to time. The front end 
of the Bowden tube fits into a cup on the chassis. If it is rusty around 
there it could be failing. Eyeball that for movement as well. Both ends of 
that tube should be rock solid under strain. See Bentley for specific 
adjustment of that Bowden tube and make sure it is in spec.

That is everything I can think of than can be verified without removal of 
the engine. If those things are ruled out, then the issue must be in the 
clutch parts.

If you do have to go back inside, check for wear of the x-shaft bearings 
and fingers. Also, verify the depth of the flywheel. If it was set too low 
it might require more travel than spec to release. When reworking the 
flywheels both the disk surface and plate mounting surface must be ground 
the same amount to maintain proper depth.

At 08:42 AM 02/14/2004, you wrote:
>  I removed and tested the
>bearing prior to assembly and found it to meet new spec. Not an oversight or
>a compromise.
>
>Regards,
>Dave
