Date: Sat, 14 Feb 2004 19:11:06 -0500
From: John Runberg <jrunberg(-at-)mac.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: FS: 78 Champagne Edition -- Virginia

Need to clear the driveway to make room for future projects (or neighborhood tempreance devices. whichever). Asking $500obo which is my costs for towing/registration and I'll consider anything which will get this in the hands of someone who'll restore her. I do not want to part this van out, although it's probably worth far more that way.

Details:
A client of mine purchased this 78 Champagne new in Texas and absolutely loved it. He moved to Virginia in 92 and drove the van less and less frequently as his family hated it. Stopped driving it entirely last may after getting it inspected and having some work done (see below). I got it from him over the holidays, but will not have the time to work on her, and honestly don't need another one. I did, however, say that I would find it a good home.

The good:
The van has 179k on it and has been well taken care of mechanically. In may, he had the brakes done, replaced the brake booster, battery and tires. While he didn't do any work himself, he did take it to VW or specialty shops so it has never been abused. Engine and tranny are original and have never been out of the van. No leaks from the little I've driven it, but there is a little oil back by the rear of the engine. 

After charging the battery she turned over several times and then fired right up. Idle is OK, but a bit uneven. She runs fine, however a lifter is not pumping up and clacks. The most I've driven it is up and back on my street and it pulls strong (really strong -- better power than any other bay I've had). I don't want to drive it more until the lifter is happier.

The van is original and has everything it had from the factory, including all seats spare tire case and paperwork. Never wrecked, although there are one or two parking lot dings. There is no rust-through anywhere on the van, except where water leaked onto the dash. Nose is fine, but dash is holed. Floor behing the kick panel looks fine, however.

The stock AC is still in place and in good condition. The PO stated that it never worked very well, even when new, but this also could have been because he was in Texas. Heater boxes are solid and everything is still connected.

She has a clear title registered in my name.

The bad:
Intense sun in TX has faded the rear carpet and damaged the vinyl panels (distortion). Center and front carpet should probably be considered OK, but not salvagable for a resto. The sun also damaged the paint and the van has a good amount of surface rust - mostly on the roof, but also under the windows and some side panels. The roof appears slightly pitted in places. Rockers, doglegs and battery trays are solid, but there is some scaling on the driver's side tray.

The only issue that I've seen for driving is that the wiper switch seems bad - it doesn't really want to turn off every time.

--------------

In conclusion, my promise was to find this van a good home where it will hopefully be worked on, loved and one day painted. If you'd like to have her -- and don't want just a van to drive until it dies -- please send me a p-mail. I have pics and can take more if people want.

thanks,

john
