From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: surfdoc99(-at-)aol.com, barndoh54(-at-)cs.com
Date: Tue, 15 Oct 2002 9:6:33 -0700
Subject: Run-In With the LAW

ok, so i get up at 6:45am to swap tires onto my 59 so 
it'll drive again (stole the tires off it for the 56), so i can get to DMV by 
7:30 to wait in line to get a one day pass to drive the 56 to DMV to get it all 
legal. i get to DMV at 7:35 and hooray! they are open already! i get the one-day 
and head home to gather all kinds of books and literature that shows that early 
busses have two different numbers stamped in them, just in case the inspector 
gives me grief. i drive to MVD with NO license plates at all, just the one-day. 
heck, it's only about 1.5 miles if that.

i get the vehicle verified, and the inspector was really 
talkative about how vw's were good in collisions because their gas tanks don't 
rupture and how he had to replace his fuel lines alot when he lived in LA due to 
smog eroding the lines on his FI Type 3. whatever. i show him the number in the 
engine compartment, and he just fills out the rest of the form. no problems 
there.

i wait in the short line to do all the paperwork, in about 
15 minutes i'm all legal, registered, titled, etc, etc.

since i have no attaching screws for the plates, i stash 
them in the parcel tray until i get home, again, about 1.5 miles away if 
that.

as i pull out of the DMV parking lot i notice a cop around 
the corner. i though to myself, "of course". so of course he follows me. i make 
a couple turns (with signals) onto the road heading home, and then the lights 
come on. i pull over immediately (with signals), knowing why he pulled me over. 
he gets out with this 3 foot long billy club, and heads towards the bus. i stick 
my head out and say, "wondering about these?" and then i flash the new plates. 
"yeah" he says. i show him all the paperwork, he runs my driver's license 
number, and then starts asking about whether i'm gonna restore the bus, where i 
got it, blah, blah, blah.. it seems funny to me that he follows me OUT of DMV 
and then pulls me over. i guess that's what he gets paid to do, but geez, he saw 
me leave the lot. maybe i'll drive to work today (about 20 miles) with no plates 
and see what happens, just for fun!
