From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: surfdoc99(-at-)aol.com, barndoh54(-at-)cs.com
Date: Tue, 15 Oct 2002 11:59:45 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] Run-In With the LAW/me to

  I think you were lucky. When I was in california (1990), I was driving one
of my Porsches with out the plates attached, got pulled over, got a ticket
(even though I showed the cop the plates, insurance and registration) ,
$186.00 dollars for not having my plates attached. Had to attach the plates
and have a cop sign the ticket off and send it in with the check.
  Now over 10 years later I get a notice from AZ MVD that my license is
suspended for failure to pay a fine in California.  I go to court, had to
take a day off and drive 300 miles to go to court, told the judge I paid the
fine, his answer was PROVE IT, I said I don't have the cancelled check it
was over 10 years ago. He said O-Well I will reduce the fine from over 900
dollars to 286 give or take a few dollars, what could I do?. I paid the
fine, got the court release, got my license back and all was well.
  The kicker is a couple weeks ago my wife had a garage sale, I helped clean
up the garage and went through some of my old boxes, besides finding some
NOS Porsche and VW parts I had long forgot about, I FOUND the cancelled
check I paid the original fine with!
  Moral of the story is, if you ever get a ticket and pay the fine KEEP the
cancelled check any court release etc. forever!!, this way you can avoid
what I had to go through .  California will do whatever they can to screw
you out of money.

ronnie  

-----Original Message-----
From: bus-snob [mailto:hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net]
Sent: Monday, October 14, 2002 5:00 PM
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: surfdoc99(-at-)aol.com; barndoh54(-at-)cs.com
Subject: [VB] Run-In With the LAW


ok, so i get up at 6:45am to swap tires onto my 59 so 
it'll drive again (stole the tires off it for the 56), so i can get to DMV
by 
7:30 to wait in line to get a one day pass to drive the 56 to DMV to get it
all 
legal. i get to DMV at 7:35 and hooray! they are open already! i get the
one-day 
and head home to gather all kinds of books and literature that shows that
early 
busses have two different numbers stamped in them, just in case the
inspector 
gives me grief. i drive to MVD with NO license plates at all, just the
one-day. 
heck, it's only about 1.5 miles if that.

i get the vehicle verified, and the inspector was really 
talkative about how vw's were good in collisions because their gas tanks
don't 
rupture and how he had to replace his fuel lines alot when he lived in LA
due to 
smog eroding the lines on his FI Type 3. whatever. i show him the number in
the 
engine compartment, and he just fills out the rest of the form. no problems 
there.

i wait in the short line to do all the paperwork, in about 
15 minutes i'm all legal, registered, titled, etc, etc.

since i have no attaching screws for the plates, i stash 
them in the parcel tray until i get home, again, about 1.5 miles away if 
that.

as i pull out of the DMV parking lot i notice a cop around 
the corner. i though to myself, "of course". so of course he follows me. i
make 
a couple turns (with signals) onto the road heading home, and then the
lights 
come on. i pull over immediately (with signals), knowing why he pulled me
over. 
he gets out with this 3 foot long billy club, and heads towards the bus. i
stick 
my head out and say, "wondering about these?" and then i flash the new
plates. 
"yeah" he says. i show him all the paperwork, he runs my driver's license 
number, and then starts asking about whether i'm gonna restore the bus,
where i 
got it, blah, blah, blah.. it seems funny to me that he follows me OUT of
DMV 
and then pulls me over. i guess that's what he gets paid to do, but geez, he
saw 
me leave the lot. maybe i'll drive to work today (about 20 miles) with no
plates 
and see what happens, just for fun!
