From: "Eric Allred" <eaallred(-at-)lvcm.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 16 Oct 2002 20:30:14 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] gas mileage

I just did a 1000 mile round trip in my bus over the last two days.  I had
this thing loaded to the max.  The wife emptied all the closets into the
bus, which left a butload of room left, so I loaded a TON of heavy stuff
from the garage into it.  Starters, generators, tools, tranny's and a
complete engine (in pieces).  The bus squated about 4 inches all the way
around once it was loaded (can you say negative camber in the ass-end?).  I
think I was damned close to the one-ton capacity, that's for sure.  Felt
like I was driving a land yacht.  I thought it was a slow vehicle
before...............lol

Going up to SLC, even after climbing the canyon in the corner of AZ, I got a
little over 23mpg while keeping the gas pedal about a half inch from the
floor the whole time.  On the way back from SLC, the bus was empty, and I
scored 28 miles to the gallon with the cruise control set to 60mph (looked
to be about 3450-3500rpm) for 200 miles at a time.  I tell ya, cruise
control makes the drives SO much nicer.  But that's another story.
:-)

One thing I noticed, is if I go over 60mph, my engine starts sounding
different.  Not a bad different, but, different.  I have my suspicions that
the carb is proggressing to the air jet circut from the main, which kills my
mileage.  That's just a theory though.  I figure, i'll just keep it at
60mph, and enjoy the drive.  :-)

Another thing that could be killing gas milage, is impropper jetting/timing.
My bus used to get 16-17 miles to the gallon when I first put the 34pict
setup on it.  I then put on my adjustable Mallory distributor (with vac
advance) since the race car wasn't using it yet, and set the timing to be
7.5 at idle, and 32 advance at about 2800 rpm.  I set the vacuum advance to
give me an additional 10 degrees on top of that.  Gas mileage improved about
3mpg over my old 009.  After that, I pulled the 135 main out, and went all
the way down to a 122.5.  I know that's pretty small, but I kept an eye on
my temps to make sure I wasn't too lean, and it works great.  My pipes were
pretty sooty before, that's what made me switch the main jet out in the
first place.

I'm running one of them new fandangled mexi motors in it (the CR is 6.6:1
IIRC, someone correct me if i'm wrong), so I think I could hit the magic 29
number if I gave it another point of compression.  Runs great like it is, so
i'm not going to mess with it.

Used to run great, cept for that engine fire I had this morning, but that's
REALLY another story.
:-(

Eric
64 bug
64 delux
http://www.geocities.com/eaallred
