From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "Vintage List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 16 Oct 2002 23:41:54 -0400
Subject: 6v to 12v inverter ?'s

well while i am waiting for a starter i thought i might finally try to hook
up this radio/cd player i have been wanting to install in my bus for over
two years. i just checked some old emails from when i bought these
things(inverters) I bought one in Nov, 2000, and one in jan 2001.

One of them had a switch on it to change from 6V neg ground to 12V positive
ground. I assume this switch changed the output. i poped the cover on this
one to take a look inside-no specific reason, i just like to kind of see how
these things look. anyway this one had the brown paper stuff strewn all over
the inside. it appears that one of the capacitors exploded. well something
labeled C2 on the circuit board, and labeled T1, 4 7 0 MFD, 16 VDC85degC,
7640, then an arrow pointing away from a neg sign. I am not sure if this is
a capacitor or not. It is a small cylinder a little over an inch long, and
between 1/ and 3/8" in diameter. it appears to have lost its cap and spit it
insides out. so i imagine that this inverter is no good. what is the likely
hood of finding another capacitor like this?
also this inverter had 4 wires coming out of it. two green, one red, and one
greyish/brown with an inline fuse on it. this is Archer voltage inverter
catalog number 22-129A.

the other inverter has no switch. similar specs. It looks a lot cleaner
inside. it has only three wires coming out of it. a black one, a green one
and a red one. the black one has an inline fuse on it. i found some info i
received when i bought these about ways to wire them-but they don't really
match what i have. this is archer voltage inverter, catalog number 22-129B.

I plan on using the cleaner one at this point. I assume the black is the
ground, based on the way it attaches to the circuit board. the black and
green appear to attach to wires which in turn attach to this donut shaped
coil of red green and copper wires. this thing doesn't look too hard to
make-if you could find the parts. the notes i received-which i think go to
the second inverter, say that the wire with the fuse is 6V+, and black is
negative and green is 12V+. the confusion on my part lies in the fact that
the black wire has the fuse.

I think i need inline fuses somewhere, but i am not sure where. also i was
thinking of putting the radio some what remotely from the fuse box, would
this cause potential problems? should I run a separate wire directly from
the battery. the radio comes with a remote control, so i could potentially
install it all the way in the back of the bus. that way i could listen to
tunes comfortable while laying down in the back. i also do not want to cut
holes in the dash-i want this to look as stock as possible. if i hang it
under the parcel tray-i think it would be difficult to secure it well
without it getting in the way of the shifter, or in the way of knees.

thanks for any suggestions.

-kevin
