From: VW_Westy68(-at-)webtv.net (Brian)
Date: Tue, 27 May 2003 07:52:40 -0400 (EDT)
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: FS: 1968 Westy

Hey all, just wanted to give the list a chance at our 68 Westy which we
are forced to sell. I will need to know very soon if there is any
interest. I ran it on ebay, but it did not sell, I will clip in the
auction specs here:

  Location  Reading, PA  
Hey now, you are looking at a 1968 VW Westy which we are forced to sell
due to us moving across the country. This is a West Coast vehicle. I
drove it here to PA in 1999, had been in WA and TX prior to that. We
have owned it for years, and hate to see it go. This bus as of this
second is not legal to be driven in PA, it is out of inspection, so it
will need to be towed away. But it runs well, and is complete. It needs
a couple things to be ready, but not much, maybe one good weekend in
your garage. I will do my best to list all it may need. 
What I will do is go over each section as good as I can so you can get a
fair idea of the condition of this bus.
WE CAN TAKE PICS OF ANYTHING YOU MAY WANT TO SEE!!!! 
The body:very little rust, although there are bits of rust along the
bottom of each front door due to poor window scrapers. Not too bad at
all, I would just sand, clean and paint it for now. There are a couple
bits under the windshield rubber. I had that replaced a few years back
with a new windshield. There is also a little in the battery compartment
area..not bad at all, just some. All of the rust is in my opinion not
too bad. Definetly no rot at all, anywhere on this bus. 
As far as the body itself goes, most of it is great, except for a few
things. The nose had been punched a bit, like if the brakes had gone out
sometime and something was hit. It has never been enough of an issue to
us to have it repaired. There might be a few dings along the body, but
besides the front, there is no other body damage to speak of. 
The paint is nice enough for us, but you may want to repaint it. It is
faded baby blue right now, waxes up real nice, but the paint is old and
may need your help. 
All the window seals down the side are in good shape. I guess as far as
window seals go, the only thing that needs replacing is the wing window
seals, all the rest are good. Or atleast good enough for right now. 
All door seals are there and in good shape. 
All glass is good.. Side louvered windows work fine. 
Poptop is in good shape..the canvas is not as good. It is still there
and still usable..but I believe it is original, so it is not in the best
shape anymore. 
Bumpers are both in fine shape. 
The motor: I put a 1600 dp type 1 motor in it last year, with the oil
pump style hanger. The motor runs strong. So you know, I have pretty
much everything off of the old motor still, as well as the block which
all these parts can go with it if you meet my opening price. On the
motor now is a newer Bocar 36 pict3 carb, a newer coil, 009 dist, newer
gen, newer voltage regulator, and a newer exhaust. The exhaust is almost
brand new, as well as the gen and starter. I left the old clutch on this
motor, I have an almost new clutch on the old motor I took out of the
bus. 
As far as the not so good with the motor..I didnt replace the front main
seal right behind the clutch before I put the motor in, so, it leaks a
little. It will need to be replaced sooner than later. But if you know
how to pull one of these motors, it doesnt take too long, I just do not
have that kind of time. 
The heater boxes are fairly new if I remember correctly also. I have a
chrome aftermarket breather on the carb. 
Like I said, the motor runs strong, and starts right up. I have set the
valves recently, but it may need timed and maybe a fresh tune up to be
tip top. 
The transmission:I put the trans that is in it now a few years back. The
old one was popping out of 4th..since I put this trans in it, I have had
no problems with it. I have replaced the fluid once not too long ago. 
The cv's and boots are all brand new. 
Undercar:Brakes are all good, as of right now they need an adjustment,
but they work fine. The master cylinder resevoir top had broken on me,
and since they are impossible to find, I just tape a cap on to it and
call it good. It works fine and holds the fluid just fine. Maybe you
might have better luck replacing it then me. 
I have replaced a few of the wheel cylinders within the last year or so,
too. All drums are also in fine shape. 
As far as the front end goes, I replaced the steering box within the
last couple hundered miles. So it is in great shape. All the rest of the
front as far as I remember is in fine working order. The steering feels
fine, there are no wobbles or shimmys or anything when you drive it. 
The tires are all in great shape with almost all the tread left. 
Wheels are old metal style with chrome hubcaps. 
Interior:Front seats need recovering. They are in fine shape, but they
both have some tears. Rear seats are all in great shape with no rips or
tears. 
The interior consists of the seat right behind the driver seat..the
walkthru, the cabinet with the sink and ice box. The table, the rear
seat that folds down to the bed and the side cabinet. All are in great
shape and working properly. Even have the extra stool to match. 
We have both the cots, one over the front seats, and the one up in the
top. Both in fine shape. 
No front kick panels. I pulled them out awhile back and never replaced
them. They are like $40 new. 
The rubber mat on the floor up front is in fine shape. the dash is in
fine shape, only damage is it looks like there might have been a bit of
heat in the ashtray at one point, and it damaged the bit right above the
ashtray (maybe 1"-1 1/2" long), thats the only dash damage. 
I have added a oil temp guage, put it to the right of the speedo, in the
empty slot. The speedo is out of a newer bus.dont know the year. 
It has a pullout cheapo cassette deck in it. 
Front door panels are in great shape. I had recently replaced the risers
in each of the front doors also. 
In the rear cargo floor area there is linoleum, its in fine shape, but
its not the best looking anymore. 
The cabinet top has been replaced with some cheap linoleum. Sink works
fine..the icebox holds the cold in also. 
Also has the netting above the rear bed. 
The spare tire is located in the rear of the bed, drivers side. 
Biggest problem with the interior is the shape of the wood paneling.
They are no longer what they used to be. They are not bad enough for me
to worry about. They are just faded some, and in places the paneling
starts to break..to me it is not all that bad though. 
Only other thing to mention is awhile back, I had an electrical problem
at the back of the ignition. It fried those wires and the horn wires. I
have rewired in a new generic switch, which hangs right to the side of
the column..I could not get the old switch out of there and called it
good when I got the other switch in. I also had to rewire the horn,
which the button is now mounted on the left side of the steering column.
We have never had any problems with it since I did the work. 
So thats about it for this bus..if you have any questions or want to see
ANY pics, please email me.
 
Vehicle will need to be towed away (due to currently not being inspected
in PA)..if you need phone #'s for vehicle shippers, I have a few, so let
me know if you need them. 
Please email if you have any questions, or want to see pics. So you
know, we have determined we cannot take less than $2000 for this bus..we
have had decent offers, but if we cannot get the $2000, we will just
keep it.  Thanks for your time!


http://www.phishhook.com/lists/SLOWAGN
