From: "Jason Z Upper" <jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 27 May 2003 09:59:53 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] 80 MPH Type 2

Hi Folks,

As I don my flame suit, I just had to weigh in on this one.  The passenger 
compartment in a Bus is also the crumple zone, and any frontal impact over 
40mph will be enough to deform the body, the dash, and occupants' legs.  If 
you can make a Bus go 60, 70, 80, 90, 100mph, then you as a driver have to 
accept the risks of violent death if you happen to hit something at those 
speeds.  As for stopping, the Bus's brakes were some of the best available 
for the vehicles of its time, with stopping distances at the top of its 
class.  If your brake system is in good working order, it should be adequate 
enough to stop the Bus from any speed you choose -- if you allow for it.

That said, I routinely drive my Bus at 70-75mph, and I sometimes drive it 
like it's a sports car -- hard cornering, high-speed cruising, close 
following distances.  I enjoy keeping up with the flow of traffic, and 
always drive as if every other car on the road doesn't see me and/or is out 
to crumple my classic German sheetmetal.  I keep my Bus well-maintained, and 
make sure all the running gear is up to the task I give it.  In additon, I 
replaced all of the seatbelts with more modern ones and got rid of the 
crusty 20-year-old belts that came with it.  Aside from that, I chose to own 
a Bus because it doesn't have airbags everywhere, run-flat tire technology, 
power everything, satellite navigation, or sophisticated computer-controlled 
engine management.  I prefer a more hands-on approach to driving, complete 
with the risks associated with driving an obsolete vehicle.

If you're scared about getting cut in half by rear-ending a ramp truck, 
perhaps driving a Bus at higher speeds is not for you.  However, if you 
understand that operating any motor vehicle can be deadly, and if that 
speed/risk/fright is a result of work you have done by yourself on your own 
vehicle with knowledge you gained from great resources like this list, then 
why not flaunt it a little?  People expect Buses to be slow and in the way, 
even in the slow lane.  It's unexpected for a Bus to go that fast, and I 
always enjoy seeing the looks of disbelief on drivers' faces as I sweep past 
them in the outside lane, going 75mph uphill -- it's just another one of the 
joys of Bus ownership.

As always, YMMV, but at least we have a good forum to talk about this stuff.


Jason Z Upper
1979 Westy "Sweet Pea"
Asheville, North Carolina
