Date: Tue, 27 May 2003 13:46:42 -0700
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Dash was Removing front turn signals

I think I know what to do about resecuring the signals now. I was looking at my motorcycle fairing and noticed it has removable plastic rivets that are quite strong. See tuflok further down this page:

http://plastic-fastener.com/rivets.html

According to the specs the strongest one could even secure to the tire mount and tire. I don't like the look of the toggle bolts that came with my new tire mount. I haven't taken the old one off yet and I'm still wondering how the original was secured.

BTW, I took the top part of the dash out to clean the dust out of the fresh air and heater tubing and it came out pretty easily. The hardest part was getting the two nuts off the bolts at the far end of the dash. They are tucked behind the plastic venting. It's probably easier to remove the two covers where the fresh air fans would go so you can remove the plastic vents in the corners to increase the accessibility.

The dash has four bolts: far left, behind speedo, behind red/blue levers and far right. The passenger grab handle consists of another two bolts and completely removes from the dash when you undo the nuts.

I'm glad I took off the lower covers below because I found some rust inside. Nothing major but moisture definitely likes to collect in there and the insides are primered only, not painted.

If you are wondering about the state of rust under your windshield take a look behind and below the kick panels. I found a lot of rust that seems to have fallen from the under windshield area. The rust has probably left a track that runs the length of the windshield.

I accidentally dropped a screw down the heater vent and had to go under the bus to disconnect the hose and fish out the screw with a telescoping magnet. I expected the inside of the tube to be dustier but it wasn't. The inside is accordion shaped like the outside and made of paper. It didn't have "that  smell" so it must come from further back towards the heater boxes.

--
Richard
1978 Westfalia CDN
Cupertino, CA
