From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 27 May 2003 20:39:22 EDT
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: We made it!!! Pt 1 was [VB] AIRS Rescue - Drum needed 

Hi Volks,

First, thanks to Thom, Jeremiah, Dan, Joel, Metric Motors, Bus Farmers, Bob
Koch, Todd, and many, many others who took the time to help us look for
parts,
people connections, etc.!

Barb loaded and checked off all supplies/tools in the bus in the week before
the trip.  Got up Friday morning, loaded Gasket the cat and his litter box,
and a last few items.  Then got a call from our friend who we were suppossed
to
sell a bunch of parts to (which would cover our expenses for the trip) that
he
couldn't come and Barb once again said the karma was against us and maybe we
should just skip the trip, but Eric was too gung ho to go!  So, we took off
at
noon from Olympia, Wash area in our 1960 walk thru panel camper conversion
with Eric's sister Wendy and her SO JJ in her 1969 Canadian panel camper
conversion painted beige over a forest green.  Due to time being limited
because of
Eric's new job (it took over 4 months for him to find, and because of years
of
caring for Barb's disabled Dad with the help of Barb's sister, we are beyond
broke and have been borrowing from family for the last 2 years!!), Barb's
continued attitude was, "Is this trip really necessary??!!".  Got to Chehalis
to
refuel for the first part of the trip.  Took on 7.197 gallons for $10.50 and
had
gotten 21.590028 MPG with odometer reading 87354.  While doing this, Wendy
poured an entire quart of oil in their engine before waiting at least ten
minutes for all the oil in the cooler to drain down into the sump, because
all she
could see on the dipstick was a drop at the bottom end.  JJ took a look at
the
oil dip stick and turned out the oil had been too clean to be easily seen on
the dipstick unless one got the reflection of the hot thinned oil on the
dipstick.  Being able to see this, it turned out the oil was already well
over 1/2
quart higher than the full line!  So, time to push their 1969 bus to a
parking
place and drain off some excess oil. 

  While pushing the bus, Eric noticed that the right rear brake drum squeaked

off and on as it rotated and the rims were way too hot when touched.  Removed

the cotter pin to find: axle nut loose, the brake drum wiggly, and spin too
much for normal axle/drum spline clearances.  Found the LR axle nut also
loose,
but the drum splines not damaged.  Applied grease to dry axle splines/nuts,
and "never seized" rear adjusting stars due to them being too tightly
adjusted,
plus properly torqued rear axle nuts.  Eric thought it would last till
Sacramento where we could find a usable drum to replace the bad RR one, Barb
asked
if we should turn around and go home.  She was out voted.
 
Drove on South, cell phoning Averrie's VW wrecking yard in Longview, Wash to
see if they had a drum.  No they did not think they had one of those rare
1968-70ish drums!  So we continued Southward toward Portland, and called
Averrie's
again when we got close to the turn off to their area.  Punched the number in

and send, once connected to the local system it told you to repunch in the
number where upon the phone beeped three times and hung up on us.  Tried this

routine about six times with no luck.  Ah, technology!  Stopped in one of the

Rest Stops just before the Wash/Ore border and adjusted the front brakes
which
were also adjusted too tight.

Instead of taking I-205 to curve way East around Portland or take old I-405
through the West side of Portland, we decided to strike straight through on
I-5.  We crossed the bridge with its double humped roadway across the
Columbia
out of Wash into the Portland, Ore area.  Hit some slow traffic and then sped

back up just before the bridge that arcs hundreds of feet way over the
Willamette River that runs South to North through Portland.  Our 1960 bus
started to s
pit and sputter more and more often and finally the engine died on the long
steep hill after the bridge.  Traffic was wizzing by feet away and so thickly

that it was difficult to talk over the road noise.  Barb thought it was the
condensor but Eric was not sure about that because the condensor had been
replaced
with a Bosch NOS one from our stash of parts at home when just two days
before
the trip, the old one had conked out.  Replaced the coil, then replaced the
distributor with spares on board with no luck.  Checked spark, checked gap,
put
in new gas filter, checked fuel pump, adjusted points, cleaned rotor,
ETC!!!!!!!  JJ had the idea to try some of their parts since their bus was
running
fine.  So, he started pulling parts off their engine faster than Eric could
get
ready to try them!  Eric tried their carb with still no luck so we tried
their
distributor and the engine started back up.  So we took off their carb and
distributor and installed a new condensor in the distributor we had been
using
for this trip and off we went, two hours later....  Barb asked Eric if maybe
we
should just turn around and go home since if we had anymore problems and Eric

wasn't back in time for work, he would lose his new job.  She lost again. 

Stopping for Rest Stops here and there for a quick walk about, bathrooms, and

checking the rear axle nuts on Wendy's bus.  Refueled in Springfield
Ore.(Took on 7.537 gallons for $11.30 and had gotten 24.943611MPG with
odometer
reading 87542.), and again at Ashland Oregon (Took on 7.004 gallons for
$10.50 and
had gotten 26.127926MPG with odometer reading 87725.), and on till well into
the night when we stopped for the night at about 2330 (11:30pm) at a Rest
Stop
in the Siskiyou mountains.  Gasket insisted on crawling into the sleeping bag

with his humans down by their feet sometime O'dark early cause it was too
cool
inside the bus for him.   Got up about 0600 and on the uphill just before the

Weed, CA, Rest Stop and Airport, Wendy & JJ's bus slowed down and down so
they
pulled over.  Turned out the RR brake drum had worn out its splines.  So we
got out our towing chain and towed them to the Rest Stop where we found the
axle nut would not thread off, just spin.  We called Garcia in Yreka, CA that
we
had passed about 26 miles back and only got his answering machine.  Tried to
call him several times later with no luck.  So we tried calling several AIRS
members in Redding, CA about 72 miles ahead.  Ken was out till the next day
according to his wife, Larren & Sonya's phone number had been disconnected,
Dan
had no parts for a 69 bus, but would post an Email with Wendy's cell phone
number to the vintage and type2 lists for us, Jeremiah tried to call Metric
Motors
for us, only to get their answering machine, no answer at Wolfgangs or Bus
Boys.  Figuring we were not going to have any luck finding a parts place open

with a brake drum in stock we decided to leave the 69 in Weed, so we towed it
to
the Airport parking lot on the other side of I-5.  Loaded Wendy & JJ and
their
stuff including a hang glider bundled up they had brought along onto our roof

rack (It hung about four feet out the rear and two out the front of the bus.)

and headed South into a 20-30 mile head wind.  (Barb again suggested to Eric
that maybe we should give up because if anything else happened, we would all
be stranded and how would he get back to that job???  No luck, Eric was bound

for California!)  Stopped in at the Olive Pit for sesame sticks of all
flavors
and habanero stuffed olives, YUM.  Nearing Sacramento, Wendy's phone rang and

it was a fellow (Sorry we forgot your name!) at Metric Motors who said he
would look out back of the shop for a drum for us and suddenly we lost cell
phone
connection.  Called Jeremiah back to get Metric Motors phone number and we
called MM back with no luck, just kept on ringing.  Hung up and Wendy's phone

beeped it had a message.  She listened to the message and it was from Metric
Motors leaving another phone number for us to call back to.  Number was spit
out
too fast and was fading in and out.  Barb & Wendy listened to the message
trying to translate out the number at the Rest Stop just before Sacramento. 
Called
the resulting number and got a laundry shop message machine! 

Got through Sacramento and on the upward slope of the switching ramp from I-5

to I-50, the 1960 bus coughed so we pulled the fuel reserve switch on the
fly.  Out Eastward on I-50 to the raceway area to stop in at the local
Ralph's
grocery store for distilled water, ice, and sugar free candies for Barb's dad

back home who is diabetic.  Then drove the ten minutes to the raceway to
arrive
at 1855 (6:55pm) Saturday night, the latest we have ever gotten there in all
these years!  We payed for entrance and camping at the gate and the games
began.  There was greeen graaaasss all over, instead of the normal dust bowl
environment and temp was in the 80s.  All four of us scurried about from
swapper to
swapper trying to find at least a drum and hoping to also find an IRS stub
axle and an axle nut just in case the spare one we had did not fit right. 
With
no luck, no luck, no luck.....  We did find 14 distributors for $10.00 (five
113 905 205 AN, two 113 905 205 T, two 113 905 205 M, two 0 231 178 009, one
0
231 129 019, one 113 905 205 AH, one unknown due to the distributor body
heavily sand blasted, but has all new part on it.) and many of these look
like they
were rebuilt with new parts including vaccum cans.  Called Thom to see if he
had any of the parts or connections to parts in Sacramento and got the
answering machine.  Called back much later only to get the answering machine
again. 
We did buy a pair of OG safaris latches for $50.00 from Larry Reno for the
set
of windows we have been putting together during the last few years.  He also
gave us a fuel filter for the one we replaced on the trip and one safari
mount
and four NOS slider rod hinges.  (Thanks Larry!)  The sun set with a misty
cloudy golden look and the weather cooled rather drastically.  Wendy & JJ set
up
their tent and we got to bed about 2230 (10:30pm).  Gasket again insisted on
crawling into our sleeping bag. (Barb's ever present little black teddy bear
had the good manners not to wake us up all night, unlike Gasket who wanted
mommy to get up and play with him).
