From: "Al Lalumia" <alalumia(-at-)surefit.net>
To: "Thor Richards" <Thor.Richards(-at-)investmet.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 29 Aug 2001 17:00:46 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] Sealer, insulation

The gas smell comment is concerning me. Make sure those heater
boxes/exhuasts aren't leaking, fuel leaks (gasp!), etc. Sealing the interior
is 2x important if you are insulating, as that getting wet might make
matters much worse.
I am planning to use a Wax product, like Waxoyl or similair available from
places like eastwood.
Kool patch is a roofing product. It is like 9 bucks a can at most hardware
stores. If the True Value chain is there, I have seen it there. Just be
cautious of product like undercoating, unless the materil you are using it
on is basically well protected with rust removed or not there at all,
otherwise you just trapped it in to eat the metal while you look at gunky
black stuff.
The wax sparys and is a self healing membrane to prevent anything from
bothering the metal, and having the metal well protected with paint to begin
with is then important as well. I am sure you could use either or any
product on the interior/undercarriage with good success as long as the rust
is taken care of.
Insulation for floors is available form places liek summit racing where you
can get the shiny floiled stuff, where the H20 is less likely to soak it) I
have also hear of spray foam, R13 stuffed with a vapor barrier, or the
closed cell foam cut into sheets and used on walls.doors, and roof.

Just don't make moisture traps, a vapour barrier would be smart, making sure
your interior panel cardboard is sealed up form the h20 to protect it, and
rust is taken care of, so you don't seal it happily in.

Al


-----Original Message-----
From: Thor Richards [mailto:Thor.Richards(-at-)investmet.com]
Sent: Wednesday, August 29, 2001 1:30 PM
To: 'vintagebus(-at-)type2.com'
Subject: [VB] Sealer, insulation


Does anyone know of a good sealer for the inside of my 1967 VW Bus. I want
to protect the inside of my van against rust and water. Also, I am looking
to reduce the noise and gas smell from the engine. I am new to this VW Van
scene but, I am having fun and plan on keeping my bus for a long time. I saw
"Kool Seal" on a web site but, know body in Orange County has it. Thanks,
Thor

Thor Richards
Network Administrator
Messaging
949-629-1321
Thor.Richards(-at-)investmet.com <mailto:Thor.Richards(-at-)investmet.com>



