Date: Thu, 30 Aug 2001 01:42:42 +0000
From: Westfalia <swharris(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RIMCO attitude :-(

Hey all,

I would just like to get some input on anyone's recent experience with
Riddle Machine Company, better known as RIMCO.

I'm in the process of building a new 1600 for my truck.  I purchaced a
new CW crank, case, et. al. from Ronnie and as usual, the experience was
flawless and he even delayed a trip he was going on to ship out the
stuff to me when promised.  Truly great customer service!

Compare this to the absolutely horrendous "I could give a shit about you
and your 150 bucks" attitude I recently recieved by everyone I came in
contact with at RIMCO!  I had taken them my new crank, flywheel, pistons
and rods to be balanced as well as some SP heads to be surfaced and have
them 8 dowel the flywheel.  In my haste I had negelected to include the
pressure plate with the order and when I relized this fact, I mentioned
to the guy at the counter that I would drop it off the following Monday
morning early.  He said that was fine and that I could drop it off in
the shop as the front office would not be open at 7am when I needed to
drop it off before work. "OK" I said.  I asked for a reciept for all the
parts I was leaving and was told that it would be under my name. 
"Ummm...OK"  I felt a tad uneasy having nothing in my hand confirming I
had left anything with them.  How would I prove I left anything with
them in the event of some misshap? BTW, he was a bit of a jerk when I
asked about the invoice.

On Monday morning I arrived at the shop to drop off the plate.  I went
in the back and asked someone there where I should leave the plate.  In
5 seconds this one dude went OFF on me.  Totally and absolutely insane. 
He went to babeling  things like "what the hell do you want me to do
with that?" and then spouted things like "hey...I anin't no stupid
mexican!!!  I'm ______ Riddle.  I own this place!"  More than likely he
is the owner's kid.  He was a complete ASS HOLE!  Wish I'd remembered
his name.  All I remember is that he has a shaved head.

I was late and leaving for vacation the next day, so since the order was
already there, I reluctantly left the plate there with the crazy A hole
and crossed my fingers that it would meet up with the rest of the
order.  

Yesterday I went and picked up the order and was this time greeted by
another snobish attitude.  This time from a long hair dude with
glasses.  Unbelieveable! They made a mistake and only put the charge for
one head re-surface and acted like I was trying to cheat them!  The
stuff looks OK, but how the hell do I tell if it all got done properly?

This company has had the VW machine biz in LA locked up for so long they
just don't give a shit about the customer anymore.  Its not like I've
not dropped any coin with them.  In the past year I've spent well over
500 with them on machining alone...small for them I'm sure, but still
not a small amount.  Does anyone else have similar stories?  How about a
better place to spend my hard earned money.  I know there is Berg, but I
wonder if the same attitude might persist??

Anyone care to comment?  

Steve
