From: "David & Susan Bell" <bellky(-at-)charter.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 17 Sep 2002 20:39:40 -0500
Subject: VWoA and Trademark Troubles

At the risk of irritating a few folks..........

After reading the stories of  VW harrassment over the past months I think
there are points to be made on both sides.  It does seem that they are being
overzealous in the protection of their trademark; some of the incidents seem
to fall clearly into the realm of fair use. (I'm thinking here of the
hubcap/clocks that were mentioned some time ago.) That being said, the
fellow who recently posted his difficulties with regard to selling some
coffee mugs he made featuring the VW logo.......sorry, that is a clear
violation of their trademark rights. Think about it. What is being sold
here? Not mugs. Mugs are two for a buck at the Dollar Store. What's being
sold is the "VW" on the mug, and trademark law says that only VW can sell
the VW logo, or license others to sell it. That's sort of the whole point of
having a trademark. The same applies to t-shirts, wall plaques, toilet
paper, and whatever.

Now, I'm not a lawyer or an expert on trademark law, but I believe that the
key to the matter lies in the concepts of 'commercial use' of the trademark
without permission and the 'damage' done to the holder of the trademark. To
sell something with the VW logo emblazoned on it without the permission of
VW is a violation of their rights. VW originated the logo, promoted it,
stood behind it, and made it commercially successful. Why should someone
else be allowed to reap the benefit of their investment without their
permission? (Are you allowed to collect interest from your neighbor's
savings account?) Why should VW be stuck with a bad rap because a consumer
has a bad experience with a product bearing the VW logo made by some third
party?  Try selling a line of coffee mugs with the logo of Starbuck's, or
Windows, or Sony on it; see what happens. Why should VW be any different?
Remember also that a key factor in preserving trademark rights is the
vigorous protection of those rights through the prosecution of known
violations.

Is VWoA being short-sighted in their trademark prosecutions? In regard to
the air-cooled community, probably so. I believe it's a bad business
decision, but they didn't ask me. A business is not required to make good
decisions, just to operate within the law. At the moment VW seems to be
going overboard in their trademark prosecutions, but that is typical of the
early stages of these things. In time I believe they will begin to relax a
bit, at least in regard to non-commercial use for identification purposes
such as club names and the like.

Don't jump on VW just because they are following the law in the defence of
their trademark rights; they do plenty of genuinely stupid things to be
upset about.

Just my two cents worth, I could be wrong. (It's happened before.) ((No,
really!))

Regards,
Dave
74 Riviera
No flame suit; not afraid of fire.

PS: Stitching up your own spare tire cover with the VW logo on it
*shouldn't* be a violation if you don't sell it.



