Date: Wed, 18 Sep 2002 10:05:02 -0400
From: "John Baker"<jbakerccymca(-at-)springmail.com>
To: Floyd Cmmins <fccmmins(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] VW Trademarks

On Wed, 18 Sep 2002 10:22:59 +0000 Floyd Cmmins <fccmmins(-at-)hotmail.com> wrote:
>>What is this thing with going on about VW not supporting these vehicles? 
They are darn old and 90-some percent of them that were made are gone. Get
real!  This is the best supported old vehicle around.<<

WRONG!! Or at least wrong in the respect that VWoA does NOT support these
vehicles. Call your local VW dealer and ask them if they carry any air-cooled
parts, ask them if they have "Chromium Yellow" touch up paint, or a 71 bus
heat exchanger, any other air-cooled part for that matter. They will say "NO",
the parts guy at Loveland Ohio's Century Volkswagen Dealership even chuckled
at me when I asked him, no lie. Trust me, I've called every VW dealer in
Southwest Ohio just to see if they could get parts for me and NONE could. This
is where the problem lies.  Yes, you are all correct that VWoA has a right to
protect their trademark properties, that's a no-brainer.  But here's the
problem: They are going after the only guys who still make and sell parts for
us (ask the guy from the "BugBarn" about his legal issues with VWoA lawyers). 
I don't blame VWoA Corporate Brass because they don't want other people making
inferior quality stuff, and selling it as VW. HOWEVER, if they are going to
FORBID others to provide us with this stuff, then THEY MUST. And they are not
providing us with the parts and merchandise we need or want. THIS is the
problem. Compound this problem by them using pictures of old air-cooleds in
their marketing and making new concept vehicles "based" on the old aircooleds
while they refuse to support these vehicles, and you can see how hypocritical
VWoA is being.
So, in essence, VWoA is in the process of endangering our hobby, which also
happens to be their ancestory, by going after the mom and pop VW parts &
service places.  Screw their logo, I don't care if I can't get a Pint Glass
with the VW on it, but when I need a carburetor or brakes or fuel tank, then
dammit I want to know that their is SOMEONE out there who can provide it for
me, and right now, VWoA CANNOT.
As for the hand made coffee mug issue with the VW on it, this could fall into
the realm of artistic expression. Did Andy Warhol have to get a license from
Campbell's Soup Company to do his famous soup can painting and sell it for
hundreds of thousands of dollars? I don't know, anyone have this info?! 
Anyway, I wouldn't mind having one of those mugs, if you still have some ;^) 
OK, rant off, back to business as usual.

Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1966 Kombi
1985 Cabrio
http://www.geocities.com/jbakerccymca
"...so we got in the red VW microbus with the shovels and rakes and implements of destruction and
headed on to the police officer's station..."
