From: "Jerry & Melissa Jess" <vwstuff53(-at-)msn.com>
To: "type2" <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Date: Wed, 18 Sep 2002 09:11:31 -0700
Subject: Jerome Jamboree XII

Jerome Jamboree XII was a great weekend for everyone who attended, and it
was
a great weekend for the Arizona Bus Club as well.  The weather was
absolutely
perfect for the close to 300 buses in attendance with nearly 2000 people.
The caravan from Phoenix only had 46 buses in it, but was still pretty
impressive going up I-17 and later winding up the switch-backs of Mingus
Mountain.  We kept together very well and never really did have any gaps.
The club sold out of adult sized event shirts, around 17,000 raffle tickets
were sold, a hundred or so folks tasted/judged the chili cook-off, a dozen
or
so buses participated in the slow-drags, and the charity auction had some
really great stuff in it and brought in a lot of money for this year's
charities.

The semi-restored 1966 single cab was won by Keith Williams from the Phoenix
area.  In addition, the previous two year's raffle buses were there.  Ryan
Price from VW Trends took pictures of the 3 raffle buses and their winners
all lined up.  He and his wife camped out at the event for the weekend and
took lots of photos.  Not sure how many, will make it into the magazine, but
we'll see.

I really want to thank all those who attended for their support, as well as
all the great vendors who donated to the raffle bus and to the raffle in
general.  The event wouldn't have been the success that it was without you
all.  A list of donors to the raffle bus can be seen at the club's website
(www.arizonabusclub.com).  Hopefully within a couple of days we will have a
list of donors to the general raffle posted to the site as well.

I also want to thank all the list members and ABC members who donated parts
and labor to get the raffle bus finished as nicely as it was.  Even though
it
wasn't 100% complete or perfect, all I heard all weekend long were positive
comments about it.  And I know that the guy who won it was so excited he
couldn't stand it!

And, finally, I want to thank all the people who helped at the event with
selling shirts and tickets, officiating at the slow-drags, watching the gate
and so on.  Jerry Jess on the PA was great, as usual.  A lot of help came
from our California,  New Mexico, and Colorado friends.  And after all,
that's one of the most important things about events like this: getting
together with our fellow VW friends who we don't usually see except at
events
like this.  At least it is important to me.

Anyway, thanks again to all who helped in every way with Jerome Jamboree
XII.
 Now it is on to JJ XIII where we will be raffling of a 1966 13 window
Deluxe!

See you there,

Jon Stanton, President
Arizona Bus Club

------------------------------

