Date: Mon, 21 Nov 2011 14:03:06 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>, "type2(-at-)type2.com"
Subject: Re: [T2] battery disconnect

Kevin there are many thoughts on the subject.
 
Generally speaking FWIW all
racing classes want disconnect on the positive side.  Not that you are racing
the bus, but it does bear to mention as racing considers that optimal for
safety.  A few reasons, but mostly because the chance of unitentionally
grounding a hot wire that is still hot is probably higher (remotely) in
probability than the reverse.  So the mentality and reasoning is that the hot
wires are no longer hot makes more sense.
 
Now, I've used a number of those
on the terminal style disonnects (BTW they are WIDELY varying in quality, the
cheapo $5 Moroso for instance is a real POS, yet I've had very nice $7 units I
bought at Harbor Freight, go figure) and actually tend to put them on the
ground side.  My reasoning is that with that style thing, I really don't like
an extra 2-3" of uncovered, unprotected + terminal sticking out around the
battery wherever it is housed, because one occasionally manages to find such
things with a wrench that is solidly on a nice grounded bolt of the body, and
the ensuing arcwelding experience, and potential batttery explosion can make
for fun.  It is always shocking so to speak anyway.  On the ground this of
course is not an issue.
 
Now I'm being lazy using those, certainly I've had
the keyed panel mount ones in a couple race cars, and then switch the
positive.  Though there you do always have the fact that the cable from the
terminal to the switch can still be cut into and is "unswitched" but in
reality of course that is no different from how things always were before you
had it in place.
 
So all in all, doesn't really matter a hill of beans IMHO,
do what you like and is convenient.  If panel mounting it, put it as close to
the battery as possible of course.
 
John


----- Original Message -----
From:
Kevin Guarnotta kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net
 
I am finally going to install one of
those battery disconnects in my bus and
truck.



I like the idea of this for
working on the bus-it makes electrical work much
easier, instead of
disconnecting with a socket and reconnecting with a
socket while testing
electrical stuff out, I can just use a little plastic
key. Plus I can
disconnect it when not driving for a long time-so my radio
does not drain the
battery (yeah I have one of those new fangled radios).



So for those of you
who have installed these-any suggestions? Should I hook
this up to the ground
or the positive? Initially I thought the ground, but
was not really sure why.
