Date: Tue, 20 Dec 2011 09:29:44 -0800
From: "Nate M." <nate(-at-)aircooledtech.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Anti-Seize and spark plugs

It's obvious that this is one of those subjects that everyone has an
opinion on.  So I'll give you all my .02 FWIW. . .

I've got clients here at my shop now where I have been servicing their
cars for 10 years.  Plus I have my own cars some of which have been in my
possession for up to 15 years.  I have personally never had a plug that I
installed that seized in the head.  I ALWAYS use a small dab of anti-seize
on the plug threads.  To me it's common sense; dissimilar metals WILL
corrode and eventually bond together (especially if heat cycled thousands
of times).  Don't believe me, just ask any Vanagon owner when it's time to
change the 1/3 or 2/4 exhaust pipes that the factory so brilliantly
installed with steel bolts into the aluminum heads. . . ;-)

Many folks get into the mode of, "if a little is good, a LOT must be
better".  That is never the case with anti-seize; a very thin film on the
threads is all that's needed.  Goober it up by getting it on the electrode
and you're asking for a mis-fire.  Speaking of mis-fires, that is
something I have not seen while using anti-seize on plugs.  Not saying it
couldn't cause it but I just have a hard time believing that if you
properly torque a plug (and you collapse the crush-washer so it actually
stays torqued), that a mis-fire is going to happen. . .  A mis-fire is
caused by the plug loosing or partially loosing it's grounding to the
head.  If it ONLY grounded by the threads I would agree that a mis-fire
was inevitable with anti-seize.  However there is the entire shoulder of
the plug body where the crush washer is, that remains to properly ground a
plug to the head. . .  I have seen many folks NOT torque their plugs
sufficiently where, in time, the plug becomes loose in the head.  This
could cause a mis-fire or worse.

What screws up more heads in my experience, is folks X-threading a plug. 
Which BTW is less likely with anti-seize and by using a plug installation
tool like MAC tools sells (p/n - SPS1)or piece of rubber hose to start it
in the threads.

But I'm rambling at this point.  Do what makes YOU feel better.  You know
where I stand. . .

-- 
Regards,

Nate M.
Anacortes, WA
Owner, ProVolks
(360) 299-8860

www.aircooledtech.com
