From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 18:30:39 -0500
Subject: re:Radio Static

Thanks to all for your responses, I read them quickly this week, and Ill be
reading them more closely this weekend



I understand the idea of just getting another antenna or cable-unfortunately
it is not easy to walk into a store and get a car radio antenna that would
work on a bus, and none of the adaptor cables looked right. I tried three
stores  radio sh*ck, best buy, autozone and you do it electronics. YDI was
the only one that was close, the other places only had antennas for Sirius
radio



Additionally, I also like to try to understand what is causing the problem,
instead of just swapping out parts. I always wondered why you even need an
antenna, and why you cant just use the cars body as an antenna? Anyone
know the reason for that?



I had not thought to just try a basic wireI saw that as a suggestionso
Ill give it a go.



I especially liked the in-depth explanations  jon and what you said may be
more than I need to know, but I like to read that stuff, to try to
understand what the heck is going on. If I didnt care what was going on-I
would just buy a modern car.



Also to help explain why this is tricky for me-the radio works fine in my
driveway-so it is hard to trouble shoot. As soon as I start driving around I
get problems. But then I dont always have a safe place to pull over. I have
found a spot about a = mile from my house, where I can pull over safely, and
I get the static (sorry noise) with the engine on or off. On top of that
the weather is not real nice to be working on the bus. And oh yeah-Ive had
the engine mount issue on my 69 single cab that is a bit more of a priority
to me-as opposed to my radio.



So to sum up- thanks a ton for the response, I am reading them all, and will
report back. Although I think the weather is supposed to be crappy
saturday-the next day I have to work on it.





-Kevin Guarnotta

Jamaica Plain, MA



'69 Singlecab

'65 Ez-camper
