Date: Sat, 28 Apr 2007 21:57:46 -0700
From: Ben Timmons <drben54(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: VW List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: the "green Bean" rides again.

Hi all:

I just finished a wonderful but grueling (for the Bus) week of living on 
the Marin, Sonoma and Mendocino beaches (legally in a campgrounds) in my 
Bus.  I put well over 500 miles on it this week, much of it on the 
winding roads of the infamous Shoreline Highway along California's North 
Coast.

Almost exactly 5 years ago I rescued this bus from a colleague's back 
lot where he had used it as a storage shed.  It took all of this time to 
get it running again, get it through smog, have this List help me 
through a bungled repair (stripped plug threads), a serious fuel leak 
(found before the fireball) and sundry other things.  When I got the 
Bus, I saw the new hi capacity truck tires, the Koni's all around, the 
new engine (which while it was from a rebuilder this list does not like, 
has served me well), and other features showing me it had a future.

Several times reading these posts kept me going. 

Notes from the trip on one my live-journal, drben54.livejournal.com.  
I'll be posting pictures on my website soon.

Other than the scenic notes, the following bus advice came out of this trip.

In a Westy, practice pack your gear, including the moving around you 
need to do to raise and lower the tent and set up for sleeping.  Much 
easy than doing this in the dark with a 40 MPH coast headwind muttering 
"Where's the !!(-at-)ing flashlight?".  Karl V's replacement over-sink 
fluorescent fixture saved the day there.

Self tapping screws.  8X1/2 and 10X1/2.  Bring them.  A 30-year old 
recreational vehicle has a habit of shaking curtain rods and other racks 
loose when it is on the first trip in many years. 

Tools:  Thanks for the list for giving me the list of what to bring.  
Head-smack for forgetting Vise Grips.

All in all, it went really well.  Living in flatlands, I never realized 
what a mountain goat this vehicle is designed to be.  While I wasn't the 
fastest, I wasn't the guy lying at the bottom of the cliff either.  And 
it had just enough spunk to avoid the 25-foot boat-towing RV hurtling 
around the switchback.

If your mechanical skills don't extend to brakes or steering, have a 
professional do the work.  It was expensive but well worth it price on 
Route 1 in Mendocino.

Finally, a Bus is the only way to go.  I went to the dunes in places no 
new RV, even those Eurovan based pseudo-Westies couldn't go.

Bus people are so cool.  I met them at every campground.  Even spent a 
night talking to some famous ones.  One camper I met is talking of 
ditching his Eurovan RV and getting another Westy A/C Bus.

Bye for now,

BEN

-- 
Ben Timmons
78 westy Camper, "Green Bean"
Davis, Ca 95616

Drben54(-at-)sbcglobal.net
