From: "Karl" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: "Gerry Donathan" <gerrydonathan(-at-)hotmail.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 30 Apr 2007 13:59:58 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] finding TDC

Gerry asked:


 ok here is a ridiculous question but I cant find the answer in the repair manuals I own. I have a 72 westy I
am trying to get on the road or else I have to have a wrecker come haul it away. I bought this bus for $300
from someone who couldnt get the timing set right, so he had to quit driving it.
 There is a scratch mark on the pully that he was using as his timing mark, but it doesnt appear to be
accuratly scribed. on a 1700cc motor is the pulley perhaps keyed on the backside so I could remove it and
replace it with a pully that is marked properly? typically I would take the time to find true TDC myself, but
since i am working on this alone its hard to do since I cant be cranking the motor while also holding my thumb
over a  compression test hose to #1. Hate to bother this list with something so mundane, but I am jsut
considering my options while working and not actually looking at the bus. I have to figure out how to get it
at least started and moveable before my momma complains about it sitting in her driveway and i cant have a non
running vehicle at my apartment complex. Be a shame to have to sacrifice this bus with its original motor and
complete interior jsut because I cant find a few hours to deal with it properly until after it is already at
least running.

 ----------------------------------------------------------------------

Remove the 3/4 valve cover.
Rotate the engine in the direction of rotation.
Watch the #3 valves.
You will see the exhaust open and then close.
JUST as the exhaust closes , the intake will start to open.
STOP. When you rock the crank back and forth, the rocker arms will rock back and forth. At the instant they
are equal, stop and look at your crank pulley. At about an inch to the left of the top screw hole, you should
feel a tiny cut in the inboard edge of the pully. That is the TDC mark. Paint it white! Now is also time to
look at where your dist rotor is pointing. It should be at the index mark for #1 to fire, because your #1
piston is.

And here is the easiest way to adjust the valves. You do not need to look for the timing mark.....

Watching the rotor is like a monkey screwing a football.
Get a remote starter button and forget that old school 'watch the rotor crap'.

Pop off both valve covers. Connect remote starter to the starter battery post and the solenoid post.

Press the button and watch ANY pair of valves.

When the exhaust JUST starts to move, STOP, and adjust that cylinders intake valve.

Press button again, exhaust will open then close, intake will open then close. JUST as the intake closes,
STOP, and adjust that cylinders exhaust valve,

Move on to next cylinder.

Exhaust JUST starts to move open, STOP, adjust intake.
Intake JUST closes, STOP, adjust intake.

Real easy once you get the hang of it. None of that back breaking up down up down CRAP. Go under bus once and
come up once DONE!
This way, ALL the valves will be on the heel of the cam when you adjust them. NO GUESSING.
