Date: Mon, 30 Apr 2007 18:01:02 -0600
From: dradom <vw(-at-)radom.org>
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: moab - the good, the bad and the ugly

Denver to Moab on Friday.  The drive over the rockies was great, and as 
always SR 128 into Moab amazed me.  I see it for the first time every 
time.  Saturday was spent between Arches NP and the hot rod car show. 
There were a very few ACWVs present at the show, and a few others seen 
in and around Moab.  Sunday we were up at 4:15AM for the drive to 
Canyonlands NP to photograph mesa arch at sunrise.  I've done that 6 
times now, and if I had a "mecca" it would be mesa arch at sunrise.  If 
you don't know what I'm talking about hit up google image search.  After 
the sunrise gig we took a nap and hung around town and drank beer and 
shopped and so on until evening.  Shortly after we returned to the 
campground a white over blue bay (just like mine) pulled into the site 
next to me.  It turns out that Kelly was from the Boulder, CO area.  Her 
78 and my 78 could have been twins.  We packed up this morning and hit 
the road for home.  We made it as far as Grand Junction when I was 
pulled over in a construction zone.  I was certain I wasn't speeding. 
The nice cop informed me that I had overlooked the transition from 55 to 
40 MPH.  He ran my license and came back and starting in on hos he loved 
the VW Bus and that his dad was supposed to give him the one that his 
dad drove, but instead he "gave it to his other offspring" (i sense a 
little hostility).  He warned me that the construction lasted for 
another few miles, and I assured him it would take me more than that to 
get up to speed.  He then walked to the back of the bus, wrapped on the 
side, and said "wake up little squirrels.  It's time to move on".  He 
then warned me to slow down and have a nice day.  We made it back home 
... almost.  Ten minutes from the damn house I was rear 
ended!#(-at-)$%^&*(!!.  Here's the damage.

http://radom.org/outgoing/bus_rear_ended/

I've calmed down a little now.

dan
