From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 4 Aug 2003 11:14:46 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: trip report: Cascade Kombis campout & odd beasties encountered

Friday we loaded up the red and white VW microbus with folding lounge chairs 
and camping gear and instruments of lazing around and enjoyment.   Jumped in 
and headed south and east to  the campout out sponsored by a couple generous 
and friendly members of the cascade kombis, who live in rural Lewis county, on a 
farm in a valley kinda in the hills.   managed to take the turnings this time 
and didn't go off on a tangent.   Because of fire danger there were no 
campfires.  It has not rained here since mid May or so, and everything is tinder 
dry, no green.  But we had movies, and a keg.   Really odd watching a projection 
TV on a sheet DVD of the McKenzie brothers under the stars.      There were 
two vanagon westys, 3 avocado green bays, one orange bay (all type IV), one 
really clean white upright bay she said her dad bought new,  one 64 double door EZ 
camper, and my 61.   4 awnings,  one homemade in patchwork style, my orange 
one, and two striped Riviera tents (a blue and a green).   We toured around and 
looked at everybodys camp set up and how the kits were different, and how the 
awnings set up.    the volleyball didn't start till the keg was started 
again, in the afternoon.   I managed not to get sunburnt in spite of shorts (that 
sunscreen stuff must actually work).   

Left midday Sunday, after a wonderful breakfast, and sitting around some 
more.     Decided to go home the back way instead of teh freeway, and then said, 
we're going right by Stu's house, let's see him.   He lives out by the Black 
River, and wasn't home, but the doggie doorbells went off, and Melinda was 
there.  She likes reptiles and birds, so we got the tour of the current collection 
of pheasants and peacocks etc, it's not just chickens anymore. Go to 
Vintagebus.com and search for "lizard"  She makes some beautiful batiks of lizards and 
birds.  Did you know pheasants could be coloured like parrots?  
