From: "Bill Bowman" <BussesByTheArch18(-at-)msn.com>
To: "\(msge\) VintageBus List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 5 Aug 2003 18:40:29 -0500
Subject: My light switch is all better...

Hi all,

A couple of weeks back I had asked for help in locating a correct, NOS USA
spec screw terminal light switch to swap out with one on our 1959 "Busses
Nowhere Near The Arch" event Panel Bus.  The original switch was probably
suffering from internal corrosion/resistance, because the lights would
completely fail if you rolled the instrument light dimmer reostat to
"full-on", and it would heat up fairly nicely after extended night time use,
sure signs of resistance.  I eventually plan to open the original switch up
and rebuild it per the awesome tech article on this subject by Barb, Eric &
Matt.  Anyway, several helpful Listee replies came in, but it was our Listee
neighbor to the "Great White North", Scott Stothers who came through with not
just one, but two NOS correct switches from his stash.  I bought/traded for
them both, as we care for two 1959 Type 2's, this BNNTA event truck, and a
nice Double-Cab currently under restoration.  This morning I swapped out the
switches and now everything lights up beautifully again, just like new.  I
then drove this Double Door Panel over to my local VW dealership here in St.
Charles, Missouri and had the State safety inspection run on it.  It passed
with flying colors.  It caused quite a commotion with all the service staff as
well as a few customers who came over to check it out.  Thanks again to our
List for it's help as a resource and learning tool, and especially to Scott
from up in Manitoba for his assistance.  Now the Panel Bus is all ready to get
it's historic vehicle plates and be loaded up for the upcoming BNNTA event.

In Missouri, as in quite a few states, once you receive your historic plates,
you never have to renew them, or get a safety inspection ever again.  A one
time fee of $25.15 is charged.  You are restricted to 1,000 pleasure miles,
but trips to/from car events, club events and meetings or your mechanic don't
count against your limit.  I'll order the plates in the morning and they
should arrive and be on the Bus just in time for the Labor Day weekend camping
event.  It'll be nice to have another of our fleet not have to go back in for
yearly inspections and tag renewals!

Thanks again to everyone involved with our List!

Bill Bowman
NEATO
www.BNNTA.com
