From: "Diane" <djaeby(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "Vintage Bus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 5 Aug 2003 21:11:18 -0400
Subject: The ups and downs ..

Before starting my rant [hope you don't mind if I vent] I will post again the
URL of my bus project ...

www.qoam.com/67bus.htm

Body guy showed up to do the rear end on Monday before leaving for NY .. he
does some really nice work, hope he comes back.  Too bad he is going to take
up permanent residence at my mechanic's . I mean .. my EX mechanic's shop.

Did some studying this weekend - learned almost nothing.


So the last time I posted I talked about a steering problem .. and the cracked
"case" that they are supposed to replace.  NOT REPAIR ~~ I am hoping there is
someone here on the list in the Orlando area that would like to play the part
of either my brother, son or uncle [depending on their age.] for when it comes
time for them to make good on their warranty to put in the engine.  I don't
know what I am looking at and after the way I was treated today, there will be
no other repairs done at their shop.  Which will probably mean, no more body
work either ...  That's the price I will have to pay.

Monday I show up early to get the center bushing replaced.  Agusto, the body
guy, was going to work on the body until the son of the mechanic showed up ..
he never did, so Agusto finished the rear end.  When I went to pick it up I
said, "I will be back early tomorrow morning for the steering .. "  I honestly
didn't want to drive it another mile, but I slowed it down to 40 and stayed
off the interstate.  They told me they couldn't work on my bus until Thursday
.. they had some other things come it that day.  AGAIN .. it was "screw you
diane, your money is not green enough."  So this morning I started calling
around.  Didn't want to wait until Thursday.

Another VW guy in town, very well known I guess with VW people,  said yes, he
could do it.  I asked a price and he said "3 hours labor [60 per hour] plus
the kit."  He didn't think he could get one today, but I knew my mechanic
already had it.  So I drove over there to see if I could pay him for it and
ask if he would be insulted if I took it to Scooters.   The owner was busy so
I asked the son who finally showed up today.  I told him Scooter could do it
.. etc etc .. I would buy the kit .. blah blah .. Mechanic Jr said "no, I will
do it for you today, I promise."  I said .. if it was a cosmetic thing I
wouldn't put all this pressure on you .. but I am REALLY afraid to drive it ..
OH .. but I forgot something ...

I was on my way there and the car died on the road.  I thought it was out of
gas.  We have these trucks here that drive up and down the interstate.  They
are called the Road Rangers and they will give you gas or oil or fix a flat ..
FOR FREE !!  The Department of Transportation pays for them .. a great
service.  My gas gauge doesn't work and I wasn't sure about whether I could be
out of gas.  It was hot and I couldn't think .. It wasn't the gas .. so I
called AAA .. While I was waiting I looked under the hood.  THE COIL FELL OFF
.. that was the problem.  They didn't tighten the bracket holding it and there
was some sort of plate it had been sitting on and Mechanic Senior decided on
Friday that I didn't need it [the plate] and took it off.  I put the wires
back on the coil. .. I can do THAT MUCH .. and cancelled AAA.  Drove to the
shop.

After work I go to pick it up .. he hands me a bill for ... EVERYONE PLEASE
SIT DOWN !!!!   ALMOST $400 ... YES .. $400 ..
$300 labor and $50 for the kit and tax ..  I said "wait a damn minute.  My car
was here less than 4 hours... it wouldn't be $300 in labor .. " He tells me
that is the price I was quoted and I tell him that is not true .. he said the
son quoted me that when I dropped it off and I said "get him in here .. I told
him Scooter would do it for $180 in labor .. why would I agree to $300 ???"
So the son came in .. told his dad he didn't quote me that price .. just that
on Friday he told me it would be "expensive."  I asked was I supposed to
interpret that as almost twice what anyone else would charge me .. So Mechanic
Senior knocked $100 off the bill.  I wasn't happy but paid and then the old
guy started SCREAMING AT ME .. saying "how DARE YOU threaten to take the bus
somewhere else . .. " on and on .. I said "just a damn minute .. My EXACT
WORDS were "would you be insulted if I took it somewhere else... " I thought
it was a pretty decent thing to do.  The man continued yelling about this is
his shop .. and he wasn't going to put up with my threats of going somewhere
else .. and how dare I make arrangements with his son to do the work without
his approval .. on and on and on .. .

END OF STORY .. Horrible horrible experience .. Never going back except to get
my engine made RIGHT !!

Diane
