From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 6 Aug 2003 17:11:02 -0600
Subject: Re: [VB] Compression Ratio

----- Original Message -----
> Keep the deck height around .050" and semi-hemi cut the
> chambers, keep CR around 8.5:1, and get some carbs.
> Dave \X/

Semi-hemi cutting the heads is a good way to get rid of 'squish' in the
combustion chamber, resulting in an engine that carbons up easily, and more
often than not, is a pig to tune. You have to add more advance to the
timing, because the combustion chamber becomes that much less efficient.

Keep the stock wedge shaped combustion chamber, it is a LOT more efficient
than the SH. I agree, that you want to keep the deck tight, but it does no
good unless you have decent squish area. Try to set the deck as close to
.050" as possible (like Dave said), without running too high of a CR. You
can go up to .090" without loosing too much squish, but the lower the
better. If you need more combustion chamber cc's, the way to go is dish the
piston. I believe RiMCo does this. You don't dish the whole way across the
piston, just the center, that way, you retain all your squish area for
efficient burn.

If you are going to run solid rocker shafts and keep the RPM's low (not over
5K), I would run the Webcam 111. Plenty of torque to pull that puppy around.
7-7.5:1 with this IMHO.

Eric Allred
64 Bus

P.S. Anyone wondering what 'squish' is, the two flat parts of the combustion
chamber (one side is the head, the other is the piston) coming together. The
closer this is, the faster the air inbetween gets 'squished' out, optimally
at supersonic speeds, causing the air and fuel to rapidly mix and become
turbulant, resulting in a more complete burn. As a side note, AC.Net
developed pistons for HP applications that enhance this action even further,
allowing people to run over 13:1 CR and run cooler than they did before with
9:1. Although these engine's run fine set to the standard 32 deg. at
3000rpm, when the timing is backed down to around 22-24 degrees, the
engine's make a LOT more power because the combustion chamber (remember, the
piston is the other half of the combustion chamber) becomes is that
efficient. We have customers running superflo/comp eliminator head castings
(6 cooling fins instead of 8) on the street with no overheating problems. It
would be nice if they could be manufactured cheap enough for people to use
on daily drivers, but unfortunatly, cost enough that only serious
racers/street car guys end up buying them.
