Date: Sat, 29 Jan 2005 13:28:05 +0000 (GMT)
From: dworkin <dworkin(-at-)everybus.com>
To: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Travel to Denver: High road or low road?

On Sat, 29 Jan 2005, Don Tuleja wrote:

> I'm looking at the maps now and find that the "direct" route goes via
> I-15 fto I-70. That looks like a pretty steep highway.
>
> The other option is to take I-40 to Santa Fe, NM and then swing north
> on I-25 which will dump me right at the office.
>
> Experiences and opinions?

Well, I've done both and do recommend the southern route, especially this
time of year.  There are a couple of geologic "facts of life" in
travelling east/west in that part of the country.  First, there is the
coast range, then drop back to sea level to cross the Colorado River then
up onto the Colorado plateau, and finally the Rockies.

There is no avoiding the coast range, you just gotta bite the bullet and
do it.  Your basic choices for crossing it are El Cajon on I-15/40 to
Barstow which is steep and long or drop down to San Diego and take I-8
which is extreme but short.  I-8 is brutal but quick; El Cajon you know.

If you take 15/40, then you split at Barstow for 15 thru Vegas and
Utah or 40 to Flagstaff and Albuqueque.  There are a significant number of
third-gear grades on both routes with the biggest on both being that you
have to drop to near sea level to cross the Colorado River, then climb
back onto the Colorado plateau.  I think the one at the dam on 15 is
steeper, but Needles to Flagstaff is no fun.  If you take I-8, then there
is very little slope (comparatively) at Yuma and it's very gradual
climbing onto the plateau thru Los Cruces and up to Albuqueque.  From Los
Cruces you are travelling along the Rio Grand and it has very little slope
until you exit Albuqueque.

The best part of the southern route comes after you get onto the
plateau on I-40, you swing past the southern end of the Rockies and
don't have to ascend to 12,000 feet on I-25, as you do on I-70.  Once you
get to Flagstaff, you are at ~5,000 and will stay between 4500 and 7000
for the rest of the trip.  There are significant grades along the way...
Albuqueque is in a bowl and it's a long drop and rise on I-40 and 25,
Santa Fe being the peak of the exit. There's another peak indicated at the
Colorado border (which I see on the topo map, but do not remember) and one
coming into Denver (again, I don't remember it) but there is no real slog
like the rise up I-70 over the Rockies... it's FOREVER in third!

The last beauty of the southern route is *no snow*!  You should not see
snow until you approach Santa Fe along that route. You *will* see snow
from Santa Fe to Denver, most years.  I won't guarantee that
the coast range is clear, I am not local to you but that should be easily
discoverable if you don't already know.

Steve Dolan
