From: "Rob Henley" <robhenley(-at-)baywindowbus.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 29 Jan 2005 16:17:27 -0500
Subject: How much?

Was said..."I still find it hard to believe that anyone has ever gotten more
than
$10,000 for baywindow (exclusive of singlecabs and doublecabs)."

Now I am probably setting myself up here, but my point or rather my thoughts
are that anyone who has been following the bus for a while has noticed that
the prices for a nice bus has skyrocketed. I have seen baywindow buses going
for 10k or more, though more commonly I see buses selling or at least listed
for $6-8k. Often I look at these buses and they are in worse condition than
mine. So my fun topic for this Saturday is this: How much is my bus worth? Now
my bus isn't original anymore. I have added a hightop from a Riviera to it,
and most of your buses that are selling for $10k or more are either completely
restored or original with very few miles. Don't get me wrong, I don't think my
bus would sell for 10k and I am not planning on selling it. But if I was, how
much would I sell it for? My bus is a 77 automatic, in very good condition
with 88k original miles and a rebuilt 2 litre. New paint, almost flawless
interior, and all the extras like the original clock, ambulance fans and more.
I have added things like a heater and aux fans, 3 batteries and 2 stereos and
of course the hightop. One downfall is the tires/rims. I plan to add some of
Ron's tires and powdercoat the rims with new VW caps.

Now I want to keep this fun...I am not looking to get beat up over adding the
hightop or how ugly it is. Let's just assume it was on the market. What would
the list say is a price you would expect to see it sell or be listed for?

A quick pic can be found here:
http://www.baywindowbus.com/aprilsunshine2%20006.jpg

Or if you are bored or are really intrigued by this topic, here is a link to 8
pages of the things I have added or done to the bus:
http://www.baywindowbus.com/sunshine.htm

Once we do mine let's do some others!!
