From: "Will Anderson" <wha(-at-)alumni.princeton.edu>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 29 Jan 2005 18:02:51 -0500
Subject: RE: re-Tired

> So are 'we' saying that - a 195/75R14C light truck tire with
> reinforced sidewall, a load rating of 6/C and a load
> index/speed rating 93Q (1,433 pounds at 50 psi) is no
> sufficient for use on a 1979 Westy?

sounds like you are in pretty good shape with reinforced sidewall and close
to the correct max rated load at each corner, and also close to the standard
size.  I am not nominating myself the tire nazi; rather I am just pushing
the ideal now that I have figured it out, and to help guide those who are in
the midst of decision making that there IS in fact an ideal, and the closer
one can get the more potential for bus satori.  I have been driving on
less-than-ideal tires for a long time, and trying to atone for my ways.  I
feel safer now but my bus also just handles and corners a lot better than it
used to.

And also because I know a kid who is riding on 1200 lb rated Load range B
195/60's.  I'm sure he's not the only one--the tires fit, right?  I am
working to set him up with a pair of the RA08's.  Fortunately he doesn't
have his driver's license yet so his range is limited.

Will A.
Atlanta GA
'70 Westy "Rebertha"

anecdote: last summer I was driving a friend's bus with old Michelin XZX's
correctly sized and rated when they were new.  as some of you know this tire
isn't made anymore and hasn't for a few years.  going on I-85 in 100 degree
heat at 70 mph sure enough we had a blowout.  and the spare was rotted even
worse, and one of the others had the beginnings of a tread separation, so we
had to limp to Westminister SC the closest town with a tire shop.  needed at
least 2 tires to make it to the Dead show that evening.  nobody had the
correct rated tires.  in fact the first shop wouldn't even install a tire
that wasn't correctly rated (kudos to them).  but the other shop in town
would, which helped so I was able to get where I was going.  I HOPE those 2
new too-light tires are being used as spares now, but the
financially-challenged girl who has the bus now most likely hasn't replaced
them yet.  Fortunately for her the bus will need other work before summer
trips.  this is not the same kid mentioned above.
