From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 21 Oct 2002 21:50:35 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] American roof rack  was  Re: [VB] Full-length rack for

  Do a search on the Samba for Classic weekend/christmas tree island (2000
or 2001). There is a picture of my 60 double door stacked front to rear and
over 4 feet high with parts (seats, nose clip, body panels,etc) on the same
rack. I have never had a problem with that style rack and I have loaded it
and traveled many a 1000 miles piled high. The biggest problem is the cross
bars bending down. I also have a full length OG rack and have loaded it the
same. The  funny thing is I see more OG (bear claw clamp style) rackes with
broken and or bent legs then I have seen the so said weaker U S racks. 
   If you do a ronnies bus ? search on the samba, I'm sure you will see
pictures of my bus loaded with numerous different racks.

ronnie

hey if any buskatiers have those pics from last year classic weekend let me
know where

-----Original Message-----
From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com [mailto:VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com]
Sent: Monday, October 21, 2002 7:33 PM
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] American roof rack was Re: [VB] Full-length rack for sale


In a message dated 10/21/2002 6:44:38 PM Pacific Daylight Time, 
the-andyman518(-at-)charter.net writes:


> I have those spring loaded clamps for mine.  What do you mean by lack of
> strength?

Hi Andrew,
The pre-1970s German manufactured roof racks with the two fingered clamps 
have a thicker tubing wall thickness and thusly stronger tubing.
Addtionally 
your rack has has only tubing as a floor in the rack and these tubes only
run 
side to side.  The racks we used have several tubes running front to rear 
creating little squares pattern and beefing up the floor of the rack.  The 
later German roof racks with the seal like flipper clamps are about midway
in 
strength between your rack and the racks we use.

  I've been thinking of putting a piece of plywood on my rack, then > a tent

> and sleeping up there.  Is the rack going to be able to hold everything?

It should be able to hold 300-400 Lbs., especially with the load spread out,

but probably not a good idea to install plywood up there with the original 
clamps you have.  The air rushing between the roof of the bus and the
plywood 
on the rack will lift the rack and if you are using the spring loaded clamps

they will not hold the rack in place.  Then it will shift and pop the clamps

loose and wham, flips the rack into the traffic behind you.  Very possibly 
causing $$$ damage, plus injuring, maiming, killing someone/s that was 
driving behind you.   Unless you always have a heavy enough load on the rack

to hold it down (How heavy?  We do not know and would not want to try to
find 
out with wind gusts added into the equation!!!), or fabricate a spoiler for 
the front of the rack to prevent air between it and the roof which would 
reduce drag, or fabricate extra clamps out of hardware store turn buckles to

increase hold down strength.  We suggest the latter!
Eric&Barb
