Date: Tue, 22 Oct 2002 10:44:26 -0500
From: Scott & Barb Stothers <kintail(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: NEATO and other clubs in general.....(long)

Aw yes... the age old cry of where is my newsletter once again...and the cycle starts again....

Being a past editor of a vintage VW newsletter back in the ''70s and early '80s, I can't help but comment.... 

First of all NEATO has been going since the late '80s up till now. Pretty good since most clubs peak at 6-8 years and then die or merge with another similar interest group. After all, we are dealing with volunteers here and that happens. If we had a professional full time editor on salary not delivering this stuff .... then flame away.

Politics....... yep, any volunteer group regardless of hobby has got it... deal with it. I often think that as individuals, we go in are naive and going to "revolutionize" what was done previously. Great .....cause that's the energy that drives us, but we have to deal with the opinions of others to pull it all together. 

I think that as VW hobbyists we are atrocious in our organizations at grooming the next editor in the wings ( 20 plus years of observation here). I know of 2-3 "great" editors that have grown with the task ( I was not one of them) and that basically carried the entire workload for 4-5 years or more before getting burned out with the load and family issues.I think those clubs were content to let things go when they were great, but not enough training for the new blood going in.

I remember NEATO in the early '90s had enough material to have two newsletters backed up on the rack ready to go even, while you received the first one in the mail. Based on what I see lately, I don't think that is the case. Why?? As mentioned, there are individual club newsletters and this list, which are all great and enjoyed by many enthusiasts but maybe take a little away from this effort. If we want NEATO to survive, maybe the challenge is that we all on this list provide "copy" to the newsletter.

Otherwise....... your right.... maybe option is that we shall see the SV2 newsletter take over at some point in time with the NEATO banner. That's what history show...

My opinion on SOTO.... maybe okay for that time period and got this hobby going (credit due here) ... but basically ads and reprinted VW brochure stuff in a small package.....very fluffy and a no show in my mailbox. Great at cashing US MO from Canada and non-delivery guaranteed up here...

NEATO has had it's problems in the last couple years and is struggling to keep up, but is no where near the depths of SOTO's history at this point. Personally I like the new newsletter format and am willing to give it a chance... even contributed myself in the last two issues to help out.

So the question is .....why do we patiently let the world go by at 55 mph with minimal worries and much enjoyment in our ride, but the minute the newsletter is late....... 
 
Scott
'67 Westy
