From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Scott & Barb Stothers <kintail(-at-)shaw.ca>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 22 Oct 2002 21:34:03 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] NEATO and other clubs in general.....(long)

  The latest newsletter is ready to be mailed and John is waiting for the
postage (probably has received it by now), In the transition period it has
taken time to get all the paperwork, membership list, etc, transferred to
the new people. John has VOLUNTEERED to do the newsletter and the cost of
the color is no more then the old black and white cost. I know it pisses me
off, I paid membership money and it got lost!, but they did make it right. I
really liked the NEATO newsletter but still have not received them in the
mail, I got my new ones at OCTO, they are working hard in the background to
get NEATO back up to speed and an e-mail to John or George will get things
on track. People can also contact Rich Yost at www.oldbuses.com for any
NEATO info they need.

ronnie

ps. another problem with the newsletter is the LACK of stories being sent in
by people, hard to do a newsletter with only a few? people contributing



-----Original Message-----
From: Scott & Barb Stothers [mailto:kintail(-at-)shaw.ca]
Sent: Tuesday, October 22, 2002 8:44 AM
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] NEATO and other clubs in general.....(long)


Aw yes... the age old cry of where is my newsletter once again...and the
cycle starts again....

Being a past editor of a vintage VW newsletter back in the ''70s and early
'80s, I can't help but comment.... 

First of all NEATO has been going since the late '80s up till now. Pretty
good since most clubs peak at 6-8 years and then die or merge with another
similar interest group. After all, we are dealing with volunteers here and
that happens. If we had a professional full time editor on salary not
delivering this stuff .... then flame away.

Politics....... yep, any volunteer group regardless of hobby has got it...
deal with it. I often think that as individuals, we go in are naive and
going to "revolutionize" what was done previously. Great .....cause that's
the energy that drives us, but we have to deal with the opinions of others
to pull it all together. 

I think that as VW hobbyists we are atrocious in our organizations at
grooming the next editor in the wings ( 20 plus years of observation here).
I know of 2-3 "great" editors that have grown with the task ( I was not one
of them) and that basically carried the entire workload for 4-5 years or
more before getting burned out with the load and family issues.I think those
clubs were content to let things go when they were great, but not enough
training for the new blood going in.

I remember NEATO in the early '90s had enough material to have two
newsletters backed up on the rack ready to go even, while you received the
first one in the mail. Based on what I see lately, I don't think that is the
case. Why?? As mentioned, there are individual club newsletters and this
list, which are all great and enjoyed by many enthusiasts but maybe take a
little away from this effort. If we want NEATO to survive, maybe the
challenge is that we all on this list provide "copy" to the newsletter.

Otherwise....... your right.... maybe option is that we shall see the SV2
newsletter take over at some point in time with the NEATO banner. That's
what history show...

My opinion on SOTO.... maybe okay for that time period and got this hobby
going (credit due here) ... but basically ads and reprinted VW brochure
stuff in a small package.....very fluffy and a no show in my mailbox. Great
at cashing US MO from Canada and non-delivery guaranteed up here...

NEATO has had it's problems in the last couple years and is struggling to
keep up, but is no where near the depths of SOTO's history at this point.
Personally I like the new newsletter format and am willing to give it a
chance... even contributed myself in the last two issues to help out.

So the question is .....why do we patiently let the world go by at 55 mph
with minimal worries and much enjoyment in our ride, but the minute the
newsletter is late....... 
 
Scott
'67 Westy
