Date: Wed, 23 Oct 2002 17:54:36 -0400
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: Tom Brouillette <type2tom(-at-)earthlink.net>
Subject: About NEATO

To Those Concerned About NEATO:

There's a lot to say about the last many months regarding NEATO. 
Everyone involved has their own perspective. However, I hope I can 
address some questions raised on this List.

First, John Howard isn't the first to say he hasn't gotten his Old 
Bus Review in the mail. There were snafus with the mailing list 
database that we're sorting out.

Those of us who put the newsletter out, on various levels, are spread 
out over the country (reflecting the fact that NEATO is truly a 
national club). The content of the newsletter reflects the 
geographical spread of the membership--and we are always looking for 
more input. It's gone way beyond the time when one person did most 
everything, and is now a coordinated, but de-centralized entity. 
There are new team players on board, working with the old, and 
there's a lot of agreement now on where to go and what to do. You 
should expect more from the club, and you'll be getting it.

In the meantime, apologies for missed issues. Fixing this, and other 
problems, is taken very seriously--by volunteers, I might add. We do 
have back issues to replace those not received.

An update:

Earlier this year John Foley took over editorship of Old Bus Review. 
He has produced 3 issues, the latest of which is being mailed this 
week.

In the last 2 months, we've established a new web site: 
http://www.neatoclub.org/ It's only at the beginning stage, but 
there's a lot being planned for it. All other previous NEATO web 
sites are obsolete. Please delete any links to them if you have any 
from your own web sites.

I was present at the OCTO meet this past Sunday at Huntington Beach. 
(I'm the big guy with glasses.) I kept careful record of all new and 
returning members joining on that day (including Steve 
Harris--Welcome Back, Steve!). In all, 18 new folks.

Here are some contact e-mail addresses:

Newsletter Editor (John Foley): barndoor(-at-)etcrier.net

Membership Coordinator (George Bossarte): gbeng(-at-)world.std.com

Unofficial Roving Ombudsman (Tom Brouillette): type2tom(-at-)earthlink.net

Please contact me off-list if you have questions.

Tom Brouillette
type2tom(-at-)earthlink.net
(510) 521-3885
