From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Stan Wilder <wilden1(-at-)juno.com>, shedberg51(-at-)hotmail.com
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 24 Oct 2002 09:12:00 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] Re: polishing trim

Bon Ami works great, available at any discount store or market. Make a
paste, use old diapers and polish till your hearts content. Most chrome
polishes are just another form of Bon Ami in a high priced paste form. Been
around since before me (and thats a long time), it also works great on
headlight rings, tail light bezels, and anything else chrome. Old school hot
rodders would polish their primer with it then put on a coat of kerosene to
get it to sheen.

ronnie  been there done that

-----Original Message-----
From: Stan Wilder [mailto:wilden1(-at-)juno.com]
Sent: Thursday, October 24, 2002 8:13 AM
To: shedberg51(-at-)hotmail.com
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: polishing trim


I have found that #4 steel wool and Semi chrome or Wenol, polishes the
trim
very well--I have done it right on the bus with excellant results--
----------------------- Clip -----------------------
I never advocate the use of steel wool.
Steel wool deposits minute steel pins, shavings, fibers into any softer
material that you use it on.
This deposited material will eventually rust even under clear finishes.
Regular old automotive white rubbing compound and elbow grease followed
up by semi chrome or regular automotive cleaner polish is the ticket.
Consider that the Deluxe trim was anodized which constitutes the etching
of the aluminum with chemicals and then a chrome plating overlay. You
just aren't going to get back there with any polishing job.
Many Mag Wheel cleaners will bring back even coloration and remove the
chalking.
A good coat of Varithane clear as a sealer after this procedure will give
you a few years before you have to do the job again.

Stan Wilder *Experience from BMW motorcycle wheels and MG Chrome Wire
Wheels that I ruined with steel wool.*

__
