From: "Rob Henley" <robhenley(-at-)72camper.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 12 Aug 2004 09:15:21 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Dual Battery Relay

> "It seems like all the accessories are wired to the starter battery by
default which is isolated from the second battery when parked".

Mike if you have a 76 Deluxe Westy with a fridge (and propane stove, etc.)
the bus should have come with a dual battery, inverter and egg timer/battery
condition/switch panel as stock. Since you don't have a battery there I am
guessing you ran into the same problem I did....my FI was removed before I
bought the bus and the po cut many of the wires, including the double relay
wires and removed the original battery relay. There should be two wires
coming from the inside of the bus to the engine compartment, near the molded
wheel well. These two wires are the power leads to the inverter and fridge,
etc. One is ground, the other power. If your fridge IS working and has been
connected to the main battery you can reconnect them to the dual battery,
via your new relay. As far as I know the dual battery only ran the fridge
and sink pump. Your flourescent light is run from the mian battery and this
doesn't make sense to me as far as functionality goes.

Now on my bus I removed the fridge and replaced it with an ice cooler from a
standard model camper, so my wiring runs lights and fans now instead. I
simply connected the wires in the engine bay directly to the battery (no
realy), so I am not as informative about which lead on your relay to plug
into. Your directions probably tell you this. But the point is that you can
wire other things, like an interior light, to the dual battery, but if you
are running the fridge it will draw more power and you may blow a fuse
trying to run too much, or at the least, will drain your dual battery
quickly when parked. I much prefer the ice cooler and this allowed me to
wire 2 fans, and an interior light from the dual battery and this is much
better when parked in my opinion. Not to mention that the Westy cooler works
great!! Here are some pics and tips on the fridge removal if anyone is
interested:
http://www.baywindowbus.com/sunshine3.htm

As for the "hot" wire....the positive (15) side of the coil is only hot when
the bus is running.


Rob Henley
www.baywindowbus.com
