From: "Rob Henley" <robhenley(-at-)72camper.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 12 Aug 2004 12:08:47 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Dual Battery Relay

"I thought it was supposed to be able to work on shore power, or am I just
wrong here"?

Yes when you plug in the shore power cord there is a switch on the panel
that is marked "city power". You turn it on and the fridge should work on
city power (there is also an orange indicator light that comes on when the
power is on). An easy way to test if your shore power connections are
working properly (when you do have a second battery and the fridge is
working) is to turn the fridge on and NOT connect your shore line. When you
flip the city power button on, the fridge won't work and the light should go
off.

Michael obviously this test won't work for you as your fridge isn't working
on a battery now, but this is a good tip for the archives.

I know the wiring for the fridge pretty well...if you have a battery and it
is hooked up you can test for power to the fridge with a test light. If your
battery is connected, first check for 12v or so at the battery...then look
under your z bed for a blue and white wire connection...check and see if
there is power to one of them, on the battery side, with the test light. If
so, you are getting power that far. The wires go under the fridge and up to
the egg timer panel. If you know you have power under the z bed you can
remove the panel, carefully as the body will ground the power connections on
the back...you might want to disconnect the aux battery neg cable while
getting the panel out, and check for burnt wires, etc. The aux battery will
power your fridge even if your inverter is bad...it is a direct connection.
On the back of the panel the wiring connects through different spades, like
on the battery condition indicator and the orange power on light, check to
make sure those haven't come off and that the power is continous through
these connections. Also there is a little fuse in a plastic twist off cap at
the bottom of the egg timer panel. Check that.

I learned a lot trouble shooting my fridge before removing it and running
the new fans and light. Turns out (after I started removing the fridge) that
I just had a burnt wire on the back of the panel.

Hope this helps,

Rob Henley
www.baywindowbus.com
