From: "John Rogers" <jnrogers(-at-)verizon.net>
To: "Troy Wical" <troy(-at-)wical.com>, "tom wuest"
Cc: "Type2 list" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 23 Oct 2010 10:12:54 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: under floor diagrams of 1969 vw bus

My first question would be:  how does the gear shift feel.  Can you shift 
through the gears or is it stuck?

If the latter, my guess is that something was pushed down to interfere with 
the coupling that connects to the nosecone of the transmission.  This is the 
only open and unprotected area in the gear shift linkage.  You should be 
able to crawl under the bus with a light or flashlight and check this out. 
It may be that a screw dislodged or pushed a bit of undercoating that is now 
interfering with your attempts to shift, or if the screw was long enough has 
itself interfered.  In any case it should be easy enough to see if this is 
the case and if so to dislodge.

It is also possible that there is no connection between events, that your 
tranny just chose this particular moment in time to lock up;  but that seems 
very unlikely.

Cheers and good luck,

JohnR

-----Original Message----- 
From: Troy Wical

I have added the type2.com mailing list to this email thread, to see if 
anyone
has any info they can provide. The description of your problem, in my 
opinion,
leaves many issues to be the possible culprit. A picture or two may help.

Good luck,

Troy

On Oct 23, 2010, at 7:36 AM, tom wuest wrote:

Hello,

I am writing to see if you could direct us to under floor specifications of 
a
1969 vw bus, type II. The old floor covering in the mid-section 'cargo door'
area was rotted out and we're installing new (plywood) and drilled some 
holes,
and now the bus (which was working just fine) is stuck in first gear. We 
can't
even get it into neutral. I am a bit concerned that something was damaged in
the drilling and am trying to discern if there's a connection between the
floor work and what's happened to an otherwise very faithful bus. The screws
were very short, apparently, so only would have gone a bit into the other
side.

<snip>

thank you,
humble and (usually) faithful stewards of a beloved old bus
