Date: Sat, 23 Oct 2010 10:00:58 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: Troy Wical <troy(-at-)wical.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: under floor diagrams of 1969 vw bus

Crawl underneath and find the bottom of the shifter. You may have to 
remove the belly pan to do this. On my '78 it's 4 10mm bolts. Takes 5 mins.

Attached to the bottom of the shifter is the shifter rod. I runs right 
down the middle of the bus inside a tube. Run your fingers along the top 
of it all the way to the transmission. I'm wondering if you have put a 
sheet metal screw through the floor and pushed the shift rod tube 
pinching the tube against the rod. You might have put a screw through 
the tube and against the shift rod tube directly. At the rear of the 
shift rod is a coupler which allows the shifter and transmission to move 
around independently of each other slightly. That would be under the 
rear seat looking from the top of the bus. You can't access it from 
inside the bus but my point is that if you put any screws under the rear 
seat you could have pinched to jammed the coupler with a screw tip. If 
your shifter ever get rattly and noisy it is this couple that has worn 
and is making noise. It is not expensive.

You should also inspect the wiring tube that on my '78 runs out under 
the dash and under the bus approx halfway between the center of the bus 
and the right side of the bus. Make sure you did not put any screws 
through the wiring bundle. Don't want to start a fire.

I think our '78 bus has a piece of 3/16" or 1/4" masonite trapped by the 
rear seat and the cabinets. I don't think it is screwed down anywhere.  
My point is you ought to climb under the bus and once done inspecting 
the shifter and wiring - dab some paint on the screws and the sheetmetal 
they went through to protect from rust beginning. If you ever want to 
remove the screws you can remove them and have a muffler shop weld them 
shut with a MIG welder cheap. Again clean and dab paint on the welds.

Last bit of troubleshooting. Will the bus roll with the clutch in? Can 
you drive it normally in 1st gear? No noises? All buses have a little 
slop in the shifter. Is all the slop gone in your shifter? No side to 
side slop and no front to back slop? If all of the slop is gone then 
you've got a trapped shifter. If your van drives normally and rolls 
(transmission not jammed or locked up) and if the shifter is locked 
tight with all shift gone - start removing screws one at a time near the 
center of the bus of check the shifter each time. When you find THE 
screw that causes your woes crawl underneath and find where it hit the 
shifter rod and consider getting any holes welded up in the tube (keep 
the water and dirt out) and the hole in the floor welded it b/c you 
won't need it and don't want water getting in on the floor under the 
playwood and rotting or rusting anything.

Do you have a Bentley manual for your bus? They have some great  
diagrams in those books. Worth the money.

Hope this helps!

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L (Corvair implanted)
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L
'99 CR-V EX AWD - 207K miles
'97 VW Cabrio
Brenderup 1205S
