Date: Sun, 31 Oct 2010 01:04:04 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Alan Beck <becka(-at-)eastlink.ca>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] rust

Alan I'm a bit confused about what he did and what you are asking. 
Sanblasting (although some would argue as to the demerits of waviness etc)
gives exceptional (sometimes too much) tooth to the paint.  However....   If
he did not immediately coat it with a phosphoric acid etchant (metal prep) and
or spray it immediately with an etching or great (PPG DP40) epoxy primer, it
is doomed.  Somebody you paid a lot to do this shouldn't have been that kind
of idiot.  If he is still in business and worth a shit, take it back and
bitch.  Cracking with rust or flaking off means poor adhesions somewhere, be
it primer to metal from flash rust from not converted immediately, or from
topcoat to primer (mixing lines, not applied correctly, who knows) then damage
though to the primer from moisture penetration.  Anyway, take it back, bitch,
this has been a few years only, on a vehicle probably not seeing that much
time/use.  And if he don't make it right (at
 least spot repair the failing areas for free though that might not help you
in the long run) bad mouth him every and anywhere you can.  You aren't
slandering, just reporting facts, and someone who doesn't stand behind their
work deserves the best treatment for their misdeeds, poor word of mouth, word
of blog, word of whatever available.  Aside from spot repairing the areas
involved and keeping it waxed and hoping nothing else fails, I don't see what
you can do for the paint.  If you are getting it repaired, hold on waxing it
again of course for the moment, no reason to add anything to set the next
repair up for failure.  Now of course last issue/question is what is
underneath the rusting areas.  Did he take it to metal and do strictly metal
to metal repairs.  If it isn't metal underneath, it's going to rust.  Not
ususally that fast, but it can.  Bondo is fine as filler, it is not a method
of fixing holes in metal, over metal properly welded and
 sealed, great whatever, but if the failing areas have moisture penetration
from below/behind that is another matter.
 
Just MHO.
John


--- On Sat, 10/30/10, Alan Beck <becka(-at-)eastlink.ca> wrote:



There is a crack bleeding rust on the drivers side windshield.

I touched the rear wheel well to a post and the paint cracked off paint.

It is now rusting.

A rust bubble has shown up on the rear bumper.
