Date: Wed, 4 Jan 2006 20:34:17 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: alternator hookup, previosly a generator

> From: Broken Bus <brokenbus(-at-)vw67split.com>
> Date: Tue, 3 Jan 2006 15:14:35 -0800 (PST)
>
> hi, i put a used motor in my 63 SC that has an alt. instead of a gen.
> can somebody please tell me what way to hook it electrically.

It depends on what alternator you have.  A lot of the ones that are
currently sold have an internal regulator, while the ones that were
stock on later Buses and Bugs had an external regulator.  One simple
way to tell: how many terminals does the alternator have on it?  If
it's just got two (probably one labeled D+ or B+ and one labeled 61),
then it's most likely an internal regulator.  If it has more than that -
(probably one big one labeled B+ and three smaller ones labeled D+, DF,
and D-) then it needs an external regulator.

If it's an internal regulator, you should end up with a fat red wire
from the D+ or B+ terminal on the alternator to the battery positive
terminal, either at the battery, or at the starter where the battery
cable bolts on.  The thin blue wire (for the generator light in the
speedometer) should go to the 61 terminal.

If it's an external regulator, the fat red wire goes from battery
positive to B+ on the alternator, and the thin blue wire goes to D+ on
the alternator.  There will also be three more wires connecting D+, DF,
and D- between the alternator and regulator.

If your Bus is set up for the older-style generator where the regulator
was right on top of the generator, and you've got an internally
regulated alternator, it's really easy - the fat red and thin blue wires
that go to the top of the generator are the ones you want.

If your Bus is set up for the later-style generator where the regulator
was on the inside of the right fender well, and you've got an internally
regulated alternator, then as Clara said, you can remove the regulator
from the fender well and get four wire ends where it used to be.  Connect
the two fat red (or red/black) wires together.  Make sure this is a
really solid connection, as the entire output of the alternator will be
going through it!  It also must be well-insulated, because if this
connection shorts to ground, you're at best buying some new wire and at
worst trying to put out a fire.  Connect the two thin wires together -
one probably blue and the other not.  Then, you can use the wires that
go to the top of the generator to connect to the alternator.

Matt Roberds
