From: "Todd Olson" <todd.olson(-at-)charter.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 7 Jan 2006 10:30:16 -0500
Subject: Fourth Annual Buses By the Beach - Bus Benefit! May 19th 21st

Hello Volks Folks!
Come join what is becoming the Mid-West's big VW weekend in Michigan! Who
needs to go to CA for their multiple VW show weekends when you can do it
here in the Mid-West. 

Buses By the Beach is hosting the Fourth Annual "Bus Benefit" the weekend of
May 19th - 21st 2006 in Grand Rapids, MI Sponsored by GoWesty, NEATO and
LiMBO. All VW's are welcome. Last year we had around 100 VW's from all over
Canada and the USA. They came from Canada, Florida, Connecticut, several
from California, and all over the mid-west. We raised $10,000 for Burn
Survivors. One hundred percent of everything we raised was donated to The
Phoenix Society for Burn Survivors. The world's largest Burn Support
organization. http://www.phoenix-society.org/ On Sunday many will cara-bus
down to the largest all Aircooled VW show in the Mid-West in Ypsilanti, MI. 

Weekends activities include campout Friday and Saturday night, canoeing and
biking (road & off-road) opportunities, very cool bus shirts for sale, chili
cook-off, VW item raffle, and the Burn Survivor Car Show with 600 plus cars
on Saturday. The local fire department has volunteered again this year to
give us a police escort from the campground to the car show. This is quite a
site! We had a line of buses and other VW's more than a mile long going down
the road being escorted by police and fire trucks with lights and sirens on.
If you didn't know any better you would think President Bush was in town and
his motorcade was driving buses! :-)

Sunday morning there will be a cara-bus for those that are interested in
going to the largest all Air-cooled VW event located in the mid-west located
in Ypsilanti, MI. This is a great show and I highly recommend going if you
have never been.

For more information go to www.busesbythebeach.com 
Wishing you many miles of smiles in your VW!
The Volks at Buses By the Beach.com
www.busesbythebeach.com
Coming events:
Bus BRR! February 11th - 12th, Angola, IN
Bus Benefit! May 19th - 21st, Grand Rapids, MI
Bus Boo! September 15th - 17th, Grand Rapids, MI
