Date: Sat, 7 Jan 2006 23:57:56 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: Joe Clark <jclark(-at-)supernet.net>
Subject: Re: Carb wierdness

> From: Joe Clark <jclark(-at-)supernet.net>
> Date: Sat, 7 Jan 2006 17:58:52 -0500
>
> I thought I had traced it to a bad accel pump & decided to replace
> the carb.  The decision seemed vindicated when the temporary
> replacement carb eliminated the problem.

Did you swap the jets from the old carb to the new one or verify that
the new carb had about the right jets for your engine?  This wouldn't
have been your original problem, but if the new carb isn't jetted the
same as your old one, it'll be harder to troubleshoot.

> - Once the choke warms up, idles OK but then will randomly slow way
> down and stall out, die.

My '74 Bug (stock 34 PICT 3, 1600 DP) did this once upon a time.  I
can't remember exactly what the solution was but it was either cleaning
out the carb (soak in carb bucket) or fixing a vacuum leak.

If any of this is happening with old gas (more than a few months old),
you may want to try again with really fresh gas.

Do you run a fuel filter?  If so, is it crudded up?  If you can't tell,
try changing it out.  Or, carefully take off the top part of the carb
and look down in the float bowl for signs of crud.  If there's a lot of
crud, take the carb apart and soak it.  Consider installing a fuel
filter if you don't have one, to move the crud-up point to something
that is easier to access.

How's your air filter?

> - Once the engine warms up a little more (5 minutes), it no longer
> stalls by itself, but the idle runs really high despite several
> adjustments, and it bogs seriously coming off idle unless you really
> jiggle the throttle.  Soon as the RPMs are up, it pulls fine and
> steady.

Most of the conditions say "too lean" to me, but the high idle isn't
very consistent with this - I'd blame a high idle more on crud in the
carb than on a lean mix.

> Vacuum leak around manifold at carb or heads?

This would make it run lean.  You might get some carb cleaner or WD-40
and hit suspected vacuum leak areas with the spray while the engine is
running.  If the engine speeds up a little, you've got a leak.

On my '64 (1500 SP), the manifold by itself is too short - if you put
the carb on the manifold, it would hit the generator.  (This _might_
have been set up for a governor orignally, which would raise the carb
up.)  It had a little extension piece on the manifold when I bought it -
basically a piece of pipe about 2" long with flanges on each end.  It
was installed with long bolts through all four flanges.  I got some
shorter bolts and bolted the carb to the extension, and the extension to
the manifold - four bolts in all.  This seemed to help it seal up a
little better.

> Bad carb adjustment?

Maybe, but if you had a setup that was running OK and it suddenly
started running not OK, something else besides the carb adjustment
probably changed.

> Distributor advance?

Maybe.  If you pull the advance hose off of the manifold, leave it
connected to the advance biscuit, and suck on the hose, does it move the
points around?  If you then block the hose, does it stay in the same
place?

> Valve adj?

Maybe.  Easy enough to do one and see if it helps.

There is some possibility that the ignition system has something to do
with it.  Then again, I've heard that a Compufire is pretty binary - it
works or it doesn't.  I don't know about a CDI.  Is it timed OK?

If I was working on this, I'd first try hunting vacuum leaks - maybe
even putting new vacuum hoses and manifold-to-head seals in on principle -
and looking for crud in the fuel system.

Matt Roberds
