Date: Mon,  9 Jan 2006 11:53:51 -0500
From: "Joseph Clark" <jclark(-at-)supernet.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Carb wierdness

Thanx to the folks who replied with tips on this problem.  In addition 
to John Yust (heat riser) & Matt Roberds' (zillions of ideas) posts to 
the list, I was also pmailed by Conrad Klahn, James Treanor, and Isaac 
Tate and have included their replies below for anyone who's following 
along.

I need to start with a complete tuneup and vacuum check to eliminate 
those possibilities.  And (arghh) check the heat riser - this poor 
engine has no thermostat & flaps, and my commute is so short, that it 
never warms up properly in winter (yes, north FL has winter :).

Thanks again,
Joe

> From: Conrad Klahn <conradk(-at-)mac.com>
My wife's 72 bug has this problem. Though even with the choke on, it 
can't pull away from a stop at more than a snail's pace without dying.

I had to relinquish control of my wife's bug to a local mechanic  - 
well, a second VW mechanic. I had the first mechanic swap the 009 for 
an SVDA I bought through aircooled - and put on a rebuilt PICT34-3 I 
bought through the Samba. Same problem after the swap as before. He 
did find that the center section had a rust-leak, so we replaced that. 
New seals and boots also. So I'm not sure you'll find the answer in a 
vacuum leak.

I'll let you know what happens with mechanic #2 who is higher priced, 
but is supposed to know his stuff.

> From: "James Treanor" <jtreanor10(-at-)hotmail.com>
There's a guy with a single cab with the same problem, and I've 
replaced everything for him with the exception of the throttle cable.  
New Mexiblock, new trans, clutch, carb, dist, everything.  High idles 
and stalls and dies.  Exact same symptoms, have adjusted valves, 
timing, idle, checked for vaccume  leaks, to no avail.  If you find 
anything out let me know.

You know, since typing this, I thought of somthing.  Maybe the 'true' 
idle set screw on the left side of the carb needs to be adjusted down 
and the throttle set idle adjustment needs to be opened up so it's 
getting air at idle when warm but not running too rich when cold?

> From: isaac tait <rckclimber12(-at-)yahoo.com>
ok my bus used to do that turned out there was crap in the tank 
causing fuel flow issues, to save yourself some money pull the engine, 
drain the tank and remove it cost me 180$ cause the shop had to remove 
the tank. that might be it but the second point
