Date: Fri, 13 Jan 2006 21:14:14 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Weird occurrence with turn signal?

> From: "ashlynn matteson" <1matteson(-at-)earthlink.net>
> Date: Fri, 13 Jan 2006 19:56:27 -0500
>
> My right turn signal and brake light works only with the headlights off.
> Once I turn the headlights on, the right turn signal and brake lights do
> not work.

Loose or no ground at the right rear lamp.

> The bulb itself did seem to be a little loose because the slightest touch
> would affect it's connectivity and make it either go out or flicker.

Yep, bad contact.  In all Bus oval tail lights, several contacts have to
be working right:

- Tungsten filament wire to filament support.
- Filament support to lamp base.
- Lamp base to lamp holder.

For earlier lights, there are two more from this point:

- Lamp holder to reflector.
- Reflector to body.

but for later lights, there are five more:

- Lamp holder to spring.
- Spring to push-on female.
- Push-on female to wire.
- Wire to ring terminal.
- Ring terminal to body.

> My solution to that was to wrap the bulbs male end with a small strip of
> aluminium foil to make it a little snug.

Try a new bulb.  Really.  They're cheap.  :)  If the new one still fits
poorly, your lamp holder may have problems - either its diameter is too
large or the springs under the contacts in the bottom are getting weak.

> The only other weird electrical gremlin that I have (which really
> doesn't bother me) is that my 63 bus will not shut off, with key
> turned off,  until the the brake pedal is up and headlights are off.

If this is the same Bus as above, these problems are related.  The
parking light current should normally go through the right rear parking
lamp filament and then to ground.  Instead, it is going into the right
rear brake lamp filament, and feeding back up through the turn signal
switch, brake light switch, and fuse box to the ignition circuit.

Matt Roberds
