Date: Wed, 15 Dec 2004 18:15:12 -0600 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Progress on the Rivi

Made a little progress on the Rivi yesterday and today. Stopped to post
this and go take Dad his Christmas present since I will be in Alabama over
the holiday.

Got the "overfill" storage oil drained so I'm ready to fill it to proper
level.

The temp sender is going to have to wait a while. The sender I got has a
1/8"-27 NPT thread for screwing directly into a block point. I had to get a
brass plumbing coupler that is threaded correctly and I need to mount that
in a vise and cut it down some to make it a "nut" for the sender. So, I
just put the taco plate back as-is for now. I'll grab a taco plate from a
parts engine and mount the sender so it's ready to install later.

Got the tranny filled. Pumping a gallon (almost) of 80w90 that is COLD
while lying on your side on COLD concrete sucks!

Got the fuel tee and pressure regulator mounted to the firewall.

Got the pressure sender "extender hose" installed and the sender tee and
senders attached to the tin. Need to make a "standoff" mount for those
later due to the size of the VDO sender.

Stuck a few pictures here: http://www.sysmatrix.net/gerald/progress/

Plan to go back later tonight and install the axles and try to route the
accelerator cable and get the clutch cable hooked up. When I "test pulled"
the clutch cable it looked like it's going to come up a couple of inches
short. I need to check the front and make sure nothing is "catching" and
preventing full travel. If it's clear then I have another problem to
tackle.

The only hole through the tin for the accelerator is on the wrong side. May
have to make a new hole and fit a rubber sleeve for the cable.

Also have to find a barrel nut to work with the Weber linkage. I have NO
idea where mine is. Creative use of zip ties may come into play for a
temporary solution.

Bought a "Mr. Heater" propane heater and it works wonders in the storage
unit even with the door half open and the heater on low.

Anyway, have to make coffee and run to Dad's. More later.

Gerald
