Date: Thu, 16 Dec 2004 01:20:52 -0600 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Semi-stalled on the Riviera progress

OK,

Went back after taking Dad his gift and setting it up -- and sitting and
watching it for 2 hours (new TV and surround sound speakers).

Got the accelerator cable routed. It has what looks like the connector from
a weber progressive on the end. I'll be doing the zip-tie thing until I
replace the whole thing. Those little nylon straps work wonders sometimes.

Then I played with the clutch cable until I was about mad enough to pop a
vein in my forehead.

Cleared the plastic tub off of the pedal area floorboard thinking that was
why I couldn't get full cable earlier.

Still no go. Cable coming up a bit short. So, I pulled the clutch pedal up
and bungied it that way. Went back under and the cable is still in the same
place as when I just used it to pull the pedal up.

It misses reaching the clutch lever by about 1/2". When I grab the top of
the clutch lever and pull the slck out of the spring about 2 or 3 threads
of the cable stick through the eye. I can't hold the clutch lever and check
to see if theres enough to thread the wing nut on at the same time. 

It doesn't look like there's enough anyway.

I'm wondering now if the tranny that was in the Rivi (busted bell housing)
had a bent clutch lever and someone used a short cable. I checked and the
bowden tube is seated all the way in the holder bolted to the side of the
tranny so that's not what's keeping it short (I've had that happen before
-- bowden tube pushed back until the lip caught on the bracket).

It's getting really annoying trying to figure out why it so close but still
not making it. I guess I'm going to have to loosen the pedal assembly and
see if it's gotten 'looped' somehow up front. Maybe just replace it with a
new one while I'm in there, I have 2 or 3, but it looks to be in darn near
new shape as is.

Is there a bus clutch cable that is 1 or 2 cm shorter than that of a 73
that someone may have put in there?

I've decided to leave the axles off until I'm finished working under there.
Sure is nice to have that bit of extra room.

Gerald
