From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 16 Dec 2004 06:18:49 -0800
Subject: RE: [T2] winter handling / driving

> wow, all 4 tires?
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
----------------------

Yup, probably overkill, but given the surface area/wind buffetting of the
bus while driving in the Rockies or Cascades, and the fact that my discs are
in the front and that I prefer all 4 tires to brake if necessary, I usually
go all the way around.

I've had myself in some tentative situations before, so I lean more to
caution especially when driving in winter conditions.

The mountains in the west can be a little schizo when it comes to storms
hitting.  I remember one year where traffic was literally at a stop for 7
miles and people ran out of gas in their vehicles trying to keep warm with
the heaters.  Rule of thumb is check the weather report often, and don't be
too brave if you know a good storm front is coming, which can be often
depending on what routes/month you choose to travel.

As for salt,  the vast majority of salted roads that I have encountered have
been midwestern states.  I haven't done any east coast winter driving, but
have done a lot of west coast winter driving and the majority of the roads I
encountered have been plowed and then had sand or gravel thrown down.  I'm
not saying that it's not done out west, I'm sure it's done somewhere, I just
haven't seen it.  A bus is a wonderful thing in the winter time in every way
except the defrost, and even that performs its function if given a chance to
do so.  Let it warm up and bring stuff to wipe the inside of the windshield.
Remember to increase the distance that you follow behind other drivers and
when braking, don't apply the brake with a single push on the pedal as you
typically would in warm weather.  Pump the brake in short bursts and you
will stop more effectively if the surfaces are slick.  If you have been
parked for awhile and it's iced up overnight or you find yourself previous
nights parking spot suddenly a snow bank, pack a hand shovel for the snow
and a bag of kitty litter for traction and when you go from park to motion
do it in second gear so that the torque wont send your tires spinning in
place.  Remember to be a good boy scout and be prepared and your trip should
be pretty smooth.  Those roads see a lot of semis and the big rigs are good
at busting down the ice patches so even though they send spray up and block
your vision, be kind to those guys because all that weight they are towing
is helping your traction situation.  Enjoy your trip!

Seann Stafford
1976 T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
1976 T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
