Date: Sat, 6 Jan 2007 20:48:52 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: Hineline back online

Hineline it's good to see back online.
	A few suggestions inserted - if that's not too rude to a 
fellow academic  ;-)

>
>1. Is it still the case that a 1600 engine costs about 1/4 to 1/3 
>what it costs to build a 2000? (law of averages, YMMV, etc. 
>understood)

	Answers from the vicinity of Maine, USA will tell you about 
first cost, but do take due account of reliability, ease of 
maintenance, and esp fixibility.  Go minimalist, mate.

>
>2. I don't remember anyone talking about upgrading to the later 
>beetle fuel injection systems. I'm assuming this is an easy upgrade?

	Again, those involved are the experts; but my impression from 
trends in discussion on T2 since I recently joined this esteemed 
scene is that injectors give more frequent, and more difficult, 
trouble than carbs.
	And could I plug anew my query about retrofitting VW 1600 - 
2000 with 2-barrel Nissan carbs off e.g their 1500 of the 1990s. 
This may be to the respected Weber 2-bbl what Honda was to NSU in 
motorbikes & midget cars, late '50s onward.  I just got 14 y 
trouble-free performance ca.32mpg from a Nissan C22 vanette  - 
except for one clogged petrol filter which simulated the old 
rental-car speed limiter at 55 mph!
	Injection was a main response to the Calif emissions-control 
thrust, based on a particular test protocol ascribing weights to 
idle, cold, and a few other variables.  Consigning more & more 
emission control to computers has been a grave disaster IMHO.  I have 
fought it all the way.  A well maintained carb gives mpg and most 
emission controls, cruising warm, near enough to what computers can 
achieve, let alone what the bastards actually achieve.  A sensitive 
driver from cold will minimise emissions; bring back manual choke, 
say I  -  as well as excessive loads on bearings not yet fully 
lubricated during warmup.  Carburetting has been pretty civilised. 
The unfixable black box we must fight  -  counterattack these daleks.
	And plus you get: well developed water-injection (straight 
after the carb) halving CO & unburnt fuel. That will suffice for any 
decent city with proper public transport. Stick with the carb you can 
maintain & usu fix.

>
>3. Can all three earlier years be upgraded to the standard of the 
>'71 (brakes, etc.)?

	The key progress was front discs  -  '73, in this country, 
but often the USA got improvements before we did?  Vac assist may be 
a nice embellishment but I've never had it and it's a low priority 
for me to add (with small loads so far; hoping not to repeat the 
Munro air-brake technique which I independently had to invent for my 
splittie on long downgrades in Oregon heading for Berkeley with most 
of my worldly goods in '64; the front doors really work a treat to 
limit your speed and save brakes, but it's best if you have someone 
to open the passenger door also, to minimise yaw).
	Installing discs on earlier T2 is to my mind a high priority. 
I love my Renault 10 with all discs & no assist  -  why couldn't that 
become std? -  but suppose rear drums will persist.  You can get the 
feel of impending ABS operation by the slight pulsing of the pedal 
when a skimmed drum is not quite concentric with the axle.  I reckon 
with proper tyres  -  we are talking 185R14c here  -  and right 
pressures  -  experts please chime in with front, rear low-load, rear 
high-load  -  your typical Bay holds the road better than a lot of 
modern vans e.g Nissan rear-drive cab-over, esp at low loads.

	I trust you get your camper truckin' 'ere long.  Then you can 
recount journeys to New England confabs ...  I just got several 'keep 
on truckin' JPGs but they would be purged by command central  ... :-

cheers mate

-- 
Robt Mann
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
