Date: Sat, 06 Jan 2007 11:19:04 -0600
From: MyGroups <mygroups(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: mccomas(-at-)intercom.net
Subject: Re: [T2] Runs a while then quits (Fri)

mccomas(-at-)intercom.net wrote:
> Since it's Friday.... my buddy's son Michael has an early 90s Honda with around 
> 300,000 miles on the odo.  Runs OK then quits.... and Michael has not found the 
> cause.  
>
> a) Anyone know why a distributor for early 90s Honda would cost 300-400 bucks?  
> Is it somehow integrated with the ignition coil, or the computer system??
>
> b) We all know there are any number of ways a 300,000 mile car can fail.  The 
> distributor was the guess of one tech.  Anyone on this list with aging-Honda 
> experience?
I have had several 200K+ Hondas and our CR-V is at 135K miles and we're 
shooting for 300K miles.

The distributor on these cars simply have a pickup in them. Otherwise 
they are normal distributors. Check www.autohausaz.com for alternative 
prices.

Does it run until it gets hot? If so something engine electrical such as 
the ignition module may be overheating and shorting out. There is the 
coil, the ignition pickup in the distributor, and the ignition module 
near the distributor to look at.

Your mechanic ought to put a fuel pressure tester on the fuel rail and 
see if the fuel pressure is constant or if the fuel pump is failing 
causing the pressure to drop off to zero causing the engine to stall.

Have you changed the fuel filter? I had a Beetle that would run fine 
until all of the tank junk would get sucked into the fuel system and 
then clog the lines. After a while it would leak it's way back into the 
tank hiding the problem.

Tell him to put an O-scope on the injectors and see that they fire right 
up to the point where the engine stalls. Maybe the circuit that the 
computer uses to fire the injectors is dead. Maybe there is a circuit 
board component in the computer like a capacitor works until it gets too 
hot b/c it is failing and then quits cycling the injectors.

There IS a way to flash the computer for trouble codes. That is under 
the driver's seat and has 4 LEDs on it as I recall. Hopefully your 
mechanic has the correct repair manual for your car. if not let me 
recommend the correct manual from Helm's Publishers. They are like 
Bentley for Hondas. Expensive ($65) but the first easy repair will save 
you cash enough to pay for the book and if the car blows up next week 
and you don't want to fix it - sell the book on eBay. I'm done buying 
cars - I'm just going to fix what I've got for a few hundred thousand 
miles more.

There is no reason for a distributor to be $300. Buy used. I bought the 
whole rear end from an '87 Hatch-Accord (damn good car that I recently 
saw with 350K+ miles on it) for $100. They would have sold me the 
distributor fro $50 or so I think. I would not start throwing new parts 
at it unless your mechanic KNOWS what is wrong. If he can't figure it 
out take it to a Honda mechanic. They might cost more per hour but take 
far fewer hours to get the job done, AND maybe won't guess with 
expensive parts.

Hope this helps.
Chris in Cookeville
'78 VW Westy (Corvair implant)
'99 CR-V
'97 Cabrio
'65 Beetle 2.0L
