From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org
Date: Sun, 17 Mar 2002 21:43:22 -0800
Subject: Dealer parts find/ my new dyno

   Well my journey is almost over. After over 700 miles this weekend I came
up with a few good items from a closed down VW dealers leftovers.  These
were the items the owner kept after the dealer shut, not much left but
enough to make the trip worth while.
  When I got to the estate where the goods was stored I wouldn't have
believed anything was there, but going around to the back there were 3 LARGE
barns with misc. stuff from his collection throughout the years. 
  We first went into barn 1 and proceeded to look around. No old VW's but
some shelves with parts and manuals. I started to go threw the shelves and
found some NOS IDA's on Empi manifolds and boxes with new Weber's in them
(of course NFS). I did get some NOS bug reveal molding (inner and outer), an
NOS early fender, an old carded EMPI pulley set. There was a shelf of radios
with 8 tracks and even an old under dash 45 player!  There was a stack of
NEW performance parts books for the late 60's and 70's, EMPI, Claudes,
Johnneys and others, most never opened. My friend who turned me on to this
stash is getting those. There was also 2 shelves full of dealer manuals and
microfiche books with the reader, my friend is also getting those. 
  I also got an original VW ring compressor new in box, a steam cleaner and
a Honda trail 90 out of barn 1. In the barn were the owners race cars also,
a Bra bam?, a Lotus and a 911 S race cars, also an Old School highboy street
rod. There was so much stuff I didn't have time to really dig.
  From there we proceeded to barn 2, there I got a Engine Dyno (VW), it uses
a split case trans, it's the real vintage deal (doesn't looked like it was
used to much), I will post pics tomorrow when I get it unloaded. I also got
a Genuine VW engine stand with trans adapters, a VW rear drum puller, a VW
rear main seal installer, a set of EMPI aluminum finned 88 mm P/L, some real
trick 1302 duel port heads that are cut for the 88's, and an VW accessory
roof top tent, that was used as a display in the dealer showroom and never
mounted on a bus, complete with ladder and water tank. There is still stuff
I didn't get to go throw or commit to. There was a box with NOS ignition
parts in the boxes (I did take the VW spark plugs) and a magneto, a 25 or 36
hp engine complete and bunches of misc stuff stacked on shelves.
    Then it was on to barn 3. This barn was the owners machine and work
shop. Lathe, mill, benders, parts washers and cabinet after cabinet of
STUFF. From there I got t VW valve spring compressors and a crank stand. 
  It was getting dark so we loaded stuff up and I had to leave. I am going
back next weekend to pick up the tent, steam cleaner and the trail 90 and
see what other stuff they will let go of. The owner had passed away and
everything is being sold for the estate,

  all in all it was a great trip and I can't wait to see what else I can
find. Next time I'm giving myself all day. I think they trust me enough now
to let me do some serious rooting! 

ronnie,  am I beat!

ps. I forgot to mention the stack of dealer (NOS) license plate frames from
the 2 VW dealers he used to own

pps. always chase the lead, you never know what you'll find
