Date: Mon, 18 Mar 2002 14:53:53 EST
From: Type2Guy(-at-)aol.com
To: <Westyfalia(-at-)aol.com>
Cc: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] not a public debate room!!!!!

Rick,
I beg to differ.  Although IMHO Thom's coarse approach was a little too personal for me, something has to be done.  VWOA's actions directly affect our hobby, and the future existence of it.
Our buses are getting older each and every day, and parts are getting harder and harder to find.  Hell, If Ronnie posts to the list stating that he can't find something, then I'm more than likely never gonna find it.
VW will do exactly what Thom said in his post.  When approached on recent lawsuits and actions on ACVWs and the ACVW hobby, they will simply show press releases and footage of the 'vintage' VW show that 'they' host.  And the everyday Joe will be none the wiser.
What's gonna happen when VW delves even deeper and shuts down parthouses like Ronnie and Bus Depot for selling 'unauthorized' VW parts?  
Hell, if they can manage to convince courts that small time personal webpages are a threat to their mega-corporation, then very difficult future lies ahead for our hobby.
This topic needs to be brought up every chance possible(and the MVVC show is a perfect chance) so the public can see whats going on.  Especially fellow ACVW owners who are not on the internet.

I agree with Thom, this has been going on for a few years now, and has only gotten worse.  If anyone that is somewhat up to par with the ACVW hobby/industry hasn't heard or seen VW actions---then damn, I want to live in that glass house too.

Beto
63EZ

 In a message dated Mon, 18 Mar 2002  2:01:27 PM Eastern Standard Time, Westyfalia(-at-)aol.com writes:

> Lets kill the thread on the shows, promoting or demoting, and what and who 
> everything is or is gonna be.  
> Bashing and promoting are things you do at the shows face to face and 
> not on this mailer.  I have been to shows all over the world and have voiced 
> my opinions with the promoters in PRIVATE.  lets keep it that way guys and 
> gals. I have no problem when a business is praised or objected to on orders 
> or practices, but that to can be dealt with on another wave length.  It is 
> alright to notify people of a show date and some details but re-direction to 
> a site should be included.  I hope everyone has a great summer to look 
> forward to, but if we can't as a tight community get along amongst ourselves, 
> just imagine being on the outside looking in. Happy motoring.........
> 
> Increase the Peace
> Rick
> Air Cooled Creations
> Heidelberg Germany


