From: "Edmund A. Hintz" <ed(-at-)hintz.org>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 10 Dec 2005 15:37:25 +1300
Subject: SFBA-help request

Howdy all...

    Firstly, cheers! :) I've been off the list for quite some time. I
did resub about 2 months ago but I've only been lurking thus far. So, to
all of y'all who actually remember me, hi. :) Rather than bore everybody
with what I've been up to for the past few years, for those that are
keen can pop on over to my journal profile page which will give a nice
biography up to present:

<http://www.livejournal.com/userinfo.bml?user=ehintz>

    Anyway, here's my situation. I (and the family) emigrated to New
Zealand in November of 2003, where we've settled in Wellington. Due to
various complications, our personal goods have been in a storage locker
in the SFBA (Pittsburg, to be precise) since we moved here, and we're
finally getting them loaded into a 40' container for shipping down next
week. Among said personal goods is my 1978 Westfalia, which I figure
will be a fairly unique vehicle on the NZ roads. :) Here's my prob: the
shipper is insistent that the gas tank needs to be completely drained
and the battery disconnected. I'm going to have my Dad acting as my rep
during the loading process as coming back personally would cost me about
$2k. However, pops is not particularly a bus guy (though he certainly
did enjoy coming with us to Inuvik :) ) and is not so keen to do this
himself. The towing co which I will have loading the vehicle into the
container is likewise unable to help. So I need somebody who'd be
willing to pop out to Pittsburg sometime around Wed or Thr of this
coming week, and simply drain what little fuel is in the tank. You're
welcome to do with it what you will, if it's usable by all means put it
in your tank. Might be a bit jellified though. I have no idea at this point.

    My recollection is that it's virtually running on fumes, though I
can't guarantee this as it's been well over 2 years since I last futzed
with the ol' gal. But I would be rather shocked if more than maybe 2
gallons could be drained from it. Honestly I figure a lot less, but as I
say I just don't know. So, if any of y'all can help (or refer me to
somebody who can) that'd be sweet. I'm sure I can arrange for Pops to
bring some beer along for payment or whatever. And if any of y'all
happen to be coming through Wellington, I'm certainly good for a beer
here as well. :)

    Anyway, once I get the ol' girl down here I expect I may become a
bit more active, having a bus to tinker with again. Looking forward to it...

Regards,

Ed Hintz
ed(-at-)hintz.org
