From: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>
To: "Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
Cc: "Thomas Ainlay (E-mail)" <tainlay(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
Date: Wed, 14 Aug 2002 11:56:44 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] More on Sway Bars and Disc Brake Kits

>Thomas Ainlay (not Ainley)<
Ooops, sorry Thomas.

>from people was that the Bilstein's were not worth the upgrade in price.<
The best price for Bilsteins so far has been $58 each, and I know
www.shox.com can beat that. I think the street price for a KYB Gas-A-Just is
low-mid $30s these days. In my opinion they are worth the extra $20ish each.
I am not knocking the KYBs because the Gas-A-Just rear and GR-2 front is a
strong setup, just not Bilstein good.  Maybe Thom has an opinion on this
since he is familiar with Bilsteins?

>So, it sounds like right now there is no one out there who has a
ready-to-go bolt-on disc brake conversion kit for my 66 Samba?<
That is correct, at least none that I know of.  Ronnie has some good ideas
so maybe follow up on those leads.  But other than that it is a custom kind
of thing.

I did not comment on the stuff already answered by others.

Check the archives a little bit as well because last week we had a good
discussion on tranny ratios and Reduction Box ratios which might be helpful.
In your case since it seems you have a 3.88 R&P (hopefully with a .82 forth)
and you could run small nut RGBs and then maybe use any of the Beetle rear
disc kits that have e-brakes..?  Bus Boys/Wolfgang/Vintage Warehouse should
have used sets of small nut RGBs you can put on.

Also when you go full discs be sure to get an appropriate master cylinder to
match the 4 wheel discs.  For Thomas and I we will be using the 944 MC to
match our brake systems, both of us are also using the Wolfgang adapter kit
for a baywindow MC.  I think an late 70's or early 80's Audi MC would work
as well, just be sure it is a 4 wheel disc car like a Turbo.

Sounds like your engine is all set... Be sure to put in a head temp gauge
and oil temp gauge as well.

Take Care,
Adrian



