Date: Thu, 15 Aug 2002 00:07:09 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: Paul <paul_f(-at-)ntlworld.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] POR15 and window frames, how I did'em



Looks like I'm the POR man this week, so:

When I restored the 67 back in 94-94, I put in a major special effort on
the door window frames and my pop out window frames - spent 3 weeks on
them alone, while the rest of the shop was working on the body (and other
cars). Here's what *I* did - you may not be as crazy, but I had the time,
space, and the money. It's 8 years later, and there is NO rust anywhere
on any frame:

Okay, here goes -

First, I had them stripped to the metal chemically, at a powdercoating
house. Then I bead-blasted them meticulously, every nook and cranny, back
at the resto shop. Then a wipedown with Fast Acrylic Laquer Thinner (FAST)
- use chem-filtered aspirator and NITRILE gloves, NOT latex gloves. Then
carefully set them aside, wrapped in paper toweling (Bounty brand).

Now, spraying POR is a messy and nasty job, and things get out of control
easily, so I did the frames (both front door and popouts) in several
steps:

I wrapped the outer surfaces and outer rubber channel in masking tape, so
that no POR would be able to contact either the sides (the viewable sides)
or the outer rubber channel, it would only be allowed into the inner
channel, where the inner rubber and the glass live.

I then punched through the tape where the tiny screws holes are (the ones
that hold the Popouts to the body hinges), and inserted small short
rolled-up cylinders of masking tape, sticky side out, into the threaded
holes, to protect the threads from POR. Also stuck the sticky
tape-cylinders into the holes in the little tongue-piece which joins the
halves of a popout frame, as well as the matching holes in the other
piece.

I then sprayed POR liberally into the inner rubber channel, insuring that
I had coverage on the hidden undersides of the channel metal as well (ie,
FULL coverage - I sprayed surplus in there making sure it splashed up in
the hidden surfaces). Then I held the piece, allowing surplus POR to drip
out. When all extra POR was gone, I dabbed POR onto the ends of each
piece, and hung each piece to dry for TWO HOURS -  the tacky point where
you can spray your paint-system primer (necessary interface) onto it.

At the two hour point, I sprayed liberally the three-part epoxy primer
into the inner channel, insuring full coverage, allowing excess to drip
out, and hung to dry.

Repeated the same operation using the top-coat color (beige-grey), and
allow to drip excess and hang to dry.

Then I removed the masking tape over the outer channel, taped and
sealed the inner channels, and repeated the whole procedure with the
outer channels.

Removing the tape, this leaves only the sides to work up. Those were
given a careful wipedown with the FAST, and then hung and shot with the
primer (couple of coats), allowed to dry, then shot with topcoat color.

The same procedure was done with the front-door window frames, and the
wing-window (vent window) frames. The wing window frames only have one
inside 'channel' or surface to deal with.

That's it! Eight years, no rust.

cal


On Thu, 15 Aug 2002, Paul wrote:

> I am intending on restoring my door window frames and my pop out window
frames in the next couple of months.  These are the only parts of my my
bus that have aged badly since its restoration in 93/94.

