From: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>
To: "Thomas Ainlay (E-mail)" <tainlay(-at-)sbcglobal.net>,
Date: Thu, 15 Aug 2002 11:16:55 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] rear end FS in NC

>Adrian, I hear it calling your name...<

Getting one this Saturday in Lexington SC :)   (out of a '67 no less!)

On that note, anyone need any '67 parts?  It is going to the junkyard.  I
have not seen the bus so who knows what is left or still good.  Cheap parts,
all proceeds will go to the current owner, not me.  (no BS e-rape prices
either - sickens me to the bone to see bus people screw each other over
junk)

Speaking of getting screwed... It is amazingly hard to find reasonable
prices for 944 used parts off of parts cars sold through individuals.  A few
years ago I passed up two 944 bodies minus engine/tranny for free!  Where
are the deals people?  Anyway, the going rate for a early 944 rear
brakes/control arms assembly is $100 per side at a professional
dismantler...  Generally as a used parts seller I take the dismantler price
and cut it in half since I have zero overhead (401K, health benefits,
buildings, labor, equipment, OSHA, blah blah blah).  Are private sellers
trying to retire to Florida or something?  These are crappy used parts!
This can apply to most any used car and not just the 944 in this example,
look at gar-bay a little bit (even The Samba) and it is just laughable.

I sell a few parts here and there if I can help someone out at cheap prices.
When I need something (minus a few kind examples) I generally get screwed on
what I think it would be worth (or what I would sell the same thing for).
Just be kind the next time you post something FS, and give the dude a break
if it is helping keep a bus on the road.

A lot of people scoff when I say the 911 is cheaper to own than the bus, but
it is true.  Parts are a little more expensive, but they are excellent
quality and will last another twenty years.  Most of the VW stuff is used
and on its last leg or new repo junk that is good for a year if you are
lucky.

In summary, I still quite enjoy my bus and would not sell it, but I think
the "scene" is becoming a bit tainted by some peoples greed and loosing its
true kind roots.  Also this is not directed at the kind souls on this list
that help each other, but the unscrupulous vultures who rape people on
gar-bay and The Samba.

     
Take Care,
Adrian "grumpy middle aged bus dude" Pillow

1966 VW Microbus Westfalia "Biscuit"
1967 VW Microbus Standard/Westfakia "Dino" - For Sale
1979 Porsche 911 SC "Cochese" - For Sale 





