From: "Bob" <bobpetzel(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 25 Oct 2002 23:25:01 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] FW:  Chinese Tires

To my extended bus family:

If your tires are weather cracked, cut, goughed, plugged, bald, etc. or over
8 years old (weather 10 miles on them or 50,000 miles) please replace them.
To date your tires find the D.O.T. number on the sidewall and check the last
3 numbers. They stand for the week and year made. IE: 276 would be 27th week
of  1996. Granted it could mean 27th week of 1986 but you should have a fair
idea of the correct year by the type of tire. Also should you get a flat
repaired stay away from plugs. Always have them patched from the inside and
make sure that they use the correct patch. There are patches made for
radials and ones for bias ply. I used to do truck(big rig) tires and have
seen the aftermath of bad tires. It is really unbelievable what kinda damage
a tire can do and the force of a tire explosion. A tire placed under a mid
sized car and purposly blow up to show the force of it,lifted the car off
the ground. No matter what speed you drive or how careful, when a tire blows
the results could be anywhere from very minor to someone dying or worse.
When it comes to brakes and tires my saying is "How much is my/your life
worth?".  A set of tires? New brake shoes? Go give you bus a new set of
shoes if she needs it. Don't gamble with yours or anybody elses life for a
hundred or so dollars. I apologize for preachin but I hate to see tragady
that could have been avoided by something so inexpensive. Sheetmetal can be
replaced. Hope everybody has a safe and wonderful weekend.
Bob
'62 Kombi Swivel

P.S. I have scanned VW Service without guesswork mechanics pocket book dated
Jan/61. It has alot of specs on VW passanger cars, transporters and
industrial engines. The total file size of the scanned book is 3.16 megs so
I can't e mail the whole thing but if you are interested in certian specs
out of it just let me know and I will e mail the pages to you.
