From: "Richard Beckers" <cathrich(-at-)tpg.com.au>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 21 May 2006 23:58:15 +1000
Subject: [T2] type 4 case oil pressure relief

Hi Dave,
Thanks for the in-depth info, much appreciated.
When I re-built the motor ~30k miles ago I fitted a new Schadec (spelling??)
pump with a slightly increased output (I think 24mm gears is stock and I
 have 26mm gears). Gear clearances seemed to be in spec. I did lap the cover
 plate I used, and used the thin gasket it came with.

Also fitted at that time were new cam followers (and solid rods), relief
 piston, relief spring, fuel pump push rod (carb motor) and of course all 
new
 bearings. I even replaced the gallery Welch plugs!
 The pressure has been low since re-build (max pressure cold ~40psi, oil
 light flickers on at idle and ~190F oil), but have only now decided to find
 the source of the problem as the motor needs to come out soon (it's
 developed a head leak), so figured now is the time to get it right.

 Holding pressure as per your cold cranking test is very bad on mine, the 
oil
 light will come on again in a couple of seconds, and re-cranking will take
 ~5-10 seconds before it goes out again, and that's now with the increased
 pressure on the spring!

 I guess that all leads me to believe the bearing clearance is excessive as
 you suggest (it's the one job in the re-build I left to a trusted
 mechanic!!).

 So, if having a higher than stock pressure on the spring appears to have
 fixed the problem (well mostly), is it worth looking at replacing the
 bearings when the motors out (a job I'm not keen to do of course!!).

 The motor is fine otherwise, runs and drives well, and good compression
 (with the exception of No 2 which has a head leak)

 Cheers,
 Richard

 ----- Original Message ----- 
 From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
 To: <cathrich(-at-)tpg.com.au>
 Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
 Richard,

 How much work did you do on the oil pump.
 New?, check actually gear clearance as per Bentley?
 Did you make sure that the cover was absolutely flat and without
 gear marks in it?  Did you use the correct cover gasket?...the one that is
 not much thicker than a piece of note book paper?
 After those are correct, then it is all about bearing clearance and wear.
 Personally, I would consider 11psi at 700 rpm and 190f oil to be well
 within the good to excellent range.  At 1000 rpm I would expect the
 pressure to come up a little more...
 Cheers, dave 
