Date: Sun, 21 May 2006 21:13:31 -0700
From: "< Arnaud >" <turbo2cv(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "VW - Type 2 mailing list" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Trip report : San Diego to Joshua Tree 05/19-21/2006

Hi List,
For a change from problems, here is a good old trip report.

Friday : San Diego to Joshua Tree 180miles
After about an hour I check the rear mirror while coasting to a stop
on fourth. Darn, there is quite a bit of smoke back there. It reminds
me of when my friend blew his type 4. I keep driving and notice that
the smoke stops while cruising or accelerating. The smoke starts about
4 seconds after letting the foot off the accelerator, when the bus is
coasting. It seems to be coming out of the tailpipe. An oil check
shows no significant loss, so we keep going. We stop in the middle of
a field by Perris to enjoy the salad my wife prepared. Two coyotes are
here to say hi.

The drive on freeway 60 between I-215 and I-10 is always a pain with
these really steep hills and only two lanes. Bluet needs the third
gear to make it to the top of the steepest hills. Later, the climb to
the Joshua Tree valley is even steeper, at the end 25 cars are in line
behind me on the one lane road. Bluet was pushing 25mph on the second
gear on that one. At the top we stop for gas and the oil light comes
on because it idles slower at 4000ft and the oil has to be really thin
and warm.

I totally solved my oil temp problems this year! The solution is very
simple: remove the Gene Berg oil temp dipstick that warns of high oil
temp. This device turns the oil light on when oil reaches ~230F in the
sump. While it may be good to know that oil is warm, it is also
impossible for me to drive with the oil light oil, because while I
know that it is the oil temp that turns it on, there is always a
possibility that the unique light is instead reporting a low oil
pressure. This brought really frustrating trips last year where I
would slow enough to keep oil below 230F. It was clearly dangerous on
freeways because the speed required to achieve this kind of oil temps
in a type 1 camper in 90+F weather is just ridiculous. Instead I just
drive my bus, listen to it and use common sense. I know it gets hot,
but that is the way mine is. No flooring on uphills in fourth at
30mph. Also I plug the turkey thermometer in there once in a while
after a freeway drive. It gets to 230+ .

At Joshua tree, the festival is good as usual; there are quite a few
busses on the campground. A few folks stop to chat about the bus. Two
remarks: I _really_ like when folks say "nice 71", rather than the
chubby "which year is it". Yes come on, if they care enough about
busses to start talking about it, then they should be able to tell it
is a '71. Second, this dude was telling me that he easily pushed all
the way here on third and fouth gear with the 1776, dual carbs stock
tranny and external oil cooler. Darn, that is tempting

On the way back, the engine smokes (more than the average hippie at
the festival) during the whole downhill because when acting as brake
it smokes with its current condition. Back in the Indio valley it
takes 1/3 of a quart of oil to fill it up. Going on: I-10 between Palm
Springs and Riverside for what I call the worst nightmare in a bus :
90+F, 30+mph headwind, uphill, speed limit 70mph four lanes. Cars do
75+mph, trucks do 55+mph. Bluet does 40-45mph on third. An a*hole with
a Audi S4 who was passing and speeding on the right lane had to slam
the brakes when he finally saw me. He felt he had to honk when he
passed me. Fair enough I reached the Nirvana when I saw him stopped
by a cop 3 miles later !!

Stats : on the way there (+4000ft elevation) 185 miles, 19.4mpg
Return : -4000ft elevation : 21.0 mpg
Overall : 20.1mpg
Stock  1600dp (except the little secret), camper loaded.
1350miles on rebuild

cheers - Arnaud
