Date: Sun, 21 May 2006 23:03:55 -0600
From: "Bronsema, Max" <MBronsema(-at-)albertson.edu>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Hells Canyon and back

Since Arnaud gave us a summary of his trip I figure it is a good way to
continue the discussion of my hard start problem.



I got Louise started about 6:30pm when the heat was still about 90
degrees outside; since it started I decided I might as well go camping.
My friends and I piled into the van that sounded beautiful while running
and headed to the gas station. We decided not to turn Louise off in case
we could not get her started so we filled her up and pulled out onto the
freeway for a light stint until an exit to a road that would get us to
Hells Canyon. It was a beautiful drive not getting dark until 9:30 or so
and we reached our camping site at 10:30. 138 miles of pain free
driving, she even got up the hills in 3rd most of the time. We made a
fire-pit from some stones we found on the shore, cooked hot dogs, and
boiled water for the next day. We had a merry time. When it came time to
sleep, I got up in my cot in the top of the westy and then heard a
ripping sound. Turns out the canvas cot finally gave out; glad it did
not happen while I was sleeping. It was a cozy night with three people
on the bottom bed. The next morning I changed the oil, I believe my
rings finally seated completely as there was less oil than we began with
and she is leak free. I checked the valves all of them were spot on.
Once we packed up, I crossed my fingers and turned the key, chug a chug
a chug a chug, almost as if the battery was dead and then after about 10
seconds of cranking she fired like a top and was ready to go. We drove
on back to a friend's house to drop some things off; we made good time
though Louise was in second gear going 25mph for about half an hour
getting out of the canyon. At the house we turned, Louise off for a
couple of minutes, and then it cranked about 5 or 6 times and she fired
up, we drove for another 6 minutes or so and stopped at the local pizza
place. After pizza, the bus did the same chug a chug until firing up. We
got back home and she has been resting today. I will keep playing with
her until I get this hard start thing figured out. The trip was a blast
though and Louise averaged 20-22mpg that is great for her.



Thanks for all of the suggestions so far,



Max

'71 Westy "Louise" 1600dp
