Date: Mon, 22 May 2006 22:13:58 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Martin Strandgard <mnstra(-at-)unimelb.edu.au>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] msc problems

ok so heres where i am volks and thanks for the replies....
  i havent had a chance ot write back but have read through the replies...
   
  to answer a few questions...
  yes i am using a 8cylinder multi meter so my bad ooops... just so use to looking at it i said 22 when i meant 44....
   
  ok yes i am running a vaccum advance dizzy...
   
  if the condensor is bad and burning up my points since this is the second set now...hmmm?
  i have another condensor here but looking at it i dont know what it goes to..
  i ran the numbers on bus depot but it didnt come up anyone know..
  1 227 300 249 770  thats the numbers on the bottom of it.....
   
  as far as heat yes i do know that the engine is running hot there is no doubt i know my engine and how it runs and she's running hot..... the spitting and sputtering when i cut her off... she' s hot and when oil vdo reads hot she's hot...
  no doubt...
   
  i think something is blocking the oil cooler... i will work more on this tomorrow and next day as my little one has half days next two days so puts me in a time bind...
   
  i am going to try to get a vaccum hose down in the hole also and see if i can suck anythign out of the tin....??? hope somethig comes out... mayeb unblocks it..
   
  i also found my battery tray is gone gone gone... so i cut some sheet metal and was able to bond the sheet metal in there and seal it up pretty good with roof cement (roof patch)
   
  ...
  saying 90 degree temps coming next couple days so i gotta find out what the problem is quick..
   
  i also plugged off my holes for my heater boxes...
   
  again update later tomorrow...?
  i hope i answered everyone,....
  and thanks alot yall..
   
  ohh and vaccum leaks..? i have checked everything and seems to be fine...
   
   
  also the manifold gaskets are all brand new within couple hundred miles... just replaced them right for it got hot...
   
   
  chai

Martin Strandgard <mnstra(-at-)unimelb.edu.au> wrote:
  >ok so i have been having some major issues with running hot lately....
things i have done and results

Have you checked for vacuum leaks? I had similar symptoms with a 
weber progressive and it turned out that one of the rubber connectors 
that join the manifold to the carb base had a big hole in it!

Cheers,

Martin.



                                                                 Break out the shorts, tank tops and sandles........
     Tune up the Bus wash off the winter rust~!~
       It's camping season woohooooooo LETS GO CAMPING~!~
