Date: Mon, 28 Apr 2008 20:53:03 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Rob <becida(-at-)comcast.net>
Subject: I found reverse!

I have finally been able to put the '79 into "R" 3 consecutive times!

I have the van sitting off to the side on the gravel out in the 
weather, when the I had it running, even went around the block a time 
or two but I had a real hard time getting it into "R". I changed the 
front bushing then I couldn't get it to run.

The positive push-on connector to the fuel pump came off in my hand. 
I jacked it & took the wheel off and was able to get to the fuel pump 
wires over the frame and replaced the push-on, put it back together 
and tried again. Still didn't work.
I went to the Bentley and tested the dual relay, it was good.
In the Bentley there is a single line that mentions the pump wires 
backwards, in the archives there is mention of reversing the wires to 
dislodge something blocking the pump intake. I did find I hooked the 
wires up backwards after I found the "+" & "-" on the pump. It would 
now fire and run as long as the key was in the start position. The 
pervious help I'd gotten from the list and the wiring diagram and the 
Bentley pointed me to the Aux Air Regulator. That's hard to get to....
I bypassed the fuel pump feed from the dual relay and aux air valve 
and tried the engine, It worked! The engine started AND ran. <G>.

With the engine running I can see if it's really reverse. Now I tried 
the gear shift and still couldn't get "R".
I loosened up the gear lever almost a full turn per bolt and 
'readjusted' the lever, tightened up down and tried again. Still not 
right, loosened it up still again and gently put it into 1st, then 
slid it back to second, then I pushed it to the left until I took up 
all the slack and I tightened the bolts.
I found "N", gently pushed it down and back, eased up on the clutch 
and it started going backwards! I put it into first and pulled 
forward some and tried for "R" again, I found it! One more time and I 
was happy. With my daughter parked behind me going backwards (too 
far) was not a good idea <g>.

Now I just have to figure what to do about the fuel pump power not 
coming from the aux air regulator...



Rob
becida(-at-)comcast.net

'91 VW Jetta & a '79 VW camper in western WA 
