To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 25 Nov 2003 17:53:05 -0500
From: "Billy" <wfp3(-at-)lycos.com>
Cc: general(-at-)oldvolkshome.com
Subject: '65 new tranny replacement saga

For those of you following and helping, thanks.  I finally deleted the old emails I have recieved on this project and I had close to 100!

Special thanks to Clara, B&E, Cal, Ronnie, Karl and my local VW pals whom you do not know.

After pulling the trans after the initial install due to lack of gears and oil leaks from the axle retaining rings, I did the following:

Drained and cleaned the trans and the rings with simple green and installed new gaskets with a generous bead of Permatex #6 blue silicone on one side of each surface (tranny to #1 gasket/#1 gasket to #2 gasket, etc.). Circled each bolt hole with the bead of silicone.

I am pleased to report not one drop of Stalube GL-4
(8.5oz in each RGB/85.5 oz center section, thanks Cal)
has reached my driveway.

Then, assuming that my new trans was too much of a load on my aging linkage, I rebuilt most of it.

Gearshift lever: cleaned and painted

Conical spring: regreased

Spring loaded pin: regreased

Shift lever cup: filled with grease

Front Bushing Carrier: replaced with new German (Busboys)

Front bushing: replaced with new, greased
Front shift rod: sanded, painted

Front coupler: sanded, liquid wrenched frozen threads, greased.

Front coupler set screw: MISSING! temporary replacement with sawed off M8 bolt. Where to find replacement? What type of screw original?

Rear shiftrod: removed, sanded, regreased.

Rear shiftrod bushings: replaced worst of 2 with new (kit I bought only had 1) the repops are a bad casting.

Rear coupler: Original german one was cracked and expanding/contracting during shifting. Replaced with new repop, blew it out screwing down grub screw too tight (scary), replaced with second repop. Crossed fingers.

Tranny: New!

Now I have smooth shifting gears, reverse is no mystery. It's truly a beauty.

Anticlimax: On starting up to testdrive, my accelerator pedal rusted off the floor.

8 weeks later, two R&R's, 99% there,

Billy
