Date: Wed, 26 Nov 2003 13:40:11 -0500
From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
To: v_uu(-at-)hotmail.com ("I LOVE MY V_UU"), vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Wonder how this happened ?

sounds like you are in tune w/ the normal sounds your bus makes  :)

At least it's a cheap & easy fix.  Buy new pea shooter & clamp kit.  (I sometime reuse old clamps if the donut is in good shape.   

 It is easier if you remove the apron. Open engine lid, undo the 4 13mm bolts that hide under the bottom edge of the lid. (sometimes less, should be 4, 2 each side) that point horizontally towards the back of the bus.  sometimes there are screws pointing down vertically on the flat area inside the engine compartment, take those out too.  then you can lift the apron out and put it under the bus or somewhere you won't step on it. Put it on a flat edge, not like an inverted V.  

now you can get to the pea shooter bolts w/ lying on your back and having things fall in your eyes.

 remove old clamp. use a ratchet and a wrench.  sometimes 10mm, sometimes 11mm.  ratchet on the nut.

put the donut on the shooter tube, there's an end of the tube to go into the muffler, and one that points out, it'll make sense if you look at the tube.  the little metal ring goes on the outside of the donut, curve fitting the donut.   connect the clamps with one bolt and nut barely on, then wiggle it in place so the clamp fits over the flange on the muffler and the metal ring and the donuts.  so the donut is between the flange and the metal ring.   This way the clamps squishes the flange ring and donut together, make sure the clamp is over the metal ring and flange all around.  Insert other bolt and nut.  tap tube in all the way into the muffler.   Snug bolt & nuts down, double check the clamp is still over everything properly.  
now tighten them with the small ratchet or a hand held halfway up the regular ratchet.  

Check the other side.

Replace apron.  if the bolts are crusty wire brush the threads. Grease threads lightly.  Start all bolts before snugging any down. Bolts should have large washers on them.  

I often use the orange gurk that is high temp muffler goo on the donut.  not the blue stuff, the orange stuff with *copper* in it.  might help, I dunno.

 In a message dated 11/26/2003 12:51:19 PM Eastern Standard Time, v_uu(-at-)hotmail.com writes:

> Driving down the road and noticed my bus sounded louder than usual [not that
> my bus EVER sounds loud, just heard the engine above my radio.]
> 
> When I got to work I noticed one of the two pea-shooters was gone ... Could it
> be another bolt that the Mechanics From Hell forgot to 
> tighten ??
