To: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Cc: mizamook(-at-)starband.net,vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 28 May 2003 10:06:51 -0700
From: wilden1(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Copper in oil

bits of bearing material should not, repeat NOT, be in your oil.  whether
they are coppery oil sheen flakes or chunks It is a bad sign.  period.
----------------------- Clip ----------------------
Engine bearings are considered a disposable item in an engine.
They are multi layered with lead babbitt, copper then the steel shell.
Once the babbitt (gray stuff) wears of sufficiently you start seeing
copper (naturally the copper colored stuff).
This is telling you that you are running on marginal bearings.
The sooner you install new bearings the better .............. although
your engine may last many more miles, you've been warned.
If you've got some friends with VW junk boxes go look at some worn
bearings you'll see exactly what your bearings are doing.
VW bearings aren't that expensive but they're the dickens to get to.
If you've never rebuilt an engine, I'd suggest that you just get a
quality rebuilt engine from a reputable source.
A simple way to test your oil is to change it at a normal interval, mix
the old oil with gasoline and strain it through a coffee paper filter. 
With the engine cool, leave the drain plug closed (no oil in there) and
pour some kerosine (1 gallon) in the oil fill tube.
With the kerosine in there rock your van as hard as you can to loosen up
particles clinging to the flat surface of the pan. Drain this mix as soon
as you quit shaking the van, clean the strainer and strain that whole
mess through a paper coffee filter. 
Knowing what you already know and what you got with this test you might
see a lot more debris than would be expected.
Crankshaft end play is another tell tale sign. If you can grab the
crankshaft pulley and move it more than about .030 if an inch it
indicates that your rod bearings are loose, the thrust surfaces of #1
main is heavily worn and you should have been getting lower oil pressures
by now.
This is all very confusing to someone who hasn't actually had their hands
on each and every engine part in a dismantling the engine routine. 
Summary: Copper in the oil is normal in an engine reaching the end of
it's bearing life.

Stan Wilder
