From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "vintagebus vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 28 May 2003 10:50:06 -0600
Subject: Re: [VB] RE: Oil opinions

----- Original Message -----
>   We all know that VW Trends sucks but in the latest issue they did have a
> good? test on oil and synthetic won,

Synthetic oil is superior, numerous 'big wigs' in the VW industry have
proven that with thier own independent tests (head temp stays the same, 15
degree oil temp drop is average). The problem with the VW Trends article,
was that it showed nothing. Who gives a rats ass what the engine temps are
when held at a measly 1200 rpms, sitting in one place in the driveway? What
can that test possibly show? Especially with Ryan Prices car, that is not
running the rear tin, where even the slightest breeze will throw that test
all out of whack. Also, those infra red temp guns are not like pointing a
gun, and reading a pin-point temp. Last one I looked at, the area read was
fanned out big time. It was something like a 20" diameter from 12" away. How
accurate do you think the readings were?  I say, test the temperatures under
real world conditions. Drive the highway, get stuck in a traffic jam, etc,
etc. I started fooling around with synthetics in aircooled VW's about 5
years ago, before almost anyone would touch the stuff because of all the
gospel that Berg threw out there. People all thought I was crazy, even
though the temp gauges showed them that it ran cooler.

> except they claim oil leaks from it
> which I do not have on mine with 15/50 Mobil 1

I do not think that any oil leak on Ryans motor is a result of the oil used.
Like I said, I've run synthetics for 5 years or so, and any oil leaks I've
developed, were not caused by the oil. A rear main going bad, a rubber cam
plug getting cocked out because the cam bearing covered most of the drain
galley in the case, etc, etc. I guess I could have blamed it on the
synthetic, buy why?

Now, synthetic can cause oil leaks if the engine is fairly old, and has a
layer of sludge in the motor. The synthetic oil can wash away this sludge
that is actually keeping the motor from leaking, and result in a leak. In a
way you can blame that on the synthetic, but in another, you can't.

Eric Allred
64 Bus
