Date: Wed, 28 May 2003 17:59:55 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Magic Smoke

>From: "Bart Daugherty" <badaugherty(-at-)msn.com>
>Date: Wed, 28 May 2003 09:14:41 -0700
>
>I hop inside and turn the ignition, fires up, but the starter sticks
>and smoke begins coming out of the dash pod.

You need at least one 111 999 998 - magic smoke, 1 L tin.  Unfortunately,
it's been NLA since before 1935.

>So I haven't had a chance to tear into it, but I am assuming I fried some
>wires in the ignition switch.

There's probably something wrong inside the switch, like one of the
contacts is loose and shorting to ground, or maybe one of the connecting
wires near the switch has a problem.  Sometimes most of the wire strands
will break inside the insulation - visually, the wire looks OK, but it
has a high resistance.  This high resistance heats up when current flows
through it, and can generate enough heat to melt the insulation.  If
there is a short inside the switch, the switch body or terminals can
also get hot enough to melt insulation.

>Why didn't a fuse pop?  I have all the correct ones in.

Study the wiring diagram carefully...many things on a VW aren't fused.
For example, on my '64, there are no fuses between the battery and the
starter motor, starter solenoid, generator, choke, ignition coil, dash
lights, fuel gauge, or front parking lights.  Generally, only the
exterior lights, horn, wipers, and dome lights are fused.  If terminal
30 of the ignition switch shorts to ground, the only thing limiting
the current is the resistance of the red wire coming from the battery.

>I still have the 6 volt harness, but everything else is 12 volt (cept
>my wiper moter).

That shouldn't matter too much.  Wire doesn't really care if you run
6 V or 12 V through it.  It might break down if you ran 600 V or 6000 V
through it instead of 6 V, but usually this doesn't happen.  In a sense,
when you run 12 V on a 6 V harness, the wires are twice as thick as they
really need to be.

>The switch still operates, but it smokes when the alternator turns not
>when the key is on.

Hmm.  The alternator will raise the system voltage a little bit, but
usually a volt or so isn't the difference between smoking and non-smoking.

What I'd do is to disconnect the battery negative cable, then go poking
around under the dash.  If you find burned insulation on any of the three
wires to the ignition switch, you have to figure out if the wires or the
switch failed.  Try wiggling the ignition switch terminals; if they aren't
solid in the switch that could be your problem.

It's pretty easy to hot-wire a Bus.  If you do that and still get smoke,
you have a problem in one of the wires, but if the smoke is gone, then
it was probably inside the switch.  You might measure the system voltage
once you get the engine running and make sure it's not real high, like
over 14.5 V or so.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds
