From: "Mike Anderson" <mikeanderso(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 29 May 2003 21:31:58 +0000
Subject: Euro wiring harness q's

Hello Everyone,

I recently finished painting my '64 kombi.  pics at:

http://homepage.mac.com/jessicaanderson/PhotoAlbum4.html

but that's not what this post is about.  Now onto getting it put back 
together...The bus is euro spec (3 wire turn signal, M code plate lists 
switzerland as original delivery point). I do not have the euro spec 
headllights, don't want to put up the serious coin to get a set.  US lights 
are fine with me.   I would like to keep the euro wiring harness that is in 
the bus but I need some opinions.  Bus will be 12V.  I've read matt roberds' 
articles in the archives about replacing the 6v relays with 12v to make the 
turn blinkies work.  The wiring under the dash got painted because I did not 
take pains to cover it up before paint.  Laziness on my part.  The harness 
was cut, and only partially pieced back together using one color of wire, 
wire nuts and crimp connectors (!) by PO just forward of the engine 
compartment.  Basically it needs a complete going-through.  The way I see 
it, my options are as follows:

1.  Yank harness and replace with readily available US spec harness, kluge 
together wiring to make 3 wire TS work.
2.  Replace with US harness, and go 'Merican throughout (find US TS, 
taillights, etc.)
3.  Yank harness, and replace with a special order euro harness (can someone 
make one? How much?)
4.  Yank harness and fuse block, clean off paint, rebuild rear section using 
wire from parts bus in town, put back in and rewire according to euro wiring 
diagram
5.  Leave harness in place, clean off paint, rebuild and troubleshoot while 
in the bus.

I'm leaning towards #4, but is removing the wiring harness without cutting 
it in the center a nightmare?  Tips and tricks for removing and 
re-inserting?  I like the idea of spreading out the whole thing so I can get 
the big picture, and easily replace all the ends, etc. without folding 
myself in half to see under the dash.

Are there any smarter ways to get the bus' wiring back into shape?  
Additional things I need to worry about?

Thanks!

Mike A.
'64 SO-35 in SLC
