Date: Mon, 20 Jun 2005 08:40:08 -0600
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: The Shark's Overheating

Ok. Yet again I prove I'm an idiot. Some of this stuff is so obvious I
should be shot. Lemme 'splain.

Behind the fuel pump is a sheet metal duct that provides heated air
from the engine fins to the warm air intake for the carbs. I know all
about that bastage since it's blocking access to the fuel pump that I
replaced recently.

The outlet bolts through the breast tin to the duct. The outlet itself
has a round opening for the intake that is much larger, requiring a
seal. I've been missing that seal, but never thought much about it. I
had "assumed" that without the vacuum from the intake that it didn't
do much.

When I took everything apart for the fuel tank reline, I discovered
the outlet wasn't attached at all. Just setting there. In the "to-do"
box it went. It seemed it was useless without being attached, and I
had other issues to deal with.

Yesterday before my second run to Colorado Springs I decided to
finally figure out a way to get the (-at-)#%^&* foam engine seal to do
something useful under the cooling fan. The PO had backed into
something and pushed that rear cross piece in 3 inches so the cooling
tin all overlapped. The foam was just kind of setting there. So I bent
and pried and worked it in all the way finally. I was so proud! LoL!
No more heat from the muffler sucking into the fan! Yay!

What I think I had done was a combination of things:
-I removed what little blockage there was for that warm air intake.
That sucker blows some seriously hot air! Hard!
-I blocked up the one way that hot air had to get out of the engine
compartment when at speed. On the freeway the air from the grills up
top create more pressure in the engine compartment than can be sucked
in. So with an already moving current of air from the grills to the
opening under the cooling fan moving at speed, the hot air was getting
sucked out before it could do too much damage.

This also explains why it started acting up once I got back into town
and was moving slowly and sitting at lights back on Saturday (before I
sealed up the foam).

Until I get my hands on the seal, tonight I'm going to get a fresh
roll of aluminum flashing (I love that stuff!) and seal off that port.
It's been warm enough I don't need to worry too much about preheating
the air in the morning. Not like I have my cooling flaps or anything.
bleh

I know it's long, but I've been thinking about what I had done all
morning. And kicking myself.

--
Don
