Cc: The Bug Pack Pack <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Mon, 20 Jun 2005 19:29:09 -0400
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Hubcap Story...

Hi Volks,

For those interested in the continuing Hubcap saga, I have forwarded  
the following update from Gary Jarett. His bus was totalled on the  
way home from a bus event two weeks ago.

http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/album_page.php?pic_id=212328

Luckily he survived the accident and is now recovering at home. A  
week later there was a bus raffle at a VW event that many Buskatiers  
attend and enough of them bought raffle tickets in his name to manage  
to win the bus for him.

It's too good a story not to share... Gary's words are below:


Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.busesofthecorn.com






> I was curious if you were wearing a seatbelt - was it a lap belt or  
> shoulder belt?

Yes, very rare for me to not put one on.   It was the lap belt only  
being a splitty.

I was also curious when you rolled, if you went driver's side first  
or passenger side first?  From the bus' appearance it rolled on the  
driver's side.  Looks like it landed on the rain cutter and pushed it  
in the entire length of the bus.  There's one particular hard bend in  
crease right where my left temple should have been.  The drives front  
top area is smacked down a bit, like a chop top would be.
I had no blows to the head.  I did have a pretty good cut above my  
right ear requiring six stitches.  The gear shift was slapped pretty  
hard toward the pass. side.  I may have been thrown that way even  
with the seal belt on. That may have been what kept my head protected  
as it smacked the drivers top side.  I do remember seeing grass out  
the front window at some point.  Couldn't tell you if I was up right  
or upside down.   The bus did land on the tires once it was all  
done.   One of the brief flashbacks I have is reaching for the seat  
belt buckle to get out.  Couldn't tell you which door I got out  
though.  The lady that was first on the scene says I was sitting away  
from the bus on the ground at the side of the road holding my left  
chest and shoulder.  It seems a I barely remember looking back toward  
the bus and seeing it all bent up.

Also, were there any parts of your bus that you were surprised about  
that failed or surprised that held up to the roll-over?    Surprised  
to find that all except the secondary cargo door flew open during the  
roll over crashing process.  Rear hatch was open and rolled in toward  
the body.  The primary cargo door is folded over from the upper  
window corner across to the mid section of the door.  Both front  
doors are sprung open.  The solid pane of glass in the driver's door,  
the vertical scraper and the slider glass are completely missing from  
the door.  The stationary pane which the vertical scrapper attaches  
is lying in the bus between the seats.  Interesting how the windows  
would come out scraper and all.

If anything, maybe we can all learn from this accident and use it as  
a good lesson
towards future prevention.          You know how much junk we haul in  
our buses.  The inside of my bus was a wreck.  The Z bed was sprung  
open.  The bottom cushion was ripped from the screws holding it to  
the frame.  Propane canisters, jack, tools, chairs, grill etc. were  
tossed about all over the place.  Guess we should all find ways to  
latch or secure things better.  No telling what hit my ear and cut  
it.  There was a nice stream of blood on the head liner above the  
drivers seat.  Would have had to come from my ear during the roll  
over process.  That's the only major cut place I had.  (sorry to be  
gross)

I've already learned about not using dry rotted tires from you and  
making sure you have good treads when you're out driving.  Thanks for  
sharing the info and if you don't feel up to it, I understand  
however, I'd sure like learn what I could from your unfortunately  
mishap.
Just glad you survived - you have a unique experience amongst us.     
Thanks, yes, I believe we'll all walk away with a new perspective of  
our buses after this.

The craziest thing, the traveling hub cap container never came  
unopened.  All of the contents are safely stored away.  That's a nice  
size box to not have opened up.  I'll sure have an interesting story  
to write about.  Now winning Penny, I'll have a good news story to add.

Gary
