Cc: The Bug Pack Pack <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Mon, 20 Jun 2005 21:38:09 -0400
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Annoying FI Issue w/ cold engine

Hi Volks,

I've been quietly fighting this problem since before EveryBus. It's  
not a huge problem, but it has been going on long enough now that it  
is annoying the bejeebers out of me.

Problem: The bus won't idle when cold. It will idle poorly and stall  
repeatedly. Nurse it for a minute or two and it warms up and  
thereafter it runs *perfectly*.

First thing I did was check vacuum. It reads at 6-10" when cold, and  
14-16" when warmed up.

REALLY ANNOYING FACTOR: There's less than three minutes of time  
available to troubleshoot this issue every 2 hours. After that the  
engine warms up, and you have to wait at least 90 minutes to try again.

OTOH, after 90 seconds it runs perfectly. It certainly could be worse.

The first component I replaced was the Auxiliary air regulator, next  
came the fuel pressure regulator. Then the cold start valve. None of  
them helped resolve it. I have checked the wiring terminals and the  
grounds. I replaced the injector seals and inspected and clamped the  
plenum-intake runner hoses, and replaced the intake runner gaskets at  
the head.

This past weekend I swapped the throttle body, AFM, wiring harness  
and ECU.  Nuh-uh. So tonight I reached under the plenum and replaced  
the Thermo Time Switch. No deal. I swapped the decel valve on a  
hunch. Nice try, but no dice. AAAAARRRRGGGGGHHHHHHH!!!!!!

Supposed Last call: Replace the plenum and intake runners. It's  
probably not gonna happen this week... I have a business trip to  
Ottawa tomorrow and a campout to attend this weekend. Since this  
problem goes away after 90 seconds or so it's pretty easy to ignore,  
but it is definitely VERY annoying. Luckily I have a pretty  
reasonable pile of spare parts.
Is there anything I missed.

Compression was tested good post-EveryBus and the driveability hasn't  
changed since, so I don't expect it's intake related.

Suggestions and sympathy cards accepted gratefully. I am NOT giving  
up on FI, I'm just taking a moment to vent a little.


Bejeeberlessly yours,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.busesofthecorn.com
