From: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 20 Jun 2005 22:07:31 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Goodbye type2... 79 Westy for sale

Road trip to bring home, Dandy Lion of Ithica

I read the post that Mike made to the list with sadness and happiness!

   [T2] Goodbye type2... 79 Westy for sale

I could tell that neither Mike, nor his family wanted to sell "Dandy", but the
79 US Deluxe model Westfalia was something I had been looking at for a while.
Mike said: Really, the bus is in beautiful shape.  It is just the engine that is
a problem now.  I have been fighting that left head for too long now :^( I have
sunk too much $ and time into it...

I can sympathsize with him,,, you have to know when to cut your losses!

My criteria was, '79ish style interior, US Deluxe with stove, rust free,
mechanically good, engine and transmission not required.. Cheap!

Well... it is has been one of those -- pick any three... you can't have it
all... kinda situations...
Mike's pics showed the camper to be in the same condition as the 74 I presently
have, when we purchased it originally. So the minor body work is only required
when I want to correct it cosmetically.
Interior is exactly what I wanted.. the swivel seat, sink/stove cabinet behind
the driver. wide open living room concept.

I have a rebuilt aircooled T4 2 L on the shelf that I can install in the 74.. or
install in this 79..... but the real goal I have is to install a Toyota 2.4 L
4Runner engine.

I have rebuilt a 22RE Toyota engine,, with the adapter plate and flywheel that I
made a couple years ago, it should go into this bus just right!
That is an entire nother story...

Today's trip report....
My wife, Ruth, and I set out early fathers day morning for the 250mile drive
under overcast skys... as we decended into the Dundas Ont valley, it made the
low ceiling very evident!
Wow,, smog and or really low hanging rain clouds along with a little drizzle,,
but the roads were dry and clear of traffic.
The hour and half it took to drive to Buffalo was pretty casual,, but quite
scenic with respect to the dark green spring foliage on the trees... and the
calm of lake Ontario along the Niagara Escarpment back drop!

We cruised thru the US Customs check with no line up, and 2 questions,, place of
birth, purpose of trip.... have a good day! :-)

I-90 east is a super slab but somewhere around Rochester it was very evident
that we just changed environments.... as you drive thru a large rock cut on the
highway,you change from pretty flat land to the hills of the finger lake region.
This is a very scenic farmland view.
Our exit came up pretty quick,, so we headed south paralleling in between 2
largest finger lakes.
Wow,, the view is really nice... just short of spectacular, I reserve that for
Canadian Rocky Mountains!
The drive is cool,, roads are pretty nice,, traffic was still light.
Eventually we start to descend .... and I start to wonder,,, this is a nice down
hill grade ,,, now.  In a few hours it will be an uphill !

I have to drive this Westfalia home!  It has a sour engine!  I didn't bring a
tow trailer... I am hoping to rely on my ability to prep it, and baby it home!
This hill might be a challenge!  Oh heck,, calm down.., it isn't anything like
Virginia.. !!

Following instructions can be fun sometimes,, but turned out very simple this
time!
I met Mike as soon as we pulled up,, and quickly turned to talking about the
Westfalia.  It was pretty much as expected, pictures and description pretty
accurate,, but a short drive turned up a few things that need attention.
I negotiated a price,, Mike did some stick handling,,, and we agreed on the
sale.

As we were talking ,, Ruth was scoping out the gorge, and the beautiful
waterfalls just a few doors up the street...what an awsome place to live!

I set into finding out how much damage had happened to the engine,, to get an
idea if I should attempt to drive it 250 miles,, or call a tow truck.
I found the engine in relatively great shape,,, a little checking and
adjusting,, and I was confident I could drive it many miles.. it will need to
come apart to inspect where the compression leak is.

We were treated to a fresh batch of homemade cookies!   It was time to take that
last photo of the family passing Dandy off to it's new owner.....  and time for
us to leave if Ruth was to get home at a decent time!

We departed to head towards home,,I'll have to campout someplace, As I couldn't
cross the border back into Canada until USCBP cleared the VIN to allow export.
They have the day shift, so you have to present it during the week days only.
After a bit of driving along,, listening to the engine,,, and having nothing
else to do.. I started to realize it was quiet ... time to figure out that new
fangled type radio.
I pressed a bunch of buttons,, and when I finally got sound..... the radio
station was playing Greatful Dead  , Magic Bus!   How appropriate!

Along the way, we passed a late bay bus,, a bunch of families having fathers day
fun on the lawns.. and pointing,, look there goes a Bus!!  So I waved back !
Some where along NY96 there is a facility that must be military,, a long rusty
old chain link fence around some really large buildings,, like airplane
hangers.. but with regular garage doors...  Each building must be 10 acres
large,, and there must be 20 buildings !!,, Oh boy,, I really wondered what
could be in there...!  I saw some in Texas like this,, and one was / is full of
old old volkswagens!

Back to I-90 and buzzing along with the H.D. riders.. must be out for a Fathers
Day ride.......

We got back to Buffalo a little late to take in the Country Buffet,, so we
grabbed dinner at Denny's then headed to Queenston..... err.. Lewiston

I parked at the border, Ruth left me as she had to be at work early monday
morning..... so I closed the curtains,, and set about reading the literature
Mike had left in the bus... the history from the original owner.. his
documantation of all the work done... and a few copies of literature that I have
never read.

I fell asleep fairly quickly ,, probably about 10pm,,,  I awoke sometime in the
night to realize I should have brought the winter blankets tho.. as it did get
colder than my sleeping bag is good for.

It wasn't that bad,, as the next time I woke,, was about 9.30am... so I decided
to talk to the Vin inspector and see how that would go.
She took the Title,, put it in a stamp machine like a punch clock. Boom...
done... see yah later!

Wow!  That easy!
I headed across the bridge,, with that wonderful view of the Niagara gorge!  You
can normally see all the way to downtown Toronto, the CN tower,, and skyline,,
but today was a bit clouded with smog still.. a nice view all the same!

After talking to a Canadian border guard,, I presented the title and bill of
sale ,, at that point,, they didn't like the fact it was altered.. and I had to
explain the asking price was not the same price it sold for.... and the bill of
sale was at USCBP a week prior for clearance inspection.
An older gentleman stood in behind and coached the clerk I was talking to... and
reminded her that the Van was over 25 yrs old... NO TAX!
They asked about air conditioning,, as that is another $100 tax... but it had
recently been removed.

She handed me back my paper work,, said "pay the cashier" 7% tax,, and see yah
later!   Just that easy!

I was able to cruise home in great time,, middle of the morning ,, beautiful day
to be driving,, I was tempted to just keep on driving I was having sooo much
fun!

Just a reminder,,, check your fuel lines,, and carry a fire extinguisher that is
charged... and handy , easy to access, and ready to go!  Fortunatly,, I didn't
need to use the >spent< ext. in this bus.. but I did experience a fairly large
gas leak when I filled the gas tank.  I saw the ext. was there, just didn't take
the time to look at the gauge!  D'oh


I've spent most of the day giving people tours of the camper... cleaning it up a
bit ,, and digging out some parts from the stash to clean up some cracked or
broken stuff... little things....

I just got rid of 2 rear tables.... never thought I'd need one...  lol   and the
recoil seat belts would be nice ... I'll have to be on the search again i
guess..

Jamie Rivers
