From: VWBrain(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 21 Jun 2005 09:50:17 EDT
To: ratwell(-at-)mac.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Hubcap Story...rollover club

hey guys  I haven't ever rolled any of my buses but I have rolled a bug,  My 
late father rolled 2 buses, walked away from both unharmed.  The first one he 
hit a big clump of dirt that had fell out of  a dump truck and rolled the 60 
kombi about 13 times down a bank I still have the roof section . The second 
time he was cutting across a 4 lane road and some guy running without his lites 
on T boned him. I will never forget running down to the bus seeing the two 
headlites shining on their sideways and My father looking out the front window 
telling me to open the back cargo door LOL  . When I rolled my bug I was on my 
way to Va. Tech to take exams ,7 o clock in the morning  drizzling rain driving 
down an old country road when all of a sudden I ran into a place in the road 
that was covered in cow Sh*t that had fell from a manure spreader onto the road 
for about 200 feet. The bug started to spin and I corrected it only to have 
it start to spin the other way , I corrected it again , and again only to get 
to the point where the farmer had turned off the road I was sideways and the 
road wasnt slipper anymore so over I went , bonced once tore the OE wooden roof 
rack off and flipped over again in mid air as I went over about a 6 foot drop. 
Landed on its wheels still running. At this point I was still holding on to 
the steering wheel and checking to make sure that my two dogs in the back seat 
were OK . . They were shook up but OK. So I opened the door and steped out 
only to have my feet slide out from under me and land flat on my back. The whole 
field had been covered with the cow manure and it is very slippery. It this 
point I was pissed off for rolling my bug and covered with cow sh*t . But the 
bug was still running so I drove it out of the field to the side of the road , 
picked up the roof rack stuck it back on and checked the bug out. Well I wasnt 
going anywhere as it had two flat tires and I only had one spare. One of the 
torsion bars was Z shaped but the bug wasnt hurt too badly, the roof rack had 
taken the blount of the roll. So I need to get to school as I had 3 exams to 
take so I hitchhiked a couple of rides after wipping off all I could. Walked 
into my first exam which was of all things a Waste management class how ironic is 
that . Later I got a friend to give me a ride to get my dogs and to my shop 
to get some tires and back to the bug, which I drove 20 miles to my shop . I 
fixed it the next weekend ,bent drums, torsion bar, shocks and it was almost as 
good as new. I still have that bug only drive it in the winter now, but it is 
a great winter ride.  Later and have fun  Keep the wheels on the road Mark 
Dearing
