Date: Tue, 21 Jun 2005 23:42:34 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cliff Rhoton <commodore97210(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] Westy Green wire; Reefer wiring & Source Batt

Well, green wire connotes ground in house wiring, but
not in vehicles.   In VWs black wires are grounds, and
they are everywhere.  All other wire colors have
voltage on them.  With the ignition key on, measure
the voltage on that green wire.  By-the-way, although
the color of vehicle wires is important and matches
the vehicle wiring schematic, it is likely the green
wire you are looking at is non-standardized.  As in
not in Bentley.  I submit it is more important the
NUMBER of the terminal it connects to on the powered
end.  See the BOSCH terminal wire number standards
here:  http://66.34.72.138/wiring/defs.html .
   
Hopefully, a T2 member will have a Westy schematic to
share, so you can trace-back the green wire.
    
If the green wire travels cab forward to the fuse box,
then be careful of it's amp capacity... limit what you
connect it to.
   
Reefer.  You have a Westy Refridge, which I have zero
experience with.  But I will share my Dometic reefer
experience(s).  My Dometic sucks 9 amps.  Lots.  The
Domentic Reefer owners manual says 12v 7 amps, but its
really nine when measured on a Fluke.  That also means
that my deep cycle marine battery, which is like 15"
long and heavier than Hades, will not make it to
Sunday noon if I switch the reefer to 12v feed on
Friday night for a weekend camping trip.  Thats a lot
of juice.  I have resolved to get the propane feed
going for the reefer and never ever plan on using the
12v feed unless I am in-transit, and actually driving
the vehicle.  My 78 has the big what, 60, 70 amp
alternator?  Its a Bosch AL108X with a matching
external regulator.  Whatever amp rating the AL108X
is.  Too lazy to look it up.
    
The paragraph above is to suggest to you to be careful
if you plan on running the Westy refridge on 12 volts.
 If the Westy Reefer is a "Ammonia cycle" or an
"Absorption-type" refrigerator, then it is going to
suck amps.  At such a high rate of electrical
consumption, you would never, ever want to connect
that refridge to the main battery.  One day of reefer
operation and you would likely not be able to start
your engine.
    
Is the westy reefer 3-way?  As in Propane, 120v, and
12V like the Dometic?  I'm not bragging about my
Dometic, I just don't know about the Westy fridge.  I
do know that I have been rudely surprised more than
once by my Dometic power consumption.  Oh, and at
10-amps for the outside wall 120v plug & circuit
breaker....I can't run the refridge and almost any
kitchen appliance at the same time.  Pops the breaker.
 So the Dometic sucks amps on 120v too.
   
No clue on the water pump elec connection to fuse box.
    
Clifford Rhoton
Portland, Oregon
     
--- Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:

> ps: the 79 interior install is going well. The
> kitchen unit, the
> closet and the fridge are secured. The interior
> panels on the LH-side
>
> BTW, on the electrical theres this thick green wire
> coming out of the
> metal box that has a big connector on it. I dont
> have the schematic
> for the wiring, so can anyone tell me: does that
> wire go to ground?
> Anyone know why they routed the water pump to the
> fuesbox in the front
> of the bus unstead of into the alternate battery? I
> thought that was
> odd, unless the fridge sucks all the amps available.
