Date: Sat, 29 Jun 2002 10:01:18 -0600
From: dgrauer <dgrauer(-at-)sasktel.net>
To: westydriver <westydriver(-at-)mac.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Cantrell's tome on aux battery and relay

Exactly I agree. And I never use the stock 15 AMP
relay, just take the two lugs off and bolt the wires
together.  

My personal opinion provides this analogy:
I jack my van up lots, but am not interested in welding
a jack permanently to the frame to do it. IMHO that
would be overkill.  

The same applies here, the battery will go dead, but
there are fast easy safe methods to get going.

Logan


jimt wrote:
Wire gauge size as referred to has nothing to do with
the charging level 
from the alternator (unless you have two dead
batteries)  The charged 
battery will act as a buffer.  Wiring patterns for dual
battery setups 
is determined by the use of the dual batteries.  In
circuits where 
"jumping" is one of the features then 2 or 4 gauge wire
is listed.  This 
type is common in off roading vehicles.   Anther use of
the heavy wiring 
is if the batteries are dualed to provide high current
for things like 
winches.   If jumping is not one of the features then
10 guage (which is 
30~40 amp rated in auto, add two and you get 60~80, the
wiring usually 
found on bosch alternators)   If you use the technique
of trickle 
charging from another battery (battery balancing)
usually nothing more 
than 12 gauge is needed unless one battery is stone
dead.  In normal 
vehicle "non-jumping" setups the load is divided.  i.e.
normal run of 
vehicle from one battery, and coolers, tunes, etc
drawing from the 
other.  This means that the actual current passing from
battery to 
battery is usually no more than balancing current. 
This means 10 gauge 
is adequate.  in this setup you could  use the 15 amp
relay but i would 
use a 30 amp just to increase reliability (not current
capability)  In 
VW documentation if find nothing showing that VW ever
intended that the 
aux be used to jump the start batt.  Which can be done
in the newer 
winnebago variations of the VW.
jimt
