Date: Sat, 29 Jun 2002 13:10:13 -0700
From: Glenn <gbonnet(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: Colleen & David <krussells(-at-)earthlink.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] wimpy tires

I was in the same boat as you and didn't really pay attention to what tires
were on the bus when i got it. The tread seemed ok so i thought all was
cool. I went on two  major road trips with the passenger tires on the
bus(1500mile trips). I was always being blown all over the road but i just
thought that this was normal do to the shape of a breadloaf.
After reading all the posts regarding tires i had a closer look at my tires
and sure enough they are not c rated. Upon closer inspection i found the
rear right tire although the tread fine around the whole tire one spot right
in the centre the size of a baseball is split right open. I am so lucky that
i did not have a blow out on one of my trips. Litterally you can see the
four plys or rubber and metal. I just got c rated tires and my bus stays on
the road now. It is a pleasure to drive. The main difference between them is
the sidwall rating. Because of the non aerodynamic shape of the bus the
sidewalls are under alot more stress than the average passenger car. my
2cents- It is worth the money to change the tires especially if you are
doing any road trips. Staying in the city and broke? You could cheap out on
the tires and hope that when you have a blow out it will be in a safe place.
Better to get the proper tires :)
best wishes,
Glenn Bonnet
1956 Bus
1977 Bus with westy interior
1971 Super Beetle
www.geocities.com/vwvan1977

-----Original Message-----
From: Colleen & David [mailto:krussells(-at-)earthlink.net]
Sent: Saturday, June 29, 2002 8:43 AM
To: t2
Subject: [T2] wimpy tires


First I've got to give a collective "thanks" to everyone on this list.  I
have had aircooled vdubs for 15 years now, and since subscribing to the
list, my 1970 is running better than ever. DETAILS!

 My present concern is the tires currently running. The T2 library and
current tire threads are suggesting D rated tires.  I really had no idea
what I was running until this morning.

Goodyear Decathalon on the front: 195/75R14
                                                   max. load - 1400lbs.
                                                   max. pressure 35 psi
                                                   1 ply sidewall
  Kelly Explorer (Exploder?) on the rear: same specs as above.

Is this dangerous? All four have plenty of tread. Should I replace all of
them, or maybe just the rear and run my tires on the front?

Thanks, Dave



