Date: Sat, 29 Jun 2002 18:49:01 -0400
To: Jason Porta <retarrdo(-at-)mac.com>
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <Doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE:PAINTING?????? WELDING?? GAHHH  

Date: Sat, 29 Jun 2002 13:28:53 -0400
T
 >ok people, i just had an amazing revelation. (ready for this?) since i
 >stripped my whole entire bus, i'm thinking of (gasp!) painting it
 >myself! inside AND out. but before that of course i need new doors and
 >windows, but...basically, i need to know HOW do i paint a bus?


...............First, I'd get it back to the original condition 
mechanically. This may take a year or two and thousands of dollars.   But 
back to your question: Globally speaking, you start by LOCATING all the 
rust and all the damaged metal. Then you REMOVE each of those defects, and 
REPLACE the material. When you have the surface back to where it was 
originally, (BIG jump here) you protect the bare metal with something that 
seals it from the air and from moisture. I use phosphoric acid and dry it 
with a hair dryer. I have also used the POR-15 system.
                               Try http://www.por-15.com/

If I am using the acid treatment, I follow with fast setting  catalyzed 
polyester resin or epoxy to finish up getting the surface into the 
configuration I need. Sometimes I use galvanized sheet metal and I  form it 
over an anvil and rivet it in place, and then bring in the epoxy or the 
polyester resin.   Which material I select depends on the location of the 
defect. I build up the surface until it is a little beyond the original 
configuration.

Then I sand the surface until my finger tips can't detect any 
irregularities. I  sand down high spots and build up low spots, usually 
with a glazing putty, sometimes called spot putty.  For bigger patches, I 
may use epoxy or polyester resin.

Nearv the end. I sand the glazing putty spots until they blend smoothly at 
all the edges with surrounding surfaces.  After which, I spray the repaired 
areas with sandable automotive primer. Then I inspect the result, using my 
finger tips and my eyes, and light from various angles, to show shadows 
that represent irregularities. There always are some, and I either sand 
them down or fill them up, again using spot putty. I repeat this until I am 
satisfied or go crazy and run away for a day or two.

The polyester resin and sandable primer aren't waterproof, so I do this all 
inside, out of the weather. When I finally get the surface I want, I seal 
it with primer-sealer, from a spray can. The sealed surface is good for 
spanning the gap in time until I can apply the finish coat, which is 
usually an automotive enamel.

Some people get the finish coat mixed and packaged in spray cans, by an 
automotive paint dealer. About $12-15 per can, and you may need a dozen or 
so cans. But it allows you to do it yourself. Others find and hire a cheap 
commercial auto painter like Maaco, and have them mask the surfaces and 
apply the color coat for about $300, on sale. They are good at what they 
do, which is spray cars. I wouldn't depend on them very much to get the 
surface ready.

That is the big job...getting the surface ready. The expensive and 
time-consuming part is getting rid of the rust and dings, and getting a 
smooth paintable surface  without any ripples or defects. This takes me 
MONTHS at best in the summer time, and I have even worked YEARS on some 
vehicles, giving it an hour or two a day, to bring them back to the 
original condition before painting.

There are lots of FAQS on rust repair and painting, and you should read 
them, along with a few books from the library on automotive refinishing. 
I'll email you a FAQ or two, from my files.

Good luck. For me, it has evolved into an enjoyable lifelong hobby. Sorry 
about wasting all this bandwidth but it is a topic that I enjoy 
considerably, and it is very pertinent to keeping buses alive.

Doyt Echelberger   76 Westy    Ohio   USA


 >what sort
 >of paint (not color) how many coats, how long does it take, do i take
 >the body panels off?

..............mostly no.  A few lend themselves to this, so yes, sometimes. 
Look for screws that hold the panels in place. IF they come off easily, do 
it that way.

 >what if i find rust when i sand the existing paint
 >off?

................That is seldom a problem for me. Mostly the rust has 
bubbled the paint already, and this helps in the location of trouble spots. 
And I wouldn't sand off any paint that was original and not covering 
bubbled rust. I just leave it alone. I use a small sharp chisel and a 
Dremel tool to take off the bubbled paint and to dig out the rusted metal, 
until I encounter shiny metal. I work from both sides of the rusted spot, 
inside and outside.

I use a heavier grinder to get the pitting rust out, if there is any, and 
then I coat the shiny metal with phosphoric acid (see above) and continue 
to restore the surface as described earlier in this message. I frequently 
use epoxy to fill larger defects. I like the kind that comes in a roll from 
Ace Hardware, and you roll it between your fingers to mix the components. 
It is already mixed in proper proportions in that form, and that is 
critical in using epoxy. I like epoxy because it is waterproof. Sometimes I 
mix my own epoxy, from the two-part liquid kits that are available, but the 
proportions are CRITICAL and the mixing should be twice as much as you 
think adequate, and still it doesn't set up right sometimes. I get along 
better with the premixed stuff.

 >once i sand the paint off, should i paint it right away with primer
 >so it doesn't rust? or should i just save the money and bring it to a
 >professional.

....................The pro that you could probably find and afford will 
probably do it fast and dirty if at all, at considerable cost, but it will 
look good for a year or two. I guess I am skeptical.....You tend to get 
what you pay for in auto reconditioning.  A good job that will last for 
more than 3 years will probably cost  more than the bus...4 or 5 thousand 
dollars. If you want to spend that kind of money, go with the reputation of 
the shop, based on what other bus customers have experienced.  Find someone 
who has worked on buses. Anyhow, most auto body shops won't even talk to 
you about rehabilitating a rusty old bus.  They want to specialize in 
repairing two or three year old wrecks for insurance companies. They HATE 
to work on rusty old cars.

Because of the above, I have found that it was necessary for me to develop 
the skills and techniques that were required to rehabilitate my bus. I was 
there when it was delivered in 1977, and I have had all those years to 
practice taking care of it and keeping it in good shape. It came to me 
built like a little green Rolls Royce, and I have marveled at the original 
workmanship and paint ever since. I hope your learning curve is sharper 
than mine, which covers  nearly a quarter of a century.

Good luck, Jason. Hope you are a patient person who like to invent ways to 
fix things.

Doyt Echelberger   76 Westy   Ohio   USA


