Date: Mon, 2 Feb 2004 12:37:34 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Loctite Use was Re: [T2] Crank Fan, and flaps? + GEX?

Esteemed Librarian, and List, et al:

Your points are well taken with regard to the use of heat and light
tapping on the impeller hub on a fully assembled rig.  Taken within the
context of my statement about using the GOOD 3-jaw puller to pull the
Type4 gear stack off the crank, as well as the hub itself, I don't think
anyone needs to be worrying terribly much about the light hammer taps or
use of mild heat on the impeller hub to help break the fit on the crank
snout...  If it's torn down that far, the least of your worries is about
whether mild heat is going to wreak havoc on the seal ;-)

Which was kinda/sorta my whole point about keeping the red loctite out
of the equation in favor of the blue loctite.  Absolutely no heroic
measures needed to break the blue's grip, and by the time you have
played enough heat down into that area to defeat the death grip of red,
you probably HAVE toasted the seal.  OTOH if you were simply removing
the hub to replace the seal to begin with then no harm / no foul, but if
you weren't and you over-killed with red loctite, you are now in seal
replacement mode...  Don't be an over-killer in the first place, and the
grief you avert may be your own :-)

With the engine still intact, the GOOD harmonic balancer puller is going
to be the tool to use, as the genuine VW C-thing tool is not going to be
hanging on the rack at the local parts emporium.  I think I picked up my
Lisle balancer puller at a really big Pep Boys, right after they
finished stocking the shelves, and before the customers made a mess of
things.  The lovely Harbor Fright  puller chewed out it's threads the
the first or second time I used it - bah-humbug!  Bentley shows us a ton
of Kewl Tewls to use from those kewl old factory photos; those of you
with the fully equipped shop fabricate away if you must, but the idea of
possibly not generating enough force to pop it loose before the case may
take in the n*ts, makes me tilt strongly in favor of a GOOD puller-type
device.  If maximum utility is desired for the money spent (my 3-jaw set
me back about $50-60), the GOOD 3-jaw puller can do other tasks as
well...  Type 1 crank gear stack pullers are a dime-a-dozen - when was
the last time you popped down to your local well stocked VW FLAPS and
saw one for removing the Type 4 crank gears?  Well?  I double dog-dare
you...

When all is said and done, I'm glad to see that Bob has reported that
things are going back together.  I think it may be time for me to go out
and register a new domain name tho' - our point was made at
www.savethebays.org for recognizing the worth of the Bay Window bus; now
it's time to do something for the maligned Woodruff keys of the world,
and the auto parts store clerks who would hate them...  What do you all
think?  Does www.whatsaWoodruffkeydo.com sound about right here...

Jim Hayden
www.savethebays.org
