Date: Mon, 2 Feb 2004 12:43:07 -0600 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <type2-list(-at-)phorce1.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] DIPSTICK GASKET LEAK

I replaced one on my '74 with unknown/abused engine. It's an "eyes closed"
replacement. Don't try to do it when it's cold out either. Wear latex
gloves, the old bellows is most likely soft and gooey, you'll never that
stuff off of your hands.

Lie on your back with your shoulder right under where the dipstick goes
through. I can't recall if I had to do it right or left handed. Close your
eyes and just reach up in there and feel along the tube. Let your fingers
do the "seeing".

Squeeze the old tube a bit so you can find the gap between the two metal
lines. Slide the old tube back and forth on the lines a bit to loosen any
grip it might have. Feel to see which metal line is "longer" then slide the
old tube onto that line and compress it so the "gap" between the lines is
open.

Then just slowly slide the old tube back down and "tilt" it out through the
gap so it comes off. NOTE WHICH WAY IT WAS INSTALLED. The bellows tube is
not symmetrical, one end is "longer" than the other. You want to put the
new one on the same way.

Now grab some paper towels and reach up in there and wipe everything down.
The leftover rubbe bits from the deteriorate old tube will get sticky after
exposure to the air. 

Get some K-Y Jelly and lube the INSIDE of the new tube. DON'T lube the
metal tubes at this point. They'll just make everything else slippery and
pi** you off (ask me how I know).

Start the new tube onto the "long" metal line that you just took the old
one off of. Rotate it a bit to make it slip on easier. It's a slow process
and the new tube needs to be fairly soft (which is why I said don't do it
in the cold). When it's all the way on you can lube the other metal line a
bit and slide it on so it covers the gap.

Just remember. KEEP YOUR EYES CLOSED during the whole process. 
If your eyes are open the natural instinct is to try to look and see what
your hands are doing. You CAN'T. And it makes the job a whole lot harder
when you try.

It might be easier if you can get the back of the bus up on ramps too so
you'll have a bit more room to keep your arm straight.

G

On Mon, 2 Feb 2004 05:59:55 -0800 (Pacific Standard Time) 
Darren Smisko said something about [T2] DIPSTICK GASKET LEAK:

> Hello,
> just wondering if anyone has repaced this, and if there is another
> method to fix this leak other than the bellow and if you need to remove
> the tin and alternator belt.
... 
> If you are agile you can replace it with the shroud on the bus. Remove
> the dipstick, remove the old bellows, insert the new bellows, and replace
> the dipstick. 

-- 
Gerald V. Livingston II

Configure your Email to send TEXT ONLY -- See the following page:
http://expita.com/nomime.html

'74 Kombi (to be renamed - LifeSaver doesn't 'feel' right)
'69 Type 1 - AirBall the Rolling Basket Case
http://www.phorce1.com
http://www.buskatiers.org
