Date: Tue, 03 Feb 2004 21:09:52 -0800 (Pacific Standard Time)
From: Courtney Hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: awisniewski(-at-)comcast.net, type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] starter motor troubles

Check all the battery cable connections all along the way to the starter,
grounds, grounds between trans and engine etc etc, I would be willing to bet
it's not getting enough voltage to crank properly. Corrosion can do this at
the starter connections.
HTH,
Courtney

 
-------Original Message-------
 
From: Alex W
Date: 02/03/04 09:06:54 PM
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] starter motor troubles
 
I'm having a bit of trouble with the starter motor on my bus.  The
trouble started last week
when I heard an usual noise coming from the starter.  So this morning I
hop in and crank the
engine and all I'd get was a sound that sound like a machine gun...??
Sorry that's the best
way I can describe it.  The noise is very loud and the starter sounds to
be turning over quite
quick.  I know what you thinking, its the battery.  Well i've been
keeping an eye on the voltage
and I checked it again to see what I'd read.  The meter shows 12.62
volts at the battery
(38F outside temp). So to put the battery out of the equation I get a
jump start to see if that
would help. Nada, same exact noise, and the bus didn't start. Now I had
someone verify the
engine is turning over, but I"m uncertain of the speed or fluidnish of
the cranking as I didn't
witness it.
 
Now I thought maybe the starter gear was hung up on the flywheel, etc.
So I put the bus in
gear and rolled it forward a foot or so, thinking that might unjam the
teeth if that was cause.
No positive effect from that what so ever. Here is what I find strange.
If I'd  leave the bus in
gear and crank it over the bus jumps forward as expected. Now my idea
was the starter
pinion was not engaging the flywheel at all or very well. So how could
the bus be propelled
forward if that was the case?  You know the engine won't start but the
starter can move the
bus.  OK, fast forward to tonight. I get the bus started let it run for
a bit 5 minutes at high idle
then pull it into a heated garage. Thinking its not going to start again
I turn the key and it starts
but barely all along making the tat tat tat noise while turning the key.
 
Other info. The starter looks to have the an old rebuilt sticker on it.
The starting bushing in the transmission housing has not been replaced.
The bus is equipped with the Bosch hot start relay.
I have a spare used starter I can try.
 
Any ideas?

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of IMSTP.gif]
