Date: Wed, 4 Feb 2004 12:40:28 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re:  Loctite

List, et al...

Yesterday, Librarian said:

"...It isn't that simple!  Loctite makes 50+ threadlocker products and
the color of the fluid and its properties are related only in so far as
strength are concerned.  Removability is a completely separate
specification as is wicking ability, compatibility with materials, and
temperature and solvent resistance..."

Curiosity piqued, I went to the Loctite and Permatex webpages (you-all
can figure them out)...  Mind you I'm going to quote from the products
that are listed on the webpages, the ones that I have a tendency to see
when shopping for such products "at the FLAPS"...  Perhaps the reason
that I personally tend to refer to them by color, is that either company
makes threadlocker products, so if one was to specify a brand name, i.e.
Loctite 242 Blue Threadlocker Medium Strength, and all that was hanging
on the rack at the FLAPS was Permatex Medium Strength Threadlocker BLUE,
what choice would you have to make?  I can see it now; poor newbie goes
to the FLAPS and says:  "But he SAID Loctite 242 Blue Threadlocker
Medium Strength, and all they have is Permatex Medium Strength
Threadlocker BLUE!  OMG - I'm SO confused by all of this...  I'll just
get the red stuff!"  Both companies market an oil resistant (Loctite
brand) or surface insensitive (Permatex brand) product - both found
under the aegis of the Blue Department.  So far so good.

It gets uglier in the Red Department.  Loctite markets 3 "red" products
(262, 271, & 272) - each of them with somewhat and slightly different
properties, but all of them requiring HEAT to separate the parts.
Likewise, Permatex markets not 3, but FOUR separate "red" products (high
strength, high temperature, large diameter, and permanent strength), and
as you have no doubt by now guessed, each also requires HEAT to separate
the parts.

I'll admit error in describing the "green" products.  Loctite makes 2
distinct products in green - one is number 290 Threadlocker Wicking
Grade, used for post-assembly "lock-downs" (and don't ya know - it takes
heat to kill it), the other found under "bearing mounts", aka Sleeve
Retainer 640 High Strength - no mention of heat required for
disassembly, but it does say it's good to 400F.  Permatex also makes
it's version of Loctite 290 - Permatex Penetrating Grade Threadlocker
GREEN.  I'll be checking very carefully next time I purchase either :-)
In any event, I'd still be using "green" because if I could weld it
together, I would - but I can't, so it's getting nailed with "green"...

Permatex turns around and stirs the pot with it's very own Permatex Low
Strength Threadlocker PURPLE...  Each company also markets a mess of
other fine products; see for yourselves at their respective webpages.  I
seem to recall reading somewhere that both companies are somehow
attached at the hip nowadays, but in days of yore, that was not the
case.  Librarian further stated:  "...If you choose the wrong product
then you are due for a choice slice of hell when it loosens in use or
when it comes time to remove the fastener..."

I couldn't agree more with you there, amigo, especially with the latter
part!  So, for the executive summary - if it needs to stay put, but you
need to disassemble it quickly and easily without heroics, either next
week or next year, use "blue" products.  If it really, really, really
needs to stay put and is NOT something that would "normally" require a
tear-down (manifold studs, or cam gear bolts come into mind) for
"normal" servicing, go for the "red".  But please do thimkle before you
drinkle, m'kay?  Even if it's a high torque deal (like a Type 1 gland
nut), do you REALLY want to have to go waving a propane torch at it to
get it loose?  What interests me most is that both companies market
products for cleaning the substrate prior to use; but I don't ever
recall seeing either one on the gondola at the garden variety FLAPS, but
that would make perfect sense...  At least the local hardware stores
still sell MEK.  But any more of these Super Bowl half-time shenanigans,
and the Cali legislature will probably ban it's sale too; as they need
to justify their paychecks.  Just keep yer nuts (and bolts) clean,
threadlocker product appropriate to the application, let it set up for
24 hours (per spec sheets for both companies), and we're ALL happy
campers!

I'm so done with this!

Jim Hayden
www.savethebays.org
