Date: Wed, 4 Feb 2004 14:37:18 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "Richard Atwell" <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] Re:  Loctite

Richard:

I don't "really" think a Loctite/Permatex product cross-reference
requires all that much intellectual brain-power.  I think perhaps back
in the day when Permatex primarily made sealing/gasketing products, and
Loctite made threadlockers, it might/mightn't have made sense, but it's
like do I use a "kleenex" or do I use a "disposable facial tissue".  Do
I buy a Pontiac "Firebird" or do I buy a Chevy "Camaro"?  Should I use
"6" of one, or "half-dozen" of another?  'Cause I'm gonna be damned if I
"do", or damned if I "don't"...  See what I mean ;-)

When one hops/pops/shoots/loots down to the average garden variety
FLAPS, the products hanging on the gondola are either Loctite or
Permatex "red" or "blue", and maybe one of the "greens" if it's a day of
the week that ends in a "y"; given the choice of spending more time
rounding up one of the more obscure threadlocker products or finishing
the job so's you can get to work on Monday, well...  More power to you
if you're so lucky to live in a area that has a GOOD well stocked
auto-parts store with knowledgable employees - which unfortunately
leaves out most of us urban dwellers.  What I'm trying to do here is
encourage volks to thimk about the degree of permanency and the
methodology of removal.  THAT should be the driving decision whether to
use "blue" or "red", and not some blanket rules of engagement or
quibbling over whether to use Permatex Large Diameter Threadlocker RED
instead of Loctite 272 Threadlocker High Temp / High Strength.  Like you
said, there's almost too much information there; and combine that with
limited shelf space at the FLAPS...  What precipitated this whole thing
was Mark Dearing advocating the use of "red" on the impeller hub bolt to
keep it from coming loose - ouch!  I maintain that it's WRONG on so many
levels, in that the consequences of removing a "red" threadlocked nut or
bolt may cause greater harm than if it was properly torqued and "blue"
threadlocked from the get-go.  Using "105mm howitzer grade" threadlock
product when ".22-caliber grade" will do just fine is not helping
matters down the road...

One still needs to plan ahead, and use the ol' cabeza.  Some
counter-intuitive applications might be a low-torque bolt or stud (cam
gear bolts, manifold studs, a shock absorber stud on the trailing arm)
that I absatively, posolutely do NOT want those em-effers coming loose
in service.  OTOH - I certainly don't want my points replacement
conversion jobbie coming loose from the breaker plate, but is "red" the
order of the day?  An anti-counter-intuitive application might be that
high torque gland nut that I'm eventually going to need to pop loose to
replace the flywheel seal, but having to wave the propane torch at it
might melt the plastic cage in the roller bearing afore it "kills" the
red, melt the flywheel O-ring, blah-blah-blah.

It's the state of mind that one has before applying the product - I'm
bee-yotching and clacking about this because I've had to spend way more
of my life fixing *#&%&$!(-at-)# PO "over-kill" quickendirty "fixes" on some
of my buses than what I ever had time for in the first place.  Admin -
See! THERE'S the bus content; please don't moderate me, I beg of you...
And some of those "fixes" have involved the ill-conceived applications
of "red" threadlocker products...

-jph

-----Original Message-----
From: Richard Atwell [mailto:ratwell(-at-)mac.com]
Sent: Wednesday, February 04, 2004 11:15 AM
To: Hayden,James P.
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Loctite



On Wednesday, February 04, 2004, at 10:40AM, Hayden,James P.
<James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com> wrote:

>Loctite 242 Blue Threadlocker Medium Strength, and all that was hanging

>on the rack at the FLAPS was Permatex Medium Strength Threadlocker
>BLUE, what choice would you have to make?  I can see it now; poor
>newbie goes to the FLAPS and says:  "But he SAID Loctite 242 Blue
>Threadlocker Medium Strength, and all they have is Permatex Medium
>Strength Threadlocker BLUE!  OMG - I'm SO confused by all of this...

Someone must have a webapage that maps the Permatex formulas to the
loctite numbers.

I've surfed the loctite technical pages and there's almost too much
information there and it's not consistent from product to product when
doing comparisons.

What's most effective is to phone their support line and say, "I've got
a gladnut that needs to be torqued to 270ft lbs. Which threadlocker
should I use", and they'll give you an answer from their knowledge
database after you answer the follow questions wrt permanency, fluid
resistance, etc.

--
Richard, 1978 Westfalia CDN
http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell
Cupertino, CA
