From: dan(-at-)geer.org
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 12 Jan 2012 07:36:50 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Help in Livermore. -clutchless driving 

A month ago, under this thread, we had a short discussion
of the beauties of a manual transmission.


http://digg.com/newsbar/Technology/the_sad_death_of_the_knob_switch_and_button

The Sad Death Of The Knob, Switch And Button

I want to start by coming out and saying I'm not one of those car
luddites who think everything should hover in some magical past;
while I'm very fond of old-school cars, there's an amazing amount
of amazing new tech in cars, and LCD dashboards in so many new cars
here at the Detroit Auto Show are a genuinely great advance. Except
for one big issue: Knobs, switches and buttons? They're now officially
doomed.  Knobs are still around, albeit in reduced numbers, but
it's very clear they're considered vestigial holdouts and it's just
a matter of time before they're done away with completely. Looking
at forward-thinking cars like the Tesla Model S demonstrates this,
as its dash is basically just two big iPads, one in landscape
orientation and the other in portrait.

A booth from Denso, a major supplier of auto parts and electronics,
shows a prototype cockpit of the future  and it's all touch screens.
Touch screens are great on our phones and tablets; so why wouldn't
they be great in a car, right?

The problem has to do more with the "screen" part than the "touch"
part, though both are factors. On your phone, you're looking at the
screen, interacting with it very directly; the visual feedback is
essential for operating the interface.

Full size When you're driving, ideally you're looking mostly out
of the big window in front of you, and you operate most of the
ancillary controls with no more than a quick glance. Touch screens
don't work like that; little buttons on smooth glass surfaces have
to be targeted with a pair of eyes.

All you need to do to prove the point is to look up.

Have you ever peeked in the cockpit of an airplane and seen the
levers in between the seats? Those levers have funny-shaped knobs:
Spool-shaped, crown-shaped, star-shaped  it's the marshmallows from
a Lucky Charms box. There is, of course, a great reason why they're
like that: so pilots can know what lever is what just by touch.

Full size That's exactly what is being given up when controls move
to the touch screen. Tactile feedback and the ability to feel what
a control is has long been part of driving.

Traditionally, we can feel and know what's a radio knob, what a
climate control lever feels like, how the notches feel as we move
them from one setting to another, and it's worked great. Even without
any interior lights or dash lights I bet most of us could find and
use the essential controls on our cars.

Touch screens are awesome for many, many things. They look great,
they can show an incredible amount of information, but they should
never be the only components on a dash.

Oh, but that's not the only problem. Some cars, like the Chevy Volt,
the Cadillac ATS and everything from Lincoln are replacing standard
buttons with sleek capacitive touch plates with big clusters of
identically-shaped buttons. Capacitive technology refers to using
electrodes to sense the conductive properties of objects, such as
a finger. So, basically, rather than physically depressing a button
you've fumbled for while your eyes remained on the road, you'll
turn on and off four different things before finally looking down
to find what function you want to change. Then you crash and die.

So those suck in about the same way touch screens do, and they look
like they came off a VCR. So knock that off, too.

Automakers, I'm pleading with you, spare the life of just a few
knobs, just some essential ones, even if they have redundant
touch-screen controls. Leave me some knobs in the cars of the future.
Nice, chunky, clicky knobs, and maybe a lever, switch and button
or two.

I'll even let you make them look cool and LED-lit or whatever you
want.
