Date: Thu, 12 Jan 2012 11:27:33 -0600
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Help in Livermore. -clutchless driving

I drove the Chevy Volt on a rainy day and what I noticed most were the 
multiple LCD displays. Admittedly I was only in the car for half an hour 
but they were a distraction. And like Dan said - you have to look at the 
screen to know where to touch them.

As much as I like gadgets and technology (I do IT support at work among 
other things) - I just don't need that much complexity in my car. I have 
a portable GPS that goes with us on trips and we have a nice sounding 
stereo. The rest of my car is manual or analog. Manual transmission, a/c 
controls, power windows, power locks though.

I have an aftermarket Kenwood that sounds very good (no external amp or 
big speakers) but in order to give it a big display they left off a few 
buttons so I have to go through menus to adjust the fader and then it 
doesn't automatically return to the music display, it stays in the menu 
until I press the "return" button 4-5 times. Ugh! It requires conscious 
thought to operate anything but the most basic functions. The previous 
factory stereo was dead simple though it didn't sound as good or support 
aux-in or iPod input. There were knobs for fader/balance and 
bass/treble. We adjust the fader so the kids can sleep on roadtrips or 
to not deafen the dog.

I want the technology that is there to automate things a little o 
focurse. Like the wiper intervals. Or the turn signal flashes. Or the 
express down or up on the windows. Or the locking of doors when I get 
out (not every-time I pass 15 mph though).

I love my music but find that satellite radio and iPods (and their 
generic cousins) to require too much fiddling if I don't get it all 
going before the vehicle starts moving. Voice control would be nice.

That's one of the things I like about our old buses. A few analog 
gauges, levers and your brain at work.

I love the Leaf, Volt and all the Teslas (especially the 'S') and aspire 
to own one but I don't like all the displays. I'd like to be able to 
turn them all off.

Give me an analog or basic digital readout for miles left on a charge 
and perhaps three LEDs that represent consuming battery charge, regen 
and a balance between the two. Let me fold the GPS screen down into the 
dash. Keep the buttons on the radio. Maybe give me 12 preset buttons 
instead of just six.

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westfalia
'65 VW Beetle
'97 VW Cabrio
'99 CR-V AWD EX
Brenderup 1205S
