Date: Fri, 13 Jan 2012 12:05:20 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>, type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Friday: Nader's blunder

Robert,
 
I've owned a couple, both a swing axle coupe and an IRS
convertible.  The swing axle was tricky.  No doubt about it.  Maybe not to the
extent that Nader villified, but it was tricky.  And Americans weren't used to
driving at the limit of anything at the time.  It had all the negative
attributes of a swing axle Porsche, and then some because of the heavier 6
cylinder.  Basically as if they had say kept a swing axle in a 911 with the
greater weight of the flat 6.  And recall that even with IRS Porsche had real
trouble with even European let alone American drivers with the first 911's,
retrofitting cast weights behind the front bumpers.  All to be repeated when
the 930 hit public consumption.
 
Now GM did fix it, pretty much in my mind in
total, the IRS cars are wonderful.  A buddy even has a turbo that he drove for
years in the winter in Erie PA with never a problem (save for fumes from the
stale air heating system.)  My '65 IRS convertible was great, just with the
110hp normally aspirated engine, even with a 2 speed Powerglide.  And really
except for that damn stale air heat (which had plenty of heat, but also fumes
from everpresent rocker cover leaks) more refined than any '65 VW offering I'd
profer.
 
As to being a ripoff, no doubt, I had a 15 page or so GM propaganda
developmental brochure, from the early cars and there was no doubt exactly
where they got their idea and where their targets were set.  Their benchmark
comparisons in the brochure were to "contemporary aircooled horizontally
opposed engines."   And I don't think they meant Porsche...  Particularly with
the Greenbrier (van an trucks) they were trying to gain market.  Dad was
working for AT&T there in the early 60's, driving VWs personally, and AT&T was
using VWs (perhaps even barndoors?) for their technicians, switched briefly to
the Greenbriers to support the good ole red white and blue, then actually
switched back because of reliability and driving issues with the early ones. 
But in American mind, the early ones, or even all of them weren't as refined
as good ole "regular" fullsize American iron and frankly pre first OPEC
embargo, no one in the US really cared that much.  I
 read once GM just didn't make nearly as much money off of the "compact"
Corvair, coupled with Nader, just wasn't worth it.
 
You are probably right on
the engines specific output until the Buick (Rover) V8 came along, and they
persisted even a shorter time with that experiment, only to have it go as one
of the longest production engines ever probably.
 
John


----- Original
Message -----
From: Robert Mann robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz
 
    I know little more than
this about the demise of the Corvair. (I know more about Nader's sister, a
Professor of Anthropology at Berkeley.)  But what little I know of the Corvair
itself is largely favourable, and leads me to the tentative inference that GM
was unjustly obstructed by R Nader from a promising line of development.
   
The power-to-weight ratio of that motor must have been one of the very best
from Detroit up until then (and for quite some time afterwards, I'd guess). 
Surely the handling problems were tractable -  if Porsche can subdue the
oversteer of their far more powerful rear-engined cars, could it be beyond the
wit of Detroit to develop satisfactory handling in their rear-engined
vehicles?
    And the 'flat' conformation of the engine was a big help in
making a van with max unobstructed load space  ...  The Yanks even had the
sense to make the fan lower than mine 8-)

    Have any rtd GM staff said what
influence VW's success had on GM's urge to make an aircooled flat-6?
