Date: Sat, 14 Jan 2012 09:27:50 +1300
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] More Spark Plug Tightening Info

John who went North to Alaska wrote:
>
>Pretty much all plug manufacturers do spec usually somewhere between 
>1/4 (more commonly in my
>experience) - 2/3 turn past contact for metal gasket, 1/16 turn past contact
>for tapered seat in their instructions.  Some go so far as to mention you can
>use the 1/16 past contact when re-installing a crushed metal gasket plug.
>I've known pros who have done it according to something like that for years.

	But those are crude attempts to substitute simple geometry for torque.


>  The 1/16 turn for tapered seat gives one an insight into how fast 
>torque and clamping pressure build.

	My sentiments exactly  -  and it is an attempt doomed to 
large uncertainty.
	How much 'spring' is left in the washer, if any, strongly 
affects these here graphs.  Given clean, lubricated threads, the 
fraction of  1 turn to build torque to a stipulated value will vary a 
lot and is therefore an inferior measure on which to base your 
spark-plug tightening.



John opines moreover that trouble arises mostly from

>  aggresious overtightening

	That has been the simple factoid in my mind lo, this past 
half-century.  You can distort the plug, changing the gap, if you 
overtighten.  The British spark-plug mfr KLG (long defunct, I think, 
but much used for racing in their day) used to emphasize exactly this 
fact in motorcycle magazines (tho' I think their term may have been 
'egressive', doubtless equivalent to John's mighty coinage :-/   big 
nuggets we're finding :-D ).
	If you under-tighten, for the next hundred mi keep an ear out 
for a 'doink  doink  doink' sound, at about 1/2  engine rpm, after 
the plug has fallen out.


	I continue to 'plug' my simple rules.

Clean threads - plug & head

Clean seat

Serviceable washer

Lubricate   -  anything wrong with a drop off your handy dipstick?

Screw plug in by hand as far as poss.

Final tighten by hand  wrist tight with no large leverage.  (The 
torque may be somewheres in the vicinity of 7 ft-lb, but instruments 
reading reliably in that range are rare, expensive, and hard to ease 
into desired position on a bus engine).


---

	It occurs to me that spark-plug tightening may be a holdout 
for feeling & experience as distinct from geometry or quantitative 
mechE i.e  numbers.  My distant disreputable umpteenth cousin 
solemnly asked in his autobiog "why number holds sway above the flux" 
to which the main response is: it doesn't.
	One way to promulgate competence in spark-plug tightening 
could be if 'old hands' show the young &/or inexperienced how to do 
it 'wrist tight', and then get the learner to tighten it a little bit 
more (with more leverage or more force), to illustrate what is NOT 
needed.


-- 
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600dp Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
