Date: Fri, 13 Jan 2012 15:33:30 -0600
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Friday: Nader's blunder

The Corvair engines I have were built a little more sloppy than the VWs. 
There is some aluminium flashing between the fins, some of the head fins 
are incomplete and I have seen pictures of main bearing saddles that 
didn't line up between the case halves.

Like other periods in GM's history, they were a bit sloppy and cut some 
corners. Just like other periods of GM history they ALMOST got it right 
only to abandon it.

It would have been interesting to see what GM did with the engine longer 
term. How would they have dealt with the air pollution regs of the 70s 
and 80s. How long before they went watercooled, etc.

I definitely prefer the Type IV engine design and quality of castings 
but I do wish it had been a ~100 HP six instead of a 67 HP four cylinder.

One of the big Corvair upgrades is to take Type IV pistons and cylinders 
and graft them to the Corvair in place of the Corvair pistons and 
cylinders.

It takes the Corvair from a 2.7L to a 3.1L and 150HP is not out of the 
question. Folks are also fuel injecting them with late model GM parts, 
Megasquirt and aftermarket fuel injection kits.

The Corvair heads were a real compromise too. The 110 and lower HP 
engines were using a single carb per three cylinders with one carb 
between two of the cylinders and one cylinder way out by itself. That 
just offends my mental need for symmetry all day long... LOL! Anyhow 
there is some power gains to be had with better induction design. I have 
seen three motorcycle carbs per head, the intakes machined off and 
Webers or Weber-0like EFI added, there are four barrel centermount carbs 
running around (with some of the same problems centermount carbs pose 
for the VW engines) and so forth.

Like the engine GM ALMOST got the early models right but deleted a 
limiting device on the rear suspension to prevent wheel tuck in hard 
cornering and a front swaybar I'm told to control some steering issues. 
Instead they used lower front tire pressures to compensate and in the 
Corvairs I have ridden in there seems to be alot of countersteering done 
by the driver to compensate for the heavy tail causing the front tires 
to flex in turns. Little corrections or swaying that I have not seen 
other cars need - except  a bus in crosswinds... ;) Take the average 
know-nothing American consumer/owner who relies on the gas station or a 
mechanic to maintain the car, and all it would take would be the four 
tires to be matched on air pressures (32 psi all around for example) and 
the handling was messed up - dangerously according some people.

My family elders had Corvairs for years and never had any wrecks but 
they also recognized their dangers like we do with our VWs. They did 
know a number of people who had rolled early Corvairs and my Dad had a 
friend who ran a body shop where a Corvair getting it's roof repaired 
after a rollover was not uncommon.

Was the Corvair any more dangerous than the other swingaxle rear engined 
vehicles of the day? I doubt it. I've driven a number of swing-axle 
equipped cars and vans and they all had "character" under the right 
circumstances. A friend nearly rolled my stock Beetle (long story) and I 
rode in a different 70s Beetle with swing-axles that during hard driving 
revealed some rear suspension geometry that caused my buddy and I to 
have a "dual pucker moment". LOL.

These episodes motivated me to switch my mutt '65 to a '69 pan with 
balljoints and IRS towards the end of the period where I was driving it 
near daily.

Chris M
'78 VW Westy 2.7L (Corvair implanted)
'65 VW Beetle Type IV
'97 VW Cabrio
'99 CR-V AWD EX
Brenderup 1205S
ICQ# 5944649
