Date: Sat, 14 Jan 2012 21:07:32 -0600
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: VW had competition.... a bit off topic

Just thought I'd share this with the list. Many of the non-enthusiast 
car people I've met think the VW Transporter and pickup trucks were 
unique. I used to think the same before I moved to Europe for three 
years way back when. To my surprise there were tons of cars and trucks 
we never saw here in the USA. (In retrospect - DUH! LOL!)

I've had conversations as recently as the late 90s who thought VW went 
out of business after the old Beetle was discontinued, thought Renault 
went out of business after their AMC partnership ended, and so on. With 
the 'net it's always interesting to show them that Europe's car industry 
is alive and well and quite modern despite their absence from the US 
market (as if we are the center of the car selling universe).

In fact I'd argue that many of Europe's products are nicer in some cases 
than what is sold here. It's always interesting to show dyed in the wool 
Americans that their beloved GM and Ford make some great small products 
in the rest of the world. Especially when GM was selling the so-so Aveo 
here and the Opels everywhere else. Or where Ford was selling the good 
Focus here and some great Foci in the rest of the world.

Anyhow I bring to your attention the Fiat 850 vans/trucks, Fiat 900T 
vans/trucks, and Fiat 900E vans/trucks. Google Image is the best place 
to see what they looked like.

Here is an ended auction of the truck (no connection to the auction, 
posted only for the pics):

http://cgi.ebay.com/ebaymotors/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&item=220886751735

Van videos:

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ohSsSBWdhtg

I drove the 900T and 900E extensively when I lived in Europe. It was 
about 2/3rds the size of the VW vans and it was amazing how large the VW 
seemed after driving the Fiat. The 900cc engine was still capable of 
hauling six guys around town. It was tippy though. It also had swing 
axles in the rear as I recall. Wished I could find one here n the USA 
that was affordable.

Chris in TN
'78 Westy, '65 Beetle, '97 Cabrio, '99 CR-V, Brenderup...
