Date: Sun, 15 Jan 2012 00:16:26 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Joe Luther <jluther(-at-)alfons-haar.us>, type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] dual carb option

34 ICTs are fine carbs as were "baby" FRD Dellortos.  I have no idea of the
quality of the "EPC" manufactured parts.  I do see real Webers are going $399
from CB Performance, probably a bit cheaper elsewhere, more at $490 from
aircooled.net.  I'd bet you could find a set on samba under $200 (sets going
anywhere from $50-250 used depending on which/any manifold/linkage and
condition) and be into the rebuild kits about the same as the EPC, but could
also of course end up with worn out junk if the throttle shaft bores are shot
(common on FRDs.)  People advertising the real ones (even they seem to be
Spanish though, not Italian I note) state the imitators are junk, but what
does one expect them to say.
 
They work and drive about the same/better as
stock unworn '72-'74 dual carbs with a noted exception.  For the ICTs or
dells, I don't think many (any) had/have chokes.  There was a 34 ICH I think
that did/does but it is uncommon in a VW kit and is manual choke so a pain to
control same particularly dual chokes in a van.  Seems to me there was some
sort of kit in the day with electric chokes but I don't recall what it was. 
This could be an issue or not depending where you are and when you use the
van, though the manifolds are short at least.
 
You can syncronize almost by
ear with a 2' section of hose without your uni-syn but it is nice to have. 
These are a lot easier to sync than stinking SUs (Grrr to my TR4A.)
 
John
----- Original Message -----
From: Joe Luther <jluther(-at-)alfons-haar.us>
To:
type2(-at-)type2.com
 
I have read, and been told, that the single Weber setup can
lead to problems
with running lean because of the long intake runners.  Lean
usually = hot
and on an aircooled hot does not = good.  Dual carbs would seem
to be a
better solution to avoid the lean condition and this seems reasonably
priced.  I'm somewhat used to synchronizing twin carbs from my days with
early
Volvos and SU carbs, I probably still have the kit somewhere.  

Has anyone
used this setup or have any comments on it?  
