Date: Sun, 15 Jan 2012 11:30:03 -0600
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] dual carb option

Oh and FWIW I use dual Dellorto DRLA 36mm carbs on my Type IV in my 
Beetle. I use BAS Ahnendorp linkage on that engine. You could easily 
make your own linkage using helm joints from MSC or McMaster-Carr or 
other industrial catalogs. Joints, stainless steel rods, and taps/dies 
is about all you need. Just a little welding.

These were carbs I took off of a junkyard AlfaRomeo AlfaSud. I had to 
rejet them and change the venturis. This was no small cost even back in 
the 1990s on my narrow budget at the time. I got all the parts back then 
from CB Performance.

We VW enthusiasts tend to default to Weber and Dellorto carbs but you 
can use all sorts of carbs. I have a Hot Rod magazine from the sixties 
where they modified a Corvair with six Italian motorcycle carbs. These 
were slide carbs (instead of the rotating butterfly valve at the bottom 
of the carb, a sliding panel regulates airflow).

One idea I've had bouncing around in my head for some time is using a 
pair of the smallest Beetle Solex carbs on a Type IV. The problem is 
that don't think the Venturis are removable and I haven't done any of 
the math to checking sizing. It should work though.

There is a math formula that matches displacement (bore x stroke) per 
cylinder to determine throat size of the carb and venturi. I may being 
pulling this out of my imagination but I recall there needed to be a 
difference between the throat size and the venturi to create enough 
vacuum to meter the fuel correctly i.e. you couldn't just go without a 
venturi.

FWIW I do prefer one carb throat per cylinder. I also don't like fooling 
with low quality carbs and I've seen a just a few of those. One was a 
replacement Beetle carb that seemed to be an off critter. Don't recall 
the brand but after tuning it/cleaning it/rebuilding forever I replaced 
it with a 20+ year old Solex and all the problems went away.

Chris
