Date: Mon, 16 Jan 2012 10:06:01 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: t2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] dual carb option

On Mon, Jan 16, 2012 at 12:09 AM, Joe Average
<joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net> wrote:

> Long intake runners - isn't it about the fuel falling out of suspension in
 the air? What I don't know is if it is due to bends in the intake or a temp
 change. I know from experience that the long intakes as found on stock
 Beetles will freeze up if the intake preheater (tubes that bolt to the
 exhaust) is clogged up or disabled. I have had the same problem with a
 center mounted Weber on a bus. Both the Beetle and Bus freeze ups were on
 mild days. FWIW none of the car factories did centermounts as far as I know
 without some intake heating. You can preheat the air going to the carb or
 heat the intake. I think heating the intake is preferable with a bit of
 heating the air for cold weather starts.

You are on the right track about your thinking. Yes, the fuel falls
out of suspension in the air. Why? That's where your physics comes in.
Just like rain, air loses its liquid carrying capacity when the
temperature drops. That's why you get icing in cold weather.
Vaporization requires heat. In cold whether, that heat is sucked out
of the air-fuel mixture, returning the fuel to a liquid state. The
wind-chill factor of moving the cold air-fuel mixture can lower the
temperature of the intake manifold to below gasoline's freezing
temperature when it is not quite freezing temperature outside. Either
way, this is a COLD TEMPERATURE issue. That's why VW adds the exhaust
pipe riser to the intake manifold on Beetles - to keep the intake warm
so the fuel remains vaporized. Obviously if the tube is clogged, there
is no exhaust heat delivered to the riser. Now there is a balance here
because there is more potential energy in the expansion of cold air to
add to the push generated by gasoline combustion, so you see the
water-cooled racers add a cold-air intake box so actually COOL the
incoming air - the opposite of what VW air-cooled engineers did to
WARM the incoming air.

So enough theory. What does VW do in the real world to solve your
Weber centermount carb issue? The intake design for fuel-injected VW
buses on our Type 4 style motors is nearly identical to what you have
for your carb - long curved runners with a center plenum. What did VW
provide to prevent icing on these runners when their product is
running around the world in temperature extremes from ice to desert?
Nothing. Except a head temp sensor to adjust the mixture and an EGR
valve to deliver hot exhaust gas to the intake air - just as I
described in the original post. Later models added the oxygen sensors,
but I'm sure VW was thinking about emissions regulations, not cold
running when they did that.

As far as your freeze ups on mild days, this has been my favorite carb
over the years, and I have never experienced any difficulty except
when it is so cold as to have actual ice on the ground. Again, it just
took me a minute or two of warm-up time before I could get going. I do
have electric chokes on my Webers - the analog equivalent of the Bosch
head temp sensor.
