From: Jim Konzelman <jkonzelman(-at-)gsc.edu>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 16 Jan 2012 14:18:54 +0000
Subject: what would you do?

Hi, I must admit to being mostly a lurker on the list for many years.  I la=
ck the technical expertise of most here, so I prefer to listen.  Rather tha= n
make a fool of myself hahaha

OK, I took my 1976 westy into the local shop to have a number of long overdue
issues addressed.
1- too much play in the steering
2- vacuum leak when stepping on the brakes
3-intermittent idle/stalling and poor performance ( carb?)
4-non-functioning taillights and brakelights

The guy had my bus for two months, I would stop in to check on progress, which
seemed little to none usually.  But I was patient.  Yesterday I stopped i= n
and he said all was fixed and she is ready to go!  HURRAY!

Well the bus broke down about 5 miles down the road , I managed to get her =
home.  Here is what is happening.
Wait 5 min, and starts right up
Drive, first gear fine, second gear fine, third gear and Stalls and dies.  =
Wont start up for 5 min, Repeat process.  SO that is how I got home.

ANY IDEAS?????????

Here is what he said he did at the shop
1- replaced drag link- still way too much play in steering, I see only mino= r
improvement 2-discontected the vacuum tube to the  brake servo, brakes don't
cause the = engine to stall now, but the have NO brake assist 3-said he played
around with the carb, removed and cleaned the gas tank, pa= inted the rear
wall of engine compartment ( WTH?) , and replaced the mech a= dvance
distributor, with old distrib from junkyard vacuum advance, new poin= ts , and
adjusted the valve on #3 cyclinder, even though I have hydrylic li fters.
Result- runs worse than ever=20
4- he did fix the taillights  Yeah!

For all of his effort- he charged me $1000   DID I GET  A BARGAIN OR RIPPED
 OFF?  I am contemplating putting a stop on the check and asking him to fix
it right this time.  But my gut tells me not to take it back ever.

Jim
76 westy
72 914
