Date: Mon, 16 Jan 2012 10:04:26 -0500 (EST)
From: accessys(-at-)smart.net
To: Jim Konzelman <jkonzelman(-at-)gsc.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] what would you do?

On Mon, 16 Jan 2012, Jim Konzelman wrote:

> ck the technical expertise of most here, so I prefer to listen.  Rather tha= n
> make a fool of myself hahaha

better to make a fool of yourself (no question is a foolish one) than to 
get ripped off big time by that "mechanic" and lose two months of bus 
piloting to boot.

> 1- too much play in the steering

Drag link is very very rarely the problem.  so you got a new drag link but 
your old one was most likely fine

> 2- vacuum leak when stepping on the brakes

removing the vacuum assist from the brakes can be dangerous since you will 
not be able to stop as well, that is the kind of emergency repair you make 
to get the bus home.

> 3-intermittent idle/stalling and poor performance ( carb?)

he didn't fix the problem, since I have fuel injection and an automatic I 
will beg off on this question

> 4-non-functioning taillights and brakelights

you shelled out a grand for a couple light bulbs you could have picked up 
at your local FLAPS for under $10 and put them in yourself

> Wont start up for 5 min, Repeat process.  SO that is how I got home.

??? check fuel filter and replace fuel lines I had a similar problem many 
many years ago and it turned out to be a small hole in the vacuum side of 
the fuel line, worked fine until it warmed up and then sucked air. 
probably not the real problem but unless you have replaced your fuel lines 
in the last 5-10 years do it anyway

> wall of engine compartment ( WTH?) , and replaced the mech a= dvance
> distributor, with old distrib from junkyard vacuum advance, new poin= ts , and

find out what distributore your bus needs stock and start your search for 
a repairable one or if lucky a good one. he probably stuck what ever he 
hadd in there and they really are not interchangeable.  PS almost all VW 
distributors are combination vacuum and mechanical advance.

> For all of his effort- he charged me $1000   DID I GET  A BARGAIN OR RIPPED
> OFF?  I am contemplating putting a stop on the check and asking him to fix

you got ripped off big time,  not making a reccomendation because he could 
put a mechanics lien on your bus, but try to get him to refund as much as 
you can  otherwise consider it an expensive lesson. get the bentley book 
to start


>   But my gut tells me not to take it back ever.

listen to your gut,, $1000 would buy all the tools you would need and the 
parts to fix it right and money left over to take the bus somewhere.

ask questions here none are stupid and we aren't likely to laugh (much) 
but all in good taste, where are you located, there might be a bus pilot 
on the list who could look over your shoulder and give a hand in exchange 
for a little liquid recompense.


Good luck
Bob
