Date: Mon, 16 Jan 2012 10:11:26 -0700
From: Jonathan Stiles <misterstiles(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Ted Reshetiloff <ted_reshetiloff(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Third Seat in westy Floor?

Ted,

Consider selling your Champagne for a VERY large profit (if it is nice) and
look for a '74-'75 Westy with a full rear bench seat. That will give you
the extra seating you are looking for (5 passenger vs. 4 passenger).
'74-'75 have the full upstairs bed and the '75 models are fuel injected.

Another option is a '72-'73 model. You would have type 4 motor (carbureted)
with a 5 seat arrangement. Two in back, one jump-seat and two in front. The
sacrifice is you only have the roof cot and a much smaller standing space
and no fuel injection.

Unfortunately, unlike the early models, the cabinets on a late model
Campmobile ('76-'79) are not in modular units. They are all designed to
bolt together as one large solid unit.

If you are set with modifying your Champagne, pulling the cabinets will
expose several holes in the floor and one in the side of the bus.There are
holes for the sink drain, water tank drain, and propane feed line. There
will also be a hole in the side of the bus for the sink drain vent.

You will have up to 3 accessory wires exposed. If you are removing the
center cabinet only, there will be a red wire running from the water pump
to the fuse panel. If removing the refrigerator, there will be two more.
One from the city power plug to the outlet on the bench seat panel and one
from the 2nd battery to the refrigerator.

Also there are no trim panels on the wall of the bus and you will have
exposed insulation. The rear panel on the driver's seat will be exposed
metal and the carpet will end where the cabinet began.

Underneath the carpet is a wood panel that will need to be removed to
access the bench seat hold down plates as well as seatbelt anchors. All
Campmobiles start out as a passenger Kombi, so everything is there for seat
anchors and seatbelts.

Instead of trying to shoehorn in an extra bench or jump-seat, you would be
better off pulling the entire Westy interior and getting a rear and center
bench seat and all the trim from a regular transporter. But then, why not
just get a transporter? I'm sure there are MANY folks who would trade you
straight across for your Champagne. Heck I would be tempted to find a nice
transporter, buy it and then trade you! :)

I hope that gives you an idea of what is under there and answers your
questions,

Jon Stiles

On Mon, Jan 16, 2012 at 8:22 AM, Ted Reshetiloff
<ted_reshetiloff(-at-)yahoo.com>wrote:

> I have a '78 Westy and was wondering if I removed the sink and stove
> cabinet
> would it be possible to install another bench seat like is in some hard top
> non westy's? Im thinking of a stock VW bench seat. What I mean is if I
> pull up
> the carpet should I expect to find the plates or whatever that the bench
> seat
> would bolt up to or would I likely need to weld some in or otherwise
> figure a
> way to bolt down the seat?
>
> Thanks,
>
> Ted Reshetiloff
>
> '78 Champagne Westy
> (For Sale in Annapolis, MD)
