From: "Jeremy Moore" <moorejeremy(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 2 Dec 2009 18:13:03 -0700
Subject: Re: Re: Alternator and EGR Light on, 77 automatic.

Ok, so I've now checked over all the connections and have good continuity
throughout terminals 30 and 50 and had the battery checked out, all seem to be
ok. Still have the idiot lights on though. Before the recent engine pull
everything was working fine. Alternator is pretty new. Just thought I might
add here that I installed a hot start relay about 2 months ago. Also, after I
got the engine back in a few days ago, after I timed the distributer and
started it was idling really high. I turned the idle adjustment screw as low
as it would go (reading 1500 rpms) and then the timing light showed that the
timing was off again, so I turned the idle adjustment screw back a bit and
re-timed again. Would this affect the charging system in anyway, since the
alternator is related to rpms? There was a suggestion that the oil pressure
sensor might be acting up, but why just now after the engine installation when
it was fine before? Last thing...after the first couple times of wiggling
wires/adjustments/checking things then restarting the engine I checked the
battery charge while in the car and it was 12.08 volts. Isn't that a 25%
charge? Then I took the battery out and hooked it up to a battery charger that
told me that the battery was 100% charged. Confused, I checked the battery
with a voltmeter again and it read 12.80 volts. 10 minutes later it read 12.50
volts. Thinking that my battery wasn't holding a charge I took it to get
tested and it turns out its fine. What the??
If it sounds like I'm a complete idiot here, it's because I am, obviously!
I'm starting to believe that the hole electrical what not is over my head.
Before I started working on the bus myself I had some really bad experience
with the mechanics at the shop not knowing anything about my bus and screwing
stuff up. But now I feel like I'm not doing any better so I'm probably going
take it in to some mechanic. Please, if anybody has any other advice, I'm
supposed to be moving tomorrow and need to get my baby running ASAP.
Pulling my hair out -Jeremy
