From: "Jeremy Moore" <moorejeremy(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 3 Dec 2009 14:49:44 -0700
Subject: Re: Re: Alternator and EGR Light on, 77 automatic.

Ok. So I'm trying to find out why my alternator light is on and why my battery
is not being charged when the engine is on. Thanks to everyone on this list
I'm starting to feel like I'm getting somewhere . I've now made a few tests in
the charging system that should be telling me something. Here are the tests
I've made:

1) I tested battery with engine on and high rpms to check that the battery is
getting charged. It showed 11.8 something volts (test failed: not sufficient
voltage to charge the battery)
2) I probed the test light between B+(battery) and D+(blue wire) and the test
passed: "IF the test light does not light, you have a bad alternator OR more
likely since everything was working before, a broken or disconnected field
(exciter circuit) wire between the regulator and alternator."
3) With engine running, I tested the voltage at D+(red/blue)  and DF(green)
and got 1.5 volts at both terminals (test failed: according to Ratwell's page
I should be getting around 14V at D+ and 5V at DF), indicating "a diode
problem in the alternator")

Questions:
1) Aren't these test indications contradictory? If the test light comes on
between the battery and D+ when the engine is off(indicating the alternator is
ok) then why would I be getting the low voltage at D+ and DF (indicating a bad
alternator) with the engine on?
2) Are there any other tests I can make? I'm going to try this one: "for a
quick check to prove your alt ...
jumper from B+  to DF while the engine is running...if you hear the engine
groan and want to stall.. the alt is good. don't hold that jumper on for more
than 30 secs.. as it is full fielding the magnetic excitation ... and can put
out in excess of 140volts..." (it just sounds a little scary to me.

** If someone can see the problem that is indicated from these tests please
let me know or tell me what I need to do next as I gotta put an order in for
the parts and get my ship back together in time for blast off (was supposed to
move today )
Thanks again so much everyone!!!!!!

[demime 1.01d removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of Emoticon1.gif]

[demime 1.01d removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of Emoticon10.gif]
