Date: Sat, 02 Mar 2002 10:48:28 -0600
From: Rick Taylor <BusBarn(-at-)Prodigy.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: gas heater ramblings

Kevin, funny you should mention a 6V bug heater, that is what I am working
on today, along with Bryant's duel carbs on his bus, I am building a bug
heater for Matthew's bus that was 6V but with the connection of just 2 wires
turns it into a 12V.

Matthew wanted a heater, but didn't want to do all the duct work that is
needed with the engine bay mounted gas heaters, so I was trying to figure
out a neat solution.  Those South Wind bug heaters are everywhere and a
really neat little compact package, except the hot air comes out at a
downward angle.  

So, with a little cutting, fabricating and welding, I have turned the hot
air outlet on the bug heater so it now comes out to the side, perfect for
under the seat installation!!  In Matthew's bus, we are putting it inside
the jumpseat.  Bryant wants one under the back seat blowing the air forward.
I will manufacture a metal shield to go around the heaters to keep stuff
from messing with the heater and also from around the exhaust pipe.

I will also insulate the metal box so the noise will be very low, perfect
for camping.  A added bonus will be the heater will circulate the inside
air, heating it easier like the furnace in your house does.  We can also
install RV thermostats so the bus will remain a constant temperature, even
with the engine shut off.

So now I have a perfect use for all those bug heaters I have passed up at
swap meets.  Did I mention, we are also raising the BTW output from the
normal bug heater output of 13,000 to the bus output of 20,000.

Now Matthew won't be freezing on those late night trips to the lake!!

I know some of you are afraid of the gas heaters, but keep in mind THOUSANDS
of these were installed over the gas tanks in bugs, under the dash in busses
and even today are installed in thousands of small airplanes.  And of
course, every winter equipped milatary vehicle has one to.

If a gas heater has been "refreshed" with new hoses and rebuild parts and
checked every season, these heaters are MUCH safer than your VW engine, or
any internal combustion engine for that matter.

Don't most of you have an open flame heater (furnace) in your house?  If
you're scared of these little gas heaters, you should be terrified of a
natural gas or propane furnace which uses a much more combustable and
dangerous fuel.  

Gasoline has to be atomized to burn properly (thats what carbs and fuel
injection does), what do you have to do to propane or natural gas to get to
burn?


Ramblings from an old shop teacher,
Rick Taylor
School Email - <taylorr(-at-)snh450.k12.ks.us>
Home Email - <BusBarn(-at-)Prodigy.net>
Smack dab in the middle of the USA,
Berryton, Kansas

For Stewart Warner, South Wind gas heater parts:
http://pages.prodigy.net/busbarn/southwind.html




