Date: Sun, 3 Mar 2002 19:14:30 -0500 (EST)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To:  <BiggestRed18(-at-)aol.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Should I buy?

On Sun, 3 Mar 2002 BiggestRed18(-at-)aol.com wrote:

> I want to buy a 73 VW van.

Great!  I don't think anyone around here is going to try to talk you out
of it :-)

> The two cylinders on the right don't run, or backfire with flame
> because they say a gasket is blown.

Okey dokey... First go back and ask "them", "which gasket?"  I am sorry to
say that when I hear this type of statement from a owner, it marks him as
ignorant about his car to me.

This is *never* a compete diagnosis!  If there is a leak in an exhaust
gasket, it might cause an occasional, minor, and harmless "backfire."  If
it is a major leak in an intake manifold gasket, it could well cause the
engine to run poorly, even to backfire.  It would also cause the engine to
overheat and the engine to destroy itself eventually. A leak in a head
gasket will cause one cylinder to run poorly, but not both. and no
backfiring.

First, go buy or borrow a compression tester and a vacuum gauge and bring
them along the next time you visit the car.  with the plugs in, check the
vacuum in the manifold as you crank it.  is the vacuum (roughly) the same
on both sides?  Second, remove the spark plugs and test the compressions
in all four cylinders.  If any are below 90psi, put  pencil into the spark
plug hole, run ~1 tablespoon of oil into the cylinder, then retest the
compression on that cylinder.
If:                              Then:
all four are above 100psi        the long block is solid
one is < 100 and oil helps       broken/worn ring, probably (get rebuilt engine)
one is < 100, oil does not help  dropped valve (new head needed)
all are < 100 and oil helps      very worn engine (get rebuilt engine)

If the compressions are all good, and the vacuum is low on the right side,
then in fact you probably do have a blown intake manifold gasket (or wear
on the throttle shaft bushings)  Otherwise, probably not.

> They also want $450 for it, is it even worth that much?

An entirely subjective question :-)  where are you?  where did the van
live its life?  what kind of body is it?  what kind of rust does it have?
accident damage?

If you have a passenger body from Albany, NY, missing the middle seat,
with a deer-print on the nose, rust in the rockers and dog-legs and a
dropped valve or 150K miles on the engine...  no it isn't.

If it is a pristine Westfalia from Arizona with a bad intake manifold
gasket, it is the deal of the century!

No doubt the truth lies somewhere between these extremes, but where?  and
how many other buses are there around?  and how bad do you want it?

Decisions, Decisions :-)

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail

