Date: Sun, 03 Mar 2002 23:20:18 -0500
To: jbakerccymca(-at-)springmail.com,type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] Where to get fuel tank??

At 02:16 PM 3/3/02 -0500, you wrote:
>Unfortunately, here in Ohio, finding a bus in a junkyard is a little
difficult, the old needle in a haystack comes to mind!  Anyone ever use
that fuel tanker sealer junk from Por 15??  Any advice.  So what's the
deal, is it ABSOLUTLEY IMPOSSIBLE to find
>one of these from a vendor?

You know John there is a very good VW yard somewhere over there
at the junction of two Interstates, which two escape me.  And BTW
as a general note, you can be suprised just how bad a looking bus
can have a gorgeous fuel tank.  When I went looking for a '68-'71 to
fit the '70 SC a guy mentioned one up a holler (literally how it was
described and quite apt) that he had pulled the tranny out of (he races
mud cars) so I followed his instructions and went and looked.  I came
across this old farmer with 3 of the rustiest crustiest WV buses I had
ever seen sitting in his field as they had for the last 15+ years and
thought I had wasted my trip, I mean sitting on the ground 12" of bus
gone along the bottom of each, utter junk.  So I mosey on up and ask
he says, sure go look if I want, pulled the panel on a '70 an lo and
behold the tank was as new, after pulling it out, asked him what he
wanted and we settled on $10.  When I got it home and open it had
a line of slight rust about 1 1/2" up where the last gas had evaporated
out, but cleaned up wonderfully, the last tank I bothered to clean myself
as I mentioned in a past post.  The rare early gas sender even worked.

So I don't know what I just went on about that for, but anyway somewhere
over there, I think the intersection of I76? and ??? (something going north
south that someone from WV would use over in the eastern half of the
state) there is/was a pretty big VW yard until a year or two ago at least
for certain.  Wherever it is it is right where the two meet you see it from
the
interchange.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu


