To: Zizisjgb(-at-)aol.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "Theodore Reshetiloff" <TReshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com>
Date: Mon, 4 Mar 2002 09:21:51 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] long block or engine rebuild kit?


Best advice here is to gather some reading material first. If you have an
automotive degree and are even halfway mechanicaly inclined I'm certain
this project is not beyond your abilities. I did my first 1600 at 17. I
would read How to Rebuild your VW Engine, also there is a book called Hot
Rodding your VW  Engine or something similar not certain of the authors
here. Also some of the Idiot manuals have a high performance section with
good advice.  Try looking in the type 2 library or search archives for
books and manuals.
As far a increased HP there are as many opinions and theories on this as
there are engine configurations. 1641 and 1776 seem to be popular.
Balancing IMHO is very important and becomes more important as you move
beyond stock. Webcam has a number of great cams from mild to wild. As far
as the stuff you have, I would split your cases and inspect them then pick
the best one and go from there. As far as buying a motor, I would be very
careful as there is a lot of junk out there especially in type 1 motors.
Boston Engine and Jake Raby's Aircooled.net both come highly recommended. A
lot of people use there type 4 engines. Good luck!


Theodore Reshetiloff
Cambridge Associates LLC
78' Westy Possum
treshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com



                                                                                        
                    Zizisjgb(-at-)aol.                                                       
                    com                  To:     type2(-at-)type2.com                        
                                         cc:                                            
                    03/03/02             Subject:     [T2] long block or engine rebuild 
                    08:42 PM             kit?                                           
                                                                                        
                                                                                        




I was just wondering if anyone could answer a few questions for me, as it
would be a great help.  First, I have a 1969 bus from Texas with a good
body.
I got three engines with it, all 1600cc and all pre 1970 single port. I
have
all the pieces to convert one of the engines to dual port. I have
everything
with all of these engines to put one together and probably get it running.
But, I would like this engine to be dependable and might want to go with
newer internal components. I have a degree in automotive, and have taken
down
a VW engine before, but never put one back together, though I've done quite
a
few 350s in my day.  My questions are this;
 1. Would I be better off  just buying a long block or is a kit the way to
go, and who would be a good vendor for such a purchase?  I have seen some
things from GEX but I really have no experience with the quality.
 2. Would like to go with a more powerful, but still dependable 1641cc . Do
I
need to do any modifications to a 1969 motor for that, other than pistons
and
cylinders?
 3. Could individual components be better tan buying a kit?
I would appreciate anyones help on this subject. thanks
                                           BUS GYPSY69




