Date: Thu, 30 Jun 2005 15:13:05 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Green Westy Plaid 4 sale

Hello List,

I just wanted to respond to the recent post about my
previous items that I had for sale. I agree that I did
not handle my most recent items that I had for sale
very well. What I can say is that the problems that I
was having before that contribted to my delequency in
those transactions have since been resolved. 

I am not out to scew anybody out of their money. I
know that no one here is trying to say that. Their
post are legitamate. It did take too long for the
packages to be sent out. As far as the side step. I
notified him before I shipped it that the steel step
that I listed for sale was missing, so he agreed to
accpt the aluminum step before I sent it to him. This
was the aluminum step that I was going to keep for my
Bus. It was bent. I never tried to bend it back out,
but I didn't imagine that it would be that hard to fix
it as the bend was not severe. If you would like a
refund for the step, let me know. Just send it back. I
will gladly (and promptly) send you a refund. 

Again, I am sorry for my poor performance with my last
couple of things that I had to sale. The circumstances
surrounding them are gone. I promise that no one will
have any problems with anything that I currently have
for sale. They will be boxed and ready to be shipped
by the time that they send me payment. If anyone has
any problem with me in regards to that, feel free to
notify me and the list. I just want to sell what I
don't need so I don't have to pack it up when I move
after them wedding. Again, I publically apoligize for
my poor performance with my last couple of sales. I'm
sorry.

That said, I garentee that the fabric that I have for
sale is in very good condition and would be great to
recover the seats in any westy. That is why I kept it.
I will ship it within 3 business days from the time I
receive payment. I promise. I swear that to the whole
list!


Sincerely,
David Kelly
volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com
Rekindle the Rivalries. Sign up for Fantasy Football 
http://football.fantasysports.yahoo.com
