From: "Marcus Schaper" <mschaper(-at-)gvpt.umd.edu>
To: "'Charles Durrrant'" <charliedurrant(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "'Richard Atwell'" <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
Date: Fri, 1 Jul 2005 12:57:25 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Carb balancing

If your carbs are badly out of whack, you need to verify basic adjustments
(do not start messing with these if you do not have access to an exhaust gas
analyzer):

There is a basic adjustment for the throttle plate gap. I think it is 1.5
turns from the point where the stop screw touches the carb body - at that
point your central idle thingy should come into the game, but I have no idea
how because my carbs don't have that. I only have the stop plate screws for
my idle adjustment. There is also a more accurate feeler gauge adjustment,
but for that the carbs need to come off the manifolds.

If you start with the mixture screws 3 turns out you should be in the right
neighborhood for CO. When it is idling OK, pull the idle cut-off solenoid
plugs one at a time to compare idle drop. Even out the idle drop with the
mixture screws.

Do all of this with the linkage disconnected. Otherwise, one side will
affect the other. Then pop the linkage back on in a way that nothing
changes. Compare flow at higher RPMs - use the linkage adjustment to even
this out (much easier with two unisyns).

I was unable to find a shop with a gas analyzer, but Steve Dolan's Gunson
turned out to be good enough with about 6 feet of extra hose. Maybe there
are listmembers in your area who have one of these cheap CO testers.


Marcus

Date: Thu, 30 Jun 2005 23:27:07 +0100
To: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
From: Charles Durrrant <charliedurrant(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Carb balancing
Message-ID: <df90b6f505063015275857b657(-at-)mail.gmail.com>

Richard,

I have Bently and read it all (not in the best environment with 2 under
fives in tow) and my right carb has no where to go. If I remove the rod with
the lock nuts etc it pulls more that the left carb. Are you saying that the
right carb can be adjusted further back from the postion with no adjustment
rod attached? I did not try that....?

As to the 13mm nut.......? Nothing like that on the 74 carbs, the only
adustment according to Bently is the rod with the lock nuts.....? ( I think
)

yours

Charles
