Date: Fri, 1 Jul 2005 10:41:26 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: pre-trip mechanic visit

Before I get started, I know this has been on-list before, and I'm
sorry for kicking off a FART, but I can't find any good stuff in the
archives. I really appreciate the list and I have learned so much from
you folks.

Here's the deal: 
I'm taking the family to the Oregon Dunes next weekend. After our last
camping trip of the season last Summer took place in a mechanic's
driveway in Bay City, I figured taking Hapy to a mechanic prior to the
next trip was probably a good idea. I've owned Hapy for over 2 years,
and he was my daily-driver in most of that time (until this April). In
that period, I've done all the work on him (with a help on the clutch
from Hal), but he's not seen a mechanic other than the guy in Bay
City.... who I'm not convinced knew what he was doing. I realize that a
160 mile (one way) trip is not exactly earth-moving, but only making it
150 of those miles would be, uh.. lets just say "unacceptable to my
wife". On to the question:

Are there particular things I should have inspected to leverage the
mechanic? I mean, I can change oil, it takes no skill. Determining if
the ball joints are "ok enough" for x miles, is not something I can do
with any confidence. So far, I have the list below. Addmittedly, I can
do some of it, but I figure I'm paying for the hour of labor anyway,
and this way I can verify my own opinions about some things. Maybe, if
we can construct a good list, it could go into the library, so this is
a FART no longer? I know RAtwell has a spreadsheet of routine
maintenance, but I couldn't get that to align with a pre-trip
inspection kind of thing. The real idea here is leverage the mechanic's
years of skill to get a strong baseline of the condition of as many
parts as I can without paying 8 hours labor to learn it.

front end
 - brakes
 - steering (ball joints, steering play)
 - alignment?
 - grease
 - bearings ok?

rear end
 - brakes
 - alignment?
 - grease
 - bearings ok?

engine / trans
 - timing, spark
 - fuel delivery / carb adjust
 - consider oil (purposely didn't change for inspection, but I can do
the change)
 - compression / leak down
 - valve adjust: are they really hydraulic lifters? seems weird in a
'72.
 - vacuum leaks?

Paul Manning
Lake Oswego, OR
1972 Westy (Hapy)
2000 Jetta TDI (Flash)

ps - BTW, the interior install is as complete as it will be. all
furniture is in, carpet going in tonight. I found imported
exterior-grade hardwood 4x8 sheet at Lowes for $12 for the subfloor.
Looks so good, I may skip the carpet. I'll be using the scraps and
another sheet to redo the door skins.... after we get back from the
coast :)

If you want the world to be just,
put your feet to the dust.
Rekindle the Rivalries. Sign up for Fantasy Football 
http://football.fantasysports.yahoo.com
