Date: Sat, 2 Jul 2005 11:52:31 -0700
From: john kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Where do these wires connect??

I'm a little bit confused on this issue myself. I just finished
putting my 72 back together and spent an entire evening trying to get
it started so I could bring it home. My 72 was always excellent
electrically and always started easily. I only took it down because of
the pilot bearing and oil cooler leak, so I am somewhat baffled.
Unfortunately, it has been a long time since I took it apart, so I
don't quite remember the wiring.

Mine only has two wires there. I definitely remember the black one
going to coil positive because when I put this bus together
originally, that is how I learned VW uses black for hot instead of
ground. The other one I was not sure if it goes to coil positive also
(what I seem to remember) or the oil pressure sender.

If I put in on the coil, I get oil light on the dash with the key on.
If I put it on the sender, I get a very dim oil light.

In any case, I now get no alternator light. I have no regulator
connector due to PO's prior type 1 engine install. I have a new (at
the time of the vehicle build three years ago) NAPA regulator, and not
being able to find the diagram I made when I put it together, I just
color matched the wires from the alternator and the wires on the NAPA
connector (not part of regulator body like stock).

Also, the timing light rarely flashes. Pulling coil wire and observing
spark to ground, I get steady sparking, but very low power -- a weak
yellow spark.

One thing I did while the motor was out was paint the coil and fan
shroud. A coworker, a retired Navy engine man, says coil needs ground.
I thought the only path to ground was through the points and plugs. Do
I need to ground the coil body too? This is an aftermarket coil, but
as I mentioned above, this coil has always performed flawlessly. Is my
installation of new Bosch plugs a factor? Or could sitting a year have
deteriorated the condensor?

Thanks,

John

On 7/2/05, Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com> wrote:

 It's the coil:

 http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell/.Pictures/Parts72Bus/38-CoilWiring.jpg

 Black and white: terminal 15
 Grey: terminal 1
 Brown: ground tab on the fan shroud
