From: "Marcus Schaper" <mschaper(-at-)gvpt.umd.edu>
To: "'Don Tuleja'" <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: "'Charles Durrrant'" <charliedurrant(-at-)gmail.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Sat, 2 Jul 2005 20:41:08 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] Carb balancing

Don,

On the stock carbs the linkage is used for sync at 3K according to Bentley.
Idle sync should done with stop screws and central idle solenoid
disconnected.

I say SHOULD because I have never done a basic adjustment on stock carbs. I
am running 412 carbs that do not have central idle. But the procedure should
be the same except that I have not central idle solenoid to disconnect.

If the carbs are out of sync at idle, I would:
- check for vacuum leaks (all rubber boots on carbs, carb cover gaskets may
be partially sucked in - look down throat, torque manifold screws)
- disconnect the linkage on both sides
- disconnect solenoid on central idle
- make sure that the solenoids on the carbs work and the jets are free
(unscrew soleniod on running engine on at a time, plug hole with finger and
wait for finger to get wet)
- verify stop screw adjustment (1.5 turns out)
- verify CO screw adjustment (2.5-3 turns out) - measure CO to see if you
are in the right neighborhood (3-3.5%)
- pull solenoid wire on each side one at a time and compare RPM drop -
should be even. If not tweak mixture
- adjust stop screws slightly (this is not a regular adjsutment on stock
carbs; but may be slightly off because the 1.5 turn adjustment is only an
approximation to a more accurate feeler gauge adjustment).
- Bentley says that idle should be 500 - 700 RPM with central idle disabled.
Tweak stop screws if you are considerably out of this range and CO is OK.
- Reconnect linkage in a way that nothing changes. Check for sync at 3K -
use the linkage to sync at 3K. Best way is with two Unisyns. Trying this
with just one drove me ballistic. Of course, you need to calibrate them
first.

Central idle:
- reconnect central idle soleniod.
- adjust idle speed screw on central idle (Bentley 5-15 No. 1) to 900 RPM
- adjust central idle CO screw to 3 - 3.5%
- reset idle spees screw to 900 RPM.

Now your bus should run like new and get fantastic gas mileage ...

Marcus

-----Original Message-----
From: Don Tuleja [mailto:durocshark(-at-)gmail.com]
Sent: Saturday, July 02, 2005 18:42
To: Marcus Schaper
Cc: Charles Durrrant; type2(-at-)type2.com; Richard Atwell
Subject: Re: [T2] Carb balancing


If that's the case, how do I balance at idle? Using the stop screws?
Balancing at idle with the linkage brought the carbs into sync at 3k rpm as
well.


> Do not touch the linkage for idle adjustment. The linkage comes into
> play for sync at higher RPMs.


--
Don
