To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Randall Carpenter <rjcarp(-at-)earthlink.net>
Date: Sat, 2 Jul 2005 21:50:15 -0500
Subject: Setting valve clearences

Dear list,
	

	I was out under the bus today.  I replaced all the port side push rod 
tubes.  Nice and easy.  Now she don't leak.  I figured since I was all 
greasy I might as well set the valves.  In checking the book it 
mentions to set sodium filled exhaust valves at .008" .  I was 
wondering if I could assume mine has sodium filled exhaust valves?  I 
believe it is a '73 engine' 1700cc.  Engine code CB069042, with a reman 
by Volkswagen Canada sticker.  I was assuming the Canadians would have 
rebuilt the motor with the updated valves.   The valves all checked out 
ok, just a little loose, except for #4 which were very tight. I set all 
the valves to .006" intake, .008" exhaust.  If I'm wrong, let me know.
	With the new muffler, tuned carb, and the valves set, it sounds much 
smoother.  When I get out on the road I'll have to tinker with the 
timing a bit.  She's not going anywhere right now with the brakes the 
way they are (or aren't).  I would very much like to bleed the whole 
system, except my port rear wheel cylinder has the bleeder screw 
sheared off.  I like to go, but i like stopping a lot better.  I just 
hate mushy brakes.  I can bleed the front calipers, all the bleeder 
screws are free.  I haven't checked the starboard rear screw yet, but 
I'm not optimistic.  Those rear brakes are very rusty.  Nasty rusty.  
So if I go through the trouble or replacing wheel cylinders, I may as 
well rebuild the back brakes entirely.  In for a penny, in for a pound.
	The thing this bus has taught me is to concentrate on the job at hand. 
  If you start really looking at your project all the different things 
you need or want to do really adds up.  Well as soon as the Minnesota 
government is back in business I'm going down and getting a collector 
plate and then I off and around the block.  Maybe twice!  I'll let you 
know how it turns out.

Randy Carpenter
'72 Westy (Hanger Queen status threatened)
