From: "jdd" <johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 12 Jul 2003 10:35:01 -0400
Subject: Re: Cuba

I was in Cuba a couple of years ago - there is one pile of old cars there.  I
think it would be possible to find high profile cars like maybe something that
belonged to Ernest Hemmingway or Al Capone - I recall  something about an Al
Capone car.  I picked antique furniture for many years and went to a few shops
in Cuba - no problem buying old stuff, really old stuff (Havana is one of the
oldest cities in the New World) but they do have some sort of export duty that
makes the price .... unattractive.

I have a ton of pics somewhere and, as I recall, most contain pics of old
cars.  There are quite a few Mexican beetles around.  There are these little
cars that kinda resemble a beetle - in fact, very closely.  I went to look at
a few and I think they were Italian - air cooled engine in the back beetle
shaped etc.

Cuba is very cool - poor sure but the people are very healthy - almost
everyone is well built and has good teeth and an education - but shoes are ...
hard to come by.  Everyone is involved in sports and fit - healthy food is
easy to come by but luxuries like soap and toilet paper are tough to find.

I was in Regla, a district of Havana, and I witnessed a religious celebration
- it wasn't Santaria - but was sort of the male version - very cool - I
suspect the goat was killed at the end - as were the chickens - the drums and
the dancing and the whole atmosphere was incredibly hypnotic - cool.

Sure - lots o' prostitutes - poor young girls sellin' what the have - kinda
like areas of LA or NY - except without the crack.

Every few blocks in Havana there is a cop on the corner - guess that's why the
crime rate is so very low and there is virtually no drug problem.

Music everywhere - everywhere.

If ya had the dough and the inclination - it would be a very simple and
relatively inexpensive thing to travel around and find old cars to export to
... Canada or Mexico or the Bahamas - you could buy them quite cheaply and
ship them cheaply - but there is that export duty.

The thing, in my mind, that makes Cuba so very cool - no MacDonald's signs -
no 7-11 - no Kentucky Fried Chicken - I was in Eastern Turkey a few years ago
and every town with over, approx. 100,000 people had a g*d d*mn MacDonald's.

BE SUSPICIOUS ABOUT EVERYTHING YOU READ IN THE MAIN STREAM PRESS ABOUT
CUBA!!!!!! - FIGHT BRAINWASHING!!!!!
