Date: Sat, 12 Jul 2003 10:01:54 -0700
From: High-Tech Red Neck <hitkrdnk(-at-)gte.net>
To: "Guy St. Clair" <vwguy1(-at-)cox.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] best way to lower a 71 transporter

Hi Neighbor!

Guy, I'm in Port Hueneme (Oxnard) just down the coast from you.

Collie and I had an email discussion about this several months ago and 
at that time he was talking about Air Bagging his suspension.  We both 
lamented that the best way was drop spindles because you really don't 
change the steering and suspension geometry as much as most other way.  
The problems is nobody was offering drop spindles for Bays.  He had been 
asking Bus Boys for a while.

But!  Someone posted somewhere (I don't know where I got the link) about 
drop spindles for Splitties and I followed the link to Franklin's up in 
Wash. State.  They are doing spindles for Bays Too!

Here's the URL:
http://franklinsvwwerks.com/drop-spindles-disk-brakes.htm

Collie, I've been meaning to send this to you for some time.  What is 
the status of your project?

Guy, I really think this is the best way to go.  And it's reversible!  I 
lowered the front end of my son's bug with spindles from CB performance 
(They call them lowered spindles, but really the spindle is raised???) 
and it worked great with good ride.  Now I'm building a '70 sedan into a 
Baja and I used raised (lowered?) spindles to give the front a three 
inch lift. 

When I get the Baja done, I can take the '73 panel off the road to do 
some serious work on it.  If I can afford it I plan to use Franklin's 
spindles to lower it a bit.  His price is $450 if you don't give him a 
core, you can drive down the price by providing more cores.

Hope this helps, let me know what you come up with.  Welcome to the list 
if you are new.  My learning curve has been steep, but easy with the 
help of this list!

Bob Bueling
Port Hueneme, CA


Guy St. Clair wrote:

>Owning a VW is new to me so foregive me if i don't know the terminology.
>I have a 1971, 8 passenger bus (transporter?) and will fixing it up this year.
>I would like to lower and restore it. but don't have any stores in Santa
>Barbara. So here are my following question:
>1) Are there different ways to lower it?
>2) If there is, which is the best way?
>3) On average about how much does it cost?
