Date: Wed, 27 Feb 2002 20:22:18 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Help!! Most Bizzare Electrical Gremlin Ever???

>From: Chris Sullivan <csullivan(-at-)oceanit.com>
>Date: Wed, 27 Feb 2002 08:12:21 -1000
>
>Behavior:  Bus will not always start- not even a college-try from the 
>starter.

Do the wiring checks that Thom and Ted suggested.  A simple bad
connection can make this happen.  If one of the battery connections
has 0.1 ohm of resistance, you will lose about 1 V at that connection
with just the headlights on - they will be a little dimmer than usual
but still look OK.  When you try to dump 100 amps of starter current
through that same connection, you will lose about 10 V, leaving 2 V
or less for the starter which will then not go anywhere. 

Don't worry about tracking down the bad connection with a meter.
Just clean up all the connections on the battery, starter, and
generator.  This is good for your entire electrical system.  Unhook
the battery negative cable first before doing anything and hook it
back up as the last thing you do, to prevent sparks. 

>I've also observed that if it doesn't start, I can walk away and 
>come back in 10 minutes and sometimes it starts like nothings wrong.

If you've worked over all the wire connections, it could be in the
ignition switch or in the starter itself.  To rule out the ignition
switch, wait until the next time it doesn't start.  Put it in neutral
and put the handbrake on.  Roll under the bus with a screwdriver and
a short piece of 14 gauge wire.  First, jump the two big bolts on the
solenoid with the screwdriver.  The starter should spin, but not crank
the engine.  If it doesn't spin, you have trouble inside the starter.

Next, jump the wire from the big bolt with the positive battery cable 
on it to the push-on terminal where the small wire from the ignition
switch attaches.  If this makes the starter run and crank the engine,
then your ignition switch is suspect.  If the starter doesn't run,
the solenoid is suspect. 

As an aside, it is definitely possible for an electric motor to screw 
up in this way.  I was recently using a canister vacuum cleaner that
sometimes refused to start when switched on.  You could flick the
switch a few times and it would then start; you could also smack it
and it would start.  I unplugged it and tore it down, and found that
one of the motor brushes was stuck in its holder and not making good
contact with the commutator.  I unstuck the brush and it started
reliably after that.
 
>12.6 on battery with engine off
>13.5-14v with engine running

This looks good and indicates your generator is charging OK.

>I removed negative battery cable and checked resistance from cable to 
>negative battery terminal:  it appeared to be a short until i removed 
>the generator harness, then when i put the generator harness back again, 
>there was no more short.

Let me make sure I understand: you unbolted the negative cable from the
body, but left it clamped to the negative battery terminal.  Then you
put one meter probe on the free end of the cable and the other meter
probe on the negative battery terminal, and got zero ohms.  If this
is true, that is exactly what you'd expect - no resistance, or very
low resistance, in the negative battery cable.  If you got an open
circuit or very high resistance when doing this test, then your
negative battery cable is bad.

>Could this be related to a botched polarization of the generator?

I don't think so.  If this was the case your generator wouldn't charge,
and from the readings you gave above it seems to be charging.

Matt Roberds


