From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 27 Feb 2002 22:59:10 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Type 4 oil cooler mod

--part1_d7.13a96358.29af050e_boundary
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="US-ASCII"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

In a message dated 2/25/2002 8:11:53 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
General(-at-)OldVolks.com writes:
> I feel the reason they didn't use them on the type4's was that there was a
> lot more room in a type 4 and it was easier to add a row on a type one
> cooler then the complexity of the Tight finned type 3.

Hi Ronnie,
So they just lost/dumped the tooling for the type 3 cooler after all the work 
and $$$ invested in the tooling?

  One of the reason I 
> also feel that everyone uses the type 4 cooler is that they are easier to 
> find then the type 3 tight finned. I have found 5 in 5 years so the rarity 
> of them is more then likely the reasoning of using the type 4 not for 
> superior cooling.

Unfortunately rarity does not equate better performance.  IE the Bastard 40 
HP engine.

 If you look at pure mathematics and take the square inches 
> of cooling in a type 3 verses a type 4 you will probably find the same 
> amount.

This may be true of the finning, but no way for the inner and outer surface 
area of the oil passages themselfs.  The type 4 cooler has 40% more passages, 
which means 40% more inner surface area for the oil to transfer heat to and 
40% more exterior surface area to transfer heat to the air!  Plus with 40% 
more passages the hot oil slows down by 40% giving it 40% more time to 
transfer it's heat to the metal of the cooler.  By pure mathematics this 
means better cooling.  Even VW did the same improvement when after the first 
half year of the new fresh air system of late 63 had round interior pipes 
inside the heat exchangers with cast outer fins.  In very early 1964 model 
year they put fins also inside the heat exchangers to increase heat transfer 
due to increased inner surface area.  Which in turn reduced exhuast back 
pressure and heat transfer to the heads.
  An added bonus of using a type 4 cooler over type 1, 2 and 3 coolers is the 
type 4 is run with a stock filter on the type 4 engine.  The type 1, 2 and 3 
is not and gets plently of metal shavings and oil sludge in it from just 
daily driving. When a motor really blows the amount of shavings in the type 
1, 2, and 3 coolers go way up and never seem to clean out completely!  So 
with a type 4 cooler you should have much less sludge and shavings problems.  
As you Ronnie have found out several oil passages in a nonfiltered cooler can 
often be blocked off with sludge and shavings! 

 Also when you modify the shroud you have altered the amount of air 
> that was designed to flow, thus reducing air volume through the cooler and 
> are counting on the size of the cooler more then the air through it for 
> cooling.

This flow is not reduced just allowed to spread over a larger surface area 
and with the spreading actually slows down to allow more time for heat 
transfer.  This spreading actually will cool slightly the cooling air itself, 
just like what happens with freon gas in an air conditioner.  If one still 
wants to increase the air flow even more one can use the 35mm wide cooling 
fan (We wish there was a wider one!).  For even more air flow use a Porsche 
generator pulley which is smaller diameter than the stock VW one for more 
generator/fan RPM.  We have not done this last modification due to wondering 
if we would put the cooling fan up near it's cavitation RPM which would 
reduce its efficiency.  Though with the way the aftermarket generator pulleys 
out there are such junk it probably is the way to go and test what happens!  
We have been using the doghouse lower 2:1 ratio pulley and earlier fan belt 
making the belt choke down on the diameter it runs on the uper stock VW 
pulley increasing the RPMs.

 It always reminds me of the buggy's with a oil cooler mounted in the air, 
counting 
> on the air from movement for cooling.

Excellant point, but while these dune buggies rely on a cooler that only get 
enough cooling air through it by moving at probably 50+ MPH.  How much does 
this help off road and in town traffic?  Not much!  The type 4 has the 
constant flow of air due to the cooling fan.

 I run big engines, run hard and loaded and have never had a heating problem 
and 
> live where it's 100+ degrees half the year and drive one of my VW's everyday 
> and have never had an engine failure due to heat. I have also tried the 
> type 4 coolers and did not enough difference in it and the type 3 to 
> warrant hacking up the tin to make it fit. I just went with OG engineering 
> with an improved (yet hard to find) oil cooler.   Ronnie  try it you'll 
> convert
> 
> ps. One of these days I will hook up the stinking gauges, I have four
> senders on 2 of my engines, 1776 single port and the 1800 stroker. 1 on the
> cooler, 1 on the drain plate, 1 in the pressure relief and the last one is 
> a
> dip stick
.
Unless you have a valve stretch and snap off or a connecting rod break it's 
wrist pin due to that piston siezing in the cylinder from over swelling due 
to overheating.  Damage from over heating can be much more subtle and hard to 
pin point.  Mostly it is a form of premature wear over the entire engine 
moving parts due to loss of lubricating properties of the oil.  We found this 
out with 30,000 to 40,000 mile engine longevity when we used to cruise at 
3,800 RPM.  Now cruising at 3,000 RPM we are getting 80,000+ mile engine 
longevity due to cooler running and much better MPG savings.  
  The type 4 engine in the 70s bus was well known in the 70s and 80s for 
doing 200,000 to even 300,000 miles between rebuilds.  Since the abolishment 
of the national 55 MPH speed limit these same engines are having a hard time 
doing much over 100,000 miles.  This due to higher RPMs from higher speed 
limits which in turn overheat and shorten the lifespan of these engines.
  Without gauges we would not have pin pointed the overheat problem as soon, 
if ever and the only way to test for this is with gauges even if they are not 
super duper accurate!  We rely on these engines and so we install gauges to 
increase our awareness of what they are doing and how we can improve them or 
see if there is something wrong that needs immeadiate correcting.
Eric&Barb

--part1_d7.13a96358.29af050e_boundary--
