Date: Thu, 23 Jun 2005 10:09:50 -0400
From: La Famiglia Fischer <fis(-at-)videotron.ca>
To: ianbridwell(-at-)gmail.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Stranded ... Bus won't run

Bonjour from Montreal!

Haven't seen this suggestion but it sure does remind me of my misfortunes in late April.

You're just back from a long trip? Used a lot of gas? Have you cleaned out your gas tank lately?

My problem, if listees remember, was crud in the tank, blocking the outlet.
Symptoms where very much like yours...Mine would idle fine (your case?) but NOT want to accelerate at all.

Never had to pull that freshly installed tank finally. Whatever was blocking the outlet got pulverized when I blew some compressed air back up the outlet hose. (DO remove your gas cap please! And use light air pressure!)
Fuel cleaner and many fills later, no reminders yet!

"Dribbling fuel" was exactly what I had...I thought it might be a normal amount of flow untill I did that shot of air...Wowsa! Now there was a flow!!! The fuel filter wasn't even clogged, the crud was right at the outlet point in the tank and never got any further.
I do remember some responses indicating early Bay gas tanks having an accessible fuel screen...
If your problem WAS crud and you did have one of those tanks, then you could give that screen a cleaning.

In my case, I've examined the old tank and I can report that the later Bay tank does NOT have a screen of any kind.
The pick up point is absolutely flush with the bottom.
What it does have is a sort of collector bowl, 6"x8"x8", open 50% at the top, with a single pencil-size hole in one corner. This is installed flush with the floor of the tank, having a slight depression matching the bumpdown you see on the exterior of the tank.
Purpose is to garantee that the fuel, at low levels, doesn't slosh away from the pick up opening.
Moreover, the particular architecture of the insides should keep crud away from the pick up point which is flush with the bottom...BUT, if some crud was to wash into that "bowl" it will most certainly either go down the fuel line to the filter OR, as I now beleive was my case, accumulate over the flush opening and block it to varying extent. In my case I had a dribble of fuel only...

Good luck mon ami!

Michel Fischer
