To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: macbus <macbus(-at-)mindspring.com>
Date: Mon, 17 Oct 2005 06:39:51 -0400
Subject: octoberbus trip report

As September came to a close it became clear that JBB was not going to 
happen. There were just too many conflicts and resource issues. When I 
called and let Jamie know he was cool with it because he  was in the 
same boat. He mentioned Octoberbus was taking place in a new location 
that was only an hour or so away from us. I have been out of the loop 
for a while so I had no idea so I thought I could make a go of it but  
would not really know until the last minute.

On Friday morning I put some Bauhaus on the iPod for that creepy 
Halloween feel and loaded up the bus. After meeting Michele for lunch I 
ran a few errands and headed out alone for the wilds of Yadkin County. 
The location Dave found was really nice. It's a 65 acre farm that is no 
longer being used as a "farm." Dave has been doing some work for the 
owner he and agreed to let Dave have an event on the site.

About 30 buses made it out for the weekend and we all had a great time. 
Here are a few highlights.

- A group of 3 buses from Tennessee convinced a bus they encountered at 
a gas station to change their weekend plans and attend their first ever 
VW camping event.
- Jamie's 1960 DD panel made it's first public appearance.
- Most of the buses and campsites were decorated for Halloween.
- There kids dressed up in costumes and trick-or-treated on Saturday 
Night
- The pumpkin carving was really awesome.
- The moon was so bright both nights you could read a book by it.
- Dave did a nice job prepping for and hosting the event
- The atmosphere was fun and relaxed and I think everyone had a really 
good time!

On Friday we built a fire in Chris Slaymaker's portable fire pit and 
had a few beers. As it usually happens the conversation got a bit 
silly. In the midst of a conversation about the Bernuda Triangle, Brad 
tells a story about a B-52 bomber that crashed in a local lake during 
WWII. After listening to the story for a while I called bullsh!t on it 
for a number of reasons. Mainly because there were not any B-52s during 
WWII and I had recently seen a documentary about a similar event that 
had taken place elsewhere in the Western US. Over the course of the 
weekend this issue kept cropping up. I told Brad if It were true I 
would issue a written and verbal apology. I checked it out and in 1944 
a plane did indeed crash in what is now refereed to as Badin Lake. Some 
info on the event can be found here.

http://www.history.navy.mil/branches/org12-6g.htm

Well it sure wasn't a B-52 
(http://www.fas.org/nuke/guide/usa/bomber/b-52.htm )  but is was small 
WW II prop engine bomber so here goes. Brad, you were for most part 
correct and I am sorry I doubted you! I will issuing the verbal apology 
along with a complimentary beer the next time see you!

I took a few pictures at Octoberbus and put them up here

http://www.mindspring.com/~vw69bus/

Thanks to Dave for a nice weekend.

Chris
www.everybus.com
