From: "Todd Olson" <todd.olson(-at-)charter.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 15 Sep 2009 20:33:28 -0400
Subject: Bus Boo Schedule of Events 9/18-9/20 (Hosted by Buses By the

Hello Fellow Volks Folks,

WOOOOOOOOO HOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!!! 

Bus Boo is this weekend! Buses By the Beach's annual fall campout and
Halloween before Halloween party will be held Sept. 18-20 2009 in Grand
Rapids, MI at Grandrogue Campground. http://www.grandrogue.com/ Join us for
our annual Chili Cook Off, Halloween Party with awards to be given for the
best kids/adults costume, site decoration, longest distance and the
Department of Home Land Security Award. (Most likely to be pulled over)

Again this year we will be camping during West Michigan Living History and
Educational Association presentation of Early America Encampment. For more
information go to: http://www.westmichiganlivinghistory.com/

Schedule of Events:
Friday:
2:00pm (Check In): Check in and set up. Plan for dry camping and all sites
are first come, first serve. Please do not arrive earlier than 2:00pm to
check in or you may have to pay an addition fee. Camping fee will be
$24/night. Grandrogue Campground will donate $5 per night per site back to
the Phoenix Society for Burn Survivors. http://www.phoenix-society.org/


Saturday: Check in time for those arriving Saturday is 2:00pm. 
All Day: Enjoy spending time with Buses By the Beach Friends and exploring
the Early America Encampment.
1:00pm: Tie dye Workshop - Bring some white shirts and learn how to Tie Dye.
This event is for all ages. Donation for materials is appreciated.
4:00pm: Voting for best kids/adults costume and site decoration begins. Put
on your costumes and decorate your sites and let's have some fun! Voting
ballots will be handed out prior to 4:00pm. Please place the card you
received when you checked in on your windshield so others can identify your
site for voting. Also if you have Chili for the Cook Off, please take it up
to the pavilion by 4:00pm for judging.
5:00pm: Dinner is served. Come and enjoy some great chili in the pavilion.
Please turn in your voting ballot for best costume and site at the pavilion.
6:30pm: Award Ceremony. Stick around the pavilion after you eat for the
awards.
7:00pm: Trick or Treat for the kids. They will be going Bus to Bus to get
candy. Please bring some candy to hand out.
7:30pm: Train ride through the campground. 

Sunday:
Hang out and do what ever makes you feel froggy. Maybe a river float trip?

Have a safe trip in and we look forward to being with everyone again!
Wishing you many miles of smiles!
The Volks at Buses By the Beach
www.busesbythebeach.com
