Date: Wed, 16 Sep 2009 07:29:39 -0700
From: "Thomas J. Tarka" <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Trip Report: PGH->Colorado (and back) (part 1)

Volks,

We just got back from a 2 week trip to Colorado and back in my '67 bus, Lily.

The trip was somewhat uneventful, bus-wise, although a host of small issues
came up during the trip, including a couple of fluid leaks which kept me busy 
on the trip out, and I couldn't seem to get engine performance at altitude 
dialed in once we got there.  Nonetheless, we made it there and back.  

Pictures are here:  http://www.flickr.com/photos/avocado_tom/sets/72157622373529392/

The Trip Out:

We got a bit of a late start on the trip - leaving Saturday afternoon instead
of Friday night due to lack of sleep and busy work schedules - we got on the
road and got some miles under our belt.  

Saturday night, somewhere in Illinois, we pulled off to look for a
campground only to be faced with a bunch of Illinois' Finest State
Troopers performing a "Vehicle Safety Check".  We all had a good laugh
at the bus and we determined that something was screwy with the wiring
on the rear right taillight - turn signals work but not when the lights
are on...  Then the bus wouldn't start.  Hmm....  "Mind if I pop
the clutch?" "I don't mind, but that's his cruiser, not mine!"  Lots
of chuckling as I pushed her and we got started.  We also walked away
with the location of the nearest Walmart, where we promply camped (20
or 30 minutes down the road).

Sunday AM the bus started just fine, the dog actually slept the night
(unlike a previous camping experience in a tent), and we were starting
to get the hang of the "move and stack the plastic bins filled with 
all of our stuff around the bus so we can sleep and pull out the bed"
game.  We stopped off at the Arch in St. Louis for a couple of beers
in a brew pub and another nice bar with a deck, then took a ride up 
to the top of the Arch.  Awesome.

Lily was running great at this point but we were somewhere around 
Missouri where I noticed two leaks, one around the valve cover gasket, 
and a drip from the center section of the tranny. Great.  We topped
off the fluids and kept driving...making it as far as the Topeka Kansas
area before turning in for the night.  I stopped a few times to check
the center section oil, and of course, the tranny is whining like
it wants to go any minute.  Or is that my imagination?  Is it any worse
than when we started the trip?  Is this just the sound splitty trannys
make?  Paranoia starts to set in as every sound sets me on edge.  

We camp out at a nice but somewhat deserted campground and in the 
morning I txt Troy and Faster-Laster for advice on VW repair shops 
and GL4 sources in Denver/Colorado.  They are helpful but the calls 
to the shops tell me what I already suspected but didn't want to 
hear: if my center section goes, I'm going to be there for a long time
(assuming I want someone else to fix it).  I check the fluids again
and continue to drive.  The center section has taken about 3/4 quart of
lube (out of 3 qt spec) so the level never got too low (good thing
I'm pretty fastidious about checking that).  The oil I'm just topping
off at this point.

After taking a scenic byway that paralled 70 for a while we stopped
off at Wamego, KS to see the Oz Museum (and buy more oil).  Kudos 
to Mary Barbara for the tip!  We had just finished up at the musuem 
(followed by the dog-friendly winery down the street, which was 
surprisingly great!) and I was on a side street, trying to rectify my oil
leak with the judicious application of some RTV on the gasket.  
An SUV stopped to say hi and ask if I needed any help and I mentioned 
that I should be fine, but when Bill (the driver) mentioned he was a 
beetle guy, the conversation kept going.  So I filled him in our trouble
and tell him that I expected a bum valve cover bail/spring, but that I 
suspected the RTV would take care of it for the time being (and 
in all honesty, I was itching to get some more miles under our belts) but 
he insisted on giving me directions to his house in case we needed to go 
through his parts boxes (he had to run some some errands at the moment).  
15 minutes later Kim, Mojo and I were on the outskirts of town and I pulled 
over to check on the leak: still going (probably should have allowed the RTV 
longer to cure, but...*shurg*).

So we went down the road towards where Bill had told me he lived, where we
found him and his father (who had owned a few buses in his day).  We combed 
parts boxes but to no avail: no spare heads, no spare bails.  Bill thought
for a moment and then insisted that we pull the bail off the engine in his 
beetle, then he opened a brand new engine seal kit just to give me a new and 
spare valve cover gasket.  After a few more minutes of shooting the sh*t (where
we found that his brother had had a siberian husky named Mojo - just as we
had named our new family member!) we were off and running - no more leaky!  
What a great guy.  I love this community and its just amazing that we have
this type of community.

And so we continued on, sleeping for a few hours on the KS/CO border in a
rest area, before we hit the Garden of the Gods the next day, but not before
the bus started to run rough and bog down due to the altitude (?), and not 
start at a gas station or two (although this was always rectifyable by
bridging the terminal and bolt on the starter).  *sigh*

....to be continued....

Cheers,
  Tom
  '67 Freedom Camper, Lily
  '71 Hardtop Bus, TD Transplant hung but not hooked up

---
  "You realists can stay the hell out of our office" - David Dudas
  Like winter camping?  Interested in arts and music? Check out www.frostburnpgh.com!
