From: "Beckley, Matthew" <Matthew.Beckley(-at-)egg.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 2 Sep 2002 12:23:29 +0100 
Subject: Thermostat- to fit or not to fit?

Hello

I was wondering if anyone out there could help me.  I have brought a new
recon engine from Dutch company VEGE.  I have come to dress the engine and
found that all the thermostat controls i.e the flaps, rod, spring and
thermostat itself had been removed from the old engine.   In order to try
and source some parts I called some local scrap yards and restoration
companies, they all said that they could get the parts for me but that they
wouldn't recommend I fit a thermostat.  They advised that if the flaps stick
closed which they have a tendency to do, then the engine will overheat and
this is not covered on my engine warranty.

My concern is that if I do not fit the thermostat then the engine will never
warm up the petrol will not burn correctly and both the performance and the
life of the engine (due to increased wear while running cold) will be
effected.  I live in the UK and as such we get some cold winters.  If I
lived in sunnier climes I may not worry as much.

I called VEGE who advised me to fit the thermostat for all of the above
reasons and that if I check the stat and that the flaps are clean and not
covered in dirt and grime from the roads then they should always work and
not cause any great problems.  The cynic in me says that VEGE would tell me
this as they know they will have to cover me on the warranty if the engine
wears quickly but that if I fit the thermostat like they say and it
overheats they will not have to cover me.

Can anyone give me some independent advise?

Thanks
Matt Beckley
England


This private and confidential e-mail has been sent to you by Egg.
The Egg group of companies includes Egg Banking plc
(registered no. 2999842), Egg Financial Products Ltd (registered
no. 3319027) and Egg Investments Ltd (registered no. 3403963) which
carries out investment business on behalf of Egg and is regulated
by the Financial Services Authority.  
Registered in England and Wales. Registered offices: 1 Waterhouse Square,
138-142 Holborn, London EC1N 2NA.
If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail and have
received it in error, please notify the sender by replying with
'received in error' as the subject and then delete it from your
mailbox.

