Date: Tue, 03 Sep 2002 00:04:26 -0500
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Today's fun

After 5 months of running I'm starting to get a feel for the personality of
my bus: what grade of gas it prefers here, how long it needs to warn up,
etc.

* tires

I've found it's not at all forgiving about tire pressures.  A few pounds
down in the front and it's much harder to steer and there is a lot more road
noise.  I'm going to make a point of checking them more often than once a
month.

My other car never lost any air in the tires but after I had a new set
mounted they slowly leaked all the time.  I had the bus tires mounted at the
same place, Discount Tire.

* valves

I finally changed the valve adjustment screws today (the bus-unfriendly
apartment mgmt is on holiday!) and I did a compression test after.  All 8
screws were quite worn and 1.5 turns in with the new ones seems good so far.
One lifter was more than 2.5 turns and the rest were all over the place.
Compared to solid lifters it's easy to adjust and I think it's worth an
investigation if you don't know how long ago they were adjusted.

I wish the compression gauge I bought from mighty-vac had a finer scale but
all four cylinders are reading 130-135 so I'm happy.

What a time saver a remote starter is.  I bought one with a red light to
indicate battery on/off.  I got a little worried after I was done with the
compression test because I couldn't start with the key but realized I forget
to reconnect the red/black wire to the starter.

* plugs

Can someone read these plugs for me. They are W8CC. #1 is top-left. 2-4-3
are clockwise from #1.

http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell/.Pictures/Maintenance2/176-4Plugs.jpg

They don't match the standard Haynes plug color plate.  Are these plugs
clean or lean?  The only other plugs I've seen were the ones removed after
the first start in 4 years; they were disgusting.

After I did the compression test I forgot to reconnect the plug to the AFM.
When I realized the bus would start but not rev I figured out what was wrong
and decided to take a look at the plugs: they had turned black and sooty.
I'm kind of surprised the bus ran at all...I guess this soot will burn off?

* FYI

After the valve adjustment I redid the dwell, timing and idle.  Afterwards,
I took off the vac-line to the distributor when I went to tighten up the
distributor hex-bolt but forgot to put it back.  Went for a test-drive and
the bus burped every now especially under acceleration.  It fell a lot like
I had a clogged filter. Good to know.

Everything's back to normal and running great. What a pleasure to drive. I
may need that rev-limiting rotor after all!

Once last question. 50 and 52 are stamped in my heads on the inside.  What
do these numbers this mean?

-- 
Richard
1978 Westfalia CDN
Austin, TX

