Date: Fri, 28 Aug 2009 11:56:43 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Another nutty idea... Fuel tank redesign...

I have only had two major complaints about the VW vans. One was the 
seating position. Too high for me and too far forward. Neither can be 
helped much, it is the nature of the beast. Perhaps some MR2/Fiero seats 
to lower my tuckus. Surprisingly I feel pretty safe in a VW van with all 
that bumper bracing despite the forward seating position. Still safer 
than my motorcycle!

The other problem is the fuel system. I don't like that big tank of 
gasoline sitting above and forward of the engine ready to drain it's 
flammable contents all over my hot and sparking engine if a single hose 
breaks. Not enough safety built in to that design. Recently I suggested 
a solenoid valve that springs closed when the power is removed (key 
turned off) mounted to the bottom of the gas tank ahead of any fuel 
lines. Undoubtedly the tank would need to be removed, drained, flushed 
and a bracket welded to the bottom of the tank to hold the solenoid valve.

Others have proposed inertia switches from Fords in case of an accident 
to turn off the pump. I like that idea. A few other folks also suggested 
a tank selector switch from a pickup with multiple tanks to turn off the 
gas flow at the flick of a switch. I'm sure the selector valve or 
solenoid valve and the inertia switch could be tied together for 
automatic accident reaction goodness.

Here is another proposal - a new gas tank design. We've built several 
gas tanks over the years for uses in hot rods. My father doesn't like 
the cowl gas tanks in the 30s Fords. I don't like the in-cab gas tanks 
of the late 40s and early 50s pickups made by GM like I once owned. 
Basically I don't like gas tanks inside the vehicle with me. I tolerate 
my Beetle though I know in a really bad crash gasoline could leak 
through the electrified dash into my lap. Perhaps some automatic foam 
deployment system from an airplane??? VBG! Something that soaks up 
gasoline and turns it into an inert foam?

I do like the VW bus gas tank placement. Would be tough to get that tank 
harmed in an accident from either end of the vehicle.

I began to consider what my "modern" cars have in their systems that the 
old VW doesn't last weekend. I had to drop my '97 VW Cabrio's gas tank 
to replace the fuel line clamps. It appears the old lines shrank a 
little and the factory crimped clamps weren't holding tightly anymore. 
In fact the fuel line to the engine was ready to slip off.

It pretty obvious what was different between my 1978 van and my 1997 
Cabrio -  a top mounted fuel pump. There are no fuel lines gravity fed 
by gasoline. A line breaks and once the pump is turned off the fuel flow 
turns off too.

So what I would suggest is that a person find a gas tank with a fuel 
pump that outputs a pressure similar to your fuel injection from any 
brand vehicle you can still get parts for. VW? Saab? Volvo? Ford?. I 
don't know of any fuel pumps top mounted in a gas tank that have low 
pressure pumps off the top of my head. Perhaps there is a few years in 
the 70s where gas tank design improved, had an in-tank pump but still 
fed a carb. Or would a pressure regulator be able to deliver low 
pressure gas for the carbs without killing the high pressure pump?

So our custom gas tanks are simply sheet metal welded into a box of any 
shape that fits the application with several baffles inside to control 
the sloshing fuel. Cut the fuel pump mounting ring from your donor gas 
tank and weld it into the top of your custom tank. Mount this in the 
stock VW van location.

-OR-

Take the stock VW van tank and weld the fuel pump ring from the donor 
tank into the top of the stock VW tank and weld closed the bottom fuel 
tank line connections. I would weld in a threaded piece of pipe on the 
bottom so you'd have a drain plug for those rare occasions when it would 
be nice to empty the tank of silt and debris.

Another idea would be a long low gas tank that fits between the frame 
rails under the floor. Again a top mounted fuel pump but no bottom hoses 
to worry about breaking off. Yes, this would reroute your heater but 
perhaps that could simply be routed on the outside of the frame rail 
through a pipe more rectangular in profile than round like the stock 
version. Perhaps this might be the time to route it along the inside of 
the bus wall (drivers side) and out of the cold. Again a tall narrow 
rectangular profile that wouldn't take up much space but still move alot 
of air at very low resistance.

I am seeking your thoughts on the matter...

Still waiting for ACME Incorporated to release a turbo diesel hybrid 
conversion kit for the '78 VW Westy. Prob too busy supplying the coyotes 
of the world with Roadrunner capture supplies. VBG! A group somewhere 
out west just put a turbo diesel into a Honda Insight hybrid and kept 
the electric drive and have achieved 100 mpg in regular use. Why aren't 
the auto makers producing these? I could really warm up to a 45 mpg VW 
Westy...

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L (Corvair implanted)
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L (Type IV implanted)
'97 VW Cabrio Highline (stock)
'99 CR-V EX AWD
Brenderup 1205S trailer with top
