From: Hal Sullivan <tristessa(-at-)tristessa.us>
Date: Fri, 28 Aug 2009 22:06:40 -0700
To: List - Type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Another nutty idea... Fuel tank redesign...

On Aug 28, 2009, at 9:56 AM, Joe Average wrote:
> I don't like the in-cab gas tanks of the late 40s and early 50s  
> pickups made by GM like I once owned. Basically I don't like gas  
> tanks inside the vehicle with me.

Funny, that was one of the things I *liked* about the '54 Chevy 1/2- 
ton I used to have, and the various '67-'72 Fords a friend had over  
the years.  It'd take such a catastrophic collision to rupture the  
tank, you'd most likely be dead anyway .. especially with the non- 
collapsable "spearing" column pointed at your chest.

> I do like the VW bus gas tank placement. Would be tough to get that  
> tank harmed in an accident from either end of the vehicle.

Much like the in-cab tank in the pickups.  :-)

Anyway .. on to the technical stuff:

> So what I would suggest is that a person find a gas tank with a  
> fuel pump that outputs a pressure similar to your fuel injection  
> from any brand vehicle you can still get parts for. VW? Saab?  
> Volvo? Ford?. I don't know of any fuel pumps top mounted in a gas  
> tank that have low pressure pumps off the top of my head. Perhaps  
> there is a few years in the 70s where gas tank design improved, had  
> an in-tank pump but still fed a carb. Or would a pressure regulator  
> be able to deliver low pressure gas for the carbs without killing  
> the high pressure pump?

The majority of fuel injected vehicles with an in-tank pump have  
output pressures compatible with the stock FI.  The ones to watch out  
for are the CIS/K-Jetronic cars from European manufacturers, those  
run 70-80PSI in the system .. used from the mid/late '70s into the  
mid/late '80s, possibly into the early '90s but depends on the  
manufacturer & model.  Easy to identify under the hood, CIS has  
individual lines running from a fuel distributor to each non- 
electronic injector.

Carbed vehicles .. while you could regulate the pressure down from an  
EFI pump, it wouldn't be very elegant and the pump wouldn't have a  
very happy life.  The 1980's-era Volvo 240 has an in-tank transfer  
pump that supplies fuel to the main pump (either high-pressure for  
CIS or lower-pressure LH-Jetronic).  '80s-era BMW E30 (318/325) uses  
a similar transfer pump, and (this is where it gets interesting) ..  
the hot-ticket low-buck replacement for a dead transfer pump among  
the Beemer guys is an in-tank pump from a Chevy Vega.  Should handle  
carb(s) just fine, though I've got no idea what the volume/pressure  
specs actually are for that pump.

Hope that helps aim you in a useful direction -- it's all off the top  
of my head, and stuff I remember from helping friends out with a  
couple of 240's and a beat-up 318 .. years ago in another state.   
There's a pretty decent chance I've remembered things wrong,  
especially about the Vega pump .. so read up a bit instead of taking  
my word for anything.

Except the part about reading up on stuff, take my word on that. :-)
