Date: Sat, 29 Aug 2009 11:01:52 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: David Schwarze <dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Solex Rejetting

David Schwarze wrote:
> Mike,
> 
> My reasoning is based on what I have seen on my wideband AFR meter with 
> a properly running, late model computer-controlled fuel injected engine. 
>  Granted, it is not a VW engine and perhaps the same does not apply to a 
> low-compression aircooled engine but I suspect that it does.

If you richen up the mixture, the temperature will keep going up and up 
and up.  I haven't figured out where it will stop, but because of my 
last 2 sets dead heads and temps around 440, I won't try and find out 
again ;)

That said, I think there might be two schools of thought, one of which 
doesn't necessarily apply to the bus, and which I don't wish to discover 
again :)  If you lean it out from a rich mixture to stoich, it will 
probably run hotter just because a stoich mixture runs the hottest.  I 
have not, however, found how much hotter because whenever I run richer 
than stoich (including stoich), the temps go over 400.  I have not let 
my heads go over 400 on my newest heads and I drive 70 on the freeway.

Now, if you lean it from stoich, it will cool off.  I run my AFRs at 
about 16:1 on the freeway at 70mph and my head temps will hover around 
376; and I am running 16:1 almost up to full pedal deflection.  At full 
throttle I set it to jump to about 12-13:1.  When I tried running any 
richer, at even heavy cruise, the temps would still rise to 400 in no 
time.  Yes, I have more power with more gas, but I also run the risk of 
dropped seats.

Now, how much can the heads tolerate, that is most everyone's guess. 
Some say avoid high head temps around 400, some say EGT is the real 
measure (which I'd agree), but who measures EGT?

So yeah, I have spent the past 6 months working on my leaner mixture vs 
the past 6 years running at stoich, and had cooler temps at a result.  I 
just recently programmed it back to 14.7 so it would pass smog, but then 
leaned it out again.  It doesn't run quite as smooth when the mixture is 
leaner than 14.7 (occasional lean misfires), but that's where they say 
that additional timing will help.  Ultimately, I just need to do more 
fuel tweaking, as well.  I haven't had the time, yet, to start working 
with timing as that can destroy the engine in seconds...

But overall, my tests have shon that leaner means cooler.  I even took 
my 60 y/o VW trained mechanic for a drive and he was equally surprised 
when I told him that I need to lean it out.  "That's going to make it 
run hotter!" he said.  That's what everyone's always said, myself 
included, until I tried it, and I've been mistakenly running at stoich 
or richer for years now...

Mike
