To: jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net
Cc: joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net,msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu,dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net,
Date: Sat, 29 Aug 2009 19:15:27 -0700
From: baillybusbarn <baillybusbarn(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Solex Rejetting

So, here is my input on fuel and mixtures and such.

There is so much difference in today's fuels that from day
to day and station to station you will NEVER know what you 
are getting.  Here in Washington State virtually ALL of the 
fuel available on the West side of the Mountains comes from
3 or 4 refineries that produce bulk fuels that are sold through 
dozens of different retailers.  Very seldom do we even see a tanker
with an OIL Company name on the side.

There is not a lot of difference between regular (87) and higher
Octane rated fuels.  What IS different is the additives that have 
NOTHING to do with the power output of the engine it is used in
and mostly are just there to mask the pinging and knocking that 
todays high compression engines develop when they are neglected.
ALL current fuels are required to contain certain additives to clean 
carbon from the combustion chambers and most have ethanol or methanol
to boost octane and "oxygenate" the fuel to make it burn cleaner.
More modern cars have engine management systems that can adapt to
the normal fluctuations in quality, grade and brand.  

So what would I suggest...use regular grade fuel (best for low
compression
and high cylinder and engine room temperatures).  Run your timing as far
advanced 
as possible to produce just a smidge of ping on a hot day with a higher
than normal 
load (trace ping can actually help keep carbon off the tops of the 
pistons).  Run a slightly rich mixture at idle and at mid range.....
BUT YOU MUST ADD EGR to lean the mixture slightly at cruise and on 
hard pulls.  You should ALWAYS avoid WOT for long distances as with 
a properly adjusted or modulated EGR valve the EGR is turned OFF at WOT.

My personal technique for long pulls (like Stevens Pass going either
direction)
is to pull over to the right lane, shift to third and stay at about 45 to
50
mph.  I can almost always crest the pass at 50 or so.  I have a head temp
sensor,
but it is attached to the engine case next to the thermotime switch and
if 
the gauge moves off the cold pin I slow down!

This is only a small part of the fuel story.  I don't have the time to
write a book
right now.  A couple of other things that I have done to make my Buses
live
and run good are:

I use NGK BP6ET (triple tip) spark plugs.  I almost NEVER have more than
50 ppm HC
due to misfires.
I try to get my dwell with new points as close to 45 degrees as possible.
 Within a 
hundred miles it will start to move towards 50.  When the dwell moves
past 50, replace 
the points. 
You can play with the clockspring in the Air Flow Meter, but ONLY move
one or two
clicks in either direction at a time.  This adjustment "loosens" or
"tightens"
the tension on the flap and will change mixture throughout the rpm range
(we 
have been getting Vanagons to pass emissions for years by doing this but
very
often they do not run well after leaning them out)
Keep the egr valve cleaned out.  Both the electronic and mechanical EGR
valves
get carboned up.  Removal, cleaning and testing should be done as a part
of
annual service.  Also do a visual on the pipe inside the plenum on FI
models
as the tube gets plugged (especially at the opening to the valve).

I used to mess with (rebuild, rebush and readjust) Solex carbs for years,
but I have
grown up and now really don't have much faith in that old technology with
todays
fuels.  I am even thinking about FI on my '58 Chev Apache, I just can't
afford it.

Have a great rest of the Summer, glad to hear so many of you are getting
out to events 
and things.  My wife an I are hoping to do a lot of that once our kids
are all out 
of school (our last two are SENIORS this year!), and then out of the
house.

Larry................back at the barn
When do you want to go to Haiti?  I can make it happen.
Christ lays opportunities to serve him at our feet every day.  
We can choose to pick them up or expect that someone else will.
I choose the first.
