Date: Tue, 1 Sep 2009 07:23:30 -0700 (PDT)
From: Joel Cort <joel_cort(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vanagon(-at-)yahoogroups.com, Syncro List <syncro(-at-)yahoogroups.com>,
Cc: Emp_VW_Camping_Club(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Subject: Coming soon - Westies (-at-) Watkins 2009 - Sept 25-27 Watkins Glen,

Hello Fellow Volks campers,
B 
Sorry for Cross spamming - last ditch reminder
for Westies at Watkins event is 23 days away!!

"Westies at Watkins 2009" will
occur September 25-27 hosted by the Empire VW Camping Club and LiMBO . We are
looking forward to seeing everyone again in Watkins Glen for our 8th annual
event at the Birthplace of Road Racing!! 

There have been some recent updates
to the www.westies-at-watkins.org website with the design for this year's
T-shirt shown on the "Tee Shirt" page.B  Hope you like it as much as we do.
Congratulations go out Mark Lund who "single handedly" created the design.
T-shirts of all sizes & selected colors will be available at the event, or
send me an email.

All VWs vans, busses, kombi, cars, popups, even Rialtas are
welcomed to camp with us. 
Last year we had over 75 vehicles camping out with
volks from Nova Scotia, Maine, Ontario, Ohio, MI, NJ, VA, PA, and local NY
towns. 

We have reserved our own loop at the Watkins Glen State Park so all
you have to do is pay when you get there (~$20/night) b no online
reservations required. 
We have selected the Onondaga Village loop at the
campground. It is the closest to the gorge, has showers, bathrooms and sites
that have a common grassy area. 

Friday 
* Arrive, set up and enjoy the
camaraderie and Watkins Glen State Park

Saturday: 
* Morning:. Breakfast
Burrito 
* Hiking the Watkins Glen Gorge on the Finger Lakes Trail! 
*
Afternoon: Wineries! Biking! Discovery! 
* Evening: Potluck dinner. b bring
a dish to share
* Raffles and door prizes 

Sunday: 
* Pack up and say good
bye or carVan to the Race Track
* Race Track... Watkins Glen International
Race track - we get to drive our vans on this world-class race track. 
We had
45 VW vans on the racetrack last year b what a hoot! 

Please do not
hesitate to ask questions if this is murky and you need further details.
Cheers, 
Joel b Westies at Watkins camp counselor 
jcort(-at-)rochester. rr.com
CELL (585) 690-8145 

Founding Member of the Empire VW Camping Club
&
Westies
at Watkins - www.westies-at-watkins.org
