Date: Wed, 2 Sep 2009 12:13:46 -0400
From: Richard Palmer <richard(-at-)teamspatula.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Hey Junkyarders!

This is for all you folks who are lucky enough to have junkyards near you
that actually have busses in them from time to time, since unfortunately
everyone around here has long since crushed everything made before the
1990s...
I am looking for the metal M code plates, which are held on with 2 rivets on
the metal panel behind the driver's seat up until 1976 I believe, and then
up underneath the dash on 77-79 models. A friend and I (Uncle Joel from the
vanagon list for those who remember those days) are working on a bay window
database, and since I can't collect whole busses right now, I've started
collecting those plates as I archive them.
I am also collecting/archiving the metal Westfalia ID tags that are screwed
onto the lower front side of the board which goes across under the back
seat/folding bed.
So, for those who go to junkyards, I will gladly pay you a few bucks for any
of those you can send me, ideally removed in near-intact condition of
course. Bonus for matched sets of Westfalia Tags with the M code plate from
the same bus. Extra bonus for pictures of the silver VIN stickers inside the
driver's door frame, and pictures of the paint code stickers, if they're
still intact.
If the yard wants more than a few bucks, please check with me first, funds
are rather limited unfortunately.
Here are a couple pics I snatched from the Samba gallery:
http://images.thesamba.com/vw/gallery/pix/532923.jpg
http://images.thesamba.com/vw/gallery/pix/284241.jpg
Anyway, I appreciate any y'all can find. Also, if you want to send me
pictures of those 4 things from your personal bus for the database, I will
be happy to have those also, as well as the city and state where the bus
resides. And finally, I also need a few big pieces of the Westy plaid in
blue, green, or tan, although again, low price dictates purchasing ability.
Thanks, and I hope to hear from some lucky junkyarders soon!
:)
