Date: Fri, 4 Sep 2009 18:59:54 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] re: Gas tank re-design

Okay. 2.5 gallons per foot is close. That's about twenty pounds of gasoline
per foot. 8 feet is about 160 pounds FULL which is not at all a problem
because it can't slosh. Now I did state (somewhere?) that I would put baffles
in that tube and I have no problem with that either because the flow rate
under the baffles only has to very slightly exceed the flow rate of the
approximately 1/4" fuel line, right?

The problem could be in adequate
strength baffles and adequately securing the baffles! If adequately
thick-walled tubing was used, it would be well safe from debris damage, but
heavy. Weight down low is not a problem. Remember that the 80+ pounds of
gasoline you're carrying now is above the floor level by about a foot average.
It is also right against the engine compartment and right under the bed.

I
don't know about you, but I am significantly overweight and can still work on
my bus underneath without raising it (I raise it to be more comfortable, but
can swap out a shift coupler on the road without lift.) That means there's a
bunch of space under there. Perhaps my other suggestion of 4" X 8" or so
rectangular tubing may be more appropriate, but at any rate, I think that is a
far safer place for a gas tank than under my bed! As I said, no problem adding
shielding but I think it could be done well without any belly pans.

Perhaps
the bigger issue is if I re-install the ESPAR heater, it will be mounted below
as well. That is an excellent point of ignition for an 8" X 8 foot fuel tank!
I was concerned with my plumbing for the cooling system with a radiator up
front and 1.25" diameter piping to the rear engine. Figure 5 gallons at around
8 pounds a gallon and there is potential for a lot of inertia. In this case I
had to be reminded that it is a closed system and since there is no air in
there, there cannot be any sloshing. Any shift one direction will be cancelled
by the opposing shift the other way. Never been a problem anyway!

The bus
body integrity, Chris, will not be compromised by lowering the rear shelf by
8" provided all the original connection points are generally duplicated. Exact
structural integrity? Yes, you'll have different load because by moving that
"crossmember" down, you change the leverage ratios relative to sidewalls above
and below that point. I think my calculator doesn't go that far to the right
of the decimal! Better to ask how I will handle fender clearance! It's close.
May be a good time to add the tire sanders I've been wanting, too!

The hot
shower possibility is realistic. I use a small 12V electric pump to drain
water from my ice chests. A slightly larger pump would easily fill a grid of
2" - 2.5" black plastic pipe on the roof. There's your solar water heater. How
many gallons do you want? Do you need it to be full while driving? It would be
substantially less weight than a high-top and less of a wind sail. A bus with
a conversion engine a few years ago called the Road Cow used a roof-mounted
radiator. It's relatively easy to control the inertia as long as it isn't in a
massive open tank. Short runs of 2" pipe with cross pipes offset will
eliminate the sloshing. Keeping the grid mostly full will totally eliminate
it. There would need to be a means to deal with expansion and contraction. I
think I would opt for filling it from an outside source or from a tank mounted
under-body only after parking, but that hot shower would be nice as soon as
you stop from a multi-hour drive!

The vacated gas tank space would make for
excellent extra storage and could easily be accessed by tilting the seat-back
forward, assuming the rear seats will stay in the same position they were
already in.

I also want to put a front spoiler and side skirts to improve
handling on freeway jaunts and in gusty winds. My bus already handles
extremely well, but with ground effects, it would be unwavering in those
spring and fall winds. Since I'm doing that and have a gas tank down the
center and a small diesel tank, and maybe a porta-potty, I'm thinking that a
drawer under amidships to put stuff like lawn chairs is in order. A section of
the side skirt would be the face of the "drawer" which would extend as far as
the gas tank would allow.

On the other hand, I have been working an idea that
would allow for the side skirts to be extended or retracted as needed (without
a bunch of motors or such.) It could easily be accomplished with hinged
support bars like those that hold up the extension wings on serving tables and
aircraft cable through pulleys with a single small winch, either manual or
powered. That would make the drawers a bit impractical!

Think about it and
then reply. I love to hear alternatives, naysayers or free thinkers!

-Dave
"Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from
Renton, Washington


--- On Thu, 9/3/09, Susanne Rohner
<baybridgesue(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:
> From: Susanne Rohner
<baybridgesue(-at-)yahoo.com>
 Subject: [T2] Subject: Re: [T2] re: Gas tank
re-design
 To: type2(-at-)type2.com
 Date: Thursday, September 3, 2009, 1:36 PM
Hey all...
 
 
 Hate to be the naysayer, but something's been bugging me
about the 8" tube running the length of the bus...
 
 You
 have a 8 foot tube
8" in diameter (and of course, your
 non-double
 walled tube-tank is right
down there with the rocks and
 hazards, not
 tucked into its corner of the
engine bay), but it just hit
 me - having
 driven tankers at one time, when
you're down to, say, 3/4
 of a tank (or
 tube), you hit the brakes, and how
ever many more gallons
 of gasoline
 will come rushing towards the front of
the bus.  Now I
 know at 8" i.d. every
 foot is about 2.5 gallons, so you have
an instant forward
 motion (or
 more correctly in engineering terms, "moment")
of... 
 15x7.5...  112.5
 lbs of fuel (at 3/4 tank) from however fast you were
going
 to stop, the
 fuel then sloshes at a -50 MPH to the front of the tube,
shoving your
 bus forward and defeating your brakes.  Sure, it's not
 3,000
gallons -
 but it will affect your stopping.
 
 And adding baffles in a length
that long may be
 problematic...  then you have to get it so it drains
 (or
feeds) right, esp. on long uphill (or downhill)
 runs...  
 
 Plus,
 getting
back to the whole protection gig - you'd need a
 tunnel to mount
 your tube
tank, else it would be hanging 8" under the
 bus...  even the
 little propane
tank on the side has a shield to protect
 it's beefy self.  A tube thick
enough would weigh a bit
 as well...
 
 Actually, I thought this idea up a
while ago for a set of
 PVC tubes on top of my poptop to fab a hot water
shower,
 and decided that having that much weight sloshing around
 (never mind
it
 would be on top of the bus, with all the inherent things
 that would
cause) wasn't worth it.  
 
 My opinion???  If you want more headroom, go with
a
 tall-top bus.  ;)
 
 (There's an idea - a tall top with a westy poptop on
top.  Hmmm...)
