Date: Wed, 11 Feb 2004 07:15:21 -0600
From: "Matthew J. Ramsey" <ramsey8(-at-)charter.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Midwest trip report--really long

The following events took place last weekend, as a few members of the
Buskatiers made a seemingly innocent drive from one side of Missouri to
the other in order to retrieve a bay window double cab.

mjr


Trip report:  St. Louis DC saga

Day I:  The Journey begins

I know this trip report has been a long time in coming.  Sorry!  I had
a few things to iron out before I was willing to publish anything in
regards to the trip.

Mark and I met up on Friday evening about 4 p.m. at his place in
Smithville.  Amanda dropped me off and after a few minutes of loading
we hit the road at about 5 p.m.  The jaunt from KC to Columbia was
uneventful and pleasant, filled with good conversation.  We met Tom,
Amy and Gary at a pizza joint near Tom and Amys house.  Gary was ready
to go and we were behind schedule.  The plan was to meet Randy and crew
in OFallon, Ill.; at 10 p.m. it was already a tad after 8 p.m.

We started out just fine.  The road seemed a little ice in places, but
we proceeded with caution.  Of course the idiots on I-70 were flying
past us at approximately 20 miles per hour faster than we were
traveling.  About 30 miles east of Columbia, the road turned to ice.
The pack of cars we were traveling with reacted like cats on a frozen
pond.  Luckily Mark is a top notched driver and reacted in the best
possible manner.  Unluckily a semi-truck was going by us in the left
hand lane.  Things got a bit shaky as we swerved towards the trailer.
At least three times we were really close to sliding under it and
meeting an early end!  After the truck went by, we left the protective
draft and slide across the median, through the two lanes of on-coming
traffic and into the far ditch.  Jumping Jesus on a Pogo Stick.  There
were three freaked out Buskatiers in that Honda!

After checking our pants, the car, and our heart rates, we managed to
move the car from the shoulder to a service road, again thanks to
Marks excellent driving skills.  The services roads were much better
to travel on, so we pushed on in a slow, steady manner.  We progressed
in this manner over to Danville, where we started talking to truckers
and determined I-70 would be safe on into St. Louis.  I had already
arranged to meet with Randy the next morning.  After hooking up with
Amy and Alex at a gas station we finally managed to decide on a place
to grab some food and get down to the real business of being a
Buskatierother than busses of course.  Amy suggested some tasty wings,
as I through the Weight Watchers point sheet out the window, a trend;
which would reoccur through out the trip.

Food and conversation led to heavy eyelids as we made our way back to
Amy and Alexs, soon to be old house.  Amy proudly showed off pictures
of their new house, which remains a very nice looking hole in the
ground.  We, of course, could all see the potential in this very cool
Buska-palace.  Before long we were off to bed.  I am told I started
snoring in mid sentence.  Gary and I had both been up about 21 hours at
this point and the rest did us some good.

Day II:  The Epic Continues

My eyes snapped open at 7 a.m., right on the money.  I told Randy Id
call at 7 a.m. to arrange the meeting.  It turns out our location and
his route came within a few miles of each other.  He agreed to meet us
in a Wal-mart parking lot.  I relaxed reading a veedub magazine while I
waited for the weary band of travelers to wake.  Before long Gary
hustled into the shower and Mark was a few minutes behind him.  Of
course Mark didnt have access to the bathroom so he hopped around for
a few minutes and eventually took care of matters in an alternative
manner.  Amy awoke with a level of excitement equal to my own.  Alex on
the other hand decided he could stay in bed until after the hand off.

A few minutes later we cruised south to Wal-mart and there is sat, my
new bus.  Perched high on the top of a trailer it look odd in
juxtaposition to the big Lincoln Navigator pulling it.  This bus looked
good.  Its white gleam was not at all paled by the day spent on a
trailer in inclement weather.  Pictures had not done this bus justice.
Wow.

The decision to purchase this bus came the day after Christmas.  Id
been searching for a Double Cab ever since Olivia was born.  Long
before her birth, the idea of a new bus seemed good.  Rick Taylor
finally convinced me a DC was the way to go.  I spent the new few
months searching for Double Cabs and Crew Cabs on The Samba.  This one
was hiding from me, for one reason or another.  When I finally did find
it, I knew it was to be the one.  I called Randy and told him I was
going on vacation and needed some extra pictures.  He emailed them to
me while I was on the road and I made the decision.  This bus would
serve as the family hauler for years to come.  Once I returned from the
holiday jaunt, we sealed the deal and it was down to the waiting game.
Seeing the bus in the parking lot made the entire wait worthwhile.

A quick inspection and a short trip around the parking lot led me to
the conclusion I had already formed.  Randy and I did the paperwork,
shook hands and parted ways.  Mark, Gary and I headed into the Wal-mart
to secure supplies, hunt for bus toys and find the holy grail of
Missouri paraphernalia, The Bubby Keg.  Look for this item clutched
tightly in my fingers at all Missouri area campouts.  After spending
more money than I needed to we headed back to Alex and Amys.

Over the next couple hours we made a Napa run, did some work in Alexs
parents garage, and everyone had a chance to drive the new bus.  We
then got ready to hit the road, gassed up (Ill let Gary tell you about
his friend Betty) and found the highway.  Gary co-piloted with me to
keep the heater activated.  Once on the highway we started to notice
some power issues.  The bus ran up through first and second, but seemed
to lack power once in fourth.  We kept at it, worrying about Colorado
trips for several miles.  Finally Mark called us to pull over as he
felt he saw some smoke.  We quickly realized there was a bit of an oil
leak and we found the next exit.

As luck would have it we hit a gas station and noticed lots of oil,
maybe from the dizzy drive shaft.  We decided to go visit
Wal-martagain, and do Gary the favor hitting the White Castle.  Once
back to the bus we realized a whole lot of extra oil in the engine.
Luck was with us again as a Jiffy Lube was next door.  After much
deliberation, the Jiffy Lube crew allowed us to pull the bus in and
dump the oil.  They were amazed by the bus and didnt charge us a
penny.   I do hope the money I slipped them found its way to a 6 pack a
few hours later.

One the road again. we continued to suffer power problems and pulled
off a few miles later to make sure the oil issue was solved.  It was
and we decided to do some choke adjustment.  Back on the road, the
choke adjustment proved not to be an improvement.  This time we pulled
over for good.  Our group decision concluded that the bus was not tuned
to perfection and the lack proper diagnostic toolsand the severe cold,
prevent us from making absolutely sure that no permanent damage was
being done to the long block.  A call to Triple A arranged
transportation.  Our first inclination was to take the bus on to Tom
and Amys and check things out there.  Later the thought occurred to
Mark that perhaps our friend Mike at B and C might provide a nice bit
of guidance on a dual carb equipped bus.

As we waited for Triple A, we enjoyed the hospitality of Heather who
hosted our dinner at the gas station.  It was a Buskatier event, thus
ribs were provided.  We dined nicely at the soda foundation much to the
annoyance of our fellow patrons.  After stuffing ourselves and enjoying
the warm and cold drinks, our friendly tow truck drivers showed up.
Taking Mikes advice we forced the driver to take back roads, as we
could probably get there under the 100 mile ceiling set by Triple A.
Sure enough after two stops and 87 miles the bus was safe in the hands
of Mike.  I must admit, leaving my new bus in the hands of a stranger
over 150 miles away from home was not the best of feelings, but I knew
he was in good hands, and soon Id be headed back to pick him up.

We then headed to Tom and Amys for a 10 p.m. lunch that couldnt be
beat.  Gary eventually climbed in his bus and Mark and I followed him
along I-70.  Being a poor co-pilot and new father I quickly fell asleep
leaving Mark at the wheel.  I woke up a couple times along the way, and
finally regained my spirits near Platte City.  Mike dropped me off in
Atchison at 2:30 a.m.  What a day.


Day III:  The Aftermath

Sunday morning came too quickly.  As a decent hour rolled around the
face of time, I called Mark to make sure we had gotten home in one
piece.  Now that I had time to think, I was a little stressed out about
the bus.  What if something was really wrong?  I wouldnt know anything
for at least a day or so, thus I held off the anxiety as best I could.
I did call Mark and Gary a few times to stress out but they assured me
it was a simple fix.

Day IV: The Wait

I called Mike at 8:30 a.m., so that he was aware of the symptoms we
saw.  At 4:30 p.m., I had to call back but he didnt have any answers.
My wife made note of my less than pleasant mood.

Day V:  News

I held off calling Mike, until 3:30 p.m.  It was a long day.  It has
been over 3 years since a mechanic has touched one of my veedubs.  This
is stressful business.  He had good news.  The leak down test showed no
sign of engine trouble.  He tweaked a few things and dialed the bus in,
as well as identifying a couple other things for me to be aware off.
Happy Day.  The family and I met Mark to celebrate in Platte City for
supper.  It looks like Ill head back down to Freeburg on Monday to
claim the bus.

Ive been kicking around names and I think Adler fits.  Alfred Adler
was a Freudian psychologist, actually worked along side Freud and Karl
Jung.  His theory centers on the principal, that with proper guidance
any man can over come anything that has happened in his life.  I think
this fits.  While the bus had a few quirks when we went to pick it up,
the proper guidance will lead to a bright future as my familys cruiser.

Tom and I are already set to get together on Monday, if anyone else
wants to get into the adventure drop me a line.
