Date: Wed, 11 Feb 2004 12:24:07 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Shox

Volks:

Oh yeah, baby - the standard issue white KYB rear shocks "commonly"
prescribed in the books for '68-'79 Bay Windows are "really" not long
enough for use in the models thusly equipped or optioned with a Type 4
motor.  Not wanting/needing/desiring to own a Bay with a Type 1 motor, I
can't opine on the earlier models - but I "hear" they will work...  If
your bus is suffering from Saggy B*tt Syndrome, the shorty shocks will
probably work on a late Bay and you'll never know the difference...
until the first time you fully extend the suspension to the lower stop -
which is now the innards of the shorty KYB.  Eeeek!

What you want to do is have your friendly local auto parts
counter-person order you the "silver" GR-2s for the Ch*vy Astrovan - KYB
p/n 344082; comes with metric sleeves to fit VWs with metric bolts, the
whole 9 yards.  Ride is smoother than the KYB "whites", and not nearly
as squishy as the KYB "silvers" for the bus application - which are also
too short for later Bays.  I would posit that KYB never bothered to
amend their application guides to make the distinction between the early
and late Bay buses - a true "one-size-fits-all" deal with ugly
consequences for those not suffering from S.B.S.  Don't try this stunt
with the "whites" for the Astrovan - KYB tech support SPECIFICALLY
warned me against it.  We did all this discussion about a month or two
ago - search out the Archive on the KYB part number - the full and
gruesome details are found there.  It's likely you'll need to score some
slightly longer shock bolts too - check the top bolt vs. bottom bolt
length, and get two more of the longer ones so all four of your bolts
used are the same length.  Or simply grind the metal sleeves on the GR-2
a little shorter and use the OE bolts...  No direct experience with it,
but it's not too much of a stretch to imagine that those of you desiring
coil-overs could/would order up the Astrovan coil-overs - IIRC that
there has been discussion of this in the past as well.

Gotta go!

PS - use of the "red" loctite on the oil sump stud as advocated by our
esteemed Librarian is EXACTLY and PERFECTLY the kind of use I was trying
to get across during The Great Loctite Use Debates of the past week.
One might normally "blue" loctite such a thing to keep it from coming
adrift, but since it's not a normally removed or serviced kind of item,
AND the consequences of it coming adrift are likely to cause much
wailing, gnashing of teeth, and rending of clothing...  And if it was
already installed and you could figure out how to clean out the oil -
probably a good use of the "green" 290 wicking formulation.

Jim Hayden
www.savethebays.org
