From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K)
Date: Wed, 11 Feb 2004 21:42:57 -0600 (CST)
To: vwmicro1974(-at-)hotmail.com (Thomas)
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com (Type2)
Subject: Re: [T2] Fair Price for Paint & Body

First--
Let your finger's do the walking and have a mobile dent removal outfit
come over to your place and remove the crease in the nose--
Cheaper than having the body shop cave and pave it--and it will be a
permanent repair--and you more than likely won't see it ever
again--you'll save big money here.

Second--
You mentioned you metal prepped it--with what?
With Dupont's metal Prep?
If you've some miracle in a can on the sheet metal, the painter will
remove it more than likely, prior to sealing / priming the sheet metal--
Do yourself another favor and seal and prime it yourself with some good
stuff--no big deal--

If you have some pin holes for rust--have it leaded --if it's a small
area this is the best and most permanent--

Have the Bus painted in a two stage paint--Like PPG Concept Urethane
base coat / clear coat--it'll last a looong time and always look good,
and is UV and solvent resistant--

How much would I charge??

The materials alone would be close to $1200.00--
Figure $5500.00 OTD inside and out--and you'll be smiling for a long
time when you look at it--

Later,

Terry

 
E-mail message   
 
Hi Guys, 
I am waiting on an estimate for painting my '74 micro... The body shop
owner dropped by my house a couple days ago to inspect the bus and
promised a fax today (didn't arrive). 
The bus is really straight and stripped down to a rolling shell. All
seals, glass, engine, trim, lights, everything removed. All rust has
been ground out and treated with metal conditioner. There are small
holes here and there along the bottom eight inches where the rust used
to be and a crease in the front nose panel. 
It's probably really hard to say what a fair price would be with such a
description, but I was wondering what some of you would pay (or have
paid) for such a job. 
The bus will be painted inside and out one color: Dove Blue. 
Thanks, 
Tom
