Date: Thu, 12 Feb 2004 18:24:31 -0800 (PST)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: I'm back! Planning on a cross country trip this fall. Need

Hello List,

I have been off the list since July of last year.
Since then I have sold my 74 automatic bus with 2.0L
914, f.i. engine. I found that the problems that I
were having were easily fixed and the only problem
that the engine has is a small oil leak. The fellow I
am selling the bus to needs an engine desperately. His
1700cc engine slings oil every where and is currently
only running on 2 cylinders. I had to see (and listen
to) it to believe it.  I will be helping him install
my engine in his bus. This bus won't be wasted.

Any way, I am looking to take a cross country trip
this fall around October. I am starting from
Wilmington NC. I want to travel to San Diego, through
San Francisco to Seattle, to Springfield Missouri and
then back to Wilmington, NC. That should give me a
nice little loop across the country but I am still
flexible. I want to take 4 weeks to do this but that
is not set in stone yet. I am looking for travel
suggestions. My bus has a very stock 1600sp engine. I
am looking to install a rebuilt 1600cc sp engine from
Aircooled.net. The current engine has compression
readings like this 1-100psi, 2-130psi, 3 90psi, and
4-125psi. It runs well but For the mileage that I am
going to put on this bus, I want something reliable. I
don't want to be stuck in New Mexico with a dropped
valve seat. This bus has good tires and shocks. The
brakes are good and the steering is tight. The
transmission is also very good. Should I address the
wheel bearings? I have not had a problem with them but
is this something that I should replace out of
caution? Is there any other thing that I should be
worried about mechanically before going on this trip?
(all electricals work) Any suggestions on which routes
that I should take (not take)? I am looking for
someone that has done this before. Also, what events
are going on around that time of year that I should
plan to go to? Any camp ground suggestions around the
country? Any good hiking spots, biking trails,
swimming spots, etc.?I have never been around the
country and this is my big chance. Thanks for the help
and suggestions! How much money should I budget for
this trip? I plan on bringing food and not eating fast
food to save on money. I am also planning on taking a
big bull dog with me for security and as a companion.
Thanks!

Regards,
David Kelly
volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com
