Date: Fri, 13 Feb 2004 10:11:52 -0600
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] voltage regulator toasted

At 04:08 PM 2/12/2004, Doktor Tim wrote:

>Indeed, half of them may last 20 years. Can anyone testify to a SINGLE ONE 
>lasting 10 years?????

I don't know if they've even been for sale for that long.  The fact that 
these regulators were not factory-installed makes it impossible to have as 
large of a test base as stock.  You of course know and exploit this fact in 
your incessant attacks on aftermarket parts.  That doesn't prove that the 
aftermarket parts are inferior however.

>If it's an original new part there is no risk at all of a new part being 
>non-functional.

Surely you're not serious.  Even original new parts can fail right out of 
the box, especially after sitting for 30 years.

>OK, we have verified 1/4 the expected life of OEM.

You have not acknowledged the fact that this item is providing superior 
service over the stock regulator.  Even if it died every five years I would 
carry a spare and use it because it does a more consistent job of keeping 
the batteries charged than a stock mechanical regulator.

>Very true, there are lots of parts that are not OEM with the Bosch name 
>and logo. OEM is what was on your Bus when purchased new. These were 
>German manufacture typically if not exclusively. These are the one's I 
>still see from time to time function nominal at over 20 years/200,000 
>miles of use. Can't tell you how many times I have replaced aftermarket 
>junk (including some/most of the Mexican and Brazilian crap) that had no 
>more than a few years dust on them. They simply are not manufactured to 
>OEM specs.

So what to do then?  Is your advice to struggle for availability and pay 
ridiculous prices for original NOS parts EVERY time?  Even when a modern, 
superior-technology replacement part is available?

>>Stressed by poor connections?  How did you determine that?  I would argue 
>>that mine failed years ago by not putting out spec voltage.  The fact 
>>that it didn't *completely* fail is irrelevent.
>
>Well, 90% of the time I replace a battery or OEM alternator or starter, 
>poor connections were showing obvious heat stresses.

I will ask the question again - please answer it this time.  How did you 
determine that the regulator was stressed by poor connections?  Or an 
alternator or starter for that matter?  Please provide the tech behind this 
assertion... or are you simply making assumptions?

>Perhaps, but when someone suggests that $20 for junk is a better idea than 
>$24 of junk, either of which leave open the door to short term failure, I 
>just have to advise the problems eliminated by spending nothing at all on 
>junk to ensure superior cost/per mile results offered by OEM parts is a 
>big load of money saved for the actual results given by OEM durability.

I understand that.  But I am asserting that the regulator in question is 
NOT junk, so the above would not apply.  If I was wrong, and there is a 
high failure rate with these regulators, or poor performance, I will drop 
my objection to your argument in this case.

>The wonderful thing about the earlier mechanical regulators is they can be 
>refurbished and readjusted at the side of the road, if you know how.

The bad thing is that they are mechanical and will continue to wear.  They 
are outdated technology, just like points, carbs, and solid lifters 
(ducking and running).

>Rarely will time/money be saved by not replacing the alternator and 
>regulator with a genuine Bosch ReMan/NewMan unit.

I don't know how we crossed over to alternators... maybe you remembered 
that I have extolled the virtues of remanufactured Bosch alternators in the 
past.  I will put nothing else in my bus now.  See?  I agree with you... 
sometimes.  The difference between us is that you ALWAYS recommend 
stock.  Regardless of availability, regardless of price, regardless of 
whether or not the part has been superceded by superior technology.  Such 
one-sided arguments do not make sense except for an unlimited-budget, 
concours-quality trailer queen restoration.

>I know as well, the short term cheapest up front out of pocket purported 
>solution is always easier to sell, as it is sold to either the ignorant or 
>greedy and sold by charlatans via testimonials and claims only.

Sigh.  If you are lumping me into this category, that's very unfair.  I 
have no motivation to sell any particular product to my fellow bus drivers, 
just to help them keep their busses on the road as economically as possible 
(and to get help from them on my bus).  If I find a solution that is better 
AND cheaper AND more available than the stock solution, I feel obligated to 
share it.  If there are tradeoffs, I always mention them so that others can 
be as informed as possible and make their own choice.

If you review my original post on this topic, I mentioned the Wells 
regulator as a potential solution.  I did not say this:

"Go buy the Wells VR-650 regulator NOW!  It's cheap!  It's 
SHINY!  Available in CHROME!  Why pay inflated prices for NOS parts when 
you can have this beauty with a lifetime guarantee for three easy payments 
of $4.99! Used by 99% of the vehicles featured in VW Trends!!!  See the ad 
on page 68!"

Tell you what, in 2019 I will report to this list on whether or not my 
Wells VR650 is still working properly.  If it is, will you then agree that 
it is an acceptable replacement for a stock mechanical regulator?  Or will 
you say, "That is only one example, you were lucky, stock ist immer 
besser", etc.?

-David 
