From: "Sage Green" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 05 Feb 2003 15:08:14 +0000
Subject: What's the buzz... (electrical problem)

OK, I have a current draw in my '78 Westy, and I don't know exactly what is 
causing it.  Not yet.

I have checked almost all of the normal sources,  and pulled all the fuses 
and disconnected the radio via two separate fuses, and pulled the wire on my 
instrument cluster clock.  I still draw close to one amp, measuring  from 
the ground wire of my battery.  But when I disconnect the big, fat red wire 
from the starter solenoid that goes up to the front fuse panel, I am 
golden/good to go!!

SO, when the weather breaks, I will investigate further (running the '78 
each day refreshes the battery.  It takes abut 2 weeks of not running to 
drop the battery to a 7 volts sleep mode.)


The buzz:

Last week I had to recharge the battery.  New Sears charger, on 10 amps 
charge, the charger's positive red to the battery cable positive, the 
charger's negative black to a grounding nut away from the battery.


I came back an hour later, and there was a very loud buzz inside the Westy.  
The rear three doors/hatch were open.  The charger was sitting in the rear, 
over the engine compartment.  I took the charger out, still connected, and 
put it on the street.  Same loud buzz continued.  (Very tiny, low, 
acceptable buzz from the charger.  Kind of the same pitch...)

The buzz was coming from my radio's two rear speakers!!  loud, like you 
could hear it 10 feet outside the Westy!!  Both speakers.  Turned the radio 
on.  Good music came out of the rear speakers, over-riding the buzz in 
proportion to the volume.  (The radio is fed by a always power on spade from 
the fuse box, so I don't have to turn the key on.  I have two lines to the 
radio [one for the radio clock/memory; one for the play], and two 
appropriate fuses.)

I disconnected the battery's positive cable, and had the charger just on the 
battery's positive post.

No more buzzing....


I did not hear any buzz from the front speakers, but the radio was set to 
fade to the rear.  I will try this again (nice day) for the front speakers, 
see if they buzz too.

Any hints??

Thank you.

Barry Burneskis
Springfield VA
'78 Westy - now running; '72 Westy - set to get rebuilt calipers & brake 
master cylinder.
( and 2/10/50 amp battery charger, and jumper cables, and volt 
multi-meter(s), and bottle of vinegar, and wire brush . . . )
