From: "Sage Green" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sat, 19 Apr 2003 13:18:52 +0000
Subject: RE: In Search of a decent Bus friendly FLAPS and VDO CYL Temp

Sad story.  There are at least a dozen type 2'ers in the DC area, and many 
just a few miles from Theodore.  We each have something to share.

I have never met Theodore, though we have corresponded infrequently.


I think it is particularly sad that PEOPLE WHO ARE ON THE TYPE 2 LIST are 
not closer, camaraderie wise.

Bob (Access Systems) has just mailed me a set of horseshoe clips that I 
needed and he had extra, and helped bring back some seats from EB2003 for 
me.  H Steven has helped more than anyone can count.  Marcus is a great 
resource, and has given me more than I can ever hope to return (also sold me 
my starter when I was up-against-the-wall   thanks)

But what about Andy H, Jeff S, Tom T, Jim C, Bob B, Tim F, Colonel C.  And 
at least a dozen other lurkers.  SOme people know some other people, but I 
doubt there is a true network.

I just hope other communities are closer, tighter than the DC area.

This has ALWAYS bothered me, but I just blamed myself for my reclusive 
personality.

Anyway, Theodore,, try Small Car Parts off Hechinger Drive in Springfield 
(they got me a set of hydraulic valve springs at the old price, when BD said 
the price had doubled.  Also, they had as break parts kit behind the counter 
that cost just about what BD + S&H would have been, and it OTC.) .

Fischers in Springfield duplicates R code keys for $1.75.

The wood shop three doors from Fischers can order 3mm 5.5x5.5 ft white birch 
for about $17 per sheet.

Penny's yard in Woodbridge should have some bays.

Foreign Auto Parts in Woodbridge is GONE...

For the rest out there.  www.advanceautoparts.com   will show you some 
prices and parts that you can mail order or know what you are talking about 
when you go to the store.  The stores will order for next day delivery 
without extra charges.  Great for something with a 'core' charge.


Going out yard hunting.

Sorry for venting.

Barry B sends
Springfield VA
