Date: Sun, 20 Apr 2003 11:05:17 -0700
To: "Tom Young" <tomyoung1(-at-)attbi.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] hyd valve adjustment procedure

At 10:08 AM 04/20/2003, you wrote:

>I'm even more unsure about what to do with an older, well-broken in engine.
>   During the 20 minute initial start-up the lifters pumped up.  If I
>let the car sit a few days I consistently have one lifter that makes a
>little noise for 5-10 seconds on start up, that's it.  So what's his advice
>here?

In my experience, your symptoms are the norm. I service 20 or more 
Wasserboxers per year. The only time anyone comes complaining of lifter 
noise is when a non-stock filter and/or too light oil viscosity is in play. 
If I ever replaced a lifter it is too many years ago for me to remember. On 
several occasions particular engines sat for 6 months or more. In those 
cases, 20 minutes hot running resolved the issue. The original adjustment 
and operation procedures seem to work for the great majority. As too the 
earlier air cooled hydraulic lifters, I don't recall a similar issue of 
tappet problems.

I believe that Boston Bob does the kind of volume that he saw not problems 
with every engine and the old procedure, but 10% or more with problems. If 
he had to service a 10% comeback ratio, he had a serious problem to 
solve.  Within a few years of creating several long block per week, he had 
a lot of data available, having the skill to write down the data for review 
and analysis. He solved the problem of the few engines with problems and 
insured an improved compression balance procedure for the whole series. If 
it was my engine, used, I would consider adjusting to his final hot/warm 
setting when it was time for new cover gaskets. If a new engine, I would 
make myself certain of the new procedure and apply it. I would get a new 
updated Bentley and follow that, then ask questions if uncertain of 
anything. Before and after compression tests should tell the tale with used 
motors.

A danger with resetting old motors is if and only if it has a build up of 
varnish from always late oil changes. A new setting of a lifter might stick 
hard on a varnish ring at the former limit of travel. So, if you always 
change your oil BEFORE it gets over loaded, you won't have ANY varnish. It 
will still be as clean as the day it was assembled.


>1) Go back to the "newly-assembled" engine drill up above?

I've been considering whether or not I should begin selling this 
readjustment service on motors that show spec compression balance. I had 
one a month or more ago. Owner wanted to sell it. Running poor. Compression 
shows just beyond spec. I told him and adjustment of the valves MIGHT 
improve running, otherwise, it's long block time. Nope, not worth 3/4 hour 
to a hopeful seller. I would not apply the new engine procedure for a 
run-in motor, only the final adjustment.

>2) Re-set the pre-load to 1/4 - 1/2 turn?

If that is Boston Bob's setting, I would use it after discussion with my 
long block builder. I want to make sure that they accept the procedure 
under terms of warrantee.


>Can you quote to us what the new Bentley manual says in this regard?

I haven't seen it yet, other than I do recall having seen scans of the 
pages on the net. Don't remember where, maybe Boston Bob's. I'll buy a new 
manual and apply the updated procedure if and when I order the next 
hydraulic long block, after discussion with my master builder and client.
