Date: Sun, 20 Apr 2003 12:59:33 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Archibald <androbus(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type_Two_List <type2(-at-)type2.com>, vanagon-list
Subject: valves adjusted(sorta..) now a final VERY IMPORTANT question

OK Guys....still VERY UNCLEAR on this whole adjustment
thing. I have been wrenching on airplanes, cars and
motorcycles for over twenty years, and always comprehend
fully, but this time.....

Yesterday I tighten all down until the adj screw just
contacted teh actual valve and you cound see it just
compress teh spring..I stopped here and tightened the nuts.
on start there was valve clatter, but it mostly went away
after driving for eight miles...hmm! was wondering if it
just needed a final bedding in in the morning, but...still
thinking not right...

ok, I re-adjusted this morning after letting things sit
overnight... according to my readings some were slightly
OVERTIGHT!?? and others loose. I re-adjusted tehm again,
this time slightly pushing the spring down just a hair.
started up and no valve clatter....hmmm!

so do I understand that what ALL the books and you all are
trying to actually say(but not saying) is to adjust the
valves until the spring/valve compresses....THAN tighten
the adjuster down another 1 1/2 turns? on doing this than
the lifters will react and spouge out the excess oil until
the spring isn't compressed(guessing in the first five or
ten minutes of driving?

Really need to clarify this. I am no dummy, but this is
really fuzzy unlike ANY engine I have ever worked on over
the years....wierd If what I am surmising is the correct
way, I think the manuals NEED to be re-written to prevent
expensive mistakes and blame placed on misinformation...


Oh yeah! THe engine now runs like a champ!  ;-) all teh
missing power from the bad #3 intake seat, and the #1
exhaust seat that had receded 32mm!!!! into the head! Yes!
htat is right!  ;-0 lotsa welding-n-re-working there!  ;-)

Cool! ;-) running on four freshly honed and newly ringed
pistons, rebuilt heads, and now sorta adjusted valves....
IT feels sooooo good to be driving the westy again after
the last two months of driving borrowed cars!

soon...onto the '78 westy!  ;-)
and.....diesel conversion in the '84 vanagon...
but....
now back to wrenching on the midget and land-rovers for a
change!  ;-)

Paul(scratching head)
