Date: Sun, 20 Apr 2003 13:51:06 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Thomas J. Tarka" <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: re: backfire under load

On Sun, 20 Apr 2003, Bus Gypsy wrote:

> bus with a 1600 DP about 160 miles.  When I got off the highway about 
> halfway through the journey, my engine started to backfire when any load was 
> put on it.  Seems to have progressively got worse.  I am now stuck up in the 
> backwoods of Vermont having mad anxiety attacks.

First: relax.  Take your time.  Be patient.  You will get home, it will be 
ok.  :)

Alright?

Ok, the problem sounds like:

a) an exhaust leak 

b) running too rich

c) timing problems

(B) sounds the most likely, as the exhaust leak backfire will usually 
manifest itself when you take your foot off the gas.

First:  are you running the stock air cleaner or do you have a paper air 
filter on there? I've had paper filters clog (in the middle of the desert) 
and had to run without a filter in order to get to a store.

I would check, in this order:


1) is the choke fully open when the engine is warm
2) no obstructions in the air cleaner (open it up and see)
3) timing: do you have a timing light?  dwell meter?  If so:
	a) verify dwell is within tolerances
	b) verify timing
	c) verify that the engine advances to ~29 deg BTDC at full
		advance (3200 rpm) 
4) pull a spark plug:  is it black and sooty?  YOu're running rich...
	b) if yes, you might want to pull all plugs and clean them out,
		then again, they'll probably clean themselves if you
		run it for 15 minutes at the right mixture
5) carb float needle valve:
	pull the top off your carb, and verify that the needle valve in 
	the carb top stops fuel from flowing when the button is
	pushed "up" towards the carb top. This valve can get 
	filled with crap that gets past the filter and cease to
	close, causing your engine to run rich
6) I would NOT start playing with your carb mixture unless this is 
	something you've done before and are very comfortable with

after that, you can verify fuel delivery (pull the fuel line, get a can,
remove coil wire, have friend turn over engine and pump gas into can), 
etc.

Hope this helps.  You might want to check your valves while you're there 
if you're inclined and the engine has sufficiently cooled. Just because 
they were just done doesn't mean that they're still on.  and really, you 
can never adj. your valves too much :)

HTH,
	tom
	71 bus
	67 kombi
