Date: Tue, 22 Jul 2008 22:24:33 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Jason Meyer <thesykboy(-at-)gmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] And now for the other end of the spectrum

Uhh, install nice cool A/C?
 
 Like literally a nice VW "COOL" system under the dash, or better yet a DPD
system under the dash (IF ANYONE HAS ONE NOS TALK TO ME, I'll pay top dollar
for just a NOS DPD evaporator under dash unit, I've missed two on samba over
the years, but I want it NEW.)  Either will work OK, not like a modern car but
they can keep two front passengers in a modicum of comfort (say like in the
low 80s on a high 90s day.)  Either will be better with a modern compressor
retrofit than the boat anchor Yorks they came with, for this consider ICE
systems if they still exist or roll your own.  The T4 is marginally able to
handle this, it may decrease you engine life a bit, but if you keep the tin
sealed up and fit the compressor sealed carefully, pay attention to your oil
and cylinder head temp gages as to when to turn it off (you do have them don't
you???) and be sensible with turning it OFF under heavy load or when stuck
idling in traffic (when you need it the most)
 engine life in a bay won't suffer too badly.  Full setups are common in
yards, if the engines are no longer with, the drive pulley can be a bit pesky
to find, but not that uncommon.  I've often thought that a nice tiny Subaru
compressor however mounted where a smog pump would go on a such equipped bus
running off a smog pump belt assembly (with appropriate pulley made for the
compressor) would be the swiftest idea, all in the engine compartment, no
holes in the tin, etc.  But here in AK I don't need it, my stock COOL system
is just fine.  Oh for an easier alternative consider a swamp cooler, or
amulance fans (not necessarily cheaper though.)
 
John

--- On Wed, 7/23/08, Jason Meyer <thesykboy(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:


get heat exhaustion. I am dealing with it alright, but it sure is making me
jealous of that car next to me with that nice cool A/C.
