From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: "bus" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 23 Mar 2004 07:30:09 -0800
Subject: RE: [T2] My Brakes is broke - Cracked linings on shoes

LOL!

He had two daughters and I grabbed the last one  ;o)
Not only does he perform amazing feats with machining and smithing,
he also allows me to store my parts bus next to his machine shop out
back.  Truly a helluva guy.  And a total bonus that the love of my
life has such an amazing dad.  He is a military history buff and has
been known to store the occassional Deuce & 1/2 or amphibious
personal transport, so my "little ol bus" isn't perceived as a
massive hunk of steel occupying much needed space.
  Now,.. onto the question at hand on the teflon process...

Product info that I currently possess:

He retails this service/product.  He is not the creator of this
product line.  I believe that he orders his supplies from this
company.  So it should be perfectly possible for others to look into
if they feel so inclined.

The company is called, Zkote inc.

It is a spray on process that can be done with an airbrush setup.
The system can utilize either molly or teflon.  You have the ability
to choose colors.  I am aware of the existence of Red, Black, Grey,
and Olive Drab, Gloss or Flat are also options.

  As with most atomized sprays it is a multiple spray layer process.
The oven that he uses is an actual standing oven.  It is not like
the one in your kitchen and not a kiln.  I'm 6'2" and this oven is
taller than I am.  Ventilation and respirator is a must because of
the particulate vapor.  I do not know how hot the oven gets or the
manufacture. I can get this info for you if you email me privately.

In the event that a net search yields little or no results for Zkote
inc., email me and I will contact him and ask him the details.


> Does your father-in-law have any more daughters????  Does
> he want to
> adopt???? :-) What an excellent solution!!!!!  I had
> never heard of
> applying teflon at home. Could you ask him about the
> process and what is
> involved?

This was too damned funny,  anyway email me if you wish more info on
it.

Seann Stafford
76' T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
76' T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
