From: "Marcus Schaper" <mschaper(-at-)gvpt.umd.edu>
To: "'Chris M.'" <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 23 Mar 2004 14:26:59 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] turbo your heat.

Chris,

My heat problem is a volume issue. I can barely keep my hands over the
outlets on the dash when the engine has heated up, but there is not enhough
volume to really do much more than keeping ice off the windshield.

My bus is a 74 - no 180 bent here. Obviously, there is less heat transferred
the more volume you push through, but for the short time my bilge blower was
working, I got a decent volume of nice warm (though not hot) air.

Marcus

-----Original Message-----
From: Chris M. [mailto:busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net]
Sent: Tuesday, March 23, 2004 13:59
To: Marcus Schaper
Subject: RE: [T2] turbo your heat.


Good to know...

So do you think the marginal heat was a volume problem or a temperature
problem or a combo of both?

FWIW I saw a BIG difference in heat output between a low mileage '78 with
the horseshoe 180 deg. bent pipes that still had the factory outer layer of
metal and then the same bus a couple years later after the outer layer had
rusted off. They really hang out in the wind and prob. really cool off the
heat potential of the heater boxes.

IOW wrapping the pipes should make a huge positive difference BUT it's going
to cut the expected lifetimes of the pipes to a season or two. I have a
Corvair turbo crossover that was wrapped and the metal was seriously ruined.
I can send picks to anyone that wants them...

The low mileage '78 made good heat down to low temps (below freezing - 27
degrees) despite the low air volume.

I expect a '72-'74 system would be a good choice too if used with the '78
style flappers to keep the heads cool.

My theory is that speeding the air through the heater boxes with aux blowers
bigger than stock may limit the amount of heat transferred to the air. IOW
the extra volume may only be useful to clear the windshield.

Anybody want to pick this apart please? Enjoying the debate...

Thanks Marcus!

Chris

----Putting the bilge blower before the heater boxes only helps marginally.
