Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Tue, 23 Mar 2004 15:44:19 -0800
To: "Giles, Solo Photography" <gclement(-at-)solophotography.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Starting a road trip, need advice

On Mar 22, 2004, at 4:44 PM, Giles, Solo Photography wrote:

> here's the scoop. I need to outfit my bus to work as a mobile office. 
> I work
> as a photographer doing concert photo's mainly and want to spend the 
> summer
> covering as many festivals as my four wheels can get me to.

...

> Here's one question, I need a computer and don't have a decent laptop. 
> Could
> I run a desktop off a inverter or is that just completely nuts. I 
> would have
> to get an LCD monitor which is fairly low power. If I had anything of a
> budget I'd just get a balls to the walls dell 8600 but that's not an 
> option
> at the moment. Also has someone had experience using a spring pcs 
> phone as a
> wireless modem?

I love this sort of topic :-)

I have done this sort of thing many times before, though not always in 
a Bus.  Several years (and a couple of jobs) ago, some co-workers and I 
were headed down to and IETF meeting in LA -- we drove down from the 
SFBA along US-101, and inside the Expedition we rented for the trip we 
had quite a little network ... 4 laptops, a small Ethernet switch, and 
a GPS (mostly for keeping time)... all powered from a Linksys power 
inverter that I picked up at Fry's for not very much money.  My wife is 
also a photographer, and we have gone on some mobile shoots.

I would highly recommend that you NOT use a desktop PC for this 
purpose, for a few reasons:

	1. It is very large.

	2. It consumes a lot of power.

	3. It practically has a sign taped to it that says "steal me".

Get a laptop computer.  I'm a Mac weenie, so of course I think you 
should get a Mac (and, hey, you're a photographer, and Photoshop is so 
much nicer on a Mac anyway :-)  Benefits of a laptop:

	1. It is small and totally self-contained.

	2. It consumes very little power.

	3. It is portable (take it out of the car) and easy to hide (in
	   case you really need to leave it in the car).

	4. It is portable, which means you can take it with you on a shoot
	   (stuff it into a backpack) and use it to dump the contents of
	   your CF cards when you've filled them all up.  Nothing sucks more
	   than running out of "film" when you're on a shoot.

Get a power inverter that will plug into a cigarette lighter socket.  
Plug a surge suppressing power strip into the inverter.  Plug your 
normal cell phone charger and the laptop into the power strip.  This is 
slightly cleaner than getting special adapters to power your laptop 
directly from 12v and then using 12v socket splitters all over the 
place.  Added bonus is that you can plug camera battery chargers in, as 
well.  Account for the wattage you're going to pull, and make sure you 
get an inverter that is large enough.

Consider putting in an aux battery (using a Westy-style charging relay 
circuit) if your Bus does not already have one and rewiring your 
cigarette lighter to run off the aux circuit rather than the unswitched 
main battery circuit that is stock.  You'll be glad you did the first 
time you avoid having to jump-start the Bus because you ran a bunch of 
stuff off the battery for too long while the engine wasn't running.  
(I'm planning a variant of this; installing 1 or 2 12v sockets on the 
aux circuit back near the city power outlet in my '76 Westy... if you 
were planning on having your mobile office in the back of the Bus 
instead of the front, then I would suggest the same to you :-)

Regarding mobile Internet coverage... I have no experience with Sprint. 
  I am a happy Verizon customer mostly because I seem to have pretty 
good digital coverage wherever I go.  I have never used their Internet 
connectivity service.  AT&T wireless also has one.  If you get a Mac 
and a Bluetooth-capable phone, I believe you can use your 
Bluetooth-capable phone as a modem and dial in to any Internet dial-up 
service you choose (Earthlink has a pretty decent low-end plan that is 
like $10/mo ... I use it for when I am traveling for business).  Some 
non-Bluetooth phones may be connected to your computer using USB, and 
some of those may also provide modem functionality when so connected.  
Research the phones available for use on your provider.

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
