From: "Heath, Raymond E" <raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com>
To: "'Rich Van Baalen'" <rvanbaa1(-at-)tampabay.rr.com>, Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 19 Feb 2002 05:57:40 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] Having the right tool (was Cant get Tie Rod off)

You got lucky on your drag link removal. Mine was a bear at the steering
box. I had to end up pulling the steering arm so I could get my tie rod
extractor around the end. I used copious amounts of LPS and tightened down
the tie rod extractor. Then I went in for a cup of coffee. About the time I
got out to the garage I heard a "POP" and knew the joint had come loose.
When I put it all back together I forgot to line up the steering wheel,
whah, so I will probably dive under there again next month. Turned out my
drag link was the only problem, will replace the tie rod ends when I rebuild
the front end.



-----Original Message-----
From: Rich Van Baalen [mailto:rvanbaa1(-at-)tampabay.rr.com]
Sent: Tuesday, February 19, 2002 4:22 AM
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] Having the right tool (was Cant get Tie Rod off)


A little over a week ago I entered a 5 hour death match with the removal of
the tie rods on my '67, and started this thread.  The advice from the group
was to go pick up a tie rod puller (aka pickle fork) which I did for $7 at
the local auto parts store.  At the time I really didnt want to spend $$ for
tools I probably would never use again (although somebody mentioned using it
to deter thugs from  breaking into the house; I could see it having some use
there <g>).  It worked and I finished the job.

I was hoping that the tie rods would fix a loose steering problem, but if
anything it was worse than before.  Yesterday I dropped the belly pan and
found that the drag link was shot as well.  I went down to the FLAPS and
coughed up some more money on a replacement (sigh), ready for yet another
death match.

Because I had the 'never to be used again' pickle fork, I was able to remove
the old part and had the new one on in about 30 minutes.  It is amazing what
a difference having the right tool will make, and I will never grumble (too
loud) again about buying specialty tools.

BTW the FLAPS had the drag link assembly for under $25.  It seems that they
had special ordered it about 10 years ago and the guy never picked it up.
The box was falling apart and it had a nasty layer of dust on top of it.  I
guess I can rationalize the cost of the pickle fork with a price break on
the replacement part.

--Rich



---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: vintagebus-unsubscribe(-at-)type2.com
For additional commands, e-mail: vintagebus-help(-at-)type2.com
Donations help keep the list going. http://www.type2.com/donate.html
