Date: Mon, 04 Feb 2002 20:41:59 -0500
From: Jim Mowreader <xpr3(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Rob Henley <campcrazy(-at-)carolina.rr.com>,
Subject: Re: [T2] Please help me start this old bus!

Rob Henley sends:

> You can't fix the gas tank without removing the engine, but you will want to
> do that as soon as you can. There is a lot of info in the archives on this.
> I don't know if its ok to do this or not, but I would siphon out the old gas
> if I were you. If there is rust (and other crud) you will need to do the
> tank, but fresh gas must be better than the gas thats in there now.

Better than siphoning:

Go to Home Depot and buy a ground rod. They're sold in the electrical
department. Also get a pair of jumper cables, which you should have. You'll
need a metal bucket.

Drive the ground rod into the ground. Hook both the red and black clamps of
one end of the jumper cable to the ground rod. At the other end, hook one
clamp to some bare metal on your bus--a transaxle lug is good--and the other
clamp to the metal bucket.

Unhook the battery's ground cable at the battery end. Unhook the positive
cable and remove the battery from the bus, if you'd like. Remove the gas
cap.

Now unhook the fuel line from the engine and put it into the bucket, and let
it drain. Hopefully you don't have more than a bucketful; if you do have
more than that, stick a pencil in the fuel line and change buckets. (If you
absolutely cannot get a metal bucket, get a plastic one, then get a piece of
unpainted metal, like six inches of rebar, clamp that with the bucket clamp,
and throw it in the bucket.)

With siphoning you're never quite sure if maybe the end of the hose got up
above the gas, or if maybe part of the hose end got uncovered and let the
siphon action stop. Do this and you'll get it all. The grounding is to
prevent static electricity from ruining your whole week.

Oh yeah. As everyone else will tell you, replace all the fuel lines while
you're there. And change the brake hoses too.
-- 

--jmowreader
xpr3(-at-)earthlink.net



