Date: Tue, 05 Feb 2002 22:26:21 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Parts FS in WV (long, various VWs)

Well I'm starting some long awaited projects and need to
unload some crap I'll never use.  Not all Bus stuff but somebody
might want some of it anyway as VW people are VW people.

'79 left side German heat exchanger, NOS $250 obo (which is I think
about what I paid Ron for it years ago, simply unreal quality, this is
German I want Dansk price, weighs a ton) slight dent as I got it, will
ding out perfectly.  I will trade this for a NOS German RIGHT side
'72-'74 box if you have it and want to do so.

'80 left side CA exchanger, new Dansk $75 obo
'82 left side CA exchanger, new Dansk $75 obo
(not sure on the years really on those, one has EGR, one does
not, Dansk here is wonderful quality as good as stock unlike the
'76-'78 Dansk boxes but they are ? stainless compared to stock)

'85 GTI/Jetta/Golf suspension  $150 obo (this consists of all basically
new KYB inserts/shocks from Ron, they drove 32 miles before I blew
up the engine, price now is $45 each fronts, like $35 each rears, also
include the 105k mile GTI springs (fronts have surface rust worse than
backs) at your discretion, and the two new German front bearings ($35
each though one is oddly a bit seperated when weigth hangs on it, which
it never does in practice, I just note that it is odd)  Anyway 30 miles for
real, all look new, will renew the handling of any A2 car, $220 or more
worth of stuff.  The rears are assembled but you should use your spring
caps as these were pretty rusty.

'85 GTI glass, the entire car, windshield was about 2 years old at time
of parking, pretty nice, rest of glass (2 ventwings, 2 front windows, 2 rears,
1 hatch with 3 holes for spoiler) is nice original.  Also include the rear
hatch (OK shape, spoiler gone) if you want it.  $150 obo

Plenty of bus steel wheels, various conditions, $5-$25 each depending
all small bolt pattern.  No garantees I'll price by surface condition only
will not bother to see if they are straight.

'87 Van auto tranny, good used, reputably rebuilt (no real idea PO
claimed it and had no reason to lie as I bought the van for nothing with
the engine sitting in the boot, pan is painted blue AAMCO?)  ran well but
has been sitting on my front porch for 3 years.  $200 obo should fit any '76
to '91 if you find some way around the oil cooler on the front.  110k mile
converter seal replaced maybe 4 years ago.  Will include a 85k mile '90
auto section only, I don't think there is a thing wrong with it actually I
think the tranny to final shim was mis-sized at the factory (common in '90
and '91) and after time it began to make noise, ran fine.  I partly took it
apart and found nothing wrong with it.  It has been sitting on the floor in
a bag for 5 years, may be party dissasembled, and has a '89 Jetta valve
body and linkage on it as that is what I put back in the van in its place.
One of those I wanted to put it back in with the correct shim but just
couldn't bring myself to do the labor twice if I ended up wrong and I knew
the Jetta box was solid.  $75 for this box, $50 with the other I think
there is
nothing at all wrong with it, I don't really recall if I put it back together
or not, as long as it has sat it would be wise to dissasemble and soak
it all down in ATF anyway.

'87 Van power steering rack and pump, both good used sitting 3 years, will
pull.  $250 obo (I paid $250 for a used pump alone back in '91) also 110k
You can have any hoses you want as well, the steel lines have WV style
corrosion but did not leak.  System has been sitting sealed.

'87 Van A/C system.  R 134A converted right before she was parked (3
months before) still has good pressure, all new o-rings, full purge, new
dryer, etc.  compressor clutch did make some noise but worked fine.
this is for basically the compressor and condensor, I might be inclined
to rip out the evaporator from inside and pull hoses but only for good
money.  Interior ducts are there but not all pretty, factory recall done in
typical VW service manner.  $250 obo.  You could put this into an earlier
style bus without A/C if you wanted to and like the later ducts but I will
NOT pull the ducts in a salvageable manner, if you want to come do so,
the whole shebang for $200.

'87 radiator/fan.  Worked nicely, $75 alone, $50 if you want it with the
A/C setup above.

'85 GTI lights/signal.  two headlights, lenses intact, R has a $4 adjuster
gone, L has tab broken off reflector at same adjuster location could probably
JB it.  rear signals nice, front fender signals nice, front bumper mount
signals OK.  $60 obo

'85 GTI L front fender.  was new 2 years before park, but crappy Taiwan
fender painted poorly, still pretty good shape, will clean up, one bad
spot of surface only rust.  $20 obo less if you show up for it.

'87 Van dashboard, nice enough I think, maybe one small melted spot
from an errant soldering iron.  $50 obo no instrument cluster, I mean
just the black dash and probably a ash tray with a crack and all the
change in it (you might get $2-3 bucks back right there)  Much less if
you pull it, also a brown '81 camper dash in similar shape for the same
or free if you pull it.

'87 Van heads, a set, run about 100 miles (don't ask, long story but
nothing at all wrong with them) $400 will include most of a Elring
gasket set (enough to put the heads on, the crank seals are gone as
I recall)  They are Stephens rebuilds but I went through exquisite pain
to get a set I liked (3 returns) and of course got taken for the cores.
Nice set of heads, great deal with the gaskets.

'85 GTI front and rear bumpers, fair shape, scuffs about as you would
expect for age, maybe a bit better than normal no major damage or big
gouges.  Not just the covers, the entire bumper assemblies.  Red strips
are faded variously, one nearly white, one still bright red, two somewhere
between. $50 obo

'84-'88? Dodge T3 turbocharger, factory Garrett remanufactured unit,
water cooled center section, 0.42/0.48 AR, great for quick spool up
and long life on any 4 cylinder application.  would be great for air cooled
VW but not worth paying $140 for a new oil cooled center section really.
most everything on it new, looks new.  $700 from Dodge, $450 from
turbo city without the wastegate, $250 from me firm.  Would make for
a real interesting waterboxer project using 2.1 pistons in a 1.9 liter
engine to lower the CR, I mean the waterboxer exhaust is just begging
to have a turbo slapped on it already.

Lets see, all parts somewhere in north central WV, various locations
realy.  Please make reasonable offers, but the stuff has sat and can
continue to sit as far as I am concerned.  All good used parts, I'm
representing condition as I last knew it, some stuff is near new, the GTI
suspension for instance is a heck of a deal for the right person.  I will
ship most stuff UPS ground for actual shipping and nominal boxing
fee if I don't have a box.  I will not ship the glass/dash it is pick up only
or I might deliver it to DC metro area.  The fender and bumpers I will
slap a label on and you can hope for the best or you can pick it up,
I will not bother boxing em.  Some of this stuff I got no real idea on
current value, if I'm way off, tell me, maybe I'll listen.  I'll probably
start
the stuff on *bay after this, figured I'll air it here first.  Have other
stuff,
much T4 engine stuff of various used condition but I've given a lot of good
stuff along those lines away.  Still a very nice 1700/1800 crank if it isn't
taken by the person I'm currently talking to about it.  A number of core
2.0 cranks that need ground by my book but I've seen idiots buy worse
for $50 each on the bay.  Scores of core heads that AVP may take but
aren't really worth the effort.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu


