From: "Robert S. Whitaker" <rswhitaker(-at-)pplant.ucdavis.edu>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 5 Feb 2002 23:30:01 -0800 
Subject: Re: Please help me start this old bus!

------_=_NextPart_001_01C1AEE0.1670C0C0
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset="iso-8859-1"

 
>which is why all gas pumps nowadays have a notice
>"keep the nozzle in contact with the vehicle during fueling."
 
With all due respect. . . Nonsense. There is no such requirement and I have
never even seen such a notice although I'm not disputing the logic of it.
 
Nationwide in the year 2000 only 16 gas pump fires were suspected to have
been caused by static electricity. There is a notice however to turn off the
engine during refueling because a running engine can generate static
electricity. And you may see a notice to place all portable containers on
the ground when filling them.
 
Yes there is a chance but statistically it is extremely remote. A gas pump
is indeed grounded (as your bus may be in your recommendation) but how many
people drive a stake to ground their jerry cans when they fill them up at
the gas station - none. Those jerry cans have to get filled somehow. How
many people ground the vehicle and the container when putting gas in their
tank from a portable container which is often metal, polyethylene or
polypropylene? Anyone who has taken a kayak off of a roof rack knows how
easily polyethylene builds up a static charge. The transfer of gasoline from
a non-grounded vehicle to a non-grounded container (or vice versa) occurs
hundreds of thousands of times per day. You are better off focusing your
energy on insuring that you have good ventilation when draining fuel because
it's the vapor rather than the liquid fuel that is highly flammable and
doing so would protect you from all possible ignitions sources, like
dropping your wrench on the concrete or the biggest culprit - the hot water
heater. You are far more likely to get killed by a stray bullet while
pumping gas or draining your tank but I'm not going to wear a bullet proof
vest while doing it. I'll take my chances :)
 
 

------_=_NextPart_001_01C1AEE0.1670C0C0--
