From: "Richard" <cathrich(-at-)tpg.com.au>
To: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 27 Jul 2005 12:51:54 +1000
Subject: Re: Solar Chargers

I meant to reply to the last solar charger thread, but never got around to 
it.
A few things to note regarding solar chargers (some already covered in 
previous posts):
Firstly all the small solar chargers advertised (anything under ~15W) are 
really only to keep a battery topped up, and maybe allow for small power 
drains on power like a clock/alarm system/radio memory etc. And that's all 
their good for.
The next point to remember is the wattage advertised is usually not what you 
get in practice. Most solar panels are setup to produce up to ~18V open 
circuit and the wattage is quoted at this voltage. The BEST way to judge a 
solar panel is on it's rated amperage (current).

So for those serious about using solar panels as an alternative power supply 
when camping long term in your trusty VW bus there is a lot more to 
consider!
Just as an example, on my recent extended trip (6 months on the road in our 
'77 bus) I used the following setup:

Battery, 100AH deep cycle lead acid battery.
Charging: Stock 55A alternator & voltage sensitive connecting solenoid (main 
to aux. battery) + 2 x 3 AMP solar panels combined with a regulator.

The solar panels, when combined in parallel produce a measured 6 amps in 
midday sun aligned perpendicular to it. So at 12V that's 72W. The panels I 
bought were rated to 50W each, so that's 100W combined. As mentioned above 
this is because they rate a solar panel at max. voltage and current, which 
generally is not achievable. As an interesting note, the output drops to ~2A 
with the panels perpendicular to the sun and ~1hr before sun set. The other 
interesting note is any shade, even only on one corner of the panel and it's 
output drops off dramatically (~20-30% of max). Some solar panels are not as 
affected by a bit of shade, but generally their output per area in full sun 
is not as good. My panels are mounted in an aluminium frame and bolted to 
roof bars. They almost cover the whole front cabin, gutter to gutter & 
windscreen to B pillar.

 The regulator limits the charge voltage on the battery, as well as a number 
of nifty features like turning off once fully charged, trickle charge etc. 
All fully adjustable (including charge voltage).

My power usage other than normal bus accessories included: 55L Engle fridge 
(turned on permanent), 2 small fluor lights, laptop computer & radio. All 
cooking, and most lighting was done with LPG. With the fridge on permanent, 
and computer only used ~1hr per day the battery can easily last 3 days, 
adding the solar top up each day I can extend that to 6 days.
A few limitations with my setup of the panels: Firstly having them fixed to 
the roof, I always have to consider where and how I park to ensure full sun 
all day long (not easy to do!), next is having them lie flat on the roof 
means they only output decent charge (above 3 amps) for ~6hrs in summer and 
maybe 4hrs in winter, so for the other 18-20hrs your relying on the battery 
and engine to make up the difference. Add a few cloudy days and you need to 
run the engine a lot more to make up the difference.

Given out long time on the road, we needed to have a system that kept the 
battery near full all the time, if you only go out for a week or so you can 
afford to start with a full battery, run it down and fully charge again when 
you get back. As we didn't have that luxury, and didn't want to have to 
drive every day we needed the extra power.

All up I was very happy with the setup, and after 6 months on the road, we 
only plugged into power at caravan park maybe once a week to once a 
fortnight, and only once fully drained the battery (after a week of rainy 
weather and short trips). In general we moved on every second day driving 
maybe 100-150miles, but it varied considerably day to day, and only had a 
few stops without moving of 3-4 days.

Enough of my ramblings, hope this is useful to some of you.
Regards,
Richard
Brisbane Australia. 
