From: "Marcus Schaper" <mschaper(-at-)gvpt.umd.edu>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 27 Jul 2005 02:58:35 -0400
Subject: Oil temp sender install - lessons learnt

I just had a quick simple project turn into a royal PITA: oil temp sender
install in a type 4 sump plate.

I followed the instructions at:
http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell/.Pictures/Images/SenderPlateMod.jpg

These appear to be genuine VW instructions scanned by Richard. However,
there are two problems with these:

1. Picture 1 (installed sender) is wrong. The sender cannot be installed in
this orientation towards the center and rear of the engine. The case is
machined for a sender, but not in that position. It goes towards the outside
and rear of the engine.

2. Picture 2 (location of mounting hole) does not tell you which side these
measurements are based on (inside or outside of plate). I know now that it
refers to the INSIDE ...

.. however, I learnt the hard way. After removing the plate from my engine
I went exclusively by the instructions. Since I did not know which side Pic
2 was referring to, I went by Pic 1 and decided to drill the hole from the
outside. Only after I had modified the plate and mounted the sender I
realized that reassembly was impossible because the sender was in the wrong
place. If you only have one bus and no spare engine this is a serious
problem ... Fortunately, I could pull the plate from my girlfriend's bus
(needs more work anyway) and install the sender in the correct position this
time.

During installation I noted that one of the threads had stripped and the
bolt would not tighten enough to seal on the plate end. It turns out that is
some extra room (a couple of mm) for a slightly longer bolt there - not much
but it was good enough to tighten the bolt to the point where it stopped
leaking. If you perform this mod on a daily driver make sure that have the
tools to cut a larger thread if necessary. I lucked out with the longer
bolt, but it is far from what I would call an expert repair.

Please make sure that this information is archived whereever the link to
Richard's instructions is in the archives. The instructions are otherwise
great and the measurements accurate.

Marcus
