Date: Wed, 27 Jul 2005 09:35:00 -0600
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: What a stud!

=)

I got things sort of sorted out on my 73. The stripped intake stud
holes were repaired - not with jbw - but with new 8x1.25 bolts.

I was at a Pep Boys last night after work to get a new torque wrench.
I got a clicky inch pounds one for $20. I looked at the fastener aisle
and picked up some 8x1.25 bolts. I compared them to the stud I had
with me and saw the threads were quite a bit taller than the stud's.
Hmmm.. $2 later I had the bolts.

So this morning at 6am I was up tinkering. The bolts were 30mm long so
they were a bit longer than the studs. Bolt bit nicely into the
threaded hole, but bottomed out 2 mm short of snug. Added some washers
and did it again. Torqued to Bentley's spec of 14ftlbs. Awesome! That
clicky wrench is much nicer than the old beam wrench I'd been using.
So I went and checked all the other nuts. Everything was just a bit
shy of 14ftlbs. My 6" ratchet was just about right! heh

Fire it up, and everything is idling nicely. Even the fast idle was
working right for once! I let it warm up for a few minutes, kicked
down the idle, and let it warm a few more minutes.

Then I punched the throttle. Bogbogsplutpop.

Crap. No revs when punching the throttle from idle. I can feather the
throttle to get revs, but not all at once. And the pop came from the
RIGHT carb, the one I thought was ok.

Out comes the carb cleaner. There's a leak at the intake/head gasket.
WTF? Those weren't even messed with! Closer inspection showed the
asphault in the paper gasket cooked and was seeping around the edges.
Ahh..

Today I'm on the hunt for the correct aluminum gaskets. Hope to find
some locally so I can finish this tonight.

(BTW: I'm aware of the issues around using bolts instead of studs.
However, I'd rather have the bus running with the wrong fasteners and
the risks associated, than have the bus set waiting for new or fixed
heads.)

--
Don
