Date: Fri, 06 Sep 2002 08:27:23 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] WINDSHIELD


>I have replaced all the windows in my '79 bus last week.  It is a super 
>hard job!  Anyone who says other is lying or never done it.
>
>I got new rubber from the Bus Depot.  New is nice but it is all 
>manufactured in Basil or Mexico - can't get the good stuff from Germany. 
>The new rubber is thicker so the old window space is smaller.

West Coast Metric via Bus Depot. Seemed like good stuff though I have 1 
split in one of the side window seals now a few years later.

I would not rate this as a super hard job. I'd give it a medium myself. 
I've done glass on 3 or 4 vehicles now with good results (never, ever use 
silicone caulking - or any caulking - to seal a leaky window seal. Use 
urethane sealant designed for it - NAPA carries it for $10 or so - maybe $15).

I guess hard is based on experience - do enough of anything and it gets easier.

>Go to NAPA or any auto part store and get the window and weather stripping 
>grease. Do not use white grease as it will damage the rubber. The right 
>stuff will tell you it is ok on rubber.  The old dish soap method works 
>but is very messy and trends to dry up too quickly.

Dish soap takes lots of water and sometimes a reapplication. Use a spray 
bottle like glass cleaner would come in to apply. Hardware stores generally 
have new empty bottles if you want a new one. We use ours to spray water at 
the cat when they are behaving badly. (Squirt the cat when they are 
behaving badly and then they run to you for protection from the mysterious 
water spray... <grin!>)

Love that silicone spray myself for window jobs.

>A tube of the window grease is only $5 to $7.  Don't be penny wise and 
>dollar foolish.

Much cheaper than broken glass (~$30 per window if you have a replacement 
cut locally and then tempered). I went with all tinted flat glass. The tint 
is in the glass. Any commercial glass supplier can do it.

>You will need a window stick to put the new rubber on the window.  The 
>cost $1.50 from Rock Mountain Motor works.  Buy is strait from them or get 
>the same stick at the same price from the Bus Depot - gotta love those 
>guys.  One stick is a must and two is really nice.  DON'T use a screw driver.

Right no metal tools. A plastic knife works very well and is probably 
already at your house. The throwaway types are kind of brittle (we used up 
two when we did all our windows). A better one would be a reusable plastic 
knife like some of us backpackers use.

>Get the line as suggested - 1/8 to 3/8 in diameter.

We used rope generally used on drapes. Actually a little smaller diameter 
than the stuff found in drape rods.

Take a broom handle and cut yourself two 4 inch sections and drill a hole 
through each so that you can thread the string through using the wood as 
handles. My wife pulls the string and I push the windows. Makes her much 
happier and helps as her hands are smaller.

>Leave one loop of line out at the top of the window and one at the bottom 
>to pull with to get the inside lip over the ridge.  the window will "suck" 
>right in a you pull the cord out from the inside and the other guy/gal 
>pushes from the outside.   Get ready to sweat!

We wrap it around the window twice and leave the ends at the bottom middle. 
This creates a situation where you are pulling the string out around the 
window two passes. The first pass seats the window in the opening, the 
second makes sure that all of the rubber is seated and not tucked under the 
edge. It does seem to suck right into the opening. Cool to watch from the 
outside. The further the window gets seated the harder the person inside 
has to pull on the strings to a certain point when it gets easier.

We put the window into the opening at the top. We try to seat the top 
groove as best we can and then simply push it into the opening all around 
to make sure it seats properly as the strings are pulled.

The glass will flex but as long as it only has to flex enough to get the 
seal in it is okay. Pressure from your hands is okay, but hitting is out. 
Definitely don't hit it in a corner. I apply steady pressure and shift my 
hands to areas near where the seal is seating but always a few inches (at 
least) from that point and edge.

>I had help from a friend in the auto body business.  He use to do auto 
>glass in Texas for 10 years before moving to Maui.  It took us 3 hours for 
>all the windows in the bus.  The windshield was the worst.

Our windshield seated leaving the driver's side top corner seal bulging 
because the whole window was two far to the left ~1/8". I put my hands on 
the inside and the outside (like I was trying to put my hands together) and 
clamped the glass between my hands. I then shoved the glass towards the 
passenger side about 5 times and the bulge went away as the glass creeped 
to the right.

THAT'S why I love the silicone spray. It stays slippery after the job. 
Eventually it will dry up just like anything else. Dish washing detergent 
would not have allowed me to move the glass around. I've got to admit I 
don't know what window grease is but I will be looking into it before I do 
my next window job. .

Anyone that wants help with new seals come to my house and I'll be glad to 
teach you/help you install your windows.


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


