Date: Fri, 06 Sep 2002 09:32:27 -0500
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Waxing philosophical (was: '80 alternator questions)

At 08:19 PM 9/5/2002, David & Susan Bell wrote:

>By the way, for those of you who happen to own vehicles that can't be
>repaired at home: If you take it to a shop and the first thing the mechanic
>does is reach for a 'code reader'....RUN! That ain't no mechanic.

I can't agree with that statement.  A code reader is a very useful tool in 
diagnosing engine problems.  On many late-model vehicles you can go much 
further than that (see the www.autotap.com device that Dave Bolen posted 
earlier).  Old school mechanics have very good ears and if they are clever 
(many or not) they may be able to use their ear in combination with the 
symptoms you describe to diagnose a problem.  Late model vehicles can tell 
you about many problems with no cleverness required.  I'm not sure this is 
a good thing for the general public, but it's good for me.  :)  Here are a 
few of the things I can monitor and/or control on my '93 Mustang, using a 
$300 device and a cheap laptop:

Engine RPM
Throttle position
Mass air (Kg/hr)
coolant temperature
intake air temperature
Battery voltage
Injector pulsewidth
EGR on/off
Hego 1 and 2 (O2 sensors)
KAMRF (mass-air correction factor "learned" by the computer)
LAMSE (air-fuel ratio that is commanded by the computer for various driving 
conditions)
spark advance per rpm
spark advance per load
spark advance per engine temperature
fuel enrichment per rpm
fuel enrichment per load
fuel enrichment per engine temperature
Engine load (0-100%)
firing order
Three different rev limiters

True, there is a learning curve, but that's the case with most things of 
value.  IMO those who carp about this no-good newfangled 
computer-controlled stuff simply can't or won't make the effort to learn 
something new that might just be superior after all.  Okay for them, not 
okay for me.  I love my bus but I sure wish the engine was more 
modern.  Someday (when I retire maybe?) I will work on upgrading it.  I 
would be really interested in the MegaSquirt if I didn't have to build it 
myself.

-David

