Date: Fri, 06 Sep 2002 17:23:14 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Darren Smisko <darrensmisko.alumtek(-at-)telus.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] questions


>Question 1:
>Just wondering if anyone has ever replaced the rear brake housings?
>you know the part stuck to the axle. do you have to pull the axle right 
>off , or can
>you take the housing part off the axle seperate? or can you remove those 
>little
>stars for adjusting?

I'm not sure of which part you speak of so:

The halfshaft (the shaft with CV joints on both ends that runs from the 
wheel to the tranny) can be removed without the housing.

The brake drum on Baywindow busses (all I think) come off without removing 
the hub.

The brake backing plate (which supports the brake mechanism) requires the 
hub to be removed.

The hub has to be removed to service the bearings.

The whole hub unit can be removed without removing the axle or brakes.

The brake adjusting stars can be removed after the drum and brake shoes for 
cleaning and lubing. Most busses require this service b/c they are full of 
dirt and rust. I would seriously consdier new springs and retaining 
hardware for the brake shoes. Many are weak these days. Less than $20 I think.

>Question 2: does anyone know what this box lookin thing under the left 
>rear tire that seems to
>go to the carburator?it has some filter material inside.

Emissions equipment. Itis the charcoal canister that is designed to catch 
fumes from the gas tank when the fuel expands (normally when parked) and 
then allow the fumes to be pulled into the carbs to be burnt. Was designed 
to control smog producing fumes that we caused by vented gas tanks of 
pre-70's cars and trucks.

>Question 3:
>what is this hose line from the master cylinder to what appears to be 
>going to
>the carburator?

Power brakes booster. Requires engine vacuum to make the brakes easier to 
use (less pdeal pressure).

>Question 4:
>has anyones sliding door ever get stuck and won't slide open?
>the door latch opens but seems very stuck somewhere along the top rail.
>i tried everything to try to move it but it is struck.

Nope - mine never got stuck but mine did fall off at my wedding... 
Embarrassing. <grin!> Is the door popping out far enough at the rear? The 
door has two latches - the front latch and the rear latch.

Is it true that VW invented the sliding door or just the first mass 
manufacturing company to put them on their vans? I hate Chrysler gets 
credit for inventing the minivan when VW was doing it several decades before.

>Question 5: is there anyway to test those fan blowers that is supposed to 
>blow the air over the heater boxes?

Yes - connect 12 volts to the fan directly from the battery with jumper 
wires. If you have fan(S) then I suspect that you have fans that a PO 
added. Beware of shadetree mechanic wiring with no fuses waiting to burn 
down your bus. Also do what you want but I would be sure that I blew air 
into the heaters rather than sucked it through. Any exhaust leaks might be 
sucked into the leaky boxes versus rather than the leaks encouraged to leak 
outward instead.

>Question 6:
>is there anyway to test those gas heaters?


I'll leave that one to somebody who has one.

Buy a fire extinguisher. It's cheaper than a bus. Replace ALL of the fuel 
lines. Replace all of the flexible brake lines and flush the brakes too.


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


