Date: Thu, 5 Dec 2002 02:06:19 -0800 (PST)
From: Aubrey Allen <notorious_a_u_b_(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: dates for havasu and trick tow bar

I am going to attend Buses by the Bridge this January
if all goes well.  What are the dates for 2003, and is
there a web site with directions and info?  I need to
start planning and see if my girlfriend can get the
days off.  Thanks.

Does anyone manufacture a bus tow bar that folds?  I
would like a tow bar that can hinge near the bumper
and fold up like the ones on found on classic Jeeps. 
It would be semi-permanently installed on the bus.
That way if I'm driving and breakdown I could easily
be pulled legally as it is already there.  I imagine I
could also store it on my tow vehicle using the hitch
for support and bungee cords or lashings securing it
to the bumper.  When I would be in a situation where I
am buying, or helping someone pick up a bus, it is
right there, ready to pull.  

If this is not available, my dad and I can measure,
weld and engineer our own folding tow bar.  He welds,
and I am good at preparing metal for welds, and
treating, buffing, and painting afterwards.  Actually
a really good team.  We even have the equipment. We
would need to know where the tow bars fabricated by
other people mount?  Is there one safe place all bars
bolt to?  Are they bolted to the beam, frame somehow,
or bumper brackets?  If to the brackets, I could buy
one already made available at camping stores where the
hinge part bolts to the bumper.  I could then bolt it
to a junk bumper I already have.  Storage would change
to a roof rack on the trooper, or bus.  Over a short
or long journey, could the bumper brackets brake from
wear?

I would like to know soon as I plan on driving to Lake
Havasu this winter in my Trooper.  It has a tow hich
and can easily tow a bus lightly loaded easily.  One
of the reasons why I bought said vehicle.  If I
happened to find an awesomeeome deal, I could have the
bus bolted up to my tow bar(bumper or beam style) in
five minutes or less.  Any help would be greatly
appreciated, and thanks ahead of time.

=====
The Notorious A.U.B.
  a.k.a. The Aubb Dogg
Loving this California Life.
