Date: Fri, 06 Dec 2002 21:06:03 -0600
From: craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: aluminum case update

the cursed and much-cursed-at aluminum 1689cc is together, and 
sitting on cinder blocks in the yard. tomorrow i get a can of gas, a 
spare starter and see if i have a motor or $1800 of sculpture.
i will likely lie awake all night wondering what i have forgotten or 
what unforeseeable thing will trip me up. i THINK i put the berg 
wristpin keepers in backwards (smooth side out), but my hope is that 
an engine that will see no more than 4300 rpm should handle that. 
fatalistic and nihilistic as all hell at this point, wrist pins be 
damned! i ain't goin' back to the shortblock for hell nor high water!
if i reduce the deck height for more compression or put on dualports, 
i'll fix em then.
i did have the rocker arms all set up with berg shims last night 
(hey, i inherited a BOX of old berg stuff from the 80s, so i might as 
well use it), but they needed tweaking and i got sick of it so i just 
rebuilt them with stock washers for now. went through 12 assemblies 
till i found enough parts i liked to make a pair!
put on the berg fullflow... ironic that he used a fram filter back 
then... now they are crap.

you can't imagine the hair-tearing frustration the last 3 months have been.

RONNIE can - i called or emailed him nearly every day over this thing.

my case # is 1606... if you see a first-generation aluminum case, and 
don't feel like blueprinting your new motor, RUN AWAY.
the new ones are said to have fixed all the bugs that   >I<   got to 
product-test out, so should be fine.
ronnie was a prince among men, and in my darkest hour, offerred to 
-REPLACE, COMPLETE with ALL machine work - the case if i so desired. 
he also spent untold hours talking theory and practice, asking other 
engine builders for their advice, and in general blew any 
profit-margin he shoulda made off me.
there is white smoke out of my chimney, cuz i have elected a new pope 
named ronnie.  :)

wish me luck, and if tomorrow you see a post of all caps and bad 
words, well.................................
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
