Date: Sat, 07 Dec 2002 20:49:21 -0600
From: craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: mostly a motor!! longish

ok, so progress was made today on the aluminum motor... i hooked it 
all up (after spending all morning testing starters - 8 of em (3 6v, 
too) and NONE worked, finally took th one out of my bus), filled it 
with 10w, filled the fullflow filter, and hooked up the oil pressure 
light. cranked it without the rocker arms or pushrods on... took 
about 2 minutes of stop and go cranking to get the oil light out. it 
definitely helps to leave the filter hose clamps a bit loose to let 
any air escape; tighten when they start to seep oil.
put the rocker arms on, adjusted valves, hooked up coil, cranked some 
more. light back out,  motor sometimes barking but not catching yet, 
but now a funny 'tonk' sound. took off the vlve cover on 1/2, and 
traced it to #1. pulled th plug, and the electrode was bent to zero 
gap - did it hit the piston?!?!  no; used a depth micrometer, and 
plenty of space. at least the shorted electrode explained why it was 
hard to start... i must have bumped it when assembling the head.
now bout that TONK: traced it to #1 exhaust valve; just after the 
valve started to open, there would be a distinct knock. looked in the 
pushrod tube while cranking, and it semed to be the pushrod. called 
poor ronnie, and discussed it; decided that the pushrod might not be 
seating in the lifter properly, and it was 'slipping' past a ridge or 
something and seating briefly, making the tonk. swapped pushrods on 
the valves for fun. still a tonk on #1 - AND the pushrod was bending!
hm.  carefully put the rocker arms on a third time, and  this time 
the valve clearance had changed. success! cranked it again, and no 
tonks, no flexing. there was apparently a 'lip' in either the lifter 
or the pushrod ball. gone now.

ok, crank over - but still no start.  we have spark, so it must be 
gas; yup, 30pict1 accel pump was pushing air and nothing else. 
slapped on a 30/31 and tried again. huffed, but was backfiring. main 
on the 30/31 was a 122.5, so went up to a 130.
NOW it started, tho it took a bit of rowing on the throttle arm to 
keep it going. suddenly had a big bang to clear the throat and took 
OFF! started running loud and strong, and responded well to the 
throttle. BUT there was oil everywhere; the oil pressure sender was 
spilling a stream all over my nice clean tin :P  i don't think it was 
the sender, it seemed to be weeping from the hole... i tightened it 
ALL the way down, still leaked. do the brazillians tap this hole 
straight or tapered?  cut the motor, and went and got my combi oil 
light/pressure sender unit. total run time so far, 5 minutes.

the combi unit doesn't seem to be leaking, so coil wire  back on! 
running nice and strong, no noises too alarming... but uhoh, the 
muffler is starting to glow!!!  shut down again and let it cool down 
while we think... timing was at 5-7 degrees btdc with a cast iron 010 
which historically has produced a total advance of 32 at that point. 
check the other jets on the carb - the emulsion tube is a 140; pretty 
lean, so tomorrow i'll put in a 125z and try again. the cherry spots 
were on both sides of center on the muffler, so i think both heads 
were seeing the same lean condition - shouldn't be a loose manifold 
or the like.

anything else to check?

only pther gremlins seem to be a weepy cover on the oil pressu re 
piston,,, and i'm not too sure the cooler was seeing any oil - felt 
warm but not hot.  need to put a pressure sender on it too (t3 
cooler, has the little sender port).

if these are my only problems, by the end of the weekend i should 
have a motor!  at the very least, it didn't grenade on startup, so 
that's a plus  :)

-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
