Date: Wed, 29 Mar 2006 22:54:23 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: accelerator cable connection

> From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
> Date: Wed, 29 Mar 2006 12:03:27 -0500
>
> I was looking to replace the accelerator cable connection parts on my bus.
> [ http://www2.cip1.com/ProductDetails.asp?ProductCode=VWC%2D111%2D198%2D002 ]
> looks like what I have.

This is the early style of throttle return spring.  The thing in the
middle is the tube that protects the accelerator cable as it goes
through the fan shroud and firewall.  The two things on the right are
the spring and (for lack of a better term) the "seat" for it.  The
little thing on the right is the clip that holds the spring seat to the
accelerator cable.  One end of the spring bears on the fan housing and
the other end bears on the seat.  When you step on the gas, the spring
is compressed between the seat (held in place by the clip) and the fan
housing.  When you let off the gas, the spring pushes the throttle lever
closed.

On the later style, there is still the tube through the shroud and
firewall, but there is nothing around the accelerator cable where it
comes out of the back (FIF) end of the tube.  The return spring is
hooked to the throttle arm and to another arm that is screwed to the top
of the carb.  When you step on the gas, the throttle lever stretches the
spring, and when you let off the gas, the spring pulls the throttle
lever closed.

Page K-2 12a of the '63-'67 Bentley mentions this change, but doesn't
have a picture.  It shows the change as happening in December 1965 for
the mid-1966 models.

The carb on my '64 has the spring between the throttle lever and the arm
screwed to the top of the carb.  When I got it, it also had the spring
and spring seat around the cable, but not the clip, so the spring and
spring seat around the cable were just rattling around on the end of the
cable and not doing anything.

As far as I know, you can run either setup - the determining factor is
probably the carb.  If the carb doesn't have the extra arm for the
throttle return spring, you need the kind like in the link that goes
around the cable.  If the carb does have the extra arm, you just need a
spring between that arm and the throttle arm.

Matt Roberds
