From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 9 Apr 2006 07:57:22 -0400
Subject: gas heater and quality time....

Well, as the weather has been fairly warm around here, above freezing
anyway. I've had time to work on my bus. 

I just finished a big chunk of it. I got a new gas heater installed, thanks
to Stan & Rick for the extra parts to make it work. I installed a new gas
tank, fuel shut off valve, fuel line, axle boots(noticed they were torn),
new gas gauge sending unit, and got to paint a good bit of the engine
compartment that and bits of the underside with some master series paint.

As for the install of the gas heater, some lessons learned.
You need to remove the engine. If replacing the gas tank-now is a good time.
You need to install the gas tank before the heater. Do not install the fuel
tap until after the gas tank has been installed, otherwise you will not get
it over the hump. The edges of a new fuel tank are very sharp, sharp enough
to slice your hands. Wear gloves, or bend the edges of the tank over. And
just because it cuts you once, doesn't mean it is through. If it wants to,
it will cut you again. 

The gas tank edges stick out much further than the original edges, which
makes getting the hold down straps in place difficult.  You will most likely
need to bend the tank where the straps go over the tank. Also it will hit
the gas overflow tube, unless you bend the edge there as well.

When I first tried to turn the gas heater on, it wasn't working. I checked
the fuel lines for leaks, checked for power at the switch, and everything
was ok. I kept trying, and checking. I was not really sure what to do,
because to trouble shoot it, you probably need to remove it from the engine
compartment, as it squeezes in there so tight, there is no way to get at the
spark plugs.etc.  And I already had the engine installed.

All of a sudden I heard it kick on. I think it may have had to do with no
fuel in the system, and it taking a while for fuel to get in the system. It
is also a 41 year old gas heater that had never been used. Well it works,
and it seems to work real well-the exhaust is colorless... the heat is good.
It does smell a little funky, but the manual said it would smell a little
funky for a while. I am probably going to put a bon monoxide detector in the
bus, for when I use this thing.

The heater was NOS from 1965, great Eby purchase. 

In retrospect, I probably should have been able to test it without
installing the engine. But when doing it, I thought it needed the engine to
be installed. I think you could hook the power up to the battery directly.
And hook the fuel line up directly. Although it is probably good that I did
not do that, because when it didn't work at first I probably would have been
tearing it apart, trying to figure out what was wrong with it.;)

Well I think I am all set now, let's hope for a really cold summer ;)

-Kevin 

'71 FI squareback
'65 kombi
somerville, ma
