Date: Sun, 9 Apr 2006 11:05:50 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, Type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: testing voltage regulator

> From: rapalmer(-at-)ncsu.edu
> Date: Wed, 5 Apr 2006 15:17:21 -0400 (EDT)
>
> So, is there a way to test [a voltage regulator] without installing
> it in a vehicle?

Caution: I haven't tried this; just going from theory.  Proceed at your
own risk...

Get a battery or power source that is the same voltage as what the
regulator is made for.  Connect the case of the regulator to battery
negative.  Connect a small lamp (test light) to 61 on the regulator,
and leave the other end free.  Connect battery positive directly to
B+ on the regulator.  Connect a second small lamp (test light) from
DF on the regulator to ground.  Connect a jumper wire to battery
positive, and leave the other end free.

Now you have simulated a Bus that is sitting with the key off.  Connect
the free end of the first small lamp to battery positive, and you just
turned the key on.  The first lamp should light - it's equal to the red
light in the speedometer.  The second lamp may or may not light; probably
it won't.  Now, touch the free end of the jumper wire to the D+
terminal.  The first small lamp should get dimmer and/or go out (just
like the light in the speedo does), and the second small lamp should
come on and/or flash (this shows that the regulator is trying to operate
the field coils).

You may not be able to make the first lamp go out completely, because to
do that you need a higher voltage at D+ than at B+.  But it should at
least get dimmer.  The second lamp may do various things, but it should
light up at least a little bit.

If this sounds too scary, many of these regulators can be opened up
fairly easily.  You can inspect the internal relays for burned or pitted
contacts, and test each relay coil for continuity with an ohmmeter or
self-powered test light.  Look for broken wires, things like that.  If
inspection finds a problem, the regulator is probably bad.  If
inspection doesn't find a problem, though, you can't be sure that the
regulator is good.

Some auto parts stores offer to test alternators, ignition modules, etc
for free, and I _think_ the machine they have may be able to test
voltage regulators.  You'll have to get the old guy and not the
16-year-old kid to help you.  You might take a known-working voltage
regulator with you and run that one through the machine first to make
sure they know how to use the machine.

Matt Roberds
