Date: Thu, 4 May 2006 15:33:48 -0400 (EDT)
From: Adam Narraway <adoom(-at-)rogers.com>
To: "the_bug_pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com" <the_bug_pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>,
Subject: Trip Report (Long)

Hi folks,
I have been thinking about a project (because I for
some reason, think I have the time) since I have
gotten back from Everybus.
Everyone who asks me about my trip, kinda says "wow,
you gotta write that down".
Over time, we forget details, usually the more human
content, the bizarre moments (like the one eyed truck
driver who couldn't find the AutoZone...it was on the
'other' side of the road, the side he can't see) these
are the moments that make our breakdown moments,
amazing stories.
So, what I would like to do is collect a bunch of
breakdown stories, and make a book. (yes, a book...not
a site). The book is going to be called "Trip Report
(Long) Tales from the side of the road. So after much
thought, I am throwing this out to you all. Here are
my "requests"
1. please pmail me at -email- with your story, with
"story" in the subject line.
2. your story should be about your breakdown. In a VW.
3. Please include the emotional, human element of
breaking down. Sometimes a breakdown is more
emotional, than mechanical.
4. Feel free to praise, but refrain from "dissing"
others by name. You can "dis" but any names, or
companies, will be edited.
5. Include your full name (as Author)
6. For now, don't send pics, text only. But do
indicate if pics are available.
7. If, for some reason, I need to edit your story, I
will. I will not edit for length, or drama, but I
will, if needed, edit for continuity and read-ability.
If I need to edit your story, I will only do so after
speaking with you first.
8. Please do not use "133t" or email short forms.

I am pretty serious about this project, and am
currently attempting to get a foreword written by a
few artists with "van" experience. If they bite, than
I will also be shopping it for a possible publisher. I
hope to have at least "getto" copies available by next
years everybus, so I have to get working!

Let's see if this can fly!
