Date: Sun, 7 May 2006 12:31:48 -0600
From: DurocShark <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "type2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Don's Road Trip Final

Just got home about 45 minutes ago. Yes, I should have been home last night.
You'll see why at the end...

Yesterday morning we left the Travelodge in Utah and I discovered I was a
half quart low on oil. Stopped at Kmart for that and to pick up a lumbar
pillow. My back's been hurting on this drive. (I had oil in the bus, but it
was a big 5 quart bottle. Didn't want to open it for a measly half quart if
I didn't have to.)

Everything's copasetic again on the drive. Bus doing very well. Then we
passed into Colorado. Stopped in Parachute so the kids could run around the
park. After we left my wife asked if we could have a real dinner instead of
the junk food we'd been eating. I figured we'd find something in the Vail
area.

Then we got hit with a downpour. Big fat rain drops. Driver's side wiper
made short work of the rain, but the passenger side was just flopping around
below the windshield. Sigh. Both the arm and the pivot were stripped, so I
had run a screw through the arm to hold it to the pivot before we left.
Obviously not good enough. Well, one side is better than no side.

Tried the Gashouse, 30 minute wait. Thank goodness, because I saw the
prices! Nothing around there looked appealing, so we went up to another
exit. Ahh, Vail West. Traffic circle hell. The sign said there was an
Outback Steakhouse 1/4 mile from the freeway. What the sign didn't say was
what a pain it would be to find it tucked in the corner of a shopping
center. $60 later I'm back in the bus (after dark... One of these days I'll
see Vail during the day!) My wife slams the door and the friggin mirror
dropped out of the frame on her door. ARRGGHH! She's jinxed I tell ya!

I decide to get some coffee because it's pushing 10pm and I want to get
home. 3 offramps and not a single open gas station! Finally in Frisco a
couple miles off the freeway I found a 7-11. Got coffee and tried to adjust
my headlights. Oh, didn't I tell you? The things are pointed down and to the
left. I figured 2 minutes with a screwdriver and I'd be good to go. But
NOOOOOOO... VW in its infinite wisdom only has a 3 point adjustment: one
pivot point and 2 springloaded screws. Dead on my feet and I couldn't figure
out how to make them point where I wanted. I spent 20 minutes screwing with
'em. Finally gave up. They point where they point.

Ice again around Vail. I'm soo glad I kept those Nokians on the bus. I
watched a loaded semi go sideways around a turn! Climbing out of vail
heading east was bad. 30mph in 2nd was the best I could do until we got to
the Eisenhower Tunnel. Then lots of curvy 8% downhill road. And funny signs,
"Truckers: Don't be fooled! There's 8 more miles of steep curvy road!"

Finally out of the mountain roads around 11pm. I was completely exhausted.
Actually nodded off at one point, so I pulled off and got another hotel room
for the night... 45 minutes from home. Better safe and broke than sorry
though.

--
Don
The Guacamole Bus
http://www.donimages.com/guac
