Date: Wed, 16 Apr 2003 17:42:13 -0500
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Sway bars

At 04:19 PM 4/16/2003, Gensler, Mike wrote:

>I know it was said that stiffening the rear without stiffening the front
>would result in increased oversteer (ie. the backend wants to swing around).
>This is contrary to everything I've ever read or experienced.  I've only
>ever dealt with smallish sports cars (Hondas and Porsches) on tight tracks,
>so maybe muscle cars are affected differently?  Either way, the bus doesn't
>fit that bill.  David Schwarze - I know you've got a lot of track time in
>your Mustang - what say you?

Okay I'll give it a shot.  "Stiffening" the rear of a vehicle with a thicker sway bar will increase the tendancy to oversteer or decrease the tendancy to understeer.  It will be more evident at high speeds than low speeds.

This happens because, relative to the front of the vehicle you are reducing the compliance of the suspension and hence the ability to maintain the tire in contact with the road.  When I say "relative to the front of the vehicle" I mean that the rear wheels are in effect transferring more of the weight of the vehicle in turns vs. the front than before, which means that there is less weight transfer on the front tires so they are able to do their job easier - less understeer.  More weight transfer on the rear tires decreases their ability to maintain contact with the road - more oversteer.  I don't think I did a very good job describing that but hopefully you get the idea.

>I put the oversized front bar on my 73 Westy this past Summer, but was
>unable to install the rear bar (due to the 5 sp tranny conversion).  I can
>tell you from experience that during very spirited driving the front bar
>reduces understeer without providing any noticeable oversteer
>characteristics.  I'm sure there are a few listees who can vouch for my
>extreme driving habits :)

Uh, me?  :)  The bus is such an extreme example that I could see where adding a front bar might appear to reduce understeer despite conventional wisdom.  My guess as to why this happens would be that the stiffer front sway bar is improving the front-end geometry enough in turns that it offsets the built-in increase in understeer to produce what feels like a net decrease in understeer.  I would think a thicker rear bar would help even more, but I have no experience with them and everybody saying that they reduce ground clearance significantly has kept me from considering one.


>If you can't spring the bucks for both bars, but want to improve handling
>(assuming you're already running proper tires and your balljoints, tierods,
>link pin, etc. are all in good condition) then adding just the oversized
>front bar is a definite plus.

You all have convinced me to try it.  A Google search turned up Bus Boys as the source for the $95 front kit.  Maybe I'll get it for my birthday?  My bus steers like a trash truck in tapioca.

-David








d
