Date: Thu, 17 Apr 2003 00:19:05 -0700
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: +AFs-T2+AF0- Sway bars

On 4/16/03 10:36 PM, "chad carmichael" <vwbuspilot(-at-)intergate.com> wrote:

> Not much of an expert but wouldn't having the engine in the rear pretty much
> make the handling  of a bus completly differant than a traditional front
> engine car as far as oversteering and understeering go?

Steering geometry and suspension are complex subjects. I'm not sure we'll
get definite answers without data about the factory bus design. Having
thrown that to the wind...

If the engine is up front the vehicle should have a natural tendency to
under steer and with the engine in the rear, over steer. This is based on an
assumption of the weight distribution. The bus, when I weighed it at the
scales last year was biased 46.9% front, 53.1% rear with the driver so it
will want to oversteer with no sway bars installed.

Sway bars stiffen the suspension like so: stiffen the front and you increase
under steer; stiffen the rear and you increase over steer. Now it's clear
why you would initially want to add them in pairs but that doesn't take into
account the weight distribution.

So if the bus naturally over steers it makes sense that VW put on a front
anti-sway bar to overly stiffen the front to the point that the bus under
steers overall. This is the preferred factory design because in an panic
(gas off, brake on) the weight is transferred from the rear to the front. If
the vehicle under steers you help to regain control. If it tend to over
steer, then the rear end lightens and you get into more trouble and the
State of California sues the mfgr.

Any disagreement on this?

So my theory is that only adding a rear sway bar to the stock front sway bar
will either balance the steering or make it oversteer. Adding a bigger front
sway bar in addition to the rear will stiffen the suspension overall and
keep the original tendency to under steer. The later result probably gives
you the impression that the steering is balances when it's in fact closer to
a newer model car that also under steers a little for safety.

On top of this, tire pressure and the spring rate of the shocks complicate
the situation further. Many of us have KYBs shocks on the front and back and
I bet those that went the vanagon setup and put GR-2s on the front and
gas-a-justs on the back neutralized the steering and gained a softer ride at
the same time without the need for a sway-bar although they still have to
put up with body roll.

-- 
Richard
1978 Westfalia CDN
Cupertino, CA
