Date: Fri, 23 Feb 2007 18:25:49 -0800 (PST)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>, VW type 2 late aircooled
Subject: Re: [T2]Help with 73 westy stay running

kewl will try that...  i dont know right now after all i have done i am up for anything to get this fixed..
  she has a gas door on bus so that shouldnt be a problem... 
   
  wish me luck in the morning i can just bet you it is going to be one of those days... if i can just get across town without breaking down in the middle of the road...
  thanks alot for your help all ideas of what is causing this are welcome..
   
   
  one more thing...
  should the clicking of the electronic fuel pump go loud at times and then the clicking settle down at times...
  what i mean by this is ...
  sometimes it sounds like it has ran out of fuel and is empty loud clicking and then it sounds suttle with the clicking like its full again....? hmmmm again i say..?
   
  if i had another fuel pump i would try that but I dont have a extra .. maybe there is one across town where i am trying to get...?
   
  i have one of those electronic fuel pumps on my 76 hightop as well and it always sounds the same all the time... suttle clicking... unless i have just changed the fuel filters or took the line loose and then its loud clicking till it goes suttle again... thats why i ask about my 73 westy not sounding the same...
   
  chai

Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz> wrote:
  A long shot, perhaps, Chai ... but
How does air bleed into the fuel tank as fuel drains out? If that 
air bleed is blocked, fuel will after a while fail to keep flowing 
...
Crude test of this hypothesis is to leave the fuel filler cap loose 
so that air can enter there.


best of luck

R



                                                          1976 HighTop(Grace)
   
  1973 Westy(Olive)
   
  1968 Beetle(Glory)
   
  www.HappyKyndArts.org






























 
---------------------------------
No need to miss a message. Get email on-the-go 
with Yahoo! Mail for Mobile. Get started.
