Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Fri, 23 Feb 2007 21:26:58 -0500
To: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2]Help with 73 westy stay running

Hi Chai,

I didn't see mention of a fuel filter being changed. A blocked fuel  
filter might let the float bowl recharge at idle, but not when the  
fuel flow is increased.

Suggestion: Pull a spark plug immediately after it stalls. If it is  
black and wet, you have flooded it and the problem is with the carb.  
(or too much fuel pressure)  If the spark plug is brown and dry then  
it's a problem with not enough fuel supply.


Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/77/79 Westfakia "Bob The Tomato
www.pottsfamily.ca
www.busesofthecorn.com




On 23-Feb-07, at 7:41 PM, Chai wrote:

> i have got a 73 westy just bought that i have put new
   wires
   plugs
   dizzy
   points
   intake boots
   manifold gaskets
    oil change

   it has a old holley carb on it kinda like a 32/36 defv but oval  
not sqaure...

   the bus is fantastic and in good timing and all...

   i can hear the fuel pump clicking so it is going...

   problem is this...
   i can drive it for a little bit sometimes more than other times  
but still not getting far up the road before it will just die....

   i try to crank it back up and it wont crank almost like it is  
flooded kinda symptom...  now if i sit there for a short bit she will  
crank up and act like she never cut off and run fine and then out of  
nowhere she will cut off again...

   i have narrowed to being either the carb or the fule pump???

   i have also plugged the brake booster off just for laughs i recon...

   trying to cover everything...
    anyone got any idea what could be causing this...

   i swear it is almost like it just didnt get gas and quits and then  
it takes time to get gas again and will start back up and run again..???

   i gotta get her down the road in the morning to try to get some  
other things done to her but gosh this is kicking my butt.....

   any advice hear or anything it sounds like it might be...?or  
something someone else has experienced it might be??
