Date: Fri, 23 Feb 2007 19:02:38 -0800 (PST)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Karl <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>, VW type 2 late aircooled
Subject: Re: [T2]Help with 73 westy stay running

this may just be the culprit karl....
  i did remount the fuel pump it a diffrent place than it was in but i was not aware of the gravity issue with these pumps till i read this from your reply.....
  i mounted it on the firewall(gastank wall) up top out of the way so the fuel is having to travel up top to the fuel pump and then around to the carb...
   
  and btw this is for greg potts... 
  hey greg i do have two new fuel filters on there...maybe silly but i run one before pump and one between pump and carb......
  i am betting what i did was screw myself up trying to mount that fuel pump up top... its trying to pump it to it instead of flowing as it shouod makes good sense there karl...
   
  has to be something like that something simple i did.. bus was running great before this..just needed alot of fresh tune up items... to be a daily driver...
   
  will change it in the morning and hopefully that will fix it...
   
  i guess i need to remount it outside the compartment then below the fuel tank somewheres..
  they had it mounted just below starter... maybe i should see about somewheres in that area... course on my 76 hightop now that i think of it... i have mine there outside the compartment under the fuel tank ...
  mine is newer than this one on the 73 westy though..
  thanks
  chai
  

Karl <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net> wrote:
  chai said:


one more thing...
should the clicking of the electronic fuel pump go loud at times and then the clicking settle down at times...
what i mean by this is ...
sometimes it sounds like it has ran out of fuel and is empty loud clicking and then it sounds suttle with the
clicking like its full again....? hmmmm again i say..?

--------------------------------------------------------------------

Where do you have that fuel pump mounted?

Under the tank in the frame rail?

Or up in the engine compartment?

Electric pumps are pushers, not pullers. By that I mean they need to be gravity fed. They do not like to have
to suck fuel from the tank. Mechanical fuel pumps are pullers.

When an electric fuel pump is mounted up in the engine compartment, it pulls when new but as it gets older it
has a tough time pulling.



                                                          1976 HighTop(Grace)
   
  1973 Westy(Olive)
   
  1968 Beetle(Glory)
   
  www.HappyKyndArts.org
