Date: Sat, 24 Feb 2007 06:32:58 -0800 (PST)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: kevin(-at-)bopsax.com
Cc: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2]Help with 73 westy stay running

guys that wasnt it...
  i been fighting for the last hour and a half trying to get her to even crank up...
  she fired right up this morning... abnd then she ran and idled and then out of nowhere she just died...
   
  i did take the time and relocate the fuel pump to the same place i have mine on the 76 hightop...
  mounted close next to the tranny giving the downward motion to the pump from the tank..
   
  si am confused so i had to leave her here and go on without her in my 76 hightop and go ahead and take the wife to work..
 this sucks 
  maybe i can score a carb and a fuelpump somewheres today and come home and fuix her up...
  one mroe thing the dang steering wheel locked up this morning and i could not get it to unlock is there a over ride on the steering lock so i can just take the lock out so the steering wont lock...
   
  still reaching here more ideas? i still havent pulled plug abnd checked to see if it is wet or not..
   
  thanks
  chai
"Kevin H. Roberts" <bopsax(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:
  I've also had a lot of trouble with electric fuel pumps. And mine is mounted in the engine compartment a little below carburator level. I think I went through three that were the kind that clicked very loudly. The one I have now I got at Autozone on a Sunday and it has outlasted the others. It is larger and super quiet. You can't even hear it in the cabin, you have to go back and listen to hear it. And it had a lifetime warranty. I'm wondering what that's going to be. But the pusher/puller explanation is the first I've heard of the underlying problem. I'm going to look into relocating mine now. I also use two fuel filters! I like to see what's going into and out of the pump. Cheers....KR

Chai wrote: this may just be the culprit karl....
i did remount the fuel pump it a diffrent place than it was in but i was not aware of the gravity issue with these pumps till i read this from your reply.....
i mounted it on the firewall(gastank wall) up top out of the way so the fuel is having to travel up top to the fuel pump and then around to the carb...



---------------------------------
Now that's room service! Choose from over 150,000 hotels 
in 45,000 destinations on Yahoo! Travel to find your fit.



                                                          1976 HighTop(Grace)
   
  1973 Westy(Olive)
   
  1968 Beetle(Glory)
   
  www.HappyKyndArts.org






























 
---------------------------------
 Get your own web address.
 Have a HUGE year through Yahoo! Small Business.
