Date: Mon, 26 Feb 2007 06:44:45 -0500
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com>
Subject: Re: Am I outta my fricken mind? 

I have done similar things with my 1976 Westy. It has taken me YEARS to get 
it safe enough to drive on major highways. I hope you don't need to take 
that long to get your new bus safe to drive. And maybe the two hours is 
really slow and easy, on secondary roads where there isn't heavy truck traffic.

The advice of other listers so far is very good. Listen to them. And don't 
get killed trying to bring it home. Store it somewhere until it is safe to 
drive.

Try a few short day trips of 10-20 miles as a shakedown, near a tow truck 
source and close to known resources. Give yourself about a week to find 
parts and make adjustments after the shakedown. Parts and help are not 
always easy to get quickly. Discover the problems close to where you could 
sleep at night or get back home.

If the bus _does_ run OK, you have to be able to see out all the windows, 
breath every few seconds, steer and stop, and the lights need to work, 
along with horn and turn signals and wipers. Get some new wiper blades, and 
carry a spray bottle of washer fluid and a roll of paper towels, to clean 
the windshield every now and then. Carry a marine compressed air signal 
horn if the electric horn isn't working.

Catching fire isn't the only risk from a running engine. The exhaust system 
needs to be tight enough to prevent you from attracting attention from the 
local police, and it must prevent exhaust gasses from asphyxiating you. Old 
exhaust systems crack and frequently blow out when you run them long 
distances, after sitting for years. Exhaust patches are temporary ways of 
getting through town without a ticket. Baling wire and big patches from 
AutoZone work for a few days, sometimes.

When I took the bus out of storage, I had several tires rupture on the 
first 60 mile run, because they were too old to take the heat of driving 
several hours at speeds around 45 miles per hour. If you travel main roads, 
the traffic will push you to move at higher speeds, and big trucks will 
cause considerable wind pressure when they pass you. Any tire over 5 years 
old is risky. And you don't want a blowout at 50 mph with an 18 wheeler 
beside you going 75.  OK, you are gonna have 5 good tires.

The brake fluid (and brake function) should be checked.  Brake fluid 
collects water, and should be flushed every few years. Actually look at the 
brake lines by getting under there with a flashlight. I had one rust out 
near the rear hub.

And the steering box needs to be stable and solid and not rusted out. They 
take lubrication. Check for a safe steering box and safe tie rod ends. And 
be sure the front axle isn't all rusted out. Get down under there and tap 
it all over with a small hammer.

Don't bring it home until you can drive it safely at reasonable speeds. 
Stay off those big highways if there is any question about doing that. 
Consider bringing it home on secondary roads, in the daylight, at a 
comfortable speed for the condition of the bus. And park it if you can't 
drive it safely.

Doyt Echelberger  
