From: "Budd Premack" <bpremack(-at-)mn.rr.com>
To: "type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 7 Sep 2003 03:50:35 -0500
Subject: Minnesota Campout 9-13-03

(Note: This posting was first attempted in the afternoon of 9-5-03, but
apparently never reached the Type2 List.  Therefore, it is being reposted
now.)


Announcing the First Annual North Country Vanagon Chocolate Chip Get
Together:

All VWers are invited to attend the 2003 inaugural campout of the North
Country Vanagon Enthusiasts.

Date:  Saturday and Sunday, September 13-14, 2003
Location:  Eagle Cliff Campground at Lanesboro, MN
                   140 miles southeast of the Twin Cities, an easy 2 1/2 hour
drive
Time:  Noon Saturday through Sunday afternoon

Join us for a fun weekend in the scenic Bluff Country along the Root River of
southeastern Minnesota.  We will camp in our own area of a well-equipped
private campground.  Facilities include shaded campsites with electrical and
water hook-ups, picnic tables and fire pits, heated bathrooms with showers,
covered picnic shelter, and playground.  The Eagle Cliff Campground office can
be contacted directly for specific questions or emergency messages at (507)
467-2598 or at campers(-at-)acegroup.cc

Activities in the immediate area include 60 miles of bike trails, rafting,
canoeing, and tubing along the Root River,  All equipment is available for
rent if you choose not to bring your own.  Shopping opportunities (including
Amish goods) abound in historic Lanesboro and nearby communities.

Schedule:

        Saturday
                12:00 noon - Gather together and lunch at campground.
                 1:00 P.M. - Caravan through the winding byways to a unique
secret attraction where we will be honored guests for a special tour.  This
activity is appropriate for all ages and physical abilities.  The remainder of
the afternoon is open for your choice of activities.
                  6:00 P.M. (approximately) - Dinner at campground, followed
by campfire.

        Sunday
                 A.M. - Breakfast at campground.
                 P.M. - Choice of activities, with potential caravan back to
the Twin Cities, including stops at apple orchard and other sights.

Cost: $19 per campsite, and special tour fee of $3 per adult.

All Vanagon and VW Bus enthusiasts are welcome.  You need not even arrive in a
VW; fellowship is the primary objective.  RV and tent sites are available in
our group area, and lodging is available both at the campground and in nearby
Lanesboro.  If you can't come for the entire event, please drop in whenever
you can.  Bring your own food, firewood, and all other preferred gear and
equipment.  Grocery, hardware, and numerous other stores and eating
establishments are located in Lanesboro.

Directions:

Eagle Cliff Campground is located on MN Highway 16, just 2 1/2 miles east of
Lanesboro, MN.  Lanesboro is 40 miles southeast of Rochester, MN.  If you are
coming from the Twin Cities, take U.S. Highway 52 through Rochester, continue
southeast about 35 miles to Fountain, MN, go east 8 miles on Fillmore County
Road 8 to Lanesboro, go east 3 miles on MN Highway 16 to Eagle Cliff
Campground.  (If you get to Whalen, MN, turn around, as you have gone 1 mile
too far east.)  Access from Iowa and points south is via U.S. Highway 52
through Decorah, IA to Canton, MN, go north 13 miles on Fillmore County Road
21 to Lanesboro, go east 3 miles on MN Highway 16 to Eagle Cliff Campground.

The success of any gathering of this type depends chiefly upon those
attending.  We hope that you will take the rare opportunity to become a
charter member of this annual event and join your fellow VW enthusiasts in a
fun-filled, relaxing weekend getaway.  As a special added bonus, Carol's
famous homemade chocolate chip cookies will be available for all attending.

Please address any questions to bpremack(-at-)mn.rr.com   In order to assist in
planning, please RSVP as soon as possible.  However, there is plenty of room
available, so late responses or even drop-ins are welcome.   We realize that
this announcement is only one short week from the event, but VWers have
generally been a spontaneous group, so we hope that your schedules will permit
your participation.



Budd and Carol Premack
86 Syncro, 88 Wolfsburg
Land of Sky-Blue Waters
Minneapolis, MN

Chuck and Barb Hill
(Too many VWs to list)
Beautifully Rural Dysart, IA
