From: "James Jackson" <firesong4ng(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 08 Sep 2003 10:58:33 -0600
Subject: Isolator / alternator problems

Well this weekend I had the bus (78 w/ 1700 fi t4 motor) on a trip and blew 
the alternator.  The little light came on and found a shop that had time to 
check it out. It was charging at 18v or so.. really high.

Sooo the bloke (English fella) offered to put a new one in and work the 
saturday when he would normally be closed (decent guy).  Well... few hours 
later we get back in it to continue our trip and the red light comes on.  
The new Bosh Alternator was bad. Charging to low.  Sooo Sunday he gives us a 
car and goes on to find another alternator and stick it in.

He was really hesitant about the isolator that was installed. The place here 
in town  (by the looks of it) ran a line from the regulator to the middle 
post on the isolator, and the side posts to the appropriate battery. It had 
been working for a week and a half. Wondering if maybe this is the wrong way 
to hook it up. Or maybe the draw was too much for the alternator and burned 
it out.

The first alternator didnt light up the red, hooked up the line from the 
regulator to the isolator and thats when the light came on. I can't see it 
doing that so soon even if the alternate battery was really low. I'm 
reluctant to hook the isolator back up for fear of killing the alternator 
(coincidence maybe or maybe not).  If I take it to the shop who installed 
it.. what would i ask them (isolator)?

Is it possible the draw was simply too much, ran the alternator to hot and 
burnt it out?  I replaced the regulator as well as the alternator.. figured 
it was one of the last things that would need to be fixed if ever.

While Im typing I might as well ask other questions.  Whats the basic 
cruising speed for a 78 van, 1700cc fi unit?  I've been zooming along at 
about 110km  (65-70 mile/hour). I don't have a heat gauge so im not sure 
what to think. Gas mileage is somewhere around 22-23mpg I think too.

Ideas, thought?

Thanks

James
