Date: Mon, 08 Sep 2003 14:52:49 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scmills21(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Frank E Biffath III <fbiffath(-at-)mailingsolutions.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 1978 FI

>2 questions.  I am getting terrible gas mileage on a 78 FI with automatic
>transmission.  I am getting 14-17 mpg.  I have checked and adjusted the timing
>and dwell, install new distributor cap and points.  What else could be a
>culprit?  Usually travel 65 mph or less.

Leaking injector seals, leaking injectors, leaking cold start injector, 
leaking EGR valve, bad spark, partially seized engine from insufficient oil 
pressure.


>Second question, the check oil light has been on quite a bit.  I have just
>changed oil and filter and strainer.  This am, it was blazing red for quite a
>while, and then fluttered the remainder of the 100 mile trip.  Seems to me to
>be an electrical gremlin but thought I would ask.

Your pressure switch may have gone bad. Or you may simply have no oil 
pressure in which case your engine is toast or near it. I really doubt 
you'd get far with only 2 psi of oil pressure though.

I'll assume you know what the oil pressure light is telling you but for any 
newbies that might think it is okay to just keep driving - - - that oil 
light means you HAVE to turn the engine off within seconds or face a seized 
and ruined engine.

As a test one time we punctured the oil filter on an otherwise good Fiat 
1600cc DOHC engine and held the tach to 4K rpms. The engine lasted about 15 
seconds before it began to seize, 22 seconds or so before it lost power and 
30 seconds before it seized hard and stalled. No amount of gas would make 
it overcome the seizing bearings. If you figure it had about a 75 HP engine 
then it took more than 75 HP to turn the seizing crankshaft.

If you wondered why we would purposefully ruin a good engine of any brand - 
we were Navy guys in Italy and had a Fiat whose chassis had failed due to 
rust (front of car at windshield was collapsing) and the Navy gave us two 
options - give it to the base junkyard COMPLETE for recycling or repair it. 
Since there was no way to repair it safely in the yard it went. The rules 
did not allow removing good parts. The whole car was supposed to get 
crushed and recycled. Saw a nic, low miles, undamaged Maserati Bi-Turbo go 
in b/c the back taxes on the car were too high, nice Fiats, nice Lancias, 
and a whole lotta VW's.

These cars had minor body damage that would have cost too much to repair or 
the owner was shipping out and did not have time to sell the car. I got a 
CR-X for $50 that way and drove it for 4 years. I also got an '84 Cabrio VW 
for $250 (sold for $4250), and offered a Landrover for $25. These deals 
were rare and you usually had to hunt the owner down... I digress.




Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
