From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'firesong4ng(-at-)hotmail.com'" <firesong4ng(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 8 Sep 2003 16:52:06 -0500 
Subject: Your Post re: Isolator / alternator problems

James wrote:"... It was charging at 18v or so.. really high."

Ouch, ouch, ouch!!!  Much too high - depending on the type of battery and
how it is manufactured (old school flooded, more modern maintenance free, or
an Optima or Optima look-alike), the charging voltage needs to be at LEAST
one volt above the 12.6v that your "12v" battery pumps out, and the newer
the style the better they can tolerate (or even NEED) a higher charging
voltage.  I've seen my Optimas get hit with a 15.1, 15.2 charging voltage
for brief periods on bulk charging mode, which is what the Balmar voltage
regulator is programmed to do per the built-in, Optima charging profile.
All you "wet" battery volks - just keep your pants on; that's what the
Optimas are designed to take, m'kay?

And further described:  "He was really hesitant about the isolator that was
installed. The place here in town  (by the looks of it) ran a line from the
regulator to the middle post on the isolator, and the side posts to the
appropriate battery. It had been working for a week and a half. Wondering if
maybe this is the wrong way to hook it up. Or maybe the draw was too much
for the alternator and burned it out.

Hmmm - I'm no EE, but one of the methods utilized and approved by my
isolator manufacturer, had the large 6mm cross-section cable output from the
alternator DIRECTLY hooked to the deep cycle battery.  A separate cable
(fabbed by yours truly) then connected the deep cycle positive terminal to
one side of the isolator, the other side of the isolator had the same cable
out the starter battery (starter battery running in full isolation).
Depending on the type of isolator, the OE VR may have to be "fooled" into
outputting a higher voltage due to the "diode drop" effect.  One of the
reasons I looked into the HIGHEST quality isolator I could buy - no diodes
to cause the infamous "diode drop" - in essence it's a solid state relay,
there's more voltage drop in the cabling than there is across the isolator.
See the T2 Library (and/or the archives) for a primer on isolators and
such...

And then he wrote additionally:  "The first alternator didn't light up the
red..."

Having the idiot light functioning is an essential part of the charging
system.  Again, not an EE, but in a nutshell - without the light, all the
magic smoke is no longer contained within the chingaderas, thus completely
asfulizing it on days that end in the letter "y", and the system won't
charge (unless it's the second Tuesday of the week).  See the T2 Library,
there's a really good description of WHY you have to have the light in as
part of the circuit.  My description is probably pretty lame...

Furthermore: "...If I take it to the shop who installed it.. what would I
ask them (isolator)?"  I think that is very prudent!  I hope you saved the
instructions for it - you may want to give them a good asfulizing...

And then:"...Is it possible the draw was simply too much, ran the alternator
to hot and burnt it out?  I replaced the regulator as well as the
alternator... figured it was one of the last things that would need to be
fixed if ever."

Who knows - it could be...  Probably did number on both of them running at
18v plus.  I ran my 27+ year old OE alternator on the New Millennium edition
Balmar ARS-4 3-phase marine VR in a desperate/vain attempt to kill it before
investing in a new rebuilt Bosch alternator.  That Balmar VR just WORKED the
alternator (compared to the Bosch VR), and after 2 years I just finally
swapped it out.  The old school Bosch VR is really antique technology (right
up there with Kettering ignition systems, and just as "dumb"), so it may
well have been time for it to go...  I know back in the day when I was
running my Type 3s, you had about 3 minutes to shut the car down when the VR
took a sh*t, else it took out the generator TOO!!!

And then:  "...What's the basic cruising speed for a 78 van, 1700cc FI unit?
I've been zooming along at about 110km  (65-70 mile/hour). I don't have a
heat gauge so I'm not sure what to think. Gas mileage is somewhere around
22-23mpg I think too."

James - that's pretty good mileage, and right about what I get with my
2260cc (78 x 96) T4 with 45 Dellortos and all the electronic ignition bells
and whistles, same speeds - why irritate the spute pilots?  I can still keep
up with them, still get better gas mileage, still haul more cargo, and THEN
sleep in the Westy at the end of the day...  FI does wonders, but I "don't"
think your '78 should be equipped with a 1.7L though...  Stock "should" have
been a 2.0L, I don't think a 1.7L on an 091 trans gearing would do 110
clicks unless you dropped it off a cliff ;-)

Get some kind of oil temp gauge and then establish what is best for your
motor under your conditions (driving and climatic).  See last week's
brouhaha WRT oil temps and gauges.

That is all...

Jim Hayden
Non-Asfulized '72 Westy
Slightly Asfulized '73 Deluxe
Completely Asfulized '73 914
www.savethebays.org
