From: "Thomas Ainlay" <tainlay(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 6 Sep 2002 12:30:37 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] RE: Thank you and DMV education

Lucky you.  I was recently given my brother's '68 Mustang that hadn't been
registered since '92.  I go to DMV to transfer title and they had dropped
the vehicle from their system after it went unregistered for more than 4
years.  I was given a "Verification of VIN" form to be filled out by "any
Peace Officer" and a few other types but it pretty much meant that a Police
Officer needed to do the VIN verification form.  Problem was the vehicle
doesn't run at all so I needed a cop to come by the warehouse to do the
check.  Good luck with that.  I had to pay $23 (it's California, don't you
know...) and a Patrol Officer came by and took care of the form.

Now the fun starts, I go back to DMV with the form in hand, happy as a clam.
I wait in line forever (it's California DMV, don't you know...).  Finally
get my turn to be abused by a public servant and after processing the
paperwork the clerk reaches back and pulls out a set of new plates.  So this
is how it goes:  Me:  What are those for?  Clerk:  These are your new
plates.  Me:  What the heck for?  The vehicle has two perfectly good
original plates.  Clerk:  Well, you'll have to fill out this form, bring the
plates in for verification and then send the form off to Sacramento for a
decision.  What a bunch of BS:(  Another f'ing form!  It never ends...

Thomas

-----Original Message-----
From: Kelly Aka (Metalwizard)
Subject: [VB] RE: Thank you and DMV education

I had the same problem when i brought the Binz up from Fla. I handed NC a
perfectly good legal Fla , title, then recieved a letter from them saying
theat the no. didn't exist and could not be the vin, i called them and the
lady said , slide thepaper between the windshield and the dash and make and
etching of the no. with a pencil. roflmao , uhh lady w're talking about a 58
VW the no. is not there its in the engine compartment. Well if you can't do
it then or field officer will have to verifly it.


