Date: Sat, 7 Sep 2002 22:22:21 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: The New Spec Guide

>From: "J. P. Henriksen" <a59camper(-at-)yahoo.com>
>Date: Sat, 7 Sep 2002 14:03:17 -0700 (PDT)
>
>Sample pages are available at Worldwide Splits.com: 
> http://www.btinternet.com/~dace.ecc/

I don't have a copy yet, but this book seems to be very much along the
same lines as the book by Stefan Doliwa (VW Transporter, die technische
Dokumentation) that I've mentioned here before.  The difference is that
as far as I know, the Doliwa book is only available in German.  Having
this book available in English is a big help, I think.  Another advantage
is that the Spec Guide has color plates while the Doliwa book is strictly
B&W.  On the other hand, the Doliwa book also covers bays and Vanagons
right through to the introduction of the Eurovan.  Doliwa also gives
both chassis and engine number for engine-related changes; the Spec
Guide appears to give only the chassis number.

I have been comparing the sample page at
http://www.btinternet.com/~dace.ecc/bookspread2.2.jpg
to the changes Doliwa lists for 1964.  There are some differences
(some are probably honest differences of interpretation of 38-year-old
literature; a few are probably copyright traps) and things that are in
one book but not another.  A hard-core Bus nut would probably want both
books.

Here's a quick run-down of the 1964 changes from each book.

Doliwa  Eccles  Change
          X     Heater cable harness
          X     Smaller coil 1200 and 1500
          X     Roof handle
          X     Spotlight location
          X     Ambulance headliner
          X     Undercoating improved
          X     Oil intake pipe
          X     Zinc paint underneath
          X     Groovy flywheel
          X     Valve setting sticker
          X     Fuel gauge gasket
  X       X     Automatic choke on 28 PICT
  X       X     Heating changes
  X       X     Sliding door handle
  X       X     Heater box outlets
  X       X     Air cleaner brackets
  X       X     New VIN for '65
  X       X     Wiper blades
  X       X     Wiper motor
  X       X     Windshield washer
  X       X     Color selection changed
  X       X     Rev limiter
  X       X     Engine cooling flaps instead of throttle ring
  X       X     Rear brake piston
  X       X     Ribbed for heating pleasure
  X       X     Pick-up jack
  X       X     Modified weatherstrip
  X       X     Different Gummipuffers
  X       X     Vinyl headliner
  X       X     1-ton and 1500
  X       X     Cab door check strap
  X             Oiling of rocker arm adjusting screws
  X             Oil seals on valve stems
  X             Heavier piston rod
  X             Cap nuts and crush washers on oil drain plate
  X             Bigger crankcase oil drilling
  X             Tappet plate (Stoesselteller) bigger and thicker 
  X             Steering damper eye size
  X             Steering lock housing
  X             Rear axle shafts and bevel gears paired
  X             Springs for axle shaft
  X             Drive shaft seal material
  X             Taper roller bearings in rear axle
  X             Markings on gears
  X             Longer brake pipe (LHD)
  X             Reverse lockout plate
  X             Wax undercoating

I think both of these books are probably dancing with how much they can
print out of the VW publication _Progressive Refinements_ and not get in
trouble with VW.

I do plan to get a copy of Eccles' book and when I do I will post a more
informed comparison.

Matt Roberds


