Date: Tue, 16 Sep 2003 11:24:24 -0700 (PDT)
From: Sean Dorman <croftyest(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "Andy P." <kombi1976(-at-)yahoo.com>, DasList <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: Jerome... Dogs? Please, no! 

"Andy P." <kombi1976(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote: That Sean Dorman wrote:
> Pets that are normally well
> behaved can change in
> strange surroundings, particularly surroundings as
> strange as a bus
> gathering.
 
Actually I didn't write that, but I do agree. 

TOTALLY!
A point those people who claim to know so much about
their pets & for that matter ALL dogs miss all the
time.
How differently does your dog act when you have
visitors over?
Generally quite a bit, depending on the person.
Now imagine you have about 200 or 300 visitors over
for a party....AND they all bring their buses.
Total over stimulation and disorientation since a
dog's hearing & smell is far more acute than our own &
of course they're mostly at knee height.
If it was happening at your place you'd probably leave
the dog at a friend's place or put it into a kennel
for the day.
Add to that the fact that your dog may've travelled
for a couple of hours in your bus to get there & is
now stir crazy.
 
Here again I agree. However, a dog that is on a leash or tied up cannot inflict any damage unless approached, right? Dog's are very sensitive to body language and should never be approached in a way that could be misinterpreted as "challenging". People should know better and should teach that to their children as well. When I do have parties at my house the dogs are always there. They were "over" socialized as puppies so they would be more comfortable in groups. 

Maybe you should start a new club, Sean.
Good Busses & Good Dogs.
That way you can filter you membership & avoid the bad
ones.
And on that note, I think I'll don my flame-proof
suit.........
 
I think the easiest way to filter out the bad owners, and I am going to make a very general statement here, is to hold the camp-out on a far out forest service road as most of those whom I believe fit into the "bad owner" category also drive dumped buses. How many Pits have you seen in a dumped VW compared to stock ones? I guess Vintage Na$i's are just a little more secure than those custom guy's! 
 
**The above statement does not necessarily reflect the opinions of Sean, Augusta, Crasher and Gracie. It is an attempt at sarcasm and need not be taken to seriously. Cat people and Custom Bus owners need not forward any viruses or hate mail. Thank you.

 
Sean 
65 Westfalia



Give a man a fish and he will eat for a day. Teach him how to fish and hell sit in the boat and drink all day.
