From: Roamingwesty(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 16 Sep 2003 15:57:20 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Jerome Jamboree XIII

Did I send out a half-finished email? Life with a baby running wild, I'll 
tell ya....

Jerome has always been a great campout, a fun swapmeet, and on top of that 
something very special. Lots of things to do while one's awake: you could comb 
the swap, cook/eat/shoot the breeze with friends, check out the raffle bus, 
vote for the busses, watch the slow drag, win some raffle prizes, etc etc. These 
are typical of a bus campout (except the raffle bus - Arizona Bus Club is the 
only one raffling off a restored bus at 50cents a ticket!)

What's not typical of the event is the impromptu show of good wills. It comes 
in many forms, such as one guy winning a raffle, and took the opportunity to 
propose to his girlfriend. She accepted, and the crowd went wild. 

When the announcer told the crowd that his young girl has a schoolmate in 
need of heart and kidney transplant, but her family is stumbled with heavy 
medical bills, everyone was waiting for a chance to respond. A raffle free flight 
ticket was won, got donated back for auction for that child, and everyone just 
reached for their wallets for donations. If VW bussing were somewhat of a 
religion, we were all at the high alter witnessing a small but sacred act.

Sponsers (Ronnie and Uncle Jerry) came through over the years and received 
surprised recognition. The awards for attendees were awsome and extremely 
desirable. Children were happy running wild and getting dirty, having a last hoopla 
before really heading back to school. Your bus needed help? Talia's bus got to 
borrow a spare engine from JP on the spot. Someone needed brake shoes and 
through the PA system they got exactly what they needed. A special prize was 
donated from a well-known artist in syndication for raffle, and Kyle from Phoenix 
took the prize, after bidding $400 for it. 

If you watched what's going around at Jerome Jamboree, you can forget the 
problems in the world briefly and feel great to be alive. Other events may be 
just as awe-inspiring, but I have yet found one. Need to attend more, I guess.. 
But I'll always try to make it to the next Jerome. 

Ricky from Flag
