From: "Bill Bowman" <BussesByTheArch18(-at-)msn.com>
To: "\(msge\) VintageBus List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 17 Sep 2003 13:42:22 -0500
Subject: Another electrical item...

Hi all,

Okay you electrical wizards...  Here is another electrical system symptom I'm
having that someone out there in Type 2 land may have already encountered and
can shed some light on.  I just noticed the other day that when my ignition
was switched to the first or "on" position, that my taillights were both
glowing dimly/faintly.  I noticed that the lights go from off to the dimly lit
level slowly, over the course of a second or two, as if someone was
controlling them with a rheostat (like controlling your instrument lights with
the built in rheostat). Though the taillights are already on dimly, when the
brakes are applied, the rear brake lights work fine and are brighter.  When
the lights for night driving are switched on, they too work fine and are
brighter.  In other words, the brake and running night lights seem to work
fine, it's just that now we have dimly lit taillights all the time the
ignition is switched "on".  Switch "off" the ignition switch, and they go out.
This is a '67 Westy with a fairly standard/stock 12 volt electrical system.

Some background:  All electrical systems except the four way emergency
flashers seem to work fine.  The emergency flashers have never worked ever
since I bought the Bus back in 1984.  I have already added additional wiring
to ground each taillight housing.  The brake system seems to work fine (most
components rebuilt about a year ago).  The '67 - only dual circuit master
cylinder is the one brake component that was in the Bus when I bought it back
in 1984 and still seems to work fine ( I have an NOS one stashed away for the
day that a circuit finally fails).  I believe that the 1 mm gap between the
brake pedal pushrod and the master cylinder when the brake system is at rest
was fine when I rebuilt the rest of the system.  If one or both of the two
brake light switches on the master cylinder were to fail, could that cause the
"dim light thing" to happen?  Is there any symptom of a failed brake light
switch?  Hell, how do you test them anyway (a procedure is probably in the
Bentley manual), mine are certainly old enough to be failing by now?  I have
not torn into the electrical system yet to investigate, I just thought this
symptom might sound familiar to someone who has lived through it before and
could then shorten my search or suggest a path of things to check out.  I've
always wanted to dive in and eventually fix the four way flasher system
anyway, so while checking this problem out, perhaps I'll "kill two birds with
one stone".  I have a couple of used (read: unknown condition) and one NOS
correct '67 black box here to tryout when the time comes.  Unless someone
knows what it is, all of this work sounds like a nice mid-winter garage
project to me.

Also, can anyone point me in the direction of a source for the small parking
light bulbs found inside the USA spec. headlamp assemblies in a 6 volt 1.2 amp
(NOT the common 1.5 amp bulb!) for my '59 BNNTA event Panel Bus.  If you got a
pile of old new or used bulbs in your stash, please check 'em out, I'd love to
buy two or more of the above mentioned bulbs!

Thanks for any electrical input or diagnosis you guys and gals can provide to
point me in the right direction!

Bill Bowman
NEATO, LiMBO, etc., etc.
www.BNNTA.com
