Date: Wed, 17 Sep 2003 17:32:34 -0700 (PDT)
From: Green on Green <kamax8g(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Tranny question

Why not just buy NEW GENUINE VW fulcrum plates with NO
wear on them. Yes folks, they still are available. The
new ones even have a design improvement--2 oil
channels in the flat side for better oiling. They are
standard size. CB Performance and others sell them
(they are Genuine VW parts repackaged), or go to a
friendly VW dealer and have them order them by part
number (sorry, I don't have the current part number
handy), or maybe Ronnie has them. They are cheap, less
than $10 each, even if you buy them from a retail
source like CB.
NO whining about the fact they are made in Brazil. I
have used them for many years, and have never had a
problem with them.
Since this is not really a fun job to do twice,
especially if it's re-installed in the bus, why not
put the best parts in the first time, rather than
marginal used stuff.

I have seen cracked side gears. They crack along that
half moon shaped cut out on the sides. Not super
common unless they are super thrashed, but I have seen
it. 
Look for wear on the insides of the side gears where
the backs of the fulcrum plates ride. If the fulcrum
plates are beat, chances are that insides of the side
gears will show signs of wear as well. I think the
fulcrum plates wear faster than the side gears, but I
have no real metallurgical data to back that up, just
speaking from observation. Find the best used side
gears you can (of the same type) if they are thrashed.
Since I don't think those are available new, you're
kinda stuck with what is available or what you have on
hand.


(blah blah blah)
> If you lay a straight edge on the FPs flat side and
> there are grooves, then
> personally I'd try to find some that are better.   I
> don't know what you
> mean about the front to back orientation.   As the
> axles spin, the FPs spin
> with them, constantly rotating about their middles. 
>  often they get worn on
> one end of the flat side.   likewise the axle spades
> get worn on one half of
> the face, and you can swap them side to side to use
> the un worn face as the
> forward face.   You can also see if this has already
> been done.   I
> recommend putting a straight edge to the axle spade
> and checking for grooves
> and wear.
