Date: Fri, 19 Sep 2003 22:06:50 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Electrical Problem

>From: Dave Gillingham <dgilling(-at-)coronado-realty.com>
>Date: Wed, 17 Sep 2003 08:10:17 -0700
>
>['67 Bus] Since it was reassembled following a paint job, the turn
>signal flasher clicks irregularly as I am driving.  Doesn't do it
>at all when sitting still, even with the engine running.  One
>additional discovery: The clicking stops when the headlights
>are on!

The common thing I see here is that when you're driving, the system
voltage is a little higher.  When you're stopped, or you've got the
headlights on, the system voltage is lower - even if you have the
headlights on while driving.

What this says to me is that you might have a not-very-good short
to ground somewhere in the turn signal wiring.  A "good" short has
a nice solid connection and blows fuses or otherwise makes its
presence obvious.  A mediocre short will short most of the current
to ground sometimes and short almost none of it to ground at other
times.  Higher voltages seem to make these show up more; electricians
use a special ohm meter called a "megger" that can apply hundreds or
even thousands of volts (at low current) to 120 V/240 V circuits
and devices to find such shorts.

If you don't have a megger, then you can use the process of
elimination.  I'm assuming you have the original "9 prong box" on
your '67; some of the same comments apply if it has been replaced
with a generic turn signal flasher.  From an anatomical study of a
9 prong box (or maybe a vivisection, as the box still works), I
can tell you that there are three relays that can click inside
there:

1.  The "turn signal" relay, which provides pulses to the turn
    signals and hazard lights.
2.  The "main" relay, which switches the box from turn signal
    to hazard operation.
3.  The "pilot light" relay, which switches on the light in the
    speedometer when there is enough current flowing in the
    turn signal wires.

The turn signal relay normally starts clicking when a load is
placed on it, either by the turn signal switch connecting the
turn signal lamps to it, or by a short to ground in the turn
signal wiring.  To check this relay, pull the black/white/green
wire off of terminal 49a on the 9 prong box and go drive around -
note that your turn signals won't work.  If the box doesn't
click, the problem is in the wire from 49a to the turn signal
switch, the turn signal switch itself, or the 4 wires from the
turn signal switch to the corners of the car.  If it still
clicks, plug the wire back on to 49a and continue.

The main relay is normally off and is only turned on when you
pull the hazard switch out.  Pull the brown wire off of terminal
-S on the 9 prong box and go drive around.  If the box doesn't
click, the problem is in the brown wire from -S to the hazard
switch, or in the hazard switch itself.  If it still clicks,
plug the wire back on to -S and continue.

The pilot light relay is normally activated by current flowing
through the turn signal circuit.  It's a little harder to test,
but you could pull the black/green wire off of VR, the black/white
wire off of VL, and the black/white/green wire off of 49a.  This
will kill all your turn signals - no current should flow in the
turn signal circuits.  Go drive around.  If the box stops clicking,
you have a short to ground in the same places I listed under the
turn signal relay above.  If it still clicks, then you might have
a bad 9 prong box.

For more information and additional troubleshooting, see my
write-up at http://www.type2.com/library/electris/vw-9prong.html .

If someone has replaced the 9 prong box with a generic 2 or 3
prong flasher, you basically only have the "turn signal relay"
mentioned above, and the troubleshooting method (pull the
black/white/green wire and drive) is still valid for you, but
the others won't apply.

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds
