From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Tue, 20 Mar 2007 15:00:35 -0400
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: The Hubcap

Hi Volks,

Apparently the hubcap is no longer coming to EveryBus.  Or maybe it  
is, but the current custodian hasn't said so.

My apologies to those involved... I have located the hubcap but have  
not been able to direct it to Troy, Mark, Jim, or anyone else for  
that matter. The hubcap is not under my control, and hasn't been  
since the summer of 2000.

Apparently I overlooked Hubcap Rule #1: there are no rules.

Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/77/79 Westfakia "Bob The Tomato
www.pottsfamily.ca
www.busesofthecorn.com




On 20-Mar-07, at 10:45 AM, gmog wrote:

Jim,  Thanks for talking with me yesterday.  Seems you know even less  
than I do about this hubcap situation.  I'm sorry that you are  
getting sucked into the middle of it.

Troy,  I am sorry for not making things happen  last weekend.  I  
committed to meeting you when I shouldn't have.  I've got too much  
going on to take the day off to drive up to meet you, and I should  
have realized that from the start.  Anyway, you can rest assured that  
I will take care of the Hubcap, and make certain that it continues  
its journey in style.

Greg,  Easier for who?  The hubcap is safe and sound.  I talked to  
Jim yesterday and found that he knew even less than I about it.  He  
has no plans on meeting Troy, but did say he could carry it to  
Phoenix.  Might as well hang onto it myself for now.


And now, to all of you, I thank you for your concern for the hubcap.   
Since I sort of created this situation by not following through on my  
plans to take it to Havasu this past January, I am stepping up to the  
plate and will take care of it without involving any of you.  Stay  
tuned to the VW community and you will find out where and when the  
Infamous Hubcap re-surfaces!    ;-)


-- 
Gregory Mogle, CW
GDM Watch Works
watchbus(-at-)swcp.com
Certified by WOSTEP and AWCI
