Date: Wed, 21 Mar 2007 06:12:04 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Kevin H. Roberts" <bopsax(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] engine choices.... decisions

I don't see anything wrong with this kind of stuff.  We all want more power and better mileage.  But what are we willing to pay for it?  Not just money, but work hunting for parts and tools, assembly, screwing things up and having to do them over again, etc.  I swear, I could not be a professional mechanic.  I'd go broke in a hurry.  Everything seems to take me twice as long as anyone else.  Too many thumbs, I guess.  But thanks for the info.  I've been considering making some changes myself.  By the way, learn to enjoy those fingers.  At least you're making an impression.  Cheers...KR

Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote: First, I don't wanna start a FART, or a flame war or anything, nor do I
want to violate some list rule.  I'm struggling with what to do with
the inadequate power in my bus, and what is the best way to resolve it
- long term.  I refer to the frankenmotor as "the limper" because it
just never has that fight in it.  If you know what I mean.  I have some
time and some financial resources to do more than patch holes, so I'd
like to do the smartest thing I can.  My hope is that the collective
brainpower of lots of folks is better than my totally frazzled one.

Anyway, I've pretty much spilled the options on a blog
(http://viewfromabus.blogspot.com/2007/03/new-engine-opinions-welcome.html),
so if you have a sec, I'd welcome the opinion.  I know I didn't list
every possible scenario, but I thought those I listed would at least
hit the high notes.  If you have a suggestion that should be added, I'd
be happy to switch it all around to add it.  

If this falls under the heading of bad or "illegal" posting, I
apologize to the list and respect the admin thread kill.

Paul Manning
1972 Westy (hapy)
Lake Oswego, OR


 
---------------------------------
Finding fabulous fares is fun.
Let Yahoo! FareChase search your favorite travel sites to find flight and hotel bargains.
