Date: Wed, 21 Mar 2007 17:07:30 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Alternator Pulley Failure

> From: Avocado Tom <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
> Date: Wed, 21 Mar 2007 12:33:47 -0700
>
> For the second time in ~3 years, my alternator pulley has failed and in
> an interesting way:  the inner radius of the front (FIF) side of the
> pulley has sheared off from the outer radius.

I don't think I have "the" answer, but here are some thoughts:

- Original or repro pulleys?  If one is breaking, try the other kind.
   This goes for both the alternator and crank pulleys.

- Brand and dimensions of belt?  IIRC alternators and generators take
   slightly different belts - 900 vs 905 mm maybe?  If you're using the
   wrong one, you might be able to adjust the tension to where it will
   work, but you'd always be running near the limit of the adjustment.
   Or, change brands.

- Number of shims?  The extra shims get stored "outside" the pulley -
   under the nut - and I recall some discussion that having some shims
   stored under the nut is important for the proper torque or pulley
   geometry.

- Alternator moving around?  It might be able to slide fore and aft
   a bit - not enough for the fan to rub and make noise, but enough
   to (eventually) break the pulley.  Check the hold-down strap both
   cold and hot.

- Alternator/oil filler stand?  Is it tight to the engine?  Also, do
   you have the right one?  They were made for two different diameters
   of generator/alternator and if the stand isn't matched to the
   alternator, the geometry might be off.

- Crank pulley moving?  Take the belt off and try to move the crank
   pulley fore and aft.  If it moves a lot, this may be the problem.
   (You might need to have someone step on the clutch for this test
   to be valid.  The engine may also need to be out but I'm not sure.)

- Load on electrical system?  If you've installed a monster stereo or
   lots of driving lights, the greater electrical load on the alternator
   output will translate into a greater mechanical load on the alternator
   input.  You'd probably notice electrical problems first (like the
   battery not charging very well) but over a long period of time, the
   mechanical wear might start showing up.

Matt Roberds
