Date: Sat, 24 Mar 2007 16:34:14 -0400
From: "nathaniel vincent" <nates78bus(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: bodywork on my bus continued

I forgot to mention in my last e-mail that I am 25 years old and have no
prior experience doing any kind of body work. So if I say or do something
stupid you now know why. All the knowledge I'm getting is through the
internet and a few books I have. I'm working on a cheap budget too. My goal
isn't to restore the bus to it's original factory condition. I'm just trying
to clean it up and make it look nice, but I want to do that in a way that
will last though. Here are some pictures of the work I've done so far:

http://img117.imageshack.us/img117/2778/busdriverdoorcloseuphd8.jpg -
close-up drive door after sanding a portion

http://img64.imageshack.us/img64/8356/busdriverdoorinsideew7.jpg - interior
driver door with no panel

http://img461.imageshack.us/img461/8075/busdriverdoorspeakermb5.jpg - inside
driver door looking thru speaker hole

I finally decided to just start sanding the door to see what was there under
the yellow paint. What you see is what I accomplished after 2-3 hours and a
pack of SandBlaster sandpaper 60 grit using a sheet finishing sander. I
would appreciate any general advice about what steps I should take next in
dealing with the holes, small dent below the holes, and rust. I would like
to know If there's a faster way to remove the rest of the paint. How safe
would it be to use chemical removers that would drip onto the grass? My plan
is to work on the bus a section at a time to get it ready for a professional
paint job that I'll probably pay to have done. I started with the driver
door. I've been looking at a bunch of different compounds that deal with
rust and of course they all make great claims. Busdepot.com has something
called POR-15 that claims you just paint over the rust with it. I would like
to replace the seals on the door also because some of them have paint on
them and they are pretty hard and cracked. I know I'm asking a lot of
questions. I guess the best way anyone could respond would be a step by step
of what you would do. I appreciate any help.

-Nate
