Date: Thu, 22 Aug 2002 09:55:30 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Phil & Laurie Gowdy <philgowdy(-at-)sympatico.ca>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re:Clutch Plate and cheap replacement parts


>     If your clutch plate is worn to 2/16"(1/8") above the rivets, use it
>again!
>I pulled my clutch because it was worn to the Bently spec of 1/16" above the
>rivet, but when the replacement arrived
>it wasn't any thicker!

Right on!

When I worked for Advance Auto (Adverse Auto we call it) for a semester of 
evenings we had a fellow come in with a 300K mile brake rotor off of his 
little Mighty Max p/u. It was worn to the minimum thickness spec. He 
brought a nice caliper to measure the new rotor. He asked for the basic 
replacement rotor (at Adverse Auto the basic replacement rotor comes in a 
white box with a sticker on it - in other words a no name part sold to many 
FLAPS) which was Chinese and 1/2 the price of the Bendix brand replacement.

We pulled it out of the box and he measured it and it was a HAIR above the 
minimum thickness spec. He looked at my manager with a "look" that said are 
you CRAZY?

Moral of the story is never assume just because a part is new that it is 
automatically better than the part it is replacing. Measure, measure, 
measure. Inspect, inspect, inspect.

That customer went with the Bendix rotor at higher cost and will probably 
go another 300K miles (he was the type that makes a vehicle go and go and go).

My own experience with the really cheap replacements was that they never 
delivered the quality and performance of the OEM part. My Chinese rotors 
warped under conservative driving, the cheap pressure plate and clutch 
would chatter if the planets were not in alignment. These parts went on my 
'87 Accord that now has 300K miles+ with another owner (and still looks 
good!).

I'm not going to say that VW parts have to be made in Germany, but you 
better not go with the cheapest replacement from unknown sources. These 
days I shop with NAPA for my daily driver parts BUT I also compare prices 
when it counts. I have seen things at NAPA sell the very same brand parts 
as other FLAPS at a higher price. $25 vs. $7 for a generic fuse panel, $35 
for a muffler versus $28 from the guys down the street.

I NEVER shop with JC Whipme because of the cost of shipping and the unknown 
source of the replacement part. Been burned about 5 times with those folks 
when I lived overseas and relied on them a few times. Junky quality, high 
cost, and high shipping for a part that lasts 12 months is not acceptable.

However when the part counts (alternator that is a real bear to replace) I 
don't go with the cheapest replacement 'cause I'll bet it needs replacement 
again in under 2 years. We had alot of starters and alternators come back 
at Adverse Auto Parts because they failed again and again. My time 
replacing a part is worth something too!!!

Do forget to check with our list member suppliers who can supply used or 
new parts at the right cost. Bus Depot for example has gotten alot of my 
money over the years.

Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


