From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Thu, 22 Aug 2002 11:42:50 -0500 (CDT)
To: rjl(-at-)mvwe.org (RJ Latherow)
Cc: Type2(-at-)type2.com (\(send msge\) Type2 List)
Subject: RE: [T2]  New Microbus ( S A V W )

Ahh-- Not alway true.
I've been riding bikes for 38 years and the Milwaukee Vibrator crowd (
back when ) never waved to a Brit biker, or vise versa---
The Land of the Rising Sun group never waved at anybody, as they didn't
even know where they were, or what they were doing anyway--they were
waiting to meet some more of the nicest people on their Honda.

Now that the yuppies all own the Vibrator's--no wave's regardless what
your riding.

This is the same phenomna with the new VW crowd--no loyalty--who
cares--I'm getting to where I have got to go , and that's it.
No Marque recognition---just plain old transportation--

 
E-mail message   
 
 
I had a good long think about the wave a while back. When I rode a
motorcycle, I got the wave from other bikers, and I get the
wave/nod/pull over and help from other bussers. But on the whole I dont
wave to or even notice the thousands of passat owners, or jetta folks,
or the golfers. 
It seems to come down to a shared experience, being part of something
that sets you apart. Motorcycles people nod to each other because they
are in the same hyper-dangerous place you are (the road), with the same
worries (drunk old ladies - hey, I live in Florida). Motorcycles are
alone on the road together. Tends to bring you closer- you know you have
something in common with that guy because you both face imminent death
every 10 minutes. 
Old buses are the same way - someone with a bus probably has stories to
tell and some grease under their nails (figurtively, although you never
know). We all struggle with impossible to find parts, a FLAPS
infrastructure that doesn;t care about us, and a pervasive climate
(new/disposable) that runs counter to our love for our cars. We are a
minority, and that is why we wave- we recognize fellow brothers and
sisters in arms. Solidarity. Your not alone out there. 
New beetles are cool, they got style- but until they start breakiung
down in 15 years and you start a list just so you can have a FI
debugging think tank, then they probably wont get waves. 
-rj 
-----Original Message----- 
new beetle owners dont wave, regardless of and Hey I wave...

