Date: Thu, 22 Aug 2002 11:48:03 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: RJ Latherow <rjl(-at-)mvwe.org>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2]  New Microbus ( S A V W )

I had a good long think about the wave a while back.  When I rode a
>motorcycle, I got the wave from other bikers, and I get the wave/nod/pull
>over and help from other bussers. But on the whole I dont wave to or even
>notice the thousands of passat owners, or jetta folks, or the golfers.


As long as you aren't on a Honda bike expecting a wave from the 
Harley-Davidson rider. They are "SO" cool!!!

"They're too cool their cat, too cool for their shirt, so cool that it 
hurts... (Couldn't help it, been listening to a retro pop station here at 
work...)."

I think the NEW VW driver's want to have that cool retro thing with their 
new cars (as does all the retro drivers of any brand) but most don't want 
to have anything to do with the people (the stereotyped Hippie that they 
assume are driving the old busses) who created that coolness.

Wanna look like a hippie (with the appropriate mall-purchased wardrobe), 
but don't want to acknowledge anything REAL and potentially hippie. 
Obviously there is a market for retro or hippie look alikes but 
unfortunately the laid-back attitudes of way back when hasn't come along 
too. People are still too busy to spend time with each other unless it is 
the perfect "event". At least that is how I see it. I figure the car makers 
are tapping into that same market. I like to see them though b/c there are 
plenty of jellybean cars out there that are certainly nice but seldom 
"different".

What bugs me about the current breed of newbie H-D riders and retro car 
owners is that it is all image, no substance. There is little cool about 
some of these folks except their ride. They are the same picky, irritating, 
better-than-thou people we all deal with everyday. Not the type that would 
take a moment and help someone else out or have a friendly talk over a 
coffee or beer-ski (depending on your flavor). If you don't fit their 
version of "cool" then they don't want to have anything to do with you. 
Apparently you're flawed or something is wrong with you. Doesn't apply 
across the board but there are certainly plenty of them out there.

Frankly I don't care what anyone's style is, what their preferences are 
mechanical, nocturnal, dietary, or canine companion vs. feline companion. 
As long as you are laid back, not stressing over the tiniest little 
discomfort (the bread isn't toasted dark enough or the Coke isn't cold 
enough or whatever) then I'll spend some time with you. I came from those 
types of high maintenance people and refuse to live life like that. Spent 
too many years worrying about how everyone was doing it ALL WRONG and 
looking for every chance to comment on it... WHOA!!! Slipping back into old 
habits here - - - gotta go cool it.

I'll wave at ya no matter what you drive and I'll share a beer with ya too.

See ya,








Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


