Date: Thu, 22 Aug 2002 20:04:26 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: But My Bus Isn't Worth That Much!!

At 06:36 PM 08/22/2002, you wrote:
>   I did try Jake Raby as per several suggestions but I don't think my van 
> is worth the $3500 he needs as starters for an engine...

Reality is a bitch. I paid $1600 for my Bus, then put $2000 in it, not 
counting labor, worth another $1000+. Haven't touched the motor or tranny 
other than maintenance. Just fixed the brakes, replaced the 
carbs/cv's/battery/tires/headlights and complete maintenance inspection and 
added a Blaupunkt Franfurt rebuilt by the best Euro radio specialist in the 
US. I could jump in it in the morning and drive coast to coast with no 
worries because everything has been verified. I doubt very much if I could 
find anyone who would pay me $2000 for it and I've got near $5000 in it. 
That's reality. One sixth the cost of a new Eurovan is damned cheap in my 
mind for safe and reliable function for intended use.

If you buy any typical Bus, and put it into good and proper order 
throughout, it will never be worth what you have in it to anyone else. If 
Raby is actually putting $3500 worth of time, skill and quality parts in 
his motors, it's damned well worth it. It just is not the same as an 
assembly line motor.

I know that my 912 motor shows some 26 hours for a flat rate rebuild. I put 
perhaps twice that in it, not because I'm slow, but because I took the 
extra time required to refine all clearances and specs, requiring several 
more iterations of assembly and disassembly than a stock rebuild. Hand 
fitting, hand honing, hand polishing everything. And I sent the cam to one 
of the best grinders in the US, the heads to the best Porsche machinist in 
the US, the crank and rods to the best 912 guru, and verified all their 
work as well. What did I get for the extra effort (time/money)???

It will idle dead cold in winter at less than 300 rpm with no chokes. It 
runs so smooth it's a delight to drive every time. And every time you stab 
the throttle, you can't help but put on a great big smile. Refined balance 
is far more important for a horizontally opposed design than any other. It 
not only adds to functionality and enjoyment, but is the foundation for 
much longer life than a compromise assembly. And, it hasn't dripped a 
single drop of oil in 10 years. This motor will likely outlive me, with 
factory maintenance alone. What do you suppose that will be worth to me 20 
years from now??? I expect it will still be worth more to me than anyone 
who might want to buy it.

If you go around with the attitude that you can't spend more time/money on 
a vehicle than you can sell it for, your are doomed to poor results and it 
will cost you more in the long run.

