From: "Chris Harris" <vintage_bus(-at-)magnobeam.com>
To: "vintagebuslist" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 25 Mar 2003 17:21:12 -0800
Subject: VW & Intellectual Property issues

So CafePress has sent me the below letter regarding my vintage bus items at
http://www.magnobeam.com/vb_store.html

A couple questions, or ponderings, for those whom have gone through this.

1) Is my drawing, (of the logo I assume,) displayed on a tshirt sold for
profit, considered an IP violation?

2) Would removing the logo be a sufficient change.

3) Is the letter "V" in conjunction with the letter "W" surrounded by two
spaces considered a violation.

Anyway, the store will most likely be taken down within the next few days.
I am tempted to change the vw emblem to a peace sign, but undecided at this
point.

Thanks for any feedback.

Chris.



Dear CafePress Storeowner,

It has recently come to our attention that you have created a merchandise
store through the services of CafePress.com that may contain image(s)
copyright/trademark protected by others.  As stated in our Intellectual
Property Rights Policy and Members Agreement all designs must be original or
have proper licensing.

The use of a copyrighted name, image, logo such as that of Volkswagen/Audi
can constitute both copyright and trademark infringement.  If your designs
are similar to any brand or copyright, such as that of Volkswagen America,
Inc., you must either have permission from the copyright holder for the
images or not use the material for profit.  Even if a product is not marked
up from its base price (price offered by CafePress.com to storeowner), the
sale is still legally considered a for profit sale.



Intellectual property infringement is a serious matter.  Penalties for
copyright infringement can reach $150,000 per work infringed and penalties
for trademark counterfeiting can reach $1,000,000 per trademark for each
type of goods sold.



In the event that you have not properly secured the right to use the
images/pictures in your store for the sale of merchandise we request that
you remove the images immediately.



We appreciate your time and look forward to your prompt response.  Please
respond no later then 3/27/03 to avoid the closure of your merchandise
store.


If you have any questions relating to the above mentioned please let us
know.



Best regards,

------
Chris Harris
sono(-at-)magnobeam.com
