To: William.Hauck(-at-)state.mn.us, Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 23 Apr 2010 13:24:08 -0400
From: claralw(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Freeway Flyer tranny

They came with split case trannies through May 59.
Those have a seam with a line of bolts down the middle from front to back,
like the engine case does.
You have to come to a full and complete stop before shifting into first or
reverse with a split case tranny.  or it grinds.  There are no synchros for
first or reverse  in a splut case trans.  It is sometimes mistakenly called a
crash box tranny.   Only very early (mid 53 and earlier) split cases are crash
box... no synchros in any gears and require careful engine revs for gear
meshing and shifting.

Yes, it is a major task to replace the gears in the tranny.  To change the
gears inside the transmission you need to get it done by a transmission
builder.    Basically you get the transmission rebuildt with differnet gears
in there.
If you have a split case trans the options for gears in the trans are limited,
the later gears don't fit.

You can swap the RGBs yourself, which is still a fairly major task.  If you
swap from little nut (36mm) to big nut(46mm boxes) you get 1/ 1.26 x 1.39 ~=
7.7% higher gearing.  It makes a big difference.

Also, what are 'highway speeds'?
often people have small tires on their VWs.   Do you have 205 / 75R15s?  6.40
-15s?  anything shorter is smaller than stock and you lose road speed.
If you prefer not to swap trannys, you could get some 6.70- 15 tires (taller
than stock) and get more road speed at the same rpms.  Your speedo will read
slow, while with small tires it reads fast.

some people like the 3.88 r/p with big nut boxes, but I found it too tall for
a 1600 in the 65 westy I had it in.







-----Original Message-----
From: Hauck, William (DLI) <William.Hauck(-at-)state.mn.us>
To: claralw(-at-)aol.com <claralw(-at-)aol.com>
Sent: Fri, Apr 23, 2010 9:19 am
Subject: RE: [VB] Freeway Flyer tranny



Thanks for the reply.  I don't think it is a split case tranny but I'm not
sure.   (how does one check?) I have had it five years and never really paid
much attention to the transmission other than to replace the old boots on the
swing axle.  It works just fine, except the engine (it is a 1600) sure howls
at freeway speed.

Is it much of a task to "replace" the gears in the current tranny?? I have
never done any transmission rebuilding before and don't know anyone (in
Minnesota) that does.


From: claralw(-at-)aol.com [mailto:claralw(-at-)aol.com]
Sent: Friday, April 23, 2010 11:13 AM
To: Hauck, William (DLI); vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Freeway Flyer tranny



A Freeway Flyer is higher gearing installed in your swing axle tranny.

This can be a higher 4th gear, or a taller r&p.

If you get too high gearing the engine will seem wimpy, especially if you tend
to carry heavy loads.

There are a number of options for higher gears, so "Freeway Flyer" does not
actually say which it is.

But if you are running a 1600 the stock for 59 gearing is designed for a
1200cc motor.

That gearing is lower than would have come with a 1500 motor in a split bus,
and you have room for taller gears and still have decent oomph.



I supposed the one ton 63 tranny in my 56 westy is a freeway flyer, as it is
taller geared than what the 56 came with.

  The PO installed it in the seventies so he could go faster.  It is a good
match for a 1600, the gearing was designed for a 1500 bus.



You might just want to swap to big nut boxes from small nut and leave the
center section alone if yours works fine.

Is your 59 SC an early 59/ currently splitcase tranny?
