From: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc." <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>,	<vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 17 Jun 2010 13:56:49 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] pics of my '65 & sound stuff

I have the dynamat all over the sloped area in front of the engine and on 
top. Also all 4 wheel wells are done. All on the inside. In the front, the 
standard mats cover it up nicely. I did not do the front floor or the 
horizontal floor area in the back.

The balance of the noise that I have now I suspect is coming from a balance 
problem in the engine. Low frequency stuff. Its at a frequency that 
resonates in the cab with the non-walk thru as you have.

Chris

----- Original Message ----- 
From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc.'" <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>; 
<vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Sent: Thursday, June 17, 2010 12:03 PM
Subject: RE: [VB] pics of my '65 & sound stuff


That damplifier stuff is dangerous...I put it in, and used a roller, but on
one edge I ran my finger to smooth it out. The aluminum facing gave me a
nasty slice.

I was planning on using the luxury liner pro over the damplifier, but not
sure where yet. I have the Damplifier on most of the walls and the roof. I'm
trying to decide how I am going to do the engine compartment. This is where
a lot of engine noise comes from, but it is also exposed - ie seen, whereas
all the other stuff will be hidden behind panels.

I guess the main floor area will be covered, so that will get the
damplifier...also the floor in the front cab... I don't think the damplifier
would be good there. But maybe I can put it underneath the bus, as this will
be protected by the pedal pan. Ie unseen, and hopefully unheard. They
recommend to install on the wheel well areas, to take away road noise. I
think I can put it under the matts that go on the front wheel wells, not
sure about the back ones.

I  got a couple pieces up in the nose too. I think I'll try to get more up
there too.

My goal to have a real quiet bus. I also have a bunch of that foil bubble
wrap stuff, that acts as insulation. I would like to get some of this in,
although I may be running out of room! I'll try to document and photo
everything real well.

-Kevin
Jamaica Plain, MA
'69 single cab
'65 Kombi


-----Original Message-----
From: C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc. [mailto:c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net]
Subject: Re: [VB] pics of my '65 & sound stuff

Hey Kevin,

Pretty cool to see the before and after transformation.
I used Dynamat Extreme and put it into the same places. I also filled the
voids with 2 layers of the NASA insulation. The walls now all thump instead
of clang when you knock on them.

Chris
