From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 21 Oct 2002 11:47:22 -0500
Subject: VW Trends Charity Cruise Report - Save The Bay Style

	Happy Moon-day List!

	The royal we have to report that the above-mentioned charity cruise
was a blast!  If you went on last year's cruise you'll know exactly how much
fun it WASN'T, particularly towards the middle and end of the cruise, what
with "creative mapping" and limited parking at the last couple stops.

	IMHO the VWT staff did their homework this time and considerably
limited the number of stops this time, so the tour did not get too seriously
strung out all over Los Angeles and Orange County.  The first meeting point
was at Scat, in Redondo Beach, the group then moved over to West Coast
Metric in Harbor City, skedaddled down through Long Beach on Pacific Coast
Highway to Kymco in Costa Mesa, and then finished up with the final stop at
the Galaxy Theatre on Harbor.  The STB Faerie showed up and bequeathed
stickers to Bay Pilot Rupert from Austria, who is traveling with his wife
and young family from Canada to Chile in a Type 4 powered Bay (what Sack,
you say!)  They were no doubt having a field day with the number of buses
seen in and around the beach communities.  If any listees happen to see them
while they are spending time in South California, well, do what you do best.
They're in a blue Bay Window, decked to the teeth with travel goods, and
sporting Austrian plates.

	I didn't happen to remember everyone's name who drove a Bay Window
to the cruise, 'cause I was just giddy like a school girl seeing the vast
number of Bays that turned out - there were at least 11 or 12 (I lost count
after I ran out of fingers...).  Bay window attendance severely trounced
splitty attendance.  Notables included STB unindicted co-conspirator and HVW
Drag Day winner Mike Visket, myself, Bob Buehling, Simon Ramirez, Jack
Stafford, and about 6-8 more.  STB preacher Bill make the trek from the high
country with Dyno Don in his '71 panel van with the way-cool Type 1 motor
(if ya like that sort or thing in a Bay...).  Any listees who did attend,
feel free to chime in with your comments.  Bay Window hi-jinks included
faking out the bug pushers with FRS radio coordinated lane changes on PCH,
numerous STB-instigated Chinese fire drills on the way into Kymco, and just
generally having more fun than anybody else...  Why?  Because we can!

	High point of the cruise (from the editorial we) had to be STBs very
own Ventura County Ambassador Bob Buehling ('73 panel van) winning the
Bugpack flanged 82mm, Ch*vy journal crank.  Some guys just know how to live,
huh, Bob...  I'm still waiting for my 96mm Birals from LN Engineering - all
I need to finish off my 2260 for the PB :-( 

	All the news that's fit to print...

	Jim Hayden
	'72 Westy Weekender (currently floundering with only a 2055, but the
nuts are on tight)
	www.savethebays.org   
