Date: Mon, 21 Oct 2002 20:37:05 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Saulsbury <alexanic2001(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] timing and pinging question 

Its me again,
     I look forward to your post Mr Dolan, and 

you are correct on the 71 Beetle. Low and 

behold I do have the Bosch part number written 

down, and it is a 113 905 205 AJ

>Paul, I found this in the library, which appears

 to be the distributor you are running:

Beetle 1971 * 1600 Manual Trans

Distributor: VW 113-905-205AJ,
Bosch 0231 167 049 > 043-905-205C,
>Paul, I am sorry to say you *have* to go 

out and buy a gauge. I am
incredibly solid on this, especially if you 

have a dual port engine. The boots between

 the center section and the ends are famous

 for springing>

Got me here??????  I gotta dig out the 

manuals for pictures. We military people 

love pictures. 

>leaks and that loss of vacuum can cause 

exactly the symptoms you are experiencing.

BTW. There is a manifold vacuum port in the

 left end casting that is very useful for checking

 vacuum (and shuld be where your vacuum 

retard line is plugged in, BTW)>

  No, if my memory serves me correct both 

lines are hooked up to the carb itself. Is this wrong????

>I am 90% certain after this that your problem 

is going to be vacuum related, tho it could

 turn out to be a wonky distributor.>
 

I feel your right. Remeber I was the guy with

 the bus dying the harder I pushed the brake.

 You advised me then to buy a vaccum guage 

 and check out the booster, and well, hell I just 

need to do it!!


>. *IF* you have the original pulley (not certain,
but a pretty safe bet) then you should have two 

notches. the one on the left is for TDC (and 

setting valves); the timing to the notch on the 

right is at 5 BTDC and will be fine for timing to.

 The problem is that VW made half a dozen 

different pulleys wiht half a dozen differentnotches. 

If you pulley was replaced at any point, then the

 notches mean nothing and you are up a creek. 

I like degree wheel pullies on T1 engines, >

I finally figured out which mark was top dead 

center after setting my valves and people telling 

me I was too loose. Now it sounds like it should

 being set at the home made file mark. I have

 been timing to the notch which is at 5 deg ATDC. 

Veified by believe or not a degree protractor 

for constuction. 

 

Sorry to ramble, but I feel like were getting 

some where. Just to let you know the motor 

was rebuilt by the PO about 2 years ago, not 

sure about the intake gasket though.

 

Thanks a million,

Paul Saulsbury

71 Dormobile 

Dharma
