From: jbrush(-at-)aros.net
Date: Mon, 31 Oct 2005 09:00:39 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re:  lifter noise/bogging

>one of my lifters makes alot of noise when first
>started up lately, but quiets down after 10 minutes
>when warm, also lately bogging when driving, any
>ideas?

I will share my limited experience, but others will be much more well
versed, I am sure.

I have an 81 Air Cooled that I thought was gonna have to go, as one or two
lifters will constantly clatter on startup. I tried adjusting, to no
avail. I did the Marvel Mystery Oil thing and I assume it helped, but it
did not fix the problem. My lifters are just worn out after so many miles.


I got pretty frustrated as it would even make the 'death rattle' when I
drove it daily, and it became nearly unusable when finances forced me to
only drive it a few days each month, which I now do just to keep
everything moving, and lubed, and as happy as I can.

My symptoms were so bad that sometimes it took half an hour on the freeway
to quiet everyone down. Normally, the van was parked overnight in the
garage, completely level. Then one day, I parked it on the side of the
driveway, which is a very small incline, with a tilt to the port side. A
few weeks later, I dreaded the startup, but was pleased to find that there
was no excessive noise. Apparently, I now know which side the bad lifter
is on :-) I park it now on small 'ramps' in the front, made from wood, not
much lift at all, but enough to raise the front, and tilt the rear, and
although I know darn well its not fixed, I only start it up once a month,
and there is no lifter noise beyond a few seconds like so many of these
motors do. 

Doubtless, the position of the lifter(s) in question make a big
difference, as in whether they are sitting compressed or 'open' but it
makes me feel a lot better when I start it up, and it sounds normal,
rather than sounding like its going to explode. Lowers the paranoia when I
drive the neighborhood and folks stare that old van that is clattering and
clacking like its on its last legs :-)

That doesn't help much, but as a lurker without a lot of issues, I seldom
get to say anything useful, and so I take this opportunity to speak up :-)

FWIW, I don't think your power issue is related to the lifter noise, only
because in my case, the van runs just great, noisy or not, and although it
may sound like death is imminent, assuming it is properly adjusted and
just collapsed, you are looking at a very tiny clearance issue that ought
not take away too much of what is precious little power in the first
place.... Just the experience I have had.

John
