To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: neithammer(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 15 Dec 2011 07:56:11 -0500 (EST)
Subject: RE: American Idle

You have a 34PICT carb, and an SVDA distributor and you say you are setting
the idle speed timing at 7.5 deg BTDC.  To my knowledge, VW never supplied
type 1 engines with the 34PICT and SVDA, at least not in the US.  The (US
market) 34PICT is designed to work with the DVDA type distributor, for which
you set idle speed timing at 5 deg ATDC with all vacuum lines connected.

With this carb, setting the idle speed timing at 7.5 deg  BTDC will result in
an excessively high idle speed (like around 1500 RPM or maybe higher), unless
you crank the bypass screw nearly all the way in. With the bypass so adjusted,
the air flow at idle speed through the bypass passage that feeds the idle/low
speed air jets will be too low.  Under such conditions, the time lag for the
bypass air flow to pick up from idle to where it needs to be for robust
acceleration is too long, and this causes the stumbling you are experiencing.
This is because the bypass/idle/low speed passages and jets do most of the
work from idle up through part throttel engine operation - the main jet does
not kick in until a surprising high RPM.

I strongly suggest you install the correct distributor, or perhaps you can
convert what you have by substituting a DVDA vacuum advance unit for the SVDA
vacuum unit - I think AirCooled.net sells DVDA vacuum units.

Make sure that you have the throttle stop screw properly adjusted - basically,
the throttle plate on this carb must be fully closed at idle, and there is a
spec for what the clearance between the throttle plate and the carb body
should be when the throttle is closed. If you really want to keep using the
SVDA, I've heard of people blocking the little hole in the throttle plate -
which is there to calibrate the carb for idle air flow through the venturi at
idle speed when using the correct DVDA distributor - not sure that will really
cure the stumbling problem completely, but it might help.  Make sure your
throttle shaft holes are not excessivly worn - air leakage there will also
cause high idle speed and result in an incorrect bypass screw setting.  If the
throttle shaft holes are worn - get your carb re-bushed at RIMCO or another
competent machine shop.  Make sure there are not any manifold or vacuum leaks
(manifold end boots, brake booster vacuum lines, etc.) - any of these will
also mess up your byspass screw setting.
