Date: Mon, 19 Dec 2011 10:59:28 +0100
From: Timo Schairer <timo.schairer(-at-)googlemail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Automatic Vw Westfalia type 4 2000cc overheating

2011/12/16 John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>:
> My final thought is that I thought I remembered either you helping
> someone, or someone else reporting a high temp problem that was
> discovered to be caused by a worn camshaft.

Hi all,
that one was me. Having ruined a number of used and high-quality
rebuilt cylinder heads on an otherwise newly rebuilt engine, I
installed a DokotaDigital gauge under #3 spark plug. The numbers were
pretty clear: The engine would only run below 400F on level highway
with a speed of 62mph. As soon as I had to go up a hill or accelerate,
temps were far above 400F. Oil temperature was rather normal around
230F. I fiddeled with different jet sizes and installed a wideband O2
sensor just to figure out that I could drive with almost any
combination of mains and air correction jets... the CHT was always way
too high while getting very unstable AFR readings.
At a time I just had to go to holidays with the bus and I ignored any
CHT readings, driving the engine with temps around 430F-450F over long
distances (from Germany through Sweden and back). Note that the engine
felt cool to the touch, you could hold on to the dipstick without
burning your fingers.
Although I made it home, driving like this was not a good idea at all.
The valves had substantially sunken in the head and the heads
themselves were literally warped to the inside in the lower parts (the
area were the head and cylinder studs go through has no support that
keeps the head from getting compressed when you are approaching
meltdown temperature).

After putting on another set of high-quality rebuilt cylinder heads,
CHTs were as high as before. Finally, I chose to go to one of the best
(and most expensive) type4 specialists in Germany (Kummetat). They put
the bus on the dyno and we could see that it had only around 50HP
instead of 70HP. Suspecting the cam to be bad, they set zero lash for
the valves and measured the travel of the push rod when turning the
engine by hand. The numbers were very clear, almost all cam lobes had
experienced wear, especially on #3 and #1.

Dissection of the engine revealed a very badly worn cam shaft. Though
the cam followers were genuine VW, just as the cam, these did not
match: The followers were way too heavy for the badly coated cam.

My recommendation: I'd check the push rod travel with a dial indicator
to be sure you are not experiencing cam issues.

Cheers,
Timo
78 bus
82 & 84 beetle
