Date: Tue, 30 Jan 2007 12:02:51 -0500
From: Jules <jules.herr(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Donnellan, Michael (ENRD)" <Michael.Donnellan(-at-)usdoj.gov>
Cc: "Type2 list" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Questions about the metal fuel line to fuel pump in

Michael,

On my '71 at the right top of the firewall (battery side) there's a
bit of metal line that passes through the firewall. I don't know what
it is for (nothing is attached to it) but it looks stock (original
paint). It would seem that you could use this, by either attaching the
fuel lines directly to it, at the front and rear of the firewall, or
by running a metal line through the center of it.

Currently my fuel line runs through the hole on the right side of the
firewall, just to the right of the front cooling tin. I use a larger
piece of rubberized line as a shield over the line so the metal of the
firewall doesn't cut through the line over time. I suppose the grommet
which goes around the rim of this hole would also be a good safety
precaution, if I knew where to find one. Also, I've used a spark plug
air seal in the past to shield the line as it passes through the
firewall, not as good as the rubber line, but better than nothing. I
wonder about your setup, it would seem that if you've got the fuel
line actually running through the cooling tin that would add an extra
layer of complexity to engine removal/install. Additionally any holes
in the cooling tin could possibly cause a loss of cooling air.

I would guess that if you're going to use metal fuel line you'll need
at least a few inches of the standard braid covered rubberized line at
the end to mate it to your fuel pump.

peace
jules
'71 1600dp
troy, ny

On 1/30/07, Donnellan, Michael (ENRD) <Michael.Donnellan(-at-)usdoj.gov> wrote:
>         I had not planned to remove the motor (1600DP w/ doghouse
> cooler), but a broken exhaust stud changed that.  Now I am planning to
> re-install my motor, I am thinking about improvements I would like to
> make.  One "improvement" I would like to make is to install the stock
> metal fuel line that goes from the front (FIF) of the engine tin around
> the fan housing to the fuel pump.  I once bought a metal fuel line that
> was supposed to serve this purpose, but I could not figure out any way
> to make fit on my motor.
