Date: Tue, 30 Jan 2007 09:21:38 -0800
From: "tristan shaffer" <tristanshaffer(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Vintage Bus List" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Fwd: [VB] interior panels

[Fwd great panel repair write-up from Sherry]

---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Kafertoys(-at-)xxx.xxx <Kafertoys(-at-)xxx.xxx>
Date: Jan 30, 2007 3:18 AM
Subject: Re: [VB] interior panels
To: tristanshaffer(-at-)xxxxx.xxx

I have ran into the same problem with older panels.  What I've found
that works is: 1.  heat the back of the panels with heat lamps (or a
heat gun on medium) until VERY warm, but not hot.  2.  If the panels
are bowed inward or outward at the bottom (or anywhere else) the heat
will make them more pliable.  3.  While warm, lay the panel on a hard,
flat surface with the bowed area faced up.  4.  Place a flat, heavy
object on the panels and leave this weight in place until panels are
completely cooled.  Generally, this will straighten the bowed areas.

As far as the actual repair, the wood product is an option.  I would
not recommend the paint you mentioned.  In the past, if the panels
were in really bad condition, I have mixed a small amount of
fiberglass, placed the thin (silky feeling) fiberglass matting over
the damaged section (on the back side of the panel), applied the
actual fiberglass mixture over the matting with a 1 inch or so
paintbrush in an EXTREMELY thin layer, and allowed to dry.  The will
give you the most strength.  Just be sure not to get the fiberglass
too thick, don't use the thick fiberglass matting, be sure the panels
are straightened before you apply it (using the method I described
above).  If you do get a little thicker layer than you want or if the
fiberglass runs over the edges, don't worry too much...fiberglass can
be sanded to smooth out to exactly where you want it.  Just be sure to
use a mask and gloves when sanding fiberglass-it's not good to breathe
in fiberglass particles.

If you choose to do this...a cinder block or two works well for the
weight, a cement floor works well for a hard surface, and be sure to
purchase the clear liquid hardener that has to be mixed with the
fiberglass resin.  For this project, the Bondo brand works OK and you
can get it at most any auto parts store.  You can get the matting,
gloves, and mask there too.  Don't apply weight to cold panels, they
will crack even further.  Fiberglass dries VERY QUICKLY.  Apply your
matting first, mix your resin and hardener (follow directions on
resin/hardener), apply immediately, and smooth out with the paintbrush
immediately.  If it's not perfect, wait for it to completely dry and
then sand down.  You can reapply another thin layer if necessary after
first layer dry but don't try to keep smoothing out after the
fiberglass begins to dry or you'll just make a huge mess.

I've been doing interior work at a restoration shop for years...hope
this works as well for you as it has me.  If all else fails, they sell
the same type material that the panels are made of at Lowe's and you
can cut out your own with a jigsaw using your old panel as a template.
 I would recommend practicing with fiberglass on something else before
you apply to panels if you've never used it before.

Sherry Gavazzi
