Date: Wed, 31 Jan 2007 08:43:42 -0600 (CST)
From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
To: Jules <jules.herr(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Questions about the metal fuel line to fuel pump in 

Jules,

Actually, I have started doing this to almost all of my VW's with the 
exception of my 78 bus.

I got sick and tired of having gasoline running down my arms and into my 
eyes and being a potential fire hazard.  It didn't seem to matter whether 
I had a good clamp on either end or not as there is always some residual
gas in the lines.

Running steel tubing thru the firewall always seemed to be a better idea
to me rather than thru the cooling tin.

The tubing thru the firewall will have much less movement than thru the 
cooling tin.

I have started doing this on stock bugs as well.  The only argument 
against this that I can imagine is that when the factory built bugs, they 
didn't have to run tubing thru the firewall as the body was mated to the 
frame.

Just because the factory didn't do it that way doesn't mean it's not a 
better idea now.

Just my 2 cents worth, dave


-- 
-------------------------------------------------------------------
Enough sunlight reaches the Earth *every* hour to meet the world's
energy demand for an entire year.....so, what do we do with it?


On Tue, 30 Jan 2007, Jules wrote:

> Michael,
>
>
  Currently my fuel line runs through the hole on the right side of the
  firewall, just to the right of the front cooling tin. I use a larger
  piece of rubberized line as a shield over the line so the metal of the
  firewall doesn't cut through the line over time. I suppose the grommet
  which goes around the rim of this hole would also be a good safety
  precaution, if I knew where to find one. Also, I've used a spark plug
  air seal in the past to shield the line as it passes through the
  firewall, not as good as the rubber line, but better than nothing. I
  wonder about your setup, it would seem that if you've got the fuel
> line actually running through the cooling tin that would add an extra
> layer of complexity to engine removal/install. Additionally any holes
> in the cooling tin could possibly cause a loss of cooling air.
>
> I would guess that if you're going to use metal fuel line you'll need
> at least a few inches of the standard braid covered rubberized line at
> the end to mate it to your fuel pump.
>
> peace
> jules
> '71 1600dp
