Date: Sun, 25 Feb 2007 08:31:24 -0500
From: Dave Jersey <djersey(-at-)yadtel.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com,  vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Trip report Elkin NC to Florence Az and back

Back in August while tending to the store at my new job I was approached 
by a lady who asked if our company would be interested in vending at a 
war in Az in February.  I was all for it, since at the time my son was 
living in Az and it looked like a great opportunity to combine business 
and family.  I convinced my boss that it would be a good idea and the 
great Zen Warrior road trip came to be.  I know that most of the readers 
are VW bus enthusiasts as I am, but my poor bus would not be up to 
toting almost 3000 lbs of stock and fittings so I had to settle for a 
van and a trailer.

My good friend Sharon decided that she would like to go along and so, 
after I checked out the van and loaded van and trailer Thursday, we set 
out a little after 9AM on a gorgeous Friday for adventures unknown.  The 
van ran just fine down 421S to 40 W, up and down and around, the miles 
rolling by, us chatting away fueled by caffeine and a deep friendship.  
About Asheville we started thinking about food so we got off the slab 
and headed up to a Lowe's food store.  The checkout lady was cute, about 
my age, and was suffering through the day with a 'developmentally 
disabled' bagger.  He gave us a handy hint "take cheese cubes and put 
them on a toothpick and you get cheese kabobs".  Livin' large was maybe 
some of those little smoked sausages to go with the cheese kabobs.

After impulse shopping munchies and drinks we looked around and saw what 
appeared to be a Chinese takeout.  It had what looked like a small 
dining room.  We both love sushi and were pleased to see a sushi bar.  
The food was absolutely wonderful!!!  They made a kind of stir fry 
burrito that was phenomenal.  This set the tone for the whole trip, the 
search for the best food by type.

Out of North Carolina and into Tennessee, running along through the 
passes, letting those in a hurry go on by, holding a steady 61 mph 
because the van likes to blow oil at about 70.  At a fuel stop, I 
noticed the bearing cover on the right side of the trailer was missing 
and I am loathe to run bearings exposed to the elements.  Finally 
locating a cover that would fit in Lenoir City on Rt 321 at a Tractor 
Supply.  I used to live in Lenoir, NC just off Rt 321.  Coincidence?

Finally stopping for the night an hour or so east of Memphis, having 
driven about 13 hours counting the bearing cover search.

Next day dawned but we slept through that part.  Finally we got up, 
munched at the hotel breakfast then off we went.  Through Memphis.  I 
bemoaned the fact that I had left the velvet Elvis at the shop and so 
could not bring the king home for a proper blessing.  Over the 
Mississippi river, Sharon snapping pix.  Into Arkansas we go, running 
along enjoying the day.  We thought about stopping at the XXX Adult 
superstore but decided that we would lose too much time.  A while later 
we saw a sign for the Sticky Motel.  Had a laugh wondering if the 2 
establishments were owned by the same people, even though they were 
several miles apart.

Lunchtime came and the van was hungry too.  We had seen signs for a 
place called CJs Butcher Boy burger shop at exit 82.  Sounded good to 
us, though we had misgivings about burgers.  When we walked into CJs I 
noticed a large pan of steaks, cut up fresh mushrooms, piles of whole 
onions in a glass front cooler.  No steaks on the menu.  At the counter 
I saw a 55 gallon can of potatoes floating in water.  CJs grinds steak 
into burger, grabs a potato from the can, runs the tater through a 
cutter and into the oil.  Another most wonderful lunch.  By far the best 
burger I have ever eaten.  Bar none.  Don't even think about trying to 
argue with us about it.

Bellies and fuel tank full and still buzzing about the burgers we drove 
on and on.  Through Arkansas into Oklahoma.  Because there might be 
someone from Oklahoma reading this, I will simply say that we figured 
out that about 73% of the oil wells we saw were apparently producing.  
Yes, it WAS that bad.

Into Texas, stopping in Shamrock for the night.  Hungry again but 
dreading an anticlimactic dinner after CJs.  Sharon saw a menu for the 
Texas Roadhouse just a mile up the road.  Trundle our stuff into the 
room and then a mile up the road.  It had been 11 years since I had a 
for-real Texas Brisket.  Sharon had never had that pleasure.  I wasn't 
disappointed.  Melt in your mouth brisket cooked Texas style is a 
wonder.  Sharon was still bubbling about it days later.

Up in the morning, minor shopping for wiper blades and other essentials 
into the foggy day we go.  But first, a short detour to see the garage 
that inspired Ramone's in the movie Cars.  Yes, it really exists, just S 
of I 40 in Shamrock, Tx.  Fill up with fuel, buy trinkets and into the 
drizzle we drive.  Like hitting a wall, the visibility opened, then the 
clouds went away and we grokked on the scenery.  The wide opens of the 
south and west are nothing like what we are accustomed to so Sharon and 
I tried to figure out the real distances to things we saw. 

Into Amarillo when the van quits.  No 2 week notice, no argument with 
another employee, no sign whatsoever that it was going to up and die.  
Enough momentum to try and start twice, get into the right lane, take 
the next exit, and into the parking lot of the Drury hotel.  Not motel, 
HOTEL.  I did what limited troubleshooting I could, it had oil, power, 
fuel pump pumping.

The Drury had rooms, it being only 1:30.  Nothing left to do but smile 
smile smile.  We checked in, called the boss with what was happening, 
and checked out western Amarillo, Tx.  Nice leather and boot store, 
sporting goods store where I bought some dumbbells because I was missing 
pushing weights around.  Checked out a few more places, noticed a movie 
theater not far away.  Putting our purchases in the room, we went to the 
theater, bought tickets for the 5:30 Epic movie and off to Tony 
somoneorothers Italian place for dinner.  Not bad but not up to our 
accustomed highest quality foods.  Epic movie was ok, for me the high 
point was the guy that played Tumnus was the same guy that played Jack 
Black's partner in Nacho Libre.

Monday came and after consulting with a not so local Chevy dealership 
who turned me on to a more local Chevy dealership who didn't bother 
turning me on to the Chevy dealership less than a mile away.  We 
arranged for the van to get towed.  Of course once it got there it 
started right up.  They messed with it a while and told me that there 
was nothing wrong.  Great.  Intermittent electrical.  Bane of mechanics 
everywhere.  They took it out with the computer hooked up and lo and 
behold it died on the mechanic.  Crankshaft position sensor had an 
intermittent short.  Back at the hotel 24 hours after coasting in, hook 
up the trailer and on the road again!

Just a drivin' and a grinnin'.  Stop at a tourista trap in NM.  Found 
cool stuff and Whistling Moon Traveler with Report.  My all time 
favorite bottle rocket.  There are many that go higher, and many that 
make a louder bang.  But WMTWR are by far the most grin at least for 
me.  Found a pair of earrings that look so good on Sharon.  Back on the 
road again and finally stopped for the night at Gallup.  We had already 
decided that when I win the lottery big time we're moving to NM.  It's 
that pretty and there's so much to discover.

A good night sleep and anticipation of making it to the war Tuesday.  We 
walk out to a few snowflakes falling.  Into Arid-zoner we go.  After 
talking it over and consulting with the Mapquest directions we discover 
that through the Petrified Forest national park is the hypotenuse of the 
triangle.  Never been there and on the map it sure looks like a more 
direct way.  Snowflakes falling.

Into the park after a stop at the museum.  We could both feel energy 
from the petrified wood chunks.  Some from the smaller pieces, the 
larger ones almost like an electric fence.  OLD energy.  Snowflakes 
coming down harder, making photos harder to take.  A few stops just the 
same for pix, road covered with 3 inches of snow and more coming down.  
We get to the other end just as they're shutting the gate to close the 
road.

Stop at the visitor center at the south end, there's a piece there that 
I can't even touch it puts out that much power.  I'm not some new age 
crystal toting type, but all I can say is there was most definitely 
something there.  Down the road through the snow, they keep closing 
roads behind us.  I grew up driving in snow and ice so I'm actually 
enjoying this.

Around a corner we catch a glimpse of Cedar Canyon.  On the brakes.  
Stand at the edge of the canyon grokking on the scenery.  One of THOSE 
moments.  Photos taken we don't talk, overwhelmed by the scenery put 
there just for us.

Down the road and into Salt River canyon.  It's called the little grand 
canyon.  Nice, but overwhelming after Cedar canyon.  Stressing because 
of other folks and their inability to drive in the snow.  Up and down in 
and out of the snow line.  Lunch at la Cochina de Eva, just before Show 
Low.  Great food.  We decide that instead of the best food we'll just 
categorize it.  CJs for burgers, the place in Asheville for oriental, 
Lonestar for brisket.  77 through Az is gorgeous, no cel phone or radio, 
thankful for the omnifi and music.  Long drive though but beautiful.  
Finally arrive at Estrella War.  Check in and set up the tent with help 
from Art, my squire brother.

Wednesday morning we wake up.  I stroll down to see the tent blown down 
and poles twisted like pretzels.  I'm not going to get into the 
particulars of what went on there because this is about the road trip 
there and back.  I will mention the Mount Athos restaraunt in Florence.  
Good Greek food cheap.  Really good.  The gyros are the real deal.

I got to fight some, had a good time, sold some stuff and Sunday morning 
went back to a blown down tent.  Poles hanging over stock and customers 
coming in.  I had visions of The Omen, the part where the guy gets 
impaled in some freak accident.  I learned how to take a tent down 
around a bunch of stuff.  As we pack up customers keep coming in, 
actually made a fair amount of money selling stuff as we packed up.

For the ride back there was 3 of us.  Down the road we went, spirits 
high, talking over what we learned on the trip and what we could do 
better next time.  Into Tuscon we roll, I call Uncle Jerry to see if we 
could meet for dinner.  Talked to Maggoo, who told me that they were in 
Phoenix and not Tuscon.  I am still really bummed about this because one 
of the things I was looking forward to the most was meeting Uncle Jerry 
and Maggoo in person.

Dinner at a local BBQ chain whose name I won't mention because they lost 
our order and we sat there for almost 2 hours not realizing what had 
happened.  Finally got our dinners and the brisket just wasn't as good 
as for-real Texas brisket. When they came by and asked if we wanted 
dessert we replied that since they closed in about 3 hours there 
probably wasn't time.  Into NM again, finally stopping for the night 
after a long hard day.

Monday morning dawned.  coffee & breakfast.  On the road again with a 
side trip to  White Sands.  Sharon really wanted to see it and I had 
never been there either.  It looked like mad snowdrifts but made of 
gypsum sand.  It was really cool.  The sand wasn't hot despite the sun, 
probably because it is white and there is water close to the surface 
there.  Backtrack to the slab and onward through the day.  We decide to 
run all night so we crossed Texas.  Texas dinner at some mexican place 
whose claim to fame is John Madden ate there.  The fajitas were 
wonderful!  I drove most all night so don't remember much of East Texas, 
Louisianan, or Western Mississippi because after 12 hours of driving I 
was out.  Stop for the night in Eastern Mississippi, dinner at the 
Mellow Mushroom.  Good pizza but I make better.  They're improving 
though.  Last night motelling it, home stretch in the morning.
 
Up in the morning, breakfast, into the van and off we go.  Into Georgia, 
South Carolina, North Carolina.  Timed the run so we don't hit rush hour 
in Atlanta or Charlotte.  Drop His Grace at the airport so he can 
retrieve his car.  Then last highway run to drop Sharon off.  We go out 
to dinner at the really good Thai place, then goodbye and the backroads 
for the castle Elchinberg.  Yes, I really do live at a castle.

A stop at Mcdonalds for cheeseburgers and fries.  My goats really like 
fries.  The dogs like cheeseburgers.  After being gone that long I 
figure they might like a dad treat.  Zaphod Beeblegoat looked at me for 
a second then asked for a butt scratch.  Trillian just wanted fries.  
Morgan sulked at me for a while but still accepted my offering of a 
cheeseburger, taking it as daintily as a lady should.  Choco just wanted 
a cheeseburger the heck with tearful reunions.  Puck looked at me a long 
time then when I asked if it was time to kick the dog he dropped on his 
back for a good kicking, even before a cheeseburger.  Kick the dog at my 
house is dog language for a belly rub so all you animal rights activist 
types lay your hairs back down.

Open the sliding door and back into the day-to day world of Mad Uncle 
Dave I step, glad to be home again, already thinking about the next road 
trip.

Mad Uncle Dave
Castle Elchinburg
