Date: Fri, 25 Jul 2003 07:22:23 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Baker <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>
To: bus list <ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Cc: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>, Full Moon Bus club
Subject: FREE Sunroof Bus in SW Ohio!

Alright Y'all, it's getting to be time to move this
old 79 bus out of my yard.  Mike LaBarge, you still
have dibs on the parts we talked about if you want
them. Instead of just hauling it off to the scrapper,
I thought I'd offer it up to anybody who is willing to
come pick it up (one man's trash is another man's
treasure, right?!). Well this bus is NO treasure, but
there may be something of use to you left on it. It is
located about 25 miles northeast of Cincinnati Ohio in
a little village called Pleasant Plain. It is a
sunroof bus and the roof clip is good and the PO said
the sunroof worked but it leaked, so he sealed it up
with caulk. The bus has been wrecked in the front
drivers side, so the nose is NO good. 
What's NOT left on it is:
engine
tranny
windshield
sliding windows
front seats
rear brake hardware
wiper motor
shift linkage
And much more I'm sure.

However, what IS left on it is:
All doors
some good sheet metal (solid cargo floor)
front running gear (front beam is rotten though)
4 wheels with bald tires that DO hold air
sunroof assembly
an old dingy rear seat
clutch,brake,gas pedal assemblies
fuse box, wires, etc.

I would prefer to get rid of the whole bus in one
piece, but if nobody wants the bus as a whole then you
may come to my place between now and August 3rd and
pull off any parts that you want, as long as the parts
taken will not interfere with the bus rolling. On
August 4, I have decided that the bus must go. So if
no one has claimed it by then, I will tow it to the
junk yard up the street. Also, sorry but I am probably
NOT going to be able to find any time to pull any of
the parts myself, so if you want something, come get it.

=====
Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1972 Deluxe
http://www.buszen.com

"So we got into the red VW microbus with the shovels and the rakes and the implements of destruction and we headed on to the police officer's station..."
