From: "Gary G. Martin" <gmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 25 Jul 2003 11:28:22 -0500
Subject: weird pair of bolts on one head on one side of engine

> Date: Thu, 24 Jul 2003 18:42:04 -0700 (PDT)
> To: type2(-at-)type2.com
> From: "Paul K." <ocsd50ae(-at-)yahoo.com>
> Subject: auto tranny and etc?'s
> Message-ID: <20030725014204.40418.qmail(-at-)web41115.mail.yahoo.com>
>
snip
snip
>
>
> one engine had big bolts on either side of the head
> just to the outside of where the manifolds bolt down
> and my other engine only has one on the drivers
> side????

from GGM
You might just have a really big problem with that engine.
On and off, VW had an air injection into the exhaust port of the head. That is, there is
a big threaded hole in the exhaust port, right in the head itself. There is nothing
wrong with those kinds of heads, but the holes must be plugged up if you are not using
the air injection system. I have seen those threaded holes on 1.7 and 1.8 and 2.0 heads.
I always take extra steps to ensure that those holes are absolutely and permanently
plugged shut. I  use locktight glue.  I tap the hole with a long "taper" tap to make the
hole tapered like a tapered pipe thread so the bolt gets tight and bottoms out in the
all-the-way-through hole just like the bolt was getting tight in a dead end hole. I then
make sure the bolt end stops at the edge of the exhaust port so that it doesn't stick
into the port and interfere with the exhaust gas flow. I also peen the bolt end as one
more step to make sure it stays put.

So if you only have those weird bolts on one head on one side of your engine, you might
have different kinds of heads on either side of your engine. The only way to know for
sure is to take the engine apart and study the heads. The combustion chambers have to be
the same shape and same size on both heads. The valves have to be the same size on both
heads. If you don't have identical heads, your engine will not last as long as it could.
You will have uneven forces on the crankshaft. You will have uneven power coming from
one head on one side and the different head on the other side.

email me and I will send you high resolution pictures of the different kinds of heads
and those weird bolts - bolt holes or I can point you to a url for a picture album of
lower resolution photos
gmartin(-at-)coin.org
ggm
