From: "Gary G. Martin" <gmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 25 Jul 2003 12:02:35 -0500
Subject: hot start problems

>Date: Fri, 25 Jul 2003 09:15:14 -0400
>To: type2(-at-)type2.com
>From: "Theodore Reshetiloff" <TReshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com>
>Subject: Hot engine = No start
>Message-ID:
<OF9177BB7A.0A685D8B-ON85256D6E.00485C43->85256D6E.004A41CF(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com>

>I know this subject has been brought up before and that there is some relay
>I can install to fix the problem but can anyone tell me exactly what is
>going on here. As long as the motor is cool it starts fine. Even making
>trips around town its okay. But on one trip back from New England it would
>not turn after getting gas and had to push start. My 72 used to do this
>after highway driving for some time.  Is it just a sign on the starter
>getting old? Am I missing a heat shield for the starter? I really don't
>think I should have to modify my starter system to avoid this problem, but
>hey maybe that relay is easier and cheaper than a new starter?
>
from ggm
hot starting  has been an endemic problems in VW's for forever and lots of other
vehicles too.

A new expensive starter may solve the problem for a little while but you can make the
system more reliable by re-engineering it for a lot cheaper than a new starter that will
soon fail anyway. I am  sure that many unscrupulous or unwitting mechanics have
made lots of money replacing perfectly good starters that would have worked with
the in between relay circuit.

There are a lot of reasons for this problem. in the first place; poor engineering of
everything involved from the tiny key engaged start switch circuit that turns on the
really big relay (solenoid) that turns on the starter motor to the just barely big
enough wires that provide the needed large current for the starter motor. Then age
related: poor electrical current flow due to corroded connections and burned up
undersized wires.  When the starter motor and all its switches and circuits get hot,
things get big, spaces get larger, things get further apart, there is more resistance to
current flow, and important electrical contacts don't close enough to carry enough
current to activate everything necessary. If you troubleshoot the starting system when
it is hot or cold, you often find that all the switches are "working" and all the
voltages are present where and when they are supposed to be, however, not enough current
is allowed to flow in the system to turn over the starter motor. To solve the problem,
just install a big generic horn relay or generic headlight relay or a really super heavy
duty deluxe Chevy starter solenoid relay. Wire it up so that the tiny key engaged
starter on switch turns on the new generic relay. You can usually get away with using
the original "starter on" wires to turn on the generic relay. Then use great big wires
to power the generic relay transfer of power to the starter relay. Keep all your
connections clean and really tight. Install a really good ground strap from the negative
terminal of the battery to the body and install another ground strap from the negative
terminal of the battery to the engine itself.  Cuss out all the original design
engineers if it makes you feel any better.
