Date: Sat, 21 Oct 2006 09:23:08 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chris <cflesher1(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] fuel injector seal dropped into intake

Chris wrote:
> '78 2.0 F.I.
> dropped a fuel injector seal into the intake.

Mike  wrote: Do you still have the vacuum bag? I'd tear through that thing and look if it's in there. But still, how would it suck it through the intake? The hole is smaller than the seal and you'd literally have to stuff it through there. Plus, it would have to get by the valve as well. Can you see down in there to see if anything is stuck behind the valve?Or did it get sucked into the main intake and down through the intake runners? But it would still probably get stuck behind the valve. I'm not sure how much a valve opens, but I don't think it opens enough for that rubber piece to go through the head. Anyone else know?Have you run the engine yet? If not, that's good, cuz at least it hasn't melted it. I'm guessing that would munge up the cylinder and rings. You can also take off the intake runner for that side to peek down into the intake ports and see what you can find..
   
  *************Synopsis. He had the intake runners off, went to put the small seal onto the injector while it sat (still connected to fuel rail) above the open intake. He HAD paper towels in the open intake holes, as I instructed, but chose to remove the paper towels for the seal installation!  So, butterfingers, and there goes the seal into the hole with intake valve open. From looking at the open valve, it DOES appear that the small seal can get through there.
  At any rate, I rummaged through the wonderful shop vac. pile of crap and found it.
   
  But, to make the thread educational (aside from the lesson of do not remove your paper towels from the open intake holes for seal installation while injectors are sitting above the open holes), IF the seal would have gotten stuck into the cylinder, what then? I know the BEST thing would be to remove the head and get it out, BUT would it do terrible damage to leave it in and burn it up? Would it burn up or just create permanent goo in the cylinder?
