Date: Sun, 22 Oct 2006 10:02:43 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Kevin H. Roberts" <bopsax(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Mike Benthin <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net>
Cc: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] sliding window update

Mine seems to be ok as it is until I can get a replacement part.   I left the crank off so I won't forget and crank it back down.   Chris at bustedbus said that the windows are so sturdy that I probably  won't break it.  But it looks like I am going to have to take it  out to fix it.  Can't get much leverage reaching through that  slot.  I just hope it's not a royal PITA to get it back in and  lined up.  Busahaulic recommended brazing it.  I don't know  anything about that but may be willing to try it.  I hadn' thought  about JBWeld.  But that is good stuff and it would probably hold  up.  I don' t want to be doing it again anytime soon.   Thanks...KR

Mike Benthin <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net> wrote:  Hey, been there- When it happened to me at a toll booth, I stopped and 
made a shim with wood picked up by the road and wedged the window up 
from below so we did not freeze on 4 hr ride home.  Later I cut 2 shims 
from 1x3 stock and wedged them between the bottom of the window cavity 
and the glass bottom to keep it all the way up.  .  This gives you room 
to work and move the crank to position the broken holder where you want. 
  The U shape on the glass can be TAPPED OFF with a hammer if you use 
something wide enough like a door hinge or what I used, a tool with a 
curved chisel-like end 3" wide and a cat's paw puller at the other- I 
think it's for windows.  Rest this agains the u-piece and tap down 
wards- it is held to the glass by a rubber shim, so you can try silicone 
spray to loosen it from the glass.  Even a flat screwdriver hit on one 
side should start it moving. Once the U is off, you can decide whether 
to JBweld/bolt it to the part going up and down, or do what I did, 
remove/replace with parter pull the entire tube holding the spiral and 
the crank connection- it will come out if you remove the holding screws 
and bend it into a tighter U until it pulls out.
-- 
