Date: Sun, 22 Oct 2006 10:24:07 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: kevin(-at-)bopsax.com
Subject: Re: [T2] sliding window update

Check out Benthin's reply for better info.
Brazing falls in between soldering and welding.
Welding is the actual joining of the two parts
together by re-establishing their molecular structure
- melt 'em with enough filler molten metal to fill the
gaps and allow them the re-freeze into a new single
piece. If done correctly, there is no difference
between the weld and the parts - it all becomes one.

Speaking of which, did you hear about the Zen who
asked the hot dog vendor to "Make me one with
everything?"

Soldering fastens two pieces together with a low-melt
metal that bonds to both pieces. In electrical
connections it also fills gaps to keep pollutants out
(considering that it is not a pollutant itself?)

Silver soldering is a stronger joint with higher heat
to melt the fill metal. Brazing is again the joining
of two metals with a filler metal, in this case a
bronze alloy. I use a rod with a high percentage of
molybdenum which IIRC makes the connection less
brittle. It does require a very hot flame - I doubt it
can be done without oxygen; I use an oxy-acetylene
torch.

If I got any of it wrong, I'm sure somene will
straighten me out! The general idea is sound, though.

As Mike stated, you may be able to use an adhesive
such as JB Weld to accomplish this. Study it and
determine where you might add extra support. I suspect
it is the vibration and constant flexing that
eventually does them in. If you can repair it with
that in mind, you can eliminate it as a future
concern. Nobody's gonna see it! -BaH

--- "Kevin H. Roberts" <bopsax(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:

> Interesting.  I don't know anything about 'brazing.'
>  I know  welding is fusing metals together
> electolytically.  Is brazing  just fusing metals
> together by heating them until they melt  together? 
> What kind of material does one use to braze metals 
> together?  It must hold up pretty well if yours has
> withstood 10  years of cranking.  I roll mine up and
> down several times a  day.  What do you need to do
> it besides a good blowtorch?   Thanks....KR


'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2)
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01
