Date: Mon, 23 Oct 2006 17:59:01 -0400
From: Jules <jules.herr(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Brake squishyness

Hi,

Thanks for all the suggestions on the topic. After my last report
(brake squishiness after rear rubber line replacement) I went and
adjusted the rear brakes. This of course required a complete overhaul
of the 4 adjusters which of course were completely rusted frozen. The
adjustment produced a noticeable difference, both in stopping power
and brake pedal return. Everything is feeling pretty good now. There's
still about 1/2 an inch of brake pedal return that I am not achieving
(unless I pull the brake pedal up with the top of my foot) - but this
doesn't seem to be effecting the braking action at all, ie, the brakes
aren't actually engaged during that last 1/2" of travel.

I will be re-bleeding the entire system in a few days just to be sure
that's not the problem. Beyond that I guess I should take a look at
the master cylinder and booster for anything out of the ordinary,
perhaps considering a master cylinder overhaul/replacement in the
spring?

> Does the '70 have a brake booster? If so, fluid (water or brake fluid) in
> the booster can cause the pedal not to return. However, the pedal would feel
> hard since you would have lost the booster's assistance.

Yes my '71 has a booster. What is the easiest way to find out if I've
got fluid in there?

> Squishyness is a sign of either air in the system or a leak. If you can pump
> up the pedal, it may be air. If not, it must be a pretty bad leak. Since the
> pedal is not returning properly I am voting for a leak or a bad master
> cylinder seal.

Part # for that seal? I can't find it on some of the more popular
online vendor sites.

I also replaced the two old rusty parking brake cables in the process.
Anyone know the part # for the parking brake cable boots where they
enter those long metal tubes? I had boots I though would fit but I
cannot (without cutting them up) get them to fit over the cable ends.


Brakes are almost ready for winter. Bring on the snow.

peace
jules
'71 westy - 1600dp - "the clubhouse"
