Date: Tue, 24 Oct 2006 14:22:38 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: "Mueller, David" <dmueller(-at-)stewartlaw.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Access to main heat tube.

Mueller, David wrote:
> I would like to improve the heat in my 78 Westy, but can not see any way to
> get at the long paper tube from underneath to clean, replace or insulate it.
> Can anybody tell me how?

Of course you have access to it... you just have to jack up the car ;)

I find it easiest to jack up the front and then put jackstands under the 
front jackpoint supports and then roll under from the front.  Makes it 
easier to deal with all the cables as well.

Now, here's what you can do... pull out the old stuff and throw it to 
the side.  Then find some extendable aluminum ducting.. I think 4" 
diameter.. measure first (home depot, lowes, etc) and a bunch of clamps 
and aluminum tape and foil covered bubble wrap.  Extend the tubing and 
cut to fit.  Wrap it with the foil covered bubble wrap and tape off with 
the aluminum tape.  Clamp it in with the new clamps.  If you do this for 
all of your ducting (including the smaller ducting towards the front), 
you will be amazed how hot it gets up front.  I can't hold my hand in 
front of the ducts it's that hot.

Now, if your control cables are frozen up, that can be a major pain in 
the ass.  I ended up ripping out the steel guides and replaced them with 
1/4" copper plumbing pipe (the stuff that they use to get water to a 
fridge) and cut it into about 5' sections connecting the different 
sections w/ plastic tubing.  That way I didn't have to try and form a 
14' piece of copper tube from the front to back.  It worked brilliantly 
to guide my new control cables back to the heater ducts.  Get everything 
adjusted and revel in your newfound heat ;)

Now, I gotta deal with all the window/door air leaks so it *stays* hot 
in the cab... a blanket hung between the cab and the rear cabin does 
wonders.. it even got TOO hot when we were driving in the snow!

Btw, I have a 78 as well, so what I did can obviously be done on your 
bus as well.

later,
Mike
