Date: Sun, 21 Mar 2004 12:27:42 -0500 (EST)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: Tom <turtlebus(-at-)Netzero.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Buying rebuilt engine

On Sat, 20 Mar 2004, Tom wrote:

> So far I havent seen any posts about anyone getting a bad rebuilt engine
> from bus depot, so I think I'm going to buy one for my 80 vanagon. If
> anyone has anything positive or negative to say about these engines
> please let me know.

Bus Depot used to drop-ship engines from AVP.  AVP is a good reputable
mid-line rebuidler.  As with all rebuilders they produce some good engines
and some duds with the balance strongly favoring the good engine side.

The current rack of U.S rebuilders and prices (where published) for a 2L
hyd. lifter engine is:

Raby's Aircooled Technology  No prices given
Boston Engine                2150
GEX                          1269
Fast German                  1299
Bus Depot (AVP?)             1099

Although Mr. Raby's web site does not give prices I believe he is in the
same price range as Boston Engine.

The "list wisdom" seems to be universally negative on GEX. I have
installed one GEX engine and it ran fine out of the box for many miles
until the bus it was in was totalled (not GEX' fault).  I have installed
three AVP rebuilds.  Two ran fine out of the box and are still running
AFAIK.  The third had a head problem and much backing and forthing occured
on getting a replacement but they did honor thir warranty and a new head
was installed.  I have no direct experience with any of the other
rebuilders.

> Also If you have a list of the additional parts needed for installing
> the engine I would apreciate it. I am wondering about parts like the
> pushrod tube seals etc.

If you buy a long block then the pushrods should already be installed but
you should buy an engine gasket set anyway.  You will not need all of them
but you will need enough of them to make it worthwhile (intake gaskets,
oil filler gasket, etc.).  You should also take this opportunity to
replace as much of the rubber on your engine as possible.  If you are
running fuel injection then this is the time to replace the hoses
connecting your intake runners to the intake manifold.  Replace vacuum
lines.  And...

REPLACE ALL FUEL LINES!!!!!!

In addition, as you install the tin do your best to assure that there are
no gaps between pieces of tin or between the tin and the block.  Every cc
of cooling air is needed to preserve your engine.  This is one place where
a tube of RTV or high temperature caulk is very acceptable.  Seal the tin
and kep that air in!

                             OOK!

Litera Scripta Manent
