Date: Mon, 22 Mar 2004 07:43:35 -0500 (EST)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: Harry Hoffman <hhoffman(-at-)ip-solutions.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Help with Master Cylinder replacement

On Sat, 20 Mar 2004, Harry Hoffman wrote:

> I just purchased a new (Brazilian) Master Cylinder for my '79
> Transporter. I' just it hooked back up to the vacuum servo and have
> the reservoir in place.
>
> My problem is in trying to hook back up the brake lines to the cylinder. The
> couplings on the brake lines don't seem to want to screw into the master
> cylinder at all.

Mr. Hoffman,

I believe you have the order of assembly wrong. As Mr. Martin said
yesterday, it is important to assemble the metal brake lines to the master
cylinder before you bolt the master cylinder to the brake booster.  What
follows it a dscription of what I do.

First you assemble the stop lamp switches to the master cylinder.  Use
this as a "practice piece" as the threads are the same as for the metal
lines without the inconvenience of the long inflexible tail.  It is very
important to start them by hand and to turn them in at least three turns
by hand.

Second you should assemble the lower resevoir to the master cylinder...
*very* carefully, lubricated with brake fluid.  Remember as you do so to
use care as they are no longer available and becoming both brittle
and rare.

Third you should start the two metal lines into the master cylinder.  As
has already been mentioned the threaded end needs to meet the master
cylinder at very nearly a perfect perpendicular to get the very find
threads to start.  I find that sliding the rotating bit back a couple mm
and feeding the flared end into place centers the pipe.  I then slide the
nut forward until it comes into contact with the threads.  Rotate the
master cylinder until it looks right and turn the nut *ANTI* clockwise
until you feel the thread on the nut click over the end of the thread in
the master cylinder. At that point you are ready to finger-tighten the nut
by turning it clockwise into the master cylinder.  DO NOT USE A WRENCH!!!!
Use only fingers for at least the first three full turns.  The threads
involved here are very fine and easy to crossthread.

Once you have started both of the metal lines then you may put the feed
pipe from the upper resevoir onto the lower resevoir and bolt the master
cylinder to the disc brake booster.  Use the new O-ring that should have
come with your new master cylinder.

Tighten everything and proceed to bleeding.

                             OOK!

Litera Scripta Manent
