From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: "bus" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 22 Mar 2004 08:44:37 -0800
Subject: RE:[T2] My Brakes is broke - star adjuster option

I did battle with the frozen adjuster stars this last weekend.  Took
a lot of coaxing but finally got them all out with minimal damage.
I don't think that anybody touched those stars in 10+ years.

I was afraid to use lubricants on the stars as they sit so close to
the brake pads.  Never knew of the lithium grease thing.  So I
grabbed some super fine sanding cloth and got all oxidation off of
the stars and out of the sleeves they rest in.  I was sitting there
scratching my head on ways to lubricate these without disabling my
nifty new brake pads when my father in law cruised by and asked me
what was up.  I told him and he had the solution.

  He is an excellant gun-smith.  Has a full metal shop at his
disposal where he can fabricate just about anything he needs for his
business and numerous hobbies.  So he asks me for the parts and says
that he will be back in a few hours,..... um,.. okay.  I remove the
stars for both sides and also remove the sleeve/housings for them
and hand them over.  This made me nervous, but he has my complete
trust.  Besides,.. if he screws them up, I know that he would/could
replace them.  4 hours later he comes back with some super amazing
stuff.

He completely glass beaded the parts,.. nice and clean.  Then he
coated them in teflon,... that's right,.. teflon.  He baked them and
then coated them again and baked them a second time.  These things
now move so incredibly clean and crisp, you would never know that
they had been rusted in place earlier that day.  Teflon is a dry
lubricant.  So no trouble with grease getting on the pads.  The
stars are now sealed in teflon, so they are not exposed to water or
air.  The stars only need to be moved when the brakes need to be
adjusted so the wear on the teflon coating should be minimal.  The
only thing bad about the whole thing are the few teeth on the stars
that are now a little chewed up from my removal process.  But the
teflon coating makes even that look good.  They turn like butter
now, and the spring that rests on them and keeps them from moving is
now being used for it's intended purpose instead of getting assisted
by all that rust.  So far so good,.. I will let you all know how it
works out.


> >>I
> also need to replace one adjuster star, as I broke a
> couple teeth off
> getting it apart. Note to self: Must get more anti-seize.<<
>
> you can also use 'white lithium grease' which is made
> specifically for this
> application. i'm sure anit-seize would work tho.
