From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 12 Jun 2004 09:30:18 -0500
Subject: insurance, Geico, radar guns

>Date: Sat, 12 Jun 2004 03:33:29 -0400 (EDT)
>From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
>
>Obviously, you don't want to go with Geico at that price, but
there is
>another reason not to do so even if their price was reasonable.
Geico
>gives radar guns to law enforcement organizations, obvously with
the goal
>of increasing revenue through rate increases.
>
>We're unlikely to run afoul of Officer Friendly with his Geico
Gun in our
>buses, but that doesn't mean that we should support a company
that does
>things like that.
>
From Gary G. Martin

I totally disagree with you. The radar guns are used to verify
that someone is driving over the speed limit. Driving over the
speed limit is stupid and dangerous. When the freeway speed limit
was lowered, from 70 mph to 55 mph, accident fatalities dropped
about 10%. When the speed limit was raised back to 70 mph, the
accident fatalities returned to their previous rates. Speed limits
are set for safety reasons. The American public cannot drive
safely. A loose rule of thumb is that automobile accidents kill
about 1000 people per week; 500 of which are killed by drunks.
That figure is dwarfed by the number of people that are crippled
and brain damaged in automobile accidents.

People who use radar detectors to break the law and drive over the
speed limit are dangerous fools. They think that the few minites
they save by speeding are worth greatly increasing the risk that
they will be in an accident. They think they are the most
important people in the world and they don't care if they kill you
or your loved ones to save those minutes.

Geico does not provide radar guns because they are a magnanimous
caring company that wants to lessen human pain and suffering.
Geico provides radar guns to lessen accident payout costs to
increase their profits.  In spite of Geico's true motives, Geico
is doing the driving public a great service by providing radar
guns. All the more reason to SUPPORT Geico insurance.
