From: "vwwesty" <vwwesty(-at-)indybudd.com>
To: "TYPE 2 LIST" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 12 Jun 2004 13:21:43 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] insurance, Geico, radar guns

>When the freeway speed limit
> was lowered, from 70 mph to 55 mph, accident fatalities dropped
> about 10%. When the speed limit was raised back to 70 mph, the
> accident fatalities returned to their previous rates. Speed limits
> are set for safety reasons.

So that's why the raised it back up to 70mph, because its less safe?

I wasn't even a teenager back then but as I recall It was lowered due to the
1970's fuel crisis and had nothing to do with safety, whatever effect it had
on safety was purely a side benefit. All the 'Drive 55 stay alive' talk was
just that, talk. 'Drive 55 save gas' just doesn't have the same ring to it.

Nevertheless FUEL SAVINGS during a time of crisis is why the limit was
temporarily lowered, then raised again after the crisis subsided.

When planning speed limits another thing that's considered besides safety is
how much TICKET REVENUE any specific limit will generate... If you don't
believe me visit Waldo FL sometime but make sure you have ticket money on
you for the mile or so drive through town. As tens of thousands of other
tourist have found out over the years you'll be needing it.

>The American public cannot drive safely.

Speak for yourself, I've seen many drivers in SWFL who have probably never
exceed the speed limit in their life and yet they are far more dangerous
drivers then those all around me routinely doing '5 over' the limit. They
often leave a path of carnage behind them, never look in their rear view
mirror, or are even aware they are so dangerous, many think they are 'good'
and 'safe' drivers... LOL

>A loose rule of thumb is that automobile accidents kill
> about 1000 people per week; 500 of which are killed by drunks.
> That figure is dwarfed by the number of people that are crippled
> and brain damaged in automobile accidents.
>
> People who use radar detectors to break the law and drive over the
> speed limit are dangerous fools.

No, there the smart fools. The stupid ones are the ones who don't use a
radar detector.

>They think that the few minutes
> they save by speeding are worth greatly increasing the risk that
> they will be in an accident.

>They think they are the most important people in the
>world and they don't care if they kill you
> or your loved ones to save those minutes.

That's just plain silly, and if it were really true there would be a lot
more deaths on our roads.

Personally I think those who drive 35 mph three abreast in a three laned 45
mph zone are the ones who think their the most important person in the
world. If they are all doing 10 under why can't they just get behind each
other or just hog 2 lanes?

> Geico does not provide radar guns because they are a magnanimous
> caring company that wants to lessen human pain and suffering.
> Geico provides radar guns to lessen accident payout costs to
> increase their profits.

Or they give out rader guns knowing that 'bad' accident prone customers and
'good' customers alike who haven't had an accident in 15-25 years will all
get zapped once in a while and then they can charge them ALL higher premiums
to increase their profits.

>In spite of Geico's true motives, Geico
> is doing the driving public a great service by providing radar
> guns.

>All the more reason to SUPPORT Geico insurance.

There are many other good reasons not to use GEICO, starting with the
formula they use to determine your insurance cost. Despite their advertising
every quote I've ever received from GEICO was higher then the other 'big'
insurers.

It appears to have more to do with my credit report then my accident free,
ticket free driving record for well over 10 years now. I owe therefore if I
do have an accident, however remote the possibility is, It's assumed I'll
sue the hell out of them, despite never having filed a lawsuit in my life.
Therefore I must be charged a higher rate then someone with a worse driving
record and better credit score.

Mandatory bus content, I think that the slower you get into an accident in a
bus the better off you will be. A bus that was borderline unsafe even back
in 1979 and discontinued the next year isn't something you want to go
speeding around in, regardless of the speed limit.
