From: "HOFNER" <hofner(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 12 Jun 2004 14:59:23 -0700
Subject: Re: insurance, Geico, radar guns

Hi,

I know better before I even start, but this is one I just can't leave
alone - my opinions (and they are just that) are based upon 40 years of safe
driving, low insurance rates, teaching defensive driving to military
personnel, and several years driving for Schneider National Carriers and May
Trucking.

There are many considerations that go into formulating speed limits, but
taken from the 50,000 foot view, the most obvious are road design (grade,
view, terrain, expected traffic, for example) and the average intelligence
(and I use that term in the most NO-inflammatory way possible) of the
average driver.  Just as advertising and most other media are geared to the
7th grade level, speed limits are largely determined by how the average
drive can be expected to safely negotiate the road.  If you seriously want
to change the speed limit, get a coalition together and let your Congressmen
and Senators know in a big way - that's the only way it's going to happen.
The resolution to my personal pet peeve starts at the DMV level and doesn't
license ANYONE who doesn't meet a much higher standard than memorizing the
manual.  Fewer drivers, fewer accidents - elementary, Watson!

As a lifelong resident of Oregon, I can safely and authoritatively state
that no logic whatsoever is applied to speed limits in this state.  They are
ridiculous no matter where they are, and seem to be designated completely at
random.  As anyone who has driven to the west coast can tell you, speed
limits across the rest of the country far exceed anything you'll find here
and, in a couple of states, might even be posted a little faster than what
makes me comfortable - not because I don't like getting where I'm going
faster than the average bear, but because I don't trust anyone else at
80mph!

Where I'm going with this is that I don't have much use for speed limits, or
many other limits, as well. I think it's absurd that those with the skills,
experience and judgment to get where they're going without endangering
themselves or others should not have to live life at the rate of said 7th
grade level.  However, I also have a most serious aversion to contributing
to the revenue of law enforcement agencies and insurance companies, so I
usually observe a '5-over' policy.  I see radar detectors as no more than a
means of detecting when you're about to get a ticket because, as I
understand it, if your detector detects, you've already been detected, so
what's the point?  Send your $400 to me - I can put it to MUCH better use,
creating a show bus!

I won't waste time comparing insurance companies or their politics.  All I
know is, if somebody hits me, I most surely want them to be insured, and I
guarantee I will be - to the teeth.

Cheers,
Kurt Selvig
Portland, OR

By the way, I LOVE SWFL!
