From: "Kathy and Paul" <pa.ka(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 18 Nov 2003 09:11:32 -0500
Subject: Re: Starters

Hi Volks folks,
    It seems we're having a rash of starter problems here on the type2
list.  I'd like to add my 2 cents worth of hard earned wisdom on this.
I've attached below what I do to keep my starter purrrrrring.

Paul A
Huntington Station, New York
71 westy

Starter Maintenance
 It wasn't long after my wife and I started driving VW buses that I
realized the starter is a problem area.  I, like so many others, was
carrying a small hammer and short but thick jumper for when the
starter would not turn over with a twist of the key.  Since banging
and jumping the starter would revive it, I was convinced that there
really wasn't anything wrong with it that couldn't be prevented.  Now
I perform a yearly starter system maintenance routine that lets me
prevent problems instead of just fixing them.  The benefit of this is
that I get to deal with this on my terms; you know, during good
weather, at a reasonable time of day, and in my own driveway
 Since there are different starters for different buses, I'll just
give you the basics of what I do and then let you apply it to your own
situation.  Consult the Bentley manual for specific tests, and
information about the various starters and of course follow all
precautions for working on the electrical system.  First is to
disconnect and remove the battery.  As always, disconnect the negative
lead first and then the positive.  Once the battery is out I check it
for cleanliness, condition and proper water level.  I like to use a
battery brush to clean the terminals on both the battery and battery
leads.  Now is also a good time to check your battery tray for
condition.  Next disconnect and remove the starter.  If necessary,
first mark the wires so that you will get them back on the proper
terminals.  Clean the terminal ends of all the wires disconnected from
the starter until they are shiny and clean.  Take the starter to a
work bench or someplace else clean, where you can work on it.
Disconnect the heavy lead that connects the starter to the solenoid,
and clean the end of it.  Next clean all of the terminals on the
solenoid until they are shiny and clean.  I like to use a small brass
wire brush for this.  Now remove the solenoid and check the plunger
for condition and ease of movement.  You should be able to push it in
and have it spring back out smoothly.  I wipe the plunger down with a
little light weight oil like WD-40 or LPS 1.  With the plunger pushed
all the way in, you should get continuity across the 2 large terminal
studs on the solenoid.  Now it's time to disassemble, clean, and
inspect the starter.  Be observant as you take it apart, so you will
be able to reassemble it.   I do the following things to the starter;
check the brushes for condition, remove and check the armature for
condition, clean the commutator using a piece of scotchbrite.
Disassemble, clean, and inspect the drive mechanism parts, inspect the
starter body and windings for condition.  Use compressed air or a
vacuum cleaner to clean out the starter and windings.  Repair or
replace anything you've found wrong and reassemble the whole thing.  I
use a little high temperature white lithium grease on the drive
mechanism parts at reassembly.
 Now all that's left is to install and hook up the starter and
battery.  Remember, hook up the battery's positive lead and then the
negative one.  Hopefully, you'll have the same luck as me, and not
have to deal with the starter for another year.
