Date: Tue, 18 Nov 2003 08:05:22 -0800
To: Joel Wilson <jowils(-at-)unx.sas.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Starter solenoid problem 

At 06:52 AM 11/18/2003, you wrote:

>i agree with Phil on this one.  try the starter relay kit from
>Bus Depot for a 6 dollar fix. also, as a recent post has
>indicated, taking the starter out for some maintenence
>wouldn't be a bad idea, either.

I just had a start failure last week on a 78 Bus. Verify battery, 12.5 
rest, a little weak, verify charging=good, verify starter motor with jump 
wire=good, verify volts from switch=0.5v. Replace ignition switch, find 
broken bit on lock cylinder and replace that as well, function nominal with 
original 25 year old starter and wiring.

Sleightly over an hour to find and fix the fault and spend no money on 
guessing. Client knows also he has a battery in it's last year of life and 
at first indication of a problem will just replace it rather than fuss 
about what's wrong this time. No starter lasts forever but function nominal 
is function nominal. Follow given procedures to verify correctly and repair 
with no time/money lost on unneeded parts or a series of guesses. Invest 
your first money in the tool required for verifications, a quality VOM, and 
the Bentley, and save dozens of times their cost in doing accurate 
diagnosis by given procedures.

What overheats starters and alternators and ignition switches more than 
anything else is bad battery maintenance. No need to pull the starter every 
year for overhaul. Use the time to pull the battery and make everything 
clean and tight. Eliminate cross cell flow and verify with a quality VOM. 
Your starter will never overheat if it has all the amps it requires. Your 
alternator will not have the burden of replacing all the amps being lost to 
cross cell flow through the dust and acid buildup on the case. It results 
in MUCH LONGER LIFE for all the electrical system components on the whole 
vehicle.

Indeed, I think battery maintenance is the highest possible return with 
regard to reducing total cost per mile, right up there with keeping the oil 
clean. All you need is your fingers and nose and eyes to do than, but for 
the electrical my must have a reliable, certifiable, VOM.    
