From: "Tom and Thanh" <tom.loan(-at-)rogers.com>
To: "librarian" <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 18 Nov 2003 12:26:48 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] CV Bolts

Librarian, a couple of questions for you re CV joints and boots.

 I recently removed my axles. The CV's were fine but no doubt could use new
grease and boots. What do you think of the rebuilt axles out there for
reasonable prices? I think there's somewhere that regrinds the CV joints and
puts in oversize balls, greases them, puts in new bolts, and you basically
just bolt the axles on right out of the box. I've read a couple of posts
from people that've said they were pretty much trouble free. Would you
recommend this, or should I source the new boot kits and regrease my used
and partially worn joints? I would wonder if the new axles that are out
there use Brazilian joints, in place of my original German ones?

Second question- I read a post on here a couple of years ago where VW had a
service bulletin advising to omit the lock washers and up the torque on the
CV bolts to 28 ft/lbs. Comments?

Third- My original CV bolts came out clean, no stripped heads. Could I reuse
them or should I replace them on general principles?

Tom

70 High Roof




On Mon, 17 Nov 2003, Snoopy wrote:

> My CV came loose today and somewhere along the way I lost 2 bolts and the
> metal piece that holds them.  Plus another bolt broke off.  Anyway.  Could
I
> use washers in place of the metal piece or are they held together for a
> reason?  I have to drive it to get the washers or whatever I use.  I went
> ahead and tightened down 2 new bolts without the spacer to get me to the
store
> tomorrow.  Is this not good? OR maybe ok for a few miles?

OK *MAYBE* and only for a very few miles.  The missing two-bolt washer is
not the problem.  The main problem is the three 8.8 bolts you have no
doubt inserted as replacements.  The other problem is the missing serrated
washers.  The CV bolts operate in a high-shear environment and the 8.8
bolts just will not take it.  They are going to stretch or shear.  If they
stretch the regular lock washers you probably used will allow them to back
