From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: "'Type2'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "'Richard Atwell'" <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
Date: Tue, 18 Nov 2003 23:23:24 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] woldwide bearing manufacture (LONG)

> As the the price of German bearings goes up I'd like to know 
> what alternatives are more desireable than others.
> I've heard that bearings produced in these countries are of 
> poorer quality: Korea, China, India, Brazil, Mexico, Poland 
> and Russia. Problems range from finish to lack of roundness.
> And in general  bearings from these countries are ok: 
> Germany, Japan, Spain, Italy, England, France and USA.
> What's I'd like to know beside any corrections, is which 
> groups do Malaysia and Taiwan fall into? 


You can't go by country of origin alone.  To say that every bearing from
one country is the same, is like saying that every car from the same
country is the same (which would make my Fiat equal to a Ferrari - a
situation which I must sadly report is not the case :-).  

There are good and bad products made in nearly every country (even -
gasp! - Germany). Even the same factory can make the same product to
different standards, depending on whom they're making it for, how
demanding that wholesale customer is, and how much he's willing to pay.
What's more, the honest truth is that country of origin is not always
accurately labeled on the product anyway. For example, I have seen with
my own eyes two 100% identical parts, one labeled Made in Germany and
the other India.

The problem with an informal poll such as this one is that all you will
get is misleading anecdotal evidence. Someone who had a Brazilian wheel
bearing (or two) fail will report, with the best of intentions, that
"Brazilian wheel bearings suck."  Now, there is a very real possibility
that the failure was not the bearing's fault, but instead caused by
improper installation, lack of grease, an external cause of overheating
or failure, or even just normal wear over time. Of course, the bus owner
will reject these possibilities, preferring to blame the part than his
own (or his mechanic's) mistake. So for sake of argument, lets agree
with him, dismiss any other explanation, and assume a verified defect.
Can we then deduce that Brazilian wheel bearings suck? No. We know only
that one bearing, from one country, on one bus, failed. To make this
information even remotely valid, we will now need to identify who
actually made this bearing (since not all manufacturers in one country
are the same). This very likely is not the same as the brand name on the
box, as most brands source from multiple factories and countries. Then
we will need corroboration from other people who had bearings from the
same factory fail, to determine whether this was an isolated case (since
after all, no manufacturer has a zero percent defect rate). For that
matter, how about the other bearings on the very same bus? Could it be
that even they are from the very same factory, but since they never
failed he never looked at them to discover this? 

So, if we can identify the factory that made the bearing, and find other
reports of failures of bearings from that factory, then and only then
can we logically deduce that this particular factory (but not all
factories in that country) has a quality issue - or at least a
particular batch from this factory did at a particular time. But given
that there are hundreds of bearing manufacturers, and such an informal
poll may turn up perhaps a dozen replies, what are the chances of even
remotely beginning to glean this much data about one factory, much less
hundreds of them from dozens of countries? As I said, all you will get
is anecdotal evidence based on a few isolated experiences  -
statistically insignificant data that leads to inaccurate conclusions.

As Richard says, German wheel bearings are getting hard to find. They
are an example of a product that have increasingly been affected by the
sweeping globalization that has affected the auto parts industry and
many other industries. Many of the auto parts companies now have either
wholly-owned, partially-owned, or subcontracted plants in a multitude of
countries. You may find three identically-packaged wheel bearings under
same German brand name, made in three different countries (and not
always correctly identified as to which is which). Does this necessarily
mean that they're inferior? No. There are some excellent wheel bearings
made in places other than Germany. Always have been. 

So, if you can't just go by country of origin, what can you go by? In my
experience, you're generally pretty safe sticking with a well
established brand. While name brands like Febi or SKF don't make all of
their bearings in Germany, they do have one thing the off-brands don't
have - accountability. When they source a part outside of Germany, they
tend to strongly (although not exclusively) consider the quality of the
product that they will get. If they buy that 35 cent bearing made with
hand tools in a leper colony, and put their name on it, it will of
course come back to bite them in the form of warranty returns. But more
importantly, it will dilute the reputation of their brand name, which
they have spent years and a small fortune building up - and which allows
them to charge a bit of a premium over the no-name brands, a situation
that must continue for their preservation. With a long-term commitment
to the market, these are risks that they cannot take. Therefore they
will tend to be a bit more picky about what goes under their name than
Brand X, who couldn't care less about the VW bearings they sell you
today, because next month they'll be selling tractor parts in Cambodia
instead.  

Of course, even the well-established parts brands are not always
household names to those outside of the industry. For example, while
enthusiasts on this list are more knowledgable than most, the average
bus owner has never heard of SKF, even though they happen to be a
quality OEM bearing supplier to VW. Then again, if you think SKF is an
unknown brand, consider that their bearings are sometimes sold under the
name of their wholly-owned U.S. subsidiary - Chicago Rawhide. If someone
offered you a Chicago Rawhide wheel bearing, would you turn and run? So
sometimes you have to trust the expertise of the selling dealer, who (if
he is indeed an expert) hopefully knows more about who the reputable
brands are than you do. After all, that's his job. 

Which brings me to my final point. (Yes, there is eventually a final
point.) You need to trust your parts vendor - whether that's me, one of
the other dedicated Bus specialists on this list, or your local import
parts guy who knows and loves old VW's (if you have one left). Believe
me, the general auto parts guys, for whom VW bus parts represent perhaps
1/10 of 1% of their sales, know much less about the parts on your bus
than you do. They don't sell enough to get any real feedback on product
quality, and have probably never heard of Febi, much less Chicago
Rawhide. They probably deal with one wholesaler for VW parts, and
whatever brand he ships is what you get. What's more, their livelihood
doesn't rely on their reputation for the Bus parts they sell. In fact,
in two years time they probably won't be selling any Bus parts at all;
SUV parts are a much more lucrative market. By comparison, the
enthusiast/specialist Bus parts suppliers live and breath them. They
install the parts themselves, or have close relationships with repair
shops that do. They know who the good manufacturers are, and discover
quickly when a "dud" gets into circulation. Those who import (like
myself) have resources for obtaining better quality than can sometimes
be found via normal U.S. channels. And perhaps most importantly, they
need the Bus owner community as much as you need them. In short, they
care about what they sell you, and are knowledgeable enough to know the
difference between quality and crap.

So does this mean you'll get a part that's as good as the one that came
on your Bus when it was new? Perhaps not. In some cases parts quality
has indeed slipped over the years, even if obtained from the best of
sources. You can only get what's made. But for the most part, quality is
still quite high, and prices are a fraction of what the VW dealer
charged 30 years ago. In fact, there are owners of many other "classic
car" makes who would love to have the availability of quality parts at
low prices that we Bus owners take for granted. Considering the speck of
insignificance that we Bus owners represent to the global auto parts
industry, we have it pretty good. I can't complain at all. 

Getting off my soapbox...

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT 
