Date: Thu, 4 Apr 2002 18:19:45 -0500
To: fmbc <FullMoon(-at-)Hville.Net>, vanagon <vanagon(-at-)gerry.vanagon.com>,
From: ncbus <ncbus(-at-)mindspring.com>
Subject: EveryBus 2002 Update

Hi,

EveryBus 2002 Begins 4.19.02. Complete details on the event are 
available from www.everybus.com.

*I spoke with the park manager this week and everything is on track. 
Extra staff will be on hand to manage trash collection and bathhouse 
cleaning and maintenance. The park manager has asked the we do NOT 
burn an engine case this year. I politely told him that would not be 
an issue. We have been able to maintain a good relationship with park 
management over the years and we would like to keep it that way :)

*The question of tents has come up. Tents will be allowed in our loop 
for this event.

*Many folks have indicated that they plan to arrive on Thursday 
4.18.02. I will be there on Thursday however the event does not 
officially begin until 4.19.02 therefore anyone arriving prior to the 
4.19 start date will be subject to fee collection and regulation by 
park management for any time in the park prior to 4.19. This will not 
be painful in any way but be advised ......:)

*If you plan to camp in loop B which is the wooded RV area across the 
path from the main event area you are welcome to do so. The same goes 
for the tent loop which backs up to loop C. These loops are outside 
of the "official " EveryBus area and campers in those area are 
subject to fee collection and regulation by park management. Again, 
this is not painful in anyway but you need to know that if you are 
not in loop C you will deal directly with the rangers and not the 
EveryBus "staff."

*The carabus list has grown quite a bit. Please visit the web site 
and see who is coming and from what direction. You may want to 
contact these folks and caravan to the event with them. If you wish 
to be added to the list simply contact me.

*50/50 raffle. EB has always received a great deal of support from 
www.type2.com and without it perhaps it would have never happened. As 
the event has grown there has been support from members of the Full 
Moon Bus Club and www.vanagon.com. My original idea was to have a 
50/50 raffle where the winner get 50% of the pot and the other half 
goes to support www.type2.com. Ted Finesman will be selling tickets 
and conducting the drawing. Because FMBC and vanagon.com members 
support the event as well I would like to donate some of 50% with 
them. Any objections?

Thanks

-- 
Chris
'68 A-wagen
Greensboro, NC
www.mindspring.com/~ncbus/
