Date: Fri, 05 Apr 2002 09:52:35 -0800
To: "David Goldfarb" <dgoldfarb(-at-)swfla.rr.com>,
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] sound deadening

At 05:05 AM 4/5/2002, David Goldfarb wrote:
>I have a 72 westy that I restored...ground up and pretty much stayed to 
>the recipe. It made a big difference. I live in SW Florida so the heat 
>isn't such a big deal. I also found a place in Canada to buy the sound 
>deadening stuff by the roll....much cheaper than the Q pads. The NASA 
>stuff can be found in a multitude of places. The Canadian place is called 
>creatively enough Sound Deadening material and can be found at 
>www.sounddeadeningmaterial.com. It was all in all quite easy. I'm glad I 
>took the time to do things right.

Have you had any problems with the stuff melting?  I bought a product 
identical to their "blue" product at Home Depot in Canada and it melted 
down into a nasty, stinky mess when the bus sat in the sun.  Maybe the 
aluminum stuff is better, but IMO all these guys are doing is reselling the 
same stuff you can find at Home Depot (in Canada) for a huge premium.  I'm 
sticking to the tried-and-true Q-pads even if they do cost a little more.

Also, read the fine print on their web site - it's amusing:

"For security purposes, we only give out tracking numbers if a shipment is 
later than it's expected, maximum date.

We can not accept any liability if anything goes wrong with the shipping, 
if you fail to use the product correctly, or if deadening results aren't to 
your satisfaction. We also cannot process refunds or accept returns.

Examine the entire website for all of the information we have on the 
product and if you have any more questions, please write, and we will 
answer as best as we can, as fast as we can.

We have no delusions of getting rich by distributing this material so 
inexpensively. We are trying to make a point that true customer service is 
not a myth, and customers actually CAN find a good deal without having to 
worry about being cheated, receiving an inferior product, or being ripped off."

So to summarize: no returns, no refunds, no tracking numbers, no 
responsibility if it doesn't work.  But oh, don't worry about being ripped 
off.  Hmmm...

My 2 cents,

-David

