From: "Chris and Kell" <midwestbass(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 22 Jan 2002 17:25:25 -0800
Subject: cops and buses in general (long winded...)

This just sounded too familiar not to chime in here...

I live on Yerba Buena Island, which is an old Navy base in the middle of the
san francisco bay. Most everyone else living up on YBI are friends of the
people that rent the places out, and seem rather carefully selected, if you
know what I mean. Then there is our place. We currently have 3 VW busses, 1
VW GTI, a very raised Jeep, and a awd ubaru. The police cops make laps
around up on the island fairly often, especially considering the real crime
they could be helping with over in the actual city. I mean, NOBODY drives up
on top of the island unless they live there, or got lost. You can leave your
keys in the ignition without worrying about it.

Anyway, they will glare at me everytime they pass me under one of the busses
doing my thing. Ive tried waving, but unless im wearing my khaki's and at a
distance where they can't see that I have my ears pierced, and not standing
next to any of the older vehicles, they just drive slowly past and glare
like a pig caught in my deadlights. =)

We got a noise complaint this weekend, and one of the cops I see often was
the one to come to the door. In these exact words he explained to me : "If I
were your neighbor, I wouldn't have called the cops. I would have delt with
this personally, and I would have come looking for you!" If that weren't
enough, he ended the conversation by saying "you are f'ing inconsiderate,
f'ing this, f'ing that, f'ing the other thing."

I couldn't believe that he would both threaten, and swear at me, not to
mention promote people taking things into their own hands (endorsement for
battery?). I haven't decided what I should, or can do about it. Initialy I
wanted to file a complaint, but there is a station here on the island, and I
am worried if I go to file a complaint about it, I will just get harrased
even more. Needless to say, we aren't having any more parties at our place,
but sometimes I just don't know when to fold, when to walk away, or when to
run. =)

Christopher
76 westy
