Date: Wed, 23 Jan 2002 09:47:34 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Cops and buses

I was a Navy MP in Italy for 3 years and then worked for the University 
police department as a security guard (I working towards an engineering 
degree).

Believe me profiling people comes with the territory. You see the same 
"types" of folks getting in trouble and you naturally start thinking those 
"type" of folks are always trouble waiting to happen. It may not be a 
formal profile stored in a book or a computer but you always have one in 
your mind - a composite of every person you've ever dealt with. Call it a 
stereotype if nothing else.

I have left that job behind a year ago happily. I miss the excitement and 
the "war" stories but prefer the regular schedule that comes with my 
present job. Can't wait to graduate and get something with a better paycheck.

I figure your best bet is to be utterly forgettable. A vehicle in good 
repair (reasonably) and reasonably clean. A vehicle they can look into when 
they approach it is good. I've been stopped at mid-day by a driver's 
license check roadblock in a clean hatchback with untinted windows alone 
with my hands on the wheel and the window open and still had a cop do the 
SWAT approach - hand on gun. You gotta wonder how many folks he's shot 
because they sneezed un-announced....

Turn the radio off. Turn the engine off. Be casual with your hands visible 
(same for the passengers). Use "sir: or "Ma'am". Don't get "sir" or "ma'am" 
mixed up... Don't admit anything if it is a moving violation. You can 
always go to court later for that stuff. If you make yourself memorable he 
will pay attention, possibly take some notes and he will have his facts in 
order when he see's you in court. Most likely if it is a small town he will 
mention the incident to his co-workers and then all of the local law 
enforcement will recognize your vehicle as the one driven by the <insert 
adjective here>. They will all take notice of your actions and habits.

It all suck but is a fact of the situation. If you know how to change the 
situation let me know - I'd love to hear it.

Getting on my soapbox for a moment....


By ALL MEANS DON"T DRINK AND DRIVE (or consume any mind altering substances 
prior to driving).

After you've handled a few traffic fatalities where a drunk or some 
pot-head killed some innocent person that was either in another car or a 
pedestrian (or on a motorcycle like me) you'd be on soapbox too. It really 
sucks to watch the ambulance guys clean up the bloody mess and know 
somebody's Daddy or somebody's Husband or somebody's kid is dead because 
this yahoo thought he could handle his vehicle drunk or high. I figure if 
you get caught you've got it coming and you won't get enough of it.

I don't care that you are taking a chance with your life or your bus. 
Honestly that is your choice. I'm not preaching about any sins or what you 
owe to yourself or whatever. I just don't want you taking a chance with my 
life. It's my bus and my life (or my family's life) that I am pretty touchy 
about. If we could guarantee that every drunk or high driver would only 
endanger themselves when driving I'd tell you go for it.

I've driven drunk a couple of times way back and scared myself enough (no 
damages) that I'll never do it again. I've also had plenty of friends who 
chose to partake in many of the illegal substances on camping trips with 
me. If you carefully choose your time and place you'll never have any 
problems. Me? I can't hardly take an aspirin let alone a real "drug" so not 
much chance you'll find me with anything illegal! <grin!>

Off my soapbox now....

We are all paying the penalty by driving the vehicle chosen by the hippies 
of yesterday. It's all based on stereotype sadly but only time will change 
this. Hang in there folks.


Chris
'78 Westfalia 

