From: "Edward Theobald" <edtheobald(-at-)starband.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 23 Jan 2002 12:59:29 -0600
Subject: Cheap FI ECU/AFM replacement!

Hello all,

I thought I'd share my future FI plans with the list. Perhaps other folks
with FI problems would be interested.

I was planning on engineering my own FI control module to replace the
ECU/AFM on my bus. I've wrestled with the stock FI setup a couple of times
now - and while I understand it very well I'm unhappy with how time
consuming and expensive tracking down a problem and repairing is. After I
had a design roughed out on paper I found someone else that had done very
much just what I had planned - with even more neat tuning functionality than
I had planned. This controller was designed by Bruce Bowling and Al Grippo
who are part of a DIY EFI group. The HW and SW design is complete and they
have a web site where the whole design exists - free for use by any
Do-It-Yourself'ers:

http://www.bgsoflex.com/megasquirt.html

There is also a yahoo group for discussion of the MegaSquirt:

http://groups.yahoo.com/group/megasquirt/

Let me add some info regarding this controller and FI VW busses:
- It would replace your ECU, AFM, cold star valve, thermo time switch,
double relay, wiring harness, and balast resistors
- It would utilize your existing injectors, fuel pump, and pressure
regulator.
- It needs to be tuned for each style engine based on Volumetric Efficiency
(VE).
- It costs about $100 in parts and perhaps another $50 for parts for wiring
harness as well as an oxy sensor.
- The controller needs to be build yourself - as well as the wiring harness,
etc.

Bruce and Al sponsored a group-buy of all the components - as well as the
PCB and case. I was able to sneak in on the tail end of this group buy and
so in a few months I may have one up and running on my bus. There seems to
be quite a bit of interest in this design - so I assume that someone will
sponsor another group-buy in the future.

I think this is a great way to utilize parts of our existing FI setup -
while updating to something that will be more maintainable (time and money
wise!) in the future. Of course it will require a fair amount of
soldering/fabrication skills to implement, so it certainly is not for
everyone.

Questions/comments are welcome.

TBone
'77 Westy


