Date: Wed, 23 Jan 2002 17:31:33 -0500 (EST)
From: Elizabeth <beth(-at-)bethx.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Driving with sliding door open, is it legal?


A little story and then some obligatory bus news.....

My dad was a truck driver when I was a kid. Those big UPS type trucks with
the sliding doors. During the summer he'd drive with the doors open all
the time.

One day he was driving along and someone cut him off. He slammed on his
brakes, lurched forward, grabbed the first thing he could to make sure he
didn't go through the windshield... which happened to be the front door
post.

Yup, the drivers side door shot out of the open position and into the
closed position, with his hand still on the door jam.

Luckily for him he got married the month before to my mom. His wedding
ring kept the door from taking off four of his fingers. To this day the
wedding ring is still in two peices and he has never driven like that
before.

So, if it isn't illegal, it's probably not something I would do.

So, obligator bus info. I was coming home the other night and heard the
dreaded "very expensive noise". The compartment filled with smoke. I
grabbed the extinguisher, got out of the bus, felt the hatch (it was cold)
and checked under the bus. I open the hatch and smoke comes out (but no
fire, thank god).

I couldn't see too well so i didn't get a good look at what was wrong
until the next day when i see a connecting rod sticking out of the
manifold (OUCH!!!!). So, looks like i'm in the market for a new engine.
This wasn't unexpected (160k on the engine i'm guessing with sporadic
records from the PPO).

So, yeah, I'm thinking about what I want to do with this. Keep stock? Get
rid of the FI and go with carbs (which are easier for me to maintain)? Be
really sick and twisted and just convert it to the Corvair engine (eek,
no, joking, i swear!) Anyone have any suggestions?

-beth

PS Anyone know if I can use a Bosch 205 dizzy on a 411 donor engine? I can
get my hands on one but it doesn't have a dizzy and I've priced the stock
dizzy before and *ugh* they're expensive/impossible to get a hold of.

