From: "gns.wagnon" <gns.wagnon(-at-)verizon.net>
To: "Vintage Bus Post" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 29 Feb 2004 19:38:34 -0600
Subject: Ahhh, the sweet pitter patter of a new muffler...

Y'all,

I got the muffler totally installed today!  Finally.  I had some visitors who
were having engine oil leakage all day and could only squeeze in my muffler
work while they were working on cleaning up the mess.

The muffler makes the "Annie" sound totally different.  A sweet little
purrrrrrrrrr.  Kinda nice compared to the dual exhaust with header.  Thank you
all again for your help.  I ended up muscling all the pipes, bolts and clamps
into place.  They all fit perfectly now and it looks pretty good too.  I'll
post some pictures in another day or so.

The visitors I had today are my Father-in-law and his brother.  His brother
has a 67 bug and recently developed a nasty oil leak... but only when it was
running.  Hmm.  Well, they both drove up with the intention of using my
garage, tools and last year of learning everything the hard way.  We got it
here, with little effort, our first theory was that the oil cooler was shot.
We went through the mess of taking out the engine (original single port... if
you care.)  Just like Mr. Muir's book and drawing... imagine three guys, one
pulling out the engine, the other two lifting up the bug.  Funny.  Heavy, but
funny.  We figured out that the mess of oil was indeed coming from the oil
cooler.  Took it off, cleaned it up, did a quick compression test (as much as
a blow through one hole and thumb on the other.  Swapped the rubber gaskets
and bolted back together.  That along with a bunch of cleaning, replacing of
random parts and check ups (fuel filters, lines, and clamps on the lines,
spark plug gap check, patch a few bare wires, clean and clean and clean).
Then put the engine back in, this time we learned that lifting the engine from
the floor can be harder than dropping the engine from the car... ouch, my
back.  After putting everything back together, no spark.  Ahhh crud.  An hour
of debug, dinner, then debug a few more minutes... hey, lets try to replace
the cable from the coil to the cap.... TADA!  Now the two are driving back
home (60 miles away).  Cool.  Only 8 hours of my day spent and two very happy
people.  Let's hope that oil cooler was the actual problem.  :o)

Hope you all had a wonderful weekend.  I have to go get this grime from my
fingernails before work tomorrow.

Greg - '63 Model 211 'Panel Van' -> Camper convert
Dan (father-in-law) - 67 Model 221 'Microbus'
John (brother of father-in-law) - 67 bug
