From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 3 Mar 2004 10:20:14 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] re:fuel shut off valve

In a message dated 3/3/2004 5:47:36 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net writes:
>>  211209021A (according to WW)

Or is it 

211209021E (according to WW)...  <<
Hi Kevin,
Either will work.  WW has rebuild kits for these if you have a crusty old on 
laying around.  "A" is the BD model, "E" is the 1955-61 and later bus model, 
and even the bug one will fit onto the tank.
  When you install a reserve tap switch the biggest thing to remember is to 
disconnect the battery because the gas tank outlet is close to the positive 
terminal of the starter.  You could short this out with a wrench in the area!!  
It is a little easier to install the reserve tap switch with the engine out, 
but can be done with it in, just drain tank and leave it overnight so it is drip 
free.  No sealants required, just need gaskets and follow the Workshop Manual 
info.  Good idea to install the fuel filter sock over the top of the reserve 
switch.  The nut that connects the reserve tap to the gas tank has left and 
right threads so you hold the tap turn the nut and this sucks the gas tank, and 
reserve tap together.  Good idea to thread on this nut by itself by hand first 
and that way you insure the threads are clean and get a feel for threading 
them together.  A little anti-sieze would be a good idea!
  The only problem with these reserve taps is if left in one position for six 
months or more the little bit of fuel left in the unused passage of the tap 
turns into a jelly clogging that passage.  In our 1960 panel and 1963 SC we 
flip these taps every few months for a few minutes of running to flush fresh fuel 
through these passages.  
  If you want to install the cable with the tap you would have to come up 
with a rear cable arm for post-1961 buses and weld it to the underside of the gas 
tank tray, so removal of the engine and tank would be best to do this.  Would 
be a snap to shorten the cable and have it come out under the rear seat for 
added anti-theft and keep the front of the later buses looking completely stock.
  Lastly we cut or pull out the shorter reserve brass tube, this then helps 
keep the water out of the bottom of the fuel tank instead of trapping it there. 
 It is just alot easier to drain the float chamber of the carb if need be to 
remove water from the fuel system.  This in turn minimizes rust in the bottm 
of the fuel tank!!!
  Eric&Barb
