From: "K. Bell" <pickit(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <Claralw(-at-)aol.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 6 Mar 2004 01:50:50 -0500
Subject: Re: [VB] Clutch pedal removal

Clara, Clara,Clara. I already told you that if your boy Georgie spent the
money on bridges, he wouldn't have enough money to find the WMD's! We've got
to find them WMD's don't we???

Admins, don't freak.. It's Friday somewhere in the world.

Kevin Bell

.....


You can lie under the bus and pull the lever down with your hand  ( pedal
pan
off)  this may help decide if that's the issue... disconnecting clutch cable
could help here.   When the pivot area gets stucky it can be a PITA, I don't
remember exactly how I did it, plus get it mixed up with the brake pivot,
put I
do think there was some creative use of a hammer.   Spray liquid wrench like
holy water ala Muir.  My 61 has a grease fitting on the clutch pivot (I
think
or was it the brake )  but unfortunately the later buses don't   When you
have
it apart you might install one, though I haven't bothered.    liberally
grease everything when installing.  your bus likes grease.  grease the
suspension
and wipe the excess around under the bus as anti rust preventative.

Talking about greasing suspensions, my 61 is squeaking over bumps as of two
days ago, so I gotta grease it again.   though it has been less than 3K
miles.
 the absolute mess of the bridge and area around it downtown has many
annoying severe bumps.   Was supposed to be done I think Nov 2003.  (damaged
in 6.9
Earthquake)  Contruction's been going on for what 2 years or something.
Pisses
me off.   The gummit can spend billions on Iraq, when with proper funding
this bridge would have been done ages ago.   I guess this is considered
'driving
on bad roads' and the bus oughta be greased every 700 miles or whatever.
I
better grease it or it'll wear the link pins out.

   I got a '67 that has a sticky clutch pedal.  I'm pretty sure that what I
need to do is clean up and grease the pivot and pivot bushing under the
pedal.

   Does anyone have a trick to push out the pivot?  I think I might need to
make a special tool to get the leverage I need to push the pivot out.
There's
no room for a drift and hammer.
