From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 7 Mar 2004 11:01:30 EST
To: angus_hanger(-at-)yahoo.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Boycott Exxon

Hm...okay, I'm a little confused here... I though boycotting Exxon would mean 
that Exxon gets less revenue.   Though as you say, you are still supporting 
the oil industry when you buy gas , it'll just be another company.  How does it 
hurt your local jobber/dealer/mom n'
pop?   That is, I am guessing you'd just go to the other ' jobber/dealer/mom 
n'
pop' place

If you buy from another company, you just spend the dollars at another place. 
  If you don't want to support the oil industry, it's not as simple as not 
driving.   Almost everything we buy or have is trucked from point A to point B 
over C, which is tarmacked.   You'd also want to support local industries, but 
our economy is not set up for not using oil/ petroleum fuel.

And all the plastics that are made from petroleum.  (though plant based 
plastics are being developed, there are only certain uses they are good for.. 
plastics are amazing... they have developed so many different kinds with different 
properties).  Just TRY to not get disposable plastics.   HA!   remember when 
everything came in a box?   Now most things come in plastic.

Plus grease is good for your bus.   Your bus needs gas and oil.   But on the 
idea that Exxon was criminally evil and careless, I understand why people 
would not want to give  them money.

So are you saying that all the gas stations basically sell the same gas?   no 
difference between brands?   Same tanker truck will fill up diff stations?



In a message dated 3/7/2004 2:36:13 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
angus_hanger(-at-)yahoo.com writes:
You don't hurt, moreover and especially, 'big oil' by
doing this. You affect your local jobber/dealer/mom n'
pop. The only way to hurt 'big oil' is to not buy
their stock. (or sue them, worked for Unocal in '96 ..
details, if you ask ...) It can be summed up in one
word:
Incest. <snip>
