From: "Tom Duffy" <tomuo(-at-)attbi.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 19 Jan 2003 20:26:27 -0800
Subject: Re: [VB] Ebay? (Buying a bus.)

Oh man, I was in your position, and I just bought this bus.
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/classifieds/index.mv?photo+200211050831217615

 It was advertised as perfect, and I arranged to fly to Seattle and
drive it back to Sunnyvale, California, which is over 800 miles.

Even though this bus was a "1", it wouldn't win first prize. The handbrake
was disconnected, and that should have alerted me to the "perfectness".
We started driving, and after 120 miles down I5, I lost power. The engine
was reving, but no power to the wheels. I was lucky to be close to a small
town with a tow truck, and had it towed to the VW dealership in
Vancouver, Washington.   I have to say here that if anyone lives in that
area, these guys were amazing, and friendly.  They offered to look at the
bus on a Saturday.  The seller phoned around and found a uhaul with a
truck and trailer that would hold the bus, so I cancelled the service and
decided to take the bus home as is.  The service guys from the dealer
took me to the uhaul place, waited while I got the truck and trailer, then
showed me the way back to where the bus was, and helped me get
it on the trailer.  It took me 2 full days to drive back, given that that
combination shouldn't go much faster than 50.

The reason the transmission broke?   As yet unknown, but probably has
a lot to do with the fact that the bus has been severely lowered in the
back, so that every pot hole or rough road surface was stressing the
engine/transmission/axle way more than is safe.  Without a hand brake,
this bus shouldn't be on the road.

Moral of the story, which is what you should know:
Get someone close to the bus to look at it and give you an unbiased
opinion of the state of the bus, and whether it's worth the asking price.
Otherwise wait for a bus to come available that is close to you and
go and look at it first, get a test drive before agreeing to buy it.
There are plenty of buses out there.

I bought a dream, but it's going to cost more than what I have already
paid the seller.  Tomorrow I'll take it to Volks Authority in San Jose
and pay to have it un-lowered and made safe to drive.  It's going to
be a daily driver, so if you see my wife driving around, please wave.

Best regards to all,

Tom Duffy.
New owner of '67 21 Window, 1600 Engine+twin 40mm Webers.
'68 Datsun Roadster SPL311


> Hey, my name is Nate. Im 18 and I really am into VW buses. I found a great
> bus on ebay and the guy says it runs perfectly. How sure can I be that he
is
> relyable? It looks too good to be true but I have to drive to Virginia to
get
> it (Im in PA) What if I get it home and its all messed up? I really want
it
> but Im not sure.... give me your imput.
