From: "incynr8" <incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org>
To: <Emayatenay(-at-)aol.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 20 Jan 2003 03:58:39 -0500
Subject: RE: [VB] Ebay? (Long)

Nate,
Hello and welcome. I live in PA also, and purchased my bus on ebay. The bus
was in OR, and the auction read quite well. She was supposed to be recently
lowered with a rebuilt engine, all original. The seller was VERY shady, and
even moved the hubcaps around for the pictures so she seemed to have all
four. The engine was crap, the trans was  filled with about a quart of 30wt
engine oil, and the brakes were on upside down. The bearing covers were
wrong, and the rear wheels were loose, shimmed with gaskets. This was a bus
advertised as road ready, and we we're even goingto fly out and drive her
home, which would have been my first cross country trip. I wuldn't have made
Wyoming (especially with te broken accelerator pump arm)
So far, I have unlowered the us, replaced the engine, transmission, brakes,
just to get her where she should have been to begin with. The only place I
am set is body work, as our poor east coast buses generally need alot to be
saved.
PLease do be VERY careful, not everone is a crook, and not nearly enough are
saints. Ebay auctions have some issues:
1) not enough time, someone will purchase it most likely, and the seller
doesn't have to care to accomodate you with corect information or
representative pictures.
2) ebay is a great way to get rid of rusted bondo laiden barely running
patchwork quilt that are instantly someone elses problem, although
occasional buses that present themselves wonderfully are present.
3) presentation, you can get down right lied to and presented a wonderful
bill fo sale, which can be just that.
4) right of inspection, out the window usually.
5) cost to transport home.
6) pressure, all those stupid bids are often 1000-4000 more than the thing
should sell for, especially if you got a chanc eto drive it first. I paid
6100 for my bus, if I tugged a shell out of NM or AZ for 3k and shipped it
home, then did all the same work, Id have the same thing now for less than
the 11 or 12 k I've spent so far, and probably with even less rust. Don't
get caught up in it.

I reccomend either paying a mechanic or asking a bus list member to check
this bus out for you, if you fell you really want it. SPlitties in PA can be
tought to find, unless you are well skilled with a welder, and can do about
8k worth of underbody work for 2 years befoe eyou drive her. In that case,
check out the samba, there are a few splits around that need just that here.

It seems to me it's a balance of what you can spend vs what's available.
Some rust buckets run well, and are cheap, but I find replacing the entire
drivetrain is cheaper than good bodywork in these parts. Your mileage my
vary.

Perhaps the bes tadvise I can give as a previous ebay bus purchaser is not
to rush into things, really hunt down that best bus for the money, that
mights the criteria you require it to. PA inspection is not easy for many of
these buses to pass, and that is one consideration. Original paint often has
nothingto hide, rattier, but often more representative of what is left metal
wise.

Where in PA are you? Although I know of no road ready splits for sale, I can
try and assist you. Hopefully someone here in VA can check her out for you
as well.
Al 66 dlx.
