Date: Mon, 20 Jan 2003 09:28:23 -0800
From: Craig Spaeth <spaeth(-at-)gorge.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: re: buying on the big "E"...

Two words "be very careful". So there was an extra word in there. If you
need to ask here for advice (which is a good thing to do) you might not
have the experience needed to try and find your first bus on E-bay.
There are alot of people on this list with alot of experience buying and
selling vehicles and busses in particular and E-bay has got to be one of
the biggest challenges for buying. Time is very limited and excitement
is high. This is a really bad combo. Try other non auction sources where
you will have time to get the bus checked out by a local mechanic. Even
this is not a sure thing. I had an Audi checked out by a shop in Montana
and they came back with a clean bill of health. The AC mounts had been
broken off of the block from a past accident, it needed a new steering
rack and a new brake booster. All of these are standard items to check
on this year Audi.

It costs approx. $1000 to ship from coast to coast. You can find better
deals but this is a good figure to keep in mind. Unless you get real
lucky I add about at least $500-$1000 for things that you are going to
fix no matter how good the deal goes.

On the other side I sold a 67 Westy to a kid in Florida. I am in
southern WA state. He wanted to drive it home. I told him no way several
times as I had only just got the bus running and it had only made a one
block trip to see if things basically worked. The bus was fairly rusty
but every single interior piece was there and original. He decided he
was going to drive it home despite what I told him. He shows up at my
place on a friday afternoon with his mom. He said it would be OK because
his family lived part way...in Texas. No tools, no idea how to fix
anything. I forced him to hang out for 2hrs while I showed him some
basic maintenance stuff and made a small parts and tool stash for him.
He then tells me his mom needs to be at work on Monday morning and he
needs to be back by tuesday for some exam at school. I wouldn't want to
meet those deadlines in a splitty I really knew. Much less an unknown
entity that the owner (splitty driver of 20yrs) said no to drive. Never
heard from him again. I would love to here the details of that trip, or
not.

Anyway don't be too anxious. Check out thesamba.com and local
newspapers. ep.com is another good place.

Good luck shopping,
Craig
the Gorge
