To: mattroberds(-at-)cox.net
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com,wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 20 Jan 2003 16:29:52 -0600
From: Stan Wilder <wilden1(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: The truth about FC vehicles

It's probably hard to know how much oil there was at the beginning of
widespread oil use (late 1800s maybe?).  You can make estimates, but you
also have to account for the fact that the technology has gotten
better. 
----------------------------- Clip ------------------------
It's not actually the oil reserves that I care about.
We've help industrlize almost every other nation on our planet.
They are doing the same thing we did for the last 100 years .............
growing and polluting.
When a China man farts it eventually gets to us and same goes for
Russian, Romanian, African Canadian farts.
With all of these young industrial nations running on the Dump Free
mentality that the US had for 100 years we won't be needing gas as much
as good Air to breathe and good Water to drink.
The Greenhouse Effect will have to be renamed the Death House Effect.
Currently 40% of Dallas Hospital emergency visits by children are for
Asthma attacks.
Dallas Texas qualifies as 14/16th dirtiest cities in the US with Beaumont
/ Port Author TX names as #1 and 2 and the Gulf corridor from Mexico to
New Orleans has so many refineries that from ten miles out you can go
from New Orleans to Mexico in the Gulf of Mexico and never loose sight of
a refinery.
Dallas no longer has "Industry" .......... just automobiles.
Previously these dirty honors were held by Baltimore, Detroit and
Northern cities that spewed pollution over to Canada.
I'm not a radical but I can feel the difference when I've been out of
Dallas and in clean air 100/200 miles away for about three days.
In my own retarded way I think we need more towns like Maberry where Andy
and Opie can walk their way through life or resort to bicycles.
When I retire (been retired for eight years) I'm going for clean air and
fresh water location. I'm in Dallas only because Dad is 94 and Mom is 86
and I can't leave right now.
The Mercury Contamination of larger fish species is the handwriting on
the wall but people just refuse to compromise to improve the Ocean Waters
.......... "because they don't eat that much fish".
That Chrome Plating, Galvanizing Plant in a foreign country is arriving
on your dinner table and most people are either too stupid or hard headed
to see that their great grandchildren may never see a Bird in the sky if
things don't come under some control.
That's my rant for the day.

Stan Wilder
