From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 20 Jan 2003 18:29:43 EST
To: djohnson1(-at-)snet.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Old style TO Bearing with a new Clutch?

In a message dated 1/19/2003 8:32:40 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
djohnson1(-at-)snet.net writes:

<< While attempting to swap the motor (1600dp) from my 71 into the 65, I 
 came across this situation.  The motor has the new style clutch with 
 all the splines.  The clutch worked perfectly in the 71, and I would 
 love to just keep it intact.  The 65 has the old style TO bearing in it.
 
 1.  Is there any way to use the old throw out bearing, or switch the 
 newer style one from the 71 bellhousing and use it in the 65 Tranny?  
.............
You need to swap the clutch.   You have to use the clutch that matches the 
TOB.  If you use the later clutch it'll make a horrible noise.   (guess how I 
know...oops).  as long as the clutch fits the FW and has the circle in the 
middle, the one off the old motor should work.  Assuming it wasn't considered 
dead cause the clutch died.  i usually put the clutch on a piece of cardboard 
and step on it and bounce up and down to see how it works.   It should not 
rattle if you shake it.   The padded bit is the same, assuming no small 
clutches involved) so pick the best of  the two pads you have.  It should not 
rattle either, the rivets should be lower than the pad's surface, and it 
should be non oily.

You do need to align the clutch do the circle is in the midle when you 
install it, or it'll have problems sliding onto the tranny shaft.  I 
eyeballed it and adjusted it by hand the first several times i did this, 
until I was told there was a clutch alignment tool you can buy for a couple 
bucks.  Dab the spline with some grease to keep things from rusting/sticking. 
  Clean the clutch cable end and grease the threads, so you can turn the 
wingnut by hand as when you install the motor the clutch may need adjusting.  
This way it's less of a PITA

use the Muir Idiot book.  It's good for the engine swap stuff for the non 
mechanic.  
 
Now is a good time to check if some other things need doing, like
replace engine compartment seal, fuel line, tranny boots, battery cable 
grommets, clean connections on battery and attach with dielectric grease, 
change gear oil, etc, things that are a pain or impossible with the engine in.
it's really easy to adjust valves and change plugs with engine out.

might think about replacing the main and oil cooler seals on the motor too, 
if it hasn't been done for a while.
