Date: Tue, 11 Mar 2003 00:28:15 -0500 (EST)
From: Joseph Clark <jclark(-at-)supernet.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Tranny replacement project update (long)

Many thanks to those who've chipped in with tips and advice so far.  Let's
see:

FRAME: Cleaned tons of crud off the frame horns and crossmember.  That stuff sure
preserves the original paint.

CABLES: Tab holding the rear end of accel and clutch tubes has popped off
torsion housing.  Looks like I'll be yanking the tank so I can try out my
new MIG unit to tack this tab back on.  Also missing a large section of
heater cable tube on the left, but I had a spare piece of Beetle hood
release cable tube that appears to be the same diameter and I'll put that
in as well.  This probably explains why my heater controls don't seem to
do much even with flaps adjusted.

SHIFTROD: Pulled out the shift rod.  Not gonna hassle with the front bush
under the gearshift now because I don't want to adjust the plate *and* be
installing a new tranny at once, but the two plastic bushes inside the
tube and the rubber boots are on my parts list.  Coupler looks fine. 

TRANNY: Cleaned more huge tracts of crud off the tranny.  Ground strap
shot on body end - on the new parts list, as are new mounts fore & aft. 
Got the nosecone off and the hockey stick looks OK.  New bushes on list. 
I need a brass punch/drift to try to tap the old ones out so's I don't
mangle the bore. 

AXLES 1: I don't have the side gears out yet.  They seem to catch on
something, not just drop out, but haven't looked really closely yet.  Axle
paddles looked nice.  Some minor dings on the fulcrum plates.  Can't one
put them in the other way around so the wear from forward motion impinges
on the less worn portion?  My feeling is these parts are OK, but I'll
re-read Clara's note and check the gap between fulcrum & paddle per
Bentley. 

AXLES 2: New side cover shims/gaskets on the parts list.  Bentley says in
67 they went to a big O-ring.  Now, am I gonna have a problem putting my
'65 side covers on a rebuilt '67-style tranny because of this??  And I
assume unless I separate the axle tubes from the RBG inner housing, I have
to use split boots?

RGB BEARINGS 1: Took a closer look at the RGBs.  As mentioned, passenger
side upper bearings are toast.  Driver side uppers look OK, as do the
outer lowers (the $$ ones).  I rotated the stub axles to see what I could
tell about the inner lowers.  Slight rumbling that may be normal.  Hard to
tell.  End of the stub shaft will wiggle back and forth about a mm or two. 

RGB BEARINGS 2: I am daunted by the process for rebuilding these even
after (or maybe because of) reading Bentley and Dave Easterwood's article. 
Especially that cover plate on the back.  And I see I will have to
disassemble at least the passenger-side one to get the bad upper inner
bearing out. Bentley says use a *new* nut on the inner end of stub axle
when replacing?  Who gots dem?

So right now I'm mulling over how many of the bearings to replace (just
the two obviously toasted ones, or all but the outer lowers, or even
those).  Gut feeling from dealing with other bearings is only the two
really need it, though I'm considering the advice that says a bad bearing
sprinkles bad karma throughout...

And mulling over whether it will emasculate me to get the machine shop to
replace them.  They have an old VW hand on board - I'm gonna call them and
get a feel for it tomorrow.

Thanks for listening.  Last night I was scraping crud off the tranny after
10pm when a Beetle pulls up in my driveway; guy I'd never met just stops
to schmooze on VWs, said he'd seen my buses & owns a 67 westy I've noticed
around town.  All kinda wackos come out of the woodwork.... ;-)

My bus is a wheelbarrow!
Joe Clark
www.jsclark.net
