From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 11 Mar 2003 12:53:24 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Tranny replacement project update (long)

In a message dated 3/10/2003 9:29:06 PM Pacific Standard Time,
jclark(-at-)supernet.net writes:

>>CABLES: Tab holding the rear end of accel and clutch tubes has popped off
torsion housing.  Looks like I'll be yanking the tank so I can try out my
new MIG unit to tack this tab back on.  Also missing a large section of
heater cable tube on the left, but I had a spare piece of Beetle hood release
cable tube that appears to be the same diameter and I'll put that in as
well.  This probably explains why my heater controls don't seem to do much
even with flaps adjusted.<<

You should not need to pull out the tank to weld there with a wire feed
welder.  Though this is a good time to install a fifteen gallon 1968-1971 bus
gas tank, instead of the earlier stock ten gallon tank that probably is in
there now.

>>SHIFTROD: Pulled out the shift rod.  Not gonna hassle with the front bush
under the gearshift now because I don't want to adjust the plate *and* be
installing a new tranny at once, but the two plastic bushes inside the tube
and the rubber boots are on my parts list.  Coupler looks fine. <<

Go ahead and replace the front shift linkage.  With a new tranny you will
almost certainly have to adjust the shifter anyway!

>>AXLES 1: I don't have the side gears out yet.  They seem to catch on
something, not just drop out, but haven't looked really closely yet.<<

Yes, there is a slight ridge of metal that gets pounded up at the C-clip area
that sticks the differential side gears in there.  To remove the gears get a
rod or long punch of slightly lesser diameter than the hole through the side
gears.  Slide the rod/punch through the hole in one side gear and keeping the
rod/punch at a slight angle off straight through you will push up against the
inner side of the other side gear and now can hammer it out the other side.
Once that side is out you can hammer out the other.

>> Axle paddles looked nice.  Some minor dings on the fulcrum plates.  Can't
one
put them in the other way around so the wear from forward motion impinges
on the less worn portion?  My feeling is these parts are OK, but I'll re-read
Clara's note and check the gap between fulcrum & paddle per Bentley. <<

We would switch the upper axles from side to side to do that.  When you
measur
e for wear you have to pull the upper axle out a tad to get true running
position reading of the wear.  When in doubt at least replace the fulcrum
plates and there are oversized FP out there.

>>AXLES 2: New side cover shims/gaskets on the parts list.  Bentley says in
67 they went to a big O-ring.  Now, am I gonna have a problem putting my
'65 side covers on a rebuilt '67-style tranny because of this??  And I
assume unless I separate the axle tubes from the RBG inner housing, I have
to use split boots? <<

You can just use paper gaskets you make at home.  Getting the right amount of
these gaskets on each side is important.  Dry fit them in and you want the
axle tube to freely travel up and down but with no in out slop to them.  When
we install these gaskets and RGB axle tubes for the final time we finger
paint the gaskets with high temp silicon to insure complete sealing in this
area.  Make sure the bolting flange for the axle tubes are flat and not
distorted.  If distorted hammering them flat is a must for proper sealing and
only torquing them to proper tightness will avoid distorting them again.

>>RGB BEARINGS 2: I am daunted by the process for rebuilding these even after
(or maybe because of) reading Bentley and Dave Easterwood's article.
Especially that cover plate on the back.  And I see I will have to
disassemble at least the passenger-side one to get the bad upper inner
bearing out. Bentley says use a *new* nut on the inner end of stub axle when
replacing?  Who gots dem?<<

To remove the upper inner axle bearing out of the RGB with the upper axle off
the tranny is real easy!  Our cheater bar is just a tad smaller diameter than
the inner diameter of the upper axle tube.  We just slide the cheater bar
through the axle tube and pop out the inner upper bearing.
  As for the inner nut we reuse them.  Additionally we grind in three extra
locking groves in the stub axle to allow multiple locking nut uses.

>>And mulling over whether it will emasculate me to get the machine shop to
replace them.  They have an old VW hand on board - I'm gonna call them and
get a feel for it tomorrow. <<

Stop being afraid of them!  You are at home and can take your time doing them
in hopefully a nice warm garage.  Once you do them if you have a problem out
on the road somewhere near nowhere, you can repair them youself with
confidence that only occurs with experience.

>>Thanks for listening.  Last night I was scraping crud off the tranny after
10pm when a Beetle pulls up in my driveway; guy I'd never met just stops to
schmooze on VWs, said he'd seen my buses & owns a 67 westy I've noticed
around town.  All kinda wackos come out of the woodwork.... ;-)
My bus is a wheelbarrow!
Joe Clark  <<

Yes, that is always a bit wierd and nice all at the same time when that
happens!
Eric&Barb
