From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 12 Mar 2003 11:20:15 EST
To: jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Blue Split Fever

Happy brithday and congrats!  That bus has the look of being comfortable and 
in use,.Good signs.   I bet you'' have some fun camping trips.

The hugest differece with a split is the handling.  Splitties have a firmer, 
nimbler ride.   They also tend to have a bit more pep than a bay, like if you 
compare one w/ 1600 to one w/1600, because the splitties are lighter.

That, and the aura is just more old school.   Funny, bays have always seemed 
newer to me, but they are getting old too.   Anyway, even a good running 
splitty probably has some delayed maintenace.   Myself, I'd go do the 60,000 
tuneup just to make sure.  Check the tranny oil.  (there are three fill 
holes, but you only check it on the side of the tranny) and the tranny boots, 
check the wheel bearings, adjust, and bleed/flush the brake system.  Grease 
the suspension including the king/link pins.  Adjust the link pins.

usually I end up removing the cab door opanels, & cleaning and greasing the 
door mechanisms, so the doors open and shut nicely.

If you have a upright bay, you're familiar with the motor, and probably what 
to bring for a trip.   You know, fan belt, spare oil, generator bruches, lug 
wrench, good spare, and jack, misc tools, etc

In a message dated 3/11/2003 10:10:32 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com writes:

<< 
 After 2 years as a bay window owner, I have finally (or will be on
 Sat) adding a split to my VW collection. It's a 66 Westy SO-42
 non-walk thru camper. I'm quite excited about it. Plus it's a b-day
 present from my wife! 
 
 Any suggestions on moving back in time to a split? Obviously the
 normal bus rules apply (slow) which isn't a problem, just wanted any
 suggestions or comments on differences between my busses other than
 the obvious cosmetic changes.  I'm driving to KY sat so that I can
 pick it up & drive it back. I was planning to bring my normal travel
 parts box with things such as distributor, points, timing light, etc. 
 Anybody got anything other ideas that would be split specific?
