Date: Fri, 21 Aug 2009 11:32:56 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Kenneth Fricke <kennethfricke(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Head Scratching Spark Problem

Kenneth Fricke wrote:
> 1) I  reseated the pertronix ring on the distributor shaft.

I'm guessing this is what did it.  Everything else you did was pretty 
inconsequential.

> At this point I give up understanding what the hell I was doing and just
> accept that I will be able to get the timing right tonight when I use the

heh, no worries.  They try to make it simple enough that you can get it 
working even if you don't know exactly how and why it's working :)


> timing light:)   Any tips on how to do it.  Everything I read says to adjust
> the idle speed first, but then when you start moving the distributor the
> engine speeds up or slows down so do you just iterate back and forth until you
> have the right timing at the right idle speed?

super easy-

start the engine.  Make sure it's idling at or around 900 - don't let it 
go too much higher or the mechanical advance will kick in.  Disconnect 
the vacuum hose from the vacuum advance can, point timing light at the 
timing wheel and rotate the distributor until it lines up at 7.5 btdc. 
voila!

Now's a good time to also check max advance (the actual important timing 
number).  Rev up the engine to around 3000 or so and the advance should 
jump up somewhere around 28 btdc.  Drop back to idle, add the vacuum 
advance hose, rev it back up to about 3000 and the timing mark should be 
around 41-43.  If those are your numbers, set your idle to 900, recheck 
the idle advance with the vacuum hose disconnected, tighten up the 
locking clamp, and call it a day :)

Btw, I'm assuming you have a late bay (around 76ish?).  Let me know what 
year it is to confirm the correct numbers.

Btw, the reason you want to wait for the engine to heat up first is 
because the aux air regulator will increase your idle advance while the 
car is warming up.  This will speed up the engine and could cause the 
mechanical advance in the distributor to advance the timing.  That's why 
you want to check your timing somewhere around 900RPM or lower.  It 
doesn't really matter if it's at 700-1000, but I think at around 1600 is 
when the first advance range kicks in, so you definitely don't want the 
engine spinning that fast or it'll mess up all of your numbers.

Hope that helps!
Mike
