From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Sat, 24 Aug 2002 11:36:14 -0500 (CDT)
To: bellky(-at-)charter.net (David & Susan Bell)
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Synthetics, and air cooled engines

Dave,

The primary point in sending this article was to show the testing at the
bottom of the article on how after a short period of time the oil's
primary function dwindles pretty quick, and which one does what when.
It also is telling you that oils for bike's are basically a rip off, and
in many cases can be substituted for an automotive oil, and get better
engine lubrication over a longer period of time.

Motorcycle Consumer News is a pretty good publication, does a lot of
testing on items such as oils, is unbiased in their opinions as they
have zero advertising, and are faithful to no one.

I know they didn't touch on the Golden stuff in this test--but they did
a follow up and I will find it.

I will look for an updated oil test of the Golden Spectro--vs. the other
stuff available.-
It was a good article.

Let me say this on the Golden Spectro--
My Goldwing has 89,000 on  it and I have used this oil since new-----no
problems, engine is clean as a whistle internally-( VC gasket change.
I also have two Triumph ar cooled 650's.
they both started using this oil about 15 years ago----they both are of
60's vintage.

I have flogged the hell out of both of them.

Now if you are familiar with Brit bikes, they require mucho hands on
maintenance,and the upper ends are weak.---( phosphorus bronze guides
especially, and the dry sump oiling system isn't the best )

I haven't had either one of them apart other than to do the required
periodic valve adjustments, since I went to this synthetic oil.
My clutch plates never stick, and to be honest I just haven't had one
iota of a problem with any one of the bikes since i went to this oil.

I thought---Ah HA !!

If this stuff works so good in my Limey bikes--and they are so similar
to my 74 Westy, as far as the required maintenance  to keep it
running,and seeing as it is air cooled, runs hotter working it's butt
off to keep up with traffic, I'll use this air cooled bike oil-----

I'm a hard sell myself----" show me " kind of guy, and I can honestly
tell you that I can see and tell the difference, in my air cooled
equipment using this oil.

And if I wanted to really drag ths on--I could tell you about Mack
Trucks, and their END-6, and 7 engine using this stuff---but I'll save
that for later

(PS---even though as I said before about the air cooled mfg's
recommending straight weight oil in industrial equipment I use the
Golden Spectro in my JD 140 with good results--- and I do prefer
straight weight oils if it were available in syn oil.)
 
OK---I'm done.

Later,

Terry


 
E-mail message   
 
Terry- 
Maybe I misunderstood you here. This article seems to indicate that,
compared to automotive oils, motorcycle oil doesn't even work very well
in a motorcycle. It does make a good case for choosing synthetics over
mineral based oils, but I didn't think that was your point. Since the
testing didn't include your preferred 'Golden Spectro' oil, the article
gives no support at all to your "feeling" that it has better sheer
retention than other oils. 
So, tell me again why this should change my mind about the stuff I'm
using? 
Dave, who's always up for a good debate 

----- Original Message ----- 

From: "Terry K." <CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net> 

Motorcycle Oils vs. Automotive Oils 
Check this out--it explains viscosity loss due to heat and mileage---and
shear values of the stuff you using. 
It'll change your mind about the stuff your using--- 

Later, 

Terry

