Date: Sat, 24 Aug 2002 18:41:09 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: John Connolly <john(-at-)aircooled.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Sythetics, and air cooled engines



On Fri, 23 Aug 2002, John Connolly wrote:

> Most  (not all) VW owners are ignorant about the way the VW engine TRULY
> operates, and if someone tells you to run straight weights, they better have
> a real good reason. The FACTORY recommends multigrades on the newest
> aircooleds (why?). I think it's crazy to run a synthetic that's a straight
> weight. i can understand for a compressor or another low RPM device, but an
> automotive engine?????? run a 5 or 10-50 and enjoy it.

I think that most are also underinformed about how oils (both single and
multigrade) react to temperature changes.  I think that the culprit here
is the viscosity grading system that uses two numbers, which leads the
uninformed to believe that the two numbers refer to the same thing.

Oils are graded by filling a container of fixed volume with oil at a
procedure-defined temperature and then opening a hole of specific size in
the bottom of the container.  The time the oil takes to drain from the
container is compared to a table which determines the viscosity number to
be assigned to the oil.

There are two different test temperatures, one low and one high.  The
viscosity number determined at the low temperature is given a "W" suffix
to distinguish it from the viscosity number determined at high
temperature.  "Single grade" oils are simply not tested at low
temperatures.  This is why the oil grade of "20W20" is not redundent!

An oil graded 10W30 does _not_ act like a viscosity number 10 oil
at low temps.  It will probably have a "flatter" viscosity curve than a
straight-grade oil, but this is not definite as a 10W30 oil could be
labeled as a straight 30 weight oil simply by not running the
low-temperature test!

The VW cooling system relies on oil pressure and therefore viscosity
change to operate.  When the oil is cold, the viscosity is high, oil
pressure is high and the cooler bypass opens, turning off the oil cooling
function.  As the temperature increases, the oil's viscosity (and the oil
pressure) drops, closing the bypass and allowing oil to pass through the
cooler.

The VW system therefore maintains a constant oil viscosity.  This means
that if you run oil of high viscosity, the oil will have to become much
hotter before the viscosity drops and the bypass valve closes allowing oil
to pass through the cooler.  Low viscosity oil will see the cooler much
faster and maintain lower temperatures.

Now, the above must be taken with a grain of salt.  If the cooler bypass
closes completely during normal operation (once the engine is warmed up)
then the viscosity of the oil has nothing to do with how well it cools.
The only way to figure out if this occurs is to determine if the bypass
valve closes completely and at what temperature.  Not having X-ray vision
or the desire to make the mods required to determine the check valve
position I don't know when the bypass valve closes completely.

If the bypass valve closes completely, then a straight grade oil (with a
steeper viscosity/temperature curve) would tend to make the bypass valve
react faster to temperature changes that a multigrade oil with a flatter
curve.  However, as long as the second number of the multigrade
designation is the correct one for the VW the oil will be at
proper viscosity at operating temperatures.  Every oil, single- and
multi-grade will lose viscosity as the temperature increases.

George Lyle

