Date: Tue, 8 Aug 2006 16:29:52 -0400
From: "Ken Dunn" <kennydunn(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Intro and Gas vs Mig

Hi all,

I'm new to the list.  I live in Lancaster county, PA.  I have a 77
Westy (chrome yellow) with the original fuel injection in place.  I've
owned it since 95.  We've been working on it little by little for the
last few years to try to get it back into tip top shape.  It sat for a
while before I bought it so I went through the rust-in-the-fuel-tank
saga that I'm sure many others have dealt with.  Other than that and
some problems with a previous mechanic, we've been pretty lucky with
it - I'm my own mechanic now.  We've removed the sink and added a
rear-facing bench seat/small bed with storage below and and also a
small cabinet between the new seat and the cooler.  We have three kids
and they have to sleep somewhere.  We took it to Maine and back last
summer (1500 miles altogether) and Nova Scotia the previous summer
(just over 3000 miles round trip).  Plus countless weekend trips.  It
has served very well.

  I'm in the process of replacing the left rocker panel and then I'm
going to replace the front section of the rear wheel arch on the same
side.  Since the beast will likely be off the road for a few days at a
time, I've decided that I'm finally going to get some sort of welding
equipment instead of constantly running to my dad's house to work on
it.

So the question :  Do I go with the versatility of an oxy-acetylene
torch or the control of a mig?  I have enough experience with both
outfits while welding heavier materials so, I'm sure that I can adapt
to lighter gauge metal.  I'm leaning toward the oxy-acetylene torch
but, I am a bit nervous about the results that I might get with it.
It's just more flexible and though they may be close, the Industrial
Agricultural Complex hasn't developed trees that grow money - yet - I
can't have both just now.  So, given all of this, which should I go
with?

Thanks in advance,
Ken Dunn
