Date: Sat, 05 Apr 2003 18:24:26 -0500
From: Ben <huotx(-at-)videotron.ca>
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: No compression, no carbs, need your advice!

Hi guys,
Today am pissed off! I just removed everything in the back (Carbs, 
distrubutor, all cooling thin and duck...)
Friday i was having 0 compression at #2 & #4 so i removed the air 
cooling duck on both side to be sure the compression gage was well 
screwed, still, 0 at both!!!!! Il did the "wet test" (oil in cylinder) 
and they did climb  a bit to 30PSI at the most, even if the wet test 
doesn't really aply to a flat-4 (oil stay at the bottom) i am assuming 
that the heads are the problem, i don't have any reading at #3 either 
anymore, i had some with the duck still there????????
I have 2 compression gage, both read the same. Of course the valves were 
adjusted before. I have no carbs on the Bus so compression was taken 
with no carbs, the #1 climb normally to 120PSI with about 8-10 turn of 
the engine/starter.

I don't know what to think. Anyway, i had to remove the left head to 
repair 2 intake stud and one strip EGR blocking screw!

All make sense as i had a hard time keeping the Bus in fourth on the 
last 1500 miles legs of my trip! i basically had very low power all the 
way back! I was putting that low power problem on the carbs!!!!! Max 
speed was 58mph on flat ground with no wind.

Here is my other problem, i was ready to tune the Weber before openning 
the engine so i would  have a fairly well tune carbs....how can how tune 
a carb with NO compression!

How can i rebuilt an engine and break this one with no well tune carbs! 
Taking the risk of running the engine to lean when new.

What would you do! I am getting tired of that bus not running well, 
problem is all i had for the past 8 month.

I paid that damn Bus 6000$ (about 4000USD) and i already put 1500 
(1000USD) in parts on it! I am pissed off!

Anything i have forgot? Any suggestion about the compression test? why 
the hell did i have 118PSI Friday on #3 and now nothing (about 30PSI). 
Should i still try to tune the Weber first, i bought all jets (50, 60, 
65, 70 IDLE)

I am tires and i don't know what to do, i guess i could borrow a well 
tune carb(S).
Regards, Ben
http://pages.infinit.net/eurokit/
(please P-Mail if you have any good suggestions)
