From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 4 Mar 2003 12:03:19 EST
To: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com, Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] 4th gear found, but looks like tranny is shot

I agree, send the center section away for a rebuild, and do the boxes 
yourself.   You will have to get a big socket for the inner stub axle nut, 
and a way to pull the plugs.  check yr Bentley.  

Re drilling out RBox bolt holes, I never stripped one out.   I have had them 
sometimes start to cross thread.  But get a tap, hell get a whole tap and die 
set, and clean the threads out.   clean the threads on the bolts.   use 
grease on the threads when you install (or that silver stuff if it's your 
favorite)  Installed the bolts by hand, and you should be able to spin them 
in by hand. (untill you squash the spring plate down to the box. 

That said, deepening  the holes isn't bad.    

And their powder coated axle tubes and brake backing plates are extremely 
stylee.  That may seem just like extra work and money, but it is so cool.

  In a message dated 3/3/2003 10:09:47 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com writes:

<< 
 In a message dated 3/3/2003 8:07:15 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
 djohnson1(-at-)snet.net writes:
 > With that said, about what $ would I be looking at for a quality rebuilt 
 > tranny, and maybe RGB's  for the 65? Any recommended vendors?  
 > Could I do most of the work myself?
 
 Hi Don,
 We do not remember your location, but Rancho seems to be the best from what 
 we have heard.  So unless you can find a reliable tranny rebuilder in your 
 area we would suggest them.  You might try contacting them through Ronnie of 
 Old Volks Home of AZ.  Last we heard you might be able to get the Rancho 
 rebuild at a slightly lower cost through him.
   Figure at least $500.00 for a quality rebuild of the center section, and 
 $200.00+ for the eight RGB bearings.  To keep cost down remove your RGBs 
 yourself and ship the center section to Rancho.  While the tranny center 
 section is away you really should drill and tap the RGB mounting bolt holes 
 to the swing plates deeper so you can install 40% longer new bolts to 
prevent 
 stripping holes when torquing these down later.  We used to have at least 
one 
 bolt hole strip with stock length bolt during each tranny installation 
 otherwise!   Also you can have your axle tubes, RGBs and brake backing 
plates 
 sand blasted and powdercoated.  When you get the tranny back install the 
axle 
 tubes and RGBs with the new bearings and enjoy!
 Eric&Barb >>
