From: "Jason W" <bugginmiami(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 05 Mar 2003 10:59:10 -0500
Subject: [VB] Quality Bus clip drawings-vwoa rant

  We were talking about the current VWOA situation and a club outing and we 
came up with vw's reasoning for their current actions in the way I am most 
likely to buy. VW is not a low end car anymore, its not cheap economical 
dead reliable transportation for those who want to get from point a to point 
b (well OURS are, but the new ones arent anyways...) A new vw is aimed at a 
higher end crowd a little bit, the new beetle can go to almost $30k 
nowadays, and that is their low end model no? A passat/jetta/etc obviously 
is higher than that. They just dont want the currrent VW  to be associated 
with me and my 'honk if parts fall off' beetles and 'i cant drive 55' old 
vans. They REALLY dont want it, not that they wont capitalize on it a bit by 
coming back with a new and improved (sorta) new beetle (and bus for that 
matter), but they really dont want to be associated with us, our cars, and 
to hell with our belfiefs of keeping our old cars running, and keeping them 
for YEARS, vs buying a new car (or better yet leasing) every few years. I 
suppose that was their mistake for building something with such a long 
service life and versatility. ;) ANyways, it doesnt look like they are 
letting down, it doesnt look like any of this is going to go away and anyone 
putting anything on the web, or in any commercial form with anything that 
could even resemble a trademark VW owns is sooner or later going to be sent 
a few letters. I wonder if www.vwvortex.com (new vw stuff) has had these 
problems.  VW obviously has no plans of actually making parts for old 
beetles, or even making sure the quality is good enough to be associated 
with VW, but rather is trying to dime everyone to death to not make it worth 
their while or just make it that much more difficult to make a profit when 
looking at the liability of being sued by a grande company with a bunch of 
lawyers. Luckily for us we dont rely on VW at all for our parts or services 
we can only hope those that are in the business stand up to them or figure 
out ways to not be involved and continue doing business for their sake and 
ours.
jasonw
p.s. my 67 is alive, new brakes, tie rod ends, front end cleaned and 
regereased and all is well, drives like a new (er) car now. hehe.

-------------------
Date: Mon, 3 Mar 2003 13:26:39 -0800 (PST)
To: John Baker <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
cc: type2(-at-)type2.com, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Quality Bus clip drawings

John,

According to the problems my good friends at Vintage Parts are having with 
VWOA, via some slutty collection agency, a line drawing is VW property - 
yup! Vintage has had a hand-drawn logo consisting of a bug and a bus, for 
over 20 years, and they've been ordered to stop using it, and pay 
back-charges! I told them to keep using it, and to he** with VW. So be on 
alert.
-----------------------
