From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 6 Mar 2003 13:08:04 EST
To: jclark(-at-)supernet.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] '65 tranny removal report (longish)

Ya, it's a nasty job.   even if you take the thing to the car wash before 
hand there is still plenty of nasty grime and sludge around.   A box of latex 
gloves from the drug store helps.  Definately friends are great too!!!!

Usually bad RGBearings cause rumbles.  A howl is from a bad bearing inside 
the tranny.

Maybe I am cheap, but I have replaced just bad bearings and kept the good 
ones.   Works for me.   I do inspect any I use carefully, clean them up and 
check for pits or mars.    The lower outer 64-67 bearings are pricey so I 
don't buy them unless they are bad.  

make sure your B.A. snap ring pliers go the right way to remove the snap 
ring-... I have a nice pair from Matco, that pretty much only see use on 
trannys.

When you get the axle shafts off inspect the ends.  If the spades are worn or 
pitted, see if you can find some nice ones. Axles are the same 55-67  (maybe 
barndoor, I don't remember) examine the fulcrum plates, swing axle bugs use 
teh same FPs and crown gears, and as bugs are easier on them, I found nice 
ones from bug trannys friends let me steal them from.  You might have to take 
the whole tranny.  Check for wear and cracks in crown gears.  At one point 
new FPs were available $10 each.

I make RGB half seals from traceing onto paper grocery bags and cutting them 
out. using a hole punch

In a message dated 3/5/2003 9:40:26 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
jclark(-at-)supernet.net writes:

<< With the help and advice of Jason Johnson and Scott Kausch, we pulled the
 tranny & RGBs from my 65 standard tonight.  Removal went pretty much
 without a hitch, per Bentley and Mike Gensler's article in the type2.com
 library.  Klingon Bird of Prey indeed!
 
 After we got it out we rested it on a milk crate and scraped crud off the
 RGBs and around the side plates.  Yanked backing plates and seal cover and
 split the RGBs.  Things looked pretty good inside except, alas, two bad
 bearings on the main axle shaft on the passenger side.  I'm gonna miss
 that howl when it's done.
 
 Only hassle so far, as expected the outer upper bearings were tough to get
 behind and lever off the shaft.  Used a cheap puller and the
 two-screwdriver method to get them off (thanks, Jason) and the gears
 slipped right off.  A little tap with the sledge and the tubes & RGB
 halves came off.
 
 I need some Bigass(tm) Snapring Pliers for the big ones inside the side
 covers.  Which ones do you favor?
 
 Can you get RGB bearings w/o buying the whole set?
 
 ....................
 Joe Clark
 www.jsclark.net >>
