Date: Thu, 6 Mar 2003 13:22:36 -0500 (EST)
From: andy <andy(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: [VB] bad tranny?-axle install- long ramble (fwd)

save this gem from miss williams as long as your collecting tranny rgb
info



Date: Wed, 31 May 2000 14:26:49 EDT
From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] bad tranny?-axle install- long ramble

re installing axle shafts/fulcrum plates/crown gears/thrust washers

Take yr crown gear and inspect it for cracks, either around the roundness at the smileys, or at a right andgle to that.   I have had people tell me cracks at the smileys are okay, but I dont like it.  Also how worn are the gears?   switch them over so you use the less worn side for going forward, remember that with Reduction gears this in counterintuitive.

okay, get your fulcrum plates, Hopefully they do not have bits cracked off round the edges, pits or grooves worn into them.  Use a straight edge looking for grooves.  Grooves increase slop, :(

Slop increases wear at this point where the power of the engine is transfered to the axles and the road.  You can feel when a swing axle vw has slop, when you shift gears, or suddenly accelerate.  The more slop there is, the worse the smaking force will be and wear will just increase and increase.  Have taken out crown gears cracked vertically, pound them out of teh tranny, spun thrust washers etc.   What does this do in there- ick.  But still works. i guess.  somewhat.  anyway, as long as it is aprt mightas well take out slop that you can.

look at the spade end of your axle shafts- what is the wear like, pits?  grooves?  there is a more worn thrust side, the side that pushes at reverse will not be as worn, though it could have been switched over before.  Use a straight edge for grooves paralell to the length of the axle shaft, also for perpendicular to the shaft where the edge of the fulcrum plate goes against the tranny.

clean the bits up, wipe the FPs w/ grease and slide them in the crown gear.using you finger to hold the FPs apart helps, as they can slide togetherso making assembly difficult.

Now get out yourfeeler gauges, and check theplay between FP and axle shaft.  the book shows doing this with the crown gear on the work bench and the axle shaft setting in it vertical.  THis will give an inaccurate measur eof gap if the axle is worn at the FP area, the groove worn perpendicular to the length of the axle shaft.  hope that makes sense.   measure it also withthe shaft pulled out to where it will normally ride.

Insert crown gear w/fps&axle into the tranny.  reach round the other side and make sure the spider gears in the tranny mesh properly with the crown gear.  You can see from the other side.  Once the first crown gear is in right, the spider gears will be in properly for teh second to line up.

now you put in the thrust washer over the crown gear you just installed and the big ass circlip.  the thrust washer is of course old, how worn is it- check both sides before install, grooves?  turn it around so the worn side is out.  after the circlip is in, can you move the thrust washer?

the thing is, do you have access to more thrust washers and bits?   Even if it is worn it will still work, just be sloppy, not making horrible noises like you mentioned.  If the crown gear is not lined up witht he spider gears all hell will break loose, but I do believe that you would not ahve been able to installed the thrust washers and big circlips if so.

I don't know if this makes sense, read throughthe bentley book, that has pictures and probably makes what I have been talking about make more sense, thought those lucky folks were dealing with reletively new parts, not worn junk. Did you read what I wrote about axle shafts a couple weeks ago- sorting through worn bits for my 61 so I could find decent used bits.  Which meant I took a number of axles off, and thus ended up with a number of thrust washers etc to choose from upon installation.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------
For help leaving the list, send a HELP message to
VINTAGEBUS-REQUEST(-at-)TYPE2.COM
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
