Date: Tue, 12 Apr 2005 10:23:29 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Miles Erickson <miles.erickson.type2(-at-)gmail.com>,  type2 List
Subject: Re: [T2] maiden voyage

Keep the little problems fixed that can turn into big problems later - i.e. RUST. The worn paint, worn upholstery, worn cabinets can all be restored later if you want a "perfect" bus. If the rust gets out of hand, the bus is on it's way to the crusher. 

I don't look down on the trailer queens riding the show circuit because they certainly aren't being hurt in any way and can return to the road at any time. No fun to own one of those in my mind BUT they are being well preserved. I do however worry about the hippy vans and the like that look like their return to the earth is accelerating due to neglect. It bugs me to see the decline of a vintage fleet due to some of the members suffering from neglect. However the van belongs to someone else so it's their's to do with as they please. These are vehicles designed to be recycled sooner or later. 

I see cars going through stages of life. New, used, used and worth little, neglect (sitting and rotting somewhere). They also get crushed and junked alot during the used worth little and neglect stages. Somewhere along the way they become rare enough that people begin to reminisce when they see one lonely example rolling down the road where there was once many of it's kind. Their value begins to climb - if not in dollars, at least in desireability. 

This is the stage that I see alot of cars: 70's VW Beetles, VW vans, Gremlins, Corvairs, Mavericks and Comets, 60's plain jane sedans like the Ford Falcon and 70's Moostangs. These cars may never be worth alot of money but a few folks are caring for them. I think folks miss them after a couple decades and use them to remember younger days. Used to see dozens and dozens of these cars on most of my drives through the big city visits, now I hardly every see one.  Maybe it is different in the drier states like Arid-zona or California. 

I like to drive my cars all-weather. I don't want to beat them up and I'm not going to do anything that might keep them from reaching 300K miles (my personal goal). We'll retire our bus eventually either relegating it to occasional use (and hopefully get it close to show quality) or sell it (depends on amount of dry parking) replacing it with something Weekender and something German (i.e Eurovan or Sprinter). The domestic alternatives don't even come close. 

Chris
'78 Westy 2,7L
