Date: Tue, 12 Apr 2005 14:00:12 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: David Hopkins <david(-at-)hopkinsherald.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] T2 4 Wheel Trailer

check your local regs. Wheeled trailers I do not see unless it is a farm trailer meant for low speeds. I wonder about high speed stability and you'll need some sort of electric brakes for SURE. 

Ideas: tow bar permanently mounted (and let the steering track you automatically - my Beetle has had a couple low speed stability problems due to the steering trying to whip back and forth) or a tongue bar that is connected to the steering rack ala farm trailer. Possibly a pivot under the steering beam that enxtend beyond the front beam, connect spindles via tie rod bars to this. 

I'd be inclined to build something smaller (ala Greg Pott's version) or a version with tandem axles grouped - as in typical tandem axle camper or utility trailer. Make it into an RV trailer with a table, seating, beds, poptop. Ain't going to be light though and the axles would have to be basically centered under the chassis. You MIGHT be better off creating a tube frame and slip the body onto that. Add electric brakes of course. 

Imagination at work: Join rear end of donor bus #1 bus to front end of donor bus #2. Cut #1 just behind the rear wheels, cut donor bus #2 at seam in front of sliding door. Join. Use better than duct tape... <griN!> 

Create square tubing frame for under body - discard factory frame members, maintain outriggers. Add generic dual trailer axles with electric brakes. Salvage exterior fender openings from both buses and graft into body creating 1 long wheel opening centered on trailer length. Build new inner fender wells out of new steel. 

Either keep the engine compartment for a trunk (add a floor, open up the gas tank compartment or add a water tank in it's place) or cut out the hump so the entire interior has a flat floor. Create rear hatch by grafting rear hatch to engine hatch and creating 1 large portal. Alternative: extend rear hatch to bottom but the rear end is going to look unfamiliar. Alternative #2: Extend rear hatch to floor, graft into the hatch the engine hatch skin. Take rear hatch to the normal lower latch threshold. 

Just armchair engineering... 

Chris
'78 Westy 2,7L
