Date: Tue, 12 Apr 2005 22:10:56 -0700
From: Derwood <dgm(-at-)alumni.uvic.ca>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Alternator/Charging Circuit Problems --> D+ shorted to B+

Hi there.
Recently bought sweet 74 westy (our first!)
Everything was in good order except the battery was being drained.

I'm a EE so I wasn't too worried.

6A was was being drained from battery.   Quick plug and play showed 4A were
going to AUX bat through a metal can (diode?).  Removed aux bat from circuit
and current draw now down to ~2.5A.
Will figure out Aux hookup later.

After some poking found that 2.3A is going to the alternator's voltage
regulator.  Thought that was it, got a new regulator, but the current draw
persisted (not the regulator).  Discovered same current going into D+ terminal
of the regulator was leaving DF terminal.  This I guess is the excitation
current for the alternator field.  I guess the regulator passes this current
from D+ to DF to allow for field excitation (and during steady state I guess
it will regulate the voltage by controlling the field current).

Measured the DF to D- resistance (field winding resistance).  ~5Ohms.  My
service manual says this is the ballpark for this alternator.  Also, 12V/5Ohm
= 2.4A is right on the current draw I am measuring.

Consulted some other references (including this archive, great btw) and
determined that the D+ line (output of the alternator, input to the regulator)
connects with a wire that runs to the front of the bus and connects to the
charging bulb.  My bulb IS showing problems by the way.

So I have gathered that this connection to D+ is to allow for switched battery
to excite the alternator field when the ignition switch is turned to ON.  Thus
the field is only excited (and drawing 2.4A) when the key is turned.

But in MY case, somehow the D+ line is shorted to the battery.  It may be
shorted to the B+ terminal of the alternator, which is direct connect to the
battery for charging.  Either way, I have 12V on the D+ terminal when the
ignition switch is OFF.  I disconnected the wire to the front (bulb) and the
12V persisted.  As far as I can tell, I've isolated the D+ wire so it only
connnects to the alternator and the regulator.  And I still have 12V.

Questions:
Am I right in that the D+ line of the alternator should only be connected to
SWITCHED battery?  I.e. Ignition switch 0FF --> D+ line is no voltage.
Ignition switch ON --> D+ is 12V.

If this is right, why am I seeing 12V on D+ all the time?  Note I have
disconnected the line to the bulb in the front.

If there is a short between battery 12V (B+) and the D+ line, would there be a
good place to look?  I am hesitant to rip out the alternator.  Does anyone
know if the B+ wiring and D+ wiring run in parallel outside the alternator?
Is it more likely the short comes from some failure internal to the
alternator?  What type of failure (diode, brushes, ect.)

Any help is useful.
Sorrry for the long background.

Thanks
Darrin
(Burntman)
