Date: Wed, 13 Apr 2005 11:15:28 -0500 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Actual progress

Well, at least I'm back where I started + gauges -- so I guess the addition
of the gauges is progress.

Started the Rivi (again). No pictures, I was busy. :-D

Put the rest of the wires on the new breaker panel

Ran wires up to top of dash for temporary gauge installation (gauges in
their VDO packages stuffed into the "V" of the dash/windscreen).

Wired the turn signals/wipers back up (had pulled from steering column for
breaker panel access)

Fired up the bus. Starts "more often" now that the wires up front are
tight. Still got the occasional "click...click...click...start" action but
that may have also been because I just stuck the + wire back on the battery
without tightening anything for testing.

Gauges work good. Oil pressure and CHT. Lights wired up and all. Uhhh,
actually, the oil pressure gauge only works when the headlights are on --
miscounted when I picked the breaker to put the switched + on for it. Have
to stick my head back under there and move it over.

Have to wire the chopped off high beam relay wire back up. Not chopped
actually, looks like someone was pulling the turn signal switch off and
couldn't figure out where the "other end" of those wires were so they
yanked and broke them off. Have to add some length back. At least it's just
from ground to switch to relay so I can grab a ground anywhere up top.

I still don't have an ALT light which means it still isn't charging. I
checked and re-checked the wiring up front so it's got to be something in
the back. Gotta look at the PO hacked wiring back there tonight.

Gotta make the horn work too. Just those 3 things and I should be able to
get it inspected/registered. Horn and brights actually, they could care
less if my battery is charging.

Oh... the fuel gauge just pegs to FULL when I turn the key on. POS to the
side that says "+" and sender to the side that says "GND", right? Sender
wire is probably shorted to ground somewhere <sigh>.

Gerald
