From: "Jerry & Melissa Jess" <vwstuff53(-at-)msn.com>
To: "type2 \(E-mail\)" <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Cc: "vintagebus \(E-mail\)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 13 Apr 2005 14:18:58 -0700
Subject: FW: SEMA Legislative Alert: Arizona Emissions Test Exemption

-----Original Message-----
From: Jason Tolleson [mailto:JasonT(-at-)sema.org]
Sent: Wednesday, April 13, 2005 1:22 PM
To: Jason Tolleson
Subject: SEMA Legislative Alert: Arizona Emissions Test Exemption for
Collectible Vehicles Signed Into Law by Governor


URGENT LEGISLATIVE ALERT (UPDATE)



Arizona Emissions Test Exemption for Collectible Vehicles Signed Into Law by
Governor



Congratulations!!!  A bill (H.B. 2357) to exempt qualified collectible
vehicles 15 years old and older from the states mandatory emissions
inspection and maintenance program has been signed into law by Arizona
Governor Janet Napolitano.  Under the new law, qualifying vehicles would
have to maintain appropriate collectible or classic automobile insurance to
retain these benefits.



The new law:



  a.. Defines collectible vehicles as 15 years old or older, OR of unique or
rare design, of limited production and an object of curiosity and maintained
primarily for car club activities, exhibitions, parades, etc. and is used
infrequently for other purposes.


  a.. Provides for a rolling 15-year emissions inspection exemption that
would exempt qualifying vehicles upon enactment and would pick up an
additional model year for each year the law is in effect.


  a.. Provides for an emissions inspection exemption for collectible
vehicles for which the owner holds appropriate insurance coverage.


  a.. Acknowledges the relatively minimal environmental impact of older
vehicles, such as the older vehicles targeted for this exemption.


  a.. Recognizes that such vehicles constitute a small portion of the
vehicle fleet and are well-maintained and infrequently operated.


Congratulations again to all of the Arizona hobbyists whose hard work and
perseverance made this new law a reality.
