Date: Wed, 13 Apr 2005 15:32:41 -0700
To: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Pettibon, Jeremy" <jeremy.pettibon(-at-)cingular.com>
Subject: Newbie questions

So, as I have posted before, I recently bought a 1976 campmobile (2000cc
type 4 manual) which needs engine work - zero compression in #3 cylinder
as I have mentioned before.  I am exploring the possibility of putting
in a new engine.  The friend who is offering to help me with the project
(non-VW hobbyist mechanic) found this engine, about which I have doubts:
http://tinyurl.com/3leqv

I'm pretty sure it is a bored-out 1600 cc type 1 bug engine, so I don't
think it would even work for my bus.  My friend insists it will, so I
told him I would consult a panel of experts.  That means you,
Type-2-ers! ;)  So can anybody tell me...

1. Would it bolt-up to my stock transmission?
2. Would it accept my stock fuel injection?
3. Would it accept my stock exhaust?
4. Would the HP/torque be comparable/better?
5. Would it even mount in my bus? (The web page says they can "supply
Rear-mount Engine case Bus, Squareback and Thing engine applications for
a small additional cost."  Is this just pre-'71 busses?)

I called the company to ask these questions and I am currently waiting
for a call back.  They also have pretty good prices on 2000cc 914
engines, so I might look into one of those instead.

OK next set of questions - I took the bus in for a pre-purchase
inspection (post-purchase "owner's survey" in this case), and I was
given the following information:

Steering: "king pin loose"
Suspension: "lower ball joints poor"

1. Is "king pin" AKA "swing lever pin"?  So one of these
[http://tinyurl.com/7xx7h] would be the fix?
2. If only the lower ball joints are bad, should I just replace them? Or
is it one of those jobs where you might as well do them all at the same
time?
From reading through the archives, it seems like the ball joints are a
challenge to put in - is it easier (for a DIYer) to just replace the
entire torsion arms?  My recently-ordered Bentley manual has not yet
arrived, so I have not had a chance to look at this process.

Everything else checked out ok, so I figure bad engine and all, the bus
was still a killer bargain at $800.

Thanks everybody for your patience with us newbies - the information on
this list has already been a great help.  I hope I'll be able to
contribute something soon - maybe I'll finish my electrolytic
rust-removal system this weekend and post info about that.  Here's what
I have done so far...

http://mysite.verizon.net/pettibon
