Date: Sun, 7 Sep 2008 19:17:24 -0700 (PDT)
From: Joel Cort <joel_cort(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com,
Subject: Second plug for Westies at Watkins 2008 (in english)

This is it - Last plug -
Sorry everyone, I work on vans better than emails, 
Attempt #2 and cleaned up the font mess. Hopefully now you can read about it.
 
WESTIES AT WATKINS 2008
 
Watkins Glen, NY
 
October 10, 11, 12 
 
No
Reservations needed - pay as you go
 
We are doing it again this year for the
seventh year in a row. 
Plan to come and join other VW campers at Watkins Glen
State ParkNY, 
Friday October 10th to Sunday Oct. 12, 2008. 
 
The State Park
is easily accessible from Highway 14 in the town of Watkins Glen NY.
This is
part of New York"s natural wonders, the Gorge and the Finger Lakes, the leaves
may already be turning as well.
 
Any VW van models (not just Westfalias) are
welcome to come and participate in this event. We have had Eriba Puck trailers
and Rialtas.
 
On Sunday Oct. 12th, we will drive our vans on the Watkins Glen
International RaceCourse. What a hoot! We have pictures from previous years to
prove it.
 
More info at www.westies-at-watkins.org 
 
CAMPING INFORMATION 
We
have the Onondaga Village loop reserved for our group of VW campers at Watkins
Glen State Park. No reservations necessary. Drive up and get a campsite from
the rangers. 
This campground loop does not have electricity at the sites. It
does have nice clean bathrooms with warm showers and easy access to the gorge
trail.
Note:If you need electricity, then the only camping area at WGSP with
electricity is in the Mohawk Village loop. You will need to make your own
reservations if you need electricity.  You are welcome to join us for the
festivities.
For further campground information, please call (518) 486-7340.
 
Pet Owner information: 
DO NOT leave dogs unattended anywhere in the park.
No dogs allowed on the inner Gorge Trail but OK on the rim trails. 
Pet owners
must show current rabies certificate. (for their pets ;-)
 
ACTIVITIES
Friday:will focus on finding our camp sites and getting acquainted. 
Saturday:
Breakfast burritos
Hike the Glen - hike and discover WatkinsGlen State Parkin
its full beauty of the glacier-carved mile-long gorge. 
Relax at camp or visit
local wineries along Seneca Lake and other adjacent Finger Lakes. 
Pot Luck
Dinner 50/50 door prize activities, campfire, music and tall VW tales.
 
Sunday: 
Pack up & Caravan to Watkins Glen International Racetrack(about 5
miles away - up hill) 
Register and burn some rubber onto the racetrack for
several laps.
 
Track access will be around $ US 15 per vehicle.
 
Contact:
Joel for additional details on the camping event 
email jcort(-at-)rochester.rr.com
or joel_cort(-at-)yahoo.com 
Home (585) 377-4161
Cell (585) 690-8145
 Joel
Rochester NY.


89 Syncro Westy (CinnabarVan)
87 Syncro Transporter (Stella)
73 Westy Campmobile (agent orange)


Founding Member of the Empire VW Camping
Club
&
Westies at Watkins - www.westies-at-watkins.org
