Date: Mon, 8 Sep 2008 11:40:12 -0700 (PDT)
From: B Monk <wmonk(-at-)snet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re:Electrical system affected by raid

I used to have this problem with the 78 Westy. Only when it was raining really
really hard.
Water would come in through the vents on the sides and get the plug wires wet.
I would
check your plug wires first and make sure they are in good shape. Did you by
chance
pop open the hatch and see where it was getting wet? Any part of the electical
system getting wet could cause problems. You could very easily reproduce the
rain storm
with a garden hose. Slowly run water over parts of the motor until it start to
skip. Only problem with that is you had a high speed miss. Did it still idle
smooth? Check the obvious first plug wires,afm plug,ect... When is the last
time you did a tune up? If its been awhile since you did plug
wires,plugs,points ect.. You may want to do that just for the sake of getting
it done. I also came home early last week  because of the rain. I have been
working at cell sites putting up equipment (well my three riggers are doing
the climbing) and have been using a friends Syncro Westy. It was great to be
able to drive all the way to the tower base and just stay there for the night.
I was able to pocket  my hotel allowance and keep most of my meal allowances
as I bought my food at the market. Plus I am not suffering from fast food red
eye if you know what I mean. I have two Canadian riggers that have a camper in
the back of a pick up truck. They were blown away
 with the syncro westy.
They also have a sat dish set up on their truck and the sat converter is made
to have two tvs. They gave me a remote,ran me a piece of coax and using the
flat screen that is installed in the Westy was able to watch tv at night. We
were able to pull power from the cell site electrical panel so I was able to
keep the fridge on,tv powered,stuck a small 8,000but air condition in the
drivers window and felt right at home. I plan on setting up one of those a/c
in my own 87 Westy for when we go across country next spring. I'll be
following my in laws with their vintage airstream travel trailer so I can keep
most of the stuff we would normally haul around in their camper. It will be
nice not having crap piled up to the bottom of the cabinet in the rear for
once. I might even rig the a/c to work for the front window of the poptop. My
wife has access to an industrail sewing maching to do the canvas work that
would be needed. I'll still have the side windows on the
 canvas for ventilation on the cooler nights when we don't need the a/c.
Good luck on tracking down your high speed miss. Real quick have you tried to
drive it now the weather has calmed down to see if its still there?
 
Good Luck,
Bill
