From: "Walkingboss" <walkingboss(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 29 Apr 2006 01:21:30 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] [Q] Restoring Daily Driver

David,

    When estimating the length of time and amount of cost for a restoration
you need to...................
1) Make your estimate of the time involved, and triple it.
2) Make your estimate of the cost involved, and quadruple it.
3) Realize that your UPS shipping bill will be three times more than the
total amount for the complete restoration that your wife ok'ed.
4) PO wife because she can't park in the garage, in winter snow storms
because of "all that crap in the way".
5) Raise total estimate to include Doctor bills, covering emergency trips to
hospital for Snake bites, Wasp stings, Swarming Mosquito bites causing West
Nile Flu, and tetanus shots for Rottweiller bites. Law suit fee's from grass
fire damage to homes, caused by using cutting torch to remove junk yard
parts. All from the trips to junk yards digging for rusted, damaged, or even
non-existent parts.
6) Make arrangements with the city or county about "codes" for "junk" parts
cars in your yard.
7) Figure in cost of movers (for your belongings, not your wife's)
8)Then 4 years after the date you told your wife you would be finished, sell
un-finished project to pay alimony and your Divorce Lawyer.
9) Make new friends that speak with a lisp, named "Rahoul" at the men's
shelter or YMCA, while looking for room mate to share living expenses with.
Because all your money goes to the X-wife and that Guy with the Fo*d Pinto
she's with now!
10) Meet new wife, go nuts and buy a 1947 Fiat, GoGo-mobile and start insane
process all over again, and go broke paying Shrink trying to "get your mind
right".


    David to be serious, you do need to make a cost/time estimate, and leave
yourself a lot of room. You need a safe place to work, where you can take
your bus apart and leave parts here and there. You need a good basic set of
tools, and a budget to buy special tools or to rent them. And parts + parts
+ parts money. Also dollars to pay for the work you may not be able to do.
Friendly Welders, Painters, Body Men, Machinist, etc. Also dollars for all
the things I've forgotten.
    Don't try to drive it and work on it at the same time. Just way to much
extra hassle, and expense. Plus the job will come out much better.
    I don't mean to discourage you just want to make sure your aware of what
your up against. I don't like to see un-finished bus's on Samba with tear
stains on them.

Regards,

Howard

Subject: Re: [T2] [Q] Restoring Daily Driver
