Date: Mon, 1 May 2006 08:10:39 -0600
From: DurocShark <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "type2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Don's Road Trip Update 3

Got to Anaheim at 10:30 last night. Traffic on I-15 was horrible between
Vegas and Baker, with some slowing off-and-on until Barstow. We stopped at
State Line (errrr... "Primm") and hung out for a couple hours hoping to let
the traffic go by. Didn't happen. There was an accident that caused the
traffic initially, but then cars were overheating and stalling and such in
the traffic, stretching out the problem for much longer than it needed to
be.

At Primm I saw a nearly new Escalade dump its radiator. A little ways up I
saw a BRAND new Excursion do the same thing. The Guac just chugged along
with nary a worry. =)

Stopped at Baker and looked at the thermometer. (For those of you who don't
know, Baker has the "World's Largest Thermometer".) When we got there it was
109 degrees! 20 minutes later after buying the obligatory Lotto ticket at
the Lotto store, it was 113!!! I'm glad I made sure to seal up the tinwork
on the Guac's engine before leaving!

The oil leak is VERY small. Still no noticable change in the dipstick level.
And the oil is still clear and gold. Have to hold the dipstick at an angle
to the light to see the oil level. =)

A couple notes about the Guac:

I didn't change the points to Pertronix. Once I got a scale on there and
discovered I'd been running at TDC (oops), I set it to 7.5*. The mark was
ROCK SOLID. Didn't flicker a bit. I put my dwell meter on there and it was
locked in at 50*. Moved a degree or two when revving the engine. Well,
shoot. Who am I to mess with perfection? I gotta say Troy did a kick butt
job on this bus.

As mentioned, I decided to leave the Nokian snow tires on there. Going over
the Rockies, I'm glad I did. There were areas where I-70 was just a sheet of
ice. Those tires locked into that ice like it was dry pavement. I'm VERY
impressed. But at 113 degrees through Baker, I hope there's some tread left.
I'm going to rotate the tires before heading back to CO. The crosswind
fighting was scrubbing my tires bad.

I'd forgotten what a difference in power levels between 5500 feet elevation,
and sea level. I put down some rubber running for coffee this morning
(accidentally!) Ok, it was just a chirp, but still...

My shoulders and neck still hurt. I'm gonna dabble with changing the seating
position to see if that helps any. What was comfortable for puttering around
town may not necessarily be the best position for cross country driving.

All in all, I had a blast! The kids were great, my daughter only had one
"accident" on the trip! I'm impressed. =)

And I get to do it all over again in a couple days when I head back to
Colorado. =)

--
Don
The Guacamole Bus
http://www.donimages.com/guac
