Date: Fri, 07 Dec 2001 15:49:00 -0500
From: Snoopy <vwsnoopy(-at-)knology.net>
To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
Subject: Fire marshall is mad

Well I asked the fire marshal for the written codes about why I couldn't
have a propane tank on my vehicle.  He was Pis%%d.  He thought I didn't
trust him (I don't)  I just told him the last police officer to pull me,
told me to put the propane tank where I had it and I wanted the final word.
He seemed ok but started in on other things around campus that are my
responsibility misquoting fire codes.  Which I put him right back in his
place about. (I  know the codes that pertain to my vocation)

Anyway first off he said my vehicle does not qualify as a Recreational
Vehicle because it does not have a specific location nor compartment to
properly store the tank. (I used a 5 gallon tank strapped to the roof rack)
Yes I know my bus is an RV..   I ended up convincing him of this.

Any way the code as it pertains or doesn't to me is NFPA 21 Section 21-6.2.2
(parking of vehicles) were it states "Vehicles carrying or containing LP gas
shall not be parked in congested areas nor less than 50 ft away from any
building used for assembly,institutional or multiple residential occupancy."
He claims our parking lots are extremely congested which is where I fell
into the code.  I have been to more than a few RV parks where the huge RV's
are very crowded. I guess he doesn't go to these.

He said he also found a DOT requirement that specifically prohibits the
manner in which I was transporting the tank (on the roof rack)

I did get him to accept the idea of a stock propane tank. But according to
his definition of the code above still looks like that would be illegal
also.

I am leaving this issue alone and hiding the tank inside next week after I
build a box to hide it.  He is already stirring up enough work for me around
here now for me to press the point any more.

Thanks for all the advise.

Hope this helps someone else.

Peace Brothers and Sisters,
Snoopy
Full Moon Bus Club - Home of the world famous Breakfast Burritos.
http://www.fullmoonbusclub.com

If you are going to walk on thin ice,
You may as well dance.




