Date: Mon, 10 Dec 2001 06:30:02 -0600 (CST)
From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: fuel injection guru's needed

Folks,

78 t2 stock 2liter

Made my maiden voyage in this one about a week ago including stop and go
traffic and about 8 miles each way at 75 mph.  The bus did fine.

I was really excited about getting a christmas tree with it on Saturday
morning, but got about 5 miles down the road and it died....not all the
way though.  It would idle fine, but if you tried to give it any
accelerator pedal, it would die....and then restart just fine.

It felt like I was running out of gas, it would idle(just ok), but if I
tried to give it any accelerator at all it just bogged.  I parked it for
about and hour and then went back with some gas(I really didn't think that
was it).  I drove it around the park a little and it did just fine.

So, I went back about 2 hours later to drive it back home and it did just
fine for about 2 miles and then started the same behavior.  I could
actually leave it at idle and limped about another 1/2 mile to park it
again.

To make a long story short, it seems to be heat related.  I fired it up on
Sunday morning(23 degrees) and let it idle for about 20 minutes.  Timing
and dwell are exactly right on.  A vacuum gauge on the distributor shows a
nice steady reading at any rpm above idle.  After about 30 minutes of
idling, the problem was back.  If you try to move the accelerator, it has
nothing.  The vacuum gauge just starts to move when this happens, but then
no vacuum.  

It is as if when it gets warmed up, it has a massive manifold leak at
anything over idle.  I did not have time to check anything else yet.

The decel valve is still in place and I am wondering if the diaphram on it
has developed some sort of leak or tear.  Is it really necessary?

The only changes I made on Fiday were to hold the right side heater flap
open(new cable coming) and to install the new tin that protects the push
rod tubes.  I already had a new engine seal in place.  Remember that this
car had been sitting for 8 years, but now has rebuilt injectors, pressure
control valve and cold start valve.  Lots(if not all) vacuum and other
hoses had already been replaced.

Any comments or suggestions would be appreciated.

Cheers, dave

-- 
-------------------------------------------------------------------
"I'm more interested in getting it right, than being right"....dave



