Date: Mon, 10 Dec 2001 08:47:12 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re:  N.A.D.A.

But might make more of the old ones stick around longer - the busses - not 
the people.

If our busses were worth more then more would be preserved and not dragged 
to the crusher.

I've got my bus and plan to keep it as long as possible. I like the cheap 
spares but as long as they aren't worth squat more and more will get 
squashed right along with the modern "appliance" vehicles.

As you can see there are two sides to this coin.

That said - I think time and the rust worm will continue to shrink the 
numbers enough that our busses will become quite rare and thus increase in 
value a bit - as long as there are people who like to own and drive them.

I remember when I was in Jr. High School and High School and there were 
still plenty of 20's, 30's, and 40's cars around to cut up into Street 
Rods. People didn't mind cutting them up and still today a "Rod" is worth 
more than an original.

It was easy to find an original car to cut up. No more. Not in this part of 
the country.

Thankfully several fiberglass and also several steel repos companies have 
come along. With enough $$$ you can buy a steel bodied "A" model and 
several other favorite bodies and never deal with the rust worm.

I'm just going to sit back and watch.

>I have to agree with Greg here.  In fact, I don't really want Busses to be
>worth too much(flame suit on).  One of the big drawing cards to owning a Bus
>is they are relatively easy to buy and maintain.  And good people abound
>that add positively to the Bus experience.  If I want a car that is
>expensive to own and maintain, with snobs to deal with and hard to find
>parts, I'll go get some other obscure European car.

Ciao!

Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE:       Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing and exhaust 
- make offer
                 5 Beauty rings for 13" wheels, very nice, no dents, packed 
ready to go, $40 (was my cost)

