From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 26 Aug 2001 11:49:26 EDT
To: TTackman2(-at-)aol.com, tkortus(-at-)hotmail.com
Subject: Re: [VB] truck drivers on my road trip :(

In a message dated 8/25/01 9:06:36 PM Pacific Daylight Time, 
TTackman2(-at-)aol.com writes:

> Ten percent of other motorist have the mentality of sizzling bacon.
>  Your adventure to Chicago, leaves me with mental hives, as I
>  only have a 5 hour drive south on interstate 5 & my 60 double
>  cab will only do 52mph, my choice.
>  Think I may change the route to smaller less traveled roads where 
>  possible.
>  
it is really odd, I have 99.999% found truckers courteous drivers, especially 
when I am on a road trip.  SOme trip I would pass the trucks going up hill 
(and be dodging through traffic to keep my momentum) and they would pass me 
on the flat, repeatedly.  And as I flash the lights for passing safely, when 
it is dark/not in urban area, I find the truckers do that back even.   WHen 
driving the 59 sc from the bay area back to oly, about 800- 850 miles, no one 
got mad at my slow truck the whole way- 55 mph.  everybody passed.    

I once had an issue where it was complicated but I was pulling back on the 
freeway from the shoulder and I did see a truck but they were way behind, so 
I pulled on, but evidently the driver did not realise (in spite of my 
signals) that I was pulling into the lane or thought I could accelerate to 70 
immmediately, when in fact the bus was stuck in 3rd gear and I was driving 45 
for a couple more miles to my destination.  It was very scary when the truck 
suddenly passed me on the shoulder.   I don't know how fast he was going in 
the right hand lane, but it sure was not 55-60 (55 was the speed limit then). 
 WTF

But I generally find truckers much better drivers than the average motorist.  
  Even if I drive slow, I drive assertively, & have a 6V horn.

Or you could do what the Germans did- the slow vehicles there had a little 
sign in the rear what their max speed was- it was just a circle with the 
kilometreage in it, but you could stick something to the truck bumper that 
says "52mph max",

or write in large letter on the back of it "40hp at work, please just pass"
