From: "Martin" <mcmmd(-at-)ev1.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 26 Aug 2001 22:50:58 -0500
Subject: new purchase

I have just rejoined this list because I am in the process of buying a 1961
crew cab. The bus is very nice and mostly original except is has a 1500/1600
single port engine. The body is in excellent shape and essentially rust
free! It still has the splash plate under the front end, no rust under the
battery or anywhere under the truck on the frame. The bed is clean and rust
free with home made wood slats that are glued down but look pretty good.
There is no rust in the floors anywhere. There also appears to be no rust
under the windows.

The interior is very clean and rubber mats are in great shape and now
covered with carpet. The seat covers are very nice and OEM. The only thing
about the interior I really don't like is the door and kick panels and the
headliner are made of plywood. they are very well done and look almost like
they came out of a west camper. I will try to unload these and replace with
OEM style cardboard. The dash is not cut at all and there is a working
radio.

The electrical is in good shape, brakes work fine but pull slightly to the
right, clutch pedal sort of "catches" when you push it to the floor, but it
shifts well.

I am a little concerned about the engine however. It has very little power
at all. There are no oil leaks to speak of. There is some kind of fabricated
exhaust that is divided in two, to provide exhaust for the left and right
side of the engine separately. Don't ask me why this was done I plan to do a
compression test and if it is ok I plan to buy it. I will tune it up, adjust
valves, replace exhaust, and change the oil before driving home.

Are there any specific suggestions anyone has before I buy this vehicle? Is
there any reason the split exhaust would mess up the engine? Are there any
specific issues that would make me steer away from a 1961 model? I am pretty
convinced I am going to buy this bus. From the prices of crew cabs I have
seen, I think it is a fair buy not a steal but on ok deal. Any advice will
be appreciated.

Martin
mcmmd(-at-)ev1.net

