Date: Sun, 26 Aug 2001 21:56:43 -0700
From: Edward Richardson <edr(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Help with Idetifying my Camper

You all probably get this request daily, but here goes.

I recently purchased a 1967 Kombi, and was told that it was a Sundial
Camper.  I was familiar enough with Campers, having had many Bugs and
going to lots of shows to know by the wood in the interior that it
wasn't a Westy.  There are no Sundial tags on my interior, such as on
the Icebox.  I don't have a fold-up back seat either.  People who seem
to know say that 1967 Sundials were different than other years.  I can
tell you that the Icebox door matches other Sundials that I've seen.
The wood is real cheap, and seems to get it's wood grain from decals or
contact paper, which is peeling off.  There is a valance of thin wood
around the inside roof line, right below the paneled headliner.  One guy
told me that Sundials have pie shaped cutouts in this strip of wood
about every 12 inches or so, so since mine doesn't it's probably an EZ
or a Roadrunner.  The back cabinets, the ones over the engine, are real
strange too.  They each have a 10 inch square sliding door, with a
little round metal finger hole to open it.  The opening is rounded on
the corners.  What is so strange is that on each side cabinet is a piece
of 1/2 inch plywood sitting on end.  These pieces are about 6-8 inches
long, and look like a shelf would rest on the surface of each.  On the
forward corner of each piece is a little plastic roller, as though a
shelf or a seat, (part of a fold up bed?) should rest on it.  The
cabinet door pulls are all copper in color, with points on the ends that
attach to the cabinets.    The Icebox has the water tank in the back of
the unit, the side that backs up to the back of the passenger side.
There is a spice rack on the inside of the rear cargo door.  It has 3-4
shelves, with 3 holes in the top to hold cups.  There are two metal tags
on the outside, just below the forward cargo door.  One is the green
State Of California tag, and the other is an aluminum tag about 2"X3",
attached with a rivet on each side of the tag.  Whatever had been
painted on the tag, such as Sundial, or Riviera, or whatever, has been
scratched off.  The numbers across the center read 1967
SN          356.  The side windows are pop-outs on the front and back
window on each side, with a louvered window in the center on the drivers
side, and in the rear cargo door on the passenger's side.  There are
three windows on each side.  I checked the M-Codes on this bus.  They
showed a walk-thru interior, 6 pop-out windows, and seat belt mounts.
The port of entry for this bus was Los Angeles.

Sorry that this is so long winded.  I'm hoping that someone on this site
can help me identify this bus.

Thank you in advance for your help,
Ed Richardson
Pasadena, CA
edr(-at-)earthlink.net

