From: "Shawn Madison" <shawnm(-at-)harbornet.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Date: Mon, 27 Aug 2001 22:10:50 -0700
Subject: bay/split creation and a 50 to 52 door window assembly

I just got home from picking up some super cool parts from a guy I met today
while getting coffee (David Stelly) he saw my deluxe and asked if I was
interested in any parts. I told him maybe and asked what he had... long
story short, he invited me over to his house in Bellevue and showed me his
sons collection of bus stuff he wanted to sell. Seems the kid is living in
Chili now and just wants to get rid of everything. First off he started
creating a 74 super bus. I mean the thing is a 74 with a 23 window top that
has been cut and sectioned on to the bay. He removed the air vent from above
and straitened the roof out to fit. The bay windshield is still there but
the nose skin is gone. He said the front end, engine and transmission came
out of a Porsche and that it was sent to some shop in California to be
rebuilt and regeared (pancake with the fan shroud). He stated that it has
never been ran but that his son spent over $12,000 on it (ya right) anyway
he is willing to sell the bus to me for $2,000. All it looks like it needs
is a nose skin and a paint job. All the other body work is done and is in
yellow primer. I told him I was interested but that it may take me a month
to come up with the cash. I am going to see if I can get Ken from the Bus
Co. or Fred from Ovals to come look at it with me to see if it is worth it.
Anyway I did buy some parts while I was there. I picked up another fold down
middle seat(pretty beat-up), an NOS horn button, a complete set of NOS ice
pick door handles, three early deluxe coat hooks (balled ends), two pieces
of rear corner glass, a belt line trim set in near perfect condition minus
the small piece by the passenger door, a Barn door nose emblem and a pre 53
drivers door window frame (hinged wing window).
Well I want to keep everything except the window frame, so if anyone is
interested in it please let me know or I will put it up for sale on E-barf.
It is in good shape with some minor rust. The swing arm and the piano hinge
are currently frozen but I have covered them with penetrating oil, so
hopefully in the morning she will swing freely. There is no glass in the
frame. I want $50.00 for it.
I want to sell it to someone that has a pre 53 type II and that needs it. I
don't want to sell it thinking it is going to be used and then see it on the
auction block.
Thanks
Shawn
Tacoma

