From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 4 Jan 2002 10:17:01 EST
To: duckyman(-at-)swbell.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Disassembling spindle assemblys

In a message dated 1/4/02 5:19:12 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
duckyman(-at-)swbell.net writes:

<< 
 Hello, All...
 How does one go about taking the spindle assemblys
 apart on a 65 bus? The upper and lower link pin bearing
 'parts' don't seem to want to disassemble. Is there a 
 trick or a special tool or just "take it to someone who
 knows how to do it".  The spindle assemblys are
 tight but I am having to replace the rubber bands around
 the joints. 
 Thanks in advance!  ...and Happy New Year!
  >>

Hm, you are more concientous than I am- I just grease the bus every 3K miles 
and don't worry about new rubber seals till its worn out.

How apart is it now?   You can take it a ceratin amount apart with hand 
tools, but at a certain point you will need a press.  Get a Bentleys copy of 
the 1963 Transporter workshop manual.

Basically, once you havethe bus wheel/drum/brake backing plate off (and 
safely jacked up) you undo the 17mm nut/bolt assemblies that keep the links 
tight- one for the upper link and one for the lower.   remove the 17mm pinch 
bolts (you may want a punch or something to tap it through with.  Use a large 
screwdrive to slightly pry the wedges of teh trailing arms  open and tap the 
link out towards you using a wide punch of some sort.  this will knock the 
cover off the links,   when the links are out alll the way the spindle 
assembly will fall on the most painful part of you knee.

keep the sets of linkpins/needle bearings/bearing outer bushes together- they 
are sets.  inspect for wear.  if the needles fall out of the cage when you 
wipe or rinse them clean, they are toast.   the cages should be smooth 
inside, not have groove worn in it.   They last a very long time with grease. 
 if they get water in there and it stays they wear out. (in frequent 
greasing)  A new set of 4 ( does one bus)is about $100.

I have tapped out the old bushes and tapped in new with a rubber mallet, but 
have not disassembled further than that, cause I'd need a press.  Have got 
rebuildt ones from WW and been happy with them, though.  take a looksee at 
the book
