Date: Sat, 05 Jan 2002 22:08:25 -0500
From: Chad Sibert <csibert(-at-)netmcr.com>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>,
Subject: 1600 Cylinder Head Temps

What is the "normal" operating cylinder temperature head range for a
1600 SP?  Is 350 degrees too high?

I just installed two CHT gauges, one on #1 and one on #3.  After the
engine has warmed up, #3 is showing 250, while #1 is showing 350.  I
would have expected to see the opposite, and that the difference between
the two would not be as extreme.

The engine has just been rebuilt, in fact has not been completely broken
in.  I have a few things to button up before I can actually drive the
bus, so these numbers were generated in the driveway.  The engine has a
doghouse cooler and functioning flaps/thermostat.

I would expect to see some variation between the two gauges, but not 100
degrees.  I switched the gauges and got the same results.  The senders
looked like pretty straight-forward affairs, seems like they would
either work or not.  Is it possible that one is damaged and is only
partially reading?  These are the VDO 100 to 600 degree CHT gauges.  The
senders consist of a ring terminal that slip over the spark plugs and
have about a nine inch lead of stiff wire with a plastic plug which
connects to the gauge wiring.

Installing the senders was a little nerve racking because I was paranoid
about cross threading the spark plug.  Unfortunately, in order to fully
seat the plugs with the sender in place, you're tightening against the
sender ring which takes its final  bend when you tighten the plug,
making it difficult to feel the plug as it threads in.  I removed the
compression ring from the plugs, as the sender ring is the same
thickness, and I didn't want to alter the position of the plug tip in
the cylinder.

I seem to remember reading about normal cylinder head temps in the 350
range, but I've been told that 350 is too high.  I searched in the
archives, but couldn't find anything definitive.

I'd appreciate any input,

Thanks

Chad Sibert
Greensboro, NC

1969 Single Cab

