Date: Mon, 25 Nov 2002 21:15:33 -0500
From: "John Baker"<jbakerccymca(-at-)springmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, bus-life(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Subject: Attn Bus tshirt collectors!

I know that some of you all are interested in collecting different merchandise
such as t-shirts and stickers from other VW Bus clubs, so I would like to give
everyone out there an opportunity to purchase a t-shirt from out local bus
group, "The Ohio Valley Tribe" of the Full Moon Bus Club.  Here's the info:

In case anyone missed it on Friday, I am now taking orders for the
"NON"-official T shirt of the Ohio Valley Tribe of the Full Moon Bus club. 
Tshirts in sizes Youth Medium (10-12) through Adult XL will cost $12 each (add
$1 for each additional "X").  Shirts will be "Sandstone" color with a dark
blue graphic. Graphic includes ALL bus models (a split, bay, vanagon, and
Eurovan) Follow this link to see the graphic:
http://www.geocities.com/jbakerccymca/OVTshirt 
I will only be taking orders until DECEMBER 1st, 2002.  Thats THIS coming
Sunday! I am setting this deadline so I can be sure to get the final printing
done and get the shirts shipped to everyone by December 16, which would
virtually GUARANTEE that you would have your shirts before Christmas (the
perfect stocking stuffer!)
Shipping fees via USPS Priority mail are: $3.75 for 1-2 shirts, or $5.50 for
3-8 shirts.
You can pay me with a Credit Card or an electronic check from your bank
account at
http://www.paypal.com   Just click on the link there that says "Send
Money" and use my email address jbakerccymca(-at-)springmail.com as the recipient,
then it will walk you through the process, plus its FREE (to you, it costs me
a small fee). Or you can snail mail me a check or money order, but it may
delay shipping if I have not received it by December 1.
So lets all pull together and buy some of these shirts so we can have a very
visible presence at ALL the Bus events in the upcoming year!
Also, if there are any proceeds, I will donate some bread to the Full Moon Bus
Club and the Type2 list.
Peace, John Baker
