Date: Tue, 26 Nov 2002 06:30:27 -0800 (PST)
From: "Nemo, Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Samba Effect  /RANT/

I drove to Wisconsin last week to pick up my
daughter who lives with my ex.  Along the way, I
ended up discussing Chicago lake effect snow with
my copilot.  It can get pretty nasty up there in
a hurry and there is very little notice at times.
 

After a few months of bus shopping, I decided
that Samba Effect Pricing may be just as
dangerous.  Am I the only one who finds a rusted
out hunk a crap and is then lectured-- by people
who don't know that the engine is in the back of
a bus-- about how valuable their bus would be in
California or Oregon?  After all they saw it on
Samba.  Yes, their bus, with enough rust through
around the windshield to make driving at speed a
dicey prospect, is worth $12,000.  Not that I
wanted to buy the thing anyway, but everyone else
reads that crap too.  

Case in point, 71 bus relatively rustfree (by
east coast standards) in PRIMER with a few
rustspots showing, no poptop canvas, no exhaust
to speak of, no heater boxes, no engine seal, no
ignition switch, no horn, fried electrical wiring
due to voltage regulator issues, and no valve
adjustments in a few years.  The 1600 will go
70-75mph on the highway per the seller.  In other
words, the valves seats are shot and the heads
routinely got to around 500 degrees so the engine
is ready to grenade, the electrical system will
need a few hundred hours of work, and I need
about $400-600 in exhaust right away.  (BTW The
engine was rebuilt by a guy that I know.  This
engine builder thought JB weld was the only to
weld up cracked heads, never heard of a machine
shop, and routinely used old rods bolts and
whatever spare parts was laying around the shed
etc.)  

Guy says he's seen similar busses for $8000 on
Samba, so its a bargain at around $3000.  

Geesh.  Makes me think I should snap up one of
those old Explorers, Monteros or Troopers (still
get 20 mpg just like a bus) and carry my tent.  

/RANT OFF/
