To: type2(-at-)type2.com,FullMoon(-at-)hville.net
Date: Tue, 26 Nov 2002 13:46:30 -0600
From: myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com
Subject: VW Haven/Commune (interesting idea to think about)

some friends and i came up with an idea a while back. unfortunately, none
of us have the money to do it, even if we pooled out resources. we wanted
to purchase a HUGE property somewhere nice (hills and trees, but with
some level areas for buildings), we would build several houses near each
other, but far enough away to have more room than your average
neighborhood. along with these houses (extra houses built as more people
jin our community) we would build a large shop for working on cars, a
paint booth, body shop, upholstery shop and a club house for gathering to
watch movies or have parties. i thought it would also be cool to have a
baja track circling the property. i think it would also be nice to have a
paved "test track" for those times after repairs that you want to make
sure everything is ok, or for when you think you hear something, you can
take it around the track and take a listen... or maybe you and a buddy
just wanna race... i thought there was something else, but i dont
remember now. oh yeah, thought we could also have a day care building for
people who have kids. we would pick up all the kids after school and
since the day car is right there, you dont have to worry about driving
around picking up your kids by 6. besides, having the day care withint
the community you live in lets the kids play with their neighborhood
friends. we could even have a communal garden and a pool if we wanted. at
one point, i suggested we could even put in a few paved spaces with
electrical and water hook-ups for travellers to have a place to stay. if
someone wanted, they could search out cheap busses, bring them to the
property and sell them (with the facilities there to fix anything if
needed). of coarse there would be something set up to protect them while
they were waiting to be sold.

no one would have to worry about their neighbors complaining about "all
those broken down VWs in the yard" cuz most likely, EVERYONE ELSE WOULD
HAVE THEM TOO! besides, the shop would be there for anyone to help anyone
else do repair work. we do it anyway, help others in our area work on
their busses when they break... but this way, we wouldnt have to go far
to help, worry about packing up the right tools or have the bus towed to
the work area... it's all right there! the best part is the community,
having others with the same interest living around us, and when you fix
my car, i can paint yours and so on. we help each other, sorta like we do
online, only this would be more physical help. it would be so neat. we
could even host a campout or two every year!

i even started drawing houses that immitated the lines of our beloved
cars... but maybe i was going a little overboard...?

waving and dreaming of a VW Haven,
chris
70 westy
65 euro sunroof beetle


On Tue, 26 Nov 2002 12:03:20 -0500 (EST) Access Systems
<accessys(-at-)smart.net> writes:
> Hey! Crazy Ray (pick and pull) crushes at least a couple buses a 
> month, anyone want to go into business selling these wrecks????
> 
> 
> Bob
