Date: Mon, 11 Nov 2002 21:33:39 -0800
From: Jonathan Cunningham <dawfun(-at-)dawfun.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Boring yet frustrating idle problem

Friends,

I did my due-diligence, and scoured the archives for answers, but all I
found were a million questions similar to mine: Why does my bus keep
stalling out when I coast up to a stop-sign?

This has got to trigger someone with an "oh yeah, try this..."

1600, 34-PICT 3, '70 loaf.  Nothing special.

I tuned it up, thinking that would fix it (and it had been a while).
Replaced cap, rotor, points, condensor, plugs, and wires.  Set the
dwell, timing, and gapped the plugs the way you're supposed to do it.  I
also changed the fuel filter, and am armed with a new fuel-pump and coil
should I need it (there were some air-bubbles flowing up through the
fuel filter that made me think something might we awry with the pump).

I tested the vacuum diaphragm on the distributor and it seems to push
and pull the points correctly (no leaks).  I've also done a significant
amout of adjusting of the carburetor (idle speed/fuel mixture/choke) per
Bentley...all to little avail.

The thing runs great, idles great when cold, plenty of power, smooth
acceleration, etc...  It's just that once it's warm, it has a tendency
to stall out when I coast up to a stop-sign.  :(  The only trend I've
noticed is that it only really happens after I've driven at a relatively
consistent speeed for 8 blocks or more.  Stop and go doesn't seem to
trigger the problem.  I can usually "catch" it before it stalls with a
little tap on the accelerator (all it takes is a tap, I don't need to
hold it down), but this is a nuisance...setting the idle higher doesn't
seem to solve it either (I've tried it a 1050+rpm for a while and it
still misbehaves).

Bentley says that stalling at idle tends to mean too-rich, but I've
tried it leaned out pretty far and it just gets worse.  It's starting to
sound like a vacuum problem to me, but I'm not too sure where to look
for vacuum problems other than the two vacuum lines coming off of the
carb, the carb/intake gasket, and the rubber boots between the intake
and the heads(??).

Also, while I was fiddling around in there, I could have sworn that I
saw out the corner of my eye a little drop of fuel drop off the end of
the bottom of the throttle lever (where the barrel is bolted to the
lever)...maybe it's carb-rebuild time?

Any suggestions are appreciated...I've tried everything I can think of.

Enjoy,

Jonathan
