Date: Mon, 11 Nov 2002 23:09:07 -0800
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Praise for Bus Depot (Longish)

At 12:32 PM 11/11/2002, Richard Atwell wrote:
> There are so many factors involved with purchasing old parts like these I can't see how posting to the list is going to be productive especially when the matter hasn't been fully resolved. I've been tempted on occasion to write up such emails but it's usually a bad idea to write when you're mad and in hindsight I'm glad I didn't. I value the vendors far more than that and as you can tell from Ron's replies it's disrespectful.

The way I see it is that there is a lot of disrespect going around from both sides, but I agree with your premise.

>Missing parts, late parts, wrong parts, duplicates: these are the realities of mail order.

They don't have to be.  I usually order from Rocky Mountain Motorworks and my parts invariably arrive in a couple of days and as advertised in all respects.  Yes, they may cost a bit more but I have better things to do with my time than track down missing parts, return incorrect parts and fight over refunds.  I also like not having to order stuff six months in advance to guarantee I will have it when I need it.

>As a reader of this list what am I supposed to do?  Go to the ends of the earth to avoid a particular vendor because of problem with a perfectly good part that was lost by a third party when my experience has been excellent?

Of course not.  But I think a fair portrait of the popular vendors has been painted once enough people have spoken up.  For example, we know that GEX is uniformly bad.  Bus Depot has both advantages and disadvantages.  RMMW has been darned near perfect for me and I don't recall hearing ANY bad things about them in the past couple of years on the list (except for their financial problems which they apparently have not let affect their business).

I order oil filters from Bus Depot, and parts that only they have.  I appreciate their existance.  My more critical orders go to RMMW - I appreciate their existance too.  I have realistic expectations from each vendor and as a result I seldom have trouble with any of them.

-David
