Date: Tue, 12 Nov 2002 15:35:46 -0800
From: <bluesky6(-at-)ix.netcom.com>
To: ron(-at-)busdepot.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] Praise for Bus Depot (Longish)

Ron,

Thanks for taking the time to reply.

Like I said, it is ALL a question of setting the right expectations.

I happen to have a copy of your printed catalog and I was swayed by your words
in the front cover. Those words, perhaps, set high expectations in my mind of
the kind of service BD could provide in terms of turnaround time.

Again, if an item is not stocked in house, you HAVE to say that on the
website. Otherwise, any naive customer will think that the item is in stock
and can be shipped ASAP.

If an item has to be special ordered from VWoA, e.g. the engine compartment
seal, there is no way it can be shipped on the same day even if I had
specified urgent delivery and was willing to pay more. 

As for the question of paying $40 more from RMMW, I admit that that $40 is
worth it. Because I got it within 4 days. Ordered it on the weekend because
their website said that it was in stock, called them on Monday morning to nag
and it had already been shipped. No stress, no mess.

When you are restoring a car that is not moving, you don't really care how
long it takes to get a part. My '69 truck is still not running after 1 year.
But my '82 camper is for driving around with and I cannot afford to have it on
jackstands for 1 month while waiting for parts.

Like I said, I will still order from BD, but only parts which I can't get
elsewhere and for which there is no urgent need.

Anything else, I would prefer to spend that extra $1 or $40 and have the van
running asap. 

You don't have to spend millions to get customer satisfaction. All you need to
do is to set the right expectations so that people know before hand what they
are in for.

With regard to telephone calls. I am in front of the computer the whole day.
Ordering parts is easy. Why would I tell the whole office my credit card
information while ordering over the phone?

Again, set the right expectations. Remember that editorial on the catalog?
Something like BD being the first or the biggest online merchant? Even the
printed catalog doesn't list all the parts.

Well, that's setting the wrong expectations. BD may have the largest number of
parts on the online catalog but if a phone call is the only to get the system
to work correctly (as some on the list have  alluded to), well, then mention
that fact : "Phone calls prefered. Use the web only as a catalog." or "Orders
made over the Internet may be subjected to delays blah blah use at your own
risk". So anti-social and impatient people like myself will go elsewhere.

Set the expectations!

Regarding another email critizing Kragen, I ordered a rebuilt distributor from
them. Guess what, I got it within 4 days. Don't know how good it is yet,
though.

Anyway, I've said my piece. I apologize for stirring up the pot and
distracting people from their vehicles or discussions thereof.

Ben
'82 Westy
