Date: Wed, 13 Nov 2002 10:20:07 -0500
From: Ben <huotx(-at-)videotron.ca>
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Online vendors/retailer, it's just a tool!

Good day lady's and gentlemen's,
Well, I wish to add my comment on the subject of "The internet tool"!

I've been watching and reading "VW Vendor bashing" for a few years, some
here, some on the Vanagon mailing list and some elsewhere. They are all
the same!
And people who do so on public Forum piss me off! (Unless there is a
very good reason to do so, and you perfectly know what a good reason
is!!!) If you have a problem with a retailer / vendor call (or e-mail)
the damn company and solve your problem without telling the rest of the
word. Or go buy your parts at a VW dealer!!!!!!!!!!!!

Ron gave a very good explanation of why maybe he is a bit slower
(shipping, e-mail reply) than other, and I fully understand is position
(I will tell you why at the bottom of this post)

I sometime feel that some of those "Basher customer" forget what a PHONE
is (or are afraid to use this one)!!! Yea, maybe it will cost you a few
$ to call the company (if they don't have a 800 #) but you will be more
satisfied with a good "Person to person" discussion than a series of
e-mail!

I have 2 good reasons to do this post:
1- I am a Webmaster, and I am expensive!!! So I fully understand why a
small or medium size company is having some difficulty having a good
Webmaster that knows JAVA, is a good photograph and create SCRIPT for
online sales.

2- I have my own small and modest online company:
http://www.eurokitplane.com/
And I perfectly know how hard it is to perfectly satisfy each online
customer. Internet is a limited way or communication (especially when
you have a complex inventory and product line). I do my best to answer
each and every e-mail perfectly and promptly but I sometime I (We) make
mistake, loose an e-mail or I am late for one. That happens when you got
40 e-mail a day. Especially when you take more than 15 minutes for
replying to each one!!! Plus all phones calls. You should also know that
what Ron (or others) are probably not saying (just to stay polite) that
there is a good portion of those e-mails that are...a lost of time!
A complex question / e-mail needs reflection and research before
answering this one, sometime a full day is needed to make some test.
I often take more than 30 minutes to fully answer a complex e-mail
question. 40 x 30 minutes = 20 hours!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

I have my share of "online critique and bashing", but when I call those
customers they suddenly change attitude on the phone. It' very easy to
bash online, not so when your on the phone!!!

If you buy a 30 years old car/van/bus you should be aware / prepared for
having a hard time getting parts!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Internet is a nice tool, no more! There are some REAL peoples involve on
Internet business.

Sincerely, Ben (I apologize for my poor English)
http://www3.sympatico.ca/huotx/engine1.htm
ps.: Just so you know, I have some "bashing" and complaints from my
personal VW web-site, can you imagine that!!! It's FREE for god sake!
