Date: Tue, 04 Jun 2002 05:33:06 -0500
From: David Schimpf <dschimpf(-at-)charter.net>
To: type2 <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Subject: Leaking main seal in 2L: heal or replace?

Greetings, all!

I recently finished installing a used GD series engine in our 76 High Top
Westy. Compression is good on all cylinders (125). I took it on its first
test drive on Sunday. Although the bus ran great (oil temps right around 200
for most of the trip), it was seeping oil out of the main seal when I
stopped at home. There was oil on the bottom of the engine as well back from
the junction of the engine and the tranny. The oil was drippping from the
junction of the engine and the tranny. I calculate that we lost about a half
a pint of oil or so in two hours of running. It wasn't tranny lube.

The engine had been unused for about five years before I installed it. It
was running well when I took it out of its original bus (its body was toast,
but it had a good front beam that we needed).

Is it possible that this condition will correct itself as the engine
transitions from being a sitting-around engine to a running one? I'm
considering laying hands on the area while playing the soundtrack from O
Brother, Where Art Thou? (I'm particularly identifying with A Man of
Constant Sorrow), but I think I might need a backup plan. A couple of the
pushrod seals leaked a little when I first was running the engine to tune
it, etc., but those leaks have stopped. The seeping/dripping from the main
seal also stopped after the bus had been stopped for about 15 minutes.

I think I know the answer to this question, but, not surprisingly, I'd
prefer not having to pull the engine again if I didn't have to. Is there
something other than replacing the main seal that I can try first? I've read
the appropriate sections in Muir, Bentley, and Haynes, and have found
nothing other than the need to replace the seal.

If I do have to replace the main seal, which parts am I likely to need
(o-rings, gaskets, washers, etc.)? I'd just as soon order them all at once,
even if I don't need them. I'm also trying to be brave about having to pull
and reinstall the engine again.... My plan is to try any alternatives in the
next day; if necessary, I'll begin the pull later today or tomorrow.

We're planning to drive Guac from Wisconsin to South Dakota and Wyoming and
back starting on June 14. I think I know what I'm going to be doing for the
next week and a half. Thank goodness for good hand cleaner!

Thanks for any wisdom, advice, and/or comfort.

David Schimpf
76 High-Top Westy: Guac


