Date: Mon, 30 Sep 2002 15:25:07 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: alternator help

>From: wes.kennedy(-at-)jademountain.com
>Date: Mon, 30 Sep 2002 11:09:14 -0600
>
>Alternator is not charging.  I pulled it out and had it tested, bench tests
>fine.  So on to wiring.  It has one wire going to the battery (by way of
>starter) and one going up to the dummy light on the dash.

If those are the only two connections on the alternator - that is, there
aren't any terminals with nothing connected to them - that's probably OK.
I think some of the Motorolas were internal regulator.  If there are unused
connections on the alternator - especially three push-ons on three sides
of a square - you'll need a regulator too.

>Now, my understanding is that that second wire needs to tie into the 
>ignition switch somewhere to excite the windings?

It does this via the warning light bulb.  The wire goes from the alternator
to one side of the warning light bulb.  The other side of the warning light
bulb goes to hot-in-run power.  The alternator draws a little current
through the bulb to get started.  The warning light wiring for a generator
is the same, so odds are the socket is already wired correctly.

>As an aside, and definitely related, the dummy light is burned out.
>Where does one buy more of those little buggers?

Some FLVWPS have them or can get them.  The last 12 V ones I bought came
from the VW dealer. 

I'd suggest getting a new bulb and installing it.  Then, go to the back,
disconnect the warning light wire from the alternator, and ground the
warning light wire.  Go up front and turn the key on - the warning light
should come on.  If not, there's a problem in the warning light wire or
possibly the socket at the speedometer.

If all is well, reconnect the warning light wire and hook up a voltmeter
at the battery and note the reading.  Start the engine and check the
voltmeter again - the reading should go up at least a volt if it's
charging.  You may have to rev the engine just a little (1500-2000 rpm)
to get it to start charging but you should definitely see it on the
voltmeter.

While you're playing around back here, it might be a good idea to
disconnect the battery negative strap and disconnect and wire-brush
all the heavy connections at the alternator, starter, and battery.
This will help ensure full voltage for everyone when you do get the
alternator working.

Matt Roberds
