Date: Tue, 20 May 2003 09:17:34 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [VWVANFULLTIMERS] New AC Twist

I found this on the EPA's web site, which should answer all of your questions.
Some days I think there isn't anything that can't be found on Google.

-David

>EPA requests information on the refrigerants Enviro-Safe, Red Tek, Maxi-Frig,
ES-12A, and Auto Cool. EPA has received numerous inquiries regarding the SNAP
acceptability of the above refrigerants for use in motor vehicle air
conditioners (MVACs). Materials disseminated through mailings and the internet
(Air Docket A-91-42, item IX-B-60) have made consumers question whether the
products listed above are acceptable substitutes under the SNAP program for
CFC-12 (R12 or freon) and other ozone-depleting CFC-12 substitutes. Under
Section 612(e) of the CAA, any person who produces a substitute for a CFC is
required to submit information to EPA at least 90 days before the substitute
is introduced into interstate commerce. The refrigerants listed above have not
been submitted to EPA for review under the SNAP program. Therefore, the Agency
believes that they cannot be sold as replacements for CFC-12 or other
ozone-depleting CFC substitutes in MVACs. Additionally, based on advertising
materials, Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDSs) and independent laboratory
testing (Air Docket A-91-42, item IX-B-60), EPA believes the refrigerants
listed above may be flammable hydrocarbon-based blends. In June 1995,
flammable refrigerants were listed as unacceptable as substitutes for CFC-12
in MVACs because a comprehensive risk assessment on the use of flammable
refrigerants had not been submitted to EPA (60 FR 31092). EPA welcomes the
submission of such a risk assessment. However, until EPA receives sufficient
information on the potential risks of flammable refrigerants in MVACs, all
flammable refrigerants are unacceptable as substitutes for CFC-12 and
ozone-depleting freon substitutes in MVACs, unless specifically listed as
acceptable. Consumers should also be aware that the following 19 states ban
the use of flammable refrigerants in MVACs: Arkansas, Arizona, Connecticut,
Florida, Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Maryland, Nebraska, North
Dakota, Oklahoma, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Wisconsin, Washington, and the
District of Columbia. For further information about flammable refrigerants,
see EPA's web site (http://www.epa.gov/spdpublc/title6/snap/hc12alng.html).
EPA requests information on the composition and the flammability of
Enviro-Safe, Red Tek, Maxi-Frig, ES-12A, and Auto Cool. We also would welcome
any formal risk assessment on these refrigerants.


At 01:56 AM 5/20/2003, you wrote:
>Well I was parusing a Farm oriented news release the other day, and came
>upon an ad--which stated this--
>
>Maxi Fridge--Natural Organic Refrigerant








































d
