Date: Tue, 19 Aug 2008 06:25:59 -0700
From: "Thomas J. Tarka" <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
To: azurbancowboy <azurbancowboy(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] GAS TANK

My advice:

1. Drain the tank (if there was still old gas in it)
2. Change the in-line fuel filter (wasn't clear if you did that or not)
3. Put a 2-3 gallons in the tank.
4. Pull the fuel hose where it connects to the carb and place in coffee can or glass jar.
5. Have friend turn over engine for 30 seconds and see if fuel pumps out of the fuel line into the jar.


If no gas comes out, your pump may be shot.  It could also be the push-rod that acutates the pump...they can wear and mushroom at the end so as to no longer provide the distance of motion to acutate the pump.  However, this would more likely be a problem if the car didn't run when parked.

Other steps:

C. Verify the float valve on the carb is good.  This is the brass fitting in the top of the carb (when you take the top of the carb off).  Gunk can get in this valve and prevent it from opening, thereby preventing fuel from passing into the carb.  If its not the fuel pump, dollars to donuts that this is your problem.  I believe that carb rebuild kits come with a new/replacement float valve.  This valve can be tested by pulling the top off the carb, then blowing into the brass fitting where the fuel line connects to the carb to see if air flows through (although remember, gas is toxic and it probably wouldn't hurt to not come in contact with that fitting at all or much).

B. Check if there's a filter on the tank inlet tube (it's a screen that pushes into the gas tank) and install one if there isn't.

C. Get a combination vacuum gauge/fuel pressure tester.  This can be easily hooked up to your fuel pump outlet to check the pressure from the pump (although if the pump isn't working at all, this won't help you)!  I believe the pressure spec is 3-5 psi.

Best,
   Tom

On Tue, Aug 19, 2008 at 05:43:07AM -0700, azurbancowboy wrote:

	<snip>

> It started when I poured a small amount of gas in the carb.  It looks like
> fuel is not coming from my gas tank (have fuel filter on the fuel line
> coming from the gas tank). It is my mechanical fuel pump not working? How
> would I know if it/isn't?  Is it my gas tank? Do I have really have to pull
> my tank?  If so..how do you do that?  Thanks Mike
