To: azurbancowboy(-at-)gmail.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 19 Aug 2008 09:55:43 -0400
From: claralw(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: [VB] GAS TANK

I would buy some new 5mm ID fuel line.?? The inch size (3/8"?)?stuff doesn't fit right.

Rmove the line to the fuel pump from the tank.? Gas should pour out.? Stick a pencil in it.?? Stick fuel line in a can of gas and run to the engine.?? Does it start now??? does it pump fuel??? Yes to install filter in between pump and carb.?? I hope you have new fuel line there as well.? You may want a friend to turn the key while you watch.
Get a new fuel pump if yours not not pump gas.? It is common for the pump to go bad when sitting for 15 years.

If gas does not pour out, you either have a clog in the line, or an empty tank.

The other thing, the gas in the tank is 15 years old and not good.?Probably smells horrible.?
? So disconnect the battery, and drain the old gas into can(S)? Take the fuel line off from under the drivers side of the motor, where the soft line goes onto the hard line at the motor, and stick the end in an empty can, and wait.
Actually, check to make sure that fuel is coming out.
It should.? but lines can get gummed up with old gas.
? You may need new line between tank and can to drain it out.

Then again, it's a '61.?? Did someone shut the reserve tap off??? Knob to right of heater knob, Pull it all the way out for reserve.?? Halfway out is off.?? All the way in is regular.?? Rusted to not move is probably what it is.? New cables available at WW.?? When you get a new cable, slide it out of the sheath, and lightly grease it, slide it back in.?? That keeps it easier to move, helps against rust.
You can undo the screw from underneath that holds the cable and move the lever?? It's where the fuel line goes into the tank.
Did I mention to disconnect the battery?.?? You do not want to hit the starter with a screwdriver and make a spark with gas dripping under there.??
If gas does not come out of the fuel tap, and you can tell it's in there (listen at the filler neck and rock the bus) The fuel tap needs a 22mm wrench to remove it.?? after you disconnect teh sccrew for? the cable.? 

After the old gas is out, and you get a rebuildt kit for the fuel tap from WW, and sort that out, install new fuel line from tank to engine.
I don't like a filter underneath.?? It's hard to look at.??Not so fun to change.? I suppose it's fine if your tank is clean and the filter rarely needs changing, but your tank will have crud in it, and the filter will frequently needs changing.



-----Original Message-----
From: azurbancowboy <azurbancowboy(-at-)gmail.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Sent: Tue, 19 Aug 2008 5:43 am
Subject: [VB] GAS TANK



I have a 61 single cab that has been sitting for several (15+) years.  I
gave it a full tune up. Put some fresh gas and tried starting it.
It started when I poured a small amount of gas in the carb.  It looks like
fuel is not coming from my gas tank (have fuel filter on the fuel line
coming from the gas tank). It is my mechanical fuel pump not working? How
would I know if it/isn't?  Is it my gas tank? Do I have really have to pull
my tank?  If so..how do you do that?  Thanks Mike

---------------------------------------------------------------------
