Date: Thu, 28 Aug 2008 00:55:45 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Wow, I'm on vintagebus (need help with '58)

OK, not sure who still follows on vintage from the old days but here I am for
at least a few days for a few opinions, hello to any old friends from the one
big list days.
 
To anyone else I don't know, let me give a quick rundown so you understand my
mechanical ability, I've owned/bought/sold/parted/rebuilt probably 30 bays, 20
vanagons, 4 EVs but only one split, a '65 an that was pushing 20 years ago.  I
used to be a mechanical engineer, I have my own mill, lathe, MIG, TIG, etc,
etc...
 
Here is the deal and I need opinions.  I am in AK now, stumbled (about 4 hours
from nowhere) across a '58 3 owner Kombi?  Last titled and moved in '88. 
Kombi bus, some pea green and pale yellow green combo, not a deluxe (hey I can
tell that much, not enough windows, not even enough lower ones so not a
skylight delete) but the interior seems to be 2 tone like I would think a
deluxe would have, though no jailbars?  (Don't laugh, show me any part off of
any year bay and I'll tell you what it is and what year.)  One repaint
evident, 30? years ago.  West coast and AK bus which means pretty much NO
rust, trivial amounts on front floor (will easily blast off with only minor
pitting no steel needed) cargo floor perfect including the sill that hits the
cargo doors, has had some superficial sheet metal repair to that external
rocker only.
 
There is accident damage though, nose crumpled to about 10-12 inches up and
the bumper in front of it, rear left corner a bit crumpled, front right
dogleg.  All might likely be pulled, no real rust in any location, but new
metal sectioned might be easier (is it available for a '58?)  Pressed bumpers
are actually both rough accident wise, not rust wise so much, can probably be
salvaged but will again take some work.  In my quick assessment of stuff
there/not, no middle seat, long interior panel gone, non walk through with
that panel is there, front seats actually fair, rear seat buried under a
couple chevy van seats.  All front signals/lights look like new, one tailight
missing and actually has one of the even earlier bus signals in its place. 
Wiper arms gone.  Has a 36hp in place, owner doesn't know if original or not. 
He says "it will run and drive," he just couldn't find a 6V battery for it 20
years ago so he left it sit.  All rubber of
 course aged, windshields delaminating about 2-3" up on both but driveable. 
All glass otherwise intact.  Bias plys still even have air in them.
 
So the question, is it worth $2000 (the asking) and what kind of money will I
burn through going through the brakes (with hard and soft lines and cylinders)
shocks, etc to get it runnable (I have a 1600 SP to toss in and actually some
parts for a core '59 36hp I had been collecting for a vert I briefly had.)
 
This is an exceptionally solid (but dinged up in locations) bus, but I'm
really not a split guy.  It is just so darn old though, and I like its karma
(howe this bus got to where it has been living the last 20 years has to be a
real exceptional story.)  But I need to weigh in some reality as well $$, not
to mention that this will take me a 6 hour+ each way retrieval trip with 4
hours on some of the worse AK roads imagineable with a dolly and bus in tow.
 
Thoughts, opinons, anything I must look for or specifically consider, anything
welcome (by pmail mostly don't waste the list.)
 
Thanks
John
