From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: "'Gerry Donathan'" <gerrydonathan(-at-)hotmail.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 11 Jun 2007 16:02:12 -0600
Subject: RE: [T2] Bus motor replacement

Gerry,

I just did this with Chris at BustedBus. We had to shoehorn a Vanagon motor
into a '79. It can be a little frustrating. The tin isn't similar so you
will have to re-use all your '72 stuff. Also there are holes for EFI you
will have to drill in your tin for the fuel pressure and return lines. You
might want to call Chris and get the EFI tin sent out to you before you
start.

EFI has a different fuel tank, fuel pump bracket, Air cleaner bracket,
Computer bracket and maybe some more stuff. Also the 2.0L bell housing,
flywheel and bell housing is different than your '72.

As for the engine, the case is indeed different but "basically" the same.
The breather element is cast into the case  and to use a Bus dipstick you
have to fill in the hole where the Aragon's were located. Also, the engine
mount is completely different and you have to re-tap the holes in the case
or drill out the Bus Engine mount.

Better yet, just call up Busted Bus and Chris can get you a list of parts
and expectations.

Good Luck!

Jon Stiles

Gerry Donathan Wrote:

Ok, in the thread of silly questions..
I just found a complete bus motor (with FI) on craigslist this morning with 
new heads. It came out of a 1981 bus, I dont know details yet because my 
call hasnt been returned, but I assume it to be a 2.0l. I am considering 
putting this in my 72 westy for the timeb eing because if it is complete and

serviceable it is cheaper then a set of fual carbs which my bus currently 
needs. The guy I bought the bus from took the carbs off hte motor before i 
pcked it up for his next VW project, and I just need to get this thing on 
the road. So anyways, between a 72 and 81 the motors are still essentially 
the same right? the 72 has the original motor in it currently which was 
apparantly rebuilt some 20k miles ago but I want a spare motor for both of 
my busses (already found a spare 2.0l for the 78 i bought for my son). 
Before I plunk down any money I just want to be sure that the larger 2.0l 
isnt a problem to fit into cavity in my westy once I get all the FI crap 
installed too. I would much much rather have carbs on it, since i want to 
keep it nearly completly stock with the exception of the flooring and 
paneling, but finances currently do not allow for that heh
