Date: Mon, 11 Jun 2007 22:11:51 -0700 (PDT)
From: Greg Merriman <gmerrima(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: oil press - 2.0l FI - '78 Westy

Hi.  Well, I went down the road the other day and ended up feeling bad.  Here's the deal:
   
  Gt a 2.0L FI with a rebuild around 15k ago.  Did a driver side valve job recently b/c I noticed low compression over there (can't remember which cyl) and took it apart and realized that it had a burnt intake.  Which I thought was kind of weird, but ... did it anyway.
   
  Thing has been running like a top (with a local 'expert' who helped me properly adjust all valves, which, somehow, I've never been able to master), so i decided to take a 2 hr trip recently (so 4 round-trip).  Noticed some oddly-fluctuating oil pressure on the way there, but didn't do anything about it.  On the way home, it got worse.
   
  Of note (perhaps): I did an oil change before leaving on the trip.  It doesn't leak oil to speak of and doesn't burn much.
   
  About an hour or so into the trek home, the pressure wasn't getting much above 10 psi while cruising at 60 mph.  Steady at 10.  Even though I should have called it quits, I pressed onward.  Temp via the dipstick sensor was consistently/constantly around 105 Celsius.
   
  The thing started rapping after dipping down to about 5 - not the benign-sounding tap-tap that I'm used to (has hydraulic lifters FYI) - and I become concerned, yet not interested in stopping.  I noticed a marked power loss say 5-10 miles from my destination accompanied by about a 20 degree dip in temperature not long after.  Not good, I figure - but still keep going.  Limp home and turn it off.
   
  A day later, I started it up again and the pressure got up to about 20-25 psi.  For a while, I don't think it was running on all 4, but then I believe it was.  I drove it around the block and it was initially power-starved, but quickly got back to feeling normal.  Still rapping though.
   
  What now??  Is it likely that we're dealing with an oil pump and/or cooler issue?  I will probably do a compression check soon, but I wonder - do I just .. empirically swap the oil pump and see what happens?  Is this even possible without removing the engine?  And suggestions for a few steps to try to pinpoint the cause, or get into the neighborhood??
   
  Thanks for reading / responding and wish me luck!  I want to be thorough about this but currently lack the pace for tearing the thing down again.  But I do have an area where I can keep the thing to collect dust for a while.
  
Take care,
  Greg
