Date: Mon, 29 Mar 2004 10:32:49
From: Old Volks General <general(-at-)oldvolks.com>
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com,
Subject: Bakersfield VW show report

  The Bakersfield  Bugs and Buses invade the Village was great, for a first time event it was a great hit and went off 
smoothly, watch out Kelly park). The setting was fantastic, like Kelly Park but a lot bigger and roomier. Saw a bunch of 
people from the list, even though the excitment that used to be seen on this list is fading. 
  Remember the days when you would post about a show and everyone would chime in, set a spot up and take a 
group photo? Sad to see those days gone and the list membership seem to dwindle. I did talk to a lot of people though 
that are on this list as lurkers now and never post, almost felt like taking a group lurker pic as there were more of 
them then active listys at the show.
   So the drive was uneventful, the 1800 pulled like a dream and cruised easily at 68-70 mph getting over 20 mpg, 
TILL, I hit the headwinds. These didn't slow me down but my milage dropped to 15 mpg.
   A little over320 or so miles later I reached the site. There were allready people there camping and I went about 
getting ready to do my thing. More and More buses started to show and the camp-out grew to an event. 
  I got to go in and walk around thegrounds and was very impressed, lots of little streets with old restored buildings 
everywhere.
   Backtracking. Getting there from I 58 was a trip, had to go through probaly the worse area of Bakersfield, crack and 
hooker haven, with a few good BBQ spots in between.
   Back to the event. Sunday morning I wake up and go get in line to get in (small line) once the gates opened it went 
smooth as silk, got me a nice swap spot on the grass and across from the restrooms and proceeded to enjoy my day 
and all the people. Didn't really get to walk around much but from what I did see and hear the event was great.
   Go to the Samba gallery and there are lots of pics of the site.
  
  I bailed out around 1 pm and started the drive home. Uneventful till I pulled off for gas and noticed a load exhaust 
leak. Thought a head came loose then checked it out and both the nuts that hold my heater boxes on fell off. 
   Didn't have any spare nuts and looked over my whole bus as to where I could steal one from and couldn't find 
anywhere.  <TRIVIA contest> Where on a split bus are the 8 mm nuts?
   Took a nut off the header flange and put 1 on the heater box and made it home safely.


  That was my weekend

ronnie
