From: "Gene Cornelius" <mizamook(-at-)starband.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, "Buskatiers" <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>
Date: Tue, 30 Mar 2004 22:49:43 -0800
Subject: Mission Accomplished...well, sorta...(LONG)

I'm not proud, but I'm happy....

I basically started the reepair of the passenger door and dogleg/floor of my
crunched '66 Westy Sunday night, and as of 9:00 tonight, I am pretty much
ready to deal with the easy stuff...tuneup, oil change, tires, registration,
etc....hopefully in time to depart from here Thursday on an easy trip 4
hours from here to go camping, fishing, and morel hunting.  We thought about
taking the 914, and a tent, but suddenly I got the brilliant idea of fixing
our precious project bus that WAS nicely refurbished, but got hit on the
passenger front tire/nose/dogleg by an inconsiderate U-turn demon and
rolled.  That was like...2 years almost!

Michele once said:  "She doesn't have to be pretty, just give me a seat and
a door that closes, and I'll be happy!"  As I said...mission accomplished.

As a preface, in my defense, I must say that this bus has been bashed and
smashed through the years.  Indeed, it almost ended up as scrap, had not
Clara rescued it from a junkyard in WA, where she fixed the rockers, treated
the cargo floor, and made a good runner out of it.  Somehow, it made its way
to me, and I found a small notebook with Clara's bus notes in it.  So we
called the bus Clara.

Went through the fun process of scraping off housepaint and whatnot,
de-rustifying, put in new tranny, engine, etc...made a nice bus!  Then the
accident.

Before I got it, someone had been rear-ended in it, or backed into a pole,
and messed up the decklid and  rear hatch...made a mess of the openings,
too.  Also, the kid that I got it from got hit on the driver's dogleg area,
requiring a new door, and later, when I was fixin' it up, dogleg repairs.  I
must say, that door closes REALLY nice now!
www.sonic.net/~mizamook/Progress1.htm

Anyway, this bus was never a "fine" resto...just got to the point of being a
tight, smooth, relatively pretty camper.  So that's my excuse....

For what?....you might ask...well, I stayed up all night last night...26
hours of cutting, pushing, banging, prying, welding, wondering, etc., and my
goal was to have this thing functional for our trip.  It had been sitting in
the forest too long.  So I turned off my natural tendency to strive for
being the best that I can be in my endeavors.

It's a little sloppy.

As I used the porta-power device to push the door frame back into position
once cutting away the distorted metal, and test-fit the door, I began to
notice some oddities.  I checked the Bentley for measurements, checked them
against two of my other buses...whay are they all different?  Eh?  Oh well.
I just have to make THIS door and THIS dogleg fit in THIS hole!

This poor, tormented bus is really twisted!  Try as I might, I couldn't get
everything to line up correctly, so I got it to the point of "good enough",
and started welding.  The upper front corner of the window frame makes
contact with the jamb, and I finally got it so that it would at least close
with the seal in without smashing things.  During that time is when I
noticed (a bit belatedly) that the lower hinge has two bolts through a metal
plate inside the door holding it on by sadwiching the rusted, bent metal
where the hinge once happily lived.  AHA!  So it's not ALL me, and not ALL
the damage by the accident.  Other variables are rearing their gnarly heads!

Anyway, I got it to where  it seemed best, pushed the cargo pillar closer to
where it seemed to want to be, anf welded a brace between the lowermost part
of the hinge pillar and the frame.  I might remove it later...I might not.
It was intended to hold the opening in position while I welded everything
else in.  After hours of measuring, trimming, guesstimating, trimming too
much with a cutoff wheel on the grinder, I finally got the donor dogleg and
floor to fit well enough that it "clicked" into place, and was hell to
remove.  I wwas keeping some of the old floor ( a repair by Clara) snce it
was better than that of the donor, and that made things a little
interesting.  But I finally got it in, and welded everything up with my
rancid welding style (I will get better eventually), and finally, gave it a
cursory coating of primer and rust-preventative paint.  Cursory because I
intend to go back and neaten up some of those seams.  Later.

Got the seat in....mine is a walkthru, donor was a bench, after some
interesting rigging, since the geometry was off, and the seat was not
fitting quite right, laid down a pedestal pad to cover those ugly seams,
stuck in some seals, and now I'm ready to make the thing run right again.

The door does not seat against the bottom seal, but the upper corner problem
has lessened.  Hey...at least it closes, and you only have to lightly slam!

For those of you who live by the credo "A job worth doing is a job well
done", I apologize for my hasty and sloppy repairs.  It does irk me, too,
but then, this bus is not one to do a full resto on.  I mean...why?  Keep it
running, use it, love it, DRIVE it, etc., but it's a '66!  Dime a dozen.
Well, not really, but you know!

There was something else...AH...for pics, before and after, it's on the
Vintagebus.com gallery...under Westys, Projects, I think.  I guess just
search for Gene Cornelius.

Rock on!

Gene Cornelius
mizamook(-at-)starband.net
