From: "Dave" <brooksdj(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "Ian Janes" <ian.janes(-at-)whro.org>, "'Joe Clark'"
Date: Fri, 2 Apr 2004 09:14:51 -0500
Subject: Re: [VB] RE: [T2] One of recently slain in Iraq was a bus

Here it is:


The e-mails gliding so smoothly from Iraq to the Cleveland suburbs, whether
mundane or action-packed, almost always carried the same stomach-churning
conclusion: It's bad here. Bad, as in dangerous. Bad, as in scary.

Jerry Zovko's friends and relatives tracked his assignment with Blackwater
USA, a North Carolina security company working in Iraq, through the words he
typed -- and those words seldom made them feel good, said Sharon Waldruff, a
family friend in Willoughby, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland. But Zovko, 32, one
of four U.S. civilians killed and gruesomely hung from a bridge in Iraq, was
more than gung-ho about the task despite the peril, she said.
"He was all for work, all for fighting for his country," Waldruff said.

She last saw Zovko in July in the auto body shop his father owns in
Willoughby. Zovko was the big, good-looking young man whose brother had
married her niece, and Waldruff marveled at his courage. Born into a
Croatian family that immigrated to Ohio, Zovko spoke several languages, she
said, and had a knack for impressing with his smarts. He had attended Euclid
High School in Willoughby and seemed to have found his calling in the elite
ranks of civilian security experts playing such a large role in the U.S.
presence in Iraq.

Tall and fit, Zovko could take worn, broken things and make them new. His
favorite transformation was a Volkswagen van that he had hammered and molded
into nearly mint condition.

"That's his pride and joy," Waldruff said.

The van was sitting in the garage of Tom Zovko, Jerry Zovko's brother, not
long ago when friends and relatives gathered for a party, a get-together in
happier times. They all laughed about the spanking-clean vehicle, Waldruff
said. It was so perfectly orange that it seemed a shame not to press it into
service for tailgate parties before the orange-and-brown-clad Cleveland
Browns football games. They resolved to make that same point to Zovko when
he came home.

In that same house, days later, Zovko's family watched the images on cable
television that sickened and saddened so many Americans. At first, they had
no idea that Zovko might be among the dangling corpses, but eventually
someone contacted them, someone official, someone from the military.

"It was the hardest day of my life," Zovko's mother, Donna Zovko, said
during an interview with the Associated Press in her suburban Cleveland
home. "Jerry was a man with a principle, an idea," she said. "He loved
people. He wanted the world to be without borders, for everybody to be free
and safe."

On a night when nothing makes sense, Waldruff found herself peeking into the
garage and trying to smile. A cool, old hippie van that looks as though
something special is sitting there waiting for the next Browns game.

"There's no way," she said, "they're going to get rid of it."


) 2004 The Washington Post Company
