Date: Fri, 6 Jun 2003 14:30:07 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Paul Guzyk <paullist(-at-)guzyk.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Aux Battery (solution: aftermarket battery separator)

My 72 westy didn't have a second battery, but I wanted one for 
camping with my 12v fridge, fans, interior lights etc.  My BN4 heater 
had died, so I used the heater real-estate for a second battery. 
(didn't need a heater for a trip to Central America)

I've never owned a bus with factory dual batteries, so I cannot 
compare this solution to the factory solution.  I am not concerned 
about appearances and decided this aftermarket solution would be best 
for me.

The solution below may help you, it may not.  It has certainly worked 
for me the last 6 months driving 8,000 miles through Mexico and the 7 
Central American countries.  Since adding the 2nd battery I've never 
ran out of cranking power after camping for a couple of days.  (those 
12v fridges sure suck power!)

The separator is an automatic relay that normally keeps both 
batteries wired in parallel.  However, when the voltage in the engine 
battery drops below a certain point, it disconnects the two batteries 
from each other.

This allows you to run devices hooked into the accessory battery 
until you drain the accessory battery. However, the engine battery 
will always have enough cranking power left.  As soon as the engine 
is running, the alternator starts charging BOTH batteries as a single 
entity.  This separator was very easy to install.  I did not have to 
splice into any factory harnesses or mess around with the alternator 
or voltage regulator. The separator performs its job automatically.

The separator also has terminals for a "booster button" that you can 
mount on your dash.  Even though I haven't used this feature yet, 
it's pretty cool.

For example, let's say you left the headlights on and it drained the 
engine battery (the separator would automatically disconnect the two 
batteries from each other).  Now you have a fully charged accessory 
battery and a dead engine battery.  How do you start the engine with 
a dead engine battery?  Just press the "booster button" and give 
yourself a jump start!  The booster button manually connects the two 
batteries together.  Great for when the engine battery is low or 
you're in freezing weather etc.  Alternatively, If you don't want to 
hook up the booster button you could always jump yourself with one 
(positive) jumper cable between the two batteries (the negatives are 
always connected to the frame).

I'm sure there are many separators on the market.  As I recall the 
one I used costs around $70  (plus $60 for a deep cycle RV battery 
and box from Walmart).
Vendor was Mobile Power Inc. of New Jersey.  Phone 1-800-433-0781

Separator pictures and installation notes are on my web site:
http://www.PaulDotTrip.com/vw_bus/battery_separator

-Paul Guzyk
72 Westy "Poppy" exploring the Mexico and Central America
http://www.PaulDotTrip.com (web site to be updated June 1, 2003)


-- 
