From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 12 Nov 2001 14:39:26 EST
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Electrical help needed no start. ground?

In a message dated 11/12/2001 8:40:48 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org writes:

<<It sure was many many things, until I found the problem. Didn't blame the 
brand new fuel pump, but it doesn't pump gas. Went after the 36 year old 
electric system that was working fine.
Question: should tunring by hand or slow starter (dying bat) have enough 
oomph to pump gas? If so, then I am missing a rod (didn't build this engine) 
or the pump is toast. New pump and rod and gaskets are on the way for this 
weekend. Question: should tunring by hand or slow starter (dying bat) have 
enough oomph to pump gas? If so, then I am missing a rod (didn't build this 
engine) or the pump is toast. New pump and rod and gaskets are on the way for 
this weekend.>>

Hi AL,
Charge the battery up whislt you remove the fuel pump and check the pump 
pushrod for proper hieght.  Then if the pump is one of the early types one 
can dissassemble take it apart.  Look for damaged diaphram, stuck valves, 
etc..  If the pump is one of those types you can not dissassemble or you put 
back together the type you can dissasseble, take a plastic fuel filter and 
cut off half of the filter to work as a funnel.  Try pouring a couple of 
teaspoons of fuel into the funnel hooked to the inlet of the pump.  While you 
turn the engine over see if the fuel gets sucked into the pump and begins 
coming out.  If the fuel goes in use the funnel made out of a filter to pour 
about 1/2" cup of fuel into the inlet to the carb.  Hook all the hoses back 
up properly and try to start the engine. 

<<Also, you probably would know this. I have the old pre 64 style oil filler, 
the 9/16ish outlet breather with no drain tube. This is currently installed 
in the position that the drian tube model (much smaller breather outlet) 
would be in. Could this cause oil to seep out of there whist cranking? >>

Definitely does not help to have the early oil breather hose part of the oil 
filler tin downwards and with the added blow by from the rings not seated 
in....  Plus who know what shape the paper gaskets are there.

<>

Just take it one step at a time!   Eric&Barb
