Date: Tue, 13 Nov 2001 00:38:53 -0800
From: Steve <swharris(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Vintage Bus Post <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Barn Door Westy Tow Hitch



Jim Ellis wrote:

> -
> Reply:
> For what it's worth, the '54 bus that I used to own included a very cool hitch.
> At the risk of being wrong, I saw no reason why that hitch would not work on a
> post 2/55 bus as long as it did not have a deep sump. Just make sure that any
> hitch that you buy or fabricate is safe and rated for the weight to be towed.
> -Ellis\

The main difference is the attachment point at the tranny cradle.  On the later
busses, the tranny cradle is a pressed "U" shaped affair.  The hitch has 4 tabs
that mount inside the "U" section (the VW parts manual call it the "engine
mounting frame") and are bolted in place.  I'm not familiar with the earlier ones
or the earlier busses, but someone told me the earlier busses tranny support is a
round tube.  Is this true??   I'd assume the attachment would need to correspond
to the differences in the busses.  The parts manual only show the "U" type
mounting frame even though it covers BD busses.

BTW Westy hitches (at least the later ones like I have) are mounted securely in 5
different places with 10 different fasteners.

1. The torsion tube (actually two points one location).  U bolts around the tube
and through the hitch on either side of the shift coupler and outboard of the
frame horns I think.

2.  At the "U" section tranny cradle.  2 bolts on either side of the tranny(4
total).  I used a plate of steel on top of the "U" section to act as an extra
secure mounting point.

3.  There are what I call "wings or out riggers" that go out to the forward bumper
bracket mounting bolt on each side.  These attach to the centerline of the hitch
about the point of the crank pulley.  These mount to the hitch via tabs welded on
to the hitch

4.  Lastly, the hitch mounts with two bolts to the bottom of the bumper blade.
Again I used a piece of steel plate to back up the bumper and to make it more
secure.

If you've never seen one, the things looks much like a bent tuning fork with a
ball on one end.


In all, it makes for a very sturdy hitch.  I'd guess more than strong enough for
what ever the wimpy 50 hp T1 engine could tote.  That bent turned ball/ neck combo
of the hitch is so cool too.  Not sure why though.

Steve

Oh.  forgot to mention.  You have to take the entire F'ing thing off if you need
to drop your motor.  A major pain in the ASS!  Some cool things come at a
price....still want one?

