Date: Fri, 30 May 2003 01:52:25 -0500
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: aluminum case update

a GOOD one this time - we have shortblock!!
after sending this f*cker to the west coast to be shaved (nw con rod 
reported that the saddle on #2 was barrel-shaped, which is why i was 
locking up.) they took off the .001" lips, cleaned it up and sent it 
home.
i FINALLY got some time to attend to the beast this evening, after a 
weekend spent loading my parts stash into two 24-ft trucks to get 
hauled off to san angelo, and the usual holiday relative hoohah.

i have been slowly tweaking all the pieces in prep for this day... 
scrubbing threads on studs, cleaning all the doodads to go in the 
case w/ a toothbrush, that sort of thing.

got the crank on the dowels on the second try - good for me! - and 
started checking out clearances, etc. now, when i build a motor, i 
have maybe 12 books and magazines on the table with me, and i read 
them ALL when i get to the relevant passages... fisher, berg, wilson, 
bentley, muir, a stack of mags, australian shop manuals, etc.  and as 
usual i came to a screaming halt when i get to the part in wilson 
where he insists that, after installation, and with #1 rod at TDC, 
the crankgear dots should be pointing DOWN at the case bottom. mine 
are always pointing to the right side of the case at a 90 deg angle 
from where he says they should be; this causes me to go grab cranks, 
gears, all my other books etc and PROVE to myself that he is wrong. 
at tdc my pulley keyway is to the left, and the dots to the right. 
scares me every time - i swear that guy has dyslexia... this, and 
that oil tower baffle he puts on wrong!

only other problems were a weird refusal for the case to seal at 
first - kinda rocked from top to bottom. not sure if it was a stud 
o-ring not seated, the #2 bearing being whomperjawed a bit or the cam 
plug not fitting right, but i stopped, checked everything out, tried 
again and it worked fine this time. (btw, the aluminum case has a 
sharp, narrow V groove for the cam plug, and most of the plugs i have 
were large rounded humps. i luckily had the luxury of trying 7 or 8 
till i found one stamped closer to the case profile than the others. 
wasn't there a rumor of two different plug profiles a while back?)

other oddness was the berg relief oil pump cover... when i was 
tightening the nuts, the top two smoothly went to 2.0 kg (not sure 
what thatis in ft/lbs - all my tools are metric) and stayed there, 
but the bottom two kept slipping back down to 1.0 or 1.5.  finally go 
them to stabilize a bit, but i didn't want to keep torquing; berg is 
adamant about not replacing these covers if you crack'em!
i am assuming that the pump body was a trifle cocked, and the lower 
nuts were drawing it down. we'll find out when i run it if i have a 
gusher!

hopefully i can get the heads on this weekend (wife is oncall, so i 
have baby for 48 straight hours... not likely!).
-- 

Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"Guard against the impostures of pretended patriotism." -- George Washington
