From: surlygirl(-at-)email.com
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: "b - formerly bb" <barndoh54(-at-)cs.com>
Date: Sat, 31 May 2003 10:05:36 +0800
Subject: sacramento bug-o-rama

jon and i rode up to the bug-o-rama with a local friend leaving home for the approximate three hour drive at about 3:30am... ug!  i'd answered thom's call for a driver and figured we'd get to his house early enough to get him out of bed.  however we found him waiting for us.

i got to drive the "unauthorized parts & service" panel with solid rear hatch and a matching westfalia-style trailer from his house to the bug-o-rama.  the gate person assumed that we were going to show, no doubt because the panel by itself is a real looker and even more so with the trailer but we were headed to the swap.

the swap meet was huge!  it was the biggest i've ever seen, approximately three times the size of normal.  since we had to leave early (noon-ish) we felt under pressure to see everything and score the good deals before we had to leave.  we each did a few quick laps, looking for big items to give us reason to slow down and paw through boxes of smaller parts.

jon's scores were a pair of complete early bus headlight units for $30 and a box of parts for $40 (a couple of the parts in the box were worth about that much).  our friend bought a box of 36 horse motor stuff (fuel pump, heads, etc.) from thom for something like $350 and i bought his complete panel divider for $80.  we did get some other stuff but that's what we were really happy about.

before we knew, it was time to leave.  thom had sold a good amount of what he'd some with and wanted to stay a bit longer.  we agreed to return one of the buses home for him before heading home ourselves.  for the return trip i got to drive thom's walk-through double cab.  even though it's not all prettied up with shinny paint, it's still proud and looks great with its bueses canvas.  i never did see any part of the show but getting to drive a couple of cool buses more than made up for it!

cheers,
Rachel, Monterey CA			http://home.csumb.edu/~holl1802/pig.html
In a new car, you're just going somewhere;                                
in a Volkswagen you ARE somewhere. -Stormy Henderson's Dad
-- 
