Date: Mon, 20 May 2002 22:34:16 -0400
From: John Baker<jbakerccymca(-at-)springmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: FullMoon(-at-)hville.net
Subject: Ohio Buses n Boats Report

Hey Y'all,
Just wanted to drop a few lines about the Second Annual VW Buses 'n Boats event in Ohio this past weekend.  A great time! Despite wet and cold weather, we still ended up with 33 (maybe more) buses and about 75 people. We had folks from Ohio, New York, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky,West Virginia, Maryland, and Michigan. Canoeing was flooded out (Again!) but people still stayed busy with hiking, biking, flea marketing, and rock climbing on the climbing wall Morgans offered to us.
Here are a few participant observations: Nicest bus would probably go to Floyd DuBart and family from Chicago in their Beautiful 63 Riviera, Nice resto Floyd! Most colorful\intersting bus would definitely be John Hartman from Cleveland in his American Flag painted bus. The Bus that got stuck deepest in the mud award would also go to john Hartman who buried his flag bus nearly to the axle, but luckily we had a couple of strong backs and a 4 wheel drive SUV to pull John out! The most represented city\area would go to the folks from around Columbus Ohio, special thanks to Stephen Steele and the members of COWvab for a strong show of support.  The "Above and Beyond the Call of Duty Award" has to go to Frank Biffath from Columbus area for a delicious Chili dinner on Friday evening (the Everybus champion chili) and too many other things to mention. Frank was also the first to come on Thursday and the last to leave on Sunday. ANd FRank, If you read this, EMAIL ME,ALL THE MESSAGEs I S!
END YOU TODAY ARE BOUNCING! 
I couldn't be happier with the turn out. We had such a good time around the campfire until 5:00 am both nights! (You Chicago guys know how to keep the party going)
The famous FMBC breakfast burritos were also a HUGE hit. Thanks to everyone who pitched in and helped with those. There are too many to mention by name, and I'd probably forget someone, but you know who you are.
In closing, I'd just like to say I have never met such a nice group of people anywhere. Anytime you have 75 plus people in a wet campground for a weekend and not a single piece of garbage or trash left anywhere when they have gone is definitely something special.  See Y'all at the THIRD Annual Event next year!
P.S. I still have some event t-shirts available for sale for 12 bucks each, pmail if anyone is interested in buying one.



Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1966 Kombi
http://www.geocities.com/jbakerccymca
"...so we got in the red VW microbus with the shovels and rakes and implements of destruction and
headed on to the police officer's station..."
