Date: Mon, 17 Apr 2006 10:28:08 -0700
From: MissVeeDub <vwdreamer(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Wet Westies" <wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com>,
Subject: T4 Head advice needed - new/used/rebuilt/options

Hello all - As some of you heard at the Tax Relief campout this last
weekend, my mom did not attend due to her van being out of commission ('80
ASI; square port heads)

After her battery exploded (thanks again for all the responses) they were
getting ready to test the alternator and the as it was idling it started
clacking really bad, only ran as long at it took nick to run up to the front
of the van to shut it off - so we believe its a dropped seat (looked down
the spark plug hole and kinda looks like a valve seat stuck in between the
valve and head (cant really tell if it is the seat or just the end of the
valve guide)....haven't done any real physical investigation as this
happened at the shop and have been pretty busy this past week, but I need to
look at my options for head replacement.

Here are my questions:

1. What would be the best way to confirm that we have a dropped seat without
doing any more damage?
    I am afraid that if i crank it over to do a compression check it will do
more damage, break the seat, valve or something else?
      (yes i know its not as bad as some engines i have seen that have been
ran miles and miles after the seat dropped).

2. I am looking at the other possibilities that could cause this (possibly
bad lifter? broken spring?) Ideas?

3. Are the 1/2 heads different from the 3/4 heads? i.e. head temp sensor -
only on 3/4?

4. Would prefer new head(s) - which brands are available? pros/cons of each?
      Bus Depot - German Heads - $415 each
      AMC heads? rebuild valves/seats?
     Some one on the list with some spare T4 heads they want to sell?
     Converting to oval port heads?

5. What would be the downfall of having one new head and one used head (even
if the used head was in great condition)?

6. Rebuilt heads - opinions? I am thinking that because this engine
supposedly had 1500 miles on it when we bought it that they put rebuilt
heads on the engine and that is why we are having a problem now - there is
probably about 2500 miles on it now.


FYI - I know the T4 engines pretty well - never done a full rebuild but
several tear downs, and know the FI really well (converted Betty my '73 to
the L-jet when i installed the '83 AC 2.0)

I will be doing some more investigation sometime this week and plan on
working on it next week.

Thanks in advance for any info!!!


--
Heather Woltz
'71 VW Bus: Riviera Camper - BusZilla: 2007cc Built by Me
'71 Datsun 510 Wagon: Custom w/Ford 2.6
'81 Yamaha XS400 Special II
http://vw.blue-skywebdesign.com/
--------------------------------------------------------
"Well-behaved women seldom make history." - Laurel Thatcher Ulrich
