Date: Tue, 18 Apr 2006 16:11:07 -0400
From: Will Anderson <wha(-at-)alumni.princeton.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: charging system UPDATE, was: Re: [T2]  aux battery

> If I am understanding correctly,, Richard has
> convinced me the dash light is 
> not really important to the charging circuit.... I
> was always under the 
> assumption it controlled the current to the field
> circuit.  and in fact was 
> important to be a 50ma element in the dash lamp to
> ensure correct regulation
 
> Can you clarify ,, does the dash lamp actually
> control the excitation?
> http://www.ratwell.com/technical/ChargingSystem.html

"The VR operates in 3 stages. The first stage (key on)
initiates when the ignition key is turned to the on
position but before the engine is started (alternator
off). Power from the ignition switch flows through the
warning lamp and through the rotor field winding in
order to excite the alternator."

------------------------------

Thanks to everybody who chimed in on the aux battery issues.  I must 
admit that I might do well to get my primary system up to snuff first. . 
.well, it turns out that my aux battery had an internal short, and it 
was draining the main and not sure if it caused other damage??  So I 
removed it--no more aux to worry about now. 

refresher: I am running a mid-70's Motorola 50A beetle alternator 
(externally regulated) conversion on T1 engine.  Still unsure of the 
BEST Bosch Voltage Regulator to use for this setup.  I got a few 
aftermarket no-name ones NOS but don't have a lot of confidence in 
them.  Was using a Bosch but thought it might be blown--how to test?

OK:  I'll find a way to hook up my dash GEN light to the D+ terminal on 
the 3-wire regulator.

According to ratwell's site, the dash light is necessary in the circuit 
to initally excite the alternator field.
I get the impression it actually HAS been charging without this light 
(but not at idle).  can't prove this at the moment but glad to entertain 
theoretical arguments. . .

Until I hook up the dash light, I might simulate a 50mA load (i.e. 
engine bay charging system warning light!) . . . still trying to figure 
out the technical operational detail WHY the light goes OFF when the 
charging comes up to snuff though. . . studying up on circuit diagrams 
and VR how-it-works. . .

TIA,
Will A.
'70 Westy "Rebertha"  needs to get excited
