Date: Wed, 27 Apr 2005 14:02:02 -0700
From: "Pace, Nick" <nickpace(-at-)rand.org>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "Pace, Nick" <nickpace(-at-)rand.org>
Subject: Odd things growing (?) in an oil bath air filter....

I thought I've seen it all when it comes to weird stuff and VWs but maybe this
one takes the cake.  In late January, I bought a '71 Bus to replace my old one
that took a hit amidships from an out of control truck.  The new Bus was kept
pretty stock, including possessing the original oil bath air filter rig.  Last
Sunday I decided to do an oil change and at the same time, replace the stock
air filter with an aftermarket foam version (please don't tell me I should
have kept the original set up; I just don't like 'em and they make routine
maintenance more difficult).  

Anyway, I pulled the rig out and opened it up
to dump out the oil that's in there in preparation for storing it with all the
other VW stuff I'll probably never use again.  What I saw shocked me. Where
the pool of oil resides in the bottom unit was filled with seemingly hundreds
of small seeds about a quarter inch in length and maybe an eighth inch in
height.  They were, for lack of a better description, shaped like little clam
shells and were completely covered by the oil.  My first though was that the
innards of the top half of the filter unit had disintegrated somehow, spilled
downward, and simply collected in the bottom half but after cleaning a few up
and crushing them, it was clear that they were some sort of living thing at
one time because the insides were bright green just like you would find if you
crushed open a fruit seed.  And the seeds were everywhere: in the bottom pan
and in the top unit in the small area between that circular plate on the
bottom of the top unit and the place where all the holes are that lead into
the inside of the filter itself.

Have you EVER seen anything like this?  I
suspect that the seeds were causing my Bus to be starved for air at high RPMs
because after I replaced the filter, it ran much better.  But how did they get
in?  According to the receipts I found, the previous owner had oil changes in
early January of this year in L.A., in May and July of 2004 in Portland,
Oregon, and maybe one as long ago as December of 2000 also in Portland.  A lot
of VW mechanics shamefully fail to change the filter oil at the same time the
crankcase oil is changed (as I failed when I did the first oil change right
after purchase) so I can't say when for sure when the last time it was that
the unit got fresh oil.  Is it possible that in Oregon some sort of seedlings
or spores or whatever were sucked into the air cleaner while driving along the
highway, were deposited in the bath, and in the warm, liquid environment they
flourished and happily grew to adulthood?  And is it possible that they would
have remained in this state until they were removed from the liquid and Mother
Nature sent the signal to send out roots and shoots?  

I probably should have
saved (or maybe even planted) a few for curiosity's sake but it was so freaky
that I quickly cleaned them out and threw them away after showing the mess to
my wife (who was shockingly uninterested in my discovery).  The initial mental
image I had when I realized that they were alive at one time (or maybe still)
was of some sort of alien creature just waiting to be liberated from a nursery
of Castrol 30 WT and then exploding out fully formed to take over my body and
begin the invasion of Earth so I really wasn't thinking about helping in the
advancement of science.

I've seen earwigs living in distributors, I've seen
hornets nests in the rear air scoops, but I've never, ever run into this
before.  It certainly suggests that one ought to change or at least check the
filter oil bath often just like the manual says.  Maybe they know something we
don't?

Comments?  

Nick

--------------------

This email message is for the
sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use,
disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you
are not the intended
recipient, please contact the sender by reply email and
destroy all copies
of the original message.
