Date: Thu, 28 Apr 2005 10:05:31 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "Neil,R. Stuart" <rsneil(-at-)tva.gov>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] I need advice on repairing my '72 bus engine

Stuart I'm going to tell you my solution and a few people are going to say no,no, no... 

I did this repair with the engine in the bus and never had any problem. I too had less than 8 exhaust studs holding, and in the process of removeing the exhaust to replace the copper gaskets, I lost a couple more. 

I tried heli-coils, time-serts, etc but never could get the results I wanted. I think it was because none of the thread fixers created new threads that went to the bottom of the hole. They SHOULD work and if you are a better machinist than I or if you can get the bus to a shop I say fix it that way. If it doesn't work for you, then try my solution.

Living in a small town my options were limited so my solution was to go to Advance Auto (actually ANY American FLAPS will have these) and bought 8 Chevy small block Chevy exhaust studs. I also bought a tap and the right drill bit. Laying on my back using my Milwaukee electric drill I drilled out the old holes (careful to NOT go any deeper than the original holes), and tapped the holes for the Chevy studs. Screwed the new studs in using double nuts, used a bit of Loctite too, and drilled out the holes a bit in the header pipes to fit the studs. I also filed the header tops down so that the whole thing would seal correctly. This part is important. Long metal file, file both header pipes at the same time until the openings are shiny and clean all the way around. The studs cannot flex the headers enought o seal them. They warp with age and heat over the years. 

Put it back together and it worked perfectly. 

Another solution that I would have told you would never last is the Loctite thread repair kit. You fill the hole (just turn your bus over <grin!>) with a liquid they supply, then coat the stud in a release agent and thread into the hole. Liquid hardens into new threads. I used this on a cam chain adjuster on my motorcycle (full head temps here) and it lasted for years... I know the current owner and he has had no problems. Might be worth a look. Obviously I was not putting the weight of an entire exhaust system on it.

Hope this helps. 

Chris
'78 Westy 2,7L
Cookeville, TN
