From: "Troy Wical" <troy(-at-)wical.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 28 Apr 2005 20:04:58 -0600
Subject: Koni Shock Auction

	Ok, this is what it comes down to.  I've chatted a bit with some of
the list admins and the best way to pursue this seems to be a silent
auction.  
	For those who are not aware, I was fortunate enough to be able to
donate a full set of 4 Koni shocks (2 front / 2 rear) to the raffle prize at
EB this year.  This was from the group buy put together by Richard Atwell
and the Bus Depot. Richard's docs show the following info as far as what
model these shocks will work on....

Model Year  	Part Number  	Location
70-79 		80-2110 		Front 	
72-79 		80-2220 		Rear
 	
With slight modifications, these may fit other's.  I'm not the one to ask
about that. The point was to raise more money through the raffle to go
toward the type2 list.  The winning ticket holder had a choice of either
taking 50% of the money raised through selling the raffle ticket's, or take
the set of shock's.  The winner in this case took the cash.  In the long
run, this is better for the list because now we have a set of shocks still
that we can sell to add to the 50% from the raffle.  100% of the money
gained from the sale of the shock's will go to the list.  I'll pay for
shipping in the US/Canada.  If you are over seas, please email me off the
list if you plan on being a serious bidder and we can work out the shipping
details should you win.

A few simple rules:

1.To bid, email troy(-at-)wical.com with your offer by 8pm MST on Friday, May 6th
2005.

2.Subject line of the offer email should state 'KoniBid' without the '  I'll
be filtering for this subject line so if you don't put those characters in,
there is a good chance that your bid may not be seen.

3.The bidding will start at US $250.00.  This is well under the price you
could have bought these at in the group buy and I don't have time to filter
through bid's starting at $1.00.

4.Serious buyers only.  This is a serious event for a serious cause.

5.Full payment must be received before the item will be shipped.  The
payment should be made via PayPal using tedebare(-at-)type2.com.  If you are
unable to use PayPal, email me and we can work out another method.

6.To view the current highest bid, please visit
http://wical.com/wp/?page_id=6 Password is 'type2' Please do not email me
just to ask what the current highest bid is :)

Good luck,	

Troy Wical -|- Aurora, CO
troy(-at-)wical.com -|- www.wical.com
'63 Double Cab
'78 Transporter
'78 Transporter
