Date: Fri, 29 Apr 2005 07:31:53 -0400
From: La Famiglia Fischer <fis(-at-)videotron.ca>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Crud in fuel tank...I need a miracle!

Well I've just run into what I fear is going to turn into a major issue...
Story: 77 Westy needed transmission work done. Out of my leagues by a long shot. So found best local expert and put my bus in his hands.
New rebuilt tranny. This part went well. 
While he had the engine out, I had him remove the now-accessible fuel tank and change/refurbish the filler hose components as well as the venting system. I had a spare, used, year-appropriate clean tank on hand and he chose to change it based on the corrosion at the inlet-outlet points below.
Got the tank chamber rust-proofed while at it. All in all a good move.

On the day it was ready I picked up the bus, drove it to the local service station there and filled the tank to roughly 3/4, wanting to check out the new gas gauge sensor that was also a bonus from this work. I needed some gas for another bus I had brought him for similar work and while at the service station put in a couple of gallons in an _old and exteriorly dirty..._gas can I had borrowed from him...

If you ears pricked up at this point you might be sensing the impending disaster!

So put maybe a gallon and a half in the other bus (didn't want to put in too much, that tank has to come out too, but it's a 67 DoubleCab and it comes out from the inside) 
...and while talking to the mechanic I inwardly debated with my miserly self and proceeded _brain dead_ to dump the remainder in the 77!

Yes...as I pulled the gas can's translucent filler neck out of the westy after letting EVERY drop (gotta save those pennies now!) into my newly installed tank....I saw all kinds of black stuff inside!!!

Wasn't happy with myself and figured I might be needing a new fuel filter rather sooner than later...
Drove 70 miles home on a full tank and a fine day . Which was to be the last for a while!

Next afternoon, fire up the Westy which ran just fine untill I needed to run it up anywhere past a couple of thousand revs...
It would just bog and buck. Though of some vacuum or electrical gremlin and went over the engine up and down and left and right figuring that the fresh reinstallation might have something to do with it.
After a few days of basically ignoring the obvious I started back from the fuel pump.
The OUT of the filter wasn't flowing very much. I had no reference so though "maybe the filter IS clogged or maybe this is the normal amount of (gravity) flow"...Then I removed the filter to check it. Blew right through it easily. Didn't seem clogged. (I'd love a clear filter: any out there?)
So I carefully unpinched my fuel line and again saw a rather "light" fuel flow. 
Decided it was time for THE test. Filler cap was off. I blew a light, short blast of air up the line...

WOW, now it's flowing...And I'm mad as hell at myself!!!
I've obviously put in so much crap in my tank with that brain-dead dirty gas can manoeuver that it has collected down around the pickup point and is impeding the flow out.

That's where I stand today.
Engine has to come out. Then the tank.
I now have to basically redo a job I just paid for because of my own carelessness. Lessons in VWLife!!!

So some questions to you out there in this Hall of Miracles!

_ Doing some T2 archive reading on fuel tanks I saw numerous references to a removable outlet with a stainer. Not in my tank(s)! Anybody know when this changed? (Moot but interesting trivia)
_ Anybody know of any brilliant way of cleaning this out successfully withought removing the tank? Preferrably not involving dangerous chemicals in huge proportions! (I've had a look into the old tank: so many baffles above that pick up point that attacking it from above seems impossible)

Hey, maybe I'll turn this into one of those Life-affirming moments. Looking onto the bright side and all that! Just haven't figured how yet!!!

Mitch in Montreal
