From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: "bus" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 29 Apr 2005 06:35:24 -0700
Subject: BUS Depot Sunvisors Personal Eval.  

I just received a shipment from the Bus Depot and I couldn't
be happier.  I ordered some new sunvisors from the Bus Depot
website.  They were offered in two colors, white and black.

I am certain that there are many of you out there whose
sunvisor(s) looked a lot like mine did.  The foam had
completely decayed inside the stock visor that was remaining,
looking quite deflated and formless.  Sure it worked, but
everytime I used it to keep the sun out of my eyes I was
reminded of how decayed it truly was.

I can't speak for other years because I don't possess that
knowledge, but for the 76 year, the drivers side was the only
side with a metal bar for the visor to hinge/hang on,.. the
passenger side(right side, U.S.) had a hard plastic bar
instead, but possessed a small vanity mirror for your
passengers to primp or keep an eye on the kids in the back
while you were rolling down the road.

Downside is that it was plastic, so as the bus aged, the
plastic became brittle and eventually broke, leaving only the
driver side visor still attatched.

The visors from the bus depot that I received do not have the
primp mirror; however, they do have a METAL bar that the
visors hinge on for BOTH sides.  The material change alone is
enough to make me skip down the street.

I will never forget the day my stock passenger visor broke.  I
was living in Marin County in California in those days and my
buddy Joe B. and I were hiking up on Mt. Tamalpais (sp?  it's
been awhile ).  We were hiking so we decided to bring stuff to
drink.  When I think hike, I bring water, when Joe thinks
hike,.. he thinks BEER!  Temps that day were over 100 degrees.
By the end of the day Joe wasn't speaking too clearly and was
walking(using that term loosely) down the trail in a random
switchback pattern where the trail was straight.  We got back
to the bus and Joe was communicating in something similar to
English, but not quite.  I rounded a corner as I was coming
down off of the mountain, and there was the sun, bright and
shiny and in the drunkards face.  Joe was always fun to be
around, sober or not.  Anyway,.. bright light.  Joe stammered
out something about a comet and then meandered into some Dead
Kennedy's lyrics (Too drunk to F***), managed to eek out 'My
EYES'! and then reached up and proceeded to SNAP OFF MY
SUNVISOR!  Needless to say I was less than pleased, though I
was at least laughing about it.

Cut to the chase, 20 years later, Ron and Co. at the Bus Depot
(God Bless 'Em), enabled me to acquire a better than stock
replacement set of visors.  Bus Depot, I thank you, my wife's
optic nerve thanks you, and my bus thanks you.

Danke

Seann Stafford
1976 T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
1976 T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
