Date: Wed, 05 Jan 2011 12:38:39 -0600
From: "David Schwarze" <dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net>
To: "Lourd Baltimore" <lourd_baltimore(-at-)yahoo.com>,  type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine Speed: Limits and Efficiency

> What RPM should I keep above to prevent lugging the engine?

Depends on conditions.  You can lug it a little bit if you are not applying a lot of throttle.

> Similarly, what engine speed should I not exceed?

I never liked taking mine much above the factory limit of 4400rpm.  The engine sounded strained above that RPM and powerwise you quickly reach the point of diminishing returns.

> Also, the Haynes manual says my engine produces peak torque at 3,000 RPM and 
> peak power at 4,200 RPM.
> Does that mean I'll get the best top gear cruising efficiency at about 4,200 
> RPM?

Nope, best efficiency occurs at peak torque, not peak HP. 

> I hit 60mph around 3,900.

The RPM sounds way high for 60mph, have you verified speed with a GPS?  Are you perhaps running undersized tires?  Oh wait, was your bus perhaps originally a 1600cc type 1 (outside US)?  If so, you have 5.43 R&P and .889 4th gear which would indeed put you at about 3900rpm at 60mph.  Regardless, if your speed and RPM are accurate as stated above, you are overgeared (IMO) for an 1800cc type IV.  If you can verify which transaxle you have (or at least what engine you bus was originally equipped with) we can suggest an alternative bolt-in tranny with more appropriate ratios.

> When cruising around town at lower gears should I stay around 3,000 RPM (speed 
> limits notwithstanding) for efficiency?

Peak torque is around 3k but if I recall the curve is very flat from 2K-3K so anywhere in that range should return relatively good fuel economy.  I shoot for the lower end of the range because it is quieter.

> Also, when shifting for best acceleration (not necessarily flooring the gas 
> pedal) should I remain in gear until peak power before shifting up?

For maximum acceleration you should actually go beyond the peak power RPM before shifting.  This is obviously bad for fuel economy so I don't do it often, especially now that $3+/gallon fuel is back here in the US.  If you don't want or need to floor the gas pedal then there is almost no reason to go beyond peak torque before shifting.  For best economy I would try to remain in the 2K-3K range.  I only go above that when I need max accelerationy or when I'm pulling a big hill (since the type 4 engine is dependent upon RPM for cooling).

-David
