Date: Sun, 16 Jan 2011 13:56:36 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Jonathan Stiles <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Compu-fire question

On Sun, Jan 16, 2011 at 4:10 AM, Jonathan Stiles <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com> wrote:

> True, but the "electronic" part of the module regulates dwell, which could be different for different applications. That is what I am concerned about.

Even if we can't get the specification on the amount of dwell
programmed into the electronics, we can use logic to reverse-engineer
this to get an answer that should help you decide.

When you look at the components, you have to ask what they serve.

Dwell is actually a description of a physical process that exists with
points. How long do the contact points "dwell" together before they
open and break the circuit.

What component does that support? The engine doesn't care about the
dwell. The engine only cares about the timing.

The coil cares about dwell. The current needs to flow into the coil
long enough to give it a full charge before the circuit is broken and
the field collapses.

So the root question is whether the lobe shape on the 009 varies
significantly from the stock SVDA applicable to your engine.

We may not be able to easily find engineering data to answer that
question, but what we do know is that the 009 is considered a "swap
out" replacement to any model of SVDA in air-cooled Volkswagens.

In other words, when we swap to 009, we never hear about needing to
change the coil too. And complaints about the 009 always concern the
advance curve, not too short a dwell causing weak spark.

So from the standpoint of dwell, the Compu-fire 009 should be a
workable component in an SVDA.

The other issue suggested by Mike is fit. Is there something different
about the 2 distributor that physically will not let the module for
one fit in the other?

This is possible, but highly unlikely. They use the same distributor
caps and I've seen ads for Bosch points that fit all Bosch
distributors. Is this point especially engineered to compensate for
differences? Possibly.

The one thing Mike mentioned is that a vacuum plate is a movable
plate, so the wires have to be long enough to allow for this. It is
unlikely they would make the 2 models different enough that the wire
length is an issue. Similarly, it is unlikely that they would make 2
series of modules with different form factors that one is too big to
fit in the other. That would make them double their inventory and
reduce their economy of scale in manufacturing.

It might pay to make a customer support call to Compu-fire. Then it
may not. It might be hard to find a customer service rep that knows
anymore than that there are 2 different stock numbers for the 2
distributors, or an engineer that can tell you anymore than that the
engineering data for the 2 is different.

Good luck.

John
