From: Chris Slaymaker <nurofiz(-at-)knology.net>
Date: Tue, 18 Jan 2011 20:38:38 -0500
To: VW - Type 2 mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: AIRS rescue story

First of all, everybody on the AIRS list should check to make sure that their
information is current.

While I was at work, my wife kept getting calls from an unknown number, so she
didn't answer the phone.  After enough persistence, she finally got a message
that she felt was important enough to pass along to me at work.  It was an
AIRS call and I was supposed to text the number of the person who called.

Cell phone use is discouraged where I work (especially texting) so I snuck off
to call the number, but didn't get an answer.  A moment later, I got a call
from yet another, different out-of-state number.  It was a TTY service for
people who couldn't hear.  It took a good little while to converse with a
hearing "translator," but I finally learned that there was a '72 bay stranded
just a few blocks away from my house.  They were OK with me getting there
after work.

----

The problem was that it would turn over, but it wouldn't start.  With a timing
light, it appeared that spark wasn't getting out from the distributor, yet
spark was apparently emanating from the coil.  Pulling the distributor cap off
revealed that the points were closed.  I took them out and the rider block was
worn concave.  I took some axle grease from the left front wheel and
reluctantly reinstalled them (they weren't Bosch).  After resetting them and a
few tries with the starter, the engine roared to life.  A dwell meter showed
they were too far open, so I tried resetting them again.  No joy.

I had a spare 009 (in case of a Pertronix failure) and took the points out of
that.  The cam rider block was in good shape.  After a few tries, I finally
got the points set right, but they were still too far open (dwell angle was 21
degrees). I decided not to dwell on getting it perfect (bad pun), so I set the
timing from about 20 degrees to about 5 degrees.

And they lived happily ever after.


Chris Slaymaker
1971 Westfalia "Lurch"
1971 Squareback "Foster"
Knoxville, TN

". . . at least I'm enjoying the ride."
