From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, "Mike Anderson" <mikeanderso(-at-)hotmail.com>
Date: Wed, 3 Apr 2002 17:18:18 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] front end q's

------=_NextPart_84815C5ABAF209EF376268C8
Content-type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII


did you remove the front shift rod? if not, the 
reamer probably did not cut all the way through the top bushing. the 
reamer doesn't cut until about 20mm or so down it, so if you are hitting the rod 
when reaming it, chances are you're not getting a complete cut.

remove the rod and try reaming it 
again.

 

 

----- Original Message -----


I haven't posted in awhile, but I have some questions.  I am in 
the process 

of replacing my torsion arm bushing, no anti-sway bar old front beam with a 


broken torsion spring with a torsion arm bearing, anti sway bar one that I 


pulled off a '66 at a junkyard.  I bought a new swing lever 
bushing kit and 

rented the reamer and tool from bus boys.  I installed the new 
bushings 

oriented correctly, and spun the reamer thru both bushings.  The 
bottom one 

was already where it needed to be, very little material 
removed.  The reamer 

took a little more off of the upper one, but in the end the reamer worked 


beautifully.  Installed the beam back on the bus (by myself, and 
with no 

floor jack.  That was alot of back and forth!), and put the swing 
lever pin 

in and it is *tight* in the upper bushing!  Pulled the pin, put 
the reamer 

thru one more time just to make sure, and nothing comes off.  All 
clear. The 

pin is still a tight fit, so I just hammer it through.  As it 
comes out the 

top, little brass flakes are falling from the pin forcing its way 
through.  

Put the pin all the way through and bolt up the swing lever.  It 
doesn't 

want to move around.  I still need to get a new zerk for the pin, 
so I have 

yet to grease it and try it then, but should it be that 
tight?  Should the 

pin just have slid right into position, or is it normal to have to 

"persuade" it to go through?  Is it possible for your swing lever 
pin to be 

too tight?

------=_NextPart_84815C5ABAF209EF376268C8--

