From: "Hulme, Charles" <cahulme(-at-)nps.navy.mil>
To: 'Matt Roberds ' <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>, "'vintagebus(-at-)type2.com '"
Date: Wed, 3 Apr 2002 18:56:53 -0800 
Subject: [VB] Halogen light part 2 the plot thickens

So I guess I should really look at what I have before I start asking
questions.  The PO said they were NOS Hella lights and they are.  The 2
prong,3 prong debate was mostly wrong on my part.  The bulb that fits in the
bucket is a 3 prong so that just plugs in.  But on the bucket, where the
bulb fits in there's 2 additional electrical connections.  At least thats
what I beleive them to be. They're shaped like an "L" and overlapp each
other.  MAybe I'll bring them to BYOB and see if someone can help?

See you guys there,

Charles
'63 DC 

-----Original Message-----
From: Matt Roberds
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: Hulme, Charles
Sent: 4/3/02 1:51 PM
Subject: Re: [VB] Halogen light conversion????

>From: "Hulme, Charles" <cahulme(-at-)nps.navy.mil>
>Date: Tue, 2 Apr 2002 10:04:51 -0800 
>
>I inherited halogen lights from the PO amongst many other parts that
>need to be hung on my DC.  How do I wire them?  They have a two prong
>connector vs a three prong.  I'm guess one's high beams and ones low
>beams, where's the ground?

Do these go in place of the headlights or do they have their own
enclosure for mounting on the bumper?  If they mount on the bumper,
they only have one beam.  One prong is for the supply voltage and
the other is for ground.

In the Bentley manual, VW recommended that these lights be wired to
take the place of the high beam filament in the regular lights.
Unplug the high beam wires at the fuse box (white wire and white/black
stripe wire) and use the two terminals you just freed up to wire the 
new lamps. 

If these bulbs go in place of the headlights: if the bulb has a metal 
plate on the base, that might be the ground.  Most all headlight bulbs
I've ever seen -- sealed-beams, old Euro halogens, new American/Japanese
halogens -- have a terminal for ground, which means two-terminal bulbs
have just one beam and three-terminal bulbs have two beams.

If you can get the bulb out of the reflector, you can tell for sure by
looking closely at the filament(s).  If it has both high and low beam,
it will have two filaments.  If it's only got one filament then it's
only low beam.

Looking in a Wagner lamp catalog I have, the only two-prong halogen 
bulbs (for separate reflectors, not sealed-beams) they list are:

H3, 12V, 55W, 2.5" overall length, 0.45" diameter bulb
H7, 12V, 55W, 2.4" overall length, 0.59" diameter bulb

If you have the H3 bulb then there's not much you can do.  If you 
have the H7 bulb, you can _probably_ replace it with a bulb with
two filaments and the same mounting.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds

