From: "A.J. Smith - Oasis Online Technical Support Staff" <ajsmith(-at-)oasisol.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 31 Jul 2001 15:32:59 -0700
Subject: New Listee (long)

I just wanted to say HI, I have been on the list for about a month or
so, but learning every day! I am starting a project 1967 Deluxe bus, that
has had one owner, my family. It was used to move us from San Jose CA to
Fallon Nevada and it has sat in my parents yard unmoved since 1974. Not much
rust, and not sure if engine works. Only major problem area is just below
the headlights, there is a nice concave of the nose due to the last time it
was moved, with a backhoe to its present location behind a shed. No rats
nest, even headliner is still in top shape. It gets hot here in the high
desert, and not much rain or snow. I am in the process of cleaning out the
tools and things that were inside it, and about to move it closer to where I
live to start work on it, about 20 miles. I have looked at the engine, and
taken many pictures of the bus and engine with my digital camera, for before
and after pictures. I LOVE John Muir's book, and have absorbed all kinds of
information that you have given since I got started. I have visited alot of
your websites and gotten ideas on alot of different things that I can do to
the bus. I do want to keep as much as original as possible, and most of it
is still there. I will have to redo the seats, the metal is all that is left
of the middle fold-down seat. But I still have the frame and springs. My
biggest concern is getting started on the engine. I am not mechanically
inclined even thought my dad was a mechanic.

I did read something lately that did sound crazy, something about Paraffin
wax? What was that all about? I do have bolts that are going to be replaced,
like shocks and such, and any help on removing those would be great. I don't
think the engine has ever been taken off the bus, and everywhere I turn
there is something that either says Made in Germany or something is in
German. Oh, mileage is just over 71k. I have only 3 windows that are
cracked, both front and the rear window, and only one light fixture is
broken, the right backup light. All other lens are in perfect shape.
Others in my family say that it is a waste of time and money to work on it,
but I want to get it back and running right.
Again, thanks for all advice that I have been seeing lately, and TIA for any
that you send me in the future.

AJ Smith
Fallon, NV
67 Deluxe Bus (soon to be on the road), Original Owner   :))


