To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 1 Aug 2001 11:06:44 -0700
From: "Adam K. Crosier" <veadelcro(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Tom Connor rack = good

Hey Volks,

When I was searching for a rack I had several responses to check out Tom
Connor in Deer Park (Spokane area).  Also, a few wanted to know how I
like it if I were to pick one up.  Thought I had your mail saved, but I
don't see.

I picked it up unfinished from Tom since I needed it this last weekend. 
When I approached the glorious rack leaning against the shop, I couldn't
believe how gorgeous it was.  I bought the style rack that is on the blue
panel on his site.  www.thesamba.com/racks 

1) Strong.  I climbed up there to move the boxes around in a good order
and felt that the rack, Gretchen's head, and I were all safe.  I heard
someone in my CA bus club complaining about a certain rack built by a
well known company; that it was flimsy and didn't hold up well. 

2) 6 good looking clamps with rubber drip rail protecting covers.  Maybe
not a big deal to some, but there is a clamp on each leg (6), it protects
the drip rails, and looks very sharp.  No turnbuckles here. 

3) He cares about it.  Tom practically made me promise that I would get
it powdercoated when I got home.  This tells me he really put something
into it and doesn't want it destroyed.

4) Good grief, it looks good.

5) Value.  You can spend more for a rack for your bus, but I'm telling
you, you're not getting better quality.  If you're looking for one,
seriously consider Tom Connor.  

By the way, I only met Tom when I picked it up, and only talked to him
when I ordered the rack.  Translation: I'm not drumming up business for a
buddy; I bought it from a stranger and used it, and am impressed. 

If you're anywhere near Aberdeen, WA and want to see the one I got, email
me and we can go get a hamburger or something.

Adam

http://homestead.juno.com/veadelcro/cars.html

Adam, Verna and Elisabeth
1962 Standard Micro, 1961 Deluxe Micro, 1959 Deluxe Beetle
oh yeah, and a '92 Subaru



