Date: Wed, 1 Aug 2001 18:24:25 -0400 (EDT)
From: george lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: renoir <renoir(-at-)kraxx.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Generator pulling

I've been told (after I did it the hard way!) that all you have to do is
undo the nut on the front (FIF) side of the fan (36mm socket) and then you
can pull the generator and plate out the back by removing the generator
strap and 4 bolts.  Oh, yes, and the wires too.  Disconnect the ground
strap at the battery first to prevent the entertaining fireworks show!

Be sure to keep track of the washers and shims on the fan.  You will have
to assemble the fan to the new generator with it out of the bus to set the
clearance between the fan and the backing plate.  Then you take it apart,
put the fan in the housing and put the washers and shims in the right
places.

If you're not a purist, now would be a good time to convert to an
alternator.  If you go this route, you will need the following parts:

alternator (internal regulator)
alternator stand
Alternator backing plate (three sheet metal pieces)
Alternator or 30A generator fan hub (if current generator is 38A)
ring terminal to female space connector adapter
double male spade terminal adapter (large)
double male spade terminal adapter (small)

I recommend that you buy the alternator new, but do not buy the
"conversion kit".  the stand and tin in these kits are Chinese and of
dubious quality.  Better to buy the tin and stand used.  The hub is
apparently different if you have the 38A generator, but the same if you
have a 30a generator.  The pulley is the same so you won't need that.

The electrical adapters are easily fabricated and are used to bypass the
existing voltage regulator.  All of the original wiring is retained.

On Tue, 31 Jul 2001, renoir wrote:

> Hi renoir here,
>
> I overtightened my belt and fried the bearing.
> I seem to remember reading about that here once before, boo hoo.
>
> Thinking, motor out.
> Can I pull that out straight through the back, without pulling off the
> doghouse?


