To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 1 Aug 2001 16:15:42 -0700
From: "Adam K. Crosier" <veadelcro(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: A WARNING (Trip prep)

For all my difficulties, the trip to the father-in-laws went great. 
Thank goodness, or it would have been the last one.

I spent two sleepless nights (literally) and the weekend previous
(sunrise to sunset) getting Gretchen ready.  She's been sitting since
December, when I parked her with a barely-clinging-on clutch cable. 
Nevertheless, clutch was in and adjusted in two tries, valves went great,
and everything else.  BUT....

When I tried to turn it over: completely dead.  Stole the battery from
Jessel, dead.  Charger all night long, dead.  Bought  a new battery on
the way home the night before I was to leave, and put it in.  Turned over
magnificently until smoke came from the compartment.  After the smoke
cleared, I noticed that

I CONNECTED THE CONDENSER TO THE HOT SIDE OF THE COIL!  AH!  

I can't tell you how many times I've hooked up the coil, but for some
insane reason, the wire went on the wrong side.  Local VW guy only has
the points, so I yanked the whole dizzy from Horst and put it on.  When I
turned the key, it started up and idled wonderfully. 

Trip went without a hitch, but when I got to Missoula, I noticed that I
killed yet another pulley.  Now, I adjusted the belt loose on purpose and
still the woodruff key went traveling through the inside of the pulley. 
Well, call me an idiot, but I didn't realize I needed to go back and
check the belt a few blocks away.  Either that, or I'm still missing
something.  Anyway, I took another shim from the front, and the belt was
great all the way home.  

So the lessons are....

1)  When working all night long, take an EXTRA long look at the motor
before turning her over.  Sometimes we get going on putting all together
after a motor pull with our eyes closed, and sometimes...  anyway, you
get it.

2)  Check the belt.  Honestly, I haven't seen the recommendation to check
the belt soon after adjusting, but I was looking at a '66 manual and it
says check the belt 300 miles after adjusting.  Who knew?  You?  Good. 
Me?  Now I do.  :)

Well, there you go!

Adam

http://homestead.juno.com/veadelcro/cars.html

Adam, Verna and Elisabeth
1962 Standard Micro - Gretchen, 1961 Deluxe Micro - Jessel
1959 Deluxe Beetle - Horst
 
