Date: Sun, 4 Nov 2001 19:52:09 -0800 (PST)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: Edward Richardson <edr(-at-)earthlink.net>
Subject: Re: [VB] Next Question



On Sun, 4 Nov 2001, Edward Richardson wrote:

> I'm in the process of adding Safari Windows to my current '67 Camper
> restoration.  I pulled my front windshields today, and was surprised to
> see quite a bit of surface rust at the bottom of the channels where the
> rubber holds the glass.

> I don't
> want to have to re-do this all in a couple of years, or even think about
> it ever.

Ed,

If you don't want to have to deal with it anymore, then follow either any
of the suggestions already given - they all have their good points, or do
what I did during the resto of my 67, which is, to cut out the areas which
are pitted, patch in new metal, smooth and clean up the top side, and POR
it, spraying on a light coat of primer when the POR gets tacky (very
important!), then rough up and spray or brush on a coat of POR throughout
the whole window opening area, spraying on the light coat of primer when
that gets tacky (about two hours). This will waterproof and seal the
troublesome area. Before you are finished with the priming of the bus, get
some appropriate gear, and spray POR up under the dash, getting it to
cover the UNDERSIDE of the window channel areas. You want to really seal
in both sides of the window channels, so rust doesn't get a hold from
either side. 

If you are really adamant about never dealing with the window channels
again, get a long spray wand for your air-tool sprayer, and spray POR up
the center and both side box-channels which surround your windshields. 
I did. I'm serious about no more rust!

Not necessary to take the entire channel down to bare metal to do the
work, if the rest of the area is already clean and healthy. But get POR
around the whole window, under your topcoat, and separated from it by some
primer. Again, you MUST get a primer interface coat onto the POR before it
leaves the tacky stage, as paint will not stick to POR once it dries. I
sprayed several light coats of primer on, until the POR was just no longer
visible. Let it all dry overnight. 

Enjoy!

cal

