Date: Mon, 05 Nov 2001 15:40:50 -0500
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, Rhunes29(-at-)aol.com
From: Joe Clark <jclark(-at-)supernet.net>
Subject: Re: westy rear seat

>From: Rhunes29(-at-)aol.com
>
>       Hey guys, i still haven't reveived any help on the rear seat/bed. Can 
>anyone send me an pics...pleeeeeeeeeeeeeaaaaaaaaassssseeeee

IIRC, the question was about putting a breadloaf westy rear seat into a split?

If so, I suspect you'll have to do some mods.  I put the westy seat from a 71 in my 65, but did not want to mess up the wood components of the base box.

So disassembled it and set the base aside.  

I first figured out where the big folding brackets would have to be.  That's a no-brainer; you know how far apart they have to be to match the seatback/bottom 
holes, and they have to hang over the edge of the luggage area, and on non-full width seats, the left one also bolts to the fender well.  The one on the right is 
not over the fender.  WATCH OUT when drilling the holes, because one of the mounting holed for the right-side one, the lower mounting hole is right over the 
gas tank.  I opted to just not use that one, although you could put a bolt through from the back if you had the tank out.

The rest of it is just building a box to rigidify the frames and give them something to rest on in the upright and bed positions.  After figuring the bracket locations, I 
used the wood side pieces from the frame as templates to but new ones from plywood.  I also used the base to template a new one, then modified it to fit around 
the heat log.  All that was necessary then was to cut a new front piece to stretch all the way across.

Notes:
- measure twice, cut once
- use thick plywood all around, just like the original
- I used angle brackets to join the wood frame (the original is routered and joined)
- cut a notch at the bottom of the front piece for heat to get out if you have a heat log

HTH,
Joe Clark
1971 Westfalia Lagwagen
1965 Neunsitzer Bulli
1965 Karmann Kabriolett
Tallahassee Vintage VWs: http://groups.yahoo.com/group/tv2/
VW Camping Tents Info:   http://www.supernet.net/~jclark/vw/


