Date: Tue, 6 Nov 2001 01:02:16 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)home.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Non-charging battery

>From: "jdd" <johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca>
>Date: Sun, 4 Nov 2001 19:05:45 -0500
>
>So my battery doesn't wanna charge. I had it tested and they tell me
>the battery is good.  My ground is a little shakey so I'm replacing that.

Earthquakes shouldn't affect the generator too much...
 
>If it is a bad generator or a bad voltage regulator how do I figure out 
>which, if either, is bad.

Here's a message I wrote about a month ago...

---
From mattroberds(-at-)home.com Tue Nov  6 00:59:17 2001
Date: Mon, 24 Sep 2001 23:17:15 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)home.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com
Subject: Re: [VB] charging system trouble pt.4..."The Generator Strikes Back!"

>From: rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com
>Date: Mon, 24 Sep 2001 17:42:58 -0500
>
>Can anyone verify if this is a good way to test your generator while
>it's still in the bus:
>
>-unhook all the wires going from the generator to the voltage regulator
>-put the positive side of a voltmeter on the D+ terminal of the generator
>-ground the DF wire and the negative of the voltmeter to the generator
>-start the engine and check the output of the voltmeter
>-should be 12v or above

This is the Bentley-approved way to do a "quick check" of the
generator.  They also specify running the revs up to make sure
the voltage goes up.  For example, one of the 6V generators is
spec'd at 6V/1500 RPM, 18V/3000 RPM when doing this test (RPM is
generator RPM).  You might try running the engine up some and
making sure the voltage goes up...it should go well over 12 if
things are going OK.  (The generator:engine ratio seems to be
about 1.8:1, so 3000 generator RPM is about 1650 engine RPM).

>I made sure to do it quick so as not to damage anything.

The magic happens when you ground that DF wire to the generator.
If you want to try the higher-speed test, you can hook up the
voltmeter to D+ and ground, rev up the engine with one hand, and
jump DF to ground with the other when you have the revs up.  Check
the meter, unhook DF, and you should be cool.

Bentley also has a spec for checking the generator and regulator
together on the car.  You disconnect the B+ wire at the regulator
(the fat one that goes to the starter/battery, NOT the fat one that
goes to the generator) and put a voltmeter between the B+ terminal
and ground.  You fire up the engine and make sure that the voltmeter
shows something like 15 to 16 volts right after you come up off of
idle.  When you shut the engine off the voltmeter should drop to
zero before the engine stops turning to show that the cut-out in
the regulator is working.

You might want to make sure that the generator light wire isn't
grounding out.  Just disconnect the thin blue wire at the regulator,
go up front, and turn the key on (not start).  If the generator
light comes on, then you have a short to ground in that blue wire
somewhere between the dash and the regulator.  It's probably not
very common but it is a possiblity.

You might also check that the wires from the regulator to the
generator, and the heavy wire from the regulator to the starter/battery,
are in good shape.  Make sure the terminals are well-connected and
not corroded; try flexing the wires near the ends to make sure they
bend and are not crunchy.  If they're crunchy replace them.

You might also want to make sure that everything is well-grounded.
On my Bus, the regulator screws to the right wheel-well.  I have
run a ground wire from the screw on the housing of the generator
to one of the regulator mounting screws, and another from the same
regulator mounting screw to where the battery negative cable bolts
to the body.  I don't have any evidence that this helps, but it
can't hurt.  If nothing else, make sure that the bottom of the
regulator "feet" and the place they bolt to are nice and shiny.

Have you tried polarizing the generator?  Muir says to disconnect
the regulator and jump battery positive to D+ on the generator.
Bentley adds to ground DF on the generator before jumping the battery
to D+, which will probably make your generator spin like a motor, so
don't be surprised if this happens.  Once you've done this, hook
up the regulator like usual and proceed.

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds


