Date: Tue, 6 Nov 2001 01:26:22 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)home.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Flasher Relay help needed

>From: "Don Johnson" <djohnson1(-at-)snet.net>
>Date: Sun, 4 Nov 2001 21:38:58 -0500

Flasher Relay, the new R-rated track and field event...Hey! That's not
the baton!

>I've solved all the electical stuff wrong with the 65, except for one
>thing.  The indicator lights in speedometer do not blink for a left turn.

Do both of the outside bulbs blink?  Do you have the correct bulbs in
both the front and the back?  Do both rear brake lights work OK?

The reason for all this is, as originally designed, the indicator light
in the speedometer won't come on if one of the outside bulbs is burned
out.  The indicator light could also refuse to come on if the outside
bulbs were lower wattage than the originals.  If your outside lights
aren't 100%, fix them first and then re-visit the indicator light.
Especially, look at the grounds on both your tail lights.

>In the 65 wiring diagram, the relay seems to have three prongs plus
>ground.

This is true.  There are actually two different circuits in that
original relay: + and S are for flashing the outside lights (switching
+12 V to the lights) and K and ground (31) are for flashing the
indicator light (switching ground to the indicator).

>The one currrently in there (aftermarket) has three prongs, but no
>apparent ground.

That's fairly common.  The four-terminal aftermarket flashers exist
but are kind of hard to find.  If you can get a #559 flasher, it
has four terminals just like the original.

A three-terminal aftermarket flasher will have terminals marked X,
L, and P.  X is the feed - equal to + on the original.  L is the
output to the outside lights - equal to S on the original.  P is
the pilot light connection - kind of equal to K on the original.
You might check that the flasher you have now is wired this way.

Sometimes when you use a 3-terminal aftermarket flasher, the
indicator light will glow dimly with both the key and the turn
signals off.  Probably the easiest solution for this is to move
the flasher power wire from the battery fuse to the hot-with-key-on
fuse.

>BTW, out of curiosity, should the indicator lights be blinking for 
>right turn without key in start position?

As designed, the indicator light is wired to the ignition switch
(hot with key on) and the flasher relay is wired to the battery
(hot all the time).  The effect is that the outside lights will
flash no matter if the key is on or off, but the indicator light
will only work with the key on.  With an aftermarket three-terminal
flasher, the indicator light will probably still work with the key
off.  It should work the same for both left and right turns.

You don't have to go to the "dreaded 9-prong box" to fix this.  If
the wiring on the Bus is in decent shape and the bulbs are correct
all around, a correctly connected 3-terminal or 4-terminal
aftermarket flasher should do what you want.

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds


