Date: Tue, 24 Sep 2002 08:49:15 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Volksfix <volksfix(-at-)bellsouth.net>, TYPE 2 LIST <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] VW Trends Turbo Articles


>Does anyone have practical experience with this cooling system (911
>replica) ? Cylinder head temp gauge, dip stick touch test, oil temp gauge,
>detonation, etc?
>     I have had several customers ask about it, and having never used one, I
>was afraid to say one way or the other. The bucks just don't equal the cool
>(pun-intended) in my book.
>     opinions..........................?

Yeah I bought one back in my single man's days in 1995. I run (rather I 
ran) a type IV in my Beetle and this was the only way to cram it in there 
(to my knowledge at that time).

Looks great, cools great, love the sparklies.


HOWEVER - no thermostat control. No easy way to attach tin to seal the 
engine to the engine bay. Fiberglass which isn't my favorite material 
(cracks). Jack Raby reports on his website that the replicas have weak 
bearings which are overwhelmed by the weight of the fan. Mine uses a Rabbit 
alternator and after 6-8K miles never had a problem. Bearings are easy to 
come by and cheap. A bit of machine shop work and I wonder if you couldn't 
retrofit some more substantial bearings? Mine - a BAS kit - had no 
provisions for the stock OEM oil cooler and no heater box hose outlet. I 
used an OEM cooler relocated into the airstream under the car in series 
with an oilstat with an 18"x18" oil cooler sandwiched with an electric fan 
on it. This was run by a fan thermostat and only ran the fan when the 
cooler was hot.

MY PLAN - recreate the shroud in metal and fiberglass. Use two sets of Type 
IV tin to create all of the tin in metal and use the fiberglass "head" 
behind the fan. The two sets of tin is similar to the idea used by a fellow 
that wrote a book about stuffing a Type Iv into a Beetle using a Type I fan 
shroud and Type IV cylinder and head tin.

Create lower flapper doors ala Corvair/early Beetle to regulate the warmup.

Lastly - it is expensive. I bought mine via BAS in Germany b/c they were 
the only ones I knew of at the time that offered the conversion kit. Since 
then several others have come on the market. $1500 I think.

www.ahnendorp.com

My advice would be to buy a real 911 fan and alternator used and make your 
own shroud. The real 911 has no thermostat doors to control warmup. You 
should create some for your VW conversion unless you have mild weather. 
$500 plus misc parts.

Mine cooled the engine well enough to pull a Hyundai Excel from Norfolk, VA 
to Chattanooga, TN with my Beetle in July 1995. I also climbed a mountain 
once I arrived in Chatt-town. Heads were 350 and below, Oil was 230 or so 
and below. The oil temps were well regulated and the head temps leveled out 
once the car was warmed up. In town the head temps would fluctuate as the 
motor would cool off at low rpms and low load. My sender was on the sparkplug.

My car is now a barn queen awaiting attention. I built it, finished out the 
mechanicals, and then life got busy. I took it all apart to paint and there 
it sits. I also added 4 wheel disc brakes, lowered front spindles, ragtop 
sunroof, and nice aluminum running boards. I have an oval window section 
for it, a/c for it, Porsche cookie cutters, power windows and power locks 
for it.

It will look stock from the outside if you don't know your Beetle details 
except the wheels and lowered stance.


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


