From: "RD Robertson" <rdr(-at-)austin.rr.com>
To: "Richard Atwell" <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 25 Sep 2002 08:08:37 -0500
Subject: re: Pertronix dwell

Richard,

As I recall, the dwell reading on my '79 with the Pertronix Ignitor is
about 58, which is the upper limit of the permissible range for used
points, according to Bentley.

I'm running the Ignitor I with a static amount of dwell, and not the
Ignitor II, which has dynamic dwell.

According to Pertronix:
The Ignitor II senses current levels in the coil and adjusts the dwell
to maintain peak energy throughout the entire RPM range.  Dwell time
is increased or decreased with changing engine RPM and operating
conditions.  This provides more energy at high RPM, reducing misfires
while improving engine performance.

Someone who seemed to know what he was talking about at the time
(well, you know how that goes) said that having the maximum amount of
dwell provided time to build up the greatest surge of power from the
Ignitor to the coil, resulting in a hotter spark from the coil.

A couple of months ago, I replaced the original stock coil, which had
degraded to the point of having only an anemic orange spark, with a
Bosch blue coil. I needed it right then, as my bus wouldn't start
anymore, and Van's on South Lamar had one for $30. It runs better now
than it has in a long time. That being said, I received a shiny new
Pertronix Flame-Thrower 40,000 volt coil from Bus Depot recently
($40), which I haven't yet installed. Pertronix says that the
Flame-Thrower is engineered for use with the Ignitor I or II, any CDI
or electronic ignition, but is not for use with points. I'm glad that
I bought the blue coil, anyway, as I needed a spare coil to carry with
me on road trips.

Everything I've read or heard has suggested that I increase the plug
gap from .028 in. to about .045 in. with the Flame-Thrower coil
because the spark will be so much stronger. A wider gap with the high
voltage coil will supposedly increase efficiency of the combustion
process, resulting in lower emissions, better fuel economy and lower
head temps, due to less unburnt fuel combusting in the exhaust header.
Sounds good.

Timing should be the same as with points, i.e., for a '76-'79 MT,
except Calif. models, 7.5 degrees BTDC (-at-) ~900 RPM, with a maximum
advance of 42 degrees BTDC (-at-) 3,500+ RPM, vacuum hose connected. This
assumes that you're running the stock distributor.

r.d.
'79 FI bus
Austin, Texas




Date: Tue, 24 Sep 2002 21:55:44 -0500
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
Subject: Pertronix dwell
Message-ID: <B9B68FE0.1190%ratwell(-at-)mac.com>

I'm about to make the switch to electronic ignition and I've been
reading up
in the archives.

One comment I found seemed to indicate the pertronix dwell was 58
degrees. I
know my bus runs great at 50 degrees of dwell with points so what's
up?

> My '79 FI 2.0 liter engine has a Pertronix Ignitor (Hall cell
> technology) in place of the points and condensor, inside the
> stock '79 distributor.  Works great.  Cost about $50 plus
> shipping.  Don't even have to *think* about the timing or dwell.
> (Dwell is a steady 58 degrees

Other questions I have are: do you gap the plugs differently? Is the
blue
coil fine to use? Is the timing the same value as with points?

--
Richard
1978 Westfalia CDN
Austin, TX


