From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com, scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 15 Jul 2003 12:26:12 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] Bus Depot prices to HIGH ! I Found parts way

  One of the problems is HOW do you even know if it's a quality part
with-out testing. A good example is pressure plates (200 mm Sachs). These
have been great pressure plates for the last few years as real German ones
went up so high in price they became a deal, but, for the last 6 months
there has been a serious quality issue with them being stamped 1mm to small
in diameter. The general layman mechanic would never notice this, but a true
professional would? 
  I could go on and on about quality issues with all manufacturers. It's a
real pita but parts need to be checked constantly. Ate wheel cylinders, when
there was a shortage they were packaging TVS India as a replacement till
theirs were available again and even those aren't made in Germany anymore.
   If a parts vendor just keeps on selling these (parts) without checking
then there will be a lot of premature worn out engines due to the thrust
bearing wearing out due to un-equal weight.
   Once the word gets out about these everyone who bought one will pull
their engines to check. I personally have already warrentied 3 of these and
have quit selling them till I know they are right.
   Like ALL products sold by me, everything is TEST FIT and time tried
before ever sold to the general public.  It has taken me over 5 years to get
the split bus parts down pat and have been testing bat window parts for a
couple years, 100's maybe 1000's of dollars of bay parts given away to be
tested by drivers in all different climates.

Ronnie   old volks of az
www.type21parts.com

-----Original Message-----
From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com [mailto:tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com]
Sent: Tuesday, July 15, 2003 11:23 AM
To: scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu; type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Bus Depot prices to HIGH ! I Found parts way


Yeah, I agree. I agree 100%. I can't tell you how many times cheap parts
have come back and bitten me in the butt. Just 1 example. I had this old
beat up 1985 Fiero GT that I got for like... 1,200 bucks. The alternator was
rattling, but still working after 163k miles. I replaced it just because of
that (failing bearings). I replaced it with one from Discount Auto Parts,
and after 6 months, it died.. I casually coasted (while the engine died)
into the TOLL PLAZA off The Ronald Reagan Turnpike. Luckily it was at 10:00
at night (after a college class), so there wasn't much traffic.

Another time I got bit in the ass was with a cheap waterpump I bought. This
was also for another Fiero. It was for my 1987 Pontiac Fiero SE / V6. I
bought a cheap Coltec waterpump. The impellar was plastic. After 6 months, I
was cruising down the road on I-95, driving to the office, just minding my
own business. Not really paying attention, I was maybe going 65mph. THe
impellar broke free from the shaft and my engine started to overheat. The
temperature went WELL beyond the red area.. even so much in fact that it
went into the black, and pegged itself on the little metal peg. Luckily, I
was using Synthetic oil, so the motor didn't seize. I was also able to
rebuild it, no warped heads, or block. But it put that car out of comission
for the greater part of 2 and a half years while I found the time to work on
it and pull the motor.

SAME thing happened to my 1997 GrandAm that I drive every day. The
alternator went out at about 97 or so k miles (I drive a LOT of miles back
and forth to work), I replaced it with a cheap alternator from Discount Auto
Parts. In less then 5 months, the internal voltage regulator started to fail
and the lights flickered. I took it out and returned it for a free new one
at Discount again. By this time (just 4 months ago??) they said that they
switched brands, and now they get their remanufactured parts from a
different distributor because the last manufacturer had sub-par quality
parts. Well, I took the guys word for it. 4 months later, the car is still
kicking perfectly.. so we'll see.

But when you have the money, it's ALWAYS worth it to get GOOD quality
replacement parts.


Todd Jaspers - Programmer 
AmeriPath IT - Fort Lauderdale 
954-377-3291 

> CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments, is
> for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential
> and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or
> distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
> contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original
> message.
> 
> 
I watched folks buy the cheapest parts and come 
back within a year to replace it again. Folks, if the original starter 
lasted 20 years then the replacement damn well better last at least 10 
more....
