From: "Timo Schairer" <timo.schairer(-at-)student.uni-tuebingen.de>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 16 Jul 2003 10:10:56 +0200
Subject: Re: [T2] exhaust leaks and burnt valves

Hello Jasan

> My question is, how
> much of a risk of burnt exhaust valves is there if I don't get the leak
solved
> right away?

The question is: Do you want to keep the head?

Had this happen twice.

#1: Sudden loss of power, but I did not have time to work on the bus (being
on holidays in Portugal). Drove about 3000miles until the engine died. The
burnt valve did not make smooth contact with the valve-seat (deformed
valve), punshing the valve-seat in on one side, and at last, loosening the
valve-seat. Finally the valve hit the piston -> R.I.P. (it was definitely
this way, had small backfires that got louder and louder and the smell of
gas increasing. Adjusted valve-clearance every 1500miles.)

#2: I was in northern Norway, which is quite a distance to Germany. Steady
loss of power, no good idle. Did valve-adjusting every evening, just to keep
the valve from smashing the piston. (Now I can adjust the valve-clearance
really fast!) Travelled some 2000miles this way, got home safe. The head was
not damaged at all. Just one-third of the valve gone...

What did I learn from this? Don't use scrap parts, get the head done by a
professional (at least someone who has the tools and experience) and always
put in new valves.

If I would be in your situation, I would definitely check for exhaust leaks,
as you mentioned. Do a compression-test. If you don't have a tester, pull
one spark-plug-wire and listen/measure if there is a drop in rpm. Put the
wire back on. Do this with every cylinder. No drop or just a slight drop in
rpm on one cylinder->most likely this head is leaking. Another "test" to
check if there's something wrong, is to have someone turning the engine by
hand and you're listening very closely to each side of the engine (from
underneath the engine). You can definitely hear if there's not much
compression on one cylinder (no hissing noise).

If you are sure you have a burnt exhaust valve and no time to work on your
bus, dirve it carefully, avoid high engine temps (as always :-) ), check
valve clearance very(!) often and avoid travelling long distances.

Hope it's an exhaust leak,

Timo

'78 westy
'84 beetle
