From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: "Ted Finesman" <tedebare(-at-)one.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 16 Jul 2003 10:31:35 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] Saving radio settings

Depends on the radio that you are using.  If we are talking stock
radio from the 70's or earlier, then there is no issue in the saving
as the station programming is mechanical.

  If you have an aftermarket radio, _most_ radios are set with two
power supplies.  There will be the primary power supply which
provides the electrical power for your display, cd/tape player,
radio function (this is the one that typically is wired to an
intermittantly hot lead like ignition).

  There is also the secondary power (this one is wired to a lead
which is always hot)which saves things like the time on the clock
and radio station programming.  If your particular aftermarket radio
has dual power wires, it will be a simple matter of finding the lead
responsible for memory and running a hot lead from a suitable power
source (vehicle battery, external battery of proper voltage) and
keeping the hot signal to that lead while the unit is removed from
its selected mounted location.

Two power leads are very common these days and it is not unusual for
there to be a sticker with a key on it actually on the head unit
somewhere notifying you of the proper color coding and purpose of
these wires.  Most often found on units with 'high level' output or
a 'veritable rats nest of wires' hanging out of the unit.  Low level
output head units have a much simpler setup as they utilize RCA
cables to get various signals to amps, caps, occassionally
crossovers with an older setup, to eventually go to the speakers.

  Neither of these are to be confused with the line signal wire.
The signal wire exists solely for sending signals to auxilliarly
devices, giving those devices a signal to automate.  The signal wire
is often used for devices like automated antennae or arials,
amplifiers, cross overs, capacitors and occassionally such flashy
items as neon and other fancy interior lighting flash.

I recommend that you find your power lead.  Get a 6 or 12 volt
battery depending on your vehicle and just run a lead solely to the
stereo, _before_ you disconnect your car battery from your
electrical system.  Remember that you do not want to have two
batterys providing power to a single lead at the same time.  While
the radio can handle it, the wiring is designed to carry a
particular charge and overloading for any extended period of time
might cause you some issues.  Just wire the secondary battery to the
radio RIGHT before you disconnect the vehicle battery.  Unless you
take 15minutes to do this, you should be okay.

Seann Stafford
76' T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
76' T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
