Cc: toobwiz(-at-)knology.net
From: Chris Slaymaker <nurofiz(-at-)knology.net>
Date: Sat, 23 Oct 2004 18:23:07 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: More on 75 Westy project FS, Knoxville TN

I spoke with Don about this, and we drove out to the countryside (where 
he used to live) to see the project.

The bus will be ready to drive once these things are accomplished:

Install master cylinder/servo onto new (to Don) front beam
Install hubs/rotors/calipers/wheels onto front spindles
Install engine/tranny

It will prolly take a day or so of shaking out the bugs such as engine 
issues, electrical gremlins and so forth.

Being a detail kind of guy, I would want to clean it up inside and out, 
bolt all the Westy interior down (which is in fine shape) and it would 
be ready to drive home.  I kept asking Don, "Why would you want to give 
this up?"

His reply was that it originally started out as a project between him 
and his son, but now his son has his sights an another car excusing 
himself as a mechanical compleat idiot.  (Who among us hasn't been one 
of those at one time?)  Don himself is reluctant to keep it because of 
the gymnastics involved with maintenance.  I assure him that once 
everything was brought back into spec, maintenance (while regular) is 
fairly easy.

His choice is either a Ford van (I think it's a conversion van) with a 
V8, or the Westy.  I know which one _I_ would choose.

Once I get the tow hitch back on Lurch, I will demonstrate to him how 
it performs on the boat ramp (another one of his concerns).

The parts bus is OK, but i has been wrecked such that the driver's door 
will not open.  It is a hardtop Westy, but the stuff behind the 
bulkheads has been removed.  There are lots of spare parts in the back 
(ie. engine and tranny parts) and I got ogle-eyed over it.  Don said, 
"Take it if you want it." and unbelieving, I took home a straight rear 
bumper with over-riders and a side step.  The z-bed is full-width, the 
jalousie windows are in fine shape.  It has an engine and tranny.  It 
could be made roadworthy with a little work.

I will be gald to help him get his 75 bus back on the road, then he can 
decide if he still wants to sell it.

Chris Slaymaker
1971 VW Westfalia
"What's your hurry?"
