To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)shagadelic.org>
Date: Sun, 24 Oct 2004 09:55:30 -0700
Subject: Idea for ignition circuit improvement on FI Busses

The "double relay" thread that's been going on for the last couple of 
days got me to thinking of a potentially cool circuit improvement one 
could make on FI Busses...

We all know that leaving the ignition key in the "on" position is bad 
for the coil and can fry an electronic ignition (such as Pertronix).  
Unfortunately, not everyone's Bus has an "accessory" position on the 
ignition switch (if mine is supposed to, I'll be darned if I can find 
it), and well sometimes you really want to listen to the radio with the 
engine off (NPR listeners know this to be true! :-)

Now, the FI Busses have that nifty double-relay that provides juice to 
the fuel pump when cranking the engine and when the engine is running 
(AFM flap open).  It seems to me that same relay output could be used 
to power the Pertronix and the coil (either directly or via another 
relay[*]).  This would energize your ignition system only when you 
really want it energized -- when the engine is turning over.

Can anyone think of a reason why you would NOT want to hook it up this 
way?  (Other than "non-stock configuration" -- one can always add a 
page of notes to their Bentley describing the modification).

[*] For a standard ignition, I guess you'd want to use a relay to 
energize the coil in order to avoid too much current draw through the 
double-relay and the wiring that feeds the double-relay.  If you have a 
CDI, you could probably skip adding a second relay; I am guessing that 
a CDI would already have a relay internally ... low-current +12v input 
to switch it on, but it draws its real current directly from the 
battery using a larger lead.  Pertronix draws very little current, so 
you could probably power that directly from the double-relay in either 
case.

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
