Date: Fri, 29 Apr 2005 12:56:30 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Pablo <franklinstower48(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Exhaust advice

You've got dozens of options. If your pipes are good, why not find a good unviersal muffler to take the place of the Quiet Pack muffler made of Compacted Rust (tm).... <grin!>

A good muffler shop could make you new pipes too. 

If the quiet pack has a flange welded on it, cut off the flange of the quiet pack and have it welded to your universal muffler and have it welded onto your replacement muffler. 

I see good replacement muffler options on the back ends of Nissan and Toyota SUVs and Minivans. Smallish round and some smallish oval mufflers. They have to fit between the spare tire underneath and the fenderwell. Thinking of the Nissan Quest, I think it was a Toyota 4-Runner or the camry based SUV - whatever that one is called. 

A quick walk around a big used car lot like Car Max would give you an idea of what you are looking for. Tell the salemen that seek to help you buy a car that you do need a used car of some sort but it has to have a pretty muffler or you won't buy it... <griN!> 

I also have seen a few of the front mufflers (some late model cars come with cats, followed by a muffler under the floor and then another near the bumper if you didn't know) that would work such as the front muffler on my Honda CR-V. 

I suspect the quiet pack mufflers fit the mini-cars from Europe or (more likely) some of the tiny Asian mini-cars and trucks that we don't get here.

To NAPA to browse the catalogs? Find Yahoo's Microcar website and ask for muffler dimensions? 

Hopefully this will give you a source or two to hunt. I'd get onto the aftermarket parts websites in the UK and see what the dimensions are for the European microcars like the Fiat 500/Multipla, Fiat Uno, Mercedes A-class, VW Polo (?) and any of the tiny Suzuki mufflers, the new and old Minis. Once you have a list of cars with good donors and dimensions you can see if you can source it on this side of the ocean cheaper. I'd look for a stainless steel replacement. I recently put a Borla stainless steel universal muffler on the rear of my '97 VW Cabrio for $125 (parts and shipping). Muffler only, looks stock, sounds perfect - a bit throaty on acceleration (still not loud) but quiet at steady speeds. Too big for the bus application but they may have round options. 

Hope this helped. 

Chris
'78 Westy 2,7L 
'65 Beetle 2.0
'97 VW Cabrio
'99 CR-V 
