Date: Thu, 24 Apr 2003 15:51:01 -0700
To: bodyscape(-at-)webtv.net (LJ,LiL John, Uphill Jill),vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: Scott Fraser <kn6f(-at-)dolphinsci.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] five speed

At 05:35 PM 4/24/03 -0500, LJ,LiL John, Uphill Jill wrote:
>Anybody have experience with G. Bergs five-sp conversion kit. Is this a
>good way to increase hwy speed or did I just open Pandora"s box?
>67 std 1776 prog. weber


Look at the ratios.  The fifth gear final ratio should be about the same as 
the fourth gear on a standard trans.  What is does is provide smaller steps 
between gears.

An analogy would a platform four feet high and four steps to get to the top 
of the platform.  Each step would be 12" high.

The platform next to it is also four feet high, but with five steps to get 
to the top.  Each step would be 9.6" high.

The smaller steps, allow you to keep the RPM of the engine up in its power 
band from gear to gear.

FINALLY, some quotes from Gene Berg's site which I gathered after writing 
the above.

"... we continually heard and still hear from many people we talk to today 
that want a 5 speed today, is that they are doing it to get an "overdrive". 
The problem is that "all" VW's ever made already have an overdrive in 4th 
gear. In my opinion, people who try to install a even higher than stock 
final drive for an air cooled VW are crazy. Our tests have proved 
conclusively over and over again that a higher overdrive causes the engine 
to get "less" mileage, and runs much hotter because the fan turns slower, 
which obviously shortens the life of the engine. Few people stop to think 
about what is actually happening when a higher overdrive is installed. You 
are giving the leverage to the car and taking it away from the engine. Like 
moving the teeter-totter leverage out to the heavy person's side rather 
than to the light person's side. Thus, taking more HP to drive the car the 
same speed regardless of the size of the VW engine. More HP is more heat, 
less mileage and a shorter life. I tried a bigger pulley to speed the fan 
up again. However, it took more HP, which caused as much heat as it 
removed. I have found nothing to cure these problems so simply stay with 
the factory overdrive 4th gear in the 5th location."

"I designed the 5 speed so people could have a close ratio 4 speed gear box 
utilizing and keeping the stock overdrive gear in the 5th gear position."


Scott
'60 DC
