Date: Thu, 24 Apr 2003 21:05:59 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Taillight wiring and Door Hinge replacement?

>From: "Dave" <brooksdj(-at-)earthlink.net>
>Date: Thu, 24 Apr 2003 20:13:30 -0400
>
>First: Anyone see a reason to add heavier gauge wring (say 14G) tot he
>Taillights/Brakelights?

For stock parts, not really.  If you were going to plug in a trailer,
it might help.  While it is possible for strands of the wire to break,
or water to get in between the wire and the insulation and corrode the
wire, it seems to me like the connections at the end of the wires break,
corrode, and screw up more often than the wires themselves.  Often, just
unplugging the wires, wire-brushing the push-on males, and plugging the
wires back in will help.

If you're really bored one day, take off the battery ground strap, start
at the battery positive terminal, and unplug/unscrew/unbolt - clean -
reconnect all the connections.  Consider soldering the riveted/pressed
clips in your fuse box together.  Consider soldering the riveted
connections on your headlight switch together -- see this article for
details: http://www.type2.com/library/electris/vw-hauptlicht-schalter.html .
Put the battery ground strap back on as the very last thing you do.
Doing all this stuff will help raise the voltage to your headlights,
wipers, turn signals, _and_ tail lights.

If you're not really bored, still take off the battery ground strap and
do just the battery positive cable and the fat red wire that runs from
the solenoid bolt on the starter to the fuse box.  This red wire is the
main supply of current to the rest of the Bus.

>Think it would help brighten up the lights any and be needed to use
>the LED Taillights/Brakelights?

LEDs use much less current than incandescent bulbs.  The bright filament
of an 1157 bulb draws 2.1 amps at 12 volts.  I found a spec for a 4" round
LED brake lamp of 0.4 amps at 12 volts.  In other words, for the same
voltage drop, you could run 1 incandescent brake lamp or 5 LED brake lamps.
So, you don't need to replace wires to run LED brake lamps.

Please note: Run real LED brake lights with DOT or EU certification marks
on the lenses.  If you don't know what these marks look like, study the
tail lights on any new car in the parking lot.  Don't just slap some clear
lenses on your stock buckets and stick an LED cluster with a brass base
in the socket.  It looks kewl but probably doesn't put out as much light
in as many directions as the stock lamps and will eventually get you
rear-ended.

Matt Roberds
