From: "Rob Laffoon" <captoaster(-at-)cox.net>
To: <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Thu, 24 Apr 2003 22:11:34 -0500
Subject: OTP Friday post   Honda's great new ad     VW used to be the

TAKE 606
http://www.honda.co.uk/newcars/accord300k.html   2 minute movie   Dial up
killer!!!!!

TV VIEWERS have been left stunned by Honda's astonishing new advertisement.
Shot in real time, it shows a transmission ball bearing setting 84 other
pieces of equipment in motion across a floor.
It's a mechanical domino effect - or a hi-tech version of the old board game
Mousetrap.
And the #750,000 two minute ad - called Cog - took eight men nearly five
months to prepare.
At one point, three tires roll uphill because inside they have been weighted
with bolts and screws
Later, a set of windscreen wiper blade helicopter through the air, suspended
from a line of metal twine.
It all ends with the electronic door locks activated as a complete Honda
rolls off the stand.
The advert was shown for the first time last week and has already become a
firm favorite with viewers.
It was filmed on an industrial estate outside Paris.
The final shoot lasted four days and nights and ran to an incredible 606
takes until the makers were satisfied that everything was perfect.
Even if one item was just a sixteenth of an inch off, a take would be
ruined.
Film assistants had to tiptoe round the set so as not to disturb the
feather- sensitive superstructure of the arranged metalwork.
The slightest tremor could have undone hours of work.
The full advertisement is divided in two - because the studio couldn't fit
in all the kit at once.
Just one second of computer generation is used to link the two halves - when
an exhaust pipe rolls across the floor.
A Honda spokesman said: "Filming it was a real pain. But we believe the
results are outstanding and something very different.
"We're really pleased with it."
The ads will initially run for 10 days and then be replaced by one 60-
second ad and five 30-second ads which will be shown for six weeks
Rob
