Date: Sat, 26 Apr 2003 16:02:12 -0500
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: Kabayo <cabayao(-at-)earthlink.net>
Subject: Re: [VB] Transmission break-in

>Maybe I just dont understand the search engine for the archives, but I was
>unable to find anything about breakin procedures for new transmissions.  I'm
>assuming drive sensibly and change the oil after 3k miles?  Also, anyone
>have a source for magnetic plugs?


First trans oil change was at 300 miles on new splittie buses. 600 on bays.


I have a 1970 bus owner's manual handy.  Here are the intervals:

First motor oil change: 600 miles
Then change every 3000 miles under normal conditions, 1500 miles under
severe conditions, and 750 miles under arctic conditions.


First Transmission oil change: 600 miles
Then check every 6000.  No more changes unless necessary to meet differing
viscosity requirements due to ambient temperatures.




I also have a 1966 bus owner's manual.  Here are the intervals:

At 300 miles:
Check V-belt tension
Change engine oil
Change transmission and reduction gear oil
Check rear axle nuts for tightness
Check tire pressure and security of wheel bolts
Clean fuel pump filter
Check breaker points and replace if necessary, grease distributor
Check contact breaker gap and timing
Check valve clearance and fit new cylinder head cover gaskets
Check clutch pedal free play
Check tie rod end dust seals and security of tie rod ends
Check hydralic brake system lines and connections for leakage and damage.
Check brake fluid level and adjustment of hand and foot brakes
Check operation of complete electrical system and adjust headlight alignment
Road test vehicle, check foot and hand brake efficiency.  Check idling
adjustment and heating


Every 3000 miles
Change engine oil
lube carb linkage
check battery, clean & grease terminals
lube front axle
check steering gear for leaks
lube door and hood locks and hinges


Every 6000 miles
Check air cleaner, clean lower part if necessary
Check rear axle oil level, check for leaks
Adjust link pins, check and adjust toe-in
Check hydralic brake system lines and connections for leakage and damage.
Check brake fluid level and adjustment of hand and foot brakes
Check thickness of brake linings
Check V-belt tension
Clean fuel pump filter
Check breaker points and replace if necessary, grease distributor
Check contact breaker gap and timing
Check valve clearance and fit new cylinder head cover gaskets
Clean spark plugs and check compression pressures
Check exhaust system for damage
Check rubber valve in crankcase ventilation system
Check clutch pedal free play
Check tie rod end dust seals and security of tie rod ends
Steering gear: Check and adjust play between finger and worm
Check tire wear, damage and pressure
Check operation of complete electrical system and adjust headlight alignment


Every 30000 miles:

Change rear axle oil, clean magnetic drain plugs, check for leaks
Change reduction gear oil
Clean, grease and adjust front wheel bearings



I get my magnetic plugs from junkyards.  Getting hard to find these days
though.

Kabayo

"Government at its best is a necessary evil; at its worst, an intolerable
one" - Thomas Paine

Check out the Libertarian Party at http://www.lp.org
