From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 10 Jul 2002 17:40:37 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] electrical gremlins - just about to leave on a trip...

There is a procedure that you can use to look for mysterious ground
problems. You need a schematic, good eyes or glasses, a $20.00 analog
volt-ohmmeter, and maybe a few spare bulbs (known to be good) and crimp-on
ends in case you break them.
Before you begin, it would NOT be a bad idea to go to your chassis ground
strap to inspect, clean and replace it. It goes from the transmission to the
frame*.
If this strap is bad or has a poor connection, even the following tests may
prove futile and frustrating, so it is a good idea to start by checking the
ground. Not a bad idea to open up your turn signal switch either, if it is
serviceable, and clean the contacts. These may have cleared your problem, so
check once more before you go further.
Go to the fuse block, turn the ignition key on, and use the volt-ohmmeter
set to volts, or a timing light, to determine which side of the fuse block
(top or bottom) is the hot side. To do this, first find a hot fuse (not all
will be hot, because some are operated through switches and blinkers), then
remove that fuse and test again to find the hot side of the fuse slot. The
other side is what you will be testing (for ground). That should go for all.
This is probably the lower side of the fuse block.
Turn off your ignition.
Now you would to go to your battery.. disconnect it, just to be safe.
Go back to the fuse block, and take off one fuse at a time, identifying the
circuit with your schematic.
Set the volt-ohmmeter to "ohms", 10X, and connect the negative side to
ground. With the battery out and the fuse removed, test the load side of the
fuse block.
In most cases, your ground side of the fuse block will show a pretty solid
ground through the "load". If it does not, you may have an "open", such as a
burned out bulb or loose connection or broken wire. If it does show a load
(ground), you can reset the ohms scale to 100x and it should drop way down
but remain constant when you shake the car. If it swings around, you may
have a grounded circuit.
In normal conditions, any current that is applied to the part of the circuit
past the fuse and switch, blinker or whatever will go straight to chassis
ground THROUGH the load. The load could be any part of the circuit that is
grounded on one side, such as a motor or lamp. So, these circuits are
normally grounded, but ONLY through the load. If the load is disconnected,
the circuit should NOT show a ground. Circuits can have multiple loads
(especially with regards to lower wattage lamps like dash lamps), so pay
attention to your schematic. If the wiring is shorted to ground by means of
a defect such as a bit of rubbed insulation, it can draw too much current,
either popping the fuse or starving the load device (motor, lamp, etc).
90% or better of your problems will be either and open or a ground, and most
of those will be a ground.
Lamps and switches will generally show an open, but motors go bad also by
drawing too amperage (windings short out).
To rule these problems out, start at your fuse block, identify the circuit
that you are dealing with (if you can) and go to the load (motor, lamp,
etc), then disconnect the load by taking out the bulb or pulling off the
leads from the load and taping them off. Be very careful and methodical
about every thing that you do, observing every step.. easy does it. One step
at a time.. Don't pull off a bunch of leads and get lost in what you are
doing. You can pull out all the fuses at one time and line them up in
order.. that is fine.
Now, if you have disconnected the load, go back to the fuse block, you
should be able to look for the ground and NOT find it. If there is still a
ground there, then either you have incorrectly identified the circuit and
disconnected the wrong load, there is another load on that circuit, OR you
have a grounded wire (shorted to chassis). Do one more thing if you see an
"open" (no ground). Physically shake the car as hard as you can, up and
down, side to side. If it is a floating ground that is behind the erratic
problem, you may see your needle swing around. If that happens, check it out
real good.
You entire car is a ground, and the car is moving as you drive, so wires can
get rubbed or pinched, and ground problems can come and go accordingly, with
the movement of the vehicle. GREMLINS!
*With a loose chassis to transmission ground, what will happen is that when
you apply current to a circuit by means of a switch or turn signal, the
circuit is not complete or it is so poor that the current will begin to go
back through the switches to other circuits, causing a bewildering array of
problems. GREMLINS!
It becomes all the more bewildering because correct turn signal, flasher and
brake signal operation goes through the blinker, turn signal assembly, and
the goes to the brake lights. If a brake light circuit is open (example,
burned out lamp, badly grounded lamp holder or loose/corroded connection),
your turn signals will not work either. If that circuit is grounded ahead of
the load, you will pop fuses every time you operate the turn signal or step
on the brake pedal.
Jan B



