From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 10 Jul 2002 23:27:30 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Westy conversion?

> .. But what do you think of using the stove in there without the pop-top
up? Do you see any problems with this? This is the combined stove/sink with
lid, and it sits against the driver's side, far to the interior of the door.
Of course, there are always the louvered windows, and I would not use it
often.. maybe only in a downpour to heat some soup. If I was really going to
cook in there I would definitely think having the pop-top up would help.
Also, if you are familiar with these interiors, is that a little
refrigerator on the lower right of that stove/sink combo?

What I have is under the stove, I think.. not very big but has a little knob
on top. Even if it is a refrigerator, it'll break or is broken.. then what?

> I was a little bummed about the interior I scored not having a gas stove.
Then I polled a few people who had them & pretty much everyone prefered just
a regular coleman camp stove. apparently even w/ poptop & louvers if you
cook anything of any real food content it tends to coat the entire interior
w/ a film after a while. plus the extra moisture from steam doesn't help.
I'm real familiar w/ all the interiors, but some apparently had the gas
(propane) fired friges, but it seems that it wasn't exactly standard. That
is, not all late westys had the full package, some just had more storage or
a glorified cooler (like mine)

Yeah, well.. this is the other thing that I was afraid of. The greasy film.
You can clean that off your walls in a kitchen, but the headliner of a
vehicle is a little more difficult, I think. I don't think I'd be doing much
more with that stove than very occasional use.. I'd much rather cook
outdoors while camping.. Isn't that what camping is all about? You have a
choice of firewood, charcoal, portable propane, white gas (Coleman) or
buffalo chips.. If you want to cook on a stove, stay home. To tell you the
truth, I don't think I would ever want an RV.. Too much like staying home,
or taking your house with you.. Even a full-sized camper takes a LOT of
"housework" to keep it clean and tidy. Of course, camping with a tent
requires housekeeping too, but I think the bus is a perfect happy medium,
AND goes well with tent camping.
The thing that I DO like about the stove/sink combination is that you have
it and it is all together.. that makes a better use of space and gives more
living room inside.

> If this bus has it, & in decent shape. Could I get you to cut the rear
passenger corner out? This is from the bottom up to just above the rear
light. Mine was smacked by the PO. Plus the light assembly is busted on
mine. TIA if this is possible, but no worries if not. good luck.
>
I just sent you a picture of the right rear quarter panel. (Hope I got the
right address)...Excuse me, but what is a PO?
While your explaining, you can take back that comment about sucky
Californians and say, "pretty please"... LOL. On second thought, you're
right about the Californians, so a "pretty please" will do.


