To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "Jeff Tickner" <JeffT(-at-)softlanding.com>
Date: Thu, 11 Jul 2002 10:08:17 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Westy conversion?

--=_alternative 004DA5C685256BF3_=
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"

> I was a little bummed about the interior I scored not having a gas 
stove.
Then I polled a few people who had them & pretty much everyone preferred 
just
a regular Coleman camp stove.

I love my built-in stove, but I only use it regularly for 1 thing. Boiling 
water for coffee in the morning. The convenience of having the stove right 
there, in the camper is nice. I do cook other stuff on it, but I use a 
good non-stick pan and we are vegetarians so there is very little fat 
content.

One thing I changed that really was an "improvement" for me was pulling 
the guts of the electric fridge. I only ever used it to pre-cool on 110VAC 
and when I drove because it runs the battery down so fast and doesn't work 
that well. I used to use the battery charger timer (put power panel on 
"city power", turn on fridge, twist charger timer, voila, timer controlled 
battery power) so I wouldn't forget to turn it off. I installed a drain 
like the cooler has so the water from the ice has some place to go. Now I 
have a lot more storage. That being said, if I could have upgraded the 
existing fridge from 12VDC/110VAC to 3-way AC/DC/propane I probably would 
have kept the guts. I've never heard of the chest style 76-79 fridge being 
3-way.

In any case, those 76-79 cooler/fridges are very well insulated compared 
to your average cooler. We use our's as the "freezer" and a regular cooler 
for cold drinks etc. We still had original ice block remnants in there 
after a week in NC.

I also pulled the stock water tank and put on a eurocampers provided 45 
liter water tank that mounts underneath. I checked Steve's website and he 
no longer lists them which is too bad. Another BIG increase in storage 
space, more water capacity, lower center of gravity. Did require some 
replumbing,  an on-demand RV water pump and moving the propane tank to the 
other side. I'll have to take pictures sometime and post them.

Jeff Tickner
78 camper deluxe "10C JED"
--=_alternative 004DA5C685256BF3_=--
