From: "David Maurio" <david.maurio(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "John Rogers" <jnrogers(-at-)erols.com>,
Date: Thu, 11 Jul 2002 17:42:13 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] RE: Dual battery Relay

Ok, spent some time on the phone with Hella (the company that makes the
single-relay kit) just found out the Dual Battery Relay Kit that I ordered
from the bus depot is actually made for TOWING a camper... thus the
directions stating that I have to connect to a 12/7S socket (shown here as a
"S plastic socket"
http://www.towingbrackets.com/acatalog/Online_Catalogue_Accessories_138.html
 )  That socket is what plugs a trailer camper into your main vehicle
electric when your towing, allowing all of the electrical components of the
trailer to be powered by the aux battery when your ignition is off.

SO, any electrical component that I want to run off of the aux battery (int.
lights, radio, etc) will have to be wired directly to the aux battery, since
when the vehicle is running, both batteries are connected together in
parallel and being charged by the alternator but when the ignition switch is
off, the contacts are open, completely disconnecting the second battery from
the vehicle electrical system.  However, the directions for the relay
clearly suggest that no consumers should be connected to the aux. battery
during charging... which means that if the radio and int. lights are
connected to the aux battery, I shouldn't use them when the ignition is
on...

Yes, this relay will allow my secondary battery to be charged when the bus
is running, but if the main battery is drained completely dead, the
secondary is useless because there needs to be power going through the relay
in order for it to switch over to the secondary... and that power comes from
the main battery...

I think the best way to go here would actually be to leave wiring as it is,
with all of the consumers connected to the main battery, leave the relay in
as I have it installed, and install a manual marine switch (like the one I
had in there when I bought the bus) to switch back and forth between
batteries, so that when camping I can use the aux battery, when driving I
can use the main battery and still charge the aux. battery.  Detailed info
and diagrams are shown here:
http://members.bellatlantic.net/~vze3t2qs/bus/relay.htm

Hopefully this info will also help those who have emailed me regarding the
same issues... if you have any other questions, please feel free to email
me!

Thanks,
David
76 Westy






