Date: Thu, 11 Jul 2002 22:46:32 -0700
To: "Jackson Burgess" <jb(-at-)nv.net>,<type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: RE: [T2] Deep Cycle Battery FAQ

At 04:00 PM 7/11/2002, Jackson Burgess wrote:
>The ACM battery I'm looking at
>weighs about 50 lbs, but I can live with that. As you know, It's mainly
>the reefer draw I'm looking at, at 4.5 amps/hr, plus stereo (no power
>amp) and interior lights.

 From the weight of your battery I'm guessing it's no more than 50 
amp-hours.  That is 40 useable (80% DOD) which is about 8 hours for your 
fridge and lights (assuming only a couple of hours of lights, and 
intermittent fridge).  So it will just barely last you through one night if 
everything is working well.

>I do have a built-in 10amp charger when hooked
>up to shore power. And I also want to use it as a backup cranker. So the
>trade-off should be okay for my application, don't you think?

If the 8 hours off of shore power is enough for you, then yes I think it 
should be okay.  Do get the fridge fan though, the small amount of 
circulation inside the fridge will make a huge difference and allow you to 
turn the thermostat down a couple of notches.  I verified this by 
installing a digital thermometer inside my refrigerator (using the outdoor 
wire) and watching it for days at a time under a wide range of 
conditions.  The fridge fan is a $1 part that you have to pay $20 for, but 
it is absolutely essential in hot weather.

>I would
>also like to ask you about the life of the ACM vs the gel relative to
>number of discharge cycles. What I've read indicates the ACMs have an
>advantage in that respect, although I have no numbers. Could you give us
>your view?

Er, ummmm... :)  I'm afraid I'm pretty ignorant when it comes to Gel 
cells.  I have only owned a few small ones years ago, and I did not have 
good luck with them, but then I was not as careful back then with things 
like rate of charge and (most important, it seems) not allowing them to 
stay discharged for any length of time.  On the other hand, the Hawker AGM 
batteries I have been playing with lately are wonderful.  38lbs, 42 
amp-hours, and one of them can start my car easily even with it's large, 
high-compression V-8 and every electrical load turned on high.  I'm 
thinking seriously about mouting one of them between the frame rails 
underneath the bus as the primary starting battery and using the old 
battery tray to store a decent sized toolbox.  I'm going to mount another 
one inside the space-saver spare in the back of the Mustang for better 
weight distribution.  It fits perfectly!  About 7x9x4".  After reading that 
excellent FAQ you posted, it seems pretty clear that the author thinks AGM 
technology is superior to Gel.  Based on that and my own small amount of 
experience I don't see any reason to go with a Gel cell over AGM.

-David

