From: "Jackson Burgess" <jb(-at-)nv.net>
To: "'David Schwarze'" <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 11 Jul 2002 23:04:12 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] RE:  914 motor into a bus (was 0mile engine)

Well, everything I say here is also opinion, but if that's not okay,
then what are we doing here, right? 

Maybe 10 or 11 years ago when I wanted to squeeze some horsepower out of
a 914 I was building, which was the 1.8 instead of the 2.0, I did a lot
of reading about both motors. It was generally considered by performance
builders that, all other things being equal, volume of flow in and out
of the head, along with, as you say, compression ratio (which is as
dependant upon the shape and volume of the head portion of the
combustion chamber as it is on stroke), was where everyone was looking
to increase horsepower. These things have to do with the design and
grind of the head. But everyone was of the same opinion: if you wanted
max horsepower, you started with Porche 2.0 heads, if you could affor
and find them. Word was that the 2.0 radically outperformed the 1.8
head, which had much smaller valves, on all flowbench tests. 

I have to believe that, if you're trying to get max flow through the
head, and if two heads are identical other than I/O valve size, the
potential for moving air through the head will be greater for the head
with larger valves. That said, I can't testify that all other things
were equal between these two heads. Of course valve stem size, and
anything else along the airstream, can affect the speed or ease of the
flow, which relates to volume passing through. On the other hand,
because a thing is smaller doesn't necessarily mean it will disturb flow
less that a larger object that is more aerodynamic. But in fact when I
built this motor you could buy some very expensive valves for the 2.0
head that had smaller but stronger stems. I will say this: you give a
good airflow man a head that has larger intake and exhaust ports and
valves than another otherwise identical head, and he will find a way to
move more air through it, no matter what you do with yours. 

Re the Porche cam, as I recall it was no more significant than a mild
street performance VW aftermarket cam. And I do remember that one big
thing with power builders was getting rid of the potential for valve
<float> at high rpms through use of stiffer valve springs, especially
with steeper and taller cams. Personally I opted for a moderate increase
of horsepower with ease of maintenance and good driveability. I went
with a counterweighted balanced crank, balanced rods and pistons, bigger
barrels,  flow-ground 1.8 heads (along with some grinding of the exhaust
manifold ports), converted to hydraulic lifters and an electonic
ignition, and stayed with FI (which by the way handled the changes with
little hassle). What a fun car that was!

At any rate, everyone in those days was trying to get hold of Porche 2.0
heads, and I'm sure they are still in high demand today, and I'm sure
there are good reasons for that. 

My guess is that VW first went with the bigger valves in the type 4 to
gain horsepower, but later found efficiencies that allowed them to
develop the same HP (and better deal with smog requirements) with
smaller valves. 


Jaxon Burgess
San Diego
'79 ASI Conversion


-----Original Message-----
From: David Schwarze [mailto:schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net] 
Sent: Thursday, July 11, 2002 9:28 PM
To: Jackson Burgess
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: 914 motor into a bus (was 0mile engine)

At 10:14 AM 7/9/2002, you wrote:
> >Of course, your other option for the heads would be to replace them
>with bus
>2.0 heads and sell the 914 ones on eBay for more than enough to cover
>the new
> >bus ones :)
>
>Of course, there goes all your power. Those 914 2.0 heads had huge
>valves and were killer. Be glad to trade you my Type4 2.0 heads if you
>decide to go that way ;>)

How do you know that the larger valves made more power?  The dynamometer

showed that I picked up power by going to smaller valves in my 2.0.  The

Porsche valves also have larger stems than the bus valves.  The stems
are a 
major hindrance to airflow in general, and bigger stems are a bigger 
hindrance.  If I had to guess, I'd guess that the larger valves and
stems 
were put in more for reliability than power.

I think the Porsche engine makes so much more power primarily because of
a) 
higher compression and b) more aggressive camshaft profile, but I have
no 
proof of that either so I put it forth as opinion only.  :)

-David

