Date: Fri, 12 Jul 2002 07:16:21 +0100
To: type2- list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From:  <gegg(-at-)wherespaul.fsnet.co.uk>
Subject: heater control pods

Hey ho
	First of all, a belated thanks to all who suggested JB Weld to fix the popping out pressfit in my T2 2l idle  circuit. The beastie (as she's called, in honour of my
previous vehicle, a 1600 Scirocco GT, who was called the beast) is now purring like a pussycat. She has a nice  new respray (sorry, but I asked the bloke to do it in the
brightest red he could get, so it's now FORD radiant red - but for 150 british quid including 2 pak paint  that's nowt to grumble about.) My next problem is.....
During the winter it get's bl##dy cold here in sunny Scotland and one of my heater control doodas was rotten  with rust, so I wasn't getting any heat up front.
(the other one is in not bad cond, but the cables are kinda disappeared). To get some warmth I ripped the swine  out and replaced it with a beer can cut up and
modified, sealing it up with filler. mmm cosy, but not cosy enough.
Now being Scottish, I'm a wee bit mean, plus I've not much money and a 15 month old daughter, so I decided I  needed to boost the airflow a bit, at minimal
cost. I got a fan out of a vauxhall heater, stuck it in a paint pot, suitably modified(it was the perfect sized  cylinder) with some holes and more filler (fibreglass this time -
splashing out). Cut a section out of the duct, popped in my paint pot and wired it to the switch that just  happened to land in my pocket when I was removing the fan.
Bob's yor uncle - TURBO.
My problem now is it's summer and I can't keep cool enough. Anyone ever fabricated one of these pod thingies.  Yes I know you can buy them, but like I said,
I'm mean, skint, an' I'm gonna have to fork out for the cables, plus a new set of plug leads, because I learn  too much from reading the digest. Compulsive reading now,
most helpful and sometimes even entertaining. I've got two weeks before a long trip round the Scottish  Highlands with 4 adults, the wee yin and a S**tload of beer, food
and kid's toys. A temperate climate on a budget would be nice.
While I'm at it, does anyone else have a roof that hinges up and then a bit slides out, meaning you sleep  across the way upstairs - I'm 6'4" and fit snugly. The
original instruction manual has VW Hustler written in felt tip pen - I'm assuming that's the conversion, any  bells ringing?
Also can I point out that my life has been transformed since I discovered JustKampers (.co.uk). Everything  arrives as required when they say it's going to.
They have restored my faith. Quality customer service.
Don't lose the keys on a beach, tempers fray. but that's another story
gegg



