From: "vwwesty" <vwwesty(-at-)indybudd.com>
To: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 26 Jan 2005 14:42:45 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: AC in Southern Buses

Personally I think it's asinine to argue that going without A/C in a brutal
southern climate is being spoiled! Have you ever lived here in the summer,
daily driven a bus and worked at a job that requires you to not look and
smell like a pig when you arrive? VW offered AC as an option for good reason
back in the 70's.

As for history, go back 100~1000 years in time and demonstrate an air
conditioning system and then ask "OK who wants the first one?" Just because
people survived for thousands of years without AC doesn't mean I, or anyone
else, wants to devolve back into a sweaty ape from the past! Apes don't need
houses either, they live amongst nature, are you spoiled for living in a
house?

In SWFL summer the time between when you hop in the vehicle, and when you
start profusely sweating is about 30-45 seconds, opening the windows
increases that to about 60-90 seconds. Every single traffic light you stop
at is a new sweat bath, and the hot humid breezes in between red lights does
next to nothing to cool you off. The whole back of your shirt, the seat back
and many other of your body parts are just drenched in sweat.

I really think you have no idea what your saying when you say AC isn't a
necessity in the Southern US, it's the 21rst Century for Christ's sake, why
be a luddite?

AC done right doesn't have to cost a lot of $$$ or be complicated to get and
keep running, or at least it shouldn't be for anyone who's already capable
of keeping a 30+ year old VW bus running.

I think this discussion borders on ludditism... I see very few operating
buses in SWFL, the ones I do see are garage queens that get out on a few
weekends and that's it. The heat and lack of AC options has plenty to do
with that I'm sure.

Rust didn't kill all the buses down here, A few lucky ones escaped to he
west and the rest got sent to the crusher because a big old metal van
without AC is worthless in FL... (Unless you already work hard outdoors and
need a work van, but that's what old V-8 Ford, Chevy's, Dodges etc vans are
for. I haven't seen a old VW bus pulling "work van" duty since the
eighties.)

As for the extra load on the engine, the AC has an on/off switch and you
should have an engine temp gauge in your bus anyway right? It the motors to
hot it's siesta time.

Florida without AC is just a big flat hot humid mosquito infested swap! AC
is not a luxury here, living without it along some mosquito infested stream
bank, like the indians and european settlers did, was pure hell!
