Date: Wed, 26 Jan 2005 16:29:44 -0500
From: Jules <jules.herr(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Trouble Starting (long)

Hi,

This is a continuing saga. Radiator in my daily driver blew this
morning on the way to work (non-vw) so I'm more motivated now than
ever to get my bus running.

The bus doesn't want to start. Here's a rundown of recent events.

Bus is a '71 with 1600 dp, 34 Pict 3, 009 (yes, I know) timed
statically to 7.5-8 btdc

About a month ago I had the bus running, she idled well, but in the
extreme cold I was having a lot of trouble getting her tuned well.

Removed the carb to make throttle plate modifications recommended for
34PICT3/009 in the library.

Reinstalled carb, bus still ran, accelerated more smoothly. Attempted
a test drive. Drove about 1/4 of a mile, had lots of engine
hesitation, turned around, made it back to home base. Figured fuel
delivery problem. Fuel filter was clogged with lots of rust sediment
which had become unsettled from bottom of the tank. Replaced fuel
filter. Removed carb to check for sediments in float bowl.

While the carb was out decided I'd go up to a 135 main jet, after
reading about better performance with the modified carb and the 009
and the 135 jet. Realized the the accelerator pump injection tube was
missing (always had been). Ordered new jet and injector tube.

Found a list member who sent me an oilbath aircleaner for a list
donation. Thanks Will!

Installed new main jet, and discovered that the old one was also a
135. Oh well it was only $3. Installed accelerator injection tube -
but how can you be sure this thing is in all the way?

Went to reinstall carb, cheap single strand solid wire accelerator
cable broke. Better now than while on the road. Ordered 2 accelerator
cables and some new barrel nuts.

Went to install new accelerator cable. Hit a snag, couldn't feed the
cable all the way through the guide tube - it got hung up somewhere
near the back - right over the tranny. Determined the tube was either
too bent or dented preventing the straight metal end of the cable from
passing through all the way. Really wanting to make some progress I
cut the front hook end off the cable and fed cable through from the
back to the front. Cut the hook end off the second cable and clamped
the two pieces together in the front near the pedal.
New cable is on order, when it's slightly warmer (and not 3 feet of
snow to work in) I'll properly replace the cable.
  
So I finally think I'm gonna get her up and running. Charged up the
battery, reconnected everything. Hop in and she won't fire up. Checked
spark from the coil - OK. Check spark from a plug wire - OK. Check for
fuel - OK - carb is delivering fuel and if I stick my pinky in the
throat of the carb I can get a nice big squirt of fuel out of the
accelerator pump injection tube right onto my finger. Did not check
compression - since she was actually up and running recently I've
skipped this step - although it's probably a good idea to check it.

I pulled the pugs and cleaned them off this morning, slight
carbonization, probably from previous attempts to tune engine when I
was running too richly. Another confirmation that I'm getting gas is
that the plugs had that gasoline aroma.

It is cold out - about 10 deg (F) - so this probably isn't helping things.  

So what could it be? Perhaps the mixture is too rich to ignite, Is
this possible? Any failsafe recommendations for the carb - I've got
the volume control screw turned out 2.5 turns, and I've tried the
bypass screw  at a few different settings. Any other ideas?

Oh, before it's suggested, the valves are correctly adjusted and double checked.


Here's what I'm thinking I could try next:
1) Check for leaks. I've already inspected the intake manifold boots
and clamps, they're in good shape, and nice and tight. The carb is
securely mounted on the intake manifold (with required gasket). So I'm
doubting any leaks.
2) Adjust timing. I could try and see if she'll run with the disto at
say 5deg btdc or 0 deg. Am I wasting my time?
3) Try different carb adjustments. Perhaps the mixture is too rich to
ignite?  Without the engine running trying to tune the carb is like
taking a shot in the dark.


Any other ideas or comments are wholeheartedly appreciated.

peace
jules
