To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Date: Thu, 27 Jan 2005 07:00:20 -0800
Subject: Progress (longish)

The engine rebuild progresses.

Yesterday I got an e-mail from Rich Jensen at Cruisin' Performance 
concerning my injectors (which have been cleaned and are on their way 
back to me). The pre-cleaning and post-cleaning numbers are not 
significantly different; everything is in good shape and balanced. I 
note this because these were junkyard injectors. Sending them to Rich, 
although it appears not to have been a necessity, has at least assured 
me that the injectors are good.

I talked to Adrian at Headflow Masters about honing the cylinders per 
Bob Donalds' instructions. Adrian said that he couldn't do that, and I 
left it at that. Later, when I brought the cylinders over to "break the 
glaze," Adrian laughed at me. "These are new," he said, pointing to the 
honing marks. Well, they are not exactly new; they have about 3000 
miles on them. But as I said a couple days ago, the side and bottom 
fins look like they just came out of the box. Adrian said he'd give 
them a whisk with the honing stone, just to make me happy. He's also 
doing the pistons.

The condition of the pistons really pleased me. No pitting or evidence 
of wear whatsoever. This was a concern because my smog numbers were so 
incredibly low -- lower than what my '86 Saab had been. I suspected 
that the engine was running too lean. But there is no evidence of lean 
running on either the heads or the pistons. They had a healthy layer of 
carbon and varnish, because the last three or four months of running, I 
only drove back and forth to work, about two miles each way.

I tried to plastigage the rod bearing clearances, but this was a no-go. 
The lack of clearance between the wrench socket and the rod meant that 
I absolutely could not keep the rods immobile while torquing. I gave up 
after the first rod. I didn't acheive the final torque of 24 ft/lbs, 
but after I unscrewed the nuts and removed the cap, the plastigage 
(which had smeared) still appeared parallel and close enough to 
tolerance that had I torqued to spec, I'm sure it would have passed. 
The bearings are German, from Bus Depot, and I am going to assume that 
they are right. When I got all the rods installed they felt good and 
fell gently at the same rate.

I'm lubing with moly, which freaked me out at first since the last time 
I did this I used white. I bought the moly for assembly some weeks ago, 
and when I stared into the freshly opened can I wondered where the 
devil I got the idea to get this stuff. Then I remembered -- it's in 
Wilson. Also, I am brushing it on with acid brushes. Moly tends to form 
filaments when you pull the brush away from it. I kept thinking I was 
seeing brush hairs on the brushed surfaces, but they were all phantoms. 
Score one for white grease.

Distributor drive shims are due in at VW parts counter today. Adrian 
will be done with pistons and cylinders. And I'm picking up paint to 
redo the inside of the engine compartment.

I'm worrying about the cleanliness of the first rod bolt and nut I put 
on, so I'm going to take only that rod off and start over.

If all goes well, I will close up the case by tomorrow. Then I can get 
started on the heads.

The old case has so far delivered up three broken rivets from the 
camshaft. I haven't split it, so I still haven't seen the damage. But 
this is enough evidence. I recall a couple of times on the road when I 
heard what sounded like a gunshot. Had no idea what it was; it didn't 
sound like a backfire exactly. So now I know.

If you've made it this far, thanks for listening.

Mark Hineline
