Cc: TYPE 2 LIST <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Tom Tarka <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
Date: Thu, 27 Jan 2005 11:00:47 -0500
To: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Split CV boots: Can they last 2 weeks?

depending on the extent of the damage, i would probably not risk it, 
especially since you'll be driving long distances at speed.

however, others with only mild boot damage have wrapped a plastic baggy 
around their boot (and perhaps added grease), then duct taped it in 
place.  They have reported going many miles with this type of fix, but 
I suspect it would depend on how early they caught the problem.

Your options are essentially:

a) do it now
b) pay someone else to do it now
c) somehow trailer the bus to denver, or
d) roll the dice and try to make it.

If you choose option (d), I think there's a real possibility of the CVs 
dying on the way ( 80+% chance).  In the best case, this will only 
result in you being stopped on the side of the road and not an accident 
of some nature.

If you insist on this course of action, please have the sense to take 
the following with you:
	- new boots and CV joints
	- a tub of grease
	- appropriate star or allen socket for removing the boots
	- a pick to clean out the nut heads
	- a hammer to tap the socket into the nut head with so you don't strip 
the nut
	- newspaper to work on
	- rubber gloves (optional)
	- very warm, insulated Dickies jumpsuit, as if you're on the side of 
the road, you will be freezing.

my suggestion: have your local VW shop do it.  It hurts, but its worth 
it.  It'll be cheaper than the hotel you'll be staying in too, I 
expect.

	-t

On Jan 27, 2005, at 9:46 AM, Don Tuleja wrote:

> My CV boots are shot. Just shreds. I won't have time to put new joints
> and boots on before I leave for Denver. I'm thinking putting the
> crappy split boots on for the time being might be viable.
>
> Thoughts?
>
> Please remember this is a very short term fix. I just want the joints
> greased and protected until I get to Denver. Afterwards I can plan a
> proper repair.

---
"We are Motown. We are professionals. We're here to get the job done"
