Date: Thu, 27 Jan 2005 10:58:23 -0600
From: David Schimpf <dschimpf(-at-)charter.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Split CV boots: Can they last 2 weeks?

On Thursday, January 27, 2005, at 10:31 AM, Mark Hineline wrote:

> On Jan 27, 2005, at 8:23 AM, Don Tuleja wrote:
>
>> Awww... You guys are killing me. I don't get to put the purdy blue
>> boots on if I do them for real!
>
> Those look slick, but put them in the same category as space-saver 
> spare tires: 30 mph for no more than 30 miles.
>
>> Ok. Fine. Harrumph. I'll see about doing them...
>
> Good. It's a drag. But you're embarking on a deeply serious trip. 
> Two-fifths of the way across the continent! Over the Great Divide! 
> This is big, Don. Give what you're doing the respect it deserves. Lots 
> of people with buses today never venture more than a hundred miles 
> from home.

As someone who's driven his bus from Wisconsin to Yellowstone and 
Glacier several times (and back!), I have to agree strongly with Mark. 
Driving all day up and especially down mountains puts tremendous stress 
on your bus's drivetrain and suspension. Every time I go down my first 
pass on our yearly trip, I am reminded that it seems much harder on the 
bus going down rather than going up (we have an aftermarket high top), 
especially on the suspension and cvs.

Don, with all due respect, speaking as someone who has had to make 
repairs on the side of the road in the dust and in the rain, no matter 
how inconvenient it is for you to make the repairs at home, it will be 
much easier to do it now than on the side of the road.

I also strongly reaffirm the suggestions that a) you get some vinyl or 
nitrile gloves, and b) that you clean the recesses on the bolt head 
meticulously. It's a messy job, but much easier to do at home than on 
the road. Also, buying or borrowing circlip pliers make the job induce 
much less cursing, as I've never been able to successfully perform the 
two-screwdriver prying/juggling thing, and using some sort of eye 
protection helps to not have those little pieces of greasy grit out of 
your eyes (even if, like me, you wear glasses).

Also think about how fast the rear axles are rotating, and the fact 
that they are primary link in transmitting the engine's power through 
the tranny to the rear wheels. Do you really want them to seize up at 
some point?

Finally, I don't remember this detail, but is your family driving with 
you? If so, jeez, fix it now; again, speaking from my own experiences, 
side-of-the-road repairs add a high decree of tension and desperation 
even with the most patient of spouses and kids. At the very least, it 
can get pretty cold. And what happens if you drop or lose an essential 
part? Again, much easier at home when you don't have the additional 
worry and pressure of taking care of your family.

In any case, I'll be praying for you. Be safe, and have fun!

Yours,
David Schimpf
Guactoo: 76 Westy High Top
Fond du Lac, WI
