Date: Fri, 28 Jun 2002 15:38:27 -0700
To: rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com,vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: Scott Fraser <kn6f(-at-)dolphinsci.com>
Subject: RE: [VB] re:rhino liner

At 03:17 PM 6/28/02, rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com wrote:
>At 02:39 PM 6/28/02 -0700, you wrote:
>>Ten years from now, somebody
>>(you or a new owner) will be cussing long and loud about the jackass
>>that sprayed that stuff on there...
>
>Maybe an over-reaction on my part....but being called a jackass doesn't 
>sit well with me.


No overreaction, and a well stated reply.  No matter how much Richard 
protests that he wasn't specifically calling you one, it STH came off that 
way.

I for one have contemplated the pros/cons of the liner and seriously 
contemplated it.  $$ and kids in college are holding me back right now.

I like the thought that I can USE the truck and the liner will help extend 
its lifetime.  The sound deadening aspect is another desirable feature.  On 
my double cab, I will probably coat the bed, the gas tank area under the 
bed and the floor in the rear.  I think they quoted me the cost of doing 
two small pickup beds for that work.

One thing that you should look at is the UV rating and results of the 
stuff.  There is a local guy that used to be a [fill in the blank] dealer 
and ended up starting his own spray, non-affiliated outfit after getting in 
disagreements with the parent company about UV protectorant levels.  He was 
seeing some fading in the stock formulation and wanted to change it.  Head 
office said NO WAY.  Its been four years now that he left the franchise and 
his customers are much happier with the longevity of the product.

I'm heading up to the hills tomorrow to go dirt bike riding with my 
dad.  After 22 years, I got my bike registered yesterday and its all ready 
to go.  My dad is 68 and still hard to keep up with on the hills.  Should 
be loads of fun.  The bike fits perfectly in the back of the double cab.  I 
was a little apprehensive about getting the bike up the steep incline into 
the bed, but figured what the hay, its a trials bike, I'll ride it up the 
ramp.  So, ramp in place, up I went and grabbing brakes before hitting the 
wall.  I've been stopping about a foot or so short of the wall, so its been 
a fairly controlled process.  Yesterday I had the DC and motorcycle at the 
metal shop on the other campus and some past students of mine spotted the 
DC and came looking for me.  They were all out there when it came time to 
load the bike back up into the DC.  I'm thinking, "OK, don't blow this now, 
do it right".  I fired the bike up and drove it right up into the back of 
the DC.  Talk about seeing some jaws drop.


I guess if I end up going and spraying the liner on my DC, I'll start 
signing my notes,

Your West Coast "Jackass",
Scott
'60 Jacked DC



