Date: Thu, 22 Apr 2010 12:48:49 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Eastwood products.

John Kolak wrote:
> My experience with that type of rust converter is that the penetration
> is inadequate...
Same for me. Exactly.

> Sometime after doing the work and painting over it with the
> Dutch Boy anti-rust formula, rust stains seeped through, and after
> pulling up the resultant flakes, it became evident that the rust
> converter had converted the upper layer into primer as advertised, but
> then that flaked off because the underlying rust prevented a good
> adhesion between that converted layer and the metal underneath.
Again exactly my experience.

I purchased brush on rust converter at the FLAPS. I used it on my 
battery trays which were flaking and coming apart. No pinhole rust yet 
but they were close. Used a DeWalt 4 1/2 inch angle grinder (Amazon has 
pics)  and a wire wheel to clean them. Wear all the safety gear please. 
I had the engine out so they were easier to access. Vacuumed out the 
debris. Repeated. Vacuumed them again and I think I even used a leaf 
blower to try to blow out the dust. Did not have an air compressor back 
then.

First was a coat of aluminum impregnated body filler. Then brush on rust 
converter. Then a coat or two of acrylic enamel paint from the same 
gallon I sprayed the outside of the bus with. Bus got plenty of weather 
for maybe 8 years. No rust.

Pass on the spray on version unless you can sandblast all the rust away 
first. I used the spray on version in my Beetle which had floors in a 
condition similar to the battery trays. It did convert the top layer of 
the rust but the layers covered by the rust went right on rusting and 
later flaking up.

My experience with Eastwood is they are an easy way to find restoration 
products. Back when I was first getting started in the hobby in the 
1980s (i.e. the pre-Internet era) when we relied on publications like 
Hemmings Motor News - Eastwood was often just the only place to find 
some stuff unless you had an industrial supplies salesman in the family 
like I did (Dad). Generally speaking with some effort you can find 
everything they retail from multiple sources now often at lower prices 
and/or greater quantities. Important sometimes when you need a gallon of 
something and Eastwood gets $35 per gallon and you can find an 
industrial supplier that sells five gallons for $35 locally b/c you 
figured out what the manufacturing guys call it when they use it to 
clean up and paint a rusty old pump or valve.

I STILL like looking through the Eastwood catalogs though... GRIN!

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2,7L
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L
'97 VW Cabrio (170K miles)
'99 CR-V AWD (197K miles, original clutch!)
Brenderup 1205S
