From: Janyce Bartlett <janycebartlett(-at-)msn.com>
To: <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 2 Mar 2009 23:12:06 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] Sudden loss of power

Hi Dave:



Since I already have the engine pulled and broken down to the core, I find it
humorous at best that someone thinks my engine is not necessarily the problem.
You must know that oil had been leaking from the push rods for a long time as
well as other seals.   In short I had not been giving the van the needed care.
Also, I had taken it from LA CA in 2004 up Rt 1 across Canada from the Pacific
to the Atlantic then back to my home town Phila in 2005. Used it for some
serious job commuting for a year and half then drove it back to CA via the
Deep South SouthWest to San Diego in 2006  where I used it to haul lost
luggage then moved up to San Francisco in 2007. It was no match for the
terrain of Marin County. I believe I got my money's worth and had a blast.



 I did have a german-born(no offense US guys) VW mechanic in SF tell me the
motor was shot.  Plus, a beetle fanatic pulled off one of the head covers
while it was running (driver side) and no oil was circulating. HMM what do you
think about that? And how do you explain the enormous amount of smoke it was
putting out? I just assumed the engine had to come out and it did if just to
fix all the oil leaks. Also the bell housing at the tranny was coated with oil
when we pulled the engine off.  While the logical conclusion  is the seal at
the flywheel was shot since once I cleaned the tranny no oil was coming from
there, I wondered if all that oil was just  making the clutch slip. I also
wondered if the oil could enter through the joint between the tranny and
engine if all the bolts were not tight.  I still haven't given up on this
project but must admit  I am having a hard time getting to it.  I tend to have
to understand it all before I start.  Thats how I did the engine pull and the
break down.



 I will keep all your  suggestions in mind.  The return fuel line is no
problem since I plan to replace all the fuel hose segments and all the vacuum
hoses too.  However, how do you determine if the cold start injector is stuck
on?



Thanks

Jan



> Date: Sun, 1 Mar 2009 20:16:58 -0800s
> From: busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com
> Subject: RE: [T2] Sudden loss of power
> To: janycebartlett(-at-)msn.com
> CC: type2(-at-)type2.com
>
> Jan, on yours I would say one of the vacuum hoses came loose or the cold
start injector is stuck on - or it could be the return fuel line is blocked
giving way too much fuel rail pressure as the symptoms you are describing are
common on an '80 Vanagon. His >
