Date: Thu, 5 Mar 2009 09:21:32 -0600
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: "Bob Pratt" <ka1dza(-at-)verizon.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Autohaus Arizona

Price vs quality vs warranty vs expected lifetime...

Decisions, decisions... 

I have done quite a bit of business with AutoHausAZ. Their prices are
indeed good. I have brought maybe $400-$500 of stuff with them. Most of
it has been great. Had a replacement Honda radiator start leaking at 13
months - 1 month out of warranty. No help from them. Oh well. You win a
few, lose a few. 

Will I shop with them again. Sure. 

Their bus parts might be okay but I have no idea b/c I have only
purchased watercooled VW Cabrio and Honda CR-V parts from them.

NOT trying to give you grief but the argument I started having with
myself was price vs supporting a vendor that supports aircooled VW
parts for a little more. Alot of oddball stuff can be gotten from our
bus vendors that AutoHausAZ won't carry anytime soon. Not telling you
what to do nor giving you grief no matter what you choose. ;) 

Sometimes economics trumps everything at my house. Especially today
during the "Great Depression II" (yeah, I know we have a ways to go
before we have a real Depression like 25% unemployment.). If I can
pay a LITTLE more now to have a source for poptop tents and window
rubbers later then maybe a price 15% more is worth it. Same argument
that I have with myself about shopping locally to maintain a selection
of stores in this small town vs shopping at Amazon. 

Lastly I started looking at the cost of 1 year warranty parts vs
lifetime warranty parts. Lifetime goes a long way with me IF it isn't
hard to replace later. Recently chose a lifetime catalytic converter
for my Cabrio over a 1 year only solution. The difference in cost was
$30 in favor of the lifetime warranty. I've got 100K miles to go before
I want to replace the Cabrio, 160K now.

That said I used to sell parts at a local FLAPS and sometimes their
lifetime stuff was really mediocre quality requiring annual
replacement. Alternators and starters come to mind. I want to replace
stuff and have it last 150K+ more miles. My time is worth something. ;)

I guess my response won't really help much but to muddy the decision
even more... And here you just wanted to hear about Autohauz AZ.

Chris in Cookeville, TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L (Corvair implanted) 

> Has anyone heard of Autohaus Arizona? The prices for Bosch parts seem
> pretty low. And as my dad used to say, "it it's too good to be true,
> it ain't."
> 
> Also, has where is the best and least expensive place to buy body
> parts for a'78 Westy?
