Date: Wed, 25 Jun 2008 22:39:21 -0700
From: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc" <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Sound Deadening and Insulation

Thanks David, All Great suggestions.

Also have a look at this in the type 2 library.

http://www.type2.com/library/heat/intrir1.html
This guy really went nuts, but claims excellent results.

Chris


David wrote.
 Hello List,

 Over the years, I have driven a couple of different buses with different 
options. Noise has always been an issue. A bus with no rear interior, 
carpet, wall covering, or head liner sounds like a dumpster being dragged 
down the street. The big hollow shell of the bus amplifies engine and wind 
noise to the point that it is hard to have a conversation in the front.

 A camper interior really helps quite down the bus. What I found made a big 
difference was placing a heavy piece of ply wood on the floor in the back 
covered with padding then carpet.

 One thing that I have noticed that keeps the inside of the bus from being 
quiet is the jalousie windows. No matter how tight I wrench down that window 
knob, outside noise still filters through. I wish I still had my sliding 
windows. They were great.

 Good door seals and window scrapers also makes a difference. If your old 
window scrapers are toast, road noise can come right through the door. The 
same is true with old door seals. Also, there was a sheet of plastic that 
was origionally placed between each front door and their interior panel. 
This piece of plastic was used to direct the air from the vents located in 
the front of the door to the vent that you see on the door panel. Without 
this piece of plastic, air (noise) can leak everywhere.

 You wouldn't believe how much noise can come through a small opening. This 
includes rust holes and factory holes. Watch out for the small holes behind 
the rear seat over the engine compartment. They are on the inside walls and 
are used to attach the interior panels. They open right into the engine 
vents. If they are not plugged up, water, noise, and exhaust go right 
through them into the cab. I went through 2 rear hatch interior panels, and 
2 rear hatch seals before I discovered this.

 I know that this post is long winded but I would also like to comment on 
the engine noise. I have a 1600cc dp engine with a beetle muffler 
(pea-shooter type). I created some custom tail pipes from old handicap 
bathroom railing for my muffler that directs the exhaust out each side of 
the bus behind the rear wheels. I pointed them downward towards the road. 
This keeps the pea shooters from blaring like a trumpet out the back of the 
vehicle. All of the noise is directed at the pavement. Also, by redirecting 
the exhaust out the sides instead of the rear, the exhaust gases are less 
likely to be traped behind the vehicle.

 After doing this muffler modification, (I was atually able to put the rear 
bumper back on)I noticed that a lot of the noise comming from the engine was 
not the exhaust but rather noise created by the valve train and other moving 
parts. Go figure.

 In closing, I will say that anything that you add to deaden the sound 
should only be put into place after you seal up your bus. You will get more 
bang for your buck if you do. If you layer sound deadening material over 
rust/factory holes that are exposed to the outside, you are inviting 
moisture (rust) in. This includes that factory rubber mat. With that, I will 
end my rant. Good Luck and have a nice day!

 Regards,
 David Kelly
 volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com

 Jason Meyer wrote:
 I found this stuff on JC Whitney
 I was thinking about using it for all of my floor
 boards in the front,
 middle and back of the bus.
