Date: Fri, 27 Jun 2008 11:11:20 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] [Q] Maintenance Schedule for '71 Westie

David wrote:
>
>When my '71 Westie is restored, I'll want/need a maintenance schedule.  I'm
>aware of the "Official Service Manual", but haven't looked at it.  Is it
>the best guide for maintaining a bus?
>
>I'll be very interested in preventative maintenance, and my experience has
>been that sometimes a home-brew solution is best.

	One odd aspect of the official VW instructions, at least in 
the 1972 owners' Instruction Manual booklet, is the advice (p. 36) 
that the 3.5 litre of gearbox/final drive oil needs to be changed 
'only at 1000 km', implying that it need be changed never again 
(except at transmission overhaul).
	I can't attach as a M$W .doc file, and therefore slap below 
as txt, an article on gearbox oils, originally pubd in a 
classic-motorcycles magazine but making the main points for T2 
gearboxes.  If any indulgence is needed for this non-VW material, I 
claim Fridayitis.
	The main point of my article is that sump oils are  *NOT  OK* 
in transmissions.  Not everyone realises this!
	The next point is: the idea that the extreme-pressure 
additives in the gearbox will last quite OK for several decades is 
not to be trusted.  Water can condense into that oil, in some 
circumstances, and most if not all BigOilKorp EP oils will then 
emulsify, which degrades their performance.  Prudent preventative 
maintenance, which David is rightly keen on, will include changing 
the transmission oil every so often.  The factory's confident 
assertion that you need change it only at 1000 km and never again is, 
I believe, not to be trusted.  The expense of changing every (say) 
20,000 km is minor, and the savings could be large in delaying 
transmission rebuilds.

	That leaves us with the question HOW  OFTEN.  All I'm 
asserting for the moment is: more often than every 3 decades.

=====


			GEARBOX  OIL
					Robert Mann
  reprint from  New Zealand Classic M'cycle Racing Register mag. 1997 (revised)

	Many riders use ordinary sump-oil, anything from SAE 20 to 
50, in their gearboxes.  They are aware of special gear-oils with 
names like 'EP 80', but have been put off by rumours that EP oils 
attack the phosphor-bronze bearing bushes which are common in classic 
gearboxes.  Also, some think from the apparently high viscosity grade 
80 or 90 that EP oils may be too viscous.  They think gearboxes last 
"OK" with sump oil, so on they go, with no apparent reason to change. 
I contend that they can do better.
	   While you put up with increasingly vague gear-selection, 
postponing that dreaded gearbox overhaul, your engine and even you 
could get cruelled by sudden disconnection of the engine from the 
road at wide throttle.  In the other nasty failure mode, when the 
gearbox seizes, the clutch lever will do you no good whatever, and 
unless the rear chain breaks you will probably be dumped 
unceremoniously as the rear wheel locks.  And even if you avoid such 
acute problems, inadequate oil allows faster wear which will cost 
money & work.   Gearbox lubrication is more important, both acutely 
and chronically, than some realise.  Here is what Australasians call 
the good oil.

	The conditions in a gearbox are different from those in an 
engine.  The temperature and oxidation are far less; on the other 
hand, the pressure (i.e. force per unit area) on the oil film between 
meshing gears is indeed extreme.  The oil film itself is in fact 
doomed to rupture under extreme pressures, but then the EP additive 
reacts with the metal surface of the meshing teeth, forming 
organometallic compounds which prevent metal-to-metal friction as 
well as acting as a solid lubricant.
	As many as a couple of dozen different additives have been 
used in this role; the simplest is the element sulfur, and some fatty 
acids have been used, while the more modern EP additives are exotic 
chemicals with tongue-tangling names.
	Some of these additives can undergo breakdown by water  -  a 
chemical process termed hydrolysis  -  and the resulting new 
chemicals can indeed attack our beloved phosphor bronze. However, 
this happens only after water has condensed in the oil; given then 
enough time and temperature (persistent repeated running in the 
gearbox after wetting), EP additives can thus, indirectly, cause 
erosion of bronze bushings. For your typical machinery-loving 
classic-rider this problem does not arise, because we drain our 
gearbox oil, warm, at least once a season.   It follows that you 
should use EP80 or EP90 in your gearbox.

	The numbers in EP 80 or 90 can easily prompt us to think 
these oils are much more viscous than the sump oils (20 - 50) we've 
been using in gearboxes.  This is incorrect.  The viscosity 
measurement used for gear oils, typically giving numbers like 80 or 
90, is on a different scale from the familiar 20, 30, 50 etc. of the 
Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) sump-oil viscosity.  The reason 
is to decrease the chances that careless individuals will put an oil 
in the wrong hole on a vehicle.  A gear oil rated 90 actually has 
similar viscosity to a sump oil of SAE 50.  Rest assured that EP 80 
or 90 is not too viscous to get amongst your gears promptly after 
startup.

	In conclusion, there is good reason to use EP gearbox oils 
and no reason to avoid them.

	The re-refined version is at least as good as virgin oil.  I 
have myself used nothing but re-refined oils for over 20 years and 
have seen some impressive mileages with surprisingly little wear, 
while saving money (as has the Auckland regional bus fleet for half a 
century).
