From: "Joe Luther" <jluther(-at-)alfons-haar.us>
To: "'Type2'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 27 Jun 2008 09:30:36 -0400
Subject: Phantom exhaust leak on 75

Hey guys;
 
I finally got the 75 running with everyone's help.  It was a combination of
the double relay, bad points, and disintegrating coil and plug wires among
other things.  
 
I'm to the point where it will run as long as I keep slight pressure on the
go pedal.  Removing the pressure on the accelerator makes it stall, it won't
idle.  
 
I have a massive exhaust leak somewhere that I suspect is the problem, it
snorts and poots while running, and it is incredibly loud.    
 
I have the stock 75 exhaust system, comparing the bus to the Bentley
diagrams.  
 
I've run my hands over every part of the back muffler and pipes, inspected
the U pipes from the manifolds into the heat exchangers, checked the
manifolds and manifold attaching nut tightness.   Everything seems fine.  I
used a flashlight to look at the area where the manifolds meet the head to
look for signs of bad manifold gaskets thinking there would be signs of
carbon if they were leaking, no signs of leaks.  
 
I knocked on the heat exchangers to listen for rattling inside that might
indicate the through pipes inside might be bad.  No signs of problems.   The
exchangers themselves seem solid but if this 75 is like my earlier air
cooleds, they don't matter because there is a pipe running through the
middle of them anyway.  
 
I'm working by myself and it won't idle so I can't really listen in various
places out back while it's running.  
 
I was planning on putting on a Monza style exhaust system anyway so I can
tear off the old muffler and see if it's the internal baffles but from the
way it runs, it seems more like something closer to the combustion chambers
is open to atmosphere and leaking.   It looks in the Bentley like the
exhaust manifold gaskets are pretty small, do they tend to leak?  
 
I'm pretty well stumped.  Any other suggestions?  
 
Thanks in advance.
 
Joe
