Date: Fri, 27 Jun 2008 13:45:28 -0700
From: "Nicholas Fuentes" <fuentesfour(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: hydraulic valve adjustment help

So, I spent the morning futzing around with my bus, changed the oil and
decided that I since I had never checked or adjusted the valves on my
hydraulic lifter 1979 2.0 GE California engined bus, I would give it a try.
Everything is stock with the exception of of the distributer which is not
the original Hall breakerless unit, but rather an SVDA from Aircooled.net.
The bus has been running fine with no valve noise at all, but I figured for
my own peice of mind I'd adjust the valves.  The PO put in new hydro lifters
before I bought it last year

Here's what I did, with the motor warm (per Ratwell) I pulled the valve
covers, moved the motor so the rotor was pointing to cylinder 1 and started
on the #1 cylinder valves.  I loosened #1 exhaust, screwed the adjuster in
till it hit the valve then went another 1.5 turns (per Ratwell), I then
tightened the locknut.  I did this with #1 intake also.  I then moved the
engine to #2 firing position and followed the same procedure.  I then moved
to 3 and 4 and did the same.

When I started the motor I immediately noticed alot of valve clatter coming
from both sides of the engine and and the engine didn't want to idle without
me giving it a little gas.  I busted out my timing gun and adjusted the
timing slightly and the idle smoothed out.  I let it idle for a few minutes
to let it warm up a little and checked the timing again but I still have the
valve clatter.

Did I do something wrong?  I looked at my Haynes manual and it says to
loosen the valve adjusters BEFORE moving the engine to #1 and says to screw
the adjusters in 2 turns after contact is made.

Here's another question - does a "turn" = 360 deg or 180 deg.  I assumed
that a turn = 360 degrees

I figured I'd ask the board for advice before I spend the rest of the day
adjusting and readjusting - or even worse - break something.  Hope to hear
something soon.

Thanks,
Nick - Ventura, CA
