From: Shad <shenderson(-at-)thegeekgroup.org>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 01 Jul 2008 10:01:51 -0400
Subject: How much do we love our busses?

Well....

My wife is a postal carrier.  She's a rural carrier, and must provide
her own vehicle.  Currently she's driving an `83 DJ-5 postal jeep.  It's
a reliable beast, but it's reached the point where it's falling apart
faster than I can maintain it, and it simply doesn't sit still long
enough to be able to really put some work into it.  Also, parts are
getting more and more difficult to find.  Some parts are nigh-on
impossible to find, and when you do find them, they're usually worn as
badly as the part they're to replace.   

I've been hearing a weak lifter in the mornings when she starts it for
awhile now, and it's got a *tiny* hint of rod knock, which is the
engine's polite way of telling me that it's gonna need rebuilt sometime
in the not-too-far-off future.    Unfortunately, there's more issues
than a slightly grumpy rod bearing.  

So.... we bit the bullet and we're buying her a new '08 Jeep, right hand
drive, to replace her current delivery vehicle.   We'd probably get a
free cup of coffee for her old jeep on trade-in value, and we don't have
a few grand just laying around.... (used RHD jeeps are a gamble... they
may only have 80K miles, but they're 80K of *abused* miles.... plus
they're not much less than a brand new jeep with a warranty...)


So I made a massive sacrifice.  A nearly unthinkable action.  Something
I'll probably come to regret later on in life.  







I kept the bus and instead traded in my `02 Yamaha Road Star Warrior
motorcycle.  

Because quite simply, there was no way in hell I was trading in the bus,
taking their ridiculous "trade in value" on it (a certain loss!), and
later trying to replace it.  I made sure the wife understood that while
I might part grudgingly with my dear motorcycle (we've seen lots of
miles...),  there ain't no way I'm slapping a "for sale" sign on the
bus.   

I'll miss the bike.  I'll miss it a lot.  She's special to me, and I'll
be sad to see her go.  But I simply can't bear the thought of getting
rid of the bus.  Especially with some maniac on the loose down here
taking perfectly good splitties, bays, and single cabs(!!) and cutting
them in two to make those retarded "short" busses.  

They can have my bus when they pry the steering wheel from my cold,
dead, super-glued-to-the-steering-wheel hands....


Shad H. 
