From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: <tony5amhopkins(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 1 Jul 2008 11:17:06 -0600
Subject: RE: [T2] Where to mount a Full Flow oil Filter on 1971 Bus?

Tony,

I ran the oil lines under the bus to under the driver's side battery tray.

I used blue high-pressure line from the local speedshop and
silicone-fiberglass insulation sleeves over the top of the pressure lines.
The insulation is necessary if you are running a header so the exhaust temps
don't raise the oil temps.

I then built a simple bracket for the filter adapter (generic Empi) which
bolted to the hitch captive nuts on the side of the frame (there are three).
The bracket is simple to make with some aluminum sheet and tin snips.

I then loomed the hose flush on the front of the moustache bar and up to the
filter adapter. I used some rubber coated metal loops, but zip ties work
great.

Some insights on doing it this way:

Install a 175 degree in-line thermostat, Empi 33-5010. It will keep you from
blowing filters and seals running 20-50W oil on cool days.

Use a Napa Wix Racing 51515R. This is the only one I could get to hold a
seal when the oil was cold. The Fram racing filters explode violently.

If you are running a header, I would recommend adding insulating header wrap
in addition to the silicone fiberglass insulation sleeve. This will assist
greatly in keeping the oil lines cool.

I will p-mail you photos.

Hope this helps!

Jon Stiles
'68 Double Cab
'78 Westfalia


-----Original Message-----
From: Anthony Hopkins [mailto:tony5amhopkins(-at-)yahoo.com] 
Sent: Monday, June 30, 2008 2:32 PM
To: Type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Where to mount a Full Flow oil Filter on 1971 Bus?

My case is drilled and tapped for Full Flow oil filtering...Now before I
build the bracket to hold the filter mount....Where have others put the
filter?..In the engine compartment?..or down stairs where the road debris
can get to it?....I have dual Kad's I must dodge...and no extra battery on
left bank on engine compartment...I will have AN fittings and S/S Hydraulic
hoses pressed at local Rubber hose shop...Thanks for the people who have
been there...Tony
