Date: Wed, 2 Jul 2008 07:26:50 -0500
From: "Paul Pearson" <Paul(-at-)semiconprecision.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] Rewiring '72 main harness

Help. I have fallen and I can't get up.

I ran a new wire harness for my 72 sunroof.  It turns out in 72, there
is a "North America" model, and a "Not North America" model.  Haynes
identified this in their schematics, but I was using the official
maintenance manual until it was too late. It only has the NA model
schematic.

I have a NA model and the wiring harness (bus-boys.com) is for a not NA
model.  Difference that tipped me off was that there are no side marker
lights on the Not NA model and I was confused until I found the two
different schematics.  This is no big deal so far, I can wire in the
side lights, but I have a question:
	Is there going to be problems with the major components that
anyone knows of?  I am thinking not, and have not spent more than about
20 minutes on the schematics since I found this late last night.

I cannot really just duplicate existing wiring because it is 90%
replaced or repaired with random pieces of wire and old electrical tape.
The dashboard is so screwed up electrically that I will probably just
wire in new stuff that works with the Not NA harness.

Another note.  The harness runs between two plates under the cargo area
(The sunroof model seems to have an extra plate in the bottom to make up
for the weak roof where the sunroof is).  There is a tube that it runs
through this space so you can drag the new harness through with a fish
tape.  The old harness was full of water even though it had been in the
dry garage since Feb. and the tube was choked off with a rust clot that
I had to plunger out with a long screw driver.

I believe this was because water was thrown up from the road into a hole
in the harness or into the tube because it lacked a grommet or seal.  If
you have one of these models and are having phantom electrical problems,
this may be a factor in your T2 also.

Paul
