To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 2 Jan 2004 08:42:16 -0500
From: Todd M Jaspers <toddjaspers(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Bay Bus in the Sawgrass Mills Mall, FL?

Hey guys,

        Just thought I'd throw this in on a Friday, I hope you guys get a
kick out of it. In South Florida, we have a mall called the Sawgrass
Mills Mall. It's shaped like an aligator, and is a fairly large mall. It
has two rather large Food Courts in it as well. Well, I went there
earlier today, and noticed that in both food courts, there's a Volkswagen
Bay window Bus! They're both completely fake, but there's no mistaking
that they're bay window busses. They even have a VW emblem on the front.
From what I can tell, the ONLY three items on this VW Bus that are real,
is the windshield, and the headlights (with the chrome trim rings). The
rest of the Bus is made completely out of fiberglass. They seem to have
modelled the fake Bus after the 67-71? Vw Bus? Whichever year had the
smaller rounded engine side vents, and the smaller oval tail-lights.

Anyway, it's sort of a Kiosk thing. You know those CLAW games where you
drop in 50 cents and try to pick up a stuffed animal on either side?
Well, it has TWO of these built into each side (so four all together) and
then out the back, there is a single game of whatever sort. 

In the front though, they've arranged some large stuffed animals to
appear as if they're driving the Bus. It's just placed haphazardly right
smack in the middle of the food court amongst all the tables and chairs
in the eating area.

It's actually pretty funny, because if you look inside the side windows
(in the front compartment, there is what appears to be somewhat of a
dash. Just a rectangular piece that juts out from the base of teh
windshield inside. Well, it has TWO stickers right by the drivers side,
and they are stickers with pictures of the ACTUAL VW VDO gauges (cept it
says 60mph, and not 90). Pretty funny. 


I'll see if I can get some pictures of it this weekend, I got a huge kick
out of it the other day!


Todd
