To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "Jeff Tickner" <JeffT(-at-)softlanding.com>
Date: Fri, 30 Nov 2001 12:56:42 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] snow stories


I'll tell mine now. We decided to go south to my sister's in GA in March,
mid 90s. Hadn't run the 78 camper all winter so we're packing etc and I try
the gas heater and it cranks up, runs for a couple minutes and dies,
overheat fuse blows and I don't get any heat up front, huh? So no time to
start the lengthy diagnostic, drop the belly pan etc so off we go. Huh, no
heat from the heater box either? We drop the cats off at the in-laws on the
Cape, the dogs get to come with us. Everybody is talking about this big
blizzard coming up the coast so we leave early to "beat it". While leaving
the in-laws we crank a sharp corner and the jalousie window falls out!!
Oops, did I forget to put the screws in that when I had it out? Lucky it
didn't fall out on the highway, as it was one pane broke, so we wrap it in
a plastic bag, put it back in and use some screws. Pretty dang noisy
flappin and letting in cold air.

It starts snowing HARD before we hit CT. We are on 95 in slow moving
traffic with snow building up and Volvos fishtailing wildly around us. By
the time we hit NYC we are driving through 6-8" of mash potato snow and icy
ruts, not much traffic and most of the off ramps are blocked by cars stuck
in the pile of snow left by the garbage truck plows. Did I mention the lack
of heat? NO heat. Apparently there is a mouse nest in the main tube whihc
is blocking it and caused the gas heater to overheat. We are scraping the
inside of the windshield and wearing ALL the clothes we have. Camper has no
problem as I have snow tires on the rear, I can stop and go at will, but
don't go much faster then 40-45.

We get to MD to visit our friends/crash on their floor, off the highway and
still driving through lots o snow. I tell my wife not to worry as I have
chains which if I ever put on make the bus unstoppable (or something like
that). We get lost and need to turn around so I pull a u turn at speed
through the 2 foot tall pile between the 2 lanes. WOW! Made it through but
big bounce, we just drove over a median and through a 2 foot pile of snow.
Get to our friends and hang out watching the news, Hey they closed 95!

Next morning we set out through downtown, bypassing 95 which is closed. The
streets downtown are ruts in the snow, can feel the bus dragging at times
on the center pile. No problem, get back on 95 at the state line. When we
get down to GA they are pretty much shut down from 6" of snow they got.

The bus preformed incredibly except for heat, which was a simple problem I
should have fixed. When we got home to NH we had 2 feet of snow, then I put
on the chains for our road and driveway!

Jeff Tickner
78 Camper
78 8 passenger
2K Golf GLS TDI (which is an awesome car!!! I love it!!! Going to buy a
Jetta Wagon TDI for my wife. My Golf is now out of warranty since the 100K
drivetrain warranty doesn't cover anything except throwing a rod or
destroying the tranny. Turbo and $1500 diesel injection pump are covered
under bumper to bumper only!?! BUT, you know what, I'm buying another one!)

