Date: Fri, 30 Nov 2001 16:01:08 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Does the grim reaper drive a bus?

I belong to the Corvair list and you know the Corvair's rep for roll overs 
thanks to the propaganda way old Ralphie Nader did on it. (Did you know 
Ralphie doesn't even drive?)

NHTSA did a study somewhere along the way that rated the Corvair is fewer 
accidents per driven mile for several years in the late sixties and the 
early seventies. The early models did have a roll over problem  - - if you 
didn't keep the air pressures in the tires correct and if you exceeded the 
car's ability to stay on the ground. Bet they were STILL better than the 
current breed of SUV at resisting roll overs. Remember few people wore 
seatbelts in the 60's - any serious accident was going to be bad for the 
occupants of the automobile.

Wonder about the VW Bus?

I think (FWIW) that the bus has the reputation of a pile of junk that is 
likely to either burst into flames or kill you in an accident b/c people 
ignored that the VW s were not properly maintained and not always owned by 
folks who were careful drivers. That means folks who did not wear seat 
belts, who were too cheap to properly care for their bus (repair worn or 
rusty safety equipment, bald tires, incorrect tires), or some were the 
stereotypical hippie with drug or alcohol problems without enough sense to 
be sober when they were moving down the road.

A question: for the times was the VW considered a "cheap" vehicle like the 
current run of Kia cars and SUVs? I've noticed locally that alot of the Kia 
cars aren't aging well due to neglect and abuse. They aren't being kept 
clean, many look like they have been run through the woods (dents and body 
damage) and This was the same back when the K-cars were roaming the roads. 
Folks didn't take care of them, they also had a rep for being a cheap 
quality automobile and this created a general opinion that they were junk 
and built with terrible quality.

Is this what has happened to the VW Bus?

For the record I feel safe in mine as long as the brake system (rubber 
brake lines included) is in good (recently new) condition and all the fuel 
lines are recently new (not 25 years old). I would also through in there a 
good inspection of the steering and the steering column coupler. This is 
just generic antique car inspection stuff.

I think the VW Bus stereotype has always worked against it. Like a previous 
poster mentioned - the driver was killed in a 50 mph crash but wasn't 
wearing his seat belt. Somehow this is all b/c the VW was defective in 
design. I doubt it.

Ciao!

Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE:       Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing and exhaust 
- make offer
                 5 Beauty rings for 13" wheels, very nice, no dents, packed 
ready to go, $40 (was my cost)

