Date: Sun, 17 Aug 2003 18:48:47 -0700
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Westfalia goes thru tree

I think we can finally end the debate on which way the mirrors should be
oriented:

http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell/.Pictures/DriveThruTree.jpg

There's about half an inch clearance on each side without having to adjust
them. Don't try this with a 79 model. ;-)

BTW, for those that wished me luck making a bus bra, that's it in the
picture. I decided to make one when I couldn't find a white one.

I bought 2 1/2 yards of of white pioneer vinyl ($5/yd) with the fuzzy
backing from Jo-Ann's Fabrics. You might be able to get away with 2 yards
because it's 54" tall and you can cut all the extra material you need from
the bottom. If you don't want to go all the way up to the windshield, say
just the just the bulge, you'll only need 2 yards but you may have
difficulty securing it. I have no idea how waterproof it is or what it will
do when it gets soaked but my goal was to spend as little as possible to get
my bus back from the painter without ruining the nose due to road debris.

It took 2 hours to make and ended up looking pretty good. You need a 2nd
pair hands to help you especially if you can't sew. Sewing vinyl on your
sewing machine can be a bear sometimes if the machine can't grip the fuzzy
underside. Still managed it with a lot of cursing from the SO.

The first step is to cut four holes for the wiper blades and the washer
nozzles. Remove the wiper blades but leave the arms on. This will help
support the fabric on the bus while you trim it.

Cut the holes for the tire mount, headlights and grill last because the
fabric will stretch and the holes will move on you. When you cut a hole for
the grill leave a bit in the middle where the grill is solid to give the bra
strength otherwise it will be harder to measure especially if you cut a hole
for the tire mount. Without any extra reinforcement I had to mount the tire
to keep the bra on and to keep it from flapping without a mess but I was on
a budget and a schedule and was mounting the tire anyway.

I was thinking of cutting the holes a little shorter and using the turn
signals and headlight rings to secure the bra for a nice look but I goofed
up on one of the holes. Next time...

I fastened the fabric by cutting eight plates from a sheet of roofing tin
lying around. Each one is about as big as a playing card and I removed the
rough edges from the cut and rounded the edges. I cut some extra fabric from
the bottom and sewed the plates into the fabric pieces leaving enough fabric
on one side to sew the covered plate to the bra:

http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell/.Pictures/MoreParts6/237-BraTab.jpg

Sew the plates evenly to one side then put the bra back on and measure the
other side for the other plates. The plates are sewn lengthwise so you only
need to get close and then bend them a little more than the other side for a
tight fit.

If you use tin like I did, remember you can only bend it so many times
before it breaks. Maybe there is a better material to use...

After a test drive at 60 mph, I found I had to adjust the fit by sewing 3
darts along to top where the nose curves under the windshield to tighten up
the fabric to eliminate flapping.

-- 
Richard
1978 Westfalia CDN
Cupertino, CA
