From: "tank" <bedhead(-at-)pacbell.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 17 Aug 2003 18:55:00 -0700
Subject: locks & keys -- paging Jim Thompson and others

Now that my camper is driveable, I moved her out of the garage yesterday for
the first time since I got her in May. I fixed one of her pop-top brackets,
then went to call it a day and lock her up -- only to find that I couldn't.
Since I had had no need to lock her in the garage, I had not previously
noticed this. But, in my neighborhood, she NEEDS to be locked -- and keeping
her in the garage (which she barely clears into if I drop pressure in her
tires) is not an option.

The only lock that works like it should is the rear hatch (not a convenient
option for entering and exiting the vehicle). Problems with the others
follow:

Side slider: There are actually two problems here. The lock will not turn in
the barrel, not even after much cleaning. Examine of the barrel revealed
that the key never fully aligned the wafers, one or two of which were just
sticking out enough to forbid it to turn. The other problem with this
meachanism is that the little lock latch itself feels jammed; I cannot turn
it. But, I also have yet to figure out how to crack this area of the
mechanism to get in there and look at things. Tips and tricks would be
helpful.

Driver door:After a bit of work on it, just lubing and such, I can now
unlock it from the outside, but I cannot lock it with the key.

Passenger side: Key will not rotate in the barrel; can be locked and
unlocked only from the inside.

Although the problem in the driver door could be caused by a spring (?), one
thing is for certain on all these keys: they are SERIOUSLY worn. It can't be
helping matters, and it is likely to be the root of the problem in the case
of the keys not rotating the barrels. I think some new keys are in order,
the sooner the better. (Burning Man trip in one week.)

I saw a series of numbers on part of the slider lock. Where can I pull the
other numbers? May as well do her ignition key, too, since that is also
extremely worn and funky. Not to mention, they are my only set and I need
some back-ups -- but why duplicate such worn keys?

Paging Mr. Jim Thompson, or anyone else who can work with me on this
problem -- especially if you are a CA Bay Area local. I'm unemployed and
broke, but I'm certain we can work something out.

Kind Regards,

tank
[Alice: 1971 Pop-Top Campmobile]
