From: "Sage Green" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 18 Aug 2003 13:11:55 +0000
Subject: '78 rough run / not start / backfire

Hello.

I've had this '78 for the past 8 years.  I am pretty familiar with it.

Last night, it would not start, and let out one hellacious backfire, like a 
rifle crack!!

Before last night:

Friday, Aug 8, I changed my sparkplugs.  Saturday, I took it on a 150 mile 
round trip, and saw a great improvement in my gas mileage.  Unfortunately, 
the VW was a little MORE doggish, and would stall at a stop light.  But it 
started and ran fine, just a bit less power at the 40-50 mph RPM range.

Monday or Tuesday, someone came over to assist.  He was also there for the 
spark plug install, when we took the compression figures of 125 - 125 - 140 
- 135 on 1-2-3-4.  On Mon-Tue, the dwell was 49, the vacuum was 14, the 
advance was 7.5.  We noticed a loose fitting or two, but when they were 
solved, the vacuum did not really change.  It was always (past 3 years or 
so) about 14-15.  We moved the idle up to about 850-900+


Took it out for a ride Mon-Tue, and when cold, it ran like champ!!  but when 
it slightly warmed up (3-4 miles) it lost the idle, and would stall.


Saturday, Aug 16 was the next time I took it out.  It started fine, on the 
third revolution, and exactly at the same spot as on Mon-Tue, it started to 
act up.  I went another 2 miles, and decided to return the VW to its stall / 
(wife's garage space!!)


SUnday, Aug 17, I removed the -4- spark plug wires from the spark plugs, and 
trimmed 1/4 inch off the ends, and reset the spark plug connector caps onto 
the Bosch 7mm wires. (Previously, we had unscrewed the spark plug connector 
caps to put on new air seals.  Wires were not cross connected since we had a 
decent ride  -for 3-4 miles-  after the spark plug replacement)


I tried to start the VW.  It did catch the first time around, but it 
stalled.  Then it would NOT catch.  After 5-7 tried, it gave off this sharp 
back fire!!  This was only the second time that the VW gave a backfire in 8 
years.  Noticeable was the fuel smell from flooding the engine.

What in the world ! ! !

Good compression -

perfect dwell / timing.  (near new points  - new plugs)

Decent vacuum (no different than when it was running normally).

Two years ago air / fuel mixture was set at a VW place, with a sniffer.

Fuel to the cyls (smell and something caused that backfire!!)

Fire to the plugs (was running).  When plug wires were trimmed 1/4 ", each 
wire was taken off and replaced individually.  Not cross wired.

Visually, nothing not connected (two VW people with two sets of eyes 
relooked everything over)


What am I missing?? (with the new plugs, mileage went from 15 to 19 - 20)

OK, I will confess, these new plugs were WR8CP!!  But I have been successful 
with them in the past.  The old plugs were NGK (whatever) with 10,000 miles 
on them.  I will install some W8CC tonight.

Thanks for reading this far.

If you have suggestions and are going to CC the list, please edit this post 
to keep the band width down.

TIA

Barry Burneskis
'78 Westy in question
