From: Bookwus1(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 19 Aug 2003 12:02:14 EDT
To: Corbett.Messa(-at-)gefanuc.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Charcoal Filter Canister cleaning or replacement?

Hiya Corbett,

Insofar as the charcoal canister (E-Can) goes..........do know that you 
should be able to blow through it without any restriction.  To test it, simply pull 
(disconnect all the hoses) the canister out of the system and blow through 
larger opening on the end with two openings.  If you get resistance or its 
completely plugged (and many are) it's time to clean.

To clean it out you will need to refill the canister.  So..........drill a 
1.5 inch hole 1.5 inches in from the end with the two openings.  Once that is 
done you'll see the carbon (charcoal) pellets.  You'll probably need to poke 
them around a bit to loosen them.  I used a dull screwdriver - worked great.  
Once all the carbon is out take a look inside.  You should see a golden color.  I 
believe the inside was anodized.  If there is a lot of rust or unremovable 
crud inside, think about getting a new canister (more about that later).  Any 
light dirt can be rinsed out with a light solvent.  I'd recommend a water based 
cleaner like Marine Clean or Simple Green.  Just pour about a half pint in and 
let it soak for a bit.  

Do not remove the internal "pads" at either end of the canister.  The cleaner 
should do a good job of rinsing them out.  However, because it's nearly 
impossible to align the pad and fill the can with fresh charcoal (and the springs 
get all screwed up when you dump the old charcoal), you will need to remove the 
springs at the "far end" (the end with one opening only) of the can.  This 
can be done by "screwing" the springs out of the hole you drilled previously.  
Just tip the pad at that end and grab the springs with a pair of needle nose.  
When the can is all dried up, the springs are out, and the pad is back in 
place refill with new carbon.  Just pack as much as you can possibly get into the 
can.  Be sure to get pelletized carbon which is available at any good 
pet/fish/aquarium store.  I found Coralife packaged in a half gallon container.  
You'll need two of these.  The canister will take just a little more than a half 
gallon of the stuff.  I got it for $6.95 for a half gallon container..

You can seal that 1.5 inch hole any way you think best as long as it is 
airtight.  Me?  I soldered in a screw cap fitting (I think I used one from an old 
can of Thompson's Water Seal).  This way I can unscrew the cap and change the 
carbon in the future with no big hassle.  Reinstall the canister and you are on 
your way.

Total time spent on the project (assuming the parts and tools you'll need are 
at hand) was less than one hour.  An easy weekend project to get no more gas 
smell and a less polluting vehicle.

Oh yes.......about finding a new canister.  They are available for cheap at a 
most VW oriented wrecking yards.  I would not pay over $5.00 for one and most 
I have bought have been in the $1 or $2 range.  If you can get into the yard 
yourself (like a Pick-a-Part kinda yard) look for an E-Can from a Porsche 914. 
 It's the exact same E-Can as used in Bugs and Busses (70-74, I think) and 
its located in the front trunk.  It is protected from the elements and will be 
in much better shape than one from a Bus or Bug.

Mike

1970 Bus - The Ruptured Duck
