From: "tank" <bedhead(-at-)pacbell.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 19 Aug 2003 15:55:40 -0700
Subject: Alice's Maiden Voyage -- Your Troubleshooting Tips Appreciated

[Alice is a 1971 Pop-Top Camper.]

It could have been better. We got her timing right this morning, but did not
have time to adjust her carb properly before leaving for the tire shop,
where four new shoes were waiting for her. Much went wrong along the way
included, and I could really use some input.

She stalls out as I come to a stop, pretty consistently. And, as her brakes
seemed much less effective when she stalled (are they vacuum assisted
somehow?), this made coming up to a stop behind someone really [expletive
deleted] scary. She idled reasonably well once at the stop (albeit rather
high), just not approaching it. Fuel mixture/carb adjustment issue?

In third gear, therefore at the highest speeds I acheived on this road test,
she started bucking and coughing a bit, but not in a consistent fashion.
Mixture?

Her battery up and died, and we had to jump her to get her to the tire shop
(mere yards away, too). This is the second time this has happened, with a
brand new battery, with the other time being while she was still sequestered
in my garage. Beginning to wonder if we screwed up the wiring of her
generator, or if something could be wrong with the generator itself? We
followed the diagram, and the terminals on her were marked just like the
diagram. She shouldn't be draining like this.

Also at the higher speeds, there was a high-pitched whine that came and
went -- relatively subtle, but distinct. Housemate says maybe the belt needs
to be adjusted. ???

Her spedo isn't working. Once I get her back from the tire shop this
afternoon, I will check to make sure it is hooked up below her. Since we've
nosed around in her dash, we know it's connected there.

Her cylinder temp guage is not working. This we knew before we road tested
her, but now it's a real problem. I think it's part of the greater problem
in her instrument cluster that causes her generator and oil lights to be
constantly lit, both blinker dash lights to come on regardless of which turn
signal is being used (exterior signals are fine), and her horn not to
function (horn itself is fine). The previous owner got a little, uh,
creative with the wiring from what we saw when we peeked in behind there.
Advice on troubleshooting any of these problems? Her fuses are fine.

I am planning to take her in to a licensed mechanic tomorrow morning to get
this stuff properly and quickly dealt with for our coming trip, but I also
want to solve as much of it tonight myself as I can ($$$ + ego + pride). But
I would rather hear that she's not fit for the trip and take my Honda and
tent it than to get half-way to Burning Man and blow her whole engine. (Cha
Moon's post did nothing but exacerbate this fear, naturally.)

-sigh-

Many Thanks,

tank
