Date: Tue, 19 Aug 2003 17:25:11 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Thomas J. Tarka" <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: H2O Vanagon Help Needed near Ozona/Iraan, TX

Volks,

This is somewhat off-topic, but please bear with me.

A close friend of mine was recently in a horrible accident in his '85 
Westfalia near Iraan, TX (390 mile marker of I-10).  At this point, no one 
is sure what happened other than that he rolled his westy and was thrown 
(?) from the vehicle.  He has still not regained conciousness, although he 
is now in stable condition.

His parents have flown down from vermont to be with him and they will be 
checking out the Westy where it's impounded in Ozona, TX sometime in the 
next few days.  They are told that it's totalled, but they haven't seen it 
yet.  

I'm writing to find out if there is a listee (or a mechanic someone can 
vouch for) in the area of Ozona, TX who would be willing to go and assess 
the damage from a "I'd like to keep this car -- is it salvagable at all?" 
perspective, as opposed to the insurance company "it's wrecked" 
perspective.  Given that it rolled, I expect that it's in pretty rough 
shape, but my friend loves his westy and if there's any chance that 
it's not wrecked, it'd be good to know so it's still there when he wakes 
up.

Preferrably, this would be someone with knowledge of things Wasserboxer, 
but that's probably not required.  Likewise, I would love to hear 
from anyone nearby who has a back 40 to "store" a westy on, as I don't 
know when/if storage will become an issue.

I'm sending this to the type-2 and vintage lists because I feel like I 
know all of you, and, because Air-Cooled bus volks are good folks.  

I'll query the vanagon list next, but I don't have any point of reference 
on the attitudes/morals of people there.  I'd expect it to be much the 
same, but I just don't have any experience to judge by.  

Thanks for listening.  If you can provide any help on this matter, 
please contact me via p-mail at: 
    tommy(-at-)roadtrip.net or tommy(-at-)slackers.net  

And, if you have a chance of the inclination, send out some 
thoughts/prayers/vibes to a volksie in trouble.  

Thanks,
   Tom Tarka
   71 bus, 67 kombi
   volksie by birth, bus owner by choice

http://eds.org/pasha/
