From: "tank" <bedhead(-at-)pacbell.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 19 Aug 2003 21:32:15 -0700
Subject: Update On Alice's Maiden Voyage

I was relieved to hear from several of you that the turn signal lights were
normal. That's just one more bloody thing out of my hair at this point, one
less worry. So thanks for that and tons of other good tips -- and just plain
encouragement.

We've now isolated the horn issue, though we are at a loss for what to do
about it. She has a disconnected female end on the ground wire from the
horn, which should connect somewhere around the steering box under the
floor, but we can find the male end it should attach to. I've read the
article in the library several times, and so has my housemate, and we both
must be missing something. (We're both brain-fried and weary at this point.)
Can anyone please enlighten us as to where this female end connects exactly?
Everything else looks fine. Multimeter gives us optimism.

The bucking I described earlier was perhaps misdescribed -- more like a real
deep and choppy form of hesitation. This may be mixture. She had fewer
problems on her way home from the tire shop (oh, she looks so pretty in her
new shoes!!!), as we cranked up her idle a bit before leaving the shop.

I later figured out the likely culprit in her spedo not working: the glass
in front of it was not being held properly in place, and had fallen back
against the (very sensitive) needle. While I had previously gone at this
with duct tape, I have now gone for the silicone adhesive approach, and just
tacked the glass to the display and the rear frame to the glass. I want to
SEE that 25 MPH I'm achieving. Woo hoo!

Her cylinder temp guage is something I am going to have the mechanic look at
tomorrow morning -- as well as the generator and its connections (I'm
beat -- it's been four months, Volks), the oil light, and that noxious
whining sound (some say belt, some say trany -- now that I know the sound, I
even hear it coming and going at idle in first).

Many of you have asked and, yes, he is someone qualified and experienced
with old VWs. He was immediately concerned that, in addition to the need for
fine-tuning on her carb, the valves might not be exactly perfectly
adjusted -- and VWs are very sensitive that way. As much as I trust my
housemate's ability in having adjusted them, she could still have missed
something. The mechanic also knows that I am open to hearing that she is not
fit to make the trip, and he is prepared to tell me that even if it's not
what I want to hear. (He's leaving for Burning Man on Sunday.)

I also feel good going to this particular mechanic because he is a prominent
member of my BDSM* community here in the Bay Area (I even get a 10% discount
for being a member of a particular local BDSM group), and our community
takes a very negative view of its members screwing one another over. Word
gets out fast and reputations suffer, whether the something that happened
was in a BDSM or vanilla setting. So, his motivation for taking care of me
is likely to be even higher than with a 'normal' customer. (Not to mention,
I'm an adorable girl, and he has previously expressed an interest in getting
together at some point. If he messes up my T2, he'll for sure never know the
joy of tying me up in it. That's MY guarantee.)

tank
* If you have to ask, you probably don't want to know.
