From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu'" <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
Cc: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 20 Aug 2003 12:02:21 -0500
Subject: Re oooooooh, I'm excited!

	Mike & The List:

	Just a word on line-boring T4 cases - the one and only .020" over
line-bore main bearing sets are insanely hard to find, ESPECIALLY in
conjunction with crankshaft under-size bearings.  Don't do anything with
that case unless you are GUARANTEED that the shop has the appropriate main
bearing sets, or you may find yourself with a beautiful paper-weight :-/
Years ago, as part of my first T4 build, I had Rimco do a line-bore on a
very cherry '75 bus case - the machine shop where I had it checked (mostly
T1 & 356 Porsche stuff) said it was slightly, but not badly out of round.
Silly boy that I was (with lots of T1s under my belt), I had it done at
Rimco for a paltry 100 1989 dollars!  Line bore + the bearings!  You'll
probably pay at least that much for the main bearings now.  BTW - have them
also check to make sure the #2 (center main) bearing support thingie has not
collapsed - J. Raby claims that once the center main has collapsed, not even
line boring can save the case...

	Rimco will VERY likely have the bearings in stock, but you will pay
a pretty penny for them (as in put over a barrel and s*d*m*z*d) - the legend
that I hear is whenever "stashes" of T4 mains are uncovered, the boys at
Rimco are generally first in line, with cash in fist.  Can't say as I blame
them - after all it's their business and livelihood.  I was able to get a
set of new Mahle of Brazil Std./.010" under mains from John Connolly at
aircooled.net when I bought my 78mm T4 stroker crank 2 years ago - in fact,
I made the whole purchase contingent on him supplying the bearings.  I
purchased 2 sets of NOS Kolbenschmidt .010 under mains for my personal stash
about 3 years ago - I put up an ad at T2.com and some shop in Minnesota had
a couple sets of them gathering dust - $35 a set - I nearly sh*t myself
getting the money in the mail.  They are not for sale - I got 2 914 motors
that need rebuilding...

	Even non-lined bored undersize main & rod bearings are very
difficult to come by - don't have the crank ground undersize unless you have
located bearings FIRST.  My local VW FLAPS peeps have told me that their
suppliers have literally dozens of sets of Std./Std. T4 main and rod bearing
sets on their warehouse shelves, but .010 and .020 under are like hen's
teeth.  I was extremely pleased to discover that one of my spare 2.0L motors
had a Std./Std. crank in it.

	Save the old 94mm barrels - Rimco can hone them to 96mm and a/c.net
sells the Keith Black cast hypereutectic pistons for about $250 a set of
four + rings.  Machining is about $125, so you can get better than stock P&C
sets + set the compression to what ever you like, for about the same money
as low CR stockers...  Whoo-hoo!

	Stray Thought Dept. - Thought #1 I understand that the #4 T4 main
(smallest one)is the same dimensions as the #4 in T1 motors, sooooooo, if
everything else was OK, why would it not be possible to use a line-bore T1
main, especially if the T4 #4 bearing bore was chewed past .020???  Thought
#2 Why doesn't anyone make T4 mains in LARGER than the one and only .020"
over these days - Gawdnose, there must be enough .020-overed cases out there
that "may" still be good?  Thought # 3 Since there are many sets of Std.
mains and rods out there, why not have your undersized cranks welded up,
ground back to standard, and re-nitrided?  It's bearing availability that is
the limiting reagent...

	Jim Hayden
	Whole Herd of Air-Cooleds
	www.savethebays.org
