Date: Fri, 4 Mar 2011 13:24:41 -0800 (PST)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] idles, but won't drive

Mike is correct. Leaning beyond stoich lowers combustion temps.

http://www.gami.com/articles/bttfpart1.php


A fine article from folks that actually tested mixtures and temps in
aircooled engines.  Of course this also applies to liquid cooled engines
too.

Most folks don't realize they are leaning from excessively rich towards stoich
and so making the engine run hotter; i.e not running the engine in a true lean
of stoich condition, .  When A-C VW engines were designed and manufactured
fuel was relatively cheap.  A bit of extra fuel used to cool the incoming
charge and run the engine rich was not a problem.  Of course it caused other
durability issues, but we will leave that for another day.  Modern fuel and
ignition management shows that a mixture lean of stoich runs cooler and makes
for efficient cruise performance.  Getting there by having leaky induction
systems is not the preferred method. 

A good, tight, FI or carb system is always to be preferred over a leaky,
uncontrolled, set up.  Using the propellant (propane) from a can of WD-40
(cheap-use what you prefer) is a good way to look for leaks.  Getting that
"swap meet" carb rebuilt is a very worthwhile investment.  Carbs are not a
black box to be terrified of.  Take your time, label and bag the parts, and
they come apart and go back together easily. Dont over-torque the screws,
don't poke metal things into holes e.g. jets, and use screwdrivers fitted to
the slots.  Take digital pix and draw diagrams if you need to. Rebushing the
shafting is a pro job, but everything else is very straightforward.  Chem-Tool
(sp), and compressed air, works wonders.  Use gloves and respirator. Use good
manifold gaskets, or form your own.  Loctite has excellent products.  Hot air
into the carb, or some kind of carb heat, is almost always a good thing.  Fuel
atomization absorbs a tremendous amount of
 heat, and many of us live in humid environments where icing (at or just below
the venturi) is a continuous problem; i.e. not just at start up.  It is often
worse at cruise.  A carb with icing will never give you correct mixtures.  You
will note that Robert always sets up his water injection to operate below the
venturi so that icing does not become an issue.

More than you wanted to know. jon

You only really own those things you can carry under both arms at a dead
run... (Robert A. Heinlein)
