Date: Sat, 5 Mar 2011 15:30:25 +1300
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] idles, but won't drive

Chris the L.A. surfer wrote:
>
>WD-40 dumped the propane years ago and moved over to CO2, at least here in
>California.

	That's a shame.  The hydrocarbon propellant is likely to form 
good temporary solutions with the 'heavier' HC lubricants, and the 
result will be better penetration of porous rust.
	Of course the mighty RIPO which Altex Devoe are too stupid to 
export or license to the USA remains more like the original WD-40.


>  The product is now a shadow of its former self.

	I can readily believe it.  Just found a tin from 30 y ago and 
will therefore cherish it for challenging penetrations  :-P in case 
the NZ version goes CO2


>  I suppose too many people were playing torch with the cans.

	A senior student might be deployed to research the history of 
the WD-40 mfr's decision to abandon the superior propellant.
	Aren't numerous other aerosol cans still made with propane? 
We should try to compile a small list of substances which won't harm 
the cherished vehicles on or near which we intend to spray the stuff. 
?
	And it's not only deliberate 'playing torch' that must be on 
our minds with such LPG sources.  The LPG captains of industry are 
much less worried about explosions or even BLEVEs than 'mere' flash 
fires which are much more common and can cause a lingering painful 
death from most of your skin deeply burnt.  These gases propane, 
butane (LPG is varioius mixtures thereof) are 300x the volume of the 
liquids they're held as under several atm pressure; are vapours 
denser than air; and can ruin your day with instant intense fire.
	Even the little aerosol cans are capable of serious injury.
	Forgive me for periodically harping on the dangers of LPG, 
but it is a subject I developed a morbid interest in, 3 decades ago. 
Bulk LPG is dangerous stuff, more than most folk have ever imagined; 
and one LPG cigarette lighter in a breast pocket has killed one man 
....

	If ever I get across to that there great turtle island for 
Buses Of The   ...  I'll show youse how to launch, from the bonfire 
in which a Mg crankcase has been or will be burned, an LPG aerosol 
can which was nearly empty.  Functions in the mode of a mortar.  When 
the concave bottom peals off in the coals at the foot of the metal 
downpipe almost vertical in the dying fire, the can goes up in a 
column of fire at least 60'.  I wouldn't waste a can with any 
remaining proper WD-40 in it, but other aerosol'd materials can be 
found  ...

Safety first

-- 
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600dp Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
