From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <claralw(-at-)aol.com>, <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 7 Mar 2011 11:42:20 -0500
Subject: RE: [VB] Re:back to sound proofing...

Hey Clara,

 

I thought you had installed some of that silver bubble wrap insulation in
your bus, and claimed an improvement in the bus staying cool in the summer,
as you thought it reflected IR from the sun. Must have been someone else on
the list.

 

What is/was SST?

 

-Kevin

Jamaica Plain, MA

'69 single cab

'65 Kombi

 

From: claralw(-at-)aol.com [mailto:claralw(-at-)aol.com] 
Subject: Re: [VB] Re:back to sound proofing...

 

FWIW, I installed a bunch (a bit over 50sqfeet) of "fat mat" sound deadener
in my kombi.

It is blackon the side towards the bus, and silver on the side that your see
when it is installed.

 

The kombi was basicially an empty tin box in back.  

  It's sort of an echo chamber designed to increase noises.

I added a floor mat and a 1970ish westy folding bed, which did quiet it
somewhat.

The fat mat definately made a difference in terms of the bus being less
tinny when you tap on it. 

It may have made a slight difference in sound when driving.  I'm not sure.
It did not make it worse.

 

I did not put any on the floor.   Then again, there is surface rust on the
floor, that bus is not garaged, it rains 50 inches a year here, and it needs
a new rear hatch seal.   often is damp above the engine, and water flows
forward down under the floor mat. 

 

I don't think it made any temp insulation difference

It was raining on us sleeping in the bus on the SST last month.
condensation on the roof just dripped down and the upper sleeping bag was
all damp on top. It was kinda annoying!

It was freezing out at the time.  Didn't have the raining in the bus issue
on labour day weekend in September. or other times we've camped in it.   I
think SST was the coldest camping in that bus.

Camped in much colder weather in othe buses, without the condensation
problem.  the other buses were paneled in the back, with ceiling.
