From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'Adrian Livesley'" <alivesley(-at-)langara.bc.ca>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 7 Mar 2011 14:39:46 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] back to sound proofing...

Thanks Adrian,

I already have the damplifier on the roof(this is like dynamat). I was
planning on putting some luxury liner on the roof and the silver bubble
wrap(ayr-foil). I understand the need for a gap up there for moisture. I'm
just not sure the sequence I should install this. What needs to be glued
down, and what can just be taped in place.

What I mean, is if the luxury liner (LL) in the ceiling falls down, it is
just going to be held in place by the ceiling panel. It should still absorb
noise, right?

Now that I think about it, since I am generally more concerned with over
heating-as I drive it more in warm months, I should probably put the bubble
wrap up before the LL. As this will/should block the IR from the sun getting
through.

Yeah-I have read that heat_soundproof article numerous times over the years.
I always wonder what happened to that bus, and how it lasted long-term.
There were certain things they did, that I would never think to do nor want
to do-ie using greatstuff.

-Kevin
Jamaica Plain, MA
'69 single cab
'65 Kombi

-----Original Message-----
From: Adrian Livesley [mailto:alivesley(-at-)langara.bc.ca] 
Subject: Re: [T2] back to sound proofing...

  Kevin,

A few years ago I began converting a baywindow delivery van to a 
camper.  I spent alot of time researching the various insulation 
materials.  I wanted heat as well as sound insulation.  For this reason 
I rejected pink fiberglass insulation which seemed to be popular in many 
70's van conversion books.  Then I considered a combination of rigid 
foam board and "great stuff" expanding foam.   Then I came to the 
conclusion that foil-backed bubble insulation (aka NASA insulation) is 
the way to go.

However.......I've seen several websites where guys just glue the stuff 
to the underside of the roof and then stick a panel under it.  This is 
next to useless in terms of radiant heat insulation--the chief benefit 
of this type of insulation.  I corresponded with a rep from Reflectix 
corporation and for RV use he highly recommended a 3/4" spacer  (you can 
use furring strips) between two layers of insulation or between one 
layer of insulation and the ceiling or walls.  The additional benefit to 
having furring strips attached to the van is that you get an air pocket 
that will let moisture evaporate.

In areas such as under the dash you have a fair bit of space so you 
could probably get away with a double layer.  Just remember to keep the 
space between the foil at least 3/4"

Adrian

PS  As you probably know there are some good ideas here:  
http://www.type2.com/library/heat/heat-soundproof.html
But please don't use header wrap on your heat exchangers.  Those puppies 
are prone to rust as it is and header wrap will simply speed up the 
corrosion rate.
