Date: Tue, 08 Mar 2011 12:35:47 -0600
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Carburation woes with 1600 DP

Guys it's very likely to be trash in your idle circuit. I used to go 
through this about every 6 months in Italy. They used some sort of 
powered pigment to dye the gasoline. Over 6 months it would settle out 
of the gasoline and build up in the idle circuit. I would unscrew the 
idle jets (34PICT-4) and use carb spray to wash out the idle circuit. I 
would then wash out the jet and then suck on the idle jet to see if I 
could feel with the tip of my tongue that air would flow through the 
jet. Once i did this it was golden all over again.

This is the easiest and most common problem.

The reason your engine idles good when it is cold or cooled off is I 
suspect because the choke is back on for a little while. That means the 
choke flapper is closed and the idle speed is up. Once it warms up the 
choke rotates the flapper open and the idle steeper cam out of the way 
and the carb is trying to idle without help.

When it is really bad, you might have to teardown the carb and blow all 
the passages of the carb out after a carb soak. Also shake the stripped 
down gently to see if you can hear the accelerator pump check ball 
rattling around and thus able to do it's job. If that is stuck too 
you'll need to use pliers to pull the pin out of the right side of the 
carb and dump the ball out and spray/clean/blow the accelerator pump 
circuit out. I suspect that your accelerator pump is working fine or 
you'd be noticing that.

Another possibility: that your carb is warped a little and when it heats 
up it has a vacuum leaks. While the engine is running I'd check the ends 
of the intake, around of the base of the carb, and around the adjustment 
screws by spraying something flammable like WD-40 or carb cleaner. Small 
doses so it doesn't start a fire. If the engine idles better as you 
squirt a part of the intake or carb then you've found a leak.

Seems like I had an O-ring on one of the adjustment screws that failed 
and was no longer sealing. I got home from a long trip to Venice by 
smearing axle grease covering the adjustment screw to seal that opening 
in the carb. RTV would have been better but it was all I had. Also check 
(if you have a vacuum advance distributor) that the vacuum advance isn't 
leaking. Just suck on the hose with your mouth, stick the tip of your 
tongue on the hose while you are sucking on the hose and see if it holds 
vacuum.

I have seen carb bases warp a little. You can machine them flat by 
putting sandpaper on a piece of flat glass and sliding the carb back and 
forth until the whole base is shiny. I have seen an intake leak at the 
ends. New gaskets please. I have seen a carb freeze up b/c the intake 
heat circuit (connects to the muffler on both sides) was clogged up with 
rust. Use a broken end of a clutch cable chucked into a drill to snake 
the intake and clean it out. Spin the cable both ways. Obviously one way 
causes it to fan out and clean better.

Chris Mills in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L (Heinz-57 Variety Edition)
'97 VW Cabrio
'99 CR-V AWD (214K miles, original clutch)
Brenderup 1205S
