To: conradk(-at-)mac.com
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 27 Feb 2003 13:57:15 -0600
From: Stan Wilder <wilden1(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] 1966 van purchase advice

If you buy an old 66 this might be your future ................
-----------------------------------------------------------
I bought a 66 Westy back in November for the purpose of resale.
I paid a pretty big price for it because I had a great deal of admiration
for the work that had already been done.
If you have access to a good supply of donor busses to get parts from in
your area you can pay more and still put your project together for
reasonable costs.
This is what I did to the bus I bought:
Hydroblasted the entire bus, inside, outside, underneath, Treated it with
phosphating solution to prevent rust.
Painted the bus inside and outside with the original color, Installed new
OEM front seat covers.
New Battery, New Brakes & Cylinders, New Park Brake Cables, Rebuilt the
Dual Carbs, Changed the oil, adjusted the valves, new valve cover
gaskets, installed all new ignition (the works), rebuilt 12v alternator &
regulator, New Fan Belt & Alternator Pulley, Half dozen light bulbs & 2
headlights, New CV boots and pack the CVs, New gease seals on all axles &
lube, New carpet, New rear floor, Rebuilt the Westy cabinets, Acid
cleaned the Jalousey Window frames and urethane sealed them, reinstaled
with new scews, cleaned and painted window frames, all new door, kick,
headliner panels with high density foam packed into every void, new front
and double door seals, new rear hatch seal, new 9 spring clutch &
pressure plate w/throwout bearing, gland nut / pilot bearing/flywheel
seal and front main seal, new throttle cable and clutch cable, new heater
duct from fan to heater boxes. Cleaned Westy cushions and seats they are
still original, replaced both tail light assemblies, replaced tail light
gaskets, replaced headlight gaskets (both), replace wiper blades.
-----------------
Things left to be done:
Install roof rack, new tires, sway bar bushings, door top scrapers, vent
window seals, side front window slide seals, second coat of paint,
sandblast and paint front bumper, buy and install VW emblem on front,
reseal overhead air vent, buy and install tachometer, replace all fuel
lines, new Westy curtains, window screens (5), rebuild rocker panels, buy
jack and lug wrench, buy fire extnguisher, hook up 120v electric for
Westy wall, plug, replace 25 jalousey window glass pieces.
-----------------
The engine and tranny are in great shape.
The bus has conversion to ball joint front suspension.
The bus has conversion to three rib 69-74 tranny.
The bus has conversion to open drive, reduction boxes removed.
 Engine modifications:
Dual Solex 34 Carburetors (Just recently rebuilt, Electric Chokes)
Very tight 009 Distributor all new ignition and tune up.
Dual Port Heads
Oil Cooler
Large Remote oil filter (Ford FL1A)
Vents added to valve covers and collector added for crankcase
ventilation.
Oil Pressure Gauge (Mechanical) This engine holds 30 psi at 700 rpms idle
at full operating temperature.
Oil Temp Gauge (Electronic)
1.5 quart add on oil pan with 110 volt oil heater
Type2 Tranny and Drive Axles, 3 ribs/=69-74 bus 
Engine Hour Meter
K&N Air Cleaners
Ceramic Fuel Filter
S&S Header System.
Heavy Quality rear trailer hitch bumper.
