Date: Thu, 27 Feb 2003 17:38:00 -0500 (EST)
From: david raistrick <keen(-at-)type2.com>
To: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: Tool organization

On Sun, 23 Feb 2003, Matt Roberds wrote:

> The main thing I've had trouble with is finding the right socket.
> Those "socket sticks" (long metal bar with hoop spring clips) work
> pretty well for that.  If you buy the nice ones, they'll have vinyl
> hand grips that are different colors for the different drive sizes.

At the shop I worked at we'd worked up a homemade variation of this.

We used a wooden stick with nails drivin into it at an angle.  The heads
were then nipped off the nails.

These sticks were mounted to our wall-of-pegboard and sockets arranged and
labeled on them.

Some sockets, both inch and metric, were more popular then others (and
besides, we had 3-4 people working on cars with the same sets of tools at
once).  Most of the short-well sockets would stack one, two, or even three
high on the same nail.

And they come off and go back on a hell of a lot easier then those
clip-on variety.  We tried those for a while but the sockets regularly
would end up on the floor...:)


Wrenches were treated similarly, though we used pegboard hangers for
those.  Multiple wrenches of the same size that were kept out would be
stacked atop each other.

We also had plenty of spares....tools in a busy shop often seem to
disappear (so do phones and screwguns...but those usually come back when
the owner of the car finds them..:).  The spares were stored in various
forms (including the old clip-to socket rails) in a old chest of drawers
in the corner of the shop and were retrieved as needed.


We never labeled our wall...we used the tools for 8-9 hours every day and
didn't have any problem remembering where they went back.  And it kept us
free to rearrange to suit.

...david


--
David Raistrick  '66 SO-44 Westy		keen(-at-)type2.com
/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign 				in Orlando Fl
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail          http://www.expita.com/nomime.html
