Date: Thu, 27 Feb 2003 17:32:43 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Wiring Q's

>From: Sean Dorman <croftyest(-at-)yahoo.com>
>Date: Thu, 27 Feb 2003 12:35:16 -0800 (PST)
>
>In my Westfalia ('65) when I pull the emergency light switch to on,
>all of my turn signal lights light up (So far so good) but only the
>pass front signal flashes?

You mean all 4 amber lights on the outside of the Bus light up, but
3 of them stay on steady while the right front one flashes?  That's
a weird one.  It would make more sense if the right front one flashed
while the other 3 remained dark.

Go get http://vintagebus.com/wiring/bus-62-usa.jpg if you don't have
an original VW color wiring diagram already.

>Could it be because my flasher and emergency relay are different
>voltages?

Possibly.

>I have the original wiring except for:
>12 Conversion

Shouldn't make that much of a difference.

>Dual bulb rear taillight assem (disconnected 1 wire from stop light
>switch and ran new line to rear of bus)

You swapped the wires around to get the rear lamps working correctly,
right?  In the rear, the dual-filament bulbs (red lenses) should have
the stock gray/black (L) or gray/red (R) wire, plus the new wire you
ran.  The single-filament bulbs (amber lenses) should have the stock
black/yellow (L) or black/red (R) wire.  Finally, both rear reflectors
should be grounded to the body - theoretically they are supposed to
ground through a bump in the casting, but practically it works a lot
better if you run a separate ground wire to the reflectors.

>12 volt wagoner 4 prong flasher (passenger side)

Should be OK, as long as it is hooked up as follows:

Wire Color                           Was   Is  Purpose
black/white/green+black/purple       +     X   +12 V feed
black/white/green+black/white/green  S     L   Pulsing +12 V to lamps
blue                                 K     P   Switched ground for pilot
(none)                               stud  E   Ground

The original flasher grounded through its mounting stud; the new
flasher will probably need a short ground wire to its E terminal.

Probably the first thing is to make sure the turn signals work, left
and right.  Observe all 4 exterior lamps under all of the following
combinations (you may need an assistant):

Turn signals  Running lights  Brake lights
L or R        off             off
L or R        on              off
L or R        off             on
L or R        on              on

If the brightness on the rear turn signals changes a lot when you have
the running lights or brake lights on, or if you can barely tell the
difference between the running light only and the running light plus
the brake light, then you need to work on the grounds at the rear lamps.

If one corner refuses to flash, you probably have a broken wire to that
corner or a burned-out bulb, so chase that and fix it.

Once the turn signals are working right, try the emergency flashers
again.  They might just work.

If not... you need to chase the emergency switch J1 and relay J6.
Make sure the wires are hooked up per the diagram.  If you still have
a 6 V relay, and it burned out, I would expect your front turn signals
to not flash at all in emergency mode.

The emergency switch is a very simple beast.  When it's on, all four
of its terminals are connected together.  When it's off, none of them
are connected to anything.  If you take all 4 wires off of it, it's
easy to test with an ohm-meter or self-powered test light.

If you do suspect the relay, here's how to test it.  Unplug all the
wires from it, but leave it clipped to the Bus for a ground.  Use your
ohm-meter or a self-powered test light across terminals 30 and 87,
across 30 and 87b, and across 87 and 87b.  You should have open circuit,
infinite ohms, light off in all 3 places.  Now, jump terminal 86 to
battery voltage.  The relay should click.  Try the meter or light
across 30 and 87, across 30 and 87b, and across 87 and 87b.  You should
have closed circuit, 0 ohms, light on in all 3 places.  If the relay
fails the test, it's fairly easy to replace it with two 12 V relays
from the FLAPS.

The way the relay and emergency switch work is: the relay connects the
two front turn-signal wires together and to battery hot when the coil
is energized.  The emergency light switch connects the relay coil and
the two rear stop/turn wires together and to the output of the turn
signal flasher (J).  This way, the turn signal flasher only has to
power two turn signal bulb filaments, the relay coil, and the dash
light, instead of all four turn signal bulb filaments.

Whew.  Lots of stuff.  Most likely, though, it's something simple,
like a bad ground at the rear lights, or a burned out bulb, or a
broken wire.  Good luck!

Matt Roberds
