From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>, Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Cc: raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com, VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com, Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sat, 1 Mar 2003 08:24:51 -0800 
Subject: RE: [VB] engine, sp verses duel port

 The problem with single port heads is that they have stopped making them
now. This is just a heads up to all you single porters out there to start
saving all your single port heads as new ones are NLA. It's pretty bad when
your suppliers (mine) tell me that they have bought the last of them and are
hording them now. If anybody is thinking of using NEW single port heads, if
you find them buy them before it's to late.
  On another note. All of the new single port heaads have the same valves in
them as NEW duel port heads.
  I am also in the process of rebuilding my 1776 single port engine (blew
the thrust bearing out of it (50,000 plus miles). To help solve the mystery
of duel port verses single port power, I have made arrangements to dyno the
engine. After I run it with the single port heads I am going to put a set of
duel port on it and dyno it with them also. I have duel Kadrons on it so I
am going to use the same carbs in both test. Hopefully this will let
everyone know the difference in torque and HP through the RPM range.

ronnie

-----Original Message-----
From: George Lyle [mailto:glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com]
Sent: Friday, February 28, 2003 11:41 PM
To: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Cc: raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com; VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com; Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] engine


On Fri, 28 Feb 2003 Claralw(-at-)aol.com wrote:

> I do the SP simply because DP heads crack.    Out of motors out of buses
I've
> pulled apart, about 90% of DP heads are cracked, and under 10% of SP
heads.
>
> Longetivity, vs a very small power difference.

The Mexican DP VW heads come with long reach plugs, indicating thicker
castings.  I wonder if this might be aimed at reducing cracking.

One other place that cracks is the cylinder tin.  That can be brazed, but
the dual port tin tends to crack more than the SP tin, in my experience.

Still, since my bay came with DP, I'll stick with it.  I really doubt that
VW went to the all that trouble for a gimmick.

George
