From: "Dave and Jen" <ibuyvws(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "Vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 1 Mar 2003 18:41:15 -0800
Subject: dead bus (won't start)

Hey everyone,

Just wanting some opinions and advice on trying to get my bus running again,

Here's the history of what happened. (The short version)
My engine shot the spark plug on cylinder #2 out of it's hole.
I've recently got around to fixing the engine so I could take my bug engine
back out.
Stock 1600dp, 34 pict-3, 009, etc.....
I decided to change the heads as the old ones now had a bad plug hole along
with cracks between intake and exhaust valves on all cylinders. I've had the
engine about 5 years and bought it used. Don't know the past history before
me.
I installed a set of good used 1600dp heads that I had off a different engine.
Another 1600dp stock motor.
Get the engine back in, everything hooked back up like normal.
Nothing!!  Friggen engine won't start. I try a few more times like a dumb ass.
Like cranking it is gonna make it fire this time.
Keep in mind that this engine used to fire right up even after sitting for
months on end.
That's why I'm surprised it didn't start.
Upon further inspection I notice a slight puddle of dirty gas dripping from
under #2 cylinder. Never seen this before. I crank it over more and out comes
some more gas. I'm really pissed now!!

So I checked and re-checked everything. All is good. Rockers assy's are on,
valves are adjusted, plugs are in and firing order is correct, everything else
was as before when running.
I get an idea to do a compression check (a friend also suggested this)
Here's the off the wall readings I get.
#1 85lbs
#2 50lbs.
#3 140lbs (seems high for #3 cylinder)
#4 70lbs.

#1 and 2 plugs are fouled out black and reaking of gas
#3 and 4 plugs are brand new looking.

All plugs are Bosch Super and brand new.

Please list, let me know what you think the cause and solution is.
Looks to me that my head for cylinder #1 and 2 didn't seat and is what's
leaking the gas. So, I believe that I need to pull the head off and re-install
it.

Thanks in advance,
Dave Barnes
63 15-window
60 ragtop bug
