Date: Fri, 9 May 2008 21:06:29 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chris <cflesher1(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Need to source a Brake Booster "T" Fitting

**I'm not going to beat a dead horse here and I usually don't just chime in unless I feel I can really help but... I gotta give a third vendor opinion and say "well said" to Jim's "well said" to Scott.
   
  Remember, this list is not for help with hippy-rigs. This is for real, serious, genuine help in keeping your bus on the road in it's tip-top original form!  If you request a part and a vendor goes out of his way to tell you he has the part you need, do not come back and say "aw, that's too expensive, how do I hippy-fix it instead?"  The vendors are here for you, we don't make a lot of money but we are dedicated to your bus.  We monitor this list to see if we can help people.  If you can't afford the part and don't want to support the vendors, you shouldn't have a bus and you shouldn't be on the list asking the question.  Sorry to sound rude but these are classic cars, they require investment.  Be happy that your original part lasted 30 years.  Be happy that a vendor has gone out of his way to make it available to you again and that the new one you'll buy from that vendor will last you another 30!  Those things considered, price is really not a factor at all!
   
  It's OK to modify things when needed but the core reason for this list is not to find out how others skirted around doing something right, it's to find out the right way and help others do it this way; true restoration.  When I did my first restoration, I was tickled to death when someone on the list helped me do it the right way with the right part. I love to pass that knowledge on and expect others to appreciate it the same.
   
  I hope this is helpful, doesn't sound offensive, and has bus content!  :-)
  -Chris from BustedBus

Old Volks Home  wrote:Well said Scott!
There are times to be cheep and then times not to be. This is one of those
times to not be cheep. Of course, the Euro and Dollar exchange sucks these
days, but that them there is the breaks these days......
Jim Thompson

 yes it costs a bit of dough but it is a genuine part, it fits
> perfectly and it work exactly as it should. that is all you can ask
> and most times that is more or less priceless. there are so many crap
> parts out there it is a pleasure to install one of these on a bus
> with a brittle old cracked thing and have it just fit and work.
> Scott Lyons
