From: "Mark Reed" <tabithamark(-at-)windstream.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 10 May 2008 11:03:59 -0400
Subject: 68 bus clicking drum brakes

Hi all,

I have a slight click sound coming from one of the drums.  Anyone ran into
this before?  I am going to pull the drums to look for loose / broken items,
then replace and readjust the brakes and see if that fixes it.

 

And in response to some harsh responses to  "Re: [T2] Need to source a Brake
Booster "T" Fitting", I have been a lurker/poster on this list since 97(?)
or so(?) and somewhere I missed that this list was for restoration of busses
only.  I have, as many others, turned to this list for knowledge of the bus
community, and have imparted any knowledge I had when I had something to
offer.  I would guess a large percentage of the busses on the road are not
restorations, and they need our help more than anyone.  (Lets all walk
behind our busses and look at our exhaust systems, for one, and see how bone
stock we all are).  I would never tell anyone to get rid of the bus because
they don't want to pay for an overpriced piece of plastic that can be had in
copper or steel from mcmaster carr for less money / better quality fix.
Call me a hippy fixer, I guess I never marched to beat of everyone else's
drum anyhow.  And I would never tell anyone else how to march either.

 

I am eternally grateful to the list for all the positive info it imparts to
bus community.  I do buy from list vendors, pretty much exclusively, for top
quality VW replacements, new and used.  I am so grateful they are there.
Sometimes our beloved busses came from the factory with cheesy plastic crap
pieces that were a cost savings to VW, rather than a material that would
have lasted better.  I take the opportunity to upgrade to something better
when the plastic craps out.  Maybe that is just me.  

 

Keep it coming, bone stock, restoration, or keeping your aircooled VW bus
daily driver going, or whatever else the questions / discussions bring, I
hope the list is here to help.  

 

Jason, check out mcmaster carr, you will probably be able to find something
that will be a better than stock plastic fix.  It will however, not have a
VW logo on it.

 

Mark

 

Western PA 
