Date: Sat, 10 May 2008 11:25:46 -0500
From: David Schwarze <dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net>
To: Chris <cflesher1(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Need to source a Brake Booster "T" Fitting

Chris wrote:
>   Remember, this list is not for help with hippy-rigs. This is for real, serious, 
> genuine help in keeping your bus on the road in it's tip-top original form!

Really?  I think you're on the wrong list.  This is not a resto-nazi 
list, never has been.  It's open to everyone including those who need 
help with hippy-rigs.

> If you 
> request a part and a vendor goes out of his way to tell you he has the part you need, 
> do not come back and say "aw, that's too expensive, how do I hippy-fix it instead?"

No disrespect to the vendors, but it's a free country.  There is no law 
   that says anyone MUST buy a part even if the price is beyond their 
pain threshold.  I got tired of replacing the rubber elbows on the 
vacuum pipe at the front of my '73's engine - they went bad every couple 
of years from the heat.  I finally replaced them with loops made of 
copper pipe and some heavy duty heater hose junctions.  Guess what?  I 
never had a problem again.  I bet I drove 80K miles with them like that.

> The vendors are here for you, we don't make a lot of money but we are dedicated to 
> your bus.  We monitor this list to see if we can help people.  If you can't afford 
> the part and don't want to support the vendors, you shouldn't have a bus and you 
> shouldn't be on the list asking the question.  

Sorry, but I don't agree with criticizing people for being thrifty.  Not 
everybody has money to throw at high-dollar parts.  Many people drive 
busses because they are inexpensive to own and operate.  You may say 
that paying top dollar will result in the lowest cost of ownership in 
the long run.  That is true for some parts, and not true for others.  I 
just replaced my CV boots again after they cracked apart in less than 
20K miles.  Guess what?  I bought the best German parts I could find at 
the time and apparently they were garbage.  The best part is not always 
the most expensive part.  Apparently I should have bought the cheap poly 
dune-buggy boots - who knew?

 > Be happy that your original part lasted 30
> years.  Be happy that a vendor has gone out of his way to make it available to you 
> again and that the new one you'll buy from that vendor will last you another 30!  
> Those things considered, price is really not a factor at all!

Sure, as long as you have deep pockets.  The problem is that you are 
talking about one small part.  There are hundreds of other small parts 
like that and if a person spent big bucks on all of them, well, it gets 
to be pretty expensive and as I pointed out there is no guarantee that 
the part will last as long as the original.  There are those who are 
going for the concours resto and there are those who are trying to get 
their bus back on the road so they can get to work tomorrow.  The former 
should buy the expensive part, and the latter, well maybe they can make 
something else work so they have more money for $4/gallon gas.

>   It's OK to modify things when needed but the core reason for this list is not 
to find out how others skirted around doing something right, it's to 
find out the
right way and help others do it this way; true restoration.

Again, not everyone on this list is restoring their bus.  Please don't 
lump everyone into one category.  The membership here is diverse, and we 
like it that way.

-David (closet hippie)
