Date: Sat, 10 May 2008 10:28:26 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chris <cflesher1(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Need to source...vendor/list etiquette

  I understand David's points. To create a helpful topic, I offer brief clarification/expansion. 
  The point was that someone asked where to locate a part, multiple folks gave him sources, and he slammed multiple vendors for being too expensive.  There is no rule against that; but by doing that, the helpfullness of the list is decreased and vendor participation is shun.
   
  What he should have done was first checked vendors for the part, found it too expensive for him, declined the purchase to the vendor, then asked the list for modification tips.
  By instead asking the list where to locate a part before searching on his own, it's assumed he's looking for the right part and the right way to do things.  A vendor will then respond. If they send you to their site and you don't like their price, tell them directly by politely declining to purchase. Do not take it to the list and publicly insult the vendor's price. 
   
  The question posted should have then instead been "I know this part is available but I can't afford it. How do I make my own?"  Then, he'd get a response from his target audience of fixers, instead of vendors, and avoid insult.
   
  Again, vendors are looking to help you do it the right way and get you the right part. If you're asking the list for a part, it's assumed you are actually looking for the right part, as you requested.  I hope this is helpful and gives a clear point of view. -Chris
  

David Schwarze <dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net> wrote:
  No disrespect to the vendors, but it's a free country. There is no law 
that says anyone MUST buy a part even if the price is beyond their 
pain threshold. Sorry, but I don't agree with criticizing people for being thrifty. Not 
everybody has money to throw at high-dollar parts. Many people drive 
busses because they are inexpensive to own and operate. You may say 
that paying top dollar will result in the lowest cost of ownership in 
the long run. That is true for some parts, and not true for others.
Again, not everyone on this list is restoring their bus. Please don't 
lump everyone into one category. The membership here is diverse, and we 
like it that way.
