From: Scott Lyons <slyons(-at-)germansupply.com>
Date: Sat, 10 May 2008 14:16:57 -0400
To: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Need to source a Brake Booster "T" Fitting

On 10-May-08, at 12:25 PM, David Schwarze wrote:

> I got tired of replacing the rubber elbows on the vacuum pipe at  
> the front of my '73's engine - they went bad every couple of years  
> from the heat.  I finally replaced them with loops made of copper  
> pipe and some heavy duty heater hose junctions.  Guess what?  I  
> never had a problem again.  I bet I drove 80K miles with them like  
> that.
>

david,

you have touched on the core issue here, perhaps unwittingly.

this issue of the crummy dual-carb vacuum elbows happened because the  
parts you installed were poor quality, far below that of the original  
rubber elbow available from the VW dealer. the main reason for the  
lousy quality is that manufacturers and some vendors believe (rightly  
or not) that the customer (in this case, you) would not pay, say  
15.00, for the elbow. they made one of inferior material and  
workmanship and it sold for 3.00 instead of 15.00. but it failed  
early so it was no bargain. you had to find a better solution, which  
you did. you think this proves your point that people can do well  
making their own parts, solving their own problems in this way. it  
does. but it proves something else too, namely that making or selling  
a cheap repro part does nobody any favours except the person who made  
a profit off the part. it hurts the market deeply.

in the case of the decel elbow, the better solution already exists in  
an OE part that fits and works as it should. if no-one buys this part  
because they think it costs too much, guess what happens next? the  
part will no longer be available and now the cycle of your poor  
quality begins for this product. someone will make a crummy repro  
part that looks fine in a website photo and fails in a year or 2.  
every month VW discontinues products for our vehicles, mostly because  
the demand for the original parts has fallen. it is a viscous circle  
in a way. this is why we sell only the genuine part if one exists. we  
do not sell the repro unless it is the only part available. it makes  
our prices higher but we are doing this to ensure supply of quality  
parts for everyone. there are plenty of good repro parts available  
but in a large percentage of instances, the genuine part is superior  
in every way to a repro. i can name hundreds of examples. i work on  
buses for a living and repro parts are often terrible, and it's  
getting worse every day.


Scott Lyons
germansupply.com
http://www.germansupply.com

Parts/Shop Line 10am-6pm Eastern
416-531-3113
