Date: Sat, 10 May 2008 13:32:52 -0700
From: "Andy McKinley" <airhedz(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Need to source a Brake Booster "T" Fitting

I have to chime in here.

First of all, I doubt that even ten percent of the members here are
doing concourse restorations. Some of those that are might seek out
any "OEM" or OEM impostor, regardless of quality, to complete their
trailer queen show car. Those aren't daily drivers, and dependability
is not an issue for them.

Secondly, to assume that something that was designed more than 30
years ago cannot be improved upon is complete stupidity.

This list has been full of alternative solutions from the get go. I
remember reading with great interest Hoover's ideas about the natural
gas conversions he was trying to design many moons ago; The pioneering
folks who are using the MegaSquirt have been able to improve upon the
mileage, emissions, and power of their rigs. I have larger than stock
wheels on my van, and I've redone the interior panels in cloth rather
than vinyl. I've installed one hell of an alarm system that will
prevent anyone from stealing my van short of lifting it onto a flatbed
with a forklift, but even then I'll probably be standing behind them
with a big stick before they finish because my van has paged me asking
for help. Electric door locks and an aftermarket radio, too. None of
this is stock, but they are all improvements, IMHO.

Insisting that only original parts/designs must be used stifles
innovation and critical thinking.

Thirdly, while onlist vendors are always my first choice when shopping
for parts for my rig, I must challenge any statement they may make
regarding that they closely monitor what they sell and are looking out
for our best interest by selecting only the best quality part they can
find.

Here's one for instance: I have been regularly buying window crank
handles from several vendors. You all carry the same ones. They are
such a POS that I used to buy them three at a time, keep spares in my
glovebox along with a stubby phillips head screwdriver. These things
break if you look at them cross eyed, and the finish on the plastic
cover is shameful.

A few months ago, I was in my local AMERICAN independent car parts
store and spied a window crank handle on the "HELP!" parts rack (you
know, the red blister packs). Having just broken two handles in the
past two days, I was out of spares, so I shelled out $9.00 for this
one thinking it was probably the same POS, but hey, I need it now.
Well surprise, surprise, this thing looks like and is cast like NOS.
Not to mention it hasn't broken yet. Hands down higher quality. I am
happy I spent the extra six bucks. Yes, I know I have an alignment
issue with this window, but for the life of me I haven't been able to
correct it yet.

Here's another: Some of the vendors on this list drop ship from their
suppliers, and have no idea what parts are being sent out. I recently
bought two rear drums from one, and paid extra to get the ATE drums.
When they came (shipped direct to me from a company 1600 miles away
from the vendor) they were Sebro, and were so bad I was afraid to use
them (the castings had holes you could pour water through, and no, I'm
not talking about the holes for the wheel studs). The point is, these
parts had not passed the vendor's scrutiny.

Hats off to this vendor because he straightened it out entirely at his
expense, and got me the ATE drums. I will continue to do business with
him as I have for the past 14 years.

Until you can supply every single OEM part we need at OEM quality (no
NOS rubber parts, please, they age), don't criticize us for trying to
come up with solutions to our problems. Kind of hypocritical for you
to say we must use the OEM or impostor parts you DO have, then leave
us hanging when we have to rig up our own solutions and then you say
it's OK because those parts are NLA.

I don't buy the "best price" argument either. You'll sell the parts
for what you can get. I find it very odd that of the three onlist
vendors that sell this part (022-133-083 D), two are within $2 of each
other, and the third is around $15 less (http://tinyurl.com/4bahzc).
The same three vendors sell a similar part for earlier buses and
Porsches (022-133-083), and again all are within a dollar or two of
the same price ($13-15), but a random search for this part using
Google turned up the same part, also touted as "genuine" (whatever
that means), for again, around two thirds the price
(http://tinyurl.com/6y6kmh).

In summary, we'll do what we want with our vans. If we need a part,
we'll check what's available. If it's a good product at a fair price
and we can count on the customer service, we just might buy it. If
not, or if we think we can improve on what's available, we'll choose
something else. You're not gonna sell a lot of stuff to someone you've
just called an idiot for not buying from you.


On Sat, May 10, 2008 at 9:25 AM, David Schwarze <dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net> wrote:

> Chris wrote:
>>
>>  Remember, this list is not for help with hippy-rigs. This is for real,
>> serious, genuine help in keeping your bus on the road in it's tip-top
>> original form!

>>  It's OK to modify things when needed but the core reason for this list is
>> not
>
> to find out how others skirted around doing something right, it's to find
> out the
> right way and help others do it this way; true restoration.
>
> Again, not everyone on this list is restoring their bus.  Please don't lump
> everyone into one category.  The membership here is diverse, and we like it
> that way.
>
> -David (closet hippie)

-- 
Andy McKinley
airhedz(-at-)gmail.com

"What good fortune for governments that the people don't think." - Hitler
Your ignorance is their strength. Read YOUR constitution and bill of
rights. Vote!
http://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution/constitution.overview.html
http://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution/constitution.billofrights.html
