From: Neithammer(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 12 May 2008 20:03:46 EDT
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Carb rebuild is a success!

Years ago (like, maybe 20) my original Solex 34PICT-3 carb began leaking  
fuel from the throttle shafts, so I replaced it with a Bocar version,  which ran 
OK but was clearly not as good as the original Solex.   Over the last two 
years, the Bocar had been getting worse and worse, hesitation  and poor low speed 
pickup and such, that I think I have previously described on  the list.
 
I had saved my old Solex (I don't throw much out, as is evidenced by the  
boxes of "VW junk" in my attic), figuring that someday, I would connect with  
someone who could fix the worn throttle shaft problem.  One day, I found  the 
Solex, and, thanks to advice from listees, I also found RIMCO, and they  fixed it 
right.  After they returned the repaired carb body to me, I  installed the 
usual rebuild kit, but read the kit instructions this time and  took their 
advice to soak the jets and other small parts in solvent before  re-installing 
them, as well as spraying carb cleaner in all the holes in the  carb body and top 
and then blowing everything out with compressed air.
 
I must have done something right, because the bus (71 westy, stock  
everything) now runs better that it has in years, with absolutely no bucking,  missing 
or hesitation under any acceleration conditions.
 
So now I'm curious as to just how this carb actually works, as in, what are  
all those little holes, passages, jets, vacuum ports and other things are  
actually doing.  I figured out how the accelerator pump and some of the  other 
parts work, I think, by spraying carb cleaner in certain holes and  watching 
where it came out, but I still have many questions.  I'd like to  know all this 
so I can do a better job of understanding future problems when  they inevitably 
occur.
 
Does anyone know of a resource that correlates, in detail, carburetor  
internal fuel and air flow diagrams with the physical locations of things, for  the 
34PICT-3?
 
Rusty



**************Wondering what's for Dinner Tonight? Get new twists on family 
favorites at AOL Food.      
(http://food.aol.com/dinner-tonight?NCID=aolfod00030000000001)
