From: toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 13 May 2008 12:44:59 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine woes 

Hey Bob,

      Sorry to hijack the thread, but I was just wondering what exactly the 009 distributor was? I have an 1800cc Type-4 in my 73 VW Bus, with a Webber Progressive carb. The motor actually runs quite well. I've got a Purolator 4-psi electric fuel pump (was already on there when I got it). It's got all new fuel lines, a brand new OEM style muffler and tip from the Bus Depot, I've got a new engine seal, etc. New plugs, wires, cap and rotor, new high energy coil, etc etc... 

The Bus DOES run well and it has plenty of power. the only thing I wonder about though is that it still runs hot sometimes. It was about 90 degrees outside this weekend. I drove 2 miles to the auto parts store, parked for about 5-6 minutes and then drove back home. When I stopped the Bus after getting home, the motor dieseled for 2 seconds (this tells me it was overheating). I've covered up ALL of the holes in the engine tin between the underside of the Bus and the open engine compartment. All except for one. The previous couple of owners had an A/C compressor installed (at some point) and there is a gaping hole on the side there. I haven't yet plugged that (although I plan to when I get some time... I pretty much never drive the Bus so it hasn't been a priority). Could that be the cause of it? or could it be something else? I thought I'd retard the timing slightly, so I did, and I think that helped, but I still wonder if it's maybe the distributor? (Is that possible)? What SHOULD 
I have on there? 

What would cause my Bus to run hot? The motor is low mileage, it's got about 2,000 miles on it since it's rebuild. It's got BRAND NEW lifters from about 100 miles ago. It runs AWESOME, it just sometimes diesels when I shut it off...

Any ideas?


Thanks!!!

Todd

-------------- Original message from type2-digest-help(-at-)type2.com: -------------- 
 From: "Accessys(-at-)smart.net" 
 Subject: Re: [T2] Engine woes 

 
 do you have the correct distributor in the engine. an .009 
 distributor can have the exact effect you describe 
 
 Bob 
