From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: "'type2 List'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 14 May 2008 14:28:31 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] Lifting

http://www.baja.com/kombi/

But please don't do it. :) The VW Bus is top-heavy enough as it is. Buses
have a ton of ground clearance and just fitting a taller tire usually gives
it enough lift. But...

The basic gist of lifting a bus is not to change the suspension geometry.
For the front, one should lower the location of the wheel in relation to the
stock spindle angle. Essentially the reverse of dropped spindles. It is
possible to put an adjustable beam in or coil-over springs, but then again,
you are messing with stock settings. Lowering the beam is another option,
but you are not lifting the suspension at all, only allowing for taller
tires (but this messes with a whole bunch of steering geometry, shift
coupler, e-brake lines, etc...)

The proper way to lift the rear is by modifying the spring plates, not
re-indexing the torsion arms. Re-indexing is tempting, but has adverse
effects on wear, handling and safety. Be aware that higher angle CV joints
and longer axle shafts are in order. These are common to Dune Buggy builders
("Porsche 930" CV if I recall).

Also running a taller tire in combination of lift is dangerous. One it will
overwhelm a stock motor and two it makes things very uneasy if the right
lift-to-tire-height ratio isn't used. A good rule of thumb for four wheelers
is for every inch in height of a tire or lift, increase the width by half.
You can't fit very wide tires on a Bay bus, so cutting of sheetmetal is
almost a given if you follow this rule.

All in all, when done correctly a "baja bus" will function pretty well. But
with any major vechile modification, expect some expensive and frustrating
hurdles. I took my Wrangler from stock to 9 inches of lift with 36" tires.
Everything works exceptionally well and is very safe, BUT it was extremely
expensive and took 2 years to get it dialed in.

Good luck.

Jon Stiles
'68 Double Cab
'78 Westfalia

-----Original Message-----
From: Nathan Hopkins [mailto:mr.snikpoh(-at-)gmail.com] 
Sent: Wednesday, May 14, 2008 9:57 AM
To: Type2
Subject: [T2] Lifting

Does anyone know of any good resources for information about lifting a 
transporter? I know of a place near me in salem, oregon (I think its 
west coast metric, off the top of my head) that takes core spindles and 
turns them into lift spindles. And thats probably how I would go for the 
front end... but what about the rear end? I keep hearing the term 
"re-indexing" for VW's when it comes to adjusting rear end suspension 
but I've never heard any details on whats involved in doing this. If its 
anything like the front end of my 74 beetle, I don't see how you could 
do much of anything without welding. Also... CV's: How much of a lift 
will the stock ones handle? Is there an interchangable VW CV that could 
handle the greater camber?

I'm not thinking of a ton of lift... buses are already pretty high, just 
looking for 2-3 inches and a heavy sway bar.

Thanks,
-Nate
