Date: Thu, 15 Feb 2007 12:56:39 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Chandler Thompson <chandler(-at-)prestigefarms.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Help w/ my '78...

Chandler Thompson wrote:
> I have used a spark plug tester to test the wire out of the coil, all 4 
> wires from the distributor, and have pulled all four plugs and watched 

Well, that's good, it seems like you're getting spark then.  Btw, did 
you say you were using a hotspark module?  You might want to switch to 
points just for a sanity check.  Who knows, the module might have gone 
south for some reason.  Then later you can switch back... easy enough..


> I did the screwdriver to the intake flapper thing and can hear the pump 
> running strong.  When I pulled one of the plugs today it was damp with 
> fuel.  So as far as I can tell I have fuel and spark.  However, and I 

Ok, then it means that you're obviously getting fuel through the system 
and the injectors are firing.  However, we don't know if the plugs are 
actually firing at the correct time.

> have tried this 50 times, when I spray starting fluid into the intake it 
> has never turned over on it's own.  Never.  Is it possible that my plugs 
> are somehow not being grounded?  I can't think of any other explanation, 

I think the plugs may not be firing at the correct time.  Regardless of 
whether or not you have vacuum leaks or not, you should definitely have 
it at least kick once or twice w/ starter fluid.  That stuff is super 
flammable so it sounds like maybe your timing's off...

> I have seen them spark outside of the engine so as long as they are 
> grounded they must be sparking inside the engine, right?
>  
> Several people have recommended I check for vacuum leaks.  My vacuum 
> lines were in horrible shape and I've swapped some of them out but not 
> all of them.  Can someone confirm or deny that a vacuum leak would cause 
> the engine to not fire at all, even with the introduction of starting fluid?

Nah, shouldn't make that big of a difference, at least with starter 
fluid.  Like I said above, that stuff will get anything to at least kick 
over.  It definitely won't run for very long, though, because if there 
are leaks, that means that unmetered air is entering the system and the 
computer doesn't know how much fuel to inject.

> Also, I am pretty sure I have hydraulic lifters and remember reading 
> somewhere that something may need to be done to them manually if the bus 
> sits for a long time.  Any chance that has something to do with it?

I guess the only problem here is if the valves aren't opening and 
letting in fuel.  However, you said that they plugs are wet so this 
would lead us to believe that the valves are opening.  Plus, you did a 
compression test and you're getting good numbers.

Did you adjust your valves?  Even though they're hydraulic, you still 
need to adjust them.  If you haven't already, you will want to adjust 
them 1.5 turns past contact for each set of valves.

Before you do this, however, verify that you're distributor drive gear 
is installed correctly.  I think you mentioned that you were going to 
check this when you replied to my other email.  First find TDC for #1 
(using method from other email), then make sure the drive gear is in 
correctly, then install the distributor and make sure it's pointing to 
the #1 mark, then adjust all valves from there.  Also, make sure that 
all the rocker arms are moving when you turn over the engine (a helper 
or remote starter switch might come in handy here).

Then, install your spark plug wires starting at #1 going to the #1 
cylinder (marked on the tin) and moving counter clockwise around the 
distributor it goes 1, 2, 3, 4.  Or, 1 & 2 cross while 3 & 4 don't (if 
you're distributor is in the correct orientation.

Hope that helps...

Mike
