From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: "'Chandler Thompson'" <chandler(-at-)prestigefarms.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 15 Feb 2007 14:46:23 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] Help w/ my '78...

Chandler,

Typically I go through this list,
Fuel
Air (vacuum)
Fire

OBVIOUS: Have you checked to see if all of the intake parts are clear of
obstructions? Check the air box, hose, and plenum for rags and towels.
Especially check for rodent nests, mud dauber hives and wasps nests and
other animal related foreign objects. I bought a Westy parts bus that had
it's intake plenum so packed full of some squirrel's hickory nuts that it
took a hammer and chisel to get them out.

OPTIONAL: (Type 4 guys correct me on any mistakes here) You can check your
fuel pressure regulator for proper function. It looks like little fire
hydrant with one fuel line in, two fuel lines out and one vacuum line. One
fuel line draws fuel from the tank (with a filter  and pump on it). The
second fuel line allows fuel to return back to the tank and relieves the
pressure from the system when the motor isn't running. The third connects
directly to the fuel rails and injectors. The fourth vacuum line gives the
regulator signal to open or close based off of manifold vacuum pressure.
If the regulator is clogged or the vacuum line is missing or leaking, I
THINK the regulator closes, shutting off fuel or only allowing a small bit
to get to the injectors. (this can fool you into thinking there is fuel
since you see "wet" injectors). If it is stuck open, the fuel rail won't
pressurize enough for the injectors to spray. I THINK that VW pumps run all
the time with the ignition on, so you can listen for the gas returning to
the tank with the ignition on to check operation.

Honestly, unless you have a huge vacuum leak, you should see some sort of
action if fuel and fire are working.

Jon Stiles


From: Chandler Thompson [mailto:chandler(-at-)prestigefarms.com] 
"If anyone is afraid to offer an obvious solution please don't hold back"
