Date: Sat, 17 Feb 2007 11:26:23 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] From another list, "new" dizzies

George Lyle wrote:
  > BTW, is there any word on the SuperMegaSquirt with designed-in spark
> control?  I know that spark control can be added to the older MegaSquirt,
> but I'd really prefer to start with a design that was intended for spark
> as well as fuel.

The UltraMS is really a combination of fuel, spark, and WBO2.. but that 
won't be happening for a while.  They've been doing spark for a 
loooooooong time now, though.. and with the Innovate WBo2 controller, 
the WB part of the MS isn't that big of a deal.

There is the updated V3 circuit board which is set up to specifically 
handle spark control.  The v2.2 board (which I'm running now) can be set 
up to run spark, but you have to update one of the components so it can 
drive the coil (I think).  If you're running the MS1 processor, then you 
would have to use the MSExtra code as the stock bowling and grippo code 
doesn't do spark.  I currently run the Extra code to do fuel because 
it's got so many neat features.  They were actually controlling spark 
with the extra code for a long time before the new MS2 code came out.

But now that they have the MS2 processor, you can run spark with the new 
MS2 code that Al Grippo is working on, or there will soon be the 
MS2/Extra code that will run on the faster MS2 processor but that is 
currently still in development.

The reason for the two branches of code is because the guys that were 
coding the Extra version of the MS code (James and Phil) were pushing 
the boundaries of what was in the standard MS1 code.  It's pretty neat 
because you can you a whole slew of setups to drive the spark control, 
including our distributor buses.  Essentially what you do is just 
lockout the distributor advance and then you have the MS drive the coil 
instead of the distributor.  The distributor still distributes the spark 
to the correct cylinder, but the MS controls the dwell, advance, and 
retard.  Pretty neat!

Eventually, you could change out the system using one of the other 
electronic ignitions from a ford or something, but I'm going to try 
using a locked out dizzy first and see how it works.  Pretty neat stuff!

Mike
