Date: Sun, 18 Feb 2007 12:01:52 -0800 (PST)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: okartguy <okartguy(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] 8 mpg(!!!)

My advice is to never mess around with the AFM. Look
at things that could change suddenly like the CHT
sensor at #3. At about 70 degrees it should have 2400
ohms resistance - warmer = less, colder = more. At
around 4000+ ohms it should be laying down a thick
smoke screen and chugging. Unhook the electrical
connection on the coldstart injector. Check fuel rail
pressure at the port between #3&#4 cylinders with a
gauge that will handle gasoline. Prior to that you
might just look the fuel hoses over to see if there
are any kinks or crushed sections on the return side.
Make sure the vacuum line to the regulator is
attached. When there is high vacuum, pressure
maintained in the fuel rail should be about 28psi. At
low vacuum or with the hose disconnected, pressure
should be around 35psi. If you have readings higher
than this, the regulator might be bad but more likely
there is a blockage in one of the flexible lines,
usually deterioration of the hose itself, creating an
internal blockage.

Bentley lists all the test procedures for the AFM.

Is the air cleaner clean - has it ingested anything
foreign or had a bad drink of water? Try without the
filter element if in doubt. -BaH
 
--- okartguy <okartguy(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:

 My '79 Cali is running great, but is getting
 terrible (8-sh) mpg. I know
 there are a litany of things that might be the cause
 of this, but I'm
 wondering where to even start diagnosing. What is
 the most likely culprit?
 
 The bus has been firing up fine, even in very cold
 weather, and idles as it
 should. Occasionally it will "miss" on cold start
 for a few minutes; meaning
 that if it's revved after cold start it sounds like
 it's down a cylinder.
 After warmup, however, the bus runs great and is
 smooth through the RPM
 range.
 
 However, the exhaust is quite fumy and it's pretty
 evident that the mixture
 is off. Some black smoke is present when the motor
 is revved, but nothing
 severe. The inside of the tailpipe is black and
 sooty, and the plugs show
 even amounts of soot. Obviously, something ain't
 right.
 
 So, should I dive right into jacking with the AFM?
 Could the O2 sensor or a
 leaky coldstart valve cause this much grief? I'm
 afraid to start poking
 around too much, just because it's my daily driver
 it's running so well
 otherwise. Any practical advice is much appreciated.
 

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
