From: "Richard Beckers" <cathrich(-at-)tpg.com.au>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 26 Aug 2004 18:36:45 +1000
Subject: Andy's Adventures!!!

Hello again all.
I have been off the list for a while now, but have returned.
My partner, myself, and Andy our '77 Deluxe bus have returned from a journey
around Australia.
We had ~6 months off work and spent over 4 months on the road travelling. We
managed a full lap of the country and covered almost 17,000 miles.

During the trip we went through some pretty remote areas, passed through
many "4WD only" tracks, including almost 2 foot deep creek crossings and saw
so many amazing sights! We also met many fellow travellers also in Bay's
(many are still bought and sold by back packers here for cheap travel),
amongst other VW's.
We spent the whole trip camping in Andy and were pretty much self sufficient
which made it easy to get to, and stay in many of Australia's wonderful
National Parks.

Andy did sterling service and kept us in comfort for the whole trip, the
coldest night being -4C, the hottest day ~40C (105F). Not bad seeing most of
the
trip was in Autumn and Winter. We did have a number of "hiccups" along the
way which I suppose you can expect with any Kombi of this age and mileage.
Some being a dead dizzy, leaking head gasket, locked on rear brake shoe,
split vacuum line, split rim to name a few, but none were enough to leave us
stranded and they all add to the stories we have. All this after pretty much
fully re-building everything on Andy over the previous year or so!

I am working on a web page currently to document the trip which I will give
a link to when it's finished.
Andy is pretty well decked out, so I will detail our "living quarters" which
may be of use to anyone else setting up a camper.

We are still trying to find somewhere to live now we're back in Brisbane and
dreading having to "work" again, but the money has to run out some time!

So, glad to be back reading all the great info on the list, and I hope you
enjoy our trip report when it's up and running.

Oh, I will also be asking plenty of questions of you kind folk as I find
time to do more work to Andy :-).

Richard,
Brisbane Australia
Andy '77 Deluxe bus
Flipper '73 L bug
