From: "Richard Beckers" <cathrich(-at-)tpg.com.au>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 26 Aug 2004 23:21:41 +1000
Subject: Leaking Head Gasket??

Hi all,
What can cause a head gasket to leak on a type 4 motor?

Just to put you all in the picture, I fully re-built a stock 2L dual carb
motor replacing everything I could with new, including NOS German VW heads
and German "El-ring" gasket kit prior to our round Australia trip.
I supplied all the parts and had a trusted local VW mechanic assemble the
long block and do the required machining.
All was well for the first ~3000 miles when I started to hear an occasional
squeak from the motor. It caused me a lot of grief looking for it, and after
another ~3000 miles I went to a VW shop who told me it was a head gasket. I
pulled the motor, removed the head and sure enough the gasket was leaking on
No 3 cyl. A quick machine of the head, new gaskets and we were on our way
again. Another ~3000 miles into our trip and the same sound returns, this
time on the other side!!

We decided to continue on with the motor like this, and now we are we are
home I need to go through the same process again. Before I tackle it this
time I'd like to know why it has happened????

I went back to my mechanic and questioned why it would fail on both sides
after such a short time. His only reasoning was poor fuel (quite possible
where we travelled) and a heavy load in the bus were causing detonation
(pinging) which lead to the failure. He assured me the head was torqued
correctly (it seemed that way when I checked the torque prior to removing
the head) and the barrels were checked for equal height. The heads were new,
so no drama's there either.
As much as I trust and respect him and his opinion, I'm not sure I believe
this would cause the leak? Sure pinging is not good for the motor, but it
usually shows in other ways, not a leaking head gasket and I would have
noticed it while I was driving.

Just some more info, the Dizzy and carbs were both re-built at the same time
as the motor and checked over the first couple of services and all was
within speck. I have a cyl. head temp. gauge which rarely went over 250F
(usually ~225F cruising at ~50mph) and peaked to ~300F on the occasional
long hill (it's located where the sensor goes for an FI motor, next to No 3
plug). I also drive watching the vacuum gauge and avoid overloading the
motor. I also averaged ~19MPG despite the van being loaded to the GVM and
taking regular trips "off road", so it was driven carefully.

So is it fuel, detonation, poor tightening sequence on assembly, bad
gaskets????
I'd just like to know, as I didn't expect to have to remove this motor for a
LONG time given the work that went into it, and I'd like to make this the
last time I do for a while!

Thanks for any suggestions!

Richard,
Brisbane Australia
Andy '77 Deluxe bus
Flipper '73 L bug
