From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <dim1(-at-)comcast.net>
Date: Thu, 26 Aug 2004 10:57:21 -0500
Subject: misaligned Throw out bearing

>Anyone run into the problem where the cross shaft positions the TO bearing
>so that it is not concentric with the circular face on the pressure plate?
>
>I installed an aftermarket HD cross shaft and get a noise like a bad TO
>bearing or gland nut bearing. When I pulled the engine I found fine metal
>filings on the pressure plate around the area where the TO bearing contacts
>it. Closer look shows that the circular face of the pressure plate that
>meets the TO bearing has been pushed off center. This is evident by looking
>at the center of the disc.
>
>I noticed when I installed the HD cross shaft that it carried the TO bearing
>a bit off center but mistakenly thought it would function correctly.

You found your own problem from the git go and you should have corrected it
when you had the chance. I suspect that the aftermarket cross shaft was just
built poorly. I always compare old part to new replacement parts. I have
found extremely misaligned muffler port positions, missing threads in brake
cylinders, missing sealing groves in calipers, etc.

If the new part doesn't exaclty match the old part, I really worry, and get
advice from the full time 30 year VW mechanics.

It could just be that you didn't push the cross shaft in all the way. Or that
the shaft wouldn't go in all the way because of a burr or non-machined end.

Or maybe the cross shaft is perfect and you didn't position it correctly
The cross shaft is held in position by a cross hole cut into a long sleeve
bushing. The long leve bushing pushes against a boss or clip on the cross
shaft to hold the shaft in exact position. The long sleeve bushing is held in
exact position by a bolt going into a cross hole in the sleeve bushing. You
have to try a couple of times to get these holes lined up properly, then
screw in the dog leg end bolt that holds the sleeve bushing in position. I
have taken out misaligned cross shafts and found chrushed sleeve bushings
where someone just tightened the bolt and pushed a deep dent into the sleeve
bushing.

If this special dog leg end bolt is missing, you cannot use an ordinary bolt.
Hmmm, it could be called a dog ear end bolt. Anyway, the end the bolt has
been ground away to make a smooth tip that fits into the cross hole in the
sleeve bushing. The bolt is also the exact length to tighten up against the
transmission and reach into the sleeve bushing cross hole, but not reach all
the way to touch the cross shaft. While you are tightening the "hold it
bolt", you keep moving the cross shaft to make sure is can swing freely.
Sometimes you have to add an extra lockwasher under the bolt head to keep the
bolt end from touching the cross shaft. You can make this bolt using a
grinder to dress up the end of an ordinary bolt. You just spin the bolt end
sideways against the grinding wheel to cut away the threads. Then you test
the new bare end for a good fit into the cross sleeve hole. Then you have to
make corrections for the exact length needed for the bolt to get tight
against the transmission to stay in place, yet reach deep enough into the
cross hole in the sleeve bushing to securely hold the cross bushing, but NOT
touch the cross shaft at all and keep it from moving.
