Date: Fri, 27 Aug 2004 14:49:58 -0500 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] How to exhaust everybody's patience

On Fri, 27 Aug 2004 08:49:41 -0700 Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net> wrote:

> Step one: Question whether stand testing is "a must" (as Scott Lyons 
> put it) or even a good idea.
> [Mark H]

For the once off rebuilder of a fuel injected engine it's probably more
trouble than it's worth. There's too much external equipment required to
properly run the FI setup. You'd have to either, as you suggested, pull it
all off of your current bus or buy duplicates of every required item.

For builders of carbeurated engines the test stand is much less complicated
and probably worth it. All you need is the bell housing/starter, a battery,
a fuel container, and a cheap facet fuel pump if the engine doesn't have a
mechanical.

Switched power from battery to coil
Switched power from battery to fuel pump
Heavy wire from battery to starter +
Pushbutton power to solenoid
Ground to the bell housing should cover everything

All connections can be made with (appropriately sized) alligator clamps or
some other quick-release method.

Being able to run the engine up and check to make sure it get's oil
pressure. 

Having it on the stand where you can easily attach an external
guage to verify proper pressure.

If there are any oil leaks at startup you can see where they are because
the leaking oil doesn't get blown all over the engine compartment.

You can watch the cooling flaps open to make sure they work right. 

Dual carbs? Balance them now with the engine at a comfortable working
height instead of with your head stuck inside the little box.

Some message in the thread said something about all of this set-up and run
being done at no-load with no "real time" conditions being applied to the
engine. Well, I don't know about you, but I don't generally fiddle with my
engine while the bus is under load rolling down the highway. Yes, you'll
have to tweak some settings after you put it on the road. You'd have to do
all of this "pre-load" stuff even with the motor installed, then STILL do
that tweaking after you put it in gear the first time. Much easier to do
the pre-load stuff with it in easy reach.

Oh, and someone asked about the alternator. If you never hook it up to the
battery at all you're safe. Alternators self-destruct if you hook them up
to the battery and get them to start generating power then remove the
source of field power (the battery). If it never starts creating juice it
can spin forever with no harm done.

And, as someone else suggested, if you plan to never build another engine
sell the stand parts to someone else who needs them.

Gerald
