From: dan(-at-)geer.org
To: "richard jackson" <aiiadict(-at-)gmail.com>
Date: Tue, 13 Mar 2007 16:14:48 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] type2 mailing list source of spam? 

FWIW, the principal methods of collecting e-mail addresses
for spamming are two:  (1) spider the web looking for web
pages that include an e-mail address, and (2) pilfer the
address books of people who, for whatever reason, have
unpatched vulnerabilities.  Some addresses don't need to be
stolen, there's a "joe" or the like at every domain and, if
you are a spammer and pay nothing for sending e-mail, you
will send to the thousand most common names at every domain
you can find, where "every domain you can find" is done by
getting a nameservice listing ("zone transfer") from the
Registrar of your preference.  "Pay nothing," similarly, is
because you as a spammer don't even do the e-mailing with
your own computers or network cables; computers you've taken
over ("robots" or "bots" for short) do it for you.  My own
estimate is that 15% to 30% of all computers directly
connected to the Internet are controlled in that way, and as
of this month's figures, 90% of all e-mail is spam.

Robotically joining mailing lists is another method, and
list administrators are forever bedeviled by this -- how to
tell that a proposed new member is not a data gatherer?  (It
is very nearly impossible.)  But a list member can, as you
did guess, be nothing but a harvesting engine.

However, a different and likely more important trend is also
in progress -- it appears that the total volume of spam has
not taken an altogether life changing jump upward, though it
is increasing, but rather that the spammer's have gotten
good enough at varying each message just a little to, in
turn, effectively defeat the statistical ("Bayesian")
filters which had been our best tool.  Put differently, the
opposition is getting greater yield for what it sends as
well as sending more; this makes for a direct surge in
received volume -- which does not explain your personal
experience but is the backdrop to it.

All of this can be summed up in a word, money.  Current best
numbers say that it requires approx 726 transmissions of
virus-infected spam to catch a new victim and make
him/her/it into a member of your botnet.  That is 0.14%; a
direct (junk) mail marketeer considers it a success to get
1% return rate, so the spammer gets 1/7th of the success
rate of a direct mail marketeer at $0 cost.  Botnet rental
for this purpse is currently about $1/week/host, and even on
home cable you can get 1,000/hour out the door, which is why
Comcast, Cox, etc., no longer let you send e-mail except
through their servers (no direct connect to SMTP outside the
cloud).  Spammers say "So what" and just increase the botnet
size.

I apologize if the length of this message and it's off-topic
focus represents yet more unwanted e-mail. 

--dan
