Date: Sun, 02 Aug 2009 21:32:54 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: P Morgavo <pmorgavo(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Dizzy and other questions

P Morgavo wrote:
> 1 Distributor (009 w/o vacuum) - I'm pretty sure I installed it
> correctly but I'm still questioning the functionality of the unit
> itself. I do have the Bentley and Haynes so I'm not completely lost.
> Hopefully when it's finally running it'll be ok.

I would *highly* suggest that you do get the correct vacuum distributor 
for your engine because an 009 is not the correct one.  It will run 
better.  If you don't believe me, then try driving someone else's bus 
with and without the vacuum line connected and you'll realize what 
you're missing.

If you are going to stick with the 009, you will want to make sure you 
have #1 lined up right.  To do this, rotate the engine clockwise while 
watching the #1 intake valve.  When it closes, keep rotating the crank 
clockwise until the timing mark lines up with 0 degrees on the scale 
(about 180 degrees).  You are now at #1 TDC firing position.  Make sure 
the distributor has ample room to rotate either way and line up the cap 
such that one of the plug holes lines up with somewhere between the 
middle of the rotor.  In the case of a vacuum distributor, you don't 
have much choice over it's orientation because of the vacuum can; on the 
009, however, most any post can be used as #1 which further confuses things.

Once you figured out where you want #1, draw a mark on the distributor. 
  Moving clockwise around the distributor (when looking from the top), 
the firing order is 1-4-3-2 - make sure the plug wires are connected 
correctly so that it fires in that order.  Mess it up and you'll get all 
sorts of nifty leaks and misfires.  Adjust timing for max advance, not 
idle advance.  Based on the information listed here:

http://www.oldvolkshome.com/ignition.htm#B1972

...you would tune your distributor for a max advance of 21 degrees (5 
degrees ATDC + 26 degrees BTDC = 21 degrees BTDC).  You're idle advance 
will essentially be irrelevant and have to end up wherever the 009 puts 
it (which is determined by its total advance curve).  The only way you 
can correctly set your idle advance is if you have the correct 
distributor for that year engine.  Why people use the 009 is beyond me 
(except for the fact that they're cheap).  The numbers that the VW 
engineers chose were used on purpose, which is why you should stick with 
the correct engine unless you know what you're doing and want a custom 
timing curve.

Also, just FYI, the vacuum advance isn't only for off-idle advance - it 
also advances the timing at cruise which, in turn, improves your 
mileage.  So, if you get the correct distributor, you'll end up saving 
money, too - win/win :)

> 4 Oil Breather - I think this was answered - I can use either setup
> as long as it doesn't leak. But now that i think about it, in the old
> engine the hoses were loose and often slipped off; I don't recall it
> affecting performance (but then again, I did blow up the engine) 

The breather pulls water vapor out of the case - you want a working 
breather system.

> ---on a kind of side note here... Bailly, the breather hoses went to
> the carbs air intake to be burned off there. I believe the brake
> system vacuum hoses went to the intake manifold.

brake booster should be hooked up to manifold vacuum.


> 5 Engine Mount Brackets - I bit of a pain but I got them off without
> removing the fan unit; we'll see how easily they go back on.

congrats - I didn't really think that would be possible, but I've never 
tried :)
