Date: Tue, 4 Aug 2009 14:41:49 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: a question about cht rings

Though as mentioned several times in the past, with the variability gage to
gage with these (I've personally had 2 side by side in the same boiling pot of
oil at 400F (good lab thermometer) with over 50F difference) head to head (so
to speak) comparison is a bit useless.  Mostly comes to trends, which any
constant location is good for.  Certainly the spark plug location is closer to
the heat and the valves and will always read higher than a temp sensor 2
location, a head bolt had never occured to me actually, and I agree with Mike
I think the fin location is worthless, mostly because for heat transfer you
want it bolted solidly to something for even repeatability in the same engine
over time.
 
But I'd just caution people not to get too wiggy comparing readings to someone
else, or even readings from different sensors on different plugs on the same
gage, unless you install the exact same gage/sender in your bus.  Like I've
also said before, once upon a time, I overinstrumented everything, now days,
one oil temp gage, and watching trends is all I do.  I mean what sudden thing
is going to happen that you aren't going to see it in your oil 60-90s later,
and do you really think you are going to change/do something before damage is
done volks?  Like oh my god, just had the fan shear off the crank hub, missed
the screeching howling sound, but my cylinder head temp gage (which I'm
watching every second) is suddenly reading 500F, better stop now before its
too late......  Best setup I ever rigged was Dolan's Vanagon westy using the
waterboxer (or was it a diesel) temp gage, a spare temp2 sensor, and I think a
diode for a little forward voltage
 (we'd have to search the archives been damn near 10 years) little red
flashing light came on at an appropriate head temp, just like it had for water
temp, screaming LOOK AT ME, LOOK AT ME, and we had calibrated what the gage
meant.  Was slicker than snot, and you could put one in a bus probably with a
bit of thought.
 
John

--- On Tue, 8/4/09, Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu> wrote:



responsive and read the highest temp.  Because this is the same location as
everyone else, you are able to make comparisons to other people's measurements
and heed their temp warnings.  Put it somewhere else, and you're just playing
a guessing game unless you kill a few heads and then take note of
