Date: Tue, 04 Aug 2009 15:35:36 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: a question about cht rings

John Anderson wrote:
> Though as mentioned several times in the past, with the variability gage to
> gage with these (I've personally had 2 side by side in the same boiling pot of
> oil at 400F (good lab thermometer) with over 50F difference) head to head (so
> to speak) comparison is a bit useless.  Mostly comes to trends, which any

This is the scary thing about those VDO gauges.  400 is hot, but won't 
necessarily kill your heads.  450 is horrible!


The only problem I have with using gauges for "trending" is that it 
doesn't help when you have an engine that is in a non-stock 
configuration.  I can see three situations which affect the decision for 
the use of gauges:

1. If your engine is completely stock (EGR, correct distributor, mixture 
and timing spot-on, etc), then you probably don't even need a CHT at 
all, as VW didn't feel the need to include any temp gauges either.  I am 
moving back towards a stock configuration (which all the gauges 
included) just for the purpose of seeing how good (or bad) of a job VW 
did with their stock setup.  I just need to put my EGR back on and I'm 
very interested to see how much that will drop my CHTs so I can bring my 
cruise AFR back up to 14.7.  14.7 is the optimal AFR for catalytic 
converter effectiveness, but it also causes the engine to run the hottest.

2. The next best reason to run a CHT gauge is in case something happens 
- similar to what mark d mentioned.  This is the only place where I feel 
that "trending" is doing something useful for you and could be used in a 
stock or non-stock config.  In this setup, you would have a better idea 
that climbing up that big hill in fourth gear just isn't helping out 
your engine when the gauge starts skyrocketing.  With a VDO gauge, 
however, you won't know just how bad you're hurting the engine because 
it's accuracy is questionable.

3. In the case that you don't have the stock config (I'd venture to 
guess most of us), you really do need to know what your actual head temp 
is - trending is completely useless.  I fell victim to the trend (pun 
intended) and eventually ignored the readings.  While my high readings 
were consistent, I figured it was just a trend... that was until I 
dropped seats on my second set of heads!  Now I run a Dakota Digital 
gauge and religiously watch that thing to make sure that it doesn't go 
over 380.  I have a repeatable and accurate (temperature compensated) 
measurement that I can drive by and ensure that I'm not killing my heads.


Moral of the story, when you think you're safe by watching trends, don't 
ignore when they're high trends, cuz you still might be killing your heads!


> temp, screaming LOOK AT ME, LOOK AT ME, and we had calibrated what the gage
> meant.  Was slicker than snot, and you could put one in a bus probably with a
> bit of thought.

While it's a big pricey, the DD gauge can be set to blink at a preset 
temp... and it's accurate to boot! :)
