Date: Tue, 4 Aug 2009 18:29:40 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: a question about cht rings

My '77 has a 2.2 liter, full on engine.  Custom heads I personally spent
countless flow bench hours on, custom modified Keith Black hypereutectic P&Cs
I (the pistons) and Rimco (the barrels) crafted for me years before any
popular T4 engine builder had muttered hypereutectic, Megasquirt injection, a
stock fan shroud I "ported" to equalize the cooling flow a bit more to the
passenger side when I relocated to external oil cooler, 914 sump baffle, oil
squirters in the case, shuffle pinned, etc, etc, etc.  Although unfortunately
I have not moved the bus up to AK, dad still takes it out in WV occasionally,
dead reliable.  I run a single VDO oil temp gage, and a tach.  If the heads
are getting hot enough, the oil will follow no more than 60 seconds later
(something I learned with a very instrumented engine), and I'll be damn near
guessing before that time that I'm doing something I shouldn't be doing anyway
(which is actually pretty hard to do with the
 setup as it makes very good power, I've never taken it over the Rockies but
short of that I don't foresee ever "lugging it.")
 
Have I had a CHT gage on it in the past, sure I plastered thermocouples all
over the engine in a prior iteration living in a Vanagon, and monitored
counless things with some custom data aquisition software I wrote for it back
when I was an engineer geek in 1995.  Does it have any utility at all for me
today, nope not a bit.  I like a clean uncluttered near stock look on the
dash, if something is failing, I'm going to know soon enough.  The chances of
me going, oh my I'm at 450F better stop pulling this long grade in low gear
any sooner than I notice the oil temp is dangerously high is pretty much nil,
though perhaps I'm just not attentive enough.  Unless you got a catastrophic
failure of something (which is probably going to make a loud bang) the extra
minute isn't going to help you, your oil temp will still tell you the heads
are toast, just going to tell you a minute later and last several minutes more
as things cool down.
 
I always meant to craft the waterboxer coolant gage into one of the stock
gages as a CHT sensor on the bus, like I said, flashing red LED gets ones
attention.  But, seemed a lot of effort for not much yield.  And yeah it's
response is relatively slow comparatively to a thermocouple, but faster than
the heat soak lag to my arcane oil temp gage, but then again I think that is
fast enough so....
 
As with this discussion every time we have it volks.  YMMV, quite a bit.   I'm
very impressed but lots of nice flashy gages in other peoples rigs myself at
times, look real cool, cost lots of money, but for my dim mind, I'd rather
have one I occasionally look at when I'm nervous than a panel of them that I
glaze over looking at.  And despite accuracy concerns for oil temp or head
temp with VDO folks, a good calibrated lab thermometer, the same pan of engine
oil you heat the crank gears in, and a coleman stove or hotplate so you don't
piss off the SO with burning scorched oil smell inside the house will get you
calibration to 450F or so.  Be brave, experiement, put all the money or as
little money into something as you want.  I think everyone should have some
sort of temp gage, even a bone stocker, all T4's are a bit overstressed and
undercooled, but I think about anything will do.
 
YMMV
John

--- On Tue, 8/4/09, Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu> wrote:



3. In the case that you don't have the stock config (I'd venture to guess most
of us), you really do need to know what your actual head temp is - trending is
completely useless.  I fell victim to the trend (pun intended) and eventually
ignored the readings.  While my high readings were consistent, I figured it
was just a trend... that was until I dropped seats on my second set of heads! 
Now I run a Dakota Digital gauge and religiously watch that thing to make sure
that it doesn't go over 380.  I have a repeatable and accurate (temperature
compensated) measurement that I can drive by and ensure that I'm not killing
my heads.
