Date: Fri, 07 Aug 2009 11:05:12 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: a question about cht rings

John Anderson wrote:
> squirters in the case, shuffle pinned, etc, etc, etc.  Although unfortunately
> I have not moved the bus up to AK, dad still takes it out in WV occasionally,
> dead reliable.  I run a single VDO oil temp gage, and a tach.  If the heads

If you're not ending up with sinking seats and rebuilding your heads 
every 30k miles later, then that's awesome.  Unfortunately, my mileage 
has varied and I've had to chase excessive head temps and I'd really 
like to avoid killing my latest pair of heads!  I like to see those high 
temps sooner than later, but that's just my personal preference, 
especially because I'm constantly testing different hardware and 
software changes.  Once the metal starts to deform, it's deformed, so 
catching it sooner than later is probably beneficial.

>  setup as it makes very good power, I've never taken it over the Rockies but
> short of that I don't foresee ever "lugging it.")

I guess a lot depends on driving style.  I find it necessary to drive 
the bus as near to normal traffic speeds without overheating the engine. 
  That means I want to do at least 70 on the freeway and then not 
overheat on the grades.  If you drive around at 55 all day without 
hitting any hills, chance are you won't ever run into a problem.

Interestingly, CHT really isn't the best measure, either.  When I asked 
Len (the guy that does Jake Raby's heads) what kinda CHTs to look for, 
he said the real killer is exhaust gas temp.  When EGTs start to creep 
up too high, that's when you're getting close to the point where the 
aluminum starts to deform.


> Have I had a CHT gage on it in the past, sure I plastered thermocouples all
> over the engine in a prior iteration living in a Vanagon, and monitored
> counless things with some custom data aquisition software I wrote for it back
> when I was an engineer geek in 1995.  Does it have any utility at all for me
> today, nope not a bit.  I like a clean uncluttered near stock look on the

If you had never done any of the above, then I'd think it's fair to say 
that gauges are a waste of time.  However, the only reason you don't use 
them today is because you have done the testing and found that based on 
your research and proper parts combination, you can drive in confidence 
and know that your temps aren't going to skyrocket.

Most people, however, do not have this confidence because they don't 
have the facility and time to do the research that we are willing to do. 
  So yes, you can say it's not needed, but that is only because you have 
done your homework ahead of time, not because you instinctively knew the 
engine wasn't going to overheat.  Now, if you instinctively knew, then 
you should start a show called "The Engine Whisperer" :)


> I always meant to craft the waterboxer coolant gage into one of the stock
> gages as a CHT sensor on the bus, like I said, flashing red LED gets ones
> attention.  But, seemed a lot of effort for not much yield.  And yeah it's
> response is relatively slow comparatively to a thermocouple, but faster than
> the heat soak lag to my arcane oil temp gage, but then again I think that is
> fast enough so....
>  
> As with this discussion every time we have it volks.  YMMV, quite a bit.   I'm

Heh.. unfortunately, my mileage has varied!!  I have now spent over 
$2400 on heads.  I'd be curious how many other people without CHT 
sensors are plagued by tightening valves when adjustment time comes 
around...
