Cc: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
Date: Fri, 07 Aug 2009 17:11:54 -0700
To: Courtney Hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>
Subject: Re: [T2] setting up multimeter to check current draw

On Aug 7, 2009, at 4:25 PM, Courtney Hook wrote:

> I can't remember if it was the pos. or neg. cable, and what I had  
> my multimeter set for, amps, or volts etc.??


You can put it in between the +ve post and cable or the -ve post and  
cable because there is current flowing through both cables as part of  
the electrical circuit.

If you connect the leads backwards you will get a negative reading.  
For digital multi-meters this is not a problem as they often just put  
a minus sign up on the display. On analog meter with the scale  
reading to the right, the needle will swing to the left with nowhere  
to go and go <tink> (so reverse the leads).

Either connect the red lead to the +ve post or the black lead to the - 
ve post and then touch the other lead to the disconnected battery  
cable at that post.

Always start with the highest DC amperage scale and then move down  
the scale until you find the range that lets you observe the current  
draw. Sometimes this requires switching the red lead on the multi- 
meter to a separate multi-meter plug that is fused to prevent damage  
to the meter. This is often a 10A range and fuse.

Why do this? Taking a measurement in the mA range and then turning on  
lights may (I can almost say will) damage your meter.

Turn off your interior lights so they don't affect the readings or  
require you to keep the doors closed. Since you are looking for  
parasitic loads you don't want to be dealing with the lights unless  
you've run out of ideas and suspect that you've got a wiring/bulb  
problem that is your parasite.

With only the clock installed, the load is about 35mA. Modern radio  
memory maintenance circuits use a little more; accessories vary and  
of course lights draw ~1A for every 12W of output.

--
Richard,
'78 Westfalia CDN
'76 Doublecab
http://www.ratwell.com/
