From: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: "Courtney Hook" <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>, "type2 list"
Date: Fri, 7 Aug 2009 22:15:03 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] setting up multimeter to check current draw - Thanks 

if you use a DC voltmeter... instead of an amp setting.. then you don't have
to worry about damage.
you won;t be measuring current,, but you will be checking for "a current
draw" with this method

when there is a dead short in a dc circuit.. and you install a voltmeter in
"series"... the meter will read B+ voltage,,, or 12.4 volts approx.

when there is a resistance equal to the meter internal resistance.. there
will be a voltage divider circuit.. and it will be half the B+ voltage,, or
about 6.2 volts,,

chances are,, if you have a "short" that is drawing current that equals the
resistance of your voltmeter,, then the draw is sooooo small,, you won't
even worry about it..

so... connecting the voltmeter from the B+ terminal.. to the cable..with the
cable pulled off the battery,, and you get a 12volt reading.. then you have
a "load" or a short...
start pulling fuses... and see which one[s] drop the voltage to near zero,,
or below 6 volts anyway.
make sure the interior light is NOT on while doing this... as it will drive
you crazy..
make sure the radio preset connection is not connected while doing this..
also a hidden load..

you can do this very same test using a 12v light bulb,, test light ,,, pull
the B+ cable,, and connect the lamp to the B+ terminal,, and to the cable,,
just as described for the voltmeter..
if the lamp is bright,, you have a heavy load, or a short..  start pulling
fuses..
if the lamp is dim.. you have a small load.. or a very high resistance leak
or short to ground
if the lamp is dark,, there is no draw,, or you have a burned out lamp...
lol..

some folks would talk about just tapping the cable to the battery +
terminal,, and watching for sparks.. while this will tell you if there is a
load there... or a leak, or a draw,,  it may also cause the battery to
explode in the correct circumstances.... and I have witnessed this happening
.. especially right after they were told NOT to make sparks near the
battery...   oops.

hope that helps

Jamie Rivers
