Date: Sat, 8 Aug 2009 20:55:50 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Courtney Hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] setting up multimeter to check current draw

Huh! Just finished doing same myself. Last winter I added a battery cut-off switch so the battery wouldn't go dead - I don't drive the bus that often anymore and the bat went dead after about a week. I did the check you're doing and found a quarter amp draw on fuse #7 - the radio. I suspected that I had wired both the radio (+) leads together... Bottom line is that since there is no "ACC" position on the keyswitch, I knew when I installed the radio that I would not want to have to turn the ignition "on" to listen, so I wired it all to an always-on circuit. I have the massive Group 27 marine battery in there, and WAS driving the bus every day, so no problem (at the time!)

The radio has a circuit to hold the memory (station settings and other user settings) that draws only a few milliamps. The main power wire draws quite a bit more. My solution was to add a switch to the wire that was supposed to attach to the "ACC" terminal - so now I have a rocker switch beside the hazard warning switch that IS my "ACC" switch!

I also went through the motions of having the battery tested electronically and good old basic load tested as well as checking the specific gravity of the electrolyte in each cell. I also tested my charging circuit by removing one lead off the battery while the engine was idling and it kept running (700rpm with headlights on!- love that Subey!)
I had suspected that there might be an internal short in the battery but it behaved in textbook fashion as I charged it then monitored its voltage drop over several days. It was dropping less than a tenth of a volt a day which is also "textbook" scenario, so I'm happy now!

This is the first day with my "ACC" switch so I don't know yet if it will solve the problem, but with fuse #7 removed, there was 0.0A draw with the engine off, so I THINK I've got it nailed.

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington


--- On Fri, 8/7/09, Courtney Hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca> wrote:

 
 Cc: "type2 list" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "vanagon" <vanagon(-at-)gerry.vanagon.com>
 Date: Friday, August 7, 2009, 4:25 PM
 Hi Mike, I'm actually trying to find
 a small current draw that is slowly draining my battery over
 a few days. I remember doing this with my bug, and putting
 the multimeter in between one battery terminal and it's
 cable. It read the current being drawn from whatever the
 culprit was. I then removed a fuse at a time until I found
 the circuit that was drawing the current and draining the
 battery. I can't remember if it was the pos. or neg. cable,
 and what I had my multimeter set for, amps, or volts etc.??
 I'm electrical stupid.
 Courtney
