Date: Wed, 10 Apr 2002 20:46:51 GMT
To: punkerbat(-at-)vbe.com
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: mangosplit(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Early Westy Headliners

Isaiah:

Your center section of headliner wood sounds pretty typical, although most are in worse condition.  I don't think I've seen any original headliner's in a subhatch Westy that didn't have a moderate degree of water staining, except for maybe one like Todd Swangstu's that is low mileage and garaged all of it's life.

If you wanted to try and splice a section in where the damage is, you would obviously need to first remove it, which should be done very delicately.  This will require removing both the forward 2 and rear 2 pieces of aluminum trim that cover the seams between the front cab headliner pieces and the rear most headliner piece.  You will also need to remove the 4 pieces of aluminum flashing that surround the subhatch itself.  This will be the most difficult, as these pieces are installed with small round headed nails, as opposed to screws.  Once all of the trim is off, I have found a good way to remove the headliner itself is to slide an arm in between the roof and the headliner basically along the center of the roof, i.e. between the subhatch and the drivers side of the bus.  Gently press down in the center, causing an "S" shape in the headliner itself.  You might want to have one other person to help push the edges of the headliner out from the lip that runs along either the drivers side of the bus or above the cargo doors.  The danger is going to be breaking the headliner at the weak points, which will be the 1" wide section that is between the hatch opening and the front cab.  An old headliner is somewhat brittle.

O.K., assuming you've decided to go this far and have it out, you'll need to cut out the section to be replaced.  Finding veneer with a similar thickness will not be a problem, especially since you're only concerned with one side showing.  Matching color won't be impossible, just cut several small pieces of the new headliner material and use various samples of stains until you get a match.  This might require mixing stains as well.  The biggest challenge will be matching grain, as old birch has a very vertical grain, modern cut birch has a much wavier grain.  But since you're only needing a small section, just pick through all of the birch sheets at your local lumber yard until you find something close, which might only be a secton of one panel.  Remember that you will only need a small piece of the panel itself.

Once it's cut and stained, I would recommend buying a thin sheet of formica and laminating it to the back of the old and new panel.  Trace the new complete headliner onto the formica, cut it out and DAP contact cemement them togehter.  This will act as a splice for the two, and solidify the entire headliner panel itself.  But that one is up to you.  

Hope that helps.  Short of that you could just try and remove the damaged piece with everything in place and slide in a new piece, it just depends on how far you want to go with the whole thing.  It's the onion concept my friend, you can keep peeling and possibly start crying.

Good luck!!

Robert
'59 Westfalia



