Date: Fri, 12 Apr 2002 08:34:19 -0500
From: Conrad <rklahn(-at-)austin.rr.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] sheetmetal cutting?

Hi,

The best reciprocating saw cutting blade I used was "The Ugly" by Skil. 
This blade cut through sheet metal like butter and the cut was extremely 
clean. Though there is a common thread with good cutting blades - they 
break easily. I broke two of these in a span of 10 minutes. All broke 
when I hit support beams or welding plates (the blade will cut through 
support beams easily, but will break if the tip hits it vertically or at 
a bad angle). But the cut was amazing.

[I had trouble finding Skil's "The Ugly" metal cutting blade at some 
stores - it seems to be out of stock often due to popularity. If you 
find this blade, buy the shortest one and take about an inch or more off 
the end so that it has a blunt end so it doesn't break as easily.]

The tougher blades don't cut as well - the most durable being the Dewalt 
metal cutting blade. It is noisy, and cuts a burry path. The Milwaukee 
(safety) blades (they have a red cross on them to indicate field 
emergency response) are a tad better, but can't cut through the 
reinforcing members. Though you can bend the crap out of them and they 
don't break easily.

In all, I broke 8-10 blades, hitting obstacles like reinforcing plates, 
etc. I eventually learned to drill holes to outline the cutting path 
first - this seemed to work best, but you get a minimum part because 
you're trying to work around obstacles, rather than go through them.

Using a reciprocating saw makes a ton of noise. You'll be lucky if you 
are in an industrial area. I was (sorta), but still expected the police 
to show up any minute. I don't think I would be able to do this at home.

After my experience, I now will more strongly consider calling Moe (-at-) 
Transporter Garden or Alan Schoefield and paying whatever they want.

Conrad

On Thursday, April 11, 2002, at 10:27  AM, Joel Bidinger wrote:

> Is a "nibbler" the tool I should get to cut out rusted floor sections 
> for
> replacement, or is there something better suited? I am planning on 
> butt-welding
> the new pieces to the old, so I am looking to make tidy cuts with 
> minimum
> bending and crimping. Thanks.
>
>
> ---------------------------------------------------------------------
> To unsubscribe, e-mail: vintagebus-unsubscribe(-at-)type2.com
> For additional commands, e-mail: vintagebus-help(-at-)type2.com
> Donations help keep the list going. http://www.type2.com/donate.html
>

