From: "DAVE COCKBURN" <dave(-at-)kiwirep.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 7 Sep 2004 06:43:56 -0700
Subject: oil type and temp

Hi Everyone,

I have had these questions for a few years now, and always asked various
sources. Let's just say I think the wisdom of the list will give me the
final correct answer to my questions. I've been reading the list for a few
weeks now and wish I had known about it years ago.

1) What type and weight oil should I have in my engine. 2L fuel injected (in
a 75 Westy). (background of environment, hot summer, cold winter with snow)

For now I am running with 15W/40 after my last confirmation. I was told 15W/
50 is good but I had a harder time finding it.

2) I have had the engine in for over 2 years now after rebuilding it with a
friend. I have driven it many miles including across the country and back in
a six month road trip. Things are always breaking, and it's always something
new so I never stop learning. I have always had the VDO oil and cylinder
head temp gauges in place. My question is, what are the normal average temps
the oil should be at?

I have the cylinder temp set on a convenient screw on the number 1 & 2
cylinder. It didn't want to sit nicely with the number 3 spark plug. Hey it
gives me consistency. My main concern is the oil temp. I have the sensor on
the oil drain plug. I presume it gives a mixed result depending on road
surface temp. Do you all recommend getting the dipstick variety of sensor?

My oil seems to sit mostly at 220 / 230. Although it gets around 300  if I
am heading up a steep road etc. There are days where it's at 280 and I start
getting nervous. If I stop (say at road construction it'll get up there -
yeah I know, no cooling from the air). I have met people who say if it hits
230 they stop and wait for it to cool! At which point should I pull over and
let it cool?

So you all drive a bus and know far more than the porche and beetle guys
from experience. What should oil temp be? What weight oil?

Thanks so much for your answers.

Cheers,
Dave

75 Westy
