From: "Mike Pietsch" <mike(-at-)pietschfamily.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 7 Sep 2004 10:48:57 -0700
Subject: Hi all - long

Hi everyone,

About a month ago I sent an email to the AIRS list to have my name
removed cause I hadn't had a VW for a couple of years.  It was just one
of those things you do when looking for work for a year.  After coming
from one of those really nice high dollar jobs it makes for a major life
change to collect unenjoyment, spend all one's savings, yada,
yada...losing the car, the truck, the Harley.  So now for a moment of
introspection - well you need ***SOME*** sort of vehicle - whacha gunna
do?

The answer: my brand spanking new to me 1970 VW Bus.  There is an
implicit irony in the fact that when life switches from the upright to
the 18HP Shop Vac to make sure things really suck, life becomes so much
sweeter.  I found out that when it really sucks, your wife's kisses are
sweeter (well my wife's - I haven't been kissing yours). My kids seem to
smile more and the lights in their eyes are so much brighter.  I heard
birds sing again.  When I look at my driveway, and I see that everything
there is going away, I ask myself "self, what do you want to drive?"  Of
course the first thing to come to mind is Bugatti Veyron.  1001 ponies!
This car uses the VW W12 engine.  They literally built the car around
the engine.  Bugatti is one of the names in the VW family.  (You can
google for more information but the HowStuffWorks.com article on it is
probably the best.)  But alas I can't buy a car like that even when
working.  No need in giving Murphy a chance to put a turbo charger on
the shop vac. 

I asked myself what vehicle did I ever have the most fun in?  It was a
close call between the Camaro with the big block we stuffed in there,
and a VW bus.  The Camaro was fun in an "I fought the law and the law
won" sort of way, and since I think I am somewhat past that stage of my
life, I think I am going to pass on that front.  The van was more a hear
the river run and my children play kind of fun. In the end I found
myself looking at another VW.  I wanted a pre 68. but have you seen the
prices for the split windows lately?    FOR SALE: 1962 VW Transporter.
No engine, no tranny.  No seats or interior.  Body was stripped down to
metal in the early eighties and vehicle has been left to sit in a field.
Mostly rusted out.  No wheels, but my brother's wife's sister's
hairdresser's boyfriend says he can donate the one he has someplace, as
soon as he gets back from his band's tour. No registration, or title. A
bargain at $4987.79 FIRM.

Well, no thanks, I'll keep looking.  I picked up a 1970 VW van for $600.
Body is pretty straight.  Some surface rust in the cargo area.  I found
one spot where the rust had poked trhough by the passengers feet.  No
broken windows, but not a single seal without age cracks, except the
windshield.  It has a mexican case, and who knows what else from who
knows where on its single port 1600.  It has the amount of power I
expect it to have.  I have some wandering out of the van, and I would
suspect it is at least partly because of the passenger car tires it is
wearing.  But they are brand new Coopers, so they will probably stay a
while - at least till I manage to figure out where the switch for the
shop vac is.  Day one with the new ride, she just wouldn't start.  Now
if you guessed the cables and connection to the battery, you would be
right.  Replaced those, now she starts every time.  I also have a brake
fluid spot in my driveway, but it looks to be the hose to the master
cylinder, so I will clean that up when I finish here.  Idiot guide is on
it's way, and with the next check, I'll probably be looking for the
Bentley. I have one question till they show up, but I will save the
question for a much shorter post.

All in all, I am very happy with the new wheels.  She and I have a lot
of bonding to do.  I will do what I can to immoralize her on the web
with pictures at some point.

Thanks for letting me say Hi,
Mike Pietsch
