Date: Tue, 7 Sep 2004 22:10:09 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: stevo <stevo(-at-)efn.org>
Subject: brief trip report - norcal

finally made it to the pacific this week which allowed completion of a
coast-to-coast experience this summer. we five droove to san francisco in
the 69 sunroof. we got into town around 9:30pm wednesday night. chilly city
but no time for more clothes, had to blast to the brewery. the magnolia is
on the corner of haight and masonic - everything well above average. after
late night snack and beer we drove up to maclaren [sp?] park in the
excelsior dist and slept like a load of rocks. my wife grew up across the
street from that park so camping was under control right away. woke up and
hit up rainbow foods for supplies and a quick shave, then onto chinatown.
there we waited a couple hours while i had a new chop carved. afternoon
found us at the conservatory of flowers in golden gate park. that's when i
saw the first acvw - a dark brown late bay with about, ooph, three hours
left on the tranny. in the late afternoon we made our way to tiburon in
marin. it is a way too exclusive place between sausalito and san rafael.
still i found a spot there to park overlooking the majestic san quentin
state pen and richmond bridge. this was another occasion to go stealthy.
two children in the cot, darling wife, baby, and i in the fold out.
amazingly, tiburon has no flies nor mosquitos, and why should they. so not
having a screen atop the open sunroof was great fun. the near full moon
woke me up three times at least. the following morning we goofed off in
town for a couple hours getting coffee at the sweden cafe spending way to
much on dippy pastries, and i bought a bunch of postcards. the cards
[stamped 1986] had a photo of lombard street [THE famous crooked streeet in
sf] and going down were four vehicles
http://www.efn.org/~stevo/lombard.jpg. two of them were acvw, one early bay
bus, like mine - red with white top. NO sunroof, but close enough to cause
big smiles because we had just gone down that street on the way to the
conservatory the day before. serendipity.

on friday from tiburon we went to glen ellen, sonoma county for one of
those textbook romantic wine country weddings. food, pool, 10K sqft
mansion, vines, fancy cars.. not an horrific way to spend four days. life
there became less suspended in merlot tradition once the wide-smiling
burningman crew enveloped the place. things became more fluid. suffice to
say i saw more buses in the town then i've seen outside eugene this summer.
there was an up and running acvw repair shop in glen ellen that looked
heathy if not thriving. no time to stop in but i wonder if i could say that
place was worth recommending. anybody been there?

gas mileage was in the low 20's. i had to pull the reigns in often. with
only 225 break-in miles on the engine i rebuilt i was hoping not to let it
get ahead of me. just a nutty thing for me to see a stock 1600sp spinning a
bus 75 mph with out a hint of b.s. -- what a sweet little balanced engine
with an annoying oil drip. i must rethread  for a larger stud at the screen
below the sump. shouldn't be rocket science, i hope.  on the way home the
sacramento valley was 100 degreesF. stopped once or twice more often than
usual making sure the bus made it through unscathed. lovely trip, keeper
bus. - steve
