Date: Wed, 8 Sep 2004 08:57:42 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>,  VW - Type 2 mailing list
Subject: Re: [T2] No new Type II

I absolutely agree. They are marketting this thing price-wise to the Audi
folks but if they want to sell some vehicles they need to market it to the
Chevy/Honda folks. I have driven the Eurovan several times and like it but I
can't afford a $30K+ vehicle and I am hesitant to buy one with 150K+ miles
(the point right now where they are cheap enough I can afford one).

Rather than yuppies and their friends being the focus of VW's marketting it
ought to be typical middle class families doing typical family stuff -
hardware store trip, off to grandma's house, going to the lake, etc. Show that
too in the commericals. Alot of the folks around my small town are oblivious
to the current run of VW's. One fellow who looked at my "new to us" '97 Cabrio
didn't even know VW was still making cars. He was rather shocked to find out
that VW was the world's second largest car manufacturer... His impression
(prior to a ride in our Cabrio) was based on a 1969 Beetle that he ran the
dickens out of back and forth (100 miles) to Nashville in the early 70's -
failing to keep it tuned and the valves adjusted. Consequently he burned the
valves regularly and cusses it to this day. His impression of Fiat is equally
out of date with his total knowledge based on 60's Fiat 128 (I think) his
neighbor kept for a week before almost rolling it in an Indiana snow storm in
1965(?). Buick expectations driving a small vintage furrin' car is bound to
lead to disappointment... <grin!>

I'd like to see the Eurovan re-enter the Chevy market and sell me something
like our '78 Westy but setup like our CR-V. Fabric seats, power windows, a/c,
basic AM/FM stereo -  just with an 1/8" inch stereo input jack on the face of
the stereo where I can patch in my portable CD/Mp3/cassette player (other
stereo upgrades always optional), basic power steering, 5 speed (auto extra),
and maybe ABS (not a requirement, at least an option). 150 HP from the 5 or 6
cylinder. Enough to operate in modern traffic at legal speeds.

Make everything else optional like Don said. Maybe offer basic trim packages
like Honda did with our CR-V. LX gets you the CR-V, EX gets you AWD, ABS,
stereo upgrade, upgraded exterior trim. Optional sunroof, leather, roof rack,
mudflaps, trim upgrade, armrests, stereo upgrades like CD changer or Sat
radio, AWD (maybe), aluminum wheels, floor mats, cargo mats, nets, cargo
covers, hitches, etc. Price the upgrades reasonably and folks would come back
for more. I did. I could not get any of the accesories from the local dealer
at a reasonable cost so I bought mine from another Honda dealer online at half
the cost. I am doing the same with the Cabrio for repair parts. The
Chattanooga VW dealer is insane pricewise and he's 100 miles away.

Our '99 CR-V was $20K new in '99. Since the cost of materials is less of the
final cost than we'd think (Excursion costs about the same to build as
Explorer though the final price of the Excursion is MUCH higher making it a
money cow for FORD), I can't see how it would sell for much more than $20K if
the features were similar to my Honda which still only sells for $22K I think
- especially if built in Mexico like the other VW products with the lower
labor costs. Yes, I would like to see it built in the US or Germany, but it's
not going to happen. Pay is too high there - white and blue collar both.

Anyone notice how the VW commericals (and the Mitusbishi too) always show the
"cool" people doing stuff but never the interior of the car (or little) and
the exterior hardly at all? Show me the design and appearance... I'll worry
about creating my own "cool" things to do with it. Guess that is the style
right now... Macaroni Grill spends alot of time showing the customers laughing
and making faces rather than the food too... Hmmm. I'm hungry.

Chris
'78 Westy 2.7L - "Dharma"
'97 Cabrio Highline - "Gabby"
'65 Beetle 2.0 - basketcase barn queen
'99 CR-V AWD - "Bonnie"
Team Slowpoke
