Date: Wed, 8 Sep 2004 13:17:48 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: no new microbus

>..Frankly their decision was probably smart.
The New Microbus, as they had envisioned it,
would have ended up being a $40k to $50k minivan
at current currency conversion rates. 

I think this will remain their preferred target. 
They want to sell expensive and very profitable
VW's.  

>Plus, the New Microbus' styling didn't evoke the
old Microbus nearly as well as the New Beetle
evoked the old one.   

Evoke the old microbus?  It evokes my Previa a
little, but not any microbus I've seen.  

>I think the concept was fatally flawed from the
start....

Very Californicated.  It seemed to me like a EV
that was taken to Pimp My Ride for an rap
generation urban dawg overhaul.  TV monitors in
the headrests, no thanks. Tru dat.  

>So take an existing vehicle, strip it down, and
market it as a bus. Low dollar investment for VW.

Obviously not the plan.  This could be done today
for almost no money.  They don't want a
utilitarian vehicle... they want a "crossover
SUV" cash cow.  

>But sticking a peace sign on a stripped EV would
work for marketing. 

My local VW dealer tried this on some $32,000
base EV's (before the price slash).  Didn't work.
 They ended up trading the vans to other dealers.
 
 
> 1.8 IIRC?  5-speed tranny, MacPhereson struts,
and steel 15" wheels would be a cheap vehicle. (I
think they'd have to "cute-ify" it some but still
minimal investment.)

I agree.  I'd buy one.  Cutifying is easy... just
use round NB headlights.  But VW doesn't care
about being affordable and doesn't want any new
"slow" or non-sporty vehicles.  They have a new
image.  

> Dodge has done this with the Sprinter
> (Mercedes). However... The Sprinter is still
> REALLY expensive - Empty LWB Sprinter van is
still in the high $20K range...

IF I were going to spend $25-35k on a van, this
would probably be it, mostly because of that
SWEET 5 cyl diesel.  But it's still a little too
much van and is equipped and marketed as a
cheaper-to-operate replacement for a Ford E350
cargo van.  Maybe when the next Caravan, which is
rumored to be a Mercedes Vito and will be
available with a small CDI diesel, will finally
hit the spot.  
 
> We've got a friend with a Eurovan that has
> gotten excellent mileage out of their's. 240K
> miles? Same tranny? 

I'm scared to death of the EV.  My wife asked
about one this week as a replacement to our main
ride.  But mo mechanics know how to work on these
things-- even the dealer guys.  Parts, beyond
spark plugs and brake pads are special order for
ridiculous prices-- and some late pads were
unavailable for a while.  I think they sold about
14 nationwide for the decade, so you know that
the parts situation isn't getting better soon. 
I'm hopeful that EV production in Mexico will
make it cheaper for Ron to import parts, BUT
those EV's are more like the early models and
there still is very little demand.  The economics
don't look good.  

> VW hasn't given up on the idea of a new
> Microbus, they are just rethinking the process.
> Version 2 of the NEW Microbus is being based
> on a U S approved platform, 

I can't imagine what platform that would be. 
What platform would support a new bus... unless
you mean EV which is, I guess, still US approved.
Not sure how many years the crash testing is good
for.  I know originally, they were
discussing Sharan, but that's not US approved.  

Toureg?  My money is on this.  I wouldn't be
surprised to see some Pacifica looking extra long
Toureg based "crossover utility vehicle." 
Nothing is a van or wagon any more.  And "utility
vehicles" don't have much utility.  

> V W would like to carry over some of the 
> styleing themes from the now defunct New
> Microbus. 

That's unfortunate.  I cannot think of anything
from the bus that I liked, except maybe the
general shape.  Those headlights have to go!!!

> Did you know that V W o A copyrighted
> the word MICROBUS a 
> few months before the prototype was seen!

You mean trademarked... and microbus has
been one of their trademarks for many years.  VW
has tried to trademark bus, bug, and buggy as
well!  (Registering a trademark and being able to
successfully defend it in court are two different
things.)

> As far as the T5 Eurovan, V W does make
those in stripped versions.  Plain gray vinyl
upolstery on all the seats  including the middle
and back. 5 speed manual trans and a TDI engine. 

I agree completely, but lets face it, folks, VW
isn't marketing to us.  This could have been done
for almost no cost years ago.   

> It just  seems that if someone wanted to go to
a dealer and buy a brand new Westfalia...

You mean a brand new Winnebago.  But you can go
to a Dodge dealer and get a brand new Westphalia
Sprinter.  

=====
Nemo, the Bus Captain
1970 Westfakia
