To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 07 Oct 2001 07:04:18 -0700
From: "J. Anderson" <fargo(-at-)eudoramail.com>
Subject: How I repaired my Heater Tube

Hello,

Last summer I was awoken by the sound of a mouse nibbling away at my 72 VW Camper.  It turned out the Heater Tube had rusted at the ends and dropped down, giving the mouse a nice entry.  

The tube turned out to be rusted at both end, but the center of the tube was still in good shape.  I removed the pipe and its insulation and cleared all the rust away from the Y tubes at either end.    The Y tubes were in near perfect shape.  Removing the rusty tube was a bit of a problem because VW spot welded them in.  

Next step was to cut all the rusty sections away from the center tube.  From this I cut out two 1 foot sections, which I repainted. Also the Y tubes were derusted and repainted.  I inserted the 1 foot sections into the the Y tubes.  One of the pipes fit snuggly, but the other pipe was too small, so I wrapped high temp tape (muffler tape)around it to build it up.  I inserted the pipes in and used JB Weld to seal them in.

I order 1 length of silicone tubing (#11 Sceet 2 3/4") from an aircraft supplier.  It is a double wall spiral flexible tube which is smooth on the inside and is used in aircraft for heating purposes.  It is rated to 450 deg F.  It costs $100 for 12 feet.  It only comes in 12 foot sections, so I have enough left over for another repair if anyone is interested.  I placed this tube over the metal tubes which stick out from the frame by about 6-8". It fit perfectly.  I clamped it on using plastic ties.  

Next I wrapped the old insulation over my new tube and hung the whole thing from the shifter tube using plastic ties.  There is no weight on the shifter tube from this, but it adds a little extra support.  The insulation blanket is stiff enough to keep the whole thing from sagging.

I get nice hot air once again.  Initially there was a silicone smell, but over time that seems to have dissapated as expected.

If anyone is interested in the tubing, you can contact Gary, Aviall Co. at 1-513-871-6623.  He is very helpful and as I remember he has fond memories of a VW Bus in his past.  The tubing comes in Single wall (SCAT which is cheaper) and double wall (Sceet).

John & Janet
72 VW Camper (Columubus)


Join 18 million Eudora users by signing up for a free Eudora Web-Mail account at http://www.eudoramail.com
