Date: Mon, 08 Oct 2001 16:15:50 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: TYPE2(-at-)TYPE2.COM
Subject: Re: [T2] A/C - long

Understand that these busses came with the old style LARGE piston compressors.

Anything short of a big block V-8 would slow when the compressor kicked in. 
My Mustang surely did!!

The modern rotary compressors require much, much less HP - something more 
like 1/2 the HP.

If you update your compressor it should be much easier on the engine than 
the older style compressors. Less heat buildup and better mpg.

That said I would never run a/c on a bus that had a marginal engine - that 
means it should be fairly tight and cool properly (all of the cooling tin 
and seals intact).

I see wreck-less use of the a/c as an easy way to cook a VW engine. If I 
installed a/c I would install gauges as well so you could monitor the temps 
- oil and cylinder head temps and the oil pressure. Test your gauges and 
make sure they are reasonably accurate or that you at least understand what 
their error is and can mentally correct.

The 1600cc engines did it with a secondary pulley sandwiched on the crank 
pulley. The compressor was located above the distributor.

The 2000cc engines used a pulley behind the fan and the compressor was 
mounted on the driver's side of the fan shroud where to me it seemed to 
catch alot of heat. It's top poked through the tin and body metal above 
this location. Most dealerships did real hack jobs to make it fit. Many of 
these busses still have gapping holes where the missing compressor is 
located and the owner doesn't know or doesn't care that they are 
recirculating heat off of the bottom of the engine back through the engine 
cooling system.

A rotary compressor could be fitted in the same place on both engines 
without hacking anything up. You'll probably find yourself fabricating 
brackets to mount the compressor though as I seldom see them around.  Be 
sure you use the same mounting points the dealer systems used. Some bolt 
locations would be safe, some might not.

I plan on either mounting my compressor where the smog pump was located on 
the Type IV engine or follow through with my Trans-Vair conversion (I now 
have all of my parts) and mount a rotary compressor at the stock Corvair 
location.

Consider the other issues - do you run R-12 (in very short supply = $$$) or 
a R-12 copy gas (some I have read really work, some are blends of explosive 
gases like Butane and Propane), or do you switch to R-134A which doesn't 
cool well in traffic but just fine on the highway (it requires more air 
flow across the coils).

R-134A will require swapping all of the hoses and installing a conversion 
kit (orifice is different) as R-134A will leak right through the R-12 hose 
material.

So as you can see it isn't as easy as popping parts on the bus and having 
Honda or Toyota style cooling. It can certainly be done but will require 
some studying and collecting parts.

I have a dealer installed unit I bought from a list member. The interior 
portion is usable, the exterior portion will have to be replaced but the 
fans are good. The dryer is automatically junk so it will have to be 
replaced and the compressor is bad (clutch bearings shot). The compressor 
wasn't important because it is a piston style and I'll use a rotary version 
and it's install location will depend on the engine used - Corvair or VW.

If we remain VW powered I plan to use the stock smog pump location if I can 
create a suitable drive shaft arrangement. One list member used the smog 
pump drive but it wasn't stout enough and disintegrated.

Hope this helped somebody.

A/C isn't a big topic for me right now, time to get the bus back on the 
road and this year get the heat sealed up right! Rode my motorcycle all 
last winter and I'm not doing that this year.









Ciao!

Chris M. <Busbodger>
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE: 	Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing, otherwise 
complete (make offer)

