Date: Sat, 15 Jul 2006 00:05:31 -0500
From: okartguy <okartguy(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "VW - Type 2 mailing list" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: fuel filter or something more sinister?

All-

Well, I've daily-driven my '79 for over year now, having done nothing
more than change the oil and replace the muffler. It's run like a top
the entire time, so I guess it must be time to pay the piper.

The trouble started when I took a 180-mile round trip in it a couple
weeks ago, maintaining 65-70 mph highway speeds on a very hot (97:)
day. The bus performed flawlessly until I got back into OKC, and
exited the highway. At the first stoplight I came to, the bus
maintained proper idle, but had no exceleration when the light turned
green. It just kinda sputtered and tried to stall like it wasn't
getting enough fuel. However, I managed to get the revs back up, and
it seemed to recover. Stopped at a store before I got to the house,
and it pulled the same trick as I was exiting the parking lot (into
traffic, of course!). I self-diagnosed the symptoms as indicating a
clogged fuel filter, which I haven't touched since I've owned the bus.
But, it seemed to be running okay for the most part, and I've been
busy as crap the last couple of weeks. So I put it off...

Anyway, it's gotten progressively worse in the weeks since; it fires
right up and idles fine at first. However, once it's been underway for
a few minutes, it will stall out at idle and is (embarrasingly)
difficult to restart. In fact, I wasn't sure iff she was gonna make it
home today. I've been using it as sparingly as possible, and have
finally made time to switch out the filter tomorrow morning.

Is this the right place to start, or do I need to look at something
like the coil or another ignition component? Could this be caused by
overheating of some sort during my business trip? This is a
bone-stock, 83k-original mile 2.0 with factory FI. Any input is much
appreciated, and sorry for the lengthy post!

JJ
OKC,OK
'79 Westy "Jolene"
