Date: Sat, 15 Jul 2006 08:00:05 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] fuel filter or something more sinister?

--- okartguy <okartguy(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:

> All-
> 
> Well, I've daily-driven my '79 for over year now,
> having done nothing
> more than change the oil and replace the muffler.
> It's run like a top
> the entire time, so I guess it must be time to pay
> the piper.
> 
> The trouble started when I took a 180-mile round
> trip in it a couple
> weeks ago, maintaining 65-70 mph highway speeds on a
> very hot (97:)
> day. 
Go ahead and change the filter - you will need to do
that sooner or later, regardless of the current
situation.
Work your way systematically through the engine
compartment pulling loose each and every vacuum hose,
one end at a time, and reattaching it. Feel the formed
hoses to confirm they are not rotting away. You are
checking to be certain that all vacuum hoses are
firmly attached and in serviceable condition. The
formed hoses have a tendency to harden and if they
come loose, they sometimes appear to still be
attached.

If these have not turned up anything, I have some
things for you to observe: Does it start well when
cold but almost impossible when hot? Does it run
smoothly at higher rpms but poorly at low rpms? Is
there a "tick-tick" sound that you don't recall
hearing before?

If any of those are true, then I suggest the next step
as a power test. While running, pull one spark plug
lead at a time out of the distributor cap. Note the
rpm drop (just by ear for now) (It would help to
loosen those wires ahead of time, while not running,
to make them easier to pull out - it also helps to
have the insulated or plastic pliers to prevent
30,000V shock if you slip) If one cylinder doesn't
make much change when the wire is pulled loose, it
indicates that cylinder is likely dead for some
reason. If not good results from this test, try it
again with the engine hot. bump the idle up enough to
keep it running, then do the test.

If one cylinder appears to be dead, you can do the
spark-plug check and switch wires, but I would jump
next to a compression check. The engine should be cold
when removing spark plugs. I would do a cold
compression check and then put the plugs back in with
a little lubricant on the threads, and not tighten
them completely. Drive it enough to heat up, then do
another compression check, hot. (You left the plugs a
tad bit loose so when you remove them hot you don't
rip the threads out. If you leave them waayy loose,
they will blow out from compression and rip the
threads out, so you need to tighten them - just not
all the way - and tighten them back to spec when
you're going to be driving the bus again)

What I am trying to diagnose, or, hopefully eliminate,
is a dropped valve seat and/or cracked head. That is
what I am suspecting after having gone through that
scenario several times myself. What happens is that as
the head heats up, the crack gets bigger and so there
is less compression when hot. 

There are other possibilities, much less drastic, but
this is what I suspect. Heck, you should probably go
through a complete tune-up first, but if you jump
right to the compression test it will either save you
doing all that other work with no result or save you
the worry of what might be...

If you need help on the technique for a compression
test, just ask. Compression gauges are relatively
inexpensive, but if you need to buy one, I would do
the normal tune-up checks first - check points dwell
and timing, etc.

Hope this helps. -BaH

'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2)
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01
