Date: Sat, 15 Jul 2006 15:38:59 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: VWBrain(-at-)aol.com, steve(-at-)unliketea.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2]Temp Roof

thanks mark and
   
  Thanks everyone for the suggestions....
  there ended up being a top in Virginia Beach and a friend found it, checked it out for me and also helped me load it on the bus thanks bro.......
   
  As far as a temp roof i ended up using a double thick heavy duty tarp folded over and doubled and pulled extremely tight and duct taped good enough to make the 8+ hour trip up....
   
  we attached the top with self tapping screws  in a few places to get me back home....
  i did 60 - 65 mph the whole way and drove awesome, couldnt  tell it was there except it drove better with the highroof than the Penthouse poptop...
   
  only time i knew it was there was when a big truck was coming up from behind me and on my side they would actaully knock me into the other lane the quick sail motion but other than that it was smooth sailing....took me a few swifts to get the hang of it and to get ready to hold on tighter to the wheel and be ready to turn it back against the truck being careful cause closer at the back of the trailer of the truck it willl suck you in towards the wheels.......LoL... so gotta be quick to turn back the other way just not as hard as the first wift of wind......
   
  looks like its time to redo the front end now...to cut down on the sailing....
   
  thanks for all the ideas...
  the tarp held good except for the front drivers side corner didnt want to stay attached after about three + hours in the hot sun i guess it decided to let loose...
  i retaped it twice after that but made it there..and missed all the storms except for the refreshing one in the hot hot day right when we were trying to get the hightop on...
   
  peace
  chai
   
  

VWBrain(-at-)aol.com wrote:
  In a message dated 7/11/2006 3:36:03 P.M. Eastern Standard Time, 
standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com writes:

i'll be driving from south carolina to new hampshire... 


hey Chai my shop wouldn't be too far out of your way if you want to stop 
and get the piece on your way up later mark D 



                                                                 Break out the shorts, tank tops and sandles........
     Tune up the Bus wash off the winter rust~!~
       It's camping season woohooooooo LETS GO CAMPING~!~
