Date: Sun, 16 Jul 2006 18:15:20 -0700
From: "zach drew" <zachula(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Rocker arm studs and me :-(

I have broken two cardinal rules.

I was hurrying and I didn't finger tighten first.

I hope I don't need a new head.

I was replacing my pushrod tube seals today.  I had just put in my
first set and was putting the rocker arms back in.

I didn't finger tighten first.   So I proceeded to cross thread the
nut.  I was going very slowly and using my newly purchased
torquewrench (ace micrometer 5-100 ftlbs)  I have never used a torque
wrench in a serious situation so I was going very slow being very
mindful to wait for the "click".

It wasn't clicking and I was getting nervous.  I had only removed cyl
3's rocker.  I tested the torque wrench (-at-) 18ftlbs per bently and it
clicked using the nuts on cyl4.

OK...torquewrench works.  I continue on thinking okay well the
torquewrench works so I should be safe.  I got maybe one more
revolution (if  that) and I started getting suspicious becuase it
didn't "feel" right.  So I get out my offset wrench and start turning
the nut.....thats when I saw that the nut was cross threaded and the
stud was turning.  This is about where I started freaking out.

So I take the nut off the right side and back the entire stud out and
pull the rocker arm assy.

Now the hole does not look stripped where the stud came out.  no real
serious looking aluminum shavings in the thread of the stud.  I mean
there were some evidence of aluminum in the threads but I think that
the miniscule amount is normal??

SO here I am I have the stud and stripped nut.  I live in seattle, is
there somewhere here I can go TOMORROW and get a replacement stud and
nut so I can put things back together?  I am going to check ovals and
autosport here on the southend but I am leaving on a trip on tues and
if someone knows a better place that has a high likely hood of having
a stud I will call them too.

What is the likelyhood that I stripped the stud hole?  Are they
supposed to bottom out and if so, shouldn't it take more than 18ftlbs
of force to strip the stud?
If its not stripped, whats the best way to go about installing the
stud, I don't think bently covers it.  How much should I torque the
stud?

Lastly, my pushrods are 10.650" (272mm).  One of the ends was kind of
"chewed up"  http://www.zachula.com/newgallery/bustek/P1010355
and another just looks stressed
http://www.zachula.com/newgallery/bustek/P1010354.

Cause for concern?  replacing it all would get spendy.  I am hoping I
can just replace the stud and go about my merry way having learned my
lesson well.

-Zach
