Date: Fri, 5 Apr 2002 02:39:34 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Taillights

>From: "Hulme, Charles" <cahulme(-at-)nps.navy.mil>
>Date: Tue, 2 Apr 2002 10:17:25 -0800 
>
>I've got a tailight, US model, that's missing the plastic connector 
>portion that has the two prong connector in it.  I couldn't find a
>part no. for it, can I get just this or do I need to get a whole
>new/used reflector?

As far as I know that part isn't sold separately.  You can get a
"generic" two-contact socket bottom at your FLAPS that will have
two wires coming off of it; if you can get it to fit mechanically,
you can make it work electrically by crimping a male push-on onto
each wire and plugging the push-ons into the original tail light
wires.

Getting the mechanical fit may be interesting.  The original VW
and aftermarket replacement tailight housings I have for my Bus
use the same design: there is an insulating disc that is fixed
in place in the front (FRONT) of the socket, and the contacts
are separately spring-loaded with small springs.  The "generic"
replacement you will get at the FLAPS is designed with one big
spring that goes in front of the insulating disc; the contacts
are fixed to the disc and the disc is free to move in the lamp
holder.  The disc has a tab on one side that mates with a slot
in the sockets it is usually used with; VW sockets don't have
these slots.  You could file the tab down, but then the disc
could theoretically rotate with respect to the bulb and lose
contact with the bulb. 

You can replace the whole socket with a generic replacement, but
mounting the replacement is interesting.  You can buy sockets
that have a ring of spring tabs that are designed to snap into
a round hole in the reflector, but the smallest diameter one of 
these I have found is still bigger than the hole in the VW
reflector.  You'd have to enlarge the hole to make it fit.  There
are other mounting options, like fabricating a separate bracket
for the socket, that may also work.  If you do replace the whole
socket, try to get the bulb in the same place in the reflector
as it was with the original socket, so the reflector will work
correctly.

Matt Roberds
 

