From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 5 Apr 2002 20:09:11 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Brake brights

--part1_12a.f2a231c.29dfa4b7_boundary
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="US-ASCII"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

In a message dated 4/5/2002 9:34:24 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
CONKLINC(-at-)lawgate.byu.edu writes:
> Sounds like my little problem is going to come back and bite me on the butt 
> then?

Hi Curt,
Yes if you do not have the necessary play between the pushrod and the MC 
piston the internal relief valve in the MC will not release the brake fluid 
pressure or at best only slowly.  This will allow one to pump the pressure up 
in the barakes so the brake shoes drag on the drums wearing out the shoes and 
even glazing them.  Plus as the brakes heat up, the brake fluid expands and 
since this expansion can go nowhere the pressure in the brake system goes, up 
and up.  Until you either wear out the brake shoes or even have a brake fire 
when the brake fluid reaches its ignition point.

  I drove it around the block a couple of times and still seems to be 
working.  How > do you adjust the space between the rod and the pushrod and 
> the mc piston?  By adjusting the bolt on the push rod?  Won't that affect 
> brake pedal?  

Check out the "Workshop Manual VW Transporter 1963" section B-2, pages 2 & 3. 
 There you will see great diagrams of the pushrod adjustment and the MC 
relief valve.  You need to adjust the pushrod by unlocking the lock nut and 
rotating the rod so there is about 1mm (.040").  Sometimes this measurement 
can only be reached when the pushrod is already screwed in as far as possible 
by slightly bending the brake pedal stop on the bus body slightly forward.  
When adjusted properly you should be able to lay under the bus and wiggle the 
pushrod up and down slighly.  Then with keeping one hand on the pushrod and 
the other hand grab the brake pedal and pull down.  With only a tiny amount 
of pulling the pushrod will no longer be wigglable.
Eric drove our Pearl White 1963 SC on his 2,000+ mile escape trip from Texas 
and the USAF back in spring 1987 to Washington State.  He knew the brakes 
were building up pressure and dragging, but did not have a "Workshop Manual 
VW Transporter 1963".  Even the VW dealership there in Abilene did not figure 
out from his description what was wrong.  So he used the brakes as little as 
possible and released the pressure by loosening a bleeder valve now and then 
when it got bad.

> Thanks for your forebearance.  Mechanics are not my forte, but a love of 
> things VW is!

No problem.  We all have to start somewhere!
Eric&Barb

--part1_12a.f2a231c.29dfa4b7_boundary--
