From: "Diane" <djaeby(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "Vintage Bus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 20 Aug 2003 05:53:01 -0400
Subject: Unacceptable

Thinking about my bus and the shop that did me so wrong has me tossing and
turning all night.  From 3:00 am to 5:30 am this I spent gathering thoughts.
All the advice here has been great, but it really doesn't help right now
because the main problem is that this whole MESS has me more angry at myself
than the dirt-bag who ripped me off and will continue to do so until I stand
up to him and tell him that his engine and his work is unacceptable.

I could send letters ... take him to court .. I could get the work re-done ..
inspected .. bring a friend .. I could do all sorts of things, but none of
them will make me feel better until I make myself feel better by telling him
that woman or no, I will not accept what he has done to me.

So when I finish this email I should be finished with my coffee and cigarette
and ready to jump in the shower.  Going to get there bright and early and BE A
MAN .. I am going to ask for the parts that were replaced because any man
would do the same.  Case and fuel sending unit .. I will tell him what VW has
told me, that the case is leaking .. I will tell him that I don't believe that
he did anything more than put a bandaid on the problem and I am giving him the
opportunity to make things right.  Get that mustache bar OFF and fix the
broken whatever it was the right way.  The way it should have been before he
put the engine in.

The way I see it, he has 3 choices.

1)  Re-do the rebuild and do it right this time.
    a)  I have the engine inspected when he takes it out.
    b)  I want to have the insides inspected before they go back in.
    c)  I want to keep any replaced parts.
    d)  I want my PAID FOR new muffler.
    e)  And when this is all done, I do not need any friggin warranty from
him, because he will never see me again.

2)  Give me back my $600 and my 71 bus .. take his engine and shove it ... I
will tow my bus home.

3)  I will see him in court.

I will warn him that if he raises his voice I will leave and come back with
the police to finish what I have to say.

So wish me luck ya'll ..

Diane


ALL of the above or give me
