Date: Wed, 20 Aug 2003 09:35:04 -0500
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Unacceptable

Diane's story reminds me of why I got into VW's in the first place.

I was raised with my real Dad out of the picture and a few different 
stepdad's that, while they had good intentions, didn't help in any way as 
far as DIY or Autos go.

Any time I wanted my cars fixed, I either had to try and find a friend who 
could help or take it to a mechanic. I always felt like I was getting bad 
help or getting ripped off by mechanics.

I finally decided if I ever wanted to learn to work on a car I needed 
something simple. So I figured I'd buy a VW bug. I found one soon for $400. 
I got the idiot manual with the car and did my best to take care of a few 
little things it initially had wrong. After driving it for a month or two, 
the altenator went out. The Haynes manual said to remove the engine to 
replace the altenator and I think i found the same thing in the idiot 
manual. REMOVE THE ENGINE! That scared me. I did figure out I could get to 
the nut behind the fan, and knew if I could find a socket I might be able 
to rig up a tool. But then talked myself into taking it to a shop. How much 
could it be...right? I think I paid $30-$40 for the altenator to my old 
trans-am when i had a friend help me with that.

So when I go back to the VW shop to pick it up I get a bill for $275!!!!!! 
This was a good ten years or more ago too! I couldn't believe it. I 
complained and the guy kinda laughed. Right then I decided I'd never go to 
another mechanic again and that I would learn to fix these damn cars.

So since then I've used every resource I can find to learn more. I read as 
much as possible and try to retain it. I get out and try working on the 
VW's. Sometimes I mess up. Sometimes I break stuff. But I learn.

I've never been more proud than with the engine I rebuilt for my bus. It 
was a scary thing, but turned out to be not that big of a deal. Engine ran 
like a top.

I feel fairly confident that in some way I could handle most anything on my 
VW's other than rebuilding a tranny. Sure I might need help here and there, 
but I just get the help and make sure I try to learn while I get it.

I'm no expert, but I also don't feel at the mercy of a mechanic.

My advice would be to figure out a way to not be in a hurry, maybe find 
some other vehicle to use for daily driving, and start learning how to work 
on your bus. It'll be one of the best investments in time you'll ever make. 
It'll empower you and you'll never feel better than when you start fixing 
things yourself. It's hard work and can be frustrating, but you just have 
to be patient. That's why you need another daily driver...so you won't be 
under the pressure to get things fixed all the time.

Just my suggestions on the subject.


Rex Rogers
http://www.type2guy.com
