From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 20 Aug 2003 11:28:00 EDT
To: rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Unacceptable

I think many of the people on this list have had similar experiences.   and 
as the majority are guys, it's not (just) the woman thing, though I don't deny 
that could well be playing a part in it.   That and add on that VW buses tend 
to confuse most shops (dunno why) and many shops don't want to work on old VWs 
as many have bad maintenace histories that make a job that should take x 
hours take 3 times as many.  I know one place that stopped working on ACVWs for 
this reason, plus they can't just replace a muffler and let a car go out of the 
shop with scary brakes or they can be held liable for an accident, even if the 
car wasn't there for brakes!!!!  So now they only work on ACVWs for a select 
group.

...........anyway, seems that splitty drivers tend to be more knowledgable 
about their rigs.  for whatever reason.   caveat emptor.   

If taking that stand makes you feel better, that's great.  though it seems to 
me that there's less chance of getting him to fix it right than of the 
Mariners winning the World Series.  So keep in mind a plan B.

In a message dated 8/20/2003 7:32:26 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com writes:

<< 
 Any time I wanted my cars fixed, I either had to try and find a friend who 
 could help or take it to a mechanic. I always felt like I was getting bad 
 help or getting ripped off by mechanics.
 
 I finally decided if I ever wanted to learn to work on a car I needed 
 something simple. ....
 manual. REMOVE THE ENGINE! That scared me. I did figure out I could get to 
 the nut behind the fan, and knew if I could find a socket I might be able 
 to rig up a tool. But then talked myself into taking it to a shop. How much 
 could it be...right? I think I paid $30-$40 for the altenator to my old 
 trans-am when i had a friend help me with that.
 
 So when I go back to the VW shop to pick it up I get a bill for $275!!!!!! 
 This was a good ten years or more ago too! I couldn't believe it. I 
 complained and the guy kinda laughed. Right then I decided I'd never go to 
 another mechanic again and that I would learn to fix these damn cars. >>
