From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Sean Dorman <croftyest(-at-)yahoo.com>, OldVolks General
Date: Wed, 20 Aug 2003 13:35:15 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] oil change - part two - should I worry?

   Rislone and Marvel mystery oil have been around longer then me. Elton E
Newkirk ( a farmer I use to know in Orange County, Cali, before it became a
mega buck state) forced me to use Marvel. He used it in his gas and oil in
all his tractors and trucks. They all seemed to run 100,000 of miles with
out problems and he contibuted it to the Marvel and a good Rislone flush
every 50 k or so. 
  I believed him that it works as I bought a couple 50's Chevy trucks from
him, that he had bought new and used in his farming operation till the city
outgrew the farms (about 30 years old0, it used to be Orange County because
of the Orange trees, I think they call it SUV and Hummer county now. Both
these trucks ran great and did me duty for many years.
  The problem today is that the old timers are gone and there is nobody left
to give us the good old advice their poppas taught them. Snake oils in the
market place abound and the old tried and true seemed to get pushed aside by
the mega buck corperations who believe in fancy commercials with pretty
girls selling themselves, oops I mean the snake oils.
  Just remember, that the VW's we drive are as old now as when the old
timers told the good ole stories
 
ronnie
 
ps. The ATF down the carb was taught to me by a junk yard dog. This guy
could make anything run. The first time I saw it done was on a 69 Checy
pick-up of mine with 150,000 miles on a 292 straigt six. I thought I needed
a valve job and the Junk yard dog said, no you just need to clean the carbon
off the valves and pistons. He proceeded to remove the air cleaner and
started to SLOWLY pour ATF down the carb holding the r's around 2000 or so
it seemed. The truck smoked like a Texas BBG after he was done for about 20
miles and I thought for sure he had hurt the engine, till the smoke cleared
and the truck ran smoother then it ever had.
-----Original Message-----
From: Sean Dorman [mailto:croftyest(-at-)yahoo.com]
Sent: Wednesday, August 20, 2003 1:10 PM
To: OldVolks General; DasList
Subject: RE: [VB] oil change - part two - should I worry?


OK I'm fascinated with all of these cleaning agents! Do these really work?
The stuff Ronnie mentioned and squirting ATF down the carb doesn't have any
bad side effects? I am thinking of trying 'em out!
 
 
Sean
65 Westfalia
70 Westfalia



"Give a man a fish and he will eat for a day. Teach him how to fish and
he'll sit in the boat and drink all day."
