From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 20 Aug 2003 18:56:26 EDT
To: tom(-at-)groundzeroroasting.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] oil change - part two - should I worry?

hm, well If it was my engine I'd say, well it ran, so lets change that oil 
and get new in.   Don't worry about the washer, it was there, now it's not, 
maybe it fell down the fill hole, who knows?

fwiw  dist drive washers are round, bigger than dimes, and can be replaced 
w/o cracking the case.   I worry when I see a coppery sheen to the oil or little 
bits or stuff w/ copper that could be rod bearing material.   

hm, the only thing I can think of is did all the studs for the round pan stay 
in place, or did any come out?  isn't the thing that holds the suck pipe for 
the  pump in place have a squareish tang that goes over the one of those studs 
(nut on top side) and you do real want that bolted in place as if is gets 
loose and isn't sucking the oil out the bottom of the case then the pipe could 
run dry and you need oil pressure.  Do you have a pressure guage?  And AAA?   
Always good in any case.   (no pun intended)

To replace one with a bad tang you do need to crack the case, but you can 
check and see if that is still held in place,  after you drain the oil,  with a 
flashlight and maybe a mirror.  

In a message dated 8/20/2003 11:57:58 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
tom(-at-)groundzeroroasting.com writes:

<< Ok, did the oil change and got the screen out and proceeded to inspect 
stuff.
 I had a fair amount of goop on the inside of the plate.  I would say at least
 a 1/4 inch of it.  I poked through it, found some grit and stuff and a BIG
 piece of a washer.  The small stuff did not worry me, but the washer did. 
This
 is not your typical flat washer.  It is about the size of a dime and the 
stock
 is square-ish.  Like a bushing or somethinglike that.  It was a little more
 than a half of washer.  I could not find the other piece(s).  The engine has
 been running great ( a little hot in my opinion, but not sure until I get the
 gauges)  From the looks of it, the washer had been there a while (not sure
 when the last OC was).  I am planning on changing the oil again tonight 
(dirty
 again after running for 15min.)  Perhaps the pieces will show up.
