From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 20 Aug 2003 22:28:56 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: my new fat motor

Doods, I've been putting together the fat motor.   1679 with machined case 
and sp heads for the larger OD on the cylinders.  The cylinder walls are 
*thicker* than 1600 ones.  full flowed.  metal flex lines to / from the oil filter.   
Doghouse of course. This is for my 65, which has had a perfectly servicable 
1600DP mystery motor in it for a year or two, but because of the 3.88/ 1.26rgb 
gearing it lacks oomph.   Swapping the previous motor into my 61 that bus has 
loads of power, so it's an example of the high gearing and a westy kit just 
being a bit more than a 1600 likes, it seems.   Being thrifty I didn't pay for 
all that, this is a motor with 10K miles on it I got out of a burnt bug, that 
had to have the case split to get chunks of stuff out to get it to turn, but it 
was all new inside, standard crank, case, everything.  hatch marks in the 
cylinders didn't even look worn. Really nice heater boxes.  the outer skins do 
not shake loosely around the center pipe even a little.  actually, all well 
sealed.  yes they have fins on the inner pipe. New looking flywheel.  Cleaned it 
up, bought some new bearings...

So I got the long block together, spins nice.  Put a powder coated crank 
pully on it.   Dug through my piles of tin and round the garage to find a good set 
of tin, cleaned it up at a friends shop, and got out the black rattle can and 
painted tin.

I somehow lost the under tin for the left side of the motor, and need to dig 
up that under tin, as the rest I have are in sorry shape. pieces cut off, or 
the attach holes/ tangs messed up, etc   Anyone have a decent spare one?  It's 
not the thermostat side, but the other side.   need to install that before 
putting on the left heater box before putting on the (stock) muffler before 
ground starting it.

This search drove home that there is piles of junk in the garage, I really 
need to deal with so I can FIND STUFF.  Wow, neat, didn't know I still had this, 
hey, there's the box of westy trinkets, cool.    hm....  wheres a decent oil 
spout?  Why do I have a huge collection of dead roly poly bugs?

Thing is I'm setting this up with the later rear tin as I have a modified 
1500 air cleaner that takes the 2" pre heat pipe.   I want the tin to match with 
no gaps, and the little piece under the right side that fits the metal preheat 
pick up also has a notch for the squiggley breather, and finding a breather 
that wasn't cut on the tin was tricky.  Okay. found a nice breather,    it's a 
bit more down the line now, and I used a spark plug wire to cylinder tin seal 
on the breather pipe as a prevention against it getting cut in the future.  
Found a nice oil filler cap, and gave it a new cork seal.   It would have been 
mantled already if I wasn't trying to make it look half decent.  Hopefully by 
this weekend I'll have it in the bus and see what it does.   Still need to 
clean out an intake manifold.
