Date: Thu, 01 Dec 2011 11:58:36 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <mike.soultanian(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Help in Livermore. -clutchless driving

On 9/30/2011 5:39 AM, Mike Benthin wrote:
> Little Miss Sunshine with a push), then ease it into second when the
> rpms drop enough to feel your way in. Same with third- I've done it. To

I think the Little Miss Sunshine pushing bit was more for show because
you'd need to have the car running in neutral and get the car going fast
enough such that the engine idle is slow enough for the gear inside the
tranny to be able to match up with second.  I'm not sure how fast that
is, but I'm guessing it's at least 10-15 mph, and that's probably a
challenge if you're pushing the car.


The easiest way to do this is start in first gear and let the car lurch
a bit.  Then keep accelerating a bit past your normal shift point
because when you pull the shifter out of gear, the car is going to start
slowing down.  When the engine is revving pretty high (somewhere  around
3500-4000) pull the stick out of gear, let up on the gas pedal, and
start putting light pressure on the next gear.  As the RPMs drop, the
gear that's moving around in the transmission with essentially fall
through the RPM range of the gear that you're trying to mesh with and
the shifter will move into the new gear when they match.

If you don't do it fast enough, the car will slow too much and you won't
be able to get into the higher gear.  In that case, you need to do
downshift and do what Mike said and tap the gas to rev the engine while
pressing on the previous gear and it will fall in.  Then start over by
accelerating past the normal shift point and give it another go.


I had to do this to get from the north side of SF to the south side of
SF due to a fused clutch.  I had to go all the way around via the
richmond and the san mateo bridges, but luckily it was at 11p, so
traffic was minimal.  The lady at the toll booth looked at me really
funny when I turned the car off to stop at the booth and then lurched
away when I started the car in first ;)

For those of you that haven't tried this, I'd practice it because it
will save your ass if you're in a pinch or if your clutch system fails -
and fails in a way that it's connected to the flywheel.  If it's
slipping, you're just screwed.

Mike
