Date: Tue, 06 Dec 2011 12:25:50 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <mike.soultanian(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Finding True TDC

On 12/6/2011 2:20 AM, Lourd Baltimore wrote:
> I'm about to find and mark true TDC using the pencil
> method.
> No.1 cylinder is the least accessible of all four.
> Is there anything
> wrong with using No. 3 instead?
> Is looks like it should work in theory.
> Thanks,

Actually, that is not the best and most accurate way to find TDC.  To do 
it correctly, you want to install a piston stop in the spark plug hole:

http://www.sscycle.com/product/Top-Dead-Center-Piston-Stop-p20564.html

Rotate the engine until the piston stops.  Make a mark on the timing 
wheel where it lines up with 0, then rotate the engine backwards until 
it stops again, now make another mark where it lines up with 0.  Now 
split the difference and you will have your accurate mark.  If you do 
your method with the pencil, you'll have a general area where TDC for 3 
is, but it's nowhere near as accurate.  Also, I wouldn't use your method 
as a baseline for tuning the engine.

Now, I'm assuming that this is a type4 engine - I don't know the timing 
configuration of a type1, but the procedure would be similar.  That 
said, if it is a type4, the pulley is keyed, so installing it 
incorrectly on the crankshaft is difficult unless someone didn't install 
the key on the fan hub or the key on the crank - I would verify both if 
you're not sure.  Also, there should already be a timing cut in the edge 
of the pulley that should line up somewhere around your mark.

Remember that there are two TDCs per engine cycle.. one on the 
compression stroke and one on the exhaust stroke - the only way to 
accurately figure what stroke you're on is to look at your distributor 
(assuming it's installed correctly), or verify the distributor by 
watching the valves - I can explain that if you really want to know.

Lastly, you mentioned something about putting marks on the pulley for 
timing purposes - why are you doing that?  Just get a timing scale and 
then you can read the numbers right there.  No guessing, no marks to 
come off, much easier for anyone else to understand as well...

Mike
