Date: Wed, 7 Dec 2011 16:31:28 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Fwd: Re: [T2] Finding True TDC

Well,
 
I might disagree with Mike here, I've put together a lot of T4's and
in fact a lot of inline VW's, and a lot of SBCs.  Indeed there is a large spot
of course where the piston is "essentially" stopped, but by no means is it
really stopped.  I suggested a dial indiactor to Josh by pmail on the first
day of this thread, but on the car practicality is low IMHO.   I always use
one to mark TDC and 180 out on a pulley when I put an engine together when I'm
setting the decks (individually by topping the pistons) and believe me, it
isn't an issue to find top.  Top is top, the clock slows way down, then stops,
then turns over.  And it isn't even a part of a degree there, things are all
round, they come to a top, then they turn the other way.  A 0.001"  reading
indicator is happily sufficient to show the same.  You can't turn the engine
at a resolution finer than what it will show.  In fact it can show whether top
is top for all of your pistons
 depending on who ground the crank and how accurate they were.  Now this is
assuming however best case use an indicator mounted perpendicular in a flat
deck plate.  At plug angle you are losing a bit of resolution, but not much. 
I did suggest to Josh, I don't know how one would easily do this in the car,
though the through the plug indicator is a good idea, probably possible with
even a 14mm plug.  At the time I thought he was T4 and wasn't sure of what
benefit to the endeavour where the scale is the lack of timing resolution. 
But as Mike I think originally suggested, on a 1600, using a stop is the way
to go.  It is a joke to do, and with the quality of the average Chinese degree
pulley, may indeed prove enlightening.
 
John

On 12/7/2011 3:20 AM, Jack
Dinan wrote:
> Josh: If you go to that trouble, why not drill the hole to
accept a dial
> indicator. Then you can watch the piston approach and recede
I've

That again won't be as accurate as the stop method because there is a
few degrees of rotation where the piston stays high.  You want to catch the
piston at a point during the steeper slope of the curve (it's a sine wave
essentially) and you'll get the least amount of error if you catch the piston
on the up-slope, not the top of the curve.
