Date: Wed, 07 Dec 2011 17:06:45 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <mike.soultanian(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Fwd: Re: [T2] Finding True TDC

On 12/7/2011 4:31 PM, John Anderson wrote:
> I might disagree with Mike here, I've put together a lot of T4's and
> in fact a lot of inline VW's, and a lot of SBCs.  Indeed there is a large spot
> of course where the piston is "essentially" stopped, but by no means is it\

It doesn't matter what type of engine it is, t4, t1, two stroke 
motorcycle engine, etc, using a dial indicator to mark TDC by finding 
the top of the piston travel still will not be as accurate compared to 
stopping the piston somewhere in the middle of it's stroke.  Yes, you'll 
find when the piston tops out, but the level of accuracy at marking the 
crank is not as good - Jon also said it well:

> into the tubing.  Works great. However, if you think about it, the piston
> travel is at it's minimum vs crank rotation at TDC and BDC.  The least
> accurate point for this method. I had not thought of using a piston stop
> method until the topic was mentioned.  Splitting a distance either side of TDC
> is easy and accurate. Additionally, the travel vs rotation is much more
> readable a bit further down the stroke.  I  too plan to make one up.  Less

That said, the dial indicator WILL work fine if you use it to measure at 
a fixed point on the up-stroke, then rotate the crank until the dial 
indicator indicates the same measurement on the down-stroke - the 
further away from TDC/BDC, the more accurate your marks will be.

> isn't an issue to find top.  Top is top, the clock slows way down, then stops,
> then turns over.  And it isn't even a part of a degree there, things are all
> round, they come to a top, then they turn the other way.  A 0.001"  reading

The means to find the most accurate TDC timing mark is not by finding 
when the piston itself hits TDC (yeah, might sound strange).  You could 
have a dial indicator with 0.000001" accuracy and finding the TDC mark 
on the timing wheel still won't be as accurate as compared to measuring 
it during the actual stroke and then splitting the two marks.  I can 
probably move my crank 1-2 degrees (maybe more?) while the piston stays 
at a measured TDC.  However, if you stop the piston during it's travel, 
it's stopping at an exact degree mark every time (unless there's play in 
the system).  Is it splitting hairs, yeah, but I think it's still a more 
accurate measurement just due to the mechanics of what's going on.

Mike
