Date: Thu, 4 Oct 2007 18:43:05 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: DurocShark <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Tell us about YOUR heat

I don't know if the BA6 can be set up to do this, but
with my Espar D1C I set up a remote control so that in
the morning I could walk to the living room window and
click my IR remote aimed at the front of my bus, and
I'd see the LED come on, indicating the heater was
firing up. By the time I was ready for work, it was
about 100 degrees in there!

It could also be easily set up for a timer and could
be run at intervals. I was never really pleased with
the thermostat as it was always too hot. Typically
with outside temps at 10 to 20 degrees, I had to have
a window open because of excessive heat even at the
lowest setting. I do plan on reinstalling it, even
with the reasonably good heater with the Subey.

The thing I like about having it as well as the
standard (?) heater is that it operates independently
of the engine running and will run for several days on
2 gallons of diesel. If I do reinstall it, I will need
to figure out a more sensible thermostat setup.

I have a thermostat for my camping - when plugged in
to shore power. I have a tiny ceramic heater that
resides in the front seat area and is wired to a
standard household thermostat near the ceiling back at
the bed. When cold weather camping, I place the heater
on the floor in the cabin area and leave it on its
lowest setting. The thermostat operates a relay that
turns the 120VAC on and off.

I'm sure you don't want to hear about my regular
heater as it does not apply, but it is a Flex-a-lite
Mojave unit and works quite well for average cool
mornings and does well at keeping the windshield
clear. It generally is kicking out warm air about six
blocks from home. About a 5 minute warm-up period will
have it clearing the windshield if needed. -BaH
--- DurocShark <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:

 I'm at the point where I need to either sh!t or get
 off the pot with
 my BA6.  I need to decide to start cutting and
 welding to get it in
 the Guac's belly, or to go back to my plans for
 recirculating air
 through the HE's.
 
 So tell me about your heat. What's worked for you,
 what was a mistake?
 
>

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
