Date: Fri, 5 Oct 2007 20:18:06 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] Bus Off-Roading

At 11:47 PM -0400 4/10/07, John Leibowitz wrote:
>I've used my 79 bay to haul some brick (in the middle) and then also to move
>everything I own (in a few trips) across town, and some of those loads had
>to be rather heavy and it handled it (suspension and power) without a
>problem.

	I've not challenged my '73 Bay with loads like my move from 
Vancouver to Berkeley with all my worldly goods and a couple 
passengers (singing 'Six Days On the Road' till my passengers asked 
me to desist), nor any non-roads such as I hammered that '57 splittie 
thru in Mexico and nr Yosemite.
	So any suggestion that I now have a less tough 'chassis' evokes my q's
1.  Is there some body of evidence of Bay chassis failures more 
frequent than Splittie chassis (at a similar age)?
2.  A softer suspension may give some drivers a subjective impression 
of chassis flexion, but this may be a misleading impression.  I could 
even imagine that different seats could give some drivers an 
impression of less rigid chassis.
3.  I doubt the 3000-lb tare doesn't partly buy you a very strong chassis.
4.  Of course rust or other damage can create flexion  -  in a 
splittie or a bay.


>  I think part of the problem is that people put car tires on their
>bay's...that would seriously destroy your weight handling ability.

	Ron Salmon has told it LAHK  EET  EEEUZ and the sporadic 
outbursts of opinionating on Bay tyres have yet to give strong 
reasons to depart from his recommendation (which is also mine, on far 
less experience): 185 R 14c, 8-ly rated (tho' there are also some OK 
light commercial 6-ply rated).  Keep all that original depth of air 
between the rim and the road; don't bother with the extra drag of 
fatter, nor the droopy wanking of lo-profile; do invest in those 
strong sidewalls which the light truck tyres give you.
	The T2 suspension is known to, and was presumably designed 
to, handle a wide range of road (& some non-road) sorfaces in concert 
with  |  185 R 14 c   | tyres.  Satisfactory Jap, Chinese, S. Korean, 
and what looks like Greek to me brands have been reported on T2 list. 
I don't doubt Froggis and the same nation that gave you VW in the 
first place also make good tyres of this type.  Do not try to skimp 
every last dollar.
	Lo-profile tyres, usu w larger section e.g 205, may look kool 
but are dubious if you wish to retain the original versatilty of the 
chassis.
	Shock absorbers (better called dampers) do have to be 
reasonable if all the above is to work decently.
	I did only a couple thousand mile on wider, /70 profile, 
1-ply sidewalls which were on the front of my Bay when I bought it, 
but that was more than enough soggy vague steering for me to assure 
you that the handling at all payloads was vastly improved when I 
replaced that rubbish with proper tyres.


>
>any idea if a bus could actually do what the video depicts (obviously it's
>been down already) and come out without too many bruises?  It *looks* like
>the bus handled it very well...

	A video like that is little evidence (except perhaps 
regarding the ingenuity & deceit of cyberforgers).  The old legal 
term 'photographic evidence' by now means v little.  Cynical 
cyberwankers can manipulate speed (up or down), and many other 
aspects of pix including moving pix.
	And of course a given spectacular stunt may have damaged the 
vehicle  -  perhaps stolen for the expt  -  but this fact not be 
disclosed.
	Let's hear from actual drivers or observers.

-- 
Robt Mann
Auckland, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
'69 Renault 10  -  The Water Wagon
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
