Date: Sun, 7 Oct 2007 19:32:47 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: mechanics' ethics

	Since acquiring my 1600 DP 18 mo ago, I've lacked the time & 
facilities to do the serious engine work that has proved necessary. 
I've had to use an experienced mechanic recommended by a good friend. 
I'd be grateful for opinions on what he now owes me, on the following 
history.

	Having only just made it home, stumbling, from the 1255-mi 
'delivery' trip from the South Island, I instructed the mechanic to 
rebuild the motor.  Instead, he did routine tuning and pronounced it 
the best 1600 DP he'd ever driven.  (This was probably due to the 
hi-compression heads.).
	But before long, the no. 3 piston burnt thru, and metal 
fragments throughout the crankcase meant a rather comprehensive 
rebuild.  Most or all of this extra expense would have been saved if 
the rebuild had been done before the breakdown, as the partly-blocked 
cooling-air intake (a pic of which I posted at the time) would have 
been discovered & fixed.

	Just as the rebuilt motor was running in nicely (tho' with 
normal CR heads, so not quite so fast), it poured oil from both valve 
covers onto the hot exhausts, costing me time & expense to be towed 
home.  The mechanic reported valve clearances had gone to zero and 
the accessible (i.e lower) head bolts had come loose.  He ascribed 
this to overheating  -  of which I had no evidence  -  and, 
suspiciously, to my water-injection system which was then cheeky 
enough to disconnect.  He said the weak-vacuum retard diaphragm on 
the '71 beetle dizzie was holed (evidence from sucking on it with a 
strong vacuum)  -  which he says would leave only centrifugal 
advance.  I fail to see how this could cause severe overheating 
(motor sounding & feeling better than ever).  He says I should invest 
in a new Chinese copy of the 009 (!!).  He sold me a new set of Bosch 
"platinum" plugs, without giving or showing me the "old" ones which 
had done a small mileage, and charged me NZ$202.
	The motor was going fine, so I headed out of town  -  to be 
stopped by the identical failure, only a few mi on beyond the 
previous spot.

	My guess is that one or more studs have come unscrewed 
somewhat from their crankcase inserts.  Wouldn't this explain the 
heads coming loose, and the valve clearances going to zilch?  Indeed, 
what other explanation can be suggested?
	If this interpretation is correct, what duty has the mechanic 
to finish the rebuild properly, without further charge to me?  He 
says that he's never seen a failure of this nature, and that Loctite 
to hold those studs is not normal practice.

	Informed opinions welcome.

-- 
Robt Mann
Auckland, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
'69 Renault 10  -  The Water Wagon
.53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
