From: "David & Susan Bell" <bellky(-at-)charter.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "Mark L. Hineline" <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Date: Thu, 13 Jan 2005 18:30:07 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] Meditation on bus ownership

----- Original Message -----
From: "Mark L. Hineline" <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Subject: [T2] Meditation on bus ownership


> 3. A bus is not inherently undependable as many people think they are.
> It's quite the reverse. Properly maintained and driven, there is no
> reason a bus should break down. Ever. The trick is to get a bus to that
> state of tune and keep it there. That's what is most important ...
>

I agree, Mark. This is something that has puzzled me for the 2 years or so
that I have been on the list-many owners seem to think that breakdowns are
inevitable and part of the bus experience.

I am not an ace mechanic by any means, but I will admit to being a talented
amateur. My bus is a 74 with a 1.8 ltr AVP rebuild. I have some of the most
dreaded components on my bus, according to general list wisdom. Weber
progressive carb, push botton ignition switch on the dash, generic electric
fuel pump, and hydraulic lifters, to name a few. I live in western KY, which
can be very hot and very cold, but I have used this bus as my daily driver
in all seasons. My commute can be either 20 miles round trip (Plant #1) or
100 miles round trip (Plant #2). I have driven to Michigan in 95+ degree
summers --1200 miles-- and to Florida in the winter--1700 miles-- without a
breakdown. We have climbed Lookout Mountain (and come back down again)
without incident, and crossed the vast wastes of Ohio in the wee hours with
only the big rigs to share the road.

The point is, I have driven over 45,000 miles, near and far, without ever
having a break down. Wait, I take that back; I replaced a voltage regulator
in Panama City, FL, but cought it before the battery was either run down or
fried, so no down time. As said before, I'm no ace mechanic. I do the
regular maintenance like oil changes, points, dwell and timing, fuel
filters, etc, at the appropriate intervals, but that's all. I tend to drive
conservatively, not much over 60 mph, but I'm not fanatic about it.

So what's the difference between my bus and the buses that break down? Do I
just do better work that the others? I doubt it. Did I just happen to buy a
perfect bus and a perfect engine? (The AVP rebuild was a long block; all the
other parts came off the engine that was in the bus when I bought it and I
installed it myself in the driveway.)  Maybe, but unlikely. Am I just lucky?
Possibly, and more likely, but I can't be the only lucky guy with a bus.

I don't know the answwer, I just enjoy my bus and intend to keep enjoying it
for years to come.

That's my ruminations on the subject.

Regards,
Dave
74 Riviera, "Rivkah"
FREE TIBET*
*with purchase of one country of equal or greater value
