From: "Alejandro Vieira" <bsnman(-at-)adelphia.net>
To: "type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 15 Jan 2005 10:43:41 -0700
Subject: Weird Power Loss Issues

Hi everyone,

I'm new to the list, but not to busses. I'm having a strange problem with my
76 Westy. It's totally stock, rebuilt by PO at some point, with an aux. oil
cooler that I added. It's having intermittent loss of power while driving
and sometimes stalling while idling. The loss of power at speed feels like I
shut off the key (of course, I not doing that!), until I tap the gas a few
times and the engine comes back online. It usually lasts from 1 second to 5
or 7 seconds, although it seems like an eternity while I'm gradually losing
speed. No lights on the dashboard come on when this happens.

It also happens sometimes when I'm sitting at a light; it just dies. Usually
it starts again, although very gradually, not at all like a normal start, as
if just one cylinder at a time is catching (this is just a description, I'm
not saying it's definitely adding one cylinder at a time). Sometimes,
though, it won't catch at all and I have to wait in traffic with the
emergency blinkers on for up to 15 minutes for it to start.

This has been happening since the summer, but because the camper is not my
primary vehicle and I haven't been on any trips with it since the summer, I
just kind of put up with it at first. However, it's gotten so bad that, with
the stalling at lights, it's almost undriveable because of the tendency (50%
of the time, maybe) to stall at a light and not start right away.
HHHEEEELLLPPPPP!!!

Here's what I've tried so far:
-Whacking the fuel pump to free it up in case it was jammed (while I'm
stopped in the road). Mostly, that just made me feel better, but didn't help
the bus to start.
-Replaced fuel filter, even cut the old open to check for crud, nothing
noticeable there and no improvement in situation.
-Replaced fuel pump, no change in situation, but now I have a spare fuel
pump, which is always a good thing right?
-Labelled all the parts in the Bentley's manual in an attempt to understand
current flow to the FI system and troubleshoot the problem. I'll be out in
the cold today trying some ideas from that.
-Searched the archives here at type2.com, so now I'll make sure the
connections on the AFM are all tight, and (somehow) check to make sure there
isn't a large piece of rubber in the gas tank intermittently blocking the
outlet pipe of the tank.

I could only read the first 100 of 560 messages in the archive involving
"power loss" (I couldn't click on anything to look at more of them???), so
I'm wondering if there have been any other experiences like mine out there,
and what people finally discovered as the fixes?

Sorry for the long description, but this is driving me nuts and I want to
have the bus working VERY well when my fiance and me go on our honeymoon in
May.

Alex Vieira
Colorado Springs, CO
