Date: Fri, 2 Mar 2007 09:06:51 -0500
From: Anymouse <honeybus(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Type 2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Junk Yard experiences (long and boring, but it IS Friday)

A good number of the VW buses I have found in the yards (those that were
complete VWs, not just a rusty hulk) these past 10 years have had a Previous
Owners' name and ID of sorts.



I have contacted at least nine of these POs to ask about their VW bus, and
why it was in the yard, and what was the reason the VW was discarded.



1973 VW Westy - PO was a little old man who used the Westy with his little
old wife.  His wife died, and the VW Westy just stayed around his house
until the fond memories became a sorrow.  He just had the VW towed away.  He
said that he spent over $2500 on an engine rebuild and it had less than
20,000 miles on it.  The papers and all his receipts, he said, were behind
the driver's seat, in the back of the jump seat.  I went back and tried to
get a group of VW bus people to help me pull the engine at the yard.  We
were not successful.  The engine hung up and we ran out of time.  Banks in
Conowingo MD. (lots more to this story..)



1978 VW hardtop Westy  PO was a wild eyed hippy skyscraper steel man (boy).
A smoker and a joker...  Driving a kombi!!   I met him a few times, and I
bought some parts from him.  I went to his parents home, and they were
lovely people.  Mom was semi invalid, but very active, and dad 'lived' in
the garage with his 1957 Chevy.  They both shared the love of a good, older
car, and were annual visitors to Carlisle PA.  The story starts in the junk
yard, when I started crawling through this '78 VW Westy.  I heard some
strange clicking.  poking around, I saw that the CLOCK WAS RUNNING!!  The VW
was so fresh, the battery was still connected..  Of course I grabbed the
clock, and the POs name to find out what was the story.  He said, on the
phone, before we met, that he traded it in ($500) at a local Chevrolet (of
course!!) dealer for a pickup truck.  I called the dealer and they said it
was in the back lot for a while until they needed the space so they had it
hauled away  Years later, I went back to that '78 and retrieved a sliding
door inside wood panel that I needed for my '78 daily driver.  Penny's at
Woodbridge MD



1979 VW deluxe Westy  The PO said it was rusty and that as why he had it
towed away.  He had some new heat exchangers that he wanted to sell me, but
I had enough HEs for my '78.  I got a whole lot of cabinet stuff, and had a
great experience tearing into that Westy.  I still have the cabinet top that
goes over the two burner stove/sink.  I grabbed the pop-top with an
excellent canvas, but on the way home I discovered that I had ripped the
canvas in taking it off  one man  and the canvas was dry rotted.  Win a
few, lose a few more  Savemore in Oxen Hill MD



1978 VW bus  This time I got the real word from a young lady PO.  She said
the engine was rebuilt, and ran fine when she sold the VW to a pair of
hippies.  Well, I trusted her, and pulled the engine and got it home.  I
have it reworked (cylinders re-honed, new rings, appropriate seals, rebuild
heads with new exhaust valve guides and new in / ex valves, same valve
springs though) and it stands ready as a backup engine.  I don't know if I
am going with carb(s) or FI.  If carb(s), I can get it running on my garage
floor as it, but FI might be harder.  Crazy Rays on Erdman Ave Baltimore MD



1980-83 Vanagon bus  I called the PO, who is a lawyer just 20 miles from
the yard.  I told him I was pulling the wheels/tires from his Vanagon, and I
was thinking about the chrome bumper.  We talked, and he offered to give me
all the extra parts he had.  So while I was in the junk yard, he came by my
'78 Westy and offloaded three large boxes of Vanagon parts.  And as you
probably know, there are lots of Vanagon parts that can be used on the late
bay, like fuel and oil filters, fuel injection hose (from bus Depot  25
feet worth!!), rear brake cylinders, air filter and the list goes on.  I
never met the lawyer in person.  Just another one of those 'who WAS that
masked man' out of body experiences.  Crazy Rays Baltimore MD



1973 VW Westy  There was no PO. The bus had an advertisement for a
micro-brewery in Baltimore MD painted all over the VW, so I called the
micro-brewery. They never heard of this VW bus, and they have since changed
their name.  Strikeout!!  But I did get a few nuts and pieces off it, and
some like new light chocolate seat covers for the front two seats, just on
general principle. This junk yard has a guy who is nearly blind who checks
you out.  He asks what do you have and then collects your money.  On one
purchase of about $35, I gave him two $20 bills.  He disappeared inside and
then came back to the window and asked me how much $$ I gave him. I told him
'two $20 bills'.  Then he showed me a twenty bill and a hundred bill.  Man,
I just grabbed two bills from my wallet and didn't look at them because that
was the side of the pile with the $20's, not the side of the pile with the
$100's  I guess he has someone inside check out the bills.  Damn lucky I
didn't give him the bill I have stashed under my driver's license.  It is
truly a 'get out of free' card....  When I tell him I have a set of pipes
from a VW bus or something like that, he usually says 'let me see them' and
sticks out his hand.  Of course, I reply 'so to speak' (under my breath).  It
is a fun place.  When Dolan pulled a full set of '73 fabric seats from a '73
Westy, he convinced the lady there to only charge him for the yellow fabric
because that is all he wanted.  She did.  When I had to pull a full steering
column and switches from an early bay because I couldn't get the damn
steering wheel off, she only charged me $10 for the steering wheel.  Nice
people at  Eazy Pickens, Northeast of Baltimore MD.



Other times I found notes from the PO mentioning why the VW was scrapped and
what was still good, and even notes saying 'call me'.



That is the way to pull parts..

 --
Anymouse sends
