From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: "'Nathaniel Poole'" <npoole(-at-)telus.net>, "'Type2'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 2 Mar 2007 13:58:23 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] Returning from the abyss

Seat belts for a 68 were strictly lap belts. Just get some new ones from the
vendors mentioned below. They did not come with shoulder belts in the US,
but some owners upgraded them from the dealership.

I just did a full restoration on my 68 Double Cab. There are some screwy '68
only things and parts you may run across. I have a few extra used parts and
I know Chris at Busted Bus has quite a few one-year-only parts stashed away.

As for new parts, the following is my OPINION and only that! The vendors
that I mention should chime in if I am giving incorrect information. I love
everyone all the time without question :)

In no particular order:

Bus Depot: Ron Salmon from Bus Depot does a whole lot of research which
shows. He tries to get the highest quality parts and rubber and offers
mid-quality items to satisfy budget restos. He is a small business so
sometimes the order-to-shipping process is relaxed, but everything will get
to you intact and exactly as described. Ron also offers probably the best
customer service around if you use the phone.

WCM (remanufactures parts): They have the most cumbersome ordering system
imaginable (last time I checked) but make a lot of reproduction parts not
available elsewhere. Their quality has been fairly good, but I have had some
oddities recently. Shipping is pretty slow since they are a pretty huge
outfit.

OE Veedub: They used to be the only source for a lot of OE German stuff. I
think Ron and Scott have everything and more than they have now. They are
the most expensive and some of their products are not worth the money, like
their door seals. Get them from Ron. Just because it is from Germany doesn't
make it quality! I've visited their warehouse and they are good people. Some
rare items make them worth a good look.

Airhead Parts (remanufactures parts): They are a lot like WCM but without
the spotty quality and cumbersome ordering process. I have been using them
recently for a flip I am doing and they have come through without any
complaints. They also are quick to answer questions in a nice and unhurried
way. Good customer service.

CIP1: They are great if you want parts FAST and cheap. Many of the rubber
parts are WCM items and their other parts can be of low to mid quality with
some high-quality stuff thrown in. They have good customer service but
definitely are the budget-minded ones of the group.

JC Whitney: I really wouldn't recommend them.

Aicooled.net: John offers a lot of parts and the "special" SVDA is of note.
The SVDA is the only thing I have ordered from him and it works as stated.

German Supply (some cool re-pops): Scott does his research like Ron Does.
The difference is he only sells high-quality parts and doesn't seem to offer
mid-quality alternatives. Prices are as expected from a Canadian-based
company. He also has rare heater stuff if you are going with an eberspacher
unit and lots of EFI parts. He seems to specialize in late model Type 2s,
but has early stuff as well.

Wolfsburg West (remanufactures parts): WW doesn't sell crappy parts. They
have really stringent quality control and it shows and most parts are made
in-house. Every part I have purchased from them is top-of-the-line. However
their prices reflect that. Delivery is very prompt. Their website isn't the
easiest to use.

EBAY: Beware. There are some funky things out there. Buy with caution. I
have had excellent luck, but the parts I go after are so rare, they are hard
to fake.

I don't know about eisparts.com or other ones. Perhaps other list members
can give you the straight dope. Richard's site, ratwell.com has some pretty
good comparative write-ups on seals and parts.

And that's all I have to say about that...

Jon Stiles

From: Nathaniel Poole 

Also who carries the best quality aftermarket parts for restoration? The PO
showed me a mirror he bought a couple of years ago from CiP, and the metal
was all pitted and rusted. I will also want some new tin sections for
underneath so I don9t want flimsy crap.
