From: "Michael Smith" <michael.smith(-at-)1upcomputing.com>
To: "'Greg Potts'" <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 3 Mar 2007 15:15:17 -0600
Subject: RE: [T2] Running rich when warm issue is back (On my knees

It is a FI engine. I have not tested the compression yet as it only as about
4k on the rebuild. The thought didn't even occur to me as I didn't think AF
mixture was related to compression. When I think about it wouldn't an excess
of fuel in the combustion chamber lower compression and give me a false
reading anyway? I set the valves about 400 miles ago. The problem first
occurred maybe 800 miles before I set the valves and showed up again maybe
250 - 300 miles after I set them. I have not checked fuel pressure or vacuum
due to the lack of the proper tools to do so. 

 

I believe that the problem could have something to do with an electrical
connection or a failing sensor because I've been experiencing this issue
since late last summer. The first time it happened I thought of it as a
fluke. A month and a half went by and it was running perfectly. Come fall it
would happen with more frequency. Once every couple of weeks or so. Each
time I would fiddle with the wires all over the engine compartment until it
started. Then late fall I could just never get it to run after it warmed up.
The intermittent nature of the issue would suggest to me more of an
electrical issue and less of a mechanical. And most recently after it sat
for a couple of months, I fiddled with the loom and it ran great for about a
week. I drove it everywhere and it got up to operating temps I'd say about
90% of the time. Just didn't miss a beat.

 

There are 2 curiosities in my engine compartment. There are 2 wires that
come out of the loom that the Haynes manual says needs to be grounded. When
I ground them it just flat out wont start. They pop out of the loom pretty
close to the ECU and are just dangling there. I'd say about where the
alternator is. Anyone know what they would be for? 

 

  _____  

From: Greg Potts [mailto:greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca] 
Sent: Saturday, March 03, 2007 2:20 PM
To: Michael Smith
Subject: Re: [T2] Running rich when warm issue is back (On my knees begging
for help)

 

Hi Michael,

 

A couple things: 

 

1. If it's an FI motor then it can't be static timed, you need to set the
timing with the engine running.

 

2. Have you tested compression? 

 

3. I always start FI troubleshooting by adjusting the valves, measuring
compression and setting the timing correctly. Next step is to check the fuel
pressure and measure vacuum. Throwing parts at it is not helpful until that
data has been verified.

 

4. Hose clamps are not all that good an idea; if it backfires there will be
nowhere for the energy to go and the AFM will be damaged.

Get back to us with some numbers and we'll be able to be more helpful.

 

 

 

Happy Trails,

 

Greg Potts

1973/74/77/79 Westfakia "Bob The Tomato

www.pottsfamily.ca

www.busesofthecorn.com

 

 

 

On 3-Mar-07, at 2:59 PM, Michael Smith wrote:

 

I thought that I had this issue licked but apparently not. The other morning

I was dropping my boy off at middle school ad on the way back it started

running rough. Within a couple of blocks it got progressively worse until it

started popping, wheezing and bucking. I knew what this meant and I knew

what was coming. Pretty soon it would just stall on me. I tried to keep the

rpms up because it seems to run fine if I keep the tach around 3k. Anything

less and pluhhh, it just pops sputters and dies. I got caught at a 4 way

stop where I couldn't slip the clutch enough to keep the rpm's up and it

stalled. I waited the 30 or so minutes for the engine to cool down and it

started. I barely got it into the driveway before it stalled again. A little

history on what I've replaced in order to solve this issue is:

 

 

 

- Replaced Plugs (gaped .28)

 

- Replaced Wires

 

- Replaced Points (gaped .016)

 

- Statically timed the engine to 7.5 degrees BTDC

 

- Replaced condenser

 

- Replaced Coil

 

- Replaced the head temperature sensor

 

- Replaced Fuel pressure regulator

 

- Removed cold start air valve (plugged the plenum hole off)

 

- Bypassed cold start injector

 

- Checked for vacuum leaks. Replaced the questionable hoses.

 

- Put hose clamps on whatever hoses I could

 

- Fuel injector cleaner in the gas tank.

 

 

 

 

 

I originally thought that I might have found my issue to be a loose fuel

injector wire. Looking back on that I guess it doesn't make sense because at

worst it would run but just run rough. I pulled the plugs out and they are

all black and sooty as if the fuel system is just dumping gas in. 

 

 

 

Just to restate. It runs just fine when it isn't fully warmed up. Great in

fact. As soon as it gets to operating temp then it coughs and sputters and

just shuts off.
