Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Sat, 3 Mar 2007 17:11:38 -0500
To: "Michael Smith" <michael.smith(-at-)1upcomputing.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Running rich when warm issue is back (On my knees

Hi Michael,

It isn't that the AF is related to compression; it's rather that FI  
often gets blamed for issues that really lie elsewhere. So before  
doing an FI diagnosis it is critical to verify the ignition, valves,  
timing and compression.

It does sound like an electrical/ECU issue. You may very well have a  
worn out AFM. Pop the cover off the AFM and look closely at the  
tracks that the wiper arm rides in... in a high milage bus the tracks  
will wear and the resistance values going to the ECU will be all out  
of whack.

Right now my bus is off at Girl Guide camp with my wife, so i can't  
check where those wires should be connected. Hopefully someone else  
will chip in on that one.

Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/77/79 Westfakia "Bob The Tomato
www.pottsfamily.ca
www.busesofthecorn.com




On 3-Mar-07, at 4:15 PM, Michael Smith wrote:

It is a FI engine. I have not tested the compression yet as it only  
as about
4k on the rebuild. The thought didn't even occur to me as I didn't  
think AF
mixture was related to compression. When I think about it wouldn't an  
excess
of fuel in the combustion chamber lower compression and give me a false
reading anyway? I set the valves about 400 miles ago. The problem first
occurred maybe 800 miles before I set the valves and showed up again  
maybe
250 - 300 miles after I set them. I have not checked fuel pressure or  
vacuum
due to the lack of the proper tools to do so.


I believe that the problem could have something to do with an electrical
connection or a failing sensor because I've been experiencing this issue
since late last summer. The first time it happened I thought of it as a
fluke. A month and a half went by and it was running perfectly. Come  
fall it
would happen with more frequency. Once every couple of weeks or so. Each
time I would fiddle with the wires all over the engine compartment  
until it
started. Then late fall I could just never get it to run after it  
warmed up.
The intermittent nature of the issue would suggest to me more of an
electrical issue and less of a mechanical. And most recently after it  
sat
for a couple of months, I fiddled with the loom and it ran great for  
about a
week. I drove it everywhere and it got up to operating temps I'd say  
about
90% of the time. Just didn't miss a beat.


There are 2 curiosities in my engine compartment. There are 2 wires that
come out of the loom that the Haynes manual says needs to be  
grounded. When
I ground them it just flat out wont start. They pop out of the loom  
pretty
close to the ECU and are just dangling there. I'd say about where the
alternator is. Anyone know what they would be for?
