From: "Michael Smith" <michael.smith(-at-)1upcomputing.com>
To: "'Busahaulic'" <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>, "'Type2List'"
Date: Sun, 4 Mar 2007 19:33:21 -0600
Subject: RE: [T2] Running rich when warm issue is back (On my knees 

Sorry about that. Yes the smoke is black. It doesn't seem like its too
thick. I've seen thicker. Now when it pops it doesn't seem like it's a full
blown backfire, maybe about half that. It will chug for a VERY short amount
of time. The transition from running good, to bad, to stall happens pretty
quickly. From the time that I notice it running a little rough to the time
that it will stall is about a city block (at about 30 mph). Like I said,
once it wants to stall I can keep it in 3rd and not drop under 35 - 40 and I
can keep going. Problem is I always come to stop sign or to a parade of nuns
at a crosswalk and have to stop. 

I did took a look inside the AFM today and it doesn't look like the tracks
are worn through. lots of back there. Thanks for the link Greg and
Durocshark. After hearing that description of a worn AFM I seeing none of
that. I know you shouldn't ever have to set the fuel mixture on the AFM but
I checked my adjustment screw and it was screwed all of the way in. Is that
correct? I have pretty much the same unit on my 88 rx7 (a little bigger) and
have never had to touch it on that. 

It doesn't rain too much here. Well...Less that it did when I lived in
Bowling Green. There isn't a tear or anything like that inside the filler
tube. I have actually replaced the condenser, points and the coil twice
since this issue started. I suspected that I might have got a bad one and at
the time and didn't want to keep running back to the parts store so I just
got all 3.

Last week when I got stranded I just ran the wire that runs to the CHT
sensor straight to ground I will confess that I had no clue what I was doing
at the  time so I'm glad to hear that something that I've done was actually
productive. Anyway, it had no effect on the issue. I still had to wait for
it to cool down before I could go anywhere. 

My bus is a 77. I live in NW Iowa. 
