Date: Wed, 24 Apr 2002 00:13:10 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] bus electrical probs.

>From: "jb baker" <jb_bak(-at-)hotmail.com>
>Date: Mon, 22 Apr 2002 00:14:05 +0000
>
>My brake lights don't work. where do I start?

At the switch on the master cylinder.  I think I saw a later post
from you that said when you short the two wires at the master
cylinder switch to each other, the brake lights come on, and that
when you hook up your test light between ground and the load side
of the switch, it doesn't come on when you put on the brakes -
to me this says you need a new switch.  They are cheap.  Don't
forget to bleed your brakes after intalling the new switch.

>Also, my turn signals blink very fast. Everynow and then it will
>blink at the proper speed, but not very often.

You probably have either a loose connection or a short to ground
somewhere.  Check the grounds at both rear lights and add jumper
wires from the light housings to body ground.  Also pull out all
of the turn signal bulbs, front and back, and make sure the contacts
on the bulbs aren't crudded up.

>I want to be able to hook my radio up so it will come on when the
>switch comes on, and also when i camp i'd like another way to flip
>it on.

This was discussed recently.  The simplest way is to buy a SPDT
center-off switch, such as a Radio Shack 275-711.  Wire the power
wire from the radio to the center contact on the switch.  Wire
one of the end contacts to a terminal on the fuse box that is
hot all the time, and wire the other end contact to a terminal
on the fuse box that only comes on with the key.  This way, with
the switch in the center, your radio will be off.  With the switch
flipped one way, the radio will come on and off with the ignition
key.  With the switch flipped the other way, you can turn on the
radio any time you want.  Make it a habit to always put the switch
in the middle when you leave the Bus and you won't run down your
battery.

>but if i put another hot wire up from the battey and put a switch
>inline, when this wire is hot, it will also be sending current to
>the accesory wire which defeats the purpose correct?

Right.  That's why you use the SPDT switch, which ensures that the
radio is connected to the always-hot circuit OR the hot-with-key-on
circuit, but doesn't connect those two circuits together.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds
(now answering a week's worth of mail; I was out of town last week)



