Date: Wed, 24 Apr 2002 00:40:55 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] New VB owner with some first questions

>From: Glenn <gbonnet(-at-)shaw.ca>
>Date: Sun, 21 Apr 2002 19:05:04 -0700
>
>I just got my first VB

Cool, welcome!

>and the body is better than i thought that it was going to be but the 
>wiring is a complete mess.

It's only had about 46 years for several previous owners to creatively
express themselves through your Bus' wiring, so that's not too
surprising.  :)

>I turn the key and absolutely nothing.  I don't get any warning lights 
>come on but i do get headlights.

Even if the starter isn't working, you should get warning lights when
you turn the key on.  Are the warning light bulbs burned out?  If so,
replace them, but if not, you have more interesting problems.  If the
headlights are reasonably bright, then the battery has at least some
charge to it.

>The engine is engine code AM017279 which i think means that it is a 
>Mexican 1600 engine.

This is a replacement case and may be Mexican; the country of origin
should be marked on it.  Look on either side of the oil sump on the
bottom of the engine.  It was probably originally a 1600 but it's
hard to know for sure what pistons, cylinders, and crank have been
used on it.

>What year of wiring diagram should i try to follow?

Start with the '56 diagram.  If you find too many differences between
the diagram and what you have, reconsider this, but the '56 diagram
is a good place to start.  Usually a 12V conversion is mostly swapping
parts and not a complete re-wiring of the Bus. 

>Is there a way to verify that the generator is 12V?

Later generators will be stamped "14 V 50 A" or similar for a 12 V
generator and "7 V 40 A" for a 6 V generator.  If all it has is
numbers starting with 0 231, post the numbers and somebody may be
able to decode them.

>Is there such thing as a 6volt blue coil?

Yes.

>Is there a way to verify that the starter is 12v?

The part number stamped on it can give a clue, but it is remotely
possible (but unlikely) that a starter with a 6 V part number has
been rewound to 12 V.  A 6 V starter should work fine on a 12 V
system, but will die somewhat quicker than a 12 V starter would.
 
>Should i try to wire it myself or should i purchase a new harness?

It depends.  If you just find a couple of bad connections that are
easy to clean up, then you can go with the harness that is in it.
If you find lots and lots of bad connections, splices, poorly done
PO wiring, etc, then getting a new harness may be simpler.  The
best thing is to get the right harness for the year of Bus you have,
but it is sometimes possible to use a later harness to get the wiring
for extra features - ask your harness vendor.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds


