Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Mon, 15 Mar 2004 22:35:46 -0800
To: "Ross Cupples" <ross(-at-)cupplescar.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] '79 Bus won't stay running all the sudden

On Mar 15, 2004, at 9:54 PM, Ross Cupples wrote:

> I'll head to the parts store in the morning to buy a couple lengths of
> hose to install on the new fuel filter.  Any advice as to whether or 
> not
> this fuel hose is extremely special, or just high pressure fuel line.
> Thanks again to all,

I don't think the hose between the tank and the filter, and between the 
filter and the pump, actually needs to be high pressure hose.  The only 
sections that are really under pressure are the ones after the pump, 
including the return line to the tank.  However, it certainly doesn't 
hurt to use high-pressure hose between the tank and the filter, which 
you might as well do if you're replacing your other fuel lines.  But 
I'm not sure you can even get high-pressure hose for between the filter 
and the pump.

 From the tank to the filter is 7mm.  From the filter to the pump is 
10mm.  The 7.5mm Mercedes-Benz high-pressure fuel injection hose will 
work.

If you have leaky lines under the Bus, then I strongly recommend that 
you do the whole job and replace ALL of your fuel lines.  Leaky fuel 
lines are a major cause of Bus fires, and if you have leaky ones that 
you can see, then you probably have leaky ones that you can't see.

The type2 archive has a decent article about this.  It's a 
time-consuming, but not horribly difficult a task, and you'll feel 
better once it's done.

Make sure to get good hose clamps, designed for FI applications.  Solid 
metal band, edges curved away from the clamping surface, so as not to 
damage the hose.  Any FLAPS should have the clamps, though I have had a 
hard time finding high-pressure fuel line at the ones near me.

The type2 archive says "no lubricants" when installing the hose onto 
metal fittings.  However, I have seen a wide assortment of mechanics 
use some sort of spray lubricant on fuel lines to ease installation... 
I guess some sort of silicone that the hose absorbs?  A dab of gasoline 
might provide some slippery'ness to ease installation, as well.

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
