Date: Tue, 16 Mar 2004 19:40:24 -0500 (EST)
From: "Jamie Rivers" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: <slyons(-at-)germansupply.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] w/s washer electric pump retrofit

scott lyons wrote:

> has anyone documented a conversion to electric w/s washer pump in a
> baywindow? i checked the library quickly, nothing i could see.
>
> i know people have done it, using a microswitch in the stalk, electric pump
> and modified reservoir, but i was looking for a website with pictures.


Sorry Scott ,, no pictures,,
I found an article,
http://autos.groups.yahoo.com/group/The_Bug_Pack/message/26

 HI all
I was dissappointed with the performance of the
inflatable squirters in my 74 Westfalia so i installed
an electric pump.
I think that Rain-X is easier, but this is the
electric conversion
You have to be willing to put a small pushbutton on
the dash somewhere, I think it is worth a small hole!
1. remove the panel under the dash, behind the
steering column. (kick panel)You will see the
headlight bucket in this area,below the fuse panel
2. Behind the steering column, near the floor,(the
pedals) is a lip that is just below the back of the
headlight bucket. there is 2 holes there. these holes
seem to be made for an universal electric squirter
pump that can be bought at your FLAPS. (friendly local
auto parts store) AKA Canadian Tire. Use the small
screws included with the pump to mount it here,
observe UP directions if there is directions on the
pump
3. Cut the 2 rubber squirter hoses near the
column,(look out for the pressure in the hose!!! you
did let the pressure out of the reservoir?) leaving
about 10cm outside the ignition key area, and put them
onto the pump, observing the in arrows on the pump.
The rubber hose from the reservoir goes to the "in"
side. the other tube to the squirters below the
windshield goes to the other port on the universal
pump. You may have to lengthen this one.
4. find a suitable power connection, I used the radio
bat. +ve after the aux fuse holder as it was easy to
access.
5. Find a place you like to mount the pushbutton, I
used the spot beside the headlight switch. You could
mount a "below the dash" type pushbutton,
6. install the pushbutton (normally open, push "on"
button) and connect the power wire you plan to use to
the one side of the pushbutton,
7. run a wire from the otherside of the pushbutton to
the pos. +ve wire on the pump
8. connect the other wire of the pump -ve to the
ground, I used a mounting screw to put this wire
under.


now, when you push the button the squirters will
squirt!
note*
if you use the radio supply lead, you will only be
able to squirt when you have the key on? this depends
on the logic of your key switch..some don't have
acces.
mine only has to have the key *in* the ignition to
work, as i have installed a relay for the radio.(so i
didn't have to have the key on, and burn out the
points, to listen to the radio)
most times you will be driving with the key on
anyways,,
good luck


-- 
Jamie Rivers
Ontario Canada
