Date: Wed, 17 Mar 2004 11:45:21 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] headlight switches

Everbody:

Hartmut made the good point WRT why the headlight switch would have
those unusual terminals on it...  And furthermore - the data that Karl
posted I DO believe can be found in the Extremely Wondrous & VERY
Helpful Type 2 Library in the electrical section, either basic or
advanced.  IMHO if Ventura Warehouse Group has taken the trouble to
repop the switch and if it includes the 57 terminal (gauge panel
tell-tale light), they are to be applauded.  The next vendor that
insists on trying to sell me that STUPID replacement E-suffixed switch,
with NO 57 terminal, and with that STUPID 1/8" 58 terminal on it that
doesn't fit the 1/4" push-on that's on whatever models the "plain-label"
headlight switch still used the 1/4" push-ons is getting' a new bodily
orifice :-/  And for those ROW applications, that would be a 3mm
(approx.) for the 1/8" terminal, and 6mm (approx.) for the 1/4"
terminal.  I don't know WTF those of you using inch decimals are going
to do ;-)  Since it's St. Patrick's Day, you should probably have a
drinky-poo or 5 and hopefully you'll be struck by inspiration!

Some models of Volkswagen products (I flog a 914 when I'm not honking
around in a Bay Window so I know this), will light the parking/tail
light circuit when the turn signal lever is left in the activated
position and the motor switched off.  It sort of freaks you out the
first time you park the car and the turn signal hasn't canceled, the
front parking light, side markers, and rear tail light will be
illuminated...  and you start tearing around thinking "OMFG, I've got
ANOTHER hellishly complicated electrical problem to sort out on my
'teener..."  Relax, 'salright!

For those of you who prefer to snake old but non-boogered rheostat
"plain label" headlight switches when you find them at the 'yards, a tip
from the boneyard toolbox.  Pull out the headlight knob first, then
using a pair of needle-nose pliers, clamp the shaft in place so you are
not turning the knob against the extremes of the rheostat as you unscrew
the knob.  I've found that sometimes the extra pressure of unscrewing
the knob against the rheostat stops is enough to make a decent/passable
switch give up the ghost the first time it's remounted and the rheostat
is fiddled with...

TTFN

Jim Hayden
'72 Weekender, '73 Deluxe, '73 914, '69 Karmann Ghia
www.savethebays.org


E-MAIL CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:  The contents of this e-mail message and any
attachments are intended solely for the
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or legally privileged
information. If you are not the
intended recipient of this message or if this message has been addressed to
you in error, please
immediately alert the sender by reply e-mail and then delete this message and
any attachments. If you
are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination,
distribution, copying, or
storage of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited.
