Date: Wed, 17 Mar 2004 12:30:01 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <hofner(-at-)earthlink.net>
Subject: RE:  Dedicated accessory circuit

Kurt:

I'm not an EE, nor do I play one on TV...  This has been done to death
(again) recently during the Great Voltage Regulator Wars of 2004.  Try
searching the archives under isolators and/or voltage regulators and
limit your looky-seeing to maybe since December '03 or January '04...
And also spend some time in the Type 2 Library - see the sections
dedicted to Electrical :-)

The long and short of it is that if you're running anything other than
the old school "wet" or "flooded" batteries, you're going to need a
better quality / more modern voltage regulator, and/or drive a LOT
between camp-outs to keep an enlarged battery bank charged up.  The
alternator (or so I've been told) can pump out enough juice to weld
with, but the bottleneck in the charging system is the stock regulator.
An adjustable regulator can be fiddled with to get things to work, or
check into running a marine, 3-phase VR (I'm running a Balmar ARS-4) -
set it and forget it...  Check into how real RVs and/or boats are rigged
up to deal with multiple battery banks and you'll get some ideas.  Go
over to the web-page of Hellroaring Technologies and scope it up and
down for kewl ideas, and maybe, just maybe, you might buy one of their
fine isolator/combiner products, too!

My '72 Weekender is rigged to emulate a marine application (a "land
yacht" if you will), and consequently the failure of cheap components
will not be tolerated.  What works for me, may not work for thee - but I
guarantee you the more research you do into the subject, the more
substantial your budget will become to achieve your goal successfully.
It can be done on the quick and dirty, and that's exactly what it will
be...

HTH - now back to bench racing :-)

Jim Hayden
www.savethebays.org


E-MAIL CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:  The contents of this e-mail message and any
attachments are intended solely for the
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or legally privileged
information. If you are not the
intended recipient of this message or if this message has been addressed to
you in error, please
immediately alert the sender by reply e-mail and then delete this message and
any attachments. If you
are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination,
distribution, copying, or
storage of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited.
