From: "Gensler, Mike" <Mike.Gensler(-at-)CONCERT.COM>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 17 Mar 2004 16:11:35 -0500
Subject: Rebuilt Dizzy Observation

I recently bought a rebuilt Bosch Distributor from my FLAPS (Advance
Autoparts).  This was for a 74 914 2.0, but the following would likely apply
to bus ones too.  I was surprised when they told me it was only $55 with a
$1 (yes, ONE DOLLAR) core charge.  I was expecting 2-3 times that much along
with a hefty core.  So I happily took it home with me.  

I was even more surprised to find that it came fully assembled with points,
condensor, vacuum canister, and trigger points (a d-jet FI component).  I
thought, "WOW!  What a deal." and was all ready to go back an buy 2 more for
my other 2 2.0 FI motors.  Until I went to install it...

Then came the revelations.

1.  The ground strap from the advance plate to the fixed plate had not be
re-soldered.  It had been replaced by a wire attached from the points' screw
to the body.  No problem - that's a standard fix these days and it was done
well enough.

2.  I noticed there was no felt pad down the shaft - no problem, pulled one
from an old unusable dizzy, oiled it, and stuck it down the tube.  I don't
know what exactly this little pad does, but it's gotta have reason for being
there.  Godd thing I looked.

3.  I spent 45 minutes trying to get the dwell set right before finally
pulling the dizzy back out in frustration.

4.  I removed the points and immediately noticed they were not Bosch and
that the spring was about 1/2 the strength of my old points with 15,000
miles on them.  I'm guessing the spring was so weak that the rubbing block
was flying out after the lobe instead of riding against it.  No problem -
put in new points.

5.  After realizing how crappy those points were that they gave me I decided
to use a new Bosch condensor as well - no sense taking chances.

6.  Upon closer inspection (since my suspicions had been aroused) I
discovered the vacuum canister was not the right one.    I don't know what
it was from, but it had a completely different number stamped on the arm.
No problem - use the one from the dizzy I'm replacing. Those vacuum
canisters are mapped for a certain amount of vacuum to create a certain
amount of advance.  Don't jack around by using the wrong one in a stock
motor.

7.  Since I don't trust this whole thing any longer, I pulled out the
trigger points for inspection.  For those of you that don't know, the
trigger points module is much like points except it's a double-set that
slides into the body of the dizzy underneath the plate and sends signals to
the ECU to tell it when to fire each of the 2 banks of injectors.  New Bosch
units are about $90 so I was surprised to get a "new" set with this rebuild.
Upon close inspection, I discovered the actual contact points were worn down
to almost nothing.  It looks like they took an old used unit, vatted it,
glued on new rubbing blocks, and stuck it in there.  Junk.

So in conclusion, I'd say the $55 for a rebuilt dizzy isn't too bad - the
shaft is nice and tight and my timing is rock-solid.  But if you go this
route yourself, do NOT trust the points or condensor or vacuum canister -
replace them all before installation.  My real concern is if the quality of
all these other parts was so crap, who's to say the dizzy itself won't
self-destruct in 6 months time.  I'm be keeping my old one close at hand
fully assembled and ready to put back into service if need be.

Anyone else had experience with one of these rebuilds from a FLAPS?

Mike g.
73 Westy 5-speed (for sale - $3500)
76 Porsche 914 2.0 (for sale - $2000?)
See them both at http://home.adelphia.net/~mgensler/
Colorado Springs, CO
