From: "gns.wagnon" <gns.wagnon(-at-)verizon.net>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 17 Mar 2004 23:25:05 -0600
Subject: Explative !(-at-)#$!

Volk-a-maniacs,

Grr.

BACKGROUND:
I just had my '63 in the shop to get a checkup after ~400 miles after my
engine rebuild, plus a few quirks I wanted him to work out for me.  Quirks
include my battery going dead after not much use, mechanic said I was only
getting ~12 volts, he 'adjusted' up to ~14.  I also had him adjust throttle,
choke, carb, and he didn't like my fuel filter in the line next to my coil, so
he moved it.


PROBLEM:
I picked her up today, sounds great, looks great, feeling good, take off.
Less than a mile away, she just plain stops running.  WTF?  I pull over on the
busy road and try to start it again, thinking maybe some kind of fuel bubble
or random weirdness.  Nothing.  Fuel gauge pops up to where it should be, but
nothing else.  I get out and open the engine lid.  Magic smoke coming from the
wires to the coil and OZONE smell from hell.  AHHHHHH.  Stand up and look at
the cab, filling with smoke.  NOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!!!!!!

I make sure everything is turned off (I only had the key on to begin with, no
lights, no blinker, no nothing) and head back the mechanic.  Luckily the wife
was following still.  We get Annie back to the shop with a tow rope as the
mechanic cusses a few times along the way, better him than me at this point.
I am pissed but by him showing he is pissed makes me feel like he is taking
ownership of it and that I may not have to pay for it (I'm a glass-full kind
of guy).  We'll see what he says tomorrow when he gets a chance to look over
the damage.  I'll keep you all apprised of status.

PREPARING FOR WORST CASE:
In the mean time, I read through the archive and Wiring Works seems to come up
often when people are looking to get a new wiring harness.  What kind of
prices am I looking at?  Should I just call Rod (thanks for the pointer on the
VintageBuss.com wiring page Thom).  WW has them for $289 (ouch).  Does the
group have an opinion on which might be better?  Who else might have them and
can provide a good one?

Looking ahead, what kind of time frame can a moderately intelligent person get
this done in.  A day?  Two weeks?  Never, it requires a very intelligent
person?  I want to drive her up to Puyallup next weekend.  Anyone think I can
do this?

Send me your extra karma, I could use some on this bus right about now.
Greg
'63 Panel -> Camper convert "Annie-Ozone"
