From: "Alejandro Vieira" <bsnman(-at-)adelphia.net>
To: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 18 Jul 2005 00:40:47 -0600
Subject: Intermittent engine shutoff solution!

Hi everyone,

I wrote to the list a couple of months ago while trying to track down an
intermittent engine shutoff problem. To reprise:

"I'm new to the list, but not to busses. I'm having a strange problem with my
76 Westy. It's totally stock, rebuilt by PO at some point, with an aux. oil
cooler that I added. It's having intermittent loss of power while driving
and sometimes stalling while idling. The loss of power at speed feels like I
shut off the key (of course, I not doing that!), until I tap the gas a few
times and the engine comes back online. It usually lasts from 1 second to 5
or 7 seconds, although it seems like an eternity while I'm gradually losing
speed. No lights on the dashboard come on when this happens.

It also happens sometimes when I'm sitting at a light; it just dies. Usually
it starts again, although very gradually, not at all like a normal start, as
if just one cylinder at a time is catching (this is just a description, I'm
not saying it's definitely adding one cylinder at a time). Sometimes,
though, it won't catch at all and I have to wait in traffic with the
emergency blinkers on for up to 15 minutes for it to start.

This has been happening since the summer, but because the camper is not my
primary vehicle and I haven't been on any trips with it since the summer, I
just kind of put up with it at first. However, it's gotten so bad that, with
the stalling at lights, it's almost undriveable because of the tendency (50%
of the time, maybe) to stall at a light and not start right away.
HHHEEEELLLPPPPP!!!"

Okay, so I finally gave up and brought it to the shop that I trust for VW
stuff. The VW guy tested a bunch of stuff and agreed with my diagnosis that
everything with the FI checked out fine. So, on a hunch, he unhooked the wire
going from the coil to my TACHOMETER, and the problem went away. The PO
installed a tach in the clock location in the dash, but ran the wire between
the engine compartment seal and the body, along the underside of the car, up
to the dashboard. Somewhere along the way, the wire's sheath has been worn
away and is grounding to the frame, which shorts the coil and kills the
engine. So far, I've only jiggled the wire to move the worn-away part of the
wire from the frame where it's grounding, but eventually, if (probaby when)
the problem comes back, I'll reroute the wire somewhere more sensible.

My wife and I just got back from a 2300 mile trip to Wisconsin and back, so it
appears that everything is running great again!
I'm sooooo glad I didn't try to remove the gas tank to look for crud in the
fuel system!!!!!!

Thanks for letting me get that off my chest.....

Alex in Colorado Springs
