Date: Fri, 13 Oct 2006 12:53:46 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com>
Subject: Re:Going Camping for the first time questions

Do a two day test-run/shakedown camping trip in your own driveway before 
the main event. Find out what you need beyond the lists people give you. 
Sleep in your vehicle overnight at home. Eat in it.

Then, have some backup plans for extreme situations that might develop. 
They probably won't, but "in case of fire know where the exits are."

Unless there is a big supermarket near the campgrounds you plan to 
visit.............make sure you can eat and drink and pay for fuel and 
campground fees and emergencies on each day you are away from home. Even 
consider having to staying at a motel a few days if necessary......stuff 
happens with 25+ year old vehicles....breakdowns. etc. In addition to a 
credit card and spare cash, carry a list of names and phone numbers of 
people and places you could depend on for medical care and help in 
emergencies, and a cell phone with spare batteries. Include blood type and 
pertinent medical information in case you end up in an emergency room. 
Carry a list of AIRS folks along  your planned route.

Don't drive after dark, and definitely avoid hitting a deer.  Be in your 
campground by 4pm if you are traveling. Don't drive over 200 miles per day, 
or more than 2 hours without a break. Breaks every half hour can be fun. 
Enjoy the journey.

Plan a menu in writing for each day including travel days. Acquire the food 
and pack it so it will survive and be available on the day you need it. 
Think about how you will open the containers, especially canned goods. I 
keep perishables in a big cooler with several bags of ice from the 
supermarket. The ice lasts me about two days. If you can't get ice near the 
campground, don't pack stuff that needs it. Your little electric fridge and 
your electric heater will need a campground power source, so carry several 
lengths of heavy duty outdoor extension cords to reach those distant 
campground outlets.........50/100 feet. and carry several adapters, because 
you may encounter campground power boxes with heavy duty outlets and your 
basic 3 prong extension cords won't match the outlets. Visit a camping 
store and discuss it with the salespeople.

Take about 5 gallons of distilled/bottled water, a few towels and 
washcloths, some big rubber bands. Put together a toiletries kit...... 
toothpaste and toothbrush, comb, nail clippers, nail file, band aids, 
triple antibiotic, clean underwear and socks, rain gear, several shirts and 
trousers, wool sweater, windbreaker jacket with hood, sleeping bag, wool 
blanket. Don't forget adequate supplies of prescribed medications and 
whatever over-the-counters you commonly use.  Carry a small (fist sized) 
portable propane lantern and several good flashlights for dependable light. 
Carry a 20 foot clothesline or hang towels and wet clothing on the wipers, 
mirrors, and your rear hatch door.

Pack eating utensils you like to touch, paper plates, a 3 gallon plastic 
bucket and plastic scrubber for dishwwashing, some liquid detergent, a 
favorite coffee mug, a sharp knife for food preparation, roll of SaranWrap, 
some sealable baggies, a portable propane stove, a pot for boiling water, a 
skillet, a simple drip coffeemaker that doesn't require electricity, 
several rolls of paper towels, toilet paper and a covered bucket for night 
waste.

Consider a folding chair and a small folding table for setting up outside 
the camper, and something to cover the table..... or to cover the camp 
table that you find at the campground. Carry a small tarp and some tie-down 
line for covering something outside on a rainy day.

Have a fire extinguisher and tool kit (to match your mechanical 
capabilities), and a shop manual for your vehicle. Carry spare parts, extra 
oil, and a roll of duct tape. Of course, you have a jack/tire wrench and 
spare tire properly inflated, and some wheel chocks and a few leveler 
boards and a stabilizer board for keeping the jack from sinking into soft 
ground.

Doyt Echelberger
76 Westy in Ohio
<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
Date: Thu, 12 Oct 2006 23:32:17 -0700 (PDT)
........ first time I have taken it camping. ........Can
anyone give me any suggestions about what I need to be
careful of when driving or any tips at all about what
I need to bring. ........any advice would be appreciated.
David kelly
