Date: Fri, 13 Oct 2006 20:33:31 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] where to put spare on 77 westy ? (Accidents/Wordy)

I used to, for a period of probably better than 5
years, hang around a VW wrecking yard a lot - as in
almost every Saturday. I made a point of assessing the
damage to the buses that had been in wrecks. Consider,
of course, that the worst ones never were purchased by
the yard as they were probably more difficult to clean
up than the value of their parts warranted. I did
observe that in every case there was room to live. I
saw some that were bashed in every possible angle and
also every degree short of that. The maximum indent
was about 8-10". One had a tree about 18" diameter
fall accross the drivers door and it forced the glass
outward. The indent to doorframe and top was about 8".
I wanted the outer window wiper and broke the glass to
reach it!

The only wrecks that I saw that were likely fatal were
a late watercooled Vanagon and a Toyota
whatchamacallit with the engine under the seat. Both
had living space on the passenger side, but there was
nothing - and I mean nothing - ahead of the drivers
back cushion. Every  bus I saw had definite room to
live.

My own experience was a head-on with a 1991 Ford
Probe. It was very low speed, in fact, I got my bus
stopped before impact occurred. The target was
directly in front of my feet. The crumple zone in the
bumper mount did its job. Damage: broken headlamp and
ring, mangled bumper, driver door wouldn't open, pan
under nose never fit right again... I needed to adjust
the brake rod as the rear brakes were dragging
slightly, but I drove the bus home and around to get
estimates. The Probe was less than a year old, bounced
off the bus and crossed four traffic lanes without a
secondary collision(!) everything ahead of the
windshield was destroyed. The driver spent that night
in the hospital. Insurance did not cover the payoff of
the vehicle. She had quite a few payments still to go
on her newly totalled car.

I think I still have some problems related to that
accident, mostly with shift linkage, but have been
unable to really nail it down.

If the collision had been with a truck, I likely would
not have use of my legs, but who really knows? Every
collision is different and where the forces are
concentrated / absorbed differ with each. Someone
posted an internal tubular cage system mounted in a
bus a couple years back. Ya gotta wonder if that extra
structure will prevent/minimize crushing your legs or
if it might actually either cause amputation or
entanglement.

I have been over 100mph in my bus in a known elk
crossing area at dawn- prime time for elk to be on the
move - and thought about it only later. If I do die in
my bus, you all will know it was due to disregarding
common sense in the greatest possible degree. That is,
unless the asbestos is the cause!

I learned years ago in my dad's CJ5 Jeep that a spare
tire inside is not necessarily safe, as I and my buddy
both badly injured our shoulders while trying to fend
off the beast and were relieved when finally it took
one wild bounce and took the top off the Jeep during
its escape!

I think probably the most unsafe aspect of our buses
is the angular displacement theory - You can slide the
rear end in a drift to precisely 15 degrees. There is
no 16 degrees, as the VW bus scale goes in normal
increments to 15 degrees, then the next number is 180
degrees and the 180 just keeps repeating unless you're
really good at driving backwards! If there is any
obstruction between 15 and 180, then it's
ass-over-teakettle as the saying goes, as energy gets
scrubbed by however many barrel-rolls are required! My
experience with this was in a Datsun pickup and
involved a tree, a culvert, a Jeep Cherokee, three
barrel rolls and a full-on forward flip, all at under
20mph (really) and we landed in the driveway of the
fire station! Never go flying in a Datsun pickup. The
landings are really rough. The spare tire did stay
put, however, under the back part of the bed. I always
felt more secure in my bus than in that pickup!

I'm considering on the next Busaru I build, the
possibility of making the fake spare tire that houses
the radiator into a much more structural member. The
current one is probably as strong as the ladder frame
of the bus, but is anchored only to sheetmetal and
will likely rip loose if impacted. I want to move it
partially into the nose so the bumper length will be
maybe only about six inches longer than stock (current
model is over ten inches extension - see my pix) and
the frame work slanted backwards more in line with the
body lines. I can anchor directly to the ladder frame
and alter the current design such as to design-in
energy absorbing structural considerations. I also
plan on making a bumper with much more vertical
surface area, maybe about 4X or more than stock.

Maybe a block under the gas pedal would be a wise
addition also! -BaH


'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2)
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01
