Date: Sat, 14 Oct 2006 22:10:15 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Pics of the dangers of a front mounted spare

> Being in the collision business for 30 some
> years gives me plenty of
> evidence, 

Not my experience gathered from 2+ decades of
fulltime public safety work (and scouring
junkyards like a wreck addict).  Busses and other
forward control vehicles (busses, vanagons and
toy minivans) or cabovers (meaning cab over the
engine, which includes commercial vehicles and
fire trucks but not VW busses) do pretty well in
collisions.  Most of the other things on the road
have bumpers and frames that will roughly line up
with the bumpers on most other vehicles, so the
bus rams and the honda crinkles.  The vanagon vs.
volvo video shows this phenomenon quite well.
Just don't hit a brick wall or immoveable flat
object and you should be ok.  

I've seen a few busses with major intrusions into
the passenger compartment, but it was always
seemed to be up high and due to secondary impact
(striking something else or rolling over etc.) 

The effect of a spare tire out front depends
completely on what is striking the bus.  If the
object striking is relatively small (say the
corner of vehicle at an angle or a telephone
pole) the spare may spread the impact over a
larger area and decrease the damage.  If the
object striking the bus is relatively large, then
the spare tire may provide a smaller footprint
with which to disperse the energy, at least until
the spare/nose is sunken in a few inches and the
impact is spread throughtout the bumper or the
rest of the nose.  This only applies until the
poprivets or sheetmetal screws give way and the
spare tire goes flying to the side of the road. 
I assume that would take place fairly quickly.

I always chuckle when I hear people complaining
about damaging their nose because they pulled
into a pillar or a wall and hit the spare.  Hard
to imagine how one could misjudge when the object
is a few inches from your face.  It's also hard
to imagine blaming the spare tire rather than
driver incompetence.  

The steering column is more of a danger in a
frontal collision than the dash or anything hung
out front (radiator, large bumper, or spare
tires).  VW minimized this risk with the nearly
vertical column that would presumably tilt
forward in an impact.  If it doesn't work as
designed, steering column in the chest.    

The second biggest danger in wrecks involving
"normal" vehicles is the engine block.  It's
several hundred pounds of incompressible steel or
aluminum that acts like a wedge being driven by
the thousands of pounds of force of the impacting
vehicle.  I've seen several engines that were
forced into the back seats of passenger cars with
predictable results to the passengers.  An engine
in the front is a safety hazard that the
engineers must design to resolve (crumple zones
and pivoting engine mounts that try to separate
teh engine from teh passenger compartment).

Happy bussin'
Ray
