Date: Sun, 15 Oct 2006 05:30:51 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Kevin H. Roberts" <bopsax(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: john d <johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca>
Cc: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] where to put spare on 77 westy ?(AnswerNemo)

Same here, John.  I have picked up nails.  But I'll just keep  my front-mounted spare just in case and be extra careful to avoid a  head-on.  Haven't had a head-on with a vehicle but every front end  collision I've had in the past I've caused myself.  Once going too  fast for the conditions and spinning into an embankment and the other  not noticing in time that traffic had stopped and I rear-ended a guy  with my Camaro.  That would have been nasty in the bus but then I  wouldn't have been going too fast to stop in time. I do recommend using  the proper tires (ask Karl) as a blowout in a bus at speed could be  especialy dangerous.  But I agree that it would be unusual.    Cheers...KR

john d <johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca> wrote:  > sizable trips without two spares.  One trip I had two belt separations in
> less than 100 miles, and the tires were in good shape beforehand.

I drive lots. Over the past 10 years I've driven to the west coast of Canada 
... maybe 4 or 5 times - and to the East coast of Canada ... at least that 
many. I've driven from to the Yukon border on the Alaska Hwy ... maybe 5 
times  I drive lots.  I can't remember ever having a flat or a blown tire. 
I've had a few slow leaks that I got repaired and I notice my 90 Cabriolet 
currently has a flat after sitting in the driveway for a week or so.  But - 
I cannot remember ever having a flat or blown tire such that I had to search 
for a new tire on a trip.  I know it happens - but for me - at this point - 
the inconvenience of carrying spares that I have never needed greatly out 
ways the cost and 'possible' inconvenience of searching for a tire on a 
trip - assuming of course that my two cans of fix-a-flat and my 12 volt 
compressor won't do the trick.  I would never carry two spares - In my 
entire life I have never needed one (that I can recall).

jdd 
