Date: Thu, 26 Sep 2002 01:42:27 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: removal of gearshift rod

>From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
>Date: Wed, 25 Sep 2002 17:25:21 -0400
>
>quick question about removing the gear shift rod...after re-reading the
>bentley manual i see it states to "Detach hand brake cables from hand brake
>lever" i was able to get mine out without doing this. did i do something
>wrong? or could something be hooked up incorrectly?

Well, if the Bus shifts gears when you pull the handbrake lever...  :)

I just did this too.  IIRC the Bentley says to pull the front shift rod
out to the front, but I had better luck pulling it out to the rear.
If you do pull it to the front, the hand brake cables are in the way of
the bracket that goes around the rod and is held to the floor with the
shifter bolts, so i think that's why they say to disconnect them.

When I pulled the shift rod out to the rear, I did have to duck and weave
it a little to get it past the funny-shaped cutout in the rear "wall"
of the pedals-and-levers area - it's a vertical piece of sheet metal
about 4" tall in the center that the pedal pan bolts to in the back.
But it did seem like the funny cutout was made to clear the shift rod +
bracket assembly.

If you do disconnect the hand brake cables and have to put them back, a
10 mm nutdriver with a hollow shaft is the perfect tool.  The hollow
shaft is clearance for the adjusting screw.  The nuts have very little
side clearance to the brake lever so if you're using an open end wrench
you can only get about 1/4 turn before you have to remove the wrench.
The nut driver lets you spin them right down.

The official adjusting procedure is in the Bentley but I approximated it
with the gentle slope of my driveway.  I left the cable on one side loose
and cranked the other side cable down to where it was engaging the brake,
even with the handle released.  I then backed off the nut until the Bus
just started to roll backwards, backed off a bit more, then put the lock
nut on it.  Did the same for the other side and that seemed to be pretty
good.  Again, follow the official procedure if you can, but it's pretty
easy to tell if the park brake is making the rear brakes drag or not.

Matt Roberds


