From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Westfalia <swharris(-at-)adelphia.net>, VWguy <pickit(-at-)bellsouth.net>, 
Date: Thu, 26 Sep 2002 09:34:14 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] Forged or not

  A good example of engine longevity is in the new Mexican and/or Brazilian
engines. They all have cast pistons and cast cranks. The highest documented
mileage I have is close to 60,000 miles, in a 21 window daily driver with
duel Kadrons and ratio rockers. Others I know of out there (in buses) have
20,000 to 40,000 miles. Another one I know of has put over 10.000 miles in
the last 6 months. Cast parts do work. I also have built numerous engines
for buses using the cast CW crank, SCAT rods and forged pistons, no returns
4 years.

ronnie  old volks fo az
www.type2parts.com

ps. Now building a 1679, cast CW crank, SCAT I beam rods, forged 88mm cut in
P/L, NEW VW de Brazil single port heads. We redo the heads with new guides,
Manley valves, high rev springs, chromalloy retainers and hardened keepers
(overkill), new aluminum case, SCAT 1.10 rocker assemblies and an AC 2 cam
(airplane grind). Geoff Hart will dyno this engine when completed. We are
going to dyno it with stock exhuast, single 30 pict 1,
stock exhuast with 34 pict 3, then change over to a header and last test
will be with Duel Kadrons and header with quiet pak and then a hideaway
muffler.  We will more then likely be using KYMCO's new header systems.
also for the heck of it, we will use a 009, 010, 019 and a 050 dizzys just
to see what happens. Still trying to find someone to teach me how to use my
DYNO! 

-----Original Message-----
From: Westfalia [mailto:swharris(-at-)adelphia.net]
Sent: Thursday, September 26, 2002 9:16 AM
To: VWguy; Vintage Bus Post
Subject: Re: [VB] Forged or not


VWguy wrote:
> 
> It is currently a 1600 DP. Since I'm rebuilding it, I could go bigger but
I'm don't care much about
> speed. My goal is to build an engine that will last longer than a stock
rebuild. I thought that if I
> got a forged CW crank and forged P&C's I could get more miles out of it.
True or no?
> 
> Kevin Bell
> ......
> 
Kevin,

Well, not really.  The extra strength will help if you are over
stressing the motor like revving it to 7K at every stop light or drag
racing.  I guess pulling a heavy trailer up steep grades could be
considered over stressing too.  You'd have to be doing it quite a bit
though.

You'll get more longevity out of the motor you build if you use a
counterweighted crank and make sure you balance everything to a nat's
ass (not sure how much that weighs).  If you are keeping it under
5K(rpm) I think a cast crank is fine.  Keep compression to around
6.9-7.1.  Get a NEW case and heads with some of the money you saved on
the cast crank.  

This is just my very limited experience and personal opinion (only built
3 motors).  Others with hundreds of motors under their belt should chime in.

Steve
