From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>, Adrian Pillow
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)lenti.type2.com
Date: Thu, 26 Sep 2002 14:53:27 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] Forged or not

SCAT also makes a number of different forged cranks along with there cast
and billet. SCAT by the way is one of the largest crankshaft manufacturers
in the country. A couple of the fast boat engine builders here in town use
nothing but SCAT cranks in there monster blown big block boat engines. Also
if looking for a VW forged CW crank try DPR in Santa Ana, Cali. They have
been doing nothing but VW cranks for over 25 years and you would be
surprised to know who they do cranks for.. There are some pics of their shop
on The Samba in the gallery. As the SCAT I Beam rods they have greatly
improved over the last year. I have taken them to the machine shop here in
town and have had them checked for straightness, length, bore size and
weight and have not had a bad one yet (next generation, there were problems
with the first ones), the most weight difference we have found is less then
1 gram.

Ronnie 

ps. In my 1776 (spare engine) I have a DPR CW 69 crank, I had 3 1/2 lbs
removed from the flywheel and run a 3 1/2 lb equlizer pully. Engine runs
smooth as silk, has been in 4 different buses, has 10's of thousands of
miles on it and has never let me or anybody who's used it down, o ya it's
also a single port with AC2 cam from DPR.

-----Original Message-----
From: George Lyle [mailto:glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com]
Sent: Thursday, September 26, 2002 2:35 PM
To: Adrian Pillow
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)lenti.type2.com
Subject: RE: [VB] Forged or not


On Thu, 26 Sep 2002, Adrian Pillow wrote:

> Lets just clarify a few things.
> Forget the expensive billet cranks from Scat and Bugpack (note: billet,
not
> forged - only the very very expensive ones are forged as far as I know.

Note that billet cranks are probably worse than cast cranks.  They are
machined from a cast "blob" (billet) of metal, which means that you have a
casting _with_ machined stress risers interrupting what little grain the
casting has!  You're better off with a casting that at least approximates
the shape of the crank to start with!

Billet machining is the quickest way to get a one-off part.  They aren't
stronger or better than a casting except that they look kewl.

Metallurgy has come a long way.  Castings are now doing the job where
forging was once required.  Unless you're building a race engine I
wouldn't worry about using a cast crank.

George
