Date: Thu, 26 Sep 2002 23:10:13 -0700
From: Westfalia <swharris(-at-)adelphia.net>
To: Vintage Bus Post <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Forged or not...line boring.

I think the main problem is not line boring per say, but incorrectly
line boring it. This is what Berg had to say, not the end all of course
and I'm just quoting out of his catalog.

"Who is qualified to do it (line boring) the correct way? Do they have
the correct tools?  How can I tell if they did it right if I don't have
precision tools?  Those are the $64,000.00 questions.  Most shops use a
simple electric drill (some use a lathe to feed the same tool) driven
tool that centers on the pulley and seal(main)holes.  This is a poor way
to be assured of a precision center.  The pulley end will rarely be
round and straight.  The tool, which is inserted in both ends of the
case, is bushed to allow the bar to turn.  These bushings are fairly
good when brand new.  As they wear, they get sloppy and allow the
alignment to change and have no adjustment to them.  These will
determine whether your line bore is maintained in the same place or
moved as well as what size it is.  When it is perfectly straight to the
pulley, cam tunnel, and flywheel, all is great.  However, most of the
time it ends up out of alignment, then the gear size is way off, pulley
and/or flywheel seal leakage's show up after a few thousand miles."
..........When the case is mounted on its original (tooling) fixture
pads to be line bored, the chances of a proper line bore are much
better.  There are only a couple of these machines in the USA (could be
more now ed.).  Now it gets down to the capability of the machinist. 
How close can he dial into the original centerline and how close can his
machinist perform the operation?  How close can he set his tools?  The
message in all of this is buyer beware.  Do not just listen to their
story.  Check out what they can do.  Look over the equipment.  What I do
is have them tell me what they use for equipment and how they measure it
for alignment to the cam, pulley, flywheel seal hole, and cylinder
seating surfaces.  If the answers do not support what has just been
covered, just say "thank you" and find someone else.  What ever you do,
please do not use this information to make them wrong or you will get to
hear their story on how they have done 250,000 cases this year and never
had a failure, low oil pressure or overheating problems."

This is from page 133 of the 2000 catalog if you'd like to read the rest
for yourself.  Again, some may disagree with him too.

Steve
