Date: Wed, 10 Sep 2003 09:19:06 -0500 (CDT)
From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: dwell and electronic points 

Folks,

I am having some challenges on my new engine in that I get very low
vacuum at idle when cold(8 inches) and as it warms up, I get about 13 
inches.

Neither one is acceptable to me as it indicates a leak someplace.  I will 
eventually find the leak, but in searching for it last night it also 
occured to me that ignition timing and idle speed plays a role in this as 
well.

ok, so I check my pertronix points again and see that they are about 42
at idle rising to maybe 44 as the engine speed increases....(checked on 2 
different meters, analog and digital).

Narrower gap means more dwell and a wider gap means less dwell.

44 is the lower limit according to bentley...so I check the gap on the 
pertronix and it is pretty close to the specified .030...I narrow it to 
almost nothing and the dwell doesn't change....I widen it to the max and 
the dwell doesn't change...but! the timing changes a lot...go figure...

Lots of ignition basics here http://www.mrbean.net.au/~rover/ketterin.htm

The question is, on regular points, do the points wear to a larger or 
smaller dwell number?

Back to vacuum...I can't find it<sigh> and am becoming frustrated.
I have sealed/plugged just about everything I can think of and am down
to the point where I am going to connect a flexible hose with no openings
between the afm and the throttle body and work from there.  I really don't 
want to be spraying a bunch of stuff all over my new engine, but will if I 
have to to find it....anyone think of another method?

intake manifold bolts retightened
brake booster line off and plugged
All S hose lines off and plugged
All vacuum lines off and plugged

New throttle body gasket
New throttle body adjusting screw o-ring installed
New manifold hoses(plenum to intake runners)
Egr port sealed and resealed and checked
Cold start valve checked
New idle control hoses installed at rebuild...hmm..maybe pull that at 
plenum and seal


Cheers, dave

 -- 
-------------------------------------------------------------------
"I'm more interested in getting it right, than being right"....dave
