From: "Gensler, Mike" <Mike.Gensler(-at-)CONCERT.COM>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 12 Sep 2003 13:04:04 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] SCCA

>Has anyone here ever AutoCrossed their Volkswagen Transporter or
>Westfalia? Just curious.

In the early 90's when my 73 Westy was fairly new to me, I used to joke that
I should take it out and autocross it.  I was pretty good with my 87 Honda
Prelude SI and figured I could race just about anything.

Then one day I changed my mind.

I was driving down a 4-lane road (2 lanes going each direction, no turn lane
in the center).  I was in the right-hand lane going about 40 and there was a
full-size Ford cargo van stopped in the left lane with his left turn blinker
on waiting to make a left across traffic.  Just as I came abreast of the
van, a huge red Cadillac coming the other direction made a left turn across
in front of me!  Since I had not seen him (due to the Ford van), he
certainly had not been able to see me.  This was IMMEDIATELY in front of me.
I had a close-up image of the lady in the passenger seat, jaw hanging wide
open staring at me from about 15 feet away.  My autocross-instincts sprang
to life and I swerved hard left without even thinking about it and
miraculously kept from t-boning the Caddy.  

But the ride wasn't over yet - remember I'm doing about 35-40 MPH!

As I began to correct for the severe swerve I realized I was now veering
into the oncoming traffic lane.  So I got full on the gas (any autocrossers
out there will understand this) and swung the bus back hard to the right.
I'm 99% certain that both my right tires were off the ground at this point.
I completed the manuever by correcting once again, but this time to the left
(trying to straighten out in my lane before hitting the curb).  The bus came
about so hard that, again, I'm 99% certain that my opposite tires came off
the ground as it rocked turning one direction to the other.

Well, I had done it.  I didn't broadside the Caddy and kill the lady with
her jaw hanging open.  I didn't have a head-on.  I didn't roll my bus to
EITHER side.  And I didn't run over the curb and through the fenced yard
that was next to it.  I DID have a 44-oz soda all over the dash and doors
and pretty much anything that wasn't tied down in there was slewn
everywhere.  

I stopped at a stoplight about a block further, shaking, sweating, and
thanking God that I had pulled that one off.  I glanced over at the car that
had pulled up next to me and an elderly couple were staring at me and
motioning me to open my window.  I thought, OK, here comes the "why don't
you learn how to drive" and the "you should have your license removed".
What I got was a big thumbs-up from the woman and a "That was incredible -
you saved that lady's life!!" from the man.  Made me feel better anyway.

After that, I never joked about autocrossing my bus.  I figure the only
thing that save me from killing the woman in the Caddy or rolling my bus was
my experience on the track, a brand-new set of tires on the bus, and more
than my fair share of luck.  I still autocross and I reckon I'm pretty good
at it.  But I'll stick to cars (like my 74 914 2.0) that are designed for
that sort of driving.

Mike g.
Colorado Springs, CO
73 Westy
