From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com'" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>,
Cc: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 12 Sep 2003 12:20:51 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] anyone ever fix a hole in heat exchanger??

Rob, Dave & The Rootin' Tootin' List:

Dave suggested using the POR Fireseal product, but had no experience with
it.  It's a great product, but my own personal experience using it in a vain
attempt to plug the more corroded heater box tin where it contacts the down
pipes on T4 heater boxes was a semi-dismal failure :-(  I believe that it is
best used in EXACTLY the manner proscribed by the manufacturers.  In spite
of following the directions to a "U", I came to the conclusion that when it
is laid on in anything other than very small quantities in a narrow crevass,
it dries and cures in a very uneven manner, which results in large chunks of
it breaking off and falling out.  What did remain was also not very
resistant to mechanical abrasion - a fault I suspect due to improper curing.

I had high hopes for it and after several seasons of playing around with it,
I called it quits and used carefully fitted pieces from a can of beans
installed with a stainless pop-rivet or two, and high temp copper sillycone
sealant for the lesser gaps.  Now THAT worked!  FRREEEEEEEP!

Oooops!  My bad :-)  Didn't even have to pull a finger on that one!

BTW - Outright speed demon bus award at the drags would no doubt belong to
the turbo'd double slider panel Bay Window bus campaigned by Alex
S-something and/or The Dyno Shop - they are doing well over 100 mph in the
1/8th out at Irwindale, with some equally silly ets - it's a beast!  Mike
Visket is an EXTREMELY accurate launcher, pulling near perfect R/Ts, and
dead n*ts accurate in his brackets - that's what has made him a 3 time
winner at HVWs Drag Day!  By comparison his top speed is only about 40ish
mph at the lights.  Who knows, once his 2110 is finished, he'll probably get
the top speed up to 50ish and break into the 11s.  Thereby giving STBs.org
mortal arch-rival and enemy of fun Rich Kimble a sweat-soaked screaming
nightmare in which Rich has to use a Bay Window bus image on ALL the promo
materials for some future Drag Day...  FRRREEEEEEEEEEEEEP!
BWUAAAAA-HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!  (Smells like roses...No!  Wait - ice cream!)

Jim Hayden
'72 Westy Weekender - 2260cc T4 Tractor Motor Power
Flatulently Yours On Fragrant Friday!
www.savethebays.org
