To: VW - Type 2 mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Chris Slaymaker <nurofiz(-at-)knology.net>
Date: Fri, 19 Aug 2005 20:35:53 -0400
Subject: NO BRAKES!

I had been looking forward to Buses on the River this weekend.  I had 
finally talked my best friend (who doesn't own a bus) into coming to a 
bus festival.  He calls us Type 2 types busexuals.  He and I used to go 
to shows in my bus until Jerry died (August 9th, 1995).  :-(

Another one of my best friends, Ric Jablonski, is at BOTR, so he'll 
still be with someone familiar.  I've known Andy for 30+ years and I've 
known Ric for 20+ years and I guess they've known each other for 20 
years or so.  But I digress...

Anyhoo, wrestling with rush hour traffic in Knoxville, I put on my 
brakes to slow down and my foot went to the floor.  I'm sure many of 
you know that feeling.  I was able to pump them up to get more brakes, 
but it was still spooky.  I pulled off and just happened to stop at 
Ron's Import Parts (I've bought from him before).  I got out and 
immediately smelled brakes.  I put my hand on the LF wheel and it was 
HOT.  I put my hand on the RF wheel and it was also hot, but not so 
much so.

I decided that the LF caliper was the culprit, heating the brake fluid 
to the boiling point or something like that.  I walked in and asked Ron 
if he had a caliper for my bus.  He said no, but a call to O'Reilly's 
up on the hill (where they do the boogie) garnered what I needed.  When 
I picked it up, I found that it was one of those with only one bleeding 
nipple, but I was in no position to haggle so I took it back down to 
Ron's where he showed me a level place in the shade to work on my car.  
He had to close up shop and go home - it was almost six.

I pulled the old caliper off (man, that thing was HOT), and put the new 
one on.  My daughter Emma helped me bleed the brakes, but the pedal was 
still going to the floor.  I decided to bleed the whole system but I 
felt better about taking the wheels off first to gain better access, so 
about an hour later I buttoned everything up and tried it out.  No 
improvement.  We were both disappointed (and I was a bit anxious) as we 
limped back home in Lurch.  I was dripping wet from head to toe.

Back at the house, I felt the front wheels again.  I think I still have 
the same problem with the LF wheel.  Maybe the bearings are out of 
adjustment.  I'll check the axial play tomorrow.  I showered off and 
sat down in front of the computer to write this.

My next guess is that the master cylinder (original to the bus) has 
finally given up the ghost.  On the way home from work today, some 
blue-haired lady in a Lexus decided to stop on the acceleration lane at 
the end of the cloverleaf loop.  I locked up the front wheels on that 
one and leaned on the horn (one of those Bosch air horns).  Perhaps 
this was the straw that broke the camel's back.  I didn't see any brake 
fluid under the master cylinder, but then, it's prolly pooled up in the 
bottom of the booster.

You reckon it's the master cylinder?  I sure hope I can find one 
tomorrow.  I don't think I'll get it at O'Reilly's.

Sorry about the long-windedness.  Thanks for the bandwidth.

Chris Slaymaker
1971 VW Westfalia
"What's your hurry?"
