To: VW - Type 2 mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Chris Slaymaker <nurofiz(-at-)knology.net>
Date: Sat, 20 Aug 2005 18:13:08 -0400
Subject: NO BRAKES! final chapter

First of all, thanks to those that replied.  Jamie Rivers felt 
compelled to blame the MC - and he was right.

I ran some errands this morning and then drove to the next town (30 
miles away) to my FLVWM to buy a replacement MC (Brand new - not 
rebuilt - $65).  When I got home (and after I had lunch) I crawled 
under Lurch to begin the task at hand.  I pulled the MC out of the box, 
and then looked at the MC under the car, and then looked at the MC in 
my hand.  It was the wrong one.

I called around and found one at NAPA and looked at it before I left 
the store.

Bentley sez:  "Use a syringe to remove the brake fluid from the upper 
reservoir."  I happened to have one of those that I used to use for my 
battery "back in the day."

I crawled back underneath Lurch and here's what I found:
stuff came apart OK, but it was a PITA to remove the plastic double 
reservoir attached to the MC - I was afraid I might break it.  the 
brake fluid that came out of it had black stuff in it (broken down 
rubber perhaps).  There was no O-ring between the MC flange and the 
booster (long since rotted away).  I got my trusty battery syringe and 
went into the booster with it.  I pulled out maybe 50cc of reddish 
stuff - the consistency of brake fluid.  I wonder how long THAT's been 
in there?

Everything went together OK.  I took the wrong caliper off (it would 
have worked on the RF wheel, I suppose) and put the old caliper back 
on.   Emma my darling daughter helped me bleed the system.  I screwed 
up once and forgot to fill the reservoir and was wondering why I kept 
getting air.  I know Emma's leg must have been getting tired after all 
that.  Lo and behold...  the pedal came back!  Woo-hoo!

I took it for a test drive and now I have brakes.  Apparently what was 
going on is that one of the pistons in the MC was letting fluid bypass 
from the rear circuit to the front circuit.  The front disc brakes were 
binding more than they should, the rear brakes weren't doing squat, and 
the pedal was REAL mushy.

Now I have to take the wrong caliper back to O'Reilly's, and the wrong 
MC back to Larry.  I'll get a total of $170 back.  That'll prolly pay 
for the gas I will have ultimately burned in my quest for the right 
parts.  :-)

Chris Slaymaker
"What's so funny 'bout peace, love and understanding?"
