Date: Mon, 22 Aug 2005 01:58:37 -0400
From: jwazevedo(-at-)aol.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
To: potterystationstudio(-at-)yahoo.com
Subject: Re: *Closer to Brakes*

Hi Tina,

I just finished a brake job on my '70, which is similar to yours, and 
I'll pass along a few things that an experienced person would have 
known but I had to learn the hard way.

* Bleed the whole system with a quart of new fluid *before* doing the 
brakes to get all the crud out of the lines before running it through 
those nice new cylinders. (I'm sure I shortened the life of my 
cylinders by not doing this; you should have seen the stuff that came 
out of those lines.)

* Unless you're in walking distance of a good parts store or want to 
wait for a long time to finish the job, inspect the brakes on all four 
wheels before starting the job.  I thought only my fronts were bad, and 
it was only when I thought I was finished that I noticed a leaky rear 
cylinder.

* As everyone else will mention, it's a good idea to replace the flex 
hoses.  Again, I did just the fronts last year.  Still had trouble, and 
ended up replacing all four this year.  Fixed the problems.

* My bleeder valves on the fronts got buggered, and my new cylinders 
didn't come with them.  Add them to your parts list.

* Work on one wheel at a time so that you can see how all the parts fit 
back together by referring to the intact wheel.

* Remember the antiseize for the star adjusters.

* I found that slipping the rubber boots off the cylinders and onto the 
shoes before trying to fit the shoes into the cylinder makes things 
easier.  After the shoes are firmly in place, just roll the boots back 
onto the cylinders.

* Now is a good time to repack the front bearings.

* I found Muir to be very helpful in getting a novice through the 
procedure.

* Take your time and clean and think as you go.  I rushed my first 
brake job (because a more experienced hand was looking over my 
shoulder) and paid for it many times over.  This time the job took 
longer, but I'm more confident in the quality of the work.

You've got the right attitude in wanting to work on your own bus.  You 
won't go wrong.

See you on the road,
Jerry
Galiano Island, BC
