Cc: list vintage bus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Sat, 4 Jun 2005 11:32:59 -0400
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Musicians wanted at BusFusion

(Forwarded from Doug Alcock on the Vanagon list, with my own notes at
the bottom)


Call for Musicians

Last year at BusFusion, the Saturday night campfire featured an
impromptu jam session that went on into the wee hours of the morning.
There were numerous guitars, fiddles, harps and lots of musicians
joining in throughout the evening. There was even a rhythm section
drumming away on a handy cooler. A wide variety on music styles and
musicians came out of the woodwork and the consensus from all who were
there was, "that was great!"

So we said, "Let's do that again and make it an annual event. All we
need to do is organize some musicians" There was a long silence
because organizing musicians is like trying to herd cats. They don't
understand but are pretty sure they don't like it. So what we will do
is say that at 9:00 pm on Saturday night at this year's BusFusion ---
someone is going to pull out a guitar and start playing.

please accept our invitation to jump right in..

So all of you musicians out there, please, as you load up for
BusFusion --- throw your axes in the van and let's JAM

Bring guitars and basses/ Drums with smiles on their faces/ Oboes and
saxes/ All manner of axes/ Fiddles and Bows/ Flutes you play with your
nose/ Cymbals shiny and clean/ Well you see what we mean

Instrument Storage

If you're worried about toting your instrument or want to bring one
that you might not usually travel with, BusFusion will be providing
secure instrument storage for those wanting to keep their favourite
axe locked securely away until needed.

Questions? --- Want to help kick off the Jam??

I'd also like to hear from anyone who wants to join me in kicking off
the jam on Saturday night --- it would be fun to get a few people
lined up and agreed on an opening tune. If you're interested --- or
have any other questions: contact

Doug.Alcock(-at-)gmail.com




PERSONAL OBSERVATION:

Last year I turned 40 at Midnight Saturday, during the BusFusion
campfire. It doesn't get any better than that.  Listening to the
awesome incredible (insert additional superlatives here )campfire jam
and chatting with Ben Huot and Larry Chase helped make it the best
campfire I had ever been to.*

This year I am bringing along the acoustic bass guitar I bought from
eBay back in February, and am definitely looking forward to the Jam.


Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.busesofthecorn.com
