Date: Mon, 06 Jun 2005 20:25:15 -0400
From: doc ric <uncleric(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, "vintagebus(-at-)type2.com" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Bus front end. Here we go again.

Yesterday I spent a miserable 7 hours returning from Natural Bus. I 
thought this was straightened out. I was wrong.

History:
Bus handled great, but was eating front tires. Alignment not possible 
due to bad ball joints. I put the problem off for a long time then 
finally decided to replace the torsion arms with rebuilt with new ball 
joints. Replaced all torsion arms, steering dampner, draglink, and 
shocks. I helped with all of this and was told to drop the bus off the 
next day for alignment. It drove horrible on the way home and I was 
depressed but all seemed good the next day after the alignment. It 
seemed great but only drove it around town.

This weekend:
On Friday I met up with the Tennessee Mechanized crew for a trip to 
Natural Bus. On the first 40 miles, I could tell things were not right 
but not too bad. We got on I-81 and drove for about 130 miles to Salem 
VA. Things on this portion were a bit dicey and the bus seemed to wander 
around (more later) but it was driveable with some extra attention. 
After that, we spent little time on the interstate.

Sunday morning after a great weekend of camping, I decided to use all 
small roads going home. I left with Steve (and sons) and headed back on 
route 11. We did a small stint on I-81 and I got off as soon as possible 
as it was so scary.

Symptoms:

The bus wanders in one direction or the other. She slowly starts 
drifting but the smallest amount of correction sends her heading in the 
other direction like I have over corrected and have to try to bring her 
back to center. This is a frightening situation and spent 7 hours with 
my hands firmly 10 and 2 position on the steering wheel. On the brief 
stint on the interstate, it was so scary that Teddy was holding on to 
the grab handle. A truck would come from behind and the air pushed us 
sideways about the time it was near the back of the bus and sent us into 
a wild ride. (Oh god Ted, here comes another one, followed by white 
knuckle silence:) Not fun.

Facts:

Handled fine before the work I did (just ate tires). I wish now I just 
continued to buy more tires.
Replaced above parts. Drove crappy.
Had alignment done and seemed better until a real road trip.
Situation getting worse in these 500 miles.
No noted tire wear in 500 miles.
Steer box adjusted when alignment done to reduce free play. (bad idea?)

The steering wheel is crooked, that is the arms from the center are not 
straight across as they should be but honestly I just noted that today, 
and have no idea if they were like that before this work.

At the campout, they had a case fire; I am ready for a Bus fire.

Any ideas welcomed in advance.
