Date: Thu, 09 Jun 2005 11:57:10 -0400
From: MadUncleDave <MadUncleDave(-at-)charter.net>
To: splitties <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: hcbf 2005

Hey Volks - sorry it's so late getting this update out to the list.

Mark the calendars now for the last weekend in July: the 29th, 30th, and 
31st! It's that time of year to climb the mountain up to Boone and 
gather at the Grandfather Mountain Campground.

Couple of new things this year:

- we have a new band. While we have enjoyed Bessie Mae's Dream for many 
years now - and they will be back someyear, this year we are in for a 
real treat. For the past 8 years while attending at the Merlefest Music 
Festival I have camped near the same group of guys from Kentucky. Every 
night after the festival these guys would sit up and pick for 
hours..........THEY ARE INCREDIBLE. This is some of the most high-energy 
and tight picking you'll ever hear. So I asked them about playing HCBF 
and they responded that they were not even in a band together. They all 
have separate musical things and projects but they only get together and 
pick when camping at these festivals. I have been trying to convince 
them to come to HCBF for years..............and I guess they just said 
yes to get me to shut-up..........but they are coming. YOU ARE ALL IN 
FOR A REAL TREAT. now seeing as these guys are not officially in a band, 
I have given them a name: Carl and the Kentucky Badasses............when 
you hear them pick........you will understand. They plan to play on the 
pavilion Sat Night - and who knows what you'll hear around the campfire 
later that night!

what else is new this year?
- a water balloon fight (to be held in way upper field where there are 
no buses!)
- have your picture taken with Gurney the Hog!
- Dixie is going to compile a VW Cookbook - how and what do you cook 
when camping. you will need to submit your recipe before the festival so 
we can have them printed........more details on this soon!

and as always, returning activities:
- Marc Dearing's tech Class -
- Kids Activities with Dixie (more details soon)
- People's Choice Awards
- Door Prizes
- Raffle for TYPE 2.com and FMBC
- FMBC Breakfast on sat
- caraBUS along the Blue Ridge Parkway

Rob is going to have the site updated soon with the new schedule..........
http://www.baywindowbus.com/highcountry9.htm

There is more to be added soon, am working on last details of some other 
events and activities.

please email me off list if you have any questions: buddahvw(-at-)hotmail.com 
<mailto:buddahvw(-at-)hotmail.com>

thanks and I cant wait for that last weekend of July to arrive!
- buddah
