From: "Ted Finesman" <tedebare(-at-)one.net>
To: <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>, <ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com>,
Date: Fri, 10 Jun 2005 16:43:22 -0400
Subject: Natural Bus trip report and Porsche pulley install

Hi Volks- Question- why is it that each event I attend keeps getting better.
Natural bus was no exception.
Left Cincinnati on Thursday, Rt.52, a 2 lane scenic route, in overcast skies
and drizzling rain. I stopped after 10 hr. driving time thru dull sky's and
rainy mist. I got up early and drove to Salem Imports, Mark Dearing's
museum. If you have never been to Mark's shop, you should go before he
decides to charge admission for his museum.
We(meaning Mark and Norton) installed a Porsche 356 pulley on my 1776 T1.
More about this later. I went to Wal-Mart w/ the Tennessee Mechanized Club
and then went back to Mark's to drive up with them. Got back to Mark's and
everyone had left, so I had to find the camp-ground by myself. Those of you
that know me , know that is a great feat in itself- I get lost easily and
often.
I found the camp ground w/o getting lost at all. A great way to start
camping. THIS CAMP OUT IS A HOOT!!!!! The facilities are really wonderful.
The putt-putt contest was the bomb. My team, The Cherry Bombs, made up of
Dudley (?) Dave (?) and Dave (?) (I'm really lousy at names), won. I had the
high score of our team.

After 2 days of wonderful weather and VW fellowship , I got up and drove
home on Sunday (420 mile each way). This is where the Porsche pulley comes
into play.
I have a type1 engine, 1776, 100 engle cam, balanced throughout, Berg
extractor, etc.. My gauges indicated (at 55/60/3400 rpm) Ch temp 390/400,
oil temp 210 max, oil pressure 45 psi. on the way down.  After the Porsche
pulley was installed my Ch temp never got over 350, oil temps were the same,
oil pressure was the same. The big difference was I was pushing it up to
4500 rpm ( 65/70 mph) on the way home. I will have this pulley on every T1
engine I use. Not scientific, but it works for me.

Special to Davie Woods, Jeff Burkes ( I love your raffle prizes), and Mark
Dearing for putting on a first rate event that is a must-do from now on.
Thanks again- Ted

Don't take life to seriously -- you'll never live through it....
