Date: Sun, 12 Jun 2005 20:53:23 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Belt slippage.

On Sun, 12 Jun 2005, Tom Tarka wrote:
> On Sat, 11 Jun 2005, C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc. wrote:
>> I was trying to come up with a way to test for belt slippage short of
>> taking a direct rpm reading of both the crank pulley and the alternator
>> pulley as rpm is increased, and then taking the data and checking the
>> speed ratio of the two.
>
> Have you guys read this article?
> http://www.offroadvw.net/tech/wes/fan.html

I just read it and I think it's a fairly good analysis of the VW fan.

I have a couple of ideas on how you could measure the fan speed using
just a regular strobe timing light (the kind you use on water-cooled
engines, not just a bulb.)

One: Paint or file one mark on the generator pulley, just like the marks
on the crankshaft pulley.  Pull another car up behind your VW.  Hook up
your tune-up tach to the other car.  Hook up your timing light to any
spark plug wire (not coil wire) on the other car.  Point the timing
light at the VW generator pulley.  Have somebody sit in the other car
and slowly rev it up while you watch the mark on the pulley and the
tach.  When the mark on the generator pulley stands still or nearly
so, and only appears in one place, the reading on the tune-up tach is
pretty close to the fan RPM.  (You'd need a second tune-up tach for
your VW if you wanted to look at the speed of the VW crankshaft
pulley at the same time.)

Two: Use a strobe disc (or marks) on the generator pulley.  Fancy
turntables used to have marks on the edge of the turntable that were
illuminated by a small neon lamp.  You could trim the turntable speed
until the pattern stood still.  If you didn't have a fancy turntable,
you could buy a cardboard disc with the pattern on it,put it on the
turntable, and illuminate it with a neon or I think a fluorescent bulb.
One problem with this is that the turntable speed shouldn't have varied
more than a few percent - in other words, you only needed to measure
maybe 30 to 36 RPM.  The VW generator pulley has a much wider RPM range
than this.

George or someone else may want to check my math on this, but if you
use a neon lamp or a fluorescent lamp with a magnetic ballast (i.e.,
not a "compact fluorescent" that screws into a regular light bulb
socket), you should get a 120 Hz flash.  If you had a disc on the
generator pulley with one stripe on it, or one notch on the pulley,
then if the mark(s) is (are) standing still, then the pulley speed
can be:

120*60 = 7200 RPM (mark appears once around the circle)
  60*60 = 3600 RPM (mark appears twice around the circle)
  40*60 = 2400 RPM (mark appears three times around the circle)
  30*60 = 1800 RPM (mark appears four times around the circle)
  24*60 = 1440 RPM (mark appears five times around the circle)

Given a ratio in the neighborhood of 1.8:1 to 2:1, these ranges
correspond to about 720 to 4000 RPM at the engine.  What you would
do is hook up your tune-up tach and rev the engine until the marks
on the generator pulley stand still, note the speed on the tach,
and then look up the generator speed in the above list.  This doesn't
give a continuous measurement, but should be relatively cheap to do.

I think the suggestion has been made to use a bicycle computer.  I
once hooked up a bike computer to the front tire on my Bus - I stuck
a magnet to the wheel, taped the magnetic switch to a stiff wire, and
taped the wire to, I think, the brake backing plate.  I put in the
circumference of the tire and drove around and it seemed to work
fairly well - at least until I went over a bump or something and
knocked the switch out of the way.  The problem with using this to
measure the pulley speed might be that the bike computer may not
allow a small enough circumference to be input.  For instance, if
the bike computer goes up to 30 MPH for a kid's bike with 20"
diameter tires, 30 MPH indicated is equal to about 504 RPM.  Even
if the computer goes to 60 MPH, that's only about 1008 RPM.

Matt Roberds
