Date: Sun, 12 Jun 2005 21:41:57 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] 6 V starter solenoid wanted

All,

An update on my starter problems.  Kevin Guarnotta sent me two 6 V
solenoids so I could take my pick.  I picked out one, and also got
a new starter bushing at the FLVWPS.

The archives mention using a tap to extract the old bushing.  Mark
Dearing told me that the bushing ID is 12.5 mm, so I started looking
for a tap about that size.  At work, I found a 12 mm and a 14 mm tap,
and a tap from a Helicoil set.  The 12 mm tap just slipped right through
the new bushing.  The turned-down noses on the 14 mm tap (14.10 mm at
its widest) and the Helicoil tap (13.56 mm at its widest) would start
into the bushing, so I borrowed those two.  The Helicoil tap was meant
for installing 7/16" inserts, but it is bigger than that (it has to be).
Under the Bus, I couldn't get the 14 mm tap started, but the Helicoil
tap bit in.  I kept on cranking until the tap bottomed and it pushed
the bushing right out.

I had put the new bushing in the freezer, and got it out just before I
wanted to install it.  I couldn't get it set up right, though, and it
ended up warming up due to handling.  I found a socket that was a little
smaller than the bushing and taped the bushing to it with Scotch tape,
as that was handy and I was somewhat worried about trapping the tape
between the OD of the bushing and the hole.  Turned out to be the wrong
choice, because the tape broke quickly, and from then on I had to
manually position the drift I was using, which was a PITA.  Some rubber
tubing that fit snugly over the socket and the bushing may have worked,
but I didn't have any the right size.

I had already taken the right heater duct (from heater box to body) out
when I removed the starter.  The best attack I found on the bushing was
to use a drift that was long enough to reach from the bushing to right
near the gas tank outlet.  I could (carefully) hammer between the fuel
line and the floor of the Bus to hit the drift.  It's kind of close;
people with a reserve tap might want to remove it so as to not hit it.
Or, you might coordinate this with a fuel line replacement if you need
to drain the tank to remove the lines.

With the bushing in, I turned to the starter.  The brushes were nice
and long and the commutator wasn't burned.  I polished up the
commutator a little with some fine sandpaper, then cleaned the gunk out
of the gaps between the bars with a knife.  I put the starter back
together with a bit of fresh grease on the closed-end bushing and RTV
on the places called out in the Bentley, then greased the gear-end
shaft and reinstalled it.  I had a heck of a time getting it to seat;
I kept pulling it out and turning the starter gear a little with my
fingers until it finally seated.  I may have also been fighting the
grease I put on the shaft.

I hooked up all the wires to the starter, and pulled the coil wire so
I could experiment.  On the first few hits, the starter was a little
slow (not badly slow), but it sped up after a bit.  I think the brushes
were getting seated to the polished commutator.  I put the coil wire
back and it cranked the engine OK.

I took the Bus on a drive around town with many stops, so I could check
out the starter.  A couple of times it turned over somewhat slowly, but
not as bad as it had been.  It was almost more of a "you started the Bus
and didn't drive very far or very fast so the battery is a little low"
sound than a "something is broken" sound.  It never got so bad that I
had to shut off the key and wait a few minutes before the starter would
turn again, like I had to do before.

So... I think I fixed it.  The bushing may have been the problem all
along, but I caused some minor damage to my solenoid when I was trying
to get into it, so I changed the solenoid as well.  I will know for
sure on the next few drives.  About the only other possibilities are
that the hard start relay that was on the Bus when I bought it is going
bad, or that the starter armature itself has a problem.

For reference, the bushing (6 V starter, 6 V trans) is 0.489" ID by
0.652" OD by 0.552" tall (measured with an inch caliper).  In metric
this is 12.42 mm ID by 16.56 mm OD by 14.02 mm tall.

Thanks to all for the advice!

Matt Roberds
