Date: Wed, 15 Jun 2005 10:52:31 -0400
From: Dan Dypsky <dypstick(-at-)dypstick.net>
To: Andrew Stephens <andrew.stephens4(-at-)verizon.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Steve Dolan is right again.  Was Fuel pump runs and

Andrew Stephens wrote:

> Steve sugggested I check the ground circuits at both the pump / relay, and the
> transmission ground strap.  I cleaned both and the bus still wont start,
> probabably because no fuel pressure.  My next step is to check for voltage at
> the pump itself and replace the wiring, and/or swap out the pump (again).
> 
> Any suggestions?

Andrew,
	I was having problems with my Bus seeming to run out of gas, even 
though I had plenty of gas in the tank. Turns out I was getting a lot 
of crap in my filter and clogging it up. To be sure it was a fuel 
pressure problem, I did two things. First I wired a test light in 
parallel with the fuel pump. The easiest way to do this is to run a 
wire from the positive terminal on the fuel pump to the rear interior 
light. Disconnect the 12v supply from the interior light, connect the 
wire from the fuel pump, and turn the light on. Now, anytime your fuel 
pump is running (or has power), the rear interior light will be on. 
You can look in your rear-view mirror and know instantly if your Bus 
will start or not.

The second thing I did was to add a fuel pressure gauge. I used about 
5 feet of 5/16's fuel line and put it on the test point on the fuel 
rail. Then I ran the fuel line through the drain hole in the bottom of 
the spare tire well and attached the gauge. I hung the gauge off the 
grab handle just forward of the spare tire. Between the light and the 
gauge, I can check my rear view mirror and know that my fuel pump 
_should_ be on, and if it is, what my pressure is. I wouldn't 
recommend leaving the gauge there forever, but mines been in for about 
a month now with no problems. Make sure you clamp both ends well. If 
you don't have a gauge, you can build one for around $10 from any 
hardware store.

This could save you a lot of time checking for voltages here and 
there- and it is also handy because you can keep an eye on it while 
you're driving to see if it loses power or if you pressure drops.

Later,
Dan Dypsky
Ocean City, MD
78 Transporter 2.0 FI
bunch of Type 3's, all FI
http://www.dypstick.net
