Date: Wed, 15 Jun 2005 19:03:15 -0500 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: And life goes quietly on...

[*Note*: any replies OFF list please -- first, the list doen't need the
personal traffic (but thanks for the thought in advance) -- second, I'm
2000+ messages behind in my Type2 list reading and it may be a month before
I catch up to "current" messages and see any replies sent directly to the
list. Off list replies sent directly to the address I use on the Type2 list
(gerald.type2-at-sysmatrix.net) are automatically sorted into a separate
folder]

Those of you who attended the First Annual Texas VW Classic in March 2004
may remember that I had my Mom and Dad along. I don't have any pictures of
them from the show so any of you whop took pictures let me know where to
look and see if I can find some.

Those who were at "Chiggerfest 2004" (no, that wasn't the official name --
until after it was over) may remember my Dad (though he never got more than
10 or 20 feet from the bus). Once again, no pictures that I can find.

Those who were at JBB in October 2004 may remember my Mom coming with me to
that. I found a few shots of her in David Letterman's huge  collection. I
think there were some in the Potts pictures also but I'm waiting for Greg
to let me know where he moved them to (the links from the JBB pages don't
work).
    
http://www.kookymathteacher.com/JBB/LettermanJBB2004/photos/DSC08651.JPG
http://www.kookymathteacher.com/JBB/LettermanJBB2004/photos/DSC08665.JPG
http://www.kookymathteacher.com/JBB/LettermanJBB2004/photos/DSC08669.JPG

Mom's been in and out of the hospital since March fighting the effects of
being "cured" of her lung cancer.

On June 1st Dad called me and said he was having more trouble breathing
than usual and thought he may have pneumonia. I took him to the emergency
room and they admitted him straight into ICU and put him on a respirator.

On the afternoon of June 2nd my brother called and told me Mom had died.
700 miles from me with Dad in the hospital. He was sedated most of the time
to let the respirator do it's job so I got other family members to stay
with him and I went to Alabama to help my brother finish up affairs there.
I came back the morning of the 11th.

Monday morning (the 13th) I had the doctors take Dad off the respirator at
his request. It wasn't pneumonia, it was just years of athsma treatments
catching up with him and failing, and he knew he wasn't going to get any
better. He quietly stopped breathing and died just after midnight that
night/Tuesday morning.

The Rivi still sits in storage with bad bearings and brakes, and will a bit
longer as I get Dad's stuff packed up and moved out of his house. Neither
of them is in pain any longer and life goes quietly on.

Gerald
