To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Charlie Ford <cjford(-at-)altamaha.net>
Date: Fri, 16 Mar 2007 22:08:44 -0500
Subject: The Turning 40 Nostalgic VW Service Tour and Search for the

I opened my digest today, yes I still read it, and what do I see?  
Someone talking about ten years ago...ten years after.  Someone that no 
doubt still prefers sandals and shorts and a t-shirt over a suit and 
tie at 40, and makes an ambition of it.  : )

The dribble from the road can still be read at 
http://www.type2.com/~keen/charlie/charlie.html.  So far as it goes it 
belongs to the list and myself till one of us die, then it will be the 
others to wonder what hell to do with.  : )  Read my friends and feed 
your jonesing need for dribble.  I know the feeling but please know 
this was ten years ago.

It starts at the bottom in Jan 1997 and if you make it through it all 
you need too get to a phone and immediately call 911.  You need help 
brother/sister.  hahaha  It hasn't been touched since then and yes the 
writing is still filled with all of the bad english and grammar and 
flimsy attempts at painting pictures with words and all that.

For those that might wonder where I am or what I am doing visit the 
site below.  Lots of things have transpired since the travels.  Some 
good and some not so good.  I am thankful for each and every one.  The 
good ones and the less good, you might say.

Those couple years I spent traveling in The Mothership were the best in 
my life.  There is something special about sleeping in a bus.  I know 
it all so well.  The Mother was custom built.  It had a 30 inch wide 
bed that ran from behind the driver seat to the beginning of the back 
deck.  Tight but very comfortable.  It fit me well I thought.

I didn't put my pants on standing up for at least a year but slept in 
many a diverse place while out of them.

In front of a broken down adobe building in Pilar, New Mexico waiting 
to make touch with an old friend, a beach in Oregon with Black Sand 
while carabussing with two brothers spring hopping around the west, an 
alley in West Seattle behind the home of a good family, in an Oklahoma 
NAPA parking lot in 14 degree weather after a failed used fuel pump 
failed me, numerous rest areas, street side parking in Chicago, the 
ferry landing at Blacks Harbor in Canada, Grand Manan Island, In Martha 
and Nathan Rubin's front yard.

Anyway as those of you that know me know, I could go on and on and on.

Keep the faith all and drop me a line if you like.  Better yet drop by 
one day an we will go on the river.  VW's are always welcome.  I drive 
a 98 beetle these days and still have the Mothership but the body is 
all but gone.  Looking in fact for a 79 to put the engine in and make 
it live again.  God I miss driving a bus!

Thanks for tolerating the ramblings and asking about them.  : )

Charlie Ford
3RO Inc: http://www.3roar.com
(912) 594-8545 (h)/(912) 539-7688(c)

---
[This E-mail scanned for viruses by your Internet Service Provider]
