Date: Wed, 21 Nov 2001 15:42:20 -0700 (MST)
From: fishbowl(-at-)conservatory.com
To: Jerry & Melissa Jess <vwstuff(-at-)qwest.net>
Subject: Re: [VB] FW: Double Cab Canvas

On Wed, 21 Nov 2001, Jerry & Melissa Jess wrote:

> Kris--This is the original post--perhaps this will answer your questions
> about a "middleman"?? & "trying to get my name out there". As "middleman" I
> receive nothing, maybe hopefully a "Thanks"? 

> "It's really Not worth the effort to help some people"

When you are quick to slam on the "VW Community" it reflects poorly on
everyone.  In particular, someone who is part of the AZ VW Community
might really take a deep offense to a blanket statement like that. 
You are very well known in the West, and are solidly plugged into
the local scene.  

I can easily see how someone can misunderstand your intentions,
since you're not simply putting a buyer in touch with a seller --
it appears that you are actually trying to hide the seller's identity
from the prospective buyer.  That does not make a whole lot of sense,
and the only place where it does make sense comes off as a blunt insult
to the community (people with splitty trucks tend to rip off vendors
and craftspeople?).  I doubt that's a fair judgement of the scene. 

I believe ONE person on the list tried to point out that they might
be interested in contacting the person making canvas, but that with 
you as the middleman it might be difficult to fully evaluate the
deal.  Your response seems to imply that you don't think it's worth
your effort to offer help the community.  That means you expected 
to get something for your trouble apart from abuse and resentment.

Haven't you been around car-buff circles long enough to know better?

If the unnamed source wants to keep his identity a secret, and he 
believes that will help him in his business relationships, more 
power to him.  This would make a whole lot more sense if you
*were* acting as a reseller and you really did have a reason to 
manage the blind transaction... But you're not...  

I don't need any type of canvas, but if I did, I'd have a healthy
amount of suspicion also!  And you're not even a stranger to me,
uncle Jerry!  It's okay to be a little cynical and skeptical when
you're doing a transaction for hundreds or thousands of dollars, 
and it's quite normal to want to be involved in the process when 
a craftsman is handcrafting a custom made product for you.  

But the reason I feel compelled to write, is that it seems nobody
called foul for the blatant slams against Dawn.  Dawn does excellent
work, using quality materials.  So they're not NOS Westfalia tents.
That's no excuse to market something by pointing out that these aren't
made by that person, implying (or even stating) that their work is 
substandard.  That marketing strategy might be okay for laundry soap,
but we as members of a community ought to be on a higher road than that.

I'm willing to apologize to Dawn on behalf of the list. 

Other than that, this is none of my business until someone hooks me up
with a (hint) pickup.


Regards,

James 
Tempe AZ


