Date: Wed, 21 Nov 2001 16:32:18 -0700
From: "Jerry & Melissa Jess" <vwstuff(-at-)qwest.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, fishbowl(-at-)conservatory.com
Subject: RE: [VB] FW: Double Cab Canvas

James--If you review All My Posts regarding the Canopy --you will find I
Never said anything against Dawn and her work--I did say that if they had a
complaint against her work- then contact Dawn, Not me--I just spoke, and was
with, Dawn this past week-end, and I Have one of her Sundial Tents on
Bessie!--Excellent quality--and I told her so-- I cannot and will not speak
for the people doing my Canopy--They will not deal again with VW
People. --That is their choice not mine--But I can now see how things can
get changed around and totally made into something that has gotten out of
control.--I mentioned that I was having a Canopy made for my 1960DC--That
was it, no more no less-I mentioned it was NOT made by Dawn as many people
asked if it was--If that is a problem with you, then give me a call--you
know my tele #. I also never slammed the VW Community--? Perhaps you can
locate that quote for me? I am not reselling my Canopy--Two VW People DID
give this company Two bad checks.  Thus all dealings with VW People were
ended by this Company--That was their decision not mine.In about two weeks
my truck will have the Canopy--from what I'm getting here --that will be the
end of it--I'm really sorry I posted anything regarding a DC Canopy. No one
will be ripped off on my Canopy--My apologies to this list for direction of
this discussion--As the bus content is getting smaller and smaller.

-----Original Message-----
From: fishbowl(-at-)famine [mailto:fishbowl(-at-)famine]On Behalf Of
fishbowl(-at-)conservatory.com
Sent: Wednesday, November 21, 2001 3:42 PM
To: Jerry & Melissa Jess
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] FW: Double Cab Canvas


On Wed, 21 Nov 2001, Jerry & Melissa Jess wrote:

> Kris--This is the original post--perhaps this will answer your questions
> about a "middleman"?? & "trying to get my name out there". As "middleman"
I
> receive nothing, maybe hopefully a "Thanks"?

> "It's really Not worth the effort to help some people"

When you are quick to slam on the "VW Community" it reflects poorly on
everyone.  In particular, someone who is part of the AZ VW Community
might really take a deep offense to a blanket statement like that.
You are very well known in the West, and are solidly plugged into
the local scene.

I can easily see how someone can misunderstand your intentions,
since you're not simply putting a buyer in touch with a seller --
it appears that you are actually trying to hide the seller's identity
from the prospective buyer.  That does not make a whole lot of sense,
and the only place where it does make sense comes off as a blunt insult
to the community (people with splitty trucks tend to rip off vendors
and craftspeople?).  I doubt that's a fair judgement of the scene.

I believe ONE person on the list tried to point out that they might
be interested in contacting the person making canvas, but that with
you as the middleman it might be difficult to fully evaluate the
deal.  Your response seems to imply that you don't think it's worth
your effort to offer help the community.  That means you expected
to get something for your trouble apart from abuse and resentment.

Haven't you been around car-buff circles long enough to know better?

If the unnamed source wants to keep his identity a secret, and he
believes that will help him in his business relationships, more
power to him.  This would make a whole lot more sense if you
*were* acting as a reseller and you really did have a reason to
manage the blind transaction... But you're not...

I don't need any type of canvas, but if I did, I'd have a healthy
amount of suspicion also!  And you're not even a stranger to me,
uncle Jerry!  It's okay to be a little cynical and skeptical when
you're doing a transaction for hundreds or thousands of dollars,
and it's quite normal to want to be involved in the process when
a craftsman is handcrafting a custom made product for you.

But the reason I feel compelled to write, is that it seems nobody
called foul for the blatant slams against Dawn.  Dawn does excellent
work, using quality materials.  So they're not NOS Westfalia tents.
That's no excuse to market something by pointing out that these aren't
made by that person, implying (or even stating) that their work is
substandard.  That marketing strategy might be okay for laundry soap,
but we as members of a community ought to be on a higher road than that.

I'm willing to apologize to Dawn on behalf of the list.

Other than that, this is none of my business until someone hooks me up
with a (hint) pickup.


Regards,

James
Tempe AZ



