From: "vanagonvw" <vanagonvw(-at-)gmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 18 Feb 2009 17:03:46 -0700
Subject: Cleaning Hydraulic Lifters?

Doing a top end rebuild of my 81 vanagon. Heads, and new P&Cs.

The engine has been out now for nearly two years, I am not rebuilding for
even a 50K mile engine. Just doing the best I can, with very limited funds.

 The lifters sit on a rack where they are ID'd as to where they go when its
time to put em back in.

However, its obvious that every one of them has little, if any oil in them
at this point, as using a pushrod, there is basically no resistance when
pressing down on the lifter.

Back when the van was running okay, if it sat for more than a few days (It
often sat for months) when I fired it up, there would be what I would call
the usual clattering, which was never a big deal, but sometimes after a long
spell, one or two of the lifters would sometimes take 30 minutes on the
highway to quiet down. When it clattered, it let you know it was banging
away, but when it was quiet, it was very, very quiet :-)

My question is one of not understanding the best thing to do before putting
them back into the engine. Should I take each one apart, use some form of
cleaner, thinking varnish-type build up kept a few of them from pumping up
quickly? or should I do what Bentley says and just take em apart, fill em
up, and put em back together, or just slide them in, and let the pump up on
their own? Seems to me that they will leak down eventually anyway, as its
not as if the lifters are gonna go in, and a day later, the engine will be
fired up. It could be weeks after they are installed that the engine goes
back in and gets fired up.

Some have told me to just leave them alone, and realize that they will pump
up on their own, I just wonder if there is value in the time spent actually
cleaning them, or if I should even bother just filling them with oil, ala
Bentley.

Sure like to hear from anyone with experience and the time to fill me in on
any details.

Thanks,

John
