Date: Thu, 19 Feb 2009 18:39:26 -0800 (PST)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Andy McKinley <airhedz(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] LEDs

Andy - I have been playing with LEDs myself, in fact the desk lamp above me as I type is a home-made LED fixture with 6 wide-angles and two spot focused whites. I also did a couple prototypes of campsite lighting that doesn't keep the neighbors in the tent up all night!

Instrument lights: Remember that LEDs are focused and the perimeter light dispersion is minimal so you need to pay attention when selecting something for instrument lighting.

I am still going to do my heads-up display warning lamps and am getting quite close to building it.

BTW - I have three gauges with fluorescent orange needles that disappear at night. Yes, the faces are backlighted and visible, but the needle totally goes away. I found that a single blacklight LED mounted above my head makes those needles really jump out! Have not installed that yet, either! Once I do the power board to have different power supplied for dark times vs. light times, I will be able to put it all together.

The preceeding comment refers to the heads-up display specifically. The LEDs aimed at the windshield need to be quite bright during daytime and sunny-time, but need to be very soft at night and in stormy weather. Likely will use a relay activated by headlight switch to switch to low power. The early ones at least, will have a trimmer pot for fine tuning.

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington


--- On Wed, 2/18/09, Andy McKinley <airhedz(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:

 I want to try some of the instrument lights; looks like the
 *T1.5-A-N
 *and *T1.5-x
 *might be just the ticket, but I want to confirm the size
 before I order
 them.
 
 Browse the site... they have all kinds of automotive LEDs,
 even daytime
 running lights. I went a little crazy and spent about a
 hundred and fifty
 dollars there on some stuff for my boat (home), including
 some of this
 groovy stuff http://www.superbrightleds.com/specs/FLS.htm
 in the RGB and a
 controller. Way cool, you can make any color of light you
 want, and the
 controller has a wireless remote. I put it up in the
 valence above my
 curtains... looks like a movie theater.
