Date: Thu, 19 Feb 2009 19:10:34 -0800 (PST)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: courtney hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2]  fluorescent vs incandescent (has LED content)

Some fluorescents may not start in cold temps or may be very unstable until they warm up.

As far as which is less to operate, throwing out purchase price and installation, fluorescent is far lower cost for similar level of light output (not same light output - the color difference and the frequency are so different you really can't say, "same.")

I recently replaced all the lights in my apartment with the compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs.) My reasoning was that the incandescents just do not last. They may have a 4000 hour rating, but I haven't gotten over 100 hours out of any of them in several years! The other reason is I wanted more light in some areas like over my work table. I have a two-bulb fixture at each end of the table, ceiling mount, but they are rated 60 watt max because of heat. I was able to put two 23-watt CFLs (100 watt equivalent) in each fixture, more than quadruple the light output at a total of 92 watts and virtually no heat (vs. 120 watts with incandescents and enough heat to blister the paint!)

Porch light is an 18 watt CFL and is more than adequate.

I will be switching from fluorescent lights in my bus to LEDs eventually. The LEDs consume far less power and will work instantly every time. I can also use different dispersion (15 degree spot / 120 degree wide angle) to customize the light for exactly my needs. A couple focused white LEDs where I sit to read make a lot more sense to me than cranking up my large fluorescent fixtures (I have about a 36" and a 12", both AC.) The LED fixtures I build will be able to run off the bus battery for about twenty years and still be able to start the bus! It is also very reasonable to use individual rechargeable or even throw-away cells with the super low current draw. Problem is, you may need two or more cells to provide the required voltage / current which is only a problem if you don't want to use the space.

There are tiny alkaline cells and - I just bought some Lithium coin-cells (like hearing aid battery) with solder tabs that are rated 3V/183mA. They will drive a couple LEDs at 20mA for about 9 hours but lithium requires special disposal.

Last note: LEDs require specific limited current flow. They can't be just hooked up to a battery and let go, as they will take on more current than they can handle. Typical LED circuits include a resistor to limit current flow. There are also LED drivers that operate on a pulsing basis that can drive LEDs at maximum efficiency but generally cost as much as a thousand or more resistors! Christmas LEDs - some have half the LEDs installed (in series) on the AC cord as +/- and the other half the string installed -/+! The sixty cycle AC current oscillations have the +/- on when the -/+ are off, and vice-versa, 60 times a second which is imperceptable to most people.

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington


 1) What about light quality for the two, and
 2)  Which draws less electricity??
 
  I'm not asking about LED's so would prefer to
 stick to my fairly specific question.
 Many thanks in advance,
 Courtney
