From: "Joao Ribeiro" <jnar(-at-)netcabo.pt>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 22 Feb 2009 01:01:37 -0000
Subject: Can I make my bus go lower by re-seting the spring plates?

Hello to you all.

I would like to make my bus go lower. Not a radical "lowering" job, just a few
inches to, at least, be able to park it inside a new garage.
I was planning in doing it, the easiest and logical way: by re-seting the
spring plates. However, I've been reading about the "good" and "bad" ways of
doing it and now, I'm not so sure if this is a correct procedure.

I've already made it, only for a few hours. I don't want to go lower, because
I don't want to damage my new water tanks.
Although the text is in Portuguese, you can see the pictures here, at this
portuguese VW forum:

http://www.garagemvw.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=21&start=1050

At Bus-boys.com (http://www.bus-boys.com/bbsusp.htm#boom), there are some
parts to be used when you want to go lower: Rear Lowering Plates (Boomerangs)
and New Spring Plates: Adjustable & Non-Adjustable.
On the description for the Boomerangs you can read: "Rear Lowering Plates
(Boomerangs)  - Lower the rear of your 1968 to 1979 Type 2 with these
high-strength "boomerang" shaped plates that connect between your spring plate
and the rear control arm/axle bearing housing to accomplish a 3 1/2 to 4 inch
drop to match your lowered front end. Does not make the rear wheels "squat"
(that happens when you wanna be cheap and re-set the spring plates - bad for
the Rear Axle Bearings!) .Complete with the plates, hardware and instructions
for. Note: Requires short travel shocks and possible realignment of your brake
lines/hoses depending on installation."

I would like to know, what's this "squat" effect they're referring to?
Do they mean that the wheels will become "diagonal" and not "vertical"? if so,
how can this be possible with IRS or is this "squat" effect will only be
noticable on more radical lowering jobs? And if so, why? Will the CV joints
force the spring plates to bend?

Thanks in advance.
Cheers to you all, from Lisbon, Portugal
Joao
