Date: Sun, 22 Feb 2009 16:03:39 -0500
From: "Peter T. Owsianowski" <pnoceanwesty(-at-)gmail.com>
To: List - Type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>, Vanagon List
Subject: Buses by the Beach Bus BRR One Week Countdown!

[?]Hey, Volks!  [?]

Forecast for lovely Angola, Indiana is a high of 32 and a low of 22
degrees.  This is perfect Bus BRR weather.  It makes the chili taste better
after the tobaggan run!

Hope to see everybody there around the big bonfire in Campground #3 next
Saturday.  We should roll in around 1:00PM to set up and get the fire
going.

C ya there!


The 5th Annual Buses by the BeachBus BRRR!
(WWW.Busesbythebeach.com<http://www.busesbythebeach.com/>)
is definitely for the true camping enthusiast and a great use of a VW
Bus!  Temperatures
can and have dipped below zero at night.  This doesn't stop the VW Bus
diehards from coming out.  This one night campout is held on the last
Saturday in February each year at Beautiful Pokagon State Park in Angola,
Indiana.  Each site includes an electric hook-up so you can keep warm with
an electric heater.  It also comes in handy for warming up a Crockpot full
of Chili for the "Chilly Chili Dinner".  It is always nice to come back and
warm up next to the giant Bonfire after spending some time on the 35-40mph
(faster than your average bus) dual refrigerated toboggan runs.  Lots of
great volks, music, conversation and fun!   All while supporting The Phoenix
Society for Burn Survivors.  This year, we are instituting the "Kozy as a
Baked Potato" Award for the warmest looking bus!

What you can expect at Bus Brrr!

Community Chili dinner Saturday evening (Bring a dish to pass)

Community Breakfast Sunday Morning or try out the famous Potawomie Inn
Brunch!

See old friends and make new ones!

Dual Refrigerated Toboggan Runs

Cool temperatures and a warm fire



Clean, heated restrooms very near campsite

The always fashionable Buses by the Beach hoodies -$30.00

Costs:

Park Entrance Fee:  $5.00 Resident and $7.00 Non-Resident

Camping Fee (Includes Electric Hookup and Warm Bathrooms!):  $17.34 per
night

Toboggan Rental Fee:  $10.00 per hour  (Toboggan will fit 4 Volks)

Cool Tobaggan Video here:  www.tobogganrun.com

Sunday Brunch at the Potawatomie Inn.  $11.95 for adults  Ages 4-12 is
$.0.75 times their age

Some helpful tips:

Be sure to bring warm clothing for day and night.  A 1200 watt heater
(ceramic is best!)of some sort for the cold nights.  Some of our attendees
have fashioned or purchased Mylar or something similar for insulating the
pop top canvas.  This definitely helps to keep the heat in.  We have camped
at every Bus BRR and have been warm in the bus with an electric heater down
to -5 below. Most attendees bring a Crockpot filled with delicious chili
(optional) or a dish to pass for the dinner, but don't feel obligated.  You
may consider bringing some snow pants or suit if you plan on using the
toboggan run.  The park is really beautiful under a light snowfall.  Alcohol
is permitted at the park at this time of year, but obnoxious drunks are
never welcome.  Due to the Emerald Ash Borer please leave the firewood at
home.  We'll have plenty to keep the fire roaring.  If you have any
questions about Bus BRRR! please pmail me at pnoceanwesty(-at-)gmail.com .  My
cell is: (574) 286-0848 if you need any help or directions.


--
Pete
'79 Westy "Aardvark"
'87 Westy "Joe's Van"
WWW.Busesbythebeach.com

[demime 1.01d removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of B06.gif]

[demime 1.01d removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of 360.gif]
