Date: Tue, 24 Feb 2009 02:25:27 +0000 (UTC)
From: joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: More Tartan upholstery thoughts...

I went today to Period Fabrics and bought 15 yards of the red and grey tartan fabric that I wanted in Sparta, TN. Their website is out of date. The price is now $8 per yard and they are not out of stock on what I bought unlike what the website says. They had PLENTY. I am REALLY satisfied with my purchase. It is a 60/40 blend of wool and polyester. Or is that 40/60?

I had further thoughts about why VW or Westfalia built their campers with 100% synthetic fibers (was it polyester or nylon? Are they the same thing?)

I figure durability and low cost was probably primary factors in favor of synthetics. Insects such as moths is also an easy answer. Bugs aren't going to be interested in synthetic fibers. Like a wise lister posted - the synthetics are very washable too. 

For what it is worth there are treatments that can be used on wool and wool blended fabric to repeal the moths I read. Your local drycleaner can help here. Mothballs are another obvious solution but whether it is a wash or the mothballs I'm not very interested in creating and toxic environment for moths b/c it would likely be toxic for us too. I had planned from the start to use Scotchguard or something similar as well and I have not found any answers on the web about whether that would inhibit any moth munching...
There are other indirect solutions. I mentioned being surprised about finding the fabric I wanted in my backyard. I may have also found the solution in my backyard as well which also surprises me. A local organic alpaca farm who also dabbles in kilts and Scottish traditions sells a solution of "essential oils" that can be dribbled on cotton balls and spread around where wool is stored. They could be discarded before a trip or simply locked away in a plastic container until they are used again. I also plan to go back to Period Fabrics and see what they recommend for insect repellent since they have a store full of wool replica war uniforms.. Of course cedar chips or blocks or cedar wood placed in the vehicle during periods of storage is also a good idea. Freezing winter temps will also kill off any larva the web says.

I guess NEXT time I'd buy 100% synthetic fibers for upholstery. The blend I bought ought to be fine for the occasional use our vehicle will get as a 3rd vehicle. Not worried about my wool/synthetic blend choice, just want to be proactive and make sure my upholstery lasts. 

Now I'm shopping for upholstery shops. I'm hearing second hand about $125 per bucket seat locally if I supply the materials. I can do the rear bench myself and I have no idea what the bed cushions will cost... 

Hope this info is useful to somebody and if anyone has additional info - please share. 

Ciao!

Chris in Cookeville, TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L (Corvair implanted), MacGyver clan (funny joke Dave!!!)
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L Heinz-57 Edition (Type IV implanted)
