From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 20 Feb 2004 13:55:15 EST
To: harmony(-at-)buszen.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Update-CRRRRUUUUNNNCCHH- Toasted Tranny??

get out your 63 Bentley and look at the pictures.  It's quite sturdy and 
simple, actually

  Get some nitrile gloves (dont fall apart when oily) and a bunch of rags.
Drain tranny oil (center and boxes of course) thouroughly
remove rear drums, brakes,seal holder, backing plates.
remove ALL 13mm bolts holding RGBox outer half on.   (w/ rags underneath to 
catch leftover oil).  did you get all the bolts?  scrape off gurk and double 
check.  Now using a wooden block and mallet, tap outer cover off. 

remove circlip holding on upper outer bearing.   Pry upper outer bearing off 
w/ 2 sturdy screwdrivers.   remove upper gear.   ( I prefer to do up to this 
step w/ tranny installed).

Remove the 13mm nuts in the inner ring on the center section of the tranny, 
so the cover comes loose. ( you can loosen the outer clamp on the axle boot and 
slide it down the tube a bit )  yank firmly on the RGB/axle tube and the rgb 
& axle tube should come off with the upper inner bearing in the RGBox.   Now 
you have an axle sticking out.

turn axle back and forth listening for a thunk, feeling for play.
Using BIG circlip pliers, remove circlip from center section.  hm.. might 
have to pull the plastic daisy out first.  Now you can remove axle, circlip, 
spacer, crown gear, fulcrum plates.   The axle sits in the crown gear with a 
fulcrum plate either side of the spade end of the axle in the crown gear.

Inspect spade end of axle, and FPs, for grooves and wear.  inspect crown gear 
for cracks, especially around the smileys.  worn FPs, or bits broken off, 
will result in a thunking when you step on the gas or let off the gas, which will 
further hammer the area into more wear.   

the axles are bus only, but the FPs and crown gears are the same as on bugs, 
which tend to be kinder and gentler to them.

Now you can undo the outer ring of nuts on the tranny, forget which side, but 
one side has the ring gear.   Count teeth to find your ratio... 
33 ring gear teeth/ 8 on the pinion shaft = 4.125
35 teeth / 8 = 4.375

after removing the axles/crown gears/nose cone, TO bearing and arm, you have 
a core to send to the rebuilders.  If you can pull a tranny, you can take it 
down to the center section.

inspect all the RGbearings and replace any funky ones before putting it back 
together.

the lower inner bearings are a PITA to get to on 64-67 RGBs, as you have to 
remove the metal welsh plug.  either weld a bolt to it and use a U bracket 
washer and nut to pull it out (clean groove  w razor blade first), or I've also 
drilled a small hole and screwed in a fat screw which hits the stube axle and 
pushes the plug out.  (Unless you can find new plugs, you need to weld/ clean up 
the old ones before reusing them.  Note that there isn't much clearance on 
the inside between the plug &  the stub axle)
 then use a 42?mm socket to undo the big nut, oh, helps to put axle in place, 
and gear, and wgde something in the gear teeth to keep the stub axle from 
turning.  then tap out stub axle (not on your toe) and undo another big circlip, 
and tap bearing out. Now you can get the upper inner bearing out.   I remember 
that you must have the stub axle out to remove/ install the upper inner 
bearing, 

this is important, otherwise you have to remove the stub axle again to put 
that upper inner bearing in. 

 so you can tap that out upper inner bearing from up the tube with a pipe, 
then tap a good one in, install lower one etc.

enjoy  :0  

In a message dated 2/20/2004 7:33:10 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
harmony(-at-)buszen.com writes:
--- Claralw(-at-)aol.com wrote:
> I good thuunk when you wiggle the axles tends to be
> a fulcrm plate area 
> issue.  I'd pull th RGBs and axles and scope that
> out.

I am new to pre-68 bus trannies, what is the fulcrum
plate area??
Thanks, John baker

..............................................................................
.........
http://home.comcast.net/~sunrisebus/sunrisebuswerk.html
