From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 20 Nov 2006 21:24:55 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Of head studs and heat exchangers, was Re: [VB]

Hi 1970westfalia,
You can easily grind down the stud, center punch it, and drill it with a  
1/8" pilot drill bit.  Then work up in sizes of drill bits (you can work  the 
drills over if you do not get it quite centered in the first try) till  you end 
up with just the spiral threads in the head, which you tap out.   Make sure to 
one turn in, and half turn out to keep the shavings broken up  and keep the 
tap from seizing, and use only HSS taps.  Plus  remove the tap often to blow or 
magnet the shavings out.
  OR if you do not get it quite center a slight crescent leftover  of the 
stud which you center punch this remaining piece loose and pry out with  needle 
nose pliers, and tap out the rest.
  If you are really bad at drilling you can fix your badly done handy  work 
with a step stud that is one size bigger than the original hole and stud on  
half its length, and the other have that sticks out is the same as the  
original.  So drilling the hole bigger and tapping is required.
  To avoid having this problem in the first place, you should at least  use a 
never-seize type lubricant that is heat resistant.  An added good  thing to 
do is to stop by your local Toyota dealership and buy copper exhaust  nuts they 
use.  Take an example of yours to get the right ones.
  The stock gaskets for the HEs are fine and dandy.  You  must make sure that 
the surface of the heads and the HE ends are straight.   The HEs are the 
biggest problem due to volks over torquing  the nuts or  backing into a curb with 
a mondo after market muffler that hangs to  low.  Some slight bending back 
with a large crescent wrench and a  little filing to get them straight again.  
Problem with replacement HEs we  have seen is they do not have larger ribbed 
inner tubing inside for more surface  area for cooling the exhaust gases.  They 
only have a small round  tubing.  This can cause more back pressure and over 
heating of the engine,  and less hot air to the interior.
Eric&Barb
