From: "David Maurio" <david.maurio(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <ron(-at-)busdepot.com>
Date: Tue, 25 Jun 2002 22:32:53 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] Pop top order fiasco

>You never had a positive thing to say when almost all
>of your "estimated 7-10 working day" ground
>orders got to you within 24 hours -

Actually if you search the archives, I've recommended The Bus Depot several
times to several different people looking for items, and I've said that you
were quick, reliable, and dependable.

>I am sorry that the manufacturer ran out of material so we didn't get our
>full canvas order. Of course, we shipped the ones we got based on the date
>the order was placed, which is only fair - and your order was just placed
>yesterday, so by the time we got to it today some colors were sold out.
Had
>we received our full order there would have been no problem.  And in fact
we
>already have more on the way (except for gray, which is a couple of weeks
>out).

Had this been explained to me yesterday when I called to confirm my order,
there would not have been a problem, instead I was told that yes my order
was ok, and would be shipped "immediately."

>We offered you a yellow one pronto, out of our stock.

I don't want a yellow one... that's like me ordering a Pentium 4 from Dell
and them calling to tell me they can't fill my order, but hey... "here's a
nice Pentium 3 we've got that we can send ya... It's your problem if you
don't want the P3..."

>But you want me to send it to you via Air, and pay for that out of MY OWN
>pocket.  On an order I just received YESTERDAY!  That I will not do.  I'm
>sorry.

I never asked you to pay for my shipping, I only asked if I could get a
discount to "help defray the cost of the air delivery" (my exact words)
since, had I not been given false information when I initially called to
check my order, I could have switched to a tan one, which you still had in
stock on Monday.  Having spent many years working in customer service, I
know that this is a very legitimate request.

>I don't think I owe you an apology for the service you have received from
>The Bus Depot.  In fact I kind of feel like you owe me one.

I didn't ask you for an apology Ron, and I don't expect one.   Just common,
courteous customer service.  And just so everyone knows, I did take
advantage of your staff's offer to order one directly from the factory, and
have it drop shipped to my door, and I did pay for 2nd or 3rd day air,
because even with the shipping charge, The Bus Depot's price and ability to
get it to me as fast as possible is still much better than your
competitions...  Bravo!

And as far as me owing you an apology, check my sales records and see how
much money I've already spent at your shop, based on that info, figure out
how much money I am likely to spend at your shop in the future... I think
I've more than covered the cost of an apology.

