Date: Wed, 26 Jun 2002 13:46:46 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] I really need help, folks


>Other data was compression 120 all the way
>around, #3 started firing when I changed plugs,
>#4 still dead.  Replaced #4 plug wire with known
>good and it's still dead.  Replaced dizzy cap.
>#4 dead.
>
>With the plug fouling, I suspect dumping that
>oily breather blowby directly into the carb port
>may have fouled up the intake?  Any thoughts on
>dieseling the carb as per Muir?

Is one side really, really lean? I saw a center mounted Weber conversion 
with some vacuum leaks not work well because one cylinder was leaner than 
it's cousins. Do you have access to a carb you can temporarily install?

I've done the diesel thing as it won't help your carb. It does burn or wash 
out carbon buildup in the combustion chamber and it make LOTS of smoke. 
Don't do it close to the house!!! I always rode down the road and put it in 
a parking lot or on a backroad. Idle the engine fast and pour a pencil 
thick stream of diesel into the carb. Makes LOTS of smoke - did I mention 
that? You can do the same with water.

I'd change the oil but I don't know for sure that you need to.

Is your distributor set up right? When the engine is at #1 TDC is the rotor 
pointing at the little mark on the rim of the dist.? That might do it. Then 
naturally your #1 wire goes on there and ten follow the firing order - BUT 
remember the rotation of the dist. It follows the arrow on the side. I 
think the arrow is near the serial number stamped on the side of the dist.

It's either ignition or fuel. Does a dash or fuel or a squirt of something 
flammable in the 3/4 carb make those cylinders come alive? If so then your 
ignition is fine, and you have a gas problem.

Is it a vacuum leak? More squirts around all the hoses and the manifold 
will tell the tale. If they come alive with a squirt of fuel then you have 
found the problem.

Does the cylinders come alive when you back off the mixture screw? No - 
then I'd say you need to pull the carb down for repairs.

I know that some of the dual carbs are mixture linked - that is one carb 
sets the mixture for both. Are these carbs those? Is the line obstructed? 
Is there a leak on that line? Is there anyway the right mixture is not 
coming out of the master carb? If not then the problem is in that carb.

I'm really reaching here - write back and tell us what happened, may be we 
can offer more insight. Do you have the Bentley book? I think their 
procedures are more exhaustive than Muir but be sure to read Muir's book too.


Ciao!

Chris Mills
Cookeville, Tennessee
ICQ# 5944649

