Date: Tue, 5 Jul 2005 21:49:39 -0600
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Jack Dinan <jdinan(-at-)cox.net>
Cc: bus list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Re: [T2] Yay! I wasn't overheating!!!

> Don: Could you explain? Made a huge difference in what? Driveability?
> Flat spot?


My bus hasn't had a flat spot since I dumped the 009 (except in below
freezing temps before I rebuilt my distributor).

No, the pickup is a bit smoother, and there's no sudden cut in power
over 4k rpms. That was the big problem. It felt like overheating, like
a valve was stretching. But valve adjustments were fine when checked
the next morning.

I've talked to other Pertronix users (*cough*fordguys*cough*) who
experienced the same thing under the following conditions:

Dwell too high / pertronix gap too wide
Stock or cheap aftermarket coil

A wider gap in a Pertronix allows the sensor to "see" the rotating
magnets for a longer period. Like the higher you get from the Earth's
surface, the more of the surface you can see.

My uneducated overly complicated completely outtamyarse explanation is
that the field never has a chance to completely build in the coil so
the field collapse isn't very strong. I'll bet that affects the
resistance the Pertronix sees as well, causing the spiking or bouncing
of the tachometer. Since I have no way to verify that, it's only a
guess. But it fits the results I've experienced.

Anyway, bus runs strong whether hot or cold now. No spiking tach. I've
pulled up hills at 5k rpm with no problem, though I prefer to keep it
under 4500 if I can. Here are my ignition specs:

NGK plugs at stock gap (soon to change)
Later bay stock dizzy
Pertronix Ignitor
Mallory HyFire ignition system (non-CDI)
Mallory Promaster coil (just added on Sunday, was a Wells coil from Autozone)

Hope this helps explain what I've experienced and how things have
improved. I'm very happy with that HyFire though. I noticed a
difference in performance just from that installation when I was still
running points and crappy coil. I have NOT noticed a difference with
the Promaster coil though. That's where the regap of the plugs will
come in...



--
Don
