Date: Wed, 6 Jul 2005 20:47:53 +0000 (GMT)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: Chuckinsey(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 82 Westy alternator light, noisy lifter

On Wed, 6 Jul 2005 Chuckinsey(-at-)aol.com wrote:

> When I first start my 82 Westy in the morning two things occur.  First  the
> alternator light does not go out until I rev the engine just once after  about
> 20 seconds of running. It then remains out until I stop the engine and
> restart it.  This always occurs at start up during the day.  Just one  little punch
> on the gas pedal and out it goes. Is there a fix on  this?

If there is, I don't know it.  This is perfectly normal behaviour for the
later alternators.  You have to get the RPMs to a certain point before the
alternator begisn generating electricity.  At that point the voltage
regulator kicks in and turns the alternator light off.  I suppose you
could adapt the alternator or VR out of a bay if it bothered you but be
assured that this is normal and there is nothing wrong.

> 2nd issue at start up is a very very noisy hydraulic lifter.  After  about 10
> seconds when the oil has reached the lifter it quiets down and remains  quiet
> for the day.  Every so often, as this morning after camping over the
> weekend, the lifter remained noisy for about 30 seconds.  Besides replacing  the
> lifter should I

> 4. Fahgeddaboutit

I would choose door #4, Monty!  This is NOT normal, but it is VERY common.
Mr. Kolak's suggestion and yours of various snake oils might work, but the
true problem is that the clearances in one of the lifters have opened up
and it is going to drain.  If this is a relatively new engine (< 10K since
overhaul) then I'd replacing that lifter (or at least pull it and rotate
the drain hole to the top (but note that this is really a psychological
trick on myself))but if it is an older engine then I'd live with it.
Think of it as a mandatory minimum warm-up.  Replacing the lifter or
adding snake oil when the other lifters and cam are in the same worn state
can bring on other problems.  Letting it ride until rebuild keeps mated
and familiar parts together.

OOK!
