Date: Thu, 7 Jul 2005 00:10:55 -0400
From: R C <rcnotes(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Replacing Steering Gear Box

The replacement steering box and rubber coupling (Bus Depot) are in
and the bus drives straight. It's a bit stiff (probably because the
old box was loose and sloppy) but it is much more precise, A big
improvement,

I fitted the drop arm (Pitman arm, Who the heck was Pitman?) I lined
it up the L (for left side drive) that's stamped on the big end of arm
with the mark on the end of output shaft.  Since I parked the bus with
the wheels straight and the steering wheel arms close to 3 and 9 the
drag link ball joint lined up and fit back into the bottom hole of the
drop arm. It wasn't hard to move the ouput shaft a little bit by
turning the rubber coupling.

When I installed the bolt under the dash that secures the front of the
steering column bracket, the column lined up and dropped down onto the
steering box input shaft. No help needed.

From underneath, I could rotate the rubber coupling (and the steering
column) by hand (not too difficult) until the groove on the input
shaft lined up with the split bracket on the underside of the
coupling. It faced away from me ( on back, looking up, feet out in
front of the bus),  While making small adjustments to the alignment of
the coupling to the shaft, the bolt lined up with the groove and
slipped through the hole. I put the nut on the other end.

I torqued the castellated nut on the ball joint of the drag link and
the drop arm and put in a new cotter pin. I borrowed a 36mm socket,
torqued the big nut on the ouput shaft and bent the washer back
against the flat on the nut.

The steering column floor bracket was screwed back down and the two
bolts that secure the column to the dash were wrenched tight. I didn't
have the two nylon collapsable steering column washers, shame on me.
No parts left over.

I put the bus up on jackstands to check the steering, rechecked my
work underneath, replaced the belly pan, let it down, started it up
and took a 20 minute joyride. Cool beans!

Rick
