From: "Todd Schroeder" <trschroeder(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 15 Oct 2003 00:50:35 -0700
Subject: I'm ba-ack! (Re-introduction of an old listee)

Greetings to all and sundry!

My name is Todd Schroeder, and I was pretty active on this list, and on
vanagon(-at-)lenti before that, for quite a while. For some ancient history , see
http://www.type2.com/archive/vanagon/08991.html I was putting 20,000 miles a
year on my '71 Campmobile in and around Phoenix, Arizona. But things happen,
and I bought a new '00 Honda Accord and was seduced by such things as air
conditioning, being able to hear the radio over the engine, being able to go
from 0 to 60 MPH in less than 45 seconds -- stuff like that. The bus was
relegated to the garage and was brought out mainly to haul large bulky items
from the home center.

But as things turn out, it looks like the bus will become our second vehicle
again, at least until we figure out why the Jeep suddenly dies in the middle
of traffic. (The bus has frequently broken down in the middle of traffic,
but I've always been able to figure out why).  So we're putting a few bucks
into it and getting it back in presentable condition.  My wife and I have
been making seat covers to hide the authentic but hideous harvest gold
upholstery, have an appointment to get the front seats rebuild, and it's
getting a oilcan dent pounded out of the nose (which is a large part of why
I don't seem to drive it anymore).  I've got some minor parts on order from
various places to deal with things like the visor flopping over the rearview
mirror.

I spent a good deal of the weekend driving it around town looking for
fabric, going to lunch, errands, etc. It was good to have the window rolled
down and the elbow out (modern cars don't seem to be set up for that simple
pleasure), Sapphire radio cranked up.  I'm looking
forward to driving it again, at least until it gets hot in May.

Alas, my daughter is no longer the sweet 6-year old she was in 1995 (see
http://www.type2.com/archive/vanagon/27937.html). She's now almost 15 and
refuses to ride in it .. probably due to the times Dad ran out of gas on the
freeway. Her friends all think it's pretty cool, though, so there's hope.

So I thought I'd join the list again for a bit and see what's been going on
lately.  Hello to all those old friends still around, and greetings to all
the friends I haven't met yet.

Cheers!

Todd R Schroeder  '71 Campmobile (Daddybus)
