From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
To: tom.loan(-at-)rogers.com, tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 5 May 2003 10:38:12 -0400 
Subject: RE: [T2] Sloppy Shifter???

Thanks Tom,

	I'll have to take a good look under there and see what if anything
is loose.
I can feel it SNAP into gear, but the shifter itself feels very sloppy when
it's not in gear.

I have a 1973 Transporter. The motor however is a much newer one that was
rebuilt and installed into the Bus before I got it. It's a 1.8 liter with
hydraulic lifters.

Yeah... when I met my girlfriend (fiancee), her own car was low on oil,
hadn't been changed in like 10 thousand miles.. original spark plugs,
original plug wires... it was a mess. I had her spend about 200 bucks on her
Isuzu Amigo and did a major tune up on it. 


Todd Jaspers - Programmer
AmeriPath IT - Fort Lauderdale
954-377-3291

> CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments, is
for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential
and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or
distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original
message.


-----Original Message-----
From: Tom and Thanh [mailto:tom.loan(-at-)rogers.com]
Sent: Monday, May 05, 2003 9:39 AM
To: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com; type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Sloppy Shifter???


There is a reverse lockout plate that fits under the shifter. A manual will
show you how to install it and what it looks like. You may be missing it.
Not too hard to find at any junkyard or VW retailer.
Sloppy shifting can be other things too, which you can repair.
New shift coupler at the front of the trans.
New shift rod bushings, especially the front one near the shifter.
Worn out hockey stick and bushings in the trans nose cone. (I just got a
late model 091 nosecone and hardened hockey stick from Transform in Long
Beach, which will clean up the sloppy shifting, whenever I get around to
dropping the trans and installing it)

BTW, letting girlfriends or others drive VW buses has been known to lead to
engines being run out of oil, overheated and driven faster than they can
take. I've heard too many stories of, it had a tick in the engine when I got
it back.  Beware, check your oil!
BTW, what year is your bus?

Tom

70 High Roof
