From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Mon, 5 May 2003 10:30:21 -0500 (CDT)
To: tom.loan(-at-)rogers.com (Tom and Thanh)
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Paint Jobs and Prices

I this subject is all in a person's sense of value's--
I wash my vehicles ( which one I'm driving) once a week-and wax it once
a month-- 
I can't stand to be driving a unkept ride-- it drives me nuts--outside
as well as the interior--
So For me a roll and brush, patched up Van or Bus is totally out of the
question--and this will also reflect on when it comes time to part with
any one of them--I'll get top buck-no questions asked.

I bought a rear seat from a guy up in Madison Wisconsin--he tells me on
the phone it's soiled--nothing more.
I drive up there--( 125 miles ) and the seat was filthy--and had some
small burns in it, junk

Now the Westy he is driving is really a toilet--crashed, dented, filthy
inside and out--I should have known as soon as I saw this rat what I was
going to be viewing.
He tells me when I bitch about the condition of the seat--"hey I told
you it was soiled"--

I say--"Hey my van is soiled, from the drive up here--you van is a
rat---so I guess it's all your sense of value's or interpretation of
soiled and junk--"

Anyway--I got the seat for 1/4th of what he was asking--

Pride in ownership would be another good term I guess--

I have a hard time imagining driving something that looked like a
refugee from a Waste Management garbage reclamation area.

So roller's, Paint brushes, poof bomb spray cans, POR 15, Tremclad,
MIracle in a Can, or anything other than factory new is not in my
vernacular.

Later,

  Terry

 
E-mail message   
 
Paint Jobs and Prices 
My bus is a combination of original 70 California oxidized paint, and
touched up where needed with Tremclad rust paint on a brush. The paint
work would make a purist cry. It looks funky(but not that bad) but if a
rock hits it or something else comes along like a moronic door swinger,
it's like, oh darn, where's that can of Tremclad? The body is original
and nearly perfect, and at any show of rust I have an arsenal of angle
grinder, Dremel tool etc ready to do my 5 minute body work. No rust is
allowed to exist for any time at all. 
Tom
