From: "Casting Fool" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 5 May 2003 13:20:20 -0400
Subject: Re: Paint Jobs (& a CF&Son's repro parts update)

From: "Terry K." <CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net>
> Money is a big issue here Mike--no doubt--
> If putting food on the table is an important issue-- maybe VW's shoudn't
be part of your life right now--they are like paying rent or feeding the
family--they require the bucks on a regular basis--no way around it--it's an
understood thing.

If I have to put $ into a vehicle, it's going to be one that I know will
last longer than I will with the proper care (hmm... both of us I suppose).
It's going to be one that I can love and work on myself, with having to
resort to the mechanic as a last resort.

I learned from many years in church that you can't give to much credence to
the opinions of others, but statements of fact (or doctrine, if one pleases)
are another thing altogether.

In the long run, anyone else's idea of good, bad, mint, minty, rat, fat,
laid back or paddywhack doesn't matter; it matters what I personally think
and believe and am satisfied with.

In my case, being stuck with owning older cars that eventually all need
parts and maintenance, Giacomo is the best for my money.  I can get most
used parts at a reasonable price, new parts at not too bad a price, and some
parts I can make myself through my business.  And I can do 99% of the work
myself.  Not so with the `87 Sentra that I'm currently getting rid of.

And repro'ing parts is cool in that I can sell what I make for the bus and
reap some income from it.  All in all, a good thing for the family. :O)

BTW, the heater levers, horn button, ergo shifter knob, sliding door handle,
improved seatbelt hook (parts #10, 18 19 & 20), and the long stem mirror
mount are just waiting on more RTV to arrive to produce the production
molds!

A note on the long stem mirror mount.  I've run into a problem with
remounting the mirror onto the new stem.  A lot of the old mirrors are shot.
The rim on the cup that snaps onto the stem tends to crumble when you try to
remount the mirror. :O(

I'll take it a step further and try to repro the day/night mirror housing
(the repro will easily come apart to insert your old mirror glass into it),
but I need to know first if there are any after-market mirrors that will
already serve this purpose.

It's going to be a lot of work to disassemble the mirror housing (the glass
is already out of mine) to repro the day/night mechanism.  Hate to do it if
folks are going to buy a cheaper after-market mirror housing.

I'm also working on a key fob that allows a key much like the one that
starts my bus to rotate up into the fob.  The fob is just a little bit
bigger than the key, about 2.5" x 1.125" x 0.375" (6.35cm x 2.86cm x
0.95cm).

Surprisingly, the fob sorta looks like one of the vehicles in my driveway at
the moment... whaddayaknow...  dang, that's amazing....  wonder if the
general outline shape of a vehicle is copyrighted... well, if it is, I guess
that I'll just have to give them away. :O)

(It's really a kit.  You get two parts, assembled it, then paint it however
suits your fancy.)

Just recently someone asked if I could do the chrome headlight ring.  I can,
and while the resin that I use has been proved to be successfully compatible
with the chrome electroplating process, I can only do them in different
colors and gold, silver, bronze, copper, & gunmetal metalized finishes.  I'm
not set up to do electroplating.

Actually, I could do them in clear in different colors, too... I wonder if
there's enough light escaping from the edge of the headlight to illuminate
the rings... hmm?  Got to check that one out.

And wait'll you see the prototype for the resilient (rubbery) resin baby bus
bumper guards that I'm trying to design...

:O)

TTFN - Mike Jackson
`77 Bay, "Giacomo"
Casting Fool & Son
Augusta, GA  USA
http://www.cfnson.com
