Date: Mon, 05 May 2003 15:47:06 -0700
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Paint Jobs and Prices

On Monday, May 05, 2003, at 10:56AM, Wakanska <Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net> wrote:

>The best advice that I have heard is to do all the prep yourself and take
>the bus to Earl Scheib, Maaco, One Day or whatever budget painting place you
>can find and go for it. Most of the quality and labor and cost is in the
>prep process, anyway.

Prep ends when you take it to Maaco but there are important time consuming prep and cleaning steps in between primer and "finished" and this shows up in the Maaco quality. It's also a fact that they don't use durable paints. Locate a 3-yr old Maaco painted car. No point arguing how adequate they are by looking at the car as it comes out of their paint booth.

My most recent experience is with my dad car; the hood was repainted and it bubbled within 3 months and it looks worse than it did before the paint job because the imperfections stand out more. He decided despite my warnings that it would still be cheaper to paint it several times poorly that to pay the money to paint it right. I won't argue with that logic.

Since your bus isn't shipped overnight to Mexico, the savings come from cutting corners at every step of the process. Many people have decided this is acceptible. For many this is a step up from DIY; for the more skilled, it's a step down.

Whatever you or I  decide to do to a bus, it certainly doesn't deserve list ridicule.

> Prep is going to have FAR more effect on the final
>product than anything else, from what I've heard. It's also the only part
>that almost anyone can do themselves well, without a lot of equipment and
>spray booths, if they're willing to take the time to do it right. It's hard
>work, but it's also where you can save the most money.

Don't assume that spending 40-80 hours doing it yourself is the least expensive option. Time is worth money. What if I want to work overtime and save up the same amount of money. I love working on my bus but without an adequate garage at my apartment I'd rather get the body and paintwork done by a professional for the same effort as sitting down at the computer.

--
Richard
1978 Westfalia CDN
Cupertino, CA
