Date: Mon, 05 May 2003 23:30:47 -0700
From: Tom <turtlebus(-at-)netzero.net>
To: D&C Tuinstra <tuinstrad(-at-)attbi.com>, Type2 <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] gas tank sending unit

First you need the correct tool; an ohm meter.
1. remove the sending unit from the tank. You will need to be able to 
move the float through its full range of motion.
2. Zero your ohm meter per mfgrs instructions if you have an analog 
meter. If you have a digital meter touch the test leads together to 
ensure you get a 0 resistance reading .
3. Connect ohm meter test leads to the electrical connections on the 
sending unit. It helps if you have alligator clips or a willing assistant.
4. While holding the sending unit in an upright position similar to its 
normal position in the tank Slowly lift the float and observe the ohm 
meter. The resistance should increase in a linear fashion. I don't 
recall what the low and high reading should be but it doesn't really 
matter as long as you get a nice smooth increase in resistance through 
the range of motion. If at any time resistance jumps to infinity or 
never changes; you should jump up and whip out your wallet. ( To buy a 
new sending unit :-) )
5. If the above test does not cause you to jump up, the problem  is 
either in the wiring or the fuel level gauge itself. I recommend you 
first inspect and clean every connector you can find in the circuit. I 
assume you have a Bentley manual. If not go to the local library, book 
store or fellow bus owner and get one. You will need the electrical 
schematic to find all the connectors. Get the connector CLEAN. Look for 
frayed wires at the connectors, repair as needed. Pay particular 
attention to the ground wire. It's the short wire connected to the 
sending unit then directly to the body of the bus. On my 75 it was 
attached to the body with a rusty screw. If yours is the same replace 
the screw and make sure there is no rust or paint in the screw hole.
6. You haven't put the sending unit back in the tank yet have you? Now 
that you have checked and cleaned all your connections including the 
ones behind the dash, connect the sending unit back into the circuit. 
Don't forget to hook up the ground wire. Make sure there is NO gasoline 
around!  Disable your distributor. Have your assistant turn the ignition 
key to the on position (not the start position) and move the float 
through it's range of motion. If the needle moves from E to F you are 
home free!
7. If the E-F needle didn't move in step 6 look at the back of the fuel 
gauge. Disconnect the 2 wires from the gauge and connect your ohm meter 
to the wires. Have your assistant work the float on the sending unit. 
you should observe the same linear change in resistance you saw in step 
4. The minimum and maximum readings may be an ohm or two higher than 
step 4. that's ok, even good wire and connections have some resistance. 
If you get a good reading here then the gauge probably need replacing. 
If you get a bad reading go back to step 5 and find that bad connection 
or broken wire you missed. If you get lost in the wiring let me know. I 
can tell you about half splitting and straight lining the circuit.
Good hunting and good luck,
Tom
D&C Tuinstra wrote:

>Thanks for the continued support on my project.  I appreciate all of your
>responses to my questions!
>
>I have the gas tank out. '78 westy.  When I brought the bus home the gauge did
>not work. 
