From: "Wakanska" <Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 6 May 2003 00:25:49 -0700
Subject: motor mounts

Well, I finally got around to putting on those motor mounts. Seems like life
is what happens when you're making other plans. Right now, I'm being bombarded
by elder care issues and that takes a lot of my formerly available time.
Someone else had asked about this process, and a few answers were given..
something to the effect that one person thought it would involve removing a
heater box... another person seemed to recall having done the job by only
removing the exhaust.
Today, I started by removing one heater box.. no small feat, since two of the
exhaust bolts were frozen and had to be cut, one by hand with a hacksaw.
Naturally, these were the last two bolts, in the worse position, and took the
longest period of time (I can't really imagine doing this with the engine IN
the car, BTW!). But, I reasoned that if a heater box were removed, that the
cross member / support bracket thing would be able to be dropped, allowing
access to the rubber mounts.. funny looking things with an oddly angled stud
at either end. This did prove to be correct.. I was able to access the motor
mounts by doing this, at least the bottom part of them...
It turns out that both mounts had failed by having the rubber shear away from
the top metal plate and stud.. so the upper half of the stud was still captive
on the upper bracket, which is bolted to the engine case. I wonder if this is
a common cause of failure. None of the nuts were loose or missing, but one
stud was bent, so that I had to take a hand grinder to it to taper the end
sufficient for it to release.
Since this may be a common means of failure for these mounts, and since the
top studs are almost impossible to get to by any other means anyway, the thing
to do if one wants to replace these mounts is to remove the fan housing. You
do that, of course, by removing the fan itself (four bolts in the center) and
then removing the four bolts behind that. You will also have to loosen the
alternator to get the alternator belt off first (adjustment allen bolt behind
the little plastic pull out above the alternator) and if you have gotten this
far, you may even consider replacing the alternator proactively.. but that
gets a little more involved. At any rate, I decided to remove the entire fan
housing to clean and inspect, and to do that I also went underneath and
removed the oil fill tube by removing two bolts and used a catch pan for the
oil. There is also a little cable clamp up top of the fan housing that
controls the air flaps on both sides, top, inside the housing. That must also
be loosened to release the cable for fan housing removal.
On this, I would like to ask a question.. Are both of these flaps supposed to
be oriented at the same angle?
I may have loosened and removed more than I absolutely had to, and removed the
oil dipstick as well.. A little rubber boot joining the outer and inner
(engine) metal sleeves broke, but I'm just going to try to repair it with a
little rubber hose. It looks like something that is NLA.
If one didn't want to remove their fan housing, they might be able to pull it
away just enough to look down from above the housing and, using a good light
and a long extension, release the two upper studs for both motor mounts.. I
believe they are a 13MM... maybe 14MM.
The new mounts should be secured to the upper brackets first, bottom last.
Their orientation is important, as they are angled and must be placed "just
so". I had a helper at this point and we went from top to bottom, tightening
and adjusting until they were just right. Then, assuming that you have indeed
dropped a heater box to allow the cross member to drop on one end, you will be
able to get the clearance that you need to remove the old mounts and put in
the new. The bottom studs are rather long and aren't going to clear,
otherwise.
It was a bit of a PITA, but tomorrow I'm ready to go buy my exhaust gaskets
and start putting it all back together. And I AM going to exchange the
alternator, unless someone tells me, "NO! You don't need to do that!". I'd
rather do it now than out on the road somewhere. I don't know the history of
this vehicle and I don't know when it was last replaced.
I'll probably spend at least two or three hours cleaning, too. This engine was
pretty dirty, and I want it to look like someone cares. I think that it may
help in the "bonding" process, too.
At least now I am a little bit less afraid of this new engine. The old
uprights were a familiar friend to me but I didn't know WHAT to make up this
set-up.
