Date: Wed, 14 Apr 2004 08:14:19 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] Anyone try Seafoam?

Know that if the motor never sees dirty oil and is maintained properly, you 
will never build up excess carbon to begin with. Neither will you build up 
varnish inside, nor tars and crud. All these come from overloading the 
detergents and/or poor combustion due to out of spec conditions. Keep the 
motor running clean at all times and you will never need a stop gap "fix" 
of a preventable defect.

That being said, we can then address the 95% of motors that are not kept 
clean by actual inspection. This is why quicky "solutions" sell so well. 
How to get around actual effort for actual results. Panacea rules the 
masses and the charlatans abound.

Know that some who try this quicky cleaning procedure shall have a bit of 
carbon foul a valve. I know of one Mercedes which when they tried restart 
had no compression in any cylinders. All the valves were instantly fouled. 
$2500+ bill. How many oil changes does that represent????? How many cans of 
snake oyl that claim to dissolve carbon would be needed if there were no 
deposits. No matter how much you spend on snake oyl, it can never give the 
better cost/mile of putting all the snake oyl money into maintenance by 
inspection, not time or mileage.

Know also that you don't have to buy a panacea for this procedure. Water 
will do. Use a perfume atomizer. Rev the motor and spray the intake. Steam 
bath will pulverize the carbon and if you are lucky it will all blow out 
the exhaust.

As regards winter storage, just start and run the motor every few weeks. If 
you want to let it sit for months, pull the plugs and spray in a 
preservative oil, then turn the motor a few times. I don't think this is 
necessary except in the event of high humidity, like storing on dirt in a 
barn with a leaky roof near the sea shore.

Want empirical evidence of conditions?? When you put the Bus up for the 
winter, put a clean piece of carbon steel inside. Next spring, inspect it 
for rust. Use a second with a coat of your fav snake oyl for comparison.

At 06:44 AM 04/14/2004, you wrote:

>>From: T Berk <tberk(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
>
>Anyone try Seafoam?
>It's a solvent type spray   and after awhile things are supposed to be
>right as rain.
