From: "MICHAEL TURNER" <airmike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Date: Sun, 13 Jun 2004 12:57:37 -0700
Subject: Wanted to let let you know...

Hi Folks

I hope the "powers that be" will forgive this post with little direct
Volkswagen content. Promise not to do it again.It does relate to Volkswagen
however if you order parts and services for your VW bus over the Internet or
through the postal service. Wanted to pass the word my bus bra finally
appeared Saturday about two days after posting the following to Dawn Smyth at
Peace, Love, and Freedom (PLF/Volkswagen)  in the mail. Good timing for me as
I can now drop this issue and move on. Things I've learned include...."trust,
but verify", certify and document, don't hesitate to contact your state
consumer protection agency or division if you have a problem. For any of you
still holding issues like mine, I recommend it.

Mike Turner

9 June 2004

Mrs. Dawn Smyth,

436 S. Stewart

Mesa, Arizona

85202

Mrs. Smyth,

I deeply regret having to communicate with you in this manner. It has been 30
days since I last heard from you regarding the custom bra which I originally
ordered from you on 1 March this year. In order that we both understand the
circumstances surrounding this transaction, let me review the matter, as I
currently understand it.

  1.. I first contacted you concerning the manufacture of a custom bra for my
1963 bus in the second or third week of February this year.
  After some discussion and exchange of pictures, I mailed you a postal

  money order under certified mail

  Which was received by you on 8 March 2004.

  2.. On Friday 19 March 2004 I e-mailed you the following note:
Hi Dawn,

Hope you remember me, Mike Turner. I sent a money order on the first of March,
certified mail to pay for a deluxe bra. I haven't heard back as yet how things
are going. Just wanted to say hello and see if we are still on track.

3. On 19 March you replied:

"I received your order and all is good"

"I am getting things back underway and on track. I will look forward to

getting it out in the next couple of weeks"

  4.. After no contact from you in "the next couple of weeks"
  I attempted to reach you through e-mail and through the telephone, all to no
avail. After seven weeks I e-mailed the following to you, dated 6 May 2004

  "I'm very frustrated and frankly fearful that my $240.00 bucks are history.
Haven't heard from you in ages! If I'm not to get my bra, can I get my money
back? Are you so uncaring that basic civility and ethics don't permit even a
reply? What am I supposed to do?"

  5.. On Saturday 8 May 2004 you replied:
  "I am working on your bra, my computer has been acting up making it near
impossible to get to my e-mail and reply. I will go over my time frame and
give you an update on Monday".

  6.. As of today 9 June 2004 the promised update has not appeared!
It is readily apparent, that you have no intention of completing this order.

It seems also that you are intent on keeping my money.

Thus I want to inform you that I have begun the process of filing a complaint

Against you with the Washington State Attorney Generals Office,

Consumer Protection Division. I will take whatever steps are legally available
to me to pursue this matter.

Mrs. Smith, I believe at this moment that you have perpetuated an act of
fraud. I wish this was not so, however all actions and evidence by you Lead me
to this conclusion.

The solution for this problem is simple. My money returned or the custom bra
as requested. I would certainly think an elapsed time of thirteen weeks would
be adequate to manufacture one bra.

Michael J.Turner
