Date: Sun, 13 Jun 2004 22:00:28 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: josh brothers <oldsplit2003(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] id like to thank everyone

On Sun, 13 Jun 2004, josh brothers wrote:

> i dont have the idiot guide or the bus manual yet, i use old chilton books. i polarized the generator like the  e-mail in the archive said to, and the oil is a little bit abouve the full line. the lights go on and off, on when i turn the bus on, and off, then a few seconds later, on again, then they go off, then on, then off when i turn the bus off. and its a slow off and on, like the lights slowly go out, then slowly go on. the engine was just rebuilt, and was even torn down to double check everything, then rebuilt again. i will change the belt tightness to see if it helps out or not. thanks for the replies,
> josh

Josh,

These problems could be faulty wiring or grounds at the speedo for those
lamps, or it could be a real and dangerous problem with the engine or
generator. You need to do some diagnostics to figure this out. The red
light only comes on when the generator is not charging the battery. This
could also mean the generator is not turning (broken fan belt), or bad
connections to the voltage regulator or back from that to the battery.

The green lamp is the low oil pressure indicator. If your engine is
purring and not overheating and has been running more than about 20
minutes, and there's sufficient oil in it, then it's prolly not an oil
pressure problem, but instead a wiring problem or bad oil sensor switch at
the engine. I believe the oil lamp goes on when the oil pressure switch
grounds the wire going to it from the oil pressure lamp up front on the
speedo. You can try disconnecting that wire and grounding it, with the
igniton switch in the "on" position - engine doesn't have to be running.
If I am correct, then with no oil pressure, the lamp lights, so grounding
that wire is like no pressure. Not grounding the wire is like having
enough oil pressure - normal operation. If the light is still coming on
with this wire disconnected from the switch at the engine, then you have a
grounding or shorting problem up at the speedo.

I don't recall how the genny light works - someone else will take that
one!

cal
