From: "gns.wagnon" <gns.wagnon(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <vintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 14 Jun 2004 18:52:35 -0500
Subject: Starter going?

Volk-a-maniacs,

Well, I just spent a week in Vegas... guess what I won?  Nothing.  That's
right, I paid for a few lightbulbs that seem to make everyone oooo and ahhh
there.  Anyway, I did a little road trip to and around the Grand Canyon and
didn't see one split window bus.  I'm a little bummed to tell you the truth.
We need more drivers out and about.

Now getting on to the subject.  When I got back, I drove 'Annie' down to the
parent-in-law's house to pick up the dog.  A wonderful drive.  I didn't know
how much I missed the bus until I spent a week in a Dodge-me Durango rental
with the family.  Anyway, on the way back I swung through Emory's campout in
McMinnville, OR.  Not much left on a Sunday afternoon.  Swap was cleaning up
before the dark clouds on the horizon hit.  Most of the things at this event
are Porsche anyway, but there are always a few bus's there.  A couple of
really nice campers were my drooling points.  A '54 red/black one was just
supreme.

Getting closer to the subject... When I tried to leave, I turned the key and I
got nothing out of the starter.  Lights came on, but no click, no nothing.
I've been through this before... I crawled under with a crescent (biggest tool
I had) and gave the starter a couple of good whacks.  Got in again and she
started right up.  It's been a month or so since I had to do this last time.
I figured it was a short term, but monthly process I had to go through until I
get the starter out and replaced/cleaned up.

Now we get to this morning, no start.  Grrrr-n-stuff.  I can give the starter
another whack, but my question to y'all is... will this likely just get worse
and worse until I have to replace the starter?

- Is just under $100 a reasonable price for a new/rebuilt starter?
- Is pulling the engine the best way to get in and replace the starter?

Any experience based advice would be appreciated.
Thanks,
Greg

'63 Panel camper conversion... getting prettier and more healthy with each
problem.
