From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>, "Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail)"
Date: Tue, 6 Aug 2002 11:01:39 -0700 
Subject: RE: [VB] Forget Petronix!  Go Pull-A-Part!

  This Toyota dizzy conversion is very interesting. There is a company here
in Havasu that builds Vaccum advance Toyota dizzys. They can build them to
any curve and advance you ask for. I have been to their shop and have
discussed modifying 009 dizzys with a vaccum advance. They make plates for
the Toyota and said it would be no problem to do the 009. 
  But if the Toyota could be modified to work in a VW it might be easier for
them to do the Toyotas. 
  I will look into this further.

ronnie  old volks of az

ps. On another note, I just removed an odd ball dizzy/coil combo from a bug.
It appeared to be a late Vanagon or Rabbit dizzy with a square coil (like a
GM). With an electronic ignition, the guy who installed it git it all
fiquerd out and it worked great. The only reson for the change out was the
car belongs to a teenage girl and they wanted ease of repair.

-----Original Message-----
From: Adrian Pillow [mailto:Apillow(-at-)manh.com]
Sent: Tuesday, August 06, 2002 10:22 AM
To: Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail); Full Moon Bus Club (E-mail)
Subject: [VB] Forget Petronix! Go Pull-A-Part!


This is very interesting!  Anyone tried this before?  I am guessing you just
plop the whole dizzy right into the T1 with associated wires.


"Alternative Electronic Ignition Distributers

Here is an idea that I discovered several years back and I THOUGHT I had it
on here, but I missed it somehow. There are several electronic ignition
distributers available today. I am not talking about aftermarket ones, I am
talking about ones you can find cheap in the local salvage yards. They
really work great and will crank until no tomorrow. Here is some of what I
have found: Mitsibushi engines (2.0, 2.6)have good ones. These are in Dogde
Colts, Dodge vans, K-cars, etc, as well as Hyundai (ever how you spell it!),
Precis, and others. Next, the older Toyota engine distributers work great.
These are found in any Toyotas that have the 2-TC, 3-TC, 18, 20, or 22R
engines. Make sure you get the "ignitor" if you are getting a Toyota dist.
These are attached to the coil. It is also a good idea to use the factory
coil with any distributer. Make a note of the wiring if you take it off of
the coil. If you switch them, it will fry the module. Next, all you have to
do is dis-assemble the dist., shorten the housing and shaft, bore the end of
the housing so you can use the bushing that you cut off on the end of the
housing, and then drill the shaft (5/32) so you can install the VW drive
gear. On the Mitsibushi distributers, some of them have the advance right
under the rotor and you can adjust it real easily. The others are in the
bottom, but still not too hard to adjust if you want to. Here are a few
notes: You do not have to take off the vacuum chamber on the outside, but I
always do because there is a mechanical advace built into each of these
distributers. If you leave it on, do not hook up a vacuum hose. If you take
it off, you will need to block the plate so that it will not turn. Once you
take the dist. apart, you will see what I mean. You can spot weld it with a
mig, or break the arm off of the vacuum chamber and drill a hold in the end
of it and screw it solid into the hole that originally held the vacuum
chamber in. Also, BEFORE you block it, make sure that the "plate" is in a
close enough position you that when the reluctor (the little square thing)
is aligned with the pickup, that the rotor button will be in line with one
of the 4 posts in the dist cap. Again, once you get it all apart you can
tell what I mean. Another note: Make sure, especially if you are using a
Mitsibushi dist., that you get the advance pins into the 2 slots. Just look
at it when you take it apart. They are easy to get out and if you do, the
mechanical advance will not work. I am going to get some pics of all of this
as soon as I have more time. One last note: If you are using a Toyota dist,
the shaft in these are REAL hard to drill. Heat it up cherry red first and
it will drill a lot easier. If you have any questions about these, just
e-mail me- Eric"  http://www.geocities.com/Baja/Dunes/9702/tips.html

Another interesting idea:
"I've gotten to be a big fan of the Hall-effect Vanagon dizzys -- drops
right in, has a good curve, no points, and if anything fails you can get
parts just about anywhere. Try finding a replacement Pertronix for the 009
when you're broke down in the boonies..."
"If the dizzy itself goes it doesn't matter if it's Vanagon, 009, 050 or
anything else. =) The hall unit and module can fail (just like Pertronix or
Compufire), but they're easy to replace on the roadside (ask me how I
know...), and they're commonly-available parts, used on every watercooled VW
and Audi through most of the '80s."
From Tristessa


I just installed a Petronix in my Chevy 350 last night to replace the points
and it was almost too easy.  Granted I did not see why the little thing cost
$74..? Marketing probably.

For a T1 this Vanagon dizzy sounds pretty good though!  Cheaper than a T1
Petronix for sure.


Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Microbus Westfalia "Biscuit"
1967 VW Microbus Standard/Westfakia "Dino" - For Sale
1979 Porsche 911 SC "Cochese" - For Sale 






--
