From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>, OldVolks General
Date: Tue, 6 Aug 2002 11:42:42 -0700 
Subject: RE: [VB] Forget Petronix!  Go Pull-A-Part!

I'll go out in the shop and see if I can find any numbers on it, remember
though this coil was usd ait a hal effect dizzy

ronnie

-----Original Message-----
From: Adrian Pillow [mailto:Apillow(-at-)manh.com]
Sent: Tuesday, August 06, 2002 11:13 AM
To: OldVolks General; Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail); Full Moon Bus
Club (E-mail)
Subject: RE: [VB] Forget Petronix! Go Pull-A-Part!


Interesting stuff Ronnie...  You gotta love some peoples creativity :)

Speaking of coils, from what I understand any coil will work on a four
banger as long as it is 3.0 ohms resistance.  So it really does not have to
be VW Bosch at all, just 3 ohms.  I would be interested to see what ohms our
mystery GM coil is using?  

Take Care,
Adrian  

-----Original Message-----
From: OldVolks General [mailto:General(-at-)OldVolks.com]
Sent: Tuesday, August 06, 2002 2:02 PM
To: Adrian Pillow; Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail); Full Moon Bus Club
(E-mail)
Subject: RE: [VB] Forget Petronix! Go Pull-A-Part!


  This Toyota dizzy conversion is very interesting. There is a company here
in Havasu that builds Vaccum advance Toyota dizzys. They can build them to
any curve and advance you ask for. I have been to their shop and have
discussed modifying 009 dizzys with a vaccum advance. They make plates for
the Toyota and said it would be no problem to do the 009. 
  But if the Toyota could be modified to work in a VW it might be easier for
them to do the Toyotas. 
  I will look into this further.

ronnie  old volks of az

ps. On another note, I just removed an odd ball dizzy/coil combo from a bug.
It appeared to be a late Vanagon or Rabbit dizzy with a square coil (like a
GM). With an electronic ignition, the guy who installed it git it all
fiquerd out and it worked great. The only reson for the change out was the
car belongs to a teenage girl and they wanted ease of repair.
