From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "Vintage List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 7 Aug 2002 00:18:54 -0400
Subject: AIRS-I have been saved

Thanks for all your help!

just got back from my trip, i've got a ton of digests to read! I just drove
from boston,MA to london, Ontario and back for my cousins wedding. Just
outside Rochester my generator bearings gave way...a terrible racket and
generator light ensued...i was too worried about the pulley exploding given
the off balance of the bearings to continue driving...anyway a quick call to
Ronnie at old volks-who I guess posted to the list, and also provided me
with a list of names from the AIRS site...I called about ten names before I
got through to Dave and Hilda Dionne outside Buffalo in West Seneca. DAve
was working the night shift and would not be home until 8am the next day.
But I was more than welcome to bring the bus there to work on it. I got a
tow to his house(94 miles) and arrived around 10:30 at night. His
wife -Hilda-welcomed me to their house, had dinner waiting, and a beer! what
hospitality. The next morning I got up early and started getting ready to
pull the engine to replace the generator-or pullit so that the bearings
could be replaced. DAve arrived shortly after eight, and affter working all
night proceeded to spend the better part of the day helping me fully
diagnose the problem, and find the replacement parts-turned out the best
option was to replace the generator-but I had a 6V, most places were 7-10
days. Luckily due to a call from an AIRS member whose name I cant
remember*(sorry-see note below) I got a place in Niagara-Johns bug shop.
they could have the generator in a day(friday night)unfortunately the
wedding ceremonies were starting thursday night. so i rented a car, left my
bus in Daves driveway, went to canada for the weekend, picked up my
generator monday morning, and Dave helped me install it that day. got back
on the road, and returned to my cousins up on Lake Huron for the week.

my family and friends were all incredulous at the story of the help I
received from the list. I on the other hand was quite proud to be a member
of such a great community. I only hope that I may one day return the favor
to another member.


*The names of all who offered to help is long. After word got out to the
list, i was hit with many calls of aid. Unfortunately as it was all
happening so fast I can not remember everyone's name that I spoke with. But
THANK YOU all for your help.

Kevin Guarnotta
'65 kombi
'67 sqbk

