Date: Thu, 11 Oct 2001 12:39:49 -0400
To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
From: Joe Clark <jclark(-at-)supernet.net>
Subject: There were NEVER any factory ragtop buses

OK, I know I need to switch to decaf, but when someone made the comment that a '70 westy "was made from a ragtop body" or suchlike, that big vein on my 
forehead started to throb again.

I've ranted about this before, but I can never figure out why the VW hobby has misappropriated the term "ragtop".  If you look in a dictionary, a "ragtop" is a 
_convertible, a car with a folding top, usually of fabric (thus "rag").  Oxford English dictionary has one entry for "ragtop": "U.S. slang, a convertible car with a soft 
hood."  Earliest reference cited is 1955.  (As an aside, the OED's etymology gives an argument for calling a single/doublecab with tilt and bows a "ragtop".)

I tend to blame the emergence of "ragtop" meaning "VW with fabric sunroof" on the known eloquence of the VW magazine writers/editors, who are still struggling 
with the correct spelling of "cool".  Yes, a means of distinguishing between the earlier fabric sunroof models and the later sliding steel sunroof models is needed, but 
why the hell call them ragtops when the rest of the antique auto hobby and the general population will think you're talking about a convertible?

Could it be ... illiteracy?

Which brings me to my second point (there goes the tic in my cheek, too):  a 70 sunroof bus body would not be a "ragtop" even by that sloppily attenuated use of 
the word, since the sunroof was STEEL on 68-up buses, even if it ain't there in a Westy.

Ragtops are convertibles, and although I've seen some custom buses without a roof, I've never seen a ragtop bus.

Scrabbling around in my desk drawer for that last Zoloft,
Joe "Mr. Language Nazi" Clark
1971 Westfalia Lagwagen (with a STEEL sunroof opening!)
1965 Neunsitzer Bulli
1965 Karmann Kabriolett (a REAL ragtop!)
Tallahassee Vintage VWs: http://groups.yahoo.com/group/tv2/
VW Camping Tents Info:   http://www.supernet.net/~jclark/vw/


