Date: Thu, 11 Oct 2001 14:19:51 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: TYPE2(-at-)TYPE2.COM
Subject: Re: [T2] Re. Heat and Noise in a VW Bus.

Check a with a commercial roofer and ask to see some flat roof asphalt walk 
'pads' or 'mats'. Used to create pathways for high foot traffic so the 
actual roof membrane doesn't get worn.

VERY much like Dynamat. Yes it will stink for a couple of weeks. $45 bucks 
for a huge roll. 1/8" thick or so.  4 feet by 45 or 50 feet long. The 
supplier SAID that the manufacturer of Dynamat is the same as the 
manufacturer of this stuff. In other words - he said Dynamat is a 
relabelled, repackaged roofing material (walk mats). Doesn't surprise me at 
all. I did not research this personally so take that with a big dose of salt.

Apply to vertical surfaces with roll on or spray on automotive upholstery 
adhesive.

I have waited most of the summer to install mine - no stink at all now in 
the roll.

I may add a layer of aluminum foil on the inside face to seal the asphalt 
sheets and reflect heat back into the bus (heat outside the bus back out).

I am concerned about foam wicking moisture from leaking body seams or 
windows. For the overhead I have a source of black closed cell foam from a 
local industrial rubber and gasket supplier. It is for insulation on 
reefers and other types of refrigeration equipment. I live in a small town 
so I expect the larger cities to have similar suppliers if this sounds 
interesting to any of you.

One Hot Rodder suggested the foam used under the vinyl tops on older 
American cars would be good as well as the car manufacturers didn't want 
that wicking up water/moisture either.

Will use Kool Patch inside the front doors on the vertical portions staying 
away from seams and drains. The bottom of the doors will be plain. Should 
contribute to good solid sounding thunks versus the hollow sound mine have 
now with no door panels.

When all done I plan to coat all of the rockers (inside and out), doors, 
and fender wells (frame too) with a wax+oil mix (I have a recipie for 
something similar to Waxoyl). This uses linseed oil I think (I'd have to 
look) but I suspect that bar oil could be used too. A good source for mass 
quantities of paraffin is toilet wax rings and canning wax.

This should accomplish both intentions - rust proof and silence the bus - 
all done together while the dash and interior is out.

Then on to R&R the heat using twin bilge blowers ($17 from your local 
friendly marine/boat shop - smae as the ones in the magazines for much, 
much more.) One will recirculate interior air and one will add fresh air - 
both replacing the OEM single VW blower in the top of the engine 
compartment. They will have a variable speed control. Do not add these 
where they handle heated air (between the interior and the heater boxes) 
because they will not last long, they say on the box that they are rated 
for a certain temp - no more. They are rated for about 160 degrees I think.

Be sure to check for air leaks in your bus, makes things pretty difficult 
to keep warm. Mine has all new seals. My front vent never would seal and 
the rubber stuff is rotted. I will have to check for a source. I think the 
stuff the Industrial Rubber Gasket offers that I plan to use on the ceiling 
will do fine.

Hope this helps any of you working through preps for winter.


Ciao!

Chris M. <Busbodger>
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE: 	Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing, otherwise 
complete (make offer)

