From: "John Connolly" <john(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "Sten Bedwell" <s_bedwell(-at-)yahoo.com>,
Date: Thu, 11 Oct 2001 16:37:40 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] Beating of a dead horse!

It's not just the hesitation; the 009 is a poor match for a street engine,
PERIOD.

The problem is that ignition timing requirements change depending on load
(throttle position), temperature (engine and air), compression, camshaft,
and fuel octane. Since we have little control over anything listed here, can
a 009, or any centrifugal only distributor, change timing based on load? No,
they are RPM dependent ONLY.

It's important to understand that light loads have an optimal timing setting
of around 10 degrees more advanced than full load timing. If you try to set
a centrifugal only distributor to the part throttle timing setting, it runs
great up to about 1/2 throttle (more than that and you have pistons with
holes in them in short order). This is why you have to set the 009/050 at a
"worst case" timing of around 30-32 degrees full advance. The fact that our
SVDA has a centrifugal timing setting of 32 degrees is not a coincidence.

So, the solution to this problem is to have both centrifugal and vacuum
timing.

The addition of a vacuum advance just gives you the extra advance when you
are at part throttle (light load).

This is why we have been pushing the SVDA distributor which we re-curve
in-house. If anyone buys it and is unhappy for any reason, I'll refund the $
completely (no shipping). In addition, I promise you 3mpg, and cooler
running, AND no hesitation, compared to a 009. That's a promise, and I put
my $ and reputation on that promise.

You can read a 3 year old (I think that's how old it is) comparison of the
SVDA/009 at Ken's Buggy Barn (Ken Earnhardt; RIP)

http://www.w-p-c.com/buggysdda.htm

this is (was) a totally unsolicited "article" on the 009 and SVDA, with the
34 PICT series of carbs. It just so happens we also offer a version for
progressives and IDF/DRLAs for you power hungry gearheads.

I find it pretty humorous that VW guys are off on their own little island
regarding engine tech, and this is a good example of it. Every engine that
I'm aware of for applications that vary in load and RPM have a vacuum
advance of some sort (electronic, or mechanical).

If the engine is run at a constant load and RPM, the 009 is probably perfect
for you. :-)

The 009 is inexpensive and does "work", the problem is "How well".

John
Aircooled.Net inc.

