Cc: Vbus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
From: magic67bus <magic67bus(-at-)comcast.net>
Date: Sat, 5 Jul 2008 04:58:55 -0400
To: Know One <knowonelse(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
Subject: Re: [VB] Trip Report and Gas MPG 

I would expect that water would help cool. Back in thermodynamics and 
chemistry we had coefficients for things like specific heat and many 
others (I guess hey are still there). So
what I remember is that -for the sake of discussion call it specific 
heat. Specific heat was a way to compare 2 fluids (yes air is 
considered a fluid, at least by engineers) ability to transfer heat.
consider air and oil. VW's are cooled by both. A test would show that 
the oil would cool much faster if you had a hot piece of metal and put 
it in a container of oil compared to air. well everybody knows that.
And if this metal was put in water, the water would cool it faster. 
This is very important in metal working-but as far as the vw goes I 
read that oil cooling has its difficulty compared to water. The oil 
that is in an oil cooler will touch the inside surface and become 
cooler. But with oil it has different properties. The layer that is 
touching the cooler surface then becomes more viscous and the heat 
tranfer is nnot as effective thru the oil. It gets a bit more 
complicated-but bottom line the oil does get cooled in the cooler which 
helps cool the engine.(a lot of vehicles use a part of the radiator to 
cool the automatic transmission) some even have a dedicated oil cooler.

Back to water and air If I remember correctly. Air has a specific heat 
# obtained by "them" this has to due with the air's ability to cool or 
heat some thing else-say a solid (metal)
Air's specific heat increases as it has humidity. so I remember that 
the humid air would cool or heat something a bit faster compared to dry 
air.

If any one has a handbook around maybe you could look up these numbers. 
I suppose it really does not have much real world VW application. But I 
cant sleep.
My next post will ask about oil and temp. thanks frank
