Cc: VWBrain(-at-)aol.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: magic67bus <magic67bus(-at-)comcast.net>
Date: Sat, 5 Jul 2008 05:44:00 -0400
To: claralw(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Trip Report and Gas MPG and oil temp

hi all
In 1979 I made a gauge panel and mounted it right on the top of the 
dash of my 68 bay 1600 sp  (i built the motor from parts in the shop 
where I was working.
I had :Tachometer, oil temp, cyl head temp, vacuum, oil 
pressure(mechanical, I bled the air and had no lag at the gauge), 
Ammeter. I lived in Long Island, NY
I did a lot of driving. Long ways to college upstate NY and down to 
Philly. Those hills (and trucks ) drove me crazy.
I drove 60mph unless a hill slowed me. The speed limit was 55. Most 
everyone passed me. I watched the oil temp go a little higher and a 
little lower. I mostly remember about 250 degrees for the oil and the
VDO head temp gauge drove me crazy It never seemed to work quite 
right.- I still have the gauges and the panel.

Question: what is up with oil temps. I remember from last weeks posts 
that people here are trying to get to cruise at about 3000 rpm? They 
are varying gear ratios. My 67 splittie 1500sp turns about 4900 at 70 
mph. That was for testing. I still drive 60 here in flat florida. I 
dont go too far any way.
What about those busses that have been driven since 1950 eventually 
they got the more powerful engine , like my 1500 and I dont have a clue 
of my oil temp or head temp. So when I read that people take trips and 
report on the oil temp. They have worries when it gets( too hot)
Who said how hot oil should run. and what happens when it runs 280 or 
300. I rebuilt many engines but not a real lot. Mostly valves were the  
#1 problem. and pistons reached the service limit of piston to cylinder
clearance. But unless some thing was wrong I usually saw engines with a 
lot of miles. John muir had his figures pretty good.  And what about 
those giant oil coolers and type 4 fans and different pulleys.
Do any of these things help cool.
I live in south florida and That engine gets hot. In NY I could touch 
the dipstick with my skin. Here I cant even touch the car when the sun 
is on it. The dip stick gets F..... Hot.
Con clusion:
Anyone have  an opinion about the type 4 fan set up-mainly as it 
relates to cooling

Source for max oil temp and head temp

What pulleys actually seem to help cooling.
frank
I just enjoy looking over at my splittie, I think It deserves a better 
owner who will make it show room nice. My preference is stock-maybe 
some more HP but not lowered.
I bought the machined pieces to fit the wipers to fold them down into 
the half blind duck-I always hated the damn wipers in the way on the 
splittie. Worth the money.
peace 
