Date: Tue, 8 Jul 2008 14:55:24 +0700
From: "John Kolak" <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Trip Report and Gas MPG and oil temp

Hi Frank,

All those gauges are important. Sure, in the past people would drive
blissfully ignorant with only an oil light and a generator light to let them
know that everything was okay, and while that is sufficient when everything
is in good order, it doesn't let you know when there is something wrong, and
consequently there are a lot of sad stories of snapped valves, dropped valve
seats, blown rings, and rod knocks.

Oil viscosity and other ratings from the manufacturer are based on the
assumption that the temp will not exceed 212 degrees Fahrenheit. Once the
oil is over that temperature, the ratings are not valid. Some people feel
okay running their VWs at 230 or so, but thermal breakdown will occur when
the oil gets too hot. This happened to me with my 62 panel when I first took
it out in hot weather because I did not see that the previous owner had put
screens over the vents for faster warmup in snowy weather. My oil light came
on at 55 mph. I don't remember the exact temperature. Probably about 265
degrees.

Cylinder head temp is important because the head temp is inverse to the oil
temp with regards to rpm. High rpm leads to high oil temp and low head temp.
Low rpm gives lower oil temp but higher head temp. Your tach will help you
monitor the performance of both at the respective rpms, and also will help
you prolong the life of your case by helping you keep the engine rpms down
to a long-life level, ideally 2800 to 3200 rpm on a non-counterweighted
crank, but never above 4,000. As for head temps, valve seats start to drop
and valves snap around 425 degrees, so keep your motor under 400 degrees.

Type 4 motors run cooler due to their redesigned cooling system. More power
and durability if you can keep the head studs and valve seats healthy.

There's already been a discussion on the smaller generator pulleys helping
the cooling, either a 6v or porsche pully. Porsche was reported about $79,
but I got mine for about $10 each, I think from PAP parts. They are at Bus
Boys now with my parts for sale.

John

Question: what is up with oil temps. I remember from last weeks posts that
people here are trying to get to cruise at about 3000 rpm? They are varying
gear ratios. My 67 splittie 1500sp turns about 4900 at 70 mph. That was for
testing. I still drive 60 here in flat florida. I dont go too far any way.

What about those busses that have been driven since 1950 eventually they got
the more powerful engine , like my 1500 and I dont have a clue of my oil
temp or head temp. So when I read that people take trips and report on the
oil temp. They have worries when it gets( too hot)

Who said how hot oil should run. and what happens when it runs 280 or 300. I
rebuilt many engines but not a real lot. Mostly valves were the  #1 problem.
and pistons reached the service limit of piston to cylinder clearance. But
unless some thing was wrong I usually saw engines with a lot of miles. John
muir had his figures pretty good.  And what about those giant oil coolers
and type 4 fans and different pulleys.

Do any of these things help cool. I live in south florida and That engine
gets hot. In NY I could touch the dipstick with my skin. Here I cant even
touch the car when the sun is on it. The dip stick gets F..... Hot

Con clusion:

Anyone have  an opinion about the type 4 fan set up-mainly as it relates to
cooling

Source for max oil temp and head temp

What pulleys actually seem to help cooling.

frank
