Date: Tue, 8 Jul 2008 18:24:17 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Alternator Wiring pic- Int reg??

> From: John Baker <busvwzen(-at-)yahoo.com>
> Date: Tue, 8 Jul 2008 06:17:22 -0700 (PDT)
>
> http://geocities.com/jbakerccymca/alt
> 1)If this is indeed an alternator with Internal Voltage regulator...

No, this looks like an external-regulator alternator, probably from a
late Bug (about '74 and up).  Take a look at the lower left corner of
http://www.vintagebus.com/wiring/1303_USA_from_August_1973-1.jpg
.  Item C is the alternator and item C1 is the regulator.  D-, DF, and
D+ are the tab terminals that are on three sides of a square, and B+
is the big insulated bolt to the right of them in your pic.

Originally, the three tab terminals were in a round molded rubber plug,
while the B+ wire had a ring terminal with a rubber boot over it.  For
the tab terminals you can just use individual push-on females; if you're
worried about shorts, use the insulated kind, or wrap the regular kind
individually with a little bit of electrical tape before plugging them
in.  For the B+ wire you can tape it after installation, or maybe slit a
piece of old fuel line (or something a little bigger, like maybe 1/2"
heater hose from a water-cooled car) and slip it over the wire+stud
after installation.

> and 2)If so, how is this wired to the system of a 70 bus??

You will need the regulator that goes with this alternator.  The one for
a generator won't work.

I'm pretty sure a '70 originally had the regulator over on the right
hand side of the engine compartment, not on top of the generator.  If
this is how your Bus is set up, you should have five wire ends at the
regulator: a fat red wire from the battery, a fat red wire from the
generator, a thin green wire from the generator, a thin brown wire from
the generator, and a thin blue wire from the warning light on the dash.
Assuming that this is true, you could do something like this.

  1) Disconnect battery ground strap at both ends.

  2) At the alternator, crimp a ring terminal on the fat red wire (if not
     already equipped) and bolt it to B+.

  3) At the alternator, crimp a push-on female on the thin green wire (if
     not already equipped) and plug it on to DF.

  4) At the alternator, crimp a push-on female on the thin brown wire (if
     not already equipped) and plug it on to D-.

  5) Get a new piece of stranded wire, at least 16 gauge, preferably with
     red insulation, and preferably made for cars (i.e. not building wire
     like "THHN" - building wire doesn't have as many strands and is not
     as flexible as the stuff made for cars).

  6) At the alternator, crimp a push-on female on this new red wire and
     plug it on to D+.

  7) Run the new red wire along with the existing generator wires to the
     vicinity of the regulator.  Make sure it can't get crushed, pinched,
     melted, etc.

  8) At the regulator, crimp a push-on female (I think - match the
     regulator) on the thin green wire (if not already equipped) and plug
     it on to DF.

  9) At the regulator, crimp a push-on female on the thin brown wire (if
     not already equipped) and plug it on to D-.

10) Get one of those push-on females that also has a male tab sticking
     off of it, or one of the little brass thingies that has one push-on
     female and two push-on males.

11) If you have the push-on female with male tab, crimp it on the new
     red wire, and plug the thin blue wire onto the male tab.  Go to 13.

12) If you have the brass thingy, crimp a regular push-on female on the
     new red wire.  Plug the new red wire and the thin blue wire onto the
     thingy.  Go to 13.

13) At the regulator, plug the new red wire + thin blue wire assembly
     on to D+ .

14) At the regulator, figure out a way to join the two fat red wires
     together.  (They probably have big push-on connectors on them now.)
     You can just put the connectors next to each other and wrap them
     with tape, but that will fall apart some dark and stormy night.
     A better way is to use one of those yellow-insulated butt splice
     things (cut off the existing connectors on the wire) and a very
     firm hand on the crimp tool.

15) Screw the regulator down to the body.  Make sure the "foot" of the
     regulator makes good contact with the body sheet metal, like maybe
     with a star washer.

16) At the battery, disconnect the positive cable and shine up the
     positive terminal post and the inside of the clamp, then reconnect.

Bonus extra credit step: Crawl under the Bus and unbolt the other end
of the positive cable at the starter.  Shine up all the cable ends you
just freed up and the stud on the starter, then reconnect.

17) At the battery, shine up the negative terminal post and the inside
     of the clamp, then reconnect the ground strap to the negative post.

18) Shine up the place on the body where the ground strap bolts.

19) Touch the loose end of the ground strap to the place where it bolts.
     If you get a huge spark, pull the ground strap away right away and
     investigate.  If you get no spark or a small one (you'll get a small
     one if you have a modern car stereo or similar), go ahead and bolt
     the ground strap to the body.

20) Measure the battery voltage at the battery terminals with a
     voltmeter.  In a perfect world it would be 12.6 volts.

21) Go up front.  Key on.  Generator warning light on?  If not, stop and
     check.  If so, start the engine.  The warning light should go out
     either right away or when you rev the engine a little.

22) Go back to the engine.  Measure the battery voltage at the battery
     terminals again; it should have gone up about one volt.  Rev the
     engine a little if it hasn't.  It shouldn't go over about 14.5 volts
     or so, even with the engine at full speed.

Matt Roberds
