From: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 12 Jul 2008 14:49:04 -0400
Subject: One month to go until Buses Of The Corn 2008

Hi Volks,

Just a reminder that the 8th annual "Buses Of The Corn" will be taking 
place in Brooklin Ontario in four weeks. The gates open officially at 
Noon on Friday August 8th at the group camping area of Heber Down 
Conservation area, just north of Whitby Ontario.

BOTC is open to all years of buses, from splitwindows through to 
Eurovans. We are also quite tolerant of wanna-bussers, as long as they 
are discrete about their non-VW rides. BOTC is a family-friendly event.

Why bother? Glad you asked. BOTC offers a host of fun activities, 
starting Saturday morning with an awesome Full Moon Bus Club Burrito 
Breakfast and continuing throughout the day with a Tie-Dye workshop, a 
9-hole frisbee-golf course, an amazing corn-roast and pot-luck dinner 
and a great family-friendly campfire.

If you're interested in ordering an event T-Shirt, that info will be 
posted later this week. Be sure to pre-order your shirt so you will have 
it on hand for the tie-dye workshop. The result will be a unique memento 
that you can wear with pride, knowing that no-one has one like it 
anywhere. There won't be many shirts available at the event if you don't 
pre-order.

Special note: This year we were informed by the Conservation Authority 
that they are no longer able to supply electricity to the campsite. This 
means that the water supply for the showers is no longer available. We 
are also being asked to pack out our own garbage.

I think this is a good opportunity to step up as bus owners and show 
some environmental awareness. This year a "kitchen-catcher" garbage bag 
and  twist-tie will be included with each registration package. Please 
consider adjusting your camping habits to fit within this constraint and 
pack your garbage out with you when you leave. Every year I've been 
quite proud of how clean the campground is when we leave, but the 
downside is a stack of about 15 huge garbage bags that are left for the 
Conservation Authority to pick up. This year I'd like to crank it up a 
notch and reduce our footprint on the property without reducing the good 
time we have. You can still have a good time when you leave the 
disposable plates and cutlery at home. We'll have plenty of hot water 
available to help you wash your re-usable dishes.

We're also going to give the "bus driving competition" a rest this year; 
it will be replaced with an event to be announced.

As usual, you can visit the website for more information.
www.busesofthecorn.com

If you still have more questions, email me at Greg_at_pottsfamily.ca.

Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/79 Westfakia "Bob the Tomato"
1987 Wolfsburg Weekender Hardtop
www.busesofthecorn.com
www.pottsfamily.ca
