From: "Bill Bowman" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
To: "List - Vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, "List - Vanagon"
Date: Fri, 1 Aug 2008 10:27:44 -0500
Subject: The 23rd B.N.N.T.A. ("Buses Nowhere Near The Arch") camping

"Buses Nowhere Near The Arch #23 (BNNTA)

when:  over the upcoming long Labor Day holiday weekend, Friday August 29th
thru Monday September 1st, 2008

where:   in the Group campground at Indian Creek Recreational Area located
right on Mark Twain Lake, about 30 miles to the west of Hannibal, MO (the
website has a map link).

All VW's and enthusiasts are welcome to enjoy this BNNTA family-oriented
camping event. This event features VW camping in a beautiful Federal
campground facility right on a 22 mile long lake in scenic northeastern
Missouri, an informal VW Bus show with awards, informal parts swap meet, a
highly competitive "best individual and group" campsite decoration/theme
contest, a Saturday morning scenic countryside caravan over to historic
Hannibal, MO (the home of Samuel Clemens, a.k.a. "Mark Twain"), awards and
door prizes on Saturday evening, campfire activities, "slow drags" on Sunday,
etc.

I have again reserved the entire group campground for our VW Campout use, and
as in past years we will restrict access to VWs only.  Your vehicle must be a
VW of some type or any era to have vehicle access.  If you can't show up with
a VW for some reason, contact me (bill(-at-)bnnta.com).  This means that there
won't be an RV or a Ford or Chevy camped next to you!  You'll wake up each
morning to the beautiful sight of nothing but VWs (and the people who love and
care for them) for a far as you can see.


We've kept the event cost as low as possible because we know that fuel costs
more these days.  Luckily the cost of gas seems to be dropping a bit, so start
searching those couch cushions for loose change and make plans to cruise on in
to join in on all the fun!  The total event/camping fee for each VW for the
entire four day weekend is only $30 which we hope will include an event dash
plaque.  That's right, only $30 for up to four days!  An event T-shirt "might"
also be available for purchase, we'll see.

If you feel like it, try to bring along a cool VW related goodie or two to
donate to the pile of door prizes to be given away to participants on Saturday
evening.

For a simple web site with info about this event just go to:
http://www.bnnta.com

We are really looking forward to seeing old and new Volkswagen friends
streaming into the campground in just under a month from now.  So make your
plans, tune-up your Bus or other VW, pack her up, and mark the calendar for
another great time at the 23rd running of "Buses Nowhere Near The Arch"!
You've got four weeks to get ready for the fun!

Bill & Kathryn Bowman
http://www.bnnta.com
