Date: Tue, 14 Dec 2004 22:15:16 -0600
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: tcs <tcs1968(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: daniel nelson <danielbnelson(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Possible to elimate the power brake servo?

On Tue, Dec 14, 2004 at 07:33:07PM -0800, tcs wrote:
> I am not looking to keep the stock 71 system and unhook the servo, I
> am looking to see if i can make the system similar to the 68-70
> using the non power MC as they are very different but if I can use
> that early MC with the discs.. I was looking for something safe and
> secure...that is whatst i am asking.  I was asking will the 68-70 MC
> fit on the bus and will it stop like a 68-70...?  that is the info i
> am looking for...

Look it's not the MC that makes it magic it's the rest of the brake
system. One reason drum brakes were able to overcome obsene brake
pressure is it's design. Think about how it's designed. When the slave
cyls move out and make the shoes contact the drum. This will in effect
want to make the shoes turn with the drum. This small rotating wedge
effect in effect makes the drum brakes kinda have the "power brake"
built in with the design. 

Disk systems need more power b/c it's simply squeezing a rotating
rotor to try and stop it. Don't believe me? Take a bicycle tire and
spin it. try and stop the wheel like calipers do by using your fingers
to squeeze the wheel. Then try it by holding your palm against the
outside edge. You should see it stop much quicker (and most likely you
hand hurts more).

So if the drums are superior why use anything else? %$#!ing brake
fade. Drums just don't cool as well inside that enclosed space as the
disks do. Also maintenance is worlds easier on disk. 

Hopefully this tangent on what the real difference in the systems will
help tcs decide. I can't see any functional difference in running the
71 as is with a dead booster and trying to shoehorn an earlier mc in
the same space to get the magical properties of 4 wheel drum brakes.
Also keep in mind that the disk system added the booster for some
reason. I'd theorize that it's to improve the performance of the
braking system, but I have nothing to support that.
  
> I am getting alot of flack and hot air but no facts....

welcome to the T2 list :)

-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
1979 Sportsmofakia 2000cc                        www.fasterlaster.com
1966 Westfalia SO-42 "Butch"
