From: "Peter Alau" <peteralau(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 14 Dec 2004 21:15:09 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] Possible to elimate the power brake servo?

I was fixing a friend 1970 Westy about a month ago, his bus has dual
>cylinder drums brake at front, after I did the hole brake system, new
>cylinders, pads and fluid the 70 stops better and most relevent for this
>discusion easyer than my 77 european Westy with disk in the front and no
>booster anywhere.
>Yes you can stop the bus without the booster but requires a lot of effort
(I
>do everyday), by the way is to much complicated to add the booster to my no
>booster system ?

<Snip>

... one more thought on that note from a long time lurker first time
poster......
My 70 westy has just undergone an entire brake replacement. Front drums,
master cylinder, pads all the way around, front slave cylinders, front and
rear fliud tubes (the short one and the really loooong one).
The bus has never stopped as well as it does now, but I still abide by the
mantra that I was taught in motorcycle safety school: (repeat ad nauseum)
"the safest thing between you and any other object is distance". The new
brakes work wonderfully, if you have the time and the means, updating your
hardware is always a good idea.
Other notes:
 - apparently new master cylinders only have one brake light switch. My
original had two. The brake lights will work off either plug.
 - much has been written about the brake fluid reservior - other than where
to find the little gasket that connects the filling tube with the reservior.
Any suggestions? For the moment I am using carefully wrapped electrical
tape, and well placed zip ties. (Westy driver ingenuity hard at work.)
 - bleeding the rear brake takes alot of time, you should tell your wife
this *before* she starts pumping. (Thanks for the help honey)
 - Has anyone else experienced a "lug nut error" on new drums? I have a
knocking sound comming from my front driver side brake drum, I am positive
that it is from a lug nut being in ever so slightly too far and bumping the
brake shoe. I'll be replacing both soon, but I wonder if I am the only one
who has experienced this...

Thanks for all the fine postings, the group here has been very helpful to
me.

-Peter
