To: "E. Marc Coe" <marccoe(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "Miles Erickson" <miles(-at-)mileserickson.com>
Date: Tue, 14 Dec 2004 21:51:27 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] Only getting 11.6 mpg.  Any suggestions?

Marc,

I'm not sure what your overall break-in plan is, but many people argue that
new/rebuilt engines need to be driven hard during break-in, after the first
100 miles or so.  I'm relatively new to all of this, but I tend to agree with
that perspective.

I also fly airplanes, and I know for sure that babying an aircooled aircraft
engine during break-in is a huge no-no.  For the first 25 hours on a new
engine or an overhauled cylinder, the prescription is to use straight mineral
oil and cruise at 75% power.  No throttling back for fuel economy or
practicing touch-and-go landings (which involve a variety of power settings)
until the cylinder is broken in.  When I bought my plane, it had a recently
replaced cylinder.  Before giving me permission to switch back to detergent
oil and normal operation, my aircraft mechanic did a leakdown test on that
cylinder to make sure that the rings had seated.  (Just overhauling a 100hp
aircraft engine costs around $12K-16K, depending on whether the
cylinders/heads are rebuilt or new.  This is why pilots take their engines so
seriously.)

When I put my new engine in my '71 Bus, I generally followed John Connolly's
break-in advice as posted on aircooled.net.  After the 100-mile oil change, I
took it out and drove it hard -- up hills, on the freeway at 65, etc.  I also
ran non-detergent oil for the first 500 miles or so.  It's been a
great-running engine with more power than I expected.  YMMV.

To respond to your actual question, though:

The only time I've ever had gas mileage as bad as you're describing, it was
due to the timing being too retarded.  I'd bet that your new distributor is
the culprit.  Figure out which model it is and the resources at type2.com will
tell you the best way to time it.  My Bus has a 009 (not the ideal
distributor), and I had to time it based on maximum advance, using a timing
light with the engine running at high RPMs, to get it right.  Static timing
per Muir does not work well.  No reason to believe the mechanic did it right,
unless he reads this list! :-)

I don't know anything about FI issues, O2 sensors, EGR valves, etc., so I
can't speak to how any of that would affect your fuel economy.

The lack of thermostat/flaps will reduce your engine's life *and* will make it
even more important not to baby your engine during the second phase of your
break-in, since otherwise it may never warm up enough to seat your rings...
but I don't think that issue would cause poor fuel economy.

Cheers!

- Miles
