From: "Sen & Sonja" <sen(-at-)tele2.nl>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 15 Dec 2004 18:11:59 +0100
Subject: air hoses (vacuum hoses) under air bridge

I have a 1979 two-litre (Karman Camper) with double carbs that 
won't start. On top of the air filter there is a wide plastic moulding 
that takes the clean air left and right to the top of the two carbs. On 
the underside of this "air bridge" there is a bump the size and 
shape of a matchbox, with two nipples, to which for two small 
hoses about 1.5 mm internal diameter are connected. The shorter 
hose goes down to the air intake directly below, the longer one 
swings around in the motor space. I'm sure that's not right, but I 
can't see anywhere to connect it. I saw a message in the archives 
from Willem Bron in 2000 which seemed to be saying it goes to the 
right carburettor, but (1) it doesn't make much sense to have just 
one carburettor with some sort of vacuum adjustment or extra air 
input, and the other carb not getting it, and (2) where on the 
carburettor ? Also, does it matter whether the short hose goes on 
the right nipple or the left, on the matchbox thingmabob?

The plastic "air bridge" moulding has 3 connectors for air hoses of 
about 10mm internal diameter, one of which connects to the top of 
the left carburetor, one sticks vertically up and could not be 
connected to anything because the engine cover closes right on 
top of it, and one sticks out horizontally to the right. I do wonder 
what the point of the air filter is, if the system can suck in engine 
air through these holes, but again, I don't see anywhere to put the 
other end of a hose

Any pointers to an elementary guidebook or guidesite to the 
mysteries of the engine would be much appreciated, since this is 
my first air-cooled beast. I can hardly complain though, it has 
taken us from Spain to Lithuania and Scotland to Croatia, giving us 
a summer action radius of about 3000 km from the Netherlands. 
And a fuel efficiency of 8.5 km per litre : -- (

To keep list volume down, reply to me directly 
  sen [at] tele2.NL
and I will post one digest of the useful answers, without duplications

Thanks
Sen
