Cc: Type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)shagadelic.org>
Date: Wed, 15 Dec 2004 09:41:35 -0800
To: andy <andy(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Fuel economy results with CDI

On Dec 15, 2004, at 7:59 AM, andy wrote:

> Which should not be. Personally I would fix the combustion issue rather
> than being satisfied with the CDI masking it

Suggestions on what where to start looking?  This is a pretty fresh 
engine, rebuilt ~5000 miles ago.  Other than the poor milage (which I 
don't consider THAT out of the ordinary considering my driving 
environment), it has run like a top since the rebuild.  My W8CC .028 
plugs were not fouled... fairly consistent tan color, save #3, which 
was slightly lighter in color (as I expected).  A few blips of carbon 
on a couple of plugs that could indicate running slightly rich, but 
certainly not overly so.  I have little reason to expect any combustion 
problem other than "weak ignition system", which seems to be a 
generally understood property of the stock VW system -- this is why 
people upgrade with electronic ignitions, higher-output coils (e.g. 
Bosch blue), and, in some cases, CDI.

Looking back in my records during the summer, I had some trips where my 
mileage was in the 15-16 MPG range.  My recent post was an attempt to 
do a ballpark comparison of mileage under similar weather/driving 
conditions.  It is certainly not meant to be a scientific study.  I 
have mileage records for the last ~3500 miles, and once I have several 
more tankfuls under my belt with the new system, I will graph the 
mileage trends and post it for people to review.  I intend for this to 
be a long-term study.  I am going to be taking a trip to Tucson, AZ for 
the Christmas holiday, and will definitely be able to gather some good 
highway mileage data there.

I live in a hilly, and sometimes windy, place.  Even my highway driving 
has long hill climbs that necessitates getting on the pedal to maintain 
speeds (don't get me wrong... I love driving on I-280, but I think 
US-101 is actually better for fuel economy).  I'm not surprised that a 
Westy gets poor mileage in such an environment.

Also judging from other reports I have read about the improvement that 
can be had with a CDI, I don't see my results as being all that 
different, honestly.

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
