Date: Wed, 15 Dec 2004 10:51:02 -0800 (PST)
From: John Baker <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>
To: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>, Mitchell Motorworks
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re:  Notes on using a voltmeter on my bus...

Don,
When you say that you "find grounds everywhere" on
your bus, specifically what do you mean. I just want
to clarify that the use of the word "ground" is the 
word you are meaning to use. As Joe said, there SHOULD
be grounds everywhere. The entire body\chassis of the
bus should be grounded. So you should be able to put
the black probe of your voltmeter against metal
ANYWHERE on your bus and get a 12V reading as long as
the red probe of the voltmeter is touching a hot power
source (ie. live wire or positive battery terminal) 
However, you should not get a Voltage reading unless
the red probe is touching a power source such as
mentioned before (battery or live wire).  Now, if you
meant that you get a "Voltage reading" everywhere and
not "ground" then you definitely have a problem. This
sounds weird, but it actually happened to me once. I
noticed that my tailights were staying on constantly,
even with the ignition OFF and the and the primary
battery disconnected, WTF, a gremlin in there
somewhere?!?!  Then I finally discovered that the hot
wire running from my auxillary battery up to my gas
heater had worn thru in a spot and the energized hot
wire was touching metal on the bus body.  This current
traveled through the tailight housings and actually
lit the tail light bulbs! I unhooked the Auxillary
battery (which was in NO WAY connected to the tail
lights,) and the lights went off! Joe, you may call
B.S. on this one, but I swear it happened!! 
Sooo, if what you meant to say was you find "Positive
volt readings" everywhere, then that is a problem, but
again, the entire bus chassis and body SHOULD be a ground.

=====
Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1971 Double Cab
1971 SuperBeetle Convertible
1968 Karmann Ghia Convertible
http://www.buszen.com

"So we got into the red VW microbus with the shovels and the rakes and the implements of destruction and we headed on to the police officer's station..."
