From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: "stanly steamer" <chris(-at-)eucasafari.vendioweb.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 15 Dec 2004 12:28:21 -0800
Subject: RE: [T2] winter handling / driving

I used to live in Alaska and drove my 76 up there extensively.  The same bus
has also made the round trip on the AlCan 3 times which is partially why it
has so much mileage on it.

Chains are a must.  Put them all the way around on all four tires.  It will
fishtail a bit because the weight of the motor, and transmission is over the
rear; however, if running a proper bus tire with a narrow footing, you
decrease the amount of surface area in contact with the snow.  More surface
area = more slip when it comes to snow.  This is why yokels in Oregon who
brag about their 4x4's and tackle the winter snow without winter tires or
chains quickly find themselves in ditches and such.  4 wheel drive is nice,
but 4 x's 0 still equals 0.  The wide tires make nice ski's.  Admittadly a
4x4 with chains is a force to be reckoned with in the mountains.

Another issue I had was when I drove through WhiteHorse.  I had accumulated
a nice block of ice behind behind both rear wheels and this affected a
sensor.  Consequently the ice insulated the engine heat and gave the sensor
a false reading and I could not get the bus to start until I knocked the ice
off so that it could breathe.  I did not at the time know bupkis about the
innards of my bus and have not taken the time to have a reunion with this
sensor that I am not familiar with....  You see, I was the benefactor of an
extremely kind Canadian who took mercy upon me and exacted some very
effective knowledge.

These have been my experiences with my bus in the snow.  I find my bus to be
one of the most stable winter vehicles I have ever had the pleasure to drive
in winter conditions.  As for the lack of heat,......   when it is -20
outside, even the bare sheetmetal of a bus is a blessing from the elements.
Dress warm, bring food and water and shelter, loads of flares and a cell
phone at the minimum.

If driving down a hill at a safe speed and you feel your back-end starting
to attempt to overtake your front end, try putting the bus in reverse and
gently let the clutch almost out.  This will use the weight in the back of
the bus to your advantage and the drag will snap you right back inline to
where you want to be.  Has saved my butt in the snow and slippery like snot
muddy roads on at least two occassions that I can recall.  Just don't make a
habit out of it....  it's really hard on the vehicle when you grab something
other than snow and ice,... such as real traction.  Be safe and plan for the
worst, as anybody should do with any vehicle, anytime they venture out into
unfriendly to mankind weather conditions.

Seann Stafford
1976 T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
1976 T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
