From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 23 Jan 2009 14:14:38 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] Winter Driving

Mine did too. Was a NM bus that saw TN salt a couple of winters with me when I
first got it. I had been pretty careful about washing it down but it's hard
to really clean the frame and floors off at a car wash unless you get down on
the ground.

Mine rusted a little behind the front wheels at the ends of the rocker panels,
a few bubbles at the end of the frame rails where they join the rear panel
(just inside the rear bumper), I had a couple bubbles along the vertical body
seams, battery trays, and a pinhole in the driver's step. OH and the lower
front seatbelt mount has rusted through. I would not like to have a crash
like that b/c the seatbelts would fail.

Getting ready to repaint this year and I bought a Lincoln MIG welder so I'll
be drilling and welding up holes, and patching. My bus isn't bad but there
are several things that need to be addressed before they get out of hand.

I think if I was up north I'd buy a cheap KIA or something to drive in the
winter. Better heater and my vintage VW wouldn't rot. Yeah, I know -
sometimes the finances jsut aren't there. Been there, done that too. That's
why my bus was driven as opposed to parked those couple of first winters.

So what's the alternative? Homemade Waxoyl treatments for all the VW body
cavities? Frequent trips to the car wash? Applying truck bedliner to the
bottom of the bus come spring?

Too bad we don't all have a clean freshwater creek to ford every few days to
aggessively flush out the undercarriage...

Just curious what your thoughts are good people...

Can we either have some serious snow or spring already??? What we're getting
here is just irritating - serious cold, ice, snow dusting, lots of brine
sprayed on the roads, etc.

Chris in Cookeville, TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L (Corvair implanted)

On Thursday 22 January 2009 19:58:42 Troy Wical wrote:
> > How many of you drive your busses under winter conditons on salted roads?
>
> My daily driver is my bus, and it shows.  While the rust has increased
> ten-fold since I've been in the Colorado area, I blame a lot of that on not
> taking the time to toss a couple bucks at the local DIY car wash to spray
> the thing down.
