Date: Sun, 25 Jan 2009 16:42:58 -0800 (PST)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: aroman4047(-at-)aol.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 32/36 weber...

I've heard of 2 solutions for the centermount carb dew-point / cold running issues.  There are probably more.
1 - get a 12V warmer from a Chevy Cavalier.  I haven't actually done this, but I understand it fits between the manifold and the carb.  A few years back, I ordered one from somewhere, but it never showed up.  Rather than pursue that line further, I went with option 2.  I can't remember the name of it.  Maybe someone else does.
2 - route warm air from the lower right side (FIF) up through the breast tin back into the engine compartment.  This is done using stock tins, but I'm not sure from which years.  I got mine from TheBusCo, and the pn's are in the ETKA.  Anyway, using a Sprint (snorkel) air cleaner, route the warm air into the lower entry.

I hadn't gotten to the second step of controlling the flap arm with a thermostat, but that was going to be my next step.  Instead, on cold or damp days, I'd drive the bus with the arm routing all warm air for about 15 minutes.  After 15, I'd pull over, hop out and move the arm so almost none of the air was coming from the heated side.  The actual angle was more seat-of-the-pants than real science, but the colder it got, the more generous I was with the warm air.  

I found that I could drive the bus down into the 30's here in the Pacific NorthWest after this mod.  Prior ot that, I couldn't really drive it below 50* with the centermount carb. I have since gone a completely different direction with my bus.  I still have the routing tins, and the air cleaner.  If you (or someone else onlist) wants them, we can figure out something fair (and we'll throw something at the type2 donations).

 Paul Manning
Lake Grove, OR
1972 Westy (hapy) - TDI project
http://viewfromabus.blogspot.com/


----- Original Message ----
From: "aroman4047(-at-)aol.com" <aroman4047(-at-)aol.com>
Sent: Sunday, January 25, 2009 3:51:39 AM
Subject: [T2] 32/36 weber...

I swapped out one of my 32/36 weber carbs for another that I'd cleaned and spec'ed...
This carb was already on a square manifold that connects to a pair of original FI runners
(injector ports plugged).
Although I don't have any leaks, the carb doesn't seem to warm up and I'm running on the
choke much too long. Anybody with this setup (or similar) with a method of bringing some
heat to?it...Something under it to transfer heat from the top of the engine to the manifold?
A jury-rigged heat riser??
It's obviosly on a 2L...?
