Date: Tue, 25 Apr 2006 10:08:30 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Adam Narraway <adoom(-at-)rogers.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com,
Subject: Re: [T2] Our Thanks

try getting a bunch of chevy drivers or ford drivers to do all that .....
  I love being a bus driver.... it isnt always about the bus its the other people in bus's also...
  like peas and carrotts...
   
  so glad you all are safe and home now...
  peace and love
  chai
  

Adam Narraway <adoom(-at-)rogers.com> wrote:
  Hi Folks, for some of you, this may be a "double post"
as I am sending this to a couple of lists. 

As you may know my motor went for a dive on Thursday
on route from Ontario to North Carolina. 
This happened without warning or prediction. When it
went, I thought all I had was a badly burnt starter. 
I was going up a hill on I-79. My CHT was reading
about 330 - 340, rpms around 3500. I had adjusted the
valves prior to leaving, and there was no signs of a
stretched valve. When it went, there was no 'bang', or
'clatter'. I chose to pull over because my volt meter
was going nuts and my rpm's had suddenly gone up to
about 5000 rpm and the bus just didn't "feel right". 
There we sat, waiting for a tow-truck, for about 4
hours.

Luckily, and by the grace of friendship, we are all
safe and home.

Many people helped us out on this journey. Including
many people at Everybus who's names I do not know. In
the throes of trying to get the bus back together in
an AutoZone parking lot, the kind people at Everybus
were taking a donation collection to help get us own
there. Their goal was to get us in a rental car, and
get us down there, as we had on board over 130
everybus t-shirts, and 2 kids! In the end the money
that was raised was enough to get us there. 

Since I do not know who contributed, I would just like
to send out a general "thank you" to the VW community
for banding together and getting us down there. 

All of your thoughts, phone calls, and contributions
made our predicatment a lot easier to handle. 

And of course, Den and Ev, who dropped everything,
loaded a short block, 2 heads, 4 P&C's and hundreds of
gaskets in their car, and drove from Erin Ontario all
the way to Grove City to help me build a motor, and
install it in an AutoZone parking lot, in a thunder
storm. We can't possibly thank you enough.

Thank you, 
Adam, Heather, and family. 



                                                                 Break out the shorts, tank tops and sandles........
     Tune up the Bus wash off the winter rust~!~
       It's camping season woohooooooo LETS GO CAMPING~!~
