Date: Tue, 25 Apr 2006 12:24:55 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: John C <spikerrr(-at-)mchsi.com>, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] how to fix Running Hot

ok so i tried again today and being another hot day.. it didnt take long for the temp to rise to 220+ again....
   
  this time i checked it with a turkey therometer... and well evidentually the one i have is broke...? it didnt register or if it did it went way beyond the last reading on it ......
   
  ok so i tried pulling the dipstick out and touching the dipstick... man ole man that thing about burnt me... it was HOT~!~ tha handle was failry nice and warm also.... the engine also feels very hot....
   
  the bus chugged and stuttered really really bad today though...
   
  as said before the compressin is good on all cylinders for nwo anyways.. all well above 90+
   
  so should i change the carb and see if it gets any better....?
   
  i still dont know what the right jets would be for my engine 1800
   
  if i know that i could make it right and then put it on there and see if it gets as hot as it has been,...getting on these hot days....
   
  i do not want to tear my only transportation up from the heat....
   
  when the temps are BELOW high 70's outside the bus runs really really good and the shuttering chugging when cutting off doesnt occur....
   
  as is right now i cant drive 5+ miles without the bus being very very hot and chugging when cutting off iginiton...besides when the temps outside are LOWER than high 70's//
   
  thanks in advnace for anyone that can help me solve this problem before something bad goes wrong and i burn the engine up... cant do that i dont have my other one built yet...LOL. and for the record my vdo guage has always been good to me.... 
   
  and its reading is telling what the chugging is ... its getting way to hot for some reason.... 
   
  chai
   


                                                                 Break out the shorts, tank tops and sandles........
     Tune up the Bus wash off the winter rust~!~
       It's camping season woohooooooo LETS GO CAMPING~!~
