Date: Tue, 25 Apr 2006 19:19:08 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Martin Strandgard <mnstra(-at-)unimelb.edu.au>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] how to fix Running Hot

actually i checked that and wondered about that tonight..
   
  1 4 and 2 are all more on the grey side which is lean???
  and the number 3 looks to be blacker than the other three by little more but it is blacker than the other three....enough ... 
  which is rich right?
   
  as far as jets in there i am not sure what the sizes are but will know by this weekend... how many jets are we talking about.... isnt there some on the outside that you screw out and also i know of the ones inside...
  do i check them all...?
   
  i will try to get in there and see what sizes they are....if it is indeed the ones inside ..?
  but will have to see how next few days pans out...
  had to tow wifes beetle home with the bus tonight.. dont know what that is.. but i know we are putting together her brand new engine tomorrow....and she has day off from work so... fun fun...
   
   
  its already built up to the pistons . tomorrow is. heads and tin.. and put it in  if we get the time ...?...
  so my cup is full....
  hoping the bus dont overheat now....
  that carb might be my whole problem maybe? or it seems..?
  been suggested few times now...~!~
   
  thanks for all yaLL s help...
  chai
   
   
   
  

Martin Strandgard <mnstra(-at-)unimelb.edu.au> wrote:
  > i still dont know what the right jets would be for my engine 1800

What jets have you currently got?

Are all 4 cylinders firing?

I had a similar situation with a weber progressive with one cylinder 
running lean due to a vacuum leak from a split rubber boot. I had 
adjusted the idle mixture unaware that I had the leak. The clue was 
that 3 of the spark plugs were black and one was not! :)

Cheers,

Martin



                                                                 Break out the shorts, tank tops and sandles........
     Tune up the Bus wash off the winter rust~!~
       It's camping season woohooooooo LETS GO CAMPING~!~
