Date: Thu, 27 Apr 2006 13:48:18 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)zachula.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Wiring Harness Fabrication

when my harness burnt up i had to go to radio shack and buy the right gauge wire... same gauge as the vw harness uses... cant think what that is without looking...
  should be in the haynes or bentley .. i think i found it in one of those two...gauge size~!~
   
  my harness plugs were fried..melted ka put.. so i had to buy ones from radio shack that are kinda like a L shape so that i could hook them back onto the plug(males of alternator and voltage regulator...
   
  bought 6 female L plugs and wired soldered and electrical taped to new wire (correct gauge)
   
  hint here dont cut your self short with wire....
  wire the alternator and then you will know how much to pull through then after installing alternator back in... finish up ,up top....
   
  i think i bought green blue and red wires and the same for the plugs i bought them in color... i mean whats life without a little of that right? LOL... (COLOR)
   
  its really not that bad of a job once you get all the melted stuff out of the way....
   
  i will try to get some pics for you later on IF you need them of the plugs i used....
   they have them in a little drawer you will have to go through to find the right ones....
  mine have plastic coverings on them since they plug so close to one another...
  my worst fear when i built this was to not have this happen again.. can i hear a Amen on that zach hehehe~!~ just saying been there t shirt and a hat.....
   
  good luck
  let me know if i can help....
  chai
   
   
  

Zach Drew <type2(-at-)zachula.com> wrote:
  I have to rebuild the wiring harness that connects the alternator to the
rest of the bus. I am having some trouble removing the contacts from the
plastic 3 conductor plugs.

Anyone have any pointers? I am not really sure which way to shove the
screwdriver in to disengage the retainers that keep the female plugs in.

-Zach



                                                                 Break out the shorts, tank tops and sandles........
     Tune up the Bus wash off the winter rust~!~
       It's camping season woohooooooo LETS GO CAMPING~!~
