Date: Thu, 27 Apr 2006 20:03:38 -0700
From: Volks-Web Support <support(-at-)volks-web.net>
To: "< Arnaud >" <turbo2cv(-at-)gmail.com>,  type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Hydraulic Lifter Bench Bleed Procedure

If I were you, I'd bench fill the lifters.  Have you done that yet?  I 
thought it was an awful job 'till I did it awhile back, not bad at all. 
  The key is to use something to depress the piston while you put the 
other pieces back in with the clip.  I have a very small thin long 
screwdriver that works perfectly.  Boston Bob has a good article, though 
it still was not clear to me exactly what to do:

http://www.bostonengine.com/articles/hydraulicll.htm

Per the pic on his site -

Work in a wide shallow pan that has enough oil in it to cover the lifter 
completely.  Place it on a non-skid surface so it can't get away from 
you while your 3 hands are occupied.  ;-)  Of course, start with 
everything squeaky clean and have a few clean rags ready.

1)  Install the check valve retainer, check valve spring and ball check 
valve into the plunger.  You can do this out of the oil.
2)  Now slide the plunger spring into the valve body (sitting in the 
oil), followed by the plunger with the above parts already on it.  Take 
care that they stay in place and that the spring is perfectly centered.
3)  Use something (an old pushrod works great) to depress the plunger. 
Take care when you apply force that your whole pan doesn't go sliding off!
4)  Gently work your screwdriver or whatever (Hoover says a scribe, but 
they're tapered and I couldn't get one to stay in, hence the little 
screwdriver) into the bore to hold the plunger in place.
5)  Drop the pushrod socket in and install the lock ring.  I find a pair 
of needlenose work okay for this, but it would be nice to have lock ring 
pliers...
6)  Gently work the screwdriver or whatever out of the bore.

En Voila!  That lifter should be hard as a rock.  Store in oil until 
ready to install.

I'm sure y'all will let me know if I've left something out...

T
