From: "Joseph Broach" <jb149560(-at-)cue1.umt.edu>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 12 Sep 2005 13:12:09 -0600
Subject: Starting/FI problem on '78 2.0 FI bus

Hi all,



The recent 40 degree mornings confirmed that something is amiss with the
cold starting system on our '78 2.0 FI.  Diagnosis is compounded by the fact
that I also have (I think) a dying fuel pump.



Symptoms:  Bus starts "hard," and the colder it is, the harder it starts.
By "hard" I mean a lot more cranking than usual, and then it sort of
sputters to life instead of vrooms like it used to.  Touching the gas
shortens the required cranking time, but does not make it normal.  Unrelated
(I think) is a fuel pump that every so often (1 out of 25 starts) does not
come on line.  Tapping on the pump with a leatherman restores function.  I
have a good used pump on the way.



Diagnosis:  Battery voltage at rest is 12.5 volts.  There was no current at
the cold start connector while cranking.  This was true whether using the
TTS as ground or using an alternate ground.  I think this means no power
from the double relay terminal 86.  I confirmed this and found also no
current at terminal 86a from the solenoid (while cranking).  At the
solenoid, there are 4 connections (news to me).  One is a bundle of wires
including direct battery voltage.  One is the big ground strap.  One is a
double spade connection (term 50?) with the solenoid trigger from the
ignition switch (via a WR-1 relay, in this case).  The other spade terminal
was empty.  Voltage here was ~8-10V during cranking (normal?).  The fourth
is a single spade terminal opposite the solenoid trigger.  The Red/White FI
lead was connected here.  Voltage during cranking was absent at this fourth
terminal during cranking, meaning current to 86a at the relay was also
absent.  But, the bus still starts!  I don't get it.  Where's the fuel pump
getting power from (I confirmed that it gets power during cranking)?  Could
the AFM flap deflect enough during cranking to trip the fuel pump switch in
the AFM?



First attempt:  I moved the Red/White wire at the solenoid up to the empty
spade connector by the ignition switch solenoid trigger (term 50?).  Now
there's voltage at 86a and the cold start connector (~8-10 volts during
cranking).  Next cold morning I'll see what happens.



Questions:  Why is there a 4th solenoid terminal?  I haven't changed any
wiring, and it used to start perfectly in any weather.  What happened?  Why
did it start at all??



This is why people are driven to carbs, I guess ;-)



Best,

Joe Broach
