From: "gns.wagnon" <res0urdr(-at-)verizon.net>
To: "Vintage Bus Post" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 13 May 2003 22:53:44 -0500
Subject: I did it... and so it continues.

Volk-a-maniacs,

Well, here is where we are at now...
After much of the weekend, replacing all the obvious stuff (plugs, cables,
cap, rotor, condenser, points, oil, coil and cleaning out the carb) we have
decided to take out the engine and swap it with one we have in a '74 bug.
When we get the engine out of the bus, we intend to rebuild it.  Using the
Chilton manuals and Muir's guide as well.  I am also inclined to get the shop
manual as well.  From other mails, it appears to be a must have for this level
of grease monkeying.

The final straw was a suggestion found in the Chilton manual about debugging
backfires.  The suggestion was to pull a spark plug cable and see which one
doesn't affect the way the engine idles.  Well after spending most of Saturday
and half of Sunday just getting the thing to idle (roughly), we pulled out the
plugs one by one and found that two of them didn't seem to matter if they were
plugged in.  Then we pulled both and one more... still seemed not to matter.
Ugly.

So, this weekend will be spent pulling two engines and replacing one.  Any
special instructions or hints before I get all greasy?

One good thing, we were driving to a parts store and passed by a house that
typically has a bunch of Bays in yard (and a small lot of parts and stuff).  I
had always known it was there, but usually it had Bay Window VW's.  Not much
interest until now... he had a mid 60's camper and a Single Cab in his yard.
I also noticed the Autoshop sign he put up.  ALRIGHT!  A local source for
help.  We stopped and perused his yard for parts that might come in handy.
Unfortunately, no-one was home at the time, but I will certainly be giving him
a call this week.  Located in Cornelius, OR.  If anyone on this list is him...
you can expect to see me soon.

Another good thing.  I am getting to know my bus inside and out.  I've never
been much of a mechanic, just because I lacked in opportunities.  Now, I can
pull a distributor, set points, pull and replace plugs, and wires without even
blinking.  Among other things.  And more to come.  Best of all.  I am enjoying
it.  Even with the frustration of not being able to drive and not having great
luck with this bus thus far.

I posted a couple more pictures... my daughter decided to help.  Not bad for
15 months.  :o)

Greg
'63 Sundial (temporarily on blocks) 'Annie'
