Date: Wed, 14 May 2003 08:21:44 -0500
From: Kabayo <cabayao(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] re:front sway bar

On Wednesday, May 14, 2003, at 07:55 AM, Kevin Guarnotta wrote:

> What do these actually do-are they to prevent the front end from moving
> around in a strong headwind, or when going over bumps?
>

No and no.

The proper term for this part is 'anti-roll bar'.

It reduces body roll because it must twist (it is a torsion bar) in 
order for one wheel to move upward (the outer wheel in a corner) while 
the wheel at the other end of the bar moves downward (the inner wheel).

In practice, this is a weight transfer to the outer tire.  This 
increased loading on the outer tire increases its 'slip angle'.  The 
slip angle in the difference between the direction the tire is pointed 
and the direction it is actually moving.

This increase in the slip angle of the front wheels is perceived by the 
driver as 'understeer'.  Understeer (or plowing) is considered safer 
than 'oversteer'  (hanging the tail out as in those ridiculous TV 
chases).

Remember,  an anti-roll bar cannot repeal the laws of physics.  
Regardless of how things 'feel' before you reach the limits of tire 
adhesion, a tail heavy vehicle will still oversteer or even spin when 
the limits are exceeded.  And the 'jacking effect' of the swing axle 
rear suspension on early VWs only exacerbates the oversteer situation.

Empi sold a device called a 'camber compensator' which reduced the 
jacking effect quite a bit, though it strikes me as a futile effort to 
try to make a splitte into a sports car.  VW installed its own camber 
compensator (often referred to as a 'Z-bar') on '67-'68 US Beetles and 
type 3s with standard transmissions.

One drawback of anti-roll bars is a rougher ride, as the bar resists 
the flexibility of the suspension over one wheel bumps.  They also are 
sold steel, and so are not lightweight components, thus slowing down 
your bus and using more fuel.

I once fitted a '67 front anti-roll bar to a '62 bus.  The one ton bar 
fit onto the 3/4 ton front end just fine.

Kabayo
