From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Dave Wolfanger <dwolf(-at-)bluefrognet.net>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org
Date: Thu, 15 May 2003 08:31:53 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] AGAIN an aluminum case update

  From cases 6000 on, all issues were supposed to be resolved. I have cases
6322 and 6381. Case number 6381 has a center main bind. there are 3
different answers from 3 different engine builders/machine shops and my view
point on the lastest issue of the center main

  It seems to me that the case wasn't torqued properly when bored at the
factory. In unbolting the case halves I find less then 20 lbs torgue on the
case half bolts. I ran my bore gauge (I just spent $$$$ on one for just this
purpose) and found the center main to be out .00015, well within spec but
with the case torque set from the factory. I am going to retorque the case
to see if there are changes. When the cases leave the factory and also my
importer all case bores are check with a factory jig. All cases shipped pass
this test due to not properly torqued cases, when torgued the test gauge
will not go through (most recent finding) some of the cases

  A machine shop/engine builder in Cali builds 10+ of these engines a month
and has worked through all the issues. In talking to him the main problem he
has come across was the dowel pins be offset, thus cause the bearing to be
off a little causing a crush when the case halves are bolted together, he
suggested removing the dowels and bolting the case together to see if that
IS the problem.

  The center main problem is a new isuue that started around case numbers
5000 and is intermidiate, as I have built 2 5000 series engines without any
mods to the cases. Most if not all previous problems have been addressed and
corrected.

  In my opinion it seems that the first series cases were the best with just
clearancing problems and not machine work issues.

  The numbers of rejects/problems is such a low percentage that for a new
item they are actually below the industry standard for rejects. They just
need a better quality control before releaseing the product to the consumer.

  There is plenty of documentation out there now on the durability of these
cases and I am seeing more and more performance builders going to these
cases

  So there must be something good about them

ronnie



-----Original Message-----
From: Dave Wolfanger [mailto:dwolf(-at-)bluefrognet.net]
Sent: Thursday, May 15, 2003 7:27 AM
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org
Subject: Re: [VB] AGAIN an aluminum case update


This information doesn't resolve the issues
with the new aluminum type 1 engine case.

Craig has previously torqued the case and
not found the crank seized.
Was it correct before machining the stroker
clearance and the problem came from that ?
This would indicate an issue with Rimco, but
Northwest Connecting Rod reports they find
an error on all cases.

Raymond Heath had his mains line-bored .002"
back to standard due to undersize main bearing
journals. This would display as a partial cut
if the journal was accurate but the edge was burred.
He didn't specify if the cut was .002" total or
.002" radius, or which mains were undersize.

Craig originally posted the cam gear getting tight
once in a full revolution, with no visible pattern
displayed on the soft cam gear, and no solution
reported.

Vendors have consistently stated that all issues
have been resolved, and many cases are in use
with no defects.

Dave \X/

craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org> wrote-
Sent: Thursday, May 15, 2003 12:51 AM
Subject: [VB] AGAIN an aluminum case update


> oddly enough, there was ANOTHER problem... who'da
thunk?????????????????????
>
> http://www.ckoon.org/vw/case/pinchie.html

--
