Date: Sun, 23 Jun 2002 00:43:17 -0700
To: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>,<type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Scott Fraser <kn6f(-at-)dolphinsci.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Painting muffler

I too did not have much luck with the exhaust paint.  I used that umpteen 
hundred paint by the POR folks.

I sanded the mufflers and headers.
then cleaned them with lacquer thinner
let dry for a few hours.
Painted as per instructions.
Then I put the parts one at a time into.....  my barbecue and cured each 
part for the recommended amount of time around 350F
Everything looked real good, nice silver coating.  I figured, ah ha, I did it.
Slapped them up on the engine and sure enough, after the first drive, it 
started to bubble.
By the end of the week, not much was left.
Got me to wondering if there was something in the muffler plating that 
keeps the paint from sticking.

Now I just tried some of that black ceramic 1200F Dupli-Color (I think the 
same stuff as you), I painted everything for my Bultaco two days ago, 
header, muffler, tail pipe and spark arrestor.  Fired up the engine today 
and ran all total for about 30 minutes.  So far so good.  We'll see how it 
holds up after a long hard ride.  It doesn't feel quite cured yet as I can 
still scratch it in places that didn't get that hot for a long period of 
time.  Maybe the difference is in letting the paint dry for 48 hrs before 
putting it to heat.  It does talk about waiting a long period of time 
between coats if you don't recoat within an hour.

Scott
'60 Double Cab w/2L type IV
'73 Bultaco Sherpa T 350, ready again for the trails.


At 10:16 PM 6/22/02, Richard Atwell wrote:

>The Krylon website took me to Dupli-color.  I bought the high heat 1200F for
>exhaust headers.  Followed the instructions for application and drying time
>and after waiting for the last coat to dry I put the muffler back on and
>took it for a drive to cure the paint.
>
>When I got back after 30 mins, the paint had bubbled on the side and peeled
>on the bottom (both hot spots where the rust originally appears).  Pretty
>disappointed since I think I did everything right.  Going to have to remove
>it and sand it all down again and try another brand.  Arg.

