Date: Tue, 30 Dec 2003 11:35:56 -0800
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Clock wiring for 1978 Westfalia

On Tuesday, December 30, 2003, at 11:08AM, Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca> wrote:

>To see a bus in a junkyard is rare enough in Toronto. To see a bus in a 
>junkyard with a clock in it, well, that's pushing hard to believe. 
>Seeing two buses with clocks in junkyards ?? Not in my lifetime.

I don't like the junkyards here. All the good stuff is in kept the restricted areas where the virgin busses that have yet to be parted out are stored. The last bus I saw that had the clock was in this area. It had the original wiring (yoink) had a new clutch sitting in the van along with a reman. starter in the front seat both still in their boxes. Everything was there including all the mouse droppings on the engine.

When I lived in Texas I made friends with the used parts guy and I could call him on Tuesdays and find out what came from the auction that day. Year end gifts go a long way...that was really handy when I needed a lot of hard to find parts. They had lots of space for new vehicles and a large warehosue of parts already pulled. I really miss that place.

Around here you have to drive to several junkyards to find what you want and all the ones near the cities are pretty bare. I've never seen a split body at the junkyard here but I did see a few in TX.

The sad reality is that the local Beetle folks are savvy and know what Bus parts sell for and they pull 'em and put them up for sale on Samba or eBay to subsidize their beetle habits. Eventually the parts make their way into the hands of a bus owner albeit at a markup but it makes it hard on the local folks who drove 50 miles only to find nothing.

BTW, the wire to the clock was a heavy red wire. It was in a small black loom of 3 wires.

--
Richard, 1978 Westfalia CDN
http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell
Cupertino, CA
