From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: "Mark Hineline" <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>, "Type 2 List"
Date: Fri, 1 Oct 2004 06:41:24 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] Engine seized...

The purpose of the thread was intended solely so that I could understand the
differences in the case primarily.  I have already learned from multiple
replies to my original post that the heads are more or less
interchangeable(did not know this prior).  Ideally I would love to get my
motor to stock spec for the 1976 federal model so that it will match the
rest of the bus.

What prompted the post was that I have been learning much about the
machining and mating of parts inside the case and have been confirming much
of what has been discussed in prior threads to data presented within my
various manuals.  This in turn innevitably leads to the visual inspection
and while the two buses are identical years, they do not have identical
motors.  Non conformity lead to curiosity, curiosity to confusion, hence the
post.

I am not a mechanic, nor do I play one on television, and I have seen first
hand how the posts can spin when the issues of either motor oil, motor work
or body work are introduced.

So for the purposes of my original question, you volks have already given me
much food for thought and I most graciously thank all of you.  Someday I
will get the correct case with correct heads and internals into this bus,
but for the moment "If it aint broke, don't fix it" comes to my mind.  The
motor really is running quite well.  I was just curious what was in there
since they were visually different on the exterior.

  My next step will be to contact the PO (which happens to be a porsche
shop) and find out if they still have records on the motor work that they
performed on this bus' motor.  It's either that or try to figure out how to
tell the various head styles apart by locating some indicator that I am not
yet familiar with.

You all have been very helpful.  Thankyou for the links and thankyou for the
info.

Seann Stafford
1976 T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
1976 T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
