Date: Fri, 28 Sep 2001 13:06:36 -0400 (EDT)
From: david raistrick <keen(-at-)type2.com>
To: Vintage Bus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Vintagebus LIST CHARTER: PLEASE READ.


For those of you who prefer, you may view this document here:

http://www.type2.com/vintagebuscharter.html

The rest of yyou, and this means you, need to reread this.  This is what
we are about. Period.


This list is for 1949 to 1967 buses. If you don't have one of these, or
are not interested in them, then you're on the
wrong list.

Vintagebus is about being in buses on the road, keeping buses on the road,
and rescuing forlorn or neglected buses and
putting them back on the road. Mainly, it's a technical/mechanical
resource, although we also welcome trip reports,
for sale advertisements, and "here's what I fixed today" messages.

This list IS NOT A CHAT SESSION, and if you treat it as one your
subscription will be cancelled. Before you post a
message please make sure that it has legitimate bus content. This is
enforced.

"Legitimate" means that there is a good reason that 800 other people
should spend their time reading your message.
"Bus" means not-Beetle, not-Ghia, not anything but aircooled Transporters.
There are other lists for other models.
General mechanical/technical/shop stuff is fine if it applies to
somebody's Transporter problem.

If you have never been on a mailing list before, you should consult the
newbie material on the web site, particularly
at:

http://www.type2.com/newbie.html

This really --no kidding-- applies to those of you who signed on by way of
America On Line and/or who think it would
be a good idea to post a message in ALL CAPS.

This is a high-volume list. You can expect 30 to 100 messages per day. If
you aren't prepared to deal with this kind
of mail volume, a smart alternative is to read the list from its archive
on the web when you have time:

http://www.type2.com/type2reflect

This list only accepts submissions in plain vanilla 7-bit US-ASCII text.
The list server will intercept and return to
its author any message whose content type is "multipart", which means that
if you write mail in a web browser or in
most any Microsoft product you might have to make some adjustments. It's
no fun, but you might have to consult the
documentation that came with your mail program. Avoiding MIME-
encapsulated messages is the only way to ensure that
everybody on the list can view your message.

If you don't know what 7-bits, eighty columns means, please send mail to
the admin <list(-at-)vintagebus.com> so he can
explain it to you.

The type2.com home page is, predictably, here:

http://www.type2.com/

The home page is considered to be part of the list and there is a
tremendous amount of information there that can help
you; you are encouraged to explore it. In particular, though, familiarize
yourself with the Library and Archive pages.

The Library page gives you access to hundreds of bus tech articles from
all over the net indexed by subject matter.

The Archive page gives you access to every post to the bus mailing lists,
with the ability to search by any word in
the subject line or the body of the post.

You are expected to run a search thru the Archives and to have looked in
th Library before posting questions to the
list. This is to your advantage: you have hundreds of megs of hardcore
answers to your questions and the search tools
to pull out the information you need. You'll get more answers faster from
the search engines than you will if you ask
the list to spoon-feed you. Please use this resource early and often.

When replying to list messages, please quote only for context. Do not
quote entire messages. Do not quote other
people's signature files. Cut quotes to the bone. We already read it once.
This ain't usenet.

FRIDAY. TGIF is an institution that started on v(-at-)l, our motherlist. It's a
release, it's a morale-builder, it's when
the content restrictions get loose. Understand that Friday ends at
midnight on that day, it does not endure
indefinitely. And, even on Friday, messages must have bus content.

There are some subjects that are only appropriate on Friday. These include
toys, models, memorabilia, sightings, and
surveys. Surveys are those threads that seek everybody's subjective
opinion. Sightings are messages about buses
spotted in movies and television shows and commercials. Please do not post
messages on these subjects on any other
day. Newbies are encouraged to get the feel of it first; there's a line,
and the veterans know where it is.

Here are the "do not evers". If you do these things you will probably get
booted:

--do not ever post "test" messages. (e-mail the administrator,
list(-at-)vintagebus.com instead!)

--do not ever post server commands to the list.

--do not try to post binaries to the list.

--do not continue a thread after the admin has asked that it be killed.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LEGAL STUFF:

1. This is not a moderated list. The administrator doesn't see the
messages until you do, maybe later than you do, and
because of the nature of this medium the administrator has no way of
retracting messages from public view. Propogation
is automatic; once you send a message, it's gonna go, and there's no way
of stopping it.

2. Since that is true, the administrator cannot control what is posted to
this list, and therefore disclaims any
responsibility for the messages the list server propogates. If you post a
message, you alone are responsible for it.
If you don't like that, don't post messages.

3. By United States copyright law, messages posted to this list are
copyrighted with all rights reserved by their
respective authors. The administrator of this list makes no claim to
ownership of your messages and will not republish
or sell them, and neither should anybody else.

However, cross-posting is common on the Net whether it is authorized or
not, and if you post a message to this list it
will automatically be entered into at least two publicly accessible
archives, where it will remain permanently. If you
don't like the possibility of your words being cross-posted or archived,
then don't post messages.


--
David Raistrick  '66 SO-44 Westy		keen(-at-)type2.com
/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign 				in Guyton Ga
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail



