Date: Fri, 22 Sep 2006 15:13:57 -0700 (PDT)
From: P Morgavo <pmorgavo(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Starting troubles in San Diego

  Hello Volks! 

    Sunshine, my 72 Westy, wont start.  Any assistance is greatly appreciated.
    Im driving down I-5 here in San Diego when the engine dies.  A quick inspection from the side of the freeway reveals a broken Alternator Tensioning Bracket, the piece the alternator slides on to tighten up the fan belt.  Seems like an easy enough fix once parts are located.
    A few days later with vehicle at home and new/used Bracket in hand I went to work.  Thinking ahead, I took the alternator to Napa for a test.  They said its bad, I took their word for it and walked out with a new one.  New Bracket and new Alternator in place I turn the key no go.   I get a familiar Th-Clunk and then nothing.  Ok, so Im thinking Solenoid/Starter.
    I run a few tests and end up pulling the Starter with the Solenoid attached and taking it to Kragen (thats where the Warranty is) for a bench test.  They hook it up.  It passes at first, but doesnt sound good.  They run the test a few more times, each time the results get worse and it fails after the 4th.  So we replace the unit.  
    New Starter/Solenoid in place.  Still no start.  The same Th-Cluck sound (I think form the Solenoid.)  I try again and get nothing.  No sound at all.  Turns out the 15Amp fuse in the Bosch relay has blown.  I replace and try again, blows again.  Against advice, I replace it with a 20Amp fuse; it doesnt blow but I get the same Th-Clunk. 
      So I do some Voltage testing again.  12.26V from the battery.  I suppose this is considered a little low so I jump from another vehicle to get the Volts up; but still no change.  Th-Clunk.  Disconnect the 2 vehicles.  Test 12.2V going from the Ignition into the Bosch Relay as well as 12.2V from the Relay going into the Solenoid.  But now I get 6.2V out of the Solenoid (braided wire) into the Starter 
  This, to me, suggests the Solenoid (which I just replaced.)  My next planned step is to pull the Starter/Solenoid for a bench test cause thats all I can think to do at this point.
      Thats where it stands for the moment.  
  1.  Could I have damaged the new Solenoid? 
      2.  I suppose it could be the Battery, as the charge is low.  
  3.  Could the Bosch Relay be an issue?  Do they go out?
    4. - On the Alternator, under the plate where the wiring goes, there is a small black box attached to the center of the Alternator and a small wire running from the black box to a nearby post also on the Alternator.  My assumption is that its a ground wire, but then why have it in the box?  Anyway, point is, I re-used this part as the new Alternator did not come with it and the guy at Napa couldnt tell me what it was.  What is this part and is it possible that it is damaged and needs replacing? 

Or maybe I'm way off base.

    Again, any help is appreciated.
  Sunshine and I thank you.
  http://i20.photobucket.com/albums/b202/Majoon/SunshineatSunset.jpg
