Date: Sat, 23 Sep 2006 20:54:29 -0700 (PDT)
From: P Morgavo <pmorgavo(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>, Jamie <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>,
Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Starting troubles in San Diego

The saga continues.

Back in the daylight, I redo last nights tests.

I ran through the gears via the stick shift again; everything feels fine here and I can hear the Transmission moving around; that sounds normal too.  I push the bus back about 10 feet and back forward.  It moves easily and the engine does not engage/rotate.

With a wrench in the Alternator Pulley, I get the same results as last night.  The engine feels as if it is caught on something physical as apposed to a compression stroke.  Its a definite hard stop as I rotate clockwise.  I can rotate counter-clockwise about a quarter turn until I encounter the same feeling.  Forcing the Alt Pulley in either direction results in the belt slipping but at least I know the Alt is turning.  I attach a socket to the center nut on the fan/crankshaft (not as easy to get to) to verify that I get the same results, and I do.  So I move on to what seems to be the next best idea, pulling the Spark Plugs.  I pull them in reverse order 4,3,2,1 purely accidentally.
  4LR and 3LF look pretty normal.
  2RR was wet to the touch with oil when I pulled it out.  I have had an ongoing leak.

    1RF I have yet to get out.  I got it loosened but it almost immediately started getting tighter.  I sprayed some penetrating oil down there and do the ol tighten, loosen, tighten, loosen thing.  It feels like it helped but only slightly.  Forcing it only seems to make it tighter, almost too tight once.  At this point, I can get #1 to move about 1 rotation. 

    And, of course, the engine continues to not turn.
    I suppose Ill be back out there tomorrow.  

As always, your thoughts and suggestions on the matter are welcome and appreciated.
PM
  
http://i20.photobucket.com/albums/b202/Majoon/SunshineatSunset.jpg
