Date: Fri, 09 Nov 2001 08:21:24 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Dave Gillingham <dgilling(-at-)coronado-realty.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Roof replacement?

Not too difficult but it requires ALOT of careful measuring and cutting.

If you want to talk to people who have done this be sure to visit a hot rod 
show as most of those cars have had their roofs cut off and a section of 
the window post removed and then the roof reinstalled lower. Gives them 
that hot rod look.

I've assisted on several jobs and basically you measure from a common point 
at each window post). On the VW bus a good starting point would be the drip 
rail. Then you wrap the post with a good tape such as electrical tape to 
mark the cut (either above or below, just be consistent). You can use 
anything that will mark the post squarely.

We used tape because it is easy to get square - you wrap it around the post 
and back on top of itself. If everything lines up okay then you are on the 
right track for the most part. Don't stretch the tape.

Anyhow do the same to both busses.

Remove any wiring in these posts such as the dome light wiring.

I'd remove the doors to keep them from being in the way.

Borrow or rent or buy a Sawzall.

Cut.

Mig weld (or use a torch...) the top in place. Grind the big welds down. 
Putty, prime, paint.

You've got to get this right of the windows will not fit correctly, doors 
will not fit correctly, etc.

If you get cutting happy and decide to lower the top - keep in mind the 
side door windows may be too low to see out of (mine are and are original!)

It will also require sectioning the top and that is a whole other lecture. 
Requires two decent tops which you have but is alot of work.

Another method would be to drill each and every spot weld that holds the 
top skin to the bus. These are found in the drip rails. Buy a special spot 
weld drill bit from the local auto body paint store. ($15-$20).

Most of the hot rod magazines do an article on this top chopping  / 
swapping annually or bi-annually. Look for Street Rodder magazine. The big 
book stores probably have books that explain this too.

Ciao!

Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE:       Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing and exhaust 
- make offer
                 5 Beauty rings for 13" wheels, very nice, no dents, packed 
ready to go, $40 (was my cost)

