From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 29 Nov 2004 23:08:40 -0700
Subject: 80 Vanagon Speedo Fixed       I think

I think the saga of the failed odometer has reached an end. Here is what I
learned.

1. 80 vanagon uses an 11 tooth odometer gear. After Loosing my gear : (  I
repaired and installed a cracked 11 tooth gear. Super Glued the crack, wound
extreeeeeemly fine coper wire around shoulder of gear, super glued wire. Gear
fit too tight on shaft, fear this caused the crack. Drilled out hole in gear
with unknown size bit in a jewlers brace (small hand held/cranked drill). Bit
must be 3.something mm couse I hardly got any shavings. Sanded the shaft where
the gear slips on and super glued the gear on shaft. Ran speedo at 60 mph
using variable speed drill. Timed how long it took to log each mile for 5
miles. On average 1 min. per mile and exactly 5 min. for 5 miles.

2. The Vanagon speedo with trip odometer had jammed from a misadjustment of
what I would call a stop rod in the trip odometer reset mechanism. when the
reset button is depressed it pushes on a lever inside the speedo. The movement
of the lever alows the odometer to reset to 0. When the reset button is
released the lever re-engages the little gears that drive the numbers by
spring tension. There is a metal rod through this lever that is supposed to
stop the lever from forcing the little gears too far into the number wheels.
This little rod had moved to the right about 1/32" (viewed for back of speedo)
allowing the little gears to jam. Repositioned the rod and super glued it in
place.

3. Some years of spedometer, like 75, the whole pointer assembly can be pulled
off the shaft. Not so on the 80 or what ever year my parts speedo is. Tried
pulling the pounter off parts speedo and broke the black hub part of the
pointer but the white needle was still in one piece. Luck! Used an exacto
knife to pry the broken pointer off the black hub of the 80 speedo. A little
super glue applied with a tooth pick and I am back in business.
WoooHoooooooooo.

4. Don't expect a gear vendor to know what gear your speedo needs. I contacted
two vendors. One was honest and said I don't know but if I called him he would
work something out to get me the right gear. The other one said 17 tooth.
Turns out it needs 11 teeth! THe honest/knowledgable dealer can be found at
www.odometergears.com<http://www.odometergears.com/>  the other dealer will go
unnamed (maybe he just looked it up wrong).

5. The people on this list are the best! Every time I feel beat down for lack
of parts, knowledge, or luck, someone on this list always has the right part,
advice, reference, recommendation,encouragement, karma, to put me on the right
track. THANKS to all of you who keep me focused.

Please excuse spelling, my checker is on the blink.

Tom
75 bus "Turtlebus"
80 Westy "as yet unnamed"
