From: "Casting Fool" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 30 Nov 2004 23:24:18 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Wiring the wadio

From: "Miles Erickson" <miles(-at-)mileserickson.com>
> Sure, I'd love to hear how well it worked.

The radio went in just great.  I used the Cool Touch cordless soldering iron
to solder the old harness to the connectors on the radio.  I bypassed the
headlight dimmer thing.  I soldered leads to the two wires, but left them
unconnected to anything.

The radio worked first time.  I wasn't really thinking about the harness
when I tossed the old radio, but I'm glad I cut it off and kept it.  After
soldering, it made it into a plug and play scenario.

The Cool Touch iron I got from Radio Shack.  It didn't come with the free
wire stripper as advertised.  Could be a store thing.  The spark took some
getting use to, as the unit uses a current load between the ends of the
split tip to raise the temp to solder melting level.

It eats batteries.  RS tried to sell me lithium batteries for it, but $4.00
for 8 Duracell Alkaline batteries was a tad more appealing than $14.00 for 4
lithium.  It went through 4 batteries quickly.  I got probably 10-11 joints
done before I had to switch to the other set of batteries.

For what it's intended to do, it's a good buy.  There's a learning curve.
It took me a bit to get nice joints.  I don't think it's going to do heavy
joints.  The unit got hot enough to slightly melt the plastic insulator
around the tip socket during extended use.

It's got a white LED beneath the tip that illuminates the work area (and
when it gets dim, it's time for new batteries), and a red one on top that
indicates that you've got current passing through the tip correctly.

It cools off quickly, but not as quickly as advertised.  It took probably
10-15 seconds to cool off enough for me to safely handle the tip.  Then
again, I used it continuously until I'd finished with the radio.

It's a good buy, but get it from the manufacturer if you can
(http://www.coldheat.com/).  The free wire stripper is a nice touch that you
don't get from RS (but the RS CT alone is the same price).

TTFN - Mike Jackson
`77 Bay, "Giacomo"
Casting Fool & Son
Augusta, GA  USA
http://www.cfnson.com
