From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Wed, 5 Feb 2003 13:23:41 -0600 (CST)
To: slyons(-at-)netrover.com (scott lyons)
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Mig Tig or Arc Wire Feed?

Not always true--

The econo unit usually has a gas port in the rear of the machines---they
are just sold without the reulator and supplied with the flux wire---

A inexpesive portable Linclon welder with about 25% duty cycle is pretty
resonable, and comes with a gas regulator and tank set up--for about
$175.00--how much cheaper can you get??

Ahh--your original posting Ok wasen't bizarre--it was misleading when
you blantentley stated that a MIG welder didn't require any gas--

Lucky?

Naw--smart--

In any of my tools, I have found it is much better/ wiser to buy the the
best from the get go--rather than having a piece of junk taking up
space--and having to go out and purchase the right tool that cost
more--but lasts longer, and gives me better service when I need it--

I can't afford to have cheap junk laying around collecting dust ---non
functious mentus.

Later,

Terry

 
E-mail message   
 
There is nothing in my post that is bizarre, you didn't read it very
well, or the previous posts in the thread. 
The only welding done without gas is Arc welding-- 
This is just not true. Flux-core welders may not be anywhere near as
good as a proper MIG or TIG, but they work fine for what a hobbyist
needs in many instances. And they are fairly inexpensive, which most
good MIG's, and all TIG's, are not. You get what you pay for, in welding
machines as in all else. 
You must be thinking about the econo Wally World mig welder's with the
flux coating on the wire, so you allegedly don't have to buy a bottle-- 
Crummy welds-- 
I am aware that what a welding professional calls a "wire-feed welder"
is probably a MIG. What is today commonly (by nonprofessionals) called a
wire-feed welder uses only flux-core wire, no gas. This is not a MIG,
there is no Inert Gas. I didn't invent the use of the term. Whatever
"wally world" is, I don't know, but yes they are the budget machines.
This is what the original poster was asking about. Call it crummy,
whatever, they work fine for most home users who can't justify the kind
of machine you are using. 
I have a 300 amp Miller 100% duty cycle-- and I use CO2 -argon every
day-- 
http://www.millerwelds.com/main/products/mig/M10800/buy/ 
You are lucky to have professional grade equipment at your disposal.
Some of us have to make do with less. 
Scott Lyons
