Date: Wed, 05 Feb 2003 13:47:02 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.), slyons(-at-)netrover.com (scott lyons)
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Mig Tig or Arc Wire Feed?

>The only welding done without gas is Arc welding--
>
>You must be thinking about the econo Wally World mig welder's with the
>flux coating on the wire, so you allegedly don't have to buy a bottle--
>
>Crummy welds--
>
>I have a 300 amp Miller 100% duty cycle-- and I use CO2 -argon every
>day--
>
>A Tig also uses the same gases--

FWIW: I was given a small 120 volt wire feed welder for free. I bought a 
spool of flux core wire and used it on my utility trailer to build a ramp. 
It is usable. It will make some welds BUT BUT BUT it is something like a 
20% duty cycle machine. Means to me that every so often when I was making 
good progress the machine would go into thermal overload until it cooled 
off (no fan). It has limited wire feed speeds, poor traction on the wire, 
and only two temp settings. I'm a good amateur welder so it's not operator 
problems. I was given the machine because the two prior owners used it for 
no more than half an hour before they wanted rid of it out of frustration. 
The second was a former certified welder. He was given the welder too but 
hated it so much (having used better) that he wanted rid of it too. I 
finished that trailer project and the welds have never broken. I've still 
got the welder and hope to TRY it with some argon gas and regular thin MIG 
wire. Right now the basic flux cored wire is not suitable for body work.

I took a welding class at the university where I'm getting close to 
completing a Bachelor's Degree in Engineering. In that class we learned to 
weld with a oxyacetylene torch, stick welder, MIG, plasma cutter, and TIG. 
The machines were all Lincoln or Miller commercial grade I believe. BIG BIG 
BIG difference.

Excellent heat control Never a feed problem (wheels slipping on the wire). 
Excellent wire speed control. Basically infinite adjustment. My results 
were hugely better than my little 120 volt machine.

TIG was neat but required alot more technique learning like the 
oxyacetylene torch. MIG was sort of a machine controlled process by 
comparison in my opinion.

To sum it up seriously hunt for a used pro-MIG machine and save the money 
you would have spent on a "hobby" grade welding machine like found in Wally 
World and some hardware stores. You'll be MUCH happier with it as time 
passes and your skills improve and your projects get more elaborate.

With my little machine it is doubtful that I will even be able to buy parts 
for it (Italian made - not all Italian made machines are junk, just this one).

FWIW




Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
