Date: Wed, 05 Feb 2003 17:12:58 -0700
From: Matt <matt(-at-)jive.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Mig Tig or Arc

> Subject: Re: [T2] Mig Tig or Arc
> Scott,
> 
> Another Boo-Boo--
> 
> All the body shops in the greater Chicagoland area use MIG welder's--
> 
> Why?
> 
> A TIG is a manual devise--requiring a bunch of dexterity and much slower
> than a MIG welder, and is cheaper than a good MIG welder by far.

My TIG machine was about $1500. My MIG machine was about $500.  I could 
have bought a more expensive wire welder, or a more expensive TIG welder, 
but generally, a person will pay less for a wire welder (MIG)

> A MIG is infinatley adjustable to any amperage thats needed --and burns
> cool--actually cooler than a TIG on sheet metal--simply because you can
> move faster, eliminating any warp.

A lot of MIG machines actually have predefined steps, and all welding 
machines have a lower limit to the current they can provide. Some machines 
simply aren't going to go down far enough to weld very thin material.

> They usually have a couple of other welding modes on them also--a stitch
> as well a spot welding speed---

Some do. Some don't. Stitch and spot features cost more, and are probably 
not really needed for the home and casual user.

> A MIG welder is faster than a ARC welder for any type of
> welding--because it is cleaner--and eliminates chipping slag prior to
> making a second pass.


A MIG weld *is* an arc welder.  You probably mean "stick welder" when you 
say arc.

Both MIG and stick welders use consumable electrodes. This means that the 
electrode is also the filler metal.  Welding is a fusion process; in order 
to fuse the metal, you have to add heat.  Because the electrode carries 
the electrical current that generates the heat, the rate that metal is 
deposited into the weld is a function of various welder settings, and the 
size of the electrode.

Sometimes you'll hear MIG being called "wire welding", mostly because it 
has a wire that comes out of the gun that carries the current.  The 
terminology gets abused fairly heavily.  MIG is correctly called "GMAW" , 
gas metal arc welding, TIG is GTAW, gas tungsten arc welding. MIG can 
actually be done using carbon dioxide, which makes it MAG welding. (metal 
inert gas, using argon, or metal active gas, using CO2)  Wire welding can 
also be done using a flux cored wire, which eliminates the need for a 
shielding gas, but creates slag, like stick welding.  Off hand, I want to 
say that stick welding is "SMAW", stick metal arc welding, but that could 
be wrong. I don't use it much.

In a TIG process, the current can be varied independently of the rate the 
welder is putting the filler metal into the weld area.  Finer control, but 
takes longer.

For a bus person, I'd go with a decent middle level MIG machine. I have a 
Lincoln that will plug into 120 AC. It will only weld up to say 3/16" 
metal, but it's easier to carry around. For thicker metal, I can use my 
TIG machine, which is 220V, and set it in Stick mode and just use it as a 
stick welder.

No real quick summary of all this.  I think a person could learn more by 
going to a library and checking out a "How to weld" type book, or poking 
around on Google for something.  Just be aware that the terminology you'll 
see will sometimes be a little sloppy.


matt
