From: "Wakanska" <Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 6 Feb 2003 01:56:12 -0800
Subject: My first FI

Hey, volks!
  I've been on this list, then off (lost my email addy), now back. I decided
to take the challenge and move up to a FI. Someone said that it was really not
so scary and difficult, just different. That's a good way of putting it, and
I'm not so scared of this engine anymore.
This '78 T2 is kind of raggedy-looking.. It's never had any serious body
damage. I think it's got one long scratch on the door, but otherwise, never an
accident. It's rusty, but not very bad, really...all superficial, and a bit of
the usual rust under the windshield. It's a southern California bus and we
don't have any salt/snow so the underside and rockers are great. The rust is
all up top and surface.
I spotted this one one day a couple of months ago when I was going to the
dentist. It was parked with a "for sale" sign. I told myself I didn't need
another bus, but I found myself thinking about it more than once.. (You know
how it starts, oh fellow addicts!) A week later, I went back to see if it was
still there. It was, so I arranged to take it for a drive. It seemed pretty
good.. started right up and had lots of pep, but it had an exhaust leak (bad
muffler) and a few other little problems, and this guy wanted too much at
$800. I decided to let him sweat.
By the time I got back to him, it had been impounded for registration. He
didn't have the money to bail it out, and didn't want to lose out totally, so
he told me to just give him $100. So, I tossed him a $100 bill, he gave me the
pink, and off I went to get my bus. In all, with registration and storage, it
cost me under $500. I drove it home.. Lots of power, but didn't shift quite
right. A big "bang", and she laid down some rubber, trying to shift into
fourth at the top of the freeway ramp. That was the clutch exploding! I
figured it was a broken clutch cable.
Well, the problem turned out to be a broken throwout bearing pin on one side,
and THAT caused the funny shifting and the shattered clutch. I barely got it
home and into the drive and left it for a couple of months. I had hoped it was
a broken clutch cable, because the clutch went soft on me. After inspection, I
knew that it wasn't the cable, and next was an engine pull to inspect
everything, which I spent a lot of time thinking about. LOL.
Last week we got started on it. Now, the parts are starting to add up.. New
clutch, T/O bearing, new pressure plate and a trip to the machine shop
(resurface and balance).  New muffler and tailpipe, too. That was last week. I
decided to replace the fuel guage sending unit and any available hoses while
the engine was out. I strongly suspected that the sending unit was bad, and I
had noticed a gasoline smell inside the cab on that maiden trip home. Today, I
bought a new fuel guage sending unit, tank-to-fill tube hose, fill tube elbow
boot, and five new FI pigtails. There's no such thing as a "free" bus, is
there. But I'm not complaining, mind you. I am starting to get really excited
about this bus (What T2 DON'T I get excited about?). By the way, this is my
fourth current bus (I've owned two others before, but now I'm collecting!).
What's really kinda cool is that this bus is a SUNROOF BUS!.. AND I actually
found a factory seal, and instructions on how to service the sunroof on the T2
list. What more could I ask for?
Life is GOOD!
