Date: Tue, 19 Jul 2011 08:49:42 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Zach Drew <zachula(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Question about electronic igniton (points replacement)

On 7/18/2011 8:20 PM, Zach Drew wrote:
> I contacted hotspark because of the red v blue issue and they
> mentioned the ballast resistor in their response.

So they didn't answer your question about the unit coloring or did they 
also tell you that the red wire still is the +12v supply (terminal 15) 
and the black wires goes to the negative side of the coil (terminal 1)?

> after posting my message I continued to dig around on ratwell and
> found that terminal 15 is the 12v + side.
> I am still kind of green when it comes to the ignition stuff.

You're making this waaaaaaaaaaaaaay more complicated than it needs to 
be.  Looking at your coil, you want to attach the +12v supply side of 
your hotspark to wherever you have +12v - this is why I recommended 
getting out a voltmeter and testing this so you really understand which 
terminal it is (not just us telling you).  But the other way to tell is 
because the EFI computer triggers off of the negative side of the coil 
as that's where it gets it's tach signal.  It also connects to the same 
side of the coil as the points do.  Once you know the negative side, you 
now know the positive side.  And red is not always +12v!!

Just so you understand how the hotspark unit works (or pertronix or 
compufire for that matter), the two wires coming out of the unit are not 
+ and - supply lines, per se.  The +12v supply (probably red wire) 
provides power to the unit, and the base of the unit (which should be 
bare metal) is the negative ground - that is how it gets it's power - 
remember, the other side of your battery is connected to ground, which 
is connected to the transmission, which is connected to the engine, 
which is connected to your distributor, and that's where the hotspark is 
screwed on, so circuit completed.  That's why having a clean and 
reliable ground is so important, because everything is using it to 
complete the circuit.

So now the unit is getting power from it's +12v source wire and 
completing the circuit through the engine ground - so what about the 
other wire?  Well, when that little magnet spins around, it tells the 
unit to connect that other wire to ground, then break the connection, 
then ground, then break the connection, over and over, 4 times per 
rotation - this is what fires the coil.

> I suspect that the second black lead on the 12v side is actually
> feeding INTO the double relay which means that the wire that is hooked
> into the other side of the 15 terminal is the lead from the ignition
> switch.

Like I mentioned in my other email, one should be supplying +12v and 
probably comes from the double relay (I'm totally guessing here, but it 
really doesn't matter as long as it's ignition-switched +12v).  The 
other most likely goes to a fuse on the left side of the engine bay and 
is for your reverse light.  But like I said in my email - hook up a test 
light/meter to confirm that it is actually being powered by the ignition 
switch.  You never know how someone bastardizes an engine which is why 
you should test and verify these things yourself.

> I apologize if my email came off seeming lazy or unprepared, I thought
> I would post and see if anyone had been through a similar situation
> and had an easy answer while I continue to research things on my own.

In your first email you never mentioned that it was a blue vs red unit 
issue, so how would we know that was the problem? ;)


>> just make sure your max advance isn't going too high!!
>
> its more of a bump/hiccup that only happens sometimes when I am
> accelerating but doesn't seem to affect it at higher rpms (not much
> higher though :-)

I'm not talking about your bump/hiccup, I'm talking about the fact that 
you're adjusting your idle timing because of rough running and not 
verifying that your max advance (at high rpms) is not going over roughly 
32 degrees - you can kill your engine very quickly if you're not careful.
