Date: Tue, 19 Jul 2011 11:17:24 -0700
From: Jim and Avalon <Wildthings(-at-)gorge.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Question about electronic igniton (points replacement)

> easy, fast, convenient, stable, no mechanical wear, smoother running 
> engine, more accurate.... just to name a few :)
>

I would say that well describes my life experience with points, plus I 
would add that I have never had to have a vehicle running points towed 
due to ignition failure when running points.
> And my compufire has demanded less maintenance on that.  I have never 
> adjusted my points in 100k miles (except if I pulled the distributor 
> or something similar).  That's reason enough to convince me to switch 
> over so I never have to pull out a dwell meter or gap the points.
>

When the distributor on my Dodge wore out after 35 years of use and many 
hundreds of thousands of miles, I thought I would be smart and install a 
new Mopar distributor with electronic ignition, seeing as how I couldn't 
find a new points style distributor.  A few months later the ignition 
module failed, followed in short order by a second Mopar ignition module 
failure.  I eventually found that there was a dead diode in the 
alternator that hadn't bothered the points but was burning up the 
electronic modules.  On my Bay I decided to try an electronic ignition 
to see what all the fuss was about.  I bought a Petronix distributor and 
installed it and it ran after a fashion, but the Petronix "factory" 
installation was crude and was likely to give problems down the road, so 
I sent it back and got a second.  This second one was worse, and would 
have failed in a few miles had I run it.  I then rebuilt my original 
distributor and added a Petronix to it.  So far it has run well but is 
no more stable than the points were as the timing flutter comes from the 
mechanical distributor itself and not from a properly installed set of 
points.

At this time I have spent enough time and money on electronic ignitions 
to have replaced points for hundreds of thousands of miles.  I would say 
they are a failed experiment at this point.
