Date: Fri, 22 Jul 2011 09:57:43 -0700
From: Sami Dakhlia <sami.dakhlia(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: stranded in Wichita Falls, TX

Hi everybody,
Back in the USA to enjoy a few weeks of vacation and to reunite with
our '75 Westy, which had been left with family in Topanga, CA, a
fitting place for this 36-year old lady.

As you may recall from my posts last year, a friend and I drove the
ill-prepared bus from Mississippi to California. Didn't have much of a
choice, though. Here's a quick list of troubles we faced:
(1) poor mileage (15 mpg) and fast revving at idle. The poor mileage
got better once we realized that the brake were dragging. The rusty
calipers rebuilt at David Schwarze's house in Dallas. The idle issue
was simply due to a poorly lubricated return spring at the throttle
housing.
(2) As we approached Wichita Falls, loud rattling noise and loss of a
heater flap box. Uneven idle as if running on 3 cylinders. We
theorized a lot and thought I might have been a dropped valve seat.
But various checks and compression tests could not confirm that. Next
morning, engine ran perfectly, on all 4 cylinders. A retired VW
mechanic listened to the engine and said that it was fine, except for
an exhaust leak, so we moved on.
(3) On our way to Amarillo, we notice much higher oil temp, from 230 F
at 60 mph to 260 F at 50 mph. (We slowed down to keep the temp from
climbing even further.) In the evening, with much cooler weather, the
bus runs and purrs perfectly as we approach Santa Fe, NM. I buy a
feeler gauge to check point gap, a strobe light for timing, and a
dwell meter. Drain the gas and find rust sediment, the fuel filter is
clogged as well, the fuel hoses under the bus crack as I pinch them.
Lovely. Adjust points with dwell meter, set timing again, replace
filter and all hoses and carry on.
(4) Still have trouble with high oil temperature and the engine runs
like kr(-at-)p. Make to a VW dealership in Flagstaff, who charge me $120 to
tell me that all's well, but that the point gap was way off. So much
for the Sears-branded dwell-meter.
(5) We're running out of time, friend needs to catch plane in Las
Vegas, I'm expected a day later in LA. Have zero confidence left in
the bus and opt for the nuclear option: rent a truck and trailer. No
more teeth grinding while driving :)
(6) The top mechanic at BMW in Santa Monica was trained in Germany and
had been working on VWs for many years. He quickly found a cracked
rubber elbow at the auxiliary air control valve, which let in false
air. He also suggests that I have a closer look at the oil cooler,
which does not appears to be doing its job.

Now fast-forward to the present. Just drove the bus from LA to
Livermore in the Bay Area, taking US-101 to stay on the cooler side of
California and to avoid the car-killer Grapevine. Bus ran great,
except for a few oil temp peaks at 250 F. And I got a Eureka moment!
The oil cooler is probably fine; it's the missing heater flap box that
causes air to escape rather than being pushed out through the oil
cooler. Why, oh why, did I not think of this earlier???

Anyway, I thought I'd share this with all those of you who had also
been scratching their heads last year.

Cheers,
Sami

type2.com/dakhlia
