Date: Fri, 22 Jul 2011 23:55:31 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] DVDA Distributor question

On 7/22/2011 5:57 PM, Zach Drew wrote:
> Okay so I broke down and bought a mighty vac, it will come in handy in
> the future I am sure.

I've used mine quite a bit, so enjoy :)

> I am hoping it just needs to be cleaned up, but if not, how bad would
> it be to put it back in and use it as is until I can source a new one.
> Another option is to replace it with a single vacuum model but I will
> have to do some research to figure out what to do with the vacuum
> lines and whatnot.

The easiest way to see if it's working (which it probably will), is put 
it in the car and drive it around.  Then pull off the vacuum lines and 
drive it around again.  If you notice a lack of power when shifting from 
first to second, that is due to the lack of advance in between gears and 
your vacuum advance was working (when you had it connected).  If you 
noticed no difference, it wasn't working.

> I am having a hard time locating any instructions or tips on
> "refreshing" a dizzy.
> The usual suspects don't really have much on it.
> anyone have any helpful tips or links that might help me through the process?

I was gonna write one up a looooooong time ago, but I never got around 
to it.  Basically you pull off the points and I think there are a couple 
screws on the side of the distributor that hold the bottom (fixed) 
breaker plate.  You unscrew those and then you can rotate the bottom 
plate and lift top/bottom assembly out of the distributor.  You can then 
rotate the plates and pull them apart, being VERY CAREFUL NOT TO LOSE 
THE LITTLE RUBBING PIECES!  They can fall out easily, and I think there 
are 3 if I remember.  Clean the plates up real nice, put a dab of grease 
on the plastic contact points, and reassemble.  If you're nervous about 
taking apart, take pictures of each step.

Or, just put a couple drops of oil on the plate and rotate it back and 
forth by hand until if moves smoothly.  You can also the breaker plate 
from the vacuum arm so it moves more freely.

Mike
