Date: Sat, 23 Jul 2011 13:25:57 -0700
From: Zach Drew <zachula(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
Cc: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] DVDA Distributor question

> This is the tough part - you are not tuning for the distributor, but for
the
> engine.  I can't remember what year bus you have, or if you have a stock
> engine.  In my 78, for example, I tune for 32 max advance and 41 with the
> vacuum hose connected, but I have the stock engine for that year, so
> everything matches up...
>
> Fill us in on what year your bus is and what engine you have and let's go
> from there.

There's a lot here but I want to paint a complete picture.

Hard to say exactly what engine I have.

The bus is a 75.  According to some paperwork I have that came with
the bus, it was originally a 1700 block but was rebuilt to 1925 in 95.
The guy I bought it from made a big deal about some Mark Stephens
Phase 1 heads and that it had Porsche pistons (or cylinders not sure
haven't really gotten a desire to go digging and I don;t have a garage
that I can drop the engine in)
I paid $1800 for the bus and I feel like I got a good deal.

I have attempted to research this further but there isn't a whole lot
of info on the net about Mark Stephens Performance, only that they
went out in a blaze of glory and left some folks high and dry.
Some of their work is good, some of it was bad etc etc etc.  Nothing
concrete.  I guess a few of the guys from Mark Stephens left to start
another company whose name escapes me at the moment.

When I bought the bus, I had a shop run a compression test but they
never gave me the final numbers, just said that all four cylinders
were solid

speaking of solid, its a solid lifter bus as well.

At some point the PO put a FI system from a 2 litre 78'

I have had the bus since 2005 and have been learning my way around it
and it is my first aircooled vehicle.
I do love it to pieces but its not my daily driver and up until
recently due to a bad ignition switch it did not get treated the way
it should have been (left sitting for months at a time, not really
driven much)

To date I have replaced the alternator, starter, pushrod tube seals,
brake booster, ignition switch, steering kingpin, all the fuel lines,
about 25% of the vacuum lines and I have been slowly working my way
through the wiring harness.  Its a real pain because this bus has been
"fixed" a lot and at one point had AC so there are extra wires in the
harness.

the pushrod tube seals were leaking pretty bad when I got it, now its
pretty tight and with the replacement of the dizzy o ring last night,
I suspect my oil leaks should be basically chased down and resolved.

My life has settled down a bit and the wife is starting to dig it
since she has been able to help and do some sewing for it so my goal
is to get it out at least once a month for a drive and at least 2 or 3
more camping trips before the weather turns bad.  I am up in
Washington state, Seattle area.

I have the 6 rib 091 transmission with the freeway flier setup.  Some
seepage, but CV boots are in great shape, no grinding when I
manipulate them and the rubber is still fresh.  She cruises at 60 a
little too comfortably and if I were to "floor" it she would easily
pull to 70-80mph (have done it once or twice when I wasn't paying
attention, as a general rule I stick between 60 and 70 on the freeway
with some sprints to get around a slower moving vehicle.  60 mph is
about 3500 RPM if memory serves.

I have had little to no trouble with her and the big annual trip I
make with her is from sea level over a 3k foot pass and then down to
1700 foot and then a rough switchback climb to 6300.  On the pass she
does pretty good and can keep to 60 without too much effort all the
way over.  For the steep climb I take it slow and easy first and
second all the way and she pulls nice and strong.  Coming back down I
generally get a couple little pop pop pop backfires when I downshift
to take some heat off the brakes.

The thermostat is shot.  its next on my list, but my flaps are in
place and while its not the ideal situation, based on what I have
read, I am looking at increased wear during start up and shorter
engine life but its not the end of the world so long as I understand
the risks.

All the tin is in place and I have plugged the holes in the tin over
the muffler.  the only hole I have in the engine compartment is the
alternator adjustment screw and a few holes in the battery tray.

After my last run (25 miles freeway, 60 degrees outside) I got out my
infrared thermometer.  My exhaust headers were around 500, valve
covers were in the 240 range, jtubes around 320 or so, and the heater
boxes were in the 260 range.  Based on ratwell this seems a little
high on the heaterboxes but low on the valve covers and exhaust
headers.

a CHT is also in the works but like the rest of us I only have so much
cash to devote to my obses^h^h^h^h hobby.

I know this is probably more than you wanted to know.

I am incredibly grateful for this list, people like oldvolks and ratwell.
Without them I would not be as comfortable or as successful working on my
bus.

-Z


--
Zach Drew
Find paradise for yourself : www.radioparadise.com
1975 Riviera "Surely"
