Date: Sat, 23 Jul 2011 20:23:52 -0700
From: Zach Drew <zachula(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Gregory Urban <urban(-at-)yaic.com>
Cc: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] DVDA Distributor question

On Sat, Jul 23, 2011 at 7:27 PM, Gregory Urban <urban(-at-)yaic.com> wrote:
> The first picture had me questioning all I know about engines.
>
> The second made it clear again.
>
> Maybe this is confusing because the Type1 and Type4 engines are marked
differently.  ATDC is "A"fter and BTDC is "B"efore.

its exactly why its confusing :-)  I had no frame of reference for a
type1 as all I have ever had was a TypeIV.
>
> Now, on my engine, and I'm assuming all other Type1s, there is a notch in
the crankshaft pulley which matches up against the seam in the case. When the
notch and seam line up, you are at TDC.  The Type1 crankshaft pulley then
either has a second timing notch, or a scale on it (like the scale in your
second picture).  However, the scale is on the crankshaft pulley.  The notch
for 7 degrees BTDC is to the left of the TDC mark, which makes perfect sense
since with a clockwise rotating wheel the bit to the right hits the seam in
the case marking before the TDC mark.
>
> In your second picture, it appears the timing marks are on the engine block.
 So, the reference point on the crankshaft pulley is static, and the reference
point on the engine moves based on the timing.  Again, this is backwards from
the Type1, where the reference point on the engine is static (the seam of the
case), and the relative reference point on the crankshaft pulley moves.  So
with your engine (and a clockwise rotating pulley), the static mark on the
crankshaft pulley hits the mark on the timing scale of TDC, and then travels
to the right along the scale, which is now measuring After TDC.


RIGHT  Since the scale on the pulley has a 0 on it when the 0 moves to
the right, you are setting BTDC.
which makes perfect sense.

was totally throwing me for a loop before.
>
> If this doesn't make sense one of us needs two more beers.

mmmmmm beeeeeer

incidentally I disconnected the retard, and set it to 7 BTDC.

at 2000 rpm I am looking at about 24 degrees of total advance,
disconnecting the advance vacuum drops it by a couple degrees.

A trip around the block felt good, maybe a little herky jerky here and
there which could be the clutch or the tranny, both are on the "list"

final question.  I know if we are talking Carbs, the timing can effect
lean/rich mixture.

Is that the case with FI?

Running too lean or too rich is never a good thing but if I have to
pick one, running rich is the lesser of too evils yes?

--
Zach Drew
Find paradise for yourself : www.radioparadise.com
1975 Riviera "Surely"
