From: "mike g." <mike.gensler(-at-)comcast.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 24 Jul 2011 22:51:59 -0600
Subject: Type IV Engine Cooling Tip

I was cleaning out some old (ancient to some of you) emails and ran across
this little tidbit that I wrote up and posted to a 914 list about 13 years
ago when I was doing a lot of bus and 914 work.  Seeing how it's summer and
some of you folks have been living in tripple digit temps for the past 2
months I thought it might be of interest.  Take or leave it :)
 
Cheers
Mike g.
Former owner 73 Westy w/5-sp tranny
Former owner 58 single cab - Zorm
74 914 2.0 (mine since 1991!)
----------------
I recently pulled the 2.0 type IV motor out of my 914 to fix some oil leaks
and just some general cleanup and repair. The motor had been running hot for
the past 2 years so one of the things I was looking for was anything that
might account for the higher temps. Well, I found it!

I started studying how the cooling flaps worked and was comparing them to
another set I have for my new motor. What I found was shocking! The rod that
connects the 2 flaps was bent/twisted in such a way that when the flap on
the oil cooler side was completely opened (ie. resting on the bracket on top
of the cooler), the flap on the opposite side was less than 1/2 opened. The
rod still looked more-or-less straight, but upon comparison to a truly good
one, it was apparent how screwed it was.

I replaced the flaps with my spare and now that the engine is back in and
running strong again, I can say with 100% certainty that the temps are a LOT
lower than before. My gauge isn't marked with numbers, but before the swap
the needle would point to 3/4 on the scale. Now it doesn't go over 1/3 on
the scale. Even after a 15 minute stint at 100 mph immediately followed by
some in-town, stop-n-go driving

The only other thing I changed that might have affected cooling is to clean
the mild oily buildup from the fan, housing, and tin. I know that will
account for a little of it, but not the night/day difference I achieved.

I'm pretty sure I ruined the rod myself. Here's a few ways that I think I
did it (accumulated destruction): Use the rod as a handy handle to balance
the engine during removal and installation. Use the rod to move the housing
around after removal. Use the rod as a leverage surface for whatever. Trip
on the rod while the housing is lying on the floor in front of the bench
grinder. Lean on the rod while leaning into the engine compartment to do
tune-ups. Etc.

So, next time you're putting a type IV together, study how your flaps open
and close before putting your cylinder tin on. That's your only time to make
sure they're opening and closing completely. On BOTH sides. And be gentle
with that rod because it's not very strong.

-----------------
