From: "mike g." <mike.gensler(-at-)comcast.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 24 Jul 2011 23:21:35 -0600
Subject: FW: Gravity-type Fuel Pump:  A trav'lin Story

Sorry - this is more of a Friday post, but hey:  The wife is out of town,
it's 11:00 P.M. where I live, I've got a good start on a 5th of Crown, don't
have to be at work until 10 tomorrow morning and figured, "why not" :) 

Cheers
Mike g.
Former owner 73 Westy w/5-sp tranny
Former owner 58 single cab - Zorm
74 914 2.0 (mine since 1991!) 

-----Original Message-----
From: Gensler, Mike 
Sent: Friday, February 21, 1997 1:54 PM
To: 'Type2 List'
Subject: Gravity-type Fuel Pump: A trav'lin Story

Since it's Friday, I thought I'd share this worthless little anecdote with
ya'll (might not be worthless if you found yourself in a similar situation).
Sorry it is so lengthy - it just came out this way.

A few years ago my SO and 3 friends took 'da bus' (73 Westy) out to do a
little tubing on the Guadalupe River.  We were rockin' along, having a good
time, listening to some cool tunes, when all of a sudden CHUG- SPUTTER
-CHUG- CHUG -silence -  'da bus' died.  

Felt for all the world like it had run out of gas, but no, the gauge showed
3/4 full.  I tried to re-start and everything sounded good, but no-go.  I
got out, looked in the engine compartment - everything was where it was
supposed to be so I got back in and tried it again.  Still no good.  I sat
scratching my head for a few minutes then realized I wasn't hearing that
nifty little 'ticking' sound the electric fuel pump always makes when the
key is on.  I went back and looked at the see-through fuel filter and sure
enough, no gas there - fuel pump bit the big one!

About this time the local Sheriff pulls up behind us and says, "Hey!  Ya'll
can't park that thing here!".  I'm thinking, "All right!  Mister Sheriff can
give us a tow to civilization."  (only about 6 more miles).  But, NooOOOO!
His insurance doesn't allow that sort of thing.  He does offer that he can
write me a ticket if I'm still there in 30 minutes when he comes by again -
not as good as a tow, but a pretty good incentive to move on.  We tried
pushing, but Westies are HEAVYYYY when not under their own power.  

We were about to give it up and walk when this thing (I think it was a light
bulb) appeared over my head.  I thought, "The only problem here is that the
gas has no way of getting from point A to point B, right?".  So I put on my
best McGuyver grin and went under the van armed with a screwdriver and an
empty water bottle.  A few minutes later I emerged with a full bottle of
sparkling gasoline, 793 grass burrs, and 18 fire-ant bites.  I got the back
cushion and the engine access cover out of the way, pulled the fuel line
where it goes into the filter, stuck it in the bottle of gas and sealed it
with a thin strip of rubber from my emergency tool kit.  When all was ready
I had my wife hold the bottle upside down with a towel around the neck (the
bottle's, not hers) and poke a little hole in the upside (bottom) of the
bottle.  I cranked up 'da bus' and drove with gravity-fed carburetors 7
miles to the nearest parts store where I was able to obtain a replacement
fuel pump.  My friends thought I was a god and still talk about it whenever
we get together.

Needless to say, a spare fuel pump is now part of my emergency tool kit.
This insures that the fuel pump will never-ever quit on me again.

Good motoring to all.
Mike g.
