Date: Sun, 16 Jan 2005 09:16:36 -0500
From: Wil Haslup <wil(-at-)charmfx.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] charging/no turnover diagnosis ?

cree fetterman wrote:
> My 79 Bay will do this once and a while. All I have to do is to use a 
> battery charger with the boost to start switch on or a separate battery 
> hooked to my battery with jumper cables. Notice I said seperate battery 
> not one hooker up to another car. I think that when my battery is not 
> putting out a full cvharge it will not activate the selonid. Adding the 
> juice from a separate battery or charger works everytime for me. Keeping 
> a full charge on my battery I never have a problem. I have a separate 
> ampilifer that was always drawing a small current from my battery. The 
> lights worked perfect but it would not start. Now I have wired the amp 
> to only turn on when I turn the key to start. It seems when my battery 
> drops to a certain level it will not activate the brain or selonid.  Cree

Seems plausible.  Since I didn't get any clicking I didn't suspect the
solenoid seriously.  I'm sure I probably have some small juice drains.
I've got some fuses out of it due to some wiring issues (started by
previous owner) relating to the interior lights, radio and wiper circuits.

Isn't there also some kind of "relay" or something to keep you from
turning the key twice without fully turning it off?  Or is that simply
part of the ignition switch?  Potential for a fault?

Perhaps I'll put it on the charger just to top it up since it hasn't
been run enough to give it a FULL charge and start carrying my booster
pack with me.

Of course, I could also park it where I can drift start it as often as
possible.  That worked out pretty well yesterday considering I wasn't
expecting it.


-- 

Wil


-- http://www.charmfx.com/

"The TV business is uglier than most things.
It is normally perceived as some kind of cruel and shallow money trench 
through the heart of the Journalism industry, a long plastic hallway 
where thieves and pimps run free and good men die like dogs, for no good 
reason."
-- Hunter S. Thompson
