Date: Sun, 16 Jan 2005 12:50:07 -0500
From: Wayne <mga60(-at-)optonline.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Happy Dance - Battery & Ground Contacts Follow-up - LONG

Group,

A few months back I had posed some questions to the group (that would be
you) regarding batteries and my slow engine turnover (just to be clear on my
meaning - engine rotation by starter when trying to start the motor).  As
some have requested, I'd like to provide a follow-up.

I knew I had a "relatively old" battery (PO purchased it 4 years ago) and it
was what appeared to be a low end "cheep" battery - but I thought it was
still in reasonable shape as it working when I got the bus a month or so
earlier.

It was suggested by many to clean all the grounding contact points and I
thought I had... it was pointed out to me that there was a transmission
ground strap - I missed that one the first time around, so I cleaned those
contacts as well.  Still, slow engine turnover.

It was also suggested that the brushes on my starter might be bad and that a
starter relay might help (PO had already had a relay installed)... and of
course - replace the battery.  Before I replaced the battery, I tried to
start the bus with my one year old battery from my '73 BMW (it has a 6
cylinder motor) - it did not provide much better results - so I didn't think
that the battery was the root cause of my problems.

So, I was going to wait until I had more time in the spring to check on the
starter (no heated space to work on bus - hey it won't even fit in my garage
- too tall - Westy) and maybe by get a new battery.  I don't like putting
things away when they're not working so I decided to buy a new battery.  To
my delight and surprise it worked - faster turnover and quick starts...
happy me.

To make a very long story short... I like to run my old vehicles every few
months, get the motors warm, move them a little so they're not sitting on
the same spot on the tires and to remind the mice that these are not put
here for them to use as mobile homes.  So I went out back to my storage shed
to start the bus (it's below 30F today - I know, not that cold) - it turned
over with ease and started right up - "Happy Dance".  So, it turns out that
the old battery was the main problem.

Thanks to you all!  Now, when it gets a bit warmer I can tend to the other
things that have to be fixed and not worry about starting.

Wayne
'79 Westy
