Date: Sun, 16 Jan 2005 20:16:02 +0000 (GMT)
From: dworkin <dworkin(-at-)everybus.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Engine balance - (warning, heresy included!)

Volks,

I drop by an look in every once in a while and note the recent discussion
of engine balancing.  Here are some thoughts and questions that have
resided in my mind for a while....

There are a number of types of balance, static, rotational, dynamic and
probably others I don't know.  What has been discussed, at length, over
the last couple days is essentially static balance (matching the pistons,
rods, etc.).  Recently the discussion has moved on to crank, flywheel, and
pressure plate balancing which to my mind is rotational balance, like the
balance on a tire.  Beyond that is a third sort of balance that covers the
harmonics developed as the engine functions.  Part of this can be imagined
as follows...

Imagine a jumprope. it can be held straight, it can be rotated in a
single curve (wave) or it can be rotated in multiple waves.  The number
and size of these waves (frequency and amplitude) are determined by a
number of esoteric considerations that are far beyond my understanding.

Now...

Imagine your crankshaft.  It, too, can be thought of as a "jumprope".  as
it rotates, it als wants to develop waves.  Since the there are three main
bearing sets supporting it and constraining the development of these
waves, it would be ideal if the frequency of the crank was two and the
amplitude was as close to zero as possible.  The static balance of rods
and pistons and the rotational balance of the crank, flywheel and pressure
plate are done for exactly this reason, to reduce the amplitude of the
potential waves.  If the weights being swung are the same, then the
amplitude is minimized.  Alas, the additional force of the firing of the
gas/air mix is not simultaneous, so there is an additional force pressing
the crank off center and once it begins to swing, the frequncy is
determined by the length of the crank and the mass of it and its
attachments.

Many, many moons ago, in a source I do not now remember, I read that these
forces and the design of the crank cause the crank to have a natural
frequency of one.  As a result, the number two main bearing saddle is
subject to a *lot* of side-to-side force and will eventually pound out.
This pounding is what results in the old rule about "if you can read the
bearing numbers in the saddle, it's time for an align bore."  This is a
built-in flaw and the only cure is to redesign the engine; all the static
and rotaional balancing in the world will reduce but will not cure it.
In the type 4 engine Volkswagen did strengthen the # 2 saddle and changed
the alloy which reduced this problem.  As a result type 4 cases rarely
need align boring.  For the type 1 engine, however, there is a design
limit to how long the engine will last no matter how good the static and
rotaional balance are.

I bring this up because I believe that while one gram is a worthy aim for
pistons and rods, .1 gram for street use on a type 1 engine is excessive.
Nice if your rebuilder will go that "extra mile", and maybe worth doing on
a type 4 engine but even there perhaps excessive.  What point is there to
balancing the pistons and rods to last 500,000 miles if the mains are
going to go at 60-100,000 miles because of the engine design?

These are just thoughts and I am willing to hear more knowlegable people
disagree, but... inquiring minds want to know..... is more always better?


Steve Dolan
(who is deperately seeking an architect!  If you are one, please p-mail
me!!!!!)
