From: "Jason Z Upper" <jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: scott(-at-)whoadragon.com, jfbrownx2(-at-)hotmail.com, wesbusn69(-at-)yahoo.com,
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 17 Jan 2005 09:33:45 -0500
Subject: The End of An Era

Hi Folks,

The era of the Bus came to an end on Saturday.  My buddy Kris and I 
finalized a trade in which I got his 1994 Mitsubishi Montero and he got my 
Bus.  After months of sitting, months more of unreliable operation, and 
months of constant maintenance, the luster of Bus ownership wore off for me 
and I was ready for a more reliable vehicle that required less attention.  
It breaks my heart that I was unable to keep the Bus going and unable to 
keep owning it, but reliable transportation is a higher priority than a 
restoration project at this point in my life.  My financial situation only 
allows one vehicle in my life, and keeping a 25-year-old Bus as a daily 
driver is a bigger challenge than I'm able to meet anymore.

So, my new vehicle is a 1994 Mitsubishi Montero SR.  It's black and silver 
with a brown leather interior, sunroof, power everything, 4WD, and it has a 
3.5-liter 24-valve V6.  Unfortunately, it has 190,000 miles on it, and it 
has an automatic transmission.  The engine was rebuilt at 90,000, so it 
still runs well, but it burns a little oil, and it needs a new power 
steering pump.  It runs and drives without the pump, but it requires a lot 
of steering input, and it's probably not designed to be driven that way for 
very long.  Fortunately, decent used pumps can be had for cheap (though not 
as cheap as Bus parts), and replacement is a snap.

In conclusion, Kris and I both think we got the better deal.  He got a Bus 
that doesn't run, and I got a Montero that runs great.  However, he got a 
classic VW, and I got an average SUV.  We'll see how it all works out.  My 
ultimate automotive plan is to drive the Montero thru the winter and 
probably sell it or trade it in for a mid-90s 4WD Subaru wagon with lower 
mileage.  We'll see -- I don't know how I'll like the auto trans long-term, 
and I've never been very trusting of vehicles with such high mileage.  But, 
I have transportation again, and it'll be nice to take a break from the Bus 
for a while.  Kris said I could borrow my old Bus whenever I want, and I can 
always buy another Bus someday in the future.

That's it for now.  Onwards to the car wash!

Best,
Jason Z Upper
Universal Circle Music
1979 Westy "Sweet Pea"
Asheville, North Carolina
