Date: Mon, 17 Jan 2005 18:45:41 -0800 (PST)
From: Cliff Rhoton <commodore97210(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] once upon a pre-owned tuna can

Most of you don't understand my level of commitment.
Hal Sullivan:  Yes to the Hawthorne get together some
Monday nights.  Yes, thank you for the moral support
Hal and others.  I actually need it, as you have seen
me display a less than appreciative view of my T2.  
   
However, some of you list members are less than
charitable about my negative comments about my T2. 
Allow me to share some of the numbers.
   
I just looked-up the accounting of my T2 ownership.  I
have owned my bus for 53 months.  During that time,
besides gasoline and my or my son's labor time, some
$6,534 has been spent on bus-related invoices.  I
purchased the bus for $1,000, making the total direct
expenditures $7,534.  We have had the engine out of
the vehicle 5 times.  And for the money spent, I still
have an unpainted, rag-tag T2 Riviera Plan 1 on my
hands which is far from dependable.  It has been towed
3-times while out-and-about, and has failed to start
countless times.
    
Now, on the positive side of the "T2 ownership balance
sheet."  I've joined the T2 list, and have learned a
lot.  I have learned the 009 is wrong (need the 205p),
that the Accu-Fire Ignition is probably trash.  That
the Thermostat and duct vanes need to be re-installed.
 --->  Most importantly, we have discovered quite by
accident that the rusted-out Aux battery tray which
has caused us (me) 4 engine pulls, and 4 pairs of
heads.  The hole has been well patched and the engine
is no longer "killing itself" by aspirating hot air. 
So now I have a stable platform from which to begin
moving forward on repairs in-favor of dependability.  
I also have a sizable spare parts inventory.  But the
first 4 years of Bus ownership were a nightmare.  I
even changed mechanics a couple of times before
discovering the simple magic of the patched aux
battery rust-out.
     
Thank you T2 list members for your understanding and
support.  Membership here in T2 is an ongoing growth
process for me.
     
Clifford Rhoton
Portland, Oregon
