Date: Fri, 13 May 2011 20:46:26 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Help me - I'm stumped!!

I ask b/c it might be that the previous  owner might not have sprung for 
the extra cost of a fancier carb. Or removed his fancier carbs and sold 
it to you with a single VW carb in the stock location.

I am not saying you need dual Wbers or Dellortos.

I'd like to hear an expert say that the 34PICT-4 or one of it's cousins 
is okay to run on an engine that has been bored and/or stroked.

This engine might be well suited for a pair of single barrel Kadron 
carbs. Get the mixture right, the balance right and the right venturi 
and it might be economical enough to drive. Get it wrong and you'll have 
mileage approaching that of the neighbour's big 4WD truck.

I ran dual DRLA Dellorto carbs on my Beetle before I took that apart and 
saw ~25 mpg on a stock formerly fuel injected Type IV motor (the mild 
cam, the small valves, stock low compression). That's ~25 mpg with four 
barrels cracked open a little all the time, not a progressive two barrel 
carb. The carbs were 36mm and the venturi something like 28mm. Don't 
remember the jetting. I have a Porsche Performance Handbook by Bruce 
Anderson (?) that offered a venturi sizing formula.

That was a stock 1980cc Type IV engine.

Next question is: is this 1915cc in a bus? How did the PO arrive at 
1915cc? Stroked? Bored? What else did they do to it? Higher CR? Wilder 
cam? Ported? Polished? Bigger valves?

Since we are reaching warm weather you might have a wild motor that 
could have a tendency to run hot. A firecracker waiting to pop.

If you are going to run it in a heavy bus you better start thinking 
about full instrumentation and make sure all the cooling tin and seals 
are there. For duty in a bus - experts please chime in here - you might 
be better off trading this engine off for something closer to stock or a 
milder engine.

You probably need to figure out what you've got and then start 
studying/asking what the combination of variables that you've got in 
that engine requires to live, breathe, and last.

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L (stock 110 HP Corvair implanted, not finished)
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L (basketcase, suspended animation, Type IV)
'97 VW Cabrio daily driver
'99 CR-V AWD - getting a nose job this weekend to correct minor bumper 
damage
Brenderup 1205S
