Date: Mon, 16 May 2011 08:09:47 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Baker <busvwzen(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: ovt <ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, t2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>, VB
Subject: 11th Annual Buses n Boats Camping event May 20-22 (UPDATES

I guesss I have been pretty slack getting the word out for this event (just picked up a big new account at work a couple of weeks ago and been scrambling to hire for it and set up programming, etc...blah blah blah...)

Anyway, don't forget about the 11th Annual BnB camping event this weekend May 20-22 in Morrow, Ohio (32 miles north of Cincinnati).
I am re-sending the original info but wanted to highlight a couple of changes\updates fronm the original posting first:

**A couple of updates:

-Canoeing will likely NOT be an option. I just talked to the Army Corps of engineers and they plan a heavy release from the dam for the next several days which will wash out any hopes of caneoing...sorry...again!!

-Instead of doing a "split the pot" raffle drawing for the Firewood Fund, I think I will just put out a donation can at the registration table, please give a little something if you can (FYI, I am buying a $100 load of wood from my wood guy, and anything donated over that $100 amount will be returned to those who donated)

-There will be no planned "Formal" Burrito Breakfast on Saturday, so do what you want... HOWEVER, the community Cincy-Style chili dinner IS on for Saturday evening, bring fixin's or a side!!

OK, here is the original posting and details:

Hey Y'all,
The Ohio Valley Tribe of the Full Moon Bus Club would like to invite you all to attend the oldest and longest-running OVT officially sanctioned Camping Event...
It is the "11th Annual Buses n Boats Bash" event happening in Morrow, Ohio (32 miles north of Cincinnati) this May 20-22, 2011.
The event features beautiful river-side camping, good food, canoeing on the nationally designated scenic Little Miami River (water levels permitting of course) and MUCH more!!
Always fun and always family-friendly, if you haven't attended an OVT campout then you don't know what you're missing!!
Complete details and information can be found at: 
http://www.busesnboats.com
Come on out for a big helping of Midwest Hospitality OVT-Style!!

P.S.  A big "THANK YOU" to the Kooky Math TEacher, Jamie Auch, for hosting the website and setting it up for us!!!



PEACE! 
John Baker


"...So we got in the red VW microbus with the
shovels and rakes and implements of destruction and headed on toward the
police officer's station..."
