Date: Fri, 20 May 2011 18:52:01 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Chemotherapy delusions (electric truck dreams.)

So it's Friday, and my last Friday of major chemo, and I'm going to stray a
bit off topic.  Thing about chemo mostly to me has been the boredom, sounds
lame but it is true.  Losing 40lb has just helped my fat ass likely, and 5lb
of it was probably hair, the nausea  I've been luckey, well done meds have
held it in check.  To me the worst has been the simply crushing/explosive bone
pain from my Neupogen, and that too meds hold in check.
 
But the friggin boredom of sitting whole days hooked to a pump getting toxic
things run into me (let alone the worry of the trade now for the trade of side
effects/death 20 years from now) is the worst.  Boredom, boredom, boredom.  
Sit, sit, sit.
 
Nice infusion center at least, great internet speed, so the mind does wonder.
 
Today I started the day very Bus oriented.  Called Bus Depot hadn't made an
order since 2007, wow.  Ordered a smattering of stuff for the '77 Westy,
although I consider all the FI hoses "new" I got to looking at the "new" tires
and realized their date codes were '97 which means the last time I changed all
the FI hoses was about '97-8 even though the bus hasn't gotten past 90k miles
yet, and doesn't have 10-15k miles on the hoses and tires.  The tires I'm
going to live with, the FI hoses I'm going to change, though it pains me.
 
But most of the day I spent with electric truck dreams.  This started back on
Monday when I started following an auction for a nice set of incredibly HD
batteries suitable for backup power/wind generation or say that would tuck in
the treasure chest in the '69 or '70 (I realize in chemo fog I don't even know
which year the SC is anymore) single cab.  Then on Wednesday since I was
feeling pretty well, and had surfed craigslist all day Tuesday I went and
bought a local set of 10, 4D sized AGM batteries for a steal from someone who
eventually got power and never got "off the grid" and wanted to recoup
something of their cost (I gave $1200 for $4000 in batteries.)  So I figure I
can use the batteries one way or another about the house, but the odd idea of
them sitting down in the treasure chest powering the single cab for an arouond
town beater is sort of turning me on right now, scuse the pun.  Regular gas in
AK of course is $4.35/gallon cause we might
 send the oil, but we don't refine enough of it to amount to crap, and
although I know the environmental trade is delusional, the cost trade for
electric up here is about 2/3 that at the moment I figure.  Plus I have a
couple of these litte GM alternator based wind generators I got a couple years
ago cheap, and our house often has 40-60mph wind.  Anyway if in a bus the
batteries I have now would give me 60V at 400 Ah, which might make an OK range
for lower speed travel.  I know some months ago someone was looking again into
the conversion on the list, and wondered if they got anywhere and how it
went.  I'd love some real world, bus aerodynamic range data.  Unfortunately if
I can't get 80 mile range or so, it doesn't make much sense as even my "local"
daily driving is probably 40 miles, and I don't like chancing things.
 
Anyway going to look at the remains of an electric forklift tomorrow, 48V
system but if I leave the tranny in place perhaps I can still get reasonable
speed from the bus, and 48V at 600 Ah with 2 more batteries would equal more
range.  The single cab is just so darn set up to do this conversion it almost
does make some perverse sense.  I'll hate losing the treasure chest, but
deleting the gas tank will allow a bit of space still for use, and since I've
never been able to find working locks for it anyway it hasn't ever offered
security.
 
If anyone has done it recently, give me a yell.
 
Course the Neupogen starts again, so reality will set in next week.
 
John
