Date: Tue, 24 May 2011 09:16:37 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] How do I install door window outside chrome+rubber

Maybe this will help a little:

I bought the economy version years ago and the clips that hold the 
molding to the door along the bottom of the window opening were not made 
with "good" spring metal. Basically if you compressed them a tiny bit 
they'd spring back. If you compressed them very much they'd stay that 
way. The 30+ year old clips would spring back no matter what. I reused a 
number of those. The economy aluminum trim was poor too (I got what I 
paid for) and not nearly as good as the OEM version I ruined taking it 
out of the driver's door. I salvaged the passenger side OEM trim and 
have it on a shelf. I may just try to replace the rubber.

Anyhow what I did to attach the newer economy trim to the door was get 
some generic nylon clips at the FLAPS and trimming the head down to a 
rectangular shape with my pocket knife. The stem of the clip had many 
layers of nylon so it would hold at different levels - it would whether 
you needed to push it in alot of a little.

The economy rubber attached to the trim never rotted but it shrank some. 
Other rubber parts on my bus (around the rear side windows for example) 
rotted and cracked. The windshield and rear window rubber are still 
good. The vent window rubbers are still good but they shrank a little. I 
might reuse them.

This is all over 8 years, much of it outside.

I pulled all the door guts out and put these trim/rubber pieces in 
first. If you were careful i think you could get them in with the door 
intact but it seems like part of it went behind the felt channel at the 
rear of the door. That might be a show stopper.

I'm going to repaint the bus sometime soon (hopefully) and replace all 
the cheap rubber and trim pieces with better stuff if I can afford it.

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L (Corvair implanted)
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L (Type IV powered)
'97 VW Cabrio 2.0L (175K miles)
'99 CR-V AWD (217,500 miles)
Brenderup 1205S
