From: dan(-at-)geer.org
To: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Date: Wed, 07 Mar 2007 17:49:34 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Annual smog checks coming to CA? 

Speaking as a busaholic, part-time farmer, and
professional statistician, my personal guess is that
climate is an unstable equilibrium and we've done nothing
more (or less) than advance the clock on some cycle or
other.  We can't stop it, in any case, and the proof of
that will be when positive feedback of some sort or other
sets in.  Here in the north temperate areas, it appears
that less snow cover means the ground absorbs more heat in
winter making snow less likely.  In permafrost areas,
there is so much trapped methane that its release (and
methane is much better at greenhouse effect than CO2) will
accelerate permafrost melting and the addition of yet more
methane.  My read on warming in middle latitudes is that
the temperature ("sensible heat") won't rise much but the
amount of water vapor aloft ("latent heat") will, so more
storms are likely.  Of course, the reverse sort of
feedback could set in as clouds are as good at reflecting
light (and heat) as snow is and, who knows, we might make
enough clouds to cool more than warm.

We've had bunches of ice ages where my latitude was under
a mile of ice.  When coal was laid down in the Cretaceous,
there was no ice in any ocean anywhere.  It cycles and,
perhaps, we've changed the clock.  I do know that corn
farmers think more CO2 is swell as availability of CO2 in
a moist cornfield in full sun is *the* rate limiting
factor in growth.  I do know that here in New England, the
time of year when maple sap runs has definitely grown
earlier over the last century.

When arguing, I often ask "What government would you like
to manage global cooling?"  I do, however, agree with the
pressure group "Negative Population Growth" that fewer
people generally would be good.  Their motto sums it up,
"All causes are lost causes without a decrease in
population" and I tend to agree.  The evidence that the
necessary factor for setting off the Renaissance in Europe
was the Plague, as it made a profound change in the amount
of capital assets per living person, e.g., the ability to
afford to make rag paper, is evidence I find convincing.
What I don't find convincing is the idea that climate is
this wonderfully stable thing that would be just perfect
if we left it alone.  It would probably be better, but it
has never been stable.

--dan
