Date: Wed, 7 Mar 2007 16:15:25 -0800 (PST)
From: "Kevin H. Roberts" <bopsax(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Cc: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Annual smog checks coming to CA? 

Yeah, it'll get killed and it should.  But I hope I can get a response in before.  I've looked at the science.  Crichton's book only got me interested.  Interesting that no honest scientist denies that global temperatures cooled from 1940 to about 1970.  And the climate has warmed and cooled as long as the earth has been here.  The thing that most affects the earth's temperatures is the sun.  And Mount St. Helens and all of the other numerous volcanic eruptions have done much more to affect CO2 levels than all of the human created CO2 in the last century.  Show me data that disputes that.  Off the list.  

This is fact:  The earth's atmosphere is 78% Nitrogen.  On a football field that gets you to the 78 yard line.  It's 21% Oxygen, so now you're at the 99 yd. line.  All but four to six inches of that are inert gases such as Argon.  The CO2 component, by far the most prevalent of the 'greenhouse' gases makes up .04%.  Or within 1.44 inches of the goal line.  That has increased from about 320 parts per million, yes parts per million, to about 370 ppm in the last 70 years.  About the width of a pencil sitting up against the goal line.  Look it up on Wikkipedia or Google it.  Those are the numbers.  How much of that is natural vs. man-made?   That's where we disagree.  The numbers speak for themselves.  Global warming may be occuring, but my bus isn't contributing much.  The cow next door probably contributes more.  And beware the coming ice age.  Has happened before, undisputed, and will happen again.  And most of the scientists you cite are not climatologists, who have the
 most to gain from the hype.   As in government grants.   So thar....KR

Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net> wrote: PS: For the record, I taught at UC San Diego for the past decade.  
That's the institution where the original work on global warming was  
done in the 1950s and 1960s. In "An Inconvenient Truth," Al Gore  
mentions a study of 928 scientific papers, all of which form a  
consensus in the scientific community. That study was done by an old  
friend of mine, a brilliant woman.

I used to park Peregrine outside what was Roger Revelle's office on  
the campus of Scripps Institution of Oceanography and work early in  
the morning while I watched sea kayakers out under the SIO pier  
before dawn.

I don't take comments about global warming "hysteria" lightly. My  
friends and colleagues did and do this work.

Mark Hineline


 
---------------------------------
Food fight? Enjoy some healthy debate
in the Yahoo! Answers Food & Drink Q&A.
