Date: Thu, 8 Mar 2007 14:32:24 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Cc: kevin(-at-)bopsax.com, Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Annual smog checks coming to CA?

HeyBopaRebopSax:
>Yeah, it'll get killed and it should.

	If so, why try to get in the last word  -  and in such an 
ignorant amateurish way?


>  But I hope I can get a response in before.  I've looked at the science.

	You certainly haven't, or you wouldn't say
>  The numbers speak for themselves.

	Interpreting those numbers is a complex task.


>  Global warming may be occuring

	All but the most fanatical deniers admit that it is, and have 
stopped saying "may be".


>  The CO2 component ... has increased from about 320 parts per 
>million, yes parts per million, to about 370 ppm in the last 70 
>years.  About the width of a pencil sitting up against the goal line.

	In general, you have yet to grasp the fact that the 
properties of the atmosphere are dominated by its trace components. 
The numbers do NOT speak for themselves.
	The methane concentration is yet smaller, but that number 
does not 'speak for itself'.  The prospect of methane from melting 
permafrost is among the more worrying aspects of the IPCC scenarios. 
Methane is a couple dozen times more powerful as a greenhouse gas 
than the carbon dioxide we hear so much about.



>  And most of the scientists you cite are not climatologists, who have the
>  most to gain from the hype.   As in government grants.

	If you wish to besmirch all climatologists because they need 
grants to do their work, I as a scientist (who, like Mark, knows some 
of the leading experts)  must protest at your insult.  In what other 
field do you say there are no honest experts?
	If on the other hand you wish to suggest that those who don't 
stand to get grants to work as experts are the authorities on this 
very complex scientific matter  -  e.g fiction writer M Crichton  - 
then you're abandoning the whole idea of expertise.
	If you dislike Rev A Gore esq as a politician, that's your 
business  -  but try to be candid about that motive, and it doesn't 
belong on this list.

	As an academic involved in this issue for 3 decades I deplore 
political raving on this most serious topic, and I strongly agree it 
doesn't belong on this worthy List.  So I myself try for the last 
word  :-}
	Just do your best to consume as little fuel as possible, and 
burn it as thoroughly as you can.  This will be good for your 
pocketbook as well as for the quality of the air we breathe.


Pace

R
