From: "Janyce Bartlett" <janycebartlett(-at-)msn.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 08 Mar 2007 14:15:39 -0500
Subject: Gas Leak

Dear Type2:

I  have a 1980 Westfalia.  I started it up yesterday and it started leaking 
gas in the engine area. Fortunately for me, a passerby saw the gas leak 
while I was sitting there letting the engine warm up.  When it was running, 
the gentleman helping me, noticed that it appeared the fan was blowing the 
gas.  In the few minutes it was running it was leaking enough gas to make a 
2 ft diameter stain on the asphalt and I thought it appeared to be  dripping 
from under the van near the front of the driver side rear wheel.

With the help of the passerby and the manual, we looked over the engine 
found a disconnected vacuum line from the diaphram to the throttle area and 
when I removed the air filter apparatus, we found gas in the air intake that 
had drained out and we could see a mix of gas & oil ( I also had a oil leak 
from a loose oil filter which we fixed) around the fuel injectors under the 
air filter apparatus.  We checked all the areas of the engine visable with 
out removing any dust/cooling panels.  The gas was restricted to the right 
side of engine compartment area under the air filter apparatus, (the 
opposite side of where I thought the gas was dripping ouside the engine 
compartment)  and inside air filter apparatus.  We could not see any gas 
leaking from the gas lines leading to the four injectors either on the metal 
or rubber connectors and nothing was visible upstream heading toward the 
fuel pump while the vehicle was not running.

When we figured out how to reconnect the vacuum line between the diaphram 
and the throttle area, my helper thought that may have been the cause of the 
gas leak and wanted to start it up. I was not willing to do it since neither 
of us understand why the gas was is the air filter compartment nor did I 
have a fire exitingusher and we were in a public place.

I have the mechanic's manual for the VW Vanagon but my auto knowledge is too 
limited to visualize the fuel flow system,  how it operates and what might 
be the source of this gas leak.  Of course my funds are limited and of 
course my motor club expired so I need towing and a garage unless I can 
figure this out.


Thanks,
Janyce Bartlett



PS> Since I wrote the above message I talked with a VW owner/mechanic and 
described my problem.  His thoughts were 1. since there was gas up in the 
air filter apparatus possibly the cold start was stuck open or there was a 
pinhole leak in one of the rubber connectors to the fuel injectors on the 
right side or 2. that would not leak when shut off but when the fuel pump 
put 30 psi on it the gas would spray out.
