Date: Thu, 31 Jul 2003 14:07:23 -0400
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <Doyt(-at-)NWOnline.Net>
Subject: PopTop Refinished...body paint question

Bottom line: Looking for judgement call on painting the _body_ of my Westy 
with a roller/brush. It is all prepared and in primer (2 years getting it 
back from patchy rust, etc.)Gonna do it myself, on a nice day in the back yard.

THE PROBLEM: Modern paints are incredibly complicated systems and I think 
they require big volume high pressure sprayers, and they are all very 
expensive, and require complete body suites and helmets to avoid death from 
inhaling the spray. I know I can't rent the equipment and get up to speed 
on the skill and judgement that it will take to put on that incredibly 
expensive/dangerous paint. And professional painters want/deserve 
$800-$1,000 and up to even talk to me about putting a top coat on my 
ready-to-paint Westy.

A POSSIBLE SOLUTION: I'm considering applying a marine paint myself, with a 
roller and a brush, and living with the results. That way, I can get a 
painted surface that has ultraviolet filters and silicone shine enhancers 
and built-in flow helpers already in the paint, right out of the can. I had 
really good results using marine paint on the poptop last week. But that is 
such a different surface than the Westy body that I need some advice to 
decide if it is doable.

THE PAINT: I refinished my Westy poptop with Pettit EasyPoxy single 
component polyurethane topside paint, #3108 Off-White. $30/quart at WaMart, 
Marine Department. It went on the poptop so smoothly and looked so good 
that I am entertaining thoughts of using that same paint to cover the 
entire bus. I figure 3-4 quarts will do it + $90-120. So, here are the 
questions:

Using the roller/brush method, will that same marine paint dry equally 
smooth on the vertical metal surfaces of the body, which are in primer and 
ready for a color coat? On the poptop, I used a roller to apply the paint, 
and then I brushed out the result. The brush marks just erased themselves 
beautifully, and the paint dried as if it had been sprayed on. But, the 
fiberglass top is a vastly different surface than the painted metal sides 
of the vehicle.

Next question: Is there some OTHER paint system that is a candidate for 
application with a roller and brush? When I talked to a boat painter, along 
with the Pettit line he also recommended DuPont Imron. OK, on the web I 
looked into Imron products and found at least 5 different varieties 
(numbered down from 6000) and I obviously can't use any judgement in 
picking the one that will go on easily with a roller and brush, and look 
good on my Westy, which sits out in the sun all the time. And the Imron 
stuff looks like it isn't pre-mixed with all the proper additives. But....I 
CAN get it tinted to match my existing paint color. That is a big advantage.

I'd appreciate a judgement call from someone with painting experience, 
addressing the question of a good topcoat that can be applied with a 
roller/brush, and which can be mixed to match my stock VW color Sage 
Green....76 Westy standard green (Taigagrun, L 63 H).

And any other ideas will be appreciated.

Doyt Echelberger
76 Westy  on the way back from old age
