Date: Thu, 31 Jul 2003 19:09:15 -0700
From: Mike Charnoky <noky(-at-)nextbus.com>
To: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: burned exhaust valves

It's been a while since I've posted... Since replacing the heads on my 
'79 Westy with a set of rebuilt ones, I've had a hard time getting my 
engine running well again.  After one mechanic, there were still 
supposedly "vacuum leak problems".  My testing showed crazy low 
compression, roughly 60psi all the way around (down from a max of 
~100psi early after the rebuild.)  I thought my gauge was off, til I 
took the bus to another mechanic for a leakdown.  The test showed 
something like 80% (!) leakage, so I had the mechanic pull the heads to 
check them.  Sure enough, solvent leaked right out.

So, the heads were just barely still under warranty from a certain 
rebuilder in Sacramento.  The company has always been helpful and they 
asked me to send the heads back.  Today, I got a call from the company, 
as it turns out, the exhaust valves were all burnt.  I was asked how I 
had the valves/lifters adjusted and I replied, "2 full turns past zero 
lash, just as Bently instructs for the hydraulics."  I was told that I 
should have adjusted the valves to one turn, as 2 turns "will almost 
certainly cause this condition to happen."  The company said it could do 
the repair work... for $100/head!  Grrr... After some discussion, I got 
them to lower the price a bit.  My beef was: the company never 
instructed me to do this!  They claim that I should "just know"!

What's the deal here?  My (2nd) mechanic in Berkeley says this is a line 
of BS.  He claims to have rebuilt hundreds of VW engines and that if the 
valves are done right and hand-lapped, that two turns is fine.  He says 
that some rebuilders cut corners and then they recommend the valves be 
adjusted to one turn (or even zero lash for a short time) until the 
seats are "broken in".

Is this for real?  I know there has been tons of discussion in the past 
revolving around "how many turns are needed to adjust the hydraulics", 
but I didn't think following Bently would trash my engine!  What should 
I do here?  How do I avoid this in the future?


noky
'79 Westy
