Date: Fri, 01 Aug 2003 10:34:57 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] painting...

>That sounds like a great idea if it works because I have a 74 orange westy
>and I'd like to make it better looking, but I can't afford the auto body
>shop price??? and frankly I don't want to rent a spray painter and go the
>big route..

I've done the paint roller thing with good results back when I worked for a 
sign shop. Let me say - I got good enough that it was equal to what was 
sprayed on my bus by my amateur self. Slightly textured, (slight orange 
peel). There are several signs in town that I painted that are still up and 
the paint looks quite good still despite no care (waxing or washing). We 
used NAPA acrylic enamel and hardner.

That said I would MOST certainly recommend begging for, borrowing, buying, 
or renting an air compressor and a spray gun. (RESPIRATOR!)

The reason is this: most of the work in a paint project is in the prep. 
That means regardless of how you mean to apply the topcoat you've still got 
to do the prep work to get a good looking topcoat and one that lasts. So 
all this work goes into repairing collision damage, rust out, surface rust, 
etc and then why not spray the paint with a gun? Rattle cans will never be 
able to deliver enough paint to put a good coat on your bus. It will be 
much thinner than a coat applied with a gun. Also $45 for 3 cans of paint? 
WHOA! Rattlecan paint is purposely thinned to make it come out of the can 
under the little pressure that is in a can.

With the price of a dozen cans of paint at that rate I can buy gallons of 
regular automotive paint and do a job that lasts several years.

Surely everybody's got a friend that would trade some spray time for some 
chores. You help them, they help you.

Community colleges often have body shop classes where they will be glad to 
use your vehicle as a guinea pig. Some high schools too. You pay for the 
materials, they do the work. Maybe a small charge, maybe not.

There is really good paint, and really good equipment. Terry K. uses that 
everyday at work. There is also paint suited for beginners that need to 
learn to spray and sand and do all that elementary stuff. Supplies worth 
wasting some of in the name of learning. On my bus we used Acrylic Enamel 
with hardener. White portion looks A+. Red portion was sprayed at a later 
time of the day when it was hotter and my reducer was too fast (evaporates 
too fast) so it has a bit of orange peel. Materials cost was a few hundred 
bucks. ($300?). That includes primer and "water-borne" - a sealer over the 
primer, under the paint, and the price includes the paints. Looks good, is 
several years old now and probably will be resprayed next year if I can get 
it together in order to make it look right to my satisfaction.

If you want really cheap (better than rattle can, worse than real car 
paint) there is always tractor paint at $15 a gallon!!! <grin> Comes in 
rattle cans and gallon cans. Can be brushed and sprayed. I used it on the 
pan and suspension of my Beetle and it has held up really well! Would 
probably look okay on a body if the paint on a new lawn tractor or new farm 
tractor looks good to you. I'd try it.

There is always the latex paint applied with a brush. I've actually seen 
this done. There used to be a pretty decent Model 'A' Ford that ran around 
near where I lived 20 years ago. He painted it with house paint and a 
brush. From 50 feet it looked okay. Closer it still looked okay if you 
closed your eyes... <grin>

Chris Mills
