Date: Fri, 01 Aug 2003 15:06:45 -0400
From: scott lyons <slyons(-at-)netrover.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] burned exhaust valves

on 8/1/03 13:41, Mike Charnoky related:

> For all you inquiring minds out there, yes this company is AVP.  I don't
> want to bash them because I don't know what really happened and the
> company has always been very friendly and helpful.  Still, it really
> gets my goat that they claim I should have adjusted my valves according
> to this undocumented procedure, and that was the reason they burned.  I
> will admit there was a period of time I was running with the timing
> advanced, since the bus wouldn't idle otherwise... of course temps would
> be higher.  But, I never drove the thing very far, the oil temp/pressure
> gauge readings would always scare me into stopping.  I suppose I am at
> least partially to blame.
> 
> In the end, it has just been a very costly and time consuming process.
> This had been my first shot at any kind of engine work, before I sought
> help from mechanics.  And I spent a LOT of time doing my homework,
> studying Bently, Tom Wilson, online info, talking with other bus owners,
> etc.  Kinda turns me off to the whole DIY Volkswagen thing :^(  I just
> wanna take my family camping in the bus...
> 
> 
> noky
> '79 Westy

mike,

i feel for you. i have had my share of times when things have gone wrong,
engine-wise, and it is always at the worst time. i really can identify with
being turned off the DIY thing, i have felt the same way a few times. i have
a triumph which i wrestled with for two years until i got it working right,
and i swear there were times that i wanted to take for a long drive off a
short pier...

if the heads were faulty, then yes, they should fix them for free. i do not
think there is any blame whatsoever to be put on the machine shop for not
explaining valve adjustment.

hydraulic valve adjustment procedures on a VW bus are subject to several
schools of thought, and the bentley, tom wilson and most other sources are
behind current thinking on the subject. the bostonengine.com article is the
best i have seen on the web, or pretty much anywhere else. it specifies
0.006 lash on rebuilt engines to make sure the lifters are fully filled with
oil, and the valves allowed to fully close. low compression would be the
first indication that the valves are not closing.

my machinist, motex in toronto, is very hesitant, and i have had
conversations with him about this very issue, to rebuild type IV bus heads
because they fail for reasons beyond the control of the machinist. your
original post noted that the heads had been replaced, so one wonders what
fault or faults caused the previous heads to fail, and were these issues
repaired. heads don't normally fail of their own accord, unless they just
plain wear out from high mileage. most head failures are caused by the same
thing - overheating. fuel injected engines with hydraulic lifters are the
worst due to the lean burn design of the FI system, the small exhaust valve
size and the tendency to over-preload the lifters. it sounds to me like most
of these pre-conditions were present in your case.

i could care less about AVP and i am not trying to defend them. what is
important is that the same thing doesn't happen to you again, and a new set
of heads doesn't sound like it will fix the problems with your bus, there is
more to it.

oh yeah, i got the triumph working well, and i drive it every day in the
summer (when i'm not in the bus), and i am really glad i never gave up on
it.

scott lyons
