From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K)
Date: Fri, 1 Aug 2003 21:58:44 -0500 (CDT)
To: accessys(-at-)smart.net (Access Systems)
Cc: gilhayes(-at-)midsouth.rr.com (gil hayes), type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] painting...

Bobby---

Details--Details--

I knew I'd strike it lucky with that posting this morning--
It's almost a guaranteed thing--:>)

I spent more money on my garden tractor paint and materials than you did
on your Bus--
How could this be possible?

It's all about ---( I'm Not Sure )
( I'm possessed ???)
Like the guy I bought my 74 from that told me it was "Cherry",
"Perfect", "Pristine", and after a 500 mile one way trip I found out his
idea of perfect and mine are two different things--

Therefore--I made some monetary adjustments---to fit the situation--

I was just busting chops this morning--I knew where this subject would
go---I've been here before--

It's Friday isn't it????

See Ya--

TK

E-mail message

On Fri, 1 Aug 2003, Terry K wrote:
I don't want to be opening ths can of worms again--BUT
oh why not!
Spray cans, rolling and brushing with farm tractor enamel isn't really
even worth the time or effort.
The paint will be short lived, and the quality of the job will fall
short of your expectations.
here we go, even though I have a sprayer and have done even Imron
spraying when I had to do my bus I had to do it with spray cans for
reasons that had nothing to do with paint.
first I divided the bus into 9 regions, (3 side panels on each side,
front, rear, roof) and did each one seperately, I started with the roof
and ended with the bus front.
second I did as much body work as I could, not perfect but as good as I
could at the time.
third I masked one region and primed and painted in one day.
I used a very high quality auto enamel and put on several coats of the
paint....this was not cheap in fact I figured I spent more than if I
would have been able to pull out the spray gun.   several cases of
spray paint at about $5 a can (got a discount for buying by the case)
while I don't think the job was my best work, it was the best I was able
to do under the circumstances...the whole job took a couple months.
Yea--I have seen the "I have rolled and brushed my Bus 10 years ago with
Benjamin Moore enamel, and it still looks good" tales--I'd like to check
out these deluxe paint jobs--
if you were at Everybus you could have seen my 11 year old paint job,
which I rarely wash and have never buffed or waxed.....hey it is my
daily driver and I use it for work....but you could have eaten off the
engine it was that clean!!!
Now if you would like to do something neat--and will be really cheap, if
you don't care what the end result will
cheap wasn't one of my criteria and I figure with the body work etc I
spent about $350-$450 in materials on the paint job and several months
of my time
Bob
78 HPBus conversion
