From: "Ray Haynes" <ray(-at-)vwbuscamp.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 8 Aug 2002 17:31:58 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] Keeping a bus from being stolen

Here's some things to think about. First the anti-thief device should
engage automatically every time you turn off the bus. The problem with
clubs, removing the rotor, etc. is one time you decide to not to do it
because you'll only be "gone a second" and that's when the thief will
strike. 

Second there should not be any indication that some kind of anti-thief
device is at work. So the dash lights should come on and it should
crank. So now if the thief hot wires under the dash, makes the jump at
the starter or coil and the bus will crank away but not fire. Chances
are he will blame the hard starting on it just being a bus. 

To this end here's what I have done. Add a wire to the distributor side
of the coil. It needs to blend in so use some original bus wire and wrap
it to the existing wire with shrink tape or whatever. in wrap it up real
nice. 

Now the trick is to ground the wire when in the anti-thief mode. The
wire is run up to the front of the bus (BTW this wire can also be used
as the tach wire if you have one) to a relay and button. The relay is
wired so when it is denergized it grounds the wire which prevents the
ignition from firing. Then the relay is wired to latch energized with
the press of a hidden button.  So to start the bus the ignition is
turned on, the button is pressed, and now it will start. The relay stays
latched until the ignition is shut off. So now every time I shut off the
bus it relay unlatched and the anti-thief device is automatically
engaged.

There are a couple of small problems with this. If you're having
starting problems and turning the key off and on a lot sooner or later
you'll forget to press the button. It's happened to me a couple of time.
Also if the cranking voltage is low (low battery) the relay won't stay
latched once you start cranking and therefore won't start. Adding a
small indicator like an LED and a way to easily disconnect it would be
helpful. 

If you want more details on the wiring contact me off the list.


One last thing. If you use a fuel cut off that allow the bus to be
driven some distance and the thief starts the bus and drives off but the
bus dies in the middle of the street and he gets hit, you are
responsible. This is straight from a lawyers mouth. The reasoning is
when he started off he had every reason to believe the bus would run but
you have booby trapped it and therefore that makes it your fault. Don't
bitch at me about this I'm just passing along the info. 

Ray
Antelope, CA
Stock '71
ray(-at-)vwbuscamp.com



