Date: Thu, 08 Aug 2002 22:06:07 -0700
To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
From: Rik <nisse(-at-)attbi.com>
Subject: "reliability" was: Re: [T2] climbing on board or jumping off

David commented:
 >Compared to a modern vehicle like your Odyssey, it is relatively 
unreliable (even if properly maintained!  Yes!),

Bob commented:
 >any vehicle can be reliable or unreliable depending on circumstances, BUT
 >all other things being equal, yes a newer vehicle is likely to be more
 >reliable than an older one but how it is maintained is also important.

My take on "reliability" is that if the vehicle gets you where you're going,
when you want it to, then it's "reliable."  If parts are replaced when those
crafty Germans say they should (DM), then they are most unlikely to fail
under use.

A friend of mine refuses to consider an AC VW, as he claims they are
"unreliable."  He, it seems, is in the *unique* situation where he MUST
get to work on time everyday, or his boss will get mad.  So, he buys a
new Saturn every three years.  One day, his two month old Saturn
would not start.  Since he doesn't know how to open the hood, he had
to have it towed to the dealer, got a loaner, didn't make it to work that day.

After five days of scrutinizing the printouts from the computerized analysis
equipment, they still couldn't figure out the problem--so they sent the 
readouts
back to the factory.  After a couple of days, the factory folks hadn't 
figured out
the problem either.  They suggested that the dealer's mechanics <gasp>
PHYSICALLY look at the car to see if the electrical gremlin could be discovered
in this way.  Within only a few hours, they discovered that a mouse had eaten
through the ignition wire going to the coil.  Only took eight days for him to
get his car back.

If this had happened to my bus, it would have taken me five minutes to
discover the difficulty, and perhaps another five to correct the problem--
probably even make it to work on time.

So which car is more "reliable"?

Rik                                                       Searchlight casting
'70 Westy "The Carcass"                             for faults in the
...........be on the road in no time.               clouds of 
delusion.   R. Hunter




