Date: Thu, 29 Jun 2006 16:01:37 -0600
From: DurocShark <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Reminder: Push starting FI with dead battery = waste of time

Yesterday I got to drive the Guac for the first time in a week. Heck, it was
the one thing I was really looking forward to after recovering from my
surgery.

So I go out and put the key in. I had fixed the buzzer a few weeks before,
but it didn't buzz. Ohoh. Look down - headlights on! They've been on for a
week. D'oh! So I get back out, flip the Volvo around to jump the Guac. Fires
right up, no prob. Put the Volvo back and head to the gas station.

You just know what I did as soon as I pulled to the pump, don't you?

Well, I knew there was no way my battery had charged in that time, but
worrying about it at the moment was pointless. I get gas, go inside for a
bottle of water, and decided to see if I could bump start it. The battery
should have at least some charge to it, so maybe there will be enough to
fire the fuel injection if I don't try to turn the starter.

Turn the key, dash lights came on. Cool! The island was on a hill, and I
could roll back right into a space if the bump start doesn't work. Well, it
didn't. I got 3 good bumps out of it before coasting into the parking space.
Sigh. I tried to call my wife to come give me a jump, but my son had hidden
the phone in his room it seems and nobody heard it ring. After trying that
for a while, I gave up and started looking for someone to give me a jump.

Shortly a guy in a ratty Ford Ranger pickup pulled up and I asked him. He
didn't look happy by the prospect and gave the usual cop-out, "Sorry, I
don't have any cables." Ah ha! I do! He sighs and says sure, and we do the
deed. The guac's running again and he comments, "If you didn't have a cool
car, there's no way I would have done it."

=)

Needless to say, my next project on the Guac is going to be dual batteries.
If only to cover my own arse for this kind of situation.


-- 
Don
The Guacamole Bus
http://www.donimages.com/guac
