From: Mbjeeper(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 30 Jun 2006 09:08:18 EDT
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: hard start/high idle (aux air?) problem

Usually I lurk on the list and try to soak in some of the info from the  type 
2 Gurus, but after about 7 years of really no problem with my Westy, I have  
a problem that I could use some input on.
Overnight a few days ago my '78 (all stock FI) developed a hard start  
problem.  It was damp and I immediately suspected the ignition. I checked  the cap 
and rotor (OK) and replaced points and condenser.  Still a hard  start, but 
with good spark at the plugs.
I determined that she would start if I feathered the gas while cranking,  
usually a no-no with FI.  So I began to suspect the cold start  injector.
This morning I go out, feather the gas and start it, and decide that I have  
enough faith in her to take her for a little drive.
It is then that I realize that the idle is much too high.
Robert Bentley leads me to the auxiliary air regulator. 
I perform the test where you pull the vacuum line that leads from the  intake 
boot to the aux air reg, and even after a long warmup, there is still a  lot 
of vacuum from the AAR.  Bentley says that it should diminish and go  away.  
It doesn't.  I checked to make sure that there is power to the  AAR and there 
is. 
Next I checked resistance across the AAR terminals and get varied readings  
between 20 and 30 Ohms (Bentley says 30). This would seem to me to  be OK, but 
obviously it isn't closing.
If I plug the vacuum line to the AAR, the idle does drop.  
Questions:
Would the AAR cause a hard start condition like I am having?  
Is the AAR serviceable?  Is there a way to "unstick" it?  Is it  absolutely 
necessary in warm weather?  I'd like to take the bus camping  next week and I 
won't be able to have the part by then.  What happens if I  just plug the 
vacuum line (and the nipple on the intake boot, of course) and  drive it?
I should also mention that I had some surgury on my hand recently and I'm  
doing most of this left handed.  (Power steering wopuld be nice!), so I'm  
trying to avoid anything uneccessary right now, but I still want to take the  kids 
camping.
Any ideas or pointers really appreciated.
Greg
'59, '61 Sunroof type Is
'65 Cabrio
'69 Cal Look
'73 Thing
'63 Doublecab
'78 Westfalia
Fiberglass buggy hanging from the rafters
3 WW2 army jeeps
and 7 more misc.
