From: "Box of Rain" <boxorayn(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sat, 01 Jul 2006 08:33:09 -0700
Subject: Bus No Start -- Me Very Stumped

Hello All,
Have been off-list for quite some time; glad to be back.  I have a 1979 bus 
(Riviera camper, FI, dual-battery setup) whose strange inability to start 
has me stumped, and I hope someone out there has the magic clue.  I will 
give a little history and then go into symptoms.  I don't drive this bus 
much anymore, but I do start it up periodically (like, once a month) -- and 
up until recently it never had a problem doing so; it always fired right up. 
  But, about a month ago I took it in to DEQ for its 2-year Oregon emissions 
test.  It started and ran fine that day, and passed with no problems.  I 
drove it home, and haven't driven it since.  Let me add that the bus has a 
relatively-new starter and heavy-duty battery (both bought & installed in 
early 2005).  It also used to have a hot-start relay, but it was removed 
when the new starter was installed.  Anyway, this week I tried to start it 
and it unexplicably failed.  Here is a step-by-step:

(1) When I initially tried to start it, I got fairly strong cranking but it 
wouldn't fire up.  After about three 5-7 second bursts of this, she seemed 
to fade and then just went dead; from then on I got no response when turning 
the key -- except for maybe one weak, brief initial "whrrrr".  My electrics 
(dash lights, radio, etc.) were still operational.

(2) I then tried jump-starting it from another battery.  This got me good 
strong cranking that I thought would do the trick, but she still just 
wouldn't fire up.  It seemed as if she just wasn't getting enough spark or 
fuel.  (There was fuel in the tank; I also checked the coil and distributor 
connections.)  I tried about 6 times with the same result:  strong cranking 
but no start.  I gave up in fear of harming the starter.

(3) Wondered if maybe the battery -- due to recent inactivity -- had lost 
enough juice over time to not be able to power the fuel injectors (hence the 
feeling of getting no gas).  So, I took it in to a local shop to get the 
battery tested and charged.  It needed and got the charge, and afterward 
they said the battery was in good shape.

(4) I re-installed battery, and cleaned the battery terminals as well as the 
ends of both (+/-) connectors.  I made them shine as best I could.  Back in 
the driver seat, I turned the key and got absolutely nothing.  A few more 
subsequent turns got me some intermittent clicks from the rear of the bus, 
but nothing else.  And, although my electrics still seemed to work, I also 
noticed that my red dashboard lights seemed to come on slowly, their glow 
starting out dim then gaining brightness.  But, still nothing else with the 
turn of the key.  I went back out and recleaned and tightened the battery 
connections -- especially the ground strap -- but still got the same result.

So, any ideas what's going on here?  I can't help but believe this must be 
some kind of battery/electrical problem, but -- due to the bus' cranking but 
inability to start when it seemed to be getting sufficient power -- I can't 
help but also wonder if there is an underlying fuel or ignition problem.  
Also, since this mysteriously appeared after my trip to the DEQ, is there 
something during their testing (i.e. something disconnected that wasn't 
re-connected) that could be related to this?  Anyway, thanks for reading 
through all of this, and I appreciate any insights and direction you can 
provide about what might be causing my starting problem and what I can do 
about it.

Travis
79 Riviera Campwagen
