Date: Sun, 2 Jul 2006 17:04:01 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cliff Rhoton <commodore97210(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: FW: [T2] Bus No Start -- Me Very Stumped

I've worked on your bus Adam, and have had 24 hours to
formulate some strong opinions.  I acknowledge, when
your bus would not start, it was turning over, but it
was not catching or starting.
    
(1)  Double Relay.   I have a spare I will hand you to
use as a diagnostic tool the next time this happens. 
It is on the left front firewall, and is accessible
from the top engine access door.
  
(2)  Corroded electrical connection to the Double
Relay.  This is dealt-with by just removing the double
relay electrical connectors, two of them, and then
reconnecting them.
  
(3)  The FI Brain gets its electricity from the
coil....It connects to the hot side of the coil.  Is
that electrical connector tight and secure?
    
(4)  Lower probability, but are the electrical
connections to your starter motor tight and secure? 
We did have your engine out this last winter.  I
wonder if we left something loose?
   
(5)  My bus broke down on our way to Dash Point Park
last year because the brain plug was not properly
connected, and jiggled loose while driving.  But from
an electrical connection point-of-view, is your brain
plug tight and secure?  And not sitting at an odd
angle?  It hooks at the top, and snaps tight at the
bottom.
   
[Separately, your charging system may need to be
looked-at.  But this opinion is based upon inside
information.  The T2 list would have no clue as to the
source of this opinion.  Your external regulator is
new, but I suspect your Alternator might not be
charging at 100%.]
   
On the subject of vapor lock, yes that is a common 50s
- 60s era carburetor issue.  One of my motorcycles in
the 60s displayed that problem when it was left in the
blazing sun.  But your and my 78 2.0L FI engines
develop much higher pressures than the 3 or 4 psi
carburetor systems.  Bosch, at about our bus model
years, starting putting fuel accumulators next to the
fuel pump so that pressures would remain high even
when sitting over night. That way, vapor lock could
not occur.  My 78 Volvo had a fuel accumulator.  But
since our buses do not have accumulators, vapor lock,
however unlikely, could be a cause.  Fuel Rail
pressure gauge, discussed in next paragraph, is the
diagnostic tool.
   
It is possible your bus fuel pump is the culprit.  But
the dual relay is cheaper.  Besides, the fuel pressure
is easily checked by making use of the fuel rail tap
on the left (drivers) side injector tubing.  I for
one, do not have a fuel pressure gauge yet. There has
been a flurry of fuel pressure gauge supplier and part
numbers discussed on the T2 list, and would be found
in the archives.
   
If fuel rail pressures are too low, then either the
fuel pump, or the fuel pressure regulator could be
bad.  The Fuel pressure regulator on our engines is
mounted on the vertical engine tin, right top side. 
The right fuel rail line goes directly to the FP
regulator.
   
I know we replaced your fuel filter.  Besides, the
engine would still start, but run poorly, were the
filter to be plugged.
     
By-the-way, DEPENDABILITY is my top goal for my VW
Bus, and it's biggest annoyance.  Thats why I continue
a program of replacing each and every electrical and
fuel component on my bus.
   
Clifford Rhoton
Portland, Oregon
