From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: "bus" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 4 Mar 2005 07:38:42 -0800
Subject: Bus Drift, oversteer, wandering, etc.. LONG

Sending this out to the list so that if there is anybody else scratching
their head like I was, this might give them something else to check.

For a few months now my bus would wander around within a lane while I was
driving it.  It started very subtle and then gradually got worse.  The odd
thing was that the vehicle would always respond quickly when I would try to
compensate by steering.  The effect would then be my driving from left to
right to left again while trying to attain the zen like state of driving in
a straight line as God intended.

I started out by changing all four ball joints in the front because they
would clunk and the front end was loose.  This made an improvement, however
it still wandered.

Next was to do my brakes all around and also the suspension.  Had to do the
brakes anyway and it gave me an opportunity to check out the bearings while
I was down there.  The easiest ones (IMHO) in the front were fine, but the
ones in the back appeared beaten to all hell, so I started to save the dough
because I knew that the back end would be quite a job.

When I did the rear brakes, I did them in my driveway and while I was
certain that I got the torque right on the castellated nuts, I forgot to
drive the bus around the block and check the torque again.  I correctly
dropped the bus off of the stands so that I could get the torque right.  I
incorrectly didn't account for the tires/rims/drums rims now attatched,
dragging on the concrete while I was torqueing, causing the drum/rim combo
to tighten down at an angle instead of flush with backend.  This caused a
pseudo toe out situation because my castellated nuts were deceptively loose.
So now I have succeeded in causing my back end to drift as well as the
pre-existing issue with the front of the bus.  It was Mr. Toad's Wild Ride
at Disneyland.  Needless to say I parked it until I could get this figured
out.  Finally retorqued the backend correctly and I was back to the lesser
though significant trouble that I was having before.

So I continued on my quest to drive straight.  I replaced all shocks, all
tires with D grade light truck variety, alignment, balanced, and I replaced
all of the bearings (I was right about the back end).  After switching out
the bearings and repacking/regreasing everything there, addressing the CV
joints and associated drive shaft cupplings on the rear bearing assembly.  I
took it for a spin.  Still wandered.  Sunnuva (-at-)#$%^!

I was spitting nails at this point.  Got the Bentley out yet again and
climbed back under the front end yet again.  Checked steering box, steering
shaft, rods, steering wheel and drag link and it all was in great shape.  So
what could it be?  I didn't mind so much all of the other stuff that I had
been doing, because all of those things had to be addressed at one point or
another anyway.  But since I had been spending so much time trying to track
this issue down and that I was now out of ideas, I decided to cry uncle and
take it to my mechanic here in Portland.

The trouble turned out to be a corroded center pin in the steering linkage.
They took the pin out, had it blasted, checked to see if it was serviceable
(it was), they lubed it up real good and put it back in.  1 hours worth of
work.  $60.00....

In retrospect, a corroded pin makes perfect sense for the issue that I was
having.  I never had unresponsive steering,.. just exagerated steering.  All
that time and effort for one stinking pin.  The flip side of this of course
is that I now am intimately aware of what is required to make a bus drive
straight. Lessons learned.  What makes me grin daily is how sweet the bus
now rides, turns, steers and generally handles.  The ride is quieter and
much more stable and satisfying.  It just keeps getting better and better.

moral of the story?  Don't over think yourself.  Go from one moving part to
the very next relative moving part and check every single joint, even if it
appears good.  *humming a tune* "The knee bone is connected to the leg bone,
the leg bone is connected to the..."

Seann Stafford
1976 T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
1976 T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com

p.s. some of my spelling may not be correct.  As long as you understand what
I meant then the point of it so far as I am concerned, has been met.  Yes, I
know that my punctuation sucks.  Have a nice day  :o)
