Date: Sat, 5 Mar 2005 09:29:13 -0700
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Back in Cali... (And Kelly Pathfinder A/P tires too...)

Well, I'm back in California for my last few days here. GWB is resting
peacefully in the long term parking at Denver International Airport.

He's in good company.

I saw several bay Westies, a couple of Vanagon Westies, and at least
one Eurovan camper (they stopped using Westfalia, right?)

I already miss my bus. Driving my 84 Volvo around just isn't the same.
(Wanna buy said Volvo? $500. Off list, please.)

I wanted to comment on my new Kelly Pathfinder A/P tires that I had
put on before leaving Cali almost a month ago now that I've driven on
them for a bit.

With my old (really old) mismatched front tires, the bus sat level
when empty. Turning the wheel when stopped or moving slowly took
serious effort. The front end was very mushy and had little road feel.
Handling was relative crap.

The new tires are C load rated, LT, and a nice semi-agressive off-road
tread. The first thing I noticed when the bus was off the lift was the
stance. The nose is higher, just like everybody else's busses. Getting
in and steering around the parking lot was wonderful. Only took a
gentle touch on the steering wheel to turn.

The lightness of steering actually made me nervous. I thought that
meant less traction and stability. Not true. Zipping around surface
streets on the way back to work showed just how much more stable the
bus was. A panic stop in the rain showed the traction was
significantly improved.

I had mentioned a "squirrellyness" on the highway at speed on the way
to Colorado. This went away after the first day. Possibly a break-in
issue. I'm not sure. I'd never had that happen before, but since it
disappeared and has never returned I'm not going to worry about it.

Stability in the wind, which wasn't too bad to begin with, improved
even more. Doing 65 across the desert with a 40mph crosswind showed
how stable it really is. The steering wheel had to be turned 1/4 at
the worst, but usually just a few inches kept things in a straight
line.

The areas in Colorado I drove had lots of beatup roads, curvy roads,
and generally I'm-glad-I'm-not-driving-the-Fiero roads. The bus
handled these wonderfully. People in new minivans were bouncing around
the road while the GWB took them in stride.

Overall I'm quite happy with these tires. I wish there was SOME
mention of them online somewhere. I don't know if they're too new or
if Kelly just doesn't bother with them for some reason. But at $95
installed each I feel they were a good deal.



-- 
Don Tuleja
Great White goes to DENVER:
http://www.donimages.com/1973bus/denvertrip
