Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Sun, 29 Jul 2007 21:38:33 -0400
To: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] My bus is now water-cooled.

Hi Dave,

The experiment was terminated when the engine died. The water  
injection wasn't the culprit, it seems to have been a piston ring  
failure on pistons 1+2. I  will know more about that in a week or so  
when I have time to pull the engine apart.

This particular engine was a VW Canada reman with VERY low miles on  
it that sat for about 18 years before I got it. It was from a 412  
that had been sideswiped and the vehicle was subsequently stored  
indoors until the owners mother passed away 18 years later at which  
time the car was parted out. I have seen documentation that the  
engine was only a week old when the wreck occurred.

I ran it about 500 miles around town and on a weekend trip before  
blessing it as acceptable for the 800-mile excursion to High Country  
Bus Festival this weekend. Unfortunately, it failed about 90 miles  
into the trip; happily enough on my own side of the border and in a  
location where it could be recovered at a reasonable expense. If the  
failure had happened an hour later on the elevated highway through  
Buffalo it would have been dangerous and expensive.

Once I have the engine repaired and back in the bus I plan to  
document 1000 miles of driving without water injection before I  
reinstall the system. This will give a better idea of what is really  
going on with it, both before and after WI.

Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/77/79 Westfakia "Bob The Tomato
www.pottsfamily.ca
www.busesofthecorn.com




On 28-Jul-07, at 12:52 PM, Busahaulic wrote:

Greg - I have looked carefully through the threads and
find no follow-up to this. How's it working for you?
-BaH

--- Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca> wrote:

  Hi Ned,

  I do have an Aux battery, but the reason I put the
  tank below the
  battery tray was GRAVITY. I wanted to be sure that
  when the engine
  was off the water would run back to the tank rather
  than get siphoned
  into the engine.
