Date: Sun, 29 Jul 2007 21:34:31 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] My bus is now water-cooled.

Sounds like what I'm going through - but so far, no
breakage! (Knock on wood!) I am anxious to read about
your observations w/wo/WI. Once I get the bugs tweaked
out of the "new" Subey, I'd like to add WI to it.

So far my woes have been a mis-timed new cam belt from
the people I bought the engine from - not a major
setback cuz as soon as I tried to start it I knew what
the matter was! Problem is they have too-short bolts
for the tensioning device and after one
removal/replacement they require heli-coils. I got
that all worked out as a matter of course. Then I
managed to mis-time at the crank sprocket after
carefully aligning the two cam sprockets. My bad!
Still no go - could not remember attaching the ground
for the ECU and all the sensors. That was because I
didn't! Then a few leaks at solder joints - hey, I
could see light at the end of the tunnel and I got a
bit sloppy! Paid for it, I sure enough did, in the
long run! Got some cooling issues now, after road
testing. I suspect it has a 190 thermostat and it is
sticking. When it's steady, it runs about 196 degrees.
It will suddenly climb to 220 then go back down to
296-200, so I hope that is the problem. It sure fits
the symptoms.

Good luck on your engine. As you know, it's tough for
them to sit around for years like that and then
suddenly be put to work. No telling what the condition
was - ring gum-seized in groove and unable to flex
enough for something on the cylider wall? You'll
figure it out. May be nothing of the sort, but I
suspect that a ring-related injury is highly likely.
Did you dump Marvel Mystery oil in it and cycle it?
Doesn't matter now - does it! -BaH

--- Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca> wrote:
 Hi Dave,
 
 The experiment was terminated when the engine died.
 The water  
 injection wasn't the culprit, it seems to have been
 a piston ring  
 failure on pistons 1+2. I  will know more about that
 in a week or so  
 when I have time to pull the engine apart.
 
 This particular engine was a VW Canada reman with
 VERY low miles on  
 it that sat for about 18 years before I got it. It
 was from a 412  
 that had been sideswiped and the vehicle was
 subsequently stored  
 indoors until the owners mother passed away 18 years
 later at which  
 time the car was parted out. I have seen
 documentation that the  
 engine was only a week old when the wreck occurred.
 
 I ran it about 500 miles around town and on a
 weekend trip before  
 blessing it as acceptable for the 800-mile excursion
 to High Country  
 Bus Festival this weekend. Unfortunately, it failed
 about 90 miles  
 into the trip; happily enough on my own side of the
 border and in a  
 location where it could be recovered at a reasonable
 expense. If the  
 failure had happened an hour later on the elevated
 highway through  
 Buffalo it would have been dangerous and expensive.
 
 Once I have the engine repaired and back in the bus
 I plan to  
 document 1000 miles of driving without water
 injection before I  
 reinstall the system. This will give a better idea
 of what is really  
 going on with it, both before and after WI.
 
 Happy Trails,
 
 Greg Potts
 1973/74/77/79 Westfakia "Bob The Tomato
 www.pottsfamily.ca
 www.busesofthecorn.com


-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
