Date: Thu, 2 Aug 2007 10:48:34 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: 'Avocado Tom' <tommy(-at-)roadtrip.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Morgantown VW Shop (was Re: [T2] Redux boxes value?)

The Bug Place or something, ran by Noel Clemmer for about 20 years.  Noel was a funny (-at-)$$hole.  I'd bought parts off him and sold parts to him for about 15 years, back in the day (late 80's) he did pretty fair deals, but as time went on, everything became worth its weight in gold to him, and he was loathe to part with anything.  Was always ridiculous on vehicle prices and not that great of a mechanic frankly (compared to others in the area.)  He would go down to SC when you still could (late 80's again) and haul up fair bodies without engines and trannies and put junker motors in em, etc.  He did air, water, occasional other imports, towards the end, he tended to buy wrecked water cooled and had some guy over around the power plant doing quicky body work and paint, he would do the mechanicals.  Did well in a college town of course.  Closed about 1.5-2 years ago, so just after you stopped.  He hauled all the stuff out, and had been trying to sell the buildings and land for
 something crazy by Morgantown standards (like over $750,000 or something.) I think this was soon after his brother was diagnosed with cancer and he decided he should retire.  (His brother used to live up 119 about 1/2 mile, also would have scores of VWs in the yard.)  I don't know if Noel is even still around/alive.  He was still using the building for his own projects, street rods, occasional VW until abouta year ago.  Anyway that is the story.  He had a fair amount of tools, etc, and inventory but it all seems long gone.  Actually Auto Medic who was on the mileground in Motown and has also moved had nearly as good an inventory that he through out about 5 years ago.  He kept trying to get me to buy it all for something nominal but I had no place for 100s of used bug heads, scores of cases, etc.  I think all his went to the dumpster as well.
   
  John
  

'Avocado Tom' <tommy(-at-)roadtrip.net> wrote:
  On Wed, 1 Aug 2007, John Anderson wrote:



> Whole dumpster of other stuff, several fair bay heater boxes, and 
> somewhat sadly about 50 T1, and T4 cranks, all greased carefully, in 
> cloth wrapped around them, had been sitting in plastic containers, set 
> out about two weeks ago, now all under water.



Such a sad story...

Still, I bet you you could clear $40-50/per on the heater boxes if you 
cared...

Speaking of VW places being auctioned: Does anyone know anything about the 
VW place just outside of Morgantown, WV on Route 119 (just before you hit 
Point Marion, PA)?

I stopped in there about 2.5 years ago to buy an alternator belt (I had 
shredded mine LITERALLY 3 miles previous and was running on a junky spare 
when I happened to pass an Air-cooled VW place in the middle of nowhere) 
but the place seems to have since closed and I was curious what (if 
anything) was going on with their parts/vehicle stash...

Cheers,
Tom
Pittsburgh, PA
---
"We are MoTown. We are professionals. We're here to get the job done"




       
---------------------------------
Boardwalk for $500? In 2007? Ha! 
Play Monopoly Here and Now (it's updated for today's economy) at Yahoo! Games.
