Date: Mon, 19 Dec 2005 23:51:10 -0700
From: dan radom <vw(-at-)radom.org>
To: list type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: [long] broken clutch cable, clevis pin wear, the dumb previous

So it goes like this...Leaving work (yay 20 minutes early) and I get 
about 5 minutes away when i notice my clutch pedal sitting on the floor 
when I go to shift her into second.  I was on a side street so I just 
parked it at the curb.  I make arrangements with the wife (it's her 
birthday today) for her to pick up the kids and inform her I have a 
spare and shouldn't be too long.  Thanks to the DPO for the package that 
contained a cable and was clearly marked 'clutch cable'.  I grab the 
cable and my bentleys.  Moments later I started to feel that 'oh crap' 
pain in my gut.  There's only one person in my cell phone contact list 
that could confirm my fears, so I called Chris at the BustedBus.com and 
began to describe what my spare heater cable looks like.  ARGH (can you 
find the dumb current owner part yet).  Chris sold his last clutch cable 
this past weekend, but he made a call or two and found one in Boulder.  
Long story short he closed his shop 90 minutes early, went and picked up 
two clutch cables (I *do* have a spare *now*), grabbed his tow bar and 
his truck and drove down to give me the cable and assist.  He determined 
that we should tow it back to his shop and work on it there as it needed 
a new celvis pin and he didn't have one with him.  The plate it connects 
to needed replaced as the hole had become oval'd.  What would cause the 
clutch cable to wear the clevis pin like this...

http://radom.org/gallery/vw/projects/misc/clevis_pin-1.jpg.html

...One hour later we're back at his place (it's after 7 now) looking for 
a clevis pin and the little plate that it connects to which we quickly 
locate amongst the 1000s and 1000s and 1000s of high quality used parts 
he has in stock.  After burritos and a cold beverage he walks me through 
the process of replacing the cable, pin, plate, and hard rubber tube at 
the tranny end of the setup which took around an hour I would guess.

So in breaking down the subject it's like this...

broken clutch cable:  it happens.  well prepared for the next time
clevis pin wear:  has anyone seen that kind of wear before?  what would 
cause it?
dumb previous owner:  some are, some aren't i guess
dumb current owner:  i'm getting smarter
the BustedBus.com:  What can I say that isn't already obvious to anyone 
who read what Chris did to help me out today.  Let's not even get into 
the 2 hours he helped me on Saturday.

Chris...Once again thank you very much.  Please extend my thanks to the 
ones I kept you from tonight as well.  Not only are you a great 
resource, but you're becoming a friend as well.

Oh.  Did I mention it's the wife's birthday today?  Sorry I didn't get 
home until 10 honey.  Happy birthday!

dan
