Date: Sun, 30 Mar 2008 20:48:34 -0400
From: Mike Benthin -MUTS oboe support <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: "Accessys(-at-)smart.net" <accessys(-at-)smart.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: installing  the window crank regulator-no "howto" in archives?

)#()^%#|)Bentley is very poor on this-and no one has done a "how to 
picture page on this?  I can't find anything in the archives (except my 
post years ago and "Bopsax's" reply) on how to do this- I looked at the 
77 bus door I know I removed the regulator from by pulling it over the 
top, and nothing around the ventwindow is disturbed (track post with 
track on one side and rubber for closing the ventwindow on the other)- 
and glass is still (in bottom) of track-how did I get the regulator out? 
  Obviously I tapped off the rubber U holding the bolts for the moving 
part of the regulator off the glass bottom, to give clearance while 
glass is shimmed all the way up.  The regulator fixed arm at the top in 
this 78 will not clear the gap above the post bolt holder as it must if 
I did it this way.  The coil with the movable holder part can be removed 
first (unscrewed) so that is not in the way, but in this stripped 78 
crank gear I ended up cutting the coil tube as it would not crank and I 
saw no way of separating the post far enough to clear the coil tube 
between it and the fixed metal "loop" it bolts to, as Bentley suggests? 
  A trial back fit with the cut part (just left of the gear housing) 
suggests I'd have trouble unless severely bending the straight part of 
the coiltube.
      So with the new one (coming from BustedBus) I'm in a catch-22 of 
not being able to move the post forward (as Bentley says) due to 
ventwindow metal at the bottom being in the way, nor backwards as glass 
is blocking it even when all the way down- and I did pull down the felt 
upper guide and peel the bottom rubbing strip back enough to look, as 
well as peel up the vent window bottom rubber to look.  Must I really do 
all that trim bending/peeling to pull out the entire vent window 
assembly, which Bentley does not say to do??????  Bob, what hole did you 
drill?
