Date: Mon, 31 Mar 2008 14:41:23 -0400
To: "Melissa & Jerry Jess" <vwstuff53(-at-)msn.com>
From: mikes(-at-)flatsurface.com (Mike S)
Cc: "Arizonabusclub Yahoo" <arizonabusclub(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, "type2"
Subject: Re: [T2] FW: Exxon - Mobil

>This was sent by a retired Coca Cola executive.  It came from one of 
>his
>engineer buddies who retired from Halliburton.

YOU HAVE BEEN CHOSEN TO BE A VICTIM!

This message has been e-mailed to you for no good reason. The original 
sender has been hunted down and executed. It has been sent back and 
forth to the same superstitious dorks for about 20 years. This stupid 
piece of trash has now been e-mailed to you. You will spread the 
boredom within seconds of receiving this message - provided you, in 
turn, e-mail it on.

This is no joke. Not even I, the sender, am amused. You will gets lots 
of angry e-mail in return, but no money. Send copies to people you 
think are as stupid as you are. E-mail your credit card number and 
expiration date to as many people as you can. Don't send money as it 
will clog up your Net connection. Do not keep this message. This 
message must leave your hard drive in 96 hours.

* A United States Crack Dealer received $470,000 Dollars.
* Another Man received $40,000 Dollars and lost it because he couldn't 
find it.
* In the Philippines, Gene Welch lost his wife 51 days after receiving 
the message. He failed to circulate the message. However, before his 
death, he received 7,555,000 new wives.

Please e-mail twenty copies to Canter & Seigel and see what happens in 
four days. The chain comes from Venezuela and was written by Saul De 
Groda, a plumber from Cleveland. He has been hunted down and executed. 
Since the copy must tour the Net, you must make twenty copies and 
e-mail them to friends and associates. After a few days you'll get a 
flood of angry responses. Nothing is true, even if you are 
superstitious. Do note the following:

* Constantine Dias received this chain in 1958, several years before it 
was created. He asked his boss to make twenty copies and send them out. 
He was fired and became a prostitute. A few days later he won two 
dollars in the lottery.

* Carlos Daditt, an office droid, received the message and forgot that 
it had to leave his hard disk in 96 hours. He lost about 20KBytes of 
storage space. Later, after finding the message again, he erased it 
from his hard drive. A few days later he was fired and went into 
business with Constantine.

* Dalan Fairchild received the message and, not believing, deleted it. 
Nine days later he choked to death on a ham sandwich while watching the 
"Space Madness" episode of Ren & Stimpy.

* In 1987, the message received by a young woman in California was full 
of garbage characters due to line noise, and was barely readable. She 
promised herself that she would retype the message and e-mail it on, 
but she set it aside to do volunteer work at an orphanage. She was 
plagued with various problems, including being beaten up by the kids at 
the orphanage. The e-mail did not leave her hands within 96 hours. She 
finally typed the letter as promised and was beaten so severely by the 
children that she was hospitalized for 18 months.

So, Good Luck, but please remember: 20 copies of this message MUST 
leave your computer in 96 hours...

You must not sign off on this message...

YOU'VE BEEN WARNED!
