Date: Tue, 01 Apr 2008 08:49:34 -0500
From: David Schwarze <dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: [VB] Re: [T2] FW: Exxon - Mobil

No, "we" should not have saved it for Friday.  The topic was killed by 
an administrator YESTERDAY and yet people continue to post on this 
subject.  People who have been on this list for years and should know 
better.  I cannot understand this.

I bet these same people don't walk in to their CEO's office at work, sit 
down and start talking about Exxon, even if it "got to them".  Why? 
Because it is not appropriate and might get them fired.  Apparently 
these same people think that they can do it here because there will not 
be any consequences.  Well, that is not the case.

Here is what the charter says on the subject:

"PRIORITY ONE RULES -- If you screw up here you'll be kicked off the list
and quite possibly banned forever (we really mean it):

--Do not EVER post virus warnings, or messages about important issues
that you think should concern everybody in the world. Do not post
messages unless they have legitimate bus content. If you think the
message you're sending is so important that the "bus content" rule does
not apply to you, that means that you should ==NOT== post it.

--Do not ever continue a thread that an administrator has "killed". This
is fairly rare, but if an admin says "please kill this thread," then
do not post any more messages on that topic. This is how the admins
keep marginal discussions from growing out of control."

http://type2.com/type2charter.html

The following people have been removed from the type2 list for choosing 
to ignore TWO priority one rules from the charter (above):

support(-at-)volks-web.com
accesssys(-at-)smart.net
ctonline(-at-)webtv.net
c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net

These people are free to resubscribe if they decide to follow the 
charter in the future.

-David


C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc wrote:
<rant snipped>
> 
> Sorry, I don't usually join the spam, but this one got to me.
> We shoulda saved it for Friday.
