From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: "'Type 2'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 1 Apr 2008 20:38:36 -0600
Subject: RE: [T2] Re: Higher MPG for our buses

I think it can be summed up into a list of practical and practiced tasks.

1. Reduce weight.
Not using the cot, swing-out table and center trash/stool in your Westy? It
will save you over 25 pounds. A Center seat will save you over 50 lbs the
last time I checked!

2. Inflate your tires. 
Look in the tech section of the list. My '78 Westy is 30psi front/44 rear
with a reinforced 185R14 tire. This will get you at minimum 1-3mpg better if
you are as little as 5psi low. Check them when it is cool or cold outside.
Westy's are especially heavy and the tire really drags when it is
under-pressure.

3. Tune up your engine.
Mixture, spark, air. Air-Cleaners are the most notorious. I once went a
summer in my Jeep without even glancing at the air-cleaner after a very
active winter (silly 20 something kid). My mileage went from 22mpg to 18mpg
and finally to 12mpg in 3 months. Ouch.

Quick Tune Up List: Oil Change/Filter, Air Filter, Plug Wires, Plugs/gap,
Cap/Rotor, points (if used), timing, vacuum lines, mixture, throttle cable
range, oil/gas leaks, 44K or other injection cleaner (if u have efi), valve
adjustment (non-hydraulic or pre-'78), belt, air seals, thermostat.

4. Stow the spare.
Got a nose mounted spare? Stow it in the stock location in the tire-well
(transporter) or in the cabinet ('76-'79 Westy) or above the engine
(everything else). The spare is a big source of drag, cover on or not. There
is a reason VW never put the tire on the front! (or keep the spare in your
garage, gulp. Only if you have AAA)

5. Synthesize it.
Without getting into the oil debate, Full Synthetics are king. Especially in
the transaxle. Be sure to go with a 85-90W Redline or Royal Purple that is
safe for use in GL-4 transaxles/transmissions. Someone else can recommend a
high-content zinc synthetic for the motor.

6. Stop the leaks!
If your motor or tranny leaks, then it is losing critical lubricants. Loss
of lubricant = increased wear and heat which results in loss of performance,
drag, etc... Consider it a part of a comprehensive tune-up.

7. Stop the stinky leaks
Exhaust systems are designed to run without leaks at the heads, flanges or
muffler. A leaky system is stinky, loud and can play havoc on compression
and fuel ratios.

8. Windows Up!
Even though it is hot outside, a vehicle is more efficient with the windows
up, especially on the freeway.

9. Soft starts and a soft cruise.
Buses are slow so nobody cares if you leave an intersection in a moderate
manner. Buses are slow so nobody cares if you are doing the speed limit,
they expect it.

10. Clutch-in stops. (use with caution)
Be sure your brakes are in top condition before you do this! put the clutch
in when you stop (in dry weather of course). This is counter intuitive to
most standard transmission drivers, but it is effective to let the vehicle
roll to a stop if a red-light is imminent or you are getting off the
freeway. Don't do this in the mountains though, just around town. Better to
keep it safe.

I know most everyone knows this stuff, but if one person doesn't, it is
worth it.

Later,

Jon Stiles
'68 Double Cab
'78 Westfalia
