Date: Wed, 02 Apr 2008 19:16:22 -0400
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
To: Jason Cornfeld <applefr3ak(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] CIS and hydrogen

Hi Jason,

Did your research include the first law of thermodynamics? Did it 
include the study of perpetual motion? The study of these topics is 
extremely important when dealing with the sellers of snake-oil.

When you consider the practical use of hydrogen created by hydrolysis, 
you have to factor in the energy required to split the water molecule. 
It takes a LOT of electricity to accomplish this. That energy is coming 
from your alternator, which then places an additional load on the engine 
and increases fuel consumption. According to the website, their HHO 
converter will take from 10 to 25 amps, which is a considerable load on 
your alternator.

Remember, every time you change energy from one medium to another there 
is a loss in the total energy delivered. In the example above, energy 
will be lost to the alternator through friction in the belt and 
bearings. There is no such thing as a free lunch. A car running on water 
is actually running on hydrogen, and the energy required to split the 
water molecule had to come from somewhere.

I did read through the "Hydro Booster" section of the waterpoweredcar 
website, and it completely failed to mention that there was any energy 
consumed in the manufacture of the HHO gas. They only mention that their 
HHO system runs off the car battery, and they fail to mention that the 
battery will need to be recharged somehow if the system is to continue 
to operate.


BTW, I had a dual-carbed bus until 2004 when I converted it to 
L-Jetronic fuel injection. It took me about two weekends to get the 
system installed and running. I had no prior FI experience. L-Jetronic 
is well described in the bentley manual and was installed in hundreds of 
thousands of buses, and the parts from those buses can easily be adapted 
to work on yours. I've seen a CIS bus in person, and the owner had to 
have a lot of custom fabricated parts made to get it to fit the 
horizontally opposed engine.

Last winter I acquired a Cabriolet that has CIS, and I found that system 
to be a huge PITA to troubleshoot, and it isn't very fuel efficient, 
either.  When it runs, it runs fine, but when there's a problem with the 
fuel system I have to send it to a local shop to have it sorted out. I'd 
strongly recommend L-Jet or Megasquirt over CIS if you want to replace 
your carbs.

Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/79 Westfakia "Bob the Tomato"
www.busesofthecorn.com
www.pottsfamily.ca

Jason Cornfeld wrote:
> Ok guys.. I have done massive amounts of research on this whole  
> hydrogen hho deal. Here it is in a nutshell. Gas engines from figures  
> i have found are between 18-25% Efficient. Essentially adding the HHO  
> to the mix, Changes the burn rate of the gasoline and can bring that  
> efficiency average up to between 50%75% Efficiancy. I have been toying  
> on doing this with my dual carb system and it all looks good on paper  
> and i have made a couple cells with impressive results. in the shop.  
> not installed yet, but yes, I have actually been able to produce  
> enough hho to light, put through a cutting tip and cut water. it is  
> flammible.. and the byproduct is water.. My friend has put one on his  
> honda and is now getting between 45-55 miles per gallon. and on cars  
> with oxygen sensors, there is more to do than just throw a tube in the  
> intake and down the top of the carb or whatever.. you have to fool the  
> computer into thinking that air fuel mixture is what it thinks it  
> should be, because when you burn the hydroxy as they call it, you  
> emissions drop drastically. But yes, I HAVE seen it on a car and  
> working. And if you guys are interested in seeing how it works on a  
> VW?? Does anyone remember Stanley Meyers...He is who invented the  
> technology, and if you look, His first WATER POWERED CAR, was a VW  
> Powered Dune Buggy Check out waterpoweredcar.com There is a movie of  
> His car RUNNING on water. There are lots of resources there, If you  
> look on the left side of the site and click do it yourself  
> hydrobooster.. it explains a few things. Now do you guys want to see a  
> Finished CIS Injected Bus??? go to my friends page... http://www.rivieraregistry.com 
>   Go to the forums... Look for CIS its in there with complete pretty  
> much how to do it and all the pictures, Here is a link to Brandons  
> other site http://www.zestybus.com He shows pictures there too.. I am  
> looking at doing the CIS conversion also.. .Doesnt look super difficult.
