Cc: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
Date: Thu, 3 Apr 2008 12:29:41 -0700
To: cochise3300-lists(-at-)yahoo.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Dual Carb Vacuum Hose

On Apr 2, 2008, at 11:27 AM, cochise3300-lists(-at-)yahoo.com wrote:

> While replacing the vacuum hoses on on my '74 Westy I found a small  
> diameter hose about a foot
> long running from the right side of the right carb, across the  
> engine toward the left carb and
> connected to ... nothing.  I can't find a vacuum hose diagram in  
> any of my books.  Can anyone me
> an idea where the left end of the hose should be connected??


There are many sets of hoses in your bus:

1) Brake Booster lines - hard metal lines connect two intake  
manifolds together and lead to brake booster value behind the engine tin
2) Air Injection - engine driven pump with hard metal lines that take  
air from each intake and pump it into exhaust ports at each cylinder  
head
3) Central Idling Circuit - hard metal lines that connect the two  
intake manifolds to the top of the left carb (and the air injection  
pump)
4) EGR - Hard lines that connect the exhaust to the intakes via  
vacuum controlled valve
5) Fuel Vapor Recover - Metal lines and rubber hoses that connect the  
fuel tank and fan shroud to a charcoal canister that stores fuel vapors
6) Advance/Warmup - rubber vaccum hoses that connect the distributor  
to the advance/retard nipple on the left carb as well as the warm air  
intake control box in the right corner where the air intake hose is  
located.

Complicated, huh?

 From your description, I think your loose hose is probably for the  
EGR system. Bentley says there are two EGR valves for 1973 (one at  
each manifold) but only one for 1974. The EGR system is closed at  
idle so it has to be controlled by the engine vacuum (generally more  
RPMs, more vacuum). The valve opens between 1500 and 2000rpm.

1973 - the small vacuum hoses runs from the right EGR valve to a  
nipple somewhere below the throttle plate (Bentley on page 27 of Fuel  
System says the Brake Booster lines). Then the hose tees from there  
to the matching EGR valve on the left carb.

1974 - the vacuum line runs from the right carb to the central EGR  
valve. Look for that to the right of the left carb:

http://www.ratwell.com/technical/VacuumHosesCarb/1974-EGRValve.jpg

In that photo you can see the nipple on top with the hose missing.  
Exhaust comes in the right side, goes through the valve and splits  
off L/R for each intake manifold where it connects right below where  
the carb mates to the manifold itself.

--
Richard,
'78 Westfalia CDN
'76 Doublecab
http://www.ratwell.com/
