From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "vintagebus vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 21 Oct 2003 14:17:27 -0600
Subject: Gas heater installation pics

If anyone is interested, I posted some pics of the gas heater install. We
built all the ductwork out of 16 gauge steel. Two pieces, one from the heater
to the interior, the second from where it enters the interior, follows the
wheel well, and dumps out below the rear seat. The first piece of duct work
goes from a 3 3/8" square to a 2"x6" duct in 1 1/2" to clear between the gas
tank and the wheel well. We had to relocate the rear seat leg to make room for
the duct on the interior. The leg originally sat about 1/2" from the wheel
well, and we moved it 5" closer to the center, as well as relocating a seat
clamp on the floor.

The heater itself, I'm not sure what the original application was. The way the
bottom of the heater frame is, it would not fit in the split bus engine bay.
We cut the dogleg off the heater frame, and added 3 1/2" to the height of it
so it would clear the burner between the roof of the engine bay, the wheel
well, and the taillight housing. This 20,000 BTU burner is pretty big. Maybe
from a T4 baywindow maybe? Similar to the SW 8334 heater. Looks like the same
components, but a different layout.

For the thermostat control cable, we used a heater cable from a 73-78 bus. If
it were an inch shorter, it wouldn't have worked. We made our own control
lever for the heater cable, and mounted a push/pull switch to it for turning
the heater on. It works pretty well at regulating the temperature and makes
for a comfortable drive and doesn't get the interior too hot if I don't want
it to.

We painted the heater with the same paint as the engine tin was painted, so
the whole engine bay ties together. Looks pretty good. If only I didn't have
that engine fire last year, the engine bay would look pretty sweet.

Here's the pics:

http://www.thesamba.com/vw/gallery/index.mv?search+Stewart%20Warner%20gas%20h
eater%20installed+exact

It's a lot of work to make all the ductwork work and fit perfect, and if you
can find a complete system, you're way ahead of the game. The ductwork we made
is all steel. All seams welded, then finish ground. Only one coat of paint. It
took me and my dad almost 30 hours each that weekend, start to finish, to get
that heater installed and all fabrication/paint done. After doing all this
labor, the prices for a heater from JB's heater service doesn't look bad. Not
bad at all.  If I get another bus, I might just buy one all complete and
restored from him.
:-)

Eric Allred
64 Bus
