From: <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 22 Oct 2003 15:42:41 -0400
Subject: Re: San Jose FLAPS? 12V starter motor needed!

> From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
> Date: Wed, 22 Oct 2003 08:47:54 -0700 (PDT)
>
> My starter/solenoid decided to fail in an interesting
> manner: the solenoid is failed in the start position,
> and somehow entered that position *while* I was driving
> home last night!

Are you sure it's the starter or solenoid, and not the ignition switch or wiring harness?  Either of those could
give you the same symptom.

You might try unplugging the starter wire at the switch --
a red wire on terminal 50 that is, IIRC, a little bit
skinnier than the red wire from the battery on terminal 30. 
Take a piece of 12 or 14 gauge wire a few feet long and put
a male terminal on one end and plug that into the starter
wire.  Tape up this connection so it can't ground out.  At
the fuse box, take out the "battery" fuse and figure out
which fuse clip is still hot.  Put the fuse back.  Now,
when you want to start, turn the key "on" and touch the
free end of the new wire to that fuse clip - the starter
should run.  Once the engine is started, tuck the free
end of the new wire away so it can't ground out on
anything, and go drive.  If you stay free of grinding
noises, then your ignition switch is screwing up and
engaging the starter when it shouldn't.

If, after doing the above, your starter still engages on
its own, there could be a short in the wiring harness.
Put the parking brake on, leave the Bus out of gear, hit
the gas pedal a few times, turn on the ignition, and crawl
underneath with about a one foot piece of wire with bare
ends.  Unplug the thin wire from the key at the starter
solenoid, and make sure it can't flop around and hit its
terminal again - use tape, a wire tie, etc.  Use your
short wire to jump from the battery cable stud to the
solenoid terminal.  This should crank and start your
engine.  BE CAREFUL - if you aren't, this is a good way to
evaluate the contact patch of your tires as they roll over
you.  When it's started, take the short wire away and go
drive.  If the starter doesn't engage on its own, then
there is probably a short in the wiring harness.  If it's
not at either end, you can replace the whole harness, or
just run a new wire for the solenoid.

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds
