From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "vintagebus vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 22 Oct 2003 14:53:34 -0600
Subject: Re: [VB] Solex 34 PICT-3 with 009 distributor

----- Original Message -----

>   Any dizzy will work with any carb set-up, period.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

That is agreed, but, best performance will not be equal with all those
distributors either.

VW could have installed centrifugel only advance distributors and saved a
TON of money in manufacturing costs, but they didn't. Same with most other
auto manufacturers. If you see no difference in mileage between installing a
009 and a vacuum distributor, something is out of wack. If you simply
install a vacuum distributor onto an engine that was previously running a
009, you won't see much, if any difference in mileage. The reason is, the
jetting and carb settings are still the same. You have to run 'fat' to make
a 009 run without hesitation. Put in a vacuum distributor, and you can
install smaller main jets, put the accel. pump squirter back to 'normal',
etc, etc. If the butterfly in the 34pict has been plugged, then you're
screwed. Unless you can open that hole back up to the original size (i've
seen most people drill the hole to 1/8" for a rivit), you're not going to
have an engine that runs right.

There's a lot more to it than just swapping the distributor and re-timing
it. Putting the engine on a dyno is only going to tell you if you have more
power at WOT, which really won't tell you much either. At WOT there is very
minimal vacuum signal to the distributor, and in the case of an SVDA
distributor, the timing at WOT will be sitting close to where the 009 would
put it. It won't tell you if your gas mileage is changing for better or
worse either. A dyno test does not acomplish much, because the 30-32 max
advance that you time a 009 at is for 'worst case' scenario's. WOT at full
load, just like the dyno will be doing. You can cruise on flat ground with
another 10 degrees or so on the highway and run cooler while getting better
gas mileage. You can't test that on the average dyno though, unfortunatly.

If you want to truley test some distributor/carburetor combo's out, you need
to run the same vehicle, the same engine, and only change the distributor
and carburetor. Run a constant long stretch of road that can be repeated for
all tests with consistancy. A 100 mile stretch of highway that you can go
back and forth on, and fill up at the same gas station to check mileage
differences. Maybe if it has a hill, you can also check to see how much each
distributor/carburetor combo dogs down a bus. You have to make sure all
variables are constant though.

Vacuum advance is load sensitive. The lighter the load, the more advance,
the larger the load, the less advance. Vacuum advance and SVDA distributors
are to make all around driveability better, while allowing a proper air/fuel
mixture. With an SVDA distributor, since the centrifugel advance is similar
to a 009, the WOT power will be the same. A vacuum only distributor will
make a bit less power at WOT.

Any accurate testing would have to include non-biased parties as well.

Eric Allred
64 Bus
