From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "Matt Roberds" <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
Cc: "vintagebus vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 23 Oct 2003 09:06:28 -0600
Subject: Re: Solex 34 PICT-3 with 009 distributor

----- Original Message -----
> >Putting the engine on a dyno is only going to tell you if you have
> >more power at WOT, which really won't tell you much either.
>
> Maybe I don't understand how an engine dyno works, but I thought you
> can use it to tell you how much horsepower and torque an engine is
> developing at any given RPM.  I know people are generally most
> interested in just the peak numbers, but sometimes the shape of the
> curve is important too...

Yes, but, you are generally checking the power curve at WOT, where as when
you're doing 45 down the road, you are not at WOT.

We have a friend in Cleveland that has a really nice climate controled dyno
room at his shop. The nice thing is, he can keep ALL the variables constant
for dependable back to back testing. This December he is doing a large test
to check different types of cooling systems. The nice thing about his dyno,
is he can set it to hold a certain horsepower load.

Jake would be the one to do a full on test of distributors. He could have
very constant conditions, then to check the difference between distributors,
he could put a 25HP load on the engine at 3500rpm (it would not be WOT,
rather a condition similar to driving on flat ground at 55-60mph), and
measure fuel consumption, and manifold vacuum to see what mileage
differences each distributor makes. He has a wide band to check the air/fuel
mixture, so he can make sure that with every test, the carb is re-jetted
properly for each distributor.

One thing I spaced yesterday, was Ronnie was going to test with a dual
carbed engine. A vacuum distributor is not nearly as critical on a dual
carbed engine, although it will help with mileage. If you have dual carbs,
and a 009 (or similar), I wouldn't sweat getting a vacuum/centrifugel
distributor, your engine runs just fine. The only thing that would change is
the mileage by a couple mpg's. The dual carbs that we've noticed the largest
gain from adding an SVDA distributor to is the Kadrons. It's like these
carbs were made for it, but never came with it!

Eric Allred
64 Bus
