Date: Sat, 11 Jan 2003 13:08:42 -0800
From: Nicholas Palmer <nicholas(-at-)slackers.net>
To: Young Hippy <ant_man28(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Oil cooler

Young Hippy wrote:

> Hey everyone,
>
> I have another question to ask.   My oil cooler leaks and i want to 
> replace it.  Is can you replace it without haveing to take the whole 
> engin out? The engin is a 74 1800cc. Thanks everyone.

I did this recently on my '77 2L with the engine in. Was it less work 
than taking the engine out? I am not sure, but for me it was the right 
way to go. I did check all other possible source of the leak, and 
determined it was either the cooler, or the cooler seals. I am glad that 
I pulled mine, as it was leaking, and I would have hated to just replace 
the seals and not have that fix the problem. The hassle of removing the 
fan housing is only slightly larger than just moving it enough to 
replace the seals.

Unless you are sure it is the seals I recomend pulling it and testing 
it. Aircooled.net sells an oil cooler tester for $10, and it was worth 
every penny. *Part #: TZE0101 It is a piece of lexan with two shrader 
valves, and holes in the right place. The tester did not come with studs 
and nuts to screw it on, but I got those at the local hardware store for 
a couple of bucks. You just bolt the thing on, hook up a tire pump and 
see if it will hold pressure. Mine didn't.

You can do this if you want to. It wasn't that hard, and there where 
only a couple of fasteners that where tough to get out. The thing that 
helped me the most was a small stool that I could sit on behind the bus. 
Not having an engine stand I decided that leaving it in the bus would 
give me a stand to work on it with. :)

Start at the back of the engine and remove everything off the top of it 
as you move forward. Once the top of the engine is pretty much bare you 
can remove the tinware working front to back. Remove the fan cover and 
then the fasteners that hold the fan on, and then the fan. Behind the 
fan there are four nuts that hold the fan housing on. Remove those. Next 
remove the two covers that go over the ears of the fan housing on the 
heat exchangers. Lower the exhaust slightly. I removed mine entirely by 
disconnecting at the ubend, but next time (pray godess not!) I will just 
lower them slightly until they clear the bottom of the fan housing. You 
should not be able to remove the fan housing by pulling it forward and 
wiggling it out. The getting it out the first time took some doing, but 
once I knew how to do it I could put it in and out in a snap.

Now you can remove the cooler and test it using the tester from 
AirCooled.net replce it if required and put it all back together. :) 
Good luck.

-Nick


*
