From: "King, Robert" <Robert.King(-at-)dsto.defence.gov.au>
To: "'vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org'" <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 15 Mar 2002 16:18:55 +1100
Subject:  RE: [VB] 30pict1 and overrich

Ah,

I have also had 30 PICT problems recently!  And traced em.

Remember that you have various circuits that are meant
to work at various times....idle circuit at idle.  At accel
from idle main jet and air correction jet circuit supplemented
by accel pump to get it going.  At higher revs main jet and air correction
circuit supplemented by power circuit (vacuum opens little ball
bearing valve and fuel flows out through power circuit venturi...)

In my case I was guzzling gas.  Big clue was that winding in the idle
adjustment screw wouldn't stall the engine - ergo it was getting
fuel from some other source (other than the idle circuit) when it 
shouldn't...turned tou the ball bearing valve in the power circuit
was stuck open (this was an old carb that I rebuilt) and it was sucking
petrol through  the power circuit venturi all the time...

So the bowl empties over night....only points of exit in
the bottom of the fuel bowl - main jet circuit, accel jet circuit and power
circuit. Main jet and power circuit venturi exit higher that the fuel bowl
and really no low point to siphon along the way.  Probably accel pump -
any leaks around accel pump cover?  Crappy accel might also reflect 
bad diaphragm...

Won't idle on idle circuit..... cranking the speed adjustment
to those revs suggests its actually idling on main/air correction
circuit rather than the idle circuit when warm (and still a dog when cold).


Are you *sure* its rich?  Plugs black?.  Sorta sounds like starvation
in the idle circuit (blockage) and problems in the accel pump and/or nozzle.
Ycan check the accel pump/nozzle with the carb off by filling the
bowl and working the throttle aim - does it squirt? Is it pointed down
the throat where the butterfly opens?  Is it squirting 1 to 1.5 cc?

Buying NOS (genuine old stock) sometimes has it pitfalls.
Lotsa things can be gummed up, perished or whatever.  Have you pulled
this thing apart and had a look inside?  Just sounds like a dog to begin
with..

RobK

http://www.splitbusaustralia.com

p.s. I'm running 120 mains 137.5 air correction and 60 pilot
air bleed in a 30 PICT on a 1600 SP bus and returning over 25 mpg
on a tight engine and a mixture of city/open road driving.

-----Original Message-----
From: vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org [mailto:vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org]
Sent: Friday, 15 March 2002 3:40 PM
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] 30pict1 and overrich


sent this to the gent who sold me a NOS 30pict1... who hasn't had time to
reply yet, so i'm bugging you folks!

...

it still seems to have a few quirks; when first started, the carb will run
for a second and stall. i found that  the bowl would empty overnight - not
sure if it leaks or is being siphoned thru the throat. not much to do about
the second! if you stay on the pedal, the bowl will fill and it will run.
second, it idles extremely slowly when cold, even when fully choked. if i
crank on the idle speed screw to compensate, it will idle at 12-1500 rpm
when warm.
third, it stumbles on accelleration, in a very specific way: instead of a
smooth, throaty curve, it coughs and splutters a few seconds before
catching. its possible that the pump nozzle is not aimed right, but it
sounds more like an overrich coughing. i noticed that the accel pump has NO
adjustment! i am considering replacing the arm with an adjustable one.
fourth - it simply runs and idles too rich. i have adjusted the float valve
to have the original steel washer plus two copper washers under the needle
valve. helped a little. fuel pump is adjusted to bentley. i suspect the
starting oddity is related to overrichness, as well.

jets are the stock 120m 125z pilot 55 idle.

...
