Date: Tue, 13 Aug 2002 13:00:39 -0400
From: "John Baker"<jbakerccymca(-at-)springmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Nice Carb Find Positive FLAPS experience

Hey Y'all,
I just wanted to share a positive experience I just had with my FLAPS (Auto
Zone) in the hopes that someone else can also benefit from this knowledge.
I've been looking for a carb, the South American ones were going for anywhere
from $159 to $249 online (and shipping would also have to be paid on top of
that.) On a whim, I called Auto Zone and asked them if they could get me a
carb for my 71 VW bus. They said "Yes, there are 2 to choose from, One from
Champion for $149.99 or a Federal Carb for $110.99
In talking to the counter guy, he could give me no other information such as
where the carbs were re-built or what brand the re-build originally was. I
told him that I definitely did NOT want to spend any money on a re-built South
American or Mexican carb, that was probably inferior when it was NEW, much
less rebuilt. So he agreed to order in the carb for me (next day service) and
let me look at it before I paid for it, they normally require PRE-PAYMENT when
ordeing a part in. Well, I went over this morning to look at it, and he had it
halfway out of the box when I saw those magic words: "Made in West Germany". 
It was a rebuilt Solex and not an aftermarket third world paperweight!  I
realize that it was not Re-built in Germany and that the rebuild parts
probably are not German, but the body and MOST of the parts are ALL German,
and to me, that means something.
Cost: $110.99, Thank you Autozone.  Tonight I will install the new carb and
remove the 009 dizzy to replace it with the stock vac dizzy which I found at
the Columbus Ohio show last weekend. I'll let all you "009 Dizzy Sucks" guys
know if I become a believer or not ;^)

Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1966 Kombi
1985 Cabrio
http://www.geocities.com/jbakerccymca
"...so we got in the red VW microbus with the shovels and rakes and implements of destruction and
headed on to the police officer's station..."
