Date: Wed, 14 Aug 2002 09:43:09 -0400
From: caldwell54(-at-)comcast.net
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 1978 Westy Wiring melted down, need help ! (a little long)

--Boundary_(ID_10XlVdr8MXp9HL4+fg9M3Q)
Content-type: text/plain; charset=iso-8859-1
Content-transfer-encoding: 7BIT

Sorry if the description is not technically correct, as I am a newbie 
trying to learn how to repair this myself with your help !

I have a 1978 Westfalia Bus that had a near fire this weekend.
I opened the rear engine lid to check the oil, and some wiring got caught
in the mechanism that holds the lid open, and shorted out to the frame. 
Started melting and burning the rubber wiring cover, lots of smoke. 
I managed to push it off the frame to stop the melting/burning, and then disconnected
the positive cable from the battery.

The wiring that melted was the 10 gauge wire that runs to the positive  battery terminal alongside the 
4 gauge main red wire (which of course runs to the starter motor). This wire also seems to run to the voltage regulator
on the rear passenger side of the engine bay, connected to a blue wire. Then it also runs
over the top of the engine bay, to the square white connector on the
drivers side of the engine bay (looks like it is wiring for the auxillary battery on drivers side).

I purchased a new positive battery cable with 10 gauge pigtail included. I removed the 
old battery cable from the starter motor, and from voltage regulator, and from wires across top of
engine bay to auxillary battery. The old wire was so melted up I had a hard time figuring our
how the wires ran, but looked like the following, and this is how I re-wired it:

1. Primary 4 gauge red wire to the starter motor
2. Red 10 gauge pigtail from positive battery terminal spliced to red wire going over top of
    engine bay to auxillary battery.
3. Blue wire to voltage regulator spliced to black wire running over top of engine bay to aux battery
    white square connector on drivers side rear of engine bay.

I also looked at the Bentley wiring diagram, but could not understand how these went together.

I tried turning the key on and starting for the first time tonight, but nothing from the starter motor.
Not a sound. I did seem to have strong lights, turn signals, etc so battery appeared to 
be OK. 

Can someone help with the correct wiring, and ideas on why no starter ? The key was not
on when the short happened.. I am hoping I didn't fry anything else, and maybe I have
wired it incorrectly.

I am very happy the bus didn't burn down this weekend !
Thanks !
Dean

78 Westy
65 Type 1 convertible



--Boundary_(ID_10XlVdr8MXp9HL4+fg9M3Q)--
