Date: Wed, 08 May 2002 16:09:41 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, FrankGRUN(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Electronic Ignition Alternatives Question

I know there is Petronix and other brands of breaker points eliminators - 
but has anyone modified a VW electronic ignition system to work with a '78 
2.0 Type IV?

Not only would I like to eliminate the breaker points, I would like to add 
a computerized ignition system that recognizes pinging and adjusts the 
timing (when the coil is fired).

I have heard about using '79+ electronic ignitions - but what years 
specifically fit? '79 through '83?

I have heard that other brands of cars used Bosch internals that can be 
retrofitted to a VW Type IV such as even Yugos. Anyone know of the brands?

I have heard of building an ignition system using Chrysler replacement 
parts and/or a ping detector/sensor (what is the REAL name for this 
component) from a water cooled VW. Anyone know about this?

I know that the ping sensor is constructed to recognize (tuned to) specific 
frequencies so it does not trip on simple mechanical noises and the 
aircooled engine is certainly a noisy beast... Which sensor and where 
should it be located on  the engine?

I know that the aircooled Porsche had fancy electronic ignition systems and 
there is a Corvair supplier that has a system for about $500 that is tuned 
for the Corvair engine. It will adjust the timing for each cylinder.

Sadly I don't have $500 for this gadget which is not tuned for a VW engine.

I'd like to learn more about modern adaptive ignition systems if anyone 
could lecture me on it a bit.

Also I would not be afraid to do some reading on it if anyone could point 
me in the right direction...

Thanks!!!

Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


