Date: Thu, 9 May 2002 09:21:04 -0500
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [AIRS] Keep an eye for....

Finally had an AIRS experience last night. While fueling up at my
local gas station I saw a white split drive by. It drove to the back
of the Williams (which is a truck stop) and a few minutes later drove
back and parked in a truck lot. It didn't look like the most fantastic
place to try and sandwich a split, so I drove over and offered a
driveway to the driver. Lamberto Smith is a nice older gentleman who
was on his way from Mexico. He told me that he had a flat earlier &
couldn't get a plug to take, so he had the spare on. Also he was
pretty sure that his valves were outta wack. He took me up on my offer
& followed me the 3 miles to the homestead. I told him I'd be out next
morning & we would look at the tire/valves. Next morning we get up
have a cup of coffee and get started. I get a good look at his ride.
It is a 67 split walk-thru w/ a 70 westy interior. Reasonably clean
except for some rust on the rocker panels. He has some neat history on
the bus. Bought in nebraska. It sat for something like 15 years, then
a guy in Ft. Collins, CO bought it. He wanted something to travel in &
bought it from the PO. Anyway, back to our story. 

After coffee he climbed under and started checking valves. #1 had a
little tight exhaust valve, adjusted. #2 was ok. On to the other side.
What we found there was quite exciting. One of the spacer washers on
the rocker shaft had split & fallen off. This caused the intake rocker
on #4 to move side-to-side which in turn caused the adjuster to fall
off and the pushrod to unseat. Good thing he had that flat. It was
just a matter of time till something really bad happened. We got the
pushrod back under the rocker & the adjuster back in & adjusted (very
temporary). I escorted him to a local guy who works on VWs. I suspect
he should be well taken care of there. So if anyone sees a kinda rusty
(surface) white 1967 split w/ a cargo container strapped to the roof,
with plates from Colorado on the side of the road, give Lamberto a
hand. Nice guy.
-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
"Ten million monkeys all pick up guitars, but nobody taught them how"
-The Presidents of the United States of America
