From: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>
To: "Type2 List (E-mail)" <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>,
Date: Thu, 24 Jan 2002 11:43:46 -0500
Subject: General Oil Notes - Was: Synthetic oil vs. Regular

I changed the subject a little because I am adding some extra content.

Is true synthetic oils better than conventional?  You bet, no comparison
synthetic rocks for heavy duty applications.  Do I run synthetic?  No,
because for my uses the strain on the conventional oil is not enough to
justify synthetic.

Be careful of el cheepo synthetic oils, they meet the guidelines for
synthetic protection, but are not true synthetic oils at all.  They are dino
juice with a heavy additive package.  Stick with top names like Mobil1,
Redline, or Amsoil and such racing formulated blends.  I cannot remember the
BS synthetics, but last year Car and Driver did a great article on exposing
this marketing ploy.  Mobil1 is factory fill for earlier Porsche air-coolers
and current water-coolers, BMWs, and Corvette.

The true synthetic oils will last over 100,000 miles safely in long haul
trucking applications, like Mobil1 diesel grade.  Granted long haul trucks
have a 2 stage oil filtration process that basically eliminates any dirt
particles over 2-3 microns, an average car filter is only good for 5-7
microns.  I have known people in DD cars who change synthetic at every
20,000 miles and filter every 5,000 miles.  I used to run synthetic Mobil1
and did a 7,500 mile oil and filter change with great results.

Now to bring dino juice back into the picture.  Consumer Reports did a great
article a while back on NYC cabs and the oil they use.  They took new
engines and put different oil in the engines for 100,000 miles and tore them
down to compare with each other.  Basically any oil with an API starburst
symbol is good enough to show minimal wear of engine components just as well
as synthetic or each other.  Basically a normally aspirated car is fine for
dino juice in my opinion based off of studies.

API is kind of funny on motor oil though if you look closely at the
labeling.  There is a API "SJ" rating for el cheepo store brand oils, but
the brand name stuff gets a rating of "SL"...  Someone care to tell me the
difference?  Personally I splurge and stay with the higher "SL" rating on my
oils.  The best deal I have found on 20W-50 is NAPA store brand with a "SL"
rating.  As for straight 30 weight I have not found a bargain brand with a
"SL" rating, so I stick with Pennzoil 30 or Castrol 30 for more $.  If
someone can prove that the "SJ" rating is okay I may consider moving down to
Wal-Mart brand oils which are all "SJ" rated.

For reference I am moving all my VWs and older cars to straight dino 30.
The current brand of choice for me is Pennzoil.  Oil changes every 3000 on a
T1 engine and 5000 on a T4 engine with valve adjustment, screen, and filter
if applicable.

Also consider your oil filter.  I read an incredible FAQ on oil filters from
a Corvette board a few months ago and they had pictures of the opened filter
elements, amazing the differences between brands.  Based on that information
there are only 3 oil filters that should be placed on a T4 engine;
Purolator, Mahle, and Mann.  Fram sucks and most of the store brands are
knock offs of this.  Your oil is only as good as the filtration it receives.

Now for the tranny juice.  All manual shift VW busses should use GL-4 tranny
oil up until the Vanagon (not sure what it uses).  Most people dump GL-5 in
there and it is clearly wrong and not recommended by VW.  I know someone is
harping out there that maybe GL-5 was not around then and progress and
technology and all that, wrong.  The automatic tranny busses should use GL-5
oil and only the automatic shift busses.  If you do not believe me, read
your owners manual again, VW is very clear on this...  Will it really make a
difference?  Probably not, but it is better to error on the side of caution
just in case.  The only fluid I can find is the Sta-Lube GL-4 at NAPA,
PepBoys carries it in 5 gallon buckets but that is a bit too much for me.

As a closing thought I truly believe that people waste too much oil in their
cars.  Any modern car is able to safely use its dino juice oil over 5000
miles.  To change oil at 3000 miles these days is a complete waste of
resources!  If you run synthetic in modern cars make it go 10,000-20,000
miles because it is safe to do so and increases your return on investment
due to the high purchase price.


My food for thought of the day,
Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Westi "Biscuit"
1979 Porsche 911 SC "Cochise"

On the gravytrain to biscuitville!

  


