Date: Thu, 24 Jan 2002 18:14:00 -0800
From: Scott Fraser <kn6f(-at-)dolphinsci.com>
To: VB Nuts <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, BSKA <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>,
Subject: Movie Double Cab "Abusers"

Last month I responded to a note posted on dropgates.com looking for a Southern
California based double cab to rent for the movies.  Since I work all of 1.38
miles from home, I figured what the heck.  Rent it out, earn some fixup money
then buy the DVD and have my DC recorded for posterity.

I called, they came out looked, took a whole bunch of photos then called me back
today.

Rather than rent as they first spoke about, they want to "buy the truck, abuse
it during the filming and then offer it back to the owner at a reduced price"
after the filming.

I used the term "Abusers" in the subject line because that is what I was told
that they would do to the truck.  Abuse it.

I was told that they will have the stunt driver do some massive burnouts (a
splitty, yea right)
remove a side window so one of the actors can "throw something out the window"
The ironic thing is that my double cab can actually do a nice burnout in its
current built up condition.

I'm guessing a lot of it has to do with liability and wanting the artistic
freedom to do as they choose with the truck.  (I read, drive it off a cliff if
they so desire).

Did I ask how much they were willing to offer and what they would sell it back
at?  Nope.  I couldn't think about selling my truck which means there would be
an outside possiblity that it would not be back.

They said that they were looking at a couple other DCs in SoCal.  Anyone else on
the list considering their offer?
Anyone got a RUNNING (important), rusty hulk of a DC that's not worth much of
saving and want to make a few $$?, I'll turn you on to their phone number.

I posted this to the bay list also, since I'm sure they'd be happy with a bay.

Oh yea, the movie is Extreme Dating and the truck will be driven by actors who
are painters (five of them)


Scott
'60 Double Cab, Type IV

