From: "Joel Bidinger" <JoelBidinger(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "buslist" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Thu, 24 Jan 2002 22:41:35 -0800
Subject: Re: [VB] Rear main seal replacement??

Rich-
You mean FRONT (not rear) main seal, right? It is behind the flywheel,
so unless the flywheel was removed it is pretty well protected. I
think the seal is more likely to ooze/leak than pour out oil. If oil
is coming from upper left I would be checking out the oil cooler and
oil cooler seals as probable culprits. A bit of a pain to get to, you
need to pull the engine in order to pull the fan shroud in order to
get at the cooler.
What you wrote about "not much activity until the motor warmed up a
bit" really makes me think the problem is oil cooler, because oil only
flows here when the engine is warm.
What would have happened if you hadn't noticed the oil leak? Hopefully
you would have noticed the low oil pressure warning light...
Good luck and go bus,
Joel and the '64 Sundial
Ps. Ever find that second striker plate? The first one has made a
world of difference, thanks.

----- Original Message -----
From: "rich barker" <gezuvor(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Sent: Thursday, January 24, 2002 10:04 PM
Subject: [VB] Rear main seal replacement??


Greetings listees,

I have several questions, but will start with some background info. I
recently got my bus back from the body shop (4 month visit) and am
having some severe oil leakage issues. Before I turned the bus over,
it
was not leaking more than a few drops a day. On the contrary, it was
burning quite a bit, but that's not relevant to this situation and was
(supposedly) fixed while the motor was out. Anyway...

As of this evening, it was leaking from the valve cover on one side
and
what appeared to be "all over the bottom". Further research revealed
that one of the valve cover bales was a little weak. I bent it around
a
bit and cured that problem. After wiping down the motor with a rag and
changing what was left of the oil, I fired it up and sat back to
watch.
Not much activity until the motor warmed up a bit. At that point, it
started to leak aggressively on the drivers side of the case where the
trans connects to it. The oil was leaking from up high (out of sight
while lying on the floor) and running down on that side.

To the questions:
1) Is this indicative of a rear main seal failure?
2) Is this something that could have been damaged/dislodged during
removal or reinstall of the motor?
3) Is this (the seal) something that can develop a leak when unused
for
a period of time?
4) If I need to replace this thing, is it a big deal?

Now to the venting! To say that I am a pretty upset that the motor was
not tested after install is an understatement. This type of leak would
be very unmistakable, since I managed to pump out 2-1/2 quarts of oil
in
the first 10 miles that I drove. Luckily for me, a gas station was my
first stop and I noticed the Valdez trail behind me. I was able to put
it on a trailer, but shudder to think what would have happened
othewise.

Your valuable input is appreciated, as always.

Rich Barker
'60 DD Panel
http://type2.gezuvor.com/gallery/


