Date: Fri, 25 Jan 2002 22:08:30 -0600
Cc: support(-at-)atlasta.net
To: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>,
From: Ken Hooper <bighouse(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Admin: Blacklist Trouble


Volks,

In my capacity as Requisite Self-Appointed Anti-Spam Czar and Blackhole 
List Survey Dude, LLC, I am compelled to report the following to the 
membership, as it may affect your list access. Succinctly:

--type2.com and vintagebus.com get connectivity from an outfit called 
atlasta.net. Atlasta is superb and nobody has one single bad thing to 
say about them. Atlasta gets its connectivity from a huge ISP called 
Verio. Verio is teetering on the edge of bankruptcy. Since Verio is in 
dire financial straits, they have been harboring some of the Internet's 
shady characters, because these shady characters have fat wallets and 
Verio needs money. Shady characters like Empire Towers, and Postmaster 
General. Search Google for them if you're interested.

--Because Verio is now known to be rogue (the anti-spam crowd are quite 
outraged over Verio lately), people who run BLs (blackhole lists) are 
beginning to list all Verio netblocks. That includes us, even though 
we're scrupulously anti-spam and our upstream is too. These listings 
make it impossible for us to send email to you if your ISP uses one of 
the BLs that are listing us. I expect us to be listed by more BLs soon, 
it will probably spread. This will continue until Atlasta finds a new 
upstream. They are working on it.

--If the list suddenly stops sending mail to you, it may be because your 
subscription was dropped by us for some reason, or it may be because 
your ISP subscribes to a BL that is blocking our mail. You will not know 
which is the case. PLEASE DO NOT post "what happened to the list" 
messages to the list itself; it is pointless for the other subscribers 
and it irritates the admins. Instead, send email to me or to Thom 
<thom(-at-)calweb.com> or to David Raistrick <keen(-at-)type2.com> or to anybody 
else you can identify as an admin.

(Yesterday I had a personal email from me bouce back from an ISP in 
Namibia (Namibia!), blocked as spam. I had not known til that day that 
they even had electricity in Namibia, much less Internet access, much 
less that the Namibian ISP would categorically reject my email as Verio 
cruft not worthy of them. Talk about being brought to heel!)

Hope this isn't overly technical, the main point is that if your 
subscription stops coming, don't post to the list about it, contact an 
admin instead.

--Hoop


