From: "Rob Henley" <robhenley(-at-)baywindowbus.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 31 Jul 2006 22:59:09 -0400
Subject: My brakes work fine

But...I didn't drive the bus to High Country 10 because of 3 different things
I have to address, can you all help? 74 Westy 1800 carbed now.

1) The most important (or what has me nervous): Twice on a pretty steep
incline, AFTER stopping and AFTER sitting for a few seconds or minutes my
brake warning light came on and stayed on until I released the brakes. This is
the only time the light has come on, except at start up. The brakes seem to be
just fine, although the bus has only been on the road 2 months. I can't find
any visible brake fluid leaks anywhere, the reservoir level was correct and
unchanged. Could sitting on the incline be an indicator of a small leak in the
master cylinder or brake booster?

2) While looking for leaks, I discovered on the FRONT side of the servo (brake
booster) a disconnected hose. I thought it was the vacum hose to the engine,
but it goes to a plastic tube that runs inside the fender, which I think is a
vent or intake. Reconnecting this resulted in hardly any brakes. The pedal
felt firm but the bus wouldn't stop. I disconnected it again and the brakes
work. I guess I need to unclog or remake this vent. Is this related to my
brake warning light? I think the only reason the hose is hooked to the tube is
to keep the inside of the servo nice and dry...right?

3)Since I put the bus on the road 2 months ago, whenever I apply the brakes
there is an audible clicking noise that really seems to be coming right from
the brake pedal itself. It is kind of a metal hammering or tapping sound and
only happens when I need the brakes, ie the bus is moving and I have to stop.
Has anyone ever had an issue with the spring or mechanicals of the prake pedal
rod that would cause it to make this noise? I jacked up the bus and spun the
wheels and didn't notice anything coming from the disc brakes, although one
wheel could use a bearing job soon.

Thanks for any help or things to consider.

PS Welcome me back..been off the list for more than a year now and have a new
bus.

Rob Henley
www.baywindowbus.com
