Date: Tue, 1 Aug 2006 06:56:51 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: VWBrain(-at-)aol.com, mygroups(-at-)frontiernet.net, greg(-at-)hudsucker.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Trip report, High Country Bus Fest, or, How I spent  

shoot mark was one of the biggest kids there.............~!~
   
  family friendly is not even the right words for this campout or the people attending it...
   
  The parents arent like most parents ..
   
  We all eat together, camp together, as groups and our children enjoy each others company...
  I was blessed to be there this weekend and to see this group growing for the better...
  I couldnt say no more to no one except that i am glad we found these people, but i will cause there would be so much more to say....
   
  what such a great time...
  btw this was our first campout camping with fmbc or other bus members... and this is now our fourth year in a row... .....and many campouts in between those four years at high country we have camped at other events...
   
  we hope to be there next year also....making it 5 years in a row....
   
  we have met so many awesome caring friends and now family in this group....
  we all have our faults but together we seem to find we arent much diffrent from one another and its nice to be somewhere where the love is actually felt in the air.and shown always......
   
  this was a absolute great time....
   
  jill and erics weeding was abosolutly beautiful.... brought a tear to my eye when the music started and i seen aunt buddah and jill coming down the grass towards eric standing on the pavillion porch with the minister(<a bus owner) ....behind the cute little flower girl....
   
  the music was acoustic and a grateful dead tune to add to the atmosphere..
   
  2 of the founding members of fmbc playing that music....
   
  All this while my almost 9 year old daughter stood there with all of us and i held onto my wife and thought about the amazing 1o years we have had together half of that spent with this group of people that we now celebrate the start of there family with...and makes this family grow as a whole. We have met so many good volks camping these parts...
  we have laughed and cried together and shared most things blood familys never experience.... 
   
   
  Not to mention our brother snoopy coming home to camp with us all once more after being in Iraq for over a year now....
  Welcome home snoopy...
  AWESOME
   
  I am honored to be apart of something so wonderful in a world that seems so distant from that....
  some say we are a bunch of hippies and i didnt say we werent but if so then if thats what it takes to have a atmosphere of Kyndness and friendship then so be it.... i see us as a very diverse group though....coming from many many backgrounds and working as  a whole to provide what is needed in todays world....  GOOD TIMES..... life is short you know.... and yes late at night when the kids have went to bed us big kids get a little wild but i have never seen nothing crazy at all happen to do with anything that one might think when thinking about getting wild....
  no fighting  or bullcrap like anywhere else in the world... no stealing not that kind of stuff...., nothing but good times to be had as a group.....
   
   
  i think it is personally the best thing that has ever happened to my family... 
  My daughter is not going to grow up stuffy.....
   
  she will grow up with color and understanding about how to be someone Kynd in this world...just yes because of these volks..and these campouts....
   
  its funny how much i have changed and had to learn along the way ....from my days of fighting and hanging out with the wrong crowds and people....and the way i have felt about folks because of societies ways .....
  i cant say i have went soft but i have slowly but surely come to start to understand that this is who i want to grow with and be more like....be nice to be a old man camping in my bus with all these folks old together... 
   
  very Family Friendly ... if you havent camped with FullMoonBusClub then make plans for the next one or the one after that or the one after that and whatever you do dont miss High Country next year..... glad to see that Jamie Auch(kookymathteacher) will be taking over the reins from buddah after ten years now.....
  i couldnt think of a better person for the job....
   
   
   
  This world is a better place in some places.... and its always glad to know its getting there was done in a Vw Bus.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  chai

VWBrain(-at-)aol.com wrote:
  In a message dated 7/31/2006 10:02:19 P.M. Eastern Standard Time, 
mygroups(-at-)frontiernet.net writes:

IS it family friendly?




hey Guys All the crazy stuff happens late at night there. during the day 
it is rest , relax and play for everybody but mostly for kids big and small. 
I even help sing happy birthday for jasons daughter and watched all the kids 
doing woodburning and painting stuff, way too cool later mark d 



                                                                 Break out the shorts, tank tops and sandles........
     Tune up the Bus wash off the winter rust~!~
       It's camping season woohooooooo LETS GO CAMPING~!~
