Date: Wed, 2 Aug 2006 17:31:14 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: hi-comp heads on 1600 DP

	The engine which I thought might be best replaced with a reco 
long-block is now dismantled.  Good news is that the outpouring of 
oil was not due to a cracked crankcase.
	Metal fragments, mainly flattened flakes, have spread thru my 
engine from a hole burned in a piston  (no prizes for guessing which 
one).  Cams & tappets look OK but I fear I'll have to slap in new 
main, big-end, & camshaft shells.  One small-end phosphor-bronze bush 
(VW agreed rightly with Jawa about this approach to little-end 
bearings) is loose so we may as well replace 4 of those too.
	As valve & spark timing were fine, and internal cooling by 
water-injection operating, and performance at least as good as new, 
the reasons for this sudden damage may be of interest.

(1)  Two fins on the no. 3 barrel near the head were broken right off 
in the distant past.  This will have made something of a hot-spot 
which may have exacerbated the overheating in that cyl.

(2)  The cooling-air intake on the front of the centrifugal fan 
housing  -  on the far side from the alternator  -  is almost totally 
blocked with dark organic muck whose origin I can only guess  -  ?? 
lawn clippings??
	This prompts me to suggest that this component, which is hard 
to see, might be inspected by a simple mirror system.  Some will 
automatically assume it should be done with a digital TV camera. 
Anyhow, I urge those whose cooling-air intake grilles have not been 
inspected to contrive some way to see whether they're clogged.  If 
air is seriously blocked from entering that fan, you will overheat !

	The heads have a shallow groove into which the barrel fits - 
the term 'spigot' features for such arrangements, which strike me as 
good, in e.g Norton aircooled motors.  I take this to explain the 
raised CR, performance, & higher octane requirement (till I got WI 
going).  Has anyone any warnings against my continuing this mod?

	The other cyls & pistons look OK.  If I can get one spare 
cyl+piston, is it verboten to install that alongside the 3 old ones? 
Or is the unavailability of anything less than a set of 4 based on 
some reason?

-- 
Robt Mann
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
'69 Renault 10  -  The Water Wagon
'61 Norton 600 Domiracer
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
http://www.dave-cushman.net/misc/mannject.html
