Date: Wed, 09 Apr 2003 10:48:29 -0500
To: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>, Gary Watts <garyb(-at-)fatmedia.com>,
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Electric or Propane conversions

A couple of followup points to Chris's excellent post:

At 09:44 AM 4/9/2003, Chris Mills wrote:

>1st - most home built vehicles big and small will go no more than 75 miles on a charge. You can take a larger vehicle and stuff more batteries in it but ultimately the extra weight is going to keep your range between 50 and 75 miles. Popular conversion cars are compacts like Rabbits, Horizons, and Escorts. Light hatchback cars with lots of luggage space. The builders are putting some batteries up front and some out back to distribute the weight. And that's ALOT of weight.

I have thought about this and busses are pretty close to ideal for a low-speed electric vehicle conversion.  The main reason I think this is because of the enormous load capacity of a bus - 2,000 lbs.  Plus you get some additional capacity because of the deletion of the engine, gas tank, and other unnecessary bits.  Considering that the average 6V golf cart battery is about 60lbs, you could stuff 144V worth of batteries in a bus (1,440lbs) and still have plenty of capacity left over to carry several people and some groceries.  A 144V bus would have... let's call it "healthy" acceleration!  If one did something silly and, say put all of the batteries in the rear, I bet such a bus could pull the front wheels off of the ground.  Useless/dangerous, but amusing to think about.  :)

>Now 50-75 miles would be just great for me because I commute about 10 miles each way to work at speeds of 30-45 mph. I could drive over half a week before I HAD to charge. If I added 3 solar cells to the roof - in the summer maybe I could stretch that by a day. 

Probably not do-able.  There will be a physical limitation to the voltage you can achieve with solar panels on the roof of a normal-sized vehicle.  Even a 96V bus will need about 250 individual cells and there just isn't room for that many on the roof.  I suppose an array the size of the largest full-length bus roofrack I have ever seen would come close, and you would need an array that size to even make a dent in the power consumption of the vehicle on the clearest summer day.  I hate to say it, but photovoltaics on cars are just not going to be practical until they get the efficiency from the current ~15% up to something more reasonable like 50%.  What would be really nice would be if they could come up with translucent cells that could be embedded in window glass and function as window tint at the same time - but I'm really dreaming now.

>There are a few people that have vast solar arrays on the roof of their house, a windmill in the back field and make their own power with enough left over to charge a commuter vehicle like a GM or a home built. I hope to be one of those folks eventually but the total cost of those systems is $25K or more.

Me too.  Unfortunately $25k spent frugally in 2003 will only get you about 4Kw worth of panels/inverter, less if you are also buying batteries.  That's enough to power three hairdryers.  And you will get no more than an average of 24Kw/hrs per day.  Considering that electricity where I live is under 8 cents per Kw/hr, the payback rate is $2/day which means the system would take 68 years to pay for itself.  Now if the price of electricity were to triple (California), and/or government subsidies were added (California) and/or solar panels became 3x as efficient or 3x cheaper, things would start to get interesting.  

-David
