From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 9 Apr 2003 12:45:19 -0400 
Subject: Guages? What to buy???

Hey guys,

	I'll be honest, I'm REALLY nervous about a car that doesn't have a
water cooling system. So I've got to ask a couple of questions. I went on to
BUS DEPOT to look for some replacement guages. And I noticed some things
that I assumed were conflicting. The first is.. I was under the impression
that you measure the temperature of the air cooler motor by the temperature
of the oil, correct? Well on BUS DEPOT they seel a "Cyl Head Temperature
Sensor" which measures the temperature of the cyl head. What's the
difference? Do I need both?

My next question is... I'm not sure exactly what guages my car was supposed
to have STOCK. When I look at the gauges (from memory now) the two that
stand out are the one LARGE guage in the center. THat guage displays the
speed of the car, but it also has the turn signal lights in it, AND... it
has the fuel guage in it. However, the fuel guage is not working apparently
because when I turn my hazards on.. the needle jumps around like crazy. The
next guage on the right is a digital LED VDO fuel guage.. I'm assuming this
didn't come factory in a 1973 Bus. I don't see a tachometer.  Can someone
tell me what guages I should have? 

Also.. I like to watch my guages like a hawk... what guages SHOULD I have
for this motor? I don't think I need a fuel pressure guage, or a vacuum
guage. I would LIKE to have a guage displaying the voltage, an oil pressure
guage, fuel guage, tachometer, speedometer, and the oil temperature guage.
What else would I need to ensure that the car is running within it's
tolerable limits?


Thanks,

Todd Jaspers - Programmer
AmeriPath IT - Fort Lauderdale
954-377-3291

> CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments, is
> for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential
> and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or
> distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
> contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original
> message.
