From: "Chris Gause" <Ubunet(-at-)comcast.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 17 Jul 2004 16:08:29 -0700
Subject: Powerless on a Type4 engine?

Man, after having never actually drove a bus, I was all worried that my bus
wouldn't have any power. I finally got my parts from bus depot on Friday, and
after dremeling the quickshift plate to actually fit the shift stop plate that
I got their too, and walking to the hardware store for the bolt they forgot to
pack for it, and the nightmare I had getting my drivers side mirror off (PM me
if you want details on THAT one)! I have everything I need to be legal. Thanks
for the Lenses btw Chris. :) I hopped right in, and around the block I sped.
Backfires on downshift, but I have known exhause leaks, so I'm not stressing
it. Not only the muffler, but the heater boxes must be SHOT becouse I was
getting "smoke" from under the dash. I panicked thinking I had a wiring issue,
but it was just exhaust.

Anyway, the point I'm trying to Meander to, is that this thing has POWER! I
raced a new Mini-Van, and lost of course, but not TOO bad. I get up to 60mph
just fine, and could go faster if I wanted to, but I don't. We got TONS of
hills around here, but the ole' troll just runs right up 'em. On the freeway
though, it gets tossed around TONS. But then the shocks are shot, the tires
are close to bald, and I haven't installed a sway bar yet. Anything else I
should look into doing to help keep the sway away?

And WTF is with 1st gear? It winds out in all of like 5 seconds if that!! Lol
Oh, my 4th gear has a slight howl to it. Is that a MAJOR bad thing? Seems to
be going away as I drive it. Sounds kinda like a 747 warming up (yeah, I live
by the airport).

Well, I've driven up our bad hills, and on the freeway, and it's got some Zoom
Zoom to it! That shifter is WAY out in front though. Gonna have to get one of
those aftermarket shift rods that are shaped to come closer to the driver so I
don't have to lean forward to shift. :) The shift housing thing in the back
near the tranny, and the quickshift kit made a Miraculous change in shifting
too btw. That QuickShifter's a lifesaver. :) Well, a sore arm saver anyway. :)

Anyway, I'm just all excited about being on the road again, and in a bus. So
I'm rambling. I'll go now. Vrooom Vroooom
Chris
76 Powerfull Troll!
