Date: Sun, 18 Jul 2004 08:56:28 -0700
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine Swap Info?

Mark,

I understand your feelings about engine swaps. That's cool. We can all
have an opinion.

But let me say that I truly think you're overreacting. I personally DO
like the air cooled engines. The reason I've begun thinking about and
planning the swap was a sequence of events that led me here:

#1: My frustration with some mechanical issues (notice that they're
NOT engine related, but mostly electrical, suspension, and carb
problems) nearly led to my leaving the bus community.
#2: My wife asked me to keep trying.
#3: My wife stated that she really wanted to be able to drive the bus
when it's ready for her.
#4: My wife can't drive a stick without lugging the engine badly.
She's always in a hurry to get into 4th (in the Z I had) or 5th (in
the S10 we recently sold). This is NOT a good thing with an ACVW.
#5: My wife has lupus. Anything that stresses her out (including
worrying about whether she is going to destroy the engine by her
driving) aggrivates the disease.
#6: I worry about her getting stranded somewhere due to #4.
#7: There happens to be a perfectly good Toyota engine (and car)
setting in my in-laws driveway that they were going to send to the
crusher.
#8: KEP has a kit that allows mounting of that engine to the VW
transaxle with little trouble.
#9: I have done strange engine swaps in the past and am aware of what
is involved with mounting a non-native engine properly. I've never had
to come up with a way to put a radiator in a vehicle that didn't
originally come with one, but I've got some ideas on that. Plus KEP
has some experience in that field as well. At least I don't have to
buy a custom drive shaft for this... heh

As you can see, there was a syncronicity of all this happening within
a 1 week period. And me being the doting husband that I am, anything
that pleases my wife pleases me.

If it was just me, the bus would be getting a 2.0 FI engine, not a
Toyota. But this just makes more sense considering all the
requirements. Sure, I could just get her a minivan. But that's not
what she wants. She wants a bus. So do I.

Don't be too upset when we "hackers" do this sort of thing. We're
really not trying to destroy the souls of our busses. In fact, the
reason we do these things is to HELP KEEP our busses in the face of
pressures to do otherwise.

There aren't many Type 4 engines out there any more. They weren't made
in Mexico or Brazil or wherever, and so there's no heavy aftermarket
supply like there is for the classic 1600. Add to the fact that many
T4 engines are ending up in bugs and ghias thanks to the talents of
Jake's MassIVe Type 4 (I'm not bashing you Jake! It's a great idea!
I'm just using you to illustrate a point), then you see where
alternatives are becoming necessary.

My engine swap, if I ever get to do it ($$$$), will be a minimally
invasive swap. The only modifications to the bus short of just
removing parts will be motor mount brackets either bolted or welded to
the frame, depending on how much torque they will need to handle. Rad
mounts will NOT involve cutting the bus. No matter how I go about it.
The rad box will NOT be some big fugly box on the nose of the bus, and
will not look like the Buick swap I saw with 2 feet of box sticking
out of the rear. I want my bus to keep looking like a bus. Even if I
do give it a heart transplant.

-- 
Don Tuleja
1973 WasaWestyNowaHiTop
http://www.donimages.com/1973bus/
