Date: Sun, 18 Jul 2004 19:42:06 -0400
From: Jeff Myer <jmyer(-at-)Myermountain.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Trip report - First trip in "Gretta" in almost 10 years

	Well this was the first trip in gretta in almost 10 years. Although not 
a real long trip, 260 miles round trip, I enjoyed the heck out of taking 
"Gretta" out for a trip with camping included.

	For a little background, I had recently replaced many items including 
the brake lines (Steel and Rubber), resealed the exhaust leaks, new 
throttle cable, new rear brakes, new rear shocks etc.
	
	So the time finally came for our big weekend away, a 130 mile trip to 
upstate New York to a music festival called Gathering of the Vibes. Me 
and the wife had been anticipating a weekend away for some time and as 
of last weekend I had been expecting to take our Pathfinder. As the time 
came closer to leave for the festival, we just couldn't stand not to 
take "Gretta" so that was it; Mariahville NY or Bust!

	 Friday morning came around and we loaded up the last of our gear. I 
must say that we were rolling pretty heavy with full coolers, camping 
gear, 3 full size adults etc. Feeling a little nervous, we pulled out 
onto the road and within minutes a general feeling of wellness that I 
have only had when travelling in the bus washed over me. Heading north 
through the Litchfield hills of CT heading for the Berkshires was 
beautiful.
	
	The Back roads were kind to Gretta, although some of the climbs got my 
palms sweaty. after about 45 minutes, I finally realized how well Gretta 
was running and just sat back and grinned. A little while, and a few 
little stop and check dipstick/wheel bearing temp. later, we hit the 
highway and thats when the real magic started.

	Heading West out of Lee MA. on I-90 I was feeling pretty good and 
hoping that things would hold together for the remainder of the trip. To 
my surprise, I was pulling hills at 3/4 throttle (60+ mph) and I found 
that I actually had to lay off on the gas just to keep it under the 
speed limit. This wasnt the case on every hill but most were pulled with 
little effort. The trip there went without a hitch. Time to set up camp.
	As for the camping, it was awesome. Sleeping was comfortable and 
everything stayed nice and organized. I cant imagine going to another 
festival/event without the bus. The weekend was good and we made contact 
with several other bus owners there.

	The ride home was a carbon copy of the ride up with the exception of 
the Clutch cable breaking in Great Barrington MA. (60 Miles from 
home)Fortunately, I was able to time the lights and roll through stop 
signs to get home seeing how I wasn't carrying a spare cable.

	Overall, It was excellent and I am so happy with my decision to take 
Gretta. Additional upgrades, mechanical and asthetic are definately in 
her future.

Hope some of you have enjoyed this account of an overwhelmingly positive 
bussing experience despite the minor inconveinence of broken clutch. -Jeff
