Date: Mon, 19 Jul 2004 01:29:52 +0200
From: Erik Meltzer <ermel(-at-)ermel.org>
To: Type2 Mailing List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine Swap Info?

Hi Volks!

Mark Hineline wrote:
> I don't think I am overreacting. I've gotten on my soapbox because
> since this thread started, not a single person on this list other than
> me has expressed a favorable view of aircooled engines in transporters.

Not true.  There seems to have been a misunderstanding between us.
To clarify: yes, I do prefer original aircooled engines.  Yes, I
do tend to sneer at pals with conversions (mostly VW inline four
Diesels here in Germany).  Yes, both of my Buses do have their
original engines (and they're both Type 1 even), and no, I am not
planning to change that.

But yes, I do consider buying back that '72 highroof panel I gave
(or sold, can't really remember) to a friend a few years ago, and
converting it to a VW 1900cc inline four non-turbo Diesel and
Vanagon 5-speed tranny.  Feel free to flame now.  But consider: This 
Bus is shot.  No original condition left to speak of, no engine nor
tranny since long before I first bought it, window holes in the sides,
lots and lots of rust, the list goes on and on.  If I do this, the
Bus won't be any worse for it; in fact, I don't think it will escape
both the crusher and heavy modification regardless of who will 
eventually buy it, because it's so far gone that no-one will ever
attempt an original restoration.

So why do I do this?  Money.  Money for fuel, specifically.  Petrol
is up to approx. $1.20 per *litre* now, Diesel close to $1.00 per
litre.  It's gotten to be so expensive that I think twice about
driving the 500 km to a Bus campout, and back.  1,000 km, 100 litres
of petrol, $120.  70 litres of Diesel, $70.  70 litres of cooking
oil, $56.  70 litres of re-cycled cooking grease from the friendly
burger-currywurst-and-chips outfit, close to $0 plus the cost for
filtering.  And to be able to legally tow an 1,800 kg trailer,
i.e. a car trailer with a Bug on it (or a very empty Bus even),
I need to have a Type 4 if I want aircooled, so better make that
$150 for 1,000 km worth of petrol.

Why a panel van?  Well, because it's me ;-), and also because they're
legally lorries (commercial vehicles) here in Germany: less tax.
Dramatically so, in fact.

I figure I'll be saving far more than $1,000 in tax and fuel per year.
That's nothing to sneer at.  The whole van -- purchase, resto, and
conversion -- might end up being able to pay for itself in a couple
of years.  And my babied, 100% original '72 panel will be saved quite
a lot of kilometres.  (It's below 100,000 km still, that's why I care.)

> I am really astounded that in this community of interest, which
> includes over 1000 subscribers, I seem to be the only person that
> actually likes and prefers transporters pretty-much-as-designed. Or who
> thinks that one of the things that is most attractive about baywindow
> buses is that they are slow and underpowered, requiring us (as drivers)
> to think and drive differently from every other driver on the road.

I do prefer them that way too.  I wish it were affordable to drive
them that way as well, every day.  But sadly, it is not.  And
that situation is not going to get any better.

And that Diesel highroof isn't going to be any faster than its
aircooled counterparts either.  Nor will it look any different,
if you discount the exhaust.  It'll just need a different flavour
of fuel (and less of it), and have a somewhat coarser voice.
It'll also need fewer oil changes, no ignition or valve jobs, 
but antifreeze instead.  And it will compensate by having heat. :-)

It will also be made from 100% Volkswagen parts.  Not all of them
original, but that's impossible anyway.  See above.
 
> Obviously, I am not going to go on about this indefinitely. It looks
> like a lost cause. But it seems to me that SOMEONE ought to stand up
> for aircooleds on what, nominally, is an aircooled transporter list.

I'm with you.  I just seem to be a little more forgiving about it.

Airhowlingly (sic!) yours,
   Erik.
-- 
"Hunny-bunny?" A long-eared relative of the rat, slathered with insect vomit.
        -- Greg Bulmash on endearing nick-names, 
           on http://www.bulmash.com/archive/09-30-96.html
