Date: Sun, 18 Jul 2004 20:37:20 -0400
From: billm <thegreenwesty(-at-)netscape.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, Vanagon Mailing List <vanagon(-at-)gerry.vanagon.com>
Subject: Weekend trip~West River Westies

Just got back this weekend from a weekend up north with a bunch of other 
vw nuts. We left Friday morning from Mystic,CT and headed up route 2 to 
Hartford and then blasted right up 91 North to exit 3 in Vermont. The 
ride was nice and the bus ran great. We didn't get caught in any traffic 
or bad weather. As we headed up route 30 we enjoyed the scenery and kept 
out eye out for the turn off having never been there. We found the road 
and after mile or so down a dirt road we found the campground. It 
nestled in a valley surrounded by mountains and hills. The sites were 
all grass that was nicer than my lawn at home. Our camping buddies Tony 
and Rich were already set up and we pulled in behind them. We saved a 
spot for out friends Jim,Laura and family. They have two small children 
like us and are real nice people to camp with. They have the nicest kids 
around. A spot was also saved for Jamies family from Mass. It's like 
having family all around you. We pulled out the awning and unpacked all 
the kids stuff. It is amazing what they need for two days away from 
home. We also pulled the kids bike of the new Fiamma rack I just 
purchased. It also doubles as a drying rack when the bikes were off. As 
we enjoyed the scenery around us the kids settled down while Rich who is 
our official cook put a tenderloin on the fire. He also cut up some 
potatoes and made fries. We ate like pigs and then settled in around the 
fire for a few brews after the kids were put down.
Saturday morning we awoke to it being nice and cool a great way to start 
the day. As the day wore on it got fairly warm and we decided to check 
out the river. The water was clean,cool and the brisk current made for a 
soothing effect. The kids and I could have stayed in there all day. A 
few kayakers and tubes made their way down past us. It was nice sitting 
in the water looking up at the hills. That made the trip worth it right 
there. After a few more trips to the river and walk to the camp store 
for ice cream dinner time rolled around. The potluck dinner was 
fantastic. There were beans,pasta,smoked ribs,chicken of all kinds,cake and
much much more. We ate our fill and set up for the raffles. They drew 
the 50/50 first and then the table heaped full of prizes. Everything 
from barbie cars,hub caps,club memberships,go westy merchandise,to 
bottles of wine. We were on a lucky streak having made seven trips to 
the prize table. I think over all our group of five buses hauled away 
fifty percent of the loot!!! Everyone had a good time. We then went back 
to our campfire and "cleaned out"our beer coolers before going to bed. S
Sunday they had a burritto breakfast we heard was excellent but missed 
it as we had to get going. We said goodbye to the Mayo's which is always 
hard for our us and the kids. Then made sure we said good bye to 
Kevin,John, and Gerry. All these people are like family to us. We 
caravaned back down 91S with Jamie,Rich and Tony. Its always fun driving 
in a group. We tend to get more waves than middle fingers when chugging 
up a hill. They all dropped off one at a time until we were alone for 
the final half hour ride. We made it home and were able to unpack before 
the rain. Another fantastic weekend with fantastic vw folk.Got to meet 
some people we have been just missing. Frank,John and Wendy. Glad to 
meed you all.Many ,many thanks to Nevin and Sue. You guys did a great 
job putting on this event. I know it's hard work. Jon R for his part in 
assembling this weekend and handling the raffle. All those who donated 
prized for the raffle and everyone who donated for the potluck. I hope 
you all like our baked beans. They were the dark ones. I hope I didn't 
leave anyone out. Have a good night!!!

Bill,Amy,Sarah and Brian
Mystic,CT  78 Sage Green Westy "pickle"
