Date: Sat, 23 Mar 2002 10:36:34 -0500 (EST)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To:  <java1972bg(-at-)aol.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] torsion arm install

On Fri, 22 Mar 2002 java1972bg(-at-)aol.com wrote:

> Question: on a 1972 bus I am reinstalling the torsion arms after putting in
> new balljoints. for the top arm should I remove the torsion bar and put the
> arm on that then install that, or how do you get the arm to slide on the bar
> and twist up over the bumper stop. It was a bit of work getting it off and I
> knew a problem to get on. thanks for your help

First... remove that bump stop!!!!  I have no idea how you got the arm off
with the bump stop in place, but it must have been truly heroic!  The bump
stops are held in place by spring clips much like the spring clips that
hold your brake hoses into place.  Spritz them with penetrating oil, bang
them loose from 20+ years of rust with a hammer and punch, thn pry the
clip out with a big screwdriver.

Second, to get the trailing arms on... Grease the ends of the torsion
leaves, then put the trailing arms for both sides on loosely before you
try to pry either of them over the horn.  If the torsion leaves are out of
place, try to get them lined up by hand.  If that does not work, loosen
the center lock point (this will involve removing the shifter rod, so
avoid it if you can).  Once both arms are on over the ends of the torsion
leaves (and the center lock point is retightened), lift the first arm with
a crow bar and whack it with a hammer to drive it home.  Then repeat on
the other side.

I am not happy with what I described, but it is the only way I know to do
the deed.  I would love to hear that there is a better way!  If I have a
helper, I prefer to have them hold a block of 2x4 over the end of the arm
as a softening block, but if I am alone, there is no way to do that and I
whack directly on the end of the arm... ouch!

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail


