Date: Sat, 23 Mar 2002 15:13:51 -0500
To: blake cochran <madmanblake(-at-)yahoo.com>,type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] PPG vs. Glasurit Paint

>My questions are thus:
>
>1.  About how much paint, on average, would be used to
>paint a baywindow shell, inside and out?
>
>2.  What are the advantages/disadvantages of either
>brand?
>
>3.  what experiences have listmembers had with either,
>and is there a concensus about these brands, or
>others?

Both are excellent paint lines.  Got to compare apples to apples
however, the only Glasurit I've sprayed is their enamel, it will take
easily a gallon to do the shell inside and out, and maybe even that
will be a bit short depending on how many coats and how well it
covers in your color.  Same for PPG enamel (Delstar.)  I've recently
been spraying the PPG Concept line, covers much better, you can
get by often with two coats and somewhere between 2-3 quarts can
do a bus if you are careful.  A gallon will certainly do it.  Gallon of
WHITE cost me $160 for the EV!!!!!  Just the paint!!!  Anyway it's
real good stuff.  Either is fine, the Concept urethane is nicer to
spray than enamel, faster, more like laquer in the spray, and durable.
I'd guess Glasurit has a similar urethane product, didn't they buy
RM or somebody like that?  Anyway as we've said before paint is
personal preference, I like PPG because I know it, I know how it
lasts, I know I've put hardened Delstar on a car 14 years ago and
it looks good today, I've seen red Dupont enamel not last 6 years.
That said mom's Passat had Glasurit done on it when 1 year old
and it looked new when she sold it 8 years later.  But the Concept
is unbeatable for coverage and the way it goes on.  I doubt the
Concept will end up cheaper than Glasurit, who knows, figure on
easily $300 for topcoat material all ready to mix.  The big benefit to
me is that most PPG dealers worth anything have one of the little
color match computers now days and can scan a bit of the original
paint from inside the gastank door, hatch, whatever and get you a
perfect match even if they don't have a code or mix chart for an
obsolete color.  If you are less picky and just want to paint the car
the PPG Omni budget line isn't bad in the enamel, but is highly
variable in solic content and how well it covers, and the color match
is poorer as it has fewer tints.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu


