From: "dave anderson" <andersonearthlink(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "'Sean Bartnik'" <seabar(-at-)rcn.com>,
Date: Mon, 25 Mar 2002 02:05:28 -0800
Subject: RE: [T2] fuel pump dying?

>Lately (recently) the fuel pump has started making a constant
>whining/buzzing noise.  I can hear it quite prominently in the cabin, can't
>really hear it too much outside because the noise of the engine masks the
>noise from the pump.

Greetings ,

I had a similar problem with a 77 bay window I picked up in Eugene Oregon.

Not long after purchasing my first bus, driving it up to Portland and then
running a few tanks of gas through it I started to notice sort of
droning/buzz. I had an appointment at the "No Name Garage" in Eugene a day
or two after I noticed the noise, but I still felt uneasy about driving 90+
miles with a mystery noise.

Before hitting the road to Eugene I decided it would be best to have the
issue addressed prior to departure , so I looked for a shop in Portland. I
got real lucky and found a great VW/Mercedes shop in SE Portland, these guys
took a few minutes out of there already scheduled jobs to have a listen to
the mystery noise. After a quick look around he was able to identify the
culprit as the fuel pump, stating that it possibly was struggling from
restricted fuel flow caused by a clogged fuel filter.

They put that sucker up on the lift, changed the fuel filter and awhala...
problem solved. After talking with the mechanic for a few minutes we deduced
that the filter had become clogged because ...

1. the bus had been sitting for a while and the tank had some rust/sediments
in it(as indicated by fuel filter).

2. I had been cruising around and sloshing a fuel which loosened up a good
bit of it.

He recommended changing out the fuel filter every 2nd or 3rd tank for a few
1000 miles and if the filters don't come out clean after a few months then I
might want to consider a tank swap depending on how bad off it was.

That was about 10K miles and 4 fuel filters ago, without a moan from the
pump, just to be safe I keep a spare fuel pump and few filters in the bus.

Hope this helps.

Cheers
       -Dave
'77 Bay Window (The Moldy Loaf)







-----Original Message-----
From: Sean Bartnik [mailto:seabar(-at-)rcn.com]
Sent: Sunday, March 24, 2002 6:51 PM
To: Type 2 Mailing List
Subject: [T2] fuel pump dying?


Hi guys
I have a '79 Westy with stock FI.


I don't drive the Bus much and I estimate that I've only put around 10,000
miles on it since I bought it.  Soon after I bought it in '99 I replaced the
fuel filter so the fuel filter has at most about 10K on it.

There were no rusty chunks in the old filter or anything to indicate that
such a problem may exist in the tank.

I am not experiencing any driveability issues.  The Bus starts and runs as
well as ever.  No loss of power on the highway or during other
high-fuel-demand situations.  Just the pump making noise.

I'm just wondering if I should be concerned or if it may go many many miles
before it dies.  I know that usually pump noise is a result of restricted
fuel flow into the pump but I don't have any other evidence to support that
theory.  The onset was very sudden, one day it wasn't making noise, the next
day it was.

I haven't been driving the Bus much lately as I've been doing a lot of
business travel, so for the past 3 weeks or so the Bus has sat for a week at
a time and then I would drive it on the weekends.  I'm wondering if sitting
for long periods of time might have something to do with it.

Just wondering if I should worry or not.  I am traveling some more starting
this week and I won't be around to do anything to the Bus between now and
EveryBus.

Thanks in advance for any help :-)

Sean Bartnik
Springfield, MA
http://www.type2.com/~bartnik


----------------------------------------------------------------------
  To UNSUBSCRIBE send any e-mail to: type2-unsubscribe(-at-)pon.type2.com
  To email the admin for list help only: type2-admin(-at-)pon.type2.com
 For additional commands send any e-mail to: type2-help(-at-)pon.type2.com
 Donations help keep the list going. http://www.type2.com/donate.html
----------------------------------------------------------------------

