From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: andy <andy(-at-)pon.type2.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 31 Mar 2003 16:44:08 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] busdepot SS 1600 muffler / porsche pulley

   There really aren't any true stainless mufflers made. We started testing
one in Colorado 3 years ago and it has rusted out. Not the muffler itself,
but the top pipes going into the muffler. The upper flanges cast and flat
were made from cast iron like an original muffler has and we feel there was
a reaction between the steel and the stainless. These mufflers cost 300
dollars and were true stainless except for the parts mentioned. Supposedly
they are full stainless now (includeing the in pipes, off head)but the price
for the average none rust belt area wouldn't warrant the cost. 
   

ronnie



-----Original Message-----
From: andy [mailto:andy(-at-)pon.type2.com]
Sent: Friday, March 28, 2003 4:17 PM
To: type2(-at-)type2.com; vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] busdepot SS 1600 muffler / porsche pulley


Well I dont know if its actually stainless. Its quite magnetic.
It seems to have a zinc silver paint or plating on it.
The cost was the same as the stock muffler and it seems to be made fairly
well so Ill see how it holds up.
Im not so crazy about the 1 piece tailpipe. I dont think it has a baffle
like the 2 piece so I think Ill use my old one.

If anyone has one of these on for awhile let me know how it is holding up
corrosion wise.

Probably a good question for George.
I know there are a lot of types of stainless. Are some more magnetic?
Does the magnetic property indicate anything about its corrosion
resistance?

Also got my porsche pulley.
Im going to try to get my ratio just a little higher like maybe 2.2.
I have a stock size degree pulley on there and the ratio with the vw gen
pulley and a 905 is like 1.9.
I measured the ratio pulley againt a stock vw pulley and it was the same
size BUT I think the belt rides a tad lower due to the design of the
groove.

I think cooling with more air should be better than extra oil cooling
because it should lower the temps a bit everywhere.
Im not looking for much, if I could get 5 degrees id be thrilled.
