Date: Mon, 31 Mar 2003 21:02:08 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: bus radio 12 to 6

>From: "john baker" <jb_bak(-at-)hotmail.com>
>Date: Mon, 31 Mar 2003 12:42:08 -0600
>
>What is the easiest way to drop down my voltage for my bus? I tried to
>use the thing it came with , but no luck.

You're trying to install a 6 V radio in a 12 V Bus, right?  The radio
most likely came with a power resistor to drop the voltage, which is
not ideal but will work.  What do you mean by "no luck"?  Did you get
no juice out of the resistor or did it always seem to be putting out
12 V?  First make sure it's hooked up correctly - a wire from the
fuse box to one end of the resistor, and a wire from the other end of
the resistor to the radio power wire.

If you tried to measure the voltage coming out of the resistor with no
load (radio not installed, or turned off), you'll always read very
nearly battery voltage.  Put a load on it and try again - if you don't
want to use the radio as the load, the bright filament of a 6 V tail
light bulb is a reasonable substitute.  If you never got any juice
out of the resistor, take the resistor out of the Bus and measure it
with the ohms function on your meter.  It should be somewhere around
1 to 6 ohms or so.  If it's infinite, the resistor is burned out.

The resistor won't deliver a rock-solid voltage to your radio; it will
go up and down with the voltage in the electrical system.  In a stock
6 V VW, the actual system voltage will vary from 6.3 V to 8 V or so.

Some of the power resistors sold for this application come in a finned
aluminum housing and don't adjust.  Some look like a cylindrical coil
of wire and have a sliding contact that you can adjust.  Start with
the sliding contact in the middle and adjust it under load.  Then,
check the voltage delivered to the radio when you are driving down the
road at high RPMs with lights, wipers, turn signals, etc all shut off.
This is when the voltage in the electrical system should be the highest.
If it's more than 8.0 V, at the radio, adjust the resistor to drop the
voltage to just under 8.0 V.  This will avoid frying the radio.

The other option besides the power resistor is an electronic voltage
regulator.  It's really only about $5 worth of parts but if you buy
it all packaged up it'll be a lot more than that.  It's a little more
complicated to hook up, though.

If you're trying to go the other way - using a 12 V radio in a 6 V Bus -
you'll need a box known as an "inverter", "converter", or "DC-DC converter".
JC Whipme still sells these for way too much money ($90+) or you can
sometimes score them for a few bucks at VW swap meets.

Matt Roberds
