Date: Tue, 1 Apr 2003 11:52:04 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: My one week resto

>From: "The Johnson's" <bugnbat(-at-)swbell.net>
>Date: Mon, 31 Mar 2003 23:33:11 -0600
>
>As a side note my eurocamper arrived that week as well, an Eriba triton.
>I need to change the wiring over so if anyone has any experience with a
>project like that please let me know any pointers you might have.

Given the pictures that Google comes up with for "eriba triton", I'm
assuming this is a trailer and that you're not going to be pulling it
with a splitty.  Are you talking about the tail light wiring or the
AC wiring?

For the tail lights, if it's European, it probably has separate brake
and turn signal lights.  If your car has seperate brake and turn signal
lights, great, it hooks right up.  If not, the simplest thing to do is
probably to swap the brake and turn signal wires at both lamp clusters
on the trailer, and then connect the left turn wire on the trailer to
the left stop/turn wire on the car, and the right turn wire on the
trailer to the right stop/turn wire on the car.  Leave the brake light
wire on the trailer disconnected.  This way, the turn signal bulbs on
the trailer will remain dark, and the brake bulbs will do whatever the
brake lights on your towing vehicle do.

If you don't want to hack on your trailer, you've got to hack on your
car.  You'll need to run a wire from the front left turn signal to the
back and from the front right turn signal to the back.  You'll also need
a brake light connection that doesn't ever flash with the turn signals;
tapping the wire to the third brake light is often good for this.

You can get a converter box for $10 or less to solve the opposite problem,
when your car has separate brake and turn signal lights but your trailer
doesn't.  I don't _think_ there are converter boxes to go the other way,
but I could be wrong.

For the AC wiring, you probably want to change the outlets over to the
US ones.  Electrically, this should be fairly straightforward.  You need
to know that in (most) European AC wiring, live is brown, neutral is
blue, and ground is green with yellow stripes.  (Here, live is black,
neutral is white, and ground is green or bare.)  Mechanically, the US
outlets may not fit into the spaces for the Euro ones, so you may have
to replace the outlet box or make up some brackets or spacers.

You may not have to replace the switches.  The current through them will
be twice as much at 120V as at 240V, but most switches are not loaded
anywhere near their ratings anyway.  The switches should have their
ratings marked on them if you want to check.

Other stuff that is powered from the AC line will have to be changed.
For light bulbs, just screw in some 120 V ones; the threads are the
same.  Put the 240 V bulbs you took out into hard-to-reach fixtures in
your house; they'll be dim but last forever.  Heating elements will work
without modification but will only give 25% of their rated output; see
if a local appliance parts store can fix you up with elements that are
the same shape and size but designed for 120 V.  For devices with motors
and transformers, you'll have to examine it to see if it can be rewired
for 120 V - this will usually be noted on a sticker or drawing near where
the power wiring connects and usually involves swapping some wires around
on a terminal board inside the device.  If not, you'll need to run a
step-up transformer for that device.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds
