From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "DasList" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "vintagebus vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 1 Apr 2003 12:43:11 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] side scoops any opinions

----- Original Message -----

> My feeling is that if during the production of splits (that ran around 17
years compared to Bay production
> that lasted 12 years) were it found beneficial to change the design of the
air intakes I think it would have
> been done previous to the introduction of the 68 model Transporter.

One thing to think about though, is what engine do most of us run in our
splitty bus's? The norm is 1600DP's with doghouse shrouds, or something
close to that (if not larger in some cases). I can't find the figures of
what percentage increase the doghouse fan increases over the non-doghouse
shroud, but a 1600cc engine is going to pull almost another 7% more air than
a 1500cc engine and about 23% more than a 1300cc engine on displacement
alone. The wider doghouse fan is a figure even larger than that.

If you're running a 1300cc single port engine with a non-doghouse setup, you
probably aren't experiencing cooling issues. But for those that are running
larger engine's, with larger cooling fans in general, the stock louvers are
just not going to be cutting it. The louvers in themselves, will become a
restricton, thus creating a vacuum in the engine bay, which is going to pull
hot air through every little gap in your cooling tin and recirculate it. The
cooling fan begins to cavitate, being unable to pump the amount of air that
is needed to properly cool the engine. Remember, the cooling fan needs to
produce pressure to be able to force the air through the fins of the heads
and cylinders. If the air you are pumping is already at a slight vacuum, and
you have to pressurize it, that's a substantal loss right there. The main
reason the pressure is needed, is the cool air hitting the hot cooling fins,
makes the air hot, making it expand, and thus, require pressure to be able
to foce it through that area.

The bay window 'scoop' design was introduced well before the Doghouse shroud
was around, showing that the split bus louvers were becoming ineffective at
being able to handle the added cooling needs as it was. Introducing the
larger 1500cc engine in 66 (over 11% larger than the previous 1300) in my
opinion is what sparked the design of the bay window bus. It only took two
years to see an approaching problem, and to redesign the Type 2 platform to
adapt to the cooling system needs.

So the thing that needs focus, is providing the engine bay area with more
air than the stock louvers can provide if you are running an engine larger
than stock. Putting on larger crank pulleys, or smaller generator pulleys to
spin the cooling fan faster is unfortunatly not going to eliminate the
cooling restriction that already exists. Same with adding additional oil
coolers. Sure, oil coolers will cool the oil down, but what about the heads
and cylinders? Those are still starving for air.

The stock fan is sutable for cooling a VW engine enough to push it down the
road at 60-65 mph (with stock gearing) as long as you can supply it with
enough useable air. If you are running a Freeway Flier type of transmission,
or eliminated the redux boxes, then I would agree that changing pulley sizes
to compensate for the slower RPM's to get the fan output back to where it
matches the cooling needs of the engine. I'd rather find the cause of a
problem, and fix that, rather than find another way around it.
But now I'm just rambling...........
:-)

Eric Allred
64 Bus
