Date: Wed, 12 Oct 2005 14:18:44 -0700 (PDT)
From: Stephen Byers <byersinc(-at-)swbell.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: what the kids are doing nowdays

I offered my oldest son (then 14) a 2001 F(-at-)RD ZX2  (red with a tail) for him to drive when he turned 16. He graciously thanked me for thinking of him but said that if he had his druthers he'd rather have a bus.  Told him he couldn't have my bus.  2 weeks later I was sitting at an end of the school year luncheon (I'm a High School Band Director) and one of our former athletic directors was asking me about my bus. I retold the above story to him and he responded with "maybe I can help you out." Turns out the parsonage of the church he attends had been rented to a lady who had a step son with a '71 camper that they wanted to get rid of.  I took her number and said I would give her a call later.  She called me within an hour.  We bought the bus that afternoon.  My son and I cleaned out and removed the camping interior, replaced the floor and all plywood with new.  Mechanics hooked up the power brakes.  Another mechanic worked on the motor (which blew a few weeks back) and then replaced
 motor with my spare beetle engine.  I have been letting my son (now 15 soon to be 16 - next month) drive his bus.  Mostly he has huge grins behind the wheel.  Sometimes he has fits of frustration (new to driving a stick- as well as new to driving).  I'm grateful that as he learns to drive a standard we live in South Central Kansas (No Hills - especially at stop lights and stop signs).  It makes me feel old to see my bus and his bus in the drive at the same time.  I still remember him pushing a plastic beetle around the house until he crushed the roof ( I cut the roof off and made it a convertible after that).  Oh and the F(-at-)RD was traded for a 2002 Beetle for my wife.  My other son (almost 13) wants an air cooled beetle when he starts to drive.
 
wichitawesty(-at-)swbell.net
69 westy (mine)
71 westy (Adam's)
02 Beetle (Wife's)
01 Mits Montero (Family Road Warrior)
