Date: Thu, 20 Feb 2003 15:09:04 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Sage Green <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>, jerryman169(-at-)yahoo.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: re: [T2] Wood interior for the Westy - long, sorry

>Specifically, the paneling that fits the sliding door, the section aft of 
>the sliding door, the horizontal strips over both sides of the rear (over 
>the engine compartment), the rear hatch/door, the pieces behind our 2 
>piece cabinet and over our large sink cabinet.

Okay - I know what you are talking about. I had extensive water damage from 
leaky window seals and trashed these panels long ago. I am replacing them 
with passenger bus door panels.

>For the '72 and '73, there would also be the ceiling peices and around the 
>pop top opening and the roof over the driver/passenger head.  For us, 
>these areas are covered with white (NLA) vinyl.

We made a trip to the big city and bought upholstery and vinyl top 
underlayment foam. I'm going to cover all of the ceiling panels with a 
white computer colored tweed fabric (called Monk's cloth) over a layer of 
foam. Should add a bit of noise control. My wallpaper vinyl roof was torn 
and peeling. The wood is in good shape.

>I have a cabinet door front which is starting to separate from the door 
>itself, and this appears to me like formica.  I was planning to slip some 
>Elmer's Wood glue under there with a butter knife and press it on solid, 
>but it is plain and easy to see the formica type material on the cabinets.

Try Gorilla glue or contact cement. I'd start with contact cement as that 
is the OEM glue.

A friend (THANKS ERIC) suggested heating Formica panels with an iron and 
scrapping it off. I like that method and he says it worked good for him.

FWIW if anyone is interested:

The process for applying new Formica is contact cement on the cabinet and 
on the Formica back. Let dry for several minutes (the cement can will tell 
how long). Lay out dowel rods on the cabinet getting covered. Lay Formica 
on top of that. Remove dowel rods 1 at a time and press Formica against 
cabinet. Get it right the first time because they won't come apart.

Finish: use router with laminate bit to trim edges.

I have no first hand experience YET but this is the process.



Chris Mills in TN
