From: "Jim Polera" <ralitaco(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: "Mailing List T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 20 Feb 2003 18:08:17 -0500
Subject: Acts like out of gas - long update (was engine coughing)

Thanks for the help so far. Because Ma Cherie' feels like she is running out
of gas while I'm at 60mph, I'm leaning toward fuel problem, carb or tank or
pump, however, everything I check seems okay. She seems to run fine at
slower speeds, but it just might not be as noticable. So I am open to
suggestions. I have just about given up on finding the problem myself and am
letting my overworked mechanic try and figure it out tommorrow (I hope).

I have a stock mechanical fuel pump, with a fuel filter b/n the tank & pump.
I have replaced the fuel filter yesterday but there is already some debris
in it. There is a lot of pressure built up in the line as I found out when I
removed it from the carb and sprayed gas over everything. If the pump was
bad, wouldn't it be at all times and all speeds? Makes me think the pump is
okay.

I also have a good steady flow of fuel when I remove the line before it goes
into the pump.  Now I don't have a sock filter in the tank, but it would
take a pretty big chuck of debris to clog that bit of metal fuel line.
Wouldn't clogged line stay clogged and affect her at all speeds? Makes me
think that the line is NOT clogged.

The carb is nothing fancy, standard stock item. I am not carb-literate, so I
shy away, too many teeny tiny parts. My mechanic will check the needle
valves, etc. I have removed the upper half of the carb and cleaned the
needle valve. Found minimal debris. Same thing happens.

I have replaced points & condenser today per my mechanic's suggestion. (I am
considering the pertronix, but that will have to wait). Same thing happens.

I installed a used, but known good, coil. On the test drive, the engine
acted like it was out of gas, but after a little bit, was fine. I turned
around and went about a mile when she acted up again then cut off. After
some pondering of the situation, I checked the coil wire connections, and
the one to the ignition was loose. When I hooked it up she started. I don't
know if the loose wire caused the problem initially, or coincidentally, but
now I was just afraid to try it again and dropped her off at the mechanics.

Later,
Jim
Hampstead, NC
'70 Westy - Ma Chirie
