Date: Sat, 3 Dec 2005 17:23:42 -0500 (EST)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: <ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Electric fuel pumps

On Sat, 3 Dec 2005 ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com wrote:

> In a message dated 12/3/05 4:29:38 PM, glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com writes:
>
>
> > Years ago I had a Facet pump, ran it for years, and it was still working
> > well when I sold the vehicle.  Considering the simple nature of these
> > pumps, I wonder what causes them to fail?  Is it something VW-related?
> >
> > George
> >
>    I've been running a Facet pump for years but, IIRC, the Facet is a
> "pusher"
> pump and would prefer to be below the tank and "push" the fuel to the en-
> gine...Mine's mounted in front (FIF) of the engine now, but the same pump
> was in the engine bay for a long while before I changed locations...

That is a good point.  Aircraft Spruce warns that the pump be installed
below the liquid level, although they also state that the pump can prime
up to 18" lift.

Another intresting statement in their catalog is:
"All of the pumps shown feature the all nylon valve and plunger as
specified by Rutan Aircraft"

A little googling yielded this:

----------------------------------
Returning to his home base airport after a flight, a Southern California
Long-EZ pilot was approaching the 45 degree entry to downwind
when, abruptly, his engine quit. He was unsuccessful in getting it
restarted but, to his credit, he flew the airplane, announced his situation
and made an uneventful, successful landing. Feeling a little weak around
the knees, he pushed his airplane into his hangar and went home.

The next day, he conducted a careful examination of the aircraft and
discovered that the Facet solid-state fuel pump was completely blocked
and would not allow any fuel to pass through to the engine driven
mechanical pump! One of the two valves in the pump had deteriorated in the
100LL fuel and had worked its way out of the metal cage that normally
prevents this, and had been sucked into a position that prevented the
flow of fuel. The part number on the mounting flange of this pump was
480615. The plunger valve was made of VITON- this pump is no longer being
manufactured.

Before next flight, check the part number of your pump. If
you have one of the following part numbers 40023, 480615, 480616, remove
the pump and replace it.  The most desirable Facet solid-state pumps that
we recommend are part #40108 for 12 volts and part # 40154 or 480610 for
24 volts. Both pump fuel at a regulated maximum 6 psi, and the valves in
these pumps are pure nyIon which, other than swelling very slightly in
avgas, are not affected nor do they deteriorate. The design of these
valves (the foot valve and the plunger valve) are such that they cannot
physically get into a position where they can prevent fuel from flowing
through the boost pump. Both of the above pumps have AN-style, 370 flare
fittings which fit 3/8" tube, AN 818-6. Nuts.

Facet manufactures over one hundred variations of the small square
solid-state fuel pumps. The above two pumps have AN-type flare fittings
machined right on the pump bodies and we prefer this type because they
are easy to install (no elbows or nipples required), but also because
these two models have only nylon valves, no rubber, Buna, or Viton. Many
of FACET's other models have Viton plunger valves or Buna N check valves
and these will deteriorate in avgas. These are specifically for use in
some other liquid known not to affect these materials.

To check your pump, remove it and look into the inlet and the
outlet using a small flashlight and verify that the inlet valve (foot
valve) is a round, white dome or ball (nylon), not a flat, black rubber
disc.  Verify that in the outlet there is a white nylon valve under a
steel pin which crosses the port and retains this valve. If this valve is
dark gray or black (Viton), remove the pump before next flight and discard
it. If you have to a pump with female pipe threads (to accept elbows or
nipples) due to your firewall layout, choose one with 3/8 NPT female
threads rather than the 1/8NPT female threads, but examine it closely to
be sure it has white nylon valves in the inlet and the outlet ports.
Discard it if there is any black or gray Viton, Buna N or rubber valves
------------------------
