From: "matthew j. ramsey" <mattthewriter(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: alisalowman(-at-)hotmail.com, amy(-at-)csmonitor.com, bkroening(-at-)mail.holton.k12.ks.us, bookworm_1977(-at-)yahoo.com, buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org, cbrogan(-at-)benedictine.edu, csb5335(-at-)ksu.edu, dr_jtd(-at-)yahoo.com, firstwife52(-at-)msn.com, fleetwood(-at-)charter.net, gmcconnell(-at-)atchison.k12.ks.us, jennifer_ralston(-at-)fmc.com, jillbean(-at-)usa.net, jillbean(-at-)myrealbox.com, jleach(-at-)msinter.net, jralston(-at-)psakids.com, jyoung200(-at-)hotmail.com, kathrynjoyandrews(-at-)hotmail.com, klowman(-at-)mail.atchison.k12.ks.us, kyshootinstar(-at-)yahoo.com, ladybug_cbs(-at-)hotmail.com, laprattb(-at-)hotmail.com, lisaj2003(-at-)icqmail.com, lpnncop(-at-)yahoo.com, mannlori(-at-)esumail.emporia.edu, Maryjhawk(-at-)aol.com, Mike.Gensler(-at-)CONCERT.COM, MOBORNY1(-at-)kscable.com, mullinsf(-at-)emporia.edu, nick_heim(-at-)hotmail.com, pbrox75(-at-)hotmail.com, Pillowsham(-at-)aol.com, poodles365(-at-)hotmail.com, rachel(-at-)katco.com, rainbows(-at-)grapevine.net, mwr0600(-at-)bellsouth.net, tator316(-at-)hotmail.com, teresa.veazey(-at-)wichita.edu, teresavz(-at-)aol.com, type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Bcc: 
Date: Thu, 02 May 2002 14:28:58 -0500
Subject: trip report--kinda long

What a trip!!!  I can?t say it enough times.  This was by far the best 
vacation I have ever taken.  For those of you who don?t know, approximately 
one month ago I made arrangements to purchase a 1958 VW Single Cab from Mike 
Gensler in Colorado Springs, Colorado.  It was determined that a one-way 
flight would provide the best means of arriving at the vehicle.
On Saturday, April 27, 2002, I boarded a direct flight from Kansas City 
International Airport to the Springs.  Saturday was a full of errands to 
prepare for the trip.  I picked up a Grateful Dead sticker and a statue of 
my favorite traveling god, Buddha.  I also bought a small socket set at Pink 
Newell?s recommendation.  Pink and his family provided the necessary send 
off.  Thanks guys!!!
The plane ride provided a very interesting conversation with one of the most 
radiant individuals I have ever met. We enjoyed a delightful conversation 
about the trials of her life a single mom and the long distant relationship 
with her significant other, Joe.  Her 28 month old was perfect.  I was a bit 
worried when I sat down.  I actually got to carry the little guy off the 
plane.  I?m gonna have to get a Micro-buskatier someday.
Mike picked me up at the airport in his 1973 Westy fitted with a Porsche 
engine and five-speed tranny.  WOW.  I need to comment on Mike?s generous 
hospitality.  He is one heck of a guy.  His girlfriend, Wendy, and friend 
Dave Russell, were great hosts!!!  Thanks guys!!!  After some great beer and 
a meal, Mike and I went off to find Zorm.  What a bus.  I knew it was mine 
when I noticed the paint.  Probably the exact same color as my 1969 Westy.  
The color is non-VW and we estimate both vehicles were in Dallas at 
painting.  Could be the same shop.  You never know.  By this time it was 
pretty late, so we headed off to bed.
The next morning found a photo session followed by breakfast at Wendy?s 
place.  We ran some errands and drove Zorm a bit, before returning to Mike?s 
place for the afternoon activities.  A few small tasks were completed on 
Zorm.  We also prepared for an upcoming cookout that would include Steve 
Walters and family of Boulder, Colorado, and Dan Jensen and son Wade.  I?d 
like to thanks these folks for taking time out of their day to stop by.  I 
really enjoyed meeting everyone.  There were six busses at Mike?s house, 
which seemed to motivate the neighbors to draw their shades.
By the time everyone headed home it was pretty late and I had to get ready 
for a long couple days of driving.  Mike gave me a quick lesson on carbs and 
I headed off to bed a very happy and excited bus owner.
Monday morning found me up extra early.  Go figure.  I picked up my mess, 
took a shower, and made some sandwiches before Mike woke up.  I was eager to 
hit the road and called my grandfather who was serving as dispatch in case 
of emergency.  I checked the oil and had Mike take a few pictures before 
pulling out of the driveway.  I can?t explain the excitement.  I have heard 
that an adventure is a trip you go on with no real way of knowing how or if 
you will get back.  I was pretty sure I?d make it back to KC, one way or the 
other, but I had no idea what milestones would stand in my path.
The first milestone was getting out of the Colorado Springs.  Thanks to my 
typical maleness and a strange inability to turn around, I took the long way 
through town.  Doht!!!  I did see a pretty nice old bug.  With the addition 
of a tachometer and oil pressure gauge, I had a lot more information than I 
am conditioned to inputting.  The oil pressure valve is from an Audi to 
match the gauges and is reportedly set to trigger the idiot light before the 
stock valve.  The tripped me out big time.  Watching the gauge as I traveled 
up and down the hills was also a bit nerve wrecking.
I lost my speedometer cable and became concerned about the oil about thirty 
miles out of Kit Carson, Colorado.  I pulled over and took a couple of 
pictures before checking the oil and disconnecting the cable from the body 
of the bus.   This allowed me to stretch my legs and take a good luck at the 
bus on the side of the road.  Happy Day.
After adding over 14 gallons of gas in Kit Carson, I became a little 
concerned.  I had traveled a maximum of 160 miles.  This made my stomach 
hurt.  If this was going to be the gas mileage for my trip, I was in for an 
expensive couple of days.  After buying some additional oil and visiting 
with the man behind the counter I headed off.
Fifty miles later in Sharon Springs, I added three gallons of gas which 
means I did not get the tank all the way full when I was in Colorado Springs 
on Sunday night.  Doht!!!!  You would have thought I?d landed a UFO at this 
gas station.  The kid pumping gas and an old farmer spent the better part of 
20 minutes inspecting the truck.  They about flipped when I hooked up the 
semaphores.
On to Dighton, Kansas, for my next tank of gas.  The Kwik Shop was across 
from the bank.  At gas stations I pull in, go to the bathroom, pump my gas, 
pay for the gas, and then check the oil.  This allows me to let the engine 
cool down the most.  I noticed that a group of white shirt and tie-clad men 
were standing in the lobby of the bank staring at my VW.  I waved.  They 
sheepishly waved back.  After about five minutes, on of them pocked his head 
out of the door and yelled, ?What year is that VW??  I replied and he stuck 
his head back in.  They should have walked across the street for a better 
look.  I wanted to pull a line from the cult-favorite, Pee-Wee Herman road 
trip movie and yell, ?Take a picture?it will last longer.?  Fun stuff.
From Dighton, I made it into Hays, Kansas, without a hitch.  I dropped stuff 
at my brother?s place and headed off to see Steve Reed.  Steve will provide 
me with a key/ignition solution at BBBB later this month.  I don?t think he 
is on the list right now, but I really appreciated his help and anticipate 
is return to the Buskatier list.  He was a very cool place and is hoping to 
host a campout/grand opening for the folks headed off to the RMMW show in 
August.  I think he has is hopes set on becoming Western Kansas?s VW man.  
Good work STEVE!!!!  After giving Steve a ride, I headed back to my 
brother?s place for some food, a movie and sleep.
I gassed up Tuesday morning and found the bus needed no oil.  Maybe my leak 
wasn?t as bad as I thought.  A trip though Burger King?s drive through and a 
call to grandpa started the drive off.  I make it from Hays to Hutchinson, 
Kansas, in just over 2.5 hours.  Nice speed.  The air was cool and I even 
cranked open the heater.
I picked up grandpa and we headed off to the Buggy Shop to see about a 
Speedo cable.  I picked up a used one for six bucks.  We sent to Sears.  My 
grandpa wanted to get me a set of jack stands for graduation.  I cashed in 
on the $99 3-ton jack deal Isiah told us about last week.  Grandpa got to 
give me a set of jack stands and didn?t spend a dime.  He did slip me a $20 
for gas.  I love that guy!!!
After a lunch from Grandma, the three of us replaced the Speedo cable on 
their street; with the oil leak I didn?t want to put in on their driveway.  
It must have been funny to see the three of us working away.  Grandma 
commented each time someone drove by looking at us weird.  Grandpa insisted 
on jumping in to see if the cable worked.  It promptly broke.  Foiled 
again!!!
I went to get gas and a 1974 VW passenger van pulled in behind me.  The 
owner wanted to give mine a looking over.  I asked if his van had been 
parked at a certain street during the late 1980?s.  He said that is where he 
lived.  Another bus from my childhood.  How cool!!!  After chatting for 
about 20 minutes, I headed off in hopes of making it to Lawrence by 6:30 
p.m., in order to meet up with my oldest friend Adam Koch.  Four and one 
half hours might be cutting it close.  Of course I took the back roads and 
enjoyed the most beautiful drive in Kansas.  I traveled on highway 4 south 
of Abilene all the way across to Burlington.  Amazing!!!  I added gas in 
White City, Kansas.  The lady behind the counter needed to know the story.  
Every fill up has a great story?pretty cool.  I made it to Lawrence in time 
to meet Adam and then drove on to Atchison.
I have no idea how many miles I drove, but it was on heck of a good trip.  I 
never really feared engine failure, but was quite relieved to make it home 
without incident.  The overwhelming theme of the trip is the willingness of 
other folks, both VW and otherwise, to stand by for assistance if necessary. 
  All I can say is Thank You!!!  Here is the short list of folks who were on 
call and/or provided their time to make my trip better.  Mike Gensler and 
Wendy, Dave Russell, Steve Walters, Dan and Wade Jenson, Steve Reed, Joe 
Ramsey, John and Jan Leach, Keith Petite, Rick Taylor, Sylvia Reynolds, and 
Kathleen Lowman.  Not only did some these folks feed or shelter me, the 
others would have dropped what they were doing to come offer assistance as 
needed.  The best part about the VW hobby is the people.  Rick Taylor once 
commented that I have come a long way in short amount of time in the world 
of VW?s.  This is only because of the cool people who consistently make 
air-cooled VW?s the only way fly.  I can?t begin to mention those who have 
inspired me in my adventures.  THANK YOU ALL, SO MUCH!!!!


mjr

1979 Westy
1969 Westy
1958 Single Cab
http://www.zorm.org

I wake up every morning determined both to change the world and have one
hell of a good time.  Sometimes this makes planning the day a little
difficult.
E.B. White

_________________________________________________________________
MSN Photos is the easiest way to share and print your photos: 
http://photos.msn.com/support/worldwide.aspx

