From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 2 May 2002 15:17:0 -0700
Subject: Weird Valve Adjustment

------=_NextPart_84815C5ABAF209EF376268C8
Content-type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII


i just built a 1600 Single Port. new mahle p/c's, 
AB 10mm studded german case (that has not had the cylinder "faces" decked or 
machined), reground cam (web-cam), new german (old stock) lifters, new brazilian 
heads, rocker shafts and pushrods from a previously running engine i had for 
many years.

piston deck height is fine (although i forget the 
exact measurement). rocker arm geometry is excellent.

here's the dilemma: when initially adjusting the 
valves, i had to screw the adjuster screws WAY IN, to the point where there is 
maybe 2mm still exposed from the locknut. this is in sharp contrast to the last 
engine (that these particular rocker shafts/pushrods came off of) where the 
adjuster screws were further back and had alot more exposed past the 
locknut.

i am used to seeing the screws with about 5mm 
exposed, and 2mm (at most) kinda scares me due to the inevitable lifter 
wear, screw wear, etc that may cause the need for adjusting them in even 
further.

one thing that i noticed that makes me feel 
confident that something is not wrong with assembly/measurements (too wide or 
too short) is that the manifold (regular 1600 single port steel manifold) fit 
perfectly into the head opening holes without strain, stress, or a big hammer. 
they fit in amazingly well. another thing is also the genuine german vw muffler 
fit on perfectly as well and also required no BMF-hammer 
modifications.

i ran-in the engine this afternoon and it sounds 
fine. i guess tomorrow morning's valve adjustment will tell something 
hopefully.

so should i be concerned about the large amount of 
threads showing between the rocker arm and the valve head and the hardly any 
showing behind the locknut? should i put valve lash caps on to make up some of 
the difference?

any help, suggestions, etc 
appreciated.

 

 

------=_NextPart_84815C5ABAF209EF376268C8--

