From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, "Heath, Raymond E" <raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com>
Date: Thu, 2 May 2002 15:36:35 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] Weird Valve Adjustment

------=_NextPart_84815C5ABAF209EF376268C8
Content-type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII


definitely not 40 hp pushrods for sure. 


i don't recall the lifters looking strange or thin, 
but i didn't know (or think when looking at them) that the german (old stock 
from about 5 years ago, the "brown box" ones wawd used to sell) came in thin or 
thick. again, they didn't appear to look thinner than usual, but i guess it is 
possible.

i was leaning towards the cam being ground too 
much???, but i would doubt that.

as far as cylinder height, i don't know. i guess i 
could tear off a head from the old engine and compare deck-heights, but i'll 
have no way of knowing the cylinder height of the new engine unless i took the 
head off (and i don't plan on doing that anytime soon hopefully).

thanks!

 


----- Original Message ----- 

From: Heath, 
Raymond E  

To: vintagebus ;hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net 

Sent: 5/2/02 3:30:04 PM 

Subject: RE: [VB] Weird Valve 
Adjustment





Almost sounds like 40hp pushrods or thin crown lifters, almost. How is 
your

new cylinder height compared to the old ones?

 

67 Single Cab, DP 1641cc 34PICT

71 Trike 1776cc 32/36 Progressive

VolksAir 1585cc 28 PICT

Ray, Kent WA

A loose rattlesnake in the living room ends discussion of animal 
rights

 

 

-----Original Message-----

From: bus-snob [mailto:hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net ]

Sent: Thursday, May 02, 2002 1:00 AM

To: vintagebus

Subject: [VB] Weird Valve Adjustment

 

 

 

i just built a 1600 Single Port. new mahle p/c's, 

AB 10mm studded german case (that has not had the cylinder "faces" decked 
or

 

machined), reground cam (web-cam), new german (old stock) lifters, 
new

brazilian 

heads, rocker shafts and pushrods from a previously running engine i had 
for

 

many years.

 

piston deck height is fine (although i forget the 

exact measurement). rocker arm geometry is excellent.

 

here's the dilemma: when initially adjusting the 

valves, i had to screw the adjuster screws WAY IN, to the point where 
there

is 

maybe 2mm still exposed from the locknut. this is in sharp contrast to 
the

last 

engine (that these particular rocker shafts/pushrods came off of) where the 


adjuster screws were further back and had alot more exposed past the 

locknut.

 

i am used to seeing the screws with about 5mm 

exposed, and 2mm (at most) kinda scares me due to the inevitable lifter 


wear, screw wear, etc that may cause the need for adjusting them in even 


further.

 

one thing that i noticed that makes me feel 

confident that something is not wrong with assembly/measurements (too 
wide

or 

too short) is that the manifold (regular 1600 single port steel 
manifold)

fit 

perfectly into the head opening holes without strain, stress, or a 
big

hammer. 

they fit in amazingly well. another thing is also the genuine german 
vw

muffler 

fit on perfectly as well and also required no BMF-hammer 

modifications.

 

i ran-in the engine this afternoon and it sounds 

fine. i guess tomorrow morning's valve adjustment will tell something 


hopefully.

 

so should i be concerned about the large amount of 

threads showing between the rocker arm and the valve head and the hardly 
any

 

showing behind the locknut? should i put valve lash caps on to make up 
some

of 

the difference?

 

any help, suggestions, etc 

appreciated.

 



 

 



 

------=_NextPart_84815C5ABAF209EF376268C8--

