From: Ronnie Feitelson <Ronnie(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Claralw(-at-)aol.com, Ronnie(-at-)oldvolks.com, Ronnie(-at-)oldvolks.com, 
Date: Mon, 10 Sep 2001 10:29:38 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] US camper kit /Weber carb ???s

  If I recall right the WEBER copy was a copy of a carb from Japan that I
have only ever seen 1 of.

ronnie

-----Original Message-----
From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com [mailto:Claralw(-at-)aol.com]
Sent: Monday, September 10, 2001 9:03 AM
To: Ronnie(-at-)oldvolks.com; Ronnie(-at-)oldvolks.com; vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] US camper kit /Weber carb ???s


ya- I think Riviera has the long window in 66 or 67- I have seen them on 
splitties.  It has that tent rail on the roof too- the one you pull the bead

edge of a tent through.  Are you saying ASI is Riviera?   like EZ Camper is 
Camper of America is E-Z Camper of America?  

The table has metal edging, not plastic.  FWIW.  

Did Weber ever make those carbs for a sp VW?  Just wondering if it was a
made 
up repro or a repro of an actual item.   If that makes sense.  In any case, 
the carb is gummed up, gas smells like varnish.  

n a message dated 9/10/01 7:38:38 AM Pacific Daylight Time, 
Ronnie(-at-)OldVolks.com writes:

<<  Sounds like an ASI/Riviera converstion. ASI is in Washington state. The
 interior you discribed sounds like one out of a Bay ASI I parted out,
except
 the long window.
 
 ronnie
 
 -----Original Message-----
 From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com [mailto:Claralw(-at-)aol.com]
 Sent: Monday, September 10, 2001 3:57 AM
 To: Ronnie(-at-)oldvolks.com; vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
 Subject: Re: [VB] US camper kit /Weber carb ???s
 
 
 In a message dated 9/9/01 4:57:19 PM Pacific Daylight Time, 
 Ronnie(-at-)OldVolks.com writes:
 
 << Yes they are Weber knockoffs made in Brazil and imported by Johnneys
  Speed and Chrome and Claudes Buggys. This were one of the first cases of
  bootlegged items in the VW seen and was shut down by the FEDS!> There are
 NO
  PARTS available for these and they are good to use for bottom fishing
  weights. Maybe if I collect enough of them I could make 1 good one!  If
you
  look at them closely they do not say WEBER, just use there logo.
  
   >>
 I seem to remember that story vaguely.
 It has been on this bus since 93 at least- that the right time frame?
 
 other question- this 67 camper (with the pseudo W carb)  has a camper kit 
 with red vinyl red piping covering the camper cushions, the long window on 
 the drivers side- with a movable piece in front and back, center pane
fixed.
 
 wood (mahogany?) with brassy handles/hinges.  table top ugly yellowy 
 squiggly patterned formica.   Had a cooler unit which PO left somewhere,
 same 
 set up as a westy so 42 pretty much.  Is that the Sundial?  Riviera?  I
 never 
 can keep it straight.  to pull the bed out you pull straight back.  you can

 not flip the bottom of the seat up to get at stuff stored in there- you
have
 
 to open the cabinet door, meaning you cant leave stuff in the way.  Know
 what 
 I mean?  I can't get to the samba gallery right now to look at pics-  ya I 
 just bought this thing god know why, from a lady who says she bought it
from
 
 the OO.  But she is somewhat vague on details, bus sat since 94, it has
been
 
 a while.
 
 Clara
  >>
