From: Thom Fitzpatrick <thom(-at-)calweb.com>
To: Ronnie(-at-)OldVolks.com (Ronnie Feitelson)
Date: Mon, 10 Sep 2001 11:31:30 -0700 (PDT)
Cc: thom(-at-)calweb.com, Ronnie(-at-)OldVolks.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Overreving

My understanding of valve float was that the weight of the valve itself
was too much for the spring to be able to pull it back in time, which
is why in the higher-revving engines, they use lighter valves which 
can respond quicker, and in *really* high-revving engines (F1, mracing bikes), 
they eliminate the valve & spring concept altogether (electic, desmodromic or 
pnuematic valves, among other technologies).  The dual spring setup 
helped the valve come back faster, at the potential detriment of cam
and valve seat wear.

Given the choice between misfiring and an engine teardown, I'll take
the misfiring.  There are rev limiters which do selective spark elimination,
but that's a slightly more complicated system than the rev-limiting rotor.
How about using a rev-limiting rotor, but one just below the grenade-point,
ie 7000RPM - (-at-) that speed, you probably *do* want the engine to cut out
before it grenades.  On the 911, I was using the 7250rpm limiter, and
that was just above what that engine should have been doing, so if I hit it,
I'd get spanked and for good reason.

Once you get used to having a rev limiter, you learn to drive within it's 
bounds and you forget it's even there.

Ronnie Feitelson wrote:
>    What happens is the larger intake valve has air besides the cam moving
> the valve. The valve float is created by the suction of the piston pulling
> the valve down to far, actually hitting the top of the guide and hammering
> it out (at higher rpm's). The duel springs will keep this from happening.
> This is what I was informed of by the machine shop. The owner of the machine
> shop learned about VW engines by building racing engines for AUTOCRAFT for
> 15 years, so I listen to what he says, weather right or wrong. I don't like
> rev limiters as they cut the spark off and cause misfiring. I will be more
> careful and look at my tach when revving high and try to keep it under 6500.
