From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 12 Sep 2001 11:43:04 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 67 camper update

seeing as my wingnut is loose, probably misthreaded, I got this camper last 
weekend, and  I thought I'd tell you all about it.  Better stuff to think 
about than terrorists and destruction.   We have the technology!!!!  We can 
rebuild them!!!!!!!!  This is getting a bus going that has sat for many 
years, and has serious delayed maintenace.  The PO said she bought it from 
the OO.  Tags expired Jan 94, she said she stopped driving it due to bad 
steering (1/4 of turn of wheel play is bad).  I have a long list of catch up 
to do.

the front brakes were in good order, fairly at least.  the front wheel 
bearings looked beautiful.   cylinders still good, shoes ditto.  cleaned 
wheel cylinders out.  removed and cleaned out MC, replaced front hoses, the 
undercoating had been sprayed ove the brake hose clips- implies the old ATE 
brake hoses were original hm. cleaned rust form braking surface on drums.  
Drums were not wavy or gouged, so far so good, put it back together.   
Stepping on brakes you can hear the shoes move now, good. greased suspension. 
 adjusted link pins, a little play in kingpins , hope it'll steer okay, I 
have seen much worse.

Put front wheels on those stands for clearance.  feel safer than bang and pry 
with it on jack stands.  remove old drag link, was bad both ends.   installed 
replacement- play in wheel down to 2 to 3 inches- feels okay

removed old battery.  installed good battery.  check wiring.  replaced bulb 
in gen light for dash.   turn signals work.  E switch is in pieces.  tidied 
up wires (plug in loose ones) wires under front still stock and colour coded. 
 there is a oil pressure guage and head temp guage mounted by by the ashtray 
hole.  The head temp guage goes to an oil temp switch- oil temp and press on 
a T from the stock sender hole.  oil pressure idiot light wire does not go 
anywhere. hm.    put front wheels on ground.  changed oil, adjusted valves.   
oil looked good- no wierd chunks.  head clean under cover by rockers- not 
stained like you sometimes see.   oil pressure guage seems to work- reads 
when I start the motor (after replacing carb).  new gas line from carb to 
pump, from pump into spare can, as the old gas is nasty.   the old carb (fake 
weber) was seriously gummed.  think I'll replace the gas tank, rather than 
try to clean it.

replaced muffler that had mass holes in it.  I actually tore the glass pack 
of the header with very little effort.  

