Date: Tue, 4 Nov 2003 09:07:26 -0800 (PST)
From: west coast loafer <magicbus1974(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: checking for shorts

---resistance measurements are never taken with
voltage applied to the ckt. you have to
insure there is no voltage present.. i.e. unhook the
ground strap (risking a spark)
"""If you use an ohm meter you risk the chance of
blowing up the meter"""

--- most meters have fuse protection. But you can use
an external in line fuse if you wish.
"""If you use an ampmeter, you risk the chance of
blowing up the meter"""

---If you unhook the battery to measure current draw
you probably will get a spark as you
disconnect look for it.
"""If you look for a spark near a freshly charged
battery, you risk blowingup the battery"""

---Huh?------------- 
""If you use a voltmeter,, the better, high impedance
meters can lead you into thinking you have a load,"""

---this will work too but you still have to unhook a
lead from the battery.
""" as Jeff Myer wrote
http://www.type2.com/~type2reflect/msg71056.html"""
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A VOM should have high impedance on the "volts"
setting so that you "don't load" the ckt.
When measuring resistance the ckt should not be
energized. Resistance across a single
component can only be measured with the component out
of the overall ckt otherwise you are measuring the sum
total of the entire ckt. If you are just checking for
a short to
ground then this isn't a consideration.
 When measuring current you do not want any
"impedance". So with a VOM in the current measurement
mode the high impedance in the voltage ckt in the
meter doesn't come into play. These are 2 separate
functions. If you feel you may exceed the capacity of
your meter then you can insert a in line fuse holder
between the battery and your meter with little or no
effect on the measurement. In other words if your
meter is rated up to 10 amps then get a in line fuse
holder .. install a 10 amp fuse.. hook up the wire
from the fuse holder to the battery and attach the
lead from VOM on the other side. 
  In order to check for current draw you will need to
unhook one of the battery terminal wires.. I would
unhook ground. If there is an appreciable current draw
you will probably
get a spark at some point. This would be the spark I
said to look for. If you just charged the battery
(they will start to outgas around 80 to 90% full
charge) you should have already had the hatch open to
vent the engine compartment. If you want to be real
cautious set up a fan All that being said, a wire
will have to be unhooked regardless. 
  If you have a large current draw going on the
battery will go down quickly. If it is a dead short
you will have smoke coming from somewhere. If the
current draw is that large and the wire doesn't  heat
to the point where it opens then you will have a mess
of a battery.. they don't like dead shorts for any
length of time. 
  I always unhook the grnd strap.If while wrenching on
it I were to touch the wrench to ground nothing will
happen as it is already grounded. Taking your ground
off first is a good SOP anytime you mess with the
battery.


=====
~Dan's DAS BUS
http://www.geocities.com/vw_bus_74/index.html
~Wet Westies
http://wetwesties.type2.com/
~The afternoon knows what the morning never suspected.~
