From: "James Jackson" <firesong4ng(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 04 Nov 2003 17:53:30 -0600
Subject: re : Auxillary battery/Alternative Entertainment

I agree and disagree with the whole <1001 ways to shut the kids up> argument

I think if a parent's means to keep the kids quiet no matter what
is to stick them in front of a tv whether it's a trip around the block or
an 8 hour drive then there is a sad sad problem.

I think variety and a little of everything is what should be used.
I do a lot of travel with the kids (they are 8 hours from me) and I
implement a box of crayons/markers/coloring books/book to a bag
of barbies, music, music with headphones. Stops along the way
at cool points of interests. Games.. chitter chatter to involve them
in my life and me in theirs.  They are part of the family on a trip,
not just baggage or boxes we stuff in for the ride. Kids learn
from us what their places are, and how we relate to them.

I have a 15" tft I take with an xbox sometimes, sometimes my
ibook with dvd's.. it depends but never is it a be all end all. They
are always thinking, seeing and hearing.  I don't have the problems
my parents had, but then maybe my kids are angels by accident ;)

The one trip where the bus was in the shop for the weekend, on
the road, we had a blast. It wasn't stressful, it just was.

I think one of my favorite moments was coloring with them a picture
of my bus that I removed the colors off of, then printed. Photocopied
about 10 of them for fun.. but then there was also the "barbieworld in
the rubberduckie van' time too.

My 2 cents.

If you want copies of the bus coloring sheet let me know. It was alot of
fun and I could put it up on the website to print off.

James
p.s. Yah my parents would have done anything to shut us up too but I
think we would have preferred to be involved, not just invisible and quiet.


>I believe that if my parents could have, they CERTAINLY would have, used a
>TV or ANYTHING, that would have kept me from pestering my siblings.
