Date: Wed, 24 May 2006 08:55:28 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: darren(-at-)bama.ua.edu
Cc: Martin Strandgard <mnstra(-at-)unimelb.edu.au>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] msc problems

ok so last night was first trip i have taken yet that was over a 15 minute ride.. went across town and took me about 30 minutes... the temp was about high 70 low 8o's...thats usually when temp gets right up there..(it didnt though)
  i am still not sure if i did anything to help but so far so good...
   
   
  yes i was speaking of both sides of the heater box i plugged off and already had the side that goes into engine bay blocked all along so that wasnt a concern but i think redoing the battery tray made a world of difference..
  the air flow can flow through there like its suppose to..
   
  the condensor needs to be replaced but i dont know what condensor to buy...
  also now got to get another new set of points...
  that will make a difference as well... i have a condensor here but cant match numbers on busdepot site... anyone got a list of condensor numbers so i can match this one up i got to see if i can use it... ???
   
  will have to pull dizzy later on to see about what the dizzy numbers are and maybe match them that aways....
   
  thanks for al the help will keep updated.. also thinking of installing my external oil cooler i got....
  that will or should help tremendously...
   
  also i did vaccum out in the tiin holes and changed spark plugs .. the ones that came out #3 and #4 were soot black and numbers #1 and #2 were light ash grey .. so that means then that 3 and 4 are burning rich and 1 and 2 are burning lean..??
   
  so my carb might honestly be a big problem here also...as i have also thought all along...?
  i have another carb here thats new/r so i might try that and see what happens..only after i get the condensor straight though...
   
  peace
  chai
  

Darren Evans-Young <darren(-at-)bama.ua.edu> wrote:
  On Mon, 22 May 2006, Chai wrote:

>i also found my battery tray is gone gone gone... so i cut some sheet
>metal and was able to bond the sheet metal in there and seal it up pretty
>good with roof cement (roof patch)
>

...

> i also plugged off my holes for my heater boxes...
>

Right there are two places where hot engine heat can get
sucked back into the cooling fan.

I assume the holes for the heater boxes are the ones
in the engine compartment. Yes, plug those if you
don't have a fan (w/flaps) and a hose leading from the
holes to the fan.

I cut an aluminun soft drink can in half and crammed it on
there temporarily.

Darren Evans-Young
Tuscaloosa, AL
1979 Federal FI 2.0L



                                                                 Break out the shorts, tank tops and sandles........
     Tune up the Bus wash off the winter rust~!~
       It's camping season woohooooooo LETS GO CAMPING~!~
          






























			
---------------------------------
Sneak preview the  all-new Yahoo.com. It's not radically different. Just radically better. 
