Date: Thu, 25 May 2006 13:53:08 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Access Systems <accessys(-at-)smart.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2]HighTop transport and questions

Access Systems <accessys(-at-)smart.net> wrote:    
the bottom is rather weak side to side so I would certainly reccomend
crateing it if you ship it commercial, in fact I suspect they would
require it.. I have used Yellow Freight without problems
   
  do they crate it for you within the cost... and just a guess how much would something like that cost to ship bob.. i am saying just a guess and only asking cause you have shipped things similar maybe? using a big package handler..
  i wouldnt even know what to think 200 us 500 us? hard to say from here? hmmmm... waiting for a buddy to email me some measurements on the top and possible close weight of it...??


personally if at all possible I would bring it back myself. a set of long
roof racks would probably hold it just high enough that it would clear the
pop top. lash it on real good and drive slow. make sure there is at least
two "Mechanical" connections, ie. roof rack to roof rack to body so even
if it slipped it wouldn't fall off into traffic and cause an accident.
   
  yeah this will most likely be what happend is i drive up and get the top myself so saying that...
  what kind of roof rack will fit over the penthouse??? not sure what roof rack you mean here?
   
  i was honestly going to strap it directly to the penthouse top and also strap both of them down to the body maybe hooks on the bottom of the bus tight.....real tight....
   
  but i did not think about busting thre bottom yes that makes sense that it is thinner there ....
  i wouldnt even know where to begin on how to crate it up...? so the bottom wouldnt bust?
   
  ok ok so how about this...?
  what about if i put the hightop on the bus when i get there and take the penthouse off and strap it on the hightop...?
  or better yet drag my trailer along and pull the hightop or the penthouse one back on the trailer...
   
  i would have to still build some sort of rack  on the trailer to hold the top but that seems more likely than attaching and/or crateing it...?
   
  just didnt want to take my trailer up just one more thing to worry about(bearings etc) and also ..... its all pretty much up hill from my home to new hampshire ....going through mountains etc... blue ridge parkway....appalachian mountains....
   
  

also before leaving MEASURE how tall you are. last thing you need is to
ruin it at the McDonalds' drive thru...
   
  LOL hey bob i will man thanks for the heads up
   
   i stopped clogging my arteries along time ago at the fast food places... though
  hehehe~!~
  if it aint fish or veggies i dont eat it.....
  no land animals for me..
  unless i get a good rattlesnake then  i'll eat that cooked right.... .... rattlesnake is awesome...along side a set of wild rams(cherokee onions) grown in the moutains of asheville nc... yummy... food i grew up on... i miss eating like that... good times and good good food now good memories...
  

good luck
Bob
   
  thanks bob still plan on dropping in to see you on my trip if i get to take it... we will see....
  chai





                                                                 Break out the shorts, tank tops and sandles........
     Tune up the Bus wash off the winter rust~!~
       It's camping season woohooooooo LETS GO CAMPING~!~
