Date: Thu, 25 May 2006 18:17:05 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] Thermostat Photos

--- "Messa, Corbett (GE Indust, GE Fanuc)"
<Corbett.Messa(-at-)gefanuc.com> wrote:

> How easy are the flaps, that the thermostat
> connects, to move without the thermostat being
> connected? I looked last night and my thermostat is
> not connected. The wire is their, but attached to
> nothing. The spring for the flaps is in place, but
> when I try to turn the flaps by hand, it is very
> tight. I did not try to force it since I was not
> sure if it was jammed or what was wrong. 
> 
The spring holds the flaps in the "open" position.
When the bellows of the thermostat is expanded, it
allows slack wire to enable the spring to open the
flaps. As the bellows cools to its "collapsed" form,
it pulls with tremendous force.

By removing the bottom panel of your engine tin, on
the right side as it sits in the bus, you will be able
to see the thermostat plainly from underneath. If you
don't want to do this in "real" mode, do it cool and
use a heat gun to heat the bellows and watch it grow.
As I recall, when they pring a leak, they expand and
stay that way, but it's been a few years since I've
used them, so someone might join in here...

You can take your mini vice grips and attach to the
flap control shaft where the wire clamp is, and rotate
it. You should not be able to do it by finger strength
alone!

You can re-attach it when cold by using the vice grips
to rotate as far as you can, clamp the wire...

When opened up, however, you need to make sure there
is a slack wire. Not a loose wire, but slack, meaning
the flaps are totally opened.

By removing the two nuts that are labled in my photo
as adjustments, the entire bracket with bellows comes
off. You might want to mark the position first, as the
bracket is slotted where the nuts are and can be moved
fore-and-aft almost a half inch. Re-stringing the wire
isn't too tough - just string a stiff wire like baling
wire or welding rod down through the hole from on top.
Use that as a fish line to pull the wire up. Make sure
it's in the pulley.

Be sure to reattach your bottom cover. Hope this
helped. -BaH

'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2)
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01
