Date: Thu, 25 May 2006 22:41:43 -0400
From: mygroups <mygroups(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: ron(-at-)busdepot.com
Subject: Re: [T2] cross your fingers

>I'd love to have one, but not to drive in Italy. In Italy I think I'd prefer
>a tank or a bulldozer.  The Italians are the craziest drivers I have ever
>seen.  
>
>  
>

Sometime rent "Only You" and watch the road going to Sorrento from 
Naples (Ferrari ride)... We drove this several times in my Beetle and 
Rabbit 'vert. The Italians were bad about passing in the wrong places 
and such. Took a friend down the road and every few miles (for a few 
times) we would stop so I could take a picture and he could get out of 
my Beetle and get sick... <griN!>

I swear Naples and Sicily are the epicenters of nutty drivers. After 3 
years of running military police patrols I drove as crazy as them I am 
proud to say. Red traffic lights are a warning that cars might be 
cutting across the intersection so SLOW DOWN (not stop), yellow lights 
mean hurry up, and green lights were full speed ahead BUT beward of the 
crossing drivers who were running their red light...

Drove my Beetle down a few sidewalks - once to avoid a wild city bus... 
Gridlock was typical b/c southern Italians can't line up - they just 
have to crowd in... <griN!> 100 mph back and forth across town on the 
Tangenziale (cross town expressway), or backing up (NOT ME) "on" highway 
ramps b/c it was faster than the "off" ramp!

Or folks chasing emergency vehicles (including police and ambulances) 
b/c the police always made a way BUT never chase a sedan with bullet 
proof glass! Those carry somebody important and they have been known to 
get nervous if somebody is chasing too close. They are armed in those 
cars. Caribineri (state police) do carry Uzi machine guns... They don't 
like to be outgunned by the mafia...

Police would respond to an accident (during normal daylight hours) but 
would not stay for paperwork unless there was blood spilled They did not 
even respond sometimes at night unless there was blood spilled (not a 
safety thing, I felt safer in Italy than some of the American cities I 
have lived in or visited by the way)... I have some good stories about 
them. Wish our police could be like some of their police. Tough dudes.

I really came to appreciate European cars during my time there. Whether 
it was a cheap city car or a nice Audi/Peugeot/BMW/Alfa Romeo/etc sedan 
- they made cars that did what they were designed to very well. A city 
car was designed to stay in the city, be efficient and do slow speeds 
well. Who cares how noisy or slow it is when you only have to be able to 
run 80 kph? (see early Beetles). If you were going to travel, you need a 
real sedan. There are also rules of ettiquette for being on the 
autostrada. Flashing high-beams means get the heck out of the way, left 
blinker in the left lane means I'm rolling fast and stay out of my 
way... If you insist on driving that city car on the autostrada then 
stay the heck out of everyone's way - which is to say stay off the 
autostrada. I wish our interstates were so "organized".

Chris in Tennesee
'65 Beetle (disc brakes, Type IV 2.0, dual Dellortos, etc)
'78 Westy 2.7L (Corvair)
