Date: Wed, 5 Jan 2005 14:39:16 -0600 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: BBB travel from SE Texas

OK Volks,

Here are my current travel plans. If anyone would like to ride along let
me know. I'll be driving the '97 Chevy truck with room for 3 or 4
passengers (4 would be tight and hard for passengers to sleep) and
towing the '73 Riviera with room for "stuff".

Sunday the 9th I have to work from 7am to midnight. Monday I have to
take my Dad to a doctor's appointment at 11:30 AM. As soon as we are
done with that (it's at the VA so that could be after 4pm <grin>) we'll
probably have to make a grocery run for him. When all my running around
for the day is done I plan to head out.

When alone I tend to drive until I'm too wiped out to continue then I
pull into a truck stop and sleep in the driver's seat until I wake up on
my own. No alarm clocks or set rest schedule. This ensures I get enough
rest to not be dangerous on the road, my body let's me know when I'm OK.
Sometimes I only sleep an hour, sometimes it's 6 hours or more -
whatever my body decides it needs. I *do not* get hotel rooms on the
road. I have a bad back and sleep sitting up 90% of the time -- plus I
tend to oversleep (12+hours) if I'm laying down flat <grin>.

Leaving at ~6pm Monday and driving like that I expect to be in Havasu by
dawn Wednesday. With multiple drivers some of the time could be knocked
off, but not a whole lot. It would still be a VERY late Tuesday arrival
requiring a few hours sleep somewhere to make it a Wednesday morning
arrival and avoid rousting Havasu bus people from bed.

If you're willing to drive a Rabbit convertible back to Texas for me
then we will drop the Rivi in Havasu and continue on another 300+ miles
to Huntington Beach, CA to pick it up. Driving the Rabbit back is NOT a
requirement for getting a ride to Havasu. I've already decided to skip
buying it if the logistics don't work out. Picking it up would put us
back in Havasu Wednesday afternoon/night if we drop the Rivi at dawn.
Earlier if I can find a place to drop the Rivi without waking someone up
at night.

I'm off from midnight the 9th until 7am the 20th.

I plan to leave Havasu Sunday afternoon and will be back home late
Monday night or early Tuesday. This means you need to have at least 8
days off -- Monday the 10th to Monday the 17th. I would suggest being
off at least Tuesday as well. Shit happens.

I am departing from, and returning to Silsbee, TX 77656. I live in
Groves, TX but the Rivi is parked in a storage unit where I work right
now. I will be travelling on I-10 all the way so I can pick someone up
if you're not too far off the path. Houston, San Antonio, El Paso, etc.

If anyone would like to join me on this adventure drop me an email or
call 409-767-9213. Leave a message if I don't pick up. Voicemails get
emailed to me so I get them even if I'm at work. I'll be at work from
Thursday to Sunday but it's going to be stupid-busy this week (moving
several servers from one Class C network to another as we switch T1
providers) so it's best to leave a message with a time I can call you
back.

Gerald
