Date: Wed, 5 Jan 2005 14:50:14 -0600 (CST)
From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
To: Seann Stafford <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Wind Sheer

Folks,

Same with me, last week we had 35mph+ gusts at exact right angles to the 
direction I was traveling and it was bad...not as bad as my 67 in the 
olden days, but worse than I expected.

My 78 had new kyb shocks, steering dampner and new correct yoko's all 
around.  It was bad enough at some times that if my attention wandered for 
just a couple of sconds, I was starting to cross my lane marker.

Has anyone tried the gowesty fix that Richard posted last week or so?

I would love to try it(money permiting), but have brand new tires on mine 
now.

My ball joints and linkages feel tight and good and the steering seems 
tight otherwise.

Does anyone have the book that talks about suspension and handling mods 
for buses?  Any discussion in there about the causes of the wandering?
My opinion is that it is just that the front tires really don't have much 
weight on them.

Anyone every drive in bad crosswinds and then pick up someone else in the 
front seat and drive back in the same sort of winds?....better or worse?

Cheers, dave

-- 
-------------------------------------------------------------------
"I'm more interested in getting it right, than being right"....dave


On Wed, 5 Jan 2005, Seann Stafford wrote:

> List,
> 
> Oregons Willamette Valley has been blasted with 48 mile an hour winds lately
> and Freidrich has been buffetted relentlessly.  My suspension and drive
> train was completely refitted within the last two months and has been
> driving, turning and stopping perfectly.  I just don't see it improving much
> more than it already has.
> 
 My point here is:
 What is it about the mechanicals (not the obvious aerodynamic issue) that
 causes a bus to be tossed about in wind so much more than an Econoline which
 is almost equally aerodynamically challenged?  
snip
 I drove home behind a bus that belonged to some other commuter yesterday and
> he was dealing with same issues.  I'm thinking its an engineering issue?
> please lend me your opinions and experiences.
> 
> Seann Stafford
