To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: rc <rcnotes(-at-)comcast.net>
Date: Fri, 7 Jan 2005 22:25:55 -0500
Subject: Road Trip

We're leaving on Sunday 1/9 to Albuquerque and Mexican Hat to pick up 
the Westy on 1/10. The return trip is Eastbound I-40 through Amarillo, 
Oklahoma City, Little Rock, Memphis, Nashville, and up to I-75 north to 
Lexington, Cincy and then home to Ann Arbor.

Begging pardon for the bandwidth, but our interest in German cars goes 
back some years and this is our first bus, a '78. I've always admired 
the Type 2. My wife and I drove ('94 Corolla) to Albuquerque 8 years 
back and rented a Vanagon from Roamin' Holidays. It was a memorable 
vacation. We toured the Four Corners region and visited all the parks, 
monuments and ruins in the area. The bus was a gas. Drive, camp, and 
enjoy the view wherever we stopped. The view out the big glass was 
fabulous, and we swore that we'd have our own camper some day. Eight 
years later, we got a little dough from my father's passing and decided 
to buy a bus. My parents would have appreciated our desire for road 
trips and adventure. I'm not too bad a shade tree mechanics and having 
owned and maintained air cooled units before we knew there was a 
commitment was to owning a VW.

Strangely (or coincidentally) my wife and I met 30 years ago in 
Greeley, CO on Amtrak. Sunday we're making a return trip west to drive 
back in a vehicle we toured in 8 years ago. Incidentally (or strangely) 
the last time we drove through Monument Valley was in an Austin Healey 
that we purchased in California and drove back to Michigan about 25 
years ago. The Healey was too much of a project and is being parted 
out. The bus, with most of the hard stuff already done by the PO is 
coming home to Michigan.

With a family name like Cronn, I guess I was destined to drive a German 
vehicle. I'm sure if my name was Roger Pantyshield or some such 
Anglican moniker it would have been another story.

Wish us luck and I'll report back when we're home.

Rick 
