From: Ian Janes <ian.janes(-at-)whro.org>
To: "'rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com'" <rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com>, josh brothers
Date: Wed, 12 May 2004 10:13:28 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] Old Panel in a  field pictures...

Where are you?

-----Original Message-----
From: rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com [mailto:rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com]
Sent: Wednesday, May 12, 2004 10:13 AM
To: josh brothers; vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Old Panel in a field pictures...


At 12:08 AM 5/12/2004, you wrote:
>man, you need to try to get that bus, it doesnt look all that bad, hell, i 
>got a 64 camper in worse condition sitting in my yard and the guy im givin 
>it to is gunna get it running and drive it every day. at least get the bus 
>and try to sell it, maybe someone will restore it.

Come and get it then! No really!

I've heard this before and have to say, put your money where your mouth is. 
I'll be happy to pull it from the field and bring it home. Then you pay me 
the cash it cost from the owner (if any) and the gas and mileage on my 
vehicle to get it home. Forget my time. I'll keep the bumpers. Then it's 
yours. But you gotta pay me now and come get it next week.

Why this reaction? Because I've had at least 5 other busses over the last 
few years that were in much much better shape. Got pictures to prove it. 
Brought 'em home thinking someone would want one. Asked hardly anything for 
them, literally $500 or less for each one. I eventually sold the one that 
was in best shape to a list member...barely. I wonder sometimes if he 
regrets buying it and what's happened to it since. The others no one would 
ever buy. So they sat here. I eventually ended up parting them out because 
I needed the space.

THAT turned out to be the right thing to do. The parts saved other busses. 
I got a few parts. And I made some money back.

So really, unless you wanna come get it, don't tell me I need to save it 
and put it on the road.

If I do get it, which it's possible I won't be able to swing, I'll part out 
anything that might be usable and the rest will go to the scrap yard. 
That's just the way it is. Some busses are for parts, some aren't. This one 
is for parts. And not even good much for that.

Rex Rogers 
