From: "Gene Cornelius" <mizamook(-at-)starband.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>
Date: Wed, 12 May 2004 22:24:07 -0700
Subject: Re: [BSKA] Toe-in Adjust (Rebuilt Spindles and Center Pin!)

Again, thanks for the replies and suggestions...keep 'em coming!

Here's the latest:  (But first a positive note:  I installed 6/32 thread
T-nuts behind the holes for my front door panels with Shoe Goo....that way I
can use screws on my new door panels instead of those stupid clips!...easy,
undo-able modification!)

Front end news:  The steering is tight, but not too much...I think that if I
drive it for a bit the kingpins will start to allow grease.  So that's not
the problem any more.  Here are a couple problems:

1.  When I jammed more grease into the center pin, it made clunking noises,
and seemed like it moved down.  I checked for sloppy installation signs, but
everything seems good.  What gives?

2.  I checked the camber of the front wheels with a couple carpenter's
levels....the right wheel has positive camber (quite noticeable), and the
left has a small amount of negative camber.

I'd rather have negative camber than positive, so I am going to raid another
one of my buses (temporarily) for the trailing arms....assuming that they
are not bent, and put them on the right side.  I'll get reconditioned
trailing arms later.

But back to the driving part....I cannot drive this bus over 45 mph without
feeling like I'm gonna roll it.  The tiny little corrections I make to keep
a bus going straight have little effect, and the tendency is now to swing
the wheel more than I would, but then immediately bring it back to less than
the curve demands, because the bus "digs" and darts in the direction I am
turning.  This is bad.  At appreciable speed, it could spell unrecoverable
disaster!

I'll see what happens after I replace the trailing arms....

BTW, the offset of the trailing arms on the right (the bent side) is 9mm,
and the offset of the left is 7mm.  According to the charts, 7mm is perfect,
and 9mm is at the outer edge of shimability.

I am frustrated...give me back my floppy, dependable steering!

Thanks,

Gene Cornelius
mizamook(-at-)starband.net
