From: <type2(-at-)thebugbox.com>
To: "Vintage List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 14 May 2004 11:34:07 -0500
Subject: Re: [VB] No Response - 2nd Try: Help Tuning My Bus

There is going to be no 'one stop shop' plug it into a computer and spit out
an answer on this on.  While my experience is limited in the dual carb
arena, I do a lot of Holley tuning.  With all of the different Jet
combinations, accelerator pump combinations, Nozzle combinations, idle
combinations, there are almost millions of possible carb tuning iterations.
What you need to focus on is running rich/lean and engine temperature.  I
suggest going to a drag strip, as tearing around in your local city is not a
good idea.

Here's a good sight to read your spark plugs for lean/rich.
http://www.motocross.com/motoprof/moto/mcycle/plug2/plug2.htm

I also suggest getting a carb tuning book for your certain carb of choice.
I have 5 different carb books laying around, not counting fuel injection.
Always read, read, read.  Every time I read through my carb books, I pick up
something I didn't the last time. The experts have no mystical power, they
figured it out by constant tuning and learning.

Also, as far as timing, I use the decklid method.  With the decklid up, you
will notice that it 'shimmy's' when the engine is running.  Set your timing
to where the decklid vibrates the least.  This will be a real close setting.
Drive it a few minutes, shut it down, then feel your dipstick.  If it's too
hot to touch, you need to back off a bit.  Drive a few minutes, shut it
down, then feel your dipstick.  If it's still too hot to touch, advance it a
bit.  I've driving thousands of miles in VW's never tearing an engine up.  I
usually lose them to low oil ;(

This is much better than someone saying 'set it at x degrees', because now
you have exactly what your engine likes in your elevation/climate.  As the
weather gets colder/hotter you will need to adjust accordingly, but if you
drive regular, you will be tuning the car every 3k miles.

Valve adjustment, I would stick with the standard .008 during break in, then
.006 after that.  You will need to adjust your timing after that.

I hope this helps some
Charles
www.65ss.com (not bus related, but what I have sold my bus to help finish.
I still have my Oval though!)
