Date: Thu, 15 Jun 2006 20:30:15 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] VW's minivan

>On Wed, 14 Jun 2006, Todd wrote:
>
>I'd kill for a current production Brazilian bus.

	Some have been imported to NZ and have earned a rather bad 
reputation.  Quality sounds evil from tom-toms.  The most recent I've 
noticed still had the flush louvres  -  no air scoop on the intakes. 
Alcohol versions are of some interest.

>However, 95% of current
>US buyers would think that that vehicle is crude.

	Ralph Nader tried to put me off the road in '65 for lack of 
frontal protection, and I've suffered serious injury in a head-on 
cab-over crash (Nissan C22), but I think a much stronger frontal 
protection structure need not be very heavy.
	Nader's other carp was potential gassing by carbon monoxide 
in heater gas blown over damaged exhaust pipes.  IMHO the class of 
owner willing to inspect & maintain the T2, with some improved design 
& materials, is a significant market.  I'm vaguely reminded of the 
Enfield 350 & 500cc Bullet still made in India 3 decades after the 
Poms moved on (and soon demised comprehensively).  More reliable coil 
& breaker parts, and a few other sensible modernisations, make the 
old plodders good value.  Jawa strokers of the 1980s may be another 
example.
	Oversteer is the basis of my reflexes in cornering fast, and 
I fear I'm too old to get used to the opposite movements required by 
understeer.  A modestly improved bus & camper could be made in 
Brazil.  Mexico could reopen a bus (& beetle) factory.  A decent 
2-bbl carb, perhaps some vacuum assist for the brakes, and water 
injection when we can find where to slap in the water   ;-)  ... 
about as extravagant, and as complex, as the overdeveloped world 
should aspire to, no?
	 Of course there's a market.  Even a hard core of Yanks, 
surrounded by extravagance, stick to the fabulous late aircooled T2; 
they would be one basis for making a slightly modernised version. 
When are they going to get stuck in to water injection?  This is 
likely to prove the easiest 10% petrol savings, as well as improving 
cooling & emissions.

R
