Date: Thu, 15 Jun 2006 22:37:48 -0400
From: mygroups <mygroups(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net
Subject: Re: [T2] VW's minivan

>... like the Pontiac Solstice, and some of the vehicles 
>from Dodge. But WHY didn't Volkswagen produce the retro rendition of the VW 
>Bus? I KNOW lots of people would have bought one.
>


Anyone noticed the Vauxhall Astra Twin-top? WOW... Change that 1.6L to a 
2.0L and I'd be happy... Heck, the 1.6L engines I drove in Opels were 
pretty spritely int he early 90's when I lived in Italy. Hey for you 
folks that don't know - a Vauxhall is a GM! HELLO GM? What not sell it 
here - and NOT a derivative PLEASE!

They won't b/c they think Americans just want big SUVs and big trucks. 
The Asians will beat them at that game here in a few years and then GM 
will really be screwed.

Leave the rest of that Vauxhall just the way it is. Seems like when they 
bring Opels/Vauxhall to America they screw up their good looks (see 
Catera with left to right Buick style tailights, see the Opel Frontiera 
vs the Saturn Vue, etc).

It's as if GM is saying WE know what you want without ever stopping to 
notice that people are snapping up all sorts of refined 4 cylinder cars 
such as the Camry, Golf, Altima, Camry, Prius, etc. Of course they have 
done this all my life - is it any wonder they hold little fascination 
with me. In the 70's when they finally started releasing something 
smallish to compete with the imports it was the Chevette and the Monza. 
No thanks. In the 80s it was a long list of FWD drive cars that came no 
where close to the Accord or Civic or the GTI or the Celica or the 
Supra. Same for Chrysler or Ford with the Fairmont derived cars. I'm 
speaking mostly for me, but they miss the mark again and again. I 
remember ridding in two family Celicas with a/c and sunroofs and nice 
steel wheels and then getting into a family member's Fairmont and 
another's AMC Concord and seeing cars that could be ordered with an AM 
radio and not even a cigarette lighter. Way different animals. Now 
Delphi has gone broke and they are dishing out millions of dollars of 
bonuses to the office guys, and GM is losing marketshare and the CEO 
makes how much?

That's why I drive VWs. Good quality. Reasonable parts prices if you 
know where to look. Long life even if they need a few repairs along the 
way (and I stay away from the auto-boxes). My '97 Cabrio is just right - 
power windows, manual HVAC controls, good engine and 34mpg. Compare the 
inside of the convertible top to something domestic. I get an additional 
carpet lined storage space when the top is up. My Camaro driving parents 
have a rubber lined trough...

I'd take a Eurovan but can't afford the Weekender I want so I'll gladly 
keep messing with our VW Bus.

Um GM, make all of your dealers GM dealers and sell all GMs. Kill off 
all of the rebadged vehicles (that minivan with the big nose ought to 
get one brand, not all of them), make Saturn pricing the norm, kill off 
Saturn and just sell Opels here. The Asians sell all sorts of cars with 
2.0L 4 cylinders and so can you...

Chris in Cookeville
