From: JDStanton5(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 17 May 2002 13:59:11 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Jerome Jamboree raffle bus needs list

First off, I would like to thank those on the list who have already responded 
with interest in helping get this single cab completed.  So far it has been a 
small pain getting the list out individually, however it is now posted on the 
ABC's website:

            www.arizonabusclub.com

Initially, we thought that doing a SC would be a relatively simple, 
uncomplicated project compared to previous raffle buses.  As it turns out, 
though, the needs/wants/wish list is just about as long as any so far.  
Perhaps because we were more detailed on this list.  We realize that there 
will probably be several item that just will not make it on the bus for 
Jerome.  We also realize that the ABC will probably wind up buying some items 
that just have to be there or else.  But, any and all donations, no matter 
how large or small will be extremely appreciated.

Anyway, Rustybus will try to keep the list as updated as possible with 'what 
& who' on donations.  All donations will be greatly appreciated and the donor 
will be credited on the list which will be printed in the ABC newsletter.  I 
have heard rumors to the efect that VW Trends will be publishing the list 
also, but I don't know the details or accuracy on that.

Once again, it is a 1966 Single Cab with the dual door or 'pass-thru' 
treasure chest and 12 volt electricals.  This SC will be the grand prize in 
the raffles at Jerome Jamboree 12.  Raffle tickets are $0.50 each, but will 
not be sold except at the event.  A (rather large) portion of the proceeds 
will go to charity.  Last year we gave $5000 to "Hacienda de Los Angeles," a 
facility that cares for permanently damaged victims of near drownings.  We 
also gave $4000 to the Animal Benefits Club, a no-kill animal shelter.  This 
year we are tentatively planning to give the Animal Benefits Club again, and 
the Jerome Volunteer Fire Department.

Thanks in advance for any help with this project,

Jon Stanton
President, ABC
