From: "Hart Ponder" <hponder(-at-)ci.palm-desert.ca.us>
To: "Vintagebus \(E-mail\)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 17 May 2002 16:07:53 -0700
Subject: Synthetic Oil Myths

------=_NextPart_000_0028_01C1FDBC.FF8B9020
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset="iso-8859-1"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

Myth #1: Synthetic motor oils damage seals.

Untrue. It would be foolhardy for lubricant manufacturers to build a product
that is incompatible with seals. The composition of seals presents problems
that both petroleum oils and synthetics must overcome. Made from elastomers,
seals are inherently difficult to standardize. Ultimately it is the additive
mix in oil that counts. Additives to control seal swell, shrinkage and
hardening are required, whether it be a synthetic or petroleum product that
is being produced.


Myth #2: Synthetics are too thin to stay in the engine.

Untrue. In order for a lubricant to be classified in any SAE grade (10W-30,
10W-40, etc.) it has to meet certain guidelines with regard to viscosity
("thickness"). For example, it makes no difference whether it's 10W-40
petroleum or 10W-40 synthetic, at -25 degrees centigrade (-13F) and 100
degrees centigrade (212 degrees F) the oil has to maintain a standardized
viscosity or it can't be rated a 10W-40.


Myth #3: Synthetics cause cars to use more oil.

Untrue. Synthetic motor oils are intended for use in mechanically sound
engines, that is, engines that don't leak. In such engines, oil consumption
will actually be reduced. First, because of the lower volatility of
synlubes. Second, because of the better sealing characteristics between
piston rings and cylinder walls. And finally, because of the superior
oxidation stability (i.e. resistance of synthetics against reacting with
oxygen at high temperatures.)


Myth #4: Synthetic lubricants are not compatible with petroleum.

Untrue. The synthesized hydrocarbons, polyalphaolefins, diesters and other
materials that form the base stocks of high-quality name brand synthetics
are fully compatible with petroleum oils. In the old days, some companies
used untested ingredients that were not compatible, causing quality synlubes
to suffer a bum rap. Fortunately, those days are long gone. Compatibility is
something to keep in mind, however, whether using petroleum oils or
synthetics. It is usually best to use the same oil for topping off that you
have been running in the engine. That is, it is preferable to not mix your
oils, even if it is Valvoline or Quaker State you are using. The reason is
this: the functions of additives blended for specific characteristics can be
offset when oils with different additive packages are put together. For
optimal performance, it is better to use the same oil throughout.


Myth #5: Synthetic lubricants are not readily available.

Untrue. This may have been the case two decades ago when AmsOil and Mobil 1
were the only real choices, but today nearly every major oil company has
added a synthetic product to their lines. This in itself is a testament to
the value synthetics offer.


Myth #6: Synthetic lubricants produce sludge.

Untrue. In point of fact, synthetic motor oils are more sludge resistant
than their petroleum counterparts, resisting the effects of high temperature
and oxidation. In the presence of high temperatures, two things happen.
First, an oil's lighter ingredients boil off, making the oil thicker.
Second, many of the complex chemicals found naturally in petroleum
basestocks begin to react with each other, forming sludges, gums and
varnishes. One result is a loss of fluidity at low temperatures, slowing the
timely flow of oil to the engine for vital component protection. Further
negative effects of thickened oil include the restriction of oil flow into
critical areas, greater wear and loss of fuel economy.

Because of their higher flash points, and their ability to withstand
evaporation loss and oxidation, synthetics are much more resistant to sludge
development. Two other causes of sludge --- ingested dirt and water
dilution --- can be a problem in any kind of oil, whether petroleum or
synthetic. These are problems with the air filtration system and the cooling
system respectively, not the oil.


Myth #7: Synthetics can't be used with catalytic converters or oxygen
sensors.

Untrue. There is no difference between synthetic and petroleum oils in
regards to these components. Both synthetic and petroleum motor oils are
similar compounds and neither is damaging to catalytic converters or oxygen
sensors.


Myth#8: Synthetics void warranties.

Untrue. No major manufacturer of automobiles specifically bans the use of
synthetic lubricants. In point of fact, increasing numbers of high
performance cars are arriving on showroom floors with synthetic motor oils
as factory fill. New vehicle warranties are based upon the use of oils
meeting specific API Service Classifications (for example, SG/CE). Synthetic
lubricants which meet current API Service requirements are perfectly suited
for use in any vehicle without affecting the validity of the new car
warranty. In point of fact, in the twenty-five years that AmsOil Synthetic
Lubricants have been used in extended service situations, over billions of
miles of actual driving, these oils have not been faulted once for voiding
an automaker's warranty.


Myth #9: Synthetics last forever.

Untrue. Although some experts feel that synthetic basestocks themselves can
be used forever, it is well known that eventually the additives will falter
and cause the oil to require changing. Moisture, fuel dilution and acids
(the by-products of combustion) tend to use up additives in an oil, allowing
degradation to occur. However, by "topping off", additives can be
replenished. Through good filtration and periodic oil analysis, synthetic
engine oils protect an engine for lengths of time far beyond the capability
of non-synthetics.


Myth #10: Synthetics are too expensive.

Untrue. Tests and experience have proven that synthetics can greatly extend
drain intervals, provide better fuel economy, reduce engine wear and enable
vehicles to operate with greater reliability. All these elements combine to
make synthetic engine oils more economical than conventional non-synthetics.
In Europe, synthetics have enjoyed increasing acceptance as car buyers look
first to performance and long term value rather than initial price. As more
sophisticated technology places greater demands on today's motor oils, we
will no doubt see an increasing re-evaluation of oil buying habits in this
country as well.


CONCLUSIONS

Since their inception, manufacturers of synthetic motor oils have sought to
educate the public about the facts regarding synthetics, and the need for
consumers to make their lubrication purchasing decisions based on quality
rather than price. As was the case with microwave ovens or electric lights,
a highly technological improvement must often overcome a fair amount of
public skepticism and consumer inertia before it is embraced by the general
population. But the word is getting out as a growing number of motorists
worldwide experience the benefits of synthetic lubrication. The wave of the
future, in auto lubes, is well under way.


Hart H. Ponder, Jr.

------=_NextPart_000_0028_01C1FDBC.FF8B9020--

