Date: Tue, 20 Jul 2010 11:27:17 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] my new bus

And because I didn't see where anybody mentioned it - keep your wits 
about you when dealing with gasoline. Do this work away from your house 
so if the bus DID catch on fire you wouldn't lose your house to it. 
Disconnect your battery. Have a large fire extinguisher on hand and a 
helper would be nice.

Don't want to scare you - in 30 years of working on cars I've had two 
small fires. One due to a friend being reckless with gasoline and one 
due to my own stupidity. Neither caused any damage because we had fire 
extinguishers on hand.

Congrats on your Bus purchase!!! We've had decades of fun with our 
aircooled VWs. Always went through a period of cleaning up the previous 
owner's mistakes or neglect. Sometimes the previous owner just didn't 
think some parts were important so they discarded cooling or heater or 
exhaust parts. Once we got everything whole again, everything adjusted, 
and renewed things like brakes and fuel lines and gaskets at a minimal 
cost our aircooled VWs were just as reliable as a modern vehicle just 
with more maintenance requirements. All those oil changing and tune ups 
and valve adjustments don't take very long with some practice. Like 
someone said after the 1st engine pull, future engine pulls take a very 
short time. It took me two weeks to get my Beetle valves adjusted right. 
It was the first time I had adjusted valves before and I only had Muir's 
Idiot book and the Bentley manual to talk me through it. At the end I 
was a pro! Future valve adjustments were minutes instead.

We're in Cookeville, TN along I-40. If you get it over this way (Smokey 
Mtn trips) look us up!

Chris 'n Holly

'78 VW Westy 2.7L (Corvair implanted)
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L (Type IV powered)
'99 CR-V EX AWD - 200,800 miles and solid
'97 VW Cabrio - 171K miles, receiving interior rehab bit by bit
Brenderup 1205S
