From: Tim Frank <timros(-at-)netspace.net.au>
Date: Thu, 22 Jul 2010 21:22:45 +1000
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Keys

Chris

Any 'locksmith' that has to do what you describe is not a locksmith!!!

> Yes. Any good locksmith can make a key from a lock. I watched on do  
> it with the lock in place by twisting the blank key back and forth  
> HARD and letting the tumblers mark the key. He then cut a key with  
> a hand file. Couldn't be good for the long-life of the lock though.  
> Ought to be cheap too ($20 or so). Housecalls cost more of course.

A few comments:

1 -- On VW locks there is a code number on the tail of the drivers  
side door lock.  Simply remove the lock, clean the dirt from the tail  
piece and the number will be there.  For 74? on buses the code will  
be 2 digits, a letter and then 3 digits eg 27R004.  Original VW keys  
also had the number on them as well.

2 -- A 'good locksmith' would dismantle the lock and "read" the cuts  
from the waters to get a code if there wasn't one on the tail piece.   
He would look at the cuts then compare them with a computer program  
such as InstaCode which would confirm or not that the cuts made up a  
real VW code.

3 -- Doing what you saw a 'locksmith' do is rough and unprofessional  
if he was doing it 'HARD'.  Yes, you can impression a key by using a  
similar method to what you describe but with wafer locks (such as  
most automobile locks are) are not as easy as impressioning a key for  
a front door on a house.  It would be the last resort for a locksmith  
on an auto lock.  As VW locks are so easy to dismantle it certainly  
would not be a normal way to produce keys.

4 -- Sorry to be so pedantic but I've been a locksmith for over 30  
years and it really grates when I hear tales of unprofessional people  
damaging locks with the method you described.

5 --  Not sure what prices locksmiths in the US charge (perhaps Steve  
could chime in) but in Australia a typical price would be $25 -  
$30.00 for a key to code for a bus with a second key about $7.00.   
Making a key to the lock without a code would be $35- $40 dollars for  
the first key.

Hope the above helps.  Don't mean to come across too critical,  
perhaps what you saw looked 'HARD' but wasn't in reality.

Tim & Ros
76 Poptop
Tasmania
