Date: Sun, 05 Oct 2008 21:12:42 -0400
From: Dave Jersey <djersey(-at-)yadtel.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, bay buses <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Oktoberbus X trip report

So there I was, in the hollow behind the Coliseum.  Now what? I asked 
myself.  I immediately replied get set up, dummy!  So I did, and thus 
began Oktoberbus X, the return.  Not long after I get set up I heard, 
could it be? YES! a BUS!!  John ? and Anthony? in a cream splitty.  They 
went on by and set up in the next clearing over.  I drifted over and 
said Hi then left them to get set up.

A little later on i heard, YES! another bus!! It was the lovely Judy in 
her very sweet 66, and I was lucky enough to have Judy set up right next 
door.  She told me the tale of Ken who seemed to be going the wrong way 
when she saw him so we despaired of Ken coming along.  

A little while later we heard what we thought was a bus, but instead it 
was Ken in the vanagon doublecab.  We waved, using all our fingers, and 
let him get set up.

A while after that could it have been?  Yed indeedy yet another bus, Bo 
who came from about 5 miles further than I did, him living just up the 
road from me.

Then later on Mike and, please forgive me but I forget your name, 
chuffled on by and set up across from John and Anthony.  

A little later Casey came by and we chatted a bit and got his blessing 
to fetch a couple porta-castles.  I snagged Mike and Ken and we jumped 
in the Fordbus singlecab and we brought back 2 plastic poop boxes in 
short order.  Casey would have brought them down but his tractor was broken.

So with the human needs (well MOST of the necessities) taken care of we 
set to some SERIOUS camping.  Campfires and talking and all the usual 
good things that happen at campout did transpire there and it was good.

We heard the ghost bus driving around.  See way back in the day, 
according to folks who have been coming to YanHoy campground for a long 
time, a newlywed couple were on their honeymoon in their brand new 71 
westy.  They came to the Fiddler's convention and while driving around 
to find a place to camp, the feeling overwhelmed them and while still 
driving were locked in a most passionate embrace, hit a tree, and were 
killed.  Legend has it that they to this day can be heard driving around 
the campground looking for a place to park.  We decided that we did not 
want to see the ghostly occupants of the wrecked 71 westy so we opted to 
be really brave, stay at the campfire, and protect each other from 
certain ghostly trauma.

We talked about trying to guide the specters to the campfire for a while 
though so I hope the intention will suffice.  A little later on, after 
more campfire doings, we all opted for some shuteye and headed off to 
slumberland.

Saturday dawned, but I slept through it.  After a while I got up, 
started the coffee and since there were so few of us we did our own 
breakfasts instead of communal burrito making.  So I fired up a 
makeshift steamer and tossed in about 4 tamales from the Tienda Don 
Juan.  Mmmmm.  Tamales and coffee in the morning - breakfast of, well, 
Dave.  

We got back to serious camping activities, namely talking, SuDoku, 
walks, scouting out firewood, all those essential cool things about 
camping.  I succeeded in talking myself out of going running so went up 
to take a shower.  I put it back when I was done and wandered over to 
where Casey's tractor sat.  He seemed bummed that it had quit on him so, 
being mechanically reclined, and having a few old tractors to maintain, 
I thought I'd take a look.

So i did.  Nothing seemed amiss on the right side of the engine, noting 
it was a Massey Ferguson, british tractor so once I got done cringing I 
wandered over to the left side where things like injector pumps and fuel 
filters and such things live.  Drained the gunk out of the fuel water 
separator, and found a broken cable at the fuel pump.  Hmmm.  Tracing 
the cable back, surey nuff, it went to the shutoff lever.  I manually 
flipped the lever, ensured the tranny was in neutral, twisted the key 
and was rewarded with the sound of a Massey Ferguson starting right up!  
Finally got Casey on the phone and he came out.  I showed him what was 
wrong with the tractor, offered 3 solutions in descending cost and time, 
from installing a new shutoff cable to rerouting the old one and 
trimming the sleeve back to just reaching in and manually flipping the 
lever.

Having done my part to ensure the continued good will of the campground 
I went back to the campsite, Ken brought out some killer black bean dip, 
I broke out cracker and cheese and we had afternoon tea, without the 
tea, or traditional afternoon tea fare but it was still good.  Made a 
sammich to go with jalapeno pringles and i tell you what it was a repast 
fit for a king!

We make a fire, and resumed sitting around it listening for the ghost 
bus.  Then there was Godzilla!  We saw his silhouette plain as 
anything!!  Saw Venus, and Jupiter, and moon set and yes all those 
things were real!  So we all talked about how everyone that wasn't there 
really missed out of a first class campout that will, we are certain, 
become legendary.  After a while we all retired back to slumberland, the 
weather being absolutely perfect for sleep.

Sunday dawned, I missed that too.  Bo left about 7:30.  I got up started 
coffee, greeted the awake people, then went for a run around the 
campground, because I was naughty saturday.  running down the hill back 
to the site I smelled burnt coffee and knew that mine was ready.  It 
was.  Ken left soon after i got back.  Had coffee, looked at Judy's 
throttle cable, recommended she get it changed along with her oil, and 
worked on breaking camp.

Called my mom, it being sunday, then finished breaking camp, jumped in 
the fordbus singlecab, and thus ended Oktoberbus X, the return.

Those of you that missed it, really missed out.  Those of us fortunate 
enough to have made it are truly the lucky ones, for the tenth 
anniversary of a campout happens just once, just like you make your 
first album only once.

I returned to the castle and dealt with 2 other groups in my life, 
different tales for different lists.

G'night
Mad Uncle Dave
