Date: Mon, 6 Oct 2008 01:46:24 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: converting a gas heater from 6V to 12V

> From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
> Date: Sun, 5 Oct 2008 11:22:47 -0400
>
> As I recently converted my bus to 12V, with help from the list. I now
> have a great gas heater that is 6V. What do I need to do to convert
> it to 12V, anyone know?

You have to crimp the fuel line to the heater to reduce the gas flow by
50%.  That way it has half the fuel and twice the voltage and everything
will be fine.

:)

Seriously: The simplest thing to do is to install a resistor in the main
power wire to the heater.  I've only seen a couple of gas heater
schematics, but if I remember right, most of them are pretty
self-contained electrically - they ground through the mounting bolts of
the heater itself, and they have one hot wire that connects to the stock
Bus electrical system, maybe at the battery, starter, or the fuse panel
under the dash.

The trick is knowing what value of resistor to use - how many ohms.  You
can make some measurements and do some math and buy a fixed-value
resistor, or you can use an adjustable resistor and adjust it until
things work well.  You also have to think about the power rating of the
resistor - how many watts is it good for.  Usually you select a resistor
with a power rating about 1.5x to 2x of what you actually need, to make
sure the resistor doesn't burn up.  In other words, if you think you
need 15 watts, you buy a 25 watt or better resistor; if you think you
need 25 watts, you buy a 50 watt or better resistor, etc.

If you want to measure, the measurements you have to make are the
voltage to and current drawn by the heater when everything on the heater
is running - in other words, when it is burning fuel and making heat.
The voltage is easy to measure; the current is a little trickier but not
too hard.  Once you have these two numbers, you can multiply them to
find out the power drawn by the heater (watts), and divide the voltage
by the current to find the resistor value (ohms).  For instance, if you
measure 6.2 volts and 8.4 amps, the heater is drawing 6.2 * 8.4 =
52 watts, and the resistor you need is 6.2 / 8.4 = 0.74 ohms.  Since
we want to cut the input voltage in half, the resistor has to get rid
of as much power as the heater takes - 52 W.  A 100 W resistor would
work for sure; you might get away with one rated 75 W or so; a 50 W one
would be marginal.

If you want to buy an adjustable resistor, some of the VW vendors sell
one.  These have a sliding contact that you can move along the body of
the resistor to change the value.  The late-model fan resistor that Mark
Dearing mentioned is also an adjustable resistor; you are just limited
to two or three choices of resistance (which is likely close enough).
You can't use a "pot" or variable resistor from Radio Shack - the kind
with three terminals, a round metal body maybe 1" diameter by 0.25"
thick (or even 25 mm dia x 6 mm thick), and a shaft - those are for
low-powered stuff and are rated maybe 1 or 2 watts.

If you have the sliding contact kind, put the contact in the middle, and
wire it in.  If you have a fan resistor, hook up what you think is the
right combination and and wire it in.  (The way the fan resistors are
usually used is that battery voltage comes in at one end.  The closest
terminal to that end is the least voltage drop, and thr furthest one
away - the one that uses the whole length of the resistor - is the most
voltage drop.  These resistors are almost always open coils of wire, so
it's easy to tell what's going on when you're holding it in your hand.
One of the late-model nuts will now chime in and say that the VW fan
resistors aren't like that. :)  )  The heater will most likely have its
own fuse; if at all possible, put the resistor AFTER the fuse, so if
the resistor goes badly wrong, the fuse will blow.  It should go battery
voltage - fuse - resistor - heater.  Don't let any of the resistor
contacts, or the open coils of wire on the fan resistor, touch ground.

Start the heater, and when it fires up and is burning fuel, measure the
voltage to the heater.  The easiest place is probably at the resistor
you just installed.  If it's below 6.0 V, you need less resistance, and
if it's above maybe 8.0 V, you need more resistance.  If it's between
those two values, you're pretty close to right.  If you need to adjust
the resistor, shut off the heater first!  If you have the sliding kind,
take the resistor out of the circuit to adjust it - if you slip with the
screwdriver you will at best blow the heater fuse and at worst cause
much excitement.  If you have the fan resistor, you can just plug and
unplug the wires carefully.  Once you get it into that 6.0 V to 8.0 V
range, you're pretty close to right.

If you're feeling thorough, you can check it under the extreme
conditions to make sure that the voltage to the heater never gets too
low or too high.  You can do this in your garage or in the driveway; you
don't have to drive around to do it.

The "best case" is when your heater needs the least juice but the Bus
has the most to give.  Start the engine and run it at maybe 1000 or 1500
rpm for 5 or 10 minutes - the idea here is to recharge the battery from
the drain of starting.  Turn on the heater enough to make it come on and
start burning fuel, but don't crank it all the way up.  Keep the engine
at 1500 rpm to keep the generator or alternator charging.  When the
heater stops burning fuel, but the blower is still going, measure the
voltage to the heater.  If it's way over 8.0 V, you might add a little
more resistance.

The "worst case" is when your heater needs the most juice but the Bus
has the least to give.  Start the engine and let it idle.  Go up front
and crank up the heater.  Also turn on the headlights (low beam) and
the wipers.  Turn on the turn signals (left turn; pretend you're a
NASCAR pit mechanic :) ) and throw a cinder block on the brake pedal to
make the brake lights come on.  Go back in the back and measure the
voltage to the heater (engine still at idle) while the heater is burning
fuel; if it's way below 6.0 V, you might take out a little resistance.

You may have to go back and forth a little and find the best compromise.
You don't have to freak out about hitting *exactly* 6.0 V or 6.3 V or
7.0 V or whatever; the heater was designed to deal with an automotive
electrical system, which is a moving target anyway.  On a 6 volt nominal
system, a gadget might be designed to *work* over a range of maybe 6.0
to 7.0 V, and to not *asplode* over a range of maybe 5.5 to 7.5 V.
(12.0 - 14.0, 11.0 - 15.0 for all you late model freaks.)

From looking at an old Eberspaecher manual, it seems like low voltage is
a little bit worse than high voltage; they claim that their 6 V heaters
may not run right - the combustion will be poor - if the voltage at the
heater drops below 5.8 V or 5.6 V (each figure is used at a different
place in the manual).

Please note that if you happen to measure the voltage at the heater side
of the resistor with the heater totally shut off, you will measure
battery voltage or very close to it.  Don't freak out - this is just
because there is no load on the resistor, other than the load of your
voltmeter (which is very tiny on purpose - for a modern digital meter,
something like 0.000001 amps at 12 V).  As soon as the heater comes
on and there is a substantial load, the voltage will drop to something
within reason.

Once you're happy with it, you need to mount the resistor.  You have to
think about this a little, because 1) the resistor will get HOT in
operation, and 2) you don't want it to ground out on anything.  1) means
that you can't mount the resistor right next to a fuel line or wiring
bundle or anything like that.  You also can't just zip-tie it, because
the zip-tie will probably melt.  2) is an issue for both the sliding
adjustable resistor and the fan resistor; the adjustable resistor has
terminals on the ends and bare spots along the body that are
electrically "live"; the exposed coils on the fan resistor are
electrically "live".  The sliding resistors usually come with a couple
of metal brackets that plug into the ends of the ceramic tube body of
the resistor; this is OK because they don't touch any of the live parts
of the resistor.  You just drill a couple of holes and use small screws
and nuts, or sheet-metal screws.  The fan resistors usually have a
plastic base plate with a couple of holes in it; you can probably put a
small screw and nut through one of these and through a bracket that you
make.  If you are feeling really green, mount the resistor *inside* the
Bus, so the extra heat it provides goes into warming up your toes,
rather than just being thrown away.  :)

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds
