From: Jim Arnott <jrasite(-at-)eoni.com>
Date: Sat, 25 Oct 2008 13:30:59 -0700
To: Type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "vintagebus ((vintagebus))"
Subject: Fwd: Boston Bob Fund - Current Status

Begin forwarded message:

From: Larry Chase <roadguy(-at-)ROADHAUS.COM>
Date: October 25, 2008 12:06:59 PM PDT
To: vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM
Subject: Boston Bob Fund - Current Status
Reply-To: Larry Chase <roadguy(-at-)ROADHAUS.COM>

Volks,

I am so proud and honored to be part of such an incredible community.

Yesterday the donations started arriving for the Boston Bob Fund,
beginning with an incredible $2,000 donation by Daryl Christensen of
AA Transaxle.

Since then we have received donations from 44 individuals for a total
monies collected of  = $5,812.00

This is an incredible beginning and each and every donation is
extremely appreciated

The donation period for the Boston Bob Fund will continue through next
weekend.

100% of every donation goes directly to the Donalds family.

They really need all the help we can give.

In two of our largest on line groups ... Vanagon.com & WetWesties ...
we have over 2,000 members.

This doesn't take into consideration any other online groups, forums
or clubs.

Wouldn't it be something if we could average a $5-$10 donation from
every single member of every VW group, forum or club.

Yeah I know ... probably not realistic ... but we can dream, can't we?

A personal plea ....

If you haven't sent a donation and feel you have received something of
value by being a member of our VW communities,

Please help if you can.

Donations can be made via PayPal or Charge Cards thru the Roadhaus.com
PiF Fund at,

www.roadhaus.com ... then click on the  "Donate" Pay It Forward Fund
icon.

Or go to PayPal.com and send a donation to roadguy(-at-)roadhaus.com

Or send a check or money order made out to Larry Chase to:

Larry Chase
2512 Calle De Rincon Bonito
Santa Fe, New Mexico 87505

Please send me an email (roadguy(-at-)roadhaus.com)  if you are mailing a
Check/Money Order donation.

Maggie & I will donate all PayPal Fees so that 100% of every
contribution goes directly to the need.


Larry
roadhaus.com
