Date: Thu, 30 Oct 2008 22:27:32 -0400 (EDT)
From: david raistrick <keen(-at-)type2.com>
To: Type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>, Vintage Bus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Type2.com failure, impending shutdown (or, call for volunteers)

Folks,

Firstly, it's been a great run.  11 years and counting, 12 years in
January, since type2.com was created.   Kudos to Ken Hooper for filling
the need!  And thanks to Steve Dolan for keeping us online after Ken
retired!


Next, the bad news.  The server that runs type2.com came online in
July 2001.  That makes it 8 years old.   That's a long run for a bottom
end server!   The latest set of memory (which is probably 4 or 5 years
old and possibily second hand at the time) has been kicking the bucket for
the past few weeks.  You've probably noticed that our availability and
uptime were not what they once were...


The volunteers that keep the site, server, and lists up (right now, that's
George Lyle, David Schwarze, Matt Roberds, Ted Finesman and myself with
lots of help from other people over the years) have all found that we
don't have as much energy to put into the upkeep as we used to.   So
everything has been on autopilot for a few years.


That's worked OK, since traffic on the lists has reduced....but traffic
has gotten really low, and now things are broken.


A few quick stats for unique emails sent through the lists:

type2:
 September 2008: 252
 September 2007: 517
 September 2002: 1870

vintagebus:
 September 2008: 40
 September 2007: 98
 September 2002: 1216



Obviously our readership has dropped pretty far.  Donations have vanished,
too.



I think it's time for a new chapter in type2.com's history.   I think it's
time for the lists to shut down, and the website to be taken over by
someone with more time to keep it up.   I DO want the archives to remain
online, hopefully with a facelift. :)


Another well-known VW website and online forum have offered to take over
the website and archives if we'd like.    That's one option.


If anyone else would like to propose any other options feel free to email
me directly.   Please be willing to volunteer your time and/or capital to
make it happen, though, because the rest of us are burned out. ;)



If nothing else works out, I'll be shutting the server down at the end of
the month (which is when our current funding runs out), and will try to
work with the various folks who've provided content to get it housed
somewhere.

I do keep full and regular backups of all of the data, in case the server
crashes again.


If you need to reach me when type2.com is down I'm available at:

type2dotcom(-at-)gmail.com (which controls the emergency backup website some of
you may have seen, and may see again)

or

keen(-at-)icantclick.org


thanks, and it's been fun! (and sorry for rambling)


...david (type2.com server admin)



-- 
/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign     David Raistrick '66 SO-44 Westy
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail     keen(-at-)type2.com          in Orlando Fl
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail http://www.netmeister.org/news/learn2quote.html
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail          http://www.expita.com/nomime.html
