From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 11 Nov 2008 08:56:01 -0500
Subject: re:type2 failure...

sh*t I hope I'm not too late....

I hope the list stays alive! It has been an necessary part of my VW life. I
never would have bought  a VW in the first place(ten years ago). I
definitely would not have kept them alive without the list help.

It sounds like we have a few problems.
1. volunteers getting burned out/tired of doing the volunteer work
2. financial pressures-list donations are down
3. List activity is low

My thoughts.
1. I can understand that volunteering can be tiring and even a small amount
of work adds up over time. I personally do not have any time to donate to
the keeping the list alive, as I am very busy with work, and any spare time
is on reading the lists and archives figuring out how to keep my bus
running. Based on the posts read, it sounds like we have a bunch of
potential new volunteers. I suggest we need a volunteer leader to help
organize all these resources available. 

2. Financial pressures are hard to handle.  I think if we knew how much
stuff costs to upkeep, it would help. I also think The Bus Dep*t's offer to
have a "donate to type 2" option is great. Perhaps we could approach other
vendors as well. Keeping this list alive is in their interest as well.
Perhaps you could sell certain intangible things through them.ie you can buy
one month of hosting  for the type 2 lists for $XX.XX(I have no idea what it
costs). As I don't have the time to donate in managing the site, I am
willing to donate money to help keep the list alive. I am sure many others
are willing as well. For fundraising efforts, another option is to have an
annual fundraiser-like public radio. You can donate anytime you want, but
maybe August is Type 2 donation month. The list managers need to hammer home
the idea of donating during August.

3. List activity is low. I think combining the lists is a good idea. I am
not sure of the technical prowess involved in doing this. As volume is low
we could combine lists, and if volume goes up again, we split them. I have a
'65 and a '69. So reading about both buses is always helpful to me. Also
with volume so low, I don't mind reading all the posts.

I am sorry I missed this thread, but hope my input can help. I would
definitely appreciate updates as to the status. According to what I read we
only have a couple weeks to come up with a  solution. What would it cost to
extend until Dec. 31? I don't know about the volunteers, but I don't know if
I'd be able to come up with a great long-term solution in that short a
period, while also holding down a full time job, and a big
holiday(thanksgiving) in the middle.

Thanks,

-Kevin

'65 kombi
'69 single cab
'71 sqbk
Jamaica Plain, MA 
