From: "David Mayes" <mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com>
To: "'Michael Heron'" <Michael.Heron(-at-)mbs.gov.on.ca>
Cc: "Vintagebus(-at-)Type2. Com \(E-mail\)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 3 Jul 2002 05:44:25 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] Hard/No Starting - long

clean the terminals on the battery and the wires to the starter....
including the contacts at the ignition switch.  There is an issue with 'hot'
starters not allowing the solenoid plunger to activate to engage the starter
gear.... Muir talks of this.  He says to tap the starter/solenoid slightly
with a hammer but I can't recall the actual *fix*.

I'd try cleaning contacts first.  If that doesn't fix it, I'd pull the
starter and have it gone through.  Maybe you finally got enough build up of
stuff over the past n years to get it to finally stick.

Good luck.
David



Michael asked:

Hey All-

Ran into a problem with my 65 bus the other day. The bus is quite stock bus
save for 12 volt 1600 DP.

Problem was this- drove bus for about an hour- pulled over to buy gas and
shut motor off. Upon starting motor up again noticed that starter appeared
turn over slower than usual (attributed this to my somewhat undercharged
battery the result of the bus sitting in the garage for too long).

Pulled over again approximately 15-20 minutes later to get a bite to eat.
When I came out to turn the key over to start the bus up again- NOTHING!. No
slow turn over, no click, absolutely nothing. However tried wipers, lights
horn etc etc. they all still work fine however nothing with engine turn
over.

As luck would have it I chose to park across the street from a Canadian Tire
(kinda like a Pep Boys of the north) which fortunately sells car batteries.

I bought the most powerful battery that they sold thinking that the battery
might be dead and proceeded to lug it back to my car and install. With
visions of the engine springing to life I returned to the drivers seat to
start it up and... NOTHING!

Now I am really miffed- I decide to mull over my options and finish my
lunch. After letting the engine cool down some and approximately 20 minutes
have elapsed I decide to try again... the engine springs to life like there
was never a problem ?!?!?!

