From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 3 Jul 2002 13:00:23 EDT
To: Michael.Heron(-at-)mbs.gov.on.ca, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Hard/No Starting - long

I am having a similar issue with my 65 westy. (12V with 1600dp).  I put this 
motor in it a few hundred miles ago, and the generator was funky, so it got a 
brand new generator and regulator.   But it had starting issues.  ActualIy 
the starting issues started a while a go and crept up. 
     Anyway, I got a new battery, the old one was six years old and only kept 
9 V in it.   But still, sometimes click click, dash lights dim, no start.  I 
had cleaned up all the connections- at battery, starter, fuse box, 
headlights, ignition switch.  That helped, but it didn't go away all the way. 
Sometimes if I try a few times it'll start.

SO I ran (gasp, horror) extra wires from the starter to fuse box and from ig 
switch to starter push on terminal.   maybe helped a little, maybe no change.

    The thing is years ago I had hooked up a wire from the push on of the 
starter into the engine compartment.  If the key didn't work, I'd open the 
engine lid and touch that wire to the hot terminal of the battery.   Worked 
all the time, unless the battery was low. well, that's easier than crawling 
underneath and crossing the starter with a screwdriver, and told me the 
starter was good, but I am still wanting to use the key .

SO yesterday I pulled the starter.   Took it apart- the commutator was clean, 
the 4 brushes were all really good.  bench tested- started every time.   SO 
the starter works, but the electricity isn't getting there is what it seems 
like.   Annoying.  put it back in the bus with dielectric grease at the 
connections all clean.

so, ya, que pasa?

In a message dated 7/3/02 5:32:55 AM Pacific Daylight Time, 
Michael.Heron(-at-)mbs.gov.on.ca writes:

<<  Ran into a problem with my 65 bus the other day. The bus is quite stock 
bus save for 12 volt 1600 DP.
 
 Problem was this- drove bus for about an hour- pulled over to buy gas and 
shut motor off. Upon starting motor up again noticed that starter appeared 
turn over slower than usual (attributed this to my somewhat undercharged 
battery the result of the bus sitting in the garage for too long).
 
 Pulled over again approximately 15-20 minutes later to get a bite to eat. 
When I came out to turn the key over to start the bus up again- NOTHING!. No 
slow turn over, no click, absolutely nothing. However tried wipers, lights 
horn etc etc. they all still work fine however nothing with engine turn over. 
 
 As luck would have it I chose to park across the street from a Canadian Tire 
(kinda like a Pep Boys of the north) which fortunately sells car batteries.
 
 I bought the most powerful battery that they sold thinking that the battery 
might be dead and proceeded to lug it back to my car and install. With 
visions of the engine springing to life I returned to the drivers seat to 
start it up and... NOTHING!
 
 Now I am really miffed- I decide to mull over my options and finish my 
lunch. After letting the engine cool down some and approximately 20 minutes 
have elapsed I decide to try again... the engine springs to life like there 
was never a problem ?!?!?!
 
 So to all that are still reading- what do you think the cause of this 
problem is
 
 Door Number 1- old wiring and associated voltage drop from battery to 
ignition and back (pretty sure Muir wrote about his "Ford" fix for this)
 
 Door Number 2- flaky ignition with short?
 
 Door Number 3- issue with starter motor (note that i never actually turned 
motor manually after it cut out- so everything was in the exact same position 
save for the new batter)- the only other variable that changed was the expiry 
of time).
 
 Any thoughts or suggestions would be appreciated I don't care for a repeat 
performance!
 
  >>
