From: "Brandt Hart" <brandthart(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 23 Dec 2002 03:48:16 +0000
Subject: Flat cam/AVP quality? (longer)

Hello list,

As usual I am writing this for a friend who between owning a new house and a 
small business can't find the time to write.

The problem is that after owning a 78 Champaign Edition Westfalia bus for 
less than one year and a few $1000 of dollars in repairs/upgrades he (not 
mechanically inclined) has become discouraged with Volkswagens in general.

After purchasing the bus he learned that the engine was a GEX w/solid 
lifters. :(   A local shop that I have long trusted and bought my first bus 
from many years ago recommended to change the lifters and pushrods to hyd. 
lifters. Only a few thousand miles later and several hundred miles away from 
home his bus began to progressively lose power. In Boise, ID he left the bus 
with a mechanic and borrowed a reletives car to get back to Utah. The 
mechanic in Bosie said a flat cam is the reason for poor engine performance. 
Later he went back to Boise, drove the bus home and took it to our local 
mechanic for a second opinion.

Initally our local shop said a flat cam was not the reason. He did a 
compression test and a leak down test which were both positive. After 
extensive troubleshooting and checking the entire fuel injection system (new 
fuel pump because the old one died during testing) deemed it was bad gas and 
new injectors were needed. However, after the new injectors were installed 
it was deemed the cam was flat after all. Now my buddy who has little money 
needs an engine, has another shop bill and still not a healthy running bus.

To finally get to my/our questions (thanks for reading all this) Sorry so 
long.

1.   What is the deal with putting hyd. lifters in with a solid lifter cam? 
Could of these lifters cut into the cam that quickly? Was this a bad idea? 
Is our shop somehow responsible for killing this engine? (I know GEX history 
but this engine checked out before the hyd. lifter switch)

2.   How is the quality on AVP? Surely someone on the list has been running 
one for a while. I would love to hear from folks who have put some miles on 
an AVP rebuild.

3.    What would you do if this were your bus? My buddy keeps asking me how 
much he could get if he parted out his bus. :(


Thanks for reading,
Brandt in Utah
78 Sagegreen Westfalia (shell, new paint!)
79 Sagegreen Westfalia (Rusty Bus)
