From: "Richard Beckers" <cathrich(-at-)tpg.com.au>
To: <Dean.Landi(-at-)noaa.gov>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 26 Dec 2002 15:00:20 +1000
Subject: Fuel tank sender replacement

Dean and List,

Firstly, Merry Christmas to all.
Sorry for the delay in replying to you regarding cutting a hole in the rear
deck to replace the fuel tank sender in '72-'77 bus's, I've been caught in
the festive season rush and Andy (the bus) seems to be constantly filled
with stuff making it difficult to measure where the hole is in mine. (I
shouldn't complain, at least he's being used!). And the '72 junker I have is
filled with 'spare' parts (at least that's how I justify it to the love of
my life), also making it difficult to get to.
So just incase any of you are still in need of the details, I have a '72
panel van and a '77 micro bus that have both had a hole cut by the PO. Both
have the hole in the same place, in the centre of the rear deck, closest to
the front (front of the bus) edge of the rear deck. This is just above where
the middle seat belts mount to in a bus.
The easiest way to measure if you want to is in the centre (left to right)
which is about 770mm (~30.25") from either side, and about 870mm (~34.25")
from the rear edge of the deck, measured from the edge just behind the latch
for the rear hatch.
This puts you about in the centre of the sender. The sender is less than
100mm (~4") in diameter, but make the hole a little bigger so you can undo
it easily. Just be careful when cutting the hole, as there is only about
40mm (less than 2") between the deck and the top of the tank, so I would try
no to go any deeper than 25mm (~1") when cutting the hole.

As much as I hate to see any cutting on panels in a bus, this one is a very
handy modification, as it prevents needing to remove the engine and fuel
tank just to check a faulty sender!!! It has also saved me on a trip when I
had a fuel blockage in the tank, with the panel removed and the sender out I
was able to remove the rubbish blocking the outlet. Very simple with the
hole, but impossible without it.

Good luck,
Richard.
