Date: Thu, 26 Dec 2002 10:38:49 -0600
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Flat cam/AVP quality? (longer)

At 07:13 AM 12/26/2002, Vanagon man wrote:
>The main problem here is not AVP, it is the BAD MECHANIC THAT TOLD HIM TO
>SWAP LIFTERS IN THE FIRST PLACE.

I agree that it's not AVP's fault (because it wasn't their engine) or VW's fault, or maybe not even GEX's fault since major parts were changed just prior to the failure.  It's obvious that your friend is getting bad advice from this mechanic.

I have to wonder why this mechanic advised him to go with hydraulics in an otherwise well-running engine?  Not something I would recommend to a person who is not very "in touch" with their engine.

I have to wonder why this mechanic did not find the cam problem even when he was told about it?  "Bad gas" is usually a catchall diagnosis when the mechanic is not able to figure out the real problem.  "Bad gas" is very rare.

>  Look at
>the type 4 forum, and Jake Raby's take on hydraulic lifters.  he puts solids
>and everything, and never has a cam go flat, or worry about lifters that
>have lost their pump.

With a sample size of ONE I think it is premature to jump to conclusions.  Were the lifters new or used?  Were the springs changed out also?  How about the spacers on the rocker arm studs?  How about the pushrod tubes - alum or steel?  Was the installation done properly?  Were the hydraulic lifters adjusted properly?  Was there existing wear on the cam when the swap was done?  Way too many variables here to be able to assume anything about running hydraulics with a solid-lifter cam.  Besides, Karl is doing it with no problems at all, so it can work.

Jake Raby is a smart guy who builds good engines, BUT he is a zealot in my book when it comes to the solid lifter thing.  My experience, along with that of ALL of the major auto manufacturers says that hydraulics are a superior design.  Tomorrow or possibly the day after that, I will pass the 100,000 mile mark on the engine I rebuilt back in 1996, which uses hydraulic lifters and cam in a '72 case.  Last time I looked at the cam (a couple of years ago) it had no visible wear.  I will keep my hydraulics, thank you.

>A little valve adjusting never hurt
>anybody.

I agree!  That's why my valves adjust continuously.  :)

-David
