Date: Thu, 26 Dec 2002 10:55:29 -0800
From: Nicholas Palmer <nicholas(-at-)slackers.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Bus almost burned!

Hey all,
Here is my story of christmass woe. All is well that ends well though, 
so I am not too unhappy. Mostly just disapointed and stressed.

A year and a half ago I replaced all the fuel lines on my bus. Last week 
when I was replacing the oil cooler I decided I might as well do it 
again. I replaced everything except the four little bits which connect 
the injectors to the fuel rail. When I first turned the car on, gas 
sprayed all over from a rip in the number 1 fuel injector line. 
Fortunately I had one spare injector, and so I replaced the injector in 
order to replace that line.

Finally got under way on Monday night to come up to Portland, and got an 
hour outside of Sacramento, when I smell gas fumes! I immeditaly turn 
off the engine and coast off the next exit. Go out back and check what 
is going on, and find that that same little fuel bit on the number 3 
injector was leaking fuel. There was a puddle of gas on top of the 
engine tin, and the foam engine seal was soaked! Thank god there was not 
spark that lit the fuel on fire, or my bus would have burned to the 
ground, taking my dog, guitar, computer, Christmass presents, cloths, 
and a whole bunch of other stuff with it! Didn't have another spare 
injector in my parts box, so we where stuck!

We called a tow truck, and had it towed back to the house. By the time 
the tow truck showed up it was 3 in the morning. $150 tow later, and I 
am in my driveway again. My wife was so spooked she insisted that we 
rent a car, so I called the rental car place and got a rental at 8:00 
the next morning. Drove up to portland on four hours of sleep, and got 
here just in time to eat Christmass eve dinner, a very big deal to my 
parents.

All is well that ends well though, and we had a nice Christmass. Hope 
all of you did too! When I get back I am replacing the three injectors I 
have not replaced! Those four little inch pieces of fuel line can 
rupture too, and the last thing I want to see is a post like mine except 
without the "almost". So if you got em, replace em! If you don't, 
replace all your fuel lines anyway!

-Nick
'77 Riviera
'71 Project
