Date: Fri, 27 Dec 2002 10:55:05 -0500
From: "John Baker"<jbakerccymca(-at-)springmail.com>
To: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Friday question (was Re: [T2] Top speed)

On Fri, 27 Dec 2002 09:17:39 -0600 David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
wrote:
>I don't speed in town nor do I want to receive a citation for doing so, but I
think it would be amusing to get a speeding ticket on the highway in an old VW
bus.  Anyone ever gotten one?<

Speeding ticket? Well, no, kind of..  On the way to High Country Bus Festival
this past summer I got pulled over by a Boone County (Kentucky) Sheriff in my
71 westy.  It was a HOT day, like 92 degrees so I am going pretty slow on I-75
because I REALLY like to baby my engine. According to my Speedo, I was going
between 50-55 MPH.  And this good ole boy tails for about 5 miles then pulls
me over. Asks me if there is a problem with my vehicle, so I say "No." He
continues with his line of questioning "Where you headin?" A: Camping. Where? 
A: North Carolina. Why you goin so slow? A: "Its an old VW and I like my
engine."
And then this guy actually has the gall to say, and I quote: "You know the
speed limit is 65 MPH, and most of these people (he motions to passing
traffic) are going even faster than that, so if you can't keep up with the
flow you need to take Route 19."
I can't believe he has just said this to me! Excuse F*cking me for
incoveniencing the people who are speeding!!  At this point he sees my wife
and kids in the bus, and realizes that he doesn't have one of those Yankee
drug runners passing thru in his hippy van and says that he will just let me
by with a warning.
Being the good law abiding citizen that I have now become, I bite my tongue,
hard, to keep from saying something that would put me in the back of the good
ole boys cruiser and my family stranded on the side of I-75. So moral of the
story is this: BEWARE if driving thru Northern Kentucky, because the local
heat are truly jerks!


Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1966 Kombi
1985 Cabrio
http://www.geocities.com/jbakerccymca
"...so we got in the red VW microbus with the shovels and rakes and implements of destruction and
headed on to the police officer's station..."
