Date: Wed, 12 Jun 2002 23:26:16 -0500
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: T2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: alignment wrap-up

Went back to the bozos and got aggravated some more but the ending is happy.

I believe in the advice of the list and understand the workings of the
steering from the diagrams, list emails and my own eyes and with that I
headed back to the alignment shop.  I had no luck with three different
rental tools trying to get the drag link out of the drop arm.

I explained the steering should have been corrected and they started with
the easy excuses (tie-rods non adjustable) and worked their way up to saying
my after-market tie-rods weren't the same size.  They are Meyle and I
measured them to be the same size.

Beyond saying it was adjustable I complained that I didn't like holding the
steering wheel at 50 degrees and the indicators didn't auto-shut off.  I did
this all while he was balancing a tire by eyeballing it.

He finally agreed to look under my bus and we put it up on the jack.  He
threw my cotter pin away, undid the castelated nut with pliers and then
proceeded to vibrate it off with an air tool.  Before I could say stop, the
drag link popped out.

I stared for a while wondering if there were going to align the steering
wheel now but they told me that's what I asked for and I decided that was
all I was going to get out of them.

Anyway, a block away I pulled over and starting adjusting:

- popped out the drag-link
- centered the wheels
- counted steering revolutions then back by 1/2

Low and behold the steering wheel was dead on.  I popped off the horn button
to see what I could see and low and behold again, the wheel and shaft had
marks for alignment.

Thanks to everyone for arming me for my visit back.  I hope it doesn't sound
too foolish but I'm going to speak with the owner about getting some money
back since I had to do half the work myself and make 3 trips.  I talked to a
few people at work and they've never heard of an alignment place that
refused to do the steering wheel as part of a $59 job.

Final note: with the horn button off I can see some blue sparking.  Is this
normal?  I found a receipt from 10 years ago that said the horn stopped
working and had to be fixed.

-- 
Richard
1978 Westfalia CDN
Austin, TX

