From: "Justin L. Smith" <nikkies(-at-)charter.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.Com>
Date: Thu, 29 Aug 2002 00:44:05 -0400
Subject: Rear Tail Light Assemblies (+ a thanks...)

All,

Last week, I won an 'auction' for some new tail light assemblies
for my '78 from a gent in Sao Paulo, Brazil.  (Apparently someone
with an "in" -- he's always sellin' "new" Bus stuff...)

They arrived today, and it took me, yes - FIVE hours to complete
the task.  But I digress.  The point of this post is to pass
along some observations:

1- The tail lights that I purchased, some "special dark lens
assemblies" are pretty neat in that the lens is charcoal grey
throughout - it's the little "cups" that cover the lenses that
give them the correct red/yellow/clear appearance when energized.
Now, I don't know if that's all legal here in Jawjah (Georgia),
but they are nice to look at.
2- The little "cups" that I referred to are pieces of crap.  I
broke two of four while installing.  Beware.
3- The general quality of these VW-Brazil assemblies did not
exactly overwhelm me.  They are cheap in price and manufacture.
But, for 25 bucks, I thought I'd give them a try... as my
original lenses, bulb holders, and generally the assembly as a
whole were beyond restoration.  (No kidding, the P.O. had really
jacked things... there was a sizable hole where an overexcited
bulb/wire actually MELTED its way through the assembly.)
4- Grounds, grounds, grounds.  If your lights are acting funny,
check the following BEFORE getting wacky with a VOM:
    (a) grounds clean, tight?
    (b) bulb holder terminals clean, tight?
    (c) spade connectors clean, tight?

And lastly, I wanted to thank Ron (www.busdepot.com) for an
excellent post.  I've been fighting USAA for an "agreed upon
value" for some time now.  He posted
http://www.condonskelly.com/antique.htm and I've already asked
for a quote.  (That link and others like it should be added to
the library.)

Cheers!

Justin L. Smith
78 Westy Deluxe "Petunia"
nikkies(-at-)charter.net



