Date: Mon, 13 Jan 2003 12:07:53 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Vintage EV VW

>From: HHOUCK(-at-)attbi.com
>Date: Mon, 13 Jan 2003 15:32:22 +0000
>
>Not sure if this is in any of the galleries, but follow the link...
>http://www.austinev.org/evalbum/384.html

Some of the stats are impressive: top end of 70+ and "much quicker"
acceleration than stock.  Some aren't: 49 mile range.

Page 49 of "VW Bus: The First 50 Years" by Keith Seume and Michael
Steinke has VW's implementation of one solution to this problem.
VW offered a factory electric conversion on a bay single-cab with
batteries in the treasure chest area.  There were two racks with
rollers that you put on either side of the Bus so the discharged
battery pack could roll out one side and a charged pack could roll
in the other.  Doing this lets you cut the "recharge" time to 10
minutes or so from 6+ hours.  I haven't seen another EV with a
multi-battery pack that offered easily changeable battery packs.

>I wonder how quick the cigarette lighter heats up with 120v and
>500 amps?

Actually, all the lights and such are still 12 V.  Most EVs have
a 12 V electrical system, powered by an alternator or DC-DC
converter, for safety and convenience reasons - you aren't running
120 V or more all over the car, and you can use normal light bulbs,
wiper motors, etc.

Around 7 or 8 years ago, I used to think pure battery electric cars
would be the Next Big Thing.  One thing that disabused me of that,
even before I fully understood the energy-density and economics
issues, was the GM EV1.  One month, Popular Mechanics did a big
write-up on the EV1.  They talked about the years and megabucks of
R&D invested and the result: a modern car with all the creature
comforts, that could go 80 MPH or 100 miles on a charge, but not
both.  That same month, Dune Buggies and Hot VWs ran an article on
electric conversions for air-cooled Beetles.  These were a big
stack of off-the-shelf lead-acid batteries and an industrial motor
controller and motor.  You stuck all this stuff in a Bug and got...
a vehicle with less creature comforts, but that could go 80 MPH or
100 miles on a charge, but not both.  When General Motors spends
megabucks and many brain cycles on a clean-sheet design and gets
essentially the same result in 1995 as a sharp industrial electrician
working with a car that was designed in 1935, there is some
fundamental constraint being exposed.

An interesting combination of internal combustion and electric
power sources is the hybrid-electric vehicle.  Basically you run
a gas or diesel engine and an electric motor, either or both of
which can drive the wheels.  The electric motor provides quick
acceleration and deceleration, so the IC engine can be downsized
a bit and optimized to run at a narrower range of steady cruising
speeds, saving fuel.  The main benefit is less air pollution, and
you also get improved mileage.  You used to have to build one yourself
( http://www.hev.utulsa.edu/ ) but now Toyota and Honda will sell
you one and GM and Ford say they're going to as well.  (I bought
a Toyota Prius in the spring of 2001.)  Commercial HEVs never have
to be plugged in to the wall; they recharge themselves while you're
driving.

Fuel-cell vehicles will _probably_ be the next "alternative" vehicle
technology, but I think they are still a few years out.  You can run
fuel cells on hydrogen but there is no hydrogen distribution network.
You can also run them on gasoline, but sometimes it's just as efficient
to burn the gasoline in an IC engine as it is to make electricity with
it.

Driving a modern commercial HEV is almost a polar opposite of driving
a split-window Bus.  The design is 45 to 50 years newer.  Everything is
automated and there normally isn't anything you have to tweak, adjust,
clean, or fix.  You just put oil and gas in it and drive.  It doesn't
require service nearly as often, but when it does, it's not as easy
(but still not impossible) to do it yourself.  Not as may people smile
at you out on the road, but sometimes they come up to you in parking
lots if they recognize what you're driving.  One thing that is just
like driving a Bus: Toyota specifies different front and rear tire
pressures, which totally baffles the mechanic at tire-rotation time. :)

Matt Roberds
