Date: Wed, 4 Aug 2010 18:29:04 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Conversion from Manual to Automatic

Stunningly reliable if you get a later unit.  In point of fact the late bay
unit was used clear through the end of vanagon production give or take, and in
further point is the same tranny side as every golf/jetta/rabbit box up till
'92 more or less.  In a bus, it should be a long lasting, reliable box.  I've
detailed in that regard many times about swapping a jetta tranny section onto
a bus/vanagon final if need be.  I think it is a reasonable conversion, peppy
off the line, well matched in power/ratio to a 2L certainly, but will be more
of a PITA to do in all the little picky regards than one would imagine.  You
could likely source a tranny from any year up to '92 Vanagon if you clearanced
a bit for the oil cooler (and could do interesting things like heat hot water
with a new exchanger (did it in an air cooled vanagon) and could grab throttle
linkage stuff from an air cooled vanagon (and possibly a waterboxer, but I'd
really need to think about
 that) but getting the right firewall, dipstick/filler, front mount, the shift
linkage worked out, etc, etc, with all the little crap to do that is going to
be a royal pain.  Best bet as always with this sort of thing (the reverse
conversion has been done to many a vanagon) would of course be late bay donor
(even if you got the tranny from something else, getting a donor bus that has
the linkage) side by side for the conversion.
 
There is the standard problem of course that air cooled and autobox is a bad
combo in general, making for the worst of all possible cooling scenarios. 
This is very bad in an air cooled vanagon, not likely so bad in a bus, but
this is one instance where a little instrumentation would go a long way. 
Repetitive moderate long grades with only short downhills are engine killing
in autos as on the downhill side they don't rev enough to cool effectively,
aux oil cooling, really helpful.
 
John

--- On Wed, 8/4/10, Doyt W. Echelberger <doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com> wrote:


 And, how reliable were these automatics when they were new?
