From: David McCracken <folkswaggin(-at-)gmail.com>
Date: Thu, 5 Aug 2010 15:05:52 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 1970 Camper - rebuilt engine install

Hello all.  Finally almost at a done-ish point putting in a rebuilt engine
into my 1970 camper.  Completing the project while amidst summer touring and
living 2 hours from where bus is parked has proven a challenge.  I have a
slew of smallish questions that Id like to send to the educated folks first.

Turns out the rebuilt engine I picked up is a 1500cc bug engine.  Mounting
the rear engine mount bracket to this case was a challenge but managed to
locate graduated 6mm to 8mm studs (although they're short) and have a
freaking blacksmith tap case bosses, use small nuts and washers and make it
work (hoping)

I have to use much tin from my old engine:
- the front shroud in front of the fan was for a bug so it did not have the
additional riveted height. However my older engine had the oil cooler
mounted outside the fan.  This rebuilt engine has oil cooler inside fan
housing.  So my tin has a rectangular hole.  I should cover this whole, yes?

- the breast plate did not come with the engine so Im using mine which does
not match the existing and tin under the crank pulley.  After placing my old
crank pulley piece and breast plate I notice discrepancy with preheater
tube.  I used 2 canning jar lids and a bolt to block off the extra preheater
tube on the breast plate.  But I see an oval hole on either side of the head
pieces of tin.  I should block these too?

What should I do to block these holes.  Can duct tape suffice?

I notice the push rod tubes are little bent from moving the engine.  Do I
really need to be concerned?

I have a new muffler.  It is Brazilian.  Right before it started raining
here in NC I was trying to put it on and looks like the exhaust studs don't
easily line up with muffler.  Gotta work it on it appears.  Is this a common
Brazilian muffler PITA?  Ideas?

I'll start there.  Thanks so much for your continueing time and energy all,

David McCracken
1970 TypeII Sportsmobile camper
keyboards - Donna the Buffalo
