Date: Fri, 6 Aug 2010 20:34:07 -0500
From: Sami Dakhlia <sami.dakhlia(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: stranded in Wichita Falls, TX

Dear listees,
After countless years of neglecting both my '75 bus and the type2
list, I'm back with a call for help.

Quick intro: I'm on my first major trip in probably ten years, taking
the bus from Mississippi to its new home in California. It has a fresh
2.0 liter engine, although I installed it about 4 years ago and then
never got around to completing the installation, until a few days ago.
(Old-timers might recall that I had shoehorned a Porsche 911 engine in
there about 10 years ago. That engine was fun while it lasted, but I
only got 10,000 miles out of it before it was time for a complete
rebuild. Having grown older, balder, and wiser, I decided to revert to
stock.) I figured there would be various issues to address during the
trip, but so far, it has been "quite an adventure." Fortunately, I was
able to stay with David Schwarze for a couple of days and take
advantage of his pro-garage and good sense to fix a few problems: idle
issues, sticky brakes (we rebuilt the front calipers), oil leak, and
many other smaller issues. We ended up staying two days instead of
just an overnight visit, but I was great to see David again.

Alright, so we made it from Dallas to Wichita Falls this afternoon and
just as we enter the city limits, the engine makes a racket, like a
major exhaust leak. I also notice a loss of power, can't take above 50
mph. In fact, it vibrated so vigorously, a part falls off the "wagen"
quite a surprise for the cars following me, as I look through the rear
view mirror and see a black piece bouncing and rolling away on the
tarmac.

We pull over and the engine is still shaking at idle, as if running on
3 cylinders. I check the spark plug wires, all good. I crawl under the
bus to see what I might be missing: indeed, the right heater flap box
had fallen off.

We made our way to Ray's Foreign Auto, a local VW specialist, but he
was closed. I wish I had his home number to check if he's going to
work tomorrow, Saturday. Does anybody know him?

Driving carefully to avoid pushing the engine too much, the drive
seems smooth again. We don't exceed 30 or 40 mph and I no longer feel
the vibration, but as I'm trying my luck and give it more gas, the
rattling resumes. Can an exhaust leak indeed be the cause of all this?

If the VW shop is closed tomorrow, would I be foolish to baby the bus
at 40 mph to get closer to our destination over the weekend?

Please include my email in your reply, since I'm in digest mode.

Cheers,
Sami
http://type2.com/dakhlia
