From: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: <VWBrain(-at-)aol.com>, <sami.dakhlia(-at-)gmail.com>, <muts(-at-)verizon.net>
Cc: <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net>,
Date: Sun, 8 Aug 2010 13:57:00 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: stranded in Wichita Falls, TX

----- Original Message ----- 


> Sami the chance of a seat coming loose and reseating itself is very, very
> slim .  Running with oil temps above 250 is not good, and remember the
head
> temps have very little in common with oil temps  later  mark  d

Hey Mark,
good point about the oil temps and head problems.

in my experience, I have seen many seats come loose,,  and [sort of] stay
put.. or temporarily reseat themselves...
I find it interesting how many ACVW i have seen with dropped seats, or spun
bearings,, that the owner thinks it is just a tune up required... cause they
keep driving them...   but the V8 boys.. as soon as they hear that rattle of
the spun bearing,, or valve train problems.. shut it down! complete engine
failure is diagnosed.

I have experienced seats that drop... the engine makes a big ratttle or
kinda backfire babble...  engine looses power... but within minutes.... it
seems to run fine.
altho Low in power , very noticable on hills ... and if you check the
valves,, you will find that tight one.

so,, for a person travelling.... if the seat has just dropped...  if you
recognize the symptom,,, let the engine cool off..  next morning set the
valve ... and drive with your fingers crossed..  stop for the night to
camp,, check the valve in the morning, reset clearance.. carry on.
the risk as I see it.... if that seat drops it can be catrostophic to the
engine. and cost you an engine and towing....

or not quite as bad.. but the seat pounding loose in the head makes it too
large to insert a new oversize seat.. and the head requires welding to
install a new seat..   I stay away from welded heads..
this choice allows you to travel to a place that is convenient to make
repairs.. and lessens the cost of a Tow.... which you have to weigh to the
cost of an engine and tow if this gamble doesn't pay off.

I have travelled with many including my own engine, where we took the
gamble... and made it home
besides that ,, this trip will be very memorable! lol

Jamie
