Date: Sun, 20 May 2007 07:26:58 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Wiper motor

> From: "Natural History Centre" <curator(-at-)shellmuseum.myzen.co.uk>
> Date: Sun, 20 May 2007 10:59:56 +0100
>
> I have a 1966 spilt screen camper which is almost finished being restored
> ready for the MOT test (in UK), however the wiper motor has been removed
> and tested but won't work!

Does it even try to work?  What I mean is, does it buzz and move the
output shaft a little, or is it totally dead?

If it tries to move a little, the trouble may be old grease in the gear
box.  The grease tends to separate over time - the thick part jams the
gears, and the thin part can run down the motor shaft and foul the
brushes and commutator.  Take the gear box apart, clean out the old
grease, repack it with fresh, and try again.  Note that there are a
couple of really tiny plastic thrust washers on one or two of the shafts
- don't lose them.  Also, in my '64, one of the gears was made of fiber,
so I didn't use any solvent on that gear - just wiped the old grease off
with a rag.  Make sure the commutator and brushes are clean.

If nothing at all happens, you might open it up and look for something
simple like a broken wire or a brush that's stuck in its holder or worn
down too far.  Wires can be soldered; you may be able to get a suitable
replacement brush from an electric motor shop, a shop that fixes power
tools, or a vacuum cleaner and sewing machine shop.

> The bus was changed to 12volt about 20 years ago but the motor is still
> 6volt.

Sometimes people just let the 6 V motor run on 12 V - the wipers work
really well, until the motor burns out.  Otherwise a "voltage drop"
(just a big resistor) or an electronic regulator are used to reduce the
12 V to 6 V for the motor.  If the motor was tested complete with the
resistor or regulator on 12 V, you might test just the motor itself on
6 V.  If the motor works OK by itself, then most likely the resistor or
regulator needs replacing.

> Have looked for a replacement but no luck!

I don't remember the details but I think the "late" splitties (past
about 1964) had some one-year-onlyness in their wiper motors.  Some
people have swapped in pieces of Bug wiper motors to restore their old
Bus wiper motors, I think.  You might check the archives.  If you get
really stuck, your existing motor can probably be rewound, but you'll
probably have to ask a lot of electric motor shops before you find one
that will do it.

Matt Roberds
