Date: Sun, 20 Mar 2005 09:03:40 -0800
From: MonkeyBoy <chris.gause(-at-)gmail.com>
To: VW - Type 2 mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: LED lights.

Ok, this request goes out to all the electronics geeks out their. :) 

I'm planning on ripping out the electrical system concerning
flasher/brake/running and turning lights. I've got Misc Problems, and
most my wiring is frayed and corroded and I have NO desire to keep the
WonderBus stock.

So what I've been thinking to do is convert ALL my lights except my
headlights to LED's. Then have each light cluster be self controlled.
I.e. the Blinkers would use somethink like a 555 timer to blink and I 
would have one for each corner, so all I would have to do is supply a
couple volts. And for that voltage supply I'm thinking to use CAT-5
networking cable so everything can just clip into place, and when
theirs a problem, just unclip, and pull out the offending light. And
if the wiring is ever bad, just cut new lenghts of CAT-5 and pop on
some fresh ends, POW, your new wiring harness is done. :)

So the question is, anyone know how to make LED's work off a cars
battery voltage? I know they can't get too much voltage, and too
little is bad too. And the 555 timer only controlls like 8 lights. :(


I'm thinking to use these. 
http://www.allelectronics.com/cgi-bin/category.cgi?category=340500&item=LED-94&type=store

Their clear/white until powerd. (which I need since I'm going to be
using clear lenses so my "Wonder Bread" motiff isn't spoiled by
colors. :) )

Anyway, anyone willing to draw me up a little scematic of resisters
and LED's and controllers and what all not that would be needed? I'm
having a heck of time wrapping my head around flasher controllers (not
the automotive kind) and could really use a hand.

I can figure out the brake, and running lights good enough, but the
blinkers are a bit beyond me. I've read that the 555 timer can
alternate the lights. So I was thinking a 555 for each corner, and
then that corner can alternate back-side-back-side style.

I'm also going to be converting the side marker light up front into a
working light.

Well then. That should at least be enough to get some good
conversation going about LED's that I'll be able to learn alot on.

Oh yeah, anyone know where to get clear blinker lense material? I'm
thinking the kind that's crystal textured so you don't see the LED's
just the light when they come on. That make any sence?

Chris
1976 Wonder Bus (Soon to be painted like a WonderBread Loaf,
copyright, trademark issues? Who knows. Lol)
