From: "Karl" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: <VWBrain(-at-)aol.com>, <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>,
Date: Mon, 21 Mar 2005 06:31:53 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2]Copper gasket seals /exhaust leak problems????

From: VWBrain(-at-)aol.com

In a message dated 3/18/2005 10:09:48 PM Eastern Standard Time, aufever(-at-)prodigy.net writes:


PLEASE STOP CALLING THEM EGR TUBES!!!!

They are NOT and NEVER had anything to do with EGR.

They are AIR INJECTION ports for the smog pump system.

TWO totally different emission control systems.

EGR is Exhaust Gas Recirculation. Spent exhaust enters the INTAKE from an EGR valve(s) to LOWER combustion
temps to lower NoX emissions.

Air injection is fresh air pumped [or pulsed] into the EXHAUST just past the exhaust valves to complete the
burn of rich exhaust to lower HC emissions.

---
 Hey It is Karl right??   You are exactly right but sometimes you need to call something a thingamajig  so
that the person will understand what it is you are trying to tell him . The main thing is he understood
calling them EGR tubes , he probably wouldnt understand air injection cause when was the last time anybody saw
one of those pieces of crap blowers much less one that was hooked up and working. So what is the correct term
for crap, it's Bullshit isnt it   later and sign your posts   Mark Dearing

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Yes, I am Karl.

Sorry, when you live in a state that requires 100% functional AND totally correct emission control you tend to
not call it crap and BS!

When removing what you call crap causes you to become a 'gross polluter' and there is NO limit to the amount
of $$ you have to spend to correct the tampering you did to the emission control systems, you tend not to call
it crap or BS!

After finally beginning to see mountains 50 miles away after living here 30 years because the smog is slowly
clearing, you tend not to call it crap os BS!

After seeing countless shade tree 'mechanics' screw up cars because of a lack of education on how an engine is
supposed to run when each individual system works correctly, you tend not to call it crap or BS!

If you want to keep your customers coming back because you don't to tell them the truth, THAT is crap and BS!

The 1st step to fixing something that is wrong is understanding how it works. If you don't know that, how do
YOU fix it?? Call it crap and BS and sell the guy a 009, Weber carb, and a lot of chrome?
