From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 6 Feb 2004 21:35:44 -0500
Subject: 6V battery questions

Hey guys,

battery question...I have a 6V interstate battery, I was having trouble
starting my bus, so I got one of those trickle chargers at my FLAPS, you
hook the battery up, it charges at about 1.5 amps....anyway after hooking it
up, the thing says"charging" for a little while, then slowly the "trouble"
light comes on. I checked everything-it is hooked up correctly, the
connections look clean.

So I tried a couple times, I keep getting the same "trouble light" after
charging for a few minutes. I checked the voltage with a meter-and it reads
about 6.4 or 6.5 with the charger hooked up...so it appears as though it is
trying to recharge the battery...but still the error message.

I brought the battery into my FLAPS, they put it on the tester, and it reads
"Battery Ok, Charge Low". So I have left it with them to recharge over
night(they do that for free).

At the FLAPS the woman behind the counter was saying that "these little
trickle chargers are no good-she would never use one, they are too small". I
don't understand how the size would affect the ability to recharge a
battery-maybe the speed with which it recharges the battery, but not the
ability to recharge...

So I am trying to figure out if my battery is bad or if the charger is
bad...and am also wondering if any of you guys use these small trickle
chargers, this one came with this quick disconnect-doesn't quite fit my
battery, but it looks easy enough to adjust, and I could see making one of
these for cold weather starts-just quick connect it every night, and
disconnect in the morning, thereby having a nice warm battery to start my
bus..

Any thoughts...

Ps I think these trouble relate somewhat to my regulator not giving enough
juice to recharge my battery...I know I need to check this and report some
number to you guys to know if it is in range...anyway do you need a battery
to run a bus? Or just to start and use the lights-ie can you push start a
bus with no battery in it?

If I need to replace it-I have heard recommendations to go with the Optima
Starter battery-any other thoughts?

Thanks

-kevin
