Date: Sun, 8 Feb 2004 02:15:44 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: 6V battery questions

>From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
>Date: Fri, 6 Feb 2004 21:35:44 -0500
>
>["trouble" light on 1.5 A trickle charger]
>So I tried a couple times, I keep getting the same "trouble light" after
>charging for a few minutes. I checked the voltage with a meter-and it
>reads about 6.4 or 6.5 with the charger hooked up...so it appears as
>though it is trying to recharge the battery...but still the error message.

The trickle charger may be upset that the battery voltage isn't coming up
as fast as it would like.  Some trickle chargers get unhappy if you are
trying to charge a badly discharged battery - they work better on one
that's nearly charged already.

Uh, not to be obvious, but the trickle charger has a 6 V setting, right?
OK, OK, don't throw wrenches at me.

>I don't understand how the size would affect the ability to recharge a
>battery-maybe the speed with which it recharges the battery, but not the
>ability to recharge...

This is pretty much true.  Sometimes, if your battery is on its way out,
a lower-capacity charger will actually charge it up when a higher-capacity
one won't.  By the time you're doing tricks like this, you're only a few
months away from a new battery, but it can help you squeeze the last bit
of life out of it.

One example: the stock 6 V battery was rated at 77 Ah by VW.  If it was
totally discharged, and you put your 1.5 A trickle charger on it, it
would take at least 52 hours to charge up all the way.  If you had a
6 A charger, it would take at least 13 hours.  In reality it will take
longer than this because of inefficiencies in the charger and in the
battery.

>So I am trying to figure out if my battery is bad or if the charger is
>bad...

You may have done this already, but check that the terminals for the main
battery cables are clean and tight to the posts.  Also make sure that the
battery case is clean, and that the water level is up to spec.

Interstate has some good info at
http://www.ibsa.com/www_2001/content/faqs/tech_talk/maintenance/faq_tech_maint.htm .

I have used the Deltran "Battery Tender" 1.5 A and 0.75 A trickle chargers
on 12 V batteries.  They both seem to work well and can bring a badly
discharged battery back, but the way I usually use them is to "top off"
a battery that's already been mostly recharged.  The 0.75 A one has a
light for charging and done, and the 1.5 A one has a light for trouble,
charging, 80% charged, and done.  I have also used a no-name made in
China 0.75 A trickle charger that kind of works, but doesn't automatically
shut itself off.  I like the Battery Tender ones better, but they are
spendier.  Standard disclaimer: Deltran doesn't pay me.

>this one came with this quick disconnect-

These can work well.  Most of them have one exposed prong; make sure this
is on the black (negative) lead!  Also, secure the quick disconnect so
it can't flop around and hit either battery post - just zip-tying it or
taping it to one of the battery cables often works.  You can also usually
find or make more "car ends" for these (quite often the plug will fit
one side of a four-prong flat trailer plug) if you want to use the charger
on more than one car.

>Ps I think these trouble relate somewhat to my regulator not giving
>enough juice to recharge my battery...I know I need to check this and
>report some number to you guys to know if it is in range...

See the Bentley or http://www.type2.com/archive/vintagebus/054411.html .

>anyway do you need a battery to run a bus? Or just to start and use the
>lights-ie can you push start a bus with no battery in it?

If the generator is in good shape, yes, you can push the bus to start
and run it without a battery.  You may want to set your idle up some,
as the generator will not have much output at low RPMs.  The system
voltage will swing around more than it will with the battery installed;
it might be better to leave your radio turned off if you have one.  Make
sure the loose positive battery cable is secured so it can't flop into
the negative cable, body, etc.

>If I need to replace it-I have heard recommendations to go with the Optima
>Starter battery-any other thoughts?

I think the Optimas are nice and work well, but are somewhat spendy.
They do have the advantage of not slopping acid all over, which may
be important if you have re-done your bodywork and don't care about
a stock-looking battery.  The 6 V Optima is fairly different in
dimensions than a stock battery; you'll have to work out a good
mounting method.  As far as specs go, I run an Interstate 2-XHD 6 V
in my '64.  It is rated at 600 CCA, 170 minutes reserve, and has a 30
month warranty.  The 6 V Optima (SC6A) is rated at 800 CCA, 110 minutes
reserve, and has a 72 month warranty.  Both batteries are made by
Johnson Controls.

Just going by the specs, if your starter is not quite up to par, the
Optima may be able to crank it over a little better.  But if you like
to sit with the engine off and listen to the radio, have the dome light
on in a camper, or whatever, the plain old liquid-electrolyte battery
might work better because of the longer reserve capacity.  IMHO, if
something is wrong with your charging system, buying an Optima is at
best an expensive band-aid.  If your charging system is working well,
a plain old liquid-electrolyte battery will work just fine and is a
lot cheaper.

>I forgot to ask-what keeps the water from freezing inside my battery
>in the extreme cold?

The "water" in a battery is actually dilute sulphuric acid (H2SO4).
The concentration of the acid is higher when the battery is charged
up.  There are some charts in the Bentley that indicate that the
acid in a fully charged battery will freeze at -68 C (-90 F), while
the acid in a fully discharged battery will freeze at -13 C (9 F).

If the charging system is working well, the battery should almost
never freeze.  I did have a frozen battery in a '74 Bug that sat
outside undriven for a couple of years; letting it thaw out inside
for a couple of days and then charging it brought it back to some
usefulness.

Even when fully charged, the battery can't deliver as much power when
it is cold.  Bentley says that a battery at -15 C (5 F) has half the
capacity as at 20 C (68 F).

Matt Roberds
