Date: Tue, 10 Feb 2004 13:04:44 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: HOTWIRE!!

>From: josh brothers <oldsplit2003(-at-)yahoo.com>
>Date: Mon, 9 Feb 2004 19:41:58 -0800 (PST)
>
>WHEW!! no fire! just the grey wire for the high beams has melted into
>oblivion., so, what do i do?

You have a short to ground someplace.  It is most likely between the
headlight switch on the dash and the fuse box, because those wires
aren't fused.  If you have a short in the wires from the fuse box to
the headlights, the fuses should blow, as long as you have the proper
8 A (white) fuses in there that aren't patched up with tinfoil, etc.

The main red wire from the back of the Bus stops off at the fuse box
and then goes to the headlight switch.  From there, the white/black
stripe headlight wire goes to the dimmer relay.  From the dimmer
relay, the white high beam wire and the yellow low beam wire go to
the fuse box.  One of these wires (white/black stripe, white, yellow)
is probably shorting to ground, OR there is a short inside the dimmer
relay.

To check, get a self-powered test light or an ohm meter.  Leave the
Bus battery disconnected.  Take out all the fuses.

1.  Unplug the white/black stripe wire from the headlight switch.
    Unplug the white/black stripe wire, the yellow wire, and the
    white wire from the dimmer relay.  Unplug the yellow and white
    wires from the site of the fuse box that only has one yellow and
    one white wire.

2.  At the dimmer relay, measure between the white/black stripe wire
    and ground (bare unpainted metal on the Bus body, or a bolt/screw
    that goes into the body).  You want no light or infinite ohms.
    Wiggle the harness around to make sure the light stays off or the
    ohms stay at infinity.  If you have a light or low ohms, that wire
    is shorted to ground.  Repeat this test for the yellow and white
    wires at the dimmer relay.

3.  If all the wires check out OK at the dimmer relay, check the relay
    itself.  Measure between terminal F and ground, and terminal 56a
    and ground.  One terminal should show no light / infinite ohms
    and the other will probably show a dim light / 12-50 ohms or so.
    If one of the terminals shows a bright light or less than a couple
    of ohms, there is a short to ground inside the dimmer relay.

4.  If all this checks out, the problem is probably in the fuse box
    or between the fuse box and the lights.  You might want to take
    the fuse box loose and inspect it with a strong light.  Sometimes
    an overload causes the fuse clips to heat up and melt the plastic,
    and the clips can then move and touch the Bus body, causing a short.

When replacing wires on these circuits, use at least 12 gauge wire.
It is probably best to replace a whole wire if possible, instead of
splicing to what's left of the factory harness.  Splices will cause
voltage drops, which you don't want on the headlights.  If possible,
use the right color wire; if you can't do that, at least mark the
ends with colored electrical tape as to the right color.  (In other
words, buy white wire.  If replacing the white/black stripe wire,
put a little black electrical tape on each end but leave some white
showing.  If replacing the yellow wire, put a yellow electrical tape
around the end to cover the wire end for a few inches.)

Good luck!

Matt Roberds
