From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 11 Feb 2004 21:59:10 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Broken exhaust stud !##$%(-at-)^#&

In a message dated 2/11/2004 6:26:33 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
harmony(-at-)buszen.com writes:
Soooooo, anyone have any special tricks other than the
ones I mentioned for removing these stupid things???
Hi John,
Those get kind of welded to each other due to the extreme heat of the 
exhaust.  So if they in the first place do not come off with normal torque using a 
chisel to kind of turn the nuts into "C" shape will expand them and allow them 
to come off without breaking the stud!!  There are bronze nuts used on Toyotas 
that also fit the VWs exhaust system that just about completely never have 
this problem because of the differant material that the nuts are made of.
  As for you present problem!  Center punch each of the broken studs as close 
to center and get a good 1/8" drill bit preferable a cobalt type.  Drill 
through with the drill bit and then go up a couple of drill sizes and redrill, if 
a little off center you can work it back to center in the proceeding drill bit 
sizes.  Repeat drill size increase till either you get a perfectly drilled 
out stud and use a tap to carefully break out the now spring like threads that 
are all that remain of the stud.  If you get off center so much that you see 
threads on one side of the hole, stop increasing drill size and use the center 
punch to crush the now "C" shaped remains of the stud inward and work it out 
with a scribe or other sharp object and a magnet helps with this.  Then clean 
the threads with a tap.  One turn in followed by a half turn out and remove tap 
often to blow/scribe/magnet the pieces of steel out of the hole or risk 
locking the tap in there!  Only use HSS (High Speed Steel) taps not the cheaper 
ones!!  If you do lock up the tap and break it off a HSS tap can be shattered with 
hammer and punch, but the cheaper taps will not shatter and neither type of 
tap can be drilled out!!!!
  If you fail at the above and end up an oval shaped boogered up hole you can 
get a stud that is a larger diameter that goes into the head and the other 
end is the nomal size to fit the exhaust system.
  Above all do not even dream of using an Easy Out to remove an obviously 
stuck and broken off stud or bolt.  ONCE YOU BREAK OFF AN EASY OUT IT CAN NOT BE 
DRILLED OR SHATTERED OUT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  Eric while in the USAF had 
all too many times to grind out broken off Easy Outs that flight line personal 
had used to try to remove exhaust studs in equipment.  It took a high speed 
air grinder, used diamond drill bits from the base dentist and about two hours 
each to work enough of the stud around the Easy Out away to pry out the Easy 
Out!  $#(-at-)%^!&**!!
Eric&Barb
