From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Curt Conklin <CONKLINC(-at-)lawgate.byu.edu>, VintageBus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 12 Feb 2004 11:53:56 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] Has anyone made this trip?

   Back in the late 60's and early 70's I used to hitch hike from Newport
Beach, Cal to Gold Hill Oregon on a monthly basis. I always went Hwy 1. Back
in the day I could get a ride all the way from Newport to San Fran in one or
2 rides, then up to Oregon in another 1 or 2, those were the days.
   Sometimes for the Heck of it I would just get out of my ride in Big Sur
and go hang in a commune or 2 visit some hippy friends then continue on.
   There is a lot of history on Hwy 1, specially if you hung out in some of
the cool areas with the local people. People were way friendly back in the
day, today I wouldn't even think of hitching up 1.

ronnie

-----Original Message-----
From: Curt Conklin [mailto:CONKLINC(-at-)lawgate.byu.edu]
Sent: Thursday, February 12, 2004 12:29 PM
To: VintageBus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] Has anyone made this trip?


Greasy Airheads,

Over the past weekend I watched a really interesting program on the
History Channel.  It was a history of the Pacific Coast Highway, or
Highway 1, in somespots, 101, which extends from San Diego to the
Canadia Border.  As a little kid I remember it as the main route up the
coast, from LA-LA Land northward, and south too, really.  I remember it
being narrow, windy  (uh, as in wine) cold, and very foggy.  

Well, the History Channel program was fantastic, it went through the
history of the road, the frequent slides in southenr and central CA, and
modern day solutions,  the challenges of the bays and rivers in Oregon,
how it didn't cross over Columbia River until 1962, how the Oregonians,
to the disgust of their neighbors to the north, called the new 4 mile
bridge across the mouth of the Columbia "bridge to nowhere."  How the 
cool Art Deco bridges  in Oregon--made in the 30's--are deteriorating
(some recently replaced, then blown up) and new high tech solutions to
protect them from the nasty salty air.  

Of course anyone who knows anything about the highway knows that the
scenery up the CA coast and up the Oregon coast is absolutely
spectacular.  It seems to me that the road was just made for a bus
cruise.  My question is, has anyone done the whole road, from San Diego
to the Canadian border in a bus, a Splittie or a Bay?  I mean, this is
what Westy's are made for!

What was your experience with traffic,  how much and where is it narrow
and "winedy?"  How long did it take?  What time of year did you do it
in, and what would be the ideal time of the year to avoid the fog?  I
know it is nortorius for fatal head-on collisions, not nice in a bus!

I know one thing, if I did it, I'd stop in at Monterey and check out
Jon's busses and Rachel's Name Authority File (inside joke). 

Best,

Curt
'66 w/ '63 rag top, dd, 1835 . . .

-
