From: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: "John Baker" <busvwzen(-at-)yahoo.com>, "t2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "ovt"
Date: Sat, 11 Jun 2011 11:24:17 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Generator stumping issue - Complete message

you wrote.." Now start the engine and test the voltage between D+ and the
generator frame.
 The voltage should increase with rpm up to about 35 volts "
-----------------
my thinking,, "The voltage should increase with rpm up to about 35 volts"
..... at about 3000Grpm -generator rev per min.

if you increase above 3000Grpm ,, then the voltage will continue to
increase.  To a point...    The limiting factor is the residual magnetic
force in the pole iron, and of course the engine max rpm will only allow
about 9500 generator RPM

so, if you have a well magnetized generator field iron,, and can spin that
engine up to 5000 rpm,,  then it might make near 200 volts.

That voltage is NOT a problem really.      I have seen generators used to
power skil saws, incandescent lamps etc...  when you are building a
cottage,, you need lighting, and drills, and saws....   if you provide field
current thru a series resistor,, and set the engine speed to put out
150volt... and then plug in a skilsaw,,,  when you load up the saw,, the
engine rpm will drop slightly, the voltage will drop to about 120 .. and the
saw works................   ok,, it is 120volt D C ... and will throw a LOT
more fire around the commutator from the brushes than the normal sparking
you see... but it works..    the lights will get a little brighter than
normal,, and of course , will dim a little when the saw is being used...  it
doesn't burn out a generator ... the standard 12v regulator is not in the
circuit,

Once you have the 12v charge circuit complete and in place, the battery will
act as a sponge and absorb any high voltage,, the regulator will only give
the field enough to supply the demand and keep the output below the
setpoint, near 14-15volts.
the regulator will limit the voltage, and the current output.

if the regulator is failing,, i don't think the voltage section is being
burned out by overvoltage... unless you are running the engine with the
regulator connected, and without the battery connected ........ that could
cause trouble for the regulator..


oh,, and if you want to see how much power is actually there,,  I have made
up a jumper from the generator to a receptacle ,, then plug in a
incandescent trouble light on ext cord.. and place the light bulb a safe
distance away ,, just in case...

then when the test is being done,  the lamp may start to glow,, and get
bright,,   when working on an unknown output,, there is risk the voltage
might exceed 200v, and the lamp glass may shatter..  I have seen someone try
this on 600v mains with a 120v lamp,, right in their face...  and it
shattered.. and they did get glass in the skin...   but the 120v lamp on a
12v system that is putting out 60- 100 volts is quite ok

testing with anything electronic will most likely NOT work,, as it is
designed for 60hz.. and the generator is giving DC.
also.. this mod can be done to an alternator,, bypass the diodes,, and you
have AC , but at a varying frequency,, and problably near 180hz when forced
to put out 120volts instead of 12v.. but it works for devises with brushes,,
and incandescent lights etc.



hope that helps
Jamie
