Date: Sat, 11 Jun 2011 11:17:47 -0700
From: Scott Fraser <scott(-at-)kn6f.com>
To: John Baker <busvwzen(-at-)yahoo.com>, VB <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Generator stumping issue - Complete message

John,
Your test below, isolates the generator and is generally a go/no-go test for the generator.    The generators are pretty simple.
1. Armature circuit - where all the current is generated,
2. Field circuit - where the magnetic field is generated that is used by the armature circuit.

The output voltage on a generator depends upon three things.
1. Speed of rotation
2. strength of the magnetic field
3. number of turns of wire in the field circuit.

you see the changes with the RPM increase/decrease, so that's good.

By grounding the DF lead, you provide the field circuit with maximum current and allow it to generate the maximum magnetic field.  You see that, even though the number is too high, it shows that you have field current.

Now to the number of turns of wire in the field circuit.   Those are pretty hard to change :-)   it is possible to reduce the number if a few get shorted together.   If enough get shorted, it will increase the current through the field and potentially increase the strength of the magnetic field (amp-turns), resulting in higher output voltage.   This increased current would also be the source of your fried regulators.

One way of checking this is to
Remove the DF lead and let it be connected to nothing.
Read the resistance value between D+ and DF

Repeat the process with a known good generator and compare the two values.

Scott


On 6/11/2011 7:04 AM, John Baker wrote:
> Allright, I have been told that it is not possible for the generator on the wife's 70 westy to put out enough voltage to fry regulators...HOWEVER, I am telling you all that I have run the following test for maximum output multiple times with the same results (I even tested another bus to make sure I was doing the test right, and those reults were fine).... AFter working perfectly in the bus for 2 years, this generator is generating up to 60 VOLTS AT IDLE AND 100 VOLTS AT HIGH RPMS!!  Has anyone EVER heard of this issue happening before and why???
> Here's the test I ran:
