Date: Tue, 14 Jun 2011 00:31:39 -0400 (EDT)
From: David Raistrick <keen(-at-)icantclick.org>
To: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Collector Car Insurance on Westy (for real use.)

On Mon, 13 Jun 2011, John Anderson wrote:

> Or, why can't I insure the '77 for $200/year for minimal real use???

Eh.  I went through all of that with the collector car insurance companies 
a few years ago, just before the '66 got wrecked.

End result was that, for me, none of them would cover a camper or a truck 
('66 so-44, and '60 1 ton international pickup).    Grundy got the 
closest, and I filled out the paperwork, sent pictures and check, and got 
my official rejection letter at that point - I'd have to go dig it up.


With all of that said, I personally know a guy on thesamba who totalled 
his (split) westy and got full payout from either Grundy or Hagerty (I 
forget, even though it was only a few weeks ago at CTS that I talked to 
him...).  All of his buses had been covered for years and years on his 
dads policy, and he finally started his own with his latest single cab 
purchase.

He definitely camps in his buses, though he was on his way to BulliBrigade 
when his wreck happened, so "on my way to a show" wasn't arguable..


To quote an email from Hagerty, (mind you they soon started running TV ads 
with a VW camper in them after they told me this...):

"Secondly, we do not consider vehicles that are designed for camping
purposes or vehicles that are used for any kind of hauling, towing,
off-roading or for running errands in general.  "


Ah - I found my rejection from Grundy, asking for $20k coverage on my '66 
SO-44 in 2005:

"
1.  Vehicle is not restored.

2.  Value is unrealistic.

3.  All trucks/vans must be restored and maintained for shows.
"

Mind you, that's pure horseshit.   So you can't have an original vehicle, 
only restored, and they will out of hand reject a number without 
justification even though they clearly state that -you- define the value 
with the amount you choose to pay.


So all it all it seems like a crapshoot.   Maybe you'll get insured, but 
who knows if they'll decide to reject your claim when it comes in.


--
         David Raistrick    http://www.netmeister.org/news/learn2quote.html
keen(-at-)icantclick.org	   http://www.expita.com/nomime.html
