Date: Tue, 14 Jun 2011 11:57:29 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Collector Car Insurance on Westy (for real use.)

Actually when I had Nationwide, lived in the progressive state of WV, I could
do even better.  I had an agent with great office staff.  I simply would put
the insurance on and off of anything at will (and occasionally certainly on a
week to week basis.)  I was single, had up to 5-6 VW's at a time, clearly only
could drive one.  Usually I left 1-2 on full coverage (the Corrado, a beater
syncro usually) and then would dance the others on and off.  WV didn't require
sitting vehicles to be insured, if I needed to use a camper for a weekend, I
called them, if I needed to sell and give test drives, I called them,  they
started the policy, I paid, 1 week later I discontinued, they refunded.  I
tried countless times to logic them into giving me a "dealer" policy but they
couldn't without me getting a dealer license.
 
Some of the collector policies are like this, you pay liability charge on only
one vehicle, as you are likely to only drive one collector at a time.  Now I
would happily pay someone for an "agreed value" for 6 months use, even $5-600
for those 6 months, at the moment I simply can't find anyone in AK to do it
with an agreed value policy in AK on a collector age car.  Would I love to pay
$150-200 for a year, yes, but I'll pay more I just can't.
 
Something else to note here folks, be VERY careful if you feel you have an
"agreed value" policy through your regular insurance that you do.  Make sure
it says "agreed value" somewhere on your written policy and states the
amount.  Within the last couple years there have been a lot of scuttle about
several big names backing out or changing without really informing or
shiflessly trying to make policies into "stated value" (worthless, just means
for total loss, they will work to screw you as to the actual value) policies
instead.  For instance with SF, apparently they have collectors policies with
agreed value which are true, but as draconian as Grundy, AC, Hagarty for
usage, apparently they used to have full coverage "agreed value" policies that
cost normal amounts through normal insurance.  Some people still have these it
seems, some don't, some agents claim to still sell them, but often they are
"stated value" policies.  One needs to be VERY,
 VERY, sure you are insured for what and how you think you are.
 
John


--- On Tue, 6/14/11, Mike Benthin <muts(-at-)verizon.net> wrote:



Forgot to mention I did that with our camper- Mid Oct to Mid-April I dropped 
it and garaged it.  High Point makes you keep just comprehensive on it to keep
it on the books (few bucks a month).
