Date: Tue, 14 Jun 2011 15:46:27 -0700
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: hermine <hermine(-at-)endangeredspecies.com>
Subject: Re: Insurance

>  be VERY careful if you feel you have an
>"agreed value" policy through your regular insurance that you do.  Make sure
>it says "agreed value" somewhere on your written policy and states the
>amount.

My husband and I came close to being REALLY AND TRULY killed by an 
unlicensed and uninsured beast driving an unregistered car full of 
dope and booze at night on a moonless dark night on an unlit rural 
back road. the other car looked like a CONCERTINA. the trunk was in 
the passenger seat. Our car a 73 Chevvy, had lots of front end damage 
and one was not able to kick the doors open the way they do in 
films.   It took a half an hour for the cops and ambulance to show 
up, and the villain was hauled off in chains.....i had some Tahiti 
sunset black eyes, and a small cut in my hairline, plus the kind of 
PTSS where we could not drive at night for six months, could not 
drive on the freeway and as a passenger, I was and remain a total 
mess, shrieking if a car is any closer to us than half a mile. Me, a 
fan of race cars and stunt driving. However, the 73 Chevvy, aside 
from major cosmetics and doors, was still running, only the fan 
shroud was a bit tweaked and scraped a bit. we thought we were 
insured for the replacement value of a 1973 Chevvy pickup truck. 
hahahahahahahahahahaha. In order to get some pittance for it, we had 
to sign the title to them and the car was shitcanned, but as an organ 
donor, I KNOW IT WAS WORTH MORE THAN OUR PITTANCE. it had a fairly 
recent engine, shit howdy.

now I do not know where the blue book gets its information, but we 
all know that our old VWs are like DRECK, CRAPOLA, worth less than 
nothing, but in the real world if you tried to buy one, this would 
NOT BE SO, in fact, if our cars were worth blue book in the real 
world we would all mortgage the farm and go out and buy a dozen at top speed.

as far as health insurance, it depends. I have over time paid for six 
heart transplants, but I cannot get my insurance to ante up for the 
one meds I take, except for a generic version which is a form of 
POISON. something cooked up in a discarded can in a wretched third 
world country. and a good generic does exist, but it cost a few pennies more.

If all the money paid into health insurance by various employers had 
been stuck in an ordinary savings account with ordinary interest, I 
would be a millionaire by now.

my loathing for insurance companies has caused me to do my personal 
in depth study of how they work, and it is a long story, but their 
pockets are VERY PROTECTED.

I am glad for anyone and everyone who has benefited from insurance, 
You are like Ocean's Twelve, the new version.

I carry insurance for other peoples' body damage and for their ugly 
wretched cars which they drive in CA like drugged maniacs doing a 
computer game. and yes, I have NEVER been responsible for a car 
accident, and this is the first accident I have ever had in which 
there was damage done to a car!  (not counting backing into invisible 
stubby stanchions in parking lots and making wee impressions on the paintwork.

hermine
