Date: Mon, 27 Jun 2011 11:24:26 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: t2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] re: $198,000 '63 on B-J

On Mon, Jun 27, 2011 at 10:44 AM, Conrad Klahn <conradk(-at-)mac.com> wrote:

> I have to admit - that would be me if I had nothing better to do with my money. I guess we could all say that.

Right. The whole trend of the market is disconcerting. It makes me
think back to what initially attracted me to the bus in the first
place.

There were a lot of factors involved for finding the perfect vehicle.

1)  Financial hard times were a driving factor. It had to be
inexpensive to buy and to work on.

2)  To be inexpensive to work on meant that there had to be a
plentiful supply in the wrecking yards.

3)  If it was a vehicle that I had to work on myself, it should be
easy to work on. The stock stance is high enough that it is easy to
slide under to check or take care of quick things without taking the
time to jack it up.

4)  Maybe the real selling point in this regards was the simplicity of
design. I hated working on the modern cars I owned because of the
difficulty of getting at things. Getting inside a modern dash is near
impossible, and even some door panels are intimidating. Then on the
mechanical side, there was such joy the first time I looked inside the
bus engine compartment and saw there was nothing there. Just a coil
and distributor, a carb and a fuel pump, and a generator/alternator.
What joy!

So being able to pull a bus out a place where it was left neglected
for $200 or so, and sometimes free, and patch it together for $100
worth of wrecking yard parts left me in financial heaven. I felt like
I could finally get out from behind the 8 ball in life.

But then something changed. The prices started going up. Before
getting into buses, my goal was the $2000 price point when I needed a
"new" car. So getting buses much cheaper than that was a real boost in
helping me not to have too much money tied up in transportation. But
suddenly I felt guilty when a bus I put together was worth more than
that. I felt like I couldn't afford to own something that was worth
that much, and so I felt like I couldn't afford to keep it.

I never did get very far down that line of thought because whenever I
was so happy that I finally was getting a decent bus put together for
myself to enjoy, some financial crises would come up and I had to sell
it anyway, regardless of what it was worth. But the bus I had the
longest and was my daily driver for a few years was one I saved from
going to the junkyard for $200. I had big hopes for it, but then I
moved, and it is history as well.

But the point of all this is that the price inflation has changed the
whole paradigm. If I put something together that turns out to be worth
mega bucks, I will feel like I can't justify owning something that
valuable in my financial situation. Plus the high-end prices are
dragging up the low end prices so that you really can't get a $200 bus
anymore, at least not one with body and paint that are not in crisis.
Parts prices are driven up as well as the junkyards empty out and the
market volume for after-market manufacturers drops.

It's a changing world!

John
