From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'Troy Wical'" <troy(-at-)wical.com>
Cc: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 8 Jul 2011 10:26:57 -0400
Subject: New website & archive & email....

Hi Troy,

 

I am sorry if my email came across poorly. I appreciate the efforts you have
put in, I am just having trouble adjusting to its' use, and I miss features
of the old system. They are probably in the new system, and I just cannot
figure out how to  use them.

 

In my use of the new website-it appears as though we are moving away from
the email list, and into an online 'forum'. Is that right? Currently I
subscribe in the 'digest mode', but every now and then I want to read the
emails coming in as quickly as they post, and not wait for them to hit me
via the digest. The old site allowed me to go to the "Read" section, and
read posts by month.etc. I cannot see that in the new site. Actually it
looks like the only way to read emails is to do a search? I understand the
archive browser link you have, and I can link to that from the old site, and
it works, and I think it works pretty good. Do you have plans to put a link
like that on the new site?

 

The things I liked in the old search-I get the following info after
searching for something

1.       # of posts in a thread

2.       The actual subject title

3.       The ability to read the thread one post at a time, or I can see the
whole thread at once.

 

Try this on the old system and the new system- do a search on front beam
(side note for this example:I am thinking about upgrading my front to disc
brakes, and am looking into all info about that I can find)

 

On the old system, I see there are two pages of results, I can see each
thread, the number of posts on the thread, and the actual subject head. So
if I see one that says '71 front beam, I'd probably skip it off the
bat-because I have a '65. (then again eventually I may read it).

 

On the new system, I see I got 415 hits, and how fast I got them. I also see
a bunch of numbers with ranks, and links.I'm not really sure what any of
these things mean. I have a basic understanding of Boolean search, so I
don't think that is my problem. You mention that there are notes on how to
use the search engine, are there notes somewhere on how to interpret the
results? 

 

To continue this example-in the new system, If I click on the first hit from
the search, the one with a rank of 1000. I get one post. But I don't get the
whole thread-which to me is far more useful than any individual post. From
this individual post, I am unable to figure out how to go forward or
backward in the posting sequence, or see other posts made around the same
time.

 

I want to end this email-to clearly state-I AM NOT COMPLAINING! I greatly
appreciate all the resources you have put into this system, and the work put
in by the folks before you. I understand this is a volunteer gig, and you
only get good karma as payment. I intend these comments only as bugs,
quirks, issues.things I miss, things I want.feedback, whatever you want to
call it. I also understand if it takes a long time to get this stuff done,
heck it took me over a month to respond to your help. I just wanted to put
some things out there, for you to think about and possibly incorporate into
the new site.

 

 

-Kevin

Jamaica Plain, MA

'69 single cab

'65 Kombi - EZ-Camper

 

From: Troy Wical [mailto:troy(-at-)wical.com] 
Subject: Re: [VB] spare parts/travel list?

 

If you search for the term your looking for, the results displayed will be
only for that. The means you kind of don't even need to the subject line.
There are notes on how to use the search engine. Should the subject line be
there? Absolutely. The finished product will also contain an excerpt of each
message below it, as a preview. I've been working on this in my "spare"
time. Once I get some conflicting perl modules taken care of, we should be
good to go.

 

For now, here is the details on looking at archived email.

 

1. Use the archive browser. This has all messages listed in real time, but
is not searchable. Forget about the vanagon link, it's hosed.

http://type2.com/ezmlm-archives/

 

2. Use the search engine. If you were looking for this thread specifically,
you would wrap your query in quotes and it would look something like this
"spare parts/travel list"  Only emails that have the exact string will come
back. Now, if you try that today, you won't get this exact thread because
I've not updated the archives recently (I should though.) I've focused more
on getting the subject line thing taken care of that putting a script
together to automagically update the search index.

http://type2.com/search

 

So, there's your options for now. If everything goes to my exact plans,
world domination should be acquired in about a week. I'll let you know
otherwise :)

 

Peace,

Your friendly type2.com admin
