From: Troy Wical <troy(-at-)wical.com>
Date: Sat, 16 Jul 2011 06:35:14 -0600
Cc: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
To: Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
Subject: Re: New website & archive & email....

snipped and commented below

On Jul 8, 2011, at 8:26 AM, Kevin Guarnotta wrote:

> I am sorry if my email came across poorly.

The new layout project is far from complete, and I've taken a longer than
expected departure from it. I am starting to get back into the habit of
tinkering with it though. I didn't consider your email to be poorly written.
To be honest, I think I was more frustrated with how long it has taken to get
things done. I've not received much feedback in general, so I did appreciate
that part. I have a lot of ideas for the project, and hopefully I'll be able
to follow through on them. Keep the thoughts coming though.

> In my use of the new website-it appears as though we are moving away from
the email list, and into an online forum. Is that right?

No. The mailing list is not going anywhere. It was mentioned a while back that
having a forum would be nice, for those who did not want to deal with email.
However, there are more popular forums that will likely give users better and
quicker feedback to their queries. I've thought multiple times about taking
that forum down due to the minimal use.

> Currently I subscribe in the digest mode, but every now and then I want to
read the emails coming in as quickly as they post, and not wait for them to
hit me via the digest.

> Do you have plans to put a link like that on the new site?

Yes, the new site just needs to have the links put into the layout. The
archive link that you have now will likely remain the only way to read emails
live as they come in, without waiting for the digest to come out.

> The things I liked in the old search-I get the following info after
searching for something
> 1.       # of posts in a thread
> 2.       The actual subject title
> 3.       The ability to read the thread one post at a time, or I can see the
whole thread at once.


> On the new system, I see I got 415 hits, and how fast I got them. I also see
a bunch of numbers with ranks, and linksIm not really sure what any of these
things mean. I have a basic understanding of Boolean search, so I dont think
that is my problem. You mention that there are notes on how to use the search
engine, are there notes somewhere on how to interpret the results?

Number 1 and 3 are available in the archive link your using now. You read the
entire thread one one page if you like. The new search engine, once I get time
to troubleshoot and configure it more, will include the subject line (This is
the "bunch of numbers" your referring to. You'll also be able to sort the
results by subject, and there will be a short excerpt of the message so you
can read parts of the message without having to leave the search results. On
top of that, there will be phrase highlighting. The terms you searched for
will be highlighted by a yellow background.

If you want to see a rough preview of what I am talking about, click the link
below. You'll see the results for a search against the new type of index I am
building. Clicking on any of those search results will do nothing though,
since there is a bug with a perl module that I am using to create the index.
http://type2.com/cgi-bin/searchv2/search.cgi?query=pump&submit=Search%21&sort
=swishrank&si=0

> To continue this example-in the new system, If I click on the first hit from
the search, the one with a rank of 1000. I get one post. But I dont get the
whole thread-which to me is far more useful than any individual post. From
this individual post, I am unable to figure out how to go forward or backward
in the posting sequence, or see other posts made around the same time

I may be able to introduce some navigation into the email messages, but it's
not at the top of the list. The best method is going to be to use the archive
url your using now, or once I fix the search engine, sort by subject.

> I want to end this email-to clearly state-I AM NOT COMPLAINING! I greatly
appreciate all the resources you have put into this system, and the work put
in by the folks before you. I understand this is a volunteer gig, and you only
get good karma as payment. I intend these comments only as bugs, quirks,
issuesthings I miss, things I wantfeedback, whatever you want to call it. I
also understand if it takes a long time to get this stuff done, heck it took
me over a month to respond to your help. I just wanted to put some things out
there, for you to think about and possibly incorporate into the new site.

Keep it coming. I really do appreciate it, and hope that I'll be able to
contribute more than I have been.

Peace, Troy
