Date: Fri, 14 Mar 2003 09:26:31 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Dave Wolfanger <dwolf(-at-)bluefrognet.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] NAPA  ball joint snafu

>All I can add is, NEVER USE NAPA for VW parts or service. The only things 
>I get at NAPA are lubricants and supplies. I can't tell you how many times 
>I've seen poor fit of NAPA parts and just bad services on ALL Euro cars at 
>NAPA. Things like, 4 quart oil change special in a motor that takes 7 
>quarts, and a dead motor in 50 miles. That's what you get for $19.95, a 
>$3.00 filter and 3 quarts short of a full load. And 10/30 oil and a junk 
>filter and valve lifters wrattling like crazy. Put on a stock filter with 
>proper oil weight=problem solved. I don't know if they have the specs and 
>don't care to look them up, or don't have specs cause everything the parts 
>man sells they think meets spec. Nerds, I tell you, just nerds, worth half 
>the $8 per hour they are paid, except when you add up the damages.

Doc Tim I respectfully disagree....

Is Advance Auto or Auto Zone any better? I think it is just more than who 
runs the counter. Locally the NAPA is the best alternative for car parts. 
They have a variety of mechanical veterans manning the desk and they can 
discuss the ins and outs of a car problem correctly. I have found their 
parts to be higher quality than the common supermarket FLAPS and they can 
get more selection than the others guys. I walked in and ordered a carb kit 
for my 1949 Chevy p/u. At the time (its been over a year) Advance Auto and 
Auto Zone could not get the same at any price. NAPA even had the correct 
oil filter on the shelf for the same truck. A Purolator I think.

Locally we have 5 or 6 options - I'd do business with two. One is NAPA and 
the other a Mom and Pop outfit across town also manned with men and women 
who have been selling car parts for 30 years. Store has been there since 
the 50's. The others lack selection, people working there competent enough 
to locate and order the correct part, or the prices are unreasonable. I 
don't mind paying a slight bit over Wal-Mart or K-mart prices for my oil to 
save a trip to another store and to guarantee the survival of the store I 
like (I vote with my dollars - - - <grin>).

I base alot of my opinion on working a 2nd job at an Advance Auto in the 
evenings for 6-9 months a couple of years ago when we were saving for to 
buy a house. Lots of high school kids and dropouts working the desk. MANY 
of them didn't know what a spark plug looked like until they started 
working there. They have no information to offer the customer. Sometimes 
they cannot even locate the necessary part in the system - especially if it 
is in the paper catalog. This same problem effects their ability to order 
the CORRECT part.

Everything significant that I have had to buy from NAPA was good and 
generally better quality than Advance Auto and Auto Zone. At Advance we had 
such a miserable quality problem with starters, alternators, etc. that we 
had to start testing the parts before they were given to the customer. Did 
not matter if they were the cheapest store brand or the AC Delco brand 
(really just an AC Delco sticker on a 3rd party brand alternator). Many of 
these parts were dead on arrival - - - that is they were "new" in the box 
but defective.

I have since heard that rebuilt for some of their suppliers meant 
disassembling core alternators, separating the good parts from the bad, 
cleaning everything, and reassembling alternators to sell to you and me 
from these pieces. Frankly I will NOT pay significant money for alternator 
with bearings or other pieces that are used up. I mean they could sell you 
an alternator that has bearings 90% worn and you wouldn't know until 3 
months later when it failed one day and left you stranded. Stuff happens 
but I'm not going to jump in line to let it happen to me. Frankly I can put 
together an alternator from used parts for almost free. Silver paint is 
cheap. Why would I want to chance doing a difficult repair annually? Better 
yet why would I want to pay a mechanic to do a repair and then do it with a 
cheap alternator so that it needs to be done again in 12-18 months? That 
labor twice on the same repair. I could buy a better alternator for $25 and 
save $50 on labor in a year because it lasts as long as the original 
alternator (20 years). Invest that $50 and you're golden.

This is the reason I advise folks to be involved in a repair even if the 
pay for it to be done at a shop - where is that alternator coming from?

Now this does NOT mean all rebuilds are done like this. Good rebuilds are 
done using new bearings, diodes, etc.

Many, many electrical parts came back in between 12 and 18 months (I began 
watching the sell and return dates on the computer). Some were back within 
weeks. The cheapest rotors were sometimes THINNER than the minimum 
thickness specs for that rotor. One fellow came in with a 250K mile rotor 
off of a Mighty Max pickup. He brought his micrometer and measured the new 
rotor before he paid for it and the new rotor was thinner than his old 
rotor! He was peeved. I was embarrassed.

Naturally oil and such is going to be equal from store to store but I'll go 
to NAPA before for expensive parts like I said all the rest of the stores 
locally save 1.

YMMW.

One more thing: if you need a generic part and want to shop NAPA beware. 
They're prices are more expensive even when I can't see how they can 
justify it. I priced 2 round mufflers at NAPA for my Corvair transplant. 
They were the SAME brand (the NAPA box had an additional NAPA sticker 
covering the manufacturer's sticker) but NAPA was $5 higher per muffler. 
Same catalog number if you looked carefully through the NAPA sticker.

I went to buy an aux fuse panel for my bus. They sold the SAME fuse panel 
(same manufacturer, different box) for $25 and at Advance it was $7. The 
manufacturer's markings on the part was the same.

The logic I use is this: if a part is difficult to replace (internal engine 
parts, bearings, etc.) I am going to buy the best quality part I can 
afford. I know a higher priced part doesn't guarantee but I better have 
some history with the brand of the part. No Chinese anything on my cars. If 
it is something easy like a fuse - I don't care where the fuse comes from.

Like I said before YMMV.



Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
