Date: Thu, 17 Mar 2005 19:38:49 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Rear tail light BRIGHT alternative?

>From: "J. P. Henriksen" <a59camper(-at-)yahoo.com>
>Date: Wed, 16 Mar 2005 21:13:40 -0800 (PST)
>
>I just bought some 1157 replacement leds from
> http://www.superbrightleds.com/
>and they are much less than the ebay ones.  (About $5 each.)

Their page http://www.superbrightleds.com/1157.htm brings up something
I've mentioned before.

"For best results the LED color should be the same as the lens color. A
  red lens will filter out all but the red portion of the light so if the
  light is all red, none or very little light will be blocked by the
  lens"

The red lenses on your tail lights throw away most of the wavelengths of
light emitted by an incandescent bulb, only passing a narrow range of
wavelengths.  An LED only emits light in a narrow range of wavelengths.
If the color emitted by the LED and the color passed by the lenses
matches pretty closely, great!  If not, you can actually end up with
_less_ light.

Also, some of the LED tail lamp replacements I have seen do a great job
of throwing light straight out the back, but a real crummy job of
throwing any out the sides or towards the front.  Instead of a nice even
red glow, you end up with a bright spotlight in the middle with darkness
around it.  Again, from their site:

"Some of our bulbs are available with Narrow or Wide viewing angle. The
  Wide angle (approx. 100 degree beam) will light up more area but dimmer
  than the Narrow angle. The Narrow angle (approx. 15 degree) will
  illuminate a smaller area but brighter than the Wide angle"

What a 15 degree angle means to you is that 20 feet behind the
centerline of the tail light, the beam will be about 5 feet 3 inches
in diameter.  This is just about enough to get into the next lane over.

If I were going to run some LED bulb replacements on a 60s Bus, I'd get
some of those way-kewl clear lenses.  I'd leave the top of the lens
alone, and let the LEDs shine through that.  The bottom half of the lens
is normally just a reflector in US-spec Buses.  If the way-kewl lens had
a decent reflector there, I might leave it.  But what I'd probably do is
get some red Scotchlite and either put it on the outside of the bottom
half of the lens, or put it on that flat U of the tail light housing and
let it reflect through the lens.

Some day when I am real bored I will read FMVSS 108 and other exciting
documents and learn what the standards for tail lights actually are.
But for now, from the site: "For aftermarket use. May not comply with
SAE or U.S. DOT standards"

My final gritch: they don't have them in 6 volt!  :)

Matt Roberds
