From: Conrad Klahn <conradk(-at-)mac.com>
Date: Fri, 18 Mar 2005 09:38:56 -0600
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: LED lighting

Hi,

I'd like to throw my 2 pesos in on this one. I tried a variation of the 
one referenced here on my Vanagon.

LED light occupies a very narrow lightwave spectrum. If you have ever 
used an LED flashlight you know what I mean. The light is very intense 
in this narrow band however, so LED lights easily illuminate objects 
using very low power. If you have ever illuminated an object with an 
LED flashlight, the effect is almost surreal. (Our eyes pick up natural 
light very easily - which has a very wide spectrum. Our eyes do not 
pick up narrow spectrum light very easily - so the illumination feels 
unnatural to us.)

LED lights do not do very well when filtered, or when passed through a 
colored lens. Incandescent bulbs put out a consistent amount of light 
across a wide band. Incandescent light passes easily through filters or 
colored lenses.

So, I tried one of these "intense" LED lights and was disappointed. At 
night, the LED bulbs were much more visible than incandescent. In the 
daytime, however, they were almost non-existent. Probably why all the 
pictures you see with these advertised are in the dark.

However, there are industrial grade LED lighting systems for city 
busses and trucks. These use reflective surfaces inside the lamp to 
create a wider spectrum. They are MUCH more expensive than these easy 
replacements. Our OEM taillight holders have very little reflectivity 
behind the lens - so that would be the first area of improvement to 
try.

LEDs make a very good secondary light - which would help you with 
night-time visibility. You might also want to consider conspicuity tape 
(search on conspicuity+dot+gov). I keep thinking about that microbus 
was rear-ended by a semi last year - the trucker said he didn't see the 
bus until he was right on top of it.  (search in The Samba gallery on 
"semi") These items certainly would have made a difference.

Conrad
