From: Njspinner(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 18 Mar 2005 21:59:50 EST
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Dead engine in Miami-WTB used cam or maybe even complete used

Hello List & especially listees in the Miami area

I was on my way down I-95 to visit a friend here in Miami, FL in my '60 
camper when the engine stopped - no horrible noises or anything, just complete 
silence.  I managed to make it to the side of the road without getting killed --> 
a miracle given the fact that I was suddenly JUST COASTING in the middle of 3 
lanes of insane south Florida traffic.  The compression test convinced me that 
I wouldn't be fixing this problem on the side of the road.  Got the free 70 
mile AAA tow the rest of the way here & pulled the engine apart in my friend's 
garage.  The cam gear (flat face type) in my 1600 is completely thrashed.

I have access to a car for parts buying trips & a nice place to work but the 
real problem is that I can't just walk into a VW shop & buy a new cam & drop 
it in.  Why not?  Because my engine was built using one of those *%#^!!! 
aluminum Type 1 cases that gave everybody who bought one a permanent migraine.  
Among the numerous manufacturing flaws in my aluminum case is that the cam bore & 
the crank bore are just -not- parallel.  For further discussion of this try an 
archive search for Craig K's problems trying to locate a cam that would 
actually rotate in his aluminum case.  I was going through exactly the same crisis 
at the same time, & emailed him 2 or 3 times to compare notes.  I eventually 
tried a used cam that had an undersized gear due to many years of wear & that 
"solved" my problem.  The valium was helpful too.

That first cam failed after 5,000 miles while I was 2,100 miles from home in 
southwest Utah.  Oh it was fun.  My best guess now is that the uneven 
rotational force between the cam & the crank is what ovaled out the rivet holes in the 
cam gear.  One of the rivets got loose in there & took chunks out of the oil 
pump, & everything else died from low oil pressure (though not actually low 
enough to trigger the oil light).  At the time I thought the cam failure was 
just a fluke.  Since no shop I could find in the Las Vegas area had anything but 
the basic zero-size cam gear I had to track down another used cam to drop in - 
along with new crank, pump, bearings, etc.

Now it's 4,000 miles later & I'm on another long road trip & my 2nd cam gear 
is destroyed, though in a very different way.  For the last 500 miles I was 
seeing very fine metal particles in the oil on the dipstick & now 30% of the cam 
gear teeth have been mowed down just like grass.  No theories about this one 
yet.  

At this point my goal is just to get back to Indianapolis so I can pull my 
old magnesium case out of storage, have the case savers installed, & then put it 
back in the bus like I should have done in the first place.  So -- strange as 
it sounds, what I'd like to buy here in Miami is yet another used flat face 
cam with a gear that has seen enough miles to be worn enough to fit in this 
aluminum case & get me back home.  I know that it's possible to special order 
brand new cams with undersized gears but before you can order one you need to 
know what size will fit, & that is a trial & error process which would involve 
installing the cam in the case & mating it with the crank.  

So if you're near Miami & have a USED stock VW  >flat faced<  cam that you 
can sell, please reply or pmail or call me.  If you have a suggestion about a 
shop or junkyard I should be checking out I'd appreciate that too.

OK then, since I'm getting almost 4,500 miles per cam (mpc) I figure that 
after engine reassembly there should be plenty of leeway to drive down to Key 
West to pick up one of those "Mile 0" stickers & get a picture of the bus on the 
beach at sunset before starting back north.  Does anyone know if there's 
really any such thing as camping in Key West?  Also - if anyone has any suggestions 
for nice beaches with campgrounds or touristy photo opportunities on the way 
up the gulf coast please let me know.

P.S.  Those of you who are saying I should be buying a new engine here in 
Miami & that it's nuts to go to all the trouble of assembling a soon-to-be scrap 
aluminum case just for one 1500 mile drive are right, but money is definitely 
an object - plus I already have all the components for my next engine at home. 
 However, if you happen to have a good used upright 1600 bus or beetle engine 
in the Miami or south Florida area please pmail or call to let me know how 
much you'll want for it.

Thanks for reading

Bill Esch
317-435-0207 (cell)
1960 camperized panel w/ deluxe sunroof transplant & '42 Buick taillights
