Date: Fri, 1 Nov 2002 21:31:52 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: ...was "toasty", now "chokey and smeary"

>From: <wes.kennedy(-at-)jademountain.com>
>Date: Fri, 1 Nov 2002 10:53:14 -0700
>
>How can you get the [wiper] blade tighly pressed against the surface of
>the glass.

The first place to check is the pivots, where the wiper shafts come
through the sheet metal.  On my '64, there is an outer sleeve with a
threaded OD and a nut to clamp it down to the sheet metal so it doesn't
move.  The wiper shaft turns inside that sleeve.  On the right side,
the wiper shaft was frozen to the sleeve, and the whole assembly was
turning, making for lots of axial play at the pivot and poor contact
on the glass.

If your wipers don't move relatively quickly, it might be a good time
to pull the wiper motor, clean the old grease out of the gearbox and
repack, and check the brushes and commutator.  The spec for your
wiper motor is 44 strokes a minute (one stroke is the wiper blade
moving across the window and back).  I worked over my wiper motor
a couple of months ago and sped it up considerably - the grease was
old and hard, and the oil was separating from the grease and running
down the shaft to foul the commutator.

There is a spring in the base of the wiper arms - fold them away from
the windshield and see.  If that spring is broken you can have problems.
Once everything else is right, if the blades still aren't tight to the
glass, you can bend the wiper arms -gently- to move the blades closer
to the windshield.

>What year did squirters become available?

In 1965 the one-ton models got them.  I don't know if any 3/4-tons came
to the US after that, so I think it would have been "standard" here then.
They had a tank at the far left end of the dash with a pump in the cap;
you pushed on the cap with your hand to make them squirt.

>I can live with no freaking gas guage and my whole engine diagnosis
>hanging on two measly lights, but c'mon no windshield squirter?

Perseverance Furthers.

>Whats up with this "Rain-x" I read about on Hoover Sermon pages?

Rain-X is a coating for the outside of the glass that is supposed to
make the water just run off - like it does on a waxed, painted body
panel.  A friend had it on his car and it worked OK.  One note - once
you use a rag or cloth to put Rain-X on your windshield, *throw the
rag away*.  My friend didn't do this and got some on the inside of
the windshield where it tended to fog up and be annoying.  I don't
think it helps with snow or ice on the windows, though.

Matt Roberds
