From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "Vintage List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 2 Nov 2002 10:32:03 -0500
Subject: re:...was "toasty" now "chokey and smeary"

this is how i understand the heat exchanger(HE)  to work...

you have exhaust gases going through a heavy metal finned tube. I think this
is aluminum.
you have a cooling fan that blows air over the oil cooler, and also through
some tubes that go to the heat exchangers. the air passes between the inner
heavy metal piece and the light gauge exterior metal of the HE. hence the
heat is exchanged from the heavy metal exhaust gas channel to the "clean
air" area. Then it goes through a heavy duty flexible tube that has some
grey vinyl/plastic insulation on it, then through a "muffler" then it hits a
long tube up to the front of the bus where it splits into a y channel, one
for left and one for right....

where i have found leaks in my system are at the edges of the thin walls of
the heat exchanger...this thing vibrates with the engine, the metal is real
thin, so it tends to wear through. i think a sort of vacuum is created here,
so exhaust gases existing near you engine get sucked in.

i also noticed the last time i had my engine apart that one of my "heat"
mufflers was wet inside, looked like with some oil or something, so i think
this is why I get some odor up front...another possibility-i think
definitely more dangerous is if the heavy metal finned tube has a hole in
it. then you would be getting straight exhaust shot up through your heat
vents.

as for squirters, my bus has them at the base of the window, although i
never thought of putting them at the top(makes a lot more sense) If you look
right near the base of the windshield, you should see two small holes, maybe
filled with small little chromed nipple type things. these connect to a
plastic container to the right of the speedo pod, on the dash. you pump the
top of this container, and water squirts onto the windshield. supposedly. I
have actually never seen this work, nor tried it, my plastic containre was
broken when i got my bus, i removed the system, then got all the parts
neccesary to redo it, but i have yet to reinstall it...

-kevin
somerville, ma
'65 kombi
'67 sqbk

oh yeah i almost forgot about the rain-x. i think the stuff works great, it
doesn't last forever, so you need to reapply every now and then, but you
almost don't need the wipers-the water rusn off so fast.
