From: "Eric Allred" <eaallred(-at-)lvcm.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 2 Nov 2002 09:54:20 -0800
Subject: Re: [VB] high pressure/Oil filter/cold issues

Understanding the oiling system in your VW (or any car for that matter) is
key.
Thick oil is not the 'best'. Running thicker oil is going to end up
supplying less oil to the bearings, and more going past the pressure relief
valve. But if you run too thin of oil, then you'll starve your engine of
what it needs. There's a happy medium. If you want the 'right' oil for your
car, you need to find out what it wants.  But here's a tip:  Oil companies
don't make an engine oil that is too thin to be useable, so don't think 5w30
oil is 'like water'.  Heat any oil up to 210 degrees, and it's going to look
like 'water'.

I personally feel, that if you run a 10w30, and your oil light flickers, or
comes on at idle, then something is wrong, either your engine is running too
hot, or the engine is worn, and is in need of a rebuild. It's even stated in
the Bently manual that 10w30 oil is rated "All the year". The only thing
thicker that they recommend is 30w, but only in temps of 86 degrees
farenheit or higher. Not a whole lot of places where it's 86 degrees when
you go to start your vw up in the morning. Besides, 10w30 and 30w are the
same at operating temperature. A lot of people don't believe this, but I
assure you, if you heat up 30w and 10w30 to 200 degrees, they have the same
flow. So why run something like a straight weight oil, that is only going to
supply less oil to the bearings during warmup? It makes no sense.

Thinner oil will also supply more oil through the oil cooler, and provide
more oil flow past the bearings which aid in cooling.

Some say a thicker oil will reduce metal to metal contact over a thinner
oil. I guess this would be true if there wasn't a pump supplying the oil.
Your lubrication system is based on flow, not pressure. An oil pressure
gauge, or idiot light is just a cost effective way to tell you that you do
in fact, have oil flowing. If more pressure is better, why do engine's have
oil pressure relief valves to make sure you dont get too much pressure? Most
rubber oil lines are rated to take 300psi (at least, mine have always been),
so why does the valve open at about 60psi? Surely the rubber oil line would
be the weak link, right?  You need to keep a lot of oil flowing in there, to
keep the engine parts hydroplaning on eachother. Oil pumps are mechanical
gear driven pumps, and regardless of how thick the oil is, each revolution
is going to pump the same amount of oil. Do you want more oil going to the
bearings, or past the relief valve?

I'm running 5w30 in my bus motor (1600dp). I drove it everyday in the summer
when we hit 115 and above. No oil pressure problems, or oil temp problems.
Lately, I have been driving my bus from Vegas to Salt Lake City each week.
I'm getting ready to move up there next month, and am loading the bus up to
the max each trip. On the trip before last, I had the bus seriously loaded.
I had half my garage loaded in it, which included a tranny, a motor, and a
buttload of heavy things like generators, pressure plates, etc, etc. All the
heavy metal stuff from the garage, basically.  It was loaded so much that it
was killing rear snubbers in the back. I didn't look at what the front was
sitting on. It looked 'cool' lowered.  Anyway, even flooring it up all the
canyon hills (anyone familiar with the canyon in the upper left corner of
Arizona?), I coasted at the top, and at an 800rpm idle, I had plenty of oil
pressure. And still didn't run hot. I stopped at a reststop near St. George,
UT, just a few miles after that, and let the clutch out with the brake on to
get the idle even lower, and even at 500 rpm, I still had oil pressure.
After I killed the motor doing this (haha, the people looking at me probably
thought I was drunk or high), I checked the berg stick to make sure it was
working (since it wasn't flickering the light), and it was almost 90 degrees
away from making contact. The engine case was warm, but not hot. My spit
wouldn't sizzle on it, or evaporate 'really fast'. Very cool.   About 85 to
90 degrees the last couple weekends too, so it's not like this was cold
weather driving.

I don't know where that last part was going to, except maybe to show that as
long as you have your engine setup right so that it doesn't run hot, and the
engine isn't worn out, even a 5w30 oil is plenty 'thick enough' for our VW's
if they're healthy.  10w30 would be the norm for a VW motor with some miles
on it.  I have 10K miles on mine, and it still has oil pressure at 500rpm.
And my valves still haven't gone out of adjustment since I first set them
10K miles ago (Just checked them the day before yesterday), which tells me
even more, that the engine is running nice and cool, and has plenty of
lubrication.

Again, a lot of people don't agree with this, and that's okay. Everyone run
what you want, because when it comes to oil preference, everyone likes thier
own flavor.

 As for timing, I was running my Mallory distributor set to 7.5 at idle, 32
max advance, with 10 more degrees with the vacuum advance. I baked some
cookies a couple weeks ago with an engine fire (Looks now like the fuel
filter came apart, the culprit) and had to replace the Mallory, and put in
one of them fancy SVDA's from AC.Net. Last loaded trip to SLC and it ran
great again, even though the total advance on that is even more than my
Mallory was set to.

You can run super thick oils if you want, but keep in mind that more oil
will end up past the relief valve, and not the bearings.

As for the oil filter leaking, you are most likley balooning the oil filter
from too much oil pressure.  Having a bypass valve in the filter does not
matter as far as keeping the filter from doing this.  Usually, the first
thing that will happen, when you overpressurize an oil filter, is the outer
can will balloon.  Even if it's not leaking, you still want to replace the
filter, because the can holds the innards in place.  If it's ballooned, then
most likley everything is 'loose' inside.   If it goes beyond 'ballooning'
the filter, and it starts leaking, that is because the baseplate (the part
with the gasket and threads) has started ballooning, or bending.  Cheap
filters use a thinner base plate than higher end filters.

You can put on a filter with a thicker can and baseplate, but that's just a
bandaid for the real problem.  Running that 30w oil in such cold weather is
bad news for your engine.

Eric
64 bug
64 delux
http://www.geocities.com/eaallred

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of smile.gif]
