From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Kevin Albrecht <kfa(-at-)dbsitebuilder.net>, VB <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, 
Date: Sat, 2 Nov 2002 11:08:48 -0800 
Subject: RE: [VB] high pressure/Oil filter/cold issues

  There is only 1 good filter pump made today thet I am aware of. SCAT,
Bugpack, EMPI and all the rag mag pumps are made in Taiwan. I was so excited
to get some SCAT ones in till I looked at them and saw they were the same
Taiwan ones as everyine else sells (which were quickly returned).
  NOW, CB Performance sells a filter pump that is a SCHADEK  (the only brand
readily available) and it has a KEYED drive gear, not pressed on like the
Taiwan ones, it has 26 mm gears ( I never use any bigger) and is a great
unit. 10 years of using this brand without a failure.
  I do not use Melling pumps as they alwys seem to leak. The cast iron
housing expands at a different rate then the aluminum and always seem to
leak with a warm/hot engine and WHY would you ever need 30 mm gears with a
low to mid performance engine?

ronnie

-----Original Message-----
From: Kevin Albrecht [mailto:kfa(-at-)dbsitebuilder.net]
Sent: Saturday, November 02, 2002 8:12 AM
To: VB; Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Subject: RE: [VB] high pressure/Oil filter/cold issues


Clara,

Well...I don't have experience with 'Cold' issues (Yet!), cause' when I had
my engine built I was still in Florida.  I had my 1776 built by the top
mechanics in Ft. Lauderdale.  One of the things I asked for in this engine,
pertained to the oil pump.  I was all stoked to have a newly built engine,
so I wanted a spin-on filter on the pump.  I also wanted the brand Melling.

Engine was bought, I put it in the bus, and was grinning from ear to ear.
Two weeks later I was leaving work, heard a 'pop' or maybe was' a 'click',
and I lost all pressure.  Shut off the engine, and waited 3 hours for
AAA(that is another story altogether!).  I had it towed back to the shop
until the next day, to find the pump had failed.  'That is surprising, that
a Melling pump would fail', I said.  'Well...You asked for a filter pump, so
I put in a BugP*ck pump'.  I had them put in a non-filter MELLING pump, and
I have not had issues since.  It brought me here to the PNW.

I don't know who made your filter-pump, but I'll shy away from them.

IMHO, BugCrap should stay with accessories, and leave vital engine
componenets to others. - K

Kevin Albrecht
Adapt and Overcome..
Livin' the Journey...
www.kalbrecht.com
