From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 2 Nov 2002 15:48:46 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] high pressure/Oil filter/cold issues

In a message dated 11/2/2002 9:54:54 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
eaallred(-at-)lvcm.com writes:


> But here's a tip:  Oil companies don't make an engine oil that is too thin 
> to be useable, so don't think 5w30 oil is 'like water'.  Heat any oil up to 
> 210 degrees, and it's going to look like 'water'.

Hi Volks,
True, as long as you have not run the multi-wieght oil at too high of oil 
temp and cook the molocules that make it thicken when heated and thin when 
cooled.  Making it a thin straight wieght.  For this reason we run straight 
30WT during the hotter spring and summer weather.  When we tried 20/50 WT 
Castrol during cold weather it acted more like a straight 40WT oil than a 
multi-wieght oil.  Since then we have been using 10/30 WT Castrol for when 
fall/winter/spring weather drops below 70F.  Also VW does have warnings of 
running straight 5 Wt for long driving trips even in the temps listed for it.

> Thinner oil will also supply more oil through the oil cooler, and provide 
> more oil flow past the bearings which aid in cooling.
> 
> Some say a thicker oil will reduce metal to metal contact over a thinner 
> oil. I guess this would be true if there wasn't a pump supplying the oil.  
> Your lubrication system is based on flow, not pressure.

It is more complicated than that.  It is a mix of flow, pressure, and temp 
that must be not too much or too little.  Otherwise we could use the preWWII 
splash oiling system that was used in USA autos with simular HP rated 
engines, but much much larger bearing surface areas.  Using the splash system 
on our ACVW or postWWII higher HP water cooled autos results in an experience 
like someone sent out in very deep soft snow without snow shoes.  Please note 
the minimal oil pressure ratings listed in "Without Guesswork" as SAE 30WT at 
oil temp 70C or 158F (-at-) 2,500 RPM, new 42 PSI and wear limit of 28 PSI.  
Otherwise flow could be greatly increased by running more clearance between 
crank and bearings.  Like when we built an engine that turned out the heat 
shrunk on the correct sized packaging from a reputable German original 
manufacture were instead .010" to big of main bearings!  Not a good thing!

  As for too much pressure, the limit is about 80 Lbs. at the idiot sensor 
location.  Any higher can result in blown FW seal and an oil cooler passages 
swelling so the cooling air can no longer flow through properly.
Eric&Barb
