From: "El Senor Capitan" <whistlingtin(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 2 Mar 2003 11:26:34 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] Propane stuff and tips (a bit gruesome, so not

Hi Friends-

I will not be wieghing in on wether you should or should not refill propane
bottles. It is no more my place, than that of some buerocrat in an office to
presume to know what is best for you in your situation. I would however,
like to share a story with you about propane in a van that has changed my
life.

Years ago, I was working in a silviculture camp in central Alberta in a
remote logging area. Most of the crew was living in tents, though a few of
us were living in our vehicles. Just after dawn one morning, I was awakened
by something rocking my truck. I poked my head out to see a door from my
friend's van lying smoking in the grass a few metres away. The next few
hours are a bit of a smear, but I remember getting my still conscious friend
out of the remains of his van, wrapped in a clean sheet, and into one of our
trucks. I remember the 45 minute drive down a rough logging road, with his
burnt skin literally sloughing off of his body. I remember getting to
hospital, and being told that they were not set up to handle trauma of this
magnitude, and that a plane was on the way to transport him to the big city.

What had happened? A small propane leak had filled his van with propane
while he slept. When he turned on a light, the spark of the switch closing
set the whole thing off. I was told later by a propane expert that it would
be possible that if a leak was small enough, it could flow out onto the
floor, (propane being heavier than air) and slowly build up gently enough
that if one were sleeping at a higher level, they could be unaware of the
smell.

Lessons learned? Simply recognise that propane is a dangerous substance, and
needs to be treated accordingly. Examine your system, and consider how to
make it safer. I am not trying to be a fear-monger here, I simply want to
remind the group that especially as we all range farther afield, the more we
must rely upon our own sense of safety to care for ourselves and our loved
ones.  What the local regulations are, what your friends think, or fear of
the what the authorities might do are ultimately irrelevant. It is your
life, your family, your responsibility.

If you want to, how can you make your system safer? (Note: I am speaking
about our boat and home here. Our new/old van is not yet camperized, though
the same concepts apply.) We have a pressure gauge after the tank in our
system, which allows us to check for leaks in the system. (Simply turn off
the propane at the tank. Wait awhile. Did the gauge go down? Nope, then no
leaks!) We have a simple 12v solenoid in our system. It is tied to propane
"sniffers" and thermocouples in our appliances. Should a "sniffer" (placed
at the lowest point in your vehicle) find any propane, or should a
thermocouple go cold (thus indicating that the appliance has blown out) the
propane is automatically shut off at the tank. Propane is stored in a sealed
locker that is vented outside the vehicle, so that if there is a leak, or if
the tank vents off due to temperature expansion, the propane is released to
the atmosphere, not into the vehicle. These items are readily available at a
propane supply, rv store, or marine store.

While we are on the subject, a great, cheap, piece of mind thing that we
have added to both the van and the boat is a 9v Carbon Monoxide alarm. They
look like smoke detectors, and are available at your local hardware/home
store. This will warn us (and it has), if the products of combustion are
building up in our small air spaces.

I hope this info is useful, and taken in the spirit it is intended.

Cheers, and Happy Cooking!

Matthew
