Date: Mon, 03 Mar 2003 14:24:37 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>, "Robert S. Williams, MD"
Cc: Type2 mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>, hcmills(-at-)tntech.edu
Subject: Re: [T2] Propane stuff and tips

>I've seen one case of CO poisoning, and it is just about in the "Darwin
>Award" category.  I was desert camping (not with a VW group) and one idiot
>couple decided to take their hibachi barbeque inside their van to warm it
>up.  The only way they survived is because a buddy missed them being
>around the campfire and went to see what was up.  They did not respond to
>knocking on the outside of their van and their buddy finally opened the
>door uninvited.  They were both unconscious and barely came around when
>they were carried out of their van into the cold desert air.  They
>escaped with headaches from hell.  If their friend had just decided that
>they had gone to bed early they would have been dead.

When I was stationed in Italy I had a roommate from ND who was always cold 
in the winter (you'd think he'd be used to the cold, being from ND!).

We didn't heat our house there in Italy because it was all concrete and no 
insulation and we were poor enlisted slobs making jack-squat for pay. 
Instead we'd heat the room we were in. It wasn't a big deal because we were 
in Naples were it rarely froze (imagine Florida weather).

He would put a kerosene heater in his room on high and close the door and 
sleep like that. Every morning when my clock alarm went off I would wonder 
if this was the morning he'd be dead. I lectured him a few times but I'd 
said my piece. Sometimes his clock would beep for half an hour before he 
would come to enough to turn it off. Sometimes he was so disoriented that 
he'd fall out of his bed trying to find the clock. Sometimes he'd fall out 
of bed and just lay there another 20 minutes. As you can imagine this was a 
point of tension between us because he was being stupid day after day and I 
did not want to deal with any dead roommates so we just quit talking about 
it...

A few mornings he wouldn't stir at all and I'd wait a while and then get 
dressed and climb the stairs to his room to see if he was dead. I'd walk in 
and the heat and lack of oxygen would take my breath away. I'd turn the 
heater off and start shaking him and eventually after 5 minutes of me 
hassling him and the door being open (fresh air) he'd come around. The ride 
to work would include a few mentions of headaches and fatigue (symptoms of 
CO poisoning).

A truly disturbing situation....

I would have started going to work without him but eventually he'd be dead 
and MY rear would have been in the frying pan. I eventually discussed the 
situation with my supervisor who said something to him which worsen our 
"home" relations but didn't change anything... And then spring would come 
and cold nights would no longer be an issue.

I miss Italy but I don't miss that situation...



Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
