From: "Justin Pentecost" <cameflex(-at-)tiscali.co.uk>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 27 Nov 2005 20:46:00 -0000
Subject: RE: Clutch ...

Thankyou so much for your help,   I will be jacking the bus up and getting
underneath tommorow .. Someone said in a private mail to "Screw the wingnut
six turns tight" and that if it makes any difference then it's an adjustment
problem ..




>In my experience, clutch release failure is most often due to something in
the "system" that transmits the force from your left foot to the release
bearing.  I would guess a frayed clutch release cable; or accelerated wear
in/around the hook that pulls the cable; or a loose eccentric at the trans
end;
or (most expensively) a broken weld at one of the arms that actuate the
throwout bearing.  Fixing this last case requires engine removal just to
begin
the surgery; but there is often an accompanying noise that gives a clue.<

No Noise .. except the crunch of gears as you try to enguage them ..


> Anything you can do to get an honest diagnosis beforehand will help
you.  Please advise:<
1) Did this problem develop suddenly, or over some weeks/months?<

Weeks/ Months as it got cold in fact ..

>2) Is there any new noise, and if so, how does it relate to pedal
location?<

No obvious noise BUT remember it's a camper so loads of sound deadening ..


>3) Does the pedal feel spongier near the floorboard than it did
previously?<

Not that I recall ..

>4) What's the odo reading; the general condition of the mechanicals; and do
you
know when the clutch was last replaced?<

Well now this make me feel like a bit of an idiot .. .. The mileage is
107,000 and I checked through the mile of paperwork Sophie got with the car
.. new clutch at 89,000 in 1997.    Now I KNOW who drove the last 5000 miles
.. and I met the previous owner and (according to them) they mostly did
trips down to Cornwall in it ..   it's really unlikely that however badly
they treated it anyone could kill a clutch in 17,000 miles ... (My landrover
has 140,000 on the clock and is still taking up in the lower quadrant ..)


Am I wrong or is this looking pretty positive ?

Justin
