Date: Tue, 08 Mar 2011 19:53:06 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] idles, but won't drive

On 3/8/2011 7:10 PM, John Kolak wrote:
> my head, yet you are conversant with it, and when you start talking
> about programming it, it is over my head.

I very rarely talk about programming the megasquirt (if ever) - I am 
usually talking about the concepts which can apply to everyone on the 
list.  And if you don't believe me, these are the same concepts which 
John Connolly talks on the Samba thread - and that's with a carb!


> Lean running is the number one cause of destruction of air-cooled VW
> engines, and when lay people come to the list for help, telling them
> that running lean is cooler is dangerous when they don't know all the
> ins and outs and caveats that that entails. Even at your advanced
> level, you have problems with hot running, and I don't think you have
> the issues of transitioning from rich cooling to lean cooling nailed
> down yet.

Oddly, I've never told anyone to run lean at engine loads that would 
pose a problem.  People can run as lean as they like at any engine load 
other than wide-open throttle - the engine will just run like crap if 
it's too lean; it's not dangerous, and it won't destroy itself.  Heck, 
we have conversations about timing all the time and THAT will destroy an 
engine much faster!  I remember when people got on John Connolly's case 
because he was telling them that the SVDA was better than the 009.  Now, 
because people have taken the time to understand why, they've realized 
he was right.  Heck, people say never to exceed 32 degrees - does anyone 
know that the vacuum advance distributor actually goes to 41 degrees at 
cruise?  Should we not talk about it because people might not understand 
why?  Is it wrong to tell them that it's actually OK that it goes to 41 
degrees because it might confuse them?

In regards to the GAMI article, these aren't planes so we don't have to 
worry about crashing - you'll just end up starving the engine and you 
might not make it down to the end of the block ;)  The stock VW engine 
(and most modern engines) run at 14.7 during cruise which, as you know, 
is the hottest AFR you can run at.  Now, if people are trying to run at 
14.7 at WOT (wide-open-throttle), they'll be hurting their engines.. but 
they'd most likely notice that because it will be running crappy anyways.

But more importantly, and why I had trouble with your initial comment - 
some people may ignore the above, some people may learn something (as 
many have expressed during these discussions).  But I would never say 
that people shouldn't discuss topics that I feel are more advanced than 
the "lay people".  I think that is their decision.  This is a great 
place to both learn and share knowledge.  I think people on this list 
are smart enough to ignore what they want to, and chime in when they 
want more info.  Like I mentioned in a previous email, I've talked about 
this stuff for years, and I've been on this list for a long while.  I 
have yet to hear of someone destroying their engine because of what I 
said.  In-fact, I've heard exactly the opposite.

Mike
