Date: Wed, 09 Mar 2011 02:05:34 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] idles, but won't drive

On 3/9/2011 1:16 AM, Robert Mann wrote:
> Meanwhile, let me try to pour oil on troubled waters. The term 'lean'
> has at least a couple meanings. Just think what was its working defn
> before any exhaust-gas analysers existed ... I fear that much of this
> discussion (not to say wrangle) has been at cross purposes on account
> different defns were being used.

Lean means one thing - less gas than rich :)  Most people never really 
had the facility to adjust their air/fuel ratio because the equipment 
was too cost-prohibitive.  I remember having discussions on this list 
about 10 years ago asking how I could make accurate adjustments to my 
AFM - and I was in the dark because I had no way to validate my 
adjustments other than by checking the plugs or by feel.  It is just 
recently that the testing equipment has become more accessible to the 
average consumer and I think it's really been more of an issue of 
education as to how our engines work.  I was one of the people that used 
to think that leaning an engine would make it run hotter until I found 
this article:

http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/viewtopic.php?t=293837

The sad thing is that I only found it a couple years ago, and I'm sure 
this knowledge has been around for many years before exhaust-gas 
analyzers even existed.  So, yeah, it might be new for many of us, but I 
think it's important to understand how engines work so that we can 
figure out what's really happening inside of them.  It's people like 
John Connolly and Jake Raby that really know this stuff inside-out, but 
John's the only person that I know about who's made an effort to make 
this common knowledge.  Most other people (Jake included), don't divulge 
this information because their business depends on properly tuning 
people's engines - in other words, it's to their advantage that people 
don't know the details of how this stuff works.

What really worries me is that fuel is changing and I'm seeing more and 
more people have head problems and not know why.  Jake always says that 
our engines are misconfigured - is he blowing smoke, or speaking the 
truth?  Until now he's been one of the few that has done extensive 
testing on these engines and has a strong reputation for excellent 
engines.  My hope is to be able to do similar, if not more, testing and 
post my results so that everyone else can benefit from my research. 
Yeah, it's not the cheapest hobby in the world, but it's fun to mess 
around and learn about how these engines really work.
