Date: Wed, 09 Mar 2011 02:14:55 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] idles, but won't drive

On 3/9/2011 1:16 AM, Robert Mann wrote:

> discussion (not to say wrangle) has been at cross purposes on account
> different defns were being used.
> Watch this space.

btw, from the same Samba discussion linked in my previous email, John 
states it really well:

http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/viewtopic.php?p=3060753#3060753

"I'm an idiot, ignore me, everyone else does (and runs 13:1 all the 
time, MORONS).

For those that are interested in knowing, if you keep leaning out the 
engine the engine will run cooler and cooler as power is dropping off, 
until the engine just dies since combustion will not occur with too lean 
a mixture. Only airplane guys have a clue on ROP and LOP tuning. I'm an 
engineer that reads too much. The automotive guys are 40 years behind 
the times. Most guys would just stare at you if you told them (and were 
correct) that 15:1 runs cooler than 14:1, and 16:1 runs cooler than 
15:1, etc.

The problem is guys that know just a little bit, and think they know a 
lot. These are the guys that will tell you to run "32 degrees of total 
timing" for example. With that much timing, you have to run a richer 
mixture for the engine to get out of it's own way. There are only 3 guys 
I know of that TRULY understand that ignition timing and A/F are not 
independent of one another. The problem is they are ADJUSTED 
independently, but their affect on one another is dramatic, and guys do 
not get it.

Most guys set the timing to 30-32 total, then tune the WOT to produce 
best power. All they have done is found best A/F for THAT timing. In 
fact, most engines will make MORE power and run clean if you'd lean it 
out, and pull out some timing. You have to follow an iterative process 
to find the sweet spot. Find A/F, set timing, find A/F, set timing, Find 
A/F, etc. Most guys are so rich they have to run a lot of timing, since 
the burn happens so slowly because it's so fat. But they don't see that 
they'd need less fuel IF they'd run less timing, since "all motors make 
more power with more timing". This can be seen on your engine if you run 
super rich (like 10:1), you need to run WAY too much timing (another 10 
degrees), but it will actually run "OK" and you wouldn't know it was so 
far out of tune by how it ran. But if you can convince them (which is 
difficult/impossible most of the time, because they are tuning the wrong 
way) to lean and retard, the engine wakes up!

An example of being properly tuned is seen with that guy in San 
Francisco in a recent thread with his IDFs (edit: oh yeah, that's THIS 
THREAD LOL).

When he started getting close running a LEAN cruise, he had to pull out 
ignition timing, which allows him to run leaner still, and maybe pull 
out even more timing. That sucker is going to run cool and return some 
fantastic MPG when he's finished. I think 40mpg is not difficult, but 
some "experts" talk like 25mpg is the Holy Grail or something, when in 
fact it's a joke.

Hopefully the average Joe will have a clue on tuning in 10 years, just 
like the average Joe NOW is not 009 brainwashed, at least not like they 
were a decade ago.

John
Aircooled.Net Inc."
