Date: Wed, 09 Mar 2011 10:49:59 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] idles, but won't drive

On 3/9/2011 10:13 AM, Scott Busby wrote:
> I am very much enjoying learning about the interrelation of air/fuel
> mix and timing, and also of extreme (past stoic) lean physics. I
> understand that in the real world, with a typical VW engine, I must
> run somewhat rich of 14.7:1 for good everyday street performance.

This chart should help answer your question in regards to fueling:

http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/viewtopic.php?p=3062702#3062702

You'll notice that max power is a little bit more than 50 degrees rich 
of peak (ROP), and max efficiency is around 50 degrees lean of peak 
(LOP), with peak temps coinciding with 14.7:1 AFR.  If you're wondering 
what they mean by degrees, it's the exhaust gas temp (EGT), as that's 
the most precise measurement of the temps in the combustion chamber.  I 
always spoke about cylinder head temps (CHT), but when I would talk to 
Jake's head builder about temps, he would never talk about CHTs; it was 
always EGTs because those really are the ideal temps to monitor.

One of these days, hopefully sooner than later, I'll get my quad EGTs 
installed so we can see how EGT compares to CHT on a per-cylinder basis. 
  I think that will be really neat information!  It's just a pain 
because I gotta pull off all of the headers to do it :(


> If I understand correctly, within reason, greater advance timing
> requires a richer mix.  Since a typical vw engine is tuned rich, the
> trick is likely to lean the mix slightly, then reduce the advance
> slightly (at cruise) over and over until some measurement indicates
> efficiency is no longer improving.

This is the interesting thing - if you read through the entire thread 
linked above, John says that if you lean the mixture out (i.e. at 
cruise), you should also advance the timing because the flame is slower 
to burn.  This coincides exactly with how the VW distributor works.  I 
hooked up a vacuum gauge to my distributor advance line and drove down 
the freeway.  When I was running at light cruise around 60mph, vacuum 
was high, RPMs were high, so that would mean that the distributor was at 
full advance (32+11 degrees).  When I pressed the pedal down, the vacuum 
would progressively drop until vacuum advance was non-existent, which 
would mean that I was only running full mechanical advance (32 degrees). 
  This is why John was always telling people to get a vacuum advance 
distributor - most people don't really know just how the vacuum advance 
plays into the equation and it has some huge benefits towards a nominal 
running engine.

Interestingly, John also says that you should advance the timing if you 
richen mixture.  I will have to reread the thread and if there is still 
confusion, post a message to see why he says that.

> Am I correct that the measurement I am looking for is the some value
> indicated by an exhaust gas analyzer?

An air/fuel ratio gauge is an amazing tool to tune your engine by.  You 
can instantly tell how the fuel is burning and it's very easy to see if 
you're running overly rich or lean, or just right.  I use it to tune my 
bus so it will pass smog.  Also of huge importance (and a bit more 
accessible than EGT) is CHT as those temps are what kill your valves, 
among other things.  Tuning our engines is a balance of going for 
economy, power, and heat.  Plus, we're dealing with changing fuel 
conditions and that is throwing a wrench in the process.  The late bays 
were purposely made to run hot, and I think that is what's causing a lot 
of people to have dropped valve seats.

Now because it's so important to monitor temps, it's equally important 
to understand that there can be huge variances in CHT when measuring all 
four heads.  I've noticed that when simultaneously measured, #3 is at 
380F, #2 and #4 will be 400F, and #1 will be 370F.  Kinda odd and I'm 
not sure what's causing the variance.  I really want to see EGTs to see 
how they compare with the CHTs... I just need to find some time to get 
it set up!
