Date: Thu, 10 Mar 2011 11:03:36 -0600
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: [VB] re:back to soundproofing

On 03/10/2011 06:53 AM, John Rogers wrote:
> but consider how the noise sets into your bus, much of it through the 
> floor reflected off the highway below. I put in hardwood floors in my 
> Westy for show. Boy was I surprised at the noise reduction.  Quieter 
> by half.

I was thinking of wood floors b/c they look nice. I taught a friend how 
to put down bamboo in his house and we put oak down in our house. I 
really like the look of the lighter Maple woods used in the early 
Westies and plan to use some when i rebuild my cabinets. The original 
'78 cabinets are coming apart, formica lifting all over. Will put them 
in my garage attic, not going to trash them.

Anyhow am thinking of wood flooring with some tarboards underneath or 
Dynamat like stuff, maybe a layer of thin foam. Then make a rug that 
fits over the floor with a foam backing and a layer of jute sewn in to 
make a pad. Or instead of fragile foam - I could sew in a backing of 
canvas.

Use a few (four?) floormat style anchors to keep it in place inside the 
van.

Perhaps use this as a doormat while in a campground and when it lays on 
the floor inside it cuts noise and provides insulation to keep the heat 
in or cold in - whatever your needs.

Removable for easy cleaning.

Make up more carpet for the front like this and another pad over the 
engine in back under the mattress, drape it down under the rear seat as 
well. Could be made with commercial or outdoor carpet for long wear. I 
have seen outdoor carpet that comes in colors like black, grey and brown 
- not astro-turf. Probably could do it with leftover carpet purchased 
from a carpet store. I rescued a roll of carpet enough for my bus from 
my previous employer. It looked like a piece of new carpet.

Big enough for the van but too small to be useful in an office area so 
they were throwing it away. Dunno if I'll like it with the red/grey 
plaid we bought for the seats and cushions.

We'll see.

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L
