Date: Fri, 11 Mar 2011 02:32:39 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] idles, but won't drive

On 3/11/2011 1:06 AM, John Kolak wrote:
> We have novices coming in here for advice, and we have a
> responsibility to the community to protect and preserve Volkswagens
> belonging to all owners, regardless of skill level.

We will always have novices, experts, and everything in-between coming 
to this list, and we will always have discussions ranging from beginner 
to expert. I know that I've never told anyone with a poorly running 
engine to lean it out more, and I've also never told anyone with a stock 
bus to lean out their engine; I've actually said it's really not 
possible without a more advanced EFI to run lean of peak.  However, this 
all came up because someone said that leaner means hotter, I disputed 
that concept, and you questioned it.  It's a good theoretical debate 
with a lot of research going on.  It's a learning opportunity for 
everyone, myself included, and many people have expressed continued 
interest.  Plus, the end result of all this discussion could help people 
*save* their engines.  Quite frankly, it's nice to see some spirited 
discussion on this list because traffic has actually dropped in the past 
few years.


Now, your frustrations with this whole thing heated up after these two 
comments:

"I hadn't known that leanness at an air/fuel ratio higher than 14.7:1 
was cooler and less damaging. That is interesting!  How do we know that 
popping occurs leaner than stoich?"

and:

"Man, that's way over my head!"

I believe you misread those for "I can't handle this anymore, please 
stop".  The first person (Scott) was trying to make an educated comment 
that was followed with a question because he didn't fully understand the 
concept, and the second person (Kevin) recognized that it was too much 
for him.  While Scott didn't completely know what was going on, at least 
he's involved and talking about it - that's awesome that someone wants 
to learn more!  Heck, we'd all be doing him, and everyone else following 
the conversation, a disservice by not explaining what's going on.  As 
far as Kevin, he has no interest and will probably ignore further 
discussion - no harm, no foul.

As far as the lurkers that don't speak up and incorrectly take advice, 
there's really nothing we can do about that.  They're going to have 
problems in life regardless, and if you think stifling discussion on 
this list is going to help them out, they'll just find another list or 
forum to incorrectly glom advice and kill their engines anyways.


> If that bus which is having a problem because it is running lean is
> running in the 13:1 to 14.7:1 death zone, and has maintenance
> postponed because the list told him it is okay, we have just put him
> at risk of a snapped valve, dropped valve seat, and a hole burned in
> the head because someone told him lean is cooler.

Like I've said before, this all depends on the engine load.  It's OK to 
run at 14.7:1 at light cruise - the stock EFI already does this.
