Date: Fri, 11 Mar 2011 12:38:21 -0800 (PST)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] idles, but won't drive

There is never any reason to "dumb down" information.  If the type-2 "newby"
does any reading at all, they are far better served by providing correct, up
to date, information than "urban legend" level.  If the newby needs
clarification, it is readily available from the list. 

The main issue with tuning, IMHO, is that new, dare I say it, younger, owners
expect to keep up with modern cars with their "new to them" 197X" van.  These
vans were never designed to run at modern freeway speed, even when new. The
most gutless modern "shopping basket" will blow the doors of (most of) our
vans. Add to this, unknown modifications, old jets, worn throttle shafts,
oxygenated fuel, and the poor air-cooled 4 cyl is way over-stressed keeping up
with traffic.  A newby showing up on the list, wondering why his engine
overheats and cant get out of it's own way, is not served well by someone
saying "richen it up a bit" to cool it down. 

99% of the time the problem is an induction-system air-leak, as you correctly
say a maintenance issue,  NOT a tuning issue.

There are extensive tuning threads, not only on our list but,others like the
previously linked John Connoly's one on thesamba (one of the best, with actual
data).  A google search will bring those up.  A newby buying a "random" set of
flea market carbs or a conversion i.e. a weber progressive, necessitates more
than "stock jetting".  Who knows what lurks inside the tiny passages of that
40 year old carb. In addition, fuel flow erodes jets, I do not have a
reference to hand, but there is evidence, I believe a SAE paper, that jets
should be replaced around 100k.  Fortunately they are inexpensive.  The key
part of the discussion about "going stock" is when it was new the van had a
tight induction (and tight fan cooling) system.  NO un-engineered air leaks. 

VW also made a lot of effort on carburated systems towards keeping the mixture
in suspension.  Done by heating the intake runner after the carburettor
venturi.  This is a particular problem with single carb systems on flat fours
due to the long runners.   During cruise operation the air above the engine
should be at ambient temp, with or without a set of mouse ears ;) and will not
contribute much to heating the runners. Having the fuel drop out of suspension
will cause way more issues with uneven cylinder to cylinder mixture balance,
and thus cylinder temps, than any other fuel related (vs air leak) tuning
problem.

So, for the newby.  First eliminate ALL induction air leaks, including vacuum
brake boosters.  Until you do that you have no business fooling inside the
carb(s) at all, regardless of what your friend says about running lean and how
to 'fix' that.  Second ensure that the induction runner heating system is
installed and operating. Where required, i.e. in dual carb systems, there
should be insulators directly under the carbs. Third make sure the carb is not
leaking air around the throttle shafting, espescially at or just above idle,
or directly into the body through any gasketed separation line.  If it is,
eliminate those leaks.  Finally, you can start tuning via jetting, emulsion
tubes, air bleeds, venturi sizing.

Slightly rich of peak at WOT seems to be the preferred direction, especially
with carbs.  Lean of peak at cruise seems to be profitable by the standards of
modern tuning i.e. via John Connolys thesamba thread.  The JAW wideband
sensor, or other equivalents, are inexpensive compared to the cost of ruining
your engine, and provide actual data on air fuel ratio in real time vs
hearsay. 

Plug chops and insulator readings are crude at best and, for any quality
results, best left to experts.  Here is a fine article on reading plug
insulators by Gordon Jennings, who qualifies in the aforementioned category
(which I don't, and is why I use an AFM).  Of particular importance is the
cutaway plug showing where on the insulator to "read" the plug.  If you take
the time to read the article you will note the emphasis he places on
optimizing ignition timing vs mixture; also extensively covered by MikeS and
JohnC. 

From Gordon Jenning's article "It's
impossible to separate the question of
ignition advance from the
primary
evidence of spark plug overheating". 

Ignition timing affects the plug read to the extent that a couple of degrees
too much advance, for that particular mixture, pretty much invalidates getting
a quality read.

http://www.strappe.com/plugs.html

jon

You only really own those things you can carry under both arms at a dead
run... (Robert A. Heinlein)

snip>
We have novices coming in here for advice, and we have a
responsibility to the community to protect and preserve Volkswagens
belonging to all owners, regardless of skill level.

snip>
If that bus which is having a problem because it is running lean is
running in the 13:1 to 14.7:1 death zone, and has maintenance
postponed because the list told him it is okay, we have just put him
at risk of a snapped valve, dropped valve seat, and a hole burned in
the head because someone told him lean is cooler.
