From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'Old Volks Home'" <oldvolkshome(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 12 Mar 2011 12:34:10 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] wiring and ignition

Hey Jim,

That is what I hoped to hear. I have an entire pod, with the ignition still
in it. I was sending it out to Steve Sandlin-recommended from the list, who
has been great in helping me figure out how to get all the locks keyed the
same.

Basically my search began with treasure chest locks, which were the most
difficult to find. They were R-profile, so I'm matching everything to them.
I got a Pod with ignition, R-profile last fall. Since then I got some door
handles to, also R-profile. I was just about to send them off to Steve, when
I started looking into the wiring, and realized there were a lot more wires
on the ignition, than my wiring diagram shows.

Based on your recommendation-sounds like it is easily doable, I just don't
need to use all the wires on the new ignition. I believe I can just put this
pod onto my steering column, replacing the pod that is there. The current
pod is basically a hollow box, as one of the PO took everything out of it.

Thanks!

-Kevin
Jamaica Plain, MA
'69 single cab
'65 Kombi

-----Original Message-----
From: Old Volks Home [mailto:oldvolkshome(-at-)gmail.com] 
Subject: Re: [T2] wiring and ignition

The ignition lock cylinder, steering lock and electrical switch on a
71 (actually 71-72) is entirely different from the 68-70 style, none
of the items are interchangeable.

However, if the entire pod with the above items is installed on the
steering column from a 71 or 72, this can be do-able, as the column is
basically the same.

The 71 switch then can be used by doing the following:
The Red wire is your main power in
The Red w/Black stripe wire goes to the Starter Solenoid
The Black wire goes back to the Fuse Box and to the Ignition Coil
All other wires are to be ignored - simply tape the ends and place
them out of the way.

The 73-Early 74 style pod is radically different to allow a Wiper
Switch Stalk Assembly, so that may not work.
-- 
Jim Thompson
84 GL 1.9 "Gloria"
84 Westfalia 2.1 "Ole Putt"
72 411 Station Wagon "Pug"
75 914 1.8 "Nancy"
Full Timing Since March 1999
oldvolkshome(-at-)gmail.com
http://www.oldvolkshome.com
