From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 13 Mar 2011 20:33:28 -0400
Subject: soundproofing update

Hey guys...

Well, I feel like I have finished putting the damplifier on the body, and
began installing the Luxury Liner Pro. I posted some pics on thesamba -
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/album_page.php?pic_id=784538,
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/album_page.php?pic_id=784738

(I do plan on installing some more damplifier as suggested by a few folks,
but anywhere else I put it can be installed after the interior is installed)

Some thoughts on the installation:

After cutting the pieces to fit, I put a little label on them, then took
about 3 outside at a time, sprayed them, and the labels helped to make sure
I put them back in the right place.

Initially I was imagining the spray adhesive to be like spray paint, and
going all over the place. It was not like this at all. I used the spray
adhesive from Second Skin, and it come out pretty thick, and basically right
where I pointed, not really any overspray. I highly recommend this spray
stuff. 

I was worried the overhead stuff would be tough to hold in place while
waiting for the adhesive to grab-this was not the case. I sprayed overhead,
don't think I got any in my hair, and then pushed the pieces in. They stuck
immediately. I gave all the installed pieces a once or twice over with a
J-bar roller.

For the overhead pieces it may have been nicer to put them in whole, but
they were too big to handle myself, so I cut them in half, and installed
half a sheet at a time. I imagine the benefits should be the same.

I read about the manufacture of this stuff-it is basically two types of
material bonded together. About 1-2" on  each edge is only 1 of the 2
materials. This does not work as well for sound absorption. So for some of
the pieces I cut the edges off, but then for the larger pieces, I left it on
as there was plenty of room for it. 

I only made one mistake-one piece I started to spray the wrong side, but
caught myself before doing too much damage. I still used the piece, it was
just a little sticky on the exposed side.

I took the bus for a short trip around a local park, with my wife and dog.
It was fun, I had not really driven it at all for a long time. I thought it
was definitely quieter, but then again it has been a long time. I have none
of the interior in yet either. My wife thought it sounded quieter than when
I had the whole interior in before.

I have decided against fabric for the interior-as I realized after running
around in the park for a bit with my dog-he gets super muddy, and I don't
want to worry about upholstery getting dirty-vinyl wins out.

Next step-begin making some interior panels. I'll put some more damplifier
on these panels, and keep posting updates.


-Kevin
Jamaica Plain, MA
'69 single cab
'65 Kombi
