Date: Mon, 14 Mar 2011 17:40:10 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: t2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] 1950 : VW bus, icon of counterculture movement,

On Wed, Mar 9, 2011 at 10:18 PM, Erik Meltzer <ermel(-at-)ermel.org> wrote:

> So Hitler had nothing to do with how the thing looked.

"It should look like a beetle," Hitler is said to have advised
Porsche, as he sketched his ideal shape for the Volkswagen in May of
1934. "You need only observe nature to know how to achieve
streamlining."*

The name would stick to the car. KC$fer,b  Beetle, Coccinelle.

The FE1hrer had in mind a very specific beetle: The MaikC$fer, the May
beetle, Melolontha melolontha, a member of the family Scarabaeidae.
The MaikC$fer resembles the English cockchafer, relative of other
brown, round beetles found around the world, buzzing around porch
lamps in warm weather, their wing covers lifted like gullwing doors on
a sports car. The cockchafer feeds on decaying vegetable matter. It is
kin to the American June bug, the green-blue beetle to whose legs
children tie strings, but it also figures in German culture like the
spotted English ladybug: a child-friendly insect from nursery rhyme
and fairy tale.

Lady bug lady bug fly away home,
Your house is on fire and your little ones gone.

*Hitler's original German: "Wie ein MaikC$fer soll er aussehen. Man
braucht nur die Natur zu betrachten, um zu wissen, wie sie mit der
Stromlinie fertig wird."

b The restaurant at VW's Berlin Forum, on the KurfE1rstendamm, is called
the KC$fer CafC). The name comes from its owner - a man named KC$fer,
whose original restaurant, of the same name, is in Munich.

From Bug: The Strange Mutations of the World's Most Famous Automobile
by Phil Patton

http://tinyurl.com/4mjk5x6

The Hitler quote has been alternately translated as:

"It should have the shape of a June bug. Nature itself suggested the
car's aerodynamic line."

I might render a plainer translation:

"It should look like a June bug. One only needs to look at nature to
know how to streamline."

The flat-screen Beetle's coefficient of drag is listed at 0.41 on Wikipedia.

John
