From: "Russ Neithammer" <rneithammer(-at-)mlea.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 29 Jan 2003 07:47:56 -0500
Subject: RE: gauge locations & CHT sensor leads

I did basically the same thing as Joe Clark, with the following minor
differences:

1. I centered the 3 gauge pod on the top of the dash, over the speaker grill
holes.  Joe's approach might be ergonomically better, in hindsight, but I'm
not about to change mine now.

2. I glued some small pieces of 1/8 inch plywood at the inside bottom edges
of the gauge pod in the corners, to provide surfaces for sticking pieces of
velcro tape.  I then velcro'd the pod to the top of the dash, so that no
mounting holes needed to be drilled in the dash.  It's been there for two
years now, and is not about to go anywhere.  And if the velcro does give up
in the future, I'll just replace it - not a big deal.

This reminded me of another thread, wherein it was discussed the need and
problems with extending the CHT sensor leads.  When I installed my CHT
gauge, I had to do this, in order to be able to connect to the gauge.  The
leads supplied with the sensor were about 2 feet short, based on my running
them through the main wire harness grommet in the engine compartment, then
under the bus up to the front, through another existing wire harness grommet
to get into the nose area, then up behind the front kick panels and through
the speaker grill holes.  To extend the leads, I got some red and black #16
AWG stranded copper wire from the FLAPs, and soldered the extension wires to
the existing sensor leads and insulated the solder joints with heat shrink.
I can't imagine that there would be much error intorduced by this, beyond
any that is already present in the system as supplied.  The exisiting sensor
leads appeared to be standard #16 AWG stranded copper wire, just like I used
to extend the leads.  The existing leads had standard looking connector lugs
installed (which I cut off when I added my extensions).  There is also a
plug connector between the sensor and the supplied leads, and this does not
appear to be anything special either.  So, even as supplied, the CHT
sensor/gauge has plenty of opportunities for cold junction errors to occur,
if indeed this is an issue.  I have not done a boiling water test for
accuracy, but maybe I'll try that next time I'm in there.

Date: Tue, 28 Jan 2003 10:47:21 -0800
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
Subject: gauge locations
Message-ID: <5048341.1043779641207.JavaMail.ratwell(-at-)mac.com>

I'd be interested in hearing from listmembers via pmail who've installed
instrument gauges to monitor oil temp, pressure etc. I'm looking for
inventive installations...

--
Richard
1978 Westfalia CDN
Cupertino, CA
