Date: Wed, 29 Jan 2003 10:25:30 -0800
From: High-Tech Red Neck <hitkrdnk(-at-)gte.net>
To: harmony(-at-)buszen.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 1600 in a 72 bus???

John,

I have a '73 that has a upright in it now, installed (incorrectly - see
below) be a previous owner.  In fact it has a '72 transmission so I
think it would be an identical install.

Issues that you need to deal with:
	1.  The mustache bar is different.  You need to find the correct one. 
My local VW salvage yard had one and immediately knew what I needed.  I
think it cost me $55.  Don't do like the EPO and weld a piece of sheet
metal (old engine tin) to the header and bolt to the frame!

	2.  If you don't have a bus case, you need to use the oil pump mount. 
Many have said these are leaky, but I didn't have a problem using a good
new gasket.  This kit (mine was from EMPI) comes with longer studs for
the oil pump, a different (thicker and flat) pump cover and the mount. 
I think the bolts for the mustache bar to mount come with it, but I
don't remember for sure.  It seems to me I used my own anyway because I
wanted Stainless Steel bolts down there in the elements.  By the way -
don't use nylocks there.  They don't like the heat.  Don't know what I
was thinking.  I about had heart failure when I went under for an oil
change and only one of three bolts were still there and it didn't have a
nut on it!

	3. There will be a big space between the type 1 tin and the body. 
There are metal fillers (or whole tin - not sure) that are around,
mainly in Mexico and Europe where these vans were sold with uprights. 
You'll likely pay a pretty penny for them though.  I was told in the
$300 plus range if they could be found.  Instead I went with Custom Car
Craft in Florida and got (VERY quickly) a nice fiberglass 2 piece filler
for $285 (I think) with shipping to So Cal.  Here's a link to it:
http://www.creativecarcraft.com/notforbug.htm

I had a little problem with getting the throttle cable to run right, but
otherwise it all works pretty good.  I don't have any experience running
a type IV in a van (one is coming some day), but I'm FAIRLY happy with
how it runs.

Feel free to ask any more questions.  I basically had to redo everything
the EPO did wrong, meaning everything, so I'm pretty familiar with the
job.

Bob Bueling
Port Hueneme, CA





John Baker wrote:
> 
> Is it possible to put a 1600 DP engine into a 72 bus with no major re-structuring?  Would the 1600 engine bolt up right with the 72 Tranny?
