Date: Tue, 16 Dec 2003 08:17:48 -0500 (EST)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] "Engine Recommendations" and "68 bus motor"

We seem to have two related threads running in opposite directions.  Mr.
Panokin has a '72 with a type1 engine and Rus has a '68 and wants to
install a type4 engine.

My first suggestion is that they meet and swap engines.  By far and away
this would be the simplest solution.  The bodies do differ substantially
and installing a different engine is always an adventure.

Second, all of what follows is a thought-experiment.  I have never
attempted either of these swaps and would never recommend them.  I *know*
I will regret even offering this advise.  That said....

All T2 (baywindow) engines had a rear support bar.  I don't know (and
doubt) if they were mounted in the same position, but the frame rails did
not change in their distance from each other so you could in theory just
drill new holes in the frame rail and use the appropriate rear engine
support to your engine.

There are substantial differences in the shape of the engine compartment
between the type1 and type4 engine bays.  The type1 tin would need
extending to get to the larger opening in a late bay compartment.  The
type4 tin would need trimming and the body metal may need trimming to
allow the type4 engine to fit in an early bay.

The flywheel, clutch, and pressure plate need to match the transmission!!!
You will need a flywheel from a 1700cc '72 to fit the early transmission
in a '68-71 (I *think* this should work) and I think the type1 into late
bay would need to order an european flywheel to fit the late transmission.

On Rus' leak at the engine/transmission junction, there are four
possibilities.  First, check to see whether it is leaking oil or
transmission fluid.  Smell the puddle... if it smells like oil, then it
is.  If it does not then it is likely from the transmission.  The smells
of oil and transmission fluid are very distinct.  If the leak is from the
trans then it is the input shaft seal.  If it is oil leaking then it could
be (a) the cam plug leaking (b) the crankcase-flywheel seal that is
leaking or (c) the case has cracked.  The cam plug can be pryed out,
tapped, and plugged (or just RTV'd (for the betting men among you)).  The
crankcase-flywheel seal usually does not go bad until the endplay is so
bad it pounds the seal to bits.  Check the endplay before you bother
buying a new seal.  If it is leaking, you probably need an align bore and
rebuild.  A cracked case on a type4 is reparable as part of a rebuild but
a crack in a type1 case is fatal.  You just need a new case.

                             OOK!

Litera Scripta Manent
