From: "Mueller, David" <dmueller(-at-)stewartlaw.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 16 Dec 2003 10:51:43 -0500
Subject: Hard turning door locks

Date: 15 Dec 2003 22:08:02 -0600
To: Type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "WharfRat" <wharfrat(-at-)spiritone.com>
Subject: RE: hard turning door locks
Message-ID: <004f01c3c38a$35aded80$5cc563d8(-at-)oemcomputer>

Hello All:
Seeing a remnant of the above thread compelled me to write in response.  I
have this problem every winter:  my front door locks get "sticky" and hard
to turn (that is, quite difficult to unlock with a key), resulting in
twisted keys and sometimes even broken ones.  It's not even officially
winter yet but the cold weather has already led to one broken key, most of
which is still lodged in my sliding door lock.  (It was weakened over time
by the front door locks and just happened to finally break off in the
sliding door.)  At the moment, my driver-side door simply cannot be unlocked
without some kind of key damage and my passenger-side door is not much
better but still workable -- but I'm getting real tired of having to climb
in through the passenger door.  Anyway, I only saw one part of the "hard
turning door locks" thread and in it I saw mention of "lubricating" the door
locks somehow.  I feel like I need to do this to avoid breaking more keys
before 2004, but I am unsure how this is done.  How and where can I
lubricate my door locks to prevent this?  Thanks for any and all insight!

Travis
79 Riviera
Portland, OR


My problem is solved.  It involves taking off the interior door panels (
lots of spring snaps, which will come off easy, but be much harder to get
back in. If you do not have a Bentley, the procedure is to take off the
plastic cup behind the inside door handles, take off the arm rest, take off
the window crank then run around the outside edge between the trim and door.
Bentley suggests a wood shim, but I used a thin pry bar without any
scratching problem.   Remove the plastic glued (not to firmly) to the door.
The outside door handle is held on by two 5mm socket head bolts.  I don't,
remember the size of the Allen wrench but it must be about 3mm.   A T5 Torx
will work as well but not as securely. One of the bolts is about 8 inches to
the front from the rear of the door, and holds the small end of the outside
handle.  The other one is accessible through a space in the steel works near
the rear side of the door.  These are very easy to drop down in the door but
impossible to retrieve, even with a magnetic pick up stick.  My local
hardware sells them. They are 5mm by about 16mm long.

Once the screws are out the outside handles will fall off, so be prepared to
catch them.   I would not recommend taking the lock cylinders out of the
handle.  Although I did it on the first, which was severely binding, it is
too easy to lose the little plates which the key engages.  I would suggest
squirting the lock cylinder with carb or brake parts cleaner or soaking in
paint thinner or kerosene.   When you get all the dirt and gum out by
rotating the cylinder with the key, use WD 40 or compressed air or something
to get the solvent out.  Then lube with powdered graphite.  On my 78  the
linkage inside the door was also binding or sticking.  I shot at it with
carb cleaner, followed by silicon spray.  They both now work fine.  It took
about 2 hours, outside in rather cold weather.   I suppose you could take
out the door latch itself and maybe get the linkage out for a thorough
cleaning and lubing, but I did not want to go any further than I did since
they now work.

Good luck,  it is not a very hard or challenging job.
