From: "Tom and Thanh" <tom.loan(-at-)rogers.com>
To: <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 16 Dec 2003 15:44:46 -0500
Subject: Re: [BP] Hightop Blues!

Jamie: IMHO, it is a way to make your bus a much better camper. It is really
nice to be able to stand up, it adds a lot to the camping experience.
Especially after crawling out of bed, etc. You'll be adding a lot of storage
space, I have a ton of junk stowed in the roof. Another bed for your family.

Will it look better? Aieee, it took me a while to be able to stand the sight
of my bus with that upside down boat on top of it. I even took the top off
once for about a week, and contemplated filling the hole in with a tonneau
cover. However, my bus looked so crappy with the roof off of it that I
finally realized I had something rather special and unique(especially East
of the Rockies), and taking the roof off would have diminished it. Your bus
isn't an original Safare though, and wouldn't impress any Safare purists,
assuming that such exist.

Wherever I go, I see tons of pop top Westies. It's kind of nice to have
something different, it's grown on me. Plus which, you have the quality
Westphalia interior goodies, not the clapped out sun and water damaged old
high roof interior junk.

I met a man in Des Moines Iowa who had a Campmobile hardtop that he'd done
the same thing to. He was quite happy with his decision. He said he couldn't
stand crouching in the hardtop.

As I told you before, there's been times where I've wished I had a hardtop
camper. Less wind resistance, sealed to wind and rain, actually fit into
garages, etc. Tough choice all around, not sure what I'd do either.

You do have the option of putting the high top on your bus as a trial fit,
and having a good look at it before cutting or drilling anything.

Tom

70 High Roof

<  Subject: [BP] Hightop Blues!


Don't you hate when you think you have made up your mind and know what you
want, and out of the blue someone says something that get you questioning
your descision.

What the heck is the Kooky Math Teacher babbling about?

This is the story.  I have had my eye on hightop buses for awhile.  I found
a top for a Safare' Custom Camper and decided to convert my '71.  I figure I
know my bus and what is needs so why should I get another bus.  I'm all set
to install and I get an e-mail from a friend taht says.

"Please don't do that...
Those things are hidious. They look like a bus with an old boat glued on top
of them.
Your bus is way to nice to make it look like one of those abortions...

It's your bus, but I wouldn't if it were me."

I am now second guessing myself.>
