Date: Wed, 17 Dec 2003 11:59:35 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Ignition & TR's Correct Coil Resistance and Ignition

Janyce, Ted, et al...

Oh, Oh!  I know something about this one!

Janyce - sadly, the Universal Corp. Tiger 581 & 781 have gone to the
Land of NLA - discontinued by the manufacturer, and no longer sold by
our good friend John Connolly at aircooled.net, unless you want to nab
one of the 6v units he still lists at the site .  John DOES sell the
Mallory equivalent for the more or less same price - "about" $125 and
worth every penny.  Before I upgraded my vehicles to the CDI box, I had
converted to the Comp-u-fire points replacement units years ago.  CDI
box will work with either one, so it's really not necessary to run out
and do them both at the same time.  In my experience, you REALLY need to
punch out the spark plug gaps to take full advantage of CDI, if you
don't bother with this step, you've pretty much wasted the money.  OTOH,
when I punched out the gaps on my motor (2055cc Type 4, dual 40
Dellortos, combination vac/mech dizzy) to .045", I started seeing a good
20-25% increase in the back 'n forth to work drive, so it's one of those
mods that really does pay for itself (for me & mine) in a fairly short
period of time.  I'm sure there will be some who will step up and say
they're running them without the plug gap increase (just in case of CDI
failure, ya know), a move equivalent (in my book anyway) to those who
replace a combo dizzy with a pure centrifugal unit to head off the
catastrophy that is coming when the vacuum can will surely fail...  One
time I thought I was having CDI issues and reversed the plug on the
Tiger 781 - I drove it about 10 miles home before I figured out it
wasn't the problem.  Other than being a "little" bit slower on the
start-up, I didn't have any problems getting it home, so it's not like
the thing won't run on big plug gaps when switched back to standard
operation.  YMMV...  Oh yes, and the customary disclaimer that you
should keep a set of points and condensor in the car in case of failure,
or just keep a whole spare stocker, or  P.O.S. 009 or 050 with points,
condensor, and base clamp attached (pre-timed and ready to rock) applies
here.

To paraphrase Krusty the Clown:  "I heartily endorse this (or any other)
product..."

TR - I can't offer up any advice on the Crane quality, but IIRC what you
propose to do by checking resistance across the coil terminals is
correct, and yes, the correct Blue coil has the right resistance.  You
can wire in a ballast resistor; Bosch makes one with the terminals and
everything, but I don't remember 'zactly where I filed the number for
it.  BTW - last time I was poking around at a/c.net, John was saying
that there ARE versions of the Blue coil that do NOT have the correct
resistance.  The CDI doesn't really replace anything, just enhances the
existing system by taking the existing 12v feed into the coil, routing
it into a majik box that gives those puny electrons a shot of
electro-steroids and then running the amped up 'trons back out the coil
for IT to chew with...  Obviously, I'm waxing poetic here, but that's it
in a nutshell.  The later versions of the Tiger CDIs were FI and tach
compatible, but apparently the earlier versions were not and required
another black box to work with the FI or tach - you may want to check in
with Crane about that, and/or verify from other Listees what they did to
make it all work.  My experience is limited to the Universal Corp.
boxes, Comp-u-fire and carbs...

Jim Hayden
CDI boxes on the whole herd o' VeeWees
www.savethebays.org
