From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Adrian Pillow <apillow(-at-)hotmail.com>, vintagebus(-at-)lenti.type2.com
Date: Mon, 28 Oct 2002 11:37:32 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] With the exception of David Mayes . . .

  The problem with that is with the lax laws countries are importing parts
and labeling them as from that country, very rarely will you find a part
with "made in" on them. A good example of this practice is ATE, even though
the box may say made in Germany the part is actually made in India (a lot of
those lately) or Italy. These seem to be the countries where most ATE
vintage parts are coming from. 
   We are all aware of the wheel bearing fiasco. At least now FAG puts a
label on the outside of the box with Country of Origin.
  The latest thing I have seen in the last couple of weeks are all the
Original German Trans mounts (gray painted ones) These are made in Mexico
by/for VW, they are great but NOT GERMAN. I have received them from my
supplier in German boxes and the ever famous VW, Audi, Skoda, SEAT boxes
which tipped me off to the real country of Origin. Now I do have some that
have GERMANY molded into them (black ones), but on comparison to the ones
from INDIA they are identical, you can even see on the INDIA ones where the
GERMANY plate was removed to make them a no-name.
  In talking to some of my importers it is cheaper to import from Brazil to
Europe and then ship the parts to the U S. after repackaging them in German
boxes of course.

  So you can only rely on the honesty of your supplier to tell you what you
are really getting

ronnie

-----Original Message-----
From: Adrian Pillow [mailto:apillow(-at-)hotmail.com]
Sent: Monday, October 28, 2002 12:09 PM
To: vintagebus(-at-)lenti.type2.com
Subject: [VB] With the exception of David Mayes . . .


http://www.wnd.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=29442

But is the international thing good for US citizens and other socialistic 
European governments?

Personally I try to have as many "Made in USA" parts on my VW as possible 
and if not US then another reputable country like Germany, England, Canada, 
and so forth.

NAFTA and a joke for the WTO will be the death of the US manufacturing 
base...  Unless you strive to be the old person greeter at Wal-Mart?


Since this is low on VW content and I would get administer lashings on the 
Type2 list, here is some good stuff:

I traded some parts this weekend to get a very nice totally restored German 
019 distributor.  Sweeeeeeet!!!  (Easterwood will want to shoot me if I tell

him one more time ;) LOL)  Driving notes to come later versus a German 
009.... Needless to say it was a real PITA to find one.

Take Care,
Adrian
