From: "gns.wagnon" <res0urdr(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 28 Oct 2002 19:29:15 -0600
Subject: Distributor issues

Howdy Volks,

We have a little issue.  Our '67 Splittie has an 1600 engine in it that is
from either '74 or '73 and the distributor is apparently from one of those
years as well.  Actually, its hard to tell, because all the engine parts seem
to have been put together in Franken-engine style.  Anyhoo, to the point.  The
bolt was stripped on the strap that holds the distributor to the engine.  We
purchased a new one (same part from the looks of it side by side) and replaced
the old strap.  Well, we could no longer get the poor old girl to fire and the
one time she did... KABLOOOOWY!!  Pop.  Backfire.

So, we spent the greater part of Saturday attempting to tweak the distributor
to the sweet spot.  Line up the notch with sparkplug #1 cable with the belt
spindle in just the right spot and all the while making sure the rotor is in
line as well.  We have double checked the spark plug cables.  We have double
checked the firing order (1,4,3,2).  We have double checked the cleanliness
and functionality of the breaker points.  We have tried two different
distributor caps/rotors.  We have even tried swapping the distributor with the
engine in our '74 SuperBeetle.

No luck.  It seems that this should be easier than what we are doing.  It
should work with everything lined up.  Right?

We are getting it to fire occasionally, but its pretty ugly when it happens.
The ugly part is that the distributor actually has some play and if we push it
toward the engine and upward, while it is rotated to the sweet spot lined up
zone.  The play in it isn't much, but I would think it shouldn't be moving at
all.  When we bolt the strap down tight, the distributor doesn't have play any
longer, but it also has a hard time making the connection and the rotor just
spins free.  Does anyone else think this is the wrong distributor??

Now, before any answers come back, do note that this is the same distributor
and engine that worked prior to changing out the strap.  So, as we were
walking through everything that we could think of to debug this problem, we
actually took the old strap and cut off the stripped bolt, took the new strap
and cut the weld that holds it onto the new strap.  Now we tried this whole
process again with the new bolt in the old strap.  Assuming it had to do with
the wrong size strap.  Still no luck.

Now we get to where we are now.  Stuck.  I am ready to tow the old girl to
anyone competent that anyone on this list can recommend for the
Salem/Portland, Oregon area that can help.  We don't claim to know a lot about
VW engine grease monkeying around, but we have read the books (Muir's book,
Chilton shop manual, the www.howstuffworks.com site as a general Automobile
Ignitions Systems reference), and we have worked on other non VW engines
before.  I will ask again... It should work with everything lined up.  Right?

Any suggestions would be greatly appreciated.  The poor old girl is just
sitting under cover now.  We would love to get her back into daily driver mode
again.

Help!
Greg & Father-in-law Dan

P.S.  For kicks... Here are some pictures of the engine and bus under cover at
this location: http://community.webshots.com/album/45255072xLENAK
