To: benthin(-at-)prodigy.net
Cc: General(-at-)OldVolks.com,SSharpe(-at-)fac.unc.edu,vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 28 Oct 2002 22:18:22 -0600
From: Stan Wilder <wilden1(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: [VB] RE: [T2] Snake oil or real product

I'm going to play the devils advocate and say that the strainer plate is
the best place for the magnet.
I argue this because the plate under the aluminum strainer already
catches heavy particles and holds them because there is very little oil
action at this location.
Even without any magnets or assistance the heavy particles already
migrate to this site.
I dealt with a stripped oil plug for five years and routinely changed my
oil for 140K through my strainer and even at 3000 mile intervals there is
always a cache of heavy material in the steel strainer cover.
It would be very easy to just thread a magnetic drain plug into a drilled
hole in the sump cover plate but it has so much bypass oil action it
would just recirculate the magnetic material.
I also think that magnetic particles clinging to the sides of the filter
will just pass onto the filter media with high flow volume (no problem):
but where is the improvement? 
What I have found with new engines:
The first couple of changes the oil looks like metallic nail polish in
the dark brown variety. You can see the metallic particles in the oil.
As the engine breaks in and everything gets seated the metallic content
in the oil decreases and it is less metallic in appearance.
When I stopped getting any metallic appearance at 8000 miles I changed to
Synthetic engine oil and in three changes I have found almost nothing
attracted by the magnet and the oil has no metallic appearance.
As a farther note: I found that the metallic material in the steel
strainer cover was so heavily magnetized that it had to be scraped out
with a screwdriver. Prior to the installation of the magnet I could just
push the stuff off with my finger.
I don't know if this is witchcraft or bull crap but I think it can make a
real difference in the first 10,000 miles of engine use by removing the
abrasives, your first oil pressure remains as your constant oil pressure
since the bearings are not abraded away during the break-in period.
I've only got 10K on my new Type IV engine but I'm still pumping 60+ psi
at 3000 rpms at 210/220 engine oil temp, 15/50 Mobil 1 oil. At 800-900
idle and full temps I'm getting 20+ psi. I'm going to estimate that 75%
of those miles are at 70/75 mph highway.


Stan Wilder


On Mon, 28 Oct 2002 22:40:27 -0500 "Michael Benthin (MUTS)"
<benthin(-at-)prodigy.net> writes:
Whoa- the filter is catching and holding any particles already- why do
