From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 29 Oct 2002 00:06:40 EST
To: res0urdr(-at-)verizon.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Distributor issues

the timing is set to the type of distributor you have, not to the engine 
year/case.  It is common to have bits from various years on an engine, as 
they are decades old, and usually have been swapped out (several times?).  In 
fact finding a motor with all original bits on it is truly rare and bizarre, 
and makes the vintage perverts drool.   Oooh look...   the correct intake 
manifold and regulator etc etc etc and correct style clamps.... real oem 
German!  Proper air cleaner.  yummmm   

SO it looked like you have a 009 dist from the pic.  whichever.  SO if you 
look at the slot at the bottom of the dist hole, you'll see that the dist can 
only go in one way, 180* off won't fly, cause of the offset.   so you have to 
figue out which was the rotor points as you get it lined up in the slot.  
Hope this makes sense.  I mean, if the rotor spins freee when the dist is in, 
it is not down all the way, the  outie bit in not meshed into the engine.   
And then the bus surely won't run right.

So sort that out, and check a dist chart (url, anyone?) for your timing 
specs.  I set a 009 about 9* BTDC idle, or 28-30* total advance.   It never 
hurts to take a spark plug out and find EXACTLY where TDC is on your crank 
pulley, make a mark there with a file and/or liquid paper. Liquid paper shows 
up really well with a strobe light.  

    In case the gear or the timing is 180* off, check that when the dist is 
turned to #1 firing, that the right cylinder to be sending the spark to.  
Rotor points to plug wire to plug in cylinder that gets the spark, and at 
that place in the engine turning you should be able to wiggle the valves - 
like when you adjust them capice?   Idiot book has a good rap on this timing 
stuff.  Your dist looked turned around to me, so I dunno if your gear is off 
180 and the dist should be like that, or the dist got rotated 180*.  
