Date: Tue, 29 Oct 2002 07:52:08 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: res0urdr(-at-)verizon.net
Subject: Re: Distributor issues

>From: "gns.wagnon" <res0urdr(-at-)verizon.net>
>Date: Mon, 28 Oct 2002 19:29:15 -0600
>
>So, we spent the greater part of Saturday attempting to tweak the
>distributor to the sweet spot.

A silly distributor trick I managed to do once was putting the cap on
rotated 180 degrees from where it was supposed to go.  The wires were
in the right places relative to the rotor, but the little tab on the
bottom of the cap didn't fit into the notch on the rim of the distributor.
The cap clips held it down OK until we got out on the highway, when the
vibration let the cap "walk" a little around the circle and made it
run funny.  I swapped the wires around, put the cap on the right way,
and no more problems.

I was going to ask if you had tried swapping out the condenser, but
you did that when you tried the whole distributor from the Beetle.
Just for kicks, have you tried swapping out the coil?

If you decide it's still in the distributor, what you might do is turn
the engine until the notch on the pulley is lined up with the seam in
the crankcase.  Then pop the right side valve cover and see if both
rocker arms are loose on #1 cylinder.  If so, you're at TDC or nearly
so.  If not, turn the engine 180 degrees more and the rocker arms
should be loose.

Now you should be at or pretty close to TDC.  Make sure the rotor
is seated down well on the distributor shaft, with the bump inside
it fitting into the notch on the shaft.  Loosen the clamp and pull
the distributor out of the engine about half an inch.  Turn the
rotor a quarter turn with your fingers, and then shove the distributor
back into the engine.  It probably won't go all the way.  Keep turning
the rotor until the tang on the bottom of the shaft goes into the slot
on the drive shaft down in the engine - you'll feel it and the distributor
will slide the rest of the way into the case.  If you can't get this
to happen then I would say you have the wrong distributor or are missing
the spring between the distributor and the drive shaft or something like
that.

Now, take a look at the rim of the distributor.  There should be a thin
notch or line across the rim, and if things are good, the metal tip of
the rotor will be pointing at or very close to that line.  If not,
rotate the distributor _body_ until the rotor is pointing at the line.

You should now be close enough to right that you can time the engine
with a test light as described in the Idiot book.  Once you have the
timing set, tighten the distributor clamp.  Look again at which way
the rotor is pointing, and hold the cap over the distributor.  Make
sure the rotor is pointing at #1 spark plug wire.  If it's not, put
#1 spark plug wire on the place it's pointing to, and place the
rest of the wires in the firing order clockwise around the cap.  Clip
down the cap.  Put the right valve cover back on.  Give it a try.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds
