Date: Tue, 29 Oct 2002 13:58:58 -0500 (EST)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Adrian Pillow <apillow(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] OT: Verizon Phone Service for Bus Traveling

On Tue, 29 Oct 2002, Adrian Pillow wrote:

> What is a cell phone and why do I NEED one?

Good point.  I find it amazing that in less than a decade cellphones have
gone from luxury item to an addiction that people cannot do without.

Of course, I'm not exactly a good example, with my bus sprouting several
ham radio antennas.  No such thing as "No Service" when range is measured
in hundreds of miles.  Still no cellphone, though!  :)

Back in the '60s when we lived in the middle of Nevada we used to carry a
couple of old tires whenever we were travelling out in the boonies.  The
accepted "need help" sign was to build two fires a couple of hundred yards
apart and toss a tire on each one.  Folks would see the two columns of
black smoke and come to help.  These days, the only people to respond
would be the EPA!  The reason that I'm into ham radio is because my
parents felt the need for emergency communications during that time, as
the nearest phone was 40 dirt road miles away.

Even more important than cellphones is to make sure that the bus is ready
for the trip and that you are ready for typical breakdown situations.
Often, if you have the correct parts, you can get yourself back on the
road before AAA could find you.  If you lack the correct parts, it can
often be a long and expensive delay even if you find someone who can work
on VWs.

If you are going off the beaten path, don't expect cellphone service at
all.  Every provider shows Nevada as completely covered on their maps, but
the reality is that if you get more than a couple of miles away from the
pavement you will not use your cellphone.  In truth, 90% of the state
isn't covered.  The situation is similar in other states.  If you want
reliable emergency communications in these situation you either need a
big-bucks satellite phone or to get a ham radio license and equipment.

George
