From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: "bus" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 23 Jun 2004 07:12:07 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] Westy/Screen in pop top

When replacing screens on tent fabric, look into weather stripping for
fabric.  It is usually on a roll and is stitched into the seam.  It is
necessary for reducing rain seapage, leaking through your stitching in
inclement weather.  Many large fabric stores will carry this at a cheaper
price.  The smaller stores sometimes will, but will almost always charge you
an arm and a leg for it.  It is well worth the effort to acquire if you plan
on stitching your netting into the tent fabric on your westy top, instead of
going for the glue method.

Glueing will work, but will not look as good or last as long, unless it is
hidden within the seam(AMHIK).  I have seen folks combine both methods.
When stitching the tent fabric, some folks will put a _light_ coat of water
repellant glue on the weather stripping before placing it on their
pattern/material.  This has a two fold purpose.  It adds to the repelling
ability of the seam, and substitutes for the straight pins that are
typically used when sewing.  Straight pins will put additional holes into
the weather proofing.

I know that it seems silly to discuss weatherproofing for a bug screen, but
remember that when the screen is closed that the stitches will still be
exposed to the outside weather, however nice or lousy the weather may be.
There are many ways to do this.  If you have never sewn tent material
before, remember that you will need a very strong sewing machine with sturdy
needles.  Older machines have a tendency to have stronger drive trains, or
you could ask around and see if anybody has a surger or industrial setup.
It is very important to have some heavy fabric to practice on before sewing
on your westy top.  This will let you make mistakes without penalties, and
get you familiar with the tension settings of your particular machine.  OR
you could always sew it by hand if you are blessed with the ability of
straight evenly spaced stitching.  Far cheaper although your hands will
fatigue.  Sewing is a definate skill, so don't get too frustrated if things
don't go your way at first.  Hang in there and try try again.

Seann Stafford
76' T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
76' T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
