From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 23 Jun 2004 22:39:22 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] cleaning gasoline tank

----- Original Message ----- 
From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>; <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Sent: Wednesday, June 23, 2004 1:13 PM
Subject: RE: [T2] cleaning gasoline tank


> I am assuming of course that in this extensive process of
removing the tank,
> having it cleaned, putting entirely new fuel lines throughout
the complete
> fuel system, and new filters, that the person should also
replace the fuel
> pump?

Okay, let me be a little more accurate about my specific problem.

I lovingly rebuilt a 1978 Fuel Injected 2.0 liter Type IV engine.
It ran great although I did have to find some vacuum leaks and
finally figure out to tighten the distributor lock ring tight
enough to keep the timing from mysteriously changing. It ran great
for thirty minutes and then started knocking and before I could
shut it off,  a rocker arm and pushrod busted out of the the head.
After almost a year, I have finally put it back together and just
started it and it runs great again. I had to take it all apart and
take it back to the machine shop and buy a bunch of parts and wait
and wait etc. and meantime a wheel cylinder started leaking and I
am waiting for parts again.

My automotive machinist has been rebuilding my engines since 1971.
He is very experienced. He looked at my busted engine parts and
diagnosed the problem as contaminated fuel. He said he sees this
occasionally. He said he also sees a similiar busted engine
problem. He says he very rarely sees a busted engine due to
gasoline turning into varnish. The broken engine symptoms are
similiar but the contaminated fuel leaves gooeier, stringier,
stickier tarrier evidence and the 0ld gasoline-varnish leaves more
of a coked (coke as in bituminous coal) crud like on the bottom of
your iron skillet.

>should also replace the fuel pump?
> wouldn't that have varnish in it as well?

Originally, I ran the contaminated fuel through my fuel injection
electric fuel pump . When I got the engine back together, almost a
 year later, the pump wouldn't work. I was smart enough to test it
UN-connected from the engine. It would just click and not
whirrrrr. So I took it off and turned it upside down and filled it
with straight el cheapo fuel injector cleaner. It wouldn't hold
very much. I let it sit for a day and then hooked it up to a
gallon of gas and tried it and it would only click. So I kept
making and breaking the connection on and off for 5 minutes at a
time every hour or so. I would stop rapidly clicking the pump when
it felt hot. I also tried hooking it up backwards with the
positive terminal hooked up to the negative battery terminal and
clicking it. Eventually it started to whirr and I ran a gallon of
gasoline, mixed with the rest of the fuel injection cleaner,
through it. It emptied the gallon of gas really fast. Then I
hooked up some temporary fuel lines to recirculate a gallon of gas
at a time. I ran the pump for about 1/2 hour and then changed to a
new gallon of new gas. I ran 5 gallons of gas through the pump
this way. I put the used gas in gallon milk containers and I will
take it to the hazardous waste collection depot. Then I hooked up
the pump to the engine and started the engine and worried and
worried and so far the engine and pump are working perfectly.

So I got a frozen pump to start working. I don't yet trust this
pump to drive across the country. I will borrow an emergency
replacement pump from a friend before I drive far outta town.

>And what of the vapor
> reclamation system?  could there be fouling in there as well?

I would certainly worry about some contamiation from letting a
full tank of gasoline turn into varnish. In my case, it was a
short term contaminated fuel problem. But I am going to replace
the carbon in the vapor canister because the bus is so old.


I understand
> that doing it all would qualify as thorough, but have the folks
that have
> done this process also had to replace their pumps and vapor
reclamation due
> to the varnish issue?

Certainly, it would have been much better if I had never run that
crud through my pump and engine.


>
> Curious in Oregon,
>
> Seann Stafford
> 76' T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
> 76' T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
> seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
