From: "Gensler, Mike" <Mike.Gensler(-at-)CONCERT.COM>
To: "'da-bus(-at-)sbcglobal.net'" <da-bus(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
Cc: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 24 Jun 2004 16:57:32 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] what type of dual carbs for a Type IV 2 liter

>What dual carbs will work well with my motor.
>How much will it cost me?
>Webers? Dells???
>Witch are easier to set up???
>Witch are more fuel efficient???

If you haven't been barraged with responses to this question it's probably
because very few folks (if any) have experience with both dual Webers AND
dual Dells.  You tend to choose one or the other and become and expert with
them.

I know nothing about Dells, but I ran dual Webers on my 914 (2.0 type IV
motor), 73 bus (1.8 type IV motor), and 58 single cab (1776 type 1 motor).
All in all I can honestly say I like the dual Webers and was happy with the
performance and efficiency of them.  I can also say that it took me the
better part of 6 months before I got my first type IV motor running well
with them.  

You can get a pair of 40-IDF's for anwhere between $150 (need lots of work,
probably a crappy linkage, and maybe no manifolds) and $750 (brand-new with
a good quality linkage and manifolds.  Properly set up, dual Webers will
give you just as good performance as FI (in some cases slightly better), as
well as similar fuel economy (anywhere between 16 and 19 MPG).

I'm currently running d-Jet FI on both my 914 and bus and won't ever go
back.  But I do miss the days of the uncluttered view of the top of the
engine and, frankly, there's no substitute for the beautiful sound a pair of
Webers at full throttle :)

Running dual carbs is all about getting them jetted/adjusted just right for
your particular motor.  As I see it, the main issues that can make or break
a dual carb setup are:

     1.  Air leaks.  Any air leak at the manifolds will wreak havoc and
you'll NEVER be able to get things balanced and adjusted properly.
Judicious use of gasket sealant on both sides of the fiber blocks (what are
those things called?) that go between the heads and the manifolds may be the
only way you'll ever get them sealed 100%.

     2.  Use a good quality linkage.  That piece-o-crap $25 round chrome
thing from Bug-Pak will cost you hours of piddling to get the 2 sides
balanced and as soon as the temperature changes it'll be wrong again.  With
Webers, I like the Weber x-bar linkage.  I'm sure there are others that are
just as good, but be prepared to spend around $100-$120 for a decent one.

     3.  Venturi and jet sizes.  If you think you're going to order a pair
of Weber 40-IDF's and install them right out of the box and hope to get
decent performance from them, think again.  Be prepared to spend $30 for the
right size main venturis (for a 2.0 bus, I think 32mm is correct, but 30mm
might be OK too since the bus needs more low-end power than a 914), $30 for
a set of emulsion tubes (the F11's that come with most 40-IDF's suck - F7's
work much better and get rid of that flat spot during the transition from
idles to mains by richening the mixture).  And spend another $20-30 for some
different main and air correction jets (I liked 125 gas and 185 air on my
2.0 914 motor)

     4.  Setup and balancing.  This is a bit of a learned art.  The books
describe the base-line setup pretty well, but getting things just right
takes a good ear, and a gentle touch.  Buy a GOOD balancing tool.  I used a
Synchrometer ($60) for years and wouldn't have traded it for anything.

Hopefully I haven't missed the mark to badly on any of this - it's been many
years since I last worked with carbs.

Mike g.
73 Westy 5-speed (for sale - $3300)
see it at http://home.adelphia.net/~mgensler/bus.html
Colorado Springs, CO
