From: "Buddah VW" <buddahvw(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 25 Jun 2004 09:42:37 -0400
Subject: HCBF:  The VW Family Feud:  Bus Owner's Survey

yes yes yes

the rumors are true, we have managed to once again book a big-timehollywood 
star to host this year's VW Family Feud...............give it up for Richard 
Dawson's drunken cousin: BLISTERED DAWSON

teams will be allowed to resister and play in the live game at HCBF

but we need some survey answers: (this wil post to type2 on friday)


DIRECTIONS:
1. click and paste the questions below into a SEPERATE email and send it to 
me at buddahvw(-at-)hotmail.com PLEASE do not post answers to the forum

2. ONE WORD answers if possible. Think back to the origional family 
feud............"WE SURVEYED 100 BUS OWNERS AND ASKED THEM......"

3. and this is the most important rule........... ENJOY!

here is the SURVEY:

THE VW FAMILY FEUD

Name a spare part you always keep in your Bus?

Whats the worst thing you have been called for driving a bus?

Whats the Best thing youve heard from other people about your driving a 
bus?

Name a common nickname for the Volkswagon Transporter.

How many pieces of glass are in a 21 window bus?

Most common complaint about driving a bus?

Name a movie that has featured a VW Bus.

Wheres the first place you stop, when leaving a weekend long campout in you 
bus?

What is your favorite year of bus?

How often do you adjust the valves?

What oil do you use?

What is the most common breakdown when going to/returning from a campout?

What's the first thing that you replace when you get a 'new' bus?

If you could only carry one metric wrench, what size would it be?

Where is your rusty spot?

Most popular toy in glove box (careful!)?

What is the most desirable bus color?

What is the least desirable bus color?

Name the States you are most likely to see a VW bus in:

Name an original part/accessory you removed from you bus

Name the most interesting thing left in your bus by a previous owner:

Name something you can never go camping in your bus without:

Name a non-factory accessory that every bus should have.

What is the first VW related site you open up when booting up your browser?

Name the 1st band (concert) that you went to see when you 1st got your bus.

What is wrong with you? What makes you mind crave buses?



- buddah
