Date: Sun, 5 Dec 2004 16:39:49 -0800
From: john kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Cc: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Progress in VSM

On Sun, 5 Dec 2004 15:08:00 -0800, Mark Hineline
<hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net> wrote:
 
> It's demoralizing to think that in the very center of all that stuff I
 cleaned, painted, measured, assembled with new locknuts and dabs of
 locktite is a bum part.

I know how you feel on this one. I did my very first complete engine
build last year under a friend's supervision. When I took him the oil
pump, I asked which hole to block for full flow, and he looked at it
and told me the wrong one. So after putting my motor back together and
installing in the vehicle, my new motor ran about 3 mintues before
seizing. Don't feel bad. I tore it down and fixed it. Runs great now.
So will yours! (been there done that....)
 
> That's when I cooked up my latest reason to procrastinate: I decided I
 need a compressor to provide clean compressed air for rebuilding. No
 room in my shop for it though. I need to make room, maybe by building a
 lean-to shed on one outside wall and installing it there. (I know from
 experience that a compressor with less than five horses is a waste of
 money.)

Know where you are on that too. I decided to go air tools, and bought
the $99 Harbor Freight 2HP special. Then by the specs on the compessor
I bought all kinds of air tools to match their requirements to the
compressor specs. Then from there I proceeded to learn that very few
of the tools would work -- either at all, or for more than a minute
before the compressor needed to catch up, or before the compressor
needed to shut down due to overheating. I have yet to write Harbor
Freight and give them a piece of my mind over this...

> (actually, I started teaching which sucks the life out of me, but
> that's over now).

I'm with you there too. Got a teaching certificate, but bowed out when
student teaching and friends teaching today's unruly students showed
me it wasn't for me.

John
