From: "Jason Z Upper" <jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 05 Dec 2004 21:20:57 -0500
Subject: Hard Starting - Update 2

Hi Folks,

Well, this sure has been an interesting weekend!  I went out to my Bus on 
Saturday, turned it over, and it wouldn't fire.  Not only that, it wouldn't 
fire all day.  The double relay checked out OK (tested per Bentley), the 
cold-start valve checked out OK (tested per Bentley), the coil checked out 
OK (tested with known-good coil), the spark plugs looked fine (removed & 
checked, no oil, gas, crud, or excessive wear).  Every time I tried it, it 
just wouldn't fire.  Discouraged, I gave up.

I went out to my Bus on Sunday, turned it over, and it *almost* fired.  I 
pulled the #4 plug, and it was fine (see plugs above).  Then I disconnected 
the power to the cold start valve, turned it over, and got it to fire.  I 
jumped on the gas, bringing the revs to 2500rpm while the engine sputtered 
and stumbled to life.  I slowly closed the throttle, and the engine idled 
normally.  After a few minutes of warmup, I shut it off.  I turned it over 
again, and it started in about half a crank.  It idled normally and revved 
fine.  While the engine was running, Dwell tested at 50 degrees (Pertronix 
ignition), and timing tested at 8 degrees BTDC.  I shut it off and 
re-started it, and it fired right up again, though at that point the engine 
was warm enough for the cold-start symptoms to go away.

I'm pretty sure it was flooded/fouled on Saturday, and that's why it 
wouldn't start -- the engine smelled strongly of gas, and it wasn't even 
trying to fire after a while.  However, I'm not sure why it started better 
on Sunday -- warmer air temp (40F vs 35F)? more sun? better karma? less 
worry?  The only thing different in the engine was the cold start valve: it 
was hooked up on Saturday, and it was unhooked on Sunday.

So, re-reading the earlier posts, I may have low voltage from old cables 
that may be too weak to crank an engine that may have an over-rich 
condition.  I'm sure that running 15W-50 oil in 35F temps doesn't make 
cranking any easier, either -- maybe something to change as well.  Anyway, 
I'm a *little* closer to fixing it.  Thanks again to all who have posted 
thus far.

Jason Z Upper
Universal Circle Music
1979 Westy "Sweet Pea"
Asheville, North Carolina
