Date: Mon, 18 Jun 2007 15:58:44 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: mbjeeper(-at-)aol.com, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Best way to wire an aftermarket fuel pump

mbjeeper(-at-)aol.com wrote:
 > What is the safest way to wire an electric fuel pump so that it will 
shut down
 > when the engine stalls?
 > I have read some about the alternator, and some about the oil 
pressure switch,
 > but which is the best way.
 > I am going to convert my '78 Westfalia to a progressive (too late, 
it's on its
 > way via UPS).B  I have owned the bus with its original FI for about 8 
years,


Send the carbs back ;)

I hear your frustrations.  That's the biggest reason why I switched over 
to the MegaSquirt.  There's very little adjustment for the stock EFI and 
it's really hard to replace broken parts... and while it's true that 
they are very reliable, they can only last for so long!  Plus, it can be 
a pain in the ass dealing with smog checks.  Now w/ the o2 sensor it 
breezes right on through.  Don't even need an exhaust analyzer to check 
things out...

But if you do go with carbs, maybe after you get your carbs working, you 
should look into playing around with the MegaSquirt.  I've been using it 
reliably for 60k miles now and it's been an awesome run.  I am going to 
be converting soon to allow for spark control which is going to be super 
cool.  You can use all of the existing setup without the headaches and 
you have a huge resource of people that are extremely knowledgeable 
about the system!  Plus, I am able to swap back and forth between the 
two systems if need be.

As far as the fuel pump goes, here's what Jamie sent to me in regards to 
hooking up an electric fuel pump on my friend's engine:

"Yes,, I have ...  a good thing to do when installing an electric pump 
is to have a relay to shut off the pump in the event of an accident.

the easiest relay set up imho is the same as the westfalia aux battery 
connection,, but put the pump where the aux battery goes.

the relay must be connected to a wire the de-energizes when the engine 
stops. the blue wire from the alternator will do.

others complicate the job with different relays,, some incorporate 
relays that have impact switches in them ... you can find those in the 
archives.

http://www.globalserve.net/~jrivers/pictures/aux-batt-bluewire.JPG

the fuel pump connects to terminal 87 and ground... when the alt stops 
spinning,, the relay opens.. shutting off the fuel pump...."

Hope that helps!
Mike
