Date: Tue, 19 Jun 2007 13:31:18 +1000
From: Martin Strandgard <mnstra(-at-)unimelb.edu.au>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Best way to wire an aftermarket fuel pump

 >I am going to convert my '78 Westfalia to a progressive

Noooooooooo.....

I was expecting more fuss from the FI people. Maybe they have lost 
consciousness! ;)

I have an electric fuel pump and a progressive. The fuel pump is a 
Carter rotary that puts out 3.5psi which is the pressure recommended 
for Webers. I run it via a relay that is actuated by the blue 
alternator wire. There is one tricky bit to this arrangement. The 
engine runs on fuel in the fuel bowl until the alternator light goes 
out. My alt light doesn't go out until the revs are up a bit which 
can be a bit frustrating in cold weather if the engine stalls when 
you try and rev it!

Cold weather is of course the enemy of the weber progressive! I have 
adapted an air cleaner off a Mazda to get warm air in initially as it 
uses a wax capsule to open the cold/warm air flap so I didn't have to 
use vacuum to operate the flap as most air cleaners do. This 
arrangement helps cold running and also, unlike the "sports" filter 
supplied with progressive kits, sucks cool air in when the engine warms up.

I have recently been battling a vacuum leak with the progressive 
manifold. I had heard that they are poorly made and noticed that mine 
had two metal gaskets (use metal gaskets to help heat up the 
manifolds) on one inlet. When I took one off I discovered the extra 
gasket was there to make the inlet manifold flat! Unfortunately I 
decided to try and file it flat! Some time later I'm still at it. 
It's a lot harder to get a steel manifold flat than an aluminium one! 
The problem is complicated by the fact there is almost no 
relationship between the holes in the head, the gaskets and the 
manifold! So that at the point it leaks there is only about 1-2mm 
overlap between the three.

I suppose after all that you are cancelling the progressive order 
muttering "Maybe FI isn't so bad after all"!

Martin.
