Date: Wed, 20 Jun 2007 16:40:56 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Counterattack of the crank handle  -  was [T2] Suggestion:

Darren Evans-Young quoth:
>
>I can bump the engine with
>the starter while adjusting valves.

	I prefer turning the motor over by hand.  On that other 
excellent rear-engined vehicle the Renault 10 (& 8), the rear bumper 
has a slot thru which the crank (other end of the wheelbrace) is 
inserted into a hole/cam on the outer side of the pulley which I 
sketch below.  One lies underneath the vehicle to adjust the rocker 
clearances, turning the motor over by hand when required.  Had VW 
earlier incorporated this good feature, later deleted (before '73, to 
my regret)?  My crankshaft pulley presents a 30mm hex ; to turn this 
by a crank workable from underneath, one might tend to weld a 
(non-dirtcheap) 30mm socket onto a crank  -  but then one would need 
an unusually big hole in the bumper, and more seriously to delete 
many sq cm of the tin platform which should be kept as near air-tight 
as poss.  How hard is it to machine the crankshaft pulley to take a 
'peg-type' crank?  Looking at my 30mm hex, I can see a quasi-Munro 
approach: drill a shallow hole c.10mm in the middle  -  position not 
crucial  -  and file the ramps for the pegs on either side of that 
(the faster way appeals to me: angle-grinder).  We have a millionaire 
who would make this 3D surface by computer-driven milling machine 
(Bill Buckley  -  500cc GP cycle never finished but went so fast the 
rules were changed; Buckley's way of making an aluminium dinghy would 
be to mill it from a solid billet of the required length & width). 
Casting would of course be the production method, reinventing an old 
type of wheel.
	I deplore the trend away from crank handles.  Many a time 
I've started The Water Wagon readily with the crank when the battery 
had gorn parlous, unable to provide a hundred amp for the starter 
motor but still good for a few amp for the ignition.  The crankshaft 
pulley should present to the rear a shallow blind hole on the axis 
(unexacting), concentric with an interrupted cylinder an inch across, 
walls 2 - 3 mm thick, 2-10 mm high, constituting an opposite-pair of 
face cams of under-rated value.  To cease offering this means of 
lo-battery starting, and delicate rotation of crankshaft when 
adjusting valves, is to begin losing the plot.  Did the Mexicans & 
Brazilians restore the crank pulley?  I bet they did.
	So, drill away picaninnies, and weld/mill/angle-grind in 3D. 
You may as well drill your tin platform first, if your engine 
compartment has that obstruction; then drill the pulley central blind 
hole; etc.  You'll need a custom rubber (etc) grommet-block where 
you've punctured the tin platform.
	I may even break down and get a digital camera which might be 
less work for me than this many words.
	Your Unca Robt recently copped a vituperative mini-flameout 
from a fan of DIY digital VW engine control.  He claimed I had 
deterred discussion of modern engine control.   Lighten up  -  WAY up 
-  on the curmudgeon pedal, this raver urged me.  He spewed abuse at 
me for what he misrepresented as my extremist opposition to digital 
engine control.  It seemed to me like the rage of the guilty  - 
rabidly denying serious faults with early digital engine control, and 
making out in a truculent oafish manner that digital supersedes 
analogue.  This raver claimed I'd said
>  all modern in-car electronics are bad.
	to which I replied that if I held such a ridiculous extremist 
position, I wouldn't have composed the item 'The Next Engine', would 
I?  I've been a fan for the Orbital stroker c.10 y, and am of course 
aware that it virtually requires digital engine control.  Meanwhile, 
plenty aircooled VW have no digital anything, and their owners 
deserve advice on how to keep points etc going.  It is now evident to 
me that a digital timing light is useful for that purpose; it would 
have been helpful to post that reasoning for all T2, leaving out the 
eructations.

   T2 list is partly defined by the transition from all-analogue fuel 
& ignition thru digital both. We have all kinds here, and some moving 
either way!  The alternate pathway not taken was improved coil 
ignition  -  no-points, with discussion needed of Hall effect etc  - 
better materials in coils, capacitors, etc.  Jawa & Saab did explore 
such intermediate-tech ignition, to good effect.  I believe a whole 
new order of reliability with easy maintenance and repairability 
could be created.  I hope to explore such ideas without being spewed 
at.
     It is clear that choices are forced upon some T2ers moving either 
way carb-FI.  Anyone who suspects he has backed a loser in some 
digital control furphy should face reality, re-trace his steps to the 
wrong decisions, and get polite & respectful to those who have lived 
& worked thru this major change in motors generally but particularly 
VW aircooled.  it isn't a case of either/or digital/analogue; let's 
identify the best versions of both.  For T2, practically, there is no 
valid ground for conflict  -  let alone abuse  -  in this 
non-extremist discussion of the roles for analogue v. digital fuel & 
ignition.
	As I see it, a good carb is far better than a troublesome FI, 
whereas a good FI is at best marginally ahead of a good carb.  It is 
also true that a queasy carb can be much more trouble than a good FI. 
One valuable function of T2 list is to spread awareness of inferior 
components e.g 009, 34PICT-3.   The range of tuning & performance for 
either FI or carb is far too wide, but DIY is a more feasible 
approach to maintenance & mods for those of us who embrace the 
proferred slogan 'carbs suck'.  Yes, they can suck about as much air 
as a good FI, and mix the right proportion of fuel to give a 
reasonably clean exhaust and similar power from that motor FI'd.  We 
thus find ourselves in an interesting cooperative scene in which 
those experienced with that notable subculture VW late aircooled 
'before die Kreute went digital' will continue to think analogue, and 
help to keep going those vehicles without digital anything.  I have, 
in passing, mentioned some facts about unreliability & irreparability 
in some modern digital (ECM I think is the abbrev) engine control. 
Some of the nooer digital ignition systems look good; I merely want 
honest appraisal including their drawbacks.  A byte, or any number 
thereof, is unworthy of worship.
	The crank handle may turn out to be the means of education of 
many a young digiwanker who has lacked respect for his elders.  I 
lead the counterattack on this new breed of abusive whippersnappers. 
All the processes we're involved in are continuous, smoothly varying 
(the odd backfire admitted), developed under Bowden cable & other 
mechanical controls.  Those well informed on pros & cons should 
spread considered ideas.  I do not expect to cop ranting abuse for 
any such civilised bridge between countries where remants roar on 
from a major if now receding German invasion.
	And when we take over the Brazilian factory (to set up at 
.... ?), let's cast crank-pulleys for crank-handle insertion.  Bring 
back the crank!



-- 
Robt Mann
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
'69 Renault 10  -  The Water Wagon
