Date: Thu, 09 May 2002 22:27:55 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Today i started the bus, and it didn't like me at all


>    Started it up, and it was loud and smokey, but that was to be 
> expected, i thought.

What is noisy - exhaust or mechanical noises or? You could have exhaust 
leaks or the head might not be sealed to the cylinders (compression check) 
or the push rods and valves might not be adjusted correctly.

You got oil pressure? You got compression? Can you feel hot air leaks 
around the head to cylinder mating surface? You got vacuum leaks? Did any 
head or exhaust studs pull out during assembly?

Don't worry yet about the oily exhaust - it may clear up after a few 
minutes - could be oil on the exhaust or in the exhaust burning off.

>Two things... one, my oil cooler leaks like a faucet.

Did you have to remove this? Pull it again and see if the seals are right. 
Bet they aren't - maybe crushed too much.

>The other is that it won't drop idle

Vacuum leak I bet. Did you futz with the accelerator cable? Anything F.I. 
unplugged?

>, and it smokes smokes smokes.  Oil in the exhaust smoke, it is.

Worry about everything else first.

>  So, first, can i replace my oil cooler without pulling the engine?

Yes - not fun but it can be done. I've done it.

>Second..... well, i kinda know what to do about the smoke and the bad 
>running.  I'll do a compression test to see if i burned a ring, make sure 
>all my cylinders are firing and all that stuff.  I just wanted to say 
>something about it, because it makes me want to cry, really.  It's been in 
>the garage since april, and i'd really like to drive it.  It's almost to 
>the point where i'm thinking of taking it to the import joint and seeing 
>what they think it is....

Hang in there, get some rest, remember you've got this list. The import 
guys are going to do whatever you want at $65 a hour. How rich are you? 
Save your money and take your time. If you have to take it apart again to 
check it all.

I am assuming that you had other potential problems beyond a bum head...

My bus has been off the road for 3 years. It's the last thing on our list 
and our budget.

Just don't rush to let anyone else work on it. You can solve this thing and 
save alot of money. Next time you'll know what is wrong. It's all about 
learning and patience.

Write back if you need to or just post it to the list. I am always willing 
to offer up my 2 cents worth.

At least you've got a Bentley manual and this list. Many of us faced the 
same problems all by ourselves...

My first Beetle valve adjustment took a week - adjust hear and there until 
everything is right. Now I can do a valve adjustment in 15 minutes or less.



Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


