Date: Fri, 10 May 2002 08:46:55 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: "Thomas D. Adams" <tda(-at-)omniglobal.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine installation woes...


>The other part of this question is the oft-debated question of "should the 
>thermostat be connected...". My mechanic insists that here in the South 
>Texas heat, the answer is 'no', and he is not going to connect my (new) 
>thermostat or locate the needed flaps.

You can fudge for a while with a Type I (you're just killing it slowly this 
way) but on a Type IV the flappers also control airflow to the oil cooler. 
I really don't understand how this works despite the fact that I've torn 
down a couple of these engines. In short - don't leave them out. Do the job 
yourself or just tell him to do it right. I'd check his work.

Like on the Type I engines, they fail in the open position so you could put 
them in and not actually install the thermostat. However the thermostat is 
just 20 minutes more labor and your engine will really be happier. If you 
were always in 100 degree desert heat then you could design out the 
thermostat b/c your engine would be hot in a flash every time you started 
it. In real life there are cool mornings and many times that your engine 
will be cooling off in traffic or coasting down hills. The whole time the 
engine will be expanding and contracting thanks to this uncontrolled 
cooling system. If it is a fuel injected engine it will constantly 
enrichening the mixture and there will be a resulting loss in mpg and the 
oil will foul sooner with unburned fuel. The fuel will act like a solvent 
and dilute the oil and wash the oil from the internal moving parts and 
drastically accelerate the engine wear.

You're spending a bunch of money to build this engine, spend a bit more and 
make it last.

>He is doing an otherwise excellent job of installation and is also going 
>the extra mile of redoing my gas tank, heat exchangers and exhaust. I plan 
>on trying the engine out without the thermostat and flaps, and putting 
>them back in later, if the list advises so.

A mechanic that advises a person to leave out parts could be described as a 
repair man but not a mechanic. A real mechanic understands the purpose of 
each mechanical system on a vehicle and their purpose. He should also know 
the consequences of a system failure (or a system removal). I don't think I 
would tell HIM this if I were you though... <grin!>

Put them on first thing so your oil is cooled right. The best I recall the 
oil cooler doesn't get much air without the flaps. You really can't cheat 
here. Not on a Type IV. Even on a Type I it is advised to keep them 
installed - even if in the open position to direct air to the right places 
and pressurize the system so the heads get properly cooled - that is air 
gets forced to all the corners and crevices. Air is like a fluid and will 
follow the path of least resistance (so does electricity) and if it can get 
out past the cylinders then it will. The flappers (in a Type I at least) 
pressurize the system so the air is forced everywhere and not just through 
the cylinders. The cylinders need less cooling than the heads. This may 
explain the flapper system on the Type IV - the air tries to go out through 
the cylinders and not the heads or oil cooler without the control and 
direction of the flapper system.

I love my old VW but the VW factory was a really cheap bunch of SOBs. The 
scrimped on the heating system (could make made something that would stay 
intact), and they scrimped on the vehicle soundproofing.

Believe me - if they put something on a VW then they knew if HAD to be there.

Your vehicle, your money. It's like the difference of 40K motor life span 
and 80K total life span. How soon do you want to build another engine? Also 
your heaters will not heat as well because the engine will not run hot enough.

Anyone know how the aircooled Porsche 6 cylinders regulated their warmup?


Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


