Date: Fri, 10 May 2002 09:55:03 -0700
To: "Thomas D. Adams" <tda(-at-)omniglobal.net>,
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine installation woes...

At 09:26 PM 5/9/2002, Thomas D. Adams wrote:
>I plan on trying the engine out without the thermostat and flaps, and 
>putting them back in later, if the list advises so.

Well, as you know by now, the list does advise so.  Your best bet is to 
locate the flaps now and somehow coerce your mechanic into installing them 
with the motor - otherwise you're facing a big job later to R&R the fan 
housing and install them.

Now that that's out of the way, here's my experience.  Part 1 is theory - I 
have studied the operation of the flaps extensively over the years - they 
do not work "intuitively".  The flaps, when open carve off a small portion 
(about 20%) of the cooling air for the oil cooler, with the remaining air 
directed over the cylinders.  With the flaps removed, things get more 
complicated as all of the air can go to both the cooler and the cylinders 
and is more likely to take the path of least resistance - whether that is 
the cooler or the cylinders, I can't say for sure but I suspect it's the 
cylinders.  My conclusion after looking at it and recalling my college 
courses in fluid dynamics was that without the flaps, at low engine rpm the 
oil cooler was likely to NOT get a lot of airflow through it.  At higher 
rpm I think the problem would be less pronounced.  Of course, it's not as 
simple even as that because when the flaps are present, they really don't 
"carve" up the airflow at all, they merely *encourage* the air to take a 
particular path.  If there is enough restriction through the oil cooler vs. 
the cylinders, the oil will overheat regardless of whether the flaps are 
there or not.

Part 2 is experience.  I have driven my bus both with and without the 
cooling flaps with a full compliment of gauges and everything else for 
practical purposes identical.  The result was that I did not notice an 
increase in oil temperature without the flaps.  In fact, I saw a slight 
decrease in oil temps.  I know this is going to upset a lot of people but 
based on my experience I do not think that running without cooling flaps is 
going to destroy a type IV motor in short order.  Of course I have no 
long-term test results so I can't claim that it doesn't cause long-term 
damage but based on my gauge readings I suspect that long-term damage would 
be minimal as well, in my situation.  My situation means (at that time) 
Southern California where the temp never drops below 45 degrees F.

I don't want there to be any misunderstanding about this - I am NOT 
advocating running without the cooling flaps!  I am also NOT claiming that 
running without cooling flaps is okay vs. running with cooling flaps and a 
thermostat.  I am simply comparing these two scenarios:

a) Running with no flaps
b) Running with flaps and no thermostat or thermostat unhooked (flaps 
always open)

And saying that IMNSHO one is not that much worse than the other.

As I said before though, your best bet is to get the flaps now and install 
them, and hook up your thermostat.  If you don't want to upset your 
mechanic (which may lead to other problems, right?) let him have his way 
and do your best to get the flaps and install them in a reasonable 
timeframe, but don't worry that your engine will destroy itself in a matter 
of days or weeks, because it won't.

-David

