Date: Fri, 10 May 2002 11:19:09 -0500
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)metrowerks.com>
To: Type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Fuel Filter question, re-usable

On 5/10/02 8:53 AM, "John Baker" wrote:

> Happy Friday.  While picking up brakes for my 71 Westy, I saw and bought a
> re-usable fuel filter made by BugPack.  It's the glass kind with the
> replaceable screen inside. My question: Has anyone used these, and if so, do
> they leak or clog easily?? Adversely, do they filter finely enough?

I've had a couple of these on the bus in the past before I refurbished the
gas tank (highly painful but highly recommended).

The glass filter you are talking about needs to be protected in some way
because it was hanging underneath my bus.  If yours is in the engine
compartment I would go with the plastic bug filter that 95 cents as it's too
scary to have this component in the engine compartment.

Underneath the bus, I put some garden hose around it and used some extra
fuel hose in order to located it to a place protected by the body.

I put it on for two reasons:

1) After changing an OEM filter about 5 times, the amount of rust still
coming out of the tank, although a trickle, was just enough to starve the
engine of fuel.  So yes, they clog easily but no more so than an OEM filter.
Turning off the engine (unless it stalled anyway), and on again may get you
going for a few more miles before the filter screen gets blocked and the
engine starts to chug.

2) pulling off the proper bosch filter with it's tight fit at the outflow
end was a pain to crawl under and change and at the time I thought $15 CDN
(a Bow Wow rip-off) for each filter was too expensive.

Beware that it is made of glass and the o-rings at the end need to made a
good seal so you can accidentally over-tighten it and crack the glass.  Get
two.  Your vehicle isn't FI but for anyone with FI thinking of this be very
careful.

Anyway, all this "convenience" is moot unless you are also going to install
a valve to cut off the flow of fuel so you can change it.  I used to use a
toothbrush to clean the inner filter with a little gasoline every time I had
to and it worked well.

If you have any gas tank problems I recommend you deal with them and install
an OEM filter and change it and the Bentley recommended intervals.

-- 
Richard
78 Westfalia CDN
Austin, TX

