Date: Sun, 02 Sep 2001 12:19:27 -0400
To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <Doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com>
Subject: Cooler oil with exhaust wrap?

My 1976 type4 2 liter engine is rebuilt and ready to go back into the bus. 
I am considering wrapping the exhaust pipes on each cylinder bank with the 
belt-like insulating tape and silicate gel, as is used on race track cars, 
to keep the exhaust heat from radiating to the underside of the heads. This 
tape looks like an army belt and I think it is made of fiberglass. The 
exhaust pipes are enclosed by heat shields and run along the underside of 
each head, about an inch and a half from the head. It looks to me like the 
heat in the exhaust pipe radiates up and is absorbed by the head, where it 
adds to the temperature of the oil inside those lower head cavities.

My primary goal is to reduce the radiant heat input on those surfaces and 
thus reduce the heat load that the oil must deal with in the oil cooler. My 
secondary goal is to provide more heat to the heat exchangers, at a higher 
temperature, and maybe help the bus heaters work better.

The downside to wrapping the exhaust pipes looks like it might result in 
slower warm-ups. Another downside someone mentioned was that the wrapping 
tape might collect drip-oil and act as a collector and wick, increasing the 
chances of an engine fire. Filling the spaces in the wrap tape with 
silicate gel was meant to reduce the oil absorbancy of the tape.

Details of the wrapping process: Clean the pipes, wrap a single layer of 
the insulating tape in overlap fashion, apply silicate paste to tape, and 
secure with stainless steel hose clamps (about 4 per side.) Work the 
silicate gel into the weave of the tape. Allow to set up for 24 hours. 
Check coating and re-apply gel as necessary. Re-attach heat shields. 
Install engine.

I will appreciate any positive or negative responses, if you have any 
thoughts about the described project.`

Doyt Echelberger
Ohio, USA

