Date: Sun, 02 Sep 2001 23:06:48 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] Fuel line question

>T-III's up to at least mid 70's T-II's.  If it is smooth rubber outer and
>has a center cord structure, it is the later type of FI spec hose. This
>same hose is sometimes found with blue outer layer. 

T2's used cloth cover in '75 and '76 from the factory, then in '77 came
along the rubber covered but FWIW the original isn't what is sold today,
it was even more reinforced and "ribbed for pleasure" on the outside
not smooth.  Both were incased in the gray heat shield stuff over the
hose runs.  In '78 came the steel ring main, still the ribbed hose, delete
the heat shield stuff, this persisted until '83.5 when they returned to the
all rubber ring main (by now smooth hose somewhere in there) on the
waterboxer.  This brings up a personal favorite, I like to delete the steel
main pieces on '78-'83 and replace with rubber runs and used gray stuff.
VW went back that way and I think it was sound, the steel forces the
little bits of rubber to bend very sharply and has twice as many joints
ready for twice as many leaks.  I think this was a backwards step that
they recognized and rectified with the new engine and I like how the
rubber lays.  Blue hose is actually brake line hose FWIW, for the resevoir
to master cylinder on German cars.  I've used the regular fuel hose
on brake fluid though so I figure the other way probably works.  The
blue stuff is more expensive.  You can't always tell on German hose
what it is and what it isn't though, for instance the diesel return hoses
look like cloth covered vacuum hose but regular cloth cover doesn't
hold up whereas the the cloth cover with the little yellow stripe which
is honestly for the purpose lasts for years, and in fact lasts forever if
used as vacuum hose, but twice the price.   Anyway Steve has been
trying to burn the '80 to the ground for about 2 years now, when he left
my place on vacation one of his ring main hoses was leaking.  Steve
knows better and it goes to a good point folks, check all your fittings
regularly even if the hoses are only 2 years old, I know I haven't looked
at the '82 hoses in 2 years.  We who preach often fail to heed out own
advice.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu


