Date: Mon, 03 Sep 2001 09:34:48 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Windshield Runaround

Mobile auto glass installer in the last coupla months has replaced
windshields for both the businesses on each side of my shop. I asked about
the price for a German windshield for my T-II. He says "Sigla??" and I say
"YES!!" and he says he will get back to me. The coupla weeks later he came
by when I was gone from the shop and drops off a card. It says, $189
w/seal. I called their number, got a machine, left a message, two days
later they call and I placed the order, then proceeded to remove the
Mexican junk glass and prepare the opening for the new German glass they
have said will be installed the following week.

On the day they are to install the glass, their office calls and says the
seal will cost an extra $50. Note this is after the van has left and is on
the ferry over to the island. When the van pulls up, he pulls out a PPG
windshield. I inform him that's not what I ordered. I also informed him my
cost for a seal is $26 and he can keep his $50 item and take that $50 off
my $189 cost. He hemms and haws as it is apparent he is not going to get
away with this kind of bait and switch like he usually does, then calls the
office. 

Eventually, he states they can get the German glass. I ask about the price.
If you recall, that's what I first asked about more than a month earlier
before I placed the order and authorized the work based upon what they
said. He hemms and haws and makes another phone call then says same price,
$189 w/seal. What I realize and he evidently doesn't is he just pi**ed off
$31 worth of my time with no value received, driving up my cost.

It took over a month to confirm price and availability. It remains to be
seen what they actually provide, with all the wishy-washy hemming and
hawing goin' on. So we will see what he shows up with this week. I suspect
only then will I know if it's German and what the invoice will show for
price. Do you think I will pay one dime more that what they quoted??
Regardless what the invoice shows?? 

I scares me that such business practices don't lead to bankrupsy in a few
months. If they show up with more bulls**t and hemming and hawing, it won't
just be poor word of mouth they get from me. I will post a public notice
via letter to the editor of the local paper and I will name names, in
writing. It will also inform the public that if you must have cheap for
Euro auto services, you must go elsewhere, as you can only get quality
parts and service from my shop.

 

 
T.P. Stephens
Doktor Tim's

