Date: Mon, 03 Sep 2001 10:36:09 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry Kay)
Subject: DM revisited was Windshield Runaround


>I agree that in purveying one thing and trying to pass off another is,
>unethical, and a poor business practise.
>
>But let me ask you this---
>Why are you mindlocked on Kraut glass?

Because it ensures (removes ALL risk of not) meeting design criteria
established by the team of Neandereers who made the vehicle. The things
they design and build typically perform their functions FAMOUSLY due to a
BigBrowedBoneHeadedHighSpec point of view.

Stock ist beste, from the standpoint of value. Higher quality materials,
more resistance to chipping. I wasn't even looking for a T-II when I bought
it. I saw it with a for sale sign so went over to do a cursory inspection.
When I saw it was stock in all regard except for the windshield and
linoleum on the floor and was rust free on the underside and had
no/none/nada rewiring and quicky splices under the dash or anywhere else, I
knew I had found a rarity, and made the purchase that day. The PO offered
it had a 'new motor' just 60k miles ago. If that be true, I also knew it
was not a Californicated loss leader special assemblage of junk. They just
never last that long. I also noted the installation was in all appearances
stock. Who ever did the long block replacement knew what they were doing.
Even without a documented invoice on the engine, a compression test and
visual inspection satisfied my need of establishing value to me based upon
empirical evidence.

Have you not heard of the DM???? See the archives. A snippet follows:

>This will be a series of submittals addressing basic Maintenance Repair
>and Restoration of European Vehicles, all of which owe homage to the
>German Engineering Philosophy, hereinafter refered to as the
>Deutsches Methode (DM).
>
>All Porsche air cooled designs, including of course VW, can be provided
>the best long term economy by understanding the mind of the good
>Doktors Porsche and others of the German technical schools who practice
>the DM.


T.P. Stephens
Doktor Tim's

