Date: Mon, 03 Sep 2001 15:06:49 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: [T2] DM revisited was Windshield Runaround

>>I agree that in purveying one thing and trying to pass off another is,
>>unethical, and a poor business practise.
>>
>>But let me ask you this---
>>Why are you mindlocked on Kraut glass?
>
>Because it ensures (removes ALL risk of not) meeting design criteria
>established by the team of Neandereers who made the vehicle. The things
>
>Stock ist beste, from the standpoint of value. Higher quality materials,
>more resistance to chipping. I wasn't even looking for a T-II when I bought

The chances of 20 year old German glass being of better quality and more
chip resistant than modern PPG glass are damn slim.  A good friend is a
design engineer for PPG's auto glass division and in fact went to Germany
to set up production for Opel a few years ago who used to use German glass.
Technology marches onward and more oftem than not "DM" is just old hat and
behind the time.  I'd also wonder about where any "German" type2 glass is
really coming from these days anyway, methinks the chance they are still
making glass in Germany for Brazilian type2's is slim to none.  Brings up
an interesting similar point, friends needed a windshield for their '95
(Mexican
built) Jetta and I called around for them, this one idiot gives me this big
spiel
about how his glass is $425 but is German, blah, blah, blah, I ask what would
be the point when it would be about the only part of German manufacture on
the car?  Dead silence.  They went with PPG of course $225 installed.  From
any quality manufacturer glass is glass folks if it is distortion free and
fits well 
use it.

Another favorite example of mine OEM German motor mounts installed at
same time as INDIAN on two air cooled vanagons with new engines, 2 years
later the German were falling apart, the Indian are still like new today
some 5
years on, I installed both, saw the results with my own two eyes, go figure.
Lobro CV's have been another good example over the years, quality changing
wildly year to year, some last forever some don't go 45k miles.  German CV
boots have a long history of the same detailed on this list.  In the year
2000,
"DM" is a dead wrong concept, sure I'd much rather use a mechanical or engine
part made in Germany from about '60-'85 and expect without a second doubt
it would be superior quality but time and time again this doesn't hold true
with
German parts made in the 90's.  If I can choose a German part for say 15%
more than another European part sure I will pop the difference.  If the choice
comes down to more like 80-150% more than even a Brazilian part I start
questioning the sense.  You don't see many folks popping the extra 100%
on T4 P&C sets now day folks and I usually find the Brazilian stuff measures
right to the tee on T4 sets.  Spanish (AMC) T4 heads don't last half the time
of German but AMC waterboxer heads are now their own redesign and don't
crack where the German were sometimes prone and are a better value.  Use
the information you gather on this list and common sense not some odd
superstitious trust in a mystique long gone to make your choices volks.  The
guys designing glass at PPG have designed a whole pile more windshields
than anyone at VW you can rest assured of that.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu


