From: "Chris and Kell" <midwestbass(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 3 Sep 2001 15:21:36 -0700
Subject: Bug-o-Rama #48 trip report (pictures, yay!)

Hello listmembers....
Well, someone was kind enough to remind me (via this list) that Bug-O-Rama
was happening this weekend up in Sac,
so I awoke early Sunday morning to make the trek up there for what would be
my first ever Bug-O-Rama.

We left San Francisco around 10am, stopping at about 11:15 just outside of
Sac when my oil temp light (Berg) started
to flicker on and off and didn't want to stop even after slowing down. We
rested, grabbed a bite and made it to the grounds
at about noon on the nose. It was *hot* out, something we (I) didn't really
plan for. I forget how much of a weather wuss
I have become since moving to SF.
Anyway, we spent the first hour just wandering aimlessly around the grounds,
checking out the drag cars, the show cars,
and a little bit of the swap area. I was thinking I might find some neat
stuff for the westy, but it was the BUG-o-rama and
for the most part it was all beetle or much older Vw stuff that what I have
currently. There was a nice turnout of newer
watercooled veedubs as well. I think one of the coolest busses I saw there
was this red and while double-cab with this
really nice woodrack in the bed. It was all set up for racing, it seemed,
and lowered a hair or two, but it was really clean
and worked nicely on this bus.
There were a few splitties, including Thom's yellow walkthrough (with
matching awning), and a wicked late 50's
black panel all done up with flames and such.
<http://albums.photopoint.com/j/AlbumIndex?u=1188687&a=13714515>
Pictures available at the above URL.
We left around 3, and took a while to get home. My bus was getting REALLY
hot, and fast. I took it down to around 55
and the light would then just sorta flicker a little bit, but didn't want to
turn off. We rested a little while, thinking "it IS 98 today" and
maybe it would cool down soon. It didn't. I checked the oil to make sure I
wasn't running low, and ended up adding about a half
of a quart. I noticed when firing it up, I have just in the past week or so
started to smell a touch of oil being burnt and a small
blue cloud. I was chalking the over-heating up to the actual heat, but after
so many older than my vw's were passing me on
the way out of town, im guessing I have some work to do.
I have a 2l w/hydraulic lifters, getting usually between 15-17mpg, perhaps
outside of the timing and points maybe I need to have the
valves adjusted?
We are leaving for the Grand Canyon in less than 2 weeks now, any advise on
hot weather driving would be superduper.
Christopher (and Kellie!)
76 westy "jasper"


