Date: Tue, 09 Apr 2002 18:09:16 -0400
To: BayBusses <type2(-at-)lenti.type2.com>,Splitties <vintagebus(-at-)lenti.type2.com>
From: Mad Uncle Dave <MadUncleDave(-at-)charter.net>
Subject: Everybus Chili cookoff

Ok, it's that time again.
In a few short days, it will be time for Everybus again.  Yeah, I know, 
BO-RING!

In a pig's hiney.

This years event is promised to be bigger and better than ever, according 
to the event organizer, Chris Cybulski.  He told me a while back the door 
prizes include a pristine 1959 doublecab, a like new 1967 sub hatch westy, 
and a shiny new Eurovan.  I tried to talk him out of offering the 
waterpumper but he insisted that Everybus meant just that.  Other prizes 
include a free Full Moon Bus Club lifetime membership.

Of course this was during Thanksgiving Misgivings and he was a "bit" under 
the influence.

What does this have to do with the Chili cookoff?  Everything.  You see, 
there will be one.  there's a catch however.  We need chili to be 
judged.  This is where you can do your part to feed the hungry masses of 
the world.  Make chili.  It's not hard.  Go find Auntie Edna's secret 
recipe and try it out on the secret panel of judges, carefully selected 
from an international pool of whiney supplicants who were begging and 
offering to perform unnatural acts to be selected as a judge.

You don;t have to make it there, you can cook it ahead of time because we 
all know what a hassle it is to cook with a beverage in your hand.  The 
cooking just doesn't seem to get done.  There will be 2 categories, meat 
and meatless.  Spicy hot will not necessarily help your case.

I will not publish the list of judges, because we do not want anyone to try 
and bribe them.  I, on the other hand, will consider all reasonable offers 
then reject them.  Unreasonable offers are a different story.

Bus content:  Saw the Girl with the Golden Boots on Mystery Science Theater 
3000 a few weeks ago.  Nice 21 window in the background early on in the 
show.  It was red and white.  No, I'm not talking about Pearl's bus either.

More bus content:  I'll probably have 2 buses there.

Even more bus content:  I bet there will be at least 2 other buses there too.

Mad Uncle Dave

Member in dubious standing, Full Moon Bus Club
Home of the World Famous Breakfast Burritos
http://www.fullmoonbusclub.com

