Date: Tue, 09 Apr 2002 22:22:08 -0400
From: busfool <busfool(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: EB Balloon Rides Anyone?

Hello All,

I got to thinking (usually the source of my troubles) about various ways
to get a good group photo of all the buses this year.  Attempts at
Sunday morning carabus and photo ops don't usually work out that well,
either because some have to leave out early or because the rest stayed
up late and are still sleeping it off ( my sympathies if you fall into
both categories).

That leaves trying to get a picture of the buses on Saturday, as that's
when the most buses are present.  Last year, some RV owners were kind
enough to allow EBers to climb on top of their Rv and take some elevated
photos.  I wanted to find a way to get up higher and get a decent group
shot.  I'm throwing out some ideas for feedback and general level of
interest on the part of EB attendees (please reply to me and not the
list):

1.  Hot Air Balloon - I spoken with one operator who would come out and
set up a tethered operation, going up about 50 feet.  Pros - high on the
cool factor, offers a new and different experience in addition to the
chance to snap a photo.  I figure it would be a winner with kids.  Cons
- Its expensive, the guy I talked to has a two hour minimum at $450 and
hour.  With a capacity of about 48 people an hour ( four adults for a
five minute ride, five could ride if one is a child), it would cost each
person almost ten dollars in order to break even.   It would also be
highly dependent on the weather.  Just after sunrise and right before
sunset offer the best chance at light winds, the operator I talked to
suggested ride times from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. - this hits the dinner
hour.  I'm not sure what the terms are if weather prohibits the balloon
from going up at all.   There are at least three other operators in the
area that I plan to check with for price comparisons.


2.  Cherry Picker - a less glamorous option, but actually offers the
potential to get up higher for a better view ( I'm considering a 35-60
foot model).  It's cheaper ($225 to $550 for the day - one business
offers a 60 foot model for the day for only $370, but they're not sure
about availability for April 20), but I probably would be foolish to let
people go up in it for liability reasons.  Probably take pics throughout
the day and offer digital prints for sale to try and recoup some of the
money.


3.  Rented Plane - I know a pilot who would probably do it for the cost
of a local plane rental ($150 or so), but like the cherry picker idea
would mean only being able to offer prints for sale.


All in all, I think the balloon is the best idea,  those interested
could experience a balloon ride and take their own photos of all types.
However, I'm not sure it would work financially.  Basically, I'm looking
for feedback on those that might be willing to pay $5 to $10
(realistically closer to $10) for a five minute balloon ride/photo op,
at either the 5:00 to 7:00 p.m. window ( 7:00 to 9:00 a.m. might be an
option as well).  I'm not looking at this as a money making venture (I
don't think it is one), I just need to recoup most of what it would
cost.

The other variable is what the park staff are willing to permit, I think
they'd allow a balloon, I don't know about a cherry picker, and I don't
suppose they'd have much say over an airplane.

Anyway, I'd appreciate any feedback before I decide to bag the idea or
proceed.

Thanks,

Chad Sibert

Greensboro, NC

'69 SC


