Date: Mon, 26 May 2008 16:24:43 -0700
From: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc" <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Noise update, resonant frequencies.

Hi Guys,

I got out my scope and accellerometer today and started looking at likely 
noise generators in my bus. I have a non-walk thru 64 Double door. I put the 
accel. onto the panels behind the driver/passenger seats. The panels on 
either side of the spare tire well have a layer of "brown bread" dampener on 
them. Almost complete coverage from top to just above the foot wells on the 
back side. The resonant frequency in about the middle of the panels ranges 
from 80-125hz. I put the accel. onto the center of the spare tire well panel 
and got 100-250 hz. The spare tire was not in the well as my spare won't 
fit. The scope patterns showed that there is mostly primary frequencies. Not 
a lot of harmonics. Of course the higher harmonics would be easier to damp 
out or absorb.

I tried adding a 1/2x 2 x 20" aluminum bar double sticky taped top to bottom 
about center across the embossed ribs. That added a higher frequency 
resonance around 160hz as well as retaining the lower resonance.

The belly pan (as this is a double door it has a full belly pan) resonates 
at about 133 hz. I have some Q-pads covering some of it.

This poor bus is just a load of low frequency resonant panels, no wonder its 
noisy.

Let's see if we can put our heads together an come up with a way to damp out 
or or otherwise absorb that low frequency.

This week I'm going to go down to the local carpet store and pick up a few 
square yards of rebond visco-elastic (memory foam) carpet padding foam and 
add that to the front door panels, the kick panels, roof panels and onto the 
partition. This stuff when held up to your ear, seems to absorb a lot of 
sound. Has a real dead quality on the non-coated side. It may not do much at 
the low frequencies of interest. Its cheap at about $4/yard.

What's a good way to add mass or stiffness to a panel?
I have quite a bit more Dynamat Extreme. Only problem with that is that you 
only get to stick it on once. Almost impossible to remove.

How about on both sides of the partition panels, adding more Dynamat, add a 
layer of the rebond padding and then a layer of 1/4" plywood. All bonded 
using contact cement. Dynamat to damp the sheet metal some more, the padding 
as a decoupling layer and the plywood as a containment. Problem is that this 
is only an experiment with no basis in actual design or analysis. In other 
words, just a wild ass guess.

Sam, you got any comments or ideas from your Capri days?

Anthony? George? Anyone else?

The key to a quiet bus is going to be damping out these panels. If we can 
figure that out, we can all drive down the highway in relative quiet.

Chris
310-214-2175 
