Date: Mon, 26 May 2008 21:31:17 -0700
From: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc" <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Noise update, resonant frequencies.

John said:
(If we are talking about adding plywood to the bus, I can say from 
experience
 that a couple of years ago I had a chance to pick up about a 74 Westy that
was genuinely rarely used for camping only. As such, it was quite intact as
far as the interior having all the panels and camping cabinents, floor
coverings, etc. The seals were also good. With all of this, I can say that
it was quite a quiet ride. I can also say that with all the weight from all
that plywood, that it was quite a heavy ride, so the engine wasn't as zippy
 as normal, but not bad at all. The weight also made the ride feel very
smooth.)



I believe that when VW went to the ball joints and IRS tranee with the rear 
motor mount, the ride got quieter and smoother all around. My 64 is stuck 
with king pins and the old swing axle and the engine hanging off the tranee.
My bus has all the plywood except the rear facing seat and the ice box 
cabinet. Thumping the plywood on coat closet on the passenger side, really 
sets up a low frequency hum. I also expect that noise bounces around nicely 
off the plywood. All the doors have Dynamat and motor matt and make a nice 
thump when closing rather than the standard tinny ring. I also have replaced 
the window screens ( I have the jelousie windows) with 3/8 plexiglass. Wind 
noise is minimal as all the door and window seals are new and good and I 
have checked the fit with a piece of paper and shimmed as needed for a good 
seal. Most of the noise is from the engine and the road. I suspect that the 
driver compartment resonates in addition to my findings from my previous 
post.
Maybe if I fill the driver compartment with expanding urethane foam..... 
damn, I gotta sit somewhere.
On we truck headlong into oblivion...... There is a solution out there, 
somewhere.

Chris
