Date: Wed, 28 May 2008 17:54:09 -0400
From: "May, Russell" <rmay(-at-)primephotonics.com>
To: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc" <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>,
Subject: Re: Noise update, resonant frequencies.

Hey, Chris, these are some pretty interesting experiments that you're
doing.  They caught my interest because (1) I have a noisy bus too, and
(2) my job has recently involved instrumenting resonant structures (very
small ones, with resonant frequencies above 10 MHz).  I've been thinking
about your experiments over the past couple of days, so here are some
random thoughts:

I was kind of surprised at the frequency ranges that you saw.  I think
that 80 to 100 Hz is higher than what I hear in my bus, but that's just
a subjective guess.  Sometime soon I'll take a good mic and make a
digital recording in my bus, and then run the the result through an FFT
in MATLAB to see where the frequencies peak.

If you have a resonating plate or membrane, adding mass or stiffness
will raise the resonant frequency, but won't attenuate it.  So, one
strategy would be to add enough mass or stiffness so that only dogs can
hear it (>20 kHz), but frankly my bus is pretty slow off the mark
without more weight.

Like you're alreading doing, using a viscoelastic material like Dynamat
will add viscous damping (or dampening) and attenuate the resonance.
When I did the resto on my bus, I added damping material (not dynamat,
but the cheaper generic) to the larger panels.  I didn't cover the whole
panel, but put a fairly large piece in the center of each panel to try
to damp out the fundamental vibration mode for each panel.  It's hard to
say how much that helped, because after putting on the damping stuff, I
added insulation and then a Westy kit before driving it.

You may not see some of the harmonic signal content depending on where
you apply the accelerometer.  For example, if you put the accelerometer
exactly halfway down a guitar string, you'd pick up the primary
frequency, but not the second harmonic, because it has an antinode at
the halfway point.  If you move it a quarter of the way down the string,
you'd pick up a strong second harmonic, and a less strong primary.

I know a violin maker in my town who uses an interesting method to tune
his violin tops and backs.  When he's got them close to finished, he
suspends the top on four points over a 12" speaker.  He drives the
speaker with a signal generator through an amp, just at a single
frequency.  Then he sprinkes some dust (I think iron filings) on the
violin top.  Most of the dust is vibrated off, but the top will vibrate
in a complex modal pattern, and the dust will stay put everywhere there
is an antinode at that frequency.  By looking at the mode shapes at
different frequencies, and by drawing on his years of experience, he
gets an idea of where he needs to carve more material out of the top.
So I just need to figure out how to suspend my bus over a big bass
speaker to figure out how to tune the resonances.

There's a research group at the local university that is developing
large antinoise technology to quiet entire airplane cabins - like the
Bose headphones, but for the whole cabin.  I thought that it might be
fun to try something like that in a bus - put a bass speaker in the bus,
and feed it a phase-delayed signal from a mic over the driver's seat.  I
don't think my electronics skills are good enough, though, so when I
take a long trip, I just use some high-fidelity earplugs I got from the
local Guitar Center.

Sorry for the long ramble.  Mainly just wanted to add my 2 cents and to
say keep up the experiments, and let us know what you find...

Rusty
67 Westy
