Date: Thu, 29 May 2008 11:08:48 -0700
From: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc" <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Noise update, resonant frequencies.

Rusty,

I also looked at the bubble wrap insulation and thought that it provided 
little in terms of noise isolation. As you did, I similarly covered 
everything in Dynamat, doors, panels and roof, and but then covered all that 
with 2 layers of the JC Whitney NASA insulation. (I found the manufacturer 
and purchased a 50' roll for lots less money) I then additionally covered 
the floor from the rear hatch to the partition with some 1/8" thick roofing 
material and covered that with some rubber sheeting I had laying around. I 
agree that there was a good decrease in the noise level, but still wanted 
ear plugs on the freeway. Now with the carpet padding I get that 5dbC noise 
reduction and its OK on the freeway.

I too have that reduction gear growl or rumble whatever you want to call it. 
Maybe that's just normal.

Yes we all have been spoiled by the highly engineered modern vehicle with 
smooth running engines and critically placed damping.

After my test run the other night, I think I need to concentrate on the 
muffler system. That is now the predominant noise.

You have most likely seen it, but have your read thru the Heat, Rust, Noise 
in VW's post that used to be up on the net?  I have a print out of the whole 
thing. And its on the type2 library. The further along I get, the closer I 
get to all this.
Look here:  http://www.type2.com/library/heat/heat-soundproof.html

Chris



Rusty Said:
I have a 67 SO-42 walk-through Westy with the full camper kit and
jalousie windows.  When I bought it, all of the rubber had dry rotted,
and leaked, ruining all of the interior panels.  Fortunately, the
furniture was still in good shape.  I pulled everything out and then had
some new metal spliced in place of some rust and then painted.

Before installing the interior, I put dynamat generic sheets on all of
the side and roof panels, as well as on the firewall.  I then blanketed
all of the side and roof panels with insulation.  For this, I used the
insulation that looks like bubble-wrap with an aluminized coating.  I
used a double layer on the roof, thinking that might help minimize
heating from the sun.  This was then covered with baltic birch plywood
panels.

On the floor, I used a brush-on sound deadening paint-like polymer.  I
put a sheet of closed cell foam over that, and covered it with a sheet
of plywood (probably 1/2 inch).

I took photos of every step, but somehow the photos got misplaced or
lost a couple of years ago when I switched computers 8^(

I drove the bus a couple of times after I had pulled everything out of
the interior, and boy, was that loud!  Once everything was installed, it
definitely quieted everything down, but it's still loud enough that I
have to wear earplugs if I'm going on a long trip.   For short trips, I
generally don't drive much over 40 or 45 mph, so the wind noise isn't
too bad.

I think that most of my noise is coming from wind and the tranny. I
replaced all of the seals except for the driver and passenger windows
and the front air intake, so some noise is probably coming in there, and
the jalousie windows are probably a bit noisy.   I also think that I'm
getting some low rumble from the tranny or the RGBs.  I replaced the RGB
bearings last year, so hopefully that's not the problem.

Sometimes I wonder if I'm just spoiled by modern cars.  When I was
growing up, AC in cars was rare, and everyone was used to wind noise
from open windows.  I got my first bus about 35 years ago, and I don't
remember thinking that it was loud.  But new cars are so well engineered
with sound deadening and minimization of slip stream turbulence.  So I
wonder if I'm spoiled by how quiet my other (much newer) car is.

I'm familiar with the carpet padding material.  As I remember it, it's
actually a fairly dense foam.  I'll bet it will make a great sound
insulation material.  Let me know how it works out.

Later,
Rusty



-----Original Message-----
From: C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc [mailto:c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net]

Sent: Wednesday, May 28, 2008 7:12 PM
To: May, Russell
Subject: Re: Noise update, resonant frequencies.

Hey Rusty,

Thanks for the info. I have an electronics background.

How is your bus set up? Camper, passenger?
What kind of head liner and door panels do you have?

At this point the exhaust note, when cruising at constant speed on the
freeway, is the most annoying sound. Quiets right down as soon as I
press on
the accelerator or lift my foot. I need a good mike and record the note
to
find out what it is, as it doesn't get picked up by my RadioShack sound
level meter.

Maybe I'll get fancy and fire up my LabView again and try the FFT thing.

Almost need an assistant to drive while I do the instrumenting.

Let us all know if you figure out anything.

Attached are some photos of what I did in my bus. Shows where I put the
carpet padding. In the back I have lots of nice hard surface plywood to
bounce the noise around. I may go ahead and cover the back door panels.
Not
sure what to do about the ceiling and the rest of the paneling.

Chris Dreike
for Advantage Automation, Inc.
www.advantageautomation.com
310-214-2175

----- Original Message ----- 
From: "May, Russell" <rmay(-at-)primephotonics.com>
To: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc" <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>;
<vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Sent: Wednesday, May 28, 2008 2:54 PM
Subject: Re: Noise update, resonant frequencies.


Hey, Chris, these are some pretty interesting experiments that you're
doing.  They caught my interest because (1) I have a noisy bus too, and
(2) my job has recently involved instrumenting resonant structures (very
small ones, with resonant frequencies above 10 MHz).  I've been thinking
about your experiments over the past couple of days, so here are some
random thoughts:

I was kind of surprised at the frequency ranges that you saw.  I think
that 80 to 100 Hz is higher than what I hear in my bus, but that's just
a subjective guess.  Sometime soon I'll take a good mic and make a
digital recording in my bus, and then run the the result through an FFT
in MATLAB to see where the frequencies peak.

If you have a resonating plate or membrane, adding mass or stiffness
will raise the resonant frequency, but won't attenuate it.  So, one
strategy would be to add enough mass or stiffness so that only dogs can
hear it (>20 kHz), but frankly my bus is pretty slow off the mark
without more weight.

Like you're alreading doing, using a viscoelastic material like Dynamat
will add viscous damping (or dampening) and attenuate the resonance.
When I did the resto on my bus, I added damping material (not dynamat,
but the cheaper generic) to the larger panels.  I didn't cover the whole
panel, but put a fairly large piece in the center of each panel to try
to damp out the fundamental vibration mode for each panel.  It's hard to
say how much that helped, because after putting on the damping stuff, I
added insulation and then a Westy kit before driving it.

You may not see some of the harmonic signal content depending on where
you apply the accelerometer.  For example, if you put the accelerometer
exactly halfway down a guitar string, you'd pick up the primary
frequency, but not the second harmonic, because it has an antinode at
the halfway point.  If you move it a quarter of the way down the string,
you'd pick up a strong second harmonic, and a less strong primary.

I know a violin maker in my town who uses an interesting method to tune
his violin tops and backs.  When he's got them close to finished, he
suspends the top on four points over a 12" speaker.  He drives the
speaker with a signal generator through an amp, just at a single
frequency.  Then he sprinkes some dust (I think iron filings) on the
violin top.  Most of the dust is vibrated off, but the top will vibrate
in a complex modal pattern, and the dust will stay put everywhere there
is an antinode at that frequency.  By looking at the mode shapes at
different frequencies, and by drawing on his years of experience, he
gets an idea of where he needs to carve more material out of the top.
So I just need to figure out how to suspend my bus over a big bass
speaker to figure out how to tune the resonances.

There's a research group at the local university that is developing
large antinoise technology to quiet entire airplane cabins - like the
Bose headphones, but for the whole cabin.  I thought that it might be
fun to try something like that in a bus - put a bass speaker in the bus,
and feed it a phase-delayed signal from a mic over the driver's seat.  I
don't think my electronics skills are good enough, though, so when I
take a long trip, I just use some high-fidelity earplugs I got from the
local Guitar Center.

Sorry for the long ramble.  Mainly just wanted to add my 2 cents and to
say keep up the experiments, and let us know what you find...

Rusty
67 Westy


-- 
No virus found in this incoming message.
Checked by AVG.
Version: 7.5.524 / Virus Database: 269.24.1/1470 - Release Date:
5/28/2008
7:20 AM



-- 
No virus found in this incoming message.
Checked by AVG.
Version: 7.5.524 / Virus Database: 269.24.1/1470 - Release Date: 5/28/2008 
7:20 AM
