Date: Mon, 9 Jun 2008 18:25:45 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] F-1 cable

> From: "Pratt, Bob, VBABOST" <bob.pratt(-at-)va.gov>
> Date: Mon, 9 Jun 2008 07:18:32 -0400
>
> Does anyone know where I can locate an F-1 cable for a '78 fuelie
> Westy.

It's already been established that you want the fuel injection or "FI"
harness.  If you have an engine or a Bus that totally lacks the cable,
then yeah, you need the whole thing.  If something really traumatic
happened to the the harness that you have (major engine fire, or
3-year-old with access to wire cutters and a case of Red Bull) then
total replacement is also probably a good option.

Otherwise, wiring diagrams and troubleshooting information are fairly
easy to come by, which should allow you, or a good mechanic that is
familiar with old VWs, to find and fix the actual problem (one or two
broken wires) rather than replacing the entire harness.

No matter what you decide to do about the harness, here are some general
suggestions:

First suggestion: get a copy of the factory repair manual.
http://www.bentleypublishers.com/product.htm?code=V279 is the item you
want and these are readily available from VW parts vendors; mass-market
bookstores (Borders, Barnes and Noble, etc) should also be able to order
it.  These manuals are printed by Bentley Publishers in Cambridge, MA,
and their Web site says they have a bookstore on the premises, so you
could stop by and get a really fresh copy.  :)  If you have unlimited
funds, buy two copies - one stays clean and dry in the house, while the
other travels with the Bus and gets greasy fingerprints on the pages.
Once you have the manual, you may also be interested in the
separately-compiled index:
http://www.type2.com/library/reading/BentleyIndex.html

Note that this manual was produced by VW and will have information on
the body and running gear of the Bus, but not very much information on
the camper equipment added by Westfalia.  I don't know if there is a
Westfalia service manual, but some of the VW parts vendors sell reprints
of the Westfalia owners manuals.  There is also a Library page for
campers, which brings me to...

Second suggestion: Visit the Type2.com Library at
http://www.type2.com/library/ for lots of articles, including ones on
dealing and fixing the Westfalia equipment (see
http://www.type2.com/library/camper.htm ).  Also be aware of the list
archives at http://www.type2.com/archive/ ; this lets you search
previous postings to the mailing list.

Third suggestion: If you can tell metric and inch Crescent wrenches
apart by sight, and if you always change the muffler bearings yourself
on any car you own, you may not need this.  But if you're not sure which
end of a wrench to hold, get a copy of "How to Keep Your Volkswagen
Alive: A Manual of Step-By-Step Procedures for the Compleat Idiot" by
John Muir.  (On the mailing lists, this is usually called just the
"Idiot manual".)  This one will most likely be on the shelf at Borders,
Barnes and Noble, etc, and is also supplied by many VW parts vendors.
This manual is written for people who are completely new to working on
cars, and may make certain basic procedures easier to understand than
the factory manual.

Fourth suggestion: Subscribe to the other mailing list.  :)  The one you
are on, VintageBus, is mostly for the "split-window" (two front
windshields) Buses that were made from 1950 to 1967.  The other mailing
list is Type2, which is for "bay-window" (one front windshield) Buses
that were made from 1968 to 1979; the people on Type2 will be much more
familiar with your '78.  Information at http://www.type2.com/type2.html
.  (I have copied this post to the Type2 list, but you won't get regular
emails from that list unless you subscribe yourself.)

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds
