Date: Tue, 9 Jan 2007 14:57:05 -0800 (PST)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: re:Anyone using a Battery Minder

From: "Bensinger, Greg" 
Subject: Anyone using a Battery Minder

I use one and really like it except for one feature, it will drain the battery, due to the status leds being on all the time, if the 110vac is unplugged and the engine isn't being charged by any other means.  I now have a relay box built to disconnect the charger from the battery if the 100vac is turned off.

My battery is back up to 13.14 volts on charge and 12.5XXvolts off charge after sitting idle, and disconnected, for 3 years.  Now it starts the bus just fine, and seems to have plenty of lighting reserve.  On gettign back to the bus, I connected the Battery Minder, plugged it in, and within 3 days it was up to 13.xx volts on charge.  I leave it connected all the time when I'm in/near the bus. I can't guarantee that the Battery Minder won't get disconnected when I'm out of state, so it is easier to isolate the battery and let it do it's thing.
    Prior to this, I used a trickle charger without pulse charging and went through two batteries. I suspect both died (would not start the engine) due to sulphation and could have been resurrected using a pulse charger.  I should mention that I lived in the bus for two years and needed some kind of charging to maintain lighting and accessory power without running the engine daily.  If you drive the bus regularly these devices are not needed.

snip>
and have had thoughts of investing in a Battery Minder.

I have tried other devices with the same "pulse charging" feature and prefer the Battery Minder brand

Anyone opinions on these devices?  I searched the archives and didn't
get any hits.

snip>
One of the questions I have when using such a Battery
Charger/conditioner is can you simply hook up while the battery is still
in the bus and connected to the electrical system?

yes; see above note on status led drain.  Battery Minder cable has an indexed plug to allow easy interchange between vehicles or disconnection when not  in use. 

jon

"While there is lead in the air,
there is still hope".
