Date: Wed, 10 Jan 2007 14:31:17 -0600 (CST)
From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
To: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] CHT  -  again

Robt,

Been thru this with Mark Dearing and empicical thought<grin>.

I have a T1 and a T2 with the CHT sensors folded in half and suffed in 
between two fins right above the plug.

I tend to agree that the readings should me near the same....because...

When I shut the engine off(and obviously the cooling air), the temperature 
remains steady for awhile, till natural convection cooling starts droping 
the temp of the head.

It doesn't start rising immediately as one might think it would if the 
cooling air going over it changed the heat soak of the actuall CHT probe.

Anyone that can come up with a different answer is welcome to chime in.

I am only reporting what I see on both engines.

Remember also, that spark plugs are made to disperse heat *into* the 
heads.  Remember the counter-intutive thoughts on what a "colder" or 
"hotter" plug choice does and think of it this way.

A colder plug dumps more heat from the sparking end into the head to keep 
the tip cooler, while a "hot" plug wants to keep more of the heat at the 
end of the plug in order to maintain the ?800-1400? degree C that is 
required to make them burn correctly and last longer.

My premise is that what you are actually reading the heat being dumped
by the spark plug into the head rather than the actual head temperature.

Y'all think about it for a moment and tell me how I amthinking about this 
wrongly....besides the fact that "that's where everyone puts them".

Cheers, dave

-- 
-------------------------------------------------------------------
Enough sunlight reaches the Earth *every* hour to meet the world's
energy demand for an entire year...The problem is, that sunlight is free.


On Wed, 10 Jan 2007, Robt Mann wrote:

> the question remains where to put the k-thermocouple(s).
  	The std answer for aero engines is, substituting for spark-plug
  washer(s).  It is pretty clear  however from comments & pix by those who've
  done it on T2 engines that this is difficult to reconcile with ordinary
  removals & replacements of spark plugs.

  	If other places on the cyl head(s) are to be used for the
  thermocouple(s), it is then pointed out that the figures showing on the
  gauge(s) will differ significantly from those that would have been read from
  that position clamped to the head under a spark plug. But then, it has been 
> insisted all along that what matters with these figures is their trends, not 
> their absolute values.
> 	A thermocouple (or other T-sensor) in firm contact with a cyl head 
> will read something near the actual T of that cyl head, if covered with a 
> suitable thermal insulator.  A trap one can see in this idea is that passage 
> of cooling air past that part of the head might be impeded by this stuck-on 
> rig, which could cause serious trouble.
>
> R
