From: "Jim" <ralitaco(-at-)charter.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 13 Jan 2007 18:13:19 -0500
Subject: VW-a-holic

Greetings Listees,
    Hello, my name is Jim and...and...oh this is hard.......I'M A VW-A-HOLIC &
I'm back!. (choking back tears...of joy)
    I confess that I have been on the watercooled-wagon for about 4 years. Due
to an intervention by my son, I have fallen off the wagon and trying to get
back on the Kombi.
    The past 4 years have not been easy. There have been so many tempations
put before me. I had worked hard to avoid my old haunts like Silver Lake VW's
in Wilmington, NC and websites like type2.com and busdepot.com. I have avoided
some old friends and gatherings like the full moon bus club and everybus. It
seemed like there was not a day that went by where I did not see a VW of some
sort, running down the highway or hiding in the weeds. Every siting brought
back memories of my younger days and good times.
    My original addiction took me all over the east coast of the US and into
Canada. I adopted a 70 westy from the Kooky Math Teacher while she was at her
foster home on the Del Mar peninsula. I even went to see her in a blizzard on
my way to NJ (this almost cost me my marriage). My time spent on this list led
me to seek out other VW-a-holics some as far as Montreal Quebec.
    About 4 years ago things changed and I had to let Ma Cherie' go. I could
not support her quart a day habit. I had a job change and was now on the road
about 4000 miles a month. I tried to stay with her, but spending that much
time togther was making me quite uncomfortable. At times being with her was
ice cold and other times she made my blood boil. Not to mention she got to be
a real pain the (-at-)$$ after being with her hour after hour. That's when I found
a watercooled model, she had all the right curves, AC, power, leather. I was
smitten.
    Before I knew it Ma Cherie', was hanging out on the corner looking for
love. Well some young kid came along and they hit it off. I had to let her go,
much to my son's dismay. (I did not realize that he had feelings for her.
Apparently he had been been bitten by the Love Bug at Everybus) I tried to
console him but it did no good. It didn't help matters to see her running down
the road with some young stud smiling behind the wheel. We noticed that this
young buck started to spoil her...a little cosmetic surgery here, a little
bling there. Next thing we know we see her on TV in a commercial for One Stop
restaurant in Surf City, NC and she looked sooooooo good.
    That was too much for my son. He knew a guy from church, Josh, had all but
abandoned a 78 westy just because she had gotten too close to another guys
bumper. For 3 years she just lurked in his yard, her back to the world. My son
was getting his license soon and he started pursuing her. He spoke to this
guys mother and brother trying to see if he could take her home. Finally,
after Josh got married, he relented and let this poor 78 look for happiness
elsewhere, namely my driveway.
    That is my story of where I have been and why I am back. I know I will
need your help to bring her back to her prime or at least make her worthy to
be on the road.
Thanks for listening,
Jim
Hampstead, NC
