Date: Sun, 14 Jan 2007 22:48:11 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: J-type thermocouples

Gareth my electronic man
		I've taken a modest plunge, buying the Westach 25-375 
0C cyl head temp gauge U$45 and 2 of their J-type thermocouples (U$18 
each with 4' braided leads).
	The same firm makes a 'quad' gauge costing more than 4 x as 
much, said to be 4 of the same movement.  My approach is to get just 
one  -  bigger, easier to read  -  gauge and a rotary switch to 
connect it at will to any of several thermocouples.
	My hope is to read one or two cyl heads, but also slap a 
thermocouple on the side of the tailpipe (with insulation outside it) 
to represent EGT, and one on the sump to represent oil T.  Boy, will 
I be wired for sound?!
	Is a J-type thermocouple rare?  Do they give very different 
readings from the commoner K-type?  Can I make them myself by welding 
two specified metals together?

	Can you tell me whether the gauge is a voltmeter, as I 
suppose, or an ammeter as some claim?

	Some of the T2 enthusiasts who are way ahead of me say to use 
a 'common' wire to one terminal on the gauge, and switch the other 
terminal between single wires from the respective thermocouples (the 
other wires from them being joined to make the 'common').  Can this 
be right?  I don't know much about thermocouples, but isn't each an 
independent floating 2-wire device?  There isn't any 'ground' wire, 
is there?  A set of thermocouples at different temps have nothing in 
common, do they?  Wiring them in parallel will give wrong readings, 
won't it?
	If that much is right, then I have to bring a pair from each 
thermocouple to the gauge.  That is not difficult (esp if it's a 
voltmeter so the cables can be light calibre).  What is harder is to 
find a switch to feed out to the gauge just one pair switching 
between 3 or 4 input pairs.
	The ultimate version of this 'poor man's quad meter' would 
have a circuit automatically switching the inputs to the gauge around 
the cycle CHT 1  -  CHT 2  -  EGT  -  oil T.  There would be an LED 
indicating which input is connected at a given time.  A chip with the 
epithet 555 (as distinct from 666  ;-) might well be involved.  This 
circuit should be cheaper than the quad gauge which is around $300.
	I have put together a nice little panel with the "2 inch" 
Westach CHT gauge alongside same-size oil P and intake vac gauges. 
They happen to be mechanical types, which I used for years on my 
Renault 10.  I suppose I'd rather use electrical senders and 6 m 
wires, rather than bring plastic pipes with full-P oil and inlet vac 
forward to the dash, but that's how I did it on the Renault and they 
worked fine.  I intend to slap these plastic pipes, with the 
thermocouple wires, in a 'floppy hose' under the carpet.

	Any advice would be most welcome.

cheers

R
