Date: Sun, 14 Jan 2007 07:59:50 -0500
To: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
From: mikes(-at-)flatsurface.com (Mike S)
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] J-type thermocouples

At 05:48 AM 1/14/2007, Robt Mann wrote...
>         Is a J-type thermocouple rare?  Do they give very different 
> readings from the commoner K-type?  Can I make them myself by welding 
> two specified metals together?

Thermocouples are very easy to make. Just two different types of wire 
soldered together at one end. They're only tricky for specialty 
applications, like where you need to measure a very small spot, or need 
very quick response time.

For Type J, one wire is made of iron, the other from constantan.

Thermocouples produce a very small voltage proportional to the 
temperature difference between the ends. So, you can make a type J 
thermocouple by getting some "Type J thermocouple wire," (there's some 
PVC insulated stuff on eBay right now for $0.30/ft, but you might need 
insulation which would hold up to the heat better). Remove the 
insulation from the wires at one end, solder them together. The way 
thermocouples work, the metal in the solder doesn't affect the voltage 
they produce, but it does make the thermocouple larger and gives it 
more thermal mass (slower response). Neither of those matter in this 
application.

At the other end of your thermocouple wire, you'll get a voltage 
indicating the temperature difference between the two ends. So, to 
measure cylinder head temperatures, you want to make sure that one end 
is on the head, and the other in some area of relatively cool air. 
Remember, it's the _difference_ that's measured, and your gauge is 
probably calibrated assuming the non-measuring end is being held at 68F 
(20C). If it's not, the gauge is off by that much. Doesn't matter here, 
much. But you should know that when the gauge reads 300F, if it's 0F 
where the non-measuring end is, the actual head temp is closer to 230F, 
and when it's 100F outside, the head temp is closer to 330F.

For more critical applications, the thermocouple wire is run all the 
way back to a measuring gauge (usually by transitioning to 
"thermocouple extension wire," which is thermocouple wire with looser 
specs) which also measures the temperature at the "non-measuring" end 
of the thermocouple wire, so it can compute the actual temperature by 
knowing the difference.

You can have multiple thermocouples running through a switch. You don't 
need to run thermocouple wire all the way to the switch. Run all the 
thermocouples so the measuring ends are in the same spot (so the 
relative temperature readings from each will match). Extend from there 
to the switch with copper wire, making sure polarity is observed (Iron 
+, Constantan -). Connect all the negatives together, and also to the 
gauge. Switch the positives.

Someone who does industrial controls, where exact temperature may be 
more critical, might cringe. But there's already so much error in the 
system, adding a switch won't make any difference to accuracy. You 
should get good relative readings. 
