From: "Robert S. Williams" <0rwill(-at-)arkansas.net>
To: <mschaper(-at-)gvpt.umd.edu>
Cc: "Type2 mailing list" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 17 May 2003 09:56:57 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Banned in the EU

>It's not your safety that the government has to safeguard >but that of the
pedestrian in the crosswalk you may run >over

In all my experience as a doctor....after working for years in an emergency
room...I have yet to encounter a victim of this.... people, by  and large,
apparently are smart enough to safely cross the street. I HAVE seen plenty
of really stupid injuries from dumb accidents. But none of them have been
"pedestrian run over by car". It would be interesting to look at the actual
statistics of that eventuality; but I suspect that it is fairly rare as
injuries go.

So, in reality, I don't think the danger is great enough to justify setting
up a draconian government agency and compelling millions of people to
inconvenient and expensive inspections. The vast majority of auto accidents
are collisions from people who are driving carelessly. Not from people
driving unsafe vehicles.

Germany is also a country where TV ownership is taxed per set and lots of
other really insane rules and enforcements are exacted on the population.
For example, the practice of photographing over-speeding vehicles and then
mailing the violators a ticket instead of JUST STOPPING the unsafe condition
by pulling the car over immediately speaks volumes on the underlying
intentions of the German government. They want your money, they don't really
care about safety. Their more-strict "safety inspections" where a vehicle
will fail for a dime-sized rust hole on the fender....it's just a way to
extract more money because that certainly isn't going to have anything to do
with safety except perhaps the "safety of my sense of aesthetics"

So, I don't think that Germany is a good example of a government that I
would like to live under. Like most Governments in the World, it is designed
to exact the most financial burden on the population that the people will
bear without them actually revolting in violence and overthrowing that
government. But, I'll stop here because, honestly, this diatribe is getting
way off topic for this list. Sorry.

                                    Robert W.
----- Original Message -----
From: "Marcus Schaper" <mschaper(-at-)gvpt.umd.edu>
To: "'Robert S. Williams, MD'" <0rwill(-at-)arkansas.net>
Sent: Saturday, May 17, 2003 12:38 AM
--Deleted body of text---
