Date: Sat, 17 May 2003 17:18:03 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <Doyt(-at-)NWOnline.Net>
Subject: Re:battery wont stay charged.

Date: Sat, 17 May 2003 14:20:15 EDT
?brand new battery in my 78 auto trans westy. the battery will not stay
 >charged for more than a day. nothing is on, i dont have a short(i dont
 >think).
..........what evidence do you have that nothing is on? Did you disconnect 
the positive cable to the battery, and put an ammeter between the end of 
that cable and the positive battery terminal? If the meter reading is zero, 
then you would have evidence that nothing is on.

...........second, I'd like to know if you are driving the vehicle during 
the day that you are talking about. If you are driving it, the charging 
system may be at fault.

 >this sucks. it all started when i left the lights on one day at
 >school. then it just would not hold a charge. I got 2 new batterys, and
 >they wont hold a charge either.

............."it" meaning three new batteries in a row, I guess.


 >im lost, someone please help.
 >thanks,
 >brennan.
.....................If there is no drain on the battery when it is 
sitting, and you charged each replacement before you put it into the 
vehicle, then possibly you discharged the new batteries as you drove the 
vehicle, and the charging system isn't working. If that is the case, my 
first guess would be a bad voltage regulator. Other possibilities:Broken 
wire, bad relay, faulty alternator, some energy user hooked up wrong, 
alternator belt slipping and not turning alternator, etc. This is getting 
pretty complicated, so get a Bentley for your vehicle, (library?) and read 
the section on the Electrical System. Give special attention to pages 15-22.

Before closing, I'd like to comment that if this battery is running down 
while you drive the vehicle, it sounds to me like you need to have a 
professional mechanic check out the vehicle's charging system with their 
special equipment. If the charging system turns out to be OK, and there is 
no drain on the battery when the ignition is off, and the batteries you 
have in the car are new and fully charged when they go in, then I would 
suspect an abnormally high drain on the battery when you are operating the 
car.......something that the alternator can't keep up with. Whatever it is, 
it will be very hot, using all that current. Maybe you should feel some 
wires and some electricity users at that point. Rear window defogger? 
Heater blower motor? Wiper motor? All the wires to and from the lights? All 
the electrical relays (maybe one is stuck and keeping a high-load circuit 
on all the time you are driving.)

I think you need a Bentley, and then maybe a mechanic.



Doyt Echelberger
76 Westy
Ohio   USA
