From: "Christopher Walker" <toph(-at-)tophu4u.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 18 May 2003 23:32:16 -0500
Subject: 79 Transporter Misfires - Help?

Dear Type2,

I am having troubles with my Transporter.  More learning ahead of me.

I have a 79 tranporter with a 2000 engine in it.  It is Fuel Injected with
mechanical lifters and has a vacuum advance distributor.

Saturday my Van started misfiring and I spent all day today
troubleshooting it.

If you could help me by just following my logic and tell me if I am on the
right track I would greatly appreciate it.

It started all of a sudden when I started the Van normally.  There was a
soft rumble sound in the engine and it would not hold an idle by itself.  I
was able to drive home but had to give a lot of gas while idling.  I lost
significant power while accelerating.  At high RPM the soft rumble was not
noticable.

I checked the resistance on Temp Sensor II and it was within spec. I got this
tip off the type2
archives - thanks.

I suspected the Ignition system and checked all the spark plug wires by
using my timing light to verify that voltage was getting to the spark plugs.
Check Satisfactory. (Sat.) The distributor and coil seem to be working fine.
I did a continuity check on all the spark plug cables to verify that the
spark plugs got the voltage.  Sat.  I even took out each spark plug and and
grounded them to get healthy sparks- I did.  Conclusion, sparks were
occuring in chambers.  Ignition system - good.

I inspected all the spark plugs and found all but #4 to be a healthy grey.
#4 had a thin/ wet layer of black.  Conclusion: combustion was not occuring
in #4 cylinder.  Either valve seat failed, not holding compression, or fuel
injector is not putting fuel into the chamber.  Since the spark plug
appeared to be "soiled" or "wet" I assumed that my valves aren't seating
right.

I lined up TDC with #4 cylinder and checked the valve alignment.  The valves
were in spec.

That is where I stopped.  Am I right to suspect the fuel injector?  What is
the best way to test the fuel injector?  I have seen various suggestions on
the archives but not
sure if I should take apart the fuel injection just yet.

Any ideas?

Thank You For you Help.

Have a nice day, Christopher Walker
