From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Sun, 18 May 2003 23:50:16 -0500 (CDT)
To: glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com (George Lyle)
Cc: cathrich(-at-)tpg.com.au (Richard), type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Rear Wheel bearings

George and other's,

I always had this on my mind when I read how folks struggle with this
nut on the axle shaft--
Why not beg, borrow, steal, buy (?) an impact-- run the nut down--and
check the torque--and get the job over with--
I mean it's not something that has to be done often--
And if a guy was smart--he would take the time to drill and tap a grease
fitting into the rear hub--so this ordeal would be a thing of the past--

Just curious-


Later,

Terry


 
Discarded e-mail message   
 
Regarding the axle nut torque, from my experience incorrect torque on
the nut is less likely to shorten the life of the wheel bearings (the
quality of the bearing does) but it does shorten the life of the spline
in the drive flange. I have seen a number of people strip the spline out
of beetle and type 3 drums, and it's always people who fail to use a
torque wrench. I do all the work myself, and re-torque the nut myself as
best I can (without a torque wrench), take the bus for a short drive and
have a local mechanic set the correct torque. 
Your really don't need a torque wrench if you know your own weight and
can measure with a ruler. Take the torque required in ft-lb and divide
it by your weight in pounds. Multiply the result by 12 and mark that
distance in inches from the square drive of your breaker bar along the
handle. If the breaker bar isn't long enough, slide on a cheater and
mark that. 
Put the socket on the breaker bar and put it on the nut with the breaker
bar pointing horizontally to the right. Stand on the mark (don't
bounce!) If the breaker bar is no longer horizontal, move it back up and
stand on it again. Repeat until the nut doesn't turn any more. Check the
nut to see if the cotter pin will go through the castle and hole (check
both holes for alignment!) If the holes aren't aligned, tighten the nut
a bit more until the holes are aligned. Install the cotter pin and
you're done! 
Do check the tightness of the nut in a week or so. It's good practice. 
George
