From: "Jerry & Melissa Jess" <vwstuff53(-at-)msn.com>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Tue, 7 May 2002 08:58:57 -0700
Subject: Route 66  Fun Run May 3-4-5 Arizona

Bessie, Lady Magoo and I left Phoenix, early Friday morning for our 1st
Route 66 Fun Run -- At 66 years of age it was time!! Bessie our Hippy Van
was ready--
1st stop was Seligman to register for the run-- No Trailer Queens in this
rolling Car Show!! No doubt some of the finest Street Rods, Customs, and
Classic Cruisers of the 50s-60s were also ready--There is SO much to do at
each stop along the way--I will just give you a short rundown--if you can
ever do the run--Do It!! Friday night the town of Seligman is jumping with
cars from all over the States and Canada, everyone cruises up and down the
street--Well over 600+ cars were registered for the run Plus many others
just cruising along for the ride--In Seligman, German TV did an interview of
our Bessie-- Saturday morning we leave for Grand Canyon Caverns-- The road
is Filled with all kinds of cars and trucks!! Lemonade and cookies wait for
us there. Next is Peach Springs--a Vantastic Bar-B- Que and/or Indian Taco
Lunch--Also bought some NEATO souvenirs!! On to Valentine
with again more food and a great band for dancing! Along the way residents
come out and sit along the roadside and wave at all of us--Hackberry is
next--This really is alive with music and a lot of the cars stop here with a
great view of the valley--Old Gas station and tons of Automotive
memorabilia--Kingman for the night --Then line up in Downtown Kingman for
the car show--Judging is done by a crew of people that you do not even know
who!--Bessie this time is interviewed  by Kingman TV--Many of the cars have
more money in their paint job than I have in Total in Bessie--Lots of very
cool cars pulling teardrop trailers!!many are hand built--Tons of Vettes --
One vehicle that I like was a large Milk Truck done in pink and
flames--Could make a VWonderful Camper!! Next stop was Oatman--A very
winding road thrugh the mountains--You could see a few cars down the
mountainside that did not make it years ago. Oatman population is about 50.
Until we arrive!!  You must give the burros the right of way and feed them
carrots--This is a town the same as it was near the turn of the century--The
streets are now full of cars from the Run --extending way out of town on
both sides! There is only one road through town--The Original Route 66-- A
cable TV station from LA found Bessie and did another interview--The TV
crews from many stations followed the Run at every stop!!
Reluctantly we left Oatman for the last stop--Topock, for the Awards--Again
more food!! I think Bessie was starting to struggle with the weight we
gained by eating and the souvenirs, and mementos we picked up!! Bessie came
through with a trophy that I will be very proud of--There were not many VWs
on this run--There really should be more!!as I'm sure many early VWs made
this run.--Back in 1958,and 1959, while living in Chicago I drove the
complete Route 66, in a 56 Chevy, 58 MG and another 56 Chevy 5 times!! sad
part was i only took about 5 pictures!! and none of the cars!! We covered
over 700+ miles from end to end--Bessie never missed a beat up and down the
mountains and through the desert--This is a great run--If you can do it next
year,  See you there in Rudolph--
www.azrt66.com

