Date: Tue, 07 May 2002 16:52:31 -0700
To: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] A/C Condenser fans needed

At 07:49 AM 5/6/2002, Dave C. Bolen wrote:
>David,
>
>Don't forget to tell all of us where you found them so it will be in the
>archives.....I will probably be doing the same and looking for some for my
>78 soon.

Okay, here's what I found:

"Ed" at
Gilmore Enterprises
Clearwater, Florida
(727)573-2944

It took me a while, but I finally got in touch with Ed by phone 
today.  Great guy and very knowledgeable about A/C in busses.  He said that 
his solution was to get rid of the louvers on the bottom and the shroud on 
the top and put a pair of 12" flat fans on top blowing DOWN.  He says he 
has done this many times and there is a vast improvement in cooling.  He 
sells the fans along with mounting kits for $79 each.  Sounds like a decent 
solution, but not one that I will be going for right away, at least not the 
part about removing the louvers.  I think the louvers are necessary to 
protect the condenser.  Removing the shroud sounds like a good idea though 
- why didn't I think of that?  I guess it frees up enough room to go up to 
a 12" fan.  Hmmm... why not four 12" fans wired in series/parallel to keep 
the current draw down?  Would cover almost the whole surface that 
way.  Only problem would be the expense of the fans.

He also said he will soon be selling an under-dash A/C unit specifically 
for 68-up busses that has dual evaporators (one on each side).  He said 
this solves most of the problems that the typical under-dash units have 
with bulkiness, etc..

One more thing and this is GOOD INFO folks - he says you can get belts to 
replace the thin, behind-the-fan-housing A/C belt on the original A/C 
systems.  He described the correct belt as a 15-series 47" belt made by 
GoodYear (plain belt, not hi-miler or other knockoff).  Shouldn't be too 
hard to get.

He also says he is in final development stages of a kit to mount a rotary 
Sanden 507 or 508 compressor under the tin (the original location).  I am 
going to call him back periodically and try to get one when it is available.

Bottom line - Ed is a great source of bus A/C parts and info.  Call him if 
you need anything.  Very nice guy.

Also talked to the people at ICE in San Diego (http://iceac.com/).  They 
tried to help but couldn't give me the specific information I needed 
(price, dimensions) and never followed through with a promised 
callback.  They did claim to have some 8" low-profile fans though so they 
might be worth calling.  I would call Ed first.

-David

