From: "Russell Neithammer" <rneithammer(-at-)mlea.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <pa.ka(-at-)verizon.net>
Date: Wed, 8 May 2002 11:42:24 -0400
Subject: Turn signal switch help NOT needed anymore

Well......how did you do it? Details?

I'm facing the same issue (turn signal arm won't stay latched).

Don't understand why the steering wheel has to come off to replace the turn
signal switch on a '71 - never had to do that before - but that natters not.


Date: Wed, 8 May 2002 09:51:57 -0400
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Paul and Kathy" <pa.ka(-at-)verizon.net>
Subject: Turn signal switch help NOT needed anymore
Message-ID: <000701c1f697$8534a900$6501a8c0(-at-)abdis>

Hi Volks Folks,
    Well after 3 weeks of double shifts at work, I finally had a chance to
get back to work on our bus.  About 3 weeks ago, while my wife was driving
our "71, the Gen. light came on and  then the engine stopped running.
According to her, and I don't doubt it, those 2 events happened in rapid
succesion.  As it turns out, one of the wires carrying power out of the
ignition switch had worn through the insulatation and grounded out as she
was driving.
    Since it was so hard to get the steering wheel off this time, I decided
to replace the turn signal switch as well as the ignition switch.  You see,
the turn signal switch wasn't always latching in the right turn position and
this seemed like the perfect time to take care of that problem.  I ordered
up the part for a '71 from the Bus Depot web site and was a little
disappointed when the wrong part number showed up 5 days later.  No problem
I thought, I'll just phone them up and get the mistake corrected.  A
pleasant fellow by the name of Paul who answered the phone on their customer
service number informed me that the part number for a '71 was no longer
available and that people were using the switch for a '72 instead.  I asked
if he knew what changes had to be made as the '71 switch has 8 wires and the
'72 switch has only 5.  He didn't and I hung up determined to find the right
switch someplace, anyplace.  Well I sure didn't have any luck with that.  A
bunch of phone calls, e-mails, and driving around town later I decided to
figure out how to use the '72 switch.  It didn't turn out to be much of a
problem at all.  I've got the turn signals and emergency flashers working
just fine.  I guess the real test will be to see how long it lasts.  The
only changes I made were to the new switch, so if I ever find the proper
part number switch I can always convert back.  Todays project will be to
find out why the brake lights don't work and fix that.  Then tommorrow I can
put the steering column back together after the paint is dry.
     As soon as I can, I'll take some photos and write up the wiring changes
so none of you have to feel frustrated like I did the last couple of days.

Paul A.
Huntington Station, New York
71 westy

