Date: Tue, 30 Jul 2002 09:34:39 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: HapyBus <fbiffath(-at-)mailingsolutions.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Temp Gauge and various q's


>  I hear a distinct air sucking sound.  I am sure it is supposed to, but the
>best I can figure is from the carb.  I pull the air cleaner off, and really
>noticeable.  Rev the engine(air cleaner in place) and the sucking goes away.

Your carb will make sucking sounds because of the air and fuel being drawn 
through it. Don't worry. OEM air cleaners are supposed to minimize this 
sound. You ought to hear my Type IV powered Beetle that has no body sound 
insulation and K&N air cleaners (loudest air cleaners known to man). The 
noise is amazing. I'll have to work out some noise insulation before this 
car goes back on the road.

>  I am searching for a vacuum leak, using gumout, and spraying on what I
>figure to be vacuum lines.  What exactly am if looking for?  I have shot the
>obvious lines from the dizzy, the servo assist, the orange manifold gaskets,
>what else??

Vacuum lines and gaskets. Throttle shaft too. If the idle speed goes up 
then you've found a leak.


>  Any helpful hints on  a starter?  Gone!  Just clicks, need to touch it with
>a hammer to start, and I need an extra person, it wont just let me hit it
>and start.


Take your starter apart. Clean and grease everything. It is your solenoid 
hanging up. Common problems for a VW. There are "hard start" kits which 
consist of a relay and a bit of wire for $20. You can duplicate these kits 
with a typical relay ($6 at Radio Shack) or a Ford starter relay (some say 
it won't work but mine has puttered along for a long, long time). The Ford 
relay is closer to $10-$15 but I had a used one on hand.

What is happening is that due to the key switch (ignition switch) being in 
the front, the battery in the back, and the starter in the back - the 
battery current has to flow all the way to the front of the vehicle, 
through the switch, and back to the starter. With age corrosion can set it 
and electrical resistance goes up and the starter reliablity goes down 
(coupled with a starter that due to age needs some maintenace).

Muir has a long explaination of this problem in his book and the hard 
starter relay schematic.

Good luck!





Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


