Date: Mon, 22 Apr 2013 10:57:24 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Cc: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Drifting a VW

>Turn left to go right LOL!

	Hadn't heard that summary of Oversteer, John <:-|


>  May be safe at those speeds and conditions, but
>in real life, it looks like a good way to roll a bus!

	Even the Splittie is harder to roll than one would expect, 
despite those 'half axles' tending to fold under the chassis; our 
improved Bay rear suspension makes the Bay harder, or should I say 
less easy, to roll.
	I used to drift my '57 splittie on winding roads in the hills 
just E. of Berkeley and around Orinda.  Although I was then ignorant 
of how skidding is affected by temperature of the rubber (& the 
road), I found it was, just, controllable, tho' not so predictable as 
the mighty Renault 8 or 10.  The tyres were Conti cross-plies;  6.40 
x 15, I suspect).  Summer heat, and at least a brief drive before 
getting down to danger <:-|, doubtless helped.
	Unpredictable twitches in such metastable manouevres make it 
dangerous to drift a bus often.  But I believe every driver should 
experience skidding in the vehicle he mainly drives, if only to meet 
some emergencies more effectively.
	Having said that, I have to admit my Prius II (160/65 R 15) 
is difficult to provoke to skid so as to learn how to handle 
understeer.
	Among the adornments recently added to Kiwiland from S. 
Africa is their sometime national saloon-car champ Frans Cronje, 
whose Renault 8 Gordini is somewheres around 1400cc now, but handily 
defeated its only serious rival a 7-litre Mustang.  Cronje propounds 
'oversteer is in principle controllable', while leaving open the 
question whether understeer is so.

	Anyhow, much depends on the actual road surface at the time 
of attempted drifting, so please don't do anything extreme or 
reckless ;-)  -  dip the toe in the water before jumping in!

-- 
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600dp Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
