From: WFLWWEB(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 8 Apr 2002 02:38:21 EDT
To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
Subject: CarTalk rebuff


Hi Guys

For what it's worth: 
We bought a 1976 VW camper for $1600 and after doing a thorough rebuild of 
the engine, brakes and transmission, we took it on a trip for the vacation of 
our lifetime.
We had the VW shipped from Miami to Puerto Cabello, Venezuela and drove it to 
the southernmost tip of our continent and back. Over 25000 miles in nine 
months without a major problem.
We visited most of the South American countries and negotiated some very 
rough terrain in order to enjoy seeing the wonders of nature off the beaten 
path, while trying to avoid the large cities and touristy areas.
Large holes in the pavement, numerous very high speed bumps, fording rivers, 
driving up and down grades of 18 - 20% or more and driving at altitudes of up 
to 16000 feet were part of the challenge and the exitement.
This time last year we were criss-crossing the high passes in the Andean 
Mountains between Chile and Argentina on roads barely passable due to rock 
and mud slides, yet our little VW breezed through it like a champ. The 
sceenery was breathtakingly beautiful.
We camped, slept, cooked and drove around in our little camper for most of 
the trip. My wife and 13 year old daughter were with me and enjoyed the 
adventure more than I did. (They didn't have to drive, nor empty the 
porta-potty.)
All this was made possible by a little 68 hp air cooled VW motor with a loaf 
shaped box on top and a lot of heart.
Wish WVoA would produce their new vehicles with the reliability and endurance 
of our 25 year old machines. Those of us who own them cherish them, but they 
are becoming rare and hard to find.

Thus informed, you are advised to move the VW bus/camper classification to 
head the top 10 best vehicle list on the basis of their versatility, 
reliability, endurance, charm and beauty.

Sincerely
Les
PS: Our VW egos are inflated but our kneecaps are intact...
