Date: Mon, 08 Apr 2002 16:40:20 -0400
To: marcusu240(-at-)hotmail.com
From: Brian Verbeek <verbeekb(-at-)dejazzd.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] swivel feet valve adjusters

Marcus wrote:

> Hello all,
>      I'm getting close to putting the heads on my rebuild and I have a
> question about using swivel feet adjusters.  Will it be tricky to shim up
> the rocker arms or is it just use the shims that come with the adjuster and
> drive on?  It's a plain vanilla 1600DP.  I'm also interested in the
> pros/cons of swivel feet VS stock adjusting nuts.  Thanks, Marcus

They have advantages, and three disadvantages that I know of. 

The disadvantages are that they are more expensive than stock adjusters, 
that is, if you compare good quality swivel feet adjusters to original 
VW adjusters, and the geometry issue/shimming for stock engines, in most 
modified engines the geometry thing will come up regardless of which 
type of adjusters are used. They weigh more than a stock adjuster. 

The advantages, well, swivel feet adjusters make for a smoother contact 
between the rocker and the valvestem so to speak, they are thought to 
reduce valve guide wear and reduce heat-creating friction. They tend 
to hold their adjustment better than originals after thousands of miles, 
this, because the stock adjuster screws might develop flat spots on them, 
not only that, but the flat spots are flanked by nice corners, it is 
easy to see that when this corner, or ridge, rides on the valve stem, 
(because it happened to end up there after the last valve adjustment), 
wear will increase to both the adjuster screw and the valve stem. 
This is eliminated when you use the swivel feet adjusters. George is 
right in that it is a little harder to get your feeler gauge in there 
when adjusting the valves, but to me it is worth the effort. If you 
are using Berg adjusters, be gentle on them, don't over tighten them. 
I have broken one of these with little force, they have a allen head 
and it makes the screw a lot weaker in the nut area. I switched to 
Porsche since that, and found that, contrary to Bill Fisher in "How 
to Hot Rod VW Engines", the Porsche screws are the same lenght as 
Berg screws, there is no need to shorten them in any way. It may be, 
that the 60s era Porsche 901 engines used different screws than the 
ones I use, and that might explain the shortening described in Mr. 
Fishers book. The screws I use are found in 3.0L and 3.2L Porsche 
flat sixes. 

Hope it helps, 

Brian

