Date: Mon, 8 Apr 2002 23:28:57 -0400 (EDT)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To:  <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: I've gone nuts! (parting out '79 bus)

(like that was news to anyone who knows me :-)

The specific way I have gone nuts this time is that I have bought a rusty,
bondofied '79 passenger (partial westfakia).  The PO story is that it just
stopped running and she could not get it restarted.  It is about the
saddest bus i have ever seen rolling.  The oil is 1.5 quarts low, there is
*NO* exhaust (headers, no muffler), it is wearing way more bondo than
should be legal, etc. etc.

I am going to part it.  That said, I would invite offers for bits, cuz I
really don't need anything off it, I just hated to see it go to the
crusher intact.  If you need anything from a '79 other than sheet metal
(there is, as far as I can see *no* salvageable sheet metal on this bus) I
invite you to do one of four things:

1) write me for directions to a stripping party this coming Saturday;
2) let me know what you want and come and pick it up over the next couple
   weeks;
3) let me know what you want and *promise* you will pick it up at
   Everybus;
4) Arrange with a friend/fellow list member in the DC/Baltimore area to
   pick it up and ship it to you.

Note that "Have Steve Dolan ship it to me" is *NOT*  on the list of
options!  This is a personal failing.  I do not mail things.  Only under
extreme duress and with constant pestering.  It sucks, but it is a
personal phobia of some sort.  I am sorry.

On pricing, I would kind of like to  recover what I paid for it,
but I am a dedicated socialist and will basically let you set your own
price, as long as *you* need it for your bus. If I see it turn up on an
auction site next week, I will unleash the ghosts of Big Bill Haywood,
Antonio Gramsci, and Rosa Luxemburg upon you!  (and I'll even let Ken
Hooper take advantage of this :-)

Parts I know are good that I want to get rid of:
'78-9  sliding middle windows
driver's side mirror
instrument cluster
dash (which looks te be in really fine shape!) (no clock)
fuse block
front seats (these are very good!)
rear bench seat (middle leg is cut out of base piece, not so fine shape)
spare tire cover

Parts I kind of want, but could be talked out of:
engine
trans

Parts that are already committed:
Steering box

On Special: The whole FI system is present, and I would love to get this
to someone who wants to re-install FI on their carburetted bus.
Amazingly, I have an acquaintance who wanted to do just this, and I bought
for him a complete FI from another listee, so I wind up with two sets :-)
Ain't coincidence wonderful?

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail

