Date: Tue, 09 Apr 2002 07:06:55 -0400
From: Weiland <weiland(-at-)vineyard.net>
To: <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Subject: Re:  That Last Inch

> Saturday I struggled for 2 hours to get the engine back in.  I've had this
> problem on occation in the past on other Bays
> where it just won't go the last inch.  Oh well, I'll take another stab at it
> this week.


     Reminds me of my first bay, an orange and brown '79 I bought with a
blown engine about ten years ago.  I'd mostly played with Fords but figured
I was smart enough to figure out how to install the type 4 engine of
entirely uncertain history I got at the local junkyard, but it just wouldn't
go that last inch.  I must've dropped and reinstalled that thing three or
four times before in frustrated desperation I called the head mechanic at my
place of employment and convinced him to help me out in return for a case of
beer.

     He was deisel truck mechanic with a walrus mustache who came on the
scene with an air of authority, surveyed the problem with a lot of
brow-furrowing and harumphing, crawled underneath to check the alignment of
the shaft, and then crawled back out and with his eyes closed in deep
thought, contemplated his options in silence for several minutes.

     I looked on, eagerly watching his every move, respectful of his vast
knowledge and expertise, aware I was in the presence of a master.  Slowly
and shrewdly cast his gaze around the immediate vicinity, eventually spying
an eight foot 2X4 lying on the ground.  Without a word he suddenly jumped
up, grabbed it, wedged it between the rear apron and the engine, and
proceeded to hang off the end of it, yelling and screaming and jumping up
and down and rocking the thing back and forth several times until it either
popped on or was jammed on.

     To my amazement, not only did that do the trick, but he didn't even
bend the rear apron, and the engine ran great for years.  For all I know,
perhaps that really is the approved technique for this sort of thing.
Still, from then on I gave him the beers *after* the job was done...


~Brian Weiland
'78 Loaf

