Date: Wed, 17 Aug 2005 22:19:24 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: hot wire at light switch

>From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
>Date: Wed, 17 Aug 2005 07:20:04 -0400
>
>6V, 1965 Kombi.  I've noticed that the black and white wire at the
>headlight switch gets really hot when the lights are on....hot enough
>that I'm surprised the thing hasn't melted yet.  According to my wiring
>diagram this wire goes to the brake light switch...am I reading the
>diagram correctly?

No, it goes to item J2, the dimmer switch on the floor that you can
stomp on.  The brake light switch is J3.

>I assume if the wire is really hot-that the wire has a bad connection
>somewhere, right?

Right.  It might even be _inside_ the wire.  It's possible for 90% or
more of the strands in the wire to break, but the wire will still conduct
electricity and look the same from the outside.  You noted that you've
soldered the fuse box and the headlight switch, so if the wire is getting
hot behind the headlight switch where you can feel it, there's only about
three places where the problem could be: where the female push-on on the
wire slides over the male push-on on the switch; where the female push-on
is crimped to the wire; or inside the wire.

If the female push-on grips the switch terminal very tightly (it's hard
to pull off), and there isn't a bunch of gunk on it, that connection is
probably OK.  You might unplug it and shine up both sides of the
connection with a small wire brush.

It may be hard to tell if the crimp is bad.  Probably the easiest
solution here is to cut off the original female push-on and install a
new one (a yellow 10-12 gauge one will probably fit a little better than
a blue 14-16 gauge one) and see what happens.

If the wire is broken internally, it can be hard to detect.  If the wire
insulation is still relatively flexible, the wire will bend much easier
where the broken wires are.  But if it's stiff, it'll be hard to bend
pretty much everywhere.  You can check with a voltmeter by carefully
putting the red voltmeter lead on terminal 56 (the white/black wire) at
the headlight switch, the black voltmeter lead at terminal 56
(white/black wire again) at the floor stomp dimmer switch, and turning
the lights on.  The meter will never read zero, but anything up to about
0.1 volt is probably OK.  0.5 volts or more probably means that there's
a problem in that wire.

Another way to test is to get a spool of 12 gauge white wire and a couple
of yellow female push-ons and temporarily replace the white/black wire to
see what happens.  What I mean by "temporarily" is don't worry about
fishing it along next to the other wires.  Just make it a little longer
than you need and put a push-on on both ends.  Unplug the white/black
wire at the headlight switch and plug in the new wire.  Run it over to
the steering column and down the column to the floor.  Roll back the
floor mat and unplug the other end of the white/black wire at the stomp
switch, and then plug in the new wire.  Use some tape to keep the wire
routed away from the pedals, gearshift, etc.  Then take a drive with
the lights on.  If the end of the wire by the headlight switch no longer
gets hot, you can undo the "temporary" routing and fish the wire neatly
through the Bus.  If it still gets hot, you have other problems.

It's been said before, but remember that the headlight circuit is
_unfused_ between the battery and just after the dimmer switch.  So, be
careful - disconnect the battery ground strap before you get too carried
away.

>Is the brake light switch on the back of the master cylinder?

Yep.  You'll have to take down that pan under the front of the Bus to
see it.  If you suspect it's bad, it's very easy to use a screwdriver to
short its two terminals and see if the brake lights come on.

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds

P.S. I just remembered I still owe you a starter solenoid and a response
      to your radio question.  You should get that email right after this
      one.
