Date: Thu, 18 Aug 2005 23:02:00 +0000 (GMT)
From: dworkin <dworkin(-at-)everybus.com>
To: Lee Griffiths <l.s.griffiths(-at-)salford.ac.uk>
Subject: Re: [T2] Best way to pay for a bus if you can't collect in

On Thu, 18 Aug 2005, Lee Griffiths wrote:

> Dear folks,
>
> I'm hoping to go through with a US-UK bus transaction and wondered if
> anyone has any good advice as to the best way to arrange payment so that
> the seller is happy and so am I.  I've looked at Escrow and that seems
> to be the best way, but to be honest if the seller hasn't heard of
> Escrow then its reputation is kind of zero by default (I know it's not
> really).  Any other suggestions ?

Lee,

As I have called the seller and assured him you are a straight-up guy, and
have offered to stand as a compurgator, I would be happy to send Victor
whatever the sum you have arrived at and collect from you.  Basically act
as an escrow account between you two with the type2 list as witness.
Because of my personal finances, the check will not be sent to Victor
until next Monday (8/28, my next payday).  I don't figure I would get your
cheque from England and change the spelling to check before that, anyway.
If you want it sent sooner, I am willing if you are willing to include an
extra $25 to cover the overdraft fee from my bank.  If so, I can send it
tomorrow.

In addition, since I am local to the bus and Baltimore (the probable best
port of departure) is ~50 miles up the road, I am very willing to drive
the bus (hey, Barry, are you listening, 'cuz I am probably gonna bring you
in on this deal :) to the port to save you the towing charge to the port.

All that having been said, I have NO experience with shipping a bus
overseas.  Marcus Schaper (you ARE paying attention to this thread, are
you not, Marcus?) has done this before and probably can recommend a good
shipping agent.

> The only reasons I'm not going to collect myself is 1) cost of flight
> and of course 2) minimizing the number of times I leave the ground in my
> life : )

Yeah, yeah... and miss out on the opportunity to visit with me and my cats
and have me show you the slave pens of Alexandria Virginia (Y'all have
heard the phrase "Sold south".... did you ever wonder "From WHERE?") and
show you the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, the Bill of
Rights, and one of the few copies of the Magna Carta that was not seized
when Richard got the boot :-)

Seriously, the bus will have to go by ship, so there is no sense in coming
over to collect it personally.  I can deliver it to the port, if that is a
savings or work with the agent to get it to you.  But I do offer a bed to
anyone who is in the DC area (advance notice REQUIRED!) and a tour to
anyone who wishes to know *all* of the local history :-)

Steve Dolan
Black Republican (in the 1865 sense of the word)
