From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'Matt Roberds'" <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>, "'VintageBus list'"
Date: Sat, 20 Aug 2005 14:53:58 -0400
Subject: RE: hot wire at light switch

Well now that I am looking at the right wiring diagram...things make a
little more sense. I've hooked up temporary 12 gauge wires running from the
headlight switch to the dimmer, and one from the fuse box to the headlight
switch. I'm going to take it for a test ride today, and tonight and see if
the new wires get hot at all.

Although when I tested for resistance between the ends of these old wires I
get a reading of zero. Maybe I need to take the headlight switch out again,
and check the solder connections I did, maybe I screwed something up in
there...it was done so long ago I forget what I did. I'm not sure how long
this wire has been hot-but I know it's been a while.

-Kevin 


-----Original Message-----
From: Matt Roberds [mailto:mattroberds(-at-)cox.net] 


Another way to test is to get a spool of 12 gauge white wire and a couple
of yellow female push-ons and temporarily replace the white/black wire to
see what happens.  What I mean by "temporarily" is don't worry about
fishing it along next to the other wires.  Just make it a little longer
than you need and put a push-on on both ends.  Unplug the white/black
wire at the headlight switch and plug in the new wire.  Run it over to
the steering column and down the column to the floor.  Roll back the
floor mat and unplug the other end of the white/black wire at the stomp
switch, and then plug in the new wire.  Use some tape to keep the wire
routed away from the pedals, gearshift, etc.  Then take a drive with
the lights on.  If the end of the wire by the headlight switch no longer
gets hot, you can undo the "temporary" routing and fish the wire neatly
through the Bus.  If it still gets hot, you have other problems.

It's been said before, but remember that the headlight circuit is
_unfused_ between the battery and just after the dimmer switch.  So, be
careful - disconnect the battery ground strap before you get too carried
away.
