From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'VintageBus list'" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 21 Aug 2005 15:59:09 -0400
Subject: re:hot wire at light switch

Well this is what I did this hot morning...(it wasn't so hot when I started,
then the sun broke through the clouds, and it was about 90 degrees and
humid)

I installed the following:

1.new white wire w/black stripes(drawn by hand) between the headlight switch
and the dimmer.

2. new yellow wire between the dimmer switch and the fuse box

3. new white wire between the dimmer switch and the fuse box

4. new red wire between the fuse box and the headlight switch

Everything new is color coded correctly [although my white wire is bright
white, and the original white wire is kind of a dull white ;)] All the new
wire is 10 gauge too, according to the vintage library the original wire is
between 10 gauge and 12 gauge-so I went for the thicker stuff.

I also replaced the replacement radio, with the original radio that came
with the bus. I had put an auxiliary power switch on the original radio with
some help from an old neighbor. Then I got another radio with a working
switch. This lasted about 9 months, then its power switch broke too. So I
have since gone back to the original rewired one. Sorry if that is a little
confusing....I've got to figure out how to fix those switches...I got some
tips from matt r., I'll try out sometime.

I'll drive around with this setup for a while, and check out the wire temps,
headlight brightness...etc. I remember a while back I was told you could
replace the dimmer switch with a new one from a ford truck or something.
Anyone know anything about that?

Oh yeah...for you purists out there-I did not remove the original wiring,
just installed new wiring next to the old, in case I ever need to go back to
the original, or determine that it is not the original wiring that was at
fault.

Was writ:
"the headlight circuit is unfused between the battery and just after the
dimmer switch."

Is there a reason the headlight wire is not fused? I got a couple warnings
about that, and thought about putting one in while re-wiring, but was not
sure if I should, and if so where to put it.

Thanks....

-kevin
'71 sqbk
'65 kombi
somerville, ma 
