From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Tue, 23 Aug 2005 13:00:54 -0400
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "vintagebus(-at-)type2.com bus"
Subject: 4th Annual Toronto "Farewell to Summer" Beach BBQ... 6PM

Hi Volks,

This past weekend the Canadian National Exhibition opened, a sure  
sign that summer is winding down fast. It sure has been a good one.  
But I'm not letting it off the hook just yet.

Weather permitting I'd like to propose that next Thursday (September  
1st)  we gather at Cherry Beach for the annual group BBQ. This will  
be the fourth annual gathering for the Toronto-Area bus crew; if you  
haven't attended then you've missed a good evening of Family  
entertainment at a very special location. Where is it?... Right at  
the bottom of Cherry St, just east of the Don Valley Parkway in the  
Portlands area of Downtown Toronto. P-mail if you need more explicit  
directions.

As  usual, it's a pot luck dinner event that gets rolling around  
6:00PM or so. I'll bring the westrailer, so there'll be some kitchen  
space available, but otherwise you need to travel self-contained.  
Bring a beach chair or a blanket; as the beach starts right at the  
edge of the parking lot, and extends about 100' or so down to a  
sheltered bay on Lake Ontario. Watch the surf-sailers as the sun sets  
and we'll probably see the Rochester ferryboat glide by as well...  
the ferry port is quite close by. Also close by is "The Docks"  
entertainment complex, with an excellent Drive-in Movie screen if  
you're interested in staying out late.

In past years we've had about 7 or 8 buses attend... hopefully we can  
get a good crowd out again this year.

Cherry Beach pics:
http://community.webshots.com/album/217764892vwFORK

P.S.... Can someone please forward this to the Vanagon List and  
TheSamba? Thanks!


Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.busesofthecorn.com
