Date: Thu, 25 Aug 2005 07:30:11 -0700 (PDT)
From: Richard Lenzmeier <dicklenznd(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Wiper motor conversion using 12V armature--my experience

Hi Listees,

I recently converted my 1964 Standard to 12V and bought a 12V armature
from WW to replace the 6V one in the wiper motor so that I wouldn't
have to use a voltage dropping resistor. I reviewed the archives and
found them helpful, but I encountered a new problem and seem to have
solved it. Here is my experience:

I removed the mounting plate from the motor to more easily remove it
from the dash without risking scratches. (Thanks, Matt.)

The original brushes were re-used because they looked good. The 6V
armature was easily removed, but the replacement 12V one fit so tightly
that I could not turn it by hand. I applied 12V just to test, but there
was no rotation at all, so after a second I disconnected the power. The
new armature was not completely square in the permanent magnets of the
motor so there was binding when installed. I loosened the two long
bolts that hold the magnets in place and moved the magnets around until
the armature was a little more loose, retightened and tested with 12V
again. The armature rotated a few degrees then stopped. I removed the
brushes and armature again, then mounted its shaft in a battery-powered
drill, held some medium-fine emory paper around the metal body and spun
it for 10-15 seconds. I cleaned it up, re-installed it and the brushes,
loosened and moved the magnets and tried applying power again. Still
binding, so I repeated the above. After several iterations of the
sanding and magnet position changes I found a position where the
armature moved decently, and spun quickly and quietly with voltage
applied. Done with the motor side.

I then removed the plate on the other side, and scooped out the
perfectly good OG grease with a small screwdriver and cleaned it more
with Q-tips. That's when I realized that the original grease had
darkened in some areas, had hardened just a bit, causing it to look
just like earwax! Well, the rest of the job was a little more
interesting with THAT in mind. The new grease was a consistent honey
brown in color and of no particular interest at all going in.

So my motor purrs softly using 12V now, and I'll re-install it later
today. It looks like rain so I'm just in time.

P.S. Several of the posts in the archive were by Matt R., who will
probably feel the urge to say, "See, you should have stayed with 6V!" I
don't disagree, Matt, and have keep all my original parts down to the
dash lights, just in case...

Richard
Fargo, ND
