Date: Thu, 25 Aug 2005 21:01:29 -0700
From: "gns.wagnon" <gns.wagnon(-at-)verizon.net>
To: "Thomas Kortus" <tkortus(-at-)hotmail.com>,	<vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] thinking of selling my bus- anyone have regrets?

Thomas,

While I am still too new to the VW scene (<5 years) and too young (32) to 
have had an experience to know the kind of regret associated with loosing a 
bus, I certainly get a sick feeling when I think about it.  My suggestion to 
you is to get with a few local folks who are enthusiasts and have them help 
you get your bus on the road with minimal cash outlay.  I hate to see 
someone loose a nice bus based on your situation (as described.)  I actually 
bought my Single Cab from a fella who lives in Bellingham.  He seemed to 
know his stuff on maintenance and on keeping these old things on the road. 
At least I haven't found any of the typical PO d'oh! type issues.  Maybe he 
and others can help you.

I personally have two vehicles and also two children.  The human kids are 
now 3 years 7 months and the other is just 7 months.  While it does require 
some time to keep the VW kids on the road, it is something that we do as a 
family whenever possible.  My 3 year old is very good at sticking her 
screwdriver in the muffler, which is a big help...  :o)  And I expect the 7 
month old will grow to accept the VW kids as siblings too.  Of course I am 
being a bit goofy here, but having old vehicles that develop attitudes sure 
does compare well with having kids.  The point is that dealing with 
attitudes is just a part of the job and you should just work with the 
situation, rather than avoid it.

So, my final suggestion is that you suck it up, find a 'good' knowledgeable 
group of friends that work for beer (don't we all?) and hold on to your 
treasure.  Think of it as an investment... have you looked at the price of a 
67 deluxe on The Samba lately????  If not, and you still want to sell it, I 
will give $1K cash this weekend.   :o)     Seriously, let people who will 
love it buy it, if you must sell.  JUST DON'T PARK IT WHERE IT CAN 
ROT!!!!!!!!!!!!

Greg
1963 Panel/Camper "Annie"
1958 Single Cab "G|nter"
- there is room for a 67 deluxe if an opportunity arises...
