Date: Fri, 26 Aug 2005 12:32:04 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Thomas Kortus <tkortus(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] thinking of selling my bus- anyone have regrets?

On Thu, 25 Aug 2005, Thomas Kortus wrote:

> dear volks folks,
>
> i am a relatively new bus owner ('67 deluxe) of four years. my wife and i
> have had some good times with our bus- took it for a trip around the country
> and it was ouronly car for quite some time, but now we have a child with a
> second one on the way and the bus is breaking down constantly- one problem
> after another! i am frustrated and pouring money into it.

I've heard this same complaint many times and it puzzles me.  My bus isn't
dead reliable, but it hasn't let me down either.

I wonder if the problem is an expectation of reliability on a par with
relatively new modern cars.  Take that new toyota or honda and put 300,000
miles on it and you'll probably have problems comparable to those of a
vintage bus!

One thing I have found that leads to owner dissatisfaction is the practice
of making "just good enough to run" repairs.  Such repairs tend to fail
again after a short time and lead to a perception of a continuous stream
of problems.  If something is fixed "right" (that is, restored to new
tolerances) it should last a good long time.

For example, I had my generator light come on due to worn-out brushes.  I
checked the belt and foolishly decided to continue to drive on the
battery without removing the brushes.  The bus ran fine, but the arcing
between the brushes and commutator severely pitted the commutator.  I
reached my destination and replaced the brushes, but the new brushes wore
down within a month due to the commutator damage.  I replaced them,
cussing about the low quality of the brushes and they wore out quickly
again.  I could have continued feeding it brushes while
complaining about the lack of reliability, but I finally realized my
mistake and fixed the root problem, the rough commuatator.

I think that similar processes are responsible for much of the perception
of unreliability in our buses.

Yes, I could drop $30K+ and have a totally reliable new Toyota, but much
less money would rebuild my bus to new tolerances.  Am I going to do a
total restoration?  Not likely, but I do realize that the
incremental repairs I do have to make on my bus are far less than the
cost of a new vehicle.

George
