Date: Fri, 26 Aug 2005 16:08:14 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Resister?

>From: "gns.wagnon" <gns.wagnon(-at-)verizon.net>
>Date: Thu, 25 Aug 2005 20:38:17 -0700
>
>Along the way to working all this out, I discovered this porcelain
>resister like thingy.  The gas gauge and wipers were routed through
>it from the fuse block.  It is 2-3 inches long, has one electrical
>connection at either end, consists of what appears to be white
>porcelain, and has a wire though it that is wound around what appears
>to be another porcelain solid tube-thingy.

Yep, you found a ceramic power resistor.  These start life as a plain
ceramic tube.  Then, the wire resistor element is wrapped around them -
the alloy of the wire and the length (number of turns) determines the
resistance.  Then, a glaze is painted over the wire element to insulate
it and hold it to the center tube.  All this is so it can handle larger
amounts of power.  This one is probably rated at least 5 watts and
likely 20 watts or more.  Compare this to most of the resistors you see
if you take the lid off your your TV, VCR, or stereo - the little
lumpy cylinders about 1/8" diameter and 3/8" long with colored stripes -
which are made from carbon and rated 0.25 watt or so.

You can check the resistor you have with an ohm-meter, self-powered test
light, or test/timing light.  Disconnect the resistor from the Bus and
measure across the two terminals with an ohm meter.  It should show a
few ohms, but it shouldn't show infinite ohms (open circuit).  If you
have a self-powered timing light, do the same, and look for the light to
come on - possibly dimly.  If you have a test/timing light, connect one
end of the resistor to +12 V, the other end of the resistor to the test
light, and the other end of the test light to ground.  The test light
should come on - possibly dimly.

If you need to replace it, these are available fairly inexpensively (a
few bucks) from electronics suppliers.  Radio Shack is not an electronics
supplier.  If possible, you need to match the resistance (ohms) of the
existing part and get an equal or better power (watt) rating.  These are
usually printed on the resistor.  If the marks are gone, probably the
best thing is to buy an adjustable resistor of a few more ohms and way
more watts than you think you need, and then adjust it while the Bus is
running to deliver something close to 6 volts to the load.

You could also forget the resistor and restore the Bus to 6 V, but don't
listen to me.  I'm a freak.  :)

Matt Roberds
