From: "Rene B. Mireles" <adejetener(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 28 Aug 2005 03:26:32 -0700
Subject: Re: Selling your bus

Hi everyone, I4m Rene and i4m 21 years old. I dont write much here in the 
list because i live in Mexicali B.C. Mexico and my english is not very good 
lol. And well, i have my own story about selling a bus. Sorry if i write 
something wrong :-) :

Since i was about 14 years old i dreamed about having a bus, i dont really 
know why but, i had that strange atraction to those funny cars (that how my 
friends call them). When i was 16, my dad (who lives in other state) brought 
me my first car, a 1994 pontiac grand am, and guess what i did? i sell that 
car so i can have my own bus, i spent a LOT of time searching all over the 
town for my dreamed bus. Everybody told me that i was crazy because i was 
selling a pretty nice car, to buy one 40 years older, but i didnt care about 
what everyone else said.  I saw a lot of buses, but not what i was looking 
for. I was looking for a westy, with that beautyful small window in the back 
(462 and earlier) and finally, one day i found it, i cant really tell how 
happy i was, because that was exactly what i was looking for, it was a flip 
seat 1962 westy (so-35) with a beautiful wood interior, a roof rack, 2 tone 
painted, it was everything that i wanted.

I had great times in my bus with my friend, but i have to tell that much of 
that time, the bus was only parked outside of my house with something not 
working, mostly small things because i have to tell that i had very good 
luck no to having any major mechanical problem.

Then i graduate got into Law School (In Mexico you can study a career right 
after finishing high school) and a few years later i start working too, so i 
start having problems with my transportation. I didnt have the money to 
afford having the bus as a dailyi driving because something was broken every 
month or so, and other thing, right here in my town we have 8 months of 
+100: F summer, and driving the bus all day was like being inside a hoven, 
so the problems start to be more significant.

One night sitting right here on my desktop, i decide selling my bus, i 
wasn4t very sure of selling it, and about the price, etc. but i send a email 
to this list saying that i had a bus for sale, and 10 min. after i recieved 
an email of a very nice guy asking me about the details, so the next few day 
i was in constant communication with this guy, i was very sad about selling 
my bus but i knew that, that was the only solution to my problems, so after 
a few months and a very VERY hard negotiation, i finally sold the bus to 
this guy.

The night i give this guy the keys of my bus, i had a knot in the throat, i 
almost start criying (i didnt, but i have to tell that almost),

And well, right now i4m driving a 2000 honda civic with a nice A/C unit, i 
still in school (less then 2 years to finish) and working, and my life i 
easier driving the honda, but i still have pictures of my bus in my desktop 
and in my mind, and i4m just waiting to be independent and have a good work 
to have a bus again, and above everything, i keep my faith that someday, 
someday i4m gonna have my bus back, yes, the same bus that i sold, back in 
my garage, even if that happens 30 or 40 years later, i keep that picture in 
my mind, driving that bus along the street, or sleeping inside of it, 
watching the stars by the roof hatch.

Well guys, that4s my story and sorry about all the gramatical errors that i 
may have. i really don4t know how can this  help you make your decision, but 
i just felt like telling you all this, :-), good night

Rene Mireles
