From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 31 Aug 2005 18:52:26 EDT
To: glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com, tkortus(-at-)hotmail.com
Subject: Re: [VB] thinking of selling my bus- anyone have regrets?

I agree with George... I have found buses to be very  reliable.    
 
I also find that when I get a bus I have to go through it and take  care of 
all the delayed maintenance.  Other wise I would NOT find it  reliable.    I've 
done this to I think 4 buses in the past year,  and probably 2 more soon.   
The one (my baja truck) I skipped  some corners on it due to time constraints 
and had some problems with the clutch  (burnt it out) and the wipers (didn't 
work) and the doors  rattling.  
 Just got home today from a just over 2K mile trip, with quite a  lot of 
back/gravel/bad road driving, with no problems.
 
After the delayed maintenance is taken care of, they need the usual 3K  
service, keep up on the 30K mile services.  Once in a while else  something goes, 
but not often.   
 
The only bus I really regret selling was the 59 that was my first  splitty.   
It was an aqua panel camper with a splitcase tranny and a  naugahyde interior 
and sealing wax red dash and I sold it for $700 to a girl who  I heard drove 
it to Maryland and it got parked there. I'd love to find Gus  and get him 
back.  My ex-boyfriend talked me into selling that  bus.  :( 
 
Where do you live and who is doing the work on your bus?
 
 In a message dated 8/26/2005 9:32:31 A.M. Pacific Standard Time,  
glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com writes:

On Thu,  25 Aug 2005, Thomas Kortus wrote:

> dear volks  folks,
>
> i am a relatively new bus owner ('67 deluxe) of four  years. my wife and i
> have had some good times with our bus- took it  for a trip around the 
country
> and it was ouronly car for quite some  time, but now we have a child with a
> second one on the way and the bus  is breaking down constantly- one problem
> after another! i am  frustrated and pouring money into it.

I've heard this same complaint  many times and it puzzles me.  My bus isn't
dead reliable, but it  hasn't let me down either.

I wonder if the problem is an expectation of  reliability on a par with
relatively new modern cars.  Take that new  toyota or honda and put 300,000
miles on it and you'll probably have  problems comparable to those of a
vintage bus!

One thing I have  found that leads to owner dissatisfaction is the practice
of making "just  good enough to run" repairs.  Such repairs tend to fail
again after a  short time and lead to a perception of a continuous stream
of  problems.  If something is fixed "right" (that is, restored to  new
tolerances) it should last a good long time.

I think that  similar processes are responsible for much of the perception
of  unreliability in our buses.


 
..............................................................................
.........
