From: "Gene Cornelius" <mizamook(-at-)starband.net>
To: <Claralw(-at-)aol.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 1 Sep 2005 07:47:16 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] Cool tin?

Thanks, Clara.  Eventually, hopefully soon, I will have a chance to rip into
this engine again, and I will try to get some rod bearings for that time, as
well as plans to get the heads reworked.

I got the engine together, after deciding to keep the cool tin on, despite
warnings, since I already had torqued one head, and the pushrod tubes were
sitting so nicely, so in the interests of time, I left it on.

However, despite the fact that the engine ran great once the initial tune-up
was done, there was a nasty knocking or ticking noise.  I checked the
pushrod alignment, made sure the valves were adjusted correctly and all, but
the noise, which varied with rpm, didn't go away.  Compression was 125 in
cylinders 1,2,3, but 4 was 100.  Not so good, which leads me to believe that
the heads need looked after.

One possible scenario for the noise is that although I thought I did it
right, I might have put 2 pistons in inverted.  Embarassing if that's the
case, but I was in a hurry (dumb!)....  You see, I was sitting on the floor,
with the flywheel to the right, and put on #3 and #4.  Then I swiveled the
engine, and put on #1, #2.  It is possible that I just made sure the arrows
on the pistons were pointing to the right, since I was dog-tired and in a
hurry.....at least it would be an answer to the question of why there in now
noise in an engine that sounded fine before...

If inverted pistons are the culprit, and they made noise, do you think there
is damage?  If so, what?

For now, the old engine is pushing my DC....

Oh....and I'll take the time to deal with the casting flash!

Gene Cornelius
mizamook(-at-)starband.net

----- Original Message -----



I don't have any feelings about 'cool tin', but suggest replacing the rod
bearings.... you can use a socket and extension to remove them without
cracking
the case... they are cheap and good insurance as long as you have the
pistons
 and cylinder off...

also, clean out the casting flashing on the heads.   It does help  cool the
engine better when you do that.    so when you look down  from the top, the
areas between the fins are nice and clear... I used a file and  a drill and
a
hacksaw.

I did these things on a quickie top end rebuild on an engine about 6 years
ago, and it still seems to push my red bus around now.

Best of luck with the move going smoothly!

Clara
