From: "Todd Super Bassist" <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 11 Mar 2006 18:40:16 -0500
Subject: No Wiring Harness

Hey guys,

    I'm really frustrated. I have a 1973 VW Bus. The paint, suspension,
brakes, engine, transmission, steering... it's ALL brand new or rebuilt. It
has new tires, new weather seals... the bus is in great shape. but... I have
no wiring harness.

The factory harness was soo badly damaged, that the only thing that worked,
was the ignition key and the headlights. Nothing else worked.
So, I pulled the whole wiring harness. Most of the harness was cut behind the
fuse panel (done by previous owners), and some of it had burned / melted, and
there were gator clips and twist ties, and all kinds of crap all over it.

So, I bought a universal kit for the Bus. I've been working on trying to get
it to WORK with my bus, but I'm getting really frustrated. It's not as
painless as they say... it's only painless if it's already put together for
your specific car.

I'm really really tired of fiddling with this crappy wiring harness. I've
spent about $400 damn dollars on the harness, and fittings and all kinds of
other crap, and it still requires tons more work before I can even think about
installing it in the Bus.

I really really want a FACTORY wiring harness for my Bus. Now... whatever made
my bus a 73 at least with respect to wiring... is no longer the case. I have
an 1800 with a manual transmission. It doesn't have any emissions stuff, or an
EGR on it, or any of that other stuff.

I see a couple of places that offer 1972 harnesses. Is there ANY reason at all
why I can't use that in my 1973? Or.. even better, is there any reason why I
shouldn't be able to use a 1970-1971 wiring harness in my Bus?

I would really appreciate any help you guys can give me. If it sounds like I'm
excited, tense, frustrated, and agitated, it's because I am.

My Bus looks soo awesome every time I open the garage door, but I haven't
driven it now in almost 2 years, and it's really depressing. My wife is
getting mad because she likes the Bus and is upset that we haven't been
driving it very much.

Any help, advice, info, or anything you guys could offer me with respect to
this problem, I would really really really really really appreciate it.

Summer is coming here in Fort Lauderdale, and I'd really like to be able to
take it to the beach.



Thanks!!!

Todd
