From: "Walkingboss" <walkingboss(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 12 Mar 2006 10:46:21 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2]steering box knock?

Hi Chai,

    Sounds like at some point, there has been some impact on the steering
linkage/system. (could have been when you had the ball joint problem) (could
have been long ago, hitting a pot hole or curb)
    Just a guess, but if when the ball joint came loose, the weight slammed
back against tie rod. This may have caused a flat spot on your steering box,
Worm and Pinion.
    Now as you turn the wheel and the gears turn against each other, they
have to pass that "flat spot", causing a bind and noise.
    Also in one of your earlier posts, you indicate some slack in the
steering box itself. (when you turn the steering wheel, the tires don't turn
right away). This is adjustable.
    First make sure the steering box mounting and steering box top are
tight. Also check that "All the steering parts are tight, and have no
slack", tie rod ends, ball joints, linkage, etc. After you have made sure of
that, your ready to adjust. (See Bentley for details)
    To adjust the box, start with the wheels in the straight ahead position,
loosen the "lock nut with screw" in it, on the top plate of the box, then
while "Rocking Gently" on the steering wheel, turn the screw in till it
bottoms out, then back off on the screw slightly while again "rocking the
steering wheel", when finished getting the slack out, lock the nut while
holding the adjustment screw in place.
    Now here is the down side. If the worm and pinion does in fact have a
flat spot, adjusting the slack out of the box will only make this more
pronounced, may even lock up the box in that spot! That wouldn't be very
good needless to say.
    Sorry to say, but it may be steering box replacement time. Check our
vendors for rebuilds, but a good "Service Tested" (used) one would be much
less that a rebuilt unit.
    Let us know.

Howard


Subject: Re: [T2]steering box knock?

> Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:  past two days now i been hearing a
knock when i turn the wheel back and forth gently...
