From: "Jerry & Melissa Jess" <vwstuff53(-at-)msn.com>
To: "type2 \(E-mail\)" <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>, "vintagebus \(E-mail\)"
Date: Thu, 2 Oct 2003 18:29:40 -0700
Subject: Bessie Goes To The Movies--In AridZona--

Bessie received a phone from a film company doing a movie right here in
Phoenix. They were told that Bessie could be the Hippy Bus they were looking
for , for a remake of "Billy Jack" titled "The Rainmakers". So Bessie had to
do a little casting to get the part--Bessie won !! The 1st shooting for
Bessie was out in the far West side in Estrella Park--Her scene was coming
up to a road block carrying two Hippies and then confronted by the bad
guys--The Police.
Everyone just loved Bessie, Lady Magoo spent the entire day there.--A lot of
people wanted their picture taken wit Bessie and she loved it. I did find
out just how hard the crews work on a movie set  It is 12 hour days
7AM--7PM--Much of it out in the sun. It was a little hot for many of the
crew. and actors with a lot of sunburns. The food is really
great--Breakfast, just about anything you want from the Food TRUCK !! This
is the biggest Roach Coach I have ever seen !! Eggs. sausage, bacon , hash
browns, toast , waffles, pancakes, hot cereal, tons of fresh fruit and
breakfast done anyway you want it--with as much as you want!! Sort of like
an ABC picnic!! Lots of food !! . Lunch time was grilled steaks-- chicken.
with pasta, potato salad, Greek salad, and just about anything you can think
of in cold drinks--No Booze. !!

The 2nd day of shooting for Bessie, was at a film studio around 103rd Ave
and McDowell. This time it was a real action affair with Bessie as a
backdrop. The Police and Bikers ride in with guns blazing to get the
Hippies--But the hippies have left, and booby trapped the place with
powdered tear gas in all the dust--So all the bad guys were coughing and
eyes were tearing. Again a twelve hour day--
I have learned a lot watching this make of a movie--It is hard work !! My
hats off the entire cast and crew-- Hopefully I can show you the pics soon,
after the movie is released--

Day Three--Today was really cool--The entire cast from the movie posed in
front of Bessie--For a Promo shot-- There were some very fine looking ladies
hanging out on Bessie--Temperature I think was finally under 100
degrees--Almost time for a jacket !! She never looked better--Food for the
day, Bar - B- Que chicken, or New Zealand White Fish--Tons of cold fruit and
ice cream--The scene toady was on the main street of Tollison, AridZona--
The police blocked off the traffic for about a mile--Another 12 hour
day--stay tuned--, uj, TWWM
