From: "Christopher Renz" <midwestbass(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "'Type2 List'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 3 Oct 2003 09:41:30 -0700
Subject: 76 westy FS in CA/SF

http://www.thesamba.com/vw/classifieds/index.mv?photo+200310030846215328

Ive been an active listmember for about 4 years now, and blah blah blah,
it kills me to do this and all that jazz : 

76 Westfalia Campmobile all spare parts/tools - $1000

Sale was pending, but their ride fell through. I need to get rid of this
in the next two weeks, which is why im willing to take so little for all
of the stuff your getting here. 

Das motor is kaput currently. #3 cylindar unseated and went through the
piston. This motor was purchased brand new from VW on 5/23/88 and
installed on the camper when it was at 136,904. So this 2.0, technically
for a 78 (hydralic lifters), had only 63,000 miles on it when it went
out recently. I had been revving it too high getting on and off of the
bridge every day from Treasure Island im sure, as it had started getting
discolored prior to finally letting go.

More bad news, the nose is crunched in a bit. The nose has the typical
rust around the window seal area, so that whole piece needs attention.
Prior to the motor going out I had planned on just cutting a nose
section out of another bus and welding it in place instead. 

Ok, I am the third owner, and I have every single receipt from 1977 to
today. I have been WAY into busses the past 4 years and have all of the
cool little parts people buy after the fact, and all of them are going
with this deal. I just really need to get rid of it now, and so the
first (or should I say next) person with $1,000 and some means of
picking this up from my house - owns the lot of it. 
Restore it, part it out for the $$, just take advantage of this deal. 

Here are the locations of the pictures I have currently. I will however
go out and take some new ones with all of the stuff and parts loaded up,
so you can see the "whole picture." 

http://www.kellieandchris.com/images/76westy/index.htm
http://www.kellieandchris.com/images/dings_dents_rust/

1976 VW Westfalia
Body has 199,903.6 miles on it. 
BRAND new Bosch starter
New Bosch driving lights
12 Volt Acc clock
VW logo mudflaps (white, rear only)
Brand new pop-top canvas
Brand new pop-top seal
Brand new oil cooler,
Brand new Daiken Clutch (new clutch cable, new throwout bearing)
Less than one year old battery and second deep cycle marine battery
New Burg dipstick sender/oil temp sensor
New Gas filler boot (doesn't spill when full)
New engine compartment deal.
Hella Dual Battery kit
I have one of those Hollywood bike racks that fit the VW busses
perfectly. 
Installed hardwood laminate flooring.
One of the CV's is brand new, 
2 new tires, 
1 new spare tire
I have an super duty 21 inch SUV style lifting jack and jack stands. 
Soundproofed and put Dynamat all over the rear area. 
Sanded what little rust there was on the floor and POR 15'd it. 
Fresh rear breaks. 
I have new front door seals but not installed. 
I have a spare coil, 
Spare AFM. 
A full bolt of the original chrome yellow westy material for the
curtains. Spare plaid material for misc projects
I replaced the passenger seats padding both top and bottom. 
I have an extra deluxe style steering wheel. 
A nice suicide knob. 
Shifter extension with Wolfsburg castle (the nice tall skinny wooden
one, not the cheapo one.) 
Spare headlights, 
Spare clutch and acc cable, 
Cargo container that fits in the roof storage area nicely, with tie
downs. 


CALL me with any questions, if you are serious and know of a way you
might be able to get it to where you are. 
415-706-7825

 
Christopher
cr(-at-)midwestbass.com
415-706-7825
San Francisco, California, USA
