Date: Sat, 4 Oct 2003 21:25:41 -0700
Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
To: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] My continuing vacuum saga - NAILED IT

On Sunday, September 28, 2003, at 03:28  PM, Jason Thorpe wrote:

> Anyone have ideas on what the starting problem might be?  It idled 
> fine before I pulled the AFM and throttle boot off.

Found and fixed (worked around, really) it for sure today.

A friend of mine who is a hobbyist race car mechanic came over to give 
me a hand.  First thing was to eliminate variables.  We cleaned all the 
FI-related electrical contacts.  We tested and verified proper AFM 
operation.  Still didn't start.

He got under the fuel pump and verified that it ran while the key was 
in the "start" position.

We then decided to check fuel pressure.  Popped gas cap to 
de-pressurize the system, unscrewed the tap, put on gauge, turned the 
key, and it started up!  "Hm, wonder what we did?"  Anyway, fuel 
pressure was in spec, according to Bentley.

Bagged on the compression test ... plug #3 tightened up right after I 
broke torque, so I'll let Buslab do it while the engine is out for the 
oil cooler seal job, in case they need to put a sleeve in the head.

At this point, it was the 9th inning of the Giants/Marlins game, so we 
took a break to go in to watch the final (and somewhat depressing) 
inning.  We buttoned everything up, including reinstalling the gas cap 
(this is key).

Went back outside with our heads hung low, and bus doesn't start again. 
  Squirt some starter fluid into the throttle boot, and after a few 
cranks, it starts up and runs.

So we let it run for a while... after it warmed up, lots of water vapor 
coming out of the tailpipe.  Ran it for about 10 minutes, still lots of 
vapor.

Turn engine off, decide to pull the breather off to check gaskets, etc. 
  I'll post our findings there separately.

Reassemble everything... Glen notes "hm, so the only difference between 
when it ran OK and now was the gas cap off, let's try that again..."  
Sure enough, runs and revs up fine with the gas cap off, but still has 
only 13'' of vacuum.

So, my thoughts turn to the fuel pressure regulator.  I pull the vacuum 
hose off, plug it, start the engine with gas cap ON.  Runs and revs 
perfectly, 17.5'' of vacuum.  Once we were able to rev it up, the water 
vapor went away.  I guess it was build-up in the (brand-new) cat 
converter.

So, I did have a vacuum leak, but the "engine falls flat on its face" 
problem was not bad timing advance, it was fuel starvation!  I guess 
with the gas cap off, the fuel pump didn't have to work as hard to 
provide sufficient pressure.

So, for now, I can operate it with the regulator disconnected (the only 
harm that will cause is running a little rich at idle, right?).  I'll 
need to replace it, obviously.  Looks like I should expect to pay 
$70-$80 for this part.

The Bus is now going into the shop to get the oil cooler seals replaced 
(along with the other random assortment of "things to do while the 
engine is out anyway").

Thanks a lot for everyone's help during my little crisis.  I really 
appreciate it.

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
