Date: Sat, 4 Oct 2003 23:47:53 -0700
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Oil breather questions

While trying to diagnose my engine starting/running problem, a friend 
who was helping me out today noticed that there was a LOT of air coming 
out the oil breather cap while the engine was idling.

So, we pulled the oil breather box to check it out.  Someone previously 
had gone to great lengths to try and seal it up -- there was a lot of 
white silicone-like material on the cork gasket as well as between the 
cap and the box.

Of concern to me was that there was a LOT of water condensation in the 
box.  There was also a white froth-like material in the box and in the 
cap.

My theory is that the water might have made its way into the engine 
through the EGR (I believe there was quite a bit of water build-up in 
the brand-new cat converter while the Bus was not running for the last 
3 weeks).  If anyone has any other guesses about this, I'd love to hear 
them.

As to the white frothy material, my only guess is that it's a wet foam 
caused by the mixing of oil and water (sort of like a Castrol aioli).  
Again, educated guesses by kind list readers are welcome and encouraged.

Finally, my friend and I thought there was an awful lot of air blowing 
out of the pinhole in the top of the breather cap (the hole looks 
original, molded in, not drilled after the fact).  After looking at the 
exploded view of the oil system in the Bentley manual, we wanted to 
check the oil pressure relief, but couldn't figure out how to reach it.

Questions:

	* Is it normal to have "a lot" of air blowing out that
	  pinhole?

	* If not, could a stuck oil pressure relief cause that
	  symptom?  Remember - my old oil breather hose was really
	  saturated with oil, so at some point, a lot of oil was
	  being blown up into the box/cap.  Also, I would think
	  failure of the pressure relief could have caused my oil
	  cooler seals to fail or get worse.

Unfortunately, the Bentley manual has very little to say about the 
breather.  My breather box gasket and the o-ring between the box and 
cap were in pretty bad shape, so I'm planning on replacing them.

Thanks!

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
