Date: Thu, 29 Oct 2009 14:36:06 -0500
From: Kenneth Hooper <bighouse(-at-)mac.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Mig Welders

Hi Bob,

I'm just learning to weld too, and I am not competent to have an opinion on anything. I do think you will find the Harbor Freight machine is not a MIG, it is a wire-feed welder. If you can't push gas through it it is not a MIG and it does not do the things MIG will (spatterless steel welds, any aluminum welds, etc). I have one of the less expensive Northern Tool MIG welders and I can't do much with it. It is a 110 v welder. I didn't expect much from it but I was still disappointed. Don't get a 110v welder unless it is an inverter. 110 v. welders suck. At least this one does. A welder should be able to join 1/8" plate without pre-heating. ;^[

I also have been playing with an aircraft torch and it is groovy. It is far easier to control than the MIG. The torch has a lot of capabilities of a TIG without the cost, and it can do some things TIG can't, such as pre-heat, and burn crap off the metal so you can clean it with a wire brush instead of a grinder, cut metal, etc. An acetylene flame is a cone of carbon dioxide so you can naturally use steel TIG rods with it rather than fvcking around with flux, so it leaves very little slag, and there's no clouds of fumes with heavy metals in them swirling around your nostrils. You don't need a welding helmet, though you do need to find glasses with a #4 shade.

Using a little Smith aircraft torch, on automotive sheet metal, the first time I used it (but not without practice) I was able to lay down a fairly nice bead without blowing holes. I suddenly knew what people mean when they say "weld puddle". I was also able to do half decent fusion welds on sheet metal which is pretty sweet. If I can do it it cannot be very hard.

There is a helluva lot more gear to acquire with the torch though. The acetylene bottle alone costs more than that Harbor Freight wire welder. But I think that thing might be really frustrating for you.

Ken
