Cc: buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org, type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Mon, 7 Jun 2004 20:19:38 -0400
To: The Bug Pack <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Post-FI tweaking = VROOOOM!!!!

Hi Volks,

This past weekend was the test run for the Westfakia's FI conversion. 
The run from Toronto to Bobcaygeon was uneventful, but the performance 
was... um... not so good.

Since I purposefully selected a backroads route to the campground I was 
able to maintain reasonable speeds, but I only saw 60MPH on downhill 
stretches. Even modest hills threw me back to third gear. The engine 
seemed to run OK when I left the house, but gradually lost power as the 
trip progressed. When I arrived at the campground it would idle OK, but 
it would bog as I let out the clutch and when cold it would stall. I 
vowed not to venture inside the engine compartment until I got home. 
This was a "Vacation weekend", wrenches were brought along for 
EMERGENCY USE ONLY". I figured I could nurse it along for a while, and 
if it got really bad I could deal with it when it happened.

So tonight after I got home from work I set out to cure the poor 
thing's ills:

First I pulled the distributor. Rather than measure dwell and advance 
rates on the unknown spare dizzy, I reverted to the 74 DVDA distributor 
with a pre-installed pertronics ignitor.

Secondly,I tightened the hose clamp between the S-pipe and the AFM. I 
don't remember leaving it loose, but I guess I did. Can you say "Vacuum 
Leak"?

Finally, I hauled my 13 year-old son away from MSN chat long enough to 
get him to help me adjust the throttle linkage. He held the accelerator 
pedal up while I tightened the cable. The cable I have is about 2" too 
long... I expect the difference is in the length of the cable shroud 
running between the bowden tube and the engine tin. If I can't find a 
spare FI cable shroud I will simply shorten the cable I have now with a 
clip under the pedal housing.

I then buttoned up the engine compartment, set the timing and took it 
for a spin.

The results were INCREDIBLE.  Powerband is excellent. I got my wife to 
take it around the block, and she was much impressed. *This* is the bus 
I have wanted to drive for over a year now.

Now I'm off to pick up a replacement for the misplaced power brake 
booster line. It'll be nice to be able to stop as well as the bus will 
go.


Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.geocities.com/busesofthecorn
