From: "Craig Ayres-Sevier" <n7cas(-at-)gbis.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 28 Sep 2001 17:08:04 -0700
Subject: Dying at stop lights

Greetings, O Cool List ... another question for ya...

My bus' engine, a new engine (A.D. 2000), always running great for the past
year, year and a half, never abused... temp gauges.. warmup... textbook down
the line.. is now suddenly running like crap and, worse, dying at stop
lights.

God, how awful is that, to get these curiouis looks -- and then the thing
doesn't run, hasta be re-started at an intersection.

Great. Dead VW bus at a stop light. Perfect target. It should be illegal
(the honking horns, not the VW bus).

Idle is way, way too low, out of the blue.

Alright, alright, I know. The idle is, of course, promptly adjusted.  But it
runs great for a day, maybe two -- hell, four -- , then it's back to being
too low, where I have to do the foot-switchcaroo deal -- and gun the thing
to keep it from dying when I come to a stop. Definitely not safe.

It's also begging to die to when I start from a stop unless I give it extra
gas.

It starts right back up, of course. "Who? Me?".

Here's the Twilight Zone: As far the carb goes, the two screws used to
adjust the carb seem to be in the same positions they were when they were
last adjusted, which corrected this... for a day.. and they're not
particulary loose.

Insight? Without the nee-ni-nee-nu nee-ni-nee-nu of the TV series?

The help I got on the directionals (previous) was OUTSTANDING.

(WTC Note: I sincerely apologize to the members of this list for actually
posting extremely emotional sentiment for the participants to endure. While
it either inflames hurtful derision or solicits much-needed support, it does
not contribute to the function of the list . Like most, I just vented
irrespective of the forum -- but I did not intend nor do not now, nor ever
so, to vent at the expense of alienating anybody, right or left
(politically).

(This is a great list. Its members, you, me, automatically have at least
that one thing in common. Thus apologies and respect offered.)

Just answer my question, DAMN IT!

; )

Craig.

