From: "Diana K." <burning.girl(-at-)home.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 28 Sep 2001 21:56:58 -0700
Subject: I love my leaky tranny

So... just some little musings here, which may be construed as questions.

New passengers in the bus seem a bit disconcerted by what I've come to refer
to as the second-gear-bounce.  Meaning my bus bounces up and down when
accelerating in second gear.  Of course this is exacerbated by our nicely
rutted Vancouver streets, but still quite noticeable esp. when the bus is
still cold.  Do all busses do this, or is it a special feature?  My last bus
had a bug tranny so I can't really compare.

Jacked up the rear of the bus and spun the back wheels.  Heard a noise that
I think is well characterized by John Muir's description of a "ballsy
rumble".  Reduction box bearings?  How hard is it to fix this?  Any advice
on how to get the plugs out of the reduction boxes without stripping them?
The main drainplug on the transmission is destroyed already, guess I should
deal with that too but... leaking oil at an accelerated rate anyway, why
drain it?  ;-)  The plug in the front section is ok.

This transmission is leaking like crazy.  Leaves a spot about the size of a
small plate when parked on cement.  I filled it each morning on my drive to
Nevada.  After driving about 400-500 miles, it takes a little over a pint.
But it drives fine, no popping out of gear.  Slight grind going into first
and reverse is a bit tricky, but isn't it always?  It does kind of howl on
the highway, though I suspect that's the reduction boxes crying out for
attention.  I'm just debating whether to keep driving it and save up for a
transmission rebuild (like in maybe 6-8 months if I'm really lucky) or pull
it out, try to seal up where it's leaking from around the nosecone and right
side and fix the reduction boxes.  I've never pulled a transmission before.
Working with just the idiot book so this might be scary.

lalala... please forgive my ramblings.  Any advice welcome.  Please hold the
scoldings.
Diana

