Date: Fri, 28 Sep 2001 22:15:43 -0700 (MST)
From: fishbowl(-at-)conservatory.com
To: Paul Leske <bullimeister(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: BUS LIST <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Hippy Bus Needed

On Fri, 28 Sep 2001, Paul Leske wrote:

> I just recieved this email (scroll below).  As you may know, I blasted
>all the hippy artwork from my bus, but any of you deadheads in CA that are
>interested can contact the guy below.  Who knows, maybe you'll make enough
>dough to buy a new bandana, Birkenstocks & some weed.  :-)  Good luck.

It's pretty sad to realize the greater implications of that, it 
being hard to find a hippy bus in San Francisco, of all places. 
What's next, hard to find cornfields in Iowa or cows in Texas?

I do need to point out something here, as I have some experience 
with the way SOME tv and film production folks treat cars.  

When Oliver Stone was filming the JFK movie, they wanted to recreate the
scene with cars from the period, and were trying to put the exact cars
where they belonged according to photos, the Zapruder film, etc.  Well,
some members of my 58-64 chevy club got their cars in the film, and one
(Mike Tidwell) even let them use his 58 'vette.  which. they. used. as. a.
camera. dolly.  They drilled large holes in the hood of a show-quality
58 vette.  They scratched the fenders all to hell, and dinged one of
the doors.

To their credit, they did reimburse for the damage, but if 
you are familiar with the straight axle vette era, you realize just 
how bad it sucks to have the 58-59 *only* acrylic lacquer chipped.  
There's really no such thing as "touchup paint" for that...  No
vette parts are ever cheap (right Kyle?), but when you're dealing 
with 58-59, it's a whole 'nother world.


If you get your vehicle in a movie or a commercial, just try to keep this
in mind:  If the contract doesn't specify that they won't drive it over a
cliff or blow it up, assume that they WILL.  Even if the people who negotiate
with you or your car club have some respect for the true value of the 
vehicles, the location crew won't...




