From: "Dan Kinsey" <thatvwguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 29 Sep 2001 10:11:29 -0400
Subject: Delete key/Ratbastards

...with bus list content!

This month I have received 2928 messages - many from the VB list, 1061 of
them have been deleted unread - again, many from the VB list.  There are
people on this list who every time they post I read it - Ellis, NQ, JP,
Kyle, Ronnie, John Howard, Everett and a few others.  Some of them I read
knowing I might disagree with some of what they have to say but I either
like their writing style or have appreciate their perspective on the VW
community.  There are other folks that almost without exception I delete
their messages without reading .  There are also subject headings that I
read every time or delete every time.  If it says Binz in the subject I'll
be reading it.  However, how many times has the list covered correct tire
size?  How about how to lower/raise a bus?  M-code questions?  Probably 3 or
4 times a year for as many years as the list has been around.  Straight to
delete for me.  If I'm not mistaken, "search the archives first before
posting" or something to that effect is in the charter as well.  I don't see
many flames flying about tire size...and you never will from me because I
know how to use my delete key.

Please note: EVERYONE posting about the terrorist attacks/US response has
tried to make it evident what the message was about in the subject line.
You saw the subject line, knew what the message was about, knew you didn't
want to read it, then read it anyway.  You read it knowing you didn't want
to then whined about doing it.  Yes, you are the smart ones.

There is a list moderator.  That is Thom as far as I know.  If you don't
like the "ratbastard" or any other topic ***Pmail*** Thom.  By posting "Kill
this thread" you create another off topic post and create tension on the
list.

One last thing - JTB, who ever you are, why don't you post your name?  I'm
sure there are those who would like to know who you are the next time they
meet you at a VW event.  Take ownership of your posts and your flames.

-Dan Kinsey
Stock height Binz with correct tire size and no M-code plate








