From: "John Flowers" <flowersj(-at-)gallatinriver.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 29 Sep 2001 20:33:43 -0500
Subject: Fall Maintenance

It's starting to get a little chilly here in the midwest in the evening and
the days are growing shorter so I thought I would take advantage of one of
the nicer saturday's we are likely to have to do a little maintenance on my
bus and my son's beetle.
I got John Muir's book out and spread out a nice work blanket on the
driveway and spent a leisurely hour checking the underside of my engine and
transmission for oil and fluid leaks, I set all the valves, checked the
points, changed the oil and installed a new generator belt. I wiped
everything underneath down and cleaned around the engine compartment. It
won't be long and the winter weather will be here, I don't have much of a
place to work inside so it's nice to spend sometime in the sunshine while it
lasts.
I did notice that I have something leaking on the lower half of the inside
of my driver side brake drum, I didn't take the time to try and trace it to
see if it's a leaky reduction box or perhaps wheel cylinder. It's going to
be nice tomorrow so I'll take a look at it then. I still have some leaks
around the pushrod tubes on the number three cylinder to take care of and
I'm planning on installing those spring loaded pushrod tubes before winter
sets in.
My friend Paul Leske, another midwesterner on this list has urged me to put
my bus in storage for the winter and I may just take him up on it, I began
cleaning out one of the mini warehouse spaces I rent and plan on rolling my
westy in there when the weather turns for the worse. I did pretty much the
same routine on Riley's (my son's) 66 beetle, and remarkably enough every
one of his valves was set at .006 right on target. I still am amazed by the
way that engine holds up. I did a major tuneup on it when he bought it this
summer and it's run flawlessly ever since. He will probably be parking that
car when the winter comes and driving his 81 rabbit convertible, (water
cooled heat plus no salt exposure for the spotless beetle).
I've probably got only one or two good camping trips left in the bus this
season and I look forward to the crisp fall mornings when I crawl out of the
bus at 5:30 to pee and decide to stay up before everyone else and put some
coffee on.
I'm sharing this with the list because I know that there are lots of bus
fans who look forward to reading this kind of hum-drum routine stuff that is
the heart of our hobby.
I don't have any axe to grind, and I'm as affected as any other normal
citizen by what's happening. I just happen to assign a high value to the
content of this list and the information I get out of it. I am confident
that others feel the way I do.
Thanks for reading
John Flowers

