Date: Sun, 30 Sep 2001 13:58:28 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)home.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Lonely '67: care and feeding

>From: Failure <failure(-at-)nanbara.failsure.net>
>Date: Sat, 29 Sep 2001 18:16:10 -0700
>
>I shouldn't leave the bus alone for longer than a month (there is a
>Peach State Transporters meeting once a month!  ;-)) but I'm wondering
>if I need to change maintenance habits now that I've gone from "drive
>daily" to "drive seldom" mode.  I've seen ideas for really long duration
>storage, but should I do anything different for shorter periods like one
>month?

Here are some ideas...

Disconnect the battery negative cable when you park it.  Yeah, you'll
lose the settings on the stereo, but it will help keep the battery from
discharging.  You might consider one of those automatic "Battery Tender"
chargers, or else just be ready to put the charger on it a day or so
before you want to drive it.

Check and correct the tire pressure every time you drive it.

When you do drive it, drive it long enough to get the engine and oil hot
for a little while.  Don't just fart around town...take it out on the
Interstate, etc.  This is to burn off all the condensation and junk that
is in the oil.  If you can take it for a nice long drive every time you
go out, but it sits for a month otherwise between times, change the oil
like every other month.  If you only take it on short drives once a
month, consider changing the oil every month.  

You probably aren't going to make a 200-300 mile trip every month, so
some of the gas in your gas tank will live there for awhile before it
gets burned.  If you are taking it on a long enough trip to get the
engine warm, you'll burn two or three gallons each time - topping off
with fresh gas before you park it will help.  You might consider 
adding something like Sta-Bil to the gas to keep it from getting
gunked up.

Keep up on stuff like oiling the door hinges, lubricating the lock
cylinders, etc.  You might make it a point to operate all the doors
once or twice when you do drive it to keep things from getting jammed
up.

If critters are a concern, put rags in the air cleaner opening and the
tail pipe to keep them out.  But DON'T FORGET to remove them before
starting the Bus!  Either attach long, brightly colored plastic
streamers to them ("Remove Before Flight") or tie a long string to
them, run the string around the outside to the front of the Bus, and
loop the string through the steering wheel a couple of times as a
reminder. 

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds


