Date: Mon, 09 Feb 2009 12:00:27 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: joe stcroix <spotop(-at-)gmail.com>, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] timing

joe stcroix wrote:
> Mike said "There should be a line.. that should be pointing towards 
> about 4:30 (towards back of bus). "
> 
> that notch is at about 7:30 on mine. i will check for the frozen
> advance. also Mike said "You have your plugs off by 90 degrees.  It's
> supposed to be:
> 
> 3 2 4 1

I don't know if the formatting changed, but the distributor connections
are supposed to be:

3 2
4 1

firing order is 4-1-2-3, crank spins CLOCKWISE!

> when i did try this configuration the bus would not start, so i may
> have both problems...freaky to think i been driving it like this for
> quite awhile. long enough to say im kinda embarrassed.

Eh, blame it on the PO for potentially using the wrong parts.


However, I think now's a good time to verify some important things...
first, you need to figure out where firing TDC is to verify what's what
(besides figuring out what distributor you have in there).  Get a helper
to spin the crank for you.  You want to spin it CLOCKWISE while watching
the #1 valves (passenger side towards front of bus).  While rotating the
crank CLOCKWISE, watch those two front valves - very front one is
exhaust, next one back is intake.  Here's what should happen.

Rotate.  Watch for the exhaust to open (top of rocker arm pushes towards
the engine) - exhaust is now getting pushed out of the cylinder.  Keep
rotating and the exhaust will start to close and the intake will open -
cylinder is now sucking air/fuel into the cylinder.  keep rotating until
the intake closes - stop rotating.  Now you are at the bottom of the
compression stroke.  Go back to the engine bay and rotate the crank
another 180 degrees while watching for the timing mark and rotate until
the timing mark lines up with the 0 degree marker.  You are now at TDC
firing position for the #1 cylinder.  Make note of where the distributor
rotor is pointing - that is where your mark should be lined up and
that's where you hook up your #1 cable.

Verify that first and see what's up.  My guess is you also have the
wrong distributor on there or someone messed up the distributor drive
gear.  If you want to verify the distributor drive gear (which is not a
bad idea), just pull out the distributor and look down in the hole.  The
slot in the shaft should be angled about 12 degrees to the left from
vertical and the offset in the shaft should be towards the left.  This
is described on page 24 of the bentley in the engine section.  Just so
you know, the picture in figure 8-2 is sideways!!  Really confusing.

Hope that helps!
Mike
