Date: Mon, 09 Feb 2009 18:30:57 -0500
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
To: The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>, 
Subject: Sixth annual True Canadian Winter Bus Campout  Q&A

Hi Volks,

I spoke with the park staff today at Valens Conservation Area, and we 
are good to go for TCWBC 2009. The sixth annual event will be held on 
February 21st, in Valens Ontario, just north of Hamilton Ontario, less 
than an hour's drive west of Toronto.

So here's a short Q & A about the event....

Q: When is it?
A: February 21st, 2009.

Q: Where is it?
A: Valens Ontario, less than an hour west of Toronto, slightly north of 
Hamilton.

Q: Why would anyone in their right mind want to go camping in winter?
A: That's a complex question. I will answer it with the following 
observations:

     1. There are no crowds at the campground
     2. There are no mosquitoes, black flies, hornets, wasps,
        sand fleas, spiders or other annoying insects on campsites
        in Ontario in February.
     3. You save $$$ camping in winter because you don't have to buy ice.

Q: Won't I freeze at night?
A: No reason to worry about that, we camp on serviced sites where you 
can plug in a small quartz heater and keep your bus toasty warm all night.

Q: What will I do, on a campsite in winter?
A: Many of the same things as in the summer. Valens has great XC Ski 
trails and also offers Ice Fishing and skating on the lake. In addition 
we also keep a large campfire burning with room for plenty of campers.

Q: How do I keep from freezing while winter camping?
A. It's not that hard to do. Start by dressing appropriately, and make 
sure you increase your food intake; you need about double the calories 
to stay warm while outside in winter.

Q: What about, umm.. you know... the uh, "facilities"??
A: Actually, the "facilities" at Valens are top notch. The washroom 
buildings are kept warm and clean and offer showers and flush toilets.

Q: What's it cost?
A: A day pass is $8, a serviced campsite is $33. Find a friend to double 
up with and you can camp for $22/night.

Q: What about the weather?
A: Well, I can't control that, so there are NO PROMISES. If it's raining 
or if there's a severe winter storm warning, I'd advise you to stay 
home. But if not, you should expect that there will be buses there.

Q: What should I bring?
A: Come self-contained for Saturday. On Sunday morning the group will be 
having Breakfast Burritos, so please bring a contribution for breakfast. 
P-mail me if you are looking for advice on what to bring.

Q: How many buses usually attend?
A: Last year we had 15 buses in attendance, and a number of bus owners 
who attended in their winter rides while their bus was hibernating.

Q: Does the park have an alcohol policy?
A: Yes, they do. In accordance with many other regional VW events, we 
observe "Red Cup Protocols". In the past we've found that if we don't 
cause trouble then we don't get any.

Q: Does the event have a website?
A: It certainly does:
    http://www.pottsfamily.ca/The_Bug_Pack/TCWBC/index.html

Less than two weeks to go and I can hardly wait!!!

Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/79 Westfakia "Bob the Tomato"
1987 Wolfsburg Weekender Hardtop
www.pottsfamily.ca
