Date: Wed, 11 Feb 2009 21:52:43 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Chris Slaymaker <chris_slaymaker(-at-)bellsouth.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Steering box on the way out FIXED!

thought I'd add a few notes...

Chris Slaymaker wrote:
  > Steering box R & R.
> 
> The tough part is getting the steering shaft undone.  This would be a
> good time to replace the steering coupling and find out why your horn
> doesnt work.

That is a good suggestion! - that coupler is one of the many overlooked 
parts until it finally breaks and you're steering wheel is rendered 
useless.  It ranks up there with checking fuel lines!!


> NOTE: I took EVERYTHING apart in the cab, but it might not be
> necessary.  Bentley says to just remove the turn signal switch.

If you're changing the steering box, you don't need to disassemble 
anything above the steering box.  It can be a bit helpful to remove the 
cover plate at the bottom of the steering shaft to access the top of the 
damper for inspection, but that's only if you're changing it and not 
required to remove the steering box.  You might need to remove the 
steering wheel and spring "clamp" thing otherwise it might not lower 
back down.

BE VERY CAREFUL WHEN PUSHING THE STEERING WHEEL UP AND DOWN FROM THE 
BOTTOM.  YOU CAN BREAK OFF THE LITTLE PLASTIC PARTS STICKING OUT OF THE 
TURN SIGNAL!!  Removing the steering wheel would not be a bad idea so 
you don't accidentally break the turn signal canceling tab from the turn 
signal mechanism.

> the handle end of the screwdriver).  Presumably, the Bentley folks
> feel that all thats necessary is to pull (push) the steering shaft up
> out of the way enough to swing the steering box out of its hole
> through the frame (see NOTE above).

I'm pretty sure this possible because I didn't remove my damper.  I just 
undid that bolt and pushed the steering shaft up from the bottom.  I 
believe that I did have to put the key in so that the steering shaft 
would move.


> own tools and return it for a full refund when youre done.  It took a
> little turning and tapping, but the pittman arm broke free without too
> much hassle.  A pickle fork wont work.

This is probably the most difficult part of the job!  Well, that and 
getting the bolt off that is attached to the other end of the pitman 
arm.  I didn't have a pitman arm puller but I used another puller and 
tapped at it a few times and that seemed to do the trick as well


> I didnt know about the captive bolt (mentioned in the HINT above) and
> wound up removing the steering coupling with everything in the car.
> There are a lot of cotter pins to deal with.  Put them in a safe place
>  NOT on the ground.  Theres a warpy washer at each end of the four
> bolts (total 8)  put them in a safe place.

That's interesting - mine are all nyloc nuts and I had no cotter pins.


> 5.         There was NOT an index mark on the pittman arm side of the
> steering box, as indicated by the Bentley manual.

It's not on the box itself, but on the end of the shaft.  There should 
be two markings - one for left hand steering wheel or right-hand 
steering wheel (I believe marked L and R).  It is on the end of the 
pitman arm shaft and you need to line up the mark on the pitman arm with 
one of those two markings depending on your steering setup.  If you 
don't, your steering geometry will be off.

> 7.         There was a mark on the steering shaft (inside the cabin)
> that apparently was made by the PO.  It had NOTHING to do with center
> position.  See next note.

I've never had that mark do anything meaningful for me.  I'd recommend 
getting the steering straight as straight as you can and then installing 
the wheel.  If it's off a little while the car is driving straight, pull 
over, remove the wheel and adjust it a notch or two either way until 
it's straight while driving.
