Date: Tue, 02 May 2006 16:40:12 -0400
From: "Joseph Ames Jr." <joe.ames(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: type2 Digest 2 May 2006 20:00:00 -0000 Issue 6608

John, the sad fact of the matter is that the VW air-cooled world attracts
more than its fair share of tightwads and know-it-alls.  I mean, generally
speaking and allowing for notable exceptions, if they had the money they
probably would not be involved with these old trucks.

When I was an undergrad I worked at the local Radio Shack.  I knew it was a
doomed business model when I would spend an hour explaining VCRs to some guy
who would thank me and leave.  Then he would come back a day or two later
and ask me to help him buy the correct cables for the VCR he just bought at
some discount place.

Heavy sigh...  Thanks for gypping me out of my commission, pal.  It's okay
-- I like ramen noodles.

If you've got to bargain to the last penny -- that is, if your time is so
worthless comparatively, that dollars and cents are meaningful to you -- I
suggest that your time might be better spent improving your value
proposition to the labor market, rather than screwing around with an old
bucket of bolts.

Joe

Joseph A Ames Jr MBA, MS
Malvern (Philadelphia), Pennsylvania

1978 Westfalia Deluxe in restoration
1994 Audi 100CS quattro -- still going strong (-at-) 190,000mi
2004 VW Touareg V8/Air Susp. Etc



-----Original Message-----
From: type2-digest-help(-at-)type2.com [mailto:type2-digest-help(-at-)type2.com]
Sent: Tuesday, May 02, 2006 4:00 PM
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: type2 Digest 2 May 2006 20:00:00 -0000 Issue 6608

Date: Tue, 2 May 2006 10:55:58 -0600
To: "Ted Finesman" <tedebare(-at-)one.net>, <LarryEdson(-at-)comcast.net>,
  <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "John Connolly, Aircooled.Net" <john(-at-)aircooled.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] SVDA and Kadrons
Message-ID: <00eb01c66e09$4c4e9fe0$6408010a(-at-)NewHomeHub>

Our instructions are FOR OUR CUSTOMERS and are obviously copywrite
protected. I'm sorry they are not available for the list, but they are for
the guys who bought the stuff from us. Unfortunately a lot of guys buy at
the cheapest price, and then ask us for help to put it in since they got no
instructions with their purchase.

In this instance the guy who started this whole thing never bothered to
check his e-mail, and now thousands of bus owners got the impression that
Aircooled.Net leaves our customers "hanging" without instructions and
without assistance, and this is not the case at all (our instructions are 5
pages long SINGLE SPACED just on the SVDA. and include installation,
troubleshooing, and small info most "experts" do not even know about,
because they are just selling something because people started asking about
it LOL.

We have been promoting the benefits of the SVDA for a long time, WAY BEFORE
other "experts" even know about them, and one heavily promoted "expert" was
taught about SVDAs from me personally! And now he knows more about them then
me? Gimme a break, I started designing my own in 1985, and even 2 years ago
one "ignition expert" was selling 009s as "the best" LMAO. I'm no Kadron
expert, but I sure know about vacuum advance and ignition, better then any
VW guy in the World AFAIAC, and I'm not afraid to say it.

I said nothing about Mario until he stuck his nose into a place it did not
belong. At every opportunity he slams ACN saying some BS that we are too
expensive, or don't sell kits as complete, total lies. The problem is that
many newbies assume that since he "owns a restoration shop" (aka: chop shop
where switching VINs and selling customer's parts as their own is
commonplace), he must know what he's talking about, so I'm going to say
something to clarify the situation if I feel it's misleading enough to
warrant an explanation. If you do not like it, put me on ignore.

I am not doing a constant Mario Bashing on the list, but will not tolerate
misinformation, lies, and other crap like this. Mario can STFU and stop
trolling for new ignorant victims, and then the list won't have to listen to
my replies. He's a thief, plain and simple, and a Judge decided as such.
Ted, you may think this is an acceptable way to make a living, but I won't
tolerate it. If my behavior is so detrimental to the list, ban me. I think
the moderators do a great job of keeping things on track.

It is true we (Aircooled.Net) are more expensive on some stuff then other
stores, but we are also cheaper then anyone else on others, but all I hear
is bitching on the list about how someone is too expensive. You can give me
ANY vendor out there, and I can find a product where they are more expensive
then other places. The most common reason for this is because people are
ASSUMING the part is the same part. It may have the same description, and
"fit" the same application (or not LOL), but one may be made in Taiwan while
another is in Brazil, another is in Germany, one in India, and another USA.
So are they the same as being stated as such when comparing prices, or when
bashing a vendor about "how expensive" they are? This is the crap that gets
old, because it's not as simple as it appears to most list readers, they
assume all parts are the same (they are not).

John
Aircooled.Net Inc.

------------------------------
