Date: Wed, 24 Oct 2001 12:32:37 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: "Simon Ramirez Jr." <carapace(-at-)onebox.com>, typE2(-at-)TYPE2.COM
Subject: Re: [T2] Heater Blower - electricity 101(LONG!)

Warning:

Properly fuse whatever circuit you choose to use. Test these circuits 
yourself before you choose to use them. Run the fans for a while off of a 
battery or battery charger to ensure nothing overheats which could lead to 
a fire. Use proper connections. Twisting wire together and taping it is NOT 
GOOD ENOUGH for a permanent installation or for anything temporary or 
otherwise inside your van. I will not be held responsible for any damages 
to your vehicle, use at your own risk!!!

SUBSTITUTE A NEW BLOWER FOR THE OEM VW BLOWER

Just move the wiring from the original wiring to the new blower. Positive 
for positive, negative for negative.

WHY IS IT THIS WAY? or ELECTRICITY 101

The reason there is a relay is this:

The original power comes from the back of the bus forward to the switch and 
then back to the blower. All of the wire creates a resistance which lowers 
the current (and possibly a slight loss in voltage) and thus the speed of 
the blower. By adding a relay they can basically run the power straight 
from the battery (or something powered near the fan) and through the relay 
(an electromagnetic switch) to the blower. When the switch on the dash is 
closed then the circuit is completed and the blower gets the full voltage 
(and current) of the source without any current losses from long wires - 
that is the full 12 volts. If they did not have something like the relay 
when they designed the wiring system, VW would have had to use a very 
thick, heavy wire similar to the large wire on the alternator (or larger).

The relay really isn't sensitive to these voltage/current losses so the 
voltage that comes from the front is enough to close the relay when you 
close the switch on the dash. The relay doesn't care much about whether the 
voltage is 12 volts, 11 volts, or 7 volts (or what the current available is 
because it requires a a very small amount) - as long as the minimum 
voltage/current is supplied. If the minimum voltage is not supplied (say 
the threshold is 6 volts and we have 5 volts because of a wiring defect or 
a low battery charge) then the relay won't close. Same goes when you 
consider the current. If the relay is getting ALMOST enough voltage/current 
then you might hear a rapid clicking or buzzing. This is bad.

The way the OEM car manufacturers slow down blowers is with resistors. You 
have one small resistor (small current drop) for medium, and other larger 
resistor (bigger current reduction) for low speed, and no resistor (full 
current or voltage) for high speed. You can have as many speeds as resistor 
values. What you do is use a ROTARY SELECTOR SWITCH (which also has a tiny 
resistance) and use it's different positions to connect the 12V source to 
different value resistors and then to the blower. In different positions on 
the knob, the motor receives whatever voltage/current that the resistor 
connected to that setting outputs.

This switch is like several on/off switches sharing a common housing. 
Imagine 3 push button switches side by side. Press #1 and the switch passes 
power to the #1 output terminals. Press #2 and #1 pops up (off) and 
electricity is supplied to the #2 output terminals. And again press #3 and 
#2 pops up and electricity (current and voltage) passes to the #3 output 
terminals. Now connect to #1 a big resistor, to #2 a small resistor, and to 
#3 no resistor. Now connect all three outputs to the same wire and run it 
to the blower's positive side. Also connect the blower's negative side to 
the negative side of the battery. Now connect the positive side of the 
battery to the input side of the selector switch. Now when #1 is pressed 
down, the power reduced by the resistor the most and you have a low speed 
blower, press #2 and you get less resistance and a medium speed. Press #3 
and you get full current and full speed.

To help visualize this big test that your $5 multi-meter, set it to 12 
volts (or the 1st voltage setting higher than 12 volts) and place the red 
probe on the positive fan wire (at the fan) and the black wire on the 
negative fan wire.  If you run through this same routine you can watch the 
voltage change. If you had a big enough ammeter you could add that to the 
circuit and see the current change. I doubt the $5 multi-meter will 
tolerate current this big, don't try it.

This is a variation on a rotary selector knob which has detents built in - 
clicks you feel or hear when you rotate the knob. You have to be sure that 
is rated for a higher current than the motor requires.  Each detent would 
be equal to pushing the different buttons in the previous example.

Voltage = current * resistance (or with some algebra...)

Current = voltage /resistance (if voltage is maintained and resistance goes 
down, current goes up....)

In this case current = speed.

NAPA's $10 SOLUTION

Another option is a heavy duty blower switch that has resistance built into 
it and used for controlling heater blowers. NAPA sells one for about $10.

Resistance leads to heat. Larger resistance=larger amounts of heat. Large 
enough and you get fire, melted wires, etc.

Remember the electric wall heaters? Wall heaters are coils of special high 
resistance wire designed to get hot and survive.

For this reason a true fan control switch (generic) usually has ceramic 
guts. To survive the heat generated by the heavy current absorbing wire 
inside.

They are not as efficient as electronic speed controls but in this 
application you won't be able to tell a difference. Again be sure it is 
rated for a higher current than your blower requires. This gives to an 
infinite number of speeds (more or less UNLESS the switch is set up with 
detents (notches or clicks).

How do you connect all this up? Well you could eliminate the VW relay for 
the rear blower and run the hot wire directly to the new motor. Probably 
would work fine. Hook it up and try for a test. Nothing (switch, wires, 
fans) will be hurt, the fan may just spin slower than if it was connected 
directly to the battery. Try a direct fan to battery test too for 
comparison. Again nothing will be hurt. Fuse the circuit if you plan to 
leave it this way.

The whole circuit without the VW relay would be a 12 volt source, fuse, 
through the NAPA switch back to the motor and then to ground.

BE SURE TO FUSE IT. That way if there is a ground in the circuit --- if the 
12 volt positive wire accidentally grounds to the frame of the car 
somewhere the fuse will pop versus the whole wire passing huge amounts of 
current from the source (12v+) to the ground (chassis - 12v negative) and 
thus creating heat, fire, melted wires, stink, etc. A fuse is simply a 
piece of weak wire that gets hot and melts if too much current passes 
through it. It sacrifices itself to save the wiring. The fuse needs to be 
rated slightly higher than the total current required by the blower+switch. 
If the fan box says 10 amps, then put in a 10 amp fuse. If it blows try a 
15 amp fuse. I would not get much farther from the load requirements so 
that the fuse will blow when it is supposed to. If you put in a 30 amp, 
then the wire may melt before the fuse does it's job. If you use two fans 
add their current draw together. Two 10 amp fans would require a 20 amp fuse.

HARDER THAN IT HAS TO BE

If you want to create a Rube Goldberg circuit that uses relays (why? I 
dunno. And who IS this Rube Goldberg guy anyhow?) you would start out 
deciding how many different speeds you want your fan to run. Let's say 6 
speeds. Start out finding a six position rotary switch. Can't huh? Okay how 
about a 4 speed fan? Got the switch? It will take a 5 position switch - 1 
off and 4 speed positions OR a second additional switch to cut power to the 
rotary switch when you want the fan off. Good. Now full speed is a full 12 
volts so no resistance required. However the other four speeds will require 
resistors. Go the resistances figured out? Good. Now you will need 1 hot 
wire from the battery to up front. Run that through a fuse close to your 
source. Then to the rotary switch. Connect it to the input. Now out of the 
switch run the four wires that represent the different speeds - 1,2,3,4.

#4 is high speed so run it to the #4 relay. The #4 relay simply connects 12 
volts to the fan through a second fuse between the relay and the 12 volt 
source.

#3 is the same but there is the resistor added between the #3 relay and the 
motor. Ditto for #2 and #1.

So now you have a circuit that requires a rotary switch (and maybe a second 
switch for main power), 5 fuses, 4 relays, and the the blower - oh and a 
heck of alot of wiring.

TWO BLOWERS, TWO SWITCHES, 3 SPEEDS

Someone reminded me of a great simple solution. Use two blowers (which are 
in themselves fact big resistors), two toggle switches, and nothing else.

I don't remember the diagram and can't find my copy but:

With both switches off, both blowers are off.

With the left switch on both blowers are on but they are in series 
returning a certain speed (lower than high).

With the right switch on, left off, the blowers are in parallel, operating 
at a different speed again.

With both switches on, blowers are both receiving full voltage and current 
and they are operating at full speed.

I have a copy of the circuit here somewhere but at the present I can't find 
it and I am in a rush (late for lunch) so I don't have time to redesign the 
circuit.

Anyone?




Ciao!

Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE:       Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing, otherwise 
complete (make offer)

