From: "incynr8" <incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org>
To: <Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 10 Oct 2002 07:43:59 -0400
Subject: Motor tear down findings.-long and rambly

The nemesis is much lighter now. Slapped her on the VW 313 stand (wow,
I'm fearless with that thing), and tore that sick puppy's tin off.
Interestingly enough, the small piece for tstat operatoration was found
living on the drivers side head! Saved for future use.We also found a
nest of yellowjackets that moved inbetween jugs 3 and 4, which looked
kewl all cooked, but scary that it got there, man Bus didn't sit THAT
long. Never would have seen this nest without tearing tin off.

Heads were a complete mess. They are 311 101 373a, which should be a
1500-1600 from 66-70? I don't think these are 1300 heads, but they were
flycut, OMG, were they ever. Nasty weld on base fin one one, all sloppy.
One had the 3 nubs along the cyl edge ground off, othewr didin't. Can't
wait to cc'em and send them back to that crook VWBob.

What BROKE: The helicoil inserts for spark plugs weren't done at all
right, plugs had either a) shallow thread into chamber, or exposed
threads in chamber. I believe cyl 1 had a combination of HIGH
compression and detonation caused by the "ledge" surfaces, that it broke
around the spark plug hole, a chunk of the casting nuked. Valve
installed hieght was visibly different amoungst the heads.

We pulled cyl 1 then, the rings for compression were not 45x45, gaps
were almost next to one another. Oil control looked ok. Wel'll reattach
that piston for now, but don't plan on using them over. I learned you
have to wire them pretty well, for black RTV, they simply broke seal
with one crank turn. Oh well, I want to keep tearing down anyway.

We also found metal in oil, all magnetic, and stuck to drain plate
bottom, where I had a big magnet, not much on big pieces, just powdery
silver. I assume this is cyl scraping and that missing chunk of head.
The ghia gets  this silver sludgy and still is kewl with 99500 oe
miles.'

Real shame to see  POS heads waste a 2k mile motor.

I'm thinking one of a many options:

New cyls, rings, slugs, heads, reassemble and go for it. If everything
measures right this only leaves the bottom end to nuke, which has good
oil pressure and spun fine until now.
Tear it all down and put new bearings in it to (never did this to a VW
before)
Or Above plus new case.
Or #1, plus by another mill.

Since the reciprocating assembly has made it 2k miles, I thought I could
get 10-20k out of her with good heads, proper valve geometery, tons of
oil changes, and new clean pistons, which isn't asking much...

Al broken 66 dlx.
