From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "Vintage List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 10 Oct 2002 18:58:46 -0400
Subject: hot start-starter relay

a little help....

i have finally gotten around to putting the engine back in. i scraped my new
header down, and am trying this heat resistant paint-supposedly 1500
degrees. but it needs to be cured within 8 hours of application. the only
way to cure is in an oven or by running your engine. as an oven is out of
the question i need to get the bus running tonight to cure this paint
properly.

here is the problem-when doing this work on my bus-i decided to move the
bosch starter relay into the engine compartment, as it was corroding, and i
thought in the engine compartment would protect. the relay was two pieces
that were snapped together. i believe one is the actual relay and one is
just a connector. the connector was so corroded, that i decided to take it
out, and wire around it. the relay was labeled and connected as such:

Connector 30: red wire, to inline 15 amp fuse then to solenoid.
Connector 85: blue wire- connected to red wire which appeared to go to the
front of the bus.
Connector 86: yellow wire-ground
Connector 87: black wire to spade connector on solenoid.
Connector 87a:this was in the center of the relay, and it appeared as
nothing went to this connection.

So I disconnected the Connector Piece, and installed new wires directly to
the relay. Now when i try to start the bus-i blow the 15 amp fuse, i tried a
20 amp, and i get the same problem. i must have mis marked something, or
maybe the 87a had some connection i didn't see, inside the Connector.

I am thinking of bypassing the relay altogether just to get it started
tonight, but i don't remember how it was wired originally., not sure if i
could piece together the wiring diagram info-though i will take a looka t
that right now.

thanks for any help...i'll go check the wiring diagram in the meantime..

-kevin
somerville, ma
'65 kombi
'67 sqbk
