From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Diane <djaeby(-at-)hotmail.com>, Vintage Bus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 11 Aug 2003 17:45:45 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] Re:  KCW DC progress and more questions

Wanted to say how beautiful that yellow bus is.  I love all the chrome.  I
am
like a ferret or something .. attracted to shiny things.

1)  Wondering how much money it costs to chrome plate something, like that
bumper for example.  Anyway .. it is fantastic looking.

.Answer> We found the bumpers on the Samba for sale for 800 dollars. That
was a deal being it cost approx 1000 dollars to have a complete front and
rear bumper, guards and towel bars chromed.

2)  Jumping from one subject to another ...  Is there anyway to find where
your bus has been ?? I mean, like a pedigree .. names of owners are not
important .. just wondering if you bought it in Florida and it is 36 years
old
.. where has the bus been ... where did it's first owner live ?  How long
people owned it before passing it on ??

Answer. My Double Cab came from Califoria City, Cali. I bought it from the
second owner who bought it from the local  original owner. According to him
(second owner) the bus was used to drive back and forth cross country by the
PO who bought all his parts from the NAPA store the second owners (bus) wife
owns. When he purchased it he bought all new parts for it, including all new
glass (from the dealer), never drove it, just took it apart to try and
restore (thus the bondo). He had owned it for 7 or more years. We found (VW
Howard and I) this bus on our way back from KP a few years ago, we stopped
at the NAPA store and asked if anybody knew where any buses were, low and
behold the owners husband said I got a "CREW CAB" I'D like to sell, and the
rest is history.

3)  Totally different subject ... Daily driver .. I think there is nothing
strange about using your 36 year old car as a daily driver.  Yes there will
be
mechanical problems, but isn't that the case with any car ?? And repairs
should be WAY less money than on the newer cars.

answer, we all know

ronnie

ps. just got back from RMMW and Bandimier show where John Jones (KCW's) won
best of show at both with the 21 window
