From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 12 Aug 2003 10:27:47 EDT
To: djaeby(-at-)hotmail.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Wipers

Did you find the parts list online?

look in the electrical section for wiper parts

do you have the wiper switch and wires that run from switch to motor?

do you have a Bentley manual for the splitty?  If not *get one*.  if so turn 
to the section on wiper motor (in the electrical chapter) and *read it*.   
read the whole dern idiot book.  Not very good on electrics, but has definately a 
lot of great stuff.  

The wiper motor assembly mounts with one 10mm bolt in the middle, and at the 
pivots with a nut at each, on the outside.  Get new wiper pivot grommets 
before putting the motor in.  You will need to drop the dash tray to fit the motor 
in, well, you take it out to clean/grease/ bench test it, then you need to put 
it back in.   it has to wiggle in just right.  the radio has to be removed to 
put the wiper assembly in.  Do you have a spare battery or a battery charger? 
 for bench testing.

I know some of this is confusing, but there are resources out there.   Use 
the idiot book and the Bentley.  I love parts lists.   it has every piece of the 
bus.  wow!   check it out.  

Guess this list isn't geared to someone who just wants to take the bus to a 
mechanic.  Most of the advice is, well, learn about your bus.   .

In a message dated 8/12/2003 7:02:03 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
djaeby(-at-)hotmail.com writes:

<< 
 OK .. I need the pivots I guess.  I have the arms, yes .. the part the blade 
connects to.
 
 The motor just dangles, or did, until I laid it on the shelf .. there is 
nothing to hold the motor, wherever it goes .. and for sure these flat pieces are 
2 different sizes .. But I will look once more ...
 
 Seems I bought what they call "wiper linkage" 211955325A left   211955326A 
right [at Wolfsburg]
 
 So I have motor [but does it work ?? who knows]  linkage and arms.  NOTHING 
ELSE.  I don't see any other parts available at Wolfsburg.
 
 Diane
