From: "Taylor Kilpatrick" <twkilpatrick(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 13 Aug 2003 00:47:10 -0400
Subject: Rebuilt engine noise

Hello all.
I'm new to this list, and have signed up to find advice regarding my freshly
rebuilt 1600dp engine.
Here the details:

My freshly rebuilt engine (8000 miles ago) has developed a curious
clacking noise. About a thousand miles after I built
it, it would make a "clack-clack-clack" for the first 3 or 4 revolutions,
then would run quietly. Kinda sounded
like a diesel engine upon startup. Now it clacks all the
time, and loudly. I wouldn't call it a knock (rod
knock, etc.), because a knock from inside the case
would be deep and muffled sounding. Its more of a
pinging noise; raspy and metallic.
I put my timing light on the old girl and timed it to
30 degrees full advance at 3000rps (I'm using a 009
dizzy). Tuned up the carb to run at 950-1000rpm at
idle and it runs great. While I had my light on the
engine I observed the flashing of the light with the
clacking noise. One flash per one clack, i.e. its a
top end issue (vavle train, cam, lifters, etc.). One
flash per two clacks would be a bottom end issue.
I was careful and slow upon assembling this engine.
Just to double check my work, I pulled the engine and
checked the orientation of the rods (tangs up) and the
orientation of the pistons (pointed towards flywheel).
everything checked out as it should. The flywheel is
tight, and the endplay is correct (Set up by my VW shop).
There isn't any excess horizontal play in the
rods which would indicate a bum bearing. The wrist
pins fit just like they should. So I reassembled it
with the book in hand, just like it said. Still, I get
the clacking.
The heads are brand new Mexican, no burnt valves, no
dropped seats, no cracks. Plus I get 120+ compression
in all cylinders. Like I say, it runs well but noisy.
I bought a digital thermometer and adapted it to
work in my dipstick tube.  I feared
my engine was overheating, but its reading dead on at
190-200. It got to 199 today and no more. It was up to
192 yesterday. So I'm not worried about it burning
up, but I don't like the implications of the clacking.
An ounce of prevention equals a thousand dollar engine
project not going in the crapper I say.

To surmise: The heads are new, The vavles are adjusted, the timing is correct,
the heads are torqued to 23 ft. lbs, the exhaust flanges are tight, the rod
bearings are good, compression is good, intakes are tight, lifters are new.

Have I overlooked anything? Suggestions?

Thanks,
T
