Date: Wed, 25 Feb 2004 14:17:26 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] WD-40 (was: Sliding door question)

Oh dear me...  I feel the need to turn on the "broad humor" ray this
morning.  Read on at your own peril!

The great "WD-40, petroleum distillates, naptha, kerosene, silicone,
water, wax, graphite, chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), or any known
cancer-causing agents" sliding door lube debate...  And to top it all
off, those gol-durned "fish-eyes" have come back to vex, annoy and
harass our beloved painter of all things great and small - again...
FWIW - I'm putting my money on some tetravalent element as the culprit.
Either that or bat guano.

I'm not a petroleum engineer, nor do I play one on TV; however, work
obliges me to have read more about the refining business than a little
bus-pilot should every have to know.  And then there was that pesky year
of Organic Chemistry the State of Kaliforn-ya insisted that I take afore
they would bestow upon me a baccalaureate degree in environmental
biology, what with IUPAC (that's the International Union of Pure and
Applied Chemists) nomenclature, carbonium ions, alkylation,
hydrogenation, DE-hydrogenation, sulfonation, aromatics, aliphatics, and
enough cancer-causing reagents listed in the front of the lab manual to
make my brain turn to oatmeal.

"Hush, you lemon merchants, if we let him be the keeper of the cheese
and/or throw him an Optima battery, perhaps he won't release the
marmosets..."

I recently came across several fascinating documents whilst indexing for
off-site storage - a 1942 API (American Petroleum Institute) sponsored
treatise on the chemical refining of petroleum, which included a short
chapter on detontation and antidetonation compounds used in gasoline,
and the history of the 100-octane aviation program written for the PAW
(Petroleum Administration for War) shortly after the end of WWII.
Fascinating stuff - a short sample of recommended reading for those who
might equate kerosene as the only petroleum distillate ever thought up
by the business...  I'll offer up this generous hint:  a petroleum
distillate is something so, well, generic that the meaning is useless as
a descriptor, unless of course you were "trying" to obfuscate - wonder
what they would do that for anyway?  Sort of right up there with all
drugs are bad, especially if consumed in your Bay Window bus - know whut
I mean, Vern?  I hypothecate, ergo there is bus content, and why not!

Okay, so where's all this diatribe going?  I'm going to keep on lubing
MY sliding door hinges with MMO (Marvel Mystery Oil), since it's been
shown so effective in keeping titanium valve train-age in shape too.
See, there's EVEN more bus content, and I found that by using the
Archive search function - now the post has TRIPLE the bus content.  And
not only that, but MMO is great as a morning pick-me-up, too!  Oh, I
know what you're thinking - and I must say, I've tried all those "other"
enemas, but a shot of MMO mixed with psyllum fiber, petroleum
distillates and equal parts orange juice keeps me regular!  Joy!  And
it's a slice of pure h*ll on intestinal parasites.  Of course, another
benefit is that it helps keep Mrs. Bus-Pilot a happy camper too, if you
know what I mean ;-)  And I NEVER would have thought of using a
five-five-six NATO round as a gas line plug - sheer unadulterated
genius!  You guys are the best-est list that ever was...  Another yet
another use for the parts of that annoying AR-15 just gathering dust in
my closet.

All kidding aside - Kroil as a "miracle in a can" unsticking agent (and
when you get down to it - aren't they all just "miracles in a can"?) is
as good a call as any, and something like bicycle chain lube ("miracle
in a bottle") works well as a more "permanent" way to keep things
moveable; but I bet ya a long distance enema that the Kano Labs gnomes
probably have something up their whoops-a-daisies that may apply here.
I would imagine some of the "dry" chain lube products would work well
too - but all I had floating around in my "box o' miracles in a can"
(tm) box was the Triflow brand...  Or was it whale oil?

I'm sorry, I just can't stop laughing this morning - what with it being
Ash Wednesday and all...  And since I'm laughing so hard...  I just
realized my intestines are all up in knot - sluuuuuuuurp!  Oh that's
better now!  Whooops - I need to go visit the little bus-pilots room,
m'kay?  Got some "bench racing" of my own to do.  I'll go away now.

Jim Hayden
As regular (if you know whut I mean) as I wanna be...
www.savethebays.org



E-MAIL CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:  The contents of this e-mail message and any
attachments are intended solely for the
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or legally privileged
information. If you are not the
intended recipient of this message or if this message has been addressed to
you in error, please
immediately alert the sender by reply e-mail and then delete this message and
any attachments. If you
are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination,
distribution, copying, or
storage of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited.
