To: Type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Wed, 25 Feb 2004 18:25:22 -0800
Subject: Vacuum saga continues

What is it with me and vacuum leaks?

Installed that check valve that Richard gave me into the booster hose.  
The black tube wasn't snug in the tee fitting on the plenum at all, so 
I pulled the black tube off the valve, cut the  booster hose (not an 
original hose; looks fairly new, but predates my ownership of the Bus), 
and spliced it back together with the check valve in place (MOTOR-> 
pointing towards the plenum), securing it with a couple of hose clamps.

Didn't make any difference in the vacuum reading (still at 12''), but 
after thinking about it, I wouldn't expect it to.  It did change the 
feel of the brake pedal, though.  I'm not sure if for the better or not 
-- it almost feels like it does when the engine isn't running.  Would 
this be indicative of a bad booster?  I didn't take it out for a drive, 
because I don't want to lose my parking spot while I still have to work 
on it.

So, I guess I need to go on a serious vacuum leak hunt.  I checked all 
the connections in the engine compartment... they look fine.  My check 
sequence will be:

1. Pull booster hose, put rubber stopper into tee on plenum.  Check 
reading.  If that gives me all my vacuum back (16-18''), I guess I need 
to inspect the booster hose all the way up, and possibly have the 
booster rebuilt (isn't there a guy in Texas who does this?)

2. Pull the EGR vacuum hose from the tee and cap it.  Check reading.  
Maybe I have a bad EGR valve diaphragm.

3. Pull the timing retard hose from the tee and cap it.  Pull timing 
advance hose from the distributor and plug it.  Maybe I have a bad 
distributor vacuum unit.

4. Pull the charcoal can valve hose off the air cleaner and plug it.  I 
seriously doubt that has gone bad, though.

5. Spray carb cleaner at the tee on the plenum and listen for the RPMs 
to change.  If that does it, I guess I need to replace that tee.  Is 
that part still available?

6. Spray carb cleaner at the throttle body gasket and listen for the 
RPMs to change.  AFAIK, the throttle body has never come off the plenum 
so the gasket is probably both original and undisturbed.  I have 2 
replacement Vanagon gaskets.

(The carb cleaner trick does work with FI engines, right?)

Should I also check the decel valve?  Do I recall correctly that 
there's a Bentley procedure for this?

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
