Date: Wed, 25 Feb 2004 20:18:37 -0800
Cc: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
To: "Matthew J. Ramsey" <ramsey8(-at-)charter.net>
From: Jim Arnott <jrasite(-at-)eoni.com>
Subject: NoBusContent [T2] door sealant warning

George, David, Ken, et al, please bear with me. I know the rules and 
I'm aware that I'm breaking them. I can no more pass this up than 
George can pass up incorrect science or mathematics.

Actually, no.

Warning... History lesson follows.

It was developed by two Convair (division of General Dynamics Corp.) 
chemists who were tasked with devising a solution to corrosion on Atlas 
ICBM booster skins. (303 stainless IIRC)  The fabrication facility for 
the skins of the boosters was located at Air Force Plant 19 in San 
Diego. Plant 19 is within spitting distance of San Diego Bay, so, with 
the near continual presence of moisture laden air, corrosion was a 
multi-million dollar problem.

They can up with a suitable chemical on their... fortieth attempt.  
Hence the name. W(ater)D(isplacer)-40(th attempt. Having found a 
solution... and a market, they immediately quit Convair, mortgaged the 
farm and formed up their own company selling their product to the 
corporation that funded its development.  (GREAT business plan!)

If my memory serves, this would be in about 1957-8.

WD-40 was manufactured in a quonset hut on Pacific Highway at 
Washington Street for about five or ten years before it became a 
'consumer' item and volume required larger facilities. When I left SD 
in 1994, the quonset hut was still there. And the Convair factory was 
slated for demolition. (Though not AF 19, which is currently operated 
by the Navy. 
<http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/afp-19.htm>)

WD-40 has been used for a lot of purposes, but I can guaranty you that 
lubricating Orbiter SRB o-rings isn't one of them. It was formulated to 
do only one job.  Displace water. It still does it very well....

Jim (former rocket scientist.)


On Wednesday, February 25, 2004, at 06:22 PM, Matthew J. Ramsey wrote:

> Someone may have already mentioned this but, NASA developed WD-40 to 
> displace water in their rockets.  If my space camp memory serves me 
> correct it was used on o rings.
>
> Mission Commander, Falcon Flight Team, 1988...I was in the 6th 
> grade...it was cool.
>
> mjr
