Date: Thu, 26 Feb 2004 11:43:18 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Stephanie Dittrick, Candace Mac Nutt" <agapetile(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Help Needed

Hi Everyone,

I had to leave my 1970 High Top Camper Van, VW in Florida when I moved up to NC a few weeks ago. My son just called this morning. More stress. His house sold and the man who bought it sold it. The VW has to move out of his drive very shortly. $200 is firm. I must sell this VW. The engine is perfect. It runs great and you can see it was seriously maintained. It is spiffy clean. Only a spark plug needs to be retapped. I cut the ignition wires, as they were routed through the interior and I needed to sand down and prime the interior. 

If anyone needs an engine, at least I would feel better about having spent weeks and weeks working on my bus. At least her 'heart' will be elsewhere, even if she is not with me. I am so sad. Anyway, things are getting to the breaking point. If anyone wants the engine, please call me. If that happens, Chris, my son,  will just have to have the body junked at the junk yard, as it has to move out of his driveway. 

I feel sorry for my son, as a full room of stuff is in his back building and now the new owner says it has to move. Chris just helped me move up to NC and now he has to move my stuff into storage and move himself. He goes in for leg surgery April 6 at the Tampa VA and then after recovering, he moves up here. Boy! all of this must be happening for some reason. Only God knows what it is. If you want the engine, please call. If you know anyone who wants to buy the bus for $200, please call. I would hate to see her go to the junk yard.

Thanks everyone

Steph

www.agapetile.com

First Place Winners of the 
Spectrum Award for Excellence in Design

704-982-7673
Cel 704-202-4537

P.O. Box 1248, Albemarle NC 28002
531 E. Main Street, Albemarle NC 28001

ALL TILE, ALL STONE & ALL GLASS POOLS & SPAS
LITURGICAL ART
ARCHITECTURAL ART

Commercial and Residential Murals 

Stone: Byzantine Mosaics
     Sandblasted, Waterjet, Laser Etched
Glass: Computer & Byzantine Mosaics
     Etched, Sandblasted, Waterjet
     Silkscreened, Sculptured
Tile: Handglazed, Shattered, Byzantine
     Waterjet, Silkscreened
Clay: Sculptured, Glazed, Stained
Agglomerates: Waterjet
Metals
Fine Gemstones: Murals, Sinks
     Countertops, Knobs
Photo: Tile, Marble, Canvas
Kiln Fired Photographic Tile
Handpainting: Marble, Canvas, Wall, Domes
