To: Type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Timothy Woenker <multipang(-at-)kconline.com>
Date: Fri, 13 Aug 2004 16:17:15 -0500
Subject: Re: Exhaust Gas Analyzer

Don wrote:
>
> BTW: Here in Cali, it's easy to find shops that will do an analysis
> for $20-40 thanks to our smog laws.
>
Lucky you!  Smog AND cheap exhaust gas analysis!  :)  :)  :)

Last night I used a voltmeter on my oxygen sensor and it indeed seemed
to indicate that I was running lean both at idle and at 3000 RPM.  They
both ran approximately 100 to 400 millivolts, but its kinda hard to say
for sure with the meter I used (Fluke model 77) because the reading
oscillates back and forth and it did not have the min/max/average
feature.  So I'm going to try it again tonight with a new Fluke that
has this feature.  The sensor appeared to work, registering high
millivolts (over 1000) when I artifically enriching the mixture using a
potentiometer between Temperature Sensor II and the ECU, and low
millivolts (less than 100) when I introduced a vacuum leak.  However, I
want to try to measure cross counts with the new meter.  From what I've
been able to ascertain, 8 cross-counts per 10 seconds is desirable.
Once I've determined with certainty that the oxygen sensor is
responding as rapidly as it should, I will attempt to set the air-fuel
ratio by adjusting ECU spring tension.

   In case anyone hasn't been following my ongoing saga all summer, I am
doing all this in an attempt to figure out why I have been burning
exhaust valves every 6k miles or so.  After installing new heads this
spring, I put a cylinder head temperature gauge (under #3 plug) on this
spring and it indicates 500 degrees at 60 mph on a 75 degree day.  Too
high!  I can drop these temps by artificially enriching the mixture
using the potentiometer described above, but from my testing last
night, the amount of resistance that I have to dial in to achieve the
lower head temps (400) results in lambda readings well above 1000
millivolts, so I'm starting to question the accuracy of the CHT.  I've
tried to verify the CHT readings with an infrared remote temperature
device, but I get readings in the 400 to 425 range when the CHT reads
500.

So I muddle on.  I will keep the list posted on any progress.

BTW: Lest we have to go through this again;  the engine IS set up
properly with ALL tin and seals AND working thermostat with the the
CORRECT compression ratio and NO I can't find any vacuum leaks and the
engine runs very well.

Either I'm getting frustrated, or I've been sniffing too many exhaust
fumes :) :)

Tim
'79 westy
