From: Peter Pankonin <webtmc(-at-)telusplanet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sat, 14 Aug 2004 00:20:32 +0000
Subject: Playing the Hose Puzzle

Hi all,

Has anyone else ever played the Volkswagen Pipes and Hoses Puzzle? I spent 
most of today trying to figure out where the pipes and hoses go and how they 
are all connected and I think I have most of it back together thanks to the 
microfiches on Richard Atwell's excellent website.

However, I do have a couple of loose ends (no pun intended). I have some of 
the parts, pipes (or rails?), and hoses shown on the diagrams but not all of 
them. I'm working on a 1973, 1700, dual-carb, automatic, type 2...

For example on the "Exhaust emission control system with secondary air inject" 
diagram (http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell/Microfiche/t201800.gif), I don't 
seem to have a lot of the emission control stuff, like the Pressure Relief 
Valve (28), Smog Pump (21), none of the EGR stuff.

I do have a couple of things that look like they should be connected to 
something. I have the Mixture Distribution Assembly (7) installed and three 
of the ends (74, 76, & 77) accounted for, but I don't know what the little 
vertical pipe in the middle is supposed to connect to (hose 72), nor the end 
connected to number 39 (it had a bicycle tire valve stem cap shoved in the 
tube, so I guess that means it was capped). They both look like they go into 
the Pressure Relief Valve. Can I just safely cap those off?

I also have hoses 63 and 64 which are T'd to hose 66 which looks like it's 
supposed to be connected to an Emission 2 Way Valve (57). Where does the 
other end of that go? And the electrical wire is connected to the Thermo 
Switch-2 Way Valve (56). Where is that located?

The other pipe I'm not sure about is on the "Intake system, relay shaft" 
diagram (http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell/Microfiche/t201620.gif.) The Balance 
Pipe (9) has two T's coming off of it, one pointing up near the number 1, and 
the other pointing down near part 14. These two T's poke through two holes on 
either side of the front (FIF) engine tin toward the firewall. Where do they 
go from there?  

I guess that's about it. Everything else seems to be falling into place. 
Thanks again for all your help.

-- 
Peter Pankonin, digitalcrucible

There are 10 kinds of people in the world,
those who understand binary, and those who don't.
