From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <djspn2(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 15 Aug 2004 07:59:07 -0500
Subject: brake inspection holes

>Is the amount of lining I'm seeing thru the inspection holes fairly
>representitve of the entire lining surface??

well,

If you have only a fixed position brake lining inspection hole on the inside
backside backing plate, you cannot trust what you see in that hole. Brake
shoes do not wear perfectly evenly along their arc. You can have a thick spot
you see in the worthless inspection hole but have no lining left in another
spot you can't see.

If you have a hole in the outside side of the drum such that you can rotate
the drum around in a circle to inspect all the brake lining, then you can
really inspect the thickness of all the brake shoe lining. But you can't see
all you need to see.

>No real problems w brakes, pedal height is good, no apparent cylinder
>leakage, and ~3/16" of lining thru the inspection hole, but I've never had a
>look in there (tho have had the rear bearings greased) and have put
>120k(mostly road miles) on them since purchace from PO.
>Any suggestions appreciated.
>Thanks

when someone else greased the rear bearings for you, they had the perfect
opportunity to inspect the rear brakes. They should have inspected the
brakes: checked for lining thickness and checked for brake cylinder leakage,
checked for proper condition of the star adjusting nuts. They should have
advised you about how many miles you could go before needing routine brake
maintenance. and you should have followed that advice.

120k miles since , even if highway miles,  is way way past time for routine
brake maintenance. You need to get those drums off now to thoroughly inspect
and correct any problems. You already know the star adjusting wheels are
frozen. they have to be repaired now and made functional. Your brakes
absolutely need adjustment to be as strong as they can be. You say you have a
good high pedal, but that is not a complete test of the brakes. A better
indicator of excess brake shoe wear is the position of the emergency brake.
This is not as good as direct visualization. The emergency brake handle
should only pull out a little from the dash and completely hold the bus on a
steep hill. As the rear brakes wear, the emergency brake handle pulls out
further and further from the dash. When it comes back a few more clicks than
normal means it is time again to adjust the manual adjusting rear brakes.

I know you also need to check out your front brakes too and it is time to
bleed the whole system.

You need to regularly manually adjust your rear brakes. This gives you the
safest brakes you can have. Regular adjustment also keeps the star wheels
from rusting tight and becoming useless. Neglecting routine work always makes
for much much more work later. And sometimes creates a dangerous condition.
(like severly weakened brakes) When you crawl under your bus to adjust your
brakes do not just adjust the brakes. You familiarize yourself with your bus.
You learn what everything looks like and you check everything out. You look
for oil leaks, you look for rust, you look for loose nuts, you look for
pulled down wires, you look for something different, etc..

Similarly with an engine tune-up. You do not just install new plugs, new
points, adjust the timing, and adjust the valves. You do much more. You
familiarize yourself with the engine. You become one with your engine. You
will then automatically be able to inspect everything within the limits of
your senses. You see loose wires or hoses, you hear strange sounds, you smell
fuel leaks or oil leaks, etc. You catch all these minor problems before they
become costly major problems.

If you aren't willing to learn to do your own routine maintenance then please
follow the maintenace schedule in the book. Things absolutely need to be
tinkered with and inspected according to mileage and/or time period. Having
regular maintenance performed on schedule, reguardless if you think there is
a problem, will save you lots of money and headaches and may even save
somebody else's life because your brakes don't fail in an emergency.

Gary
