From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 15 Aug 2004 14:03:34 -0500
Subject: removing rear brake drums

Removing rear drums.
    First you deadjust the star nuts to pull the shoes away from the drum.
The shoes eat out the drum and get stuck behind in this deep channel around
the inside of the drum. If you do not pull the shoes back and you somehow
force the drum off, you will ruin the shoes and the brake backing plate and
maybe even the drum.

If the drums are rusted on. I use an oxygen-acetylene torch to heat the drum
around the big center hole and the lug bolt holes. The drums rust onto the
axle flange and at the edges of the big hole. I apply heat and pound with a
big hammer against this area hitting TOWARD the bus; or into the bus, but not
in the direction to knock the drums off from the back. After a little while,
the drum is loose and I can just wiggle it off.

The drums are not very strong. The center of the drum is steel that has been
pressed onto the outer drum which is made of cast iron. It is very easy to
warp the steel face of the drum and ruin the drum. The drum face must remain
perpendicular to the circle the shoes fit into. It is very easy to ruin a
drum by using a gear puller on the outside edge of the drum. If you do use a
puller, then you must take your durms to an automotive machine shop and have
the machinist check to make sure you didn't warp the drum.

When I get the drums off, I use a wire brush and sandpaper to clean the
mating surfaces of the drum and the axle flange. I used to put a light coat
of paint on these surfaces with no problem ever with the lug nuts getting
loose. Nowadays, I just clean the surfaces and apply a super thin coat of
nickel anti-sieze compound. I have never had a problem with centrifugal force
spewing the anti-sieze compound onto the brake shoes or drum, my lug nuts
stay tight, and my drums come off easily.

On my fancy new vehicles the brake durm is really thick and strong where it
mates up to the  axle flange. There are threaded holes built into the drum.
You simply screw in some bolts and tighten the bolts evenly around the drum
and the ends of the bolts push against the axle flange and the drum just pops
right off.
