From: "Buddah VW" <buddahvw(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 28 Feb 2005 10:45:34 -0500
Subject: HCBF 9,   envelope art contest

plans are being made for this year's HIGH COUNTRY BUS FESTIVAL,  to be held  
JULY 28-31st 2005 near Boone, NC.    the webpage is not updated for this 
year's schedule, but that will be posted soon.   
(http://www.baywindowbus.com/highcountry9.htm)

but I did want to go ahead and tell everyone about a new activity for this 
year!

announcing   THE ENVELOPE ART CONTEST for this year's High Country Bus 
Festival.

Each year I try to make the art work for the HCBF shirt something special.  
A few years ago I had a bunch of kids sumit drawings and Teddy Jablonski's 
picture made it onto that years shirt.

BUT WHY LIMIT it only to the kids?????????

so this year we are having an ENVELOPE ART CONTEST.   The winning design 
will have their art work printed on this years HCBF shirt and the winning 
envelope will also entitle its artist to one free shirt.

It is pretty simple,  when you mail your T-shirt order to me,  emote your 
artistic expression on that envelope!

here are the rules:
1)  ONLY TWO COLORS ALLOWED,  we can only afford to print 2 color shirts
2)  nothing that would be offensive, these shirts will be worn and seen by 
all
3) draw on front and back of envelope,  both will be printed from the 
winning envelope.
4)  no purchase necessary!  If you don't want to order a shirt you can send 
me an empty envelope
5)  All envelopes are due by JUNE 22,2005
6) be creative and have fun with it

here is a link to the T-shirt order form:
http://www.baywindowbus.com/hcshirts.htm

mail envelopes to:
Michael Myers
HCBF shirts
2147 Highway 56
Spartanburg, SC  29202

I can remember making some nice envelope art each year when I did the mail 
order dead tickets.

that is for now,  more details on activities for HCBF to be posted soon!  I 
am in need of volunteers, so if you would like to help out, please let me 
know!   Thanks!

- buddah
