From: "J Barry Burneskis" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 01 Mar 2005 21:09:22 +0000
Subject: CV Joints - rebuild

Well, I was at my favorite CV joint/joint [funny, right !?!?!?] in 
Fredericksburg Virginia to buy four pounds of the special blue CV joint 
grease that these guys use.  The stuff is from Rockford CV , a major CV 
firm.  They get it in the 100 lb barrel.

Last time I was there to buy some CV boots [Rockford 332-1 BTW], they gave 
me some banana colored Toyota CV grease in a tube(s), but I used it up and I 
wanted to get my hands on this blue grease.

On the phone, they said they would sell the bulk CV grease (-at-) $3 a pound; I 
was thinking about $2.50 a pound, and a round $10 bill to cover the deal.

Of course I was able to go with one of the owners into the back of their 
shop and watch as the he dug out blue grease to fill my 4 16 oz buckets.  
Then he said $4!!  What !?!?  he said $4 total....  I said, no way man, 
that's too cheap and not what I expected to pay for the blue grease, so here 
is a $10 bill.  He said, OK, I'll take it!!..

Then we talked about my CV joints, and he showed me how they rebuild the 
CV's.  He said I should bring him a few CV joints and he would show me in 
real time how they are rebuilt; open up the six grooves in the outer ring 
and the six groves in the inner hub and install oversized ball bearings with 
the appropriate sized cage..

Wow, neat!!  I definitely want to see how that is done.  No wonder a rebuilt 
axle with new boots is cheaper than just buying 2 new CV joints!!

Well, in my stash I have four tragic CV joints that are really damaged, and 
I have 4 very nice CV joints for my next attack at the rear, but the CV's I 
have ready to install on my spare '72 Westy probably would benefit from a 
rebuild.  As would the CV's on my '78.

This could get really time consuming if I took ALL the CV's that needed 
rebuilding down there!!  And what the heck, I would surely miss that 'clunk, 
clunk, clunk' from the rear end when the weather get cold.


Maybe just four, just to put on the shelf.
,
Barry sends

Readers Digest. Illiterates die of intestinal blockage.
