From: "M. Cody Rotermund" <crotermund(-at-)ukiahsolution.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 1 Mar 2005 16:45:42 -0800
Subject: Selling my 1977 Riviera, wanted to offer it to the group first

Hey there Type2,

I'm going to be selling my 1977 Riviera Penthouse camper here shortly.  I'm
very much still into buses, but I'm not doing the best job of getting it
restored.  I thought I'd offer this to the group first, since these posts
and the folks I've talked to here have been extremely helpful.

Here's the details:

Location: Pleasant Hill, CA
Model: 1977 Volkswagen Transporter, ASI Riviera Penthouse conversion.
Condition: Runs great, body is generally fair.  No serious body cancer
except for the interior dog legs under the batteries.  Surface rust in
places, really needs a good stripping, sanding, and paint job.  Bondo'd nose
by previous owner.  My plan was to get a new skin at some point to replace
it.  Interior is intact, but needs new cloth and foam in some areas.

Ammenities: ASI Full Camper, with sink, electric water pump, hand pump, 9
gallon freshwater tank, two burner stove, undercarriage propane tank, 110
hookups, city water connection, 110/12v electric fridge that makes ice
cubes, full riviera pop top with 1 small rip in the screen, wiring for a
second battery (Not connected).  The Coleman furnace was sold out of the bus
when I saved it from the PO who was trying to part it out.

DMV: Registration fees are paid through to April, 2005.  Not smogged or
tagged, as the original exhaust is missing, including the heater boxes, EGR,
and cat.  Will need a stock exhaust with all the smog gear to pass smog,
plus heater boxes to provide heat.

Extras: Comes with a decent set of stock front seats (has aftermarkets on it
now from the PO, but I wanted to get stock so I did, just haven't installed
them) a replacement blower for the heater, driver and passenger vanagon
retractable seatbelts (not installed), a nice home made spare tire holder
for the front (not installed, bought from Rob Henley, thanks Rob!), some
fabric I was concidering for the interior (enough to do the Zbed and
jumpseat), and all the paper work for all the work done on the bus before it
got to the PO.

I'm not looking to make any money on this, I just want it to go to a good
home.  I'm in the bus about 700 bucks including DMV fees I paid, so if I can
get that back I'll be happy.

I'd rather let you guys have first crack at it, before I craigslist it and
it gets shipped overseas.  My wife and son and I used it camping several
times this summer, and enjoyed ourselves immensely.  In fact, my son is
probably going to miss "daddy's bus" more than any of us, but it's time for
me to hand this off to someone with more follow through on bringing this bus
back to it's former glory.

Please email me directly if you would like to see pictures.

Cody Rotermund
