Date: Tue, 1 Mar 2005 21:42:36 -0500 (EST)
From: "Mark Dominesey" <LostWater(-at-)LostWater.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Bikes in front with no spare tire

You may want to consider using a rear mounted rack that would not hinder
access.  Hanging a bike or bikes on the front of your bus will make it
even more like a brick cutting through the air.  This is why racks on the
back are ubiquitous because of the way the air slipstreams around the back
of the vehicle, essentially going to the rear of the rack.  Our vehicles
do not need any more reason to go slow!.

As to racks that do not hinder access, myself, I just ordered a
DraftMaster rack off of ebarf.  This is a rack that holds the bike
upright, towards the back of the bus, but, the rack and bikes are easily
hinged down to access the rear hatch.  In our case I will make the tandem
beam, as I have made three other tandem beams for my other cars and have
been successful each time (this next one will be LostWater tandem rack
version 4). We are going to be putting our tandem rack on the back of the
bus because there is no way that even as big as I am (230, not fat) that I
would be able to manhandle that bike onto the poptop roof.  Putting it on
front would not work either as the big bike would stick out on both sides.
 The only drawback in using a draftmaster or a badger rack (same idea) is
that it requires a 2" reciever hitch.  Jamie Rivers make recievers in 1
and 1/4, but I am sure that he could be convinced to make a reciever hitch
in 2" because no rack and bikes would weigh more than 150 or so total. 
Anybody who would try and tow more than what their bus could tow by virtue
of the capacity of the hitch gets what they deserve.  I think the max
rating of tow with our busses is 1000lb and 200 at the tow ball, someone
correct me if I am wrong.

-- 
Mark Dominesey
Christiansburg, VA
74 Westy
78 Auto A/C transporter, FS: $500, no engine, very little rust, 200 mile del.
http://www.LostWater.com
LostWater(-at-)LostWater.com
