From: "Joel Bidinger" <JoelBidinger(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "buslist" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 6 Jan 2002 22:11:24 -0800
Subject: chains, CBs, I'm back

Hey everybody happy new year.
Bus and I made it back home to Hood CA after a splendid trip in the
Grand Canyon. The final 30 miles of "road" to the remote trailhead
were mud, rock, ice and deeply, really deeply, rutted. Your basic
pioneer wagon trail, they would have loved a bus, huh? Slogged through
it in first and sometimes second, got stuck in mud a few times but got
out by sticking rocks under the wheels. All four hubcaps are mud pies.
Bus took a lot of hard hits but I never heard anything break, and even
my alignment still seems good. I was in the canyon for a week, and got
drizzled on a few times, seemed like no big deal. When I got back up
to the top I had a big surprise, the little fraction of an inch of
rain down by the Colorado river translated to many inches of snow at
7000 feet on the canyon rim. I tried to drive on the unbroken snow,
but I couldn't get anywhere but stuck. Then I remembered the tire
chains I had stashed in the bus for the Alaska trip but never used.
Wow! (I've never used chains before.) Wow! There wasn't anywhere I
couldn't go. Uphill, downhill, off-road, it was all a breeze, I felt
like I was flying over the fresh snow through the forest through the
night. I wasn't really flying though, whenever I went up into second
gear I would lose the ability to steer the bus and the ruts would take
over control, so pretty much I plugged away in first for 30 long
miles. The snow did a lot to cushion the ruts and rocks, the ride back
was much less jarring than the muddy way there. Driving through snow
in first gear with chains on dropped my gas mileage down to about
10mpg, remember that when you take your snow trip.
And in case anyone had any doubts, putting a 5' CB antenna on top of a
6' bus gives you plenty good reception.
Go bus!
Joel and the '64 Sundial Ratwagen
(trying to decide if I have it in me to drive all the way back for
BBB...)

