Date: Mon, 7 Jan 2002 17:10:41 -0500 (EST)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To:  <ILoveType2s(-at-)aol.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Gauge Repair 101



On Mon, 7 Jan 2002 ILoveType2s(-at-)aol.com wrote:

> John,
>      I don't believe you can get new parts, short of going to VDO or a speedo
> shop and giving them the appropriate limb. ( arm or  leg), they also may
> remind you that tinkering with you speedo is against the law.

I've never seen anything that says this.  Now, the odometer is another
matter, but that is a moot point on most buses where the question is how
many times it's turned over!

  I myself have
> lucky enough to have extra speedos for parts.  I find it hard to believe that
> you could break a needle, due to the fact that the needle is magnetically
> driven, this is how and why you can back you bus up without killing the
> needle.

The problem is that the speedo is driven by a rotating magnetic field that
induces eddy currents in an aluminum cup.  The clearance between the
rotating magnet and cup is rather tight and as the bushings loosen the two
tend to touch.  If the needle is blipping sharply, this is probably what
is happening.  The momentary direct connection between the cable input and
the needle indeed can damage it.

>      I'm not quite sure what VW used to lubricate their speedo's.  I've
> always thought that it might be whale oil or some other type of animal fat
> :).  Seems whatever they used turns into a solid mass of goo after 30 or 40
> years, this can cause massive problems.  I usually relube them with white
> grease/luberplate.

I use white grease dissolved in white gas (stove fuel) to a liquid
consitency.  Immerse the drive end of the speedo in this and let capillary
action draw the mix up.  The white gas evaporates leaving the grease
behind.

I've had good luck with this, but it doesn't last forever.  The bushings
are still worn and pretty soon the lube will wear out of them.

> As for the striped sound.  The gears for the speedo
> pretty much link to the speedo cable and the magnetic drive

No, the speedo is direct drive off of the cable input.  The odometer runs
off of a worm gear from this.  I think that the noise is more likely
because of binding in the bushings.  If the gears are gone, the problem is
worse!


George Lyle

