From: "Rich Van Baalen" <rvanbaa1(-at-)tampabay.rr.com>
To: <Claralw(-at-)aol.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 7 Jan 2002 22:33:58 -0500
Subject: RE: [VB] Just how fast does your bus go??    

I dont think it is the engine being tired (8K on its first rebuild); it may
very well be that the infamous 'sweet spot' is 55 MPH as it will drive all
day at that speed.

My concern (I may be spazzing again <g>) is my general inexperience with VW
engines.  Two years ago I had never driven a VW.  After I got the bus (part
of my need to get a life), I bought a couple of books and hooked up on the
internet.  Now I have am having the time of my life after an engine rebuild
and a growing list of things I had never done before.  Unlike most people
out there that have been driving busses for years, I (guess) my biggest
problem is having a reasonable point of reference.

In some unscientific experiments (my wife followed me down a stretch of road
a while back), it appears that the speedo is OK.  I have pretty complete
maintenance records (I have stuff from the original owner who had it for
over 30 years), and there are no indication of it having tranny work.

I am good with 55MPH

-----Original Message-----
From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com [mailto:Claralw(-at-)aol.com]
Sent: Monday, January 07, 2002 10:01 PM
To: rvanbaa1(-at-)tampabay.rr.com; vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Just how fast does your bus go??


my 61 15 window I usually drive it about 60, but I accidently took it up to
70 once -that was before I put the small tires on front, so it had 205 75
15s
all around - 1600sp, 4.37r/p, 1.26 rg.   had a 59 truck with little nut
tranny and 40hp motor, lots of zip, but I tried to keep it to 52mph, or it
would whine -  I could take it up to 60mph, but it really was very  unhappy
there.  Could pull hills fully loaded though.  There is a difference between
what the bus can be pushed to go, and where the sweet spot is.  I don't mind
being passed on the freeway, it's so stylee to drive an old bus.

Is your speedo accurate?  When you go max speed is it whining with excessive
rpms or just not enough oomph.   If the latter maybe your motor is getting
tired (compression check?)   But maybe not.  You say the bus is stock? How
do
you know what the gearing is, unless you have complete records since bus was
new?  The tranny that came to me in my 65 westy had a bug 4th gear in it-
that does drop top speed.

 In a message dated 1/7/02 4:44:44 PM Pacific Standard Time,
rvanbaa1(-at-)tampabay.rr.com writes:

<<
 I was going to save this question for Friday, but all these discussions
 concerning experiments and Trannys have me wondering about my bus.  Just
how
 fast does your bus go??

 Everybody is talking about cruising down the road at 65 and 70 MPH; my bus
 only goes 55-57 MPH (NOT 58+, unless there is a good tailwind and/or I am
 going downhill).  I thought I was doing good, but I feel a bad case of
 'speed envy' coming on <vbg>.

 My '67 std is stock everything with a 1600SP engine.  I am running P225R-15
 tires.  Seriously, I was courious if it is because everybody has DP engines
 and higher performance trannys, or is it something I need to go out and
 check on (performance-wise).  BTW it appears to be running fine.
  >>

