Date: Tue, 6 May 2003 11:19:43 -0400 (GMT)
From: coerver(-at-)mindspring.com
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] fuel lines _scary stuff_

Its probably not polite to spin off alot of threads asking for help but this one is _really_ IMPORTANT, and scared the living hell out of me the other night.  I promise never to have the "don't fix it lest its broke" attitude again when it comes to fuel lines!! I promise I promise I promise!!  The previous owner's native american name was "chrome before reliabilty".  
Anyway, my fuel line is situation is bad:
The fuel line come from the tank and is an older braided material.  It comes down and sort of 'rests' on the transaxle boot!!.  Yes I will humble myself I AM AN IDIOT for not fixing it RIGHT AWAY, because after a drive I noticed it was touching the heater box!!!  
Then there is a fitting, and after that a rubber fuel line that goes to the fuel pump.  The braided line had a small hole that squirted when you flexed the tube near the fitting between it and the rubber hose.  I cut it back and after a little gas spillage feel a tiny bit better.
My questions are:

1) Is there a trick or shut off valve to use so that gas doesn't go everywhere while replacing fuel lines?

2) what is the right best fuel line setup? Metal rubber or braided? I searced for post but haven' found out what is best.

3) Do I need to remove the engine to replace all the fuel lines?

4) Last but not least, what is the most typical mechanism of engine fires. The gas starts leaking on to engine and ?? ( also electrical short ?? ) .  Does the gas ever start leaking and just douse the engine without starting a fire?

Thank you thank you thank you I really want to fix this right, fortuneately I did have a fire extinquisher on me but opening the engine hatch with a church key requires a certain finesse not normally associated with those in the presence of gasoline fires.
I am lucky very lucky but I don't want to rely on that for my next 
spin in the inferno bucket.

- rob coerver
