From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "Stan Wilder" <wilden1(-at-)juno.com>
Cc: "vintagebus vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 5 May 2003 09:39:38 -0600
Subject: Re: [VB] Tire Pressures

Funny thing about tire pressure.

A lot of people I talk to say they go by what the tire says when filling a
tire up. Then they proceed to fill the tire to the max psi listed on the
tire. This means they only read a small portion of what the tire says. If
you check the tire's fine print, it will even tell you to not over inflate,
nor under inflate the tire, by checking the owners manual for proper tire
pressure. If the max psi is what you should set your tire to, then why would
they put that print on there?  (think about it)

Normally, going by the owners manual works great, but in our case, we are
driving vehicles with radial tires instead of old bias-ply tires, or running
tires of a different size all together. If we're filling our tires to the
max psi listed on the sidewall, I promise you that the tires are over
inflated, and will wear out the center of the tread. And lets not forget
about feeling every single bump in the road as well.

So that's great. What should we set our tire pressure to? Is it a shot in
the dark for us to get it correctly? Luckily, no. Fortunatly for us, there
is a formula for attaining the proper tire pressure for your vehicle. Check
out your sidewall again. Notice that there is a max psi rating, as well as a
max weight rating. This is a ratio, and if you double check the math, most
new cars tire pressure recommendations in thier owners manuals will match
the ratio on the tires.

The tire requires X amount of tire pressure for Y amount of weight that is
on it. For example, Lets say the tire is rated for 1433lbs and 44 psi max.
Okay, that's the tires on my bus right now (they were new on it when I
bought it).  Now, with these numbers, I need to figure out how much weight I
have on each tire. Lucky for me, our state inspections prints out how many
pounds is on each tire. My 64 13 window, full interior and a 200-ish pound
state inspector in the driver seat produced these numbers:

Front Axle:    Left 904lbs   Right 838lbs
Rear Axle:     Left 866lbs   Right 838lbs

So, to follow the tire pressure formula, I need to divide the actual weight
on the tire, by the max weight listed on the tire, to give me a percentage.
For example, my driver front tire has 63% of the allowed weight on the tire.
This means, I need 63% of the max tire psi listed on the tire for proper
pressure. So I multiply .63 with 44, which gives me about 28 psi. The driver
rear gives me a final number of about 27psi.

I like to pick the heavier of the two axles for figuring front and rear.
Now, to make sure I have enough pressure for when I carry passengers, or
load extra things into my bus, I'll tag on a few extra pounds, as it's beter
to run a couple pounds too much psi, and a couple pounds too little. Since
they're already so close to eachother, I run my tires at 31psi all the way
around.

Some will say this gives too low of a number and all that jazz, but, take
this into consideration. Running 31 psi in my tires, I usually got about 25
miles to the gallon doing 65mph at 4000rpm. Cutting my speed to 60, gave me
28 miles to the gallon. My tires are wearing perfecly even across the tread,
it rides like a dream, it doesn't wander too bad in the wind, etc, etc. I
tried setting my tires to the max of 44psi, and found no difference in gas
milage, but could see the outer edge of my tread was not making contact with
the road, plus, the ride was a bit harsher.

Checking all this info out, was done when I was doing weekly drives back and
forth from SLC to Las Vegas. Doing the exact same drive every week allowed
me to see exactly what changes were making a difference. So take this
information for what it's worth, some insist on filling to the max psi, and
that's fine with me, it's not my bus to decide what should be done with it.
This is info that I have found to work great for me.

Eric Allred
64 Bus

P.S. Remember corvairs were prone to rolling over when the tire pressure
wasn't set properly, so max psi is not always the 'right' answer.  ;-)
