From: surlygirl(-at-)email.com
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 06 May 2003 11:39:28 +0800
Subject: paso robles, ca show report

saturday jon and i went to the third annual spring show 'n shine put on by the central coast chapter of the vintage volkswagen club of america in paso robles, calif.  the weather was pretty crappy, both raining and windy with some brief periods of sun.  however we were impressed with how many vws showed up despite the weather.

our trip was to serve two purposes:  we wanted to check out the show and we also needed to pick up a load of furniture further south.  jon drove his '56 standard and i took my '56 single cab.  my mom (the one with the furniture need) rode with me.

this was my mom's third vw show and she had a blast.  she prefers original condition vws (i don't know where she gets that!) and model year almost doesn't matter though she does seem to like older vws.  she called a couple significantly custom vws "abominations" (against who or what i wonder?) which i found funny.  my mom got tired of walking around and went back to the truck to sit, rest and read.  she had fun bragging about the truck and pointing out the bullet holes.

we socialized, looked at the cars, shopped the swap and ate some tasty bbq.  our favorites of the show were a '54 daily driven beetle and a '71/72 beetle with hooligan spray paint, zip tied headlights and one welded-on fender.  the swap was full of extremes:  either 36 hp or dual carb performance and not much in between.  we were going to leave around noon to get on with the rest of the purpose of our trip, the furniture, but were encouraged to hang around a little longer.  we listened to the awards, hoping that the ones we voted for would win.  at the beginning of the special categories, my single cab was announced as the winner of the "promoter's choice award."  i was pretty surprised and pleased!

round trip we traveled 290 miles.  my truck served as show vehicle and then tossed off the gown and went to work hauling a bunch of furniture.  it drove without any problems in the morning rain, sometimes pouring, with no leaks and a warm cab with clear windscreens.  it hung out representin' commercialness with big tires and canvas and made a big enough impression to win an award.  then it was loaded up with a bunch of furniture, filling the full length of the bed and reaching the top of the cab then returned home... never once missing a beat.

cheers,
Rachel, Monterey CA			http://home.csumb.edu/~holl1802/pig.html
In a new car, you're just going somewhere;                                
in a Volkswagen you ARE somewhere. -Stormy Henderson's Dad
-- 
