From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 6 May 2003 01:27:39 EDT
To: bodyscape(-at-)webtv.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] oil temps

depends on the outside temps and where I am.   In the PNW rarely above 90 C 
(~194F), in summer maxes 100C (212F).    sensor in pressure relief plug.  In 
Arizona pulling hills laden in hot weather it got up to 230C, which really 
irritated me.   They say that oil breaks down about 225 F.    
yes 240 to 260 F is too hot!

Before adding an oil cooler, address what makes your engine run hot.   

Are all the engine compartment seals in place?   engine to body,grommets, 
seals around tubes, engine lid seal?   doghouse sealed so air goes through 
cooler and not around it?  doghouse exit tin have the foam glued on?   
Engines run cooler with all these in place and engine lid closed.

The thermostat flaps help the engine run cooler, by directing teh sir 
properly.

do you have all the underneath tin in place?

heater system all hooked up correctly with no gaps?  it helps cool the 
exhaust and thus heads even with the heat turned off.

tune up and check your points/timing , make sure it's not too advanced.

What is your climate like, what weight oil are you using?  What rpms are you 
running?   Try driving different speeds and see how that changes the oil 
temp.   The faster you rev, the more air blows through, but at some point the 
engine works harder and makes more heat.   I found the best cooling rpms is 
about 2600 to 2800, less or more rpms runs hotter.   
So, do you have a tach or one you can borrow to find out your rpms?   Odds 
are your bus doesn't have the original tranny, so looking up specs doesn't 
help.   What size are the rear axle nuts?   Usually 36mm have 1.39 
reductions, and 46mm have 1.26 reduction gears

If you have the engine stripped, definately clean out the casting flashing 
off teh heads to allow better airflow through the fins.   But that's a piece 
of work for a running bus.  Just something to think about when assembling a 
long block.

In a message dated 5/5/2003 4:35:29 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
bodyscape(-at-)webtv.net writes:

<< Hi group,
 I'm a newby to this list and to aircooled engines....except for the
 scooters. Glad I never put a oil temp gauge on the Harleys!!!
 I have 67 bus with 1776cc alum. blk,044heads, doghouse cooler, mild cam
 with stock exhaust, and stock transaxle with redux gears. Have run
 dinosaur and synthetic oil. Temp sensor in pressure relief valve. Temps
 run 240-260 and scares me to the point of pulling over for a cool down.
 I will soon add an oil cooler/wfan.
 Are these temps TOO high? Should I be SKEERED!!
 What temps are your buses running?
 Truth
 Thanks,
 LJ
