Date: Thu, 25 Jun 2009 16:55:18 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: benthin(-at-)prodigy.net
Subject: Re: [T2] Anyone know the advance curve for the 74-75 Beetle  

Mike Benthin -MUTS oboe support wrote:
> Are we mixing up vacuums here?  Is this manifold vac vs something elso 
> like throttle? When I posted that I was only getting around 28 deg 
> advance and asked whether this was sticking weights or lack of vacuum, 
> no one responded.  I checked the vac line to the distributor and got 
> harly 5".  I checked the distributor canister and with a pump, got 
> full distance after 10".  I replaced the vac line (indeeed frayed and 
> cracked at the tight bend where it goes behind the throttle) it would 
> climb into the 20" with the fullest throttle! Now the distributor 
> works to about 40 (counting the initial advance).  I did order the 
> Mexican SVDA (Single Vac Dual Advance) from Bus Depot, asking here 
> whether this can work in the FI busses, and Karl mentioned this was 
> for Mexican beetles (listed for 74-75 bug here) and  total advance 
> mechanically is not enough (about 4-5 deg down).  Jim Thompson here 
> said it was OK....stay tuned?
>
We are talking about vacuum advance that comes off of the throttle - 
definitely not manifold vacuum.

You should get zero vacuum at idle and zero vacuum at full throttle/full 
load.  If you just rev the throttle in neutral, you'll have both 
advances kick in (no load).  If you drive on the freeway and floor it, 
you will have zero vacuum on the vacuum advance line.  Many people don't 
believe this, but feel free to hook up a vacuum gauge on a long hose to 
the vacuum advance line and see for yourself.  I've got a gauge hooked 
up now and have verified this.

As for verifying the functionality of your vacuum advance can, you 
should have a full 11* of advance max at 8inHg, even if the vacuum goes 
up to 20inHg (which it should!).  If it's not kicking in that soon, you 
might want to lubricate your distributor vacuum advance plates to make 
sure they're moving smoothly.  If you want to verify how much vacuum 
advance your distributor is applying, hook up your vacuum pump directly 
to the vacuum can while the engine is running and point a strobe at the 
timing mark while pumping - you should see it advance the timing 11* at 
around 8inHg.

Really, most any distributor will work for any car as long as it fits.  
Now, whether it kicks in the right amount of advance at the right time, 
well, that's a different story.  All of those specs are on Jim's Old 
Volk's Home website so you can verify all of these values (make sure you 
remove the vacuum advance line).

Mike
