Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Jon Stiles <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: "SQUID" <sydclarke(-at-)shaw.ca>
Date: Sat, 27 Jun 2009 11:49:54 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] Just a question

The front mounted spare is ONLY to free up space in the cabin, and was  
offered primarily in the U.S. as a dealer installed item. VW NEVER  
installed a front mounted spare from the factory.

The quality of it "helping" in an accident is a total myth. The tire  
focuses the energy of the accident to the center of the bus, causing  
far more damage. The bus is designed to absorb an impact at the  
bumper, and if the impact is above the bumper, the broad and wide  
shape of the nose dissipates the impact across the surface area.

I have a front mounted spare on my Westy, but only to hide the massive  
damage the PO did when his wife backed into the bus with her Ford  
Explorer. The spare tire pushed back the entire ventilation system  
about 4 inches into the cabin, damaged the fresh air intake and the  
heater stack. It will not be reinstalled when I get to the body work.

All Westy's have provisions for a spare except the '74 and '75 models  
that had a "space saver" inflatable spare which has been NLA for 34  
years. So, those models would almost need a nose-mounted spare, throw  
the spare in the cargo rack above or a AAA membership.

So the pros an cons (IMO)

Pros:
Frees up some space
Looks OK

Cons:
Effectively destroys your bus in a low-speed accident
Puts holes in the nose which rust and "egg out" over time
Puts you at risk in an accident since it changes the original  
structural design and safety factor from the factory.
Exposes your tire to damaging UV rays (without a cover)
Exposes your tire to dry-rot, salt damage and mildew rot (with a cover)
Creates additional wind resistance, lowering mileage
Invites theft of your spare tire
Invites helpful friends to use it as a step-stool when loading the  
roof-rack, which immediately dents the nose of the bus.

Well SQUID asked...

Jon Stiles

On Jun 23, 2009, at 4:43 PM, SQUID wrote:

> Was having a "chinwag" with some other VW bus owners, and they asked  
> me why I
> persist in mounting spare on front of bus.  They said having it  
> there negates
> the purpose of front bumper, because spare would 'impact' first, and  
> push nose
> in before bumper had chance!  Now I am tempted to take entire front  
> mount off
> of bus, and "squirrel" away the spare inside somewhere.  Mine is a  
> '74, and I
> know 'later" Westys stored them inside behind driver.  Thoughts?   
> Cheers
> SQUID
