Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Jon Stiles <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: Paul Hummer <paul(-at-)eventuallyanyway.com>
Date: Sat, 27 Jun 2009 12:41:19 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] Getting ready to do some welding

Paul,

This is good news! Doing your own metal work the right way will help  
your project come out the way YOU want it to. It is my firm belief  
after many years that paint and body shops can't weld worth a durn (no  
offense to the body guys on the list). They owners usually can, but  
their $12/hr helpers sure can't and you don't want them practicing on  
your project.

As a welder and metal worker, I recommend a small 120V 15A-30A  welder  
for simple panel repair work. My preference is Miller, but Hobart and  
Lincoln Electric both sell very nice small hobby welders. Off-Brand  
units are usually made by the same company. Do a little research and  
you can get a very nice unit. Check Craigslist for used welders. Many  
people buy them to do a small project and flip them after they sit in  
the garage for a couple of years. Obey the YGWYPF (Yogi-Puff) rule for  
new welders: You Get What You Pay For...

Do not attempt to save money by welding with flux-core wire. Get a  
small bottle of gas from your local welding supply store. Flux core is  
designed to be used in environments where shielding gas gets blown  
away by wind, or where ultimate mobility is needed. The end result is  
drastically different between the two mediums. If you are restoring a  
vehicle, don't waste time with the "quick and dirty" approach. Flux- 
core welding is "quick and dirty".

Good gloves are needed. I'd avoid the really heavy insulated types for  
small panel work you are doing and get a pair of "TIG" welding gloves.  
They cover your arms, but are much thinner allowing better gun control.

Wear long sleeves and long pants made of natural fiber. Wear leather  
shoes without synthetic fiber or laces. No exposed skin. Welding with  
exposed skin is akin to sticking your arm out of a spacecraft next to  
the sun. Not good.

A good helmet. Auto-darkening helmets are great, but Yogi Puff. The  
more sensor points the better. Cheapo auto-darkening helmets make my  
eyes nervous. Welding supply stores won't sell discount helmets, there  
is too much liability.

A leather apron with legs is very helpful.

Technique:

My welding professor used to say: Preparation is 100% of good  
welding. :)

The metal needs to be shiny clean, so invest in some good abrasives  
and a 4" or 4 1/2" grinder. Abrasives you should have on hand are 3M  
paint removal discs, sanding discs, flap-discs and grinding discs. I  
use a right angle air grinder with small 2" to 3 1/2" discs primarily  
and the grinder for big jobs.
The area behind the weld area should be shiny clean. Paint, grease and  
oil burns off and contaminates the weld area.
The metal where the ground clamp attaches also should be shiny clean  
and as close to the weld area as possible.

You keep thin metal from warping by clamp, clamp and clamp some more.  
Also work slowly and in short beads and spot welds. Leave the steel  
clamps on the metal until it is at least warm to the touch.

Keep your nozzle free of splatter and build up. Clean it regularly so  
the gas has a clear path to the weld area. A can of "nozzle dip" helps  
a lot.

Spray the surfaces around the welding area with anti-spatter. It keeps  
the weld slag from pitting your existing bodywork.

Don't keep anything flammable within 10 feet of the weld area, and  
don't wear anything flammable. Keep a fire extinguisher close-by. If  
you don't have one, don't weld until you find one. When you have your  
helmet on and are on fire, you won't know it until it hurts since you  
can't see anything. It is good to know exactly where the extinguisher  
is. Keep a phone handy. Don't weld next to an exposed gas tank for any  
reason at all. Don't weld on a gas tank for any reason at all (that is  
what a radiator shop is for). Gas lines should be protected by an  
impenetrable surface like a nomex blanket, heavy leather or a piece of  
sheet metal.

Cover upholstery and wiring with a wool blanket or Nomex blanket. It  
catches on fire quicker than a match dating sandpaper.

Invest is a sheet of heavy copper for welding closed a hole in sheet  
metal. Cut out a strip, pinch it with some vice-grips or a heavy  
magnet and press it behind the weld area. It absorbs heat and the  
metal won't stick to it.

Practice, practice, practice on metal very similar to the type you are  
going to weld.

Ask lots of questions at the welding store, even if you buy your  
welder elsewhere (the Home Depot/Lowes/Harbor Freight folks may not  
have the answers you need). Welding Supply stores make money on gas,  
abrasives and accessories, so they generally don't care where you  
bought your welder. Welding supply shops are usually very helpful and  
most offer inexpensive classes in the evenings. They want you to weld.

I could go on and on.

Very good luck to you and have a blast (figuratively of course),

Jon Stiles

P.S. Feel free to pmail me with any questions and visit Kelly the  
metal wizards site for some great technique shots using a MIG welder  
and clamping. www.metwiz.com

On Jun 27, 2009, at 9:17 AM, Paul Hummer wrote:

> Hey Type 2ers-
>
>  This is a more general question, but has a specific application to  
> my 1977
> Transporter.  I'm going to need to do some welding on the body to  
> replace a few
> small panels, and need to do some welding on the floor to change seat
> positions. Unfortunately, I screwed around in metal shop in high  
> school, so
> really only know a bit about welding, so I'll need to practice a bit  
> before
> doing anything to the bus.  However, it's a skill I'd like to have  
> anyway.
>
>  My question is, there's MIG, TIG, and Arc welding, and I'm not  
> really sure
> which kind of welder is best for body work.  I'd like to get a small  
> welder
> first (maybe from Home Despot) and see how that works out.  I  
> understand I need
> to keep the voltage low no matter what kind of welder I get, since  
> the sheet
> metal is so thin and you don't want to warp it.  Which kind of  
> welder should I
> get?  Any other welding tips for an amateur welder?
>
> Cheers,
> Paul
