Date: Sat, 27 Jun 2009 12:22:57 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: francois cyr <frankcyr45(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] vw bus question head spacer

francois cyr wrote:
> So please if possible, help me out on this one. I have stopped rebuilding the
> engine just in case. Oh, and i have new clyinders, new heads(rebuild) and i
> have put the shim at the bottom of the clinders...
>   
Ok, here's the deal - you can really do whatever you want - spacer or 
not, it won't make a huge deal on things except it will affect your 
compression ratio.

 From the factory you do not have to use a gasket between the heads and 
the cylinders as long as the cylinder makes good contact with the mating 
surface in the head.  If it does not (fins hit the head first), then you 
will need to space off the cylinders so that the top of the barrel 
actually mates with the head correctly.  Since you have rebuilt heads, 
you need to be extra careful and I would definitely CC the heads and 
verify the work of the rebuilder!

Sooooooo.... tell us your specs on the engine - is it going to be a 
stock rebuild?  Are you using stock heads and stock pistons and 
cylinders?  If so, there are a couple things I would do regardless if 
you have the patience and time because it will yield for a much better 
rebuild and you will understand what's going on.

I would measure the CCs of the heads you have.  If you have stock mahle 
pistons and cylinders, the you have 15cc dishes in the pistons.  You 
will need to measure the deck height of your pistons and from there you 
can accurately calculate the compression ration and KNOW exactly what it 
is.  I decided not to check the deck height on two previous rebuilds and 
I always wondered why my head temps were running so high and why I was 
destroying my heads.  Yeah, it's a minor pain to calculate it, but it's 
definitely worth the comfort knowing that the CR is what you want it to 
be.  That said, if you're going for stock, you want 7.3:1.

Getting the CC values of the heads and measure the deck height are the 
two time-consuming parts, but it's not that hard at all.  Let me know if 
you want more info and I can show you how to do it.  At least then 
you'll have a little more sanity when you run into problems after the 
engine is together and not wonder whether that unknown variable is 
causing your problems...
