From: "Ray Haynes" <RayVW(-at-)rayh.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 15 Oct 2005 11:44:58 -0700
Subject: Severe Flooding Solved (long)

****I originally posted this problem to the T2 list but I think this could
be useful to the vintage bus listees that may have had problem with rotary
electric fuel pumps.****

I posted a problem a month or 2 back that I was having with my '71 with a
stock 34PICT carb setup with rotary electric fuel pump. It was severely
flooding a few hours after the engine was shut off. It would take over a
minute of cranking to clear the excess fuel. A few times it even failed to
turn over do to hydrostatic lock from excess fuel in one of the cylinders. I
have resolved the problem and a few people asked me to post what I found.
Sorry it's a bit lengthy.

First there seems to be a problem in the 34PICT carbs. After shutting off
the engine, fuel slowly drips from the accelerator nozzle. The dripping
continues even after I disconnect the fuel line to the carb. It happened on
my old carb, old carb with new needle and seat, and on my new carb. I think
this explains why some people complain of a small amount of flooding after
stopping the engine with this setup. Without a schematic of the carb I
probably won't be able to find the problem with it. Maybe someone else is
aware of this issue.

But that didn't explain my severe flooding. As an experiment installed a
ball valve at the carb fuel inlet and shuting it off each time I parked the
bus and the problem when away. With this happening on my old carb, old carb
with new needle and seat, and a new carb, so I ruled issues with the needle
and seat.

So here's my theory. The small drip problem noted above causes a small
amount of fuel leave the float bowl. On a stock mechanical fuel pump or a
pulse style there is only a small amount of residual pressure after the
engine is stopped to supply that missing fuel. Those type pumps have check
valves which prevents the gravity pressure in the tank from forcing fuel
through the pumps so the flooding is limited to the residual pressure on the
output of the pump.

My fuel pump does not have check valves so fuel can free flow from the tank
to the carb bowl as long as the level in the tank is higher than the carb
bowl. With that small drip and a continuous supply of gravity fed fuel the
engine severely floods over several hours.

My fix was to install a check valve at the carb fuel inlet. Now my flooding
is minor and is more in line with what other people have complained about.
The valve I used is a McMaster-Carr p/n 47245K36. It's a little pricey at
$11 because of the type of plastic which is fuel proof. At some point I'll
probably replace it with a metal one and metal tubing since I have a no
rubber or plastic fuel line components in the engine compartment policy.

I hope someone finds this information useful.

Ray Haynes
'71 westy hardtop
