Date: Sun, 16 Oct 2005 22:01:38 -0400
From: Mad Uncle Dave <MadUncleDave(-at-)charter.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Oktoberbus 2005 trip report

Whew!

It's over and I now have to return to the real world.  I've had a most 
phenomenal weekend putting on Oktoberbus.  Before I go any further, I 
want to thank all the folks who came down and made this the very best 
Oktoberbus ever. 

Not only was the Full Moon Bus Club well represented, but also folks I 
may have met before at other campouts.  We also were visited by Philip 
and Catherine who are on the 2 week 5 month tour.  They were the nicest 
folks and if you get the chance to meet them, you should because you'll 
meet none finer.

I arrived Thursday on site to make sure things were ready and to be 
there if there were any really early arrivals Friday.  Thursday night 
was kinda chilly but beautiful.  Moon, stars, and Pasta Fazool for 
dinner.  Friday got up, stretched, and the first arrival was someone 
from the SCA who read a cross post I did by mistake.  Tracy was 
impressed by all the folks she met and asked that I thank those who made 
her feel so welcome.  Beetle and Randy showed up just after noon and the 
campout was on!  Folks started rolling in about 3 or so, first Everybus 
Chris, then Jason Lasher and family with Doc Ric and Chris Slaymaker in 
tow.  Then came Twobus Vicky and then I just quit keeping track of who 
was coming in because I was busy socializing.  By the time I turned in 
we had over 20 buses, a good turnout for a typically small campout.

Saturday morning we rolled out for breakfast burritos, always a tasty 
treat.  I ate 2 and was set for the day.  Spent the day walking and 
talking and being social, which I usually don't do because I'm not the 
social butterfly type.  The most lovely Crazy Auntie Sherry arrived 
after work with Alex the not so terrible and my campsite was complete.  
We did a communal dinner that was small but _very_tasty_.

Cleaned up the dinner, tallied the pumpkin carving contest ballots.  I 
would have taken second with either the suicide pumpkin or the 
Oktoberbus logo pumpkin but I exempted myself from the contests because 
that just wouldn't be right had I won.  Teddy Jablonski carved a pumpkin 
bus taking first, second was Chloe and her brother Strider tied and 
third was Wyatt.  Second and third were from the Lasher family so they 
got 2 pumpkin pies and 2 dream catchers made by Crazy Auntie Sherry.  
Teddy won the big dream catcher and, you guessed it, a pumpkin pie.  I 
was happy to see the youngun's do so well with their creativity.  Then 
Randy "Zooman"'s wife Suzy gave out best decorated site and we gave her 
a "thank you" card.

Prizes given and thanks all around we went down by the pond to light the 
bonfire, a fair sized brush pile that didn't want to go at first.  After 
some work by Doc Ric and Brad Stiller we had a fire to be proud of.  
Folks came and went by the fire and it was a most wonderful evening.  
Finally to bed at some time or other, waking to people making breakfasts 
and packing their buses.  That's the hard part, goodbyes and the 
realization that for me, camping season's over.  I stayed and worked on 
the castle and got the trash together and finally made it home about 
6:30 with an infected hole in my foot.

Again, I'd like to thank all who came and made our first year at 
Elchinburg Castle such a great one!  I also want to thank Mr. W 
Triplette for making this possible by letting us camp at the farm.

Mad Uncle Dave
http://www.crazyauntiesherry.com/images/
