From: VWTGS(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 17 Oct 2005 22:19:19 EDT
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Oktoberbus trip report (LONG)

I left the house about 9:30. Got some gas and ice and was on my way.  
Cruising I-64W wasn't too bad. Getting on 81 S that was a little different  story. 
Got pushed around but, made it ok. I actually passed some cars and  trucks. So 
after stopping for some caffine a couple of times. Those rude tractor  trailers 
kept blowing the bus around and waking me up. Oh that's a good thing.  So on. 
MUD had great directions to the location. Got there and saw Brad hanging  by 
the fire. By the time I got parked and moving kids to get the bed set up he  
had called it a night. I got there around 3:00ish. So as usual I can't stay  
awake then I get there and am wide awake. So I start to walk up to the castle.  
On the way I see in the bright moon light a black cat. I thought that was  
fitting. Then another look I saw a little white. So this is about 20 feet from  
the buses. I pull out my flashlight while calling the little kitty. Then notice 
 the little kitty was a shunk. Fortunately I wasn't much of a threat so he 
moved  to the castle and I waited until he passed it and walked over. He kept 
going and  I stayed. That would be a campout to remember. Walked back down and 
went to  sleep. The kids woke up and the day started. I get out and mingle with 
the  neighbors. The kids head over to get/wake up the Laster clan. So in no 
time the  kids were playing. the weather was great. Craig thanks for the food. 
Always  good. Spent the day talking to Jeremy and Craig. Then later slipped 
over and  talked to Sal-Beli, Beetle, Zoo, Luke. Talked Veggie fuel with Robert. 
Then  checked out buses. Saw Auch's DD. He looks like a kid at Christmas when 
he talks  about it. Looks good he should be happy. I think I talked to 
everyone there.  Good thing about smaller campouts. You get that chance to talk to 
everyone or  almost everyone. I do like Eurovans EB Chris. They just aren't as 
exciting as a  Split window. Later trick or treating. Then awards and a BIG 
fire. The kids  dropped out and I carried them to bed. My daughter got sick just 
before leaving  so I didn't take her. I missed her. She is the greatest. Well 
she got to stay  home and help with the new baby. Hung out with Craig more 
then hung with beetle,  zoo and Luke. The group faded and it was time to go to 
bed. Woke up the next day  and started packing. said my good byes and loaded 
the kids and said some more.  Got on the raod for my 6 hour return. The kids 
emptied the candy bags. Got all  sugared up and were restless for most of the 
trip. Got home and rested from my  weekend vacation. Thanks to everyone there and 
the MUD family. Had a great  time.
   Ronnie Pugh
67 Green and white Westy
