Date: Fri, 21 Oct 2005 22:12:05 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Severe Flooding Solved (long)

>From: "Ray Haynes" <RayVW(-at-)rayh.com>
>Date: Fri, 21 Oct 2005 13:40:12 -0700
>
>I failed to mention I do have an ignition triggered type, engine stalls
>pump shuts down.

I thought I had seen these in a hot-rod catalog, but all I can find in a
quick look are oil pressure switches to shut an electric fuel pump down.

It would be pretty easy to wire a standard relay into the oil pressure
light circuit to shut down the pump.  One side of the relay coil would
go to the ignition circuit (the black wire at the ignition coil, choke,
or carb solenoid) and the other side would go to the oil pressure
switch.  The pump would be wired to the relay contacts.  When both the
key and the oil pressure light are on, the pump won't run - it'll only
start once the oil pressure comes up.

This does assume that you'll always have enough fuel in the float bowl
to get the engine running.  If you rebuild the carb or the bowl is
otherwise dry, you'd have to turn on the key and jump the oil pressure
switch wire to ground to run the pump and fill the bowl.  I guess you
could wire another relay to circuit 50 to bypass the oil pressure switch
when the starter is running.  Lots of wires.

In fuel-injected Buses, there is a fuel pump switch in the intake air
sensor - if the engine isn't sucking enough air, the fuel pump is shut
off.  This is bypassed when the starter is running to allow the car to
start.

>I don't like the idea of only having an inertia type switch as it will
>only be tripped in the event of an accident.

I agree, but they don't take much to trip.  I have a '90 F(-at-)rd Tempo that
has an inertia switch inside the trunk on the right-hand side.  The
official shop manual procedure to depressurize the fuel system is to
trip this switch and run the engine until it stalls.  Sometimes I can
get it to trip just by opening the trunk and smacking the inner sheet
metal next to the switch with my hand.  If that doesn't get it, it comes
out with two screws and I can always trip it by holding it in one hand
and slapping it with the other.  However, the fuel pump power comes from
a relay triggered by the ECU, and I'm pretty sure the ECU has the "no
spark, no pump" logic in it.

Matt Roberds
