From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 23 Oct 2005 17:59:38 EDT
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: Electrical problem - need help

In a message dated 10/22/2005 9:47:07 P.M. Pacific Standard Time,  
mattroberds(-at-)cox.net writes:

>>When was the last time you replaced the points and  condenser?  If it's 
been a while, do that, and try again.  A  completely bad condenser will sometimes 
keep
the engine from running, but  one that's not quite dead yet can make the 
engine run poorly.  <<

Hi Matt & Cecil,
A coil going bad can inflict the same problems as a condenser going  bad.

>>5) Your voltage regulator should be right near  there.  Unscrew it from the 
inner wheel well, and make sure all  the wires to it are tight.  You might 
pull off each connection in  turn and shine it up with a wire brush, then 
reconnect.  When you're  done, shine up the "feet" of the voltage regulator and the 
place on the body  where they mount.  Screw the voltage regulator back to the  
body.<<

When cleaning and tightening the connections, adding a little dielectric  
grease or in a pinch some Vasalene will help greatly to take much longer for  
those connection to corrode up so much.  Also while going through ALL the  wiring 
connections check for voltage drops with a volt meter or better yet a  
multimeter.  You can pick up a Multimeter for as little as $5.00 from  Harbor 
Freight or about $15.00 - 20.00 from your local hardware  store.  If analog (the 
type with a needle and dial face) just make sure  there is a scale on it that 
will work well for 0-6 volts.  In other words  that the scale on the face will 
allow you to tell the difference between say 5.5  volts and 6.0 volts.  Say the 
smallest scale on the meter is 0-50 volts, it  is going to be hard to see 
difference in the 0-6 volts range.  Better to  have a 0-15 (or up to 20) volt 
range.

>>  9) Crawl under the car and make sure all connections are clean and tight 
at  the starter.  Especially work over the stud that has the positive cable  
from the battery
on it - this is also the connection for your  generator to charge the 
battery.  <<
While under there remove the grounding strap between the tranny nose cone  
and the body.  Inspect for cable wear, clean ends and points it is mounted  to.  
Grease up cleaned areas and make sure to tighten the nuts back on nice  and 
snug.

>>10) In the cab, make sure the connections are clean and tight  at the 
ignition switch.  Remove, shine, replace as needed.  Also  check all the solid red 
and solid
black wires you can find at  the fuse box - make sure they are tight to the 
fuse box and each other.   In other words, where there are two wires crimped 
into
one  female push-on, make sure the push-on is tight on the wires.  <<
A must in our opinion to solder the brass clips in each socket of the fuse  
box together.  Pre-1962 VW owners need to remove fuse box and solder ALL  
riveted connections on the front of it.  Also see in the type 2  library the 
article on how to repair your headlight switch.

>>  11) Take a last look around to make sure you've reconnected everything  
and that everything electrical is shut off.
If the battery's  on the charger, wait for it to finish, then put it back in 
the Bus and  connect up the positive cable.  Then shine up both ends of the  
battery ground
strap and reconnect it.  If you get a big  spark when you make the 
connection, something is drawing current even when the  key is off - you need to find 
and fix it.  <<
Do be CAREFULL!!  Batteries can explode when sparks are made over them  from 
the hydrogen being released by the battery.  Especially if the battery  is not 
kept full enough of water to keep the lead plates inside  covered.
  Better to disconnect the ground cable from the body.  Connect  to the 
battery and check for sparks when connecting the cable to the body.   Plus whenever 
fooling around with batteries using at least safety glasses  or better yet a 
face shield can save your face and eyes.  At the very least  when 
disconnecting the battery.  After loosening the ground cable, with  your face well out of 
the area.  So you can not see the battery through the  outside sheet metal in 
front of your face.  Reach in with one hand and  pull off the cable end 
without looking at what you are doing.   Yes,  having a battery explode is unusual 
or rare, but Eric has had two explode nearby  him in two different situations.  
Both of these happened when Eric had  nothing to do with what resulted, he 
was just nearby.
  One of these times was a fellow worker, who after work found his  battery 
was dead.  He got another fellow worker to give him a jump, and  boom when he 
attached the last cable to the top of the battery!   Fortunately even though 
the fellow got a face full of acid he was still wearing  safety glasses.  This 
gave him just enough time to make it inside the shop  and get fresh water to 
wash off the acid in time!!
 
>>12) Get a piece of at least 14 gauge wire, long enough  to reach from the 
battery to the generator.  Strip the ends and hold  one end to the battery 
positive terminal
and then touch the  other one briefly to the D+ terminal on the generator.  
This may spark and  the generator may try to turn like a motor - this is OK.  
What you are  doing is polarizing the generator. <<
 
Again not a good idea to spark over the battery.  One can do the same  by 
connecting to the positive cable at the regulator that comes from the starter  
and there it connects to the cable going back to the  battery.
Very good to do if the VW has sat for months, or anytime a generator  is 
first installed.  DO remove the fan belt to allow the generator to spin  before 
doing the above instructions!!
 
>>What you are doing is bypassing all the wire that runs from the  engine to 
the cab and back again, and the ignition switch.  The coil is  powered 
directly from the battery.  Go for a drive and see what  happens.  Note that when you 
shut off the key, the engine will  keep
running - put the e-brake on and let out the clutch to stall it and stop  it. 
 As soon as you get out of the Bus, go to the back, unplug the new wire  you 
installed
at the distributor, and TAPE UP THE END.  If you leave  that wire hooked up 
and the distributor stopped with the points closed, you  can cook your coil.  
If you don't
tape up the end of the wire, you can  cook your Bus.<<
 
Not a good idea to stall the engine that way!!  The less done  the better, 
because it damages main and rod bearings!!  Better to park it  with it running, 
tranny in neutral (Having a working E-brake is a  safety must anyway!!) and 
remove the positive wire to the coil (Bosch  #15 terminal on the coil) to turn 
off the engine.  

Matt we would like to see your post with our changes in the type  2 library.  
If you want we can go through your post to add and edit,  and we can Pmail 
you the result for your examination/approval.
PLEASE!  ;-)
Thanks,
Eric&Barb
