From: "Craig Sauls" <crsauls(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "Vintage Bus List" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 24 Oct 2005 12:38:20 -0700
Subject: The Resurrection of Rosie (the Rocket Sled)

  Rosie rides again! After 3 years in hibernation, Rosie is back on the road
and better than ever. Her long slumber was precipitated by an unexplained
increase in oil pressure (80+ psi!) which made me fear a catastrophic
failure of the cooler or filter. After a characteristically long delay, I
pulled her engine last fall. Along with the oil pressure issue, I needed to
retorque the case (which hadn't been done since the engine was built) and
deal with crankcase venting issues which caused oil to be sprayed around the
enging compartment creating an awful mess.
  First, after spending several hours cleaning and dismanteling the sheet
metal (including running it through the dishwasher), I tackled the oil
pressure issue. The symptoms had led me to conclude that the oil pressure
relief valve was sticking in it's bore. To my dismay, both the relief valve
and control valve dropped freely from their bores when I removed the
retaining caps and springs. I concluded that I could do no more diagnostic
work until the engine was reinstalled and running, so I proceeded to
retorque the case, reassemble and reinstall. Once the engine was running
again, I attached a mechanical 300 psi pressure gauge at the engine and
found that the pressure was maxing out at 80 psi which made me feel better
(at least it wasn't continuing to climb with engine rpm). I decided to live
with it, as long as the pressure went no higher.
  I then addressed the crankcase venting problem by removing the old maze of
breather hoses and replacing them with the currently popular breather
filters on each of the valve covers and on the oil filler/breather box. To
my delight, there is no more oil emanating from the crank pulley seal! I may
actually have a shot at keeping the engine clean!
  While Rosie was resting, the right axle seal began to leak, so the next
project was to replace the seal. Expecting a 1-2 hour job, I removed the
brake drum with wheel attached. I was disappointed to find that, despite the
fact that she had not been driven since the leak started, the brake shoes
were totally slimed. Adding insult to injury, the seal leak had been caused
by the disintegration of the ball cage in the wheel bearing. The 1-2 hour
job turned into days trying to find the right bearings at the right price,
then weeks as the central valley summer turned into a month long blast
furnace. Removing the bearing spacer required the purchase of a bearing
splitter/puller assembly. Then I had to borrow a special puller to get the
bearing out. Why is it that these tasks always turn into ordeals, even when
you've done all of the proper prior maintenance?
  Too late to make a long story short, Rosie is up and running again. I even
figured out the troublesome passenger side door, which now closes as nicely
as the driver side. Give me another decade and I should have all of the bugs
ironed out. 8^))

Craig Sauls ('51 WASP)
Rosie the Rocket Sled ('63 Double-cab)
