From: Ben <bluesky6(-at-)ix.netcom.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 28 Apr 2003 21:31:08 -0700
Subject: Oil pressure light remains on

There's a long version to this story (read further down).

The short version is that when I turn the ignition key ('82 Vanagon
with 2L aircooled), the oil pressure light comes on bright. Then it
dims but does not shut off.

A mechanic claimed that it was a grounding problem. When I pulled the
wire connector off the oil pressure sensor, the light stays off. So no
way there's a ground from the light indicator to ground bypassing the
sensor.

I have also changed the sensor although the original one was a new one
that came with my rebuilt engine.

From what I understand, the sensor acts like a switch to ground. So if
the oil pressure is high enough, the switch should open and the light
should turn off completely.

Does the dimming mean that the oil pressure is not really up to spec?

This happened only after I sent the Vanagon to a shop to fix some
other problems (see below).

-----------------------

LONG STORY:

For the patient, here's the long story:

Late last year, I put in an AVP-rebuilt 2.0L block and had a number of
problems getting it to run. The latest problem I reported on this
mailing list was low compression on cylinders #1 and #3.

I contacted AVP, invoked the warranty and they arranged to have the
Vanagon inspected by Bugformance of Sunnyvale.

Bugformance reported that the problem with low compression was due to
the push rods not seating properly in the hydraulic lifters. They also
replaced my rebuilt distributor, saying that it wasn't advancing
properly (there was a flat spot).

The end result is that there is more power although I have not
verified that the compression problem has been fixed.

However, I still have a problem of difficulty with cold starting the
engine and keeping it running when it is cold.

The added problem I have now is that the oil pressure light remains
on.

I've had the Vanagon looked at by the 2 Bugformances in the area and
it still runs like s**t.

Anyone has additional ideas? I'm tempted to spring for yet another
rebuilt engine by someone else.


Ben
'82 Westy
'71 SB
