From: "TR Gesell" <trgesell(-at-)compuserve.com>
To: "TYPE2. COM \(E-mail\)" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 28 Apr 2003 22:25:34 -0400
Subject: It Lives

Pumpkin II (77 Westy 2.0 Stock FI) finally fired up at 1830 on Sunday 4/27
after 11 months of down time! I tuned him up today, and everthing looks and
runs great. I even have the EGR in working order, as we are due for smog
next month. Many, many thanks to everyone on the list for all the help over
the last year. If not for that, I probably would have had to surrender to a
service shop. The parking enforcement goons in downtown San Diego were
breathing down my neck at the end, but Pumpkin II was able to relocate under
his own power a mere ten hours before the promised arrival of the city tow
truck. I'll bet they were annoyed!

Anyway, I have two outstanding concerns regarding the new engine(avp
rebuild):

1) Can I take it to smog immediately, or would it fare better after a
break-in period.  I'm planning on taking it to get the CO checked before
smogging.

2) I spun an exhaust stud on #4. It then fell out after the first drive
around the block. The threads (in the head) stripped after about 10lbs of
torque...it's supposed to take 16lbs #$%$#(-at-)$#.  How long can I drive it like
this without hurting something?  I don't have the time right now to pull the
engine again.  I'm considering having a shop drill it out and install a new
stud.  Any ballpark estimates as to what that would cost? Anyone think I
could fix it in place? JB-Weld, Helicoil?

Thanks,
RickG & Pumpkin II






P.S. Here's a summary of the project to date.  I'll post periodic updates
for those interested in knowing how my avp rebuild works out.

Pulled the engine last May to fix clutch problem (it was a melted pilot
bearing).  Due to "rod-like" engine noises prior to the pilot bearing
failure I decided to get the thing rebuilt by avp. They were helpful and
arranged shipping to/from my place. I sent my case, which they rebuilt and
returned. It took about 10 days, no hassles. It also came with a bag of new
gaskets and seals, and new motor mounts! I replaced everything I could
afford to, and cleaned up the rest with a parts washer. This was all done in
a small garage with normal hand tools. The bus sat outside on the street the
whole time.

Tin & heat exchangers: cleaned, rustoleum, & painted w/ barbeque paint

Exhaust: Rusty but serviceable. New bolts and Gene Berg copper washers w/
antisieze.

Injectors: Cleaned (by me), new seals

Intake Manifold: cleaned EGR tubes, new boots

Fuel Hoses: New

Vaccuum Hoses: many new, all inspected

EGR: Examined, cleaned, and installed.  Valve seems to work.

Clutch: New pilot and TO bearings, new actuator shaft bushings.

Tranny: All seals replaced

Shift Linkage: New bushings, adjusted

Dizzy: Rebuild from Philbin. I sent this back due to defects.  Will install
when they send me a good one. Old one still works.

Electrical contacts: Cleaned and lightly coated with dialectric grease (ALL
of them).

New Blue Coil & Plugs

Stuff still to be done:
	Rebuilt Dizzy
	Install VDO Oil T&P, and CHT gauges
	Smog
	Fix exhaust stud
	Install heater flapper valves
	Install bottom tin
	Install Thermostat & cable
	Smog
