From: "Sage Green" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 29 Apr 2003 12:25:21 +0000
Subject: RE: do i need an egr filter for my 76

In Virginia, yes you do.

The Code of Virginia is very clear.  You will not pass a safety inspection 
if your '73 or newer vehicle does not have the proper emissions equipment.



http://leg1.state.va.us/cgi-bin/legp504.exe?000+cod+46.2-1048



For many safety inspection stations, this means your EGR valve must function 
properly (for those years), and to get your EGR valve to function, you need 
Exhaust Gas Recirculating from your exhaust (probably via your EGR filter, 
right?).


Even though the 25 years and older vehicles do NOT have to undergo emissions 
inspection, you will fail on a safety inspection.

I did fail a safety inspection for this specific reason; no EGR filter,and 
the one piece muffler had the pig tail cut off and welded close.  Although I 
now have an EGR filter, I now go to a different inspection station.

Of course, you could register your 25 year old vehicle as an antique, not 
needing either the safety or emissions inspection, or not even needing to 
run, but you are limited on your use of the antique.

But then, for those of us whose VW is 'home-bound', this is the ideal way to 
keep the neighbors off our back...


Oh, yes, not only can you not register the vehicle in Virginia, "It shall be 
unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle, as herein described, on 
the highways in the Commonwealth ' - you cannot drive that '76 in 
Virginia!!!


Now, if you ever get stopped in one of those roving drug inspection road 
blocks in Virginia with a VW bus/hippie van, you can be assured that they 
are going to give you a very close look-see.

If they don't find anything that resembles non-prescription drugs, or open 
bottles of alcohol, or anything that resembles a weapon (camping hatchet; 
steak knives; hunting knife; sharp metal spoon; parking_brake_brick), they 
are going to ask about your emission modifications re: reference.

Barry sends
