From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 29 Apr 2003 15:17:01 -0400
Subject: Looking to build a performance motor.. hehe...

Ok, 

	Before everyone gets on my case about a performance motor in a 73
Volkswagen BUS.. I wanted to explain first what I was looking for. 

Ok... the motor that has come with my 1973 Volkswagen Bus has a rebuilt GEX
1.8 liter motor. It's been fitted with hydraulic lifters apparently (I was
told by the previous owner and the warrenty folder goes into that detail
too). In any case, I still haven't gotten it running yet because of wiring
problems, but I've heard a lot of things about these motors being bad,
AND... I don't want to get caught with a bad motor, and no where to go.

NOW... one of the MAIN reasons why I'd like to build up a bigger motor is
because.. well... the local junkyard is FILLED.. I mean FILLED with air
cooled Volkswagen parts. I see them everywhere. I thought maybe Busses were
rare in these parts, but there are quite a few busses of all years in them.
I often see flat-4 engine casings, heads, etc just sitting around here and
there.

So... if I relate my other car experience to Volkswagens, I'd assume that
SOME heads that came with different years were better than others. If I
relate it to Chevrolet motors.. I know that the Small Block Chevy (which in
the VW case, the flat-4 could be compared to the SBC) has hundreds of
different types of heads. They had everything from SMOG heads, to Camel Hump
Heads, to High Output heads... some heads were 60cc heads, others were 76cc
heads. Some had larger valves, some had smaller valves. 

So, if I went looking for flat-4 heads, how would I know what heads are
better than others? Is there a site that I can go to where I can reference
head numbers?

I'm not looking for ball bursting, neck snapping torque like you'd find in
say.. a 1974 Pontiac Firebird TransAm 455 V8 Super Duty with the 4-speed
rock crusher. But by building my own flat 4, I would be accomplishing many
things..

1) I would learn a significant amount about VW engines.
2) I would know that extra care, and the RIGHT components went into building
my motor.
3) I know that the motor would more than likely be more reliable than an off
the shelf cheap rebuild.
4) I know that I would get more reliable power.


Like I said, I'm not looking for 9 second quarter mile times out of my Bus.
But I'd like to be able to get as much power as I reliably can, without
going with a turbo, a supercharger, or a computer controlled fuel injection
system.


What are my options? Are all flat-4 motors from the mid 70s the same? 

Again, with the Chevy motors, there are also differences in block alloys...
some are built with a higher content of nickle plating (CMJ blocks), they
are more durable. Others.. have the difference between two bolt mains and 4
bolt mains. Are some of those blocks better?


And LAST question (sorry.. heh), what kind of performance characteristics
should I be looking for, for my Bus engine build? Do I want more low end
torque? Or do I want more upper rpm power?



Thanks!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 

Todd Jaspers - Programmer
AmeriPath IT - Fort Lauderdale
954-377-3291

> CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments, is
> for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential
> and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or
> distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
> contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original
> message.
