Date: Tue, 29 Apr 2003 12:49:53 -0700
To: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] VWoA supports AIR cooled community

At 09:26 AM 04/29/2003, you wrote:

>Hi Volks,
>
>I got an email yesterday from VWOA. It was to informing me of the
>"Enthusiast Licensing Program". The email told me:
>
>>The Internet Licensing Program is a free program


Ah, Yes, the ancient marketing strategy with "free" as bait. Consider the 
following VW ad:

Cherry old Beetle drives up and parks next to New Beattle. The old Beetle 
driver is thinking, "WOW, water cooled heater AND SEAT HEATERS, what a 
concept!!", and goes nuts over the New Beetle. The New Beetle owner fauns 
over the old Beetle thinking, "Man, does this bring back memories, no 
frills motoring with simple maintenance. Most successful model the world 
has ever seen for good reasons." They hash out a trade on the spot.

VWoA exec's are using but a fraction of the value to them of depicting the 
heritage of functional excellence in all era's, all of which have so much 
current value. Whether someone loves their '62 Beetle or '82 Scirocco or 
'02 New Beetle, it's a love VWoA should return in spades, nothing but good 
for PR and good for the bottom line.

Rumour I heard is VWoA had set up a special warehouse, was going to buy all 
the new old stock parts back from the dealer inventories, and begin 
producing some original parts for the hobby industry to add to NOS sales. 
Call any VW dealer, ship from Vintage VW parts warehouse NOS shift knob or 
ball joint. That was perhaps a year ago I heard that. No news since. They 
may well not see the value of producing the new inventory until they have 
the licensing agreements in place to control infringement by unlicensed 
competition. They are doing what they feel they must to insure a profit in 
the venture, like any corp exec is expected to think. They don't want any 
red ink from vintage spezial parts inventories. They are seeing value in 
existing NLA parts gathering dust and figuring how to get them sold to a 
market they have thought very little of for a long time.

But really, how do Ford execs handle swap meet print screen t-shirt sales 
with the classic Ford script logo?? Do they not get with the program and 
fix up an old Ford and join the party?? Participation with all enthusiast 
groups made all the difference for Harley-Davidson. It was listening to 
users that led to the current models the users wanted and sales doubled and 
doubled again in but a few years. They didn't use the opposite tact of 
threatening suit of anyone, except if selling non-official t-shirts AS 
OFFICIAL authorized products. That's fraud and should be prosecuted. In 
fact, if the manufacturer doesn't take steps to stop that, no one else 
will. It is the burden of any trademark, copyright, patent or industrial 
secret holder to manage his own claim. PR can make or break you. There is 
quite a difference between image without substance and substance creating 
value as image.

Within VWoA and all it's dealerships are 1 out of 5 or 7 of 1000's of 
employees who own a vintage VW (WAG!!). Corp needs to talk to this resource 
for knowledge of what to do FOR the millions of vintage VW owner's to serve 
them with NLA VW parts. Get the parts up to spec and have licensed 
production. That is not unfair to anyone, unless you think it unfair to 
have to pay the price of quality certified specs in your parts.  Fits 
right, functions right, ZIP-ZOOM, fixed for the next 20 years.

If you're missing a VW hubcap, you may replace it with a Chinese knock-off 
rather than go without if you just can't find a genuine VW hubcap, but if a 
real VW hubcap is available at 3 or 5 times the price, will you see the 
value of that option?? One will look nice if kept clean for 40 years or 
more, the other will fit poorly from the get go, and will be pealing chrome 
within 3 years, or a chunk may pop off there upon first install. What is 
better for YOU, $40 for 40 years + proper fit and function or $9 for never 
right??? All markets seem to be leaning toward the later more and more. 
VWoA is trying to set up a viable way to service the former. Some will be 
pi$$ed off and some pi$$ed on, so VWoA has a PR problem that simply must be 
resolved if they hope to get any black ink out of the effort to get back 
into the vintage parts and accessories market they have ignored for so 
long. I frankly think that VWoA lost interest as more and more vintage VW 
owner's seemed to be happier with cheap parts for an image of a cheap car. 
Their's is a false image. The vintage VW's are in reality an economical car 
because they were NOT make of cheap parts originally. They are very high 
spec while being very utilitarian, serving basic functions in superb manner.

I suspect that VWoA was prompted very much by seeing a set of '62 NOS NLA 
VW hubcaps go on EEEEEKKK-bay for $200. Then all the repro sets unsold for 
$19 reserve. Can you say light bulb with dollar signs??
