Date: Tue, 29 Apr 2003 15:40:21 -0700
To: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] VWoA supports AIR cooled community

At 12:10 PM 04/29/2003, you wrote:


>By creating a registration process, VW gives the impression that a
>registration is required, which legally it is not as long as you don't
>profit, defame, or "dilute".

Some do profit, defame and dilute VWoA rights. That's the issue. They had 
to address that, and in so doing they shotgun contacted everyone with VW on 
their website. Where VWoA seems to have failed is by using a wide brush 
that paints many potential friends as convicts. No problem pushing small 
people around with the criminals cause they can't push back as individuals. 
A class action suit claiming restraint of trade is the solution provided 
for in our Republic, if we can still call it that, but you would just have 
to prove no infringement, legally. You sure as hades can never do that if 
you sign the license agreement. That is proof of your recognition of their 
claims. VWoA will have much evidence they will say proves infringement of 
their rights. You will have to have better evidence to show otherwise.

Just how well organized are the 1000's of vintage VW clubs and owner's?? Do 
they have the wherewithall to fund lawyers equivalent or better in legal 
skills than VWoA???

There are some good things that might shake out of this. What if VWoA 
working with an independent licensed manufacturer started making NEW T-IV 
heads meeting VWoA specs?? AMC casts their own design, and with a bit of 
refinement here or there might find a market for 5000 pairs every year, 
more??? Maybe a lot more!!! At what price??  Lots and lots of T-IV head 
problems with rebuilds or just finding a good core. I should think that new 
VW factory spec heads will be worth $500 each to me when I need them, but I 
don't want to fool around with 3 sets of heads and 2 R&R's for one motor 
assembly life. 
