Date: Tue, 29 Apr 2003 23:03:58 -1000
From: bpierce <bpierce(-at-)shaka.com>
To: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] VWoA supports AIR cooled community

I am reminded by my wife, who is from a different culture, that we as 
Americans can not "overlay" our philosophies on other cultures.  Not in 
politics, social or family values, not in business.  We can not 
understand others nor be understood by others without major effort. 
 Even then we may not be able to fully comprehend the logic behind a 
thought or action.  Some would even say this is a base difference 
between men and women, ;-) .  I mean seriously, look at the Iraqi 
situation ....  get my point?

All that said and done.... give the VW of America and the corporate 
parent company bashing a rest.  They are in it for the money.  There is 
no big money in old VW parts or old VW's.  Ron from the Bus Depot can 
sound off on this if he wants, but I bet the profit margin is small.  VW 
of A is not going to get into that old parts business.  If they were 
going to they would of already done so.  These guys are German 
businessmen.  They view things differently than than a county working in 
Hawaii (me) or from most of us.  I can figure it out that they don't 
want anybody using their logo.  It is theirs and that is their right.  
The bottom line at VW corp. probably does not have room for us old air 
cooled jockeys.  Oh well, once again life is not fair.

By reading our list's posting, daily I am under the impression that most 
of us are cheap and try to fix our VW with the cheapest way possible. 
 If it were not so the list would only have a few postings a day, with 
us all raving about how we all just bought engines from Bob in Boston 
for $3000 or so, repainted and did body work professionally to the tune 
of $6000 - with multiple coats for clear for a mirrored finish.  BUT no, 
we cheer each other on in our endeavors as shade tree mechanics and body 
workers.  Applaud the guy who finally gets is bus running after 11 
months.  Heartily debate the virtues of synthetic verses dino and the 
050 against the 009.  And trade info in how to get that smog check 
passed in Virginia or California.   Don't even mention the quarterly 
posting of the type of tire to buy... :-D .

I like my old bus.  It's not as old as some, a '79, but it's fun to own. 
 It's a hobby that I drive every day.  I appreciate the guys at VW for 
making it back when they did.  I think the Type 2 list is great.  The 
corporate mind has helped me solve many a problem.  I just feel that 
bashing of the VW of A guys has worn a bit thin and should be tabled. 
 ..... At least until the next tire posting  ;-) .

Bradley
'79  somewhere on Maui.
