Date: Wed, 30 Apr 2003 11:23:57 -0400
From: 80 Westy Pokey <pokey(-at-)vanagon.org>
To: vanagon(-at-)gerry.vanagon.com, type2(-at-)type2.com,
Cc: westfalia(-at-)rogers.com
Subject: Air Cooled Vanagon Westfalia POKEY for sale

Please send questions to: westfalia(-at-)rogers.com so they don't 
get lost in the shuffle!

Ad on the Samba:
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/classifieds/index.mv?
photo+200304300808099733

Ad on EP:
http://ep.com/js/mi/c0/b0/1625622.html

Back in January I bought a Syncro but was holding onto Pokey 
until I was sure I would have a van for my March break trip 
to Florida. Well the trip is long since over and it is time 
to sell Pokey. For any interested persons close to Toronto, 
it will be at Greenbelt VWbs bspringfestb this Sunday May 
4th: http://autonet.ca/GreenbeltVW/Events.cfm

Pokey is really really clean and I get lots of comments on 
its condition wherever I go. The gentleman who sold it to me 
said his family had outgrown the van and will be buying a 
cottage instead. He had bought it in July 1995 from Owasco (a 
large VW dealer that specializes in Westfalias and Eurovan 
campers). It has been taken on two longs trips, one to the 
east coast of Canada and one to Northern Ontario. Other than 
those two trips, they he previous owner used it very little. 
One weekend in the past two years he owned it. To be honest I 
probably used it even lessb&

The van is in very good condition. The interior is pretty 
much as new, there is no mildew or cooking residue on the 
tent material, the arborite is in excellent condition, the 
fridge works very well as does the cooker. The propane tank 
and lines were replaced in 1995 and the water pump is 
upgraded to a Shur marine fresh water pump.
I have not done a compression test since I bough it three 
years ago, but the engine still feels as strong as it did 
then. At the time I bought it compression was at 
manufacturers specifications; 130, 130, 125, 130. According 
to Bentley, the requirements for a new engine are 131 PSI and 
there is a 40 PSI range. Shifting the transmission is very 
smooth. Timing is right on. There are no problems with the 
Air Mass Meter and engine hoses. It leaks a bit of oil, but 
probably no more than most Air Cooled engines (Pushrod tubes, 
seals, etc were done last year).

I don't like to say that there is "no rust" because there is 
some. But I have seen vans with similar minor rust or often 
much worse rust listed as "rust free". There is certainly no 
rot. The body is in very good condition. There is a small 
rust patch on the seam behind the drivers door (about at 
window height) and some minor rust spots on at the very 
bottom of the drivers side pannel that has the electrical / 
water outlets. There are a couple of rust spots on the lower 
part of the nose and a bit of bubbling where the nose meets 
the fender. There is a small spot below the rear hatch window 
as well. The body seams are good. There has been a rust 
repair to the step well which was sandblasted, and coated 
with a rust inhibitor.
The van has never been used in winter. It had been stored by 
late September and out just before May 24th weekend (a 
holiday in Canada) the van was driven an average of 10,000 km 
per year (6000 miles) The underneath still has the original 
undercoat and screws and bolts do not appear to be rusted 
solid. I had complete bRust Checkb and undercoat done each 
year.

At some time, part of the van was repainted a slightly 
different colour from the original Asuan Brown. I don't know 
why. It appears to have been a good job.
The interior is very good, although the original VW wallpaper 
is peeling in places. The original owner put carpet on the 
rear door and side door (insulation, I suppose) He used snaps 
to install it. We removed the carpet, but the snaps are still 
visible. The tent is in excellent, as new, condition. The 
seat coverings are in fair shape but the bottom of the rear 
bench and the left side of the drivers seat are starting to 
show some wear. 
It has four almost new tires. They are Load range bDb so they 
will hold the weight of a westy. The spare is original and 
looks unused. I can throw in five spares in not as good shape 
for free. 
Clutch was replaced three years ago because of leaking at the 
rear seal. Brakes are shocks seem fine. The ride is quite 
smooth. 
The fuel tank, all fuel lines, brake master, and clutch 
master and slaves were replaced three years ago.
It has a working BA6 gas heater, stereo cassette deck (wired 
to switch to work independent of ignition setting great for 
camping), wind down windows, no power options, The previous 
owner installed speakers in the ceiling of the driver / 
passenger area. There are VDO volts, cylinder head temp, oil 
temp and oil pressure gauges. It has a K&N air filter, a bra, 
all screens, tables and curtains, Pop top artificial rain 
gutters, second battery wired up (but the auxiliary battery 
itself is on its last legs), Tachometer in place of clock 
(its having issues right now), WR1 Hard Start Relay, New 
Starter, Recent tune up (plugs, wires, rotor, cap, etc.), 
Fridge works great - makes ice, Stove works great, Horn is on 
its last legs (cheap and easy to fix), Cover for power cord 
has fallen off, The cable to the lower heat control has 
fallen off (still have plenty of good heat with the BA6 I am 
not even sure what this cable does).

It was appriased at $7,500 Canadian. I am asking $6,500. 
Again, for any interested persons close to Toronto, it will 
be at Greenbelt VWbs bspringfestb this Sunday May 4th: 
http://autonet.ca/GreenbeltVW/Events.cfm

Please send questions to: westfalia(-at-)rogers.com so they don't 
get lost in the shuffle!

Thanks,
Chris
