Date: Wed, 27 Aug 2003 22:24:00 -0700
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: aluminum hades case update

  i'm finally getting settled in here in phoenix (scottsdale, 
actually... city slogan: 'the most whitest city in the west.'), and 
i've had a few chances to drive the bus around, in heat and - well, 
heat.

i still need to dial in the carb (john at aircooled gave me some 
pointers... thanks!), but my main concern is the oil. a  30 mile trip 
some time ago (115 degrees outside)  was setting off the berg 
dipstick sender, yet my head temps (#3 sparkplug sender) were never 
over 375, and the oil pressure stayed 75 at speed/15-30 idle.

now, these aluminum cases DO run hotter to the touch than stock, so 
that may be the culprit, but i decided to get another data point: in 
my tight-fin T3 cooler, i have a vdo oil temp sender, and i finally 
had time to hook it to a gauge. this should show me temp of the oil 
GOING TO THE BEARINGS. a similar road trip yielded near-identical 
head temps and oil pressures, but the temperature readings from the 
cooler never got over 130 or so. it is possible the gauge or sender 
are incorrect, so i'll have to work that out, but another possibilty 
is that no oil is actually going to the cooler, and the temp reading 
is simply the cooler picking up case heat by convection.
likely culprit is the oil piston not working... with this shit-ass 
aluminum case, it wouldn't surprise me. that would also explain the 
oil pressure readings, which at least one listee has declared to be 
too high. however,  i do wonder if even a well-built low-compression 
motor like mine would survive long without flow to an 
oil-cooler........

so any other points to look into while i'm trying a different oil 
piston and spring?  any other poor souls running their aluminum cases 
yet to compare notes - raymond?
remember...
1679cc
mild cam (like engle 100)
7.0:1 C:R
fullflow and berg pump w/ relief cover
balanced
T3 oil cooler
all seals


-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"Guard against the impostures of pretended patriotism." -- George Washington
