From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "Ground Zero" <tom(-at-)groundzeroroasting.com>
Cc: "vintagebus vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 28 Aug 2003 13:34:31 -0600
Subject: Re: [VB] temp. question

----- Original Message -----
> > What gearing?
>
> I got 350 going up a pretty long hill at about 35 last night.  I am not
sure
> what my gearing is.  I think the tranny is out of a 67 or 63.  Again, not
> sure.  I know that the RGB's are not in it.
>

I get flamed everytime I say it, but putting in gearing that is too tall
makes a bus run too hot (4000 rpm (-at-) 70mph is the limit for full
dependability IMHO). Slow your engine down, you slow the cooling fan down.

To go 65mph in a bus, takes "X" amount of HP. If you have an engine doing
65mph while spinning 3750rpm, and an engine spinning 3400 to do the same
65mph, which will last longer? Both engines are creating "X" amount of
power, thus, both creating the same amount of heat. But, one is producing
more cooling air than the other. Well, the one spinning 3750 rpm might wear
rod bearings out faster, but the engine spinning 3400 rpm will be running
hotter, and wearing all the parts out faster.

Just for an example:
I'm running a 3.88 r&p, 1.26 redux boxes, with a .89 4th with 25.3" diameter
tires. This sticks me at 69mph (-at-) 4000 rpm.
If your trans has a stock 4.12 r&p with a .89 4th, and were running the same
tires as me, your cooling fan is spinning almost 20% slower than mine while
we drive the same speed without reduction boxes. That's a big drop in
cooling if you ask me. I hope you're not running a stock size tire. If you
are, it might be worth a shot to try a shorter tire to get the rpm's back
up. Do you know anyone that can lend you some tires to try out?

I ran a 'freeway flier' with a 3.88 r&p and .82 4th years ago in my old
Westy. I was limited to doing 60mph or else I would run hot. I went through
everything I could, like jetting, timing, etc, etc. I got fed up, and
installed a stock gear box. My rpm's were higher, but I was able to drive
65mph without overheating anymore. Imagine that, I was able to drive faster
without a freeway flier. Ironic, isn't it?

But then again, i'm one of those guys that believes my bus should run as
cool as a bug. And it does. I floor my engine for hours at a time. If my bus
isn't doing 65, then the pedal is to the floor. Fully loaded or not. My berg
dipstick doesn't even light up. After a long drive up a canyon, or through
some headwinds, the contact is still about an 1/8" away from touching,
normal driving, it is about a quarter turn away from touching. How many
people here run a Berg dipstick? Probably not many, as it seems a lot of
people accept that "It's a bus, it runs hotter", and "The Berg dipstick is
just a worry light anyway".  The light comes on for a reason guys.  ;-)

I do hear of people running fully loaded buses with freeway flier trannies
in them, and they say it doesn't run hot at all. I ask them what the head
and oil temps are, and they don't know. They can just 'tell' if it is.

Flame away.......

Eric Allred
64 Bus
