Date: Thu, 28 Aug 2003 22:49:48 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: 6V starter

>From: Westfalia <swharris(-at-)adelphia.net>
>Date: Thu, 28 Aug 2003 17:58:43 -0700
>
>I'm trying to start a 6v motor with a 6v starter.  All original motor
>but it sat for a long time.  With a good 6v battery all I can do is get
>the solenoid to click.  It will not turn the engine over.  I hooked my
>bus (12v) to it and while it was idling I can get the starter to engage
>and barely turn the motor in about 1/2 revolutions.

Are you using nice, heavy wires (4 gauge or better) to hook the battery
to the starter?  Jumper cables are often plenty thick but make crummy
contact at the clamps on the ends.  You might invest in a couple of
short 2 or 4 gauge battery cables that can be bolted onto the starter
stud and clamped onto the battery terminals and see if that improves
the situation.  Remember, a 6 V starter has to draw twice the current
of a 12 V starter to give the same amount of torque.  But the loss in
the wiring goes up with the _square_ of the current.

It kind of sounds like you're trying to start the engine before you
install it, but if it's in a car, check the ground strap at the nose
of the transmission.  Alternatively, run a cable directly from the
battery negative terminal to somewhere on the engine case.  When I first
got my Bus, the ground strap was bad, and the starter turned over very
slowly.  Adding a battery cable from the battery negative terminal to
one of the generator stand studs improved things a lot until I finally
changed the ground strap.  Even if you are starting the engine on the
ground, hook up the ground cable as close as you can to the starter -
like under one of the starter mounting bolts.

I guess you're using a piece of a bellhousing to mount the starter in,
but if you're using a whole transmission, you know it turns freely and
is out of gear, right?

It's possible you've got bad contacts in the solenoid.  If you want to
know for sure, disconnect the battery negative cable, and then bolt the
positive cable onto the "wrong" stud at the solenoid - the same one as
the heavy wire that goes into the starter body.  Hook the negative
cable back up.  The starter won't turn the engine but it should turn
itself.  If it still turns slowly, you have a problem in the cables to
the battery, or a problem inside the starter motor - windings, brushes,
etc.  If the starter spins real fast when you do this, then your
solenoid isn't making good contact.

Are you sure that the engine still has a 6 V flywheel on it?  Usually
if the gear teeth don't match there will be a loud noise, but I guess
anything is possible.  Mark one of the teeth and start counting...
(no, you can't just measure the diameter, because VW made all four
permutations of diameter and teeth.)

Good luck!

Matt Roberds
