Date: Thu, 24 Jan 2002 08:13:54 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] synthetic vs. regular oil

Wow - here we go again. This has become a regular thread here on Type 
2.com. I don't care b/c each round brings a few new facts and I learn a few 
things.

In my experience most of the hear-say (and there is alot) about synthetics 
is about the old synthetic oils which though still good had a few drawbacks 
- had marks against it b/c folks said it caused seals to shrink and leak, 
washed oil deposits away near seals that were created by dino oils and this 
caused leaks, didn't transfer heat as well, etc. Most of the synthetics 
have been improved over the years and most, if not all, of these drawbacks 
have been eliminated I have read.

You may still get some leaks as the actual oil molecules are smaller and 
better able to slip past seals. Your engine temps will be lower - and I'm 
still not sure why - because the oil is either slipperier or the synthetic 
oils don't transfer heat as well. I lean towards the slipperier idea not 
because I know for certain but just b/c I'm optimistic. I can't get a 
definitive answer on this. My gas mileage went up about 1 or 2 mpg on my 
Honda CR-V but don't get too excited - it could be my imagination, a lower 
viscosity oil, or maybe it is reducing friction that much... And maybe I 
was driving more carefully those tank fulls.

Anyhow I run it in my 1978 Westfalia 2.0. I developed a few leaks - 
probably would have anyhow. Oil consumption was the same (a quart in 
between oil changes), gas mileage was about the same, oil change interval 
is the same. The engine isn't top notch (loose) so I like to think this 
will make it last longer. I run it in my CR-V with no real changes. I'm 
shooting for 300K miles and this is one way I am seeking to get there. I 
run it in my aircooled 1981 Honda motorcycle. It leaks a bit, seems to run 
cooler (based on my knee temperature sitting in traffic on a hot day - real 
scientific huh?), and I like the synthetic oil b/c it has higher temp 
tolerances since the old bike has no fan or radiator. I also run it in my 
"Craftsman" lawn tractor with a 14.5 HP B&S. It smokes a bit on startup but 
it has a million hours on it seems b/c I mowed yards for 3 seasons with it 
to pay for college and synthetic oil for my cars! <grin!> I think it has 
faired well not because of the expensive oil but because of plain old 
neglect. Sometimes engines last longer for me that way - I just keep it 
clean and run it. Doesn't say much for the mechanic (me) huh?

Anyone that wants material to read on synthetic oils needs to do a web 
search - just about every mailing list for any vehicle for land, water or 
air has had extensive discussions about synthetic oils versus dino oils. 
The search engines like Google and Yahoo and <insert your favorite search 
engine name here> will find it. My searches are always worded like: 
Synthetic+oil+faq  The plusses ensure that all the words are found in the 
search results. You'll undoubtedly hit some of the corporate sites too.

I also have bits and pieces of info I have copied from the web I'll send 
out to anyone that wants it. Believe it at your own risk.



Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE:       Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing and exhaust 
- $100
                 5 Beauty rings for 13" wheels, very nice, no dents, packed 
ready to go, $40 (was my cost)

