From: Mfitzsim(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 25 Jan 2002 03:58:01 EST
To: Modifiedbears(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: [T2] new carb

In a message dated 1/24/02 11:08:25 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
Modifiedbears(-at-)aol.com writes:

<< how would i go about getting fuel injection? >>

Nathaniel,

I personally would choose either the stock bus L-jetronic FI or a conversion 
to K-jetronic (CIS) FI.

Option 1:
If you install an L-jet system, make sure the ECU, AFM, and other major 
componentes all came from the same year vehicle with the same transaxle as 
your bus.  You will stand much better chance of having everything work 
optimally if you do this.  When you understand the components and have the 
manuals, you can probably mix and match a bit once you understand how 
everything works.

Option 2:
My bus has a stock 1800cc engine with a Miller K-jet fuel injection 
conversion.   Check out: http://www.millerfi.com/.  Gary is a great guy, easy 
to work with and supports his product well.  The cost for the kit is the same 
or less than a dual twin barrel carb kit.  You will either need a need a 75 - 
79 fuel tank with and internal sump and return or you can add an external 
sump similar to the ones found on many junked 80's vintage VW's etc.  
Everything else comes with the Miller kit.  Most of the components are 
standard on late 70's rabbit/jetta/dashers with some customization, machining 
and fabrication here and there.

The kit outperforms any carb system I have ever had.  More power, evenly 
distributed throughout the rpm band, no linkage adjustments or balancing, 
immediate cold starts in below freezing weather, its much quieter and the 
fuel distributor constantly adjusts fuel delivery for demand, altitude, 
temperature etc.  NO electronics, its all mechanical.  It passed the Oregon 
emmission tests with flying colors.

It is a straightforward install and setting it up is_much_simpler than 
setting up dual carbs.  It has one set screw that adjusts mixture instead of 
the 6 jets, two venturis and two emulsion tubes per carb that all have to 
complement one another perfectly and be set up to match your engine's 
displacement, valve size, cam, exhaust and your driving habits. 

mark fitzsimons 
Portland, OR
