Date: Fri, 25 Jan 2002 09:17:34 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Modifiedbears(-at-)aol.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] new carb


>how would i go about getting fuel injection? everyone says it costs way 
>more and now i'm being told it would cost about the same? seems like there 
>would be a lot more money paid in labor costs.

Time to learn to fix your own bus. Nobody is going to fix it with as much 
care as you will. Buy the Bentley book, buy the Bosch F.I. book, buy the 
Muir, and buy the Haynes book. One trip to a mechanic would cost more than 
a starter library.

By reading different books you'll get slightly different explainations and 
pics and usually for me it makes the issue clearer.

Make friends with somebody who has a fuel injection bus that can trade pics 
of the completed system or let you look under the hood if they are local.

An old VW will make you poor if you have to pay a mechanic every time it 
hiccups.

The fuel injection system is easy and can be troubleshot with a basic 
multimeter. It also is a bolt on affair so you can add it to your engine 
while the engine is installed. If you buy it piece by piece new it will 
cost a fourtune! Buy it from a junkyard or some other parts bus and remove 
it yourself and you'll know the system quite well. TAKE EVERYTHING! If it 
has a hose or wire leading to it - take it.

I traded a used carb conversion kit to a fellow who wanted to switch to a 
carb. I went to his house, took some pictures first and pulled the fuel 
injection system myself piece by piece. Took a couple of hours maybe. I 
knew this system was good b/c the bas ran but poorly. I was able to tell it 
was just vacuum leaks (injector seals) and a bad EGR valve and warned the 
fellow but he wanted that carb still.

Put it all in a Rubbermaid crate and went home. Once there I cleaned each 
part and then checked them with the multimeter per Bentley and Muir and 
Bosch and Haynes.

I used a couple of the components for my bus that I was driving that had a 
running fuel injection system but was marginal in a couple places (cold 
start valve, idle air control and thermo-switch). I gained a computer , 
throttle body assembly, injectors, harness, etc.

I'd go with a F.I. system is heart beat. I had a friend with a '78 
Stationwagon Transporter with the carb conversion and despite all my 
efforts it did not like the cold (tended to ice up) and it did like 
gasoline to the tune of about 5-6 mpg lower than my Westy on F.I. We did 
not try to add a heated intake or jet the carb differently.




Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE:       Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing and exhaust 
- cheap
        or       5 Beauty rings for 13" wheels, very nice, no dents, packed 
ready to go, $40 (was my cost)
    TRADE

