Date: Sun, 3 Apr 2005 16:38:58 -0500 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Brazil-built Type IIs

On Sun, 03 Apr 2005 21:53:51 +0100 Stephen wrote:

> I know I'm going to regret asking, but why is it illegal to import a bus
> into the US from Brazil unless it is 25 years old? Does this apply to
> all countries? 

This should be a FART by now. <grin>

It is *NOT* "illegal" to import a new Air Cooled VW into the US regardless
of it's age.

But.....

The vehicle must meet ALL U.S. emissions and safety standards for the year
it was manufactured in. If you can get a Brazilian Bus modified to meet all
of the safety and emmisions laws then you can import it.

Oh, you have to PROVE it meets all specs.

How do you prove it?

You have a minimum of 11 vehicles modified at the same time with verifiable
documentation that they were modified in exactly the same way.

You give 10 of them (free of charge) to the U.S. Government. The U.S.
Government runs them through all the same emissions tests, crash tests, etc
that any new model must go through, including cutting a couple into small
pieces to make sure they were really modified the same way and that all of
the interior (structural) mods meet current safety specs.

If any *single* test fails you start over by buying 11 more and having them
modified to correct the problem.

Lather, rinse, repeat -- until the Fed is satisfied.

If they are ever satisfied then whoever did the mods in the country of
origin now has a monopolized cottage industry. They can mod and export THAT
YEAR bus to the U.S. -- documentation has to be exactly the same for every
one so no other company will be able to horn in on the business -- but the
whole testing process has to be re-done for each model year.

And, you may have noticed, it's not a 25 year rule. The imported vehicle
has to meet specs for the original year of manufacture. Loaf style Buses
stopped being built for the U.S. market in 1979 so you'd have to go through
the whole process of finding enough 1980 models to have "tested" if that's
the year you chose to import -- even if you wait until 2010 to do so.

> If not, could you import a new bus from the UK?

See above -- sure, if it meets specs for the model year.

Gerald
