Date: Fri, 17 Mar 2006 12:34:54 -0800
From: tommy <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Starting Problems

Volks,

I'm writing this half for me (the "talking through a problem you figure it out yourself") and half to try to find a solution.

I've been trying to get my newly built engine to start and having some problems.  It turns over and almost starts but fails to catch.  Engine: 1600SP, H30/31 carb, vacuum advance dizzy.  Carb and dizzy came off the engine that was in this bus previously and that was running.  

I know that all starting issues come down to two things "Fuel" and "Spark".

Spark:

1) have spark at the coil (blue-ish spark)
2) engine is almost catching: tells me some of the cylinders are getting a spark
3) plug wires are new and in the correct order (checked and triple checked)
4) points are set to 0.016"
5) static timed to 7.5 BTDC
6) cap and rotor look ok
7) Valves verified at ~0.008 (set a little loose for first firing - I could tighten these up though)

Spark unknowns:

1) condenser (assumed ok)
2) should probably verify spark surface of the points
3) Valves set too loose?


Fuel:
1) Carb was on a running engine before
2) Tried second carb (but an unknown one): same issues
3) Fuel in fuel filter (pump working)
4) Gas smell
5) Tried with choke open and closed  (40 degF ambient temps)
6) Added dry gas last night in case fuel had water in it

Upon reflection, the engine I pulled from this bus had some starting issues where you had to fiddle with the choke (essentially, you had to disable it) but once it started you were fine.  After I realized that, I tried the dry gas (perhaps my previous starting problems had been fuel quality!) but also started thinking it was a carb issue.

My guess is that it's flooding, perhaps with a bad float or float valve, but then again, my general experience with this (and other H30/31 carbs) has been that they tend to run rich.  

Any other thoughts or things that I might check?  I'm getting to the end of my "things to check and re-check" here.  

Thanks,
    Tom
    67 Freedom Camper, Lily
    71 Hardtop Camper, awaiting turbodiesel transplant and body work
