Date: Thu, 23 Mar 2006 13:43:05 -0500
From: claralw(-at-)aol.com
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Keying all locks to same key?

 I recently had Gabriel rekey some locks... including a treasure chest lock 
and an ignition switch.  He also cut a couple keys to code.  It was reasonably 
priced and didn't take too long till I got them back in the mail.

67 buses take a different key than 66& earliers.   You would have to make 
sure that the handle you have are for a 67.    The key is an L series, which is 
longer than the earlier keys.   The code would be something like 20L123, while a 
64-66 key would have a code something like T1234.  55-63 would be something like 

Often the cargo door handle on 67s has been broken.   If you remove the 
handle and look at the base of it, or on the square shaft, there will be a key 
code stamped into the metal.   You have to use the key series that fits the 
cargo door handle lock, so if yours ahs been replaced, you'll have to find a 67 
cargo door handle or have one key for everything else and one for that 
handle.
 
For the cab door handles, the key code is stamped into the L shaped thing 
that screws to the end of the lock cylinder.  These could possibly have been 
swapped over at some point, though. mid 64-66 cab door handles fit 67s, but use 
a T series key.  The L thing at the end is needed for the key to lock/unlock the 
door.   the 67 ones are different than the 64-66 ones, and you need the kind 
that matches the handle for it to work.   The 67 ones are more likely to have 
broken than the 64-66 ones. 
 
The code on the ignition switch is next to the screw hole that holds it in 
place.   To see it, disconnect you battery ground so the hot wire won't spark.  
Then carefully undo that screw with a correct size screwdriver, wiggle teh ig 
swicth around out from under the speedo pod (you can leave the wires attached) 
and turn it so you can see the threaded hole for the screw.   If your ig switch 
has an L code, get a key cut to that code, and the handles keyed to the same 
code.  If your ig has already been replaced with one from another year bus, I have a bunch of L series ig switches w/o key if you are interested.
 
........
