From: Conrad Klahn <conradk(-at-)mac.com>
Date: Thu, 23 Mar 2006 16:51:44 -0600
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Insanity

> IS EVERYONE INSANE- or what?

We'll miss you Jim. Your personality has been one of the highlights  
of the list.

Actually, I have been surprised at the availability of reasonably- 
priced rust buckets up until now. I fully expected prices to escalate  
much sooner - and if it weren't for the post Y2K slowdown, I think  
they would have. The market it picking back up, 401ks are up and  
guess what - people have more money now. (i.e. I'm putting in a pool  
in the backyard.)

There was an interesting article in the latest Hemmings (If I recall  
correctly) that heralded the end of the hot rod hobbyist. But  
realistically, that happened years ago. Sure, the hobbyist could have  
taken out a 20k loan for a nice Barndoor, but should they have? I  
mean, drive them and enjoy them doesn't go along with the paranoia of  
getting your large monthly payment sideswiped by a Tahoe. Only rich  
(or crazy) people don't think twice about throwing their AC Cobras  
around a racetrack, or put-putting their "1 of 3 surviving Hebs" to a  
local show. Frankly, I'm glad that they do. All too often I hear  
stories like, "There's a guy in my neighborhood who has a __. I see  
him drive it around the block every so often, but that's it."

You just need to change your interests a bit. Type 3 and Type 4 cars  
and parts are still reasonable and in some cases, very cheap in  
comparison. I see "rare accessory" for a Type 4 and it costs much  
less than a common part for my bus. If those aren't sexy enough, just  
get yourself one of those inspiring 70s air cooled kit cars for  
cheap. I see do-it-yourself buggies and rails every so often - no air  
conditioning needed. And if you're really adventurous, there are old  
VWs all across Latin America.

My much-maligned air cooled Vanagon Westy is a comfortable and  
relatively affordable vehicle - cost about the same as an old worn  
out Honda. Granted, it is not a sexy VW and I've had to put up with  
rude comments from other VW owners, but it works for my needs. That's  
what I'm driving home tonight.
