From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 13 May 2002 00:09:26 EDT
To: a59camper(-at-)yahoo.com, hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net
Subject: Re: [VB] 2,4 No Fire (etc,etc,  rambly) 

I love those stories!   Reminds me of a time I was driving home from Seattle 
in my $100 bugster, and it just wasn't running right, so I pulled over in 
Tacoma at a gas station and it turned out two plug wires were funky- (from 
the pull one at at time off the cap test) , but luckily I had some spare 
wires with me.   Took longer to tell the guys who came over that it was fine, 
and no I knew what I was doing, but thanks anyway for the suggestions, than 
it did to sort it out.  Anyone else find when you stop somewhere people come 
up and say the weirdest things to you because you have a VW?   Kyle had this 
T shirt that said "FUCK YOU, YOU FUCKIN' FUCK!"  in bold letters he wore on a 
trip to help keep the weirdos away. (or maybe just for grins)

Anyway, yesterday I was helping Ian with his 67 Buick Riviera which had 
taillight and brake light issues.  I know thats many miles from a bus, but 
bear with me here.   After I got over the shock of non Bosch colour coded 
wires and resisted the urge to rip it all out, it turned out that the 35 year 
old car had (gasp) a couple burned out bulbs, corrosion in the bulb holders, 
a couple loose wires,  and a bad brake light switch.  (sound familiar anyone? 
 nah, didn't think so)   It was pure idiot book thinking on figuring out what 
parts were bad, that and saying, hey this car is old, clean up the electrics. 
 He was pretty surprised that is was so simple (ie no costly parts) but 
usually it is simple.  Simple is good, complicated is bad.

Ya, sorry about the lapse there, but I am still daily driving the corner 
window bus. (OBC)   Today was so hot (in the eighties!!!!!) that the safari 
was open.  Cruising and listening to some good blues, AH, this is the life.  
(Maybe it's time to install the other safari.  )

 In a message dated 5/12/02 12:46:29 PM Pacific Daylight Time, 
a59camper(-at-)yahoo.com writes:

<< 
 Jon, I tend to agree with whoever it was who suspected
 the wire to #2.  Do you routinely check resistance
 from the terminal inside the dist to the plug end when
 tuning cars?  We used to do that all the time when I
 was a professional (ha, ha) mechanic, and sold lots of
 plug wires.
 
 Good luck,
 
 JP
 
 PS  When I was working at Small Car People years ago,
 one fellow brought in a non-running vehicle he had
 tuned up himself, and my boss wrote "make run" on the
 work order, which he always thought would result in
 big bucks.  I pulled the distributor cap, shined up
 the contacts inside, and it started right up.
  >>
