From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net, vintagebus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 13 May 2002 09:14:38 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] hazetguy's strange engine trouble

Being it's a new engine there is a possability that the sealing ring has not
seated peoperly yet and when it get's hot the expansion might be helping. So
at idle it is not pulling fuel to the cylinder for combustion.

ronnie  just a thought

ps. you could disconnect the coil and crank the engine over with the
throttle wide open, then pull the plugs to see if they are wet.

-----Original Message-----
From: bus-snob [mailto:hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net]
Sent: Monday, May 13, 2002 8:18 AM
To: vintagebus
Subject: RE: [VB] hazetguy's strange engine trouble



thanks for the suggestions. i'll check the cap 
today, although i did not have troubles with it on the other engine.
(remember 
the external parts came from a running engine) anyway, the wiring harness is
new 
(wiring works), the battery is new (interstate), and the spark at the cap
(when 
wire is removed there), the plug wire end (when removed and grounded), and
when 
hooked to a grounded "dummy" plug is a very nice bright blue. the wire ends
are 
new, old stock BERU, with 0 resistance from the cap through to the wire 
end.

valves were checked (again) yesterday and they are 
all fine. pushrods are not bent (i actually checked them yesterday when i 
removed the rockers to make sure they, the rods,  were seated correctly in 
the lifters).

i do not know about idling when it is hot. i have 
not driven it and stopped for that short a period of time yet. maybe i'll
get to 
that today as i have some errands to run.

so the mystery continues. thanks for the 
suggestions.


----- Original Message ----- 

Is the bad idling only on a cold start, or a warm start too?

Are the sparks from your plugs the good blue-white or the weak 
yellow?

 My best so far is this: what if your 

battery and wiring wasn't delivering enough current to make a good spark 


right after starting? The engine might run poorly on a weak spark until the 


generator joined in to produce enough current to overcome a bad battery or 


some bad wiring and give you a good clean spark at the plugs?

2 and 4, huh? It couldn't be something to do with the way the air/fuel 
moves 

down the intake manifold that messes with those two cylinders?

AND:

 
Hi Volks,

Sounds like a bad distributor cap, spark plug wire/end, or broken/bent 


pushrod.

Eric Barb

