From: "Kathy and Paul" <pa.ka(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <s.havoc(-at-)intangiblerealities.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 21 Dec 2004 15:53:18 -0500
Subject: Re:Boston Bob Long Blocks

Steve,
    I bought a 1600 dual port engine from Bob a couple of years ago
and couldn't be happier.  I know your bus takes a different engine,
but I think you'll be happy if you buy from Bob.
    Before deciding to buy from him I made 2 phone calls to discuss it
with Bob.  Both times he patiently answered my questions and never
once tried to end the call before I was ready.  Once the decision was
made I called him to confirm and he gave me a date when it should be
ready.  He did ask for a deposit since he was building this engine
just for me, not as part of an inventory.  As the due date neared I
called him again to confirm and told him I would drive up to his shop
to pick the engine up.  If you can't drive to him don't worry.  He
told me he can ship all over the world.  Once my wife and I got there
Bob showed us around his shop and explained why he builds engines the
way he does and explained how we should drive our bus, and what we
could expect of his engine.  This was a 2 hour tour.  Then he helped
us load the engine into our car and away we went.  He also gave us
printed instructions on break-in and oil useage and valve adjustment.
The engine built up great and started on the first twist of the key.
When we bought the engine we were told that life time customer service
was part of the price.  Now fast forward about 2 years.  After a
routine valve adjustment I couldn't get the driver's side valve cover
to stop leaking.  I called Bob and we discussed the possible reason.
He told me not to worry about it because he would send me what I
needed to fix the leak.  My thought was that he would send some kind
of sealant to use on the gasket.  No way!  He overnighted to me 2 pair
of new gaskets and a new valve cover bale at no charge.  I installed a
new gasket and the bale and problem solved.
    If there is a problem with his engine it is that it doesn't leak
any oil!  Without my engine dripping oil I have to watch out for rust
on the bottom of my bus  :-)

Paul A
Huntington Station, New York
71 westy
