Date: Mon, 8 Jul 2002 00:42:31 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To:  <type2(-at-)type2.com>,  <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Success!: George is broken down in Paradise (Utah), cylinder  stud



First thanks for those who responded:

Scott Frasier, who somehow from LA found a VW shop that was open on a
Sunday in Ogden UT!

Steve Blackham and Allen in Smithfield whose kind offers of assistance
were comforting, even though I didn't end up taking them up on it!

Mark Dearing and Tom (?), whose advice from afar was very helpful.

Vee Dub Service in Ogden UT, who provided two German head studs for a very
fair price.  So fair that I threw in some beer money.

Beth and Dave Otterby, who are not VW folks, but who graciously provided a
shop, food, and lodging for a bit longer than they originally intended!

The story:

While checking out my valves this morning I noticed a head stud sticking
out of the #3 lower head bolt hole.  It was  broken off at the case end.
Gaaah!

A query to the list quickly provided a source for the stud, so Dave drove
me down to Ogden to get the stud.

We wheeled the bus into Dave's immaculate shop and proceeded to drop the
engine.  Dave scrounged a couple of floor jacks from neighbors to make
this easier.  I left the tranny in this time.  Only glitch in taking the
engine out was that I forgot to disconnect the heater cables.

Once the engine was out, we removed the left heater box and lower tin to
see what was up.  It did not look good.  Only about one thread was showing
outside the case saver.  Just enough to get a pair of pliers on, but not
enough to allow the stud end to be turned.

We whacked a bit on the end of the stud and tried to get purchase to turn
it, but to no avail.  Finally, I remembered a bit in the Idiot book about
how to remove stubborn fasteners.  With a narrow chisel I made a groove in
one edge of the stub striking directly toward the center of the stud.
When the groove was large enough, I turned the chisel in the direction to
unscrew the stub and gave it a couple of whacks.  I looked and it seemed
that the stud had turned, but I had Dave look too to verify it, as wishful
thinking was overcoming me.  Dave saw it as turned too, so we took a
break!

Some more tapping and finally work with needle-nose pliars had the stud
out in about a half-hour.

We cleaned up the used replacement stud and carefully screwed it in.  We
torqued it to 18 ft-lbs.  I didn't take off the cylinder tin to check the
top studs, but the valve adjustment on #3 returned to normal with the new
stud so I think that all is well.  In any case, I'm going to pull the
engine when I get home and replace all studs with 8mm German parts.

The engine reinstall went smoothly and the bus was running again by
9:00PM.  Dave was rather impressed with how easily the engine went in and
out, but I doubt he'll be buying a bus soon!

Again, thanks for all the assistance and moral support.  It looks like
we're on the road again!  :)

George Lyle

