From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 8 Jul 2002 19:12:12 EDT
To: ventwing(-at-)yahoo.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] center pin shift rod hell

The rear shift rod changed at chassis # 835 088.  The earlier  front coupler 
has two screws, the later ones have a coupler with one screw and the rods 
overlap. The front rod also changed at the same time.  VIN 501 xxx to 835 088 
for the 60 style rod.

To pull the rear rod out the front you pretty much have to cut the nose of 
the bus off.

I had mega hassles undoing it on my 61, and had to grind away through the 
coupler.  The deal is that the coupler on the early ones is a tube and one 
screw  holder the front rod, the other the rear rod.   there is a tiny gap 
before the rods, if you carefully cut it in half you can get it apart.  Not a 
fun place to grind , under a bus with not much room and stuff falling on you. 
  Warning- the coupler is softer metal than the screws, so it is really hard 
to drill them out. 

Try to salvage your shift rods.  They are getting harder to find.  

I got a replacment coupler from WW, which was of less than stellar quality.  
The ID of the coupler was larger that it should be, but it did work.

To anyone else thinking about undoing their front coupler- soak it with 
penetrating oil daily for two weeks first.  reassemble with grease to keep it 
from rusting.
...................................
In a message dated 7/8/02 12:24:05 PM Pacific Daylight Time, 
ventwing(-at-)yahoo.com writes:

<... take out the front shift rod. Snapped the screw heads
 off the coupler in about 2 seconds each. Drilled them
 out, but still no dice. Pulled out the angle grinder
 and ground away half of the coupler, still no dice.
 won't even be twisted. So now i guess I'm down to
 cutting it. I'm sure I've mangled the Front shift rod,
 and I'm worried about the rear one... My question: Is
 it possible to pull the rear shift rod out the front,
 therby avoiding pulling the engine and tranny? Boy, I
 sure hope so.
 Also, I know there were some changes to the front
 shift rod, but will any year rear shift rod do the
 trick? My bus is a later '60. Thanks, y'all.
 -russ
  >>
