From: "incynr8" <incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 9 Jul 2002 21:24:51 -0400
Subject: Tight valve update-longish rant

Turns out I have a 6v generator pulley, (thanks Ronnie for a great post
found in archives) another screw over I got when engine guy pulls out a
38amp 68-71? Big generator (forgot to mention that I gave him 12 weeks
to build this and he made me help to get it finished up over 6 hours
when I arrived for it, his wife admitting him burning midnight oil
(proudly) until 3am the night before to build it, that sure didn't
establish confidence) and wonders why it's bigger, letting me get the
old one I had from disaster motor, with complementary brushes, so I get
to take the engine out and replace that soon too (not like I don't have
to for nearly wasted heads) With a 905 and 1 shim, still slightly loose,
unless brandy new, like 100 miles. This caused havoc, and on top of my
imbalanced compression (due to heads that were flycut differently I
imagine, since although I requested new, when I bought this motor, I got
"low mile" ones, that already nuked a valve spring on me, and spec at
two different compression ratios. A 900mm belt with 5 shims is almost
perfect (rest of shims outside of course), and pulls the generator
nicely. I think this motor DID stretch valves though, and am monitoring
the condition closely. I doubt this engine will last long. Nice to jump
in the 98k OE mile Ghia, returned almost to bone stock, and have it
purr, and pay some f-up 1700 bucks plus core to screw around with me. I
demanded new heads be sent to me, or rebuilt ones with good parts and
cced in at least one cyl each to prove they are close. Let's see what
support I get 10 months and 1200 miles later. Hope he does, because I
haven't the resources to fix this right now, especially scraping to fire
up that fasty I scored, only needing (so far) brakes and new fuel lines
to tear up the road, even the tires are new on a 30k mile OE everything.
Backing up a previous post on the matter, unless 50,00 frenchmen swear
by the guy, build it your damn self. Seems we're the only ones who care
if we're stuck 50miles from nowhere. I wanted to, but only have my
little driveway. Now I have a garage in town with no power, and might be
building future mills in there, or empty the shed  (8x8) and do it
there.

*********So, the big Q is, if she stretched valves, will the lash keep
getting tight? Discouraged... Al in PA


