From: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>
To: "Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 10 Jul 2002 11:06:57 -0400
Subject: Re: [VB] disc brake kit & update mater cylinder

Yes, I did switch to front disc brakes on my '66 Westi.  Here is basically
what I did:

http://www.oldspeed.com/service.htm  (see the bottom picture)

Basically I love the Porsche 944 discs over the stock drums!  Also I know
this not a great seat of the pants apples to apples comparison, but I think
this setup brakes much better than even the '71 Bay disc/drum system (I know
I know, the bay is sprung softer and is heavier so not the greatest
comparison).  The 944 rotors are 11.1 inches and vented (same rotor as on
the 911 from '74-'83) the pads are also quite substantial compared to the
baywindow pads (read: greater friction surface for better stopping).  

I kept the stock split beam in front.  John Baker mentioned the baywindow
beam swap and it is possible to fit a '68-'70 front beam onto a split and
then just plop on the '71+ disc brake system.  But the kicker is that the
bay beam will make you ride 2" higher than before!  The only way to lower it
down is through a form of torsion bar adjusters (Albatross adjusters I
believe they are commonly called, try Bus Boys).   Too much work to swap
beams in my opinion, especially if you have an already good split beam
currently in the bus.

Lets talk lug patterns as well.  If you run the Porsche 944 setup you will
need some sort of matching Porsche wheels.  This means more money and new
tires.  Street price for a set of Fuchs 15"x6"s seems to be about 350-400.
If you are adventurous get 16"x6"s Fuchs, but good luck finding LT tires for
them.  Most people go with cheaper cast Porsche styles like Cookie Cutters
and Phone Dials, should be about $200 for a set of 15"x6"s (some sellers
think they are worth more, but tell them to put down the crack pipe).  Heck
if you are a high roller there are many many good aftermarket Porsche wheels
you could slap on there that would make it very unique.  But if you go with
a bay lug pattern your only cool way to get alloys is with a Mercedes wheel
that is mildly machined to fit.  Again many M-B aftermarket wheels are
available.  I think www.vanagon.com has the specs on what to do.

I have seen some ads for this setup to keep the early wide-5, but am not
sure if it can go on a bus spindle:
http://www.cbperformance.com/catalog.asp?ProductID=1140

Onto the master cylinder.  Basically just swap it out for a disc/drum
baywindow unit and it will work perfectly.  Get the Wolfgang Int adaptor and
it bolts right on, worth the $40 it costs.  Thomas Ainley reported that this
kit does not work for a German bay M/C so I would just get a Brazilian one
to avoid the hassle of machining the adaptor.  Thomas did report this to
Wolfgang Int, so they may have a separate kit now depending on which M/C you
say you will be using (do not hold your breath on that though).

As for the rear end it is an interesting journey into what will work to use
alternative lug patterns and brake setups.  If you have any great ideas post
them in the Bus Barn at www.shoptalkforums.com, lots of custom bus chat
happening there w/o fear of being flamed to death.  Right now on the rear I
am using EMPI wide-5 to Porsche pattern aluminum adaptors... Which suck!  If
the parts are available I hope to put in an early bay rear end IRS
conversion with a T1 tranny http://www.creative-engineering.com/  Dave
Palmer is hopefully coming out with billet bay rear hubs and German drums
that can be drilled for the lug pattern of your choice.  Yah, you could just
get the RGB eliminator kit and bolt on rear 944 brakes in a snap, but then
you lower the bus 3" and still have a swing axle tranny - yuck and yuck.
Also I do not like the clamp on control arm IRS kits, that piece must be
welded.

Probably more information than anyone needed but there it is.

My end goal is to have a split that can beat up on Explorers and other
worthless POS SUV poser "wanna be tough" yuppie trash.  Just my personal
loathing mental illness towards poser SUVs and the scum that drive them :)
(yes, there are people who need SUVs, but not 90%+ of them that I see on the
road - especially anything with Lexus or BMW or Porsche on the ass end of
it!  Pick up your balls and get a minivan)  


Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Microbus Westfalia "Biscuit"
1967 VW Microbus Standard/Westfakia "Dino" - For Sale
1979 Porsche 911 SC "Cochese" - For Sale 



  

