Date: Fri, 09 May 2008 10:21:18 -0700
From: "Nate M." <nate(-at-)aircooledtech.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: Noise (once again)

> Date: Thu, 08 May 2008 20:46:39 -0700
> From: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc" <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
> Subject: Noise (once again)
>
> (snip)
> Here are some results:
> 35-45mph   84-86dbC
> 55mph   88-92 dbC, not bad. could still use the radio and listen to music.
> 65mph   94-96dbC, Getting a little loud and music wasn't so good any more.
> 70mph   95-98dbC couple of 102 db peaks, Music was not so good at all.
>
> Yes, I know, 'A' weighting is more usual, but it cuts off all the low
> frequency stuff which is where the problem lies.
> (snip)
> Chris

Some of this maybe has been suggested previously, so pardon my
rehashing if it has.  From my experience with quieting my own bus
down, I've noted 4 major factors in random order:

1.  Wind noise from the basic shape and design of the bus - Unless you
want to cut drip rails off and generally smooth the edges, there's not
much you can do.
2.  Wind noise from leaks on seals in doors, windows and other
accessories like roof racks etc. - These can be eliminated.  New door
seals, careful re-hanging of doors to ensure they are actually in the
center of the openings (if they are not, the seals won't seal even if
new) and new window seals.  Also the overhead vent seals will cause
constant and progressive noise with speed if not sealing.
3.  Engine noise - most of the noise comes from the fan.  Not much you
can do about that since it's pointed at your back and turns 1.6X the
speed of the engine.
4.  Vibration noise - Everything from engine vibration to trans gears
especially the redux boxes to road vibration etc.  The RB are bolted
right to the spring plates and the gears are straight-cut!  Ensuring
the rubbers on the rear torsion housings are in good shape and that
they are NOT urethane will help some.  Good rubber trans mounts will
help.  The biggest difference you will find to cut this noise is using
a good sound deadening mat like FatMat, Dynamat or the like and
covering as much of the metal as you can.  This stuff works GREAT!!
Cover the sloping bulkhead (quiets the fan), roof, walls, doors,
under-side of the bed, nose skin ANYPLACE that has metal that can
vibrate and I can bet you you will cut your noise by 1/3 with this
stuff alone.  Old VWs are "tinny" and the metal vibrates like a tuning
fork.  Sound mat is AWESOME.

I would recommend starting with #4 and then go to #2 since those are
what you can control and make the most difference (in that order).
Hope this helps. . .  Good Luck!!

--
Regards,

Nate Morse
Owner, ProVolks
Anacortes, WA
(360) 299-8860
Nate's AircooledTech
http://www.aircooledtech.com
