Cc: veewee111(-at-)aol.com, "vintagebus ((vintagebus))"
From: magic67bus <magic67bus(-at-)comcast.net>
Date: Fri, 23 May 2008 00:17:14 -0400
To: Jim Arnott <jrasite(-at-)eoni.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Vintage bus roll call

My 67 Standard is full of epoxy, paint, scrapers, tools tarps and other 
stuff that I am using to work on my sailboat. every day I drive to the 
boat yard to play with the boat.
The boat should be back in water soon. Just in time for the florida 
summer. You know thunder storms everyday, lots of lightning hurricane 
warnings. I still have Charley damage to boat and house and bus.

I am thinking of selling the bus. I feel a little conflicted about 
using it for a work truck. But I am not hurting it, and that is what 
they were made for. One of the things anyway.
Bus is all original and I am a guy that believes that all the old VW's 
should be restored to as original condition as possible-with out 
customizing.  (that is just my personal view) I understand that things 
like disc brakes and more power are practically necessary to drive in 
todays traffic. If I were to drive at the 70 mph speed limit it would 
be past redline. And too scary for me!
  Driving is not  as much fun anymore. A lot of places have so much 
traffic and the modern cars have amazing capabilities and safety 
features. For instance they can stop very quickly-too fast for the 
tailgaters.
I pass many crashes.
I was thinking that recently it was reported the US census is 300 
million and the year I was born (1960) it was 150 million. So you could 
generalize that there are twice as many cars and much more congestion.
Also for me I have to limit my hobbies. The VW would take say 10k to 
make it really top notch.  Then if I want to keep it as a daily driver 
there would be normal maintenance costs. The 34 foot sailboat will take 
that much money over several years. So expense wise the bus is cheaper. 
But how does one figure in the fun factor and the great feeling when I 
drive.  The ocean is in my blood, 4 generations that I can find.
I also feel overwhelmed with so much stuff and when i see all these 
natural disasters It would be so hard to lose my toys and house. But 
you cant live in fear or let it control you. Here in Port charlotte Fl 
Charley came assure now people are a little more on edge for the 6 
months hurricane season. But I am off subject.
I think it comes down to where would I rather be. Sailing, driving a 
bus, tinkering with my antique boat motors (outboards), or several 
other things.
If someone could somehow prove to me that they would restore the bus- I 
would give them a great deal. But that is impossible. It is funny just 
before I moved to Fl I gave away all  my VW stuff. Engines and all 
sorts of pieces. I was done they were gone. Then they came out of the 
wood work.
Also I am not a person who seems able to enjoy VW shows. I spot a car 
or bus and want to talk to the owner but they are doing the same thing. 
So when I find that geat trailer hitch I cant find the owner. I am a 
motor head and have many ideas but no one to talk 2
Peace and lower gas prices
Frank
