From: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc." <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 26 Feb 2010 19:25:10 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] FI to carb

Mr. Stevens is spot on about solder. I've had several occasions to 
completely resolder old circuit boards. First my microwave oven controller 
in our built in kitchen appliance. 18 years old and it started doing all 
kinds of goofy stuff. Found a bunch of cracked joints on a connector. 
Resoldered them 2 years ago and it has been working since. The cruise 
control on my 16 year old F#%d Ranger stopped working. Again cracked solder 
joints in the control module. Resoldered and its been working ever since. I 
don't have that problem on my bus (content) as its too old to have any 
circuit boards. If you do resolder, do it carefully and take your time so 
that you don't bridge a joint to another. Use rosin flux core solder, not 
that plumbing stuff with acid. When you are done, scrub the board right away 
with rubbing alcohol to remove the flux.

Chris




At 12:27 PM 2/26/2010, you wrote:

  the black box rarely fails

True that. Bosch stated that over 80% of the ECU's sent back as cores
were FUNCTION NOMINAL. Yeah, mis-diagnosed the great majority of the
time. The very few ECU failures I have seen ALWAYS show inside one of
the following:

1.) Corrosion, due to a drop or two of water or just high humidity over 
time.

2.) Heat stress, and there is ALWAYS something else that caused it,
so find and fix that or you will burn up the new ECU in short order.
Follow the burnt circuit back to the pin. Check the diagram to
determine what that pin goes to. Check that. And all the way back to
battery ground however it gets there.

3.) Under an 8x+ handglass in good light, the solder joints will show
cracks. They will ALWAYS go from a bright finish to matte, due to
heat cycling, due to age. If the solder joints are bright, good deal.
If they are dull gray, get out the hand glass and take it out in the
sunlight for close inspection.

Same goes for relays and virtually all electronics. Have a close look
inside for empirical evidence. In most cases of failure, the evidence
inside is OBVIOUS if you what to look for, and how to see it.
