To: doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sat, 27 Feb 2010 10:17:10 -0800
From: baillybusbarn <baillybusbarn(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: '71 Bus Brake Woes

This thread is not going very far.  The fact is, for those of us
who have been around foreign (especially European) vehicles for more than
50 years, 
it was not uncommon at all for "euro" models to wind up in the states. 
MANY
of these were brought back by U.S. servicemen who bought vehicles in
Europe and through their affiliation with the military were allowed to
bring vehicles in that were often only slightly modified to what were
then
very vague U.S. specs.  
Yes there were/are many variations of models, engines, brake systems and
optional
accessories, but many of the odd "one offs" were NOT U.S. models but 
"grey market" cars.  Having worked for years on these models from EVERY
European manufacturer, I can say that until you have the data plate in
front
of you, you never know what you are going to get.  Remember also that
until
just recently our beloved Type 2 was produced in a number of foreign
markets
and these models have changed greatly from what we last got back in 1979.

There are mechanical and hydraulic reasons why it is very difficult to
stop 
a vehicle.  A study of hydraulics makes it clear why a booster is needed
and 
when it is not.  A bus without a booster can be made to stop just fine,
as long
as the rules of hydraulic force are followed.  The basic rules are that
EVERYTHING 
must match.  You can't just replace one master cylinder with another and
expect that
everything will work fine.  You have to match piston sizes and leverage
at the pedal 
linkage and any number of other items (like proportioning valves and
such), so it
is best to go with a "factory" system unless you change EVERYTHING to a
later design.

  

Larry................back at the barn
When do you want to go to Haiti?  I can make it happen.
Christ lays opportunities to serve him at our feet every day.  
We can choose to pick them up or expect that someone else will.
I choose the first.

I hope to be headed to Haiti in the next month.  In the last 8 years I
have seen 
exactly ONE Type 2 still running in Port au Prince, and that was back in
2002.  I
have seen a couple of Beetles, but they were really sad.  I just saw them
in passing, 
so I never got a good picture. 
