Date: Mon, 1 Mar 2010 09:19:09 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Westfalia fiber glass insulation

Ned you got to recall that for all the hype Reflectix or whatever it is called
has, about no actuall R value to the stuff.  It has good "effective" R value
for relfecting and creates an air gap (the bulk of its value), but actual
performance is nonexistant.  For houses it has a nice rep for tacking up below
floor joists, which works OK because #1 ususally you had nothing at all if
using it, #2 causes air gap from flooring to reflectix and adds a barrier from
air infiltration, #3 heat rises anyway.  In a bus if applied to the inside
support, not the body, it would do/does a fair job keeping heat out, not
nearly so well keeping heat in.  I've read reviews of Airstream folks using it
with varied results, most who took out their fiberglass and really use their
campers in any real weather regret it.
 
I recc'd to Max that the best stuff I ever used was something JC Whitless
(aaaaahhhhh!!!) used to sell in the day (10+ years back), that was about 5/8"
closed cell foam, mylar faced, and adhesive backed.  They have some similar
stuff, but not exactly what I used to buy.  I see McMaster-Carr has several
similar choices listed, with actually better priced stuff listed in their
"acoustical" rather than "heat" insulation section, might still work nicely. 
I don't personally care for rigid, it doesn't offer a good fit or any air
sealing.  If one wanted to really do it, spray would make a quiet insulated
little camper, would be an unholy mess later, and with all foam as mentioned,
when/if it gets burning you die.  Fiberglass is in some regards about as good
as you can get as far as filling the space and sure is price wise.  Problem is
that it holds a lot of moisture, so if you actually camp in your bus, it can
rust stuff out.  This always seems worse in
 Vanagons compared to busses oddly, not sure why.  I do wonder if taking some
dynamat or something similar (cheaper) and doing the support structure on the
proper inside side for moisture barrier, might not improve things, but if
moisture did get trapped it wouldn't ever want out.  Anyway lots of choices.
 
A bit of fallacy here anyway folks.  If with a poptop your biggest loss is up,
even with the top closed.  As I've mentioned for winter use, driving and
camping, I always stuff a 6" bit of old couch foam in that hole, and top down
of course.  Next biggest loss, all that single glazed glass.  Wonder if they
ever offered the double pane plexiglass windows for bays in Europe like
Vanagon "Joker's" came with over there more often than not.
 
John

--- On Mon, 3/1/10, Ned Savoie <ned(-at-)harbourlight.com> wrote:



Has anyone tried the silver "bubble wrap" type of stuff? That's what I was
planning on using.
