From: "Rob Henley" <robhenley(-at-)baywindowbus.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 17 Jan 2005 22:23:07 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] once upon a pre-owned tuna can

My 2 censt could become $5 quickly so just a few thoughts...

Buses can be dependable, and as others have stated, a lot of times it is 
ignorance of parts or how-to that will keep a bus from running or being 
dependable. I have suffered from this many times.

There is a challenge faced for a new bus owner (who is not a mechanic) and 
that is that everyone tells you how easy the bus is to work on and that you 
can do it even if you have never worked on vehicles before. This can be 
true, but often it only comes after months or years of experiences, money 
spent, and time down. This can be especially challengeing for someone like 
myself who had a bus as his only vehicle and became perplexed when I 
couldn't figure something out, but was determined to fix it myself.

I find that over the 4 years that I have owned buses that in the grand 
scheme of things I have probably caused more grief than good, mechanically. 
That is not to say that I haven't learned from these mistakes and I carry 
the knowledge now. I have learned a lot and I have to say that I am 
excellent at adding a fan or heater and last week I hardwired my reverse 
lights to an extra headlight switch so I can turn them on whenever I want, 
however my bus isn't running good now because of the timing or carb and I 
am, to be honest, a bit scared of messing with either for fear of making it 
run worse. However I know that messing with it will teach me and that 
sometime soon I will not be scared to mess with them and will know what to 
do to make them right.

I can relate to the thought of just giving up and getting a newer car with 
heat, etc. But for those that stay with it the knowledge comes, the bus 
becomes more dependable and when it does break down fixing it isn't as much 
of a challenge if you have the parts. This knowledge usually takes some time 
to acquire and I wouldn't be suprised to find this mailing list is split 
pretty even between those of us that still have a lot to learn and those 
that do not. The ones who think that trading for another car is rediculous 
and those that see the appeal, but are sticking with the bus so that someday 
they will be the ones with the knowldege.

Rob Henley
www.baywindowbus.com 
