To: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: o_sconet(-at-)yahoo.com, "Jim Arnott" <jrasite(-at-)eoni.com>
From: "Miles Erickson" <miles(-at-)mileserickson.com>
Date: Mon, 17 Jan 2005 21:28:17 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] AIRS: [WetWesties] need help near Palm Springs

Olive,

I'm relatively close by -- in L.A., with my Cessna 150 parked in El Monte --
but my Bus is all the way up in WA, so I'm probably no help at all.  Unless
you can think of something I could do to help... let me know.  206-412-4300.

If it comes down to paying for overage on your AAA tow, you'd pay less by just
hiring a tow truck yourself.  (Try calling several different companies:
out-of-pocket towing prices can vary wildly from one company to the next.)  If
your AAA overage charge really is $7 a mile ($210 for 30 miles?!), that's
pretty outrageous.

- Miles


Sympathy story follows:

About 2 years ago, my Bus's old engine called it quits at three a.m. on a
Monday in South Seattle, on my way home from a long weekend trip to the Oregon
coast.  I called AAA and they said they would have "Ralph's Road Rescue" there
within the hour.  After an hour passed, I started calling them every 15-20
minutes for an update.  First, they said the tow truck was on its way and
would be there any minute.  Next time I called, they said the tow truck must
be stuck in traffic (at 4:30 in the morning in Seattle?), and by about 6 in
the morning they admitted that they had no idea where my tow truck was but
still refused to send another one.  Half an hour later, I had to get on the
Metro bus and go directly to work.  AAA was completely unapologetic and
refused to help move my Bus to a mechanic's shop during the day while I was at
work.  I had a local towing company do it with a smile for a good bit less
than the cost of a year's AAA Plus membership.  Needless to say, that's when I
dumped AAA.

Another time, in a non-VW vehicle, with no AAA, I got stranded by a gummed-up
carburetor, called some local towing companies, and got quotes ranging from
$60 to $120 for a 30-mile tow to my preferred mechanic.  The $60 truck showed
up in 15 minutes.  I've NEVER had that happen with AAA.


Caution, frivolous rant directed at no one in particular follows:

Here's what I think about AAA: to put it politely, they suck.  Unless your
vehicle isn't properly maintained, you'll pay less over the long run if you
take care of your towing needs in cash.  What's better, using the cash method,
you'll be at the bottom of the list when you call for a tow, *and* you won't
get left stranded in the middle of the night by someone who couldn't care one
iota less sitting in a call center somewhere thousands of miles away.

(Anyone with an "AAA showed up in 10 minutes and towed me 150 miles for free
even though they didn't have to" story, speak up now!)
