From: "daniel nelson" <danielbnelson(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 18 Jan 2005 09:34:45 -0600
Subject: Starting probs *hangs head in shame*

Listees:

I'm moving next door and I need to get the deluxe('71, 1600 DP, 34 PICT 3, 
205 dizzy) running enough to drive a few hundred feet into the backyard next 
door. My dream is that if I can get engine running and replace broken clutch 
cable I can limp her over there. It steers and stops and even all tires are 
up!!!!

Engine has had key ingrediants but not at all the same time, good 
compression (120 on all three and 1 cylinder has high compression?), fuel, 
and spark. Sometimes I've had great spark but most of the time it seem too 
weak to be able to start engine. The ignition key doesn't fit the ignition 
so I"m hotwiring her. Running 12 gauge wire from pos battery to pos coil (is 
this too fat, does it matter?), and to spin starter I run pos from battery 
to starter, that part works great.

Last time I fiddled I put in my spare carb on (which fixed major flooding 
issue). At one point I did have great spark but I can't get back to that. 
Coil had weak spark but blue. I tested dwell and it was either a 0 or off 
the scale when I would adjust the points. ???

So I threw in a new set of points and dwell always registered zip. This was 
my 205 dizzy that was just running in the westy moments ago but I had 
figured out that mechanical advance is shot.

Something is just screwy electrically and I figure it had to do with me 
hotwiring everything.  How does volt regular get into the system, maybe it's 
disconnected, maybe I don't have something hooked up right on coil, maybe 
I'm frying the points???

I'm broke this month and have no money for parts but am willing to pull any 
parts of my westy to just move the deluxe. If I get this over there before 
the 1st I owe my current landord less money due to the decreased number of 
VWs, please help.

I just know better than to start fooling around with some sort of plan and I 
have no plan at present.

Daniel
71 Westy "Keki Puko"
71 Deluxe "Celeste" (giving her innards to Keki)
92 Cabby "Aphrodite"
Nashvegas, TN
