Date: Tue, 18 Jan 2005 18:55:33 -0800
From: Travis Neal <wharfrat(-at-)spiritone.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Battery/Starting Anomaly 

Hi All~
Long time since I posted.  Anyway, I have a 1979 fuel-injected camper 
bus.  In the engine compartment I have a dual-battery set-up.  The 
auxiliary battery is kinda old but since I don't use it for much, it's 
been holding it's own for years.  The primary battery is old as well 
and up until about 2 weeks ago it had rarely let me down -- until I 
went out one cold morning here in Oregon and she wouldn't start; dead 
battery.  So, I took her to my trusty Les Schwab tire/battery shop (a 
Northwest institution) and sure enough, the primary battery tested bad 
and so I bought her a new heavy duty battery.  All was well.  Fast 
forward to this morning:  the new battery wouldn't start the bus.  On 
first try, I got the clicking sound plus about half a crank from the 
starter.  Second and third tries, even less.  I checked the connections 
and all looked/felt sound.  So I could get to work, I hooked up my 
jumper cables between the auxiliary and dead primary batteries and got 
the bus started.  This made it seemingly apparent that my brand new HD 
battery was possibly bad.  I drove to work and afterwards, it would not 
start again -- just barely a "RRRR" when I turned the key.  So, I had 
to do the same jumping procedure to get it started.  I drove it 
straight back to where I bought the battery to have them test it to see 
if it was bad.  It checked out 100% fine, and it's connections were all 
tight too.  The charging system checked out fine as well.  Now, this 
makes no sense to me.  If this brand-new full-power battery is fine, 
why can't it start my engine on its own?  Why would a brand new battery 
not be able to start the engine while at the same time, my 
less-than-full-power back-up battery IS able (via jumper cables 
connected to the new battery) to get it started?  Could there be other 
forces (i.e. bad starter, power drain, etc.) at work here?  (I have a 
hard time believing it could be the starter because the starter sounds 
pretty strong when I jump it; as for a power drain, I don't use any 
electrical devices other than the basics when I drive, so I would have 
no clue where to begin on that one.)  The only other clue I noticed is 
that it didn't start right up every time I attempted the jump.  
Sometimes it took two or three times of hooking up the cables, turning 
the key getting nothing, moving the cables around a bit, trying again, 
etc.  I doubt it means anything -- I just figured I wasn't getting a 
good ground connection each time.  Anyway, I appreciate any of your 
experienced insights to help me understand and hopefully solve this 
problem.  Thanks!

Travis
79 Riviera
