From: "Melissa & Jerry Jess" <vwstuff53(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Arizonabusclub Yahoo" <arizonabusclub(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, "vintagebus
Date: Wed, 26 Dec 2007 14:53:19 -0700
Subject: : Merry Christmas...

Subject: Merry Christmas...

 

'Twas the night before Christmas, and all 'round the bus
...not a creature was stirring, not even when I'd cuss

A "HELP"sign was hung on the bumper with care,
In hopes that a towtruck soon would be there.

The children were nestled all snug in the Z-bed,
While visions of a gas heater danced in their heads.

And mamma in her kerchief and I in my ballcap,
Were perusing the manual to figure out this crap!

When out on the road there arose such a clatter,
I threw down the Bentley to go see what's the matter

Away to the slider I flew like a flash,
Cranked open the window and threw up the slats!

The moon on the breast of the new fallen snow,
Gave the lustre of midday to the tiretracks below.

When, what to my wondering eyes should appear,
...But a miniature Westy and eight tiny reindeer.

With a sweet little flat-four so lively and quick,
I could tell by the headers it must be St. Mick

More rapid than Porsches his coursers they came,
And he whistled and shouted and called them by name,

"Now Dasher! now Karmann! now Beetle and Thing!
On Westy! On Kombi! On Rabbit and Bay!

To the top of the bus, To the pop-top so tall!
Now dash away! dash away! dash away all!"

As dry leaves that before the wild hurricane fly,
When they meet with an obstacle mount to the sky,

So up to the pop-top the coursers they flew,
With a bus full of tools and St. Microbus too!

And then in a twinkling, I heard on the roof..
The prancing and pawing of each little hoof.

And just at that moment I felt kinda faint...
I thought to myself, "well there goes the paint!"

He was dressed all in fur, as red as the fire,
And his clothes all consisted of Wolfsburg attire.

A bundle of tools was flung on his back,
And he looked like a mechanic, with his little floor jack.

His eyes how they twinkled! His dimples how merry!
His cheeks were like roses, His Westy so cherry!!

His droll little mouth was drawn up like a bow,
...And his Westy was tricked-out and ready to go!

The stump of a pipe he held tight in his teeth,
And the spare on his bus was replaced with a wreath..

He had a broad face and a little round belly,
That shook when he laughed, like our friend Kokopelli

He was chubby and plump, and so full of cheer;
I seriously thought about hiding the beer.

A wink of his eye and a twist of some tools,
Soon gave me to know I'd be looking a fool.

He spoke not a word but went straight to his work,
And when he showed me the problem I felt like a Jerk!

And laying his finger aside of his nose...
Said "You burnt up the points, better replace those!"

Then he fired up his Westy; I forget the exact model...
And he ran through the gears as he hammered the throttle!

But I heard him exclaim as he sped out of sight....
Merry Christmas to all, and to all a good night!
