Date: Thu, 27 Dec 2007 18:21:53 -0500 (EST)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Gerry Donathan <gerrydonathan(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] Engine\transmission

On Tue, 25 Dec 2007, Gerry Donathan wrote:

>
> I have not taken apart a bus transmission, but a few Bug transmissions
and repaired them using only the idiots guide. A commone problem in bug
transmissions and I could only ASSUME earlier bus transmissions is the
shift fork is made of soft metal, I think it was brass. I tended to break
my shifters doing things liek downshifting real fast around corners
trying to hotrod around in my superbeetle, and well my baja...those are
>just made to be run into the sand heh.

They're all made of steel, but the stock items wear out faster, see below

The shift fork (or "cross shaft") is often a problem simply because VW
never expected bugs and buses to last as long as they did.  The
early-style fork ends wear out right where the throwout bearing rocks back
and forth in its pivots.  There are a couple of fixes for this.

1. Remove the fork, weld up the worn areas and grind back out to fit the
throwout bearings (recommended if that parts stores are closed and you
need to be somewhere tomorrow)

2. Replace the crosshaft with a stock replacement, with notches for the
retention springs, be happy for another 100K miles or more.

3. Replace the crossshaft with a heavy duty version with holes for the
retention springs as used in dune buggies and be happy just about forever.

Cautions:  crosshafts for bugs and buses are different, as are crosshafts
for early and late clutches.  make sure you get the right
replacement.  The bus in question should have the early setup, but you
never know.

Word to the wise:  Use new snap rings and safety-wire them into place,
using thin stainless safety wire through the holes in the snap rings.
Also safety-wire the throwout bearing retentions springs into place with a
loop around the entire throwout bearing and through the loops of the
springs.  A few extra minutes doing this can save you a remove/replace
engine cycle, so it is well worth it.
