Date: Fri, 11 Jan 2008 17:23:13 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Getting fuel pump unstuck - maybe a good trick?

Hello all!

A little earlier this afternoon, I was out in the garage, trying to wake
the '64 Bus from *mumble* months of "hibernation".  I keep the battery
charged up, so that wasn't a big deal; it cranked over OK, sounded
reasonable, and the oil light went out after a while, but it wouldn't
start.  Back at the engine, the in-line fuel filter was quite dry, even
after enough cranking to prime the oil pump; I tried the starter a few
more times but I couldn't get any gas in the filter.  I poured a few
ounces of gas from the lawnmower jug into a plastic cup (caution - not
all cups can do this trick without melting), pulled off the air intake
elbow on top of the carb, poured the gas right down the carb throat,
went up front, and hit the key.  It started and ran for a few revs,
which told me that it at least had spark.

I really couldn't remember how much gas it had in it; the fuel gauge was
reporting something less than 1/4 tank when I wasn't cranking.  I
thought that if the tank wasn't totally plugged, maybe a little more
pressure on the inlet of the fuel pump would help, so I poured about two
gallons from the lawnmower jug into the tank.  I also left the Bus fuel
cap off, wondering if perhaps I was trying to suck on a bottle.  None of
this helped, though.

I decided to see if I was even getting any fuel out of the tank.  I
loosened up the hose clamp on the inlet side of the fuel pump and
wiggled the hose off of the barb; for a second I thought I had a plugged
line, but then gas started running out of the hose, so I quick shoved it
back on the barb and did up the clamp again.  So at least I have fuel to
the pump.

Then, I took off the fuel hose at the carb, and hooked up my hand-
operated vacuum pump (Mity-Vac) to the fuel line.  My theory was that I
might be able to "prime" the system by sucking fuel through the pump.
I could pull a really good vacuum (20+ inches) on the hose, but no fuel
came forth... I figured either the valves in the fuel pump were really
doing their job, or the fuel pump was 100% crudded up.  Up front, I made
sure it was out of gear, and back in back, I pulled a vacuum on the hose
again.  I turned the engine with a 21 mm on the generator and after a
couple of turns, either the fuel pump valves operated in the normal
course of events or the vacuum unstuck them, because there was a
(patented) giant sucking sound, and fuel bubbled into the filter.  I put
the hose back on the carb, tightened all the fuel-line clamps, put the
gas tank cap back on, and went up front.  After a bit of cranking, the
engine fired up, and idled for 10 or 15 minutes without further work.
In back, the in-line fuel filter stayed about half full, whether I left
it at idle or at held it at 2000 rpm.

It could well be that I have permanently opened one of the valves in the
fuel pump or otherwise caused damage, but nothing was obviously wrong in
an hour or so of fooling around with the engine running.  I feel certain
I ran it for long enough that if the fuel pump wasn't still filling up
the float bowl, I would have known it.  I might go out there tomorrow
and find my gas tank empty and my crankcase full, in which case I will
post a retraction.  :)  But maybe the vacuum pump trick will be helpful
to someone in the future.

Matt Roberds
