Date: Fri, 5 Mar 2010 12:35:02 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: steven jarrett <hinkelsworth(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Rebuild

$5k is ludicrous, shit you could likely get one of Raby's kits for near that
though I haven't looked at how special he thinks they are recently.
 
I don't know whose Ron sells now, if still AVP, YMMV is all that can be said,
might be good for next 150k, might not make 45k.
 
My take on things, build it yourself, on your dining room table, with a $30
H-F engine stand and the ebay adapter.  If you are not in a rush, scrounge
ebay and samba, you should be well less than $1000 into parts, for everything
for the build in your case (even 3 years ago I scrounged everything for $600
for my last one, though the heads were only fair ("rebuilt" but not with seats
replaced.))  Even if you didn't scrounge and just paid outright you should
easily do less than $1500 in parts.  But...  It may not work...  That is the
problem, if you follow Wilson's book, have reasonable mechanical aptitude,
good normal hand tools, and good attention to detail, you can "probably" do as
well as GEX, or AVP.  You could even take the easy but pricey out of a Raby
kit, and gaurantee a nice complete matching setup, or you could take the
cheapy scrounge out and probably come out as good as that local guy asking the
$5k.  Or unfortunately not...  That is
 the rub.  If you are around a listmember who knows how to build one and can
help though, you got a pretty good chance.  With all parts assembled and ready
to go, anyone should be able to build a T4 in 1-2 days.  Would need 1 day of
prior dissasembly/stripping and cleaning the case after whatever it took you
to pull the engine, and whatever it takes you to install the engine.  If you
get an ebay reground crank for $100 or so (what I paid for my last) you can
have the bearings and all bought to size and ready to go, and hope your case
is not bored (and not needing bored) which is actually more likely than not if
less than 150k miles and/or only once previously rebuilt.  Anyway just some
thoughts, but $3-3500 for a rebuilt installed is probably pretty fair, and
whatever Ron is selling is going to be as good/better as your mechanic unless
the guy is a GOOD experienced T4 guy.
 
YMMV as always.
 
John

--- On Fri, 3/5/10, steven jarrett <hinkelsworth(-at-)hotmail.com> wrote:



Times up. Got to rebuild my air cooled 2.0. I do not have the space, time or
skill at this point to do this job. Went to the my local mechanic giving me a
quote at 5000. Looking at parts, labor, I can see how it can get $$. I think
I
can buy a long block off busdepot.com ship it and install it for around
3000-3500. They give a year Year warranty.
