Date: Fri, 5 Mar 2010 12:54:15 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Great Video on Dangerous Tires

Does bear some scary thoughts though, like having some stinking idiot sueing
you for "negligence" of running 7 year old tires though if you have an
accident and say some repair shop had noted you should replace from age during
a balance or alignment or something. 
 
Perusing my current rigs shows most of mine 6-10 years old but still good (in
AK where you pretty much run 6months on summers, 6 months on winters, both
last double time...)  Like I mentioned previously I'm seriously thinking about
putting the like new Contis off my retired syncro I'm no longer running on the
new SC to replace totally non load rated tires.  The Contis are like 85+%
look near new, but are I think like '95 date code, sat in a shaded area when
the van died for the PO for 6-7 years after being one season old.  I have a
real, real hard time not bringing myself to running them, and probably will. 
And the point of a new "old" tire is really well taken, particularly for us. 
I know in WV the guy I bough heavy loader 185R14s on probably had the same
stack of tires sitting in his warehouse for 10 years, I was buying my last set
of XZXs from him a good 6 years after they were NLA.  He had a stack of XZXs
and a stack of Yoko 356s and I'm
 sure I probably bought about 1/2 of both stacks over 10 years.  I'd run a 15
year old setting in a warehouse new tire in a second today if the price were
right.  Hell people will pay $1000 each for a 40 year old NOS tire if it fits
their 60s Ferrari and take it vintage racing over 100mph on a $200k+ car.
 
John

--- On Fri, 3/5/10, Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net> wrote:



"...This episode brought to you by the American Tire Retailer's
Association..."

...just kidding...

Chris in TN
> Tough call, but I am loathe to believe that the tires sit for four years,
> and when I buy it, I only have two years to use them before my life is at
> risk.
