Date: Fri, 5 Mar 2010 23:57:56 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] tire on front

It actually isn't that simple.  The problem here is that it isn't
really EXTENDING your crumple zone, just transfers rigidly the first thing to
hit, and that the bumper is met to be a crumple zone, the nose really isn't. 
An average steel rim is one of, maybe the most rigid thing on a modern
vehicle, why a lot of crushers remove them before crushing, and why those neat
in spare tire gas cans that were available in the 90s were even German TUV
approved (and those suckers don't let anything by) because a rim is an ideal
little safety cage.  Problem with the spare on nose (which I like and accept
in its deficiencies as I've never hit anything with one yet either) is that it
isn't crumple zone, it just rigidly transfers the force directly to the nose,
sure maybe after a microsecond of deforming the tire until it takes up slack,
and the rim bottoms out on whatever you hit.   Effective crumple zone has to
crush and deform to consume energy, you have to
 have permanent plastic deformation to eat away in the energy transfer, I'm
long off my engineering game but something about energy and work of the area
under the curve you don't get back.
 
Another simpler way to look at it is that hitting the spare tire is like
running the nose directly into a nose height rigid barricade, and
unfortunately the nose of a bus isn't AT ALL an effective crumple zone.  In a
late bus or Vanagon the crumple structure is built into the modicum of energy
absorbing underbumper, the punched out collapsing frame members under your
floor supporting that underbumper, and the floor itself a bit.  The nose
doesn't transfer energy to any of that effectively, it just barrel cans in
with what little there is to the air boxes helping a bit, and the A pillars
eventually taking up as well.  I like the spare on the nose, frees up space
inside, but I do accept that I'd be far better to front end something at
bumper height rather than nose height in a bus, and having the spare up there
just is a rigid extension of nose height.
 
Worst vanagon accident (they aren't that different just a little thicker,
heavier, ?better for a front ender) I ever saw was one driven under a concrete
abutment that was about 2.5 feet off the ground, locked up on ice at about
35mph.  It decimated the entire front compartment barely doing any damage to
the bumper, floor, or frame.  The nose didn't stop moving until the
dash wedged the occupants to the wheelhousings, the dash was actually sitting
over top of the front seats.   I looked at if very carefully as I nearly
bought it (a low miles full kit '86 westy asking like $2000 salvage value in
'90-91) as I figured it not that badly damaged since the frame was solid and
the doors had oddly both sprung so very little damage was transferred even to
the B pillars.  I figured I could turn it for about $10k after a summers work
between early undergrad years.  I was dissuaded as I couldn't locate a
suitable donor nose cheap enough and as the thought
 of cleaning up all the blood (the passenger had apparently ended up with a
below knee amputation) put me off a bit.


--- On Sat, 3/6/10, David Schwarze <dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net> wrote:

I don't understand your arguments.  If another vehicle hits your bumper, then
the bumper is the crumple zone. and the wheel/tire on the front is
irrelevent.  If, as you said, you are hit by a large SUV, one that is tall
enough to hit the spare, then the spare and nose of the bus are your crumple
zone.  Or perhaps the spare, nose of the bus AND the bumper and frame.  Either
way, the tire/wheel combo adds to the crumple zone in those cases.  The larger
the crumple zone, the safer you are - it's as simple as that.

-David
