Date: Sat, 6 Mar 2010 07:20:31 -0600
From: Gerald Livingston <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 1970 camper progress

On Mon, 1 Mar 2010 13:13:05 -0500
David McCracken <folkswaggin(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:

> Please offer some guidance in locating the relay
> (location/appearance) and suggestions for replacement relay vendors.
> Thanks so much.  As always your expertise in any regard is valued.
> Take care,

I assume you know where the fuses are by now? The relay is plugged into
the bottom of the fuse block, tucked up behind your air vent tubes.
Royal pain in the rear to get to. It's a big rectangular block of a
thing. I'll post pics of one later and reply to this with a link.

Vendors ...

There are none for the stock unit that will plug right back into the
fuse block. The stock flasher for 68-1/2 to 70 (211-953-215C) is NLA.
bus-boys.com has them listed in their online catalog for $60 each (used
I assume).

Any other place you look will sell you a generic 3 or 4 prong flasher
and let you guess how to wire it up. NONE of the "replacements" will
plug directly into the original location. You have to make a short set
of "jumper wires" with a female spade on one end and a male spade on
the other. In the case of a replacement with only 3 prongs you also
have to connect terminals KBL and 49a together to get a flashing dash
light.

Now, the way the VW flasher works. Are the actual outside lights
sticking "on" or "off" or is it just the dash light that only works
sometimes?

If it's the dash light then go make sure all of the outside lights are
doing what they're supposed to. In a modern car if you have a bulb burn
out then the flasher goes into overdrive and starts flashing all of the
remaining lights on that side really fast. In a VW if you have a bulb
that is out (or not lighting due to a poor connection/ground) then the
dash indicator light stops flashing. The remaining outside bulbs
continue to work normally.

From your description you should probably take a weekend to pull loose
every electrical connector you can find and polish them all up with a
dremel wire wheel before you start replacing switches and relays.
