From: David McCracken <folkswaggin(-at-)gmail.com>
Date: Sat, 6 Mar 2010 10:40:15 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 1970 camper progress

*Gerald Livingston** wrote:
I assume you know where the fuses are by now? The relay is plugged into
the bottom of the fuse block, tucked up behind your air vent tubes.*
---

Got it.  When writing my initial message I was referencing the Bentley
manual which has a picture of an earlier year relay underneath the dash it
appeared.  While I had looked all around the fuse box, I hadn't removed it
and looked underneath.  Got it out now and its pretty wet.  I carefully took
the cover off - 2 resistors in rear of unit are heavily rusted and leads to
board are rusted out.  I ordered a replacement relay from Airheadparts.

http://www.airheadparts.com/viewDetail.asp?strMasterCat=&idproduct=2935
---

*you wrote:
 Are the actual outside lights
sticking "on" or "off" or is it just the dash light that only works
sometimes?*
---

Dash light (or hazard plug light) do the same as the outside lights - every
so often they blink as the should when engaged.  Sometimes I get no light at
all and most often they light up and stay lit.  same inside the bus and
outside
---
*
you wrote:
In a VW if you have a bulb
that is out (or not lighting due to a poor connection/ground) then the
dash indicator light stops flashing. The remaining outside bulbs
continue to work normally.*
---

Thanks for that.  Was not aware

---
*you wrote:
From your description you should probably take a weekend to pull loose
every electrical connector you can find and polish them all up with a
dremel wire wheel before you start replacing switches and relays.*

------------------------------

Thanks.  Did just that with the hazard switch first.  (BTW the switch
assembly itself was not loose as was suggested).  Cleaned all wire spades
connectors and male parts on switches to remove filmy gunk.  40 years in
Florida and various spills, leaks etc. does that I suppose.  The relay was
pretty cheap I feel - I went ahead and ordered a new hazard switch as well.
Expecting delivery today.  I will post back.  Thanks all.  Should be able to
pass her initial state inspection following this and be legal.

Many projects ahead.  Im really loving working on her.  For a living I tour
nationally with a band (almost all the time) and this is the project I do
when home that makes me feel sane.  Actually Im doing this work now in a
foot of snow if that paints my picture more clearly.  Keeps my drink cold at
least....  Be back....  Thanks again

David McCracken
folkswaggin(-at-)gmail.com
