Date: Wed, 10 Mar 2010 09:11:03 +1300
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] Time Magazine VW Bus Gallery

>  ... this is some serious bus porno:
>
>http://www.life.com/image/first/in-gallery/40412/classic-wheels-the-vw-bus
>

	I'm shooting from the hip here, never having seen a 
rear-quarter pic of a Tartra; but isn't  that there automobile, 
registration X 89 400, adorned with non-bus content,  a Tartra?  If 
so, shouldn't it be purged for an offence even worse than lack of bus 
content: fake bus content?!   It isn't labelled 'history of European 
rear-engined cars'; it's purportedly a VW bus history.  Or perhaps my 
computer is overlooking an audio commentary from Life.com "Porsche 
had noted the rear-engined Tartra, an important innovation in 
capitalist Czechoslovakia.  Its final drive, shown here, was very 
different from what then emerged on the main early VW, the 
K|belwagen.  The National 'Socialists' were not eager to acknowledge 
the inspiration from the envied neighbour they hoped to conquer."

	This interesting batch including 'serious bus porno' also 
alleges a 'killer camper' RF weapon.  Sounds like a furphy to me; 
such concepts were somewhat respectable as W2 loomed, but soon 
abandoned by all serious weapons developers.  The only hope occurring 
to me for making such a weapon in the period when a T2 camper was a 
thoroughly respectable vehicle for a small-time weapon developer, 
would be a spark transmitter, sweeping most RF frequencies with 
high-power noise.  The inventor was probably inspired by a welding 
mishap on a previously incinerated bus  :-/ .
	 If, as I suspect, that 'killer camper' image is a furphy, 
could the proprietors of T2-List sue its creators for libelling us? 
Some enterprising T2 listee could come out from behind those overalls 
and reveal a doggone lawyer, who could sue on what we call a 
contingency basis :-$
	BTW I'm annoyed to find a small column of icons in that page 
featuring not only pre-existing chants 'Digg', 'Twitter', but also  
F  Fark it.

-- 
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
