Date: Wed, 10 Mar 2010 14:38:19 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] bus fixed

Uhh, whatever, blah, blah, blah, blah...
 
Well I wasn't publicly going to weigh in, bus since some people consistently
need to be (-at-)ssholes...
 
Laying under more than my share of buses and vanagons (all with the same pump)
having used said pumps to fuel CIS conversions, Megasquirts, and any/all
number of D-jet, L-jet, Digijet, Digifant, whatever in a semiprofessional
manner through school, and on, though admitedly only in my backyard now.  I
wouldn't replace a noisy one either.
 
Oddly, I do agree with Tim that a "clunk" seems bad, but a "click" and a whir,
or even an all out whining howel really wouldn't dissuade me from a working
pump.  Would I toss a pressure test set (I have a Snap-on and a Matco set both
thanks) on it.  Well maybe, if I had some suspicion of issue, but again I'm
cheap and I'd hate to try to track down one of those little aluminum washers
for the port, and they only got so many re-uses (should have none) and all. 
And none of this is applicable to the original question anyway which is should
the pump run every time you turn the key, which I've already answered by
pmail.
 
I've had SEVERAL bus pumps that had a click (not the relay either, the pump)
and some that then even whined and howled, and did it day in day out, or even
harder, infrequently used after sitting for months for day in day out, just
fine, year, after year, after year, after year.  Do I carry a spare when one
is noisy, hell yes, carrying one right now for my big ole Chevy Suburban cause
it froze up on me last week and may be subjectively louder since I rolled it
out of the garage/thaw and ran a lot of drygas through, and I'm scared it
could die.
 
Replacing a bus/vanagon FI pump is 30 minutes under the car, even if you are
middle of nowhere, a bit longer if it is really cold.  Get a good (even used)
spare, carry a set of tools like anyone driving an ageing POS vehicle should,
and don't give it a second though.  The old often true modicum is "a part you
carry a spare for never fails."
 
John

--- On Wed, 3/10/10, T.P. Stephens <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com> wrote:

VW's, where in one month I would typically fix more FI VW's than I did in
decades as just an owner/DIY/Saturday/backyard mechanic. Thanks for playing
but no bananna for you, sorry.
