To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Date: Sun, 19 Sep 2004 08:35:22 -0700
Subject: Idle thoughts on campers and kitchens

1. The layouts of VW bus campers are always compromises.

1.1 Which of the compromises works best depends on how you camp at any 
particular time.

1.2 If you camp with the family one weekend and by yourself the next, 
you need flexibility

1.3 The Westy closet in earlier models, in the rear on the passenger 
side, was a mistake. The only reason to keep it there is to preserve 
stock originality.


2. The only cooking that should be done in a VW camper involves boiling 
water

2.1 That means cooking like a backpacker, but without the dirt or bugs

2.2 All other cooking should be taken outside, especially frying


3. VW camper kitchens of all kinds are great for encouraging 
spontaneity, if kept stocked at all times. Instead of going home after 
work, head for the mountains or the beach, stopping only for gas, ice, 
and beer (which can usually be purchased all the same place). 
Everything should be ready.

3.1 This is the most sensible way to use a VW camper


4. Westfalia got it mostly right by the watercooled Vanagon years.

4.1 The best cabinet doors are those in the Vanagon Westy's with the 
rounded corners, for safety reasons.

4.2 The best replacement doors for all campers have hardwood frames and 
wicker instead of panels. They are lightweight and let air circulate. 
Only problem is they need to be maintained. Strictly DIY unless you 
know a boatbuilder.


5. If you don't have kids and you don't need the top bunk in the early 
bay Westys, the canvas in the poptop is a drag, because the view is 
terrible. Sew a better canvas with full-size screens on the sides and 
rainflaps.


6. If you have more than one kid, you need space in your bus more than 
you need kitchen cabinets and whatnot.


7. If you camp where/when it's cold, the first addition you should make 
to the sleeping arrangements (unless you use sleeping bags) is to get 
some foam and some material and put together something like the "bumper 
pads" used in infant's cribs. The walls of the bus around the bed are 
the coldest places on earth.
