From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 8 Mar 2004 22:18:24 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] reduction box rebuild, rear nuts

In a message dated 3/8/2004 10:10:41 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
tommy(-at-)slackers.net writes:
>> 1) Bentley states: DO NOT REUSE the nut beneath the welsh plug on the 
spring-plate side of the reduction box.  Is there a replacement nut I can purchase 
for this? <<

Hi Tom,
We do reuse these nuts and to do this we grind two or three more locking 
grooves in the stub axle.  So the nut can be relocked at one of these differant 
grooves.  Wolfburg West does have them new for $8.00!
>>2) I would appear that I do not have a magnetic drain plug for my reduction 
box.  This has resulted in metal flakes all over the interior of my reduction 
box.  Is there a good way to get all of these flakes out?  I'm thinking lots 
of clean rags with solvent to wipe down and wipe down again until I see no 
more flakes... <<
  Wiping with paper towel will probably do the job well, having it cleaned in 
a solvent tank would be better.  After you put the tranny back together it 
does not hurt to change the tranny gear oil after the first thousand miles to 
wash out any metal shavings that are in places you can not get to!  This is 
standard for any newly rebuilt tranny, because of break in wear/tear.  Good idea 
to replace all fill/drain plugs with magnetic ones.  Check you local wrecking 
yards for 1950-79 trannies or any tranny rebuilder should have a ton of them 
around.
>>  3) Is there a preferred method of pushing the rear axle stub out of the 
reduction box so I can get to the circlip and bearing behind it?   <<
We used to use wood occasionally to hammer on the outer end of the stub axle 
but a few times we still mushroomed the axle there!  Take the outer RGB half 
off and remove the RGB inner half off the swing plate.  Then before removing 
the upper RGB axle gear we take one of the RGB half bolts and stick it into the 
gears as to lock them to allow the lower inner nut to be wrenched loose.  Once 
this nut is off we use a long round flat tipped punch that fits into the 
center hole of the lower stub axle and tap the axle out of the lower inner bearing.
Eric&Barb
