From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 9 Mar 2004 09:44:39 EST
To: tommy(-at-)slackers.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] reduction box rebuild, rear nuts

you can reuse the nut, but it helps to swap from side to side so you have a 
lip to bap into the dent in the stub axle.   Or some people use locktite.

Yup, solvent & rags.   and get a plug with a magnet on it.  same plug used 
from 59 1/2 through 77 at least, maybe later.    Oh, actually they only put 
magnetic plugs on the drains for the center section, not on tbhe RGBs

To remove the stub axle out of the RGbox, remove the welsh plug.   Then you 
can undo the nut, tap the stub axle out, remove the circlip and bearing.  
Seeing as you can't get new metal plugs for $2 at you local VW flaps, It tends to 
be reuse the plug, which VW probably says not to do.  This often includes 
welding, as in weld a bolt to the plug, and after removing the plug take off the 
bolt and smooth the plug flat.

after the nuts off, I used a mallet and a chunk of wood.   place wood on end 
of stub axle, whack with mallet.   Placed so it doe NOT fall on my toe.  It's 
a press fit.


In a message dated 3/8/2004 10:10:36 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
tommy(-at-)slackers.net writes:

I'm still puttering along at my reduction box rebuild on my '67 
whenever I have the time, and after this weekend, I have some questions:

1) Bentley states: DO NOT REUSE the nut beneath the welsh plug on the 
spring-plate side of the reduction box.  Is there a replacement nut I 
can purchase for this?

2) I would appear that I do not have a magnetic drain plug for my 
reduction box.  This has resulted in metal flakes all over the interior 
of my reduction box.  Is there a good way to get all of these flakes 
out?  I'm thinking lots of clean rags with solvent to wipe down and 
wipe down again until I see no more flakes...

3) Is there a preferred method of pushing the rear axle stub out of the 
reduction box so I can get to the circlip and bearing behind it?  
Bentley shows a VW specific tool.  I expect that I could tap it out 
with a block of wood placed between the axle and the hammer but I'm not 
sure how well it is in there.  Similarly, I could use a 3-arm puller, 
but i'm concerned about damaging the sealing surface on the RGB half 
(even if I placed a rag or something else between the puller arms and 
the case half).  thoughts?

thanks,
    Tom

..............................................................................
.........
http://home.comcast.net/~sunrisebus/sunrisebuswerk.html
