From: "David Mayes" <mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com>
To: "'Bill Bowman'" <BussesByTheArch18(-at-)msn.com>, "'\(msge\) VintageBus
Date: Thu, 11 Mar 2004 08:22:25 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] Bus stereo question...

'Caps', short for 'capacitor', is an electrical device that holds an
electrical charge.  Think of a bucket holding water.  The idea would be
if your electrical source is not constant, this reservoir of electrons
would help stabilize any small deviations... but the source has to
maintain an 'average' value for the capacitor to continue to help since
it needs to be replenished after taking up the slack of a 'low' value
from the source. 

I was involved with car audio installations some where in the 80's... in
pre dawn era of mega decibel systems.  We would use 'caps' to help
eliminate the whine of noise from the ignition system.  Basically, you
choose the size of capacitor for a frequency, but I wont get into the
math here.

I know today they have HUGE capacitors to help drive these maga watt
systems but Bill, if I were you, I would look at a slightly larger
generator or possibly it could be as simple as running a larger primary
power wire from the battery (fused of course) to your stereo and
amplifier.  Just measuring the voltage at the stereo with it off would
not tell you anything since the electrical potential is there but as
soon as you start drawing significant current through that long, rather
smallish, wire, you soon realize you have much less due to the
resistance of the wire itself.


You should see the mega dollar speaker wires that home audio enthusiasts
use... mono crystal silver wire and such... sometimes in the
$1000/meter!



David
 



Bill asked a stereo question...
Recently there has been discussion about larger stereo systems being
used on
stock Bus electrical systems and problems and solutions.  "Caps"
(whatever
they are) were mentioned as a way of eliminating drop outs , etc.

I have a 15 year old or so AM/FM/cassette stereo in the dash of my '67
Westy
(I'm guessing about 10 watts per side?).  It runs through an equally old
Radio
Shack brand 40 watt equalizer/power amp and out to 4 fairly unremarkable
car
stereo speakers (two in the front doors and two in the rear of the Bus).
Sounds great when I don't crank it up to high, but as I increase the
volume
toward loud, the volume occasionally pulses or drops temporarily.  The
louder
you go the more frequent the "drop-out" of volume.  I assumed it was
maybe
drawing too much power at that point.  Does that simple description
sound
right/familiar to you audio experts?  If so, could you comment on a
solution
(those "caps", etc.) in plain English for us audio rookies?  You know,
what
they are, what they do, where to get 'em, how to install them properly,
how to
obtain a wiring diagram of how they should be installed, etc.?  Us
"rookies'
would sure appreciate your guidance!
