Date: Wed, 18 Oct 2006 14:22:13 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Chris <cflesher1(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] distributor drive gear backwards situation

Hey Chris,
With the distributor spun around 180* and the cables crossed, you 
essentially have a double negative, meaning you can rotate the 
distributor back to it's normal position and put the cables in their 
normal position as well.

Now, as far as lining up the distributor drive gear (which I would 
verify regardless), there is a way to do this, but I forget how.  If I 
remember correctly, the bentley shows what the distributor gear should 
like like at #1 tdc (I think).

If I had to do it just guessing at the process, I'd open up my valve 
cover on the right side of the engine and rotate the engine 
counter-clockwise until you see the #1 intake valve close (intake valves 
are the two inside valves, #1 cylinder is towards the front of the car). 
  When you see it closing keep turning turn the engine until it lines up 
at TDC - about 180* and make sure the timing mark lines up at 0.

Now take the cap off of your distributor and the rotor should be 
pointing at (or somewhere near) the line on the distributor that 
indicates plug #1 (lower right if you're looking at it from the top). 
The plugs should be attached to the distributor in the following 
orientation:

3 2
4 1

in other words, 1 and 2 cables are crossed.  If it lines up, then you're 
a happy camper.

Now this is assuming, of course, that the distributor drive dog is 
installed correctly.  In the event that the distributor is really out 
180*, you can always flip the drive dog on the bottom of the dizzy 
instead of pulling out the gear, but I'd try to avoid that because it 
makes things really confusing down the road if you forgot that you did 
that and try and drop in another dizzy or rebuild your engine and wonder 
why things are lining up right (been there, done that).

I think the above is right.  Could someone please confirm?

Thanks,
Mike


Chris wrote:
> Hi All,
>   Took a 78 (stock F.I.) with fresh engine rebuild to a mechanic to find out why it wouldn't start. Mechanic charges me to "install distributor drive gear correctly" and "correct spark plug firing order." This cost me 3 hours of labor at $85 per hour. I felt bent-over but paid.
>   I parked the bus, never drove it, and a few months later, began other restoration work on it. I found it to not run well. Upon investigation, I noticed that the mechanic swapped the spark plug wires 180 degrees from their correct position and turned the distributor ALL the way counter-clockwise. So, after calling him out on it, he admits that he, in fact, did not install the drive gear in it's correct position. He gave me his humble apologies for lying.  How noble.
>   So, as of now, the drive gear is backwards, distributor is turned completely counter-clockwise, and spark plug wires are flipped around 180 degrees.
