Date: Sat, 27 Oct 2001 16:13:41 -0700
From: Tom <turtlebus(-at-)netzero.net>
To: Type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Welding in new battery tray? Kinda Wordy (long)

Just got a new battery tray to replace the only rusty place on my 75
bus.The old tray is sound around the areas that are spot welded to the
rest of the body. I am thinking of cutting out the part of the tray that
the battery actualy sits on plus a little more. The idea is to get rid
of all rust but leave a lip to set the new tray on after removing the
lip from it that would be spot welded to the rest of the body. I only
have oxy/acetylene welding outfit. I was thinking of drilling some holes
around the edge of the new tray over the lip left from the old tray and
plug welding the holes to attach the new tray. I read about this
technique in a very old "Hot VW" Mag.

The problem is in prep for the project I cut some scrap sheet metal and
tried the plug welding idea. I cant seem to get a good weld to the piece
on the back of the hole! I am using flux coated 22ga. steel strips about
1/8" wide as filler rod. Waiting til the metal at the bottom of the
hole, the piece in back, starts to flow, as well as the edges of the
hole about 1/8 in away from the hole. Then I fill with the steel rod.
Looks great on the welded side, but it breaks way too easy from the back
piece. Thought the home made steel rod may be the problem so I tried a
lap weld on some 22 ga. sheet metal. I was impressed. After grinding the
weld I could see that this lap weld was solid and no amount of hammering
or bending would break the weld! I am worried that a lap weld would get
the outer skin of the bus too hot and blister the paint!

Any suggestions from any old fasioned welders? I await and appreciate
your knowledge. If you took the time to read all of this, Thanks for
your time.

P.S. My engine is assembled and thanks to Busted Bus I think I may be
able to get on the road before the first snow. Thanks for the prompt
shippin of the flywheel/clutch plate bolts!

Tom

----------------------------------------------------
Sign Up for NetZero Platinum Today
Only $9.95 per month!
http://my.netzero.net/s/signup?r=platinum&refcd=PT97
