Date: Wed, 02 Jan 2002 11:36:54 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] Windshield

>Also, when my windshield was replaced I was told there was a lot of rust in
>the body.  I hear this is common.  Anyway, rain is starting to come into the
>cab area and some rust is visible from under the seal.
>
>At one of the on-line parts under I saw an "inner rust repair panel (pair)"
>under a body-parts/windshield category.  What is this for?

Not for what you need unfotuately, well you may need it by now but it
won't help the major problem.  That bit repairs the vertical lip the rubber
seals over, which may in spots be rusted clean through but the rust you
see and is causing difficulty is on the horizontal surface.  It is common
it is a pain.  2 choices, find a clean one cut it out and weld it in.  The
real thing to do if the bus was a keeper but frankly no bay window with
rust bad enough under the windshield to flow in water is worth keeping
so face reality and choice number 2.  Bondo.  Now don't immediately
scoff.  I'm a metal only sort of guy myself but when it comes down to
reality in this situation the wonders of fiberglass can't be beat, I've done
many windshield lips and still have one in service rust free and looking
good from '88 (though the bus isn't a daily east coast driver any more
but has been stored outside all that time.)  Anyway after removing the
glass if you sandblast the entire lip, epoxy prime with PPG DP40, then
carefully restore the many holes/confluent gaps you will find after
sandblasting,
the result will hold for at least 5 years, maybe far longer.  And I mean you
will have holes, like most likely the worst corner will have several 1/4-1/2"
holes coming together to even form slits 1/4"x3-4" long.  Expect this, if
not you caught it and are lucky, and you will find these even when just
a little bubbling was present on the outside.  I sandblast, press the edges
of the holes down a bit, then the DP40, then a few small strips of CLOTH
not mat as the cloth if thinner, initially just a little wider than the
holes, then
build it up so the last layer of cloth does the entire corner as needed up
an inch or two and over as far as required and lips up over the glass lip
to restore that as needed.  Then a lot of carefull sanding making sure not
to go through to metal but to restore the 2 angle countour of the ledge.  Use
good body filler along the rest as needed to fill in pits that aren't
through or
"tiger hair" to fill small pits that are through, sand for countours again,
then DP40 again, standard topcoat, etc.  This usually also requires
dash removal so it is a good time to repaint the dash (rattle can flat black
after sandblast and DP40 is wonderful or DP90 left as is) replace all the
squirter hose, replace the wiper shaft seals, typically repaint down to the
beltline to blend.  It isn't great, it isn't "restoration" quality by any
means
but done well it will last nicely for a driver.  Before dash reinstall and
before
you put the rubber hose in it is good to squirt something up from behind
I have used DP40 in a refilllable rattle can with a WD40 style tip on the
can so I can use the little 4" red extension thing and just liberally coat
the back thorugh the slots available with the dash out, or I've used a good
cold galvanizing zinc paint instead, either  OK.  Use a good seal on the
reinstall
and then buy Permatex "flowable silicone" windshield sealer and flow it
under the seal all the way round.  Like I said, one in service 12 years now
this way and I've done a score of them most looking good 2-3 years later
when they left me.  Like any bondo I wouldn't expect it to last more than
5 years strictly speaking but as it is dry inside the bus behind the work
(or should be after all this) you might get longer out of it.  And it depends
how bad the lip ends up after you sandblast which is a great unknown.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu


