Date: Wed, 02 Jan 2002 12:15:36 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] Windshield

>This is the only good choice. Schofield in the UK
>offers a repair panel for this area, or you may be
>able to source one through Busted Bus, though I don't
>know if they'll source used body panels. Yes, it's
>harder to do and somewhat more costly, but your end
>result will last longer and be stronger. 

Never said it wouldn't simply said it isn't available to my
knowledge in the US, and isn't worth it.

>This is so untrue. I've seen huge numbers of bays with
>rust only in this area, which are very worth saving.
>This previous comment sounds to me like something I'd
>hear from a splitty snob. 

Whatever, I have owned but one splitty in my life and will never own
another, the reality of the bay window in the US however is that
you CAN find a rust free example, you merely have to look.  I love
the bay, it is still in this country relatively common as dirt.  You may
have to travel to get it, but you can find it and you can find it cheap
if you wait and look.

>> so face reality and choice number 2.  Bondo.
>
>Please don't do this to your prized bus. Bondo has its
>uses, but this isn't one of them. Go for the steel
>fix, it's worth the effort. 

I still maintain the reality here that is if your bus is that rusted in
this location it is rusted elsewhere beyond the value of actual metal
work.  Now I'll agree with John there are odd exceptions, like AZ or
FL buses where the rubber dried or the salt settled from being on the
coast, so I qualify, for the bulk of the US north of St Louis where the
rust is indicative of rust elsewhere on the body I still say bondo it
folks.  The metioned repair panel is not available in the US to my
knowledge at this time, I've seen that it has been availabe in the UK
for some time, I've lamented that no one was bringing it into the US
2 years ago on this list, but even if it were available you still need to
really weigh potential value.  The economics of $500 of rust repair
in an isolated area for a bus needing likely another $2000 in similar
repair elsewhere are foolish in the US, you can easily go find a non
rusted bus for the same investment.  That is a harsh opinion but it
is realistic.  I'm not saying it is time to crush or abandon the rusty
ones I'm just saying do what is sensible.  Time and again some poor
kid in the north east pays too much for a rusty bus, blows up the engine,
puts $2k into it, another $1k into a paint job that won't last 3 years,
paid $4k in the first place for a bus that wasn't worth two grand then
something else happens (front beam falls off) and now is $6k into a
bus he can't sell for $500.  Be sensible, I love the bay window but you
can't save em all.  You can drive em all without getting your feet wet and
paying too much.  If I could get the requisite repair panel, I could
personally MIG it in folks, ask yourself if you can do that, and I
STILL wouldn't go through the trouble on the last 6 buses I've repaired
with fiberglass, well I might have on the '70 single cab just cause it
was a truck.  Most of you are NOT going to MIG in the repair panel
yourself, all of you with a little effort could do the fiberglass repair
sufficiently well, but it isn't an easy repair to get the fiberglass to last
correctly either, so my point is to face the realities of what you can
and want to pay and what your bus is really honestly worth if you
tried to go and sell it at this very second.  Sometimes you have to
seperate reality from pashion.   The point of my post was not snobbery
it was to realisticly look at a PROVEN repair that will last for longer
than most of you will have your buses, proven by personal experience,
and within he realm of anyones capabilites if you can borrow or own an
air compressor.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu


