Date: Wed, 02 Jan 2002 14:24:56 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: RE: [T2] Rw: Windshield

At 01:15 PM 1/2/02 -0500, you wrote:
>I talked to them once about it and I cannot remember what panels they had.
>It may be worth a call to Ron to see what he has and what he may be able to
>get. Maybe a little less in shipping, I don't know. I have heard good things
>about these panels in the past, but I have not used them myself. I will be

Only the inner panels last I know.  And these panels are sort of worthless
IMHO as the damage they fix occurs only long after the horizontal part
of the ledge is long gone.  Not worthless, but worthess if you can't get
the other bit in steel to match up.  There are still plenty of rust free
donor buses in the southwest you can get the entire lip, nose, whatever
you want from but this goes back to my initial point, if it is that rusty
there
8 times out of 10 it is that rusty, in the corners, dog legs, front floors,
front wheelwells, rockers, wherever.  Not always, as the ones I've done
were sufficiently rust free that I thought a little effort was warranted, but
often enough.  I really don't get the logic of people in the mid-atlantic to
north east putting $2500 or more in metal work into a bay when you can
easily buy one with a blown engine on the other coast, TX, AZ, wherever
and have it shipped back for a total less than that $2500, much less if you
tow it back yourself.  I find the logic even close to foolish with a lot of
splits that get restored up here (Steve), but that becomes a matter of love
and pashion I won't get into.  If the bay is the one your dad bought in '76
and you learned to drive on, and the first car you got #(*$ in, and whatever
well then maybe.  Oh wait I sold that car, it was the one I mentioned that
is 12 years on with no rust under a PROPER "bondo" repair though I
acknowledge that was an oyxmoron.  As to importing your own stuff from
the UK, well sure anything is possible, the last thing I tried to do that way
was a nightmare though so I'll avoid it personally.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu


