Date: Wed, 02 Jan 2002 14:37:21 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] Spare tire hold down? and parts for sale

>like no one's ever rolled a Bus before (John Anderson,
>looking in your direction). :-)

Hey that is a dirty lie, I rolled an '86.  2+ times as it ended
up and I can well attest for the fact that I'd be far more worried
about the interior bits of junk flying around than an old spare
tire on the nose.  Anyone who has ever seen one of my vans
will understand that picture though, I tend to not often have
room for 1 passenger in a 7 passenger van.  If I were to roll the
'93 today a complete '93 nose, MIG welder, 12 ton press, 3 heavy
toolboxes, T4 engine case, 2 sets of SP tin, box of misc '67 parts,
2 floor jacks, coleman heater, and who knows what else would
be about to hit me long before anything from outside the van made
it in...

Something that you might worry about the nose spare tires that
I recently noticed is that the '77 has a faint ring of rust around the
area where the spare contacts and rubs, that I hadn't noticed or
caught.  And this is a garaged, well waxed bus.  The ring isn't bad
but definitely in the worse little rubs little spots of rust exist here
and there, not even as bad as stone chip rust but the mount will be
coming off the bus.  And that mount had only been in place for about
6 years, the PO put it on right before he sold it, I'm just loathe to fill
the holes removing it will create.  Mom's new CRV mounts exactly
the same way, should be interesting to see if it rust.  Another thing
about the mounts is they leave something sticking out past the
bumper on the nose of the bus which can also bode poorly in a light
front tap that would have been just covered by a new bumper but
instead warps the entire nose of the bus, a friend sort of did this in
reverse when he hit a blazer's rear spare mount, although he did
probably go under the bumper with his bumper so who knows.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu


