Date: Wed, 02 Jan 2002 17:14:17 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Re: Window Rubber Replacement Including the Chrome Strips?

At 01:16 PM 1/2/02 -0800, you wrote:
>The chrome trim is, as you say, inserted after the window is installed.
>
>The chrome is removed before the windows are removed and replaced after the
>window has been installed.
>
>I cannot see why window rubber that accepts chrome trim would be any more
>difficult than window rubber that does not.
>
>FYI: There are two types of chrome trim. The earlier trim was polished
>aluminum and C shaped in cross section. The later trim was plastic and
>inserts into the rubber with a ridge that is arrow shaped in cross section.

I had already pmailed the original poster about this but IMHO
there is no way in hell to install the late style plastic trim after
the window is in unless you live in a real warm climate.  I always
install it before hand, never assumed there would be a reason to do
otherwise, as I so advised her.  The plastic will never go in post install
in any thing under a 80 degree day, care to comment on that Steve
(we tried and tried on his '80 "loose" windshield) But I've never installed
the C window trim metal trim as when I last put rubber in a bus requiring
that trim the rubber was NLA being before the days when WW started
repopping the rubber?  Is it indeed installed afterwards?  I could
see there being a chance at doing so with that style trim, though I still
wouldn't see why one would do it that way.  With the late style the
procedure I have always used is clean seal, heat seal in clothes drier
(in an old pillow sheet if you don't want black tracks all over your drier),
install seal on glass, install trim, install 2 wraps woven 1/8-3/16" cord,
soap it, pull it.  I've done a lot of glass that way.  Recently there has
been some discussion about not using soap which frankly I don't really
buy into but in point of fact the EV manual recs against using soap and
I have had equally good luck with spray silicone, so either way you go
it takes about 5 minutes a window to pop in bus glass with the trim strip
in place, somewhat more for a windshield.

And the matter of it influencing the glass install in any way shape or
form that is just ludicrous and whoever they talked to were inept, stupid,
incompetent, or a combination thereof.  The only reason not to replace
the trim is that the rubber is a lot more expensive, as is the trim if it is
early style and not in nice shape though you can polish the aluminum
back to a pretty fair luster.  The plastic stuff is pretty cheap.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu


