Date: Wed, 02 Jan 2002 21:50:37 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] Welding your VW

At 09:14 PM 1/2/02 -0500, you wrote:
>On Wed, 2 Jan 2002 steve(-at-)unliketea.com wrote:
>
>> I need to fix some bondo spot and am looking at getting a welder for
>> X-mas.
>> 
>> What is the difference between and arc welder and mig welder?
>
>arc welder takes skill, even I can use a mig welder  ;8*}

Actually I think it is easier to arc (stick) weld myself but generally
arc welding is for thicker stuff like angle steel, good heavy more than
3/16" thick type stuff.  You can arc weld thin material but as Bob alludes
for that you best be good.  MIG welders, buzz boxes, whatever you want
to call em feed wire and an inert gas from a trigger handle.  This is what
you weld sheet metal with for body work.  Local Ace Hardware and Quality
Farm and Fleet have em as cheap as $250!!!!  Even cheaper you sometimes
see em without the regulator and gas gun as "flux core wire feed" welders, not
to be scoffed at the flux core wire is really nice for welding outside where
your gas can be blown away but generally speaking it is better to pop
for a MIG where you can run gas and still run the flux core wire if you
need to.  Century, Lincoln, Hobart, all have cheapy MIG welders down
to as low as $350-400, they are all about the same in this price range, things
to look at are what you think of the feed roller system (how well you think
it might hold up, plastic (Lincoln) versus metal (Century)) whether it takes
full size wire rolls (they all should), the quality of the gun (should at
least
be a name brand Tweco etc), does it have a one or two stage adjustable
regulator on the gas, if it is 220 or 110V (110 is more portable, 220 is less
current draw and generally higher current output ratings),  how long are the
diodes and for that matter the entire welder warranted for, and whether you
think you can get parts for it 5 years from now.  Keep in mind buying a gas
tank will be another $80 to $100 though you can just rent em.  Generally
$350 or so will get you a 90-130 amp (probably more different in the labeling
than the actual output) brand named welder though all are in fact Asian
import.  I went with a Century from Sam's club 6 years ago, works well,
works extremely well when a pro uses it, have had no problems with it
yet, I thought the wire feed was a bit nicer than on the Lincoln though the
Lincoln had some neat "stitch" features etc.  Same welder was on sale
at Quality recently for about $300, and the above mentioned thing from
Ace looked pretty good for the money.  I went 110V as my stick welder
is 220V and I knew I would never try to weld anything heavier than 1/8"
with the MIG and wanted to be able to take it and use it anywhere without
tracking down a 220V outlet.  For instance tacked together the springs in
Steves front axle beam this weekend, just thew it in the car with flux wire
and left the tank at home, I think he'll attest it did a fair job.  I don't
honestly
know how important it is to buy something this cheap from a quality local
supplier as you can pretty much throw away $250 if it gets you through one
bus and I'd guess it will do better than that.  That said at the time I bought
it at Sams I did know Quality sold replacement parts locally to me, and I
didn't go with something about $75 cheaper from Harbor Freight cause it
scared me when they wanted $50 to increase the warranty on their units
to what the Century had.  Still the $250 one at Ace really would tempt me
today I'd buy a couple extra roller wheels and hope for the best.  Somebody
doing this everyday for a living has reason to buy a $800 MIG from a local
dealer, I at least did not.  The one thing that you will want to buy to make
your learning curve ridiculously easier is an electronic dimming helmet,
Quality Farm and Fleet has em right now for $130 regular price adjustable
from 9-13 tint, that is an INCREDIBLE deal, I paid $120 5 years ago for an
insert only non adjustable 11 tint and it was an unreal sale at the time.  If
you buy the automatic helmet to start out with you will save countless hours
of learning, cursing, etc.  I had stick welded for 10 years before I bought
the
thing and when you don't do it every day you lose ability fast then have an
hour or so relearning the skill when you start a new project, the helmet
reduces
all of those factors.  I let a friend borrow mine a few weeks ago for his kids
Falcoln as he was going to braze a rear quarter on cause he has had his
MIG for a year but couldn't get the hang of it and he is a 45 year old
machinist.  He was amazed, between it and the pneumatic panel flanger
I let him borrow as well he had the quarter on in about and hour and he says
it came out gorgeous.  Oh and a few general tips if welding on a post '75 take
off the ECU plug, for that matter take off the battery cable as well on any
VW, and you shouldn't weld near A/C lines though that is pretty rare as
a problem on air cooled buses.

YMMV.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu


