From: PunkBus70(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 2 Jan 2002 22:56:21 EST
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Introduction and Starting Problems

Hello everyone,
    I'm new to the list, so let me introduce myself a little bit.  Ive known 
of the list for a while, I'm also a member of the Type3 list.  I live in 
southern california, Burbank, right near Los Angeles. I have a 1967 fastback 
project sitting in my driveway.  I am fairly new to bus ownership, I bought a 
1970 panel van on Sept. 2, 2001.  I live in southern california, I bought the 
bus in eastern Colorado, and drove it home, 1200 miles no problems.  In 1997, 
the owner at the time had the engine rebuilt, stock 1600dp with a new case 
and new heads.  The original owner kept fairly good records, some of which I 
have.  I am at least the 3rd owner, possible more, but Im not sure.  Since 
I've had it, It has been my daily driver, and I've put at least 4000 miles on 
it.  It has given me very little trouble...
    ...until recently.  On and off, there were times when It wouldnt start.  
Get in, turn the key, nothing.  The "Idiot lights" would dim, but the starter 
wouldnt go.  I was a little pressed for time, checked the engine, checked the 
fuses, 1 was burnt out, replaced it, it made no difference, decided to push 
start it, and deal with it later.  
    when leaving, it started right up, drove it to a friends house, dropped 
her off, it wouldnt start.  pushstart it again, drive home.  that was early 
december.  After that, It worked for the most part, giving me little trouble. 
The day after christmas, it wouldnt start, and hasent started by itself 
since.  
    I thought perhaps it was the battery, so I took it out and recharged it, 
and installed a "hard-start relay" in the bus.  Put the battery back in, all 
the lights were brighter, but no go.  Its not the battery. 
    Tried starting it with the light switch, as per Bentley, and the lights 
stay on, no dimming, and no go on the starter.
    Climbed under and connected the terminals on the soleniod, the starter 
runs.  Its not the starter.  whats left?  the wiring or the ignition switch, 
right?
    Pulled out the lock cylinder and ignition switch,  turned the key, and 
connected the contacts for the "red" wire and the "red w/ black stripe" wire 
together, on the back of the  ignition switch and nothing...
    So that rules out the ignition switch.  So, its the wiring...?  The 
connection to the starter motor is good, all the conenctions on the ignition 
switch are good, the the connection to the headlight switch is good.. 
everything seems clean and tight, and ive run out of ideas.   There will be 
further testing on the switch and other stuff.. but I don't know what else to 
do... please help me!  I've run out of ideas. Sorry If this email got a bit 
lengthly.

*Jerrod*
1967 Fastback
1970 Panel Bus
