From: "Mike" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 7 Feb 2003 13:26:52 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Parts Needed

From: "Richard Atwell" <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
> The blue levers are available, but the red are rare.  Go Westy has blue
and
> their printed catalog says call for red availability.
> 211-259-369A blue
> 211-259-371A red

After picking up on this thread, I grew curious and went out to Giacamo with
the idea of checking out his heater controls...

Great idea (thought I), and so discovered that "G" has two remaining levers,
the blue and one of the reds, & learned that both reds might be the same
part number mounted in different orientations.

... then I decided to wiggle the (you guessed it) red knob with a finger...

... dumb & dumber... no, dumber'er...  SNAP!

[sigh]

Well, at least I have a complete blue, and the two parts of the red one to
glue back together, as masters to make molds from.  Being a toymaker has
it's perks at times. :O)

Three questions for the more intrinsically bus knowledgeable.  I have what
appears to be the left-hand red lever (the right-hand was just a stub), and
the blue lever.

1. Are the levers "universal"?  Do all T2 buses (all years) use the same
levers?

2. Are both red levers indeed the same part, or am I looking at a previous
owner's replacement of one of the red levers?  I'm assuming that the common
sense answer is the right one (noting Richard's part numbers above & the
numbers on G's levers), that the same part was used for both red levers, but
I would like to get this right before I create the molds.

(Technically, I could make a mold of the blue lever only, then change the
resin color to cast the replacements, but the red lever has that ridge on
the knob.  I would like to keep it as close to the originals as possible.)

3. The two remaining levers are slightly curved or arched from one end to
the other.  This doesn't seem right considering the orientation of the
levers in the dash, and that the two red levers share the same slot.  Should
the levers be curved, or as seems to be proper, straight and square as
compared to the metal tang that the slide onto?

Thanks for the help!

TTFN - Mike Jackson
`77 Bay, "Giacomo"
Casting Fool & Son
Augusta, GA  USA
http://www.cfnson.com
