Date: Sat, 8 Feb 2003 16:10:28 -0600
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: scott lyons <slyons(-at-)netrover.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] loss of oil pressure symptoms

On Sat, Feb 08, 2003 at 04:38:07PM -0500, scott lyons wrote:
> I have to question that statement. The stock oil pressure switch opens at
> 2.1-6.4 psi. how much lower can you get? Most non-stock switches come on at
> higher pressures, for example a VDO dual sender (idiot light and electric
> pressure gauge) lights the light at 11 psi.

Well, the stock oil pressure new and 20 years ago might have been
2.1-6.4 psi, however experience tells me different in this situation.
A bit ago I swapped an origional switch with a new VDO dual switch.
Suddenly the oil pressure light came one a lot more at idle than
before. Nothing else changed. Not even the weight of oil. So either
the new switch was off, however it read ~10psi on a vdo pressure
gauge. or the old switch had become a lot harder to trip. There is
also a question of quality from the newer switches. Look through the
archives there is mention in the past about the quality of senders and
how good they are setup. 

> First off, I would swap the pressure switch for another known good one, and
> hope it is just the switch itself.

yes, a very good thing to do.
 
> If a new switch still lights the light under the same conditions, then there
> might be a problem. Maybe the Paul can provide more details about the
> rebuild itself, like who did the work and what exactly was done. 6 psi
> (max!) at idle is not too good on a rebuilt motor with 30 wt. oil.

The best way to tell exactly what pressure he has is not to rely on an
old sensor. He needs to go to his mechanic and ask him to put a true
pressure gauge on the port to determine what the real pressure is. I
wouldn't risk the possibility one way or the other with anything other
than a quality mechanical gauge in this case. Good luck with it & let
us all know your progress.

-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
"Two wrongs don't make a right, but 3 rights make a left"
-Cosmo
