Date: Fri, 8 Jun 2007 11:31:58 -0700
From: "zach drew" <zachula(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Type2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: TGIF : New Zealand Kiwi Adventure

Howdy folks,
       Being that its friday and all I thought I would share my
experiences driving a 1966 splitty around the north island of New
Zealand.  I rented the bus from Kiwikombis and I gotta say, Lyndon the
man that runs the operation was a pleasure to deal with.

All in all I spent 8 days driving around and I had a blast.  The bus
was set up with a fridge, stove, on demand hot water and a heater on a
thermostat.

I managed to see Coromandel, Mounganui, Rotorua, Taupo, Waitomo, Orere
Point, and an All Blacks Game (42 - 11....sorry France, but you got
stomped.)

Renting a camper to drive around New Zealand is the ideal way IMHO to
see the country.  They have holiday parks all over with hot showers,
internet and common area kitchens and most major destinations are less
than 2 hours apart.  Oh and its about 32$ NZ for two people per night.
 Prices varied by a few dollars from location to location but
generally speaking it was about $32, which is closer to 23-25$ US.

Usually it was up and out by 9-10 am then exploring the area for the
day, at about 4 ish you hop into the bus and drive to the next
destination arriving just in time for dinner and by the time you are
set up showered and fed, its 9 and time to hit the town...if you
aren't exhausted by then :-).

If you're planning on heading to NZ, check out kiwikombis.   They were
only marginally more expensive than the Escape or Wicked campers that
are so plentiful, but the cool factor and the sheer fact that I had
complete strangers walk up to me and ask me about "my" bus was well
worth the few extra bucks a day it cost.  And the head turning as I
drove through towns put a smile on my face.

The one thing that stands out the most from my trip is how nice people
there were.  There wasn't a day that went by that someone didn't wave
to me as I drove by.

If you're interested in seeing some pics,  www.zachula.com/gallery/Travel/NZ

Beware, my pics are mostly unfiltered so theres alot in there that
aren't great, but there are quite a few really nice ones.

enjoy!

-Zach
