From: rodewarrior(-at-)comcast.net
To: "Type2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 08 Jun 2007 20:32:28 +0000
Subject: New Mexico Travel Questions, can I rent a bus?

I was just looking at the NZ pictures and it got me thinking, we are going to New Mexico in August and we were planning to camp out the first half of our week that we will be there, but could we camp out in a VW bus, or even a Eurovan?

I have everything booked but the rental car and I was trying to find a place that would rent us a Subaru Outback and I was going to shop for a new tent to take, but a bus would be a very cool way to go.

Can somebody give me a tip on renting a VW bus or Eurovan camper in Albuquerque, NM?  It doesn't have to be an all out camper, but something with a bed and curtains would be nice.

I would also be interested in travel suggestions, we are going to a mushroom foray in Las Vegas, NM, Thursday through Sunday but we are arriving in town around noon on the Sunday before.

I got this from somebody in New Mexico, please comment on it or give your own version of a great New Mexico road trip that would end in Las Vegas, NM-
My recommendation is that you drive to Bernalillo on I-25 (just north of Albuquerque) and take US 550 toward Cuba and Farmington.  Just after you cross the Rio Grande, on your right is Coronado State monument, a good place to stop for Pueblo Indian and Spanish heritage culture.  After there continue on 550 until you get to San Ysidro and turn right on NM 4.  This takes you into the Jemez (pronounced Hay' mez) mountains, where there is camping, hiking and hot springs.  There is a state monument at Jemez Springs, more Pueblo Indian history (these monuments are closed on Tuesdays).  NM 4 continues to the Valle Caldera, direction Los Alamos, and past Bandalier National monument (Anasazi Indian cliff dwellings) into White Rock and connects with US 285 which will take you to Santa Fe to the south, where you can connect with I-25 again to go to Las Vegas or you can go north to Taos and go to Las Vegas from that direction.  There's a beautiful road from Angel Fire down to Mora and then on 
to Las Vegas from the north.  Coming back to Albuquerque from Las Vegas, if you take NM 14, Cerrillos Road exit off I-25 in Santa Fe, direction Madrid (pronounced Ma' drid), there are small funky towns, Cerrillos being one, and Madrid is an artist's colony.  Closer to Cedar Crest, after Madrid, is the road to Sandia Peak, which goes past the Tinkertown Museum, which is only a mile or two up that road.  Once back in Albuquerque (or before you leave) there is the Rattlesnake Museum as well as a Turquoise Museum, which may qualify as bizarre roadside attractions (the Tinkertown Museum certainly does).  I don't know where they are, but am relatively sure you can find out if you google for them.
Just remember that NM is very big, and there's a lot to see.  With more time, either from Las Vegas or Taos, you could do Cimarron, where the St James Hotel (they have a website) has 26 bullet holes in the dining room ceiling and a resident ghost.  Taos is definitely worth a visit.  And I haven't even mentioned Santa Fe yet.  The Jemez loop takes all day, without stopping to hike or camp.
