Date: Sat, 05 Oct 2002 10:52:22 -0400
From: Ben <huotx(-at-)videotron.ca>
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: From cold to hot (oil)

Hey list,

Which oil density would you use from 5F (leaving Montreal, Canada in the
winter) going to 80-90F (Texas, California, Mexico) next February.
(2400 miles)

I always use 20W-50 in a Westy (good oil pressure in the summer) but now
it's different, 0 to 5F is something else, i should have a good 3 days
of very cold driving until i hit some decent temperature. It look like
my1700cc  T4  doesn't like cold weather (it's already in the 40-50F
range up here and it's getting harder and harder to start the Bus in the
morning). I am also having a hard time getting the oil temp over 180F
(gauge was check in boilling water yesterday and its working fine, 212F
on the gauge) my bus never went over 190F, even at 75F outside!!! (yeap,
i am still on the rich side on my recently rebuilt carbs:
http://www.letambourin.com/west_carbu_rebuilt1.htm

In the last few days i did the following work on the Bus:
http://pages.infinit.net/engine/test.htm
(art picture included, he he he!)
Removing everything that suround the engine, so only the core and trany
are left in the Bus, all the cooling system is out including every metal
thin! The main reason was to stop an oil leak at the oil filter neck and
maybe an engine plug (you can see all thatt on the pictures)
Why am i asking this question, i am now ready to put some new oil in the
engine (just receive my 1700cc gasket kit)

Also!!!cabine heating question:
I still have the original heating system that work very good and I just
bought a Coleman catalitic heater that i will put in the front floor
wile driving. But i wonder about the front windshild staying clear!!! is
the original heating system will be enough at 5F to defrost the
windshild (i also still have the aux. blower)!!! or should i also buy a
small fan to blow air everywhere in the window or a small 12V heater. I
am not so worried about cold temp in the van as i am a Snowmobil owner,
i am use to drive for hours in cold weather but i am worried about the
front windshield staying clear (i added a windshield washer electric
pump)
ps.: Don't worry, the Bus is protected with an undercoated for salt and
rust!!!!!!!!!! i am not stupid!!!!

Any suggestion on that matter would be appreciated
Regards, Ben
http://www3.sympatico.ca/huotx/engine1.htm
