From: Bookwus1(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 5 Oct 2002 20:06:21 EDT
To: Type2(-at-)Type2.com
Subject: Stopping the Smell.....Renewing The E-Can

In a message dated 9/30/02 3:23:43 PM, emcrites(-at-)msn.com writes:

"Wasn't someone on the list going to replace the charcoal in their cannister, 
and then report their findings?  Did this ever happen?  TIA."

    Eron

Hiya Eron and other List Members,

Yep, you are exactly correct.  That someone was me.  And I did complete the 
project - but not the write-up.  I failed to consider one very important in 
my life - my job.  You see, I am a teacher and the past few weeks have been 
the busiest time of the year for me.  I am just getting back to The List (had 
a zillion posts to go through) at this point and will be doing a formal 
write-up (with pix) to post to the Library.  So. please do excuse some 
inexcusable planning on my part (I should have known better) and accept the 
following in the meantime.

The emissions canister can be "renewed" with both a little effort and little 
cash.  This is certainly a much better deal than going without or purchasing 
the ill fitting plastic replacement from VoA for around $70.  Without going 
into the details surrounding the "why" of the following steps (I'll leave 
that to the formal write-up) here's basically what you need to do to 
accomplish a canister renewal for yourself.

Find the end of the canister with two openings (one for air pressure from the 
shroud the other for the hydrocarbon emissions from the tank).  From that end 
measure in (towards the center of the canister) 1.5 inches.  At that point 
cut a 1.5 hole in the wall of the canister.  Now, using a screwdriver to 
loosen chunks compressed carbon empty the contents.  Once completely empty 
check the inside of the canister for cleanliness.  You should see a golden 
(apparently annodized or some other coating process) reflection free of rust 
or other crud.  You should also see a "filter" pad/screen at each end of the 
canister which should be left in place.  At this point you need to weld a 
screw cap into the hole you have cut.  This screw cap will keep the contents 
of the canister airtight and allow you to change carbon easily in the future. 
 IIRC I used a screw cap from can of Thompson's Water Seal.  Once this is in 
place and secure you can fill the canister with PELLETIZED carbon (charcoal) 
which can be found at a good aquarium/fish/pet store.  The canister will take 
just a bit more than 32 oz so buy two containers (I used Coral-Life) of the 
stuff.  After you have loaded in the pelletized carbon and sealed the 
canister you should find that you can easily breath through the large tubes 
on either end of the canister.

Basically, that's about it.  Assuming you have supplies and equipment at hand 
the total time involved is about one hour from removal of the canister to 
reinstallation.  Makes for a great weekend project when you're doing routine 
kinds of maintenance on the old bus.  Total cost is less than $15 for this 
first "renewal".  In the future, with the carbon going at about $5.50 for 32 
oz each refill should cost around $6 or $7.  Not a bad deal for either you or 
the environment.

Mike

1970 Bus - The Ruptured Duck
