Date: Mon, 24 Jan 2005 11:09:20 -0800 (PST)
From: David Burton <david_a_burton(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Patrick <patrick(-at-)nimblecreativity.ca>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] that neighbor problem

Hi Patrick,

That was me, with those "posh" neighbours that don't
like my VW Bus..

Haven't had any more problems since my last report,
but I have been moving my van around a lot more, and
also parking it on a couple of different streets.. I
have many choices, as the area that my resident permit
covers is reasonably large..

On Saturday I parked on the street next to mine, and I
was getting ready to drive off to Home Depot, having
been sitting with the motor running for a few minutes
to get some heat into the transmission (the shifter
felt like it was in thick treacle!) I was approached
by a woman who complained to me that I'd parked
outside their house (in a normal permit spot) and that
her "mother was 85 and not well, and that although I
had every right to park there, could I not do so in
future" My response was that I was unaware that her
mother was elderly, and I told her I'd try and avoid
"her spot".. Good grief, I really wanted to suggest
she apply for a disabled spot, if her mother is that
fragile she'd surely get one from the city..

I *am* a caring and responsible guy, but I am not
solely responsible for EVERYBODY that parks in ONE
particular spot, outside any house.. The problem (for
me) being that I drive a distinctive vehicle, so I am
an "easy target".. None of these demented people are
going to look out their windows and be "upset" that
there's a gold or silver Honda or Toyota parked
outside their house "again" and yet for some reason
the VW Bus causes them such anger.. Good grief..

Anyway they're all happy (I'm sure) right now because
we have a snow emergency in effect in Boston, and
though we found a spot on our street for our Toyota, I
had to put my Bus in a parking garage on the other
side of our bit of town (avoids $60 ticket and being
towed for parking on a snow emergency route) but it's
free parking there while the emergency lasts, then
it's $15/day, but I'll be able to park it back on a
main street after they've removed the huge piles of
snow from all the plowing..

We got well over 2 feet of snow here!!

Anyway, on a more interesting note, I read that some
guys are running synthetic engine oil (5w50 or 15w50)
and I'm curious how much that helps with sub-zero
degree startups?? Anyone in frostyland running
synthetic oils just to help with cold starts?? What
about that transmission oil, any improvement to be
had?? What brands and grade have people used?? Also,
any problems switching from regular mineral oils to
synthetics?? My motor is pretty "tired" at this point,
so maybe synthetics will help it last another year
before rebuild/replacement, all other things being
equal of course?? What about synthetic oils being
"thinner" than mineral oils, are there more problems
with engine leaks??

I always enjoy the posts on this list, and thank
everyone for their kind support, and kind words, when
my neighbours are being "silly" about parking, but I
strictly "play by the rules" and have not yet (touch
wood) been towed, as was orginally threatened.. And so
the game of "chess" with them and my Bus goes on..

Dave Burton
1971 Rustfalia
