Date: Thu, 25 Oct 2001 22:24:45 -0800
From: Steve <swharris(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Wayne Carlisle <wcbug66(-at-)hotmail.com>,
Subject: Re: [VB] westy curtain questions



Wayne Carlisle wrote:

> 1) Did '67 westys have 2 curtain rods on each window or a rod on top and a
> spring on the bottom?  I have rods for the top of each window and didn't
> know if I should bother to find more.

Just one on top and a cord for the bottom.  As was stated, one cord for the
drivers side.  Individual ones for each of the 3 passenger side windows.  The
back window did have two rods.  The curtain had a pocket (hem) sown on the top
and bottom.  This kept the curtain from flopping down in your face as you
opened the back hatch.

>
>
> 2) Where should the top rod be mounted on each window relative to the metal
> frame that surrounds the window from the inside?  I checked out all the
> westy pictures I could find and there seems to be a little bit of variance.

My bus is disassembled  ...cant tell right now.

>
>
> 3) What are the dimensions of each curtain half? Some of the ones pictured
> seemed pretty long.
>

These are dimensions off of some original curtains.

Height: 19.5 "
Width:  12"
Vertical hem on both sides:  .25"
Bottom hem:  .50"
Top hem:  2"   (this is the hem/pocket the rod slides through)


I assume that the fabric is what "was" know as bark cloth.  Not sure if people
refer to it with that name or not.  My mom (who's into old fabrics) has found
some old stuff that is similar in weave and texture, but not in pattern or
color.

The pattern is a 1.25" layered check or gingham (sp).  The colors of light
yellow, beige and a tannish brown are interwoven.  There are as you mentioned
two of these per small side window.  There are two large front window curtains
of the same material.  These have sliders sown into the top hem and have
vertical cut outs for the front cot pole at each "A" pillar.

Not sure the size and dimensions of the rear curtain, but obviously it would be
of similar design and of the same material.

If anyone comes across this original material, I would be very interested in
obtaining some.

Steve

