Date: Sat, 27 Oct 2001 13:33:18 -0400
From: Kathryn Bowman <BussesBytheArch(-at-)compuserve.com>
To: "VintageBus List (msge)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Some power plant questions...(long)

Hi Bus Nuts,

A few weeks ago, someone posted about drivability issues on a motor he wa=
s
running in his Bus.  I seem to remember that it was a 1600cc engine, and =
he
was running a set of dual 34 ICT carbs/manifolds, initially a 009
distributor and a merged exhaust header.  He mentioned he went back to mo=
re
stock components (single carb, vacuum distributor and I believe stock Bus=

exhaust) and was happy with the results.  He said he kind of missed the
power that the dual 34 ICT's gave him when he was "on it".  He also said
that the 34 ICT's had a vacuum port so that a stock vacuum distributor
could be used, but that he had not tried that.

As background for my question to come, I happen to be running almost the
same engine in my '67 mildly modified Westfalia.  It has the original sto=
ck
'67 transmission and reduction boxes, and is running on stock 14" Bus rim=
s
with new P 215/75R 14" Michelin X radials.  I chose these tires after
trying hard to locate a fairly stiff sidewall tire that had as close to t=
he
original outer diameter as possible.  My goal was to get the speedometer =
to
be as accurate as I could get it, so the drive train didn't have to be
overworked to drive the way that it was originally designed and geared to=

drive.  I used both the tire O.D. figures in the Bentley manual as well a=
s
the measurements off an original unused mounted '67 Bus spare tire I stil=
l
have.  I believe that these 215's are about a 1/4" longer measured in
inches per revolution than the stock spare tire I have.  It rides nicely =
at
lower rpm's than before at highway speeds (55 to 65mph).

 My fairly modified power plant  is based on a mid-70's "AH" dual relief
case.  We used a stock Type 1 "doghouse" oil cooler, the case was tapped
for full flow oil through short steel braided lines with fittings to a
spin-on oil filter element.  I had the builder blueprint and balance all
the internal spinning components (pistons, rods, counterweighted crank,
flywheel).  The DP heads were rebuilt with new valves and springs, stock
rockers, 3 angle valve job and a mild "porting" job on the intake passage=
s.
 I also run a Berg 1 1/2 quart sump for extra oil capacity.  This engine
has all the correct stock German engine tin for this era case, including
the thermostat and vanes all hooked up.  Although I have several stock 16=
00
VW Bus mufflers put away, I'm happy with the S&S header system I'm
currently running.  To solve the exhaust issues previously mentioned
(thanks Barb & Eric) I had the header's tailpipe modified so that it's ex=
it
location is now into the air stream farther outboard near the right
(passenger) side corner and a couple of inches below and behind the
rearmost edge of the bumper blade.  I also had the joint between the merg=
ed
header and the stock heater boxes modified/welded to use the "flange" typ=
e
joint using the same gaskets used between the muffler and the head ports.=
 =

In short, it's a very smooth and strong motor and I'm very satisfied with=

it so far.  Other than when cold (no chokes), I don't seem to have much i=
n
the way of hesitation problems.

I understand the concept that going to a single 30 PICT -1 carb and SP
heads would give me a little bit better torque.  I do love the power that=

the 34 ICT's give you at higher (freeway) speeds.  I don't care one way o=
r
another about my German made 009 distributor, as it seems to work fine.  =


The goal for this engine was to run as cool and powerful as "reliably"
possible without spending a fortune.  A little over half of my driving
would be at highway speeds. with the rest of it being the inevitable stop=

and go lower RPM around town driving.  Now on to a few questions:

Has anyone run, and can you comment on, using Weber dual 34 ICT carbs
"WITH" a stock vacuum advance distributor (and which distributor was it)?=
 =

Exactly how did you plumb the vacuum line(s) to the carb(s)?  How do you
feel it worked compared to the ICT's/009 mechanical advance combo?

I have the opportunity to buy an NOS pair of Brazilian SP heads complete
with valves and springs.  Can any of you comment pro and con on the resul=
ts
of switching back to SP from DP heads?  Are SP manifolds for the 34 ICT
carbs even available?  If this switch to SP heads was done, do you think
the results would be better overall with a single stock carb on a stock S=
P
Bus manifold, or with the dual 34 ICT's on SP manifolds if available? =


Considering my motor and my goals, what distributor would you suggest tha=
t
I try with your favorite combo of modifications that I've mentioned (stoc=
k
'67 vacuum advance distributor, German 009 mechanical advance, or what?)

Any other suggestions concerning reliable, affordable modifications? =


Again, overall so far I'm quite happy with the engine as is.  I'm just
debating whether a little more refining might be worth the effort.  I'd
love to hear your educated opinions.  After all, that is what this List
really should be here for.

Bill Bowman
NEATO
