To: rabysvw(-at-)linkamerica.net,
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "Theodore Reshetiloff" <TReshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com>
Date: Tue, 20 Nov 2001 16:06:38 -0500
Subject: Type IV 2.0 Rebuild

I am currently putting together a 2.0 FI type IV motor for my 78' Westy.

I am using new MAHLE pistons (stock size and balanced), the crank and
everything that bolts to it including the bolts have been balanced. I had
the rods checked,balanced and notched per a spec for additional piston
skirt cooling. I eliminated the paper head gaskets and am using a steel one
between the jugs and the case. I have a new cam from Web cam that is .426
lift and 262 degrees duration, (224 degrees at .050). New cam gear and new
solid lifters all from WebCam meant for this cam. I have drilled out,
tapped and plugged with brass plugs the oil galley plugs behind the
flywheel. The case was inspected by machine shop who advised that it did
not need align boring, old bearings looked great.  All new bearings,
gaskets, and seals. The heads have been rebuilt with all new studs,valves,
guides and seats, new valve adjusters as well.   I am using the stock fuel
injection with new seals. (Web Cam advised this cam for use w solid lifters
and stock FI) I am also replacing the thermostat and cylinder head temp
sender. All cooling tin is accounted for and in good condition, and heat
exchangers and exhaust is in great shape.

     I will be assembling the beast in the coming weeks and am wondering
about all this talk of compression ratios. I plan to use a deck height
measuring tool and assume I may have to shim the barrels some to acheive
the proper compression ratio. I am shooting for 7.5:1.

1. Does all of this sound right to you?
2. What is the best way to calculate compression ratio from deck height and
w/dished pistons?(whats the equation)
3. Can you think of anything I am missing here?

Most of the changes/ideas here cam from advise of Bob Donalds of Boston
engine.

Best Regards and Thanks for the advice,


Theodore Reshetiloff
Cambridge Associates LLC
Phone: 703.526.8634
Fax: 703.526.8501
treshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com


