From: "Jason Z Upper" <jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 31 Dec 2004 15:42:18 -0500
Subject: Starter & Solenoid Test & Replace

Hi Folks,

The weather is nice and I have the day off, so I ran some tests on my 
no-start issue.  For those who are new to this saga, my engine would crank 
and *almost* fire, but was very sluggish to start.  A couple of times the 
starter stuck on (ignition switch off, starter still runs until battery 
cable is removed), and then something (still unsure what) went bad and the 
battery died completely.  After that, no amount of trying would start the 
engine.  Fortunately, I have a 72-month warranty on my battery, so I got a 
charge for free and ran some tests today.

I removed all but the battery wire from the starter, hooked up the battery, 
and bridged the 2 starter terminals.  I got a spark, then nothing.  The 
starter didn't run, and the battery went from 12 volts (measured at the 
battery, with no load) to 10 volts.  So, I removed the starter and removed 
the solenoid.  I tested the solenoid, and it did nothing when I hooked the 
battery directly to it -- no voltage drop, no noise, no function.

In addition to testing the solenoid, I removed the backing plate and brush 
holder from the starter and checked the brushes.  They all looked fine (no 
obvious burned spots or excessive wear), and the commutator and armature 
looked fine as well (same as brushes).  I did not completely disassemble the 
starter, but it spun better when I put it all back together again.

So, my questions are thus:
1. Does a complete lack of function from the solenoid mean it's bad?  No 
voltage drop, no noise, no function.

2. Will a bad solenoid kill a battery as soon as the starter is engaged?  
One spark, then nothing, voltage drops from 12v to 10v.

3. Should the starter spin freely by hand, or does it require some effort?  
Think of turning an electric drill by hand -- mine takes about that much 
effort.

If this is the source of the trouble, that would be great -- nothing like a 
new 35-dollar solenoid to get my Bus running again!

Thanks in advance for any help or suggestions,
Jason Z Upper
Universal Circle Music
1979 Westy "Sweet Pea"
Asheville, North Carolina
