Date: Sat, 01 Jan 2005 16:11:06 -0500
From: Wil Haslup <wil(-at-)charmfx.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com,  vanagon(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Subject: alternator belt change fiasco!

Thinking I was performing proactive maintenance on my '80 prior to 
finally working up to taking it in for another emissions check I decided 
to replace the singing alternator belt.  This was back in November prior 
to the really cold weather here in Baltimore.

I got it apart and found an old chisel sitting below the 
pulley/belt/guard under the duct work after I removed the belt and 
guard!  Ow! Someone was pretty lazy.  So I get the belt replaced and put 
things back the way I found them.  Even torqued the bolts on the 
alternator as per Bentley.  Get back in and it won't start.  Cranks with 
a lope but just won't.  It was late so I quit.  Cold weather ensued.

On reflection, Bentley says if the belt is too tight it may not start. 
Fine.  I decide that must be it.  Needless to say I didn't get to the 
emissions station yet.

Well, today was warm and sunny and the first chance I had to tear it 
down and loosen the belt or so I thought.  So I think I've loosened it 
and I try it...no start, add jumper pack thinking battery may have died 
in the cold weather, cranks faster and then ding, ding, 
ding....geeez...what did I do now.  Turned key off...looking I see some 
notches in the alternator fan where it was hitting the adjustment 
bracket.  Huh?  Something odd here.  That doesn't look right.

Turns out my previous owner rotated the adjustment bracket from its' 
correct position and mounted it to a hole on top just to the left of the 
upper alternator bracket hole.  I suppose he thought it would be easier 
to get to there.  Trouble is you really can't use it to adjust tension 
in that hole and it is dangerously close to doing what mine did with the 
tension of a new belt...hit the alternator fan.

So I tear things down again and rotate the bracket around and put it in 
the right hole and put everything back together again.

Viola, it starts.  Sounds a bit rough but it has been sitting in near 0 
degree temps for the past month off and on without being run.
Once it ran for a couple minutes it evened out but I'm getting a pretty 
loud tapping....sounds like lifters without oil.  Oil is full but my 
lifters usually fill up pretty quick...only a minute or two.

I don't see anything way out of whack on the alternator, its fan blades 
or anything else.  I've guesstimated my belt tension to be about what 
Bentley calls for.

I need to run it and hope the sound will quiet as oil moves around and 
the engine heats up.  If not I guess I may have hosed my alternator by 
cranking with it bound up against that bracket.  If so I guess it will 
go when I've put a few miles on its bearings.

God bless previous owners....I can only guess what the guy is up to now.


-- 

Wil


-- http://www.charmfx.com/

"Not all who wander are lost."
-- J R R Tolkien
