Date: Sun, 2 Jan 2005 13:20:02 -0600 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: The Rabbit and the Rivi

I will probably end up skipping the Rabbit because of the transport costs I
am looking at. I don't own a towbar for a Rabbit and U-Haul is quoting
almost $300 for a 2 wheel tow dolly from CA to TX.

I will have a better idea tomorrow after I take the paperwork to the DMV to
see if I'll have to use a title service to get a Texas title like I did
with the Rivi. That's another $150 if I do. I think I'll just wait for one
that's closer or get this one by Greyhound later if it stays sitting there.
Past due CA taxes make it an unlikely candidate for local sale.

There has been one offer of a driver and that offer still stands if you
want to ride with me to BBB but I think there are others going who will be
passing closer to you and fit your schedule better.

A lot of stuff has come up this week so I, once again, don't have the Rivi
finished. Every time I get ready to walk out the door to go work on it the
phone rings <sigh>. Of course, not getting the Rabbit means I can once
again tow the Rivi and work on it at the show if I feel like it <grin>.

If I get the Rivi running soon that will solve the "car for Dad" problem
until I can find me a Rabbit Vert too. I'll drive the Rivi daily and let
Dad take the truck.

Items remaining:

Drill taco plate for temp sender

Cut a brass plumbing fitting I have to make a "nut" for the 1/8" NPT sender

Replace rubber brake lines

Bleed brakes (I have a power bleeder available)

Attach clutch cable

Attach accel cable

Install axles (I've intentionally left them out -- great when doing things
like clutch cable)

Install gauges (probably just sit on dash for now)

Wire it up

Fire it up

Adjust shifter (tranny was replaced)

Long list, but still looks like just a couple hours of work because it's a
long list of "short" items. 

Not all that worried about hooking up the heater boxes, I have a SportCat
and a BlackCat that will do for now.

Gerald
