Date: Fri, 11 Sep 2009 23:56:43 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: Type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Camping Interiors

Well, I have followed this thread with great interest. I have been
doing a lot of reading and thinking for installing an interior in my
own bus. I have downloaded all the camper brochures from the Samba and
thought a lot about the designs.

They seem to fall into three groupings. The most modern put the
kitchen on the driver's side. This gives the most clean layout with
minimum impact on the living area at the back seat. Of course, that
assumes you will be doing your cooking standing inside the bus, which
requires a pop-top. My bus is also a steel roof, so I will be cutting
to install a pop-top.

The early kits gave the nod to the concept that the bus is really
cramped inside, and so swing-out tables for the wash basin and stove
were provided in the swinging doors. Of course, this goes away with
the advent of the sliding door, but the most common bay westy does
have the swing-out table attached to the icebox/sink unit for you to
put your cook stove on.

The third form is a compromise that puts the sink and stove near the
door so you can cook and clean inside the bus, or swing them out to do
this outside. Outside arrangements need an attached tent in case of
inclement weather.

I am leaning towards the driver side arrangement as found in the late
bays and vanagons, but like you folks, find myself unwilling to
commit!

So I plan to print out the brochures so I can lay them side by side to compare.

As much as we love our rear-engined buses, I have to hand it to the
Eurovan and T5 that a fourth arrangement looks really good - kitchen
and full bathroom with shower in the rear behind the back seat!

As for a pop-top, I really love the Riviera type that pops straight up
to make a "penthouse" above with a full size bed for two. I know the
late bays and vanagons have this bed, but I think the top that goes
straight up gives a roomier space up there. Apparently non-US westies
could be obtained in this style.

And thanks guys for the link to RVTec US. I had looked at the UK site,
but it had no bay/split packages on the interior page. I might just
have to place an order....

My 2 cents!

John

On Thu, Sep 10, 2009 at 4:56 AM, Gregory Urban<urban(-at-)yaic.com> wrote:
 Has anyone had success getting new camping interiors for your bus?

 I have a tin-top, so I'm looking for something semi-custom that works well
 without a pop-top (i.e. I probably will not cook in the bus since I would
 have to squat/kneel the entire time!).
