From: "John Dillon" <johndillon(-at-)bellnet.ca>
To: "'John Kolak'" <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: "'Type2 list'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 11 Sep 2009 13:20:44 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] Camping Interiors

I to like the floor plan on my 78 and 82 .. I like that kitchen on the
driver's side .. but they are both walk through buses .. with a bench seat I
don't think that is the optimal floor plan .. I think with a bench seat bus
. the kitchen behind the bulkhead makes the most sense .. soooooo the
question is do you include a jump seat or not and if you do does it go
behind the driver's seat or passenger seat .. I think if it goes behind the
passenger seat then access to your bus is better but how do you use an
inside table? Do you have a floor mount thing or maybe a swivel kind of
thing . OTOH .. if the rear facing seat goes behind the driver's seat then
you can mount your table on the wall such that it flips up so people sitting
on the bench seat can sit across from anyone sitting on the rear facing seat
... 

I too looked at tons of those UK interior pics .. I even went to the UK to
check out interiors (Volksworld Show in March 09) .. the advantage of using
a vanagon kitchen interior is that they are so shallow .. they are complete
fridge/stove/sink vs. a bay westy interior which is much deeper ... less
important in a bay but in an early bus there is even less room than in a bay
.. the other good think about the vanagon is a real fridge .. although
you'll need propane. 

I agree that the upper sleeping space is nice .. but .. I really like the
lines of a hard top bus .. I just think it is perfect .. PERFECT .. I think
a full fiberglass top is unattractive (I have 2 of em) .. so I opted for the
Dorper top on my 60 (a bit of a compromise) .. but if I were to put a full
length or at least longer length pop-top on I would really consider a
Dormobile top (or walter martin or whatever its called) .. there is
something about the way all that light comes in that I really like ..
although admittedly it looks awkward when popped. 

But damn those calypso campers look nice .. but I'm not a big fan of the
interior motive interiors .. I think they are works of art .. but not really
appropriate if you want to have an interior that aesthetically 'fits' in an
early bus .. 

jdd
