Date: Sat, 12 Sep 2009 10:36:51 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vanagon(-at-)gerry.vanagon.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Crossing into Canada with just a "pink slip"

Excuse a bit of lack of VW content, but it might have some (at the bottom...)
 
Wondering if anyone has any practical experience with this in a post homeland
security, post needing passport to get into Canada world.
 
Situation, wife has inherited dads car from CA and we want to drive it to AK.
 
Wife and I need to drive a California plated, titled vehicle from California
to AK, across the border from WA to Canada then Canada to AK.  We had no
issues about even needing to present anything but ID at the border on our way
up 2 1/2 years ago, certainly didn't need anything about the vehicle (at least
to present at the time) but this was just before you needing passports (which
we had/have of course.)
 
So we will have a signed California title (an OR title from her dad and
stepmom signed over by stepmom), the California plates from previous owner,
and still insured by same for the trip, plus will put it on our insurance as
well.  I'm sort of queasy about it all and want to just have title sent here
and title/plate it in AK, but the stepmom, a real rule stickler, can't seem to
make this happen, because something about not transferring a California title
for 40 days after someone dies for lien issues (not that the vehicle isn't
payed off) and not that AK would give a rats ass as long as I have an OR title
signed by one of the owners, but admittedly it would get back to California
before the 40 days and I don't want her in trouble.
 
Anyone do something like this recently with any opinions.  Trying to find
anything from the borders or DMVs has been pretty useless as has been internet
searching and I don't want say to get into Canada then not get back into the
US.
 
For VW content and to complicate issues, I may very well also pick up a
Vanagon in the Vancouver area, non-op to tow dolly back.  Anyone know if I
still pay full 25% "truck" duty on a parts vehicle, and if I'll have any
trouble with just a BC title to get back into US as a parts vehicle?  This
truely will be a parts vehicle, I have no illusions of ever running it, and
will have it destroyed within the year/etc.
 
Thanks
John
