From: "Jeff Stewart" <fonman4277(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "Vanagon List" <vanagon(-at-)gerry.vanagon.com>
Cc: "type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "bugpack" <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Date: Wed, 4 Oct 2006 13:15:49 -0400
Subject: John Browns Buses Directions

Hey Folks,
      Im getting a lot of requests for directions to the campground. Here is a link to their site http://www.brunswickmd.gov/Campground.htm

Not very detailed directions there, but here goes: If you are coming from west, southwest, or northwest from I-81 take Rte. 7 east and then take Rte. 340 toward Harper's Ferry W. VA. Go past Harpers Ferry then you will cross over into Virginia for about a mile or so then cross back over into Maryland where there will be an exit for Brunswick. Follow signs for the Marc train station, go into the train station and cross the tracks onto a gravel road-there is a sign there pointing to the campground. If you are coming from the north (Baltimore, PA., etc) From Frederick Maryland take Rte. 15/340 south, 15 will split off to the left, stay straight on 340 until you see the exit for Brunswick. If you are coming from N. Virginia D.C. metro area you have a couple of options and have to decide which is best for you. From the beltway in Maryland you can take I-270 north to Frederick and then 15/340 south from there. From the beltway in Virginia you can do the same, head over into Maryland and take I-270, or you can take Rte.7 west from Tysons Corner (many traffic lights and congestion-even on Saturday morning) to Leesburg, where you will follow Rte 7 west toward Winchester. Take the Rte 9 exit off Rte 7-signs will say "Charlestown, W. VA." stay on Rte 9 thru Hillsboro, just past Hillsboro you come to a light, bear to the right and you will be heading toward Harper's Ferry. This road dead ends at Rte. 340, where if you go left you go into Harper's Ferry and right takes you into Maryland-go right. Once you cross the river into Maryland look for the exit for Brunswick. Hope this all was clear and not too confusing.   Jeff


Jeff Stewart
fonman4277(-at-)earthlink.net
EarthLink Revolves Around You.
