Date: Fri, 06 Oct 2006 08:24:37 -0400
From: Dave Jersey <djersey(-at-)yadtel.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com,  vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 1 week to Oktoberbus!

Subject says it all, but I'll go on a bit more.  
http://www.maduncledave.com/oktobus06.html

This is our 2nd year at Elchenberg castle, a privately owned 60 acre 
farm with a pond, a castle, various animals, a big field, and enough 
room to camp as close to or as far from others as you want.  The owner 
is very VW friendly, raced Formula VW for years.

Directions are on the web site.  There will be signs, look for them, 
they should be easy to spot.  If you're coming up or down Rt 421 take 
the Reavis Road exit, go North and there will be signs from there.  I'll 
tell you anyhow, if you're coming from Wilkesboro take a LEFT at the top 
of the exit, if you're coming from Winston/Salem direction take a RIGHT 
at the top of the exit.  Go to the end of Reavis Rd, take a RIGHT.  Go 
1/2 mile you'll see a blue billboard somebody running for something or 
other, take a LEFT onto Center Road.  Go 2.9 Miles you'll see the castle 
(and a sign) on your left.

Yadkin County is a dry county so if you want libations it's best to 
bring your own though your courteous and helpful event staff can point 
you in the direction of beverages if you need them that badly.  Our 
staff could also point you in the direction of an AA meeting if you 
realize that you 'need' drink more than you should ;^)

The un-schedule of events is kinda like this:

Friday: Get there.  unpack, set up.  hang out.  Maybe decorate the 
castle with hallowe'en motif things - if you have electrical decorations 
bring some extention cords.

Saturday
morning - BREAKFAST BURRITOS!  decorate the castle more (?)  enjoy a 
fall day
afternoon - vote for your top 3 decorated fruits as you stroll around 
(late afternoon).  Pumpkins are too a fruit.  There may be a stack of 
fruits to decorate.
evening - Pot luck dinner.   even pots need to eat.  They're lucky when 
they can.  Fruit decoration winners announced, prizes given out.  
announcements.  Bocce and campfires.

Sunday
morning - get your decorations from the castle.  Pack up.  Unpack and 
decide that you want to live here too.  That's fine, but the following 
weekend we have a war happening and your bus is likely to be in the 
middle of a large group of people intent on killing each other and 
generally having a good time.

Mad Uncle Dave
