From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 17 Mar 2010 07:51:07 -0400
Subject: re:adjusting cargo doors

Well this is a short description of what I went through yesterday after
already spending a few hours the day before on the doors.

I adjusted the heck out of the doors, loosen screws, tighten screws, try to
shut door, loosen screws, tighten screws, try to shut door.on and on.

I think what makes this hard is that somehow adjusting a hinge in and out
helps to move the door front to back.I called Ronnie at old
volks/bustoration, and asked for some advice.he suggested more trimming,
just get the doors to shut, then after a month or so go back to re-adjust as
the seals begin to get seated. He also suggested adjusting the doors with
the seals in before painting. Should have done that. I've now got a bunch of
touch up to do.

So back to loosening and tightening. Then I started taking the seals out,
one at a time, then 4 or 5 of them out. 

Then I got the doors to shut properly. I then put the seals in one at a
time, and tried to shut the doors. Then pulled the seal to trim them again,
until both doors shut cleanly. What I couldn't figure out is that certain
seals would not appear to be hitting anywhere(ie I could just barely see
daylight at the seam) would need to be trimmed for the door to close
properly. 

It appears to me this is the way to do it. Install one seal. Make sure the
doors shut properly. Install next seal. Make sure doors close properly. It
is critical to make sure BOTH doors shut properly, after each individual
seal install. 

I think when I put them in originally I was only focusing on the single door
closing, not the combination.

Another thing that is tricky is that you need some adhesive to hold the
seals in. Yesterday when I had to pull the seals, it made a mess, as the
adhesive had set. Next time I'll only use a dab of sealant to hold them in
temporarily until I get them all set. Then anything that seems loose, would
get pulled and full adhesive applied.

I am still not finished. I have to get the center vertical seal installed.
When I put this on, the front door will not catch on the rear door. The only
thing I can think is to trim the entire seal, and make it thinner. 

Does anyone know if these seals the same cross section as original seals, or
are they just generic seals?

-Kevin
Jamaica Plain, MA
'69 single cab
'65 Kombi
