From: "Todd Olson" <todd.olson(-at-)charter.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 25 Mar 2010 23:36:23 -0400
Subject: Bus Benefit May 20-23 and T-Shirt Info (Buses By the Beach)

Hello Fellow Bus Pilots,

Spring is here and we are all waking our toys up from their long winters
nap. As we turn our attention to the upcoming camping season I thought it
would be important to let everyone know the dates of our Spring Event; Bus
Benefit. It seems there has been some confusion on our dates because the
Burn Survivor Benefit Car Show had to change it's dates. Our Spring event
will always be held the weekend before Memorial Day Weekend and we plan to
never change it. So the 8th Annual Bus Benefit will be held in Grand Rapids,
MI at Grandrogue Campground May 20th -  23rd 2010. 

It may also be worth mentioning for future reference that our fall event,
Bus BOO is two weekends after Labor Day Weekend and our winter event, Bus
BRRR is held the last weekend in February. 

Once again our friend Mary Wisnewski has outdone herself on the Buses By the
Beach 2010 T-Shirt design! It is a very cool Vintage Vegas theme. Check it
out here http://busesbythebeach.com/shirt.html

We are now taking pre-orders for the 2010 Buses By the Beach T-shirts. We
are offering cool BBtB Ts in Men's, Women's, and kid's sizes. If you require
a size other than a Men's Large or Extra Large then you will need to
pre-order your shirt. There will be limited shirts available at Bus Benefit.
We are accepting pre-orders on all shirts until 5:00pm April 30th. We will
accept cash or check. You may also use your Visa or MC for an additional 5%
& we will gladly ship shirts to you for $5. 

Don't wait! Ensure your shirt will be waiting for you at the campground!

Email your orders to  <mailto:brien(-at-)busesbythebeach.com>
brien(-at-)busesbythebeach.com by 5:00pm April 30th. Please include the following
info in your email:

Name

Address (if you want your shirts shipped)

Phone number

Style: Men's, women's, kids

Short sleeve ($20ea.) or Long sleeve ($22ea.) (long sleeve in men's and kids
only)

Size

Quantity

Payment type you intend to use (cash, check or visa/mc)

Remember 100% of everything we raise goes to the Phoenix Society. Thanks for
helping us support this great cause!

We will be randomly selecting one email address from the Buses By the Beach
email list to win a free T-Shirt, matching Pint Glass and a Buses By the
Beach Stickers. To win make sure you are registered on the Buses By the
Beach email list. Drawing will be held May 19th prior to Bus Benefit. If you
win and are not able to attend Bus Benefit we will mail your shirt, glass
and stickers to you. 

 

Wishing you many miles of smiles!

The Volks at Buses by the Beach.com

 

www.busesbythebeach.com <http://www.busesbythebeach.com/> 
