From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 3 Apr 2010 08:52:21 -0400
Subject: electrical info, wire colors, terminal #'s

Hey I just stumbled on this wiring infoI think applies to our buses. It is
a way to understand the coloring of your wires, and why they are colored the
way they are.
http://williamsautomotive.com/TechTips/tech_tips.htm

Did you know that Volkswagen and almost every other European car, Porsche,
Audi, Saab, Volvo, BMW, Mercedes etc, has standard numbers and color coding
for all of it's electrical wiring. Suppose you wanted to install an
accessory, like a radio, but you only wanted the radio to have power when
the ignition was on so you don't run the battery down by accident. Any black
wire on the car is connected to terminal number 15 which is only "hot" or
positive when the key is in the on or the start position so any accessory
attached to a black wire, that is a large enough gauge (size), could be
spliced into and used for this purpose. 
       This is only an example and maybe a bad one because later model cars 
use a "load reduction relay" which is preferable and you could do serious
damage to a 1996 and up VW with OBDII. If you don't know what a "KAN bus"
connection is then you shouldn't attempt to install a non-VW aftermarket
radio. Still you get the point I hope.  
    Lets say for example any;
     Wire that is solid brown in color, goes to a terminal 31 and is a
direct negative connection to chassis ground. That should be easy to
memorize. Brown, the color of earth, is ground. 
     All solid red wires go to terminal connections with the number 30
marked on them, are hot or positive all the time and are not fused. That is
to say there are no switches between them and the positive side of the
battery.
      If you see a wire that has 2 or more colors and 1 color is brown then
that wire probably grounds indirectly thru a relay or some other device
instead of directly to the chassis or the battery.
      If you see a wire with red and another color then it is most likely
hot (positive) and fused and possibly provides power from a device like a
relay and not directly from the battery.
      A black wire with a second color receives its power indirectly also
but will only be hot when the ignition switch is in the on or start position
as is the case with all black wires.

There is more info at the link above, although it is formatted in such a way
to make it pretty hard to read.
I know someone had posted something on this a long time ago with reference
to an Automotive Handbook, 3rd edition. This had terminal numbers and
definitions, but I like the wire color additional info.

-Kevin
Jamaica Plain, MA
'69 single cab
'65 Kombi
