Date: Tue, 7 Jan 1997 22:39:09 -0500
From: Charlie Ford <cford@mindspring.com>
Subject: Here I go Again

Well folks, first let me say thanks for all the replies to this mornings
post.  I am not as depressed as it sounded, and was just being reflective
somewhat on something that in all honesty is as much of a report on this
trip as if i were going to break down my engine.

I am fine, I was just feeling abit heavy from the nights dreams and needed
to write about it.

But now back to the really fun stuff.  Getting greasy!!!
hehehehehehahahahahahhehehehe

Tomorrow I plan on rebuilding my front end.  I have the priviledge of doing
this mainly because of the benevolent spirit of Mr. Chris Chubb.  It is a
long story and if I told it to you I might would put him on the spot, and I
certainly would not want to do that.  Let me say just this.

Chris is a good man, with a noble heart that can be compared and wieghed
with the most noble of any world.

Thanks Chris, I would nominate you for the nobel, but I am not sure they
have one for the VW category.  They damn sure should though!

If there are any of you out there that know much about changing rotors,
re-packing bearings, and installing pads, please give me your best
pointers.  i will be starting tomorrow about 12;00 est, and will check my
mail before I start.

of course I have my haynes manual, and I bought a new issue of "Humongos Ta
Ta's", isn't that what Al Bundy reads?.  I feel like I am ready, after if I
can take an alternator out and put it back in, hell, I can do anything.
After I finish this I will probably want to rebuild and engine or
something.  Anybody want me to start on theirs?

I look forward to replies, for tomorrow I go bravely into that greasy
place, and though I may bust a knuckle, I will "endeavor to persevere".

thanks,
Charlie




"79" Transporter, dressed for the road
The Mothership

 The"Turning 40 Nostalgic VW Service Tour, and
Search for the Beginning of Wind".

www.armory.com/~y21cvb/charlie/charlie.html

"Wider still and wider.....shall thy bounds be set"

