Date: Sat, 11 Jan 1997 20:26:12 -0500
From: Charlie Ford <cford@mindspring.com>
Subject: It's cold out here!!!

day 1, 2,

Well, I cut out from my Mothers house in Southern georgia on Thursday nite.
I drove to Athens geogia and camped on the Oconee river.  there is a free
public campground located on Hwy 15 just south of Athens for any of you
that may travel through there.

I had lunch on Firday with a couple of special friends of mine that work at
the University of Ga.  I left out of there and headed for Birmingham.  I
wind blew me around like i was a toy truck.   I got to Birmingham traveling
I-20, it was sort of ironic that the search for the beginning of wind began
with a noreaster blowing directly in my face, it was almost like it was
trying to fight me back.  But I am on a mission from God mam!  : )

I found a campsite in Jasper, Alabama, and exciting place with plenty of
four wheel drive pick-ups and buffet houses.  The campground I stayed in
sucked, it was one of those places between the interstate and a bad
nieghborhood.  but I slept well, woke up aroun d 6:30, took a shower and
headed out for memphis, I arrived there about lunch after seeing one really
bad accident caused by the ice and the foolish speeding driver.  A 96
Beamer (BMW), was passing everybody at a pretty good rate of speed.  they
were on the inside lane and when the bridge we were approaching came into
play, the ice won the race.  the car veered across the medain, flew into
the air about 20 ft, flipped while in mid air, landed on its roof and slid
about forty yards.

I stopped prepared to pull mangled meat of the car and do what I could for
them, but by the time I stopped and ran across, the occupants were wiggling
out.  I had the first aid kit and starting the healing process.  Amazingly
they were alright except for some cuts and scrathes.  They need to thank
someone I believe.

I left that one, drove 1/2 mile, and saw another one.  this time some guy
just slid out and hit the side of the bridge, he was fine but the van was
trashed out.  I stood there and directed traffice while the only cop in the
area did his stuff.

On my way again I came to Memphis.  I went into down town and visited the
Statue of Elvis, it was cold, (18 degrees), so i didn't hang out long.
Only long enough to dig the King a bit.  he also looked cold, so I said
bye, he said bye, and I was on my way.  it was early so I said what the
hell "drive to Little Rock".

Here I sit in brinkly arkansas in an RV park.  the office lady let me use
the phone line to hook up and send you guys this message.  The Mothership
is cooling out from her day.  She is running great and quiet, no runs,
drips, or errors.  maybe i also have someone to thank.

Tomorrow I am headed for Oklahoma City.  I will be there a few days as I
have a friend there I need to see.

Stay tuned, be back in touch as I can.

Charlie Ford

PLEASE DO NOT REPLY  : )  Unless of course it is necessary and would make
you feel better.

"79" Transporter, dressed for the road
The Mothership

 The"Turning 40 Nostalgic VW Service Tour, and
Search for the Beginning of Wind".

www.armory.com/~y21cvb/charlie/charlie.html

"Wider still and wider.....shall thy bounds be set"

