Date: Tue, 1 Jul 1997 22:06:01 CET
From: No Quarter <dl63832@NAVIX.NET>
Subject: Charlie Ford's Departure

I just wanted to let everyone know that Charlie departed this morning between
8:00 and 8:30 in the Mothership.  I am just thrilled to the point of going
mad that he was able to spend a good day and a half with us, eat with us, and
be a temporary part of the family.

While Charlie was here, I had the priviledge of reading some of his posts
first hand before they were sent from the Powerbook to the net and I also
learned of his intentions of wanting to compile the logs with the
possibility of creating a book.  Wonderful!  When I found that out, I was
relieved because I didn't know for sure if he or anyone else was saving his
posts.  They can be found at http://www.armory.com and then do a search for
"charlie.htm"

I was able to give Charlie some items to help him on his trip which I
mentioned in a pevious posts.  I loaded him up with a nice wood wheel
chock (makes jacking up the bus safer), some speakers to replace a damaged
one plus some extras for a 4 way system, my second copy of Tom Wilson's
engine rebuilding book, and an altimeter that he found in the garage.
I bought that altimeter several years ago and never used it so we arranged
a trade in which I got his old guitar capo.  Simply awesome.

Charlie has been an inspiration to me.  He reminds me so much of a well
liked family that moved back to Georgia a number of years ago and the
Georgian presence was welcomed with open arms.  I discussed with Charlie
about wanting a Westy so bad and after seeing the condition my 66 is in (via
my JPGs) he asked me why I would want another bus when I have this one.
I can also make my own interior real easy if I wanted to or find a Westy
interior and make that work.  Novel idea.  I guess I'll just have to attend
the country music campout without a bus but it'll help me keep my eye simple
and direct my funds to my current bus.  I'll still keep my eyes peeled for
that elusive deal of a Westy such as Dan Buser netted a few years back.

Charlie and I hung out in the Mothership in the backyard and talked about
all kinds of things. He's got quite an interesting resume in both life and
work.  Makes my life seem kind of drab.  Charlie recommends that by the time
I'm 30, I should make a trip such as he.  It's got me thinking...

I failed to mention also that Charlie sings a wicked Sweet Melissa - such
feeling and depth - I should have recorded it but the spontenaity of the
moment would have been lost then.

I got some pictures of Charlie writing at his computer, pictures of the
Mothership, and of him and I standing beside her.  If anyone can scan the
resulting pix, I think Charlie would like to get them on his WEB page.
Any volunteers?

Charlie needed a place to hang out until the 4th or thereabouts because he's
going for 2 week carpet laying stint in Chicago.  He decided to swing
up north and take the invitation of a list member in Fountain City, WI

So for you Chicago folk, Charlie is headed your way next week and I strongly
suggest meeting with him.  You'll not regret it.

Thanks for reading and Charlie, I wish you many more happy miles on the road.
You've always got a friend out here in the sticks of SE, Nebraska.

Slater!


