Date: Wed, 8 Jan 1997 14:53:00 -0500
From: Charlie Ford <cford@mindspring.com>
Subject: Virtually Southern

NOTE:  *WHEN YOU GET TO WHERE ME AND MY FRIEND ARE TALKING, YOU NEED TO
READ IT REAL SLOW, LIKE MR. HANEY ON GREEN ACRES.  THAT IS THE VIRTUAL
SOUTHERN PART.  I know many of you aspire to be able to talk with such a
drawl, so now's your chance.

This morning, a bit earlier than I anticipated I headed out to dive in
teeth and toenail on the rebuilding of the front end.  I actually stopped
by a friends station to get some gas, on my way to the shop where I was to
attain greasiness.  While pumping my gas we discussed the task I was about
to undertake.  He said he heard I was back in town, and was surprised to
hear it becuase he thought I was dead (lots seem to be thinking that).  I
explained to him that, no I ain't dead, and he said he figured somebody was
just talkin wishes, and really didn't pay much attention to it, but then he
heard I was in prison, he said he believed that one.  : )  I haven't ever
been dead or in prison, but I told he would be the first to know if I ever
was either.  He said he would just wait to hear from me then.  We laughed!


He was probably talking to one of my old my old girlfriends, most of them
feel that way.  How else do ya'll think I have stayed single all these
years?  : )

We shot the bull a minute, mostly about our wild exploits as teens.  We had
some times now, don't kid yourself urbanites.  Country kids can make fun
out of nothing more than a pickup and a dirt road (which there are plenty
of in Southern Georgia).  He and i road on most of them at a high rate of
speed, and did a few curves on two wheels while chugging a cheap beer we
bought from Leroy, the bootlegger.  Just recreation you know, didn't have
anything better to do.

I had a 67 Buick Special SS, that would bark em goin into second and third
gear, and could pull the quarter mile in the low 14's.  For an all stock
steel car, that is pretty damn good.  It was powered by a 410 Wildcat
engine, 4 bl carb, 8 track tape player and 9 speakers.  My favorite band
was the Allman Brothers and me and Filmore East made more than a few trips
together.

*He says, damn man, I ain't got nuthin to do this mornin, why don't you
pull er in, put er on the rack and we'll knock this sucker out!

I said, welp, I guess we can ifin ya ain't got nuthin else pendin, *he says
"knaw, I ain't got to do nuthin else cept later imma goin out to my farm
later and feed my pigs", so I says, OK!.

He did all the work while I watched, he wouldn't let me get in there.  Bu
then he ways about 400 lbs, and me wieghin in at about 285 I didn't figure
we would have much room to work.

To sum it all up, he did it for me free.  He said it was free because when
we were in high school, I took a paddling for him one time.  He committed
the infraction, and I took the blame.  He said he owed me, personally I
think I owe him, besides I got so many paddlings I got sort of used to
them.  They didn't hurt that much.  I think that may be why at forty I no
longer have that much of an ass.  Lookis like I have rental property in the
back of my jeans anymore.

But anyway, we got it done, I didn;t have a chance to get greasy as I was
hoping.  All in all I would say it was a good morning, I rekindled and old
friendship, and got to reflect on the pain and pleasures that being in high
school brings on a person that is adventerous or bored.

I think the Mothership may be feeling the affects of all this attention,
she is running great and appears to be just as anxious as I am to hit the
road.  One great thing to know is that she stops on a dime.  I like that, I
don't have to throw a block tied to a rope out the window anymore.

Just thought ya'll might wanna know.

Thanks,
Charlie


"79" Transporter, dressed for the road
The Mothership

 The"Turning 40 Nostalgic VW Service Tour, and
Search for the Beginning of Wind".

www.armory.com/~y21cvb/charlie/charlie.html

"Wider still and wider.....shall thy bounds be set"

