Date: Sat, 9 Aug 1997 19:08:35 -0800  [actually June 11!]
From: Charlie Ford <cford@mindspring.com>
Subject: Doug's Volkswagen Shop in Seattle

For the past week I have been working at a Volkswagen shop here in west
Seattle.  On the first day I arrived in this fair rainy city I went on a
search for Michael Lewis's home.  He had told me that I could camp in his
yard for as long as I wanted, I took him literally.  I was riding up and
down 35th avenue searching through block after block of avenues that
appeared to run in sequence, but I could find no 23rd avenue.

I got back on 35th and decided I would head back down to the block that I
had seen two Volkswagen repair shops.  I ascertained that they were VW
shops because of 1. the number of Volkswagens in each of the lots, and 2.
The fact that they each had signs announcing this fact.

On one corner sat Hans VW, right across the street sat Doug's VW.  Han's
shop looked a little to fancy so I decided I would stop in at Doug's.  I
walked in and introduced myself.  I asked him directions to the street I
was trying to find, but he didn't know exactly where 23rd was either.  We
got to talking and I saw very quickly that this guy was a good fella.
Little did I know then, just how much karma was involved in our meeting.

Doug is about 50 years old, 5 foot 7 inches tall, bald with hair only on
the sides, and talks fast.  In fact he talks just as fast as he works.  He
can carry on a conversation about anything, and it seems that he knows
something about everything.  It kind of reminded me of when I was a kid
hanging out around my grandfathers Barber shop.  Folks would sometime come
in to just chat, they wouldn't need a haircut or a shave, they just wanted
to discuss items of interest and catch up on the gossip.  Doug's is just
that kind of shop.

I lit up a cigarette and kept on listening and talking.  I told him I was
from Georgia, he responded by asking the now most popular asked question:
"what are you doing out here?"  I told him about my journey in "search for
the beginning of wind".  He said "geez, you have come a long way", "did you
find the beginning of wind yet?".  I explained that I was still searching.


While we were talking I looked over and saw a "No Smoking" sign.  I
immediately put my Marlboro out, explaining to him that I had not seen the
sign.  He told me it was fine, a good friend of his smokes in the shop all
the time.  He said, "in fact he might even know where 23rd avenue is since
he works for the local power and light company".  He explained that Clint
would probably be there in a little while.

In the meantime I gave Michael Lewis a call.  I told him I was at Doug's
VW.  He said he knew where the shop was and as soon as he finished some
business he had to take care of he would come up and collect me.  He
explained that he needed to see Doug anyway.

I just sort of hung out, and while Doug worked we talked about Volkswagens,
my travels, and life in general when one turns 40.  I found out that Doug
had lived in Germany during his teen years and had started working on VW's
there.  He explained that in shop class that's what they did, repair and
rebuild VW's.  Then Doug's buddy came in. Clint is a gentleman of about 55
years of age.  he is a reasonably quiet man, at least for being a power
worker he is.  every one of those guys I have ever known were loud,
boisterous, and commanding to say the least.  Clint has a certain peace
about him.

We all sat, and talked, and drank coffee, and oh yes, smoked cigarette
after cigarette.  Then I mentioned the street I was looking for.  He told
me yeah he knew where it was because he lived there.  Then I mentioned who
I was looking for, he said yeah I know him, he's my next door neighbor.
Geez, what are the chances of that happening.  In a city of 3/4 million
people, I go into a VW shop and find the "next door neighbor" of the guy I
am looking for and had never met.  Talk about VW karma !

Eventually Clint had to leave to go to work, but he, Doug, and myself
shared some really good philosophical conversation while he was there.
Clint is a deep and rational thinker, a very even keeled gentleman.
Michael came about an hour later and had a word with Doug about an engine
he needed to have rebuilt, and then I followed him over to his house.

Over the last few weeks we have all become better aquatinted.  Michael and
Clint live side by side, and each of them, as everyone else in Seattle,
love to drink coffee.  The rest of the country is concerned about Coffee
and Cancer, and Seattle is pouring the stuff down like water.  Since
arriving in this city I have had a major caffeine buzz, sometimes going
through 8-10 cups of Java a day.  I have been so rushed I sometimes felt as
if I could climb a tree backwards faster than most could forward.  Along
with the buzz I have shared in some of the most enlightening conversations.
We have basically solved the problems of the world but we didn't write any
of it down so there are some particulars that are lost forever.  At least
until the next time it comes up in conversation.

About three weeks ago I left and went down to Portland to visit a friend of
mine there.  We went to Mt. Hood for the weekend to do some biking and some
sight seeing.  Eric is in Law school at Lewis and Clark and is an old
friend that used to work in DC.  When I returned to Seattle I decided I
would stick around a while longer.  I had finished a temporary job at The
Production Network doing warehouse work, so I knew I would have to find
another gig to tide me over until I made up my mind what I was going to do,
stay or go.  I was in need of a rest from the road.  Traveling is nice but
after 6 months on the road a body needs some stability.

I went and saw Doug.  I explained to him I was not much of a mechanic but I
needed to learn more about the vehicle I was driving.  He told me he could
work me a few hours just doing basic stuff like oil changes and the like.
I told him that would be fine and he could just pay me whatever he felt I
was worth.  He told me to show up on Friday morning at ten and dress for
grease.

I have now been working for Doug for two weeks.  He seems to be very
satisfied that I work hard and learn fast.  I have never been able to read
a manual and get much from it, but I can watch Doug do something and follow
his lead.  In the past two weeks I have rebuilt brakes, front and rear;
replaced shift couplings; changed oil in every VW know to man; put in new
brake lines; dropped engines; pulled and replaced clutch cables; and broke
down and reassembled engines. Now I know that many of you know much more
about VW's than I, but one has to start somewhere.  I feel very lucky to
have worked as an apprentice for Doug.

I have done this "grease monkey work" while constantly talking about
matters of social concern: crime and punishment (Tim McVeigh), athlete
salaries, whether Seattle should vote yes for the new stadium, community
involvement, being married, being single, religion, sex, politics, and life
in general.  All while getting paid and gaining an education in the science
and spirituality of working on Volkswagens.  It truly is a metaphysical
science, although extremely greasy.

Doug is the best mechanic I have ever seen, and I have known several.  He
knows VW's inside and out.  He can listen to the engine of any make, model
or year, water cooled and air cooled, and tell you exactly what it will
take to fix it.  He charges a fair price for the work he does, and is one
of those mechanics that always fixes something else while doing the
requested work.  In fact he looks for other problems or potential problems.


He has a base of customers that range from young to old, purple to green.
I have seen many VW mechanics while on this journey as you all know, but I
haven't seen one yet that has the rapport Doug does with his customers.
Doug is an all a round VW mechanic, he wants to know all of them, he does
not limit his knowledge to just one engine, or cooling series, although he
drives a nice air-cooled bus.  I am trying to get him to join the list.

I will finish my work with him this week and I will miss Mr. Douglas
Thompson.  I will miss his humor, his wisdom, and his expertise.  But I
will always know that if I need advice on my bus "The Mothership" I can
pick up the phone, call, and he will be able to steer me in the right
direction.  If he can't help he will tell me what to check.  Any engine,
1600 or fuel injected, it doesn't matter to Doug!

I have thoroughly enjoyed the past two weeks.  Working with him makes one
want to become a VW mechanic.  I have learned from the best.  I would also
like to announce to all you folks here in the Seattle area to give Doug a
try.  Tell him I sent you, he gets a kick out of the fact this list exist,
he will do you right, not because of me, just because it's the way he is.
A man with a high threshold for quality, and a sincere appreciation for the
vehicle we all love to drive.

Thanks for tolerating my ramblings,
Charlie Ford




"79" Transporter, dressed for the road
The Mothership

 The"Turning 40 Nostalgic VW Service Tour, and
Search for the Beginning of Wind".

http://www.armory.com/~y21cvb/charlie/charlie.html

"Wider still and wider.....shall thy bounds be set"
