Date: Thu, 10 Oct 2002 16:54:55 -1000
From: bpierce <bpierce(-at-)flex.com>
To: BigWig Webmaster <bigwigwebmaster(-at-)cvconline.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] paint job?

Rob,

I just had my '79 bus painted, two tone - estimated cost was $2500 and 
the final cost $2700.  That was 7 coats of paint and 5 of clear coat. 
 They did some body work too.

I checked around and got quotes up to $4500 for two tone with no body 
work.  Some people are very over priced.  The guys I went with were a 
smaller shop with a good reputation - but that goes without saying.  I 
live on an island where selection is limited and people can charge you 
whatever they like - cause where you going to go?  Finding these guys 
was definitely a gift!  If you're on the mainland you should be able to 
come up with someone.  Just ask around and people with nice paint jobs 
love to talk about them... :-D . 

A nice touch for me was how they fixed my roof.  Here on Maui everything 
rust from the top down due to the salt spray.  I had 60 holes in the 
roof - ranging from 1/8 inch to 4 inches :-( .  I patched them with 
sheet stainless and fiber glass.  The guys who painted my bus told me 
that in three to four years the rust would burn through the new paint 
job.  They suggested what they had done on other bad rust jobs - Rhino 
Lining the roof.  From the rain gutters up.  I know this is not original 
style, and the thought of this being done has caused some people to 
cringe but this is not a "show" bus and I also wanted the bus and paint 
job to last.  The finish product is pretty cool looking, totally water 
proof, and semi flexible.  If I had a web site I'd post a picture but no 
such luck.


Best of luck finding what you need.

Bradley
'79 Bus

BigWig Webmaster wrote:

>Not as if I have the money to do it now, not until it's running again 
>at least, but I'm curious if I could get some ball park figures any or 
>you might have on a paint job.  79 westy and I want it done inside and 
>out, good quality or better (No MAACO paint job for me).  I figured I'd 
>ask you guys instead of calling around.
