Date: Fri, 11 Oct 2002 02:05:00 -0400
From: Jeff Strickrott <jstric01(-at-)cs.fiu.edu>
To: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>, Mike Charnoky <noky(-at-)nextbus.com>
Subject: Source for vacuum leak discovered, Was Re: [T2] Low vacuum ..

Hi All:

I decided to investigate the low vacuum on my 82 vanagon after having replaced
everything (hoses, gaskets, etc.). I removed the air distributor and took
everything off. This time I removed the old EGR valve. I had it plugged where
the tube connected,  but had never disassembled the valve.

The EGR valve uses a metal to metal seal. Between the carbon and the rust in
the valve it was no longer sealing. With minor cleaning it will hold a vacuum,
but for now I have just plugged up the hole in the air distributor.

I made new gaskets for the EGR plug and the cold start valve out of cork
rubber gasket material. Installed these along with the throttle body gasket
(the new one came in) with Permatex Blue RTV Silicon gasket material. The
local Napa store recommended this for vacuum systems/intake manifolds, as the
material will stay pliable. We will see what happens after some real use.

Now for the test. I placed new intake runner boots on the air distributor and
plugged the ends up with some plastic caps I had that were just about the
right size. I plugged up the holes for the aux air valve and the vacuum
booster lines. I sealed the end of the throttle body (where it connects to the
S boot) with a rubber surgical glove, and added a (hand pumped) vacuum pump to
the manifold vacuum port, and a gauge to the vacuum advance port.

I could bring the system down to about 20 inHg. When I stopped pumping within
2-3 seconds the system would leak down to 0 inHg. Why was it leaking?

I decided to immerse everything in a tub of water to look for air leaks. Still
nothing. Lastly I decided to pressurize the system while under water. Now I
could see the leak! It turns out that the seal around the butterfly valve
shaft leaks.

Once I had identified the leak source, I noticed that I could hear the air
escaping into the air distributor when I pulled a vacuum on the system at the
shaft seal.

Thus if you have replaced everything and you still have low vacuum (and are
sure it is not your valves or timing) then test your throttle body seal. I now
just have to find a source for this seal. Any suggestions?

I will let you know how it works when everything is installed back in the van.

Regards,
--Jeff Strickrott
82 Westy

H Steven Dolan wrote:

> I don't know :-(  and I now find myself in the same boat.  This evening, I
> was headed home and the '80 seemed gutless.  I hauled out the vac gauge,
> dwell tach and timing light first thing and...
> dwell 50
> timing 7.5 vor
> vacuum 9"!!!!!
> I have a vacuum leak!!!! I will chase it over the next couple days and let
> you know what I find.
