Date: Sat, 10 Jul 2010 22:11:37 -0500
From: Gerald Livingston <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Delta CD ignition

On Sat, 10 Jul 2010 17:29:00 -0700
"C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc." <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net> wrote:

> Hi,
> 
> I just re-installed my old Delta Capacitive Discharge ignition into
> my bus. Starts way faster, seems to be running smoother. I hardly
> 
> Chris
> 64 DD camper

I have all the parts lying about to build a CDI from Bill Noble's 1982
Magazine article

(http://www.wbnoble.com/WN_articles/wn_articles-index.html)

The transformer I have is a 60 Hz and a bit bigger than I'd like but
it'll do until I can find a smaller, lighter, 400 Hz to replace it with.

Bought the parts a month or so ago then my son moved back home and
I've been sidetracked ever since. Hope to get it built out later this
month or in August at the latest.

I also added a "relay box" in the engine compartment that takes power
from the battery straight to the coil, avoiding the long trip through
40 year old wiring up to the key switch and back. It's 3 relays mounted
in an aluminum enclosure with a Molex plug on the side. 

Relay 1 --- wired to starter (eg. a "hot start" relay)
 Fired by 'start' position on the key switch or by push button on cable
connected to Molex plug.

Relay 2 --- wired to coil
 Fired by "ON" position of key switch or by toggle switch on cable
attached to Molex plug

Relay 3 --- currently not used but set up to go to aux battery
 Fired by voltage on blue generator light wire so the aux battery is
only connected to the main system when the generator is making power.

As noted on 1 & 2 above I have a cable made to fit the Molex connector
with a toggle and a push button on the cable. If I'm working on the
motor I can plug that cable in and "turn on the ignition and start the
bus" without ever going up front and fiddling with the key.

I originally planned to put the switch and button directly on the box
but decided that would make it WAY too easy for someone to steal the
bus. So, I used a 15 position Molex connector of which only 4 pins are
actually used. Have to figure out which 4 pins if you don't have the
cable.

Gerald
'70 Campmobile

-- 
I am on the email list. Unless you are sending information which should
not be shared with everyone else please reply to the list, not directly
to me.
