Date: Thu, 15 Jul 2010 00:54:32 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Time to chime in!

Although I haven't followed this all both are of course tapered pipe thread if
we are talking the oil pressure sender and sender boss.   Most pipe thread of
this sort works this way, ever so slightly differing tapers, the
female hole/boss more straight, the male sender/tap more tapererd, but both
tapered, and only minutely differing.  Straight pipe thread whether American,
British, or ISO/DIN whatever metic seals with O-rings, face seals, or some
degree of a flat face to face metal to metal contact of some sort (even if at
an angle like brake fittings.)
 
Now the age old question, is it really metric or is it 1/8 NPT and does it
F'in matter either way.  Many will swear to high heaven it is a metric thread
(presumeably M10x1.0T) I guess, go try to buy a tap for it...  Could be some
European pipe thread, perhaps one not even metric like British which the
Germans use and would call G 1/8 here I think.   And that which is British
Standard Pipe Tapered if it is is cut at a different degree (55 I think) to
the actual V in the threads than US even if the pitch is the same.  If
M10x1.0T the difference in pitch would be 0.06mm from 1/8 NPT and THATS 0.002"
and both are 60 degree threads, though I don't know off the top of my head how
the tapers compare.  To tell the honest truth, unless I saw a honest to god VW
drawing of an engine case, I wouldn't believe it any way round from me or
anyone else.  Many have used 1/8 NPT with fine results, many have failed
(perhaps overtightening, already bodged threads,
 who knows) YMMV.  I'd guess off the top of my head it would work far worse if
it is German G1/8 (BSPT) due to the difference in the actual degree the thread
profile is cut, more so than the pitch or taper if it is actually M10x1.0T but
who knows.  We are talking a whopping 100psi max here so for the most part who
really cares, put your favorite REAL sealant on it (not teflon tape) and go
on.  Maybe somebody will unearth a VW document one day to answer this burning
question.  Me I'll keep using 1/8 NPT (and who knows if that is really what a
chinese made 1/8 NPT fitting is now days, probably actually M10x1.0T) as I
fall into the "its worked fine for 20 years for me" group...
 
John

--- On Tue, 7/13/10, David Schwarze <dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net> wrote:

I thought it was the opposite, in other words the block has a
straight-threaded 10mm hole, with the stock sender sealing via an o-ring while
many extension adapters are 1/8" NPT?
