Date: Fri, 16 Jul 2010 07:48:27 -0700
From: Avocado Tom Tarka <tommy(-at-)roadtrip.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 1971 Wiring: It's driving me nuts!

Volks,

I'm elbows deep in getting my '71 back on the road, and last nights task
was to clean up the wiring.  I made some progress, but I found a couple
of wires which I cannot find on the wiring diagram for the life of me
and I'd love any insights volks have to offer.  I also am puzzling 
over engine reconnection, and just need a reality check...

As usual, any insights, no matter how small, would be helpful.  Its
been 6 years since this bus has been driven, and this is all new 
(again) to me...

So without further ado:

1) My defogger has never worked.  It appears that only the ground wire 
is hooked up to it.  However, there's a large black wire which is
running towards it behind the dash.  It's actually a black wire, with
a second, smaller gauge wire piggy-backed off it.  I presume that this
is the wire to the defogger, but I have no clue what the second wire
is supposed to attach to (AFAICT, the switch only has three connections,
not a fourth).  Ideas?  If this is the defogger wire, I have yet to 
determine if its the hot wire from the fuse block, or the wire coming
from the back.  Any tips on where these wires originate?  Or if this is
even the right wire?

2) I have skinny (18 or 20 ga) grey wire coming from up around the instrument cluster that does not appear on any diagrams AFAICT and is just taped off.  May be the door buzzer?  Didn't Muir complain about that being new in the 1971?

3) There is a black with red stripes wire that appears to come from the
high beam light sensor.  All the diagrams point to this wire being a different
color (blue with white stripes).  The light is not connected.  I'll probably 
just hook it up to the headlight relay when I pull the fuse box, but a reality
check would be nice. 

Ok, now on to the wires coming through the firewall.  There are four wires 
that come through in one loom.  A black one (coil), a blue one with green
stripes (oil pressure switch), and two others: a brown one and a ...umm...
maybe a yellow or white one? (my brain is failing me)  I'm trying to figure
out which of these should go to the generator/alternator light switch and
having no luck.  I cannot discern any "blue wire" (as indicated by the 
wiring diagrams).  FWIW, there is a second brown wire coming through the
firewall independently, and it is connected to the fuel tank sender.

Any thoughts on these?  Some of them I can probably figure out by trial and 
error, or in the case of the dash light, I can just hook it up to the 
right place.  I'm just at my wits end and need a reality check before 
I blaze ahead just "fixing" things.

Cheers and Happy Friday!

   Tom
   1967 Freedom Camper, Lily
   1971 Hardtop Camper, Undergoing Turbo-Diesel Conversion

-- 
    "It's better to burn out...than it is to rust."  - Neil Young
