Date: Fri, 16 Jul 2010 15:10:08 -0400
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
To: The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com,  "vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM"
Subject: Buses Of the Corn - August 13,14,15  Brooklin Ontario

Hi Volks,

Yes, there is a BOTC happening this year. 2010 thus far has been 
insanely busy in my personal and professional life, but the TENTH ANNUAL 
Buses Of the Corn will go on. Although I've been a bit preoccupied and 
have not been quite as rigorous in my promotion as in past years, this 
is a celebration I would not miss. You shouldn't miss it either.

THE DATE IS AUGUST 13, 14, 15. Same great location just North of Whitby 
ON at the group camping area of Heber Down Conservation Area. Not quite 
as early as usual but this actually makes the corn better as it will be 
a bit more mature by then.

PREREGISTRATION ENDS JULY 30th. The $25 Weekend Preregistration payment 
also includes a T-shirt, so be sure to send your size with your payment. 
If you want extra shirts they will be $15 each. If you don't show up to 
claim your shirt in person be warned that it may take a good long while 
before they hit the mail. (Like I said above, I am crazy busy this 
year). The design hasn't been formalized yet but it will include the 
name of the event and a picture of a bus, printed in black on a plain 
white Gildan/Fruit of the Loom Men's T. See the website for details or 
e-mail me off-list if that doesn't work for you.

WHAT IF I DON'T PRE-REGISTER?
If you show up on the day of the event with your pockets bulging with 
ca$h you will still be welcome but you won't get the free T-shirt and we 
may not have a T-shirt in your size. Book ahead and you won't sit up at 
night worrying about this. Don't you wish all life's decisions were that 
simple?

THE DOWNSIDE:
The site is a little primitive. There is no power available and no 
running water either. The vault toilets can be a bit stinky.  We prefer 
campers not bring a generator; try roughing it for a weekend instead. 
Modern public restroom facilities are available at the Walmart within a 
few minutes of the campsite however for those who need them.

WHY BOTHER, REALLY?
Well shucks, why do anything, really? In this case you can justify your 
actions with the awesome Breakfast Burritos, the swap meet, the 
unbeatable Tie-Dye workshop... Or maybe the Frisbee golf, the Bus 
Driver's Challenge or the awesome campfire we always light up the night 
with. Or blame your actions on the most excellentest pot luck dinner and 
field-fresh corn roast you ever tasted.

WHERE IS YOUR ^%$# website?
The dotCom website is not mine any more. We are now hosting the site at:

http://www.busesofthecorn.ca
and the backup address:
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/busesofthecorn/index.html

HOPE TO SEE YOU THERE FOR THE TENTH ANNUAL CELEBRATION!!

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario Canada
197x Westfakia "Bob the Tomato"
1987 Wolfsburg Weekender Hardtop
www.pottsfamily.ca

BUSES OF THE CORN - AUGUST 13-15th, 2010
www.busesofthecorn.ca
