Date: Sat, 17 Jul 2010 12:06:01 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: FAST idle  -  the (partial) answer to broken throttle cable

	My elation at passing the half-yearly Warrant of Fitness test 
was soon deflated by finding I had no throttle control just as I 
tried to merge onto the main hwy at the bottom of the Silverdale 
gulch.  The linkage just under the accelerator pedal was OK; 
deduction (confirmed by pulling the inner free) broken cable.
	I'm jotting down a memo of this exciting experience while I 
cool off, having just scraped home by dint of pushing gently up steep 
hills with no-one in the driver's seat.

	The only evident roadside fix was to raise the idle speed as 
far as it would go.  Lacking a rev counter, I can only loosely 
estimate the actual 'idle' speed resulting  -  c.1900 rpm.  Main 
gears for the several mi home were 2nd & 1st.  Down the fairly steep 
drop of Brightside Rd into my suburb, I got up to 45 mph, and as we 
ran out onto the flat we then settled down onto 24 mph which was 
barely 'pullable' in 4th.
	I had foreseen the imminent steepest sector of this mini-epic 
-  the steep rise of Brightside up to the Stanmore Bay Rd turnoff  - 
and had mentally rehearsed the caper of jumping out the driver's 
door, hitting the deck a-runnin' (as Johnny Horton would have put 
it), to allow the very modest engine power 83 kg load relief, and add 
a small amount of push-power.  As I chugged uphill at 3 mph one 
helpful overtaking citizen slowed his car next to me and offered 
help.  Without seeming ungrateful (I trust), I replied that I 
couldn't see how to help.
	Indeed, walking pace did it to the acute bend; I jumped in, 
feeling somewhat like the swinger in a sidecar outfit or Morgan 
3-wheeler, and idled the hundred yd home without having to bother my 
long-suffering cobber with the 4-L Range Rover V8 to come out & tow 
me yet again.
	A secret weapon I had up my sleeve but (barely) did not have 
to deploy is to insert a pad e.g. folded foil between the idle screw 
and the throttle-stop (I believe that's its name) it presses on.  The 
screw was at its inward limit, but if the stop were padded out a few 
mm the idle would be correspondingly faster.

	Who needs 50 bhp?  I had perhaps 8, in a mental link to the 
pioneers of motoring for whom this would have been a very minor 
exploit.  For us softies today, it seemed at the time like quite an 
adventure.
	If I have any difficulty finding a new cable (strictly, just 
the inner ought to suffice, no?), I'll ask those who've been prowling 
thru their spares  ...

-- 
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600dp Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
