From: "Todd Super Bassist" <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <johnvi(-at-)cloud9.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 11 Nov 2007 18:45:56 -0500
Subject: Re: Steel Fuel Lines

Hey John,

    It's really nothing so fancy, but... when I bought my 73 VW Bus, the 
previous owner had done a lot of work, but re-used the fuel lines. The way 
the Bus was configured was that there was a small Purolator 4-psi fuel pump 
(electric) attached near the end of the fuel line (in the engine 
compartment) with a small rubber line going from the pump to the carburetor 
(webber 2-bbl progressive).

Those old lines, as you know... become porous. While fuel wasn't exactly 
leaking OUT of it, the fuel pump was sucking in AIR. Literally, it would 
take me about half a mile to get to 40 miles an hour, and that was it's top 
speed. It was pretty bad.

A neighbor of mine suggested it could be those old fuel lines. It NEVER 
occured to me. So I swapped them out with all brand new rubber lines. 
However, I've gone back and completely re-done everything on my Bus to make 
it perfect. There ARE fittings that you can buy to screw into the bottom of 
the factory fuel tank (if you remove that nipple) but I wanted a rubber 
isolator. I have a 4-5" piece of brand new rubber tubing that goes from the 
nipple on the bottom of the fuel tank, to steel lines (attached with hose 
clamps). The fuel line that I used is 3/8ths inch stainless steel fuel 
tubing. I used a fuel line tube bender, and bent it around the underside 
from the fuel tank to the engine compartment. I fitted a small grommet 
around it and worked it thorugh one of the existing holes in the outer 
engine tin. The fuel line runs along the back wall, and is fixed to the body 
using fuel line hoops (for lack of a better word) which use rubber 
isolators). The fuel line then works it's way to the drivers side "area" 
that would normally be used for a spare battery where it attaches to the 
electric fuel pump directly (using fittings). Then, coming from the pump, I 
have another stainless steel line of about 8 inches that attaches to a steel 
fuel filter (using fittings again). From the fuel filter to the carburetor 
(webber 2bbl progressive) I use a 3/8ths inch rubber line.

The Bus runs pretty well. Idle is smooth, it's not loud at all either.

It's in the garage, but I'll see if I can get some pictures and post them.



Anyway, if you had a concourse perfect VW Bus, I would stick with OEM, but 
me personally, my car was modified BEFORE I got it, and the webber 2bbl 
progressive conversion had already been done anyway. There wasn't much stock 
about the car other than the body... so, I figured, rather than fiddle with 
old technology and something that's not overly reliable (or safe), I'd 
rather just use steel lines. I don't mean to upset anyone who swears by the 
OEM stuff, I just have a lot of cars I have to keep after, and if that's one 
less maintenance thing I have to keep track of, then that's a good thing. IF 
my car was totally original though, I'd definately had kept it all stock.


Todd


----- Original Message ----- 
From: johnvi(-at-)cloud9.net
To: toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net
Subject: Steel Fuel Lines

> Todd-
>
> Please tell us about the "all new steel fuel lines"
> I have recently tried to find fittings to do the same and could not  find 
> anything that would attach to the Bus tank.  What did you do?  What parts 
> did you make or buy?  Also, what year is your bus?
>
> Thanks,
> John Ingram 
