Date: Sun, 11 Nov 2007 23:37:13 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] Straight Info On SM & SL Oil

Rick said:
   
  >I've been using standard Quaker State 20W-50...anybody
  >know if that's still good enough?

   
  Never was IMHO.  That is a personal opinion long held, QS is shit for oil.  It makes VW hydraulic lifters noisy in buses, FWD VW's, whatever, a change to Valvoline, Castrol, whatever else will make them quiet right out with just an oil change.  Though Castrol 20W50 had a bad rep for sludging things up back in the day as well.  Just my opinion anyway, and that of dad's old VW mechanic who has worked VW/import repair for 45 years, and several other people I know and trust.  I don't know about synthetics in their current sense.  In the day I ran one of the first extended change synthetics in my '86 16V GTI, the name escapes me, Synthoil perhaps, but AMSOIL has taken over that name now?  It was the one VW&Porsche magazine (became Euro Car) touted for years and ran in all their project cars, went for $25/qt IN THE MID 80's !!!  but had a change interval of 25000 miles (no shitting and I did it to.)  I eventually tore down that engine at about 110k to go to some wild 83.5
 overbores and it looked like new with only 4 oil changes ever in its life.  That company eventually went out of business as they couldn't sell the concept and compete.  In my Corrado I ran Mobil 1, long respected of course, I tried some scientific minded experiments regarding mileage with synthetic vs dino oil in it, never came to much real conclusive difference, maybe 1-2mpg maybe not, to much else to control for.  If you are doing conventional change intervals, does paying 2-4 times more for a synthetic make sense today, I just don't know.  I ran Shell Rotella 15W-40 diesel weight oil in a lot of buses and vanagons, can get by year round with it in WV except in the hottest weather.  Now that I'm in AK I've been wondering what to put in for this winter, and a synthetic or semi-sythetic does appeal to me perhaps.  We'll see I guess.  I will say this as a total aside, my 1 owner '77 Westy had about 75k miles on it when I got it, it had been changed by the PO every 3000
 miles or every season (whether it made the miles or not) with regular ole SAE 30 for the winter and 40 for the summer.  I've done the same as it has to be the cleanest engine you have ever seen when you pull a rocker cover and look in the rocker boxes and down the pushrod tubes, even now approaching 100k.  You could eat off of the internals.
   
  YMMV
   
  John
