Date: Tue, 13 Nov 2007 18:22:02 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] decibel

Comptroller David Schwarze quoth

>Very interesting!  I always knew my bus was loud but never really 
>thought about it much.  Driving cross-country, I remember my ears 
>would be ringing after long stretches of continuous driving (6-8 
>hours at a time).  Those numbers explain a lot.
>
>Another thing to consider - what carb you run makes a big difference 
>in noise production.  The stock carbs were relatively quiet, even 
>with the air filters removed.  The Dell DRLA's were much, much 
>louder.  That was one of the reasons I ended up removing them.

	Muffling the intake tract is a little-known art.  Jawa went 
in for it with shaped plastic funnels, in their classic Swinger [sic] 
; Britten refused to tell me anything about his intake tract, but it 
was a considerable contributor to his phenomenal power if not to 
muffling.
	My suspicion is that an intake tract tuned for max flow & ram 
at carb nozzle will also be well muffled.  But I can't state a reason 
for this intuition.
	But over all such notions looms that dominant characteristic 
of nature, resonance.  Even if you get your intake pretty quiet at 
econocruise, if speed spurts bring in a power jet, and if over a 
narrow range of high revs a standing wave pattern develops in the 
intake tract, that may emit a noise far louder thand at lower revs.
	Don't forget campers, what you want for peak power is a 
standing wave of compression at the inlet port of each cylinder when 
the valve opens, and the 'perverted mirror image' standing wave of 
rarefaction at the exhaust port when that valve pops open.  The great 
Walter Kaaden got c200 bhp/L on MZ strokers in the first systematic 
developments that I know of based on these principles.  MZ's top 
rider E Degner, leading the small-motor GP classes, defected to 
Suzuki.  The resulting ripoff of Kaaden's disc-intake valve and 
dual-cone exhaust won world championships for my countryman Hugh 
Anderson.
	I have no idea whether kraut 4-stroke experts applied these 
principles in developing our 30-40 bhp/L inefficient motors.


>  I think FI is quieter than most (if not all) carbs.

	If so, is that because FI intake tracts are more carefully designed?

	All these considerations may interact in the odd case with 
the previously-discussed question where to slap in your water.

-- 
Robt Mann
Auckland, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
'69 Renault 10  -  The Water Wagon
.53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
