Date: Mon, 9 Oct 2006 14:09:03 -0700 (PDT)
From: s r <bugs1973(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Tuning Weber progressive carb (kinda long)

Hello List, I have been working on a 1978 bus for a
lady, whose motor had 0 compression on number 3
cylinder. 

I found an unknown motor, the guy said he thought it
was a 2000cc that had been rebuilt. That has been
siting for about 5 years on the floor of his parts
bus. I get it home and the motor code tells me this is
a 1700cc type 4 case. Then I find that dreaded GEX
sticker on it. The motor seems to check out fine.

So this lady doesn't want dual carbs, and her FI is
long gone. She orders a single weber progressive kit.
I put this new motor together and put it into the bus.
I had a hard time getting it to start. 

I pull the valve covers off to adjust the valves and
the top dead center mark on the fan doesn't line up. I
put a stick down No. 1 Cylinder, until I find top dead
center. put a new mark on the fan. I check the No. 1
valves and both are closed. After this I discovered
this motor has hydralic lifters.  

Would gex have taken this 1700cc type 4 case, and have
built a 2000cc hydralic lifter motor? By the No. 3
cylinder it had the hole for a head temp sensor.

Finally I get the motor to run, once the lifters
pumped up, it sounds pretty good, I let it run for a
while then I checked the compression in the No. 3
cylinder and it is at 110 pounds( I figured usually
the no. 3's compression goes before the others) I'll
check the others when I have time later.

Now to the carb, First off I am a FI person, and I
don't know much about carbs. Anyways I try to tune the
carb the way the paper that came with the carb says. I
spent several hours online Friday looking for a way to
get this carb running right. I found a lot of posts
about how this is not a very good carb for a bus, but
nothing on how to tune it up. 

What this carb is doing is running way to rich. It is
spitting out black exhaust and smells way rich. Also I
can see why people say this carb will ice up. While
trying to tune it the manifolds are ice cold. it is in
the 50's here in idaho, and only getting colder. I
beleive she will have a lot of problems with this
set-up, but this is what she wanted.

How do I tune this thing up? Any info would be great.
Thanks,
Shawn R
78 Westy (Safari)
79 bus (Star)
Both fual injected and loving it. 

Shawn Reed
  Pocatello, Id
   
   http://www.worldisround.com/articles/280838/index.html?e
