Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>, vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM, bus list
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Tue, 10 Oct 2006 14:51:52 -0400
To: The Bug Pack Pack <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Subject: JBB Trip Report - Short version

Hi Volks,

Got home from JBB sometime after 1AM yesterday. It was a another  
great trip.

Highlights:
- Route 219 through western Pennsylvania. This was a great choice for  
a drive during the fall colours. Friday was a great day for  
traveling, at least until we got down into MD where the rains kicked in.

- Brunsick MD. The town is pretty cool. A bit more "working class"  
than Harper's Ferry, and very proud of its Railway Heritage. The  
campground is very nice, sitting right between the Shanandoah river  
and the railway station. A terrific place for those who like trains,  
and overall a lot more suitable and affordable than the KOA we used  
from 2002-2005.

- Turkey Dinner, (deep-fried on the campsite): This was a challenge.  
I really enjoy Thanksgiving, and since JBB was moved up a week this  
year I was going to miss it if I didn't bring it with me. So we held  
a Canadian Thanksgiving at JBB. Jeff brought the birds, Sharon  
brought the peanut oil and my Dad and I brought the cookers. Everyone  
who came brought a side dish, and chipped in a few bucks towards the  
turkey and oil. So many excellent side dishes were brought along that  
it was impossible to taste them all on one plate. Did you know that  
sauerkraut is traditionally served with turkey in Maryland... Who'da  
thunk it? It took less than an hour to cook two 15lb birds and we fed  
about 35 people in total.

- Situational Engineering:  On Saturday afternoon I confirmed that my  
engine had zero compression on #3 cylinder. Jamie Auch quickly  
tracked down a motor I could use to get home and Ian Janes  
volunteered to drive his 1969 Doublecab Bay to fetch it. After the  
big turkey dinner Bruce (The motor's owner), Jamie, Ian and I then  
ran into Washington DC to get the engine. Come daylight it was noted  
that tI would need to transplant/purchase/configure a muffler,  
alternator, clutch & flywheel, fuel pump and throttle linkage before  
I could actually run it, so I decided to carry it as an insurance  
policy rather than install it right away.

- People: It was great to catch up with the locals and not-so locals  
I've met over the years... Jeff Stewart, Sharon & Gary Simpson, Ron &  
Mary Dunn, Tom Hughes, Access Bob, John Doer, Bob Busick, Joy Hecht,  
Mark & Sandra Dearing, Justin Baughman and lots of others who deserve  
mention but whose name escapes me just now. BTW, anyone heard from  
Steve Dolan lately??

Many thanks to Jeff Stewart and Sharon Simpson for putting on a great  
event. Pics will be posted soon.... There are some other peoples  
shots already online at www.fullmoonbusclub.com.


Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/75/77/79 Westfakia "Bob the Tomato"
www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
www.busesofthecorn.com
