From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <wfargo(-at-)willamette.edu>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 23 Aug 2004 11:48:54 -0500
Subject: taping threads for busted exhaust manifold head studs

 >got a soundly rebuilt type IV engine that i am currently replacing my
>second exhaust manifold stud on. on the first one i developed a technique
>similar to the sharp chissle technique. however, this second stud stripped
>the case. since then i have drilled the stripped hole and am trying to tap
>it. unfortunately my hand drill will not drive the tap. how am i supposed
>to lay those threads???

whoa, DO NOT USE A DRILL TO RUN THE TAP.

You need to get a tap wrench to hold the tap. A tap wrench has several built
in advantages: 1.) it gives you a big perpendicular handle to help you judge
if you are starting the tap correctly; 2.) it gives you, personally, a very
deft touch: you become one with the tap and with the hole and with the threads
- you can feel if the tap is biting and cutting the threads, you can feel if
the tap is advancing and screwing into the hole and cutting new threads, you
can feel if the tap hit the dead end or hit a hard spot and is now breaking
off the threads.

You need that personal hands on feeling because Aluminum is very soft and very
weak. It is easy to make threads and rip them right back off. So... you only
tap using a tap wrench and your hands for power.

You use the exact size drill that the tap charts (or tap) says to use to make
the pilot hole. You push the tap real hard straight into the hole for the
first few turns. Once the tap is actually cutting threads and is screwing
deeper into the hole, you stop, and you back up and stop. This allows you to
clean off the tap. The soft aluminum will clog up the tap. You need to get
those chips out of the way to allow the cutting edges to remove more material
and cut clean sharp edged threads. I like to back up and squirt cheap diesel
into the hole to clean away the chips. Old machinest books say to use kerosene
as the cutting fluid lubricant for aluminum. Any thin lubricant will work
well. e.g. WD40, Liquid Wrench, turpentine, mineral spirits, etc. Diesel is
really cheap and redily available and is not all that easy to catch on fire.
If you do not clean away the chips, they clog up the cutting edges and you
gall* the aluminum.
*gall2 (gtl) n. 1. A skin sore caused by friction and abrasion: a saddle gall.
2.a. Exasperation; vexation. b. The cause of such vexation. --gall v. galled,
gall7ing, galls. --tr. 1. To make (the skin) sore by abrasion; chafe. 2. To
damage or break the surface of by or as if by friction; abrade: the bark of
saplings galled by improper staking. See Synonyms at chafe. 3. To irk or
exasperate; vex: It galled me to have to wait outside. --intr. To become
irritated, chafed, or sore. [Middle English galle, from Old English gealla,
possibly from Latin galla, gallnut.]
