Date: Tue, 24 Aug 2004 08:22:42 +0200
From: christopher.h.caldwell(-at-)us.army.mil
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Newbie with a couple questions...

Hello all 

I just stumbled upon the group this week while I was doing some Internet
shopping for parts for our 77 Type 2  glad to find some enthusiasts!!

My wife and I live in Germany (active duty military) and we picked up the bus
a few years ago from a local who had kept it in his garage for the last 20
years.  Its my everyday car now, but we havent had much time to dedicate to
fixing it up and tricking it out  just enough time to get the engine replaced
and some critical bodywork done.

Weve got big plans for it though when we finally return to the States next
year, were looking at a monster road trip, so the game is now on trying to
get the bus ready for the road.

A couple things I need advice on:

FOLDING BEDS:  I found an old website from Z-Products that offered a custom
folding frame.  When I called the company, it turns out they patented the item
30 years ago, but stopped selling it 2 years ago when demand finally trickled
out.  Does anyone know where I can find one or have one to sell?  Or if there
is a better way to do things with a bed in a 77, please fill me in!  (Not
really interested in converting to a Westfakia or installing a pop-up  just
dont have the resources here)

ELECTRICAL CONVERSION:  I found some references in some threads to setting up
a second battery and a power converter to supply power for a fridge / radio /
light system for when Im not moving and we settle down for the night
somewhere.  Can anyone provide a link to a website or the name of a book where
I can get detailed info on installing such a system myself? The more
comprehensive the better Im a novice

So I hope someone can help Again, glad to be part of the group.  Anyone else
out there here in Germany with us?

Take care 

Chris and Wendy Caldwell
77 Type 2 (Bunjee)
christopher.h.caldwell(-at-)us.army.mil
