From: Mfitzsim(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 27 Sep 2001 02:23:18 EDT
To: dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com
Subject: Re: [T2] fi to carbs on 78 2.0l??

In a message dated 9/26/01 8:56:45 PM Pacific Daylight Time, 
dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com writes:

<< Anyone have comments about fi to carb conversions... >>

Dave,

Yep, its kind of like a hydraulic brake to cable brake conversion.  Just 
think how much simpler those cable brakes were on Kubels and Hebs!  No fluid 
leaks, no rusted lines, no leaky wheel cylinders, no vacuum lines and 
boosters; hey, you can fix any part of the system on the side of the road 
with a pliers and some garbage bag twist-ems!  : )   (sorry Dave, I couldn't 
resist!)

I have had many problems with carbs.  Linkages losing adjustment, linkages 
falling apart, stuck float valves, plugged jets, sticking chokes, no chokes, 
iced up venturis, bad accelerator pump diaphragms, anyways.....lots of bad 
memories and what have I realized?  I have NEVER had the K-jetronic fuel 
injection on any of my VW's ever bring me to a halt.  It can easily outlast 
the engine its installed on with no maintenance, something very difficult to 
accomplish with carbs.  You may want to consider a conversion to K-jet (CIS) 
before buying carbs.

No ECU, no electronics, thousands of junked rabbit/jetta/fox/quantum/audi's 
as donors.

Granted, I've never actually switched from FI to carbs, only the other way 
around.  34 ICT's offer few performance benefits over the stock solexs and 
don't have chokes.  40 IDF's breath better, but they are noisier, suck more 
gas and have about a dozen jets between the pair of them that may need to be 
replaced in order to "dial them in".

There are usually lots of used carb sets on ebay and local "swap" bulletin 
boards.  They seem to sell for about half (?) of new cost, they can be a good 
deal until you discover they need rebuilding/rebushing or are jetted 
incorrectly for your engine.  Make sure the manifolds and carbs have the 
correct vacuum ports; try to determine what engine displacement, cam and 
valve size they were jetted for before you settle on a price (you may need to 
buy jets!)

mark fitzsimons 
mfitzsim(-at-)aol.com
Portland, OR
