Date: Wed, 29 Dec 2004 06:37:32 -0800 (PST)
From: David Burton <david_a_burton(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Anonymous threatening letters left on my bus... Advice?

Hi Volks!

Need some advice, and please share your relevant
experiences, if any.. Sorry it's a long message.

I live in Boston, Mass. and park my 1971 Westfalia on
the street. It is licenced, insured, and legal, and I
have the required city resident parking permit, but it
really needs new paint, and I don't drive it every
day, or much at all in winter months..

What I am getting is a string of threatening letters
from fellow residents of my street (where I usually
park) to the effect that if I don't move my bus every
3 days that they will (under Boston law) have it towed
away as an "abandoned vehicle"..

The most recent letter is this, verbatim:

"December 26th

Dear Owner,

The home owners in this immediate area have a request
- please remove your vehicle from in front of our
residences.

First, we understand that it is illegal to leave a
vehicle in one place for more than 3 days - you often
ignore this stipulation. And when you do move it, it
often moves between #17 and #15 - we also understand
that simply flip flopping it from one space to another
in this fashion is not legal.

Second, we are also concerned that the appearance and
broken window invite an unnecessary element to the
neighborhood and pose a potential security issue for
others who own cars.

Third, while you may appreciate the aesthetic of your
vehicle, we do not. We are all interested in enhancing
the quality and appearance of our neighborhood and
quite frankly we consider your vehicle to be an
eyesore.

We appreciate you respecting our position and look
forward to seeing your vehicle moved. Thank you."

This letter was unsigned, and was type-written, the
previous two were similar - but handwritten..

Your thoughts please, and any (sensible) advice!!

Btw, this area of town used to be very rough a few
years ago, and I've recently seen several cars lose
their Xenon headlamps, meanwhile our other car (a 1999
Toyota Corolla) attracts no attention or "love
letters" left under its wiper blades.. Go figure..

Thanks,
Dave Burton
1971 Westfalia "Rusty"
