Date: Wed, 29 Dec 2004 10:00:50 -0800 (PST)
From: David Burton <david_a_burton(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Gregory Sorbello <gregorysorbello(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Anonymous threatening letters left on my bus...

Greg Sorbello, and others, thanks for your support..

Greg (I'll keep your email handy just in case I *do*
need legal advice here in Boston, Mass) and others,
thanks for your sterling support, and offers of help,
it really makes me feel a lot better!!

As a bonus, I'm home for lunch and have managed to get
the parking spot directly outside my own house, I had
to dig out some snow (we had about 8-12" last weekend)
but as the car that was there has now moved, I can now
look out my windows and see my bus, which rarely
happens.. I hope my neighbours will stop their
complaining... D'ya think??

I'm aware that there really *is* a "move your car
every 3 days" law in Boston (I'm in Charlestown, still
a part of Boston) else it can be considered as an
abandoned vehicle by the police.. I've discussed it
with the (very nice) Boston cop (and his wife) who
live across the street from us.. This "3 day rule" is
widely ignored by everyone (not just me) and there is
actually an older BMW 3 series with no licence plates
on it all, that never moves, parked about 6 houses up
the street.. I wonder if they've been getting "love
letters" too?? Okay, so obviously not.. But that car
isn't even registered, mine is fully legal, and I'm
the one getting pestered because (Oh no, gasp!) it's a
VW Bus, and it's parking on OUR street!!

Anyway, the dominant point in all this seems to be
that since I'm parking on the (public) street, as long
as I keep it all legal and abide by all the rules/laws
(3 days moving included) then miserable neighbour(s)
who write me "love letters" and leave them anonymously
on my windshield can't really do anything.. If they do
tow me, it will be against the law, as long as I've
done everything correctly..

Thanks for all your support, and I'll try to answer
your offers of help by P-mail..

Thanks,
Dave Burton
1971 "Rustfalia"
