Date: Wed, 29 Dec 2004 11:17:32 -0800 (PST)
From: David Burton <david_a_burton(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: LoriandLane(-at-)aol.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Anonymous threatening letters left on my bus...

Hi Again!

With everything that's going on in the world, not just
the incomprehensible situation that many people (lucky
to survive) are left in because of the tsunami's, but
everything else that's bad in the world and causing
grief to people, it does amaze me that other people
(my neighbours specifically) can be so small minded..
Oh dear..

Since there has been such a strong response to my
posting, I've decided that people might enjoy(?)
reading the first two letters that were left on my
bus.. The one I originally posted was the 3rd, and
most recent one.. They've been left under my wipers
over a period of about 14 days, and the third one was
in an envelope inside a plastic bag - Fancy!!

The first one was hand written on a sheet of A4 paper
folded in half, in block capital letters:

"PLEASE MOVE YOUR CAR. IT WILL BE TOWED AWAY. YOU
CAN'T LEAVE YOUR CAR IN FRONT OF AN ELDERLY COUPLES
HOUSE FOR 30 DAYS. PARK IT ON MAIN STREET. TODAY"

It wasn't signed, and needless to say, my car had
*not* been in that spot for 30 days.. Hmmm.. Btw, it's
quite common around here to have disabled parking
spots, perhaps the quoted "Elderly Couple" will
qualify for one, then "their" spot will be effectively
guaranteed for them!!

The second note was again hand written (not caps) and
this time was on a Paxil stick pad page (the kind
doctors get for free)..

"FYI - Cars are to be moved every 3 days per Boston
P.D. , otherwise they can be considered abandoned.
Thank you in advance for abiding by these rules.
Abandoned vehicles will be towed."

So that's it.. I'll keep an eye out tonight to see if
I can catch the spineless whiner who's leaving these
for me, although it might be multiple people.. I've
asked my neighbours I know and am friendly with about
it, but everyone seems quite amused and just treats it
like a murder mystery case!! They'd all like to know
who is doing it.. Okay, so the butler did it!!

I'll keep you posted if I ever figure it out, but I'm
really not sure that they want to be known, otherwise
wouldn't they have the guts to reveal themselves by
now??

Btw, all three letters have had excellent spelling and
grammar, and the presentation and content of the third
letter was certainly impressive, as

-- LoriandLane(-at-)aol.com wrote:

> Wow!  That is the most polite threatening letter
> I've ever read!  Here in San 
> Diego they simply call the police and lie about the
> amount of time the bus 
> has been parked there. (They usually call in the
> first 12 hours.

The suggestion was to get the window fixed and to
paint it, so I'll be interested if anyone has used
Maaco, what the results were, the $$$ cost for paint,
and whether they really do try and hose you for prep
charges (although I know that prep is the most
important part if you want it to come out decently) so
your comments and suggestions are most welcome..

Thanks and Peace,
Dave Burton
1971 "Rustfalia"
