From: "Peter Alau" <peteralau(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 29 Dec 2004 11:33:28 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] Anonymous threatening letters left on my bus...

After reading through all the suggestions, I'll throw in my 2 cents. I was in
a similar situation with neighbors a few years ago, and after enough
conversation, we agreed to disagree, and now when we see each other, they make
a humorous comment about my ugly vehicle, and I make a humorous comment about
how much uglier it could be. (all humor has a hidden truth, my neighbors are
smart enough to know that... I guess I'm lucky).

I'll disagree with any of the ones that take an aggressive approach without a
friendly alternative - they are not in the spirit of the VW bus owner, and
likely counter productive.

My guess is that you have one or two neighbors who likely aren't partial to
your vehicle and are disguising their letter with the "will of the majority"
when they probably have no such thing. As you stated, consistently moving the
vehicle within the spirit of the parking law will probably diffuse the
situation somewhat, and any improvements to appearance will work in your
favor.

Try placing a note on your dashboard that says something to the equivalent
of:
Dear Anonymous Neighbor,

Thank you for your concern about the neighborhood, and even more so about the
state of my choice of transportation. As you may guess, I love this car, it
loves me, and together we drive around happily. Thus it does cause me concern
that this happiness may be disrupted by my neighbors disapproval of our
symbiotic relationship.

Your note was well written, and taken to heart. In the spirit of being
neighborly, I would like to discuss your concerns over coffee, beer, or any
other beverage that has been used by civilized societies to assist in open
conversation.

I would contact you directly, but it appears that you seemed to have forgotten
to sign it. I am sure that this was a mere oversight, and likely an honest
error made in haste, as so many of the worlds errors are made. As a
consequence, I am unsure if this note was written by a distant relative,
crazed stalker, secret agent, mad scientist, lizard-alien, tiny mouse with
plans for world domination, or even - a concerned neighbor.

My bus is named <insert wacky name here>, my name is <insert name here>, and I
can be reached by <insert contact method of choice here> to discuss your
concern. Please feel free to contact me at your convenience. I think that I
live in a wonderful place, and am quite sure that we can come to an
understanding, or at least, be able to shake hands like gentlemen.

Many thanks in advance,
<your name here>

P.S. If indeed the letter was written by a tiny mouse with plans for world
domination, I would suggest that they forget the plan involving the rubber
pants and the baseball bat - it was ill-conceived and completely ignored the
possibility that the cat is probably just going to sleep all day.



This letter, if nothing else, will give your neighbors a good laugh and
possibly engender a few to you cause - after all, you are the funny guy who
just wants everyone to get along, as opposed to the
skulking-in-the-shadows-embodiment-of-evil who leaves anonymous letters on
blissfully ignorant busses.

My 2 cents (actually, I think I've written a full nickel here)

-Peter
1970 Campmobile
