Date: Thu, 30 Dec 2004 03:43:15 -0800 (PST)
From: "E. Marc Coe" <marccoe(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: is my mechanic full of it?  (hot start/cold start problem)

First of all, I would like to thank everyone for all their help.  My 81 Westy is up and running, and the list of problems I need to solve is getting smaller and smaller.
 
I'm down to 2 problems - 
 
1.  My starter is occassionally sticking.  I think it might be the hot starting issue.  If it sticks, I can "persuade" it with a screwdriver from the battery terminal to the starter terminal.  The engine turns, then I crawl up front and it starts right up.  It doesn't seem like a low voltage issue, since if the starter isn't stuck, it can sit for several days and fire right up.  But if and when the starter "sticks", no amount of time will unstick it.  Nothing short of the screwdriver connecting the terminals will free it up. 
 
2.  Once the temperature falls below freezing, the engine doesn't want to start.  I'll crank it for 20 or 30 seconds before it fires.  It's weird; at 35 degrees it fires in 2 seconds...at 32 degrees it takes 20 seconds.
 
Now, my mechanic is trying to talk me into replacing the starter with a Bosch rebuilt one.  I just had the starter rebuilt when I pulled the engine a few months ago.  It's not a bosch, but I trust the guys who did it.
 
My mechanic says the hot start relay from bus depot is a waste of time, and that I won't need it if I get the bosch.  Second, he claims the cold starting problem is also a result of my starter; that it's drawing too much voltage.  If that's the case, wouldn't the starting times change gradually, rather than the dramatic shift I'm seeing?
 
I think they are two different problems, and I'm inclined to try the hot start relay rather that bite the bullet for a rebuilt starter.
 
Any ideas?  I need to know if I can trust this guy.  He also told me to rip off the thermostat and flaps, by the way, that the engine would run better without them....
 
Thanks as always - 
 
Marc
 
P.S.  Does an auto transmission starter have an external bushing?  I can't seem to find a place for one, nor did one appear when I removed the starter for servicing the first time...
