From: "Rob Henley" <robhenley(-at-)baywindowbus.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 30 Dec 2004 08:17:05 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Anonymous threatening letters left on my bus... 

Good luck with this Dave!

Some points I have:

First of all the vent window is the easiest to replace on your bus! Remove 
all that is left of the window, using a small screwdriver in the channel to 
remove all the small bits. Get another from the junkyard or tell us where to 
ship you one. They simply pull out of the channel with a little effort. 
Start the new one in the channel as far as you can get it to go (a little 
dishwashing detergent will lube it) and then GENTLY tap the edge with a 
rubber mallet to seat it.

Secondly I believe there is one person behind this, trying to cleverly 
disguise several letters in various formats as 3 concerned neighbors. I 
would suspect the "elderly couple" first, as the letter writer assumes they 
have a problem with your bus and people like this usually only think of 
themselves. I would spruce up and knock on their door to have a warm chat 
with them about it, making a point to mention the special parking area they 
are entitled to...maybe they are unaware of it.

Lastly...for your own protection I would start a log of where you are 
parking. It could be as simple as getting a new calander and jotting down 
where you park each day. This will help you to ensure that you are following 
the 3 day rule as well as document your following the law. I would even go 
so far as to post the log visibly in your bus. This way if an officer should 
stop by and there is a log of you moving the bus they won't have a leg to 
stand on and it will probably be dismissed.

It is exasperating to find yourself in this predicament, but the best way to 
perservere is to go out of your way to show that you are not doing any 
wrong. Eventually the letter writer will realize that you are in the battle 
and in the right and will give up.

Hope this helps some,

Rob Henley
www.baywindowbus.comh 
