Date: Thu, 30 Dec 2004 10:17:48 -0600 (GMT-06:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "E. Marc Coe" <marccoe(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] is my mechanic full of it?  (hot start/cold start

1.  My starter is occassionally sticking.

Prob DO need the hot start relay. I use a Ford relay ($ free) and had a problem once after a 95 degree run over the TN mountains at 65 mph. I'd remove the starter (easy), tear it down and clean/grease/paint it. Check the bushings, and the brushes, and reassemble. Install the hot start relay. Instructions for it in Muir's book, prob on the web in 19 different places or I can scan the appropriate pic and send it to you. 
 
2.  Once the temperature falls below freezing, the engine doesn't want to start.  

If it is fuel injected, cold start injector. Or the temp relay that controls it. I find that cracking the throttle open just a hair seems to help unless it is below 35 degrees and then forget it. Walk... I squirt of WD-40 might get you going. I've used it as a starting fluid for years. Not as exciting as ether... 

Now, my mechanic is trying to talk me into replacing the starter with a Bosch rebuilt one.  

Nix the paint/clean/grease. You have a wiring problem - not a starter problem. There just isn't alot to a starter. It either works or it doesn't. You are definitely a candidate for a hot start relay. YOU CAN DO THIS yourself! The price of the relay (kit or junkyard Ford relay) and the tools you need will be less than paying a mechanic and you get to keep the tools. 

I get the impression that the mechanic wants to sell you a $100+ starter rather than the $7-$20 relay fix. Yes it will work for a while because new starters work so well. Eventually you will be back to the same problem, or if you get tired of the bus, the next guy will be back to the same problem. You've got low voltage to the starter solenoid. Typical VW bus problem. If it will start with a screwdriver across the terminals when the key won't do the trick, then the relay is the key. DON'T GET RUN OVER! (startign the bus in gear, etc.). 

The fact that he thinks the flappers are unecessary makes me think this guy is full of bad advice... Educate yourself so you can tell him what needs to be done or BETTER YET learn to fix it yourself. Comes in handly when your bus breaks along a cornfield in Kansas... 

Chris
'78 Westy 2,7L - "Dharma"
