Date: Thu, 30 Dec 2004 18:45:24 -0700
From: Craig <momentum(-at-)extremezone.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Cylinder head or Front seal?

Hello All,

I return once again in search of a solution to my long overdue head
replacement project. What is being worked on is an 81' Vanagon 2.0 L with FI
with  30,000 miles on a rebuild. Also, she has a Torque Special hydraulic
camshaft from CIP. I don't know if the cam has anything to do with the
problem.

The Problem...Low compression on the rebuilt side and oil leakage from what
I believe is the mating surfaces of the cylinder sleeve and the head. The
replaced head is #1 and #2 and I replaced it with an AVP-Worldwide because
the Exhaust Valve had dropped its seat. I stayed with the updated shim
configuration of just a 1.6  mm cylinder base shim. My first attempt failed
to work because there was hardly any compression in #1 and #2 probably
because I forgot to lap the sleeves to the head. With that done I proceeded
to forget how much oil I put in the crankcase. I eventually drained out
nearly FIVE quarts of motor oil reeking with fuel.


          
         Latest Compression check results WARM
                   
                            #1          #2           #3          #4
  w/o = with oil       72   w/o 80   75 w/o 83   112 w/o115  100 w/o 105

The oil is kind of spat down on the tin that hugs the underside of the
sleeves and head and then collects on the PR tubes. I suppose this is from
the fan keeping the air circulating. When I loaded the cylinders with oil
for the compression test I used 3 in ONe. The oil leaking after start-up was
the 3 n 1 kind and not my usual 30 weight.

 From this area also comes a chittering noise that is hard to tell if its
mechanical or just escaping gasses.

Other considerations:  I've been running the van for 3 plus years with the
Temp Sender #2 on the opposite side at #2 cylinder as I goofed and got the
two heads mixed up while rebuilding. I'm sure this has some effect on the FI
system, Yes?
              My AFM is at two turns counter-clockwise. I'm unsure of where
to start it if the original/adjusted setting is no longer known.
    
Archives, technical Web pages and libraries suggest that a re-torquing of
heads may be in order.  To determine the exact location of the leakage I
could remove the upper tin and take a look after start-up.  Or, a leak-down
test will cost me $35.00,I'd rather not if possible.

There may be other possiblities that I'm not aware of that could to solve
the problem. Any ideas or experiences concerning this matter would be deeply
appreciated. 
Thank YOU, Craig
