Date: Fri, 31 Dec 2004 00:41:30 -0800 (PST)
From: "Thomas J. Tarka" <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Usefulness of Gauges

I'm currently running CHT, Oil Temp, and Oil Pressure gauges in my '67 
Freedom Camper.  Some people will say "Gauges are unnecessary for normal 
driving of air-cooled vehicles" while others will say "Make sure you 
install gauge X!"

This morning I hopped in my bus to drive the 60 miles to Washington, DC 
for work.  (I usually don't drive in, but today was an exception)  After 
about 10 miles, I noticed that my oil temps were higher than they had been 
in the last week or two of driving, and not surprisingly, my oil pressure 
was a little lower than normal at speed.  I took it down a notch (I was 
pushing the bus a little hard at ~58 mph with a stock tranny/gearing) to 
55 and watched the CHT settle from ~350 down to ~300-320, which made me 
happy.  The pressure was still a little low for my liking though, so I 
stopped and let her cool at a fast idle for 3 or 4 minutes and made a 
mental note to check the oil level when I got to work and adjust the 
valves and check timing/mixture before the weekend trip i'm taking.

Oil level turned out to be fine, which seemed somewhat mysterious as head 
temps on #3 weren't that bad.  And its slightly warmer here ambient 
temperature-wise, than last week, but not by such a huge amount that it 
should make this much of a difference.  Odd.

So when I got home tonight (again, having to stop and cool a bit on the 
way home), I drained the oil while it was hot before going out to dinner.
Ah ha! The oil smelled like gas!  

Anyway, the moral of the story is that the only reason I noticed that 
there was a problem (low oil pressure, presumably due to the reduced 
lubricating properties of oil with gas in it) was that my readings CHANGED 
from what they normally were.  The engine is tired and the oil like comes 
on at idle regardless, so I only had the gauges to warn me of what could 
have been a real problem.  And really, while the higher oil temperature 
might have tipped me off, it was still only around 200 degrees (although 
I'm not so convinced on the quantitative data presented to me from the oil 
temp sender as I'm running a oil-pressure relief valve sender) -- it was 
the change in oil pressure that had me worried.

Who knows, maybe I'll change the oil and find that I still have an oil 
pressure/temp problem and that the engine is finally ready to call it 
quits.  I am still happier knowing about it beforehand and having an 
opportunity to address the problem instead of being stranded somewhere.

Happy Bussing!

	tom
	'67 freedom camper
	'71 hardtop camper
