Date: Sun, 23 Nov 2008 21:52:22 -0800
From: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc" <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Steering wheel position

Anthony,

Hah, I cajoled someone into fixing their bus! Congrats! Glad to be of
service.

There is a factory mark on the spline shaft and the pittman arm that need to
line up. Might be hard to see. Mine are lined up.
I'll need to go thru the process and double check everything. Just to be
sure.

E&B. I have a fixed tie rod on the passenger side and an adjustable on the
driver side. Carefully set for 1/8" toe in.

Chris

----- Original Message -----
From: ANTHONY CAPPS
To: C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc
  Sent: Sunday, November 23, 2008 9:36 PM
  Subject: Re: [VB] Steering wheel position


  I just fixed my steering wheel.

  I have the solution.

  Let me ask you - when the wheel is straight (3 o-clock-9 o-clock) is the
pitman arm due vertical?  It should be.  This means your steering wheel is
centered.

  So when you are adjusting your steering wheel angle, this is where the
pitman arm needs to stay all the time.

  And so when the wheels are straight and the pitman arm is vertical, the drag
link is too short to reach from the front axle gearbox up to the pitman arm?
Any you have it fully extended?  (the front end of it is tie rod end is
threaded into the rod, the back isnt.   It is still too short where the ball
joint unscrews and falls off the end of the drag link rod?  Is it that short?

  Is This True?


  I had to back out the end 6 full turns to get my steering wheel right.  And
there are still tons of threads inside there to make it longer.  As per below
- changing the pitman arm on the splines will do nothing.  In fact, once you
get it centered and vertical, you need to mark it with white out so that you
put it back on exactly like it was every time you take it off to turn the
threaded end of the drag link.

  This is what I finally figured out:

  WHEN YOU CHANGE THE LENGTH OF THE DRAG LINK AND PUT THE PITTMAN ARM BACK ON
THE SPLINES, YOW HAVE TO GRAB A TIRE AND TURN THE FRONT WHEELS - NOT THE
STEERING WHEEL- TO MAKE THE PITMAN ARM GO BACK ON IN THE CORRECT ALIGNMENT (on
the same splines) THE WAY IT WAS WHEN YOU TOOK IT OFF.


  T Capps
    ----- Original Message -----
    From: C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc
    To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
    Sent: Sunday, November 23, 2008 8:07 PM
    Subject: Re: [VB] Steering wheel position


    Anthony,

    So I presume that you moved the pittman arm without adjusting the drag
link??
    Seems to me that changing the angle of the drag link by one spline could
be
    compensated by lengthening or shortening the drag link. Maybe I need to
try
    moving my pittman arm.

    I do CAD with Kubotek. I work in 3D solids. Can import from almost any
other
    cad system and export back. My business is general machinery design and
    manufacturing. I also design the control systems and write PLC programs,
    LabView programming, C programming and assembly programming on Microchip
    controllers.

    Chris
