Date: Mon, 24 Nov 2008 13:39:14 -0500
From: <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: ADMIN: type2.com status update

Hello all!

This is a status update on type2.com .  A few weeks ago, an email went
out about a possible shutdown of type2.com; that is still a
possibility, but less likely than it was.  I know there has been more
discussion on Type2 than on VintageBus, but I figured I'd update both
lists.

The main thing we (the type2.com admins) are fighting is the cost of
our current hosting arrangements.  In 2001, we bought a computer with
donations from listees, and put that computer in a rack at our ISP.
They charge $150 a month for the Internet connection, power, and
maintenance.  What prompted the original email was the fact that we had
less than $150 in the bank for the next month's service.  Thanks to
generous support from listees, that is no longer an immediate problem,
so we can pay for some more time at our current host if we need to.

We are, however, trying to come up with a lower-cost solution.  $150
looks expensive, and some people might ask why we own the box and put
it at our ISP in the first place.  When type2.com was founded, doing
this was much less expensive than the other options, mostly because of
the relatively high volume of the mailing lists at that time.  (Our
domain registration is a few months older than Google's, if that gives
you an idea. :) )  Since then, the costs of Internet service in general
have come down, and the volume on the mailing lists has also declined -
both of these things mean that we can probably do something less
expensive now.

Another thing we are fighting is that our current server is getting a
little cranky in its old age.  It's not doing bad for an entry-level
server (Pentium 3, 733 MHz) that's been running 24/365 for 7+ years,
but sometimes it goes and sulks in the corner.  The skills developed
in nursing 30 to 60 year old cars along transfer well to nursing old
computers along, so we have patched it up and made it work, but have
arrived in Albuquerque looking and seeking.

We have had several offers to donate servers, and offers of free or
inexpensive hosting.  The admins are considering them with all
deliberate speed; one admin emeritus did not disagree when I compared
this process to herding cats.  :)  At this point, we will probably be
in our new hosting arrangement, whatever it is, by the end of the year
- around six weeks from now.  There will probably be a short disruption
to the mailing list service when we move; we will make further
announcements when we know more about it.

There has also been a personnel change, which was announced to the list
a couple of weeks ago.  Ted Finesman, our long-time treasurer, has
retired.  Our new treasurer is Leah Deaton (Troy Wical's other half).
The page at http://www.type2.com/donate has been updated to reflect
this, and Leah can answer any questions you have about the donation
process.

To respond to a couple of points that have been brought up on the lists:


Q.  Why don't we just start a Google Group or Yahoo! Group or equal?

A.  The Web space and mailing list features offered by such services do
    not seem to align very well with our requirements.  The mailing list
    software on type2.com has been tinkered with for over 12 years to
    make it possible for the admins to be lazy most of the time - we let
    the computer thingy do the work.  :)  Also, some of these services 
    tack ads onto outgoing messages - something type2.com has avoided on
    principle since 1996.  Others don't tack on ads, but do index all
    the messages - this is handy for listees, but some people are rightly
    concerned about privacy issues with this.  Also, if one of these
    services decides to sell the subscriber lists, there is very little
    we (the admins) can do about it.


Q.  Why don't we convert to (or add) a Web forum?

A.  Everett Barnes got there first with thesamba.com .  :)  If you prefer
    the web-forum format, he runs a good one.  Some people prefer the
    mailing-list format, so we would like to continue to provide that,
    rather than compete with Everett.


Q.  Why so expensive?

A.  When type2.com was set up in 1996, owning a server and putting it at
    an ISP was a relatively cheap way to go.  Times have changed, and we
    are looking at ways to reduce costs.  At this point, most likely the
    server hardware will be donated outright, and the monthly hosting will
    be less than the $150 a month we are paying.  We may also go with a
    shared-hosting or virtual-server arrangement, but this will still be
    less than $150 a month.


Q.  Why does the type2.com Web site look like it was designed in 1996?

A.  It was.  :)  Our immediate goal is to move to less expensive hosting,
    and to get the existing Web site and mailing lists running on that
    hosting.  After that, we will work on improving the site (we have had
    several generous offers of help with this).


So, that's what's going on, at least as far as I know.  (The type2.com
admins are a rather loose-knit group; most of us have never met in
person.)  I will make an effort to keep everyone posted on developments.

If you have any questions, respond either to the mailing lists, or to
me directly.

Thank you very much!

Matt Roberds
One of the type2.com admins
