Cc: Sam <sglw(-at-)aol.com>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Troy Wical <troy(-at-)wical.com>
To: <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
Date: Mon, 24 Nov 2008 20:50:05 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: [VB] ADMIN: type2.com status update

I'll go ahead and report.

Once again, Leah is afk so I'll step in.  The short version...

Leah got all the info from Ted.  Well, ownership of Ted's paypal  
account couldn't be transferred and with a move in email addresses  
having to be done, Leah went for the route of 'donations(-at-)type2.com.'   
The account is born and funds are transfered over from the old  
tedebare account to the new 'donations' account.  Well, PayPal's  
automated flags were raised and they basically shut the account down.   
Leah replied to them immediately and then also called them.  When she  
told the guy on the phone that the account had been given out for  
those who felt the services provided were worth a donation, he went  
off and shut the account down even further, stating that Non-Profit  
organization documents were needed and voided checks from the bank,  
etc, etc.  A later call today to PayPal revealed that the previous  
customer support guy went way overboard, but that regualar reps could  
do nothing at this point and it had to be escalated.

This essentially has shutdown the new donations(-at-)type2.com account.   
I've edited the donate page to reflect this, and have pointed current  
donations at leah personal account.  Leah's direct email is on the  
page for questions exactly like this.  But I'll go ahead and point it  
out here too though, since I am writing this message, and maybe the  
email link on the page is not very visible....

leah(-at-)type2.com

Her and I both stare at our iPhones more than we should, so do email  
her if you have questions.  Leah has been working on this as much as  
she can to make things smooth and quiet, and the circumstances have  
not made that easy.

Peace, Troy   www.calivw78.com
'74 Westy       '78 Transporter

On Nov 24, 2008, at 8:32 PM, <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net> wrote:
> ---- Sam <sglw(-at-)aol.com> wrote:
>> Can we paypal donations?
>  I am trying to figure out what the problem is and will
> report.

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pkcs7-signature which had a name of smime.p7s]
