To: tombuese(-at-)comcast.net
Date: Sat, 27 Dec 2008 00:46:50 -0500
From: claralw(-at-)aol.com
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Merry Christmas and shift coupler

well, I pushed the hockey stick back so it was in 1st or 3rd, then pushed the main rod forward.?? 
You can't do it unless you put it in 1st or 3rd.

If there is still not enough room, then I'd disconnect the front shift coupler.? 
Of course, if it has not yet been disconnected in years, it is stuck, bolts can break off, and it's bit of work to do.??? I don't know how your weather is there, but we have about a foot of snow on the ground, which is melting in the rain.?? NOT lovely weather to crawl under the bus and mess with shift couplers.??? Is it snowing there with you?? 
But if you have a garage to work in and a heater? rock on!

If you've had the front coupler apart before, it's easy to do.

If the front coupler has not?been apart in living memory, well it probably wants new shift bushings anyway?so have at it. 
Remove the shift stick in the cab so you can move the front coupler away from the heater tube insulation, which you can use a wet rag on.?
I use a propane torch on the front coupler till it's really hot, then quench with a squirt bottle of water.?? Repeat three times.?? 
Three shall be the number of the heat and quench cycles, and the number of the cycles shall be three.?? 
Thou shalt not count two, unless immediately proceeding to three.?? Thou mayest count four if thou feelst like it.? Five is okay.

Then I use the 8mm square headed socket with a short extension on the little ratchet to remove the coupler screw(s).?? 
If the screw breaks off, you can try to drill it out, The screw is harder than the coupler, which makes it a PITA to drill out.

or use a dremel (or angle grinder) (use safely features to protect your eyes and ears) to carefully cut the coupler lengthwise, maybe two paralell cuts and pry it apart with a big fat screwdriver.
You can twist the rod to get the cut where you want it.?? Don't cut through the shift rods, just the coupler.
Then vise grips on a rag on the front and rear rods, gently.?? I can do this so there are no marks on the rods.?? :)

? Squashing the rods is right out!!!!!!?? Buggering up the shift rods can make for funky shifting.

Twist the vise grips against each other, this should break the rust loose.??? If it doesn't, go for? the heat and quench again.

Use grease or antiseize when installing the front shift coupler, so you can take it apart in a few years.

Hope that helps



-----Original Message-----
From: Thomas Buese <tombuese(-at-)comcast.net>
To: claralw(-at-)aol.com
Cc: c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net; vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Sent: Fri, 26 Dec 2008 11:01 am
Subject: Re: [VB] Merry Christmas


That would be great Clara, but how did you do it? ?The og shift coupler was split in half, & I got it out, but no room to get the new one in. Of course the middle set screw was broken off by the PO, so now what besides what other volks have suggested?



Pax,




Tom



..........................
