Date: Sat, 27 Dec 2008 00:46:17 -0600 (CST)
From: mattroberds(-at-)cox.net
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: ADMIN: type2.com will be down for a few days

All,

Short version: type2.com will be down for a few days.  You don't need to
do anything.  When it comes back up, we will send out another report to
both the Type2 and VintageBus mailing lists.

Long version: The server that hosts the Type2.com web site and the Type2
and VintageBus mailing lists will be offline for a few days.  It may go
offline as early as Saturday, 27 December, or as late as Monday, 29
December; it depends on whether our current ISP will shut it down over
the weekend or wait until Monday.  The server will then be shipped from
our current ISP's data center in Washington state to Troy Wical in
Colorado.  Troy is organizing a new server and connectivity for the new
server, and the simplest and fastest way to get everything transferred
over from the old server to the new one is to have both servers in the
same place.  The current "best guess" as to when Type2.com will be back
up is around Friday, 2 January 2009.

You do not have to do anything to stay subscribed to the mailing lists.
There are backups (in more than one place) of the subscriber lists, and
the new server will start out with a copy of the current subscriber
lists.  When the mailing lists start working again, another admin
message like this one will go out.

The Type2.com web site will also be down.  Most likely it will start
working again before the mailing lists do.  The "News" section of the
home page at http://www.type2.com/ will be updated with the latest
status.

If you happen to send an email to either Type2 or VintageBus while the
server is down, it may or may not go through.  Most ISPs will resend
emails for at least a day or two before giving up.  You may get bounce 
messages that say "I'm trying to talk to type2.com but it's not
responding".  Read the messages carefully; they usually contain a clear
statement like "I will keep trying" or "I've given up".  If you get a
bounce message, don't try resending your email until 1) you get the
"I've given up" bounce message AND 2) you start getting emails from
the mailing list again.

There is a small but non-zero chance that you will start getting mail
from the mailing lists again before you can access the Type2.com web
page.  This is because it takes a while for all the computers on the
Internet to find out about Type2.com's new location.  If you start
getting mail from the mailing lists again, but cannot access the
Type2.com web site, wait a few hours and try again.  If you still
can't access the Type2.com web site after 24 hours, get in touch with
one of the admins below.

There are two basic reasons for all of these shenanigans.  One is that
our current Internet access costs $150 a month, and we are moving to
cheaper hosting.  Another is that our current server is 8+ years old
and is getting a little cranky in its old age; the new server (donated
by Troy) will be more reliable.

The last time Type2.com was offline for a server swap (in 2001), the
admins set up a Yahoo! group so status updates could be sent out via
email.  This group still exists, but right now, there is not a plan
to reactivate it.  If for some reason the downtime will be much
longer than the current estimate, the Yahoo! group may get reactivated
so status emails can go out.

If you want to get in touch with one of the Type2.com admins, you can
use these email addresses.  (There are more admins than these, but
only Troy and I volunteered to answer questions about the server
swap. :) ) Both of these addresses are independent of Type2.com, so
they will still work even when Type2.com is down.

Troy Wical    troy(-at-)wical.com       (new systems administrator)
Matt Roberds  mattroberds(-at-)cox.net  (me)

Thanks!

Matt Roberds
One of the type2.com admins
