Date: Thu, 15 May 2003 14:17:23 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Banned in the EU

>You sound a little too skittish about perceived "dangers" these vehicles pose.
>
>It's been pretty much agreed upon around the world, and it's just like guns...
>
>A bus is a just a tool, it's all about the operator.
>
> >I don't comment on the driving laws in California >and other parts of 
> the USA
>
>I don't think that means I can't comment about the laws in the EU...
>
> >but as a citizen of the EU I don't want structurally >unsound vehicles 
> on OUR roads endangering MY life -
>
>How big a danger is this? Really?

It's different than a gun. Much different. I own them and enjoy shooting so 
don't think this is an anti-gun statement.

The difference is that old guns hurt the operator if they blow up or they 
cease to function (assuming you aren't handling them in a crowd of people). 
An old vehicle riddled with rust endangers everyone it passes on the road 
at 60 mph.

I live in the great state of TN where we have few emissions requirements 
and no inspections outside of metro Nashville. I like it that way. I lived 
for a short time in VA and I was subject to those annual inspections and 
annual Navy inspections courtesy of the US Navy for six years. Those 
inspections are instituted for the "good of all" but in reality it does 
junk alot of vehicles that don't require a whole heck of alot of work but 
is expensive for the average non-mechanic type. Ask me about the 150 cars 
that our base in Naples junked that required an afternoon of rehab. I drove 
a little CR-X saved at the last moment for several years with only oil 
changes and a tuneup. $50. Fifty Bucks. What do you suppose the old cars 
being wasted this way are doing for the environment? Disposal uses alot of 
resources. So does the new car that replaces it. And it make the car 
companies a little richer.

Those folks driving non-passing automobiles ought to educate themselves 
enough to make appropriate repairs though and not face government "seizure" 
of their vehicles. Seizure only in the sense that they are removed from 
service, not necessarily removed from the possession of it's owner. Seizure 
of it's utility.

That said there are alot of cars that don't need to be moving around on the 
roads and unfortunately the owners don't have the intelligence to park them 
or repair them. Maybe it's stupidity, maybe it is laziness, maybe economic. 
I don't know. I am sure it is not just one reason.

When folks have got a front axle beam that has rusted away so far that it 
doesn't provide enough support for the vehicle on curvy roads, when the 
frame rails (unibody Fiat I have in mind here belonging to a friend years 
ago) won't support the car on jackstands without drooping at the ends, when 
the glass is so fogged the driver can't see out due to failure of safety 
glass or defective defroster - then the car needs to be parked and repaired 
(if possible).

I don't want the government to tell you that you need to park you car b/c 
then they are examining me and mine and everybody else too. That is 
expensive and that costs tax dollars. Just another program we all have to 
pay for.

The individual needs to have enough common sense to repair it or park or 
replace it. I suppose the "hippie" stereotype that most of us Bus drivers 
deal with probably doesn't help much with people's expectations of our 
common sense.

I've got good cars but eventually the good intentions of the inspection 
laws (IMHO) turn into some sort of Ralph Nader crusade to remove all cars 
in excess of a certain age regardless of condition (see Soviet Republic of 
Kalifornia where the government knows what is best for you). I wouldn't be 
surprised that some of this is reinforced by expert testimony by engineers 
who work for consulting firms whose majority stock is held by a large car 
manufacturer...

All of the EU isn't like Germany. I lived in Naples, Italy for 3 years and 
anything goes there. Run red lights, roll through stop signs. If you know 
how to drive correctly - Naples style - you can do anything you please. If 
you go to Rome, drive right (by the book). Ask me how I know. If you go way 
north to Brecia or Venezia or Milano you better have your car right or they 
will stop you and ticket you. In my case (Ufficiale di polizia, non parlo 
italiano.... - but I really do) they insulted us a bit and sent us back 
south. Gotta play the system. We spent another 2 days in the north in the 
same car. My situation was that the left headlight was damaged by a 
collision (prior to my ownership). Up north I just didn't drive at night.

The Safari folks should have seen it coming. The were highly visible and 
laying a smoke screen. Had they been clean (mechanically functional) I'll 
bet the Police would have never given them a thought. Glad they got some 
money for their bus and got home. Very interesting trip.










Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
