From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: jclark(-at-)supernet.net, "VW: type2" <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>,  "VW:
Date: Thu, 15 May 2003 14:32:51 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] Noisy TO bearing saga continues

  Here is an update on clutch components. SACHS Brazil (which have always
been excellent PP) seems to have had a problem as of late. They stamped the
plate a little to small for the flywheel so they are not centered perfect. I
have had a few PP failures, the first in over 10 years and looking at the PP
I warrantied I could not see any physical damage or anything off, TILL i set
them in a 200 flywheel and noticed the play in them. This was also
discovered when balancing some cranks with the flywheel and pressure plates
bolted together.

 I have discontinued selling these PP till the problem is corrected. I did
recieve some new ones in KITS and them seemed a lot better then the one sold
seperate, must of came from a different manufacture run.
  
 I now only sell Kennedy and genuine German pp, but these cost almost 3
times as much as the SACHS Brazil.

  I am also experimenting with DAIKAIN pressure plates from Japan, by using
the center rings furnished by Kennedy to convert them to early style PP.
These PP have worked excellent in late model VW's and want to see how they
will work with the ring added.

ronnie  old volks of az
www.type2parts.com

ps. If you are considering using the T/O from CB check on which one it is.
The gold ones from Brazil are off center.

Aftermarket parts are getting progressivley worse it seems, as the prices
continue to rise. 
  

-----Original Message-----
From: Joe Clark [mailto:jclark(-at-)supernet.net]
Sent: Thursday, May 15, 2003 1:38 PM
To: VW: type2; VW: vintagebus
Subject: [VB] Noisy TO bearing saga continues


Well, I've about decided that checking/replacing the cross-shaft and
bushings is about the only thing I haven't tried.  My assumption was that a 
Rancho rebuilt tranny would have had all that stuff checked out - but maybe
not.

IF I can figure out how to get the right-hand cross-shaft bush out I'll
replace the whole schmeer.  CB Performace sells a new HD cross shaft &
bushes 
for about $14.

It's SO freakin' annoying to get this nasty noise every time I use the
clutch.  More annoying since this will be engine pull #3 to try to resolve
it.

Joe Clark
http://www.jsclark.net
