From: "Marcus Schaper" <mschaper(-at-)gvpt.umd.edu>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 15 May 2003 22:43:06 +0200
Subject: Re: [T2] Banned in the EU

I can understand that people do not like inspections because they mean work
and keeping your vehicle in decent shape. But driving a vehicle is a
privilege and not a right and it is dangerous enough with only safe vehicles
around. Therefore, it is only appropriate to try to keep unsafe vehicles off
the road and provide incentives for owners to keep their vehicles in shape.

Now, I have may fair share of experience with the TUV and there were
certainly times when I did not agree with the inspection people. But overall
they are very good at spotting serious problems and making sure that the
vehicles on the road comply to certain minimum safety standards. The
procedure for rust damage for example is tapping areas that are suspected of
being damaged with a small hammer. When the metal does not sound like good
metal (rust, undercoating, bondo) a small screwdriver comes out. If the
inspector can poke it through the panel you are in for bodywork - and here
bodywork means proper welding - no rivets, no fiberglass, no bondo. I have
to say that I feel a lot safer in the streets when I know that every car on
the road has to pass this test every other year. I have seen way too many
cars in the U.S. where structural body parts (like rocker panels) where held
together by duct tape. Furthermore, these inspections help to keep
maintenance of vehicles up. No bald tires, bad CV, bad balljoint, or
passenger rated tires will pass. It's hard but it's safe. After all, we are
not talking about wide open spaces but a country that is a bit larger than
Nebraska with 83 Million people (Nebraska has 1.5 million or so). There are
many cars in the streets in even more cyclists and pedestrians - thorough
inspections are the only way to keep this safe.

BTW, I brought over my own camper from Germany. Not because there are not
any around here or because I just need THIS one. It is because the last
camper I bought in the US (and it was in pretty good condition by U.S.
standards) took me over a year to bring up to German safety standards - i.e.
I had to make up for the lack 20 years worth of regular maintenance.

And I have driven all the kind of cars the TUV hates - most prominently
Citroen 2CVs which are the all-time number one on the TUV's worst car list
(they actually publish such a report annually). My daily drivers were
between 20 and 40 years old - so I always got the extra thorough treatment
...

On emissions - every car has to perform to the standards that the car met
when manufactured. So as long as the emissions equipment is there (and we
never got airpumps, egr and the like and catalytic converters were not
introduced until 85) and the engine is tuned properly, you will pass. No
California-style tightening of standards on the continent.

Rant mode off, flamesuit on.

Marcus
