Date: Fri, 16 May 2003 15:06:47 -0700
To: "Eron Crites" <emcrites(-at-)msn.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Points?

Ok, I'll bite.

At 01:43 PM 05/16/2003, you wrote:

>10 or 12 sets of points later, and you could have had yourself a new 
>electronic ignition.

Let's see, points most common are the 01011 number and cost $1.95. Times 
ten= $19.95. Is JCWhipMe having a sale on electronic ignitions?????

>  Anybody care to expand on why you would want to keep your points(beyond 
> the need out of necessity)?

The advantages of the points is this. They are simple and serviceable and 
function as intended.

The trade off is points maintenance over time with no failures at low cost, 
or who knows how long with no points maintenance until the unserviceable 
black box fails. Can't be serviced at the roadside. Must be towed. Spare 
points for instant install anywhere cost $1.95 and will save you the tow 
bill every time. But if the points are maintained properly they will never 
break you down. The bent points you speak of suggests of improper 
installation or after market, non Bosch, points.

I had a points issue once on the road. Stopped at the next NAPA I saw and 
went in and they had NASCAR approved super duty points for $7.95. No they 
didn't have Bosch, but they had better ones. I didn't laugh out loud, I 
just paid him. I found them uninstallable, dressed and regapped the used 
points and drove a thousand miles more till I got home. Inspected the 
install issue with the racing points. Knob on bottom too large for hole in 
plate. Filled that down to fit and body of points when set correctly rubbed 
on the dizzy housing so the advance would stick. Four times the cost for 
something that needs machine work to fit versus stock points that fit and 
work perfectly and even work when worn to get you home with no damages.

So for me, one points event that didn't stop me from getting home in 10 
years seems like no issue at all. But for those who hate points maintenance 
so don't do it until the points are worn to a nub and fail Can watch for 
the $19.95 ignition trigger and give it a try, just accepting that risk of 
a tow bill is counting time. And when that happens the solution is the set 
of points you took out to begin with, but only if you can de-install the 
trigger at the side of the road.
