Date: Tue, 29 Jun 2010 10:25:10 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Attitude adjustment

On 6/29/2010 10:10 AM, Jason Meyer wrote:
> What exactly does it mean when am air-cooled engine overheats? What are
> the effects?

There are a number of things that can happen, but usually it has to do 
with the valves not seating correctly.  This could be due to the valves 
stretching, but I'm guessing more often it's issues with the seats 
either sinking into the heads or the seats coming out from their lands.

I had one set of heads with seats that sunk so far I couldn't do any 
more valve adjustments, and the second head actually had a seat come out 
and dent the piston.  Before the seat actually dislodged, both were 
having idle issues (like you described) until I would adjust the valves 
and then everything would be seemingly normal until I drove it too hard 
again and they sunk some more (or the seat came out).  When I finally 
pulled the heads, the damage was very apparent.

If you take your valve covers off and look at your springs, they should 
all be about the same height.  If the seat is sinking, that means some 
springs will extend more and project out more into the cover.

Do a valve adjustment and take note of which valves where tight, and if 
they were just kinda tight (some gap), or tight (requiring a turn or two 
to open the gap), or very tight (requiring multiple turns to open up the 
gap).  Write all that info down and keep track of it every time you 
adjust your valves and you'll get a good feel for what's happening in 
your heads (I'm assuming you have solid lifters).  Also, you'll usually 
find that it's the exhaust valves (the outside ones) that are usually tight.

If your valves are consistently tight every time you go to adjust your 
valves, it means you have a heat problem and you're probably driving 
your bus too hard.  Since I've been monitoring my heads, I only have to 
make very minor adjustments, if any, at valve adjustment time.  I'm 
pretty anal about my temps, but I also spent a lot of $$ on my heads, so 
I don't want to wreck 'em again!

Mike
