Date: Wed, 30 Jun 2010 01:15:57 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Garage Discussion with DIRECT bus content

Not to knock the idea entirely, as if I bought a place with one, I'd sure as
hell use it but...
 
PITS are sort of a PITA, they fill with water, they fill with acetone fumes,
they fill with gasoline, etc, etc.  You waste room on stairs in them or have
ladders to deal with.  Uncle had a shop I worked at in high school, 6 pits, 2
lifts, I hated the pits.   The best pit I ever saw (and I don't know if it was
legal fire code wise) was one where the garage floor was a poured suspended
floor, and the entire "basement" of the garage was a "pit" with removeable
grating in 2 areas, and was garage storage otherwise.  The next best was one
where the pit walked out an outside door to the backyard.
 
I'll take a lift (look for the C-L deals) and pay for a higher ceiling, over
expense of foundation/pit, and drainaige issues any day.  My garage plans at
present are for a 28x32 (all I can fit in my space and just can squeeze in 2
buses, 2 sciroccos tandem parked.)  I'm going to use 10 foot exterior walls
springing for 10' T-1-11 ($68 a sheet vs $43 for the 8' ouch) to complement
our log house and current cedar sided garage.  With 9 foot doors (which I know
I will regret one day but I have 2 nice wood ones (and I may put the headers
at 10' and box them in down to 9' so I could cut em out later if say a hightop
came my way I just had to have)) and BCI joists as rafters to a glulam center
beam with one post, it is a joke to do the span for the 32 width.  With 11"
BCI's even with a 50/15 snow load (which is more than I need but I'll overdo
it as I'm also going to hang a small I beam for my 1/2 ton electric trolley
lift on one side) this will give
 me sufficient headroom (full cathedral ceiling) where I will put my lifts to
lift a 6.5' vehicle 6', a shorter vehicle higher.  Cost to do this vs 8' walls
and using useless trusses (my current garage) is really pretty nominal, about
15% total  increase in material costs, a lot of it in the overpriced T-1-11
that I'm getting just so I don't have to have seams.  Up here in AK, with
ridiculous overpricing I'll be $6k building materials (maybe a bit less some
BCIs on C-L) to get it underoof, insulated, drywalled doing all the work
myself.  My major cost will be the slab and excavation unless I can find a
deal.
 
Anyway the other thing is I've seen countless pits installed and never/rarely
used, same problem as 4 post "storage" lifts.  They seem a good idea, but the
bulk of what I want to do at least is brake, suspension, and body work, so
might as well not have one if I'm jacking to do it.  For oil changes, fine,
great, but on a bus might as well just do it on the ground, for anything down
the center of the vehicle (front engine RWD cars drivetrain work, etc) OK but
even get out to try to do body work out on the sills, jackpoints, outriggers
on a bus, or to get to the outboard end of CVs and you pretty much can't get
there from the pit.
 
I do love the other recent idea of trenches to clear under garage doors that
then ramp up, novel thinking for a bus solution.
 
YMMV
John

--- On Wed, 6/30/10, John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:



Better yet, why not dig a service pit so you can comfortably do work
under the bus standing up instead of laying down?
