Date: Fri, 2 Jul 2010 14:11:36 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] Garage Discussion with inDIRECT bus content

	I'm glad one of the heviest-doodi
comptrollers (who had once purged me for a brief
period) joined in this thread rather than
intoning 'exterminate, exterminate'.  Perhaps
it'll become a Friday thread.  Anyhow, I do think
garage design, construction & mods can bear on
bus longevity, liability to start, upholstery
durability, and health of workers.  For every
devilish thorough German carb with a
solenoid-actuated petrol shutoff valve, there are
quite a few of us grappling with simpler carbs
lacking any such device.  Petrol fumes soon after
stopping the engine can be a minor health hazard,
and of course beyond some threshold a fire
hazard.  Gentle ventilation maximises your
chances of detecting nasally some classes of air
pollutant, which may then prompt action for
improved safety on various timescales.
	Before this thread gets killed, quashed &
pulped by our hevi-doodi comptrollers, and seeing
as how it's Friday, I jot down a few notions from
a quarter-century developing low-power
ventilation.  Pathetically bereft of graphics my
award-winning paper 'Simple Retrofitted
Flat-Plate Solar Water and Air Heaters" from 1994
is on my webpage.  I can email to anyone a
QuikTime cartoon animation showing all 4 modes of
ventilation.

	The ceiling will, as a rule, be the
insulated layer, and the roof the heat-exchanger
membrane.  The attic is a still, low-drag duct in
which air flows by natural convection as assisted
by fan(s) to the tune of 0.1 kW.  This
mains-power investment , in the fast-down mode,
can bring you a 50-fold return in solar heating,
and on clear summer nights a kW or so of not
solar but  -  wait for it  -  cosmic cooling.
The summer-daytime mode is perhaps the one most
desired by those sweating under their bus,
	To change the air several times hourly in
a medium-size house needs a fan 80W in a
low-drag duct.  When the house is too hot, the
fan is run in the fast-upward mode (an old Yank
trick, often using 1/4 hp mains motors with
drives by e.g belt  -  called 'attic fans').  The
easist way out for that hot air risen up to the
ridge is a vent in a gable, with suitable weather
protection e.g  louvres (luxury version: closed
by #8 wire rod from workshop floor; disallowed
version: step motor digitally
wireless-controlled, capable of interfering with
model aircraft).   Make the fan(s) reversible and
you can get a kW or so of cool-days heating
(which was my primary line of work).

	Skillion roofs are more difficult, but
there will usually be an upper edge where small
exit fans can be wired in series.  Intakes to the
roof cavity will be needed.

	Make the most of natural convection.  If
there's another gable, it may pay to slap another
vent in it.  Insects can be filtered out at those
vents or more commonly at the celing-level vent.
EU2 is a satisfactory washable filter.
	With the right colour roof and good attic
ventilation, a loose rule of thumb is to limit
yourself to 0.1 kW fan power.
	Of course, real  garages feature bare
rafters, no ceiling, and if they're really
primitive no gable.  Still, they're likely to
have a wall near a peak, into which can be inset
a vertical fan.  Good ceiling fans have 6xyz
deep-groove ball bearings which can take any
posture.  There was a factory in Fla, which was
oddly snooty about possible exports to NZ; the
best fans I've found are from Crompton Greaves of
Mumbai.  In particular, their top line does not
burn out when slammed from full fw to full
reverse; the cheap ones from further east are not
as good.
	Computer workstations can yield very
quiet smaller motor-in-hub fans, some up to 30W.
These are continuous-rated and generally good.
My bathroom in Remuera was ventilated for many y
by a pair of 7 W computer fans, 110V model, wired
in series, on a pneumatic-cyl delay up to 2 h.
	I'm no longer a naked-rafter garagee, so
I'm still planning my improvements to my 'new'
skillion garage.  I feel a skylight coming on  ...
	Can I slap onto my hard drive the trophy
for most incoherent jottings of the year?
	Questions gladly answered by pmail

--
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600dp Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
http://www.kuratrading.com/HTMLArticles/writings.htm
