Date: Sun, 28 Nov 2004 14:09:13 -0800
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: UPDATE: Quick help needed: 73 WON'T START!!!!

Update:

Still getting ground on the wire that goes to the coil +. DPO jerry
rigged the ignition switch: Key switch turns on power and allows
starter to turn when a pushbutton switch is pressed. But power to coil
is switched by another toggle switch. So, under normal conditions, if
the ignition toggle is off, I could turn the starter all day long and
not get spark.

Not only am I getting ground where I should be getting 12v, but it's
draining the battery in no time. Like minutes. Whether the lead is
plugged in or not.

Power to coil: 
There is 12v at the toggle switch. But for some reason by the time it
gets to the coil it becomes ground. If I disconnect the lead to the
coil, I can get dash lights. If it's connected, lights go dim. If I
disconnect the lead at the coil and run a jumper from the + battery
terminal to the + coil terminal, lights dim.

Starter:
If I disconnect the coil completely, the starter should still turn.
However, if I press the starter button nothing at all happens, and the
lights dim.

I checked all the wiring under the dash, pulled off the fuse block and
everything. Nothing looks amiss. I took the two DPO switches apart and
made sure they were working correctly. They were.

I accidentally bumped the emergency flasher knob out and while it was
out instead of the relay ticking I get a nasty buzz. If I finangle the
knob I can get a fast blink instead of the buzz. The dash indicator
lights blink like they should, but none of the turn signals themselves
do anything.

The emergency flasher switch had fallen apart before and I zip tied it
together. I took it apart again, cleaned the contacts and made sure
the tabs and bumps were up high enough to do something, applied a
touch of lithium to where the plastic rides against the metal housing,
and reassembled. Same thing.

I'm wondering if the switch isn't the problem, but something connected
to it is. I suck at reading schematics and can't figure it out.
Especially since there's so much crappy DPO wiring under the dash and
the color codes don't match anything.

The only things I can think of that are left to check are the
alternator and the starter. But the bus is in the street and I can't
get under there to check. And I can't start it to move it, not that
there's anyplace to move it to. Gawd I hate living in apartments.

Can anybody think of something I missed? 


-- 
Don Tuleja
Great White:
http://www.donimages.com/1973bus/
