Date: Sun, 28 Nov 2004 18:32:05 -0600 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] UPDATE: Quick help needed: 73 WON'T START!!!!

On Sun, 28 Nov 2004 14:09:13 -0800 Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:

> Power to coil: 
> There is 12v at the toggle switch. But for some reason by the time it
> gets to the coil it becomes ground. If I disconnect the lead to the
> coil, I can get dash lights. If it's connected, lights go dim. If I
> disconnect the lead at the coil and run a jumper from the + battery
> terminal to the + coil terminal, lights dim.

I'm leaving out a lot of stuff you've done/tested. Most of everything you
said you tested and got weird results sounds like "low battery" symptoms
(starter, 4-way flasher oddness, etc.).

But the paragraph above sound a LOT like your condensor or points (or the
wire between them) has gone bad and grounded out. And your points are
probably closed at this time creating a good path to ground.

Pop the distributor cap and rotate the engine until you are SURE the points
are open (wedge a plastic fork in there to hold them apart if you can't
visibly see the gap).

Then re-try your test of coil+ to ground.

Also, disconnect all wires from the coil and test coil+ to ground. Maybe
you coil blew in some spectacular fashion inside and it is actually
grounded. If that ignition kill switch was left in the "on" position it may
provide power to the coil even when the ignition switch is turned "off". If
that's the case and it was left on -- and the points were closed -- it
would have toasted that coil and maybe the points too.

After checking this stuff make sure you get a good charge on the battery
before testing anything else.

It's also possible that the wiper motor is shorting out somewhere and
causing all these unrelated problems. Try disconnecting it completey too
since you had it out, then back in and that's when the problem showed up.

Gerald
