Date: Wed, 10 Oct 2007 10:18:24 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Eddie Goodwin <eddiegood(-at-)gmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] engine stand, half of a bellhousing

Eddie,
   
  I have this setup, and it is good, and was cheap about an afternoon to carve it up.  BUT you have to carve away a lot of bellhousing to use it as a 1/2 stand if you want to be able to tighten the gland nut and/or flywheel bolts on T1 or T4 (to get a 3/4" socket and extension in there for a T1, or even a good size torque wrench for a T4) and it is a pain clearance wise to mount a dial gage for checking endplay.  I've used it for years, but it is a pain at times.  Plus it escapes me why but there is something that annoys me about having left the starter side intact as well, haven't built an engine in about a year, but I just recall wanting to have left the other side intact, maybe because of the dowel pins for the crank?  Anyway the point is a guy on ebay now is selling very nice little reasonably priced 2, 3, or 4 arm stands that go in the HF (or likely a stand just as cheap at your local parts store on sale) engine stands.  These are significantly better looking than the
 Taiwan/China crap out there.  He has a great rep on the 356 registry for even the light 2 arm, and has pics of full 911 mills with all acessories on the 3 and 4 arm versions.  I just ordered the 3 arm for about $75, I already had the engine stand of course.  I think for building engines (even for just one build as the little 2 arm which is probably OK for a full up T1 or a T4 without tin and acessories is only $40) this is a much better alternative.  I'll keep using my cutaway bellhousing for bench running, building it into an honest stand with gages mounted, not the sort of cobbled together arrangement I usually end up doing.  Just a thought anyway, YMMV.
   
  John

Eddie Goodwin <eddiegood(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:
  I'm looking to create a new engine stand to replace the pos bench
stands that I've been using. From what I read in the archives, the
preferred method seems to be to purchase harbor freight's stand (is
the 750lb strong enough?) and mount an old bellhousing to it.
