Date: Thu, 13 Mar 2003 01:22:34 -0500 (EST)
From: Joseph Clark <jclark(-at-)supernet.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Tranny replacement project update (long)

From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com

[...]

> You should not need to pull out the tank to weld there with a wire feed
> welder.  Though this is a good time to install a fifteen gallon 1968-1971 bus
> gas tank, instead of the earlier stock ten gallon tank that probably is in
> there now.

I'm gonna pass on the bigger tank for now, but it's an intriguing idea.  I
just don't drive thru many deserts. :-)  But it seems risky to be welding
just about a foot away from where the gas line exits the tank, says this
newbie.

> Go ahead and replace the front shift linkage.  With a new tranny you will
> almost certainly have to adjust the shifter anyway!

Sold.  I ordered one.

> Yes, there is a slight ridge of metal that gets pounded up at the C-clip area
> that sticks the differential side gears in there.  To remove the gears get a
> rod or long punch of slightly lesser diameter than the hole through the side
> gears.  Slide the rod/punch through the hole in one side gear and keeping the
> rod/punch at a slight angle off straight through you will push up against the
> inner side of the other side gear and now can hammer it out the other side.
> Once that side is out you can hammer out the other.

This tip worked great!  Just quoting it here in case anyone missed it.  I
think I've finally got the tranny stripped to the core: mounts, nosecone,
side gears off.

I had a bear of a time driving the inner bush out of the nosecone.  Moral:
start with a nice, dressed pin punch!  I'll freeze the new ones before
driving them in with a piece of wood....

> We would switch the upper axles from side to side to do that.

OK, but why are the axles marked with paint for L/R?  I mean I know
they're the same part, but I was assuming I needed to keep all the parts
from each side together.  Just curious.

> position reading of the wear.  When in doubt at least replace the fulcrum
> plates and there are oversized FP out there.

FWIW, Long Enterprises lists regular and oversize FPs.  Haven't yet had a
chance to check the clearance.

> To remove the upper inner axle bearing out of the RGB with the upper axle off
> the tranny is real easy!

Can't take it off before the lower axle & gear is out though, right?
Upper inner bearing hits the gear as it comes out and I don't think it
will tilt out.  I guess that's obvious....

> Stop being afraid of them!  You are at home and can take your time doing them
> in hopefully a nice warm garage.  Once you do them if you have a problem out
> on the road somewhere near nowhere, you can repair them youself with
> confidence that only occurs with experience.

OK, I've been shamed into it. :-)  Tonight I worked on the passenger side:
cleaned up parts and took off the lower outer bearing with little
difficulty (dull chisel under the spacer/washer thingy under the bearing -
tap, tap, tap...).  I'll be able to get the upper inner out when the
stub's out. 

I'm due to get some gas for the MIG in a day or so, and picking up an
autodark helmet.  I have approximately 5 minutes of MIG experience, in the
welding supply store.  So will practice on some scrap metal before welding
a bolt to the cover and pulling off with oil pump tool as described by
Senor Easterwood.  Ronnie and Long sell replacement covers if I bung it
up.

Joe Clark
www.jsclark.net
