From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 13 Mar 2003 17:07:43 EST
To: jclark(-at-)supernet.net, Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: shifter adjustment

>>thought i'd ask you guys since you are working on it or probably know the
answer somewhere. ;-)  anyway i had my rear shifter bushing replaced last
year and it has affected how the actual shifter gets into the gear.  i keep
getting 3rd instead of 1st.  tried to adjust it several times with some help
but it still does it. this is on zapper and she has always shifted perfectly
so i'd like to get back to that. i know it is the little plate under the gear
shifter and it should only take a small adjust ment but i don't see the
particulrs in books and tend to be spatially dyslexic when it comes to this
even though i understand it conceptually. so do you know or can you tell me
some specific procedure for which way to move the plate to fix this???  susan
<<

Hi Susan,
Definitely sounds like loose bolts on the front or more likely rear linkage
couplers.  If these bolts are not safety wired to insure tightness they will
loosen, and when the safety wire is applied it MUST be done in such a way to
actually keep the bolts tight.  BTDT, when we had the same problem with
shifting 1st or 3rd in our 1963 SC all due to bolts safety wired in such a
way as to automaticly loosen these bolts!  Also if these bolts are run loose
they can wallow the very threaded holes in the couplers wider and sloppier!
  If it is not loose linkage coupler bolts then it is a matter of worn out
nose cone bushing or needs adjustment of the shifter.  Best way to understand
how the shifter works is to hold between thumb and forefinger in your left
hand a pencil about halfway on its length.  Then with your right hand play
act like you are shifting your VW with the top of the pencil.  When you shift
forward into first you are actually pushing the bottom of the shifter and the
linkage rod rearward.  Then when you shift from first to fourth you are
pushing the bottom of the shifter and linkage forward and left.  Because this
opposite affect of the actual shifting going on under the bus all adjustments
must be done with this in mind.
Eric&Barb
