From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 14 Mar 2003 11:19:41 EST
To: michael_a_jordan(-at-)hotmail.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] GEAR SHIFTING

First, I'd change teh tranny oil.

Do this right after driving, get the oil warmed and stirred up.

undo plugs in the center section.   Crack lugs on bothe rear wheels.  Jack up 
on rear wheel and remove the wheel.  block both front wheel both infront and 
back of them. Insert jack stand.  remove fill and drain plugs.   Wait until 
the oil drips no mor ethan one drop/min.  Clean the magnetic drain plugs. 
Furry bits are okay, chunks are a bad sign.   Check your tranny boots for 
cracks.  Replace is needed.  Put your finger up the drain holes from the 
center section and hunt for chunks.   (I recommend latex or nitrile gloves) 
install fill plugs from center section ( have two oil catchers) and replace 
the drain plug from the side you drained.  Fill that RGBox till you see 
bubbles.  Spinning the wheel helps.    Insert fill plug, replace wheel, jack 
other side up, drain other side, replace drain plug, fill other side.  Fill 
center section last.   Make sure the bus is on the ground and torque the lugs 
appropriately.

anotehr thing to do is replace the front and middle shifter bushings.  This 
really helps get rid of slop

replacing the rear shifter bushing and the bushing in teh nose cone also gets 
rid of slop, but you have to remove the tranny.  Rebuilding tehtranny tends 
to help, as slop gets in, but that costs more.

Sometimes it can be a clutch issue.  I much prefer the nine spring German 
clutches as appose dto thenew style many armed version.

what exactly was better about his shifting that yours?  smoothness?  small 
shift pattern?

In a message dated 3/14/2003 7:59:22 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
michael_a_jordan(-at-)hotmail.com writes:

<< I've been diving my bus for quite sometime now and I never had a chance to
 drive another.  My friend finally let me drive his for a while and I
 immediately noticed that his was much easier to drive?  Especially the
 shifting?  We both have pretty much the same years mine 61 & his 60.  Which
 mine is newer however we both have big nit transmission.  Please advise
 Thank You
 Michael >>
