Date: Sun, 16 Mar 2003 03:10:35 -0500 (EST)
From: Joseph Clark <jclark(-at-)supernet.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Redux repair redux

...continuing the saga of tranny replacement and redux rebuilding on my
'65:

Got the pass. side box all torn down.  Tapped off the outer lower
bearing with a blunt chisel.  Acting on a tip from a couple of sources, I
used a body slidehammer to remove the plug: drilled a hole in the center,
screwed it in, and it came out easily with a few taps.  I think I was
expecting it to put up more resistance, which is partly why the
weld-a-bolt-on method made me think it was a big deal.  I'll either weld
up the hole or just get a new plug.

Bought a 1-5/8" socket (3/4 drive) at Sears, with a 1/2" adapter.  My
first 3/4" drive tools!  Bring me yer semi.  Although it was probably
overkill, I slid the brake drum on the lower axle splines and bolted a
cheater bar to the lugs, then went at the big staked nut with the air
wrench.  Hardly had to whack it more than 2 seconds and it came off. 
Tapped the lower axle out with Sistah Sledge, removed big circlip and then
tapped out both inner bearings (long bar stock down the axle tube for the
upper). 

Cleaning was, then.

Then painted the backing plate, exposed portions of axle and retainer
plate, and transmission carrier with black rustoleum spray.  They sho look
nice. 

Ordered my rebuild tranny from Ronnie on Thursday, along with new bearings
& misc.

Up next, teardown and cleaning of the driver's side box (I'm a pro now).
Made a junkyard trip today and got a plastic sheath for the accel cable
above the tranny.  Gotta weld the tab back on the torsion tube.  I've got
nice new shiftrod bushes and boots from WW (mmm - they smell like a scuba
dive trip) and will get that back together tomorrow, probably.

Should have all the cleaning, teardown, and prep done by the time the
tranny and bearings arrive!

Thanks again for the help, folks.  

Litenin' fast tranny/RGB replacement R'nt Us,
Joe Clark
www.jsclark.net
