Date: Tue, 16 Dec 2003 21:30:31 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: emissions failure - advice?

>From: craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
>Date: Tue, 16 Dec 2003 14:35:31 -0700
>
>now that i live in a stink-hole big city, the 70 needs to pass
>emissions... and it didn't.  here are the results:
>
>HC in PPM - high rpm :  MAX 500  my bus  60
>             at idle :  MAX 500  my bus 852

It looks like you're only bad on the idle HC.  I'd say you have a lot
of unburnt fuel in the exhaust - you're running rich as hell for some
reason.  Was the choke all the way off during the test?  Is the air
filter (oil bath or paper) clean and unobstructed?  Had the Bus warmed
up quite a bit (i.e., 15-30 minutes of highway driving?)  Having a warm
engine is even more important if you have a car with a catalytic
converter, but it'll help any car.  Does the engine burn a lot of oil?
If so, maybe a temporary switch to a heavier weight oil will help.

Another thing that could be happening is that your ignition system isn't
quite up to spec.  Normally this would show up more at higher speeds,
but it's something to check.  You could do the "cylinder balance" test
where you pull off one wire at a time at idle to see if one of them
_doesn't_ make the idle speed drop.  If nothing else, a properly-gapped
set of new plugs is $5, shouldn't hurt anything, and may help.

My friend Jim has a restored '65 Mustang and it will pass 49-state
standards when he's just tuned it up.  As the tune-up ages, it starts
to "regress" (i.e. will pass the standards for a few years back but
not the current ones, etc) and spark plugs are a major culprit.

If nothing else, lean it out as much as you dare and try again.  Note
that this will probably make the CO go up somewhat, but you've got
a bit room to maneuver on that account.

>also, how in the hell do i know if i fix it??? i mean, i have an afm on
>the dash, but it only flashes lights at me, not readout of ppm.

George and/or other Cali listees may correct me, but I recall seeing
"no pass, no pay" emissions test stations out there several years ago.
Perhaps you need to find a similar shop there.

I have noticed, in general, that if your mixture is way off, you can
smell it... it's hard to hang out there behind the Bus and adjust it.
When it's right, you can stand to hang out and breathe the exhaust for
longer.  It'll never be as clean as a new car, but you can tell the
difference between way rich and reasonably OK.

Good luck...

Matt Roberds
