Date: Wed, 17 Dec 2003 01:11:10 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: Re: emissions failure - advice?

On Tue, 16 Dec 2003, craig k wrote:
>  matt sez:
>>If nothing else, lean it out as much as you dare and try again.  Note
>>that this will probably make the CO go up somewhat, but you've got
>>a bit room to maneuver on that account.
>
>see, this is why i hate carbs :) half of the advice has been "lean
>the crap out, add alcohol, etc.' the other half is 'too lean! richen!'

Well, they're both right, at least for HC.

One way to look at this is what the relative amount of pollutants does
as you go from rich to perfect to lean.  CO is shaped like an L - it
starts out relatively high for rich mixtures, hits a low just past
perfect, and stays low out to lean.  NOx is shaped like an A - it starts
out low for rich mixtures, peaks just past perfect, and drops again
towards lean.  HC is shaped like a V, almost the mirror image of NOx -
it starts out high for rich mixtures, hits a low just past perfect,
and rises again towards lean.  So, if you're very rich or very lean,
you'll get lots of HC.

The reason I suggested leaning out is that IMHO, if a VW engine is
running lean, you'll know it pretty quick by the backfiring, heating,
etc.  If it's running a bit rich, it takes longer to tell - maybe by
the "bloopy" sound of the exhaust or by low MPG, but it will perform
OK.  (From an "engine doesn't blow up" point of view, rich is better.
Modern FI cars will give you a rather rich mixture when you floor it,
to make _sure_ there's always enough fuel for whatever's going on.)

Aside: Catalytic converters mostly knock down the NOx, but also reduce
the CO and HC as well.  However, they only work right in a narrow range
near "perfect", which is why cars grew oxygen sensors - the ECU can
control the combustion so the cat works right.  Peak power output from
the engine comes at around 10% rich, and peak fuel economy comes at
around 15% lean.  However, the cat only wants to work right from about
0.5% lean to 0.5% rich.  See the "Bosch Automotive Handbook" for lots
of background on this.

Matt Roberds
