Date: Thu, 18 Dec 2003 00:01:18 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Wiper Switch needed/and suggestions?

>From: "Dave" <brooksdj(-at-)earthlink.net>
>Date: Wed, 17 Dec 2003 00:53:35 -0500
>
>Anyone know the function of the other two wires running to the wiper motor.

One of them is a wire that's always powered.  It's an extension of the
wire coming to the wiper switch from the fuse box.  This is so the
motor can park itself.

>Is 31b ( I believed that's the lettering on the switch), the brown wire
>on the switch a ground of sorts.

This is a switched ground wire.  The wiper motor body should be solidly
grounded to the Bus body at all times.

Here's how it all works.  There are three wires coming off the motor
windings: common, low speed, and high speed.  The common wire is connected
to the metal casing of the wiper motor and thus to the Bus body for ground.
The high and low speed wires come out to two of the terminals of the wiper
motor and work like you might expect: supply power to one for low speed and
to the other for high speed.  If this is all you have, then the wipers shut
off wherever they are at when you turn off the switch.

To make them park themselves, you need to keep the motor running until the
wipers are parked.  To do that, you run an always-hot wire to the wiper
motor.  Then, you rig up a switch operated by a cam on the wiper motor
shaft.  The switch is off when the wipers are parked and on at all other
positions of the shaft.  You connect one terminal of the switch to the
always-hot wire, and the other terminal of the switch to the low-speed
wire of the motor.  In other words, this switch is in parallel with the
switch on the dash.  If you turn off the wipers and they aren't parked,
the cam switch continues to supply juice to the low-speed winding from
the always-hot wire to the motor.  Once the wipers are parked, the cam
switch opens and cuts off the juice to the motor.

Because of the inertia of the wiper linkage, even when you've turned off
all juice to the motor, it won't stop instantly.  You can be clever and
use the motor as an electric brake on the linkage if you want.  To do
that, your cam switch needs three terminals.  One goes to the low speed
motor wire, and one goes to the always-hot wire as before.  The new,
third terminal goes to 31b and back to the dash switch.  When the motor
is not parked, the low speed motor wire is connected to the always hot
wire as before.  When the motor is parked, the low speed motor wire is
connected to 31b.  You then put some more contacts at the dash switch
so that when the switch is on, 31b is open circuit, but when it's off,
31b is grounded.  This shorts the motor windings, which makes the shaft
hard to turn, braking the wiper linkage.

So:
The wipers are off.
There is juice at the dash switch, but it's not connected to the low
  or high speed wires.
There is juice at the motor, but the cam switch isn't connecting it
  to anything.
The cam switch _is_ connecting the motor low speed wire to 31b.
The dash switch is grounding wire 31b.

You pull the switch out to "low".
The dash switch stops grounding wire 31b.
The dash switch connects juice to the low speed wire.
The low speed wire is connected to 31b by the cam switch for a moment.
The motor starts to turn, making the cam switch open the connection
between 31b and the low speed wire.
The cam switch now connects the low speed wire to the always-hot wire
at the motor.
For most of the shaft rotation, the low-speed motor winding is getting
juice from the always-hot wire _and_ from the low-speed wire from the
switch.  When it passes through "park", the cam switch disconnects it
from the always-hot wire, so it's only getting juice from the low-speed
wire from the switch.

You push the switch back in to "off".
The dash switch disconnects juice from the low speed wire.
The dash switch grounds wire 31b.
The cam switch is connecting the low-speed wire to the always-hot
wire at the wiper motor, so it keeps turning.
When the motor reaches the park position, the cam switch disconnects
the low-speed wire from the always-hot wire (motor stops getting
power) and connects it to 31b.
The short circuit across the motor makes its shaft more difficult to
turn, braking the wiper linkage to a quick stop.

I hope this helps...

Matt Roberds
