From: "Jason Z Upper" <jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: philcappellini(-at-)hotmail.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 03 Aug 2004 12:53:38 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] How Much Time?

Hi Phil,

If you have never removed a Bus engine and trans, I would plan for an entire 
day (8+ hours) to get it all removed.  You mentioned you have a '72, so you 
do not have the benefit of a top engine hatch, but it can still be done 
fairly simply.  Follow the Muir book, since his procedure for this is very 
good for a first-timer.

Essentially, you need to disconnect (AND LABEL!!!) everything connected to 
the engine.  This includes vacuum lines, fuel lines, electrical lines, and 
the throttle cable.  Then, you need to remove the rear engine carrier from 
the frame rails.  Once all that is done, support the engine on a floor jack, 
remove the 4 bolts holding it to the trans, pull it back to clear and lower 
it straight down.  The oil filler pipe has been known to hang up on the 
(non-removable starting in '72) rear apron, so keep that in mind BEFORE 
you're struggling with a 500-lb monster balanced on one point.

Once the engine is out, you can get to work on the trans.  The toughest part 
of that task is removing the CVs from either side.  Be sure not to strip out 
the heads of the allen or 12-point bolts!  (Ask me how I know)  Once the CVs 
are off, there are 2 bolts at the engine end and 2 bolts at the shifter end, 
and the trans drops right off.  Be sure to disconnect your shift coupler and 
your clutch cable before you frop the trans!

If this seems like a daunting project, it is for a first-timer.  If you can 
get everything out and not hurt yourself or any parts, you'll find that 
installing it is pretty easy.  Your shift coupler and shift rod bushings can 
be R & R'd with the engine and trans in the Bus, but the leaking shift 
housaing sounds like you'll have to pull the trans.

Good Luck!



Jason Z Upper
Universal Circle Music
1979 Westy "Sweet Pea" -- engine out, heads off
Asheville, North Carolina
