Date: Tue, 3 Aug 2004 14:29:02 -0500 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re[2]: [T2] How Much Time?

On Tue, 03 Aug 2004 12:53:38 -0400 Jason Z Upper <jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com>
wrote: 

> [...] pull it back to clear and lower it straight down.  The oil filler
> pipe has been known to hang up on the rear apron
> 
> The toughest part of that task is removing the CVs from either side.  Be
> sure not to strip out the heads of the allen or 12-point bolts! Once the
> CVs are off, there are 2 bolts at the engine end and 2 bolts at the
> shifter end, and the trans drops right off.  Be sure to disconnect your
> shift coupler and your clutch cable before you frop the trans! 

For a late bay the easier way if removing engine only is to support the
engine on one jack and the tranny on another. Unbolt the rear engine
carrier then reach up over the top of the tranny and remove the two bolts
that hold it to the rear tranny support.

Lower the engine and tranny together and you get a few extra inches that
will keep the oil filler from snagging when you unbolt the engine from the
tranny and slide it back. 

If you need to pull BOTH the engine and tranny then do them at the same
time. Make sure you have EVERYTHING disconnected as Jason stated, including
ground strap, shift coupler, clutch cable, and the CV's. You only need to
disconnect the CV's from the tranny side. Use wire to hang them up out of
your way. With engine and tranny supported level undo the rear engine
carrier, the tranny support bolts above where it mates to the engine, and
the front tranny support holder bolts. Then you can lower the whole unit
straight down. If you have both jacks lined up and the bus high enough you
can roll them out together. If not you can unbolt them now that they're
down and drag them each out on their separate jack.

I plan to install the engine/tranny as a single unit in my Rivi some time
this week.

Gerald
