Date: Tue, 3 Aug 2004 23:09:55 -0400 (EDT)
From: Eddie Goodwin <egoodwin(-at-)shell.gis.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: starting problem update...fixed

Hello all...

I discovered my problem today completely by accident. My bus was having
trouble starting after I rebuilt my carbs and replaced my electric Facet
fuel pump.

I decided to individually check each
wire for spark. (it got to the point where I was ready to check
every little thing in the ignition)

First, i pulled the #3 plug wire off
and held it next to a grouding wire.... sure enough, spark here. Then
pulled off #4 wire to check.... and by some dumb chance I unplugged the
power to the fuel pump just prior (i had the '+' hooked to the coil for
testing, I disconnected it to be safe..figuring i didn't need it hooked
up). My sisters boyfriend was cranking.... I told him to try it again....
BAM it fired right up. I was not expecting it at all ...scared the crap
out of me... then i noticed
that the electric fuel pump was completley disconnected from power!!!!!!!

I was completely confused.

I had him kill the ignition... hooked the #4 wire back to the plug and
cranked it.... fired right up....ran well for about a minute and
ubruptly died.

I then hooked up the fuel pump again and tried it.. nothing...


disconnected it and it started right up... ran for a minute and died.

restarted... tried to hook up the fuel pump while it was running... it
immediately died... so the problem is the fuel pump.

I had previously (incorrectly) ruled out the fuel pump because I could
hear it (and feel it) come on when i clicked on the ignition. Being that
it was brand new I assumed that it was working as it should.

After about an hour of playing with with my ammeter, I decided to cut the
ground wire connector off and run it directly to a good known ground (the
top screw for the timing scale). It worked. The bus fired up and started
to idle really fast, much faster than before (around 2K rpms). I think
because the carbs (weber 34ICTs)  are at baseline settings and need the
idle screws set. 


The problem was that the supplied connector on the facet fuel pump wire
was not properly connected. It wasn't making good enough contact with the
ground wire....which i guess made it intermittently cut in and out...
somehow blocking the fuel flow. When it was completely disconnected it
must sit wide open....Im assuming the suction of the carb pumps and
gravity fed enough gas for the bus to run for a minute or so...and it
eventually starved..which explains why it would die when i gave it
throttle. This is my best guess.

in any event it works now....

tomorrow i'll remount the pump, set the idle and tune the carbs....
finally a running bus again...

thanks for eveyones suggestions... without them i wouldn't have stumbled
on this :)


Eddie
'74 Westy
