From: "Jason Z Upper" <jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: gibbsjj(-at-)gmail.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 04 Aug 2004 15:28:46 -0400
Subject: Alternate Engine Removal Procedure

Hi Folks,

Here's a basic procedure for those curious about how I accomplished the 
rope/pipe method of dropping my engine.  This only works on 1973 and later 
Buses with the top engine hatch.

Materials:
1 - 3'-4' length of 1"-1.5" OD steel/lead pipe
2 - 3' 2x4s with notches cut to receive the pipe
2 - 6'-8' lengths of 3/8" sisal rope -- you can probably use better rope; 
that's just what I had
1 - 15' 4x4-style nylon "Snatch Strap"
2 - pairs of Vise Grips large enough to grip the end of the pipe

Procedure:
1. Wrap the Snatch Strap around the engine twice, or as many times as it 
will go around, remembering that the engine's center of gravity is closer to 
the flywheel.  Be careful of FI piping, wires, tin, and anything else that 
may get destroyed by the entire weight of the engine resting on it.  I had 
to be creative with my location, but I got the strap wrapped with 2 loops 
crossed over just below the engine hatch.
2. Place both 2x4s widthwise across the rear cargo area, with the pipe 
notches facing up.  One goes in front (FIF) of the engine hatch, one goes 
behind.
3. Place the pipe lengthwise across the 2x4s.  Leave enough pipe overhanging 
to the rear that you can grip it with BOTH pairs of Vise-Grips side-by-side. 
  Center the pipe side-to-side on the engine (you may have to cut a length 
off the 2x4s to make it fit).
4. Fold both ropes in half, loop them under the strap, and wind them both 
around the pipe simultaneously, leaving the loop in the center.  Make sure 
the rope unwinds correctly, and be sure to keep your wraps tight -- this is 
what keeps the rope from sliding off the pipe.  Also make sure there is 
still enough rope to grip when it's unwound enough the get the engine down.
5. Clamp a Vise-Grip on the pipe and tighten the ropes just enough to take 
up all the slack.  Clamp the other pair of Vise-Grips on the pipe and let it 
rest on a small block of wood (to save scratching your paint).
6. Pull the engine free and let it hang from the rope.  I used a floor jack 
as a backup, just for safety's sake.
7. Clamp the other pair of Vise-Grips on the pipe 180 degrees off, release 
the first pair, and turn the pipe, lowering the engine, 180 degrees so the 
"handle" rests on the block of wood.  Now your "handle" becomes the "brake." 
  CAUTION: YOU ARE SUPPORTING THE ENTIRE WEIGHT OF THE ENGINE WHEN YOU TURN 
THE VISE-GRIPS!  BE CAREFUL not to lose your grip or crush your hand under 
the Vise-Grips!!  Be careful!
8. Repeat Step 7 as necessary, using the floor jack as a backup.  When the 
floor jack is bottomed out, remove it, and lower the engine the last 6 
inches with the rope/pipe.

Disclaimer:
This worked for me, the one time I tried it.  I have not yet used it to 
install an engine, but I imagine it works just as well in reverse.  I take 
no responsibility for lack of common sense, safety precautions, or 
mechanical know-how on the part of the user.  There is a lot of potential 
energy charged up in this system, and it can SERIOUSLY INJURE you if you 
don't pay attention.  Face it: you're lowering a 350-lb engine with pipe, 
rope, and Vise-Grips -- how safe can that be??  YMMV, RTFM, TTFN.

Good Luck!

Jason Z Upper
Universal Circle Music
1979 Westy "Sweet Pea" -- engine out, heads off
Asheville, North Carolina
