Date: Fri, 24 Oct 2003 11:23:52 -0400
From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
To: burning.girl(-at-)telus.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] camber setting on front end

If you meaning checking the shims at the spindle, well. it really isn't a big deal.  don't be afraid of it.  The idiot book has a good description.  

You have to take the wheel, brakes, backing plate off.  Yes it'll be easier not to have that backing plate hanging in your way, but I think I managed to take it off the spindle and tie it to something so it was out of the way, or maybe I took it off and there was brake fluid dripping :( and I had the bleed the brakes later. 

find the pinch bolts for the link pins (descriprion in Idiot book wher ethey are) and undo them w/ you 17mm wrenches.  they should be split pins to take out first.   then you can gentley wiggle the link pins, and tap the king pin/spindle off  it is fairly heavy, so don't let it drop on your toe, or mash the spindle threads.     Take your straight edges, measure the offset of teh trailing arms, and use the chart in the book to see how many shims go where.   was it set right?   is something past in the trailing arms or in more?

Make sure everything is clean, and no dirt gets in the needle beaings for the link pins.     check to make sure they are fine (well needles dont fall out, and that the grease is going through properly.    put the shims in place on the links on teh spindle, then tap them in place into the tailing arms, a bit awkward but doable

A regular alignment shop will twirl the tie rods to set the toe in, but I seriously doubt they'll do anything else


.....................................................
 In a message dated 10/22/2004 12:24:01 AM Eastern Daylight Time, burning.girl(-at-)telus.net writes:

> kind of letting the whole brake assembly hang off the tie rod instead)  I'm
> also not sure of the torque specs (if there are any) for the bolts holding
> the king and link pin assembly in place.  Forgive me if I'm getting the
> names wrong, I'm not too good with terminology.  No I do not have a bentley
> manual.  If this is too difficult to explain in email, does 
> anyone know if
> a regular alignment shop would be able to do this?
> 
> thanks in advance,
> diana
