Date: Sun, 26 Oct 2003 23:28:43 -0800 (PST)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Subject: new starter - new sound! Far out...

On Sun, 26 Oct 2003 VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com wrote:

> Hi Cal,
> Good to hear or at least read!  How did Saturday go for you?  We hope nothing
> to bad was found.
> Eric&Barb

Hi!

I was just coming online to write my report!  Hehe! So here goes:

I dropped the engine saturday morning, not knowing what to expect, but
ready to deal with it on a beautiful, warm, clear day. Since the starter
was stuck in the on position, I knew it was toast, and replaced it first.

Wow! these new Bosch starters are small, and sound like jet planes instead
of starter motors! This starter is half the size of the original ones
we've been used to. Just hope it works as well! Fit in there nicely.
Greased the bushing well too - didn't need replacing as it has little
mileage on it. But Bosch gives you a new one with the starter, so that was
cool.

The FW teeth are a bit edgy, but none were chipped or otherwise damaged,
so I checked the endplay - perfect .004". No leaking from the front seal
behind the FW, so I know from past experience - don't fix it if it ain't
broke! Did the valve adjustment while the engine was out -saved the lying
on the side reaching up experience - I love doing the valves when the
engine's out. I'd almost take the engine out just to do the valve
adjustment every 3000 miles. All valves were spot on, within a mil.
Most were at 6 and 8 mils for Intake and Exhaust respectively, which
is where I set them. Those are my numbers for valving. Settled on
them 30 years ago. Your valves may vary...
Number 3 exhaust, was where I left it 1500 miles ago - .007, a good sign.
Set it to .008 just for the record.

Engine back into the bus - got out the yellow weatherstrip glue to glue in
that upper starter/engine bolt, with the "D" head. That'll be the last
time I have to go under the bus to put that bolt in, until the next
starter replacement, or a tranny rebuild. Yellow glue rocks! Glued upper
bolts rock! Engine was in in minutes. Turn on those nuts, ratchet them
down with the $12 Sears flat 17mm wrench - ah! the right tools makes life
almost a joy.

Guess I'm ready for the rainy season months, unless something else
happens.

Bus content:

Glue yer upper bolts in and stop complainin' bout having to crawl under
there and do'em.

If you all want a new thrill, buy a new Bosch starter and install it -
sounds like a jet starting up when you hit the key. Very impressive.

cal
