From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: "buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org" <type2(-at-)type2.com:>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 4 Jan 2004 15:28:27 -0800 
Subject: BBB V!!! update

   Everything is in motion and ready for the event in 2 weeks

1. camping fees    $25.00 if you show up friday    $20.00 of you show up
saturday. 
2. Due to the minor bit of trouble (and I mean MINOR) we had last year, we
have hired a real officer of the law to keep all the peace during the
evening hours, quiet time starts at 10pm please observe this.
3. ALL animals MUST be on a leash at all times, no exceptions!
4. NO GLASS, NO GLASS, NO GLASS, please bring cups to put your beverages in.
5. BRING firewood and an above ground fire pit if you wish to have a
campfire. There are NO CAMPFIRES allowed on the ground, period, none, zip.
6. This year we will have a seperate raffle for the Patricia Bell BUS QUILT.
For those that have been at previous BBB's you know what it is, for those
that don't check out last years on the buses by the bridge web site. These
are beautiful hand made that takes Patricia the better part of a year to
make.
7. IF you are going to enter the CHILE COOK-OFF please inform the keeper of
the gate upon entry.
8. As always the famous VW Howard/LBB FREE taco feast will start at 6PM on
Friday
9. Food for sale will be available also on Saturday hosted by VTO (carne
asada tacos and more) and SV2's we hope will have the famous Hot Dog Fred
BRATS and dogs available also if you get the munchies and want something
good and quick to eat.
10. Again the Boy Scouts of America will be there Sunday morning for the all
you can eat pancake breakfest for only 4 bucks with a portion of the
proceeds going to LBB's charity.

Thanks for reading this, please OBEY all the rules so we can keep the new
spot we now have, come out and have a blast at the FIRST VW show of 2004

See a bunch of you there

ronnie

ps. there are markets, resturants, hotels and yes BARS with-in walking
distance of the event in case you get bored
