From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 11 Sep 2002 17:09:06 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] '78 Westy Camper prices - again

 I've lately been perusing ads on The Samba for early bay rigs, including
campers, and the asking prices are often 2 or 3 times higher than I'd expect
based on long term experience.  Even rigs with major body damage & rust,
and/or needing expensive repairs are listed with prices of $3,000 and up.

Oh, this is cool! I hope it's true! If that's the case, then I am
bus-wealthy, LOL.
But I saw a running '73 Westy that went for $850 the other day, so I'm not
so sure.
I've also seen buses in nice overall condition on eBay that were asking
around $3,000 to $4,000 and only got bids up to about $1,500 to $1,800.
Right now the market seems a bit soft to me.
I just acquired the '78 the other day, and it took some doing, but it's here
now. I had to get it out of a police impound, and the price came a lot more
than the $100. First, I had to pay the registration fees of $99, then I had
to insure it.. not too much, but still some. Then I went to the police
impound with my moving permit and other paperwork and paid them $72.00.
Finally, I was able to go to the impound yard and I paid just under $220
(can't remember exact figure). So far, I have right at $500 into it, but it
runs very strong and has great brakes. It needs work, but no major problems.
It was kinda cute because at the police impound, they have a very heavy
rolling gate.. I waited for the guy to bring up the bus, and after about a
ten minute wait, I hear this "beep, beep, beep, beep, beep!" from behind the
big gate. The driver was signalling them to open the gate for him, but it
sounded like the bus was just frantic to get out of there, sorta like a dog
is jumping around and barking when his owner comes to get him out of the dog
(im)-pound.
The driver drove through, got out, turned around and used his sleeve to rub
a crayon mark off the window. He looked at me and his eyes were twinkling. I
think he likes the buses, too.
Jan B


