Date: Thu, 12 Sep 2002 00:20:10 -0400 (EDT)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To: Darren Smisko <darrensmisko.alumtek(-at-)telus.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] BACKFIRING (NOW ME!)

On Wed, 11 Sep 2002, Darren Smisko wrote:

> I took my van for a long journey last night at a constant
> speed of about 70-75 mph. I was trying to keep up to two hippie
> girls that drove by in thier van! thing is after driving at a high speed for
> about 45 minutes i came to a turn off and i heard my van backfire.
> it wasnt backfiring before that. would this mean i need to adjust the valves.

Darren,

I would certainly have a look at your valves.  You may have overheated the
engine and that backfiring might have been from gas igniting on contact
with the hot valves/cylinders/pistons. I find in mine that if the air is
above 70, and I try to beat 65 by any margin, the oil temps start to shoot
up.  If I tried to do 70-75 for 45 minutes, I would expect to have to
replace a head.

The proper reaction when buses pass you doing 75 is to wave and smile and
follow at a deliberate pace.  You will have plenty of time to get to meet
and know them when you come upon them broken down by the side of the road
further on.  Nod knowingly and smile slightly when they tell you that they
have no idea what happened.  Check the compression, dwell, and timing by
the roadside and if all are OK (OK in this instance is any compression
above 0, expect at least one cylinder to be at 20-50psi) then offer to
take them for coffee for an hour or two while their valves cool.  After an
hour or two, set the valves to .008 all the way around, recheck
compression. If the compressions are now over 90, send them on their way,
or better yet, offer them a place to stay and tell them you will do a
proper tune up in the AM.  If they take you up on the tune up in the AM,
reset the valves to .006 intake and .007-8 exhaust, recheck compressions,
dwell and timing and advise them that they ought to slow down.

If the above sounds non-standard, it is.  The .008 spec is very wide, I
know.  But (a) the valves are not stone cold, so you should not be setting
them at all and this is just an emergency measure to get them off the
roadside and (b) anyone tearing along at 70-75 needs more gap.  Loose
valves won't kill an engine, tight ones will.

My flame suit is on...  I expect all sorts of "but I do 75 all the time"
responses, but that's my story and I am sticking to it.  You can go fast
in a bus or you can go far in a bus. Pick one.

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail




