Date: Sun, 14 Sep 2003 19:11:52 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Jim Ellis <ellisjames(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: Jerome... Dogs? Please, no! 

On Fri, 12 Sep 2003, Jim Ellis wrote:

> In my last post I wrote:
>
> "Common sense. Accountability for self in general and leave the dogs with Mom
> or
> at a kennel. Your rabid "bad assed" penile compensating Pit bulls and Rotties
> do not mix well with strangers and other peoples' kids.
> Leave the drugs at home or duh- perhaps don't do them and save your brain for
> the years in which you will need it.
> Drive safely, remember that it is *SUPPOSED* to be a family oriented club with
> a desire to raise money for one or more charitible causes."
>
> -----------------
> OK fine, I expressed my opinion and THEN talked to my little Mrs.
> She wanted/wants to take the three dogs. *THREE?* especially after I just
> upbraided the list emasse for choice of pets, what they represent and the
> audacity for bringing them to a public event. Bringing three dogs, two kids
> under age 4, packing for a campout that will, for us, last less than 23 hours
> and arriving late... camping away from the event.

Well, I'll weigh in here and attract the ire of the pet folk away from
you.  I've gone to many outdoor events and find that pets are more trouble
than they are worth.  Pets that are normally well behaved can change in
strange surroundings, particularly surroundings as strange as a bus
gathering.  This leads to two problems, that of biting (other people or
other pets) and runaways.

I've lost count of the times I've heard the phrase "She's never bitten
anyone before!"  That phrase isn't much comfort to the person
bitten.  Every pet with a beak or teeth will bite, given the
circumstances.

Runaways can have an even bigger impact.  Someone comes on the PA and
says "Has anyone seen a white shih-tzu with a pink ribbon in its hair?
It ran away right after the drum circle started..."  Pretty soon a search
party wends its way through camp calling for Fluffy.  I'm not an
unfeeling person, so I usually join the search which is almost always
futile because Fluffy is scared to death and either running or hiding.
What could have been a pleasant evening for all is reduced to a
search in the dark because someone insisted upon having Fluffy along.

So, before you bring a pet to an event, balance the pleasure that the pet
will give you against the pain and anguish of that pet biting someone or
being lost.  Look carefully at the statement "That would never happen
with _my_ pet" because "that" has happened to many people who were equally
certain of their ability to handle their own pets.

If you still insist that your pet must come along, keep it on a short
leash at your campsite, which hopefully will be in a low-traffic zone.
Some people don't appreciate pets, and having yours nosing into everyone's
campsite on one of those 30-foot retractable leashes while the owner
stroll through the site isn't right.

Note that I have used the word "pet" in place of the word "dog", since the
problem extends beyond dogs.  There are obviously some pets (goldfish, for
example) that are unlikely to bite or run away.  In this post I'm
referring only to pets with teeth, beaks, or claws and/or the ability to
run, fly, hop, or slither away.  :)

George
