From: "Rob Laffoon" <captoaster(-at-)cox.net>
To: "George Lyle" <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>, "Jim Ellis"
Cc: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 14 Sep 2003 22:37:08 -0500
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: Jerome... Dogs? Please, no! 

Being a mailman I have many a run in with dogs but the funniest one was one
summer I had a parcel for delivery and when I rang the bell a big a$$ dog
came bounding to the open door with just the screen door between him and I.
I put my foot against the door to keep the dog from opening the door and
getting out with me.  The kids were next to the door but I wasn't about to
let them open the door so I kept it closed with my foot against the door.
Asked the kids to get there Mom and off they went to get her.  When she
comes to the door she says the dog doesn't bite.  Meanwhile the dog is going
nuts and the lady shoos the kids back and it is just and her.  I still won't
take my foot off the door but she is stating that the dog don't bite.  I say
everybody says that and that she is going to have to put the dog away.
Being that all I had was a box of checks she says that she will only open
the door enough to get the box so I say OK.  I keep my foot against the door
giving her a couple of inches to open the door and she sticks her hand out
to take the package.  The dog jumps up and bites her hand with instant
blood.  As I turn around to go back to the USPS truck I say yep your dog
don't bite.  I have been bit by Rotweilers, Dobermans, poodles, etc.  It
they got teeth they bite.  Hell I even got gummed by the poodle cause he
didn't have any teeth but it still hurt as the amount of pressure is still
there and left a good bruise.
   Rob Laffoon    (o\X/o)
www.OmahaVWClub.com
   www.Buskatiers.com
  www.bustoberfest.org   October 24-26  Indian State Park Nebraska
     www.Bustrips.com


> Well, I'll weigh in here and attract the ire of the pet folk away from
> you.  I've gone to many outdoor events and find that pets are more trouble
> than they are worth.  Pets that are normally well behaved can change in
> strange surroundings, particularly surroundings as strange as a bus
> gathering.  This leads to two problems, that of biting (other people or
> other pets) and runaways.
>
> I've lost count of the times I've heard the phrase "She's never bitten
> anyone before!"  That phrase isn't much comfort to the person
> bitten.  Every pet with a beak or teeth will bite, given the
> circumstances.
