From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 15 Sep 2003 11:47:44 EDT
To: glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com, ellisjames(-at-)yahoo.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: Jerome... Dogs? Please, no! 

When have you ever met someone who admits their dog is not well behaved?

 I had a woman yelling at me I was a dog hater because I didn't like her two 
big (unleashed) dogs running and jumping and barking at me when I was walking 
through a public (non park, leash required) area. I had said "No!" or "Git!" 
in no uncertain tone of voice at the dogs about to jump on me.   I must be a 
dog-hater <sarcasm> 

  I think people who can't or won't train their pets hate other people.  I 
know someone who thinks it's fine to let a dog chew in play on peoples arms, and 
didn't realise this is a safety hazard for kids, as well as adults.   I was 
so impressed on the U-bahn in Munich with the well behaved dogs.  Yes, on 
public transportation these dogs sat and minded their own business and didn't try 
to greet everyone.  Just like the people did.  It is amazing how much people 
don't believe that animals can be trained.  Yet they really can.  And they like 
it, means more attention from their people.   But taking a dog to a gathering 
with lots of people, when they aren't used to it, does often end up with 
unforeseen consequences. 
    Then again, I'm a person who'll knee a dog across a room if it jumps up 
on me.   I like dogs with manners.  Hey, I'd do the same thing to a strange 
guy.   Funny thing is, I did that to a friend's dog, and she *thanked* me, as she 
said it's hard to teach a big puppy when people are too nervous or whatever 
to say "off" and mean it.  But I used to work with horses, and you have to be 
clear, firm, and above all consistent, as a badly behaved horse can really hurt 
someone.  Horses taught me how to be assertive.   Which helped me 
unexpectedly when I was charged by an elk in Yellowstone, on the maiden road trip in my 
61.
  Um, sorry if I wandered off topic...   

I love taking my housemate's dog in the bus down to the creek or the beach or 
mushroom hunting in the woods.  Garp gets all happy when he gets to go for a 
ride in the bus.  And it'll be mushroom season soon.  Oh, boy!  Chantrelles!  



In a message dated 9/14/2003 4:12:14 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com writes:
than they are worth.  Pets that are normally well behaved can change in
strange surroundings, particularly surroundings as strange as a bus
gathering.  This leads to two problems, that of biting (other people or
other pets) and runaways.
