From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "Curt Conklin" <CONKLINC(-at-)lawgate.byu.edu>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 15 Sep 2003 10:17:21 -0600
Subject: Re: stiffer pressure plate-missed bus cruise

----- Original Message -----
>
> Missed the Salt Lake Group's cruise up into the Manti-La Sals.  HOW WAS
> THE TRIP, ERIC?  I know this, it was cold up there because Saturday
> night/Shunday morning we got a mild frost here in Provo.
>

The cruise was awesome Curt. Wish you could have made it! All the assorted
rain we've had lately made plenty of 'mud bogs' to drive and manuver
through, which was a lot of fun. Nobody got stuck. After we got through all
the really rough terrain, we came across this sign for vehicles coming the
other direction:
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/gallery/index.mv?photo+110506.jpg

"4 wheel drive vehicles only". Nice. Guess the buses shows them! haha. We
tried going around as much mud as we could, considering we weren't running
'all terrain' tires, but you can see by my side step, there was plenty that
was unavoidable.

We found a bitchin' little campsite that had to be accessed by driving up a
VERY steep hill to get to. Honestly, it was probably 35 degrees, maybe 40 on
one short section of it. A first gear run start barley made it up to the
top.

And you're more than right, Curt. It got VERY cold. I had a propane heater
in my tent with us. It was so cold, we started loosing heat through the
tent, and ended up throwing a couple of sleeping bags over our tent to keep
the heat in. That worked great for a while, but it kept getting even colder.
We went through three of those small propane canisters that night to make
sure my son stayed warm. In the morning, we got up, and Ken poured some
water in a dish for his dog (he has a gas heater in his bus). By the time we
got the fire going (which didn't take long with a bit of gasoline, it was
too cold to mess around!), the dog's water had frozen over. Yep, that's
cold! Oddly, it warmed up really fast, and we were in t-shirts by 9am.

We cruised down the mountain and went through a really nice canyon after we
woke up, and cruised back to SLC. All in all, it was a great time, dispite
the cold night. We all would have done it again for sure! Casualties from
the rough ride include Dave's rear bumper falling off (I think it was ready
to go anyway), Ken's muffler broke loose near a heaterbox (mostly from rust,
as we didn't see anywhere he bottomed out on it), and ended up loosing a
hubcap (we backtracked in first gear for 6 miles looking for it, but
couldn't), and I had my alternator field wire ground out on my bus.

We're going to do it again next year for sure, but probably in late July, or
early August when the temps up in the mountains are perfect for camping.

Eric Allred
64 Bus
