To: The Bug Pack Pack <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>, Vanagon List <vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM>
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Wed, 23 Jan 2008 20:01:13 -0500
Subject: Bench Testing an L-jetronic  Fuel Injected engine 

Hi Volks,

I have been working on getting my bus back under its own power on and  
off since November. For those who need a refresher, I threw a rod  
back in July and installed a remanufactured 1700cc EA-series 411  
engine with L-jetronic FI as a replacement. Unfortunately, I  
overheated this engine a few weeks later and it took quite a while to  
get all the parts that were required to get it running again. And  
then when I put it back in the bus, it refused to fire. A compression  
test was done and the abysmal results prompted the removal of the  
engine from the bus. Here we go again.

As it turned out, when VW remanufactured this engine they flycut the  
heads such that they could not be used without gaskets between the  
heads and the cylinders. So I sourced out a set of gaskets and the  
engine was reassembled. So far, so good.

But it's winter, and my bus doesn't fit in my garage. I hate working  
outside in the cold, and I don't want to do any more work outside  
than I absolutely have to. I want to be 100% certain that this engine  
is ready to run as soon as I install it.

So I decided to build up a rig to bench test the engine with a  
complete FI setup on it. I borrowed a bell-housing, then attached a  
starter and added a bracket to the left side of the engine with a  
horontal 1x2 attached to it to support a small lawn mower fuel tank,  
the fuel pump, power and ignition switches, double relay and ballast  
resistors. There's also a bracket to support a decel valve above the  
engine where it meets the hoses from the S-pipe and intake plenum. On  
the other side of the engine is a 1x2 strut rising from the bearer  
bar to support the airbox.

This afternoon I pressed the starter button and the engine coughed  
and sputtered a few times. I tweaked the timing and checked over the  
vacuum lines and before long it roared to life. I quickly shut it  
down as I had not yet attached the heater boxes, and it was both  
stinky and loud in the enclosed space of my garage. Once the heater  
boxes and muffler are back on and the exhaust safely vented  I will  
be able to spin it up and set the idle and timing in the comfort of  
my garage, rather than bent over in the cold behind the bus. And when  
it is finally ready I can bolt it up to the bus knowing it'll be good  
to go with a minimal chance of complications.

I put up a couple of pics, a parts list and some additional details  
on the construction of the jig here:
http://www.busesofthecorn.com/L-JetronicBenchTest/

Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/77/79 Westfakia "Bob The Tomato
www.pottsfamily.ca
www.busesofthecorn.com
