Date: Tue, 29 Jan 2008 10:25:58 -0800 (PST)
From: Sean Dorman <croftyest(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Heat: Finding Leaks, Keepin' it Warm

As I'm not one to drill holes right outta the gate so i'd check for air leaks first. Having a pedal pan and good seals on the clutch, brake, steering column and gas pedal makes a big difference.  
   
   The overhead vent seems to be the culprit more often than naught.
   
  Sean

'Avocado Tom' <tommy(-at-)roadtrip.net> wrote:
  Volks,

It's winter time which means that other than thinking about oil weights 
(mostly after the seal blows out of my oil filter), I'm pondering the 
ever-present dilemma: Heating a Bus in the Winter.

The stock heat on my '67 blows hot (105+degF, probably warmer), I've got 
my heater tube insulated, the bus roof and front are insulated with 
foil-bubble wrap, and other parts are insulated with other non-water 
absorbent materials.

So I feel like I'm ahead of the game, but I'm still not toasty. The 
cabin is about 40degF on a 20degF day (although it feels warmer with the 
defroster blowing on you).

As a result, I've resigned myself to looking for air leaks (there seem to 
be couple of drafty spots up front) and pondering whether I really, 
actually, truly want to cut a hole somewhere to put in a recirculating 
system...or more specifically, get a slightly negative cabin pressure 
going (to provide less resistance for the heated air coming into the 
cabin).

Does anyone out there have thoughts on tracking down air leaks? 
Oh...maybe a stick of incense and see where the smoke blows (given that I 
don't smoke)?

Or thoughts on putting a hole in my bus (ack!) for air exhaust? 
Hrm...perhaps I could increase the size of one of the quarter-sized holes 
the DPO put in the cargo floor, install a small computer fan - just enough 
to keep the air flowing - and a rubber splash guard around it so water 
doesn't get in, and call it a day?

Anwyay, I'm just kinda thinking out loud here and would love to hear any 
thoughts you have on this somewhat seminal topic.

Cheers,
Avocado Tom
'67 Freedom Camper, "Lily"
'71 Hardtop Camper

---
"We are MoTown. We are professionals. We're here to get the job done"
   
   
  This message may contain confidential and/or privileged information.  If
you are not the addressee or authorized to receive this for the
addressee, you must not use, copy, disclose, or take any action based on
this message or any information herein.  If you have received this
message in error, please advise the sender immediately by reply e-mail
and delete this message.  Thank you for your cooperation.




       
---------------------------------
Never miss a thing.   Make Yahoo your homepage.
