Date: Thu, 26 Feb 2004 21:18:26 -0800 (PST)
From: Jim Ellis <ellisjames(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: VW_VINTAGE_list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [VB] Anyone know of any serious rat look buses? <a

No, my last splitty bus is sitting on the left coast headed for Europe. Who
would have ever imagined that buses and their associated parts would become
expensive to the point at which I no longer could afford them?

It has become more practical for me (personally) to locate a fairly priced
Passat wagon GLX with all of the toys and tricks than it is for me to locate,
maintain, insure and drive on a daily basis a prime example of what drew me to
the buses in the beginning.

The shifting value and buying power of the Euro and British Pound will continue
to deplete the availability of basic $1500.00 "rat" buses. Unfortunately, the
fifteen hundred dollar rat buses are now commanding princely prices that beg us
Yanks to sell out. Yup, before the flames come pouring in I admit to being a
sellout. Why not? (My) times and needs have changed. Being the embodiment of
the vintage nazi and driving only aircooled splittie buses for years when many
of us have had fall-back water pumper trucks, splittie-gitters, family vehicles
and other "modern" rides, my wife and I continued to drive only aircooled VWs.
We loved them then and continue to love them still.

Perhaps it was the appearence of our children and that job 25 miles across town
that encouraged the change. Gods best to you who choose to and can continue to
drive the splitties on a regular and semi-regular basis. I no longer have the
time, energy, health or desire to do so. I have become a GLX leather
airconditioned 75mph voyeur.

When '57 peuedo European spec single cabs trimmed in red iron oxide primer,
sold complete with hand crank 36hp, splitcase tranny, 16" wheels with a deluxe
barn 3 spoked steering wheel and full tilt and canvas return to the $1000. that
I paid for mine- when 73,000 original mile black '57 oval standards return to
the $2000. that I paid for mine and when run-of-the-mill bay window buses
return to the price of chicken feed and chicken coops (rather than exceeding
TEN THOUSAND DOLLARS!) then I will jump back into the water.

Until then I will gladly sit on the sideline and encourage the soul survivors
to carry the torch. God Bless you all and now I ask myself, "now, where is that
cruise control button?" Oh yeah, here it is...
-Ellis\
Phoenix, AZ
97 Eurovan Camper
96 Passat GLX wagon




=====
I'm so old that I can remember when marriage was a sacrament intended for baby making, the Passion of Christ was in a book, Republican meant less government and Democrat meant "tax and spend".
