Date: Thu, 23 Sep 2004 22:00:29 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: radio speaker

>From: "MICHAEL TURNER" <airmike(-at-)verizon.net>
>Date: Wed, 22 Sep 2004 19:23:45 -0700
>
>I'm currently working on a stock radio installation for my 1963
>deluxe. It's recommended for a stock speaker (which fasten's to the
>original style bus speaker mount) that I use a 6", full range, 8 OHM
>speaker.

I'm not having much luck finding these from electronics parts suppliers.
Mouser and Digi-Key don't have speakers that big.  Antique Electronic
Supply doesn't have speakers that small.  All Electronics (a surplus
place) and Jameco doesn't have anything in that size.  The local old-
style electronics parts distributor only has paging system speakers in
their catalog.  Radio Shack used to carry suitable speakers, but their
online catalog doesn't list any current likely candidates.

I'd guess that going after car audio places is your best bet.
crutchfield.com , an online/mail-order car audio shop, doesn't list any
6" speakers... they have 5.25" and 6.5" sizes.  Unfortunately they all
seem to be 4 ohms.  You could wire two 4 ohm speakers in series to get
one 8 ohm speaker, but then you have to figure out where to put the
other speaker.  (Maybe in the back?  Some Buses have a pair of wires
installed by the factory above the headliner for a rear speaker.)
You could also use a 4 ohm power resistor in series with just one 4 ohm
speaker, but this would burn off half the output of the radio as heat.
Just hooking up a 4 ohm speaker will probably make noise, but it might
load down the radio output excessively.

Like E&B said, you also need to have an idea of what wattage speaker
you need.  At a guess, I'd say something in the neighborhood of 10
watts would be about right for a stock radio.  If you use a speaker
with a watt rating too low, you'll burn out the speaker.  If you use a
speaker with a watt rating way in excess of what the radio can put
out, it may not sound very good or very loud.

I hope this helps a little.

Matt Roberds
