Date: Sat, 25 Sep 2004 23:25:56 -0700
To: VB list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: some jerome aftermath

on the way back from jerome, i began to encounter some 
difficulties... when i let off the gas, the engine would stay at 2000 
rpm+ for a good while, then back down.  felt sluggish, and really 
only wanted to go 50 or so. no weird noises, head temps (in a  30 mph 
headwind) 350 or so.  parked it, and a HUGE oil leak puked outta the 
f/w drain. so that makes THREE seals this thing has toasted, each 
after a long trip. and yes, the crank is polished there.

here are some pics of some of the various oil leaks that plagued me 
all weekend; i even removed and resealed both oil pistons in the red 
dirt... to no avail. in fact, now the bastard things stick AGAIN.
anyways, the link:
http://www.ckoon.org/vw/oilleak/oily.html

has anyone seen that weird zonal pattern on a motor? i'm used to just 
overall gunkness on ill-kept engines, or obvious seam leaks, but this 
stripey thing is odd.  i'm guessing wind flow is moving the oil, but 
from where...

drove the bus today, and still seems sluggish over 40, but ran cool 
and without complaint. no sticking accel problems. did smell an  odd 
burning smell when driving, which i believe to be clutch burning off 
oil. rpms didn't seem outta whack for speed, so it can't be so wet it 
slips noticably.  parked it, and got NO drip from f/w seal! go 
figure. DID get drips from both oil pistons, the sump and the pass 
side rear.
now that i think about it, some of the stuff on the pass side might 
be coming from the roaddraft tube - either i am getting blowby and 
too much case pressure, or when i removed the gen mount to deal with 
some belt issues i put the damn metal seal under there in backwards :P

jerome side note: my dad asked don about the festival, and did he 
camp when he traveled to truck shows:
"you see all them people? and that bad language, and drinking, and 
drugs? how dirty they all are... and all those DOGS????  HECK no; i 
get a motel 6!!"

i did note he bought a fistful O raffle tix :)
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
