From: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Date: Fri, 28 Jan 2005 09:15:25 -0800
To: Christophe Guilbert <cguilbert(-at-)picasso.ucsf.edu>, Type 2 List
Subject: Re: [T2] 83 type 4 aircool rebuilded , what elese I should

On Jan 28, 2005, at 9:01 AM, Christophe Guilbert wrote:

> I am looking now to see what else I could  change (like seals , clutch 
> , hoses, fuel filter , etc ....)  to be sure that my new engine will 
> work perfectly and to be sure that I won't have to fix the engine 
> every month because of some other parts failure which should  have 
> been replaced a long time ago or won't last an another 10000 miles.

Short answer is yes. All those things.

Long answer is that just changing parts is not enough. If you look at 
the most recent posting by Mark Dearing (under the heading "Strange 
distributor ...") you'll see that there is a tremendous variation in 
the quality of parts. Getting the most reliable parts takes some 
research and some know-how.

More important is this sort of two-part rule: you can make your bus as 
reliable as you want to, but unless you have a terrific 
VW-knowledgeable mechanic you dotes on your bus, you have to be part of 
that reliability. And that is going to take some time, some 
frustration, some errors of omission, some errors of commission, and 
some slapping yourself on the forehead. And you have to really know how 
to laugh. Tune in the Car Talk guys on NPR Saturday mornings and learn 
how to laugh by practicing with them. Just don't pay any attention to 
what they have to say about buses.

One of the first things that you'll need to do is to work at 1) using 
the archives, and 2) the library, and 3) great sites like Richard 
Atwell's so that you ask more focused questions than "I'm going to 
rebuild my engine, what else should I do." Questions like that are hard 
to answer.

Read, read, read, read, read. And then start working on things. And 
keep that ideal of a reliable bus in your head. Never give that up. 
It's doable, but there are dues to be paid first.

Mark
