Date: Fri, 28 Jan 2005 10:41:15 -0800 (PST)
From: Cliff Rhoton <commodore97210(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] Rust

> Cliff, isn't POR-15 always used as an undercoating?
> Once it is painted 
> over, it's no longer exposed to sun?
> 
    
Oooo, POR-15 and related products offer many benefits
to our aging fleet of T2 vehicles.  But let me answer
your question first.
     
POR-15 used as undercoating?  Not really.  POR-15 is
part of a large number of products whose purpose is to
recover sheet metal from the ravages of rust.  Now you
could use POR-15 as an undercoating.  But there would
be 3 problems.  (1) Prep would require you to clean
and strip your current undercoating.  To the Metal!
Then, (2) Etch the exposed metal, and lastly (3)
Paint-on the POR-15.   A lot o'work.  The resulting
undercoated vehicle could probably survive a nuke, but
the labor and frustration of the prep work alone would
prohibit use as an undercoating.  At least for me.
   
Generic Undercoating has sound insulating properties,
& is rubbery in feel when cured.  POR-15, which is
more like a paint, is based upon the chemical
Cyano-Acrylate of Super Glue fame.  POR-15, when
cured, looks and feels more like something that has
been Powder Coated.  And if you have followed the
directions, like the thing about buffing down to the
sheet metal, and then etching it, well, POR-15 seems
to have the stick-to-it-iveness of Powder Coating. 
But time will tell.  The POR-15 I've used was applied
a couple of years ago to the rear Skirt of my bus,
just below the engine door.  We'll see over the years
if POR-15, when properly applied, really halts and
prevents the spread of rust.
   
I was introduced to POR products through a local
(Portland, Oregon) Volvo hotroding company named IPD. 
Have used it for some years.  Good stuff.  The POR-15
of which you speak is only the last component of an
array of products which allow you to fix rusted sheet
metal that you have decided should not be replaced
outright with new body panels.  Imagine an abused
vehicle on the eastern US coast, badly rusted-out near
the rocker panels from winter road salt.  Gaping rust
holes through the sheet metal.  To repair, you first
decide not to install new body panels.  Ok, then the
next thing is to use POR sheet metal restoration
products.  You start to clean the rust with say navel
jelly, etch it, then use a POR-15 fiberglass product
along with POR-15 to fill-in the large holes, forming
a substrate for Bondo.  Then bondo fill-in.  After the
bondo prep i.e. smooth and correct contours for the
make and model of vehicle, then POR-15 as a rust
preventative.  Finally, a top-coat of paint over the
POR-15 to match the car.  Presto!
    
In the prior weeks, there was a T2 thread about
painting heads.  POR-20 is a product which can be used
to paint heads, or headers.  It is white or black in
color, and withstands 1400 degrees.  A rallye car I
navigate-for annually, had the exhaust manifold
painted with POR-20 white some years ago.  When the
rallye car hood is popped, the exhaust manifold
sticks-out brightly, and looks great, even years after
being painted with POR-20.  T2 owners could readily
use POR-20 to lengthen the life of VW Exhaust pipes
and mufflers.  
    
The T2 thread about aftermarket mufflers rusting-out
before their time?  POR-20 is a targetted solution.  I
have a cheap-o muffler I'm about to replace, and I
SHOULD HAVE used POR-20 to protect it.  The new
muffler I'm about to install will be POR-20'ed a month
or two after installation; after the paint has
burned-off, but before the serious rust sets in.
   
My favorite POR product has not yet been mentioned
here.  It's a part-A & part-B play-doh stuff, which
you combine, and thoroughly mix together.  Then you
position it to cover a hole, or fill-in a crack or
whatever.  When it dries, it's hard like iron.  But
you can wash your hands with water & soap to get the A
& B off your skin, and after curing, the stuff can be
drilled and tapped if need be.  Hey T2 owners...have
an annoying hole or crack which needs filling?  Well
this stuff works like bondo, but is much better and
harder.
  
POR products are unfortunately, quite expensive.  But
if their products hold-up and protect as the
manufacturer claims, then the expense is relatively
low and justifiable.
    
Sorry for the excessively long E-mail, but I wanted to
answer your POR question thoroughly.
     
Clifford Rhoton
Portland, Oregon
