From: Anton Ross <antonross(-at-)mac.com>
Date: Fri, 28 Jan 2005 20:10:44 -0500
To: "'Type 2 List'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Rust

Okay fellow Volks!

We just made the 600 mile round-trip drive from Charleston, SC to 
Winston-Salem, NC to pick up our 69 Westy Hardtop.

Bus is in pretty good shape for its age, and the mechanic did a nice 
job on the motor. Only had one weird thing happen on the way home...the 
original oil bath Air Cleaner has been replaced (like I did with my 57 
Nash Met) with a paper filter, held down by a metal cap with a screw 
that screws down into the bottom plate. Long story short...the 
vibrations rattled the screw loose, the air filter and top cap popped 
off (stayed intact in the engine compartment though) and the engine 
started losing power going up a hill and belching bluish smoke.

Pulled off the 26, into a gas station...and remedied the situation. 
Checked oil level...it was the same.

Anyone ever have this happen?

Got back on the road and merrily arrived in Charleston with no further 
drama.

Now, onto the rust subject.

The bus's rain gutters are pretty rusty...and there are some rust spots 
here and there. Without doing an off-frame resto and dunking the whole 
body in a vat of solvent and starting from scratch, what is the easiest 
way to tackle this rust?

When I was the Editor in Chief of Professional Tool and Equipment News 
(automotive trade magazine, some of you auto techs might have been 
subscribers) I remember running into a booth at the AAIW/ASIA/SEMA show 
in Vegas that had what amounted to a spray paint can that sealed rust, 
and dried like steel.

Sound familiar?

I know the POR products fairly well, and can think of some applications 
for POR 15 on the floorboards where needed...but am open to 
suggestions.

We're not thinking of doing a serious resto to this camper. We plan on 
using it...to camp! And haul stuff. And just be...

Thoughts on body rust?

Would that playdough POR stuff work well for sealing and rebuilding the 
rain gutters and such?

I await your answers with bated breath.

Anton
69 Westy Hardtop
Abbie is his name-o.
