Date: Fri, 28 Jan 2005 19:37:25 -0800
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Ok. Plan for tomorrow... (Very long)

Wake up around 4am. Just cuz that's when I wake up.
Surf the net until the family wakes up, around 8.
Go outside and pull the muffler and HEs. 
Take exhaust to backyard.
Separate and clean the HEs. Take pretty pictures.
If it's after 9:30 or so hit the muffler with the angle grinder with a
wire wheel. (Sorry, no air for sandblasting.)
Clean muffler.
Get wire wheel on dremel and get in the corners and such.
Clean muffler.
Hang muffler up by coat hangers. 
Mask off flanges and pretty chrome tips.
Spray with black header paint.
See if my Vice Grips will grab the busted stud.
Get back under bus and drill hole in busted stud.
Use the not-so-easy-out to remove. 
Get pissed at stupid useless not-so-easy-out and start attempting other tools. 
Drill out jacked up stud bosses with 21/64" drill bit. (Who the heck
comes up with these sizes???)
Tap with Crappy-Coil tap.
Insert Crappy-Coil.
Use the long bastard angled needlenose pliers to try to break off tang
at bottom of hole.
Get pissed at stupid useless needlenose pliers that can't get the tang.
Snake up a coathanger like I should have done to begin with and snap off tang.
Repeat until all bosses are either repaired or good to begin with.
Insert new studs.
Grease oval exhaust gaskets and place up in head. 
Not my head, silly. The engine head.
Spend 2 hours getting each one aligned perfectly.
Lift up proper HE onto studs.
Discover one of the new stud bosses is crooked and HE won't go on.
Pull stud, lift up HE, then install stud. 
Pull HE and realign gaskets.
Rinse and repeat.
Tighten nuts loosely. 
Bring out now thoroughly dried muffler (because it's been hanging
there for a week waiting for me to quit doinking with the HEs)
Discover the top bolts in the flanges are now inaccessible because my
purdy chrome bumper is in the way.
Pull bumper.
Curse the captive nut on the frame that isn't.
Install muffler and tighten bolts loosely.
Work around all the nuts snugging up to ensure alignment with all gaskets.
Take it all apart and start over. 
Put bumper back on.
Curse the captive nut on the frame that isn't.
Start engine to verify no leaks.
Start over.

Then I can start on the brakes and CV's. 

;-)

Just making light of the frustration you just KNOW I'm gonna feel and
come posting about. Maybe if I make fun of myself in advance it won't
be so bad.

Ya know?

-- 
Don Tuleja
Great White:
http://www.donimages.com/1973bus/
