Date: Wed, 20 May 2009 19:35:46 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Gauages: Non-Dakota and Good Quality Alternatives?

Although I am well known to not really care much for a smattering of gages I
will mention a few things.  I agree the VDO clusters from 80s-90s era VWs are
a great deal, and their accuracy is variable.  One must determine what you
intend to do with the information.  As Richard has pointed out, and as I have
pointed out for years, absolute accuracy is often poor.  BUT accuracy isn't
really such an issue folks, repeatability is, the ability of the measuring
device to at least have consistency with itself over time.  And most of the
time that is there with VDO gages and sender.  Accuracy varies widely, and
with a good temp probe (or good quality thermometer) a pan of oil and your
kitchen stove, you can figure out your accuracy.  Does it matter that a CHT
temp sensor reads 60F off at 400F if it always does reads it, not a bit,
particularly when it is probably designed to read off in that direction (will
cause you to be more conservative) anyway. 
 Gages are there to remind you of trends, for that they work.  If you oil temp
usually is x and driving one day in the desert it is all of a sudden x+ 60F it
is there to give you the idea to do something about it.  Myself, occasionally
I install a commercial thermocouple and readout, I use the same location on
any T4 I put it on, I know what it means.  Do I mock people who put a VDO oil
temp in the sump plate, hell no, means something, again trends, not absolutes
folks.  Do I think an array of 5-6 across you dash is going to do anything but
cost you money, nope.  And I always feel the more you have to look at the less
likely you are looking at them.  Sometimes the idiot light isn't so idiotic,
flashed, red, bright, gets your attention, just that in a VW the idiot light
on oil pressure is too little too late.
 
YMMV.
 
John

--- On Tue, 5/19/09, j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:



I too have found the VDO's to work well.  Around the Sacramento area, the VDO
three packs (in Jettas etc) can be had for >$20 including the sensors. IIRC,
someone once posted the correct sensor to convert the water temp to head temp
