From: "vanagonvw" <vanagonvw(-at-)gmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 20 May 2009 22:24:07 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] Gauages: Non-Dakota and Good Quality Alternatives?

 "Gages are there to remind you of trends, for that they work.  If you oil
temp
usually is x and driving one day in the desert it is all of a sudden x+ 60F
it
is there to give you the idea to do something about it.  "

Snipped most of your comments, but I just want to jump in and say I agree
100%. In my youth, I filled my street rods with gauges, and spent half  my
time wondering why the water temp was up five degrees :-) What a shame.

I am one of those who has the oil temp in the drain plug. I know better than
to worry about the temps, other than when it rises beyond the norm. Would
never argue about what the gauge should be reading, just that it gives me
trends.

The reason for my comments is that even tho I am in agreement, I am at a
place now with my  rebuilt Type IV where its almost time to fire it up, and
I would give anything for a way to monitor each cylinder's temps as I break
it in and get comfortable with it. Long term, I don't need to know, but
short term........  Prior to the rebuild, I never really gave it a thought,
as it performed well for over 120K since I bought it at 80K. I just took
care of things, and had built a trust. The tin was all there, the engine was
clean, the fan turned, oil always changed on time, and so I believed in the
design, and treated it accordingly

Now I have a "new" engine, and no trust, no comfort zone, and have some
trepidations about what might be going on back there, especially since its
my first rebuild on an air cooled. I even thought about one of those "no
contact" infra-red temp meters, even it if meant having my son sit on the
back seat with the deck open, and have him monitor the cylinders for a time
as I broke it in :-) Of course, the tin makes that impossible.....

Anyway, just one of many thoughts going through my head as I get ready to
light the candle and keep my fingers crossed. Paying a ton for a CHT gauge
that doesn't monitor all the cylinders, is not the best place to put my
money, but I wish I had a four way setup, until I got comfortable, and then
I wouldn't have much concern.

John
