From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 21 May 2009 09:13:56 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine compartment

Oh and for the record I used the ~$5 brush on water-based rust converter. It 
is cheap and does a good job. Looks like melted vanilla milkshake going on. 
Tried the rattle can rust converter but the coats were too thin (not enough 
product reaching the metal to do a good job) and actually the rust came back 
(rusty floors in a Beetle were my test subject). 

The rust will turn black as this stuff dries and where applied to rust metal 
it won't come off easily. Where applied to paint it flakes off. Where not top 
coated it will eventually allow rust to start again. I did the top of the 
battery trays. Should have done the bottom too. A few pinholes were well 
sealed though as the aluminum impregnated filler squeezed through and sealed 
itself to the edges of the holes covering up the rusty edges. Neat side 
effect. It would be better to clean top and bottom and seal both sides. Have 
used this aluminum impregnated filler on rusty floors (pinholes) and the 
metal stiffens up and regains most (all?) of it's strength. It is an epoxy 
based filler. Can't patch gaping holes like this of course but pinholes - no 
problem. 

This is NOT at all like Bondo which does not seal the metal. Bondo will absorb 
moisture and allow the rusty edges of the hole or the rusty panel it is 
applied to - to continue to rust until the bondo and the rusted panel both 
fall out. Previous attempts to use Bondo resulted in bubbles and more rusted 
panels. Bondo is best used where the steel is complete under the Bondo - no 
holes, just a dent. Then the paint on top of the Bondo seals it. No moisture 
leaking in from behind through pinholes or tears in the steel, no moisture in 
through the painted top coat. It ought to last under those limited 
conditions. 

If you use the AL impregnated filler be sure to work it while it is soft. Once 
it cures you will have to grind/sand it to shape it with power tools. Not 
soft like Bondo at all. 

Also for you VWers who don't have access to a welding machine such as a MIG or 
Oxy/Actelyne - you can glue in patch panels. Last winter for the lack of a 
MIG machine I glued it two patch panels in my daily driver VW Cabrio. Rear 
floorboards. Salty water had collected around a rubber floor plug on each 
side of the rear floorboard and eventually rusted the plugs out. I cut out 
the rusty metal and made some simple patches using scrap sheet steel. Used a 
ballpeen hammer, scrap pieces of wood, my vice and channellock pliers to 
shape the patches to match the grooves and shape of the floor panels. Then I 
glued the patches in with body panel epoxy. This stuff is used by the OEMs as 
well. Requires a special caulking gun, special tip that mixes the product as 
it sqeezes out, and a weird double barrel caulking tube. Whole mess cost me 
$60 and the epoxy was maybe half of that (half of the $60 total). In other 
words $30 refills. It does not have great shelf life once opened so get all 
your patches ready and try to use the whole tube in the same weekend. I 
checked the patches again recently and they are not leaking water into the 
car, not cracking, not popping loose, not anything. Once it was all patched I 
used brush on rust converter and brush on Rustoleum paint to seal it top and 
bottom. I used just a little body caulk to better seal a couple edges under 
the patch where the glue did not squeeze all the way out. NOT house caulk. 
Won't last. The patches are 100% glued in but I overlapped the patch enough 
but did not spread a wide enough band of epoxy to seal 100% of the edge 
underneath. Did not want to create a cavity where debris might accumulate. 

Don't use it anywhere structural of course. Perfect for battery trays, rocker 
panels, door skins, floor grafts, panelwagon creations (fill in windows with 
steel), sunroof or oval window grafts on Beetles, etc. Not suitable for 
engine tin b/c I think the engine tin gets hotter than the glue says it is 
rated for. I'd try it anyhow though b/c it is non-structural. Maybe it would 
last, maybe it wouldn't. 

Bought mine from a body shop supplier here in town. Your town has it too I 
suspect. Perhaps Lordo brand? I'd have to look to be sure. 

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L
