Date: Thu, 21 May 2009 13:12:39 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: vanagonvw <vanagonvw(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Gauages: Non-Dakota and Good Quality Alternatives?

vanagonvw wrote:
> Now I have a "new" engine, and no trust, no comfort zone, and have some
> trepidations about what might be going on back there, especially since its
> my first rebuild on an air cooled. I even thought about one of those "no
>   
Yup, this is when it gets scary - it's even worse when you're on the 
third set of heads because you've been dropping valve seats because of 
high CHTs ;)  That's why I went with the DD gauge as it seems to be the 
most accurate and has a warning light to bug me when CHTs are getting to 
high.  I spent way too much $$$ on this latest set of heads to be 
dropping valve seats again so more information, the better!  Plus, this 
time I'm doing stuff like deck height and stuff, so I want to know as 
much as I can.

I think it's one thing when you're dealing with a stock engine from the 
factory, or one that you already know it's trends.  Remember, while the 
average driver only cares about trends, the engineers that built our 
engines definitely wanted to see the most accurate numbers possible.  
When you're dealing with a rebuilt engine, especially one done by 
yourself, having accurate temperature information is extremely helpful.  
It's also extremely helpful if you've started tweaking things around 
such as fuel mixture, timing, etc.

> Anyway, just one of many thoughts going through my head as I get ready to
> light the candle and keep my fingers crossed. Paying a ton for a CHT gauge
> that doesn't monitor all the cylinders, is not the best place to put my
> money, but I wish I had a four way setup, until I got comfortable, and then
> I wouldn't have much concern.
>   
I currently have senders for cylinders 1 and 3 and I'm planning on just 
switching which sender the gauge is looking at, eventually putting 
senders on all 4.  For 18 bux, it's not that expensive to add another DD 
thermocouple sender.  Thermocouple switches are really expensive so I'm 
just using a thermocouple plug instead.  My temps were consistently the 
same every time I drove on the freeway, so stopping to change which head 
to monitor should yield pretty good results... that, or have the 
passenger change it.. or even myself while I'm driving..

Mike
