From: Zack Jarrett <zack.jarrett(-at-)cox.net>
To: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 26 May 2009 12:58:25 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Solo engine removal idea

Solo engine removal isn't so bad as long as you aren't struggling to  
balance the engine on a wee-little floor jack.

I use an ATV/Motorcycle jack to remove the engine and the engine  
balances on there just fine on its own.  It's nice to have help to  
remove the engine but I can get my type IV motor out alone at need  
using it.  I've also heard that a hydraulic lifting table is the way  
to go; I imagine it's practically identical to using the atv jack.

Since the engine comes out of the bus from the bottom (unless you have  
an early model with the removable rear apron) I don't see how lifting  
the engine from above is going to be much help.  Putting the engine on  
a stand is an entirely different matter and I could see that requiring  
either a high-lifting table or some other lifting apparatus (like the  
winch connected to a beam).  I'm not so sure about the idea of using  
the rain gutters to hang a lift from...  Given that the gutters are  
undeniably good at holding things up (ie, supporting the roof rack  
from the bottom) I have no idea how strong they are at holding things  
down.  If I read your post correctly, your rear beam will be a fulcrum  
and the front beam will be holding down the end of the lever while you  
winch from the back.  The end result is that the front beam will be  
lifting UP on the gutter.  The gutter can certainly support some  
amount of upward force but I have no idea what the limit is.  Also,  
the longer your moment arm the more force you'll be exerting there at  
the front.  I'd hate to see my gutters tweaked up and out of shape for  
an experiment.  If you do try the experiment, start with less weight  
than your 220 pounds.  Tie some children up to it or something first  
then add weight until you get to your target.

Best,
Zack



On May 26, 2009, at 11:46 AM, Adam Lunoe wrote:

> I have been wondering about a similar thing, but using an A frame
> mounted to the bus itself to crane the engine.
