From: Zack Jarrett <zack.jarrett(-at-)cox.net>
To: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 27 May 2009 09:07:49 -0700
Subject: AZ Bus for sale (Tucson)

Hey all,
A friend of mine is selling his 78 Bus.  As far as I know this bus has  
been in Southern AZ for its entire existence.  There is no significant  
rust; just a light patina on the roof and in the gutters.  Inside of  
the air scoops is beautiful, as are the front steps and the floor  
throughout.

As far as I can tell the bus has never had any significant body work.   
The front bumper is in great shape, the rear bumper is a wee bit  
dented in the middle, but the body itself is gorgeous.  There's no  
wrinkling around the engine in the engine compartment; there's no  
denting of the quarter panels, front or rear.  The doors all look  
great.  The glass is all there (although it's tinted).

The bus has great looking seats (rear, middle, and driver/passenger)  
that were reupholstered 3-4 years ago.  The seats are comfy and in  
great shape.  The headliner is in good shape.

The bus was running until about 1.5 years ago when the engine failed.   
It has been sitting since then.  The transmission is still installed  
and worked fine (no grinding or anything).  The bus is in rolling  
condition.

The bad:
1)  The paint is all but totally gone.
2)  Somebody installed bulky and ugly side-view mirrors on the doors.
3)  The engine is sitting on the floor of the passenger compartment.   
The bottom end is damaged (there's a really crunchy spot when I turn  
the engine over by hand).  One head is off the engine and that head  
has a dropped exhaust valve seat.
4)  Some PO modified the gasoline filler to be INSIDE the bus.  They  
cut a hole in the deck over the gas tank and ran a filler neck up into  
the storage space right above where the filler neck attaches to the  
tank.  A piece of replacement steel (cut from a parts bus) will be  
included with the bus if the buyer desires.

The condition of the body is really the most compelling thing about  
this bus.  Apart from the above mentioned items the body is absolutely  
cherry.  If you've got a rust bucket with a running engine this could  
be a perfect transplant candidate.  I read about people's issues with  
rust all the time; maybe this bus can be the solution for one of them.

I do not have a financial interest in this bus.  My friend is selling  
it because he was recently laid off from his civil engineering  
drafting job and needs the dough.  The construction related trades are  
really feeling this bad economy.  I told him I'd do my best to help  
him sell the thing.

You can see his Craigslist post at:
http://tucson.craigslist.org/cto/1189426487.html

If you have further questions please feel free to contact me via  
personal email or the seller (Mike) via the craigslist post.
Thanks,
Zack Jarrett
