From: "vanagonvw" <vanagonvw(-at-)gmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 27 May 2009 17:58:41 -0600
Subject: re: Solo engine removal

Well, I was always just an observer on these list when it came to major
overhauls, and I have an 81 vanagon, rather than a bus, so some things are
done differently, but as I read this thread, and others like it, I am
reminded of the many times people have asked if their van can pull a trailer
that weighs XXX amount.

The question is wrong, in that, its not about being able to pull it, so much
as it is being able to stop it, and control it.

I apply the same thing to my experience with yanking and installing the
engine into my vanagon. Getting it out, is not a very big deal because in
addition to whatever help you can get from friend or spouse, gravity is
right there, pulling for you to succeed :-)

Getting it back in?? That is what the topic should be :-)  Gravity is no
longer your friend, and its not hard to drop the engine with just about any
kind of jack. I used a motorcycle jack and had no problems. The reverse is
not true, because the motorcycle jack doesn't have any tilt to it, just
holds the motor parallel to the ground, so it requires either a trans type
of jack with tilt-ability or a lot of heft (I did the latter, but never
again)

Anything that works like a winch to pull the motor up, rather than to jack
it up, is the way to go, and I will never do the job again without a
homemade winch across the engine bay to hoist that thing back up and allow
me to tilt it, and slide it onto the input shaft with a lot less stress to
it,  and me, than just muscling (sp?) it into place.

Just an unsolicited opinion, as I am feeling good about having gotten mine
back in, so now I can switch to freakout mode as I try to start it up and
break it in :-)

As an aside, any of you who can do this job with the help of your wife, are
on the top of my list as lucky, maybe call it blessed, in your marriage. I'm
divorced eleven years, and for eighteen years before that, I knew better
than to ask my wife to do anything like that with me. Always a disaster, so
give em a hug for me, count your blessings, and buy em something pretty
every now and then, because you are living with a truly rare and exotic
animal that many of us would appreciate being attached to. :-)

John
