From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 28 May 2009 09:06:50 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] re: Solo engine removal

> As an aside, any of you who can do this job with the help of your wife, are
> on the top of my list as lucky, maybe call it blessed, in your marriage.
> I'm divorced eleven years, and for eighteen years before that, I knew
> better than to ask my wife to do anything like that with me. Always a
> disaster, so give em a hug for me, count your blessings, and buy em
> something pretty every now and then, because you are living with a truly
> rare and exotic animal that many of us would appreciate being attached to.
> :-)

I knew mine was a keeper b/c shortly after we married I injured a hand pretty 
badly at work and she finished rebuilding the engine for me... VBG! Ran good 
but we should have turned the crank. Mains were a little loose. 

She's pretty patient with me and my projects. To get her off the hook we had 
two sons and once they are grown up a little more we'll be ready to race cars 
and build bridges - TEAM SLOWPOKE! Well except the first one doesn't like to 
get his hands dirty. VBG! The 3 year old though is a gearhead through and 
through. Grease? No problem. Reach up under a bus in a field for parts? 
Battle snakes for rare German parts? No problem.... Ignorance is bliss I 
suppose. First one will overcome his "ick" factor when he gets older. I did 
too. 

Getting the engine back in for us is simply sliding engine on floor or plywood 
under the bus. Lift one side up by bending over the rear bumper through the 
engine door and lifting one side. Have lifted with a pry bar before under a 
heater box. Careful not to bend anything. Block of wood under that side. Lift 
other side. Block of wood. Repeat. Once high enough lift with a floorjack. 
Scissors jacks are really basic by comparison. Not only does a person have to 
balance the engine, the other danger is that the jacks will fall over or tilt 
as well. When I could afford a better jack I moved up the lifting appliance 
totem pole. 

I think a person could put a cherry picker over the engine hatch and lift the 
engine in a late bay. Dunno if there is enough room for enough range of 
motion. 

In a '70 though with that removable rear panel - just roll the bus forward 
after you drop the engine on to blocks. With my Beetle and 3 of us thirsty 
beer drinking guys we'd drop the engine onto blocks (no real elevation 
change, just away from the tranny) and tilt the whole car up on two wheels 
and roll it forward. Can't reinstall it that way though of course. We let the 
car down gently to avoid other vehicle problems. 

Lost a clutch near Pisa, Italy. Did the Beetle engine out in a parking lot. 
Used scissors jacks. Don't let the engine droop on the lower studs. Bent mine 
very slightly and wasted 2+ hours trying to figure out why the engine 
wouldn't seat on the tranny. Fixed that and all was installed in 30 mins. 

Chris in Cookeville, TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L (Corvair implanted)
'65 Beetle 2.0L Heinz-57 Edition (little of this, little of that)
various low mileage critters ('cause they're LAZY)
