Date: Sat, 30 May 2009 08:58:59 -0700 (PDT)
From: J Stafford <sunbus(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Trip Report - week II

20090523-25 Missoula, MT and vicinity
Hwy 200 East, one hr from Missoula, is Blanchard Creek Rd.  5-8 miles
in we met up with family & friends who have a quarter-century trad.
of camping here Memorial Day weekend.  Three (or 4?) generations plus
friends bring the headcount over 40.  At least a half-dozen dogs 
(beagle, ratterrier, cockapoo, greyhound, malamute, many mutts) and
two 7 wk old kittens.  It's my rare treat to have a young kitten in
my lap next to a roaring campfire.  Lots of food, brew and easy-
going folks.  
Some of the teenagers take an interest in my bus, so I give them the
tour.  And encourage them to sit in the pilot's seat and try it on
for size.  Photo op - they pose and take snapshots w/phones, cameras.
The teens are overheard that "there's one in Bonner, and you can
always paint it orange", etc.  Now they know about type2.com and
thesamba.com.  No cell or internet on their phones out here.  
Saturday night some other teens made a huge bonfire w/5' tall logs.
Right after I turned in a light rain began to fall, and later a true
rainfall.  I heard the teenagers switch from a heavy bass stereo to
accoustic guitar (beneath an easy-up for shelter) giving us old
fogies quiet for sleep.
AM band DXing tonight - received a fine signal from Sacramento, CA.
Blanchard Creek is also flowing fast and icy cold, wakes/sobers you up.
There's been a flood watch for rivers West of the Continental Divide,
from the warm weather melting the snowpack.

20050526 Missoula, MT
Prepare Missoula exit strategy.  Shop for food, beer, ice, etc. Baby-
wipes for waterless cleaning in camp & 2" folding chair webbing.
As I lowered the Westy pop-up roof Sat nite, I kicked the drain plug
out of the Coleman ice chest.  It drained onto the floor, so I plugged
it and mopped up the ice water w/towel.  Sun am I draped the towel
over my lawn chair next to a fire.  Dried towel & melted the chair
webbing.  D'oh!  Spent an hour re-webbing the melted parts of chair.
I prefer to use the Westy icebox for dry storage & an ice chest for
cold storage.  The ice box does not keep cold well enough & the ice
chest can double as a bench in camp.
Went to the mall to get a Gyro and saw lovely blonde Libby from
the weekend camp.  Her brunette friend said the mall kiosk is not so
good and suggested the mother store up the hill on South St.
She was right - awesome Greek food at the Acropolis.  The mall kiosk
is run by high-schoolers.  Planning to leave Missoula around 8am.
Tire pressure check, front=40psi rear=52psi.  Brake fluid & oil = OK.
Red '67 TypeI sighting while refuelling.

20050527 I-90 & US89  Missoula, MT to Mammoth, WY
Said goodbyes to my Missoulian friends and got on the slug-slab 
I-90.  Well maintained 4-lane divided hwy. Easy fuel stops.  Signs
of very high water in all the rivers nearby.  Flood watch due to high
temps may cause decks on riverfront property to change into to docks.
White over blue Westy sighting on I-90 near US89.  Great scenery in
the Gallatin area.
Fuel up In Gardiner, MT for the Yellowstone N.P. tour.  $25 park
entry fee and $14 to camp at Mammoth campground.  Only a 6 hr drive
today.  Nice camp with basic amenities, flush toilets, picnic table,
fire ring.  Plan to see Mammoth & move on to Tower Junction tomorrow.

20050528  Yellowstone: Mammoth to Tower.
Up early and off to the Mammoth hot springs.  Tall & wide travertine
towers over the Mammoth visitor center.  Whisps of steam rise in cool
45F morning air off the hot water bubbling up through the terraces
of ivory colored stone.  Just a hint of hydrogensulfide in the air.
Head to Tower Fall camp for one of the last
campsites.  Similar amenities, but no running water & vault toilets.
Each site (-at-) $12/nite.  Backtrack a little to petrified tree and the
Slough Creek camp (via 5mi dirt rd.).  Slough Cr. camp has 29 sites
right up next to the creek.  5 sites are closed & under 6" of creek.
Saw 2 bison up close to the dirt road.  Herds along Mammoth-Tower rd.
Tower Fall trail is closed at the base of the falls, due to hi water.
White air-cooled Vanagon siting.  Speed limit is 45, but 35 (-at-) jcns.
Go as fast as you feel comfortable to hit a moose, bison or gawking
tourist.  Expect delays for same & road construction areas.  Plans to
find a spot in a mega-camp tomorrow, either Fishing Bridge or
Bridge Bay.

20080529 Yellowstone: Tower to Madison via Yellowstone Lake.
Wakeup call 5:30am is a yuppie squeak toy (car alarm) and doors
slamming shut.  (Lots of German language overheard on trails here
and every German I have driven with has displayed excellent road
'manners'.  So it must be Americans who disegard the center line,
doublepark blocking the road to take wildlife photos, assert the
right of way when they should yield, etc.  Pretty sloppy driving.)
No sense in admonishing the source of early morning nuisance, so I
rise, feast and move South to the canyon.  Had the lower falls brink
to myself.  Very few are up and out at 6:30am.  The upper falls are
also very healthy due to high water levels.  Proceed to Bridge Bay
for a campsite (-at-) $20.  Parking slab, table, ring and flush toilets.
I am photographed and given the honor of being the 1st to camp here
in 2009.  There is no other camping south of here (-at-) this time.
White over burgandy Vanagon siting, with wave back.
Light traffic, so I cruise to W.Thumb, OldFaithful and almost to
Madison.  Stop for brunch and slowly make my way back to Bridge Bay
and stopping at every site except for OldFaithful (BTDT'87).  It's
just too built up and crowded w/tourists, so I bypass it both ways.
Lots of volcanic activity w/water & mud along the Firehole River.
I love the smell of H2SO4 in the morning. ;-)  Firehole falls &
Grand Prismatic Spring were some favorite spots of mine.  Crossed
the Continental Divide 4x today and am back in Bridge Bay camp w/
two barking dogs from all the hiking.  Plans to exit Yellowstone
via Lewis L. and the South entrance tomorrow am.   

-Jack  '73 Westfalia
