From: "charles carmichael" <vwbuspilot(-at-)intergate.com>
To: "type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 9 Jul 2003 14:31:41 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: [VB] neighbors suck/65 project bus FOR SALE/trade 

>After reading the threads on this and living near
>Montgomery Alabama I had to throw my 2-cents worth >in.
> Like David and Susan, we have few regulations felt by
>most of the rest of America.  In my town a junker in
>the yard only adds to the property value, a full tank
>of gas is a plus!

Not true I also live in Montgomery,AL. I have been harassed by the local
doughnut patrol three times now about cars in the yard. In one house I lived
in there wasn't a paved driveway so I parked in the grass where the driveway
would have been. It was a duplex and the neighboor and I where both told we
had to park on the street because we couldn't park OUR cars in OUR front yard
even though there was not paved driveway. So my nieghbor who worked at a local
gravel co. Had the whole yard covered with gravel YES no yard to mow again
just a squirt of weed killer here and there. The next time I got a little
orange sticker on my bus overnight. It seems that if your car sits on the side
of the road in front of your house with a flat tire for more than 36 hours its
considered abandoned and will be towed at your expence I changed the tire
right before a tow truck pulled up to tow my bus exactly 37 hours from the
time the sticker was placed on my windshield. The third time a friend left a
412 fastback in my driveway because he had to move and couldn't sell the car
before time to go. I told him leave me the key and title signed over to me so
I can keep it "legal" till it sells. I was at HCBF at the time he left it. He
took the key and title with him to CALI. My noisey OLD nieghbor had it towed
before I got back from HCBF it wasn't even a matter of 4 days. All I got to
let me know it was towed was a bill from Waldrip towing co. So don't let
Alabama rednecks fool you they dont like german metal only El Cominos and Big
4x4 in front yards.............. CHAD
