From: "Sage Green" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 09 Jul 2003 21:14:59 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] re: belly pan hardware

Please don't put 'philips head' or 'pan head' screws in the belly pan.

I pulled the belly pan from my '72 Westy this month.


I wound up twisting off three of the eight hex headed screws.  They were 
solidly rusted in the 'capture nuts'.

I could not even hope to have gotten them of it they were philips or cheese 
head screws.  A drill bit and an easy out got 2 of 3 busted screws out. the 
easy out broke off in the third screw, so I creamed that last one with a 
chisel and BFH.

I took one hex screw down to the local hardware store, and they had a 
perfect match, and included the washer.  Perfect in that the thread was the 
same sheet metal thread, and the hex head was the same, but the new screws 
came with a pointed end, not the self threader end that was on the screw I 
took in.

Still, I bought -4- for some $1.60

I don't feel bad about tearing the heads off three of eight screws.  When I 
tried to take the heat shield off a Nissan 240SX cat converter, I tore the 
heads off all of the four hex screws on the cat converter.  Four of four.

Size??  I don't know right now.  If you need a PMail, I can stop by the 
hardware store on the way home and check it out.  I just threw away the 
brown bag that had the info in it.


Wait..  I just found the receipt...


I'm back.

I called the hardware store, and got the nut and bolt guy.  I gave him my 
product number (61086) . . .  he found them in 'automotive screws' section.

10mm hex head
6.3 mm width (like, 1.4" = 6.35mm)
181 thread pitch ( some one help out here??)
20 mm long (pointy end)
5/8" outer diameter of the attached washer.

Black . . .

was $.46 each

Barry sends

BTW, the nut and bolts guy must have had to run from teh phone,  back to the 
bins at least three times to get me this information.  I really appreciate 
that.  But that's the kind of hardware store this is.  They cut my 'R' keys 
for less than $2, and they almost always have the blank, or get new stock 
very quickly.
