Date: Thu, 10 Jul 2003 07:57:45 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Stan Brown <browns4s(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: [VB] neighbors suck/65 project bus FOR SALE/trade

TN is rather lax too - if you are out of the metropolitan areas. I like it 
that way. There are a few real junkers moving around here but mostly the 
cars are in good condition.

The city where I live (Cookeville) has recently passed a law saying that 
all the vehicles at your house must be registered or they get towed. That 
law is simply to control those few people who insist on surrounding their 
house with "dead" vehicles. If you live in the county there are no laws 
like this but if the neighbors complain enough I'm sure the county would 
fuss if you were starting a junkyard on your property. Many homes have an 
"extra" car sitting on the property somewhere and nobody raises a stink. 
Might be different if I lived 1 street over in the new neighborhood. As it 
stands my street is a 1978 street. Folks keep their places up.

We're shopping for a bigger home and let me tell you we've turned down some 
nice houses that were next to junky properties. We stopped to see one house 
that was "perfect" - size, features, garage - but drove away without a look 
thanks to the junky trailer next door and the fellow doing gravel throwing 
doughnuts and wheelies up and down the driveway on his four wheeler.... I 
like motorcycles, four wheelers, and dirt bikes but I don't want to live 
with the sound of them outside my house daily nor look at some fellow's 
collection of 9 rusting finest refugee cars from the 70's... Or his old 
appliance collection either. <grin>

As a home owner I hope my neighbors would be as concerned about the 
appearance of their property (grass cut, trash gone, limited lawn 
ornaments) as the rest of the neighborhood so we can stand a chance at 
selling our houses at their true value rather than under it.

As four our house hunt... It is becoming clear that we may need to stay 
where we are and put up a 2 car garage at the rear of the property... Can't 
seem to find a balance of price, size, quality, neighborhood, with garage 
anywhere else in our county.



Chris Mills in TN
