Date: Thu, 15 Nov 2007 12:50:25 -0500
From: Jules <jules.herr(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Eddie Goodwin" <eddiegood(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: "type2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Torsion Arm Replacement, was: Front Wheel Bearing Adjustment

On Nov 15, 2007 10:23 AM, Eddie Goodwin <eddiegood(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:
> how was the torsion arm replacement? did it take long?

It was actually easier that I thought it was going to be. I've had the
new torsion arms for about a year and I wish I had done the job sooner
- might have been able to get more miles out of what are now
completely worn tires - the old ball joints were in bad shape.

I'd say in total the job took about 6-7 hours at a relatively casual pace.

I recommend that you use new sway bar bushing clamps - that way you
can just cut your old ones off with an angle grinder. I used my
grinder to slice off the tabs that lock the clamp together rather than
try to remove them and it took about 5-10 minutes on each side.

> I have a new set waiting to go on, just haven't found the time.

I know the feeling but you will thank yourself when the job is done.

> Kinda wanted an idea of what I'm going up against. I have several sets
> of instructions and it looks
> to be a weekend job.

I used the instructions in the type 2 library by Mike Gensler:

http://type2.com/library/suspens/balljoin.htm

They were accurate and easy to follow.

Tools I recommend for the job: large channel lock pliers for putting
the new sway bar bushing clamps on - I thought this was going to be
the hardest part of the job but it went quite easily. Pitman arm press
or a large enough tie-rod end press or a two-jaw puller for popping
the ball joint ends from the steering knuckle. You'll also need a
1-1/16" or 27mm socket for the ball joint bolts.

You may also want to install new torsion arm seals, I put on 4 new
ones though the old ones looked good enough to reuse.

The only snag I hit on the project was with one of the locking tabs
that holds on one of the bump stop. On my passenger side the little
piece of metal used to pull the tab out broke on me - so I had to
basically wedge some screwdrivers in there and work it out - not too
difficult - but without removing the bump stops I think
re-installation of the upper torsion arms would be very difficult - if
not impossible. Take care when removing the bump stop locking tab so
as not to break it.

You'll probably want to consider getting an alignment after the job is
done as you'll be removing the eccentric nuts which are used to adjust
the wheel camber... I haven't yet found a place where I trust them to
do this job on my bus, so this might be something to think about
before you get started. For installation, follow the instructions in
Bentley and make sure the notch on these nuts is pointing straight
forward - that should give you a good baseline to start with and the
bus will be drivable when the job is done.

Oh, and don't forget to out the brake line clips back on when
installing the nuts on the upper torsion arms - they can be easy to
overlook upon re-installation.

Good luck!!

peace
jules
'71 1600 dp (westy)
Troy, NY
