Date: Tue, 20 Nov 2007 11:42:38 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: FW: [T2] Again... has anyone photos?

     You know it is worth wondering if you were doing this conversion if strictly you even need the trans carrier mounts.  After all the Vanagons abandoned them with the exact same driveline... sort of.  The carrier bar in the rear is equally stout and I think the front mount is actually perhaps far more rigid on the bus than on the average worn out vanagon mount, but the Vanagon does have double mounts to the rear carrier bar, one for vertical, one angled for side to side component where the '73-'79 is a bit skimpy with just the angled mount doing double duty back there.  Also having the front of the nosecone not flex (angling in the vertical mostly) is a bit more critical with the bus style to avoid nosecone wear and binding whereby the Vanagon side shifters seem to have come with so much slop even with all new parts, probably doesn't matter so much.  Just makes me wonder a bit though for anyone else thinking about such a conversion perhaps a bit more reinforcement to the
 rear mounts would be sufficient enough, maybe even fit in a vanagon carrier bar and the little truss carrier mounting to the engine, would probably fit or modify pretty easily.
   
       Of course the bigger question would be why to do any of this instead of just buying a later bus if you want a T4....  I mean I love the T4 engine and all, but unless you truly love your '68-'71 beyond belief, there is an easier alternative, comes with disc brakes stock, not much heavier really, if you get a '72-'73 pretty much looks the same inside and out if you paint it green or white, etc, etc...  That being said I'm still going to proceed to cut up my mint '77 next summer when I get it up here for a syncro driveline install so WTH I guess I'm no better.
   
  John

Mark Reed <tabithamark(-at-)windstream.net> wrote:
  
bolt up. The big challenge was the trans mounts, as there are none in the
68. I just mimicked the 72 -79 set up as best I could. It has worked out
great. The only body mods I made were 2 holes in each frame rail for the
trans mounts. I didn't want to hack up the bus to do this either.
