From: "Marcus Schaper" <mail(-at-)marcusschaper.de>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "'John Anderson'" <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
Date: Tue, 20 Nov 2007 13:40:34 -0500
Subject: Engine/trans mounts

I am digressing here, but this post caught my eyes ... I have a Porsche 5
speed for my '76 camper and the one installation concern I have is the lack
of a transmission carrier. Now, if the Vanagons did not have it, would a
rear Vanagon bar in combination with the fairly beefy 911 mounts in front do
the trick? Any toughts on this? Engine is a 2L type 4, but will be replaced
with a torquier one at some point (2.4 or 2.7 type 4). Obviously, I'd like
to have drivetrain mounts that are up to this. Bus is a bare shell, so now
is the time to do it right.

Any thoughts on this? Mike Gensler (since you are back ...), what are your
experiences regarding this?

Marcus

From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
     You know it is worth wondering if you were doing this conversion if
strictly you even need the trans carrier mounts.  After all the Vanagons
abandoned them with the exact same driveline... sort of.  The carrier bar in
the rear is equally stout and I think the front mount is actually perhaps
far more rigid on the bus than on the average worn out vanagon mount, but
the Vanagon does have double mounts to the rear carrier bar, one for
vertical, one angled for side to side component where the '73-'79 is a bit
skimpy with just the angled mount doing double duty back there.  Also having
the front of the nosecone not flex (angling in the vertical mostly) is a bit
more critical with the bus style to avoid nosecone wear and binding whereby
the Vanagon side shifters seem to have come with so much slop even with all
new parts, probably doesn't matter so much.  Just makes me wonder a bit
though for anyone else thinking about such a conversion perhaps a bit more
reinforcement to the  rear mounts would be sufficient enough, maybe even fit
in a vanagon carrier bar and the little truss carrier mounting to the
engine, would probably fit or modify pretty easily.
