To: turtlebus(-at-)netzero.net
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: mikeg(-at-)pcisys.net
Date: Tue, 16 Apr 2002 09:52:21 US/Mountain
Subject: RE: Oil pump question

>Considering replacing the oil pump in my 75 2000cc. Oil pressure 
>is just not right and the pump is the only thing that wasn't 
>replaced during the rebuild. 

Your pump may or may not be the problem.  There are as many different things 
that can cause bad oil pressure as there are places for oil to leak on VW 
motor.  The original oil pumps are made really well and will provide good 
service for a very long time.

>1. Has anyone used any of the aftermarket oil pumps on the 
>pancake engine? Results good/bad? Longevity? Currently looking 
>into CB Performance but looking for suggestions.

My opinion is that the aftermarket "hi volume" oil pumps are, for the most 
part, complete crap!  Before anyone jumps on this, let me say I've heard good 
things about the Gene Berg pump.  I'm talking about the ones you see in all the 
VW rags for like $60.  They leak.  Plain and simple.  The metal they use for 
the cover seems to be POROUS!  I've got 1 on each of my 3 air cooleds and they 
ALL leak.  I even had one of them machined to make sure it was flat.  Same 
problem - still leaks.  If you're going that route, do yourself a big favor and 
spend the extra money for the Gene Berg one.  Next time any of the motors come 
out, I'm replacing the pumps with either original ones, or the Gene Berg one.

>2. Is it possible to change the pump without pulling the engine?

Yes you can.  It's not the easiest job, but I've done it on my 73 (don't even 
think about it on a 914!).  If I remember, you've got to support the engine so 
you can drop the mustache bar.  Which means removing the muffler and at least 
one of the heat exchangers (this is on a 73 - maybe the 75 exhaust is not in 
the way of removing the mustache bar?).

Mike g.
73 Westy
58 single cab - Zorm (for 13 more days - sniff)



---------------------------------------------
This message was sent using Endymion MailMan.
http://www.endymion.com/products/mailman/


