From: Tyler Hardison <tyler(-at-)tsioregon.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 16 Apr 2002 19:40:43 -0700
Subject: Westy pop-top.



Hi Volks!

Just wanted to say hello to the list and tell you about my adventure this 
evening.  Being still pumped on adrenalin I just wanted to write a short 
little story about tonight.

I am now the proud owner of a yet to be named 1972 Westy Pop-Top. She's in 
decent shape considering how much I paid for her. PO pulled her from a 
neighbor's front lawn and fixed it up a little. Looking into the engine 
compartment revealed a host of rigs and loose wires (EEK). But overall 
complete and running well. Except for the exhaust leak thats somewhere. (More 
on this in a bit) The interior is in OK shape, tent is tearing, rubber is in 
poor shape but holding, front seats are OK, but rear seat/bed has some tears, 
handles are missing from cabinets, and the sink is in mostly unusable 
condition for now.  But onwards and upwards.. It starts, idles (loudly) and 
seems to respond to gas nicely with no signs of unevenness (dual carbs).  No 
rust that I can find except on the floor by the rear of the sliding door 
which seems mostly surface, and the floor itself needs replacing.  

So I meditate for a second. I offer the guy $1100, and then we are on our 
merry way.  Thus begins act 2.

Oh and did I mention that reverse is not there? :-)

After the guy pushes me out of his driveway, then we are on our way.  Its now 
7pm which is sun-down here in the valley, and we have 94 miles to go to get 
home (wheee). The first thing I notice is that I cant see. The windows are 
dirty from the recent rains and sitting, so I pull into a gas station figure 
I'll fill up the tank and wash the windows. I realize after shutting off the 
engine that I've pulled up to the wrong side to get gas. So I attempt to 
start her, *click* *click*. Followed by some expletives that I'd rather not 
say.  However, being a VW fanatic, I always know that this comes with the 
territory.  The first thing I think is maybe the battery is weak.. I go back 
to check the connections, and yes, the terminals are a bit corroded and the 
battery doesnt look so new. So my wife, my daughter, and I stop into 
McDonalds for some needed nourishment and more meditation. I decide to buy a 
battery, a terminal cleaner, and a wrench. So off to the local parts store, I 
ask a few of the natives, to which the consensus is a Kragen's located about 
three blocks from our present location. So I get a battery, the tools (should 
have brought my own dangit), and a terminal cleaning tool. We race back and 
install the new battery, the nut on the positive terminal is of course rusted 
up. but I manage to work it off and clean it all up. 

New battery in place... Check
Cleaned ... Check.
Starting? Nope. Argh. More expletives.

So I start to meditate again. Poke some more wires, then a brillant flash of 
light. Actually it was a car with it's lights on pulling into the gas 
station, it's dark. But I have a flashlight.  Nonethless, I remember my Muir 
book, "Check the solenoid and starter...." I climb under the bus.. much 
easier then a beetle BTW, and arc the solenoid, it pops, and the starter 
starts whirring. So now I'm thinking I'm pretty smart and slick. I jump into 
the drivers seat, turn the key, VROOOM... About this time wife comes around 
and is giving me that look. Its time to roll.  I put $10 in the tank and 
we're headed home. Whew. 

She drives like a dream for the 2 hours to get home, mostly around 55 MPH. 
Its backfiring a little. I really need to get in there and dial it in. First 
thing is valves. I am in the camp that thinks you can never adjust those dang 
things enough. Thank god for Volkswagen making it reasonably easy. 

Anyway enough of the rant. If anyone wants to give me advice on the tranny 
please feel free. Currently, no-reverse, grinds going into first. Smooth 
otherwise.

Tyler

1970 Beetle Tweety
1972 Westy Nameless
