Date: Wed, 17 Apr 2002 08:29:02 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Steve Laughlin <slaughlin(-at-)rushmore.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Poptop, seat pads and engine tin


>Just thought I'd throw this to the masses.  As I type this my son is out 
>sanding down the luggage rack fiberglass portion of or 71 westy and it is 
>really looking good.  The luggage rack brackets or tie downs I took of are 
>really rusty and was wondering if anyone had a source for replacements

I have seen replacements in the VW catalogs (Bus Depot or RMMW or...) and I 
think I saw some in a Amrine Supply catalog and an RV catalog.

I simply wire brushed mine and painted them.

>Also need pads for the fold down seat and jump seat.

Same VW catalogs. Or make your own with upholstery stuffing (much cheaper). 
Use either JUTE or Cotton batting or foam. Just visit an upholstery 
supplier (fabric store) and they can show you alternatives. The VW catalog 
pads are simply a layer of foam (10 cents) with another piece of foam glued 
along the front edge to fatten up the front edge of the seat base (another 
10 cents). Once you've seen one it is no big deal to make your own. I 
originally thought that the catalog pads were something special - formed 
and sculpted. Not so...

>Finally, I have the engine compartment just about done though I have a 
>large circular hole where the gas heater vented out and also ( it was a 
>factory gas heater install) have a gap in my fire wall after I removed the 
>gas heater.  Any suggestions on filling the holes or open gaps.

Just make a metal patch with about 1/2" of overlap on all sides and pop 
rivet it in or use screws or whatever. If you want to take the time you 
could use this same panel, use a body man's flanger tool and create a real 
patch panel in and MIG weld it in place and then grind the welds down until 
you can't tell a patch was put there. Seal the other side so water doesn't 
get into the overlap and start a rusting process.

Can't suggest repairs for the firewall b/c I'm not sure what the gap would 
look like.

Hang in there - your efforts will be well worth it.
Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


