Date: Sun, 23 Jun 2002 22:36:36 -0400
From: Jamie Rivers <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: type2 List <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>,
Subject: Buses By the Falls 2002, Niagara Falls Canada

Well,,, after a super super weekend at the campsite, surrounded by Buses, I am going to say we had a very Fantastic weekend!

I was overwhelmed by the turn out, and the distance people drove.  Some with early split buses, bays,Vanagon, and EVC's

Chuck, Rebecca and their son Ellis , Notmeyer really busted their rear to get here , 2500 miles in 5 days!
From Reno Nevada!

There was a couple of local folks who had just about as monumental trip.... and they only drove 2 hrs from Toronto... on their very first trip!  Adam and Heather Narraway , with the kids, finally got
the bus in gear!.... promised to appear at Everybus,, promised to appear at Busfusion, and finally on the Road!
Along side that was AJ and Cara with their first long trip as well! 

Some of the Folks from the East Coast made a real vapour trail too!
We had people from Que, Ont, Illinois, NY, NJ, Mass,

It made for a Cool time, driving around Niagara Falls on a "BUS" tour, viewing the natural beauty, and I really enjoyed the Wine Tasting stop!  

The weekend was in the low 30 deg C temps .... about 80f , even though we had a little rain during the evenings, it was still great!

Greg Potts and family treated everyone to a super pancake breakfast saturday morning,, and Greg also created the official Logo that I used for the Tee shirts, and the Webpages.

I was soooo happy to see so many folks having a good time, in spite of the heat!

I'll have to post more when I get the Photos developed!
If you have some pics of the weekend, could you send them to me please.. jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net keep in mind I have a dial up server :-)


If you want to get a Tee Shirt, I am having more made early this week,,, email or call me and I will add your request to the order,,
They have the Buses By the Falls Logo with 2002  as a pocket crest and also on the left sleeve.


-- 
Jamie Rivers
http://www.globalserve.net/~jrivers/BBTF2002.htm
Buses By the Falls 2002
Niagara Falls CANADA
-- 
Jamie Rivers
