Date: Thu, 04 Apr 2002 09:54:47 -0500
From: Bill M <wmonk(-at-)snet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Fuel smell revisited

I have been trying to trace a fuel smell in my 78 Bus. I made sure I 
replaced every hose including the hidden one on the left vent line.
On the right side I only had one connection between the plastic vent 
line and the metal vent line. I also got some great tips on replacing
hose between the filler pipe and tank. I tried the Napa hose and failed. 
I am going to try again and cut it longer with a good angle at
the tank end. The original hose isn't leaking yet ,but is starting to 
get shabby looking. I also figure why I have it apart for the fourth time
I will replace it. Now I still have the smell and I can trace it to the 
fan area. When I stick my nose down in the fan when it's not running
I can smell fuel.(big nose get's anywhere: ) ) So I checked my lines of 
the charcoal canister. The one on the bottom of the canister goes to
a pipe fitting of the tin near the alternator. The bigger line on top 
goes to the airfilter housing . The small line on top connects to the 
tee in the vent lines above the engine. I checked the valve on the air 
housing and it's closed when not running. I still have to check and see 
if it opens
as per the test in Bentley when running. I am wondering if maybe the 
fuel smell is coming from the charcoal canister leaching back into the tin.
I blew on the hose from the air filter into the canister and I smelled 
fuel stronger in the fan area. If I figured this right when the motor is 
running
the fan sucks in air and forces it over the motor and throught the hose 
fitting on the tin ,then pushes the air into the canister,which somehow
draws the fumes from the tanks and forces them into the air cleaner and 
then into the plenum to be burned off. Could a bad canister cause this 
smell to "backfeed" into the tin air space? Should there be a oneway 
valve off the tin into the canister? Do I have the hosed hooked up wrong?
Am I nuts and the smell is coming from somewherelse?

Thanks,
Bill M
Mystic,CT
78 Westy

