From: "bustedebus" <joe(-at-)bustedbus.com>
To: "list" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "Bill M" <wmonk(-at-)snet.net>
Date: Thu, 4 Apr 2002 11:16:59 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] shifter adjustment and tank hose replacement

Bill,

Gas fumes a can find a spark a ruin your day or even kill you, so for sure
have your battery disconnected and work in a ventilated place (not a windy
one though) a calm cool spring Connecticut day usually does the trick. I
stick a plastic bag over the open fuel pipes.

I got a 5 1/4 inch long piece with the tank end cut at an angle this will
help get all the hose on the tank outlet. I just pulled the cover off and
leaned it back. i.e. remove the air intake boot and unplug the double relay
and voltage regulator. I would also loosen the filler neck from the body
(completely, did you get a new one). Wet the inside of the hose (rubbing
alcohol works the best), slide the new tube over the filler pipe just to
where the stock one was and then slide the hose clamps on facing in the
right direction, then work the other end onto the tank with the short side
toward you. This compensates for the bend. Work the hose all the way to the
flange on the tank then work the other end further onto the filler pipe
until the hose is close to the right spot. Pulling the filler neck into the
correct position will put as little stress on the filler neck elbow as
possible. Tighten the hose clamps. Yard on the pipe and the new hose to make
sure its snug.

Adjusting the shifter,

loosen the stop plate and bracket under bracket. then put the trans in
second gear. Slide the stop plate left (towards driver side) until it stops
resting against the rod and the bottom part of the lever is in plane with
the center line of the bus. The stop plate is just under the bracket flange
and can be moved independent of the bracket with a flat head screw driver.

Glad to here you like the bumper, original used means OEM and that can be
better than new reproductions.

Joe Mitchell
e-mail: sales(-at-)bustedvw.com
phone: 303-545-5084
Hours: Mon-Fri 9am-5pm
       Sat 10am-2pm
Shop online at www.bustedbus.com
All parts guaranteed for 30 days.
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
We are located in beautiful Boulder, Colorado 80301.

-----Original Message-----
From: Bill M [mailto:wmonk(-at-)snet.net]
Sent: Wednesday, April 03, 2002 9:48 PM
To: bustedebus
Subject: Re: [T2] shifter adjustment


Joe,
You have a good memory. I did try and use a section of hose from Napa. I
could not get it to make the bend
without it bunching up around the tank end. How long of a piece did you
use? Maybe I'll try it again. Did you have to drop
the engine a little to get the cover back on over the gas tank? As for
the tranny I replaced all the bushings and was just
looking for some tips to get the shift lever adjusted right. Do you
remember the bumper I bought off you? I had the chance to
see some new ones from ******* and WOW what a difference in thickness.
I tease my buddy that bought it that I see it flap
in the wind when he drives. Hope business is doing well.

Bill Monk
Mystic,CT
78 Westy


