From: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>
To: "Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Fri, 31 May 2002 16:11:01 -0400
Subject: CDI rotors, modifications, and ramblings

I have been seeing a few threads lately on the modification of the stock VW
rotors when using CDI systems.
<http://www.angelfire.com/nm/GoPed/RotorTech.html> So I figured I would give
it a shot, especially considering I have a miss every once in a while.  The
Universal Corp Tiger 581 CDI is what I use. I have used it for 5+ years and
really like it.   Granted this should be done on any CDI system you chose
(MSD, Jacobs, Crane...).

If you need further information and ordering info for these Tiger 581 CDI
units, here is all I know:
<http://www.universal-co.com/CDI.htm> Pretty cruddy description.
<http://www.aircooled.net/new-bin/viewproductdetail.php?keyword2=IGN0002&car
tid=0524200291929233> If that does not work it is PN: IGN0002.   (The
modified rotor is here as well)

From Aircooled.net:
"Also, if you have a high output ignition, here's a tip. Bosch rotors have a
resistor between the middle and end, under the Epoxy. High output ignitions
WILL burn this out, resulting in you tearing your hair out trying to find
the cause of the misfire. Dig it out, and then braze a piece of brass in
place of the resistor. Fresh Epoxy will finish the job nicely. NO MORE
MISS." 

The modified high output rotor is $18.   John modifies them "in house" and
is the only person doing this as far as anyone knows. 

Okay enough background; here is what it takes for a home brew DIY
modification:

WOW! The resistor/wiring in the rotors are complete junk! I cannot believe
that mess can even jump a spark to the wires! 

Let me just say that the experiment to modify the rotor to use a
non-resistor wire was truly educational. I bored out a black rotor (old
German I think) and a red one (Mexi/Brazil?). First off the inside resistor
was different in each of them. The black rotor was superior in this case
with stronger epoxy holding it in and a resistor with a fiberglass interior
surrounded by a thin layer of cooper tube. The red rotor had softer epoxy
and used a thin copper tube filled with a clay like substance (talc?), but
not a hard ceramic at all either. In general I was more impressed with the
black rotor, but I think it was old and you could probably not find a new
equivalent one...? 

I can see how these would burn out; the copper layer is thin to
non-existent. How a powerful spark could even make it though this
restrictive resistor is beyond me. 

First I hogged out the rotor top epoxy with a Dremel tool and
engraving/carving bits. I then used a 10 gauge copper wire to solder between
the copper rotor tip and rotor center cap. This worked very well and should
provide a great current flow. I then mixed up some clear epoxy I had laying
around (I think SuperGlue brand from Home Depot), proceeded to place the
glue in a syringe (sp) to apply in the "canoe" we need to fill in on the
rotor. I think this would be hard to impossible to do without a pointed
applicator like a syringe. 

Let the rotor sit to dry one night. Now tonight I will test the Ohms across
the terminals to ensure we have a good current and the welds are holding
up... I will be very surprised if this did not work though. 

Basically this is a good way to blow an hour modifying two rotors and a good
learning experience. 

If you are not handy with a Dremel or soldering gun definitely give John a
call! The $18 is worth it if you are short on time or have no mechanical
ability.

This is kind of hodge podged together from multiple posts on another list
but hopefully gets the point across :)


Have a great weekend,
Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Microbus Westfalia "Biscuit"
1967 VW Microbus Standard/Westfakia "Dino"  
1979 Porsche 911 SC "Cochese" 


