Date: Tue, 2 Dec 2003 06:44:37 -0500 (EST)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Fuel Evaporation line 

To answer some of the further questions and comments on this subject:

If your vapor recovery system is tight and sealed and your gas cap is
sealed as it ought to be then the tank will eventually develop a vacuum
that the fuel pump (even an FI pump) will not be able to overcome.  At
that point your engine will exhibit signs of fuel starvation.  It will be
"out of gas" even if you have half of the tank filled.

While it is better to run the gas vapors into the carbon canister and from
the canister to the air cleaner as Volkswagen intended it is better to let
them exit to air or to an unconnected canister than develop a vacuum in
the tank.  The vent lines run from the tank up into the cooling towers at
the rear corners of the bus in an antisiphon loop which should prevent gas
from spilling as long as they are connected.

The short lengths of hose used to connect the tank vent lines to the
antisiphon loops are notorious for being degraded or missing.  If these
hoses are not maintained then you will experience fuel spillage when
topping up or on hard cornering after you fill the tank.  The short
lengths connecting the tan vents to the metal lines should lso be replaced
when the opportunity presents itself.  These are less subject to
dgradation but are all at least of legal drinking age and eligible for
retirement.

The larger hoses on the canister runs from the fan shroud to the air
filter housing on a stock system.  If you do not have a stock system then
you should arrange for the hose to dump the vapors in the intake stream
beyond the filter element but before the throttle butterfly.

For those of you with the stock FI system the crankcase gas (PCV) hose is
led into the intake stream AFTER the AFM to prevent the AFM becoming
contaminated by the oil vapors. The vapor hose can safely be led into the
air stream after the filter element but before the AFM.  I imagine this is
to prevent contamination of the air filter element by the gas vapors but
think it is immaterial.  For those of you with type 1 engines there is no
PCV system and the gas vpors can be led in anywhere convenient.

In no case would I combine the PCV and gasoline vapor systems.  If need be
attach two separate taps into your air cleaner although I would tend to
try to introduce PCV gases below the carburetor.  This would be to prevent
contamination of the carbuetor by the crancase gases.

On the 1975 air filter housing the gasoline vapors are dumped into the
housing without control.  On the 1978 filter housing there is a vacuum
controlled valve (or dashpot) that limits the vapor flow under high vacuum
(deceleration) conditions.  I do not think this is of major importance but
mention it for completeness sake.

                             OOK!

Litera Scripta Manent
