Date: Tue, 02 Dec 2003 08:05:04 -0600
From: Chris Mills <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: s r <bugs1973(-at-)yahoo.com>, Type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Propane heater

>MR HEATER PORTABLE BUDDY
>PROPANE HEATER

I've got one. I use it in the garage to warm it up. The room is really 
larger than I think the heater is able to heat but if I leave it on for a 
few hours at "low" it warms it up above 50 degrees which is my threshold of 
comfort.

In a small space (i.e. shed or bus or single room) it is WONDERFUL.

I would not waste your money on the little 2 lb. gas cylinders. Spend 
another $15 or so and buy the hose that allows you to hook it to a barbecue 
grill tank (20 lbs.?). I can run one of those FOREVER and a refill is about 
$10(?). The little canisters are about $3(?). Ten times more gas for 3 
times the price.

The hose also allows you to run any other gas tool on the big tank too as 
an added bonus.

It would be easy i think to create a hook up in your bus for the hose to 
run off of your Westy tank too.

The CO issue... I was curious about how this works. It is not electronic 
which is good I suppose. It is essentially a special nozzle for the pilot 
light. It depends on air passing through the nozzle from below to keep it 
lit. If the oxygen content of the air drops (CO rises to a certain point) 
then the pilot light will go out, the heater will then go out and the gas 
will shut off seconds later. I do not plan to test this with my life or my 
family's life! <grin>

Buy a CO meter.

It will shut off if it tips over which I like too.

For shop heat I love this thing over our old kerosene heater. Smells better 
and is cheaper I think to run. Of course the kerosene heater is a must in 
really cold weather but I would never run it in the house or a bus...


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
1972 Hodaka Wombat 125cc moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
wife, kiddo, dog, and various slightly used cats
