Date: Fri, 13 Sep 2002 12:55:45 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Oil bath correctness & Cleaning?

>From: Jason Elm <jelm2(-at-)yahoo.com>
>Date: Fri, 13 Sep 2002 01:16:36 -0700 (PDT)
>
>But, I took the old oil bath out and it looks totally Jurassic inside.
>There is a cake of gunk in the bottm, which looks like clay.

Use a piece of wood or a plastic putty knife to scrape the gunk out.
The idea is not to scratch the black paint or wipe out the red paint
line that shows you how much oil to put in it.  If you scratch the
paint in the bottom it really isn't a big tragedy since it's covered
in oil all the time, but it's good to try and keep it nice.

Aside: Plastic putty knives are really good for scraping gaskets and
sealants off of valve covers, case halves, and other machined sealing
surfaces that you don't want to muck up.  They are strong enough to do
the job but soft enough that they will give before the metal does.  They
work well with brake cleaner and carb cleaner - the one I have doesn't
melt under these conditions.  Most hardware stores should have them.
 
>The top of the honeycomb compartment is all dusty, and it looks like 
>the horsehair in there is nasty.

The early ones may have been horsehair but I think they are mostly
copper wool.

>How long do these things last?

I would guess as long as you want them to.  The bottom part doesn't
rust much on the inside because of the oil.  I don't think the copper
wool oxidizes much because of the oil wicked up into it.  Rust from
the outside is probably the biggest concern. 

>Seems like you use Kerosene?

Any kind of grease-cutting solvent will work.  Kerosene is reasonably
cheap and safe.  If you have access to something like a parts washer
that would be even better.

>Does this horsehair compartment come apart?

As far as I can tell, with light prying and monkeying with the one on
my Bus, no. 

>The part markings are: 1GM 4087S 211 129 613 B

The '67 parts book online (page 127) doesn't have this part number in it
but your number may have superceded to the number it lists.  Someone with
an earlier parts catalog may be able to comment further.

Matt Roberds


