Date: Sat, 14 Sep 2002 02:33:11 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Paint, insulation, "WB", first gear, plug wires

All,

So I got my Bus in a reasonable state and I've put more miles on it in
the past couple of weeks than I have in the two years I've owned it.
I've still got work to do on it but right now it's just fun to drive
it around town.

Observations:

* I posted before about taking the gearshift apart and having trouble
  getting it back together.  Having the shift rod bushing in the
  bracket is absolutely the key - with that, the bracket stays close
  enough to the floor to make it possible.  You can't use the socket
  to push the spring pin back into the ball -  the pin must be pretty
  well seated before you try to shove the ball into the socket.  Once
  you get it in, constant downward pressure until you get the bolts
  in is your friend - I stood outside the passenger side, pushed down
  with my left hand, also pushed with my head on my left hand, and
  wrenched with my right.

* The key to adjusting the reverse lockout is second gear.  Put the
  gearshift together, and put it in second.  Loosen the bolts a little
  and go under the Bus.  Look up and see the raised lip on the lockout
  plate; pry it around so it's as close as possible to the wide collar
  on the gearshift.  This will make the reverse lockout work correctly
  and should be pretty close to right for the other gears - it may need
  some fore/aft adjusting.

* My clutch operates a lot smoother now that the cable isn't wearing
  a groove in the Bowden tube.  I also fixed my accelerator pedal
  sticking.  Some of it was lubing the pivot under the front of the
  Bus but I think most of it was securing the fan shroud tube.  My
  Bus originally had the cone-spring-washer that would keep the tube
  pressed against the fan shroud, but the carb that's on it now has
  the return spring that goes to the hook screwed to the top of the
  carb.  There also wasn't a grommet on the tube at the front tin,
  so it was free to rattle around.  I put a slit piece of fuel line
  around it, slid it up as far as I could against the fan housing,
  and zip-tied it.  Stock VW fuel line is almost too small of an ID
  to work right for this, even slit lengthwise.  I used some bigger
  tubing I had, 3/8" I think.

* Interstate Batteries sells a "Group 2" 6 V battery that is bigger
  and closer to the original VW spec.  It will fit in the battery
  tray of a '64 but you do have to put it about as far forward as
  it will go so it'll clear the right tail light.  I don't think
  you can use the stock battery cover but I'm not sure - mine is
  made out of wood.   You can make a very credible battery cover
  with a couple of 1x2s set on edge and a piece of 1/4" plywood.
  Just screw the 1x2s to the plywood.  Don't be afraid to "notch"
  the 1x2 on one end to get clearance for the battery cables.
 
* Pep Boys sells the Sta-Lube gear oil pump that fits on their bottles.
  It very much reduces the mess associated with adding gear oil. 

And here's some questions:

* My Bus still has the OG Turkis paint on most of the body.  The OG
  Blauweiss is fading through in spots.  Would it be a good idea to
  use rubbing compound on the paint?  The immediate goal is to make
  it a little shinier, but I don't want to do anything that will make
  life hard for me when I eventually get this Bus repainted.

* My Bus has some 1/4" Styrofoam insulation on the inside of the nose.
  I'm pretty sure this was a PO addition and not stock but I'm curious.
  I know that this can trap moisture against the metal and lead to rust
  and I will probably pull it out of it's not original.

* This Bus was imported into San Fransisco and probably lived in
  northern California for much of its early life.  I found a CA
  gold-on-blue plate "EDCVOSS" under the front seat.  It's got a
  '68 Beetle engine in it now, with "WB" stamped in it on the rear
  vertical surface between the distributor and fuel pump holes.
  The letters are half the height of the engine number - they look
  like those standard machine-shop letter punch sets.  I wonder if
  these are the initials of the person or shop that rebuilt it?
  Anyone ever seen this marking on a case before? 

* Has anyone else ever noticed that the transmission won't "let" you
  into first until you are going slow enough?  Even with the clutch
  in, I can't get the shifter into 1st until I'm below a certain
  speed.  I don't hear grindy gears or anything, it's just like the
  shifter won't go in the slot.  I think this is a design feature,
  as my Dad's '74 Bug is like this too.

* The spark plug wire holders that clip into the fan shroud seem to be
  made for smaller plug wires than I have.  The ones on the Bus now are
  Bosch 7mm according to the printing on them.  Should these fit in
  the holders, or are there different holders (maybe from a later model)
  that I can use for my thicker plug wires?  I have some "generic" plug
  wire holders in there now to keep the plug wires out of major trouble
  (heat riser, etc.)

Thanks for your help!

Matt Roberds


