Date: Sat, 14 Sep 2002 23:17:18 -0400
From: "Mark A. Thomas" <markt(-at-)duke.edu>
To: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Paint, insulation, "WB", first gear, plug wires

--On Saturday, September 14, 2002 2:33 AM -0500 Matt Roberds 
<mattroberds(-at-)cox.net> wrote:

>   You can make a very credible battery cover
>   with a couple of 1x2s set on edge and a piece of 1/4" plywood.
>   Just screw the 1x2s to the plywood.  Don't be afraid to "notch"
>   the 1x2 on one end to get clearance for the battery cables.

My '66 bus has a battery box that was made for a marine battery. 
Maybe you can get this at a boating store. There's a complete plastic 
box that you set the battery down into and a plastic top and a wide 
nylon strap and plastic buckle to hold it all in place.  The nylon 
strap goes through a bracket on the body under the battery, which may 
have been welded in or may have been an original bracket. Anyway, 
this has been in there for years (the car has been in the family 
since my parents bought it in 1966) and the right rear corner is very 
solid with no rust.

I did have to carve notches in the box where it comes closest to the 
terminals of the tail light so it won't press against them.  It seems 
to me that before I got the car from my parents this was creating 
pressure on those terminals and causing some problems, so I did the 
carving.

> * My Bus has some 1/4" Styrofoam insulation on the inside of the
> nose.   I'm pretty sure this was a PO addition and not stock but
> I'm curious.   I know that this can trap moisture against the metal
> and lead to rust   and I will probably pull it out of it's not
> original.

It's original. It's in my '66, and someone else mentioned it's in 
their bus, too.  I think the place where you have to really worry 
about trapping moisture is if there were insulation in the door, 
where rainwater can drip in.  My '66 doesn't have any there. I had 
this very problem in my '70 Beetle. Caused a line of rust right 
across the middle of the door. There was tarpaper glued into the 
inside of the door.  I don't think there's any problem at all as long 
as the sound dampening material is glued solidly to the door all the 
way to the top edge so that moisture can't get under the top edge. 
Also, the rubber around the door windows needs to be in good shape so 
little water gets into the door, and the drain holes at the bottom of 
the door need to be clear.

> * Has anyone else ever noticed that the transmission won't "let" you
>   into first until you are going slow enough?

I think you always have to be near stopped to get into first.  You 
can alway try to "double cluth" it (rev it way up while in neutral) 
before downshifting. I have to do that to go from 4-3 or 3-2 on the 
aforementioned '70 Beetle because the transmission has over 270,000 
miles on it and the sychronizers are shot. I don't know if this 
really works to go from 2 to 1.

> * The spark plug wire holders that clip into the fan shroud seem to
> be   made for smaller plug wires than I have.

These always seem a little tight, imho.  You just have to push hard.

Mark T
matkt(-at-)duke.edu
