Date: Wed, 02 Jul 2008 13:21:20 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: merlinj79(-at-)yahoo.com
Subject: Re: [T2] oxygen sensor testing?

MerlinJ79 wrote:
> Unfortunately there are two kinds of gas analyzing devices...
>
> The basic automobile O2 sensor can be connected to a meter or an easily built electronic driver to give a rough fuel/air ratio indication.  This is how modern FI systems manage themselves.
>   
Minor correction - If you're speaking of a narrow band O2 sensor, ECUs 
utilizing these sensors can only hold the fuel ratio at 14.7:1 - they 
can't do anything else.
> To get a precise enough indication to actually set the CO correctly requires a shop-quality gas analyzer.
>   
not true.  This can be done with a NB o2 sensor and will yield passable 
smog results.  Granted, you also need a computer that can make use of 
the signal from the NB sensor (i.e. megasquirt).  WB02 is really the 
ticket..
> If you look on the internet, I think you can find kits or plans for a DITY gas analyzer.  The circuit is easy to make, but I think the precision sensor is pretty expensive. You can also get screw-in sensors which can be temporarily installed in an exhaust bung for on-the-road testing (midas can weld in a bung for a few bucks).
>   
I think the easiest way to go is get an LC-1 WBO2 sensor - it's much 
more cost and time effective, and will yield very accurate results.  
Plus, it only runs around $200 bux so that's pretty awesome considering 
what it will tell you.  This is also a great way to tell what kinda of 
tune your car is in.  If it starts operating out of normal parameters 
(fuel ratio tends excessively rich or lean), you'll know instantly that 
something is up.  I have one monitoring my 3/4 side and will put in the 
other on the 1/2 side when I have some free time.  The Megasquirt will 
then be able to control each bank of injectors separately... should be 
pretty neat to see how that works.  In your case, you could just mount 
the sensor at the exhaust collector to monitor all 4 cylinders, 
although, if your bus is in good tune, monitoring just two cylinders 
works fine to pass smog and will also yield faster response times the 
closer it's mounted to the heads.

Mike
