Date: Thu, 10 Jul 2008 23:48:25 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Bone Dry Hydraulic lifters

Been recently discussed here and probably worth repeating, one would be wise
to find some OLDER oil that is not SM rated.  Castrol has always been my
favorite as well, but for lifter and cam life in our arcane vehicles (near any
vehicles it seems despite what the EPA must believe) apparently it is worth
finding one that still has more ZDDP (1200ppm if you can)  As I have a new
little non VW project from the 60s I did peruse this past week at several
local parts places and ended up buying about 12 gallons of the only non SM
rated multiweight oil (a diesel weight 15W40 that is SL rated, which is still
a lot less ZDDP, but more than SM apparently) I could find for the future, I
am seriously considering buying a 55 gallon drum or two from a local fleet
place that is SL rated to squirrel away.  Search the www for ZDDP, SM, SL and
you will see choices, some SLs have more than others and may still be on the
shelf.  Some "racing" oils still have more as
 well, some argue their detergent packages.  Finding some SF or SJ rated stuff
on the shelf at some old backwoods place might even better (in a paper can
maybe??.)  Mostly this is important for initial breakin and running, ZDDP
supplements are available for such as well from Eastwood and others.  Elgin
cams (who I have always liked) recs using such with ALL of their flat tappet
regrinds.  Isky recently made a big warning about cam wear and ZDDP as well. 
Several straight SAE30W  "HD" oils still are SL rated only, Castrol and ugh
(quaker shit) come to mind from my Walmart trip looking, actually a good
choice for summer in much of the world, not so much here in AK.
 
John

>>  anyone discovered one brand works better than another - especially
>>  for the first few oil changes on new lifters?
>
>I use castrol. works fine.  Just don't use synthetic when breaking in an
>engine.
