Date: Fri, 11 Jul 2008 16:32:05 -0400
From: "H Steven Dolan" <stevendolan(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Progress report - 1600DP *will* idle and request for help (off

First, I wrote in back about a month ago asking for help on my '69 westy
which would not idle.  After only a month, I finally have the problem licked
and it turned out to be schmutz in the idle jet.  Before we figured that
out, my brother-in-law (certified A&P mechanic) and I spent two full
weekends tearing the whole intake apart.  We replaced boots, gaskets and
eventually the intake manifold center section*.  Eventually, we *knew* it
was the carb, but I had no rebuild kit on hand.  Wait a week and we rebuilt
the carb and now it runs like a dream.  During that rebuild, he insisted I
bring my whole box of dead carbs and buy a bunch of kits.  Nothing loathe to
impose, I agreed instantly.  As a result, I now have 4 good working PICT34s
and a 28!  As a further result, I have begun moving on a number of stalled
projects...

I've begun to build up the SP engine for the '67 westy that Kelly restored
the body of so many years ago;

I installed one of the 34s on my '1970 convertible which also runs like a
top for the first time in years; and, finally,

the second 34 is going on my "yard queen"... a very nice '74 autostick bug.

If all goes well, as of this Monday, I may well have the majority of my VWs
in operating condition!!!!

In order to get to that goal, however, I do need one bit of assistance.  If
there is anyone on this list who is familiar with the autostick, please
contact me (off list).  I need some serious hand holding on this one as it
is very different.

Steve Dolan


*as a side note, the only advantage to the aftermarket replacement center
intake manifold section is that it can go in without hauling the engine.
For all other purposes it is JUNK!!!  It required a bit of "customization"
to reinstall the rear tin  and I can hear a bit of exhaust leaking from
around the preheat tubes.
