From: "GNS" <gns.wagnon(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 05 May 2009 17:36:33 -0700
Subject: Whoa!  Backup and check out that tranny!

Volk-a-maniacs,
 
Long time no post, but I still keep an eye on the traffic.  Thanks for the
wisdom over the years.  
 
The latest for us... 
* Still have our '63 Panel/Camper convert (Annie) and I still use her as my
daily driver.  I rattle canned her closer back to her Turquis roots, but
rattle can being what it is, I will need to strip her down and do it right
someday.  Pretty from a distance though.  ;o)
* Still have our '59 Single Cab (Gunter).  Unfortunately, he needs some new
wiring to get back on the road.  The old stuff is just so rotted and
spliced, it sucks a battery dry in no time.  I have the wire harness, I just
need a good weekend to get him done and back on the road.  We'll work on
pretty later.  Functional is first.
 
So, the reason I am writing is not just to give you all an update, but also
to get a good summary of what it takes to get a freeway flier tranny
installed where an original '63 RGB system is currently in place.  
 
The forcing function here is that today I noticed the lack of Reverse.  It
may be caused by one of a number of issues, I know, but I want to explore a
whole new solution just to see what it would take to get something new and
potentially better.
 
Here are my questions: 
* Is this an 'easy' swap out, or are there hidden nuggets of terror in the
process?
* Where do I get a GOOD transmission?  Preferably on the west coast and even
more preferably in the Portland, Oregon area.  And by GOOD, I mean something
solid that I can daily drive stop and go, but also take the family on our
yearly trek to a new direction on the map (former trips to Yellowstone, and
to the Redwoods).  Current plan is to head for Canada this summer... need
the tranny situation solved by then.
* Is a 'Freeway Flier' a GOOD solution, or should I just get my current
solution fixed up/rebuilt?
 
I have found the following post and found it helpful/insightful thus far.
Still need to dig for the 'put it back in' version of the same.
Transmission Removal ('67 and earlier bus) - by Mike Gensler
 
Thoughts, suggestions, hints, preferential customer pricing on new
transmissions gladly accepted.  ;o)
 
Greg
