From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc.'" <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
Cc: <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 5 May 2009 21:59:13 -0400
Subject: RE: Hinge photos

I see from the photos what you are talking about. Thanks. I had thought
about different ways to secure my windows to the bus. I have Hehr windows,
which hinge at the top, except for the closet window which is a regular
pop-out window. I don't ever need to open this, and would be happy to
convert it to a fixed window-or at the very least a window that does not
leak! Any suggestions from anyone on converting a pop-out to a fixed window,
or a way to make it leak proof. A few years ago, I took it apart,
sandblasted the frame, painted it, put all new seals in, and the things
still leaked-even though it felt like a really tight fit when you open and
closed it. I could never figure out why it was leaking.

As for the Hehr windows, I thought about plumbers putty, Eric and Barb
suggested Butyl tape, which sounds like a great idea. I think I'll try that.
Although I'm not sure the full amount of bearing that the windows have on
the metal door/body area. I did use plumbers putty to reseal the area above
the front seats-the panel behind the air intake area.

As for stainless steel screws and aluminum frames-I have heard this is not a
good mix-have you noticed any galvanic reaction happening here? I heard that
zinc screws are actually better-less gavanice reaction(ie rust due to
dissimilar metals).

I don't think I would try to fill the holes where the hinges of the doors
attach. Something doesn't seem right about that.

As for the foam on the inside of my bus. I was thinking about the foam that
had been put there originally. Generally there was no rust behind any of
this foam, except near the floor or bottom of cargo doors-and this was only
due to leaking windows. I know this stuff was not put in vapor tight, so I
know moisture was getting behind the foam that was stuffed behind the
panels-and it didn't cause any rust.

I drove over to my mechanic today, as I couldn't get my flip down bed
removed-there were 5 or 6 screws holding it in, that I could not remove for
the life of me. I figured he had a small grinder to cut the top of the
screws off. I now have that disconnected. Unfortunately it is raining here
all week. I was hoping to get that out, and then do a really good final
cleaning of the inside of the bus, before bringing it back to him to review
all the body work to be done.

-Kevin

'65 kombi
'69 single cab
Jamaica Plain, MA 


-----Original Message-----
From: C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc. [mailto:c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net] 
Sent: Monday, May 04, 2009 2:27 PM
To: kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net
Subject: Hinge photos

Kevin,

Do you have pop out windows? or do you have the Jelousie type?

Photo of hinges and my windows attached.
2873/74 are upper and lower hinges respectively. Note no gap between sheet
metal and door.
2875 is the upper front door hinge. See the gap?
2876 is a picture of the glazing compound.
2877 view of driver side. (note ddouble ddoors :-))

I used DAP 33 glazing compund to install my windows. The original windows
were installed with this and the compound lasted 40 years and remainded
slightly soft without leaking. I also used some nice #8 stainless sheet
metal screws to install the windows. See photo 2873. The lower corner of the
window is there with one screw.

Chris Dreike
for Advantage Automation, Inc.
www.advantageautomation.com
310-214-2175
