Date: Sun, 17 May 2009 21:28:47 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Whoa!  Backup and check out that tranny!

> From: "GNS" <gns.wagnon(-at-)verizon.net>
> Date: Thu, 07 May 2009 19:31:28 -0700
>
> Well, it appears I know much less than I thought I needed to about the
> reduction gear boxes and the transmission in general.

From memory: "Nobody knows it all!  There has been some problem, some
idiosyncrasy with every car I have ever owned, but as it doesn't really
affect the ability of the car to carry me from place to place, it
sometimes goes on for as long as I own the car.  [...]  By asking around
you may be able to find out about these things and fix them, but I figure
it tends to keep my head straight about where it is with the car."  (Muir)

> You are all quoting numbers and such while I am going, uh... how do I
> tell what I have, let alone pick the right ratio that works?

The basic way you figure out what you have is to put the back end of the
Bus up on jack stands, put it in gear, turn the engine with a wrench,
and count how many times the wheels turn for each engine turn.  The other
way to do it is to have an accurate tachometer and speedometer available,
then drive in different gears and note the RPM and speed.  (If you do it
this way, arrange for a passenger to read the tacho and speedo (it
doesn't have to be the Bus speedo - can be something like a GPS) or at
least to write the numbers down that you call out - don't try to drive
and take data at the same time.)

Once you have a number for every gear, you then have to do a little math,
because this number includes all of the gears involved (regular
transmission gear, ring+pinion gear (this would be called the "rear end
ratio" in your average front-engine, rear-wheel-drive car), reduction box
gears).  Fortunately the changes through the years are wide enough that
you can tell what you have pretty quick; in most cases you don't have to
figure things out down to the third decimal place to be sure.

Back in December '08, Russell May asked a similar question, and provided
RPM and MPH readings for his bus; I came up with a spreadsheet that
might be helpful if this is how you are measuring it.

If you want to guess, start with what is stock for your year and model.
Then realize then it is slightly more likely that you have different
gears than stock in the transmission, either the regular ones or the
R+P.  This is just because transmissions wear out sooner than the RGBs
and get swapped more often, which is a good opportunity for changes.

Matt Roberds
