From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 22 May 2009 12:55:32 -0400
Subject: choosing paint color, 2-stage vs single stage

Ok, The body work is going along well. I think it should be complete by next
week. Then I'm going to go over,and sandblast the underside and apply some
special paint under there. I used Master Series paint before.  But I only
did about 2/3 of it a couple years ago, and that seems to be holding up
really well. So I just need to finish the job. 

I need to pick a paint color soon. Originally my bus was Pearlwhite - L87.
It still has the original paint on it, ie it has never been painted.

I like the look of the Palm Green/Sand Green in some pics I have seen
online, but in others it doesn't look so great. I know that color rendering
can be altered quite considerably depending on camera and my monitor. 

I was wondering how you guys chose your paint colors when painting your
buses, did you always stick to original? Did you go with 2-stage or single
stage? How do you get so see sample colors? I don't think the online color
guides are that helpful. I know when painting houses I usually just buy a
couple quarts or pints for samples, but I've heard auo paint is super
expensive to even do that. But if that is my only option, I guess I'll go
that way. I don't want to be unhappy with the color. I know I like pearl
white, but I think I might like a little 'color' better.

Please correct me if I'm wrong, but I understand 2-stage to be much more
durable than single stage. I am waiting to get back pricing for single stage
vs two stage, and two new colors vs one original color.

My mechanic/body work person, usually sends the vehicles to be painted down
to M*aco paint down the street from his shop. He says they do a god job
painting, but their body work and prep is not great-that is why he and I
will be doing all of that. He says they paint about 10 cars a day there. So
given this volume, they should be great at painting by now. Any suggestions
on working with them on the painting?

-Kevin

'65 kombi
'69 single cab
Jamaica Plain, MA 
