Date: Fri, 22 May 2009 11:43:04 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] choosing paint color, 2-stage vs single stage

Kevin, I painted "professionally" in late high school, was still doing a car
or so a year up till 3-4 years ago when house stuff then a 2yo overcame me. 
My thoughts, for true goal color you can often find real color "chits" (it
truely is chit, not chip as it has become) from the day on auctions on the
bay.  Lots of books out there from body shops and paint stores that get broken
up as most places tossed them every few years.  A guy on the bay sells a few
pages for a few bucks, you wait till he lists late 60's VW pages or just email
him, he probably has them.  A good shop could probably cross an old ICI,
Dupont, or Ditzler (PPG) code off of those and actually blend true color, or
you go and have PPG (whose paint you should be buying.... (that argument is
like Ford/Chevy) but IMHO) shoot a color match off the chit.
 
Single or two stage, well depite what most will probably argue, I still like
shooting single stage.  No less dureable, using a good urethane, or even still
hardened acryllic enamel (for a cheaper job) will last longer than the
original, and it is like the original, the color is there, through and
through, not under a clear.  I mean in a urethane it is usually the same paint
either way, why would a clear be more dureable than a color in the same
line??? (well the color pigments may eventually oxidize a bit, but for modern
paints, I doubt it.)  For metallic, sure, you got to 2 stage.  That said, most
lines are going that way, a lot of brands have even dropped their single stage
urethanes.  I guess PPG still has Concept, a good paint but pricey, and they
still have Delstar enamel, also a good paint.  Mostly I have sprayed Delstar
in the day, but last couple cars I did I used Concept.  I have had very mixed
results with the PPG low priced Omni line,
 it is dureable and sprays well, but it basically sometimes seems just
pre-thinned so it doesn't go as far, you think you are paying less per gallon,
but have to buy twice as much, or not depending on color.  The cost
differential can disappear and they can mix it in less shades.
 
I am sure Dupont probably has some good paint now days, just never saw it in
the day, R-M had a nice single stage urethane I sprayed on my '95 EVC, not
sure what it was called, but I think it got discontinued.
 
The Maaco thing is funny and probably true.  Them, Earl, whoever who just
sprays cars without prep have bad reps cause of the poor prep and questionable
body work.  But they spray tons of cars and know how to get a nice finish. 
Doing what you suggest can actually net you a great job, do all the finish
work, through a good primer/sealer AFTER blocking with a guide coat and take
it perhaps masked down to Maaco, all the glass out, trim off, and let them
shoot it and you will probably be very happy with the results.  I'd be very
clear up front on their price, how they want the van delivered, what they
expect it to do (steer, roll at least, but they may want it to run, may not),
what you expect painted (trim bits, bumpers, how much of the inside or
underside of the vehicle), what you expect not painted, IE who will do the
masking to keep overspray off you underside, wiring, etc (unless you expect a
lot of that painted), who will buy the paint, whether
 they are going to bake it to dry, or just roll it outside, if they will do
any finish compounding and buffing (unlikely this way.)  Just be very
specific, get a price on paper for exactly what you want done.
 
I'll put in my usual plug for sprayable polyester primer surfacer (Z-coat Rust
defender or the like) for the pre primer/sealer coat.  Stuff is wonderful, I
would never spray without it or use a conventional high build (laquer) primer
surfacer again.  You can darn near go from 180-220 grit, coat it, sand it with
guide coat, right to final sanding in one step that will never shrink, never
have scratches "appear" later.  I shoot PPG Epoxy under it on bare metal and
on top of it as a primer/sealer, and love the results.  It is the only time I
violate the absolute code of crossing product brands between coats on the same
paint job, because I know PPG epoxy will stick to anything, forever anyway. 
Although the manufacturer (and lots of shows on Poweblock, etc) suggest using
it on bare metal, I would not unless you are in southern CA and don't care
about problems in 10 years.

Anyway some thoughts, I'm sure some Dupont supporters will argue, and can
suggest just as good single stage Dupont products.

--- On Fri, 5/22/09, Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net> wrote:



Please correct me if I'm wrong, but I understand 2-stage to be much more
durable than single stage. I am waiting to get back pricing for single stage
vs two stage, and two new colors vs one original color.

My mechanic/body work person, usually sends the vehicles to be painted down
to M*aco paint down the street from his shop.
