From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 27 May 2009 14:45:33 -0400
Subject: windows & paint....

Well,

Just to update you all.I have decided to go with single stage paint-based on
the feedback from the list. I am also going to go with the original
color-Pearl White. Apparently there is a big difference in paints, so I will
need to talk with my painter, to find out what type he uses, and why. I may
need to get a different paint myself to supply to him.

It seems like the recommendation is to go with PPG single stage paint. Do
they make different types? Ie if I need to buy this stuff myself, do I just
go in and say I want PPG L87 (Pearl White) for my bus? Or do I need to
specify Urethane vs. Acrylic enamel vs..?

I also need silver white for the bumpers and rims.Is that L82? And is that
all you need -just the letter and 2 number code? I appreciate any info-as I
figure if I go to the painter and paint shop with a little info, I won't be
so overwhelmed with questions from him.

Also how much paint should I need to paint the inside and outside of the
bus?

I have been taking apart my Hehr crank-out windows, and polishing up the
aluminum. There are some areas that are pretty oxidized, any suggestion on
cleaning that up? I have been using WD-40 and some very fine steel wool.
This works on all but the really oxidized areas. I've got new gaskets coming
this week. I noticed when dismantling-of the 4 windows I have taken apart, 3
had laminated glass, and one had tempered glass. The laminated glass has
held up pretty well over 40 years. The windows used so many different
gaskets, and they also used something that appears to be plumbers putty or
maybe glazing compound (Dap 33?) on the top edge. I'm not sure if I will use
this product again, or go with a butyl tape product. The original glazing
compound in this area, seems to be holding up very well, as it is not
exposed to any daylight. I don't see any breaks or cracks in it. I'm trying
to figure out the best way to put these back into the bus-it may work better
to install them piece by piece on the bus, as opposed to putting them
together, then trying to install them in the bus.

Again-thanks for all your help and suggestions so far.

-Kevin

'65 kombi
'69 single cab
Jamaica Plain, MA 
