Date: Wed, 13 Jul 2005 11:12:01 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 73 to 71 "found an engine"

<The problem isn't the cooling, IIRC, but the mounting. The type 1 bus
mounting points are drastically different than the type 4 mounting
points.>

The mounts would have to be custom made but I don't think it would be too difficult to fab that - including rubber mounts. Use stock Type IV moustache bar bolted to stock mounts in stock engine location to custom hangers. Had to do so for my Corvair implant b/c the conversion kit moustache bar was all wrong for my application. Prob will revise it at some point in the future b/c I think it hangs too low. Will move the mount bar from under the engine to the rear of the engine like Porsche and VW. 

All in all the conversion requires either alot of money and a competent fabricator for hire (not one of these hack job guys that operates out of a barn and claims to be an import mechanic) or the time/tools/skills to fab it yourself which at least in my experience has made it cheap (think $500 or so). (Consider you'll need to buy and get access to MIG welder/grinders/wire brush wheels/painting supplies/rubber mounts/steel/measuring stuff/etc).

It is a worthy project but the creator needs to commit him/herself to completing the project (no half done hack jobs ruining an otherwise good bus), plan every change, do it RIGHT (Deutche Methode <grin!>). No sense in ruining a bus, they are getting fewer and fewer every year. Mine is totally reversable with only 1 cut (clutch cable tube) on the entire bus. Whole VW drivetrain is stored for reinstallation at a later date if I like.

What does the owner desire to achieve? Speed? (then suspension and brakes need to be examined). Power? 

I wanted power to climb hills at a constant speed and the ability to cruise at 65 mph. That said, I'd be happy with Type I power if I had concerns about being able to afford a conversion (running out of money), smog legality in states like CA, insurance concerns or concerns about ruining a vehicle because my fabricating skills and resources were limited. No reason to ruin a vintage VW when you can buy a decent Eurovan for $6K for interstate travel with a/c and the ability to run 75 mph all day with the cruise on. save the vintage VW for trips and times when 55 mph is perfectly sufficient.

Most importantly you the owner needs to do what you want to do. It's your VW. Offering food for thought.

Just my nickels worth...

Chris
'78 Westy 2,7L
Cookeville, TN 
