From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Adrian Pillow <apillow(-at-)hotmail.com>, 
Date: Sun, 6 Oct 2002 21:26:42 -0700 
Subject: RE: [VB] CDI and necessary upgrades needed

With NGK plugs the P mean extended electrode. The white ceramic tip sticks
out more then the same number NGK plug with-out the P. If it was BPR it
would be an extended electrode with built in resistor

ronnie

ps. NGK also makes the plug wire you need. They are really cool see threw
blue wires.

-----Original Message-----
From: Adrian Pillow [mailto:apillow(-at-)hotmail.com]
Sent: Friday, October 04, 2002 12:42 PM
To: PeachStateTransporters(-at-)yahoogroups.com; vintagebus(-at-)lenti.type2.com
Subject: [VB] CDI and necessary upgrades needed


This is a "words of wisdom" e-mail... Learned the hard way.

When using a CDI system of any manufacture (MSD, Jacobs, Universal Corp 
Tiger 581, and so forth) the whole ignition system needs examined.

Simply put the stock Bosch equipment is riddled with resistors which 
can/will burn out.  Every resistor must be elliminated!  Note this does not 
mean cooper core wires with zero suppression either.

First the rotor must be modified: http://bugman.50megs.com/RotorTech.html

Then the wires must be changed to a SS spiral wire design with noise 
suppression.  There seems to be very few manufactures of these wires.  I 
chose Magnecor because of the no BS site that gave the information I needed 
to make an educated decision.  http://www.magnecor.com/  A few other 
manufacters do exist but the sites did not answer my questions and left me 
with a high FUD factor (Fear, Uncertainty, and Doubt).  The only known VW 
retailer for these wires after calling Magnecors support line is Gene Berg 
Ent http://www.geneberg.com/  The Magnecor part number I went with is the 
4501 with 8.5mm wires and 2.5mm core sprial.  Berg also sells the 8mm wires 
if you like them, part number 4001.

Be aware that the stock VW ceramic spark plug boots have a resistor in them.

  So you must verify what you are getting to ensure this is removed.

For the spark plugs your options are wide open, but it is recommended by 
Magnecor that a resistor plug is used.  I will try the NGK BP6HS-9 (notice 
the "P") for giggles.  I am not going to delve into the reasons why though.

My only thought on plugs is to stay away from platimum tip plugs in ACVW 
cars.

The stock coil and Bosch points (really just a trigger for the CDI) are 
fine.  Luckily a few stock parts can stay :)

So in summary if your CDI is giving you wierd driving characteristics check 
out your whole ignition SYSTEM.


Later,
