From: "Smith, Ted (T.A.)" <tsmit137(-at-)ford.com>
To: "'Jim Ellis'" <ellisjames(-at-)yahoo.com>, VW_VINTAGE_list
Date: Mon, 7 Oct 2002 13:54:23 -0400 
Subject: RE: [VB] Crying kids and road trips- what music calms them

OK here is my stab at a list and I know it is no longer Friday,what about it.One more thing I have no children so take this however you want.


X,Knitters,Stranglers-Was/is punk but more mellow sounding now for some reason.

Descendents,ALL,Down By Law-How can you go wrong with songs about girls,coffee,girls,growing up and girls.The best part is they are all around nice guys.

Me First And The Gimme Gimmes-A punk rock karoke side project gone big time.Guarenteed you will know every song on the album,though it may take a minute but in time you will be singing along.

Avail-Rolling out of Richmond,VA like some kind of backwoods hybrid of bluegrass,punk and hardcore the will have you bouncing in your seat smacking your head on the fresh air vent.Probably best for older kids.

This Mortal Coil-A mellow redo of Ivo Watts Russels(4AD records)favorite classic 70's era songs.Everything from Tim Buckley to Randy California at about 2/3rds speed.

Cocteau Twins-Just albums of mellow,mellow music that will put anyone to sleep.Excellant late night falling asleep at the wheel music.

Beach Boys-Pet Sounds-Brian Wilson is both a genius and a total whack job at the same time.A technical masterpiece that made the Beatles want to quit,Nuff said.

And now the loud stuff when the kids do pass out.

MC5-Just straight a head outa the celler rock from A squared and The Motor City.Spawned Wayne Kramer,Fred Sonic Smith and Patti Smith.This is where punk started.

Snapcase-Recommended listining if nothing will shut them up,this will just drown it out and they can scream along to their hearts content.

The Bob Seger System or Bob Seger and the Last Heard-None of that Like a Rock crap!Straight out of the garage onto the four track.He could give Iggy a run for the money back then.

Bad Brains-Four Rastafarians from DC who fused Reggae and hardcore into an astounding punk sound.Banned in DC,Yes Sir!



Ted Smith
PCV ETA Systems Technican
FORD MOTOR COMPANY
313-248-2267 voice/fax
313-990-4998 pager

-----Original Message-----
From: Jim Ellis [mailto:ellisjames(-at-)yahoo.com]


I love thinking up the UFO Friday questions. Firstly, they seem to draw out
previously unknown lurkers who seem to be immediately accepted as old friends
who, eerily are familiar with me and my rep. Whoa! Secondly, the questions give
an opportunity to craft ways in which to vent or expand my horizons.

- Ellis\
