From: dave jersey <maduncledave(-at-)charter.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com, fullmoon(-at-)hville.net
Date: Mon, 7 Oct 2002 21:10:43 -0400
Cc: thesnark(-at-)juno.com
Subject: The last month or so

Hey y'all
I haven't been posting much in the last many moons, been busy.  Life handed 
me a pertty cool job, I get paid pretty good to not have to work too hard, 
and I sometimes have fun doing it.

I've discovered Midieval combat as a sport, built armor, and have been 
fighting 2 to 4 times a week , traveling to tournaments to collect multi 
colored bruises in new and exciting places, and generally having way too much 
fun.

The state is starting roadwork in front of the Karmarosa and I had to take 
out about 10 trees, a few about 90 feet tall.  I enjoy treework but I hated 
to take those big mature trees.  They were one of the reasons we liked the 
Karmarosa enough to $pend more than we had when we bought it.

Trouble is, work takes up all the time I need to spin wrenches on all the 
buses.

The Tinkertoy will get a new doghouse singleport, the longblock is done, I 
have a baywindow fuel tank to install and some other tasks to do before 
install.  I had a spring break on the clutch plate, it went into the pressure 
plate and I had a hell of a time shifting up in Boone the other day, made it 
home ok though.

I've had the Gus Bus on loan here for an engine since April or May.  The 
engine that was in it had around .040" of end play , no compression on #3, 
almost none on #2 so it wasn;t the smoothest runner you ever saw.  I priced 
short and longblocks and they were a bit $pendy so after much thought I 
decided that I needed to do the right thing, get Gus on the road and back to 
his owner.  The Tinkertoy donated her heart to Gus, the operation appears to 
have been a success.  Gus goes home this weekend after Oktoberbus. 

The Award Winning Burrito Express had a cam lobe go flat so it ran real 
smooth on #1 & 3 but was way down on power.  I suspect running it with way 
off carburation (lean) didn't help, by the time I got the Weber sorted out it 
was too late.  Anyone want a correctly jetted Weber and a set of Kadrons for 
a good price?  I pulled the 1776 and installed a plain old stock dual port 
(not a great fan but I'll convert it later to single port) that's running 
stronger as I drive it through the break in cycle and runs nicely cool too!  
I'll get to camp in her again, the last bus campout she made was Oktoberbus 
(see the shameless plug I just posted) last year, 1 Boy Scout campout this 
year was it so far.  Hopefully the mice will bail out at the campground and 
find a new home there.  Smells kinda funny in there still.

Rustinante is still waiting for me to build the garage so we can buy 
sheetmetal from Kelly "Metwiz" Brown and crank up Mr. Welder.

So that's what's been going on in out little corner of the world, hope y'all 
are healthy, happy and grinnin' every time you drive your bus.

Later taters, I gotta go pack to go camping.

Mad Uncle Dave
-- 
Chien que je manque en expithience j'ramplaiche auve du tchoeu
What I lack in experience I replace with heart
or
Hit me like you mean it or go sit down.
Proud member, Full Moon Bus Club  http://www.fullmoonbusclub.com
