Date: Mon, 07 Oct 2002 09:30:42 -0500
From: Scott & Barb Stothers <kintail(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: NW Ontario Trip Report

Last weekend we headed out for our annual fall tour to the Lake of the Woods in North Western Ontario with the '67 Westy. Just like last year we awoke to low temperatures of -2 C with the added bonus of snow (not predicted and matching their record for most of the year in not getting it right)! Can we really trust weather forecasters who are also predicting 18 C by the end of this week, let along global warming??

Anyway, to take the chill off we took the nearest nature trail to Winners, and then to that familiar local provincial park called St. Vital Mall. However, we did not seriously hang out because we were out of the city on the Trans Canada heading east just past noon. With the outside temperature the bus struggled to reach 170 F of operating temperature (-at-) 55 mph. Still not enough to get an old Eberspacher installed and up and running! By that time the snow had cleared and the sunshine tried to pop out a few times. Interior heat was present and okay for the trip.

Got to Kenora (Popn - 16,500) and pulled into the Best Western Lakeside....... did I mention we weren't camping?? Anyway, for all the camping we do, we decide at least once a year to leave the cooking and accommodation for the experts. Thought we would try the Kenwood Steak House but they were fully booked till 7:30 pm...... does the whole town go to this place on Saturday nights or what??? Walked over to Hap's Bar on the docks. Funky well worn interior, but the food was excellent and we had one of those "coupons from the book" with us.

Next day, woke up early and skipped breakfast to get to Rushing River Prov Park about 25 minute east of town. Only one other car there in the parking lot. Clear blue sky, lots of yellows greens and reds in the trees. The ferns were green and still hanging in with some the wildflowers retaing their blooms. Lake water as usual was crystal clear and rapids were still running although lower then summer levels. Walked the old south side of the campground from one end to the other and took a bunch of pictures. Always feels strange to walk a place that is deserted; that was so full in the summer with the over 300 camp sites. Four more cars in the parking lot when we left although we only saw two other people while we were there.  

Decided to stop off for lunch at Pinewood, just past Pye's Landing. Found the place renovated and food quite good compared to a poorer experience over ten years ago. Stopped at West Hawk beach and saw the scuba divers in action. Took the old road to Falcon and then headed back home. Engine temperature was up to 180 F this time and interior heat was quite warm on full. Total distance - 340 miles and just over 23 mpg. Probably would have got better mileage and heat if I had my pre-heat tube to the air cleaner hooked up off the heat exchanger. Another future project in the offing...

Scott
'67 Westy
