From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 8 Oct 2002 11:27:04 EDT
To: edr(-at-)earthlink.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Dead Battery

Check your charging system.   The idiot book and bentley say how to do this.  
 A voltmeter is useful, but you can use a test light in a pinch.   Pull the 
big red wire off the regulator, so the charging system is disconnected form 
the battery.  now that big red wire is hot, so do not ground it. Do not let 
it hit the side of the bus. insulate it.  Hook up the meter to the output of 
the regulator- there is one for the big red wire for harging, and one for the 
idiot light (small green wire).  Now it is possible that the regulator can be 
shot in a way that the contact for the charging is dead but for the idiot 
light is good.   

then you would have to separate the goats from the sheep, to see which it 
is...

Dunno why you'ld switch to an alternator if the reg is dead, easier to switch 
a reg and new ones are about $30.  funny looking solid state things that 
supposedly work better.   Anyway, if you ditch that good generator, you can 
send it to me  :)

In a message dated 10/7/2002 8:50:05 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
edr(-at-)earthlink.net writes:

<< Went out this morning to start up the ol' 67 Sundial for my commute to 
work,
 and my battery was so low that the engine would barely turn over.  Lights/cd
 player/guages all still work.  I noticed while driving yesterday that my cd
 player kept cutting out, as though the power was being momentarily
 interupted.  Thought I probably needed to check the ground, which I was
 planning on doing when I got home today.  My battery was replaced less than
 6 months ago.  I will get it checked this afternoon anyway, but I'm
 wondering if this scenario sounds familiar to anyone on the list?  I'm still
 running a generator, figuring that the next time I have the engine out for
 any reason, I will switch over to an alternator.  My warnign lights are
 functioning properly, and there was no red light on when running prior to
 this incidence.
