From: Stephen General <General(-at-)IPCoast.com>
To: JT James <jtjames(-at-)pacbell.net>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 29 Jan 2003 17:35:38 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] generators, DC>AC conversion, sacrilegious mods, etc.

Hi JT,

12volt power consumes my life, living in a 1987 Bluebird bus.  Also work
computers all day... so use power.

High output generator = Alternator.  There are high-output alternators, look
in the off-road buggy magazines (those large spotlights they use).  You can
get dual alternators on a type1 engine, seen it done on bugs.

Do you only use it while driving, or parked?
Personally, I would stick with a single alternator.  Consider a small Honda
1000W Inverter based generator.  Small, runs all day on 1 gallon of fuel.
nearly silent if you build a little box. Get a group 27 marine combo
starting/deep cycle battery...

You could also just get two batteries and plug in a 10amp 3-stage charger
every night when you park...  or get a good deep cycle + starting and run
the deep cycle down and always have the starting for reserve.

Live in a sunny climate, solar cells on that nice roof :)

  Stephen Gutknecht
  1967 Type2 Campmobile
  1987 Bluebird Wanderlodge PT40



-----Original Message-----
From: JT James [mailto:jtjames(-at-)pacbell.net]
Sent: Wednesday, January 29, 2003 5:17 PM
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] generators, DC>AC conversion, sacrilegious mods, etc.


Howdy all,

Im reeealy wanting to run some schweet and cheap computer type speakers in
the 64 Delux. Particularly Klipsche ProMedia 5.1's or Logitech 5.1. These
are ~500W true RMS A/C speakers which sound amazing and Im considering
putting 2 sets in the bus (12 drivers, 1000W for $700) using a portable mp3
type harddrive unit (ie; easily removable from a van with pointless
locks!) - All of the satellites can be hidden behind panels/headliner
material... Only problem with this is the power. Anyone have a clue
regarding high output generators for type 1 motors ? I can figure out how to
wire 2 batteries to the existing generator - but I figure the drain would be
higher than the input. Anyone with electrical engineering degrees in here?

Im also considering a sacrilegious modification to my dashboard. My original
radio knockoff plate is still installed and the dash in mint shape. I have
seen a weld job so sweet on this as to seem factory : welding in a section
that eliminates the knockoff. It really looks better than stock. Realising
that this bus will never be on the show circuit, certain non-stock mods are
now seeming more appealing... Thoughts?

Thanks for all of your input,

JT
