Date: Fri, 31 Jan 2003 15:56:38 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: JT James <jtjames(-at-)pacbell.net>
Subject: RE: generators, DC>AC conversion, sacrilegious mods, etc.

On Thu, 30 Jan 2003, JT James wrote:

>Wow Matt, what do you do for a living?

Right now, nothing.  I'll probably drive a truck or something before
too long.  Hey, at least I got more years out of the Bachelor of Science -
Computer Science/Telecom degree than it took me to get it, so that's good,
right?

>Although, from your figures below, if I play the system at half volume,
>my power requirements are cut in half(ish) right?

Yeah.  You may even do a little better than half power for half volume,
because volume is not a linear scale.  Or you may do a little worse,
depending on how much power the speakers consume when they're on but no
music is playing.

>I've never played these beyond highnoon as they are damn loud at that
>setting.

That's in your living room, though.  The engine in a stock Bus sings
pretty loud at 3000 or 3600 RPM, plus there's noise from the tires,
wind, etc.  It probably won't take full power on the speakers, but
you may have to turn it up a little more than you do now.

>2 sets running simultaneously at half power should have the power
>requirement of 1 set at full I presume.

Something like that.  One simple way to find out is to test it in
your house.  You can turn off everything in your house except the
speakers (_everything_ - including the refrigerator, furnace, etc)
and use the main power meter, or you can get something like this
http://www.p3international.com/products/special/P4400/P4400-CE.html
and just plug the speakers into it.  (Rat Shock is closing these out
for $30; you can also get them from several online vendors.)  Make
sure you're playing the same kind of music you intend to play in the
Bus at about the same volume level.  Watching the watt or VA display
will tell you how much the speakers are pulling at each instant.  If
you play them for a while, get the kWhr reading, and divide it by
the elapsed time, you can see what the average power is.

For a really conservative design, size the inverter for the maximum
power.  It may be hard to tell with that meter, but if the peaks are
infrequent enough (maybe 10% of the time, but this depends totally
on your inverter) then you can probably get away with an inverter
rated above the average power but less than the maximum power.

The "classic" way to build an inverter is with a big, heavy step-up
transformer running at 60 Hz.  That's what the Tripp-Lite unit I
mentioned before uses.  The "new" way is with a lighter transformer
that runs at a much higher frequency.  The output is still 60 Hz.
That's what most of these finned aluminum inverters sold at Wal-Mart,
etc, are.  They work great for most things, but the high frequency
used internally sometimes leaks through to the output, creating a
whine in the sound of audio gear.  This depends a lot on the
particular inverter and audio gear you're using.  You can get this
problem with a low-frequency inverter, too, but it's less likely to
happen.  If your audio gear turns out to be particularly susceptible
to the noise, you can spend another couple of hundred bucks on a
frequency controlled, pure sine wave inverter which _should_ fix it.

Matt Roberds
