Date: Fri, 31 Jan 2003 18:48:55 -0500 (EST)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Friday: Did Honda come up with the New Bus before VW?

Those who watch the TV ads know that Honda has introduced a new model
aimed at the "Gen Y" folks called the "Element"  The ads show young folks
hangin' out around the car and generally behaving like many folks do
around their VW buses.  This is not accidental!  Honda researched vehicles
like the VW bus and even used the term "Microbus" in their earlier web
pages about the Element.  One wonders if VW's lawyers will be so anxious
to go up against this "trademark infringers" who has the means to defend
themselves!

In any case, I decided to see what the hooplah was about and drive an
Element.  Here's my impressions:

The Element is almost identical to a bay bus in dimensions.  It is the
same length, a couple of inches shorter, and about five inches wider.  It
weighs about 500 pounds more than a VW passenger bus.

Seating feels nice.  It only seats four, but you can actually put four
six-footers in and nobody will be cramped.  Head room is generous and the
rear seats sit higher than the front for better rear visibility.  All
surfaces are wipable and washable, just like a bus.  I wouldn't believe
the stuff about "washing it out with a hose" though.  The windshield is a
looooong way forward of the driver.  Hope the defogger works well,
because the manual method can't be used!  There are lots of little trays
for nick-nacks.

Visibility is bad news.  If you're a six-footer, turning your head results
in a view of the massive B-pillar that is built into the door.  You have
to lean forward and peer around the pillar to see what is beside you.
The view to the right is a bit better, but you really notice those fat
pillars.

Cargo space behind the rear seat is small.  One of the tradeoffs for the
rear seat legroom is loss of cargo space.  If your're used to the space
behind the rear seat of a bus you'll have to cut back.

Folding the seats is a bit of an adventure.  They fold up against the side
wall of the vehicle, leaving the floor completely flat and open.  The bad
news is that folding the seats isn't fun.  First you pull a strap and
recline the backrest.  Then you pull another strap and release the seat
from the floor.  You then muscle the seat up against the sidewall and hole
it there while you fish the carabiner out of its pocket.  Hook the
carabiner over the grab handle and the seat is held in place.  Last you
have to fold the inner foot against the bottom of the seat.  Oh yeah,
that's just one side, you have to repeat the operation for the other side
as well.  I've taken the middle seat out of my bus with less effort!  Once
the seats are folded you have a good cargo space and can even carry a
10-foot long object with the rear door closed.

The Element's spare tire is a temporary affair stored under the rear
floor.  It is smaller than the tires on the vehicle, so the well won't
store a full-size spare.

Instruments look like a Squareback, with round pods and conical lenses!

The touted 230W audio system isn't all that impressive.  Two bills at
Radio Shack will buy better.

The dash-mounted shifter on the Element is lots of fun and easy to use.
You'd think that putting the shifter on the dash would leave room in the
walk-through, but for some reason Honda decided to put the parking brake
on the floor there.

The unique feature of the Element is the backwards-opening rear doors.
These are Kewl, but in the real world they don't really work well at all.
With the big rear hatch you will do most of your cargo loading through the
back, so the wide front openings aren't needed.  The rear doors are
awkward to operate in parking lot situation, as the rear seat passengers
have to crowd against the open front doors before opening the rear doors.
Another down side is that the deletion of the "B" piller means that the
doors have to be strengthened to the point where the rear windows cannot
roll down.  They pop out a measley inch for ventilation.

The engine of the Element was a disappointment.  It is the same engine
that they put in the Accord, and it is tuned with the torque peak at
relatively high RPM.  While the Element will outrun a bus I wonder if the
Gen-Y buyers will appreciate being blown off by soccer moms in their CRVs
(which are lighter and share the same engine in a torquier state of tune)

I really wanted to like the Element, but came away with a negative
impression.  The marketing stresses how utilitarian the vehicle is, but it
seems as if the designers worried more about making it quirky than they
did about making it useful.  Folks who are on a quest for a "new bus" will
have to rebuild the old one again and wait some more.

George Lyle
