Date: Fri, 31 Jan 2003 16:10:27 -0800
From: "Heath, Raymond E" <raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: VolksAir project

Ok, finally Friday is here and I can let everyone know that I have completed
the last VolksAir compressor I'm going to build. I fired it up this morning on
the start up stand and after changing a shorted Bosche Blue coil, a bad fuel
pump, and a leaky 34 PICT-3 carb I finally got it running and pumping air.
Pics will be up on my trike site under the motor section as soon as my server
assigns me an address. I sold my last one and this one had been sitting on the
shelf for eight years. It was a project started for a customer who backed out
and so now it will replace the one I just sold.

The block is a type 3 dual relief case set up as a 1600 DP with a 1500 thin
line fan housing and 10mm oil cooler. Since it only runs two cylinders, 2 & 4,
it doesn't require too much cooling. My experience with the last two allows me
to pare down the amount of accessories to the minimum so I don't need dog
house oil cooler, air flaps, thermostat, or a late model fan. I am using an
old 205 VAC distributor and a 34 PICT-3 carb because I have lots of them,
although I could use an adapter and a 28 PICT because of the limited fuel
requirement. As with the last two VolksAirs, I noticed that as my cylinders
broke in my air pressure went way up so I expect the same out of this one. The
task at hand is to build a stand for it and the tank with good wheels for
mobility.

For anyone interested in this project or questions about purchasing a kit from
Dun Right I would be happy to pass along any info I have. I don't represent
DunRight or any distributor, just a simple kit home builder like everyone
else, only with a store of knowledge and experience to go along with it !

I plan on making a mount that utilizes the rear hoop mounts in my SC (finally
some vintage content!) so that I can transport it up to the cabin. Eventually
I want to mount a Dayton generator and controller on it for power as well.

67 Single Cab, DP 1641cc 34 PICT-3
71 Trike 1776cc 28/36  Pinto Progressive
VolksAir 1585cc 34 PICT-3
Ray, Kent WA
Bernoulli Interval: Do I really have enough data to draw a valid conclusion ?
