From: "Russ Neithammer" <rneithammer(-at-)mlea.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "Jack Stafford" <sunbus(-at-)earthlink.net>
Date: Wed, 20 Nov 2002 08:59:43 -0500
Subject: RE: Door mirror restoration

The mirrors on my bus were sold to me by a friend, and I think he got them
from Wolfsburg West, but that would have been quite some time ago.  They are
very nice and they may be NOS original mirrors.  I can't be sure because the
mirrors that were on the bus when I got it were, I'm pretty sure,
replacements, and not very good ones.   The "new" mirrors have/had the
translucent white plastic bead around the edge as described by another
poster on this subject, and, as his did, the plastic bead cracked and
gradually fell off in pieces, until the mirror glass on the drivers side
finally fell out.  Fortunately, this happened while camping in a pine forest
and the glass did not break.  However, I later managed to break it while
attempting to reinstall it.  So I went to the local glass shop, who also
does mirrors, gave them the pieces, and later that day they gave me a very
nicely cut and finished replacement that fit perfectly, and cost $15.00, and
is of much better quality than what was originally installed.

To install the glass, I got a piece of clear plastic tubing, such as would
be used in an aquarium (check the pet store for this) and pushed a piece of
stiff wire through it (I used MIG welding wire).  Lengths of tubing and wire
are adjusted so that the tubing/wire assembly is just slightly larger than
the circumference of the mirror, and thus, after bending to fit the shape of
the mirror and it's housing, it fits tightly inside the lip of the steel
housing and holds the glass in place very nicely.  There is a spring inside
the housing that pushes the glass against whatever is holding it in, so it
won't rattle around.  Just be carefull pushing on the glass when installing
it, that's how I managed to break it during my first attempt.

Russ Neithammer
71 Westy "The Bus"
71 Beetle "New Beetle"
67 Beetle "Rubin"

Date: Tue, 19 Nov 2002 19:13:17 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Jack Stafford <sunbus(-at-)earthlink.net>
Subject: Door mirror restoration
Message-ID: <3DDAFDCD.99DEBE1C(-at-)earthlink.net>

I have a 20+ year old door mirror which needs restoration.  The silver
backing is flaking off in many places.  Does anyone know if new glass
can be mounted in the original mirror frame?  Or does one completely
replace the entire fixture to restore the mirror?  Thank you in advance.
--
Jack  '73 Westfalia  '82 300CD
Costa Mesa, California
http://home.earthlink.net/~sunbus/index.html
