Date: Wed, 20 Nov 2002 10:20:43 -0800 (PST)
From: Charles Claassen <charlesclaassen(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Soundproof Challenge

Greetings --

Well, Brandt (and list), I too am in the middle of a soundproofing/insulation project, so I'll give you a breakdown of what I've used, what I've planned to finish with, and the costs so far.

I actually started this project with the intent of fabricating and installing some 1/8" hardwood plywood door and side panels, and since I was so entertained by the "Heat, Rust, and Noise" article, I figured I would apply some of its methods to my own bus.  I, however, was not prepared from the get go to spend $300 on Q-Pads.  I'm sure they work fantastic, but I'll never know, unless I ride in someone's bus who was willing to fork over the cash.  

First, I filled the voids all over with Great Stuff.  I used three full cans over the course of two days.  I filled the engine comparment hatch, the rear hatch, the voids along the left side panel, and the sliding door and panel behind it (front is front).  The Great Stuff cost me $8.46 for a three pack from Lowes.  

Next, I researched the technology of rubberized asphalt, which is what Q-Pads (and other sound deadening mats) are made of.  Most of what I discovered were driveway crack repair products, and flexible roofing patches, both of which were primarily available only from construction contracting suppliers.  Then I investigated the subculture of the car audio listservers, and found that rubberized asphalt emulsions were available in a spray form.  I could buy the spray from a car audio shop here in Indy for $15 a can, or I could get it from the FLAPS, under the name of "Rubberized Undercoating."  So I bought three cans (total: $11.09), but only used two.   Let me emphasize that the fumes while spraying are FIERCE.  I left it to cure and off-gas for a week, and the smell was pretty much gone.  It did smell like I was doing roofing work in the bus for a few days, though.  I only coated the areas listed above that I filled the voids with expanding foam, not the floors or walls of the area above the engine, nor did I coat the inside of the engine hatch.

Then, I installed R-13 thermal & acoustical fiberglass insulation. 1 40 square foot roll, of which I used about two-thirds on all the surfaces I used the rubberized asphalt undercoating on, cost me $18.52.

I also bought one 10'x25' sheet of 4mil plastic sheeting ($8.45), one can of 3M 90 spray adhesive ($13.20!), to put vapor barriers over the pink insulation.  Add one 2'x25' roll of reflective (NASA) insulation ($19.05), and two one gallon cans of White Elastomeric Acrylic Coating ($43.46).  I  got the Kool Patch instead of rubberized undercoating for the rear and cargo floors, because, frankly, I think it will continue to off-gas some nasty VOC's, especially if the bus sits in the hot sun for a while.  I tell myself my exposure will be limited by the pink insulation, and the 4mil plastic vapor barrier put over it.  

Anyway, after installing the vapor barriers, my next step is to Kool Patch the floor and rear cargo area.  Then, I will double coat with Kool Patch the floor over the engine and the angled part behind the seat.  Then, I will apply the foil insulation on all the floor areas.

In theory, I could stop there, but I'm going to put wood panels in, and wood floors, so I have some more cost coming.  But just for the insulation and soundproofing that I've done, or will do, the cost comes to  $122.23 (that's with tax).

By the way, this is just for the rear.  I have another whole procedure lined up for doing the front cab.  My thoughts for that...I will avoid the rubberized undercoating spray.  And hope that I can stretch the Kool Patch so I don't have to buy anymore!

Hope this helps.  It's certainly been a fun project for me so far.  Which is what it's all about, anyway.  Right?

Charles
