Date: Wed, 20 Nov 2002 13:37:51 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: pokey(-at-)vanagon.org, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Heating Problems (my girlfriend is freezing and hates

>http://www.bulley-hewlett.com/VWindex/ is required reading on

Oh what a subject with us....

To put it in simplest terms:

Notice that you have cold air leaks at the cowl vent. Notice that the 
jalouise windows are breezy even when closed. Notice that the poptop 
probably doesn't seal correctly (tent billowing out inside the bus at 
highway speeds). Check the front door vents. ALOT of door rubber probably 
marginal. Once you've got a vehicle without a breeze then start looking at 
the heaters.

The valves forward of the heater boxes are designed to dump hot air out of 
them when the heat is off so in the summer the heater boxes get cooled a 
bit (and thus the heads and exhaust). I expect it was an air pollution trick.

My guess is that your's (and mine and everyone else's) leak some of the hot 
air out even when the heat is on. I've closed them off before and that 
helps alot.

Next go through the WHOLE system and make sure that EVERYTHING is tight. No 
point of leaking out good heated air right?

If you have a late model baywindow with the horseshoe pipes (U pipes) then 
likely the outer layer of metal has rusted away so the exhaust is getting 
cooled before it gets to the heater box. Consider wrapping it for the 
duration of winter with hot rodder's header tape but remove when warm 
weather hits b/c it will cremate your pipes (metal gets too hot and will 
turn to rust/dust). Other option is moving to a '72-'74 style heater 
system. Another option is to have a muffler shop weld another layer of 
plain metal onto the outside of these U pipes like they were when they were 
new. Keeps the exhaust hot, helps the heaters heat up to max temp.

Lastly make sure that your aux blower has the two little plastic one-way 
flappers inside and that the fan shroud has the two little aluminum 
flappers present if you've got a late model van. Causes pressurized air to 
back it's way out of the system (either the main engine blower or aux 
blower) versus coming up front to heat you.

Last option is to add two 3" Atwood Marine Bilge blowers ($18 each from 
your local boat store) in place of the factory blower. One blower would be 
more powerful than the OEM.

Make sure your engine has a working thermostat.

Make sure that all of the factory wraps are in place on the OEM system.

FWIW I drove a friend's '78 Riviera camper the first winter she had it 
(fresh from out west). Made very good heat all the way down to freezing. My 
wife actually requested LESS heat.

A couple years later the outer layer of the U-pipes had rusted away and the 
heater output was greatly diminished.

Also read the list archives - MAJOR information already there.

Search for heat or heater or blower or cold.



Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
