Date: Wed, 20 Nov 2002 13:55:05 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Charles Claassen <charlesclaassen(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Soundproof Challenge

>I  got the Kool Patch instead of rubberized undercoating for the rear and 
>cargo floors, because, frankly, I think it will continue to off-gas some 
>nasty VOC's, especially if the bus sits in the hot sun for a while.  I 
>tell myself my exposure will be limited by the pink insulation, and the 
>4mil plastic vapor barrier put over it.
>
>Anyway, after installing the vapor barriers, my next step is to Kool Patch 
>the floor and rear cargo area.  Then, I will double coat with Kool Patch 
>the floor over the engine and the angled part behind the seat.  Then, I 
>will apply the foil insulation on all the floor areas.

I like the whole description. I heard from a fellow that uses Kool Patch on 
RV's patching roofs (which is what it is advertised for). He reports that 
several of the RV's come back after a few years with cracks through the 
Kool Patch allowing water through. Might be important to know if case of 
exterior application.

Another material to throw out there is asphalt roof walk pad material. Any 
commercial roofing contractor can sell it to you. Go get a 12"x12" piece 
and play with it. Make up your own mind.

Mine never smelled, will melt with enough heat on one side to stick to a 
metal backing (has been in my sliding door for over a year now - no 
peeling, no smell).

$50 for about 4 feet x 25 feet.

Very similar to the Dynamat materials I have seen an much cheaper. I would 
not apply it to the engine compartment because it would melt but it has not 
moved or melted in the doors or on the floor of my van in over a year.

Body panels with a layer of this sound very, very solid when thumped on the 
outside of the body. I'll lay a layer of this on the floor and then cover 
with a layer of Jute padding and then cover with carpet.

My bus is a perpetual project.

P.S. Check your motor and tranny mounts to ensure one has not broken 
allowing the drivetrain to shift and rest against the frame. My bus was 
very, very noisy until I discovered that the mount above the bellhousing 
had failed and the metal mount was resting against the frame transmitting 
100% of the mechanical noises to the chassis and my ears.

Good post Charles!


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
