From: "bustedbus" <joe(-at-)bustedbus.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 20 Nov 2002 14:02:12 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] Heating Problems (my girlfriend is freezing and hates 

f-f-friends-z-z,

The hunt for heat really starts at the blower motor above the motor. Here
are the common problems and missing parts for mid '74 and later buses.

1. With the left red heater lever all the way down and the ignition switch
on. The heater motor should turn on and blow steady. If not check the
connectors and mainly the fuse (engine comp)
2. The paper hose that go from the fan to the heat pipes rot and need good
clamps to assure they are air tight.
3. Heat pipes go from the paper hose to the heat exchanger and often are
missing or have poor connections to the heat exchangers.
4. Heat exchangers rust, separate and often need to be fixed or replaced.
Grab the body and try and move it around. Tight fit wont let it move much.
Rotten ones flop around.
5. Fan housing to heat exchanger connections are often missing non return
air flaps and covers. The cover plates are essential and are held on with
shroud screws.
6. Forward heat pipes are often rotten or missing these go from the forward
part of the heat exchanger to the control flaps. These need to be tight as
well.
7. Control flaps are rotten or missing or broken. The lever should move
freely with a strong return spring closing them. They should not yield when
the lever is opened or closed. Again everything should be tight.
8. Heater cables are often broken or missing. These brake at the control box
and up front at the lever.
9. Inspect the rest of the heater channel under the bus for damage. Repair
is a trip to Home Depot.
10.Check the fitting for the air distributor. This is the diverter that
comes up from the floor t's and then goes up between the hand brake lever
mount. A hit in the front of your bus can push this off line and you will
only have heat at your feet. The right red heater lever operates the dist
valve. These always brake. We fix them so don't trash an old one.
11. Check the plastic y-pipe above the distributor and the y's that mount to
the dash vents (top center) don't confuse these with the fresh are stuff
which is totally separate.

A note on replacing cables.

Before pulling a cable maker sure that the three small pieces at the engine
end of the cable are recovered 1. rubber boot 2. plastic stop which snaps to
the support arm on the chassis 3. the small plastic plug that snaps onto the
cable and fits just inside the metal tube. Then cut the cable end off at the
metal housing to assure that nothing gets jammed. Now you can try and pull
out the cable. The plastic housing always gets stuck so pull the inner cable
out first, then pull out the housing. This sometimes unravels so wear gloves
and good luck. It is stuck you can cut a section of the metal tubing where
you think it is stuck and then refit it with 7mm FI hose.

Good Luck. I have had great success in getting great heat with this
approach. Let me know if you get stuck or need more explanation.


Joe Mitchell
e-mail: sales(-at-)bustedvw.com
phone: 303-545-5084
Hours: Mon-Fri 9am-5pm
       Sat 10am-2pm
Shop online at www.bustedbus.com
All parts guaranteed for 30 days.
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
We are located in beautiful Boulder, Colorado 80301.



> > Just wondering if anyone has done a study or at least fooled
> > around with the heating setup in their bus and might have
> > some advice for me.
