From: "Eric Shook" <eric(-at-)scurvymonkey.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 21 Nov 2002 09:11:46 -0500
Subject: Brake Calipers Binding (kind of long)

Please bear with my novice lack of technical terms (and general ignorance).
I'm trying to get my '71 camper (Funky) on the road.  When I bought him, the
PO said the only problem was the brake calipers were shot and were sticking
closed.  We took it for a test drive and sure enough, it felt like the front
brakes were on all the time.  The PO has 15 years experience and said a new
set of calipers would take care of it.  Fast-forward a couple months... I got
the new calipers installed and went to bleed the brakes.  As soon as I start
pouring brake fluid into the reservoir behind the seat, I hear liquid hitting
the garage floor!  Closer inspection reveals another reservoir under the floor
mat just in front of the driver's seat.  We filled it up, bleed the front, and
got ready to take him around the block.  (Of course the starter acts up, but
that's another story!)  Okay, (w/ starter fixed) we take him out.  The front
brakes are still doing the same thing!

The PO threw in various extra parts he had sitting around.  I couldn't
immediately place one in particular.  Well, after pooking around Bus Depot the
other day, I come across a picture of one of my "extra" parts... it's the
servo!  A flip through Haynes gives me the general idea of where it goes.
Here comes the questions:

The servo is supposed to connect up directly behind the MC, right?  If so, I
don't have one (at least installed).  What kind of MC am I looking at?  It has
three new steel lines (one from the top and one out each side) and two spade
connectors on the backside.  I can't find a part # on it.  How can I tell if
it's a dual circuit or not?  Can I get it to work as is?  How?  What
should/can I adjust?  How can I tell if the servo is any good?  I'm assuming
the servo is shot if he went to so much trouble (cutting hole if floor for new
reservoir, etc.) to fit a different MC in.

To rap this up, I've tried picking the brake pedal up with my foot while
driving to see if that takes the pressure off... it doesn't.  Thanks for the
help!

Have a good one,
Eric and Funky
www.scurvymonkey.net
