Date: Thu, 21 Nov 2002 09:13:34 -0800 (PST)
From: Susan <a451301(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: The reason it's called E-BAY..clarification

--- Mathew Nardone <flatspel(-at-)hotmail.com> wrote:
> I'd like to weigh in on this issue again. I posted a
> note last week 
> suggesting that a 3rd list not be formed

and this i whole heartedly agree with !!!

but from a browsing listee and not a die hard techie
or a shopping fiend i'd like to go back to the
beginning and just ask for what it is we are not
supposed to do then maybe we would all be talking
about the same thing.

i think posting your items for sale pre ebay is super.
i think ebay browsers posting interesting finds ie
actual buses is super to the list as a point of
interest who cares about a 'closing' post. let the
information be accessed by those interested.

i think if more inconsequential answers were posted
off list directly to the people that ask the questions
then the list 'volume' would be a moot point.  

if you have a part or know of it on ebay or samba or
the nickel want ads or a friend that has the part
someone needs pmail them.  if you have extras that
more of us might need then list post.

i enjoy hearing how problems are solved and i have
been collecting the reasonable answers to use myself
which i think is the aim of the list but it is a venue
and all 1000 people don't post. i'd say probably 20%
might pipe up so i don't feel we can be overwhelmed by
100s more messages a day or anything.  i still just
wish that there would be less copying of entire
preposts in the answers ;-)

but as a rule i like to hear the availability of buses
wherever the source cuz sometimes it's easier to just
acquire a whole donor than piecemeal or know what your
bus is worth for either insurance or personal info...

ok just my opinion but i felt 'compelled' to share.
:-)




=====
Susan Dolvin
78 Riviera 'Patch'
66 Dormobile Westy 'Zapper'
Westfalia Acres - Drain, Oregon
Yahoo! Mail Plus  Powerful. Affordable. Sign up now.
http://mailplus.yahoo.com
