From: "ronnie chase" <ronniechase(-at-)worldnet.att.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 21 Nov 2002 10:16:27 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] Ebay: the polls are in!

I don't agree. We need to support our vw specific suppliers in any way
possible. The other day ronnie(type2parts.com)  posted on the vintagebus
list about some new felts he had in for split buses that where previously
unavailable. Without this post I wouldn't know that this part (that I need
for my own bus)was even made now, much less where to buy it.  The suppliers
aren't posting every little part they have for sale. It's  usually when
something new, or something that was on back order or otherwise unavailable
comes in. Or if someone posts looking for a specific part that they have
available. I think it's great to get a heads up when something new or a
better version of something old is made and becomes available. I think it
sucks to get a ton of emails about every little widget everyone put on ebay.
Thats why they have a search engine. If you want to sell a part on the list
offer it to the list first, rather than just using them as a pool of bidders
to increase your final price. Everett even has a section on his site
(thesamba.com) dedicated to ebay ads if thats what you're after. An auction
only benifits two people, you and the buyer who may not even be on the list.
The vendors have many of the same item available for a fixed price and can
be helpful to lots of people who may need or want the parts that they have
available.

As for half the days post being about bus depot, That is usually because
someone complained harshly about the service and someone else jumped in to
defend them, it just sort of snowballs from there, ending(or sometimes not)
with ron telling his side. You can hardly blame bus depot for that. I'm sure
ron doesn't enjoy having to defend himslef/bus depot publicly either.




> If we do in fact have a "no advertising" policy, including eBay, then we
should enforce it across the board. I have seen days where half the posts
were dedicated to the Bus Depot. I like the Bus Depot. I have always had
good experiences with Bus Depot.
> However, if we have a policy, it should be enforced across for all. If I
can't let the list know about the taillights I am putting up on eBay, then
Bus Depot shouldn't be able to tell me about the new taillights they just
got in.
> Or change the policy.
