Date: Thu, 21 Jun 2007 21:01:16 -0700
From: <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
To: "Bill Bowman" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>, "Bowman, Kathryn"
Subject: Running amuck in Belgium...

Hi all,

Just a quick trip report from the B.B.T. party the night before the HUGE 
(200 plus Vintage VW caravan to Bad Camberg tommorrow morning.  Tom 
Niedernhofer and I "quick detailed" ALL 70 of the vintage VWs in the BBT 
museum on Thursday in anticipation of the Thursday afternoon open house 
and party.  Then Tom and I were put into new cars and we made several 
shuttle runs on the Autobahns to the major airports to pick up incoming 
VW dignitaries and get them safely back to B.B.T. near Antwerp.  The 
party kicked off way before the 3pm starting time, the museum collection 
was opened and at least 50 or so early buses are parked all over the 
grounds partying well into the night

You should see the British contingent!  Tons of Type 2's and some very 
die-hard bus fans that crossed the English Channel by ferry.  BBT 
provided GREAT free food (steaks, ribs, brats, and all of the fixin's) 
and unlimited wonderful Belgian beer as well as other beverages (all 
free!) until at around 9:30pm the last of many kegs ran dry.  Everyone 
was very happy, I don't believe that anyone limped in with any 
mechanical problems, and there will be a huge mob at the BBT shop early 
on Friday morning to enjoy breakfast and the 9am start of the 6 hour 
caravan adventure to Bad Camberg.  As special surprise, the last 1 1/2 
hours of the drive will be routed right down the scenic Rhine River 
gorge to B.C.! Can you envision well over 200 old bugs and buses 
cruising along the banks of the Rhine!

I'm piloting the very same prussian blue Belgian 1949 Standard Beetle 
(full crashbox and cable brakes!) for Bob that I drove for him in 2003.  
We have heard that already the streets of Bad Camberg are crowded with 
old VWs and all of us aren't even there yet.  This is gonna be nuts!

Okay enough for now, beddy bye for me so I can count all of my missed 
shifts in my dreams.  I can't wait to see what tommorrow brings!

Bill Bowman
near Brecht, BelgiumRunning amuck in Belgium...
