Date: Mon, 25 Jun 2007 09:48:52 -0700
From: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc" <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Trip report, vapor lock

Drove from L.A. to Sunnyvale, CA. 800 miles round trip. Mostly uneventful.

Bus ran nice and straight down the freeway. Hasn't been that way in 20 
years. I had installed new rear, outer only, rubber bushings on the torsion 
bar. Gotta do the inners now! I highly recommend new bushings. Real easy to 
to the outer ones. Got 25mpg driving back from Sunnyvale to San Luis Obispo. 
What a tail wind we had. Never seen it like that before.

When I got off the freeway in Sunnyvale, I pulled into a McD's parking lot 
to rest my butt for a few minutes. I started up again and got as far as the 
entrance and the engine died. Restarted and it died again in about 2 
seconds. Wouldn't start after that. So I let gravity roll me back into a 
parking space so I could think and trouble shoot. I figured the ignition was 
working so it had to be a fuel problem. I pulled the gas line to the carb, 
had my wife turn the engine over and, no fuel spurting out. Lots of gas in 
the tank. Conclusion at this point was "broken fuel pump". Its original and 
has only 311,000 miles on it. Obvious culprit. Got a tow to my sister's 
house a few miles away. Had lunch and went out to remove the pump. Lo and 
behold, as I was fooling around with that, fuel spurted out of the pump! Put 
it back together and started it up. Took a minute to fill the carb bowl, but 
no problems. Ambient temperature was around 75 degrees F when all this 
happened.

On the return trip, after a short stop in Paso Robles where I didn't even 
shut off the engine, it almost died when I got back onto the freeway. 
Luckily after coughing for a about 30 seconds it caught and got going again. 
Temp here was about 90-95 F.

So, conclusion:  Vapor Lock!!

The set up in my bus is standard VW flexible fuel line to a piece of 
stainless tubing that runs from the sheet metal at the clutch end of the 
engine all the way to the fuel pump. I have the old style pump that uses a 
solid line and compression fitting.

How can I prevent a vapor lock in the future? Insulate the solid line?

Thanks!!
Chris

PS. I am running a 1776 with a weber progressive carb and standard pea 
shooter exhaust. Considering going back to the extractor and quiet pack. Ran 
65-70mph all the way, except going up hills. Oil only turned a light brown. 
The dog house cooler must be doing a good job.
