Date: Wed, 27 Jun 2007 11:04:46 -0700
From: Nick Kneen <kneen(-at-)email.arizona.edu>
To: VintageBus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: concrete slab

Hi All -

I thought this older post from Joe Hooks (from the Z car list) would be worth 
repeating here.  I followed his advice when ordering concrete for my slab and it 
turned out slick.

------------ original post ---------------
Date: Wed, 30 Nov 2005 23:22:08 -0600
From: LHooksZR1(-at-)aol.com
Subject: <all> concrete

Having gained so much  info from this site since 1999, I thought that I could 
share some insight into a subject that, finally, I know  something about. If you 
are pouring a new garage, house or driveway, skip the 2500 psi and use the 3000. 
Price diff about $ 3.00 per cu yd. Use fiber at the rate of 1 lb per cu yard. 
Here is the most important thing, make sure that it is poured at no more than a 
5 inch slump ???? When the concrete is poured it should form a pile at the end 
of the chute. What you don't want to see is self leveling concrete, this would 
indicate that the finisher has added more water than is required to make his job 
easier. The loss of this " water of  convenience " leads to cracking. Cut the 
concrete in symmetrical square patterns, not to exceed 15 ft, to 1\2 slab 
thickness [actually about 1" in my case -nk], no later than 12 hrs after the 
pour. Grandpa was right, water cure concrete ( sprinkler, soaker hose, keep it 
moist ) for 72 hrs. Concrete is designed to make strength at 28 days. More info 
can be obtained by going to the National Readymix Asc. web site.1 cubic yard of 
concrete will cover 80 square ft (-at-) 4 inch thick.

Joe Hooks
Division Manager
Prestige AB Ready Mix, Florida
72 240Z Jupiter Fl.
------------------------------

I finally came across Reuben, a 15 year concrete veteran, who showed up one
afternoon after work in the company truck to finish my 10 year awaiting 22X18
formed area.  Using a nifty tripod laser level with a remote unit that slides up
and down on a separate four foot carpenter's level, he quickly determined plumb
and level at the corners, ripped out and restaked the forms as needed, finished
my crude leveling of the AB construction fill to a uniform 4", added a six x 
eight foot L wing on the fly, and then hauled out a heavy compactor with a Honda
6 hp motor on top and compacted the moistened construction fill I had in place.

The following Sat. morning the concrete truck backed in and in the 40 minutes
allowed he and a helper had six yards roughly leveled in place.  After a
wheelbarrow size test, he had the driver add another five gals. of water before
the rest of the pour.  Using a 12 foot motor driven screed/compactor, then five 
or six passes with a large metal bull float and groover, and finally three 
separate passes with three different hand trowels as he maneuvered on metal knee 
sleds, he finaled the smooth finish I wanted.  The fresh slab had an almost
plasticine gray glow to it as it dried.  The added fibers should help the slab 
from cracking.

$1,100 and a heartfelt bow from me later (as my Espanol is muy poquito), he was
out the driveway on his way to the next job by 2:30.  Concrete cost of $760.  He
poo pooed my wondering about keeping it covered and wet for the first few days
for a better cure and minimum surface cracking - and a six weeks later it still
looks beyootiful.  Time will tell, but this monolith isn't going to crack.

As a first cut at a final finish for this so far exterior slab I tried two coats 
of Sherwin Williams Silicone Acrylic Concrete Sealer, tinted a nice
seagreen.  For some reason they seem adamant about waiting 45 days for the
final (alkali) cure before painting.

This is a single part H&C. Silicone Acrylic Concrete Sealer via Sherwin 
Williams: http://www.hcconcrete.com/product/3011.asp

I first etched the 45 day old smooth finished slab with Muriatic (dilute 
Hydrochloric) acid.  A gallon, diluted into water at approximately 15 to one, 
and sprinkled with a plastic watering can, just barely covered the 410 sq. ft. 
The first test, with a higher concentration evidenced with significant foaming, 
proved strong enough to 'lift' the just subsurface layer of fiber (added to the 
concrete mix), so I used the more diluted mix for the remainder.  I scrubbed it 
into the slab with a stiff plastic brush and quickly hosed it down, then let dry 
overnight.  Sweeping the slab the next morning revealed a fair amount of loose 
concrete dust left from the etching process.  Next time I'd hose it down again 
and wet sweep it before the final coating.

Working quickly as the 6:00 Sonoran sun began it's rise to another 105F day, I 
cut in the edges and control joints with a brush, then used a 12" roller - about 
2 hours time.  There was some 'bubble' formation - I'm guessing the Xylene 
carrier evaporating unevenly on a surface not quite at the perfect ph.  I was 
able to lightly go over the bubbles with the roller to knock them down.  The 
second coat went on in a little over an hour with no further bubbling.  It's 
tinted a pretty sort of sea mist caribbean green.  Time will tell when jacks 
start rolling, hot oil gets spilled, 10 year old wheel grease gets ground in and 
gas drips, but so far so good.  I used about four 1/2 gallons total - about $100 
for the so called five gallon (well, 4 39/64 gallons according to the label) can.

Adherence looks good, the early surface has hardened well, still sort of typical 
of Acrylic paint, but I'm expecting it to set up hard enough to resist the wear 
and tear to come and be cleanable.

Nick
