Date: Sat, 20 Jul 2002 00:11:23 -0400 (EDT)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To:  <ChancesOur(-at-)aol.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] lights

On Fri, 19 Jul 2002 ChancesOur(-at-)aol.com wrote:

> Awhile back Steve Dolan was great enough to come out and help me get
> my lights working. All has been great, until yesterday. My brake
> lights work, parking lights, reverses but my high beams wont come on
> and my turn signals dont work. This leads me to believe its in the
> stalk on the steering column, but I cant seem to find anything wrong.
> The fuses are all ok.

Melissa,

Time to go back thru and do just what we did for the brake lights, but for
a different circuit.  Two different circuits, actually, tho they do come
together in spots.

For the high beam switch check fro 12V between power (the wire being
tested) and ground (the body oof the bus) at the following points:

at the battery;
at the junction on the starter solenoid;
at the fuse box, look for a big red wire with a white stripe;
at terminal 30 on the ignition switch;
at terminal X on the ignition switch;
at terminal X on the headlight relay (relay "J" in Bentley)
at terminals 56a and 56b on the headlight relay;
at the fuses, look for and test two with:
   yellow in, yellow and yellow/black coming out
   white in,  white and white/black coming out;
at the lamps.

There is a slight complication in the headlight circuit.  the relay "J" is
supposed to flip your headlights from high to low beam.  It does this by
connecting terminal S to ground.  The connecting goes on up in the
steering column, but first check the relay by connecting terminal S to
ground (the body) while the headlights are on.  If this flips the lights
from low to high beam, then the problem is between the relay and the
column.  You will need to remove the turn signal switch and test that
theres is (a) no resistance between ground and terminal 31, (b) that
when you pull the lever there is no resistance between terminal S and
ground, and (c) that terminal S on the switch is connected to terminal S
on the relay.

Now... the turn signals...  The current (and test) path is as follows:
the same as the lights thru the fuse box;
check terminal 30 on the emergency flasher switch;
check the + terminal at the emergency flasher switch;
check the + terminal at the flasher relay (relay J2 in Bentley);
check terminal 54 at the flasher relay;
check terminal 54 at the turn signal switch;
check L and R at the switch;
check the bulb holders.

Everyone who has read this far will be thinking "Gee... why'd he get so
detailed??? *I* know where the problem is!" but as you know from our
experience with the brake lights, everyone is wrong.  I am sorry to say
that working from battery to load is the *only* reliable way to make sure
that the power is going where it ought to go, no matter what you "know".
Certainly you can shortcut, but if you do, there is a good chance you will
miss the source of the problem and be back at the battery again :-)  I
know I did shortcut that day and I certainly wound up back at the battery.

So, to quote my high school librarian... "Be reasonable, do it my way" :-)

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail



