From: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>
To: "Type2 List (E-mail)" <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Date: Thu, 7 Mar 2002 10:53:11 -0500 
Subject: RE: [T2] Why can't people fix things right?

>Ever notice just how many VWs out there have some sort of rigging on them? 


I have come to accept that any used VW is screwed up in its own perverse way
due to the PO being a moron, cheapskate, or trying "improve" on VWs
engineering.

VW Morons are plentiful...  You see them at shows mostly trying to put
chrome valve covers on in 100 degree weather... You try to help them but it
is a futile effort.  They tend to know everything about everything, but pay
a mechanic to tune their car or have it run like poop and blame it on sticky
points in their 009.  No matter what you say it is a waste of your time
because they heard it different in VW Trends last month.

There is frugal owners and then the cheapskate owners...  I can value a
dollar and like to pay as little as possible for parts and stuff, but a
cheapskate defies logic and common sense in an effort to not spend any money
at all and cobble together "fixes" to problems with whatever is in the
garage.  These lovely people tend to F up the wiring in cars, have burned
points, duct tape everywhere, a few bailing wire fixes, and generally a
nasty car period.  This person will also not have any of the correct owners
manuals for their car, and think $10 Haynes manuals are good for something
besides toilet paper.

The people who "improve" on VW design is a mixed bag.  Some people really do
a nice job with logical improvements that VW should have done over the
years, but these people rare.  The majority of people I have seen look at
what a guru has done and tries it themselves, of course we see some mixed
results because sometimes the skill level is too much for the novice to
accomplish correctly.  Then there are the people who heard from a friend
that so and so would work and they saw it in VW Trends...  Quick grab the
sawzaw and start cutting body panels off to make it go faster and run 50
degrees cooler!  Lets just say the results are horrible.  

...  These are the reasons I generally stay away from shows.  It is too
painful to see some of the mutilation to the vehicles! 

* Disclaimer:  I am not a VW god or anything nor do I claim to be.  I have
just learned lots of stuff the hard way and experiment a lot with what can
and cannot work.  I am not a vintage nazi or a super duper custom dude
either.  My philosophy is that the more poorly "tuned" VWs running around
the more opportunity I have to buy it cheap one day and restore it properly
so someone else can enjoy it :)

FWIW the Herbie 14"x6" rims from Stockton Wheel look awesome!  Give it that
tough Baja look w/o being chopped up.   


Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Westi "Biscuit"
1979 Porsche 911 SC "Cochise"

On the gravytrain to biscuitville!
 





