From: "Julie A Roberts" <KMKJAR(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: "jdd" <johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 6 Sep 2001 22:09:58 -0000
Subject: Re: [VB] Transmission - Help me please

hey there....my '58 has a '66tranny and front beam (thanks toTodd) for a far
better ride... i kept hte 15 inchers for looks....just remember  parts for
the brakes , etc. if u change 'em..
-----Original Message-----
From: jdd <johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Friday, September 07, 2001 12:58 AM
Subject: [VB] Transmission - Help me please


I just did a 1500 mile trip loaded with furniture etc.. - and a dog and 2
cats - I am nuts! Anyway, now my transmission is popping out of 4th a lot
and it is howling like a banshee.  I found VW dealer who shut down about a
year or so ago and he has a transmission complete with reduction boxes,
starter etc.  He says it is good and I believe him so I bought it and just
have to go and pick it up.  I also got an NOS muffler, and he has an early
blade bumper for a beetle. But I ramble.

Anyway, he says this transmission is 67 or so and my bus is a 60 with the
original transmission - what do I have to be concerned about with swapping
them.  I guess I would have to use my redux boxes hey?  I have 15" rims but
the 67 would take 14" rims - right?  I would like to just slap the new one
in redux boxes and all but ... not at the expense of getting new rims and
tires.  Is it possible to just pull my motor and pull my transmission and
leave my reduction boxes on my bus? My guess is yes but .... I've only had
it out as a whole unit.  The ol' fella that I bought it from assures me that
the transmission, reduction box bearings, starter etc.. are all good - but
he won't guarantee the solenoid.  He would guarantee the rest though but he
wants more money if it comes with a guarantee.  I also found a guy who will
rebuild my old transmission.

Anyway - any advice as to what I should do about this transmission is
appreciated.

TIA list
jdd 60 std


