From: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>
To: jbakerccymca(-at-)springmail.com
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, david_cutright(-at-)homedepot.com
Date: Fri, 7 Sep 2001 10:01:24 -0400 
Subject: RE: More info, Engine seized

Hey John,

Sounds like something fragged inside.  Try taking the rockers and push rods
out and see if that helps.  Check that all the valves are seated properly,
might be that a valve head is broken off and clunking around in a cylinder
(likely #3).

I have seen some oddball things break lately, so it could be a rod bolt
snapped or even the camshaft broken in half.

Any of the above will mean complications in parts reusage on the rebuild.
Each one will have to be carefully checked before refurbishing for reuse.
For instance if a rod is toast a new set will be needed and the crankshaft
checked for straightness, and of course case allignbored to straighten it.
If the valve snapped you will need rebuilt/new heads, new pistons and
cylinders, and thorough checking of the rods and crank, of course
allignbore.  I always use new lifters as standard practice, can reuse
camshaft if it is carefully checked.

I think the full autopsy will be necessary in any scenario.


Take Care,
Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Westi "Biscuit"
1979 Porsche 911 SC 

On the gravytrain to biscuitville!
 

-----Original Message-----
From: John Baker [mailto:jbakerccymca(-at-)springmail.com]
Sent: Friday, September 07, 2001 9:37 AM
To: david_cutright(-at-)homedepot.com; apillow(-at-)manh.com
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: More info, Engine seized


Hey Guys, It's me again!
So I spent a little more time on the 64 last night and discovered that the
engine is not COMPLETELY seized.  It will turn almost a full turn, then stop
solid.  I turn the engine backwards a nearly full turn and it stops again.
Then, it can be turned forward the sam amount, etc., etc.  Does this give
anyone any more insight on what my specific problem may be?



Peace, John Baker
1966  Split Bus camper
1983 H20 Vanagon
http://www.geocities.com/jbakerccymca

"...so we got in the red VW
microbus with the shovels and rakes and implements of destruction and
headed on to the police officer's station..."
