Date: Thu, 10 Jun 2004 20:41:01 -0500
From: Alex Wisniewski <awisniewski(-at-)comcast.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] exhaust inside the bus - update

Well guys/gals here is the latest news on the exhaust
troubles. First things first I checked for pin hole rust in
the cargo floor above the Y heat ducting as Mike L suggested.
No visible rust here, all seems to be well to my eye.

The two changes I've made were taping the rear poptop of
down to make a seal between the rain gutter and the roof.
I also extended the tail pipe with a 10 inch pipe extension.
The pipe goes out about 6 inches then bends slightly down
and outward.

For the first test run I drove for 20 minutes at 45 mph with
the windows up and the fresh air ventilation on. The CO
detector did not have a recorded reading after this run.

The second test I figured I'd drive a bit longer. This time
I drove 50 minutes at 45mph. The detector had a recording
of 90ppm which was very low in comparison to past recordings.
Wahoo!! I have finally located the source in some regard.

Here is some other interesting information on the matter.
With a friend driving the bus down the interstate I can
feel air rushing in from the poptop area. It is not coming
from the front of the bus but from the rear. The fiberglass
roof for the poptop is missing the seal that goes around the
lower edge of the roof, the rear section is in place though.
The canvas is in great condition so I can only imagin that
air is coming in through the zipper seams?? I'm going to
check the canvas again though to be sure certain. I wonder
if it would be probable for air rushing in past the missing
seal to pull along some of the exhaust fumes from the rear
of the bus (at the dead air space) and thats how this is
all is happening.

I could use any of your thoughts on the new infomation.
It is a wonderful feeling to know I'm close to having this
permanently fixed :0) Thank you all!

Alex Wisniewski
'77 Riviera
