Date: Wed, 07 Aug 2002 08:45:09 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: R&R exhaust system - was: setting off car alarms

Assuming you want to get rid of the leaks try this:

My '78 Westy got a freshened engine a few years ago and had several bad 
leaks and thus loud exhaust noises. I like quiet and prefer not to be any 
louder than I have to when I enter the campsites so a tight system is 
important to me. Also helps that the heater isn't grabbing exhaust gases to 
feed to me and mine in the cabin area....

I pulled the entire system. On the manifolds that bolt to the head I 
noticed that some of the lip that contacts the head was clean, some of it 
was not. Same with the copper gasket in the head - some of it was sooty and 
some of it was not. I had an exhaust leak.

I clamped the manifold pipe in my work table vise and took a long, wide 
metal worker's file and began filing both manifold inlets (the part that 
contacts the head) at once and together. I filed until both pipes had a 
shiny lip all the way around. With age these pipes warp and twist and will 
not seal. Every Type IV I have worked on had this problem (5 of these 
engines). I did both pipes. I then got under the engine and used a 
flatblade screwdriver to hook the copper gasket and pry it out. Don't 
damage the head surface that these copper gaskets sit on. I actually used a 
hammer to hammer the tip of the blade through the gasket but I won't 
recommend this method. It has worked every time but if you hammer too dead 
you make a mess of the head so I won't tell you to risk this method.

When I reinstalled the head several of the head studs pulled out. Damn! So 
I tried Heli-coils. Some of them pulled too. More of an operator's (me) 
problem than anything else I suspect. I have since used a Loctite product 
that creates a ceramic thread repair with success. I was very skeptical but 
I've had good results. Of course I would not use it where something safety 
related was using this "rethreaded" hole.

After these rethread repairs all failed I looked around for alternatives. I 
then noticed Chevrolet SB exhaust studs were in all the stores so I bought 
a kit with brass nuts. I rethreaded the holes for this larger size and have 
not had a bit of trouble since. This repair requires you to open the holes 
a bit more in the exhaust manifolds for it to slip over the SBC 3/8 studs. 
Silence! Hurray!

Next was the trianlge flanges. I sandblasted everything and painted the 
pipes. That lasted for a short time...

I took a hammer and beat the flanges a bit so that the tips were lower than 
the gasket surface. When the flange is tightened it squeezes the gasket 
tighter. These flanges tended to warp until the tips were above the gasket 
surface and this would prevent the gasket from sealing at all on my bus. I 
also used a file to smooth the pitted surface. Being the cheap SOB I am I 
also went to the FLAPS and got permission to go through their exhaust 
gaskets to look for a cheap alternative to the VW specific exhaust gaskets. 
Nissan has a couple of gaskets that are just about perfect. Right on hand 
and no shipping costs. No leaks. Silence! Hurray! The FLAPS had the 
triangular gasket for the late bays and a gasket for the heater box to 
muffler joint on the early bay Type IV system. Usually I had to elongate 
the bolt holes slightly to make them fit.

I worked my way through the system and it sounded wonderful. I later traded 
off my '78 exhaust system in favor of the '72-'74 system so I could run an 
extractor system from RMMW. It has held up okay for 10K miles but the bus 
has been sitting for a couple of years now and the muffler is showing it's 
age (rust). I plan to cut it apart when it rusts through and replace the 
mufflers from a local FLAPS versus buying another catalog muffler that 
won't last. I know there are stainless steel alternatives to be had and 
this is the only long term solution.

The total cost of my late bay R&R was $25 for gaskets and paint. My total 
cost for an early bay would be much less.


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


