Date: Wed, 07 Aug 2002 08:50:53 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] heater smells

Buy yourself a battery operated CO monitor. Maybe you're getting poisoned...

IS your exhaust system tight and closed?

Are your heater boxes tight and not rusted out?

Is the engine leaking so much oil that the fumes are getting into the fan? 
Is the engine properly sealed to the body? Any leaks in the perimeter seal 
could potentially allow exhaust to get pulled into the fan and ultimately 
into the cabin with you... You've got to have the whole system there and 
working - all the little rubber pieces and all the tin. It has to fit 
tight. It is a very simple system but you'll have to study it to see where 
everything is. The Bentley book has alot of good pics and be sure to look 
at other VW's to see what you are missing. 90% of the VW's I have looked at 
were missing significant numbers or pieces metal or rubber. Some folks will 
spend $150 on bandaids for their poor heater without ever spending the 
money to get the bus back to a 100% factory condition heater first - rubber 
and flappers and heater boxes in new to good condition.

The Beetle I owned in Italy when I lived there was 100% complete and in top 
condition and it made very good heat that was clean.  Anytime something got 
loose or worn the heat would smell funny. A friend's Beetle in H.S. would 
give you a headache in 20 minutes it leaked C.O. so badly. We drove with 
the windows open all winter - sort of made the heater pointless. When it 
was really cold we simply left the windows up and the heat off and wiped 
the windshield with a rag to control the fog. Not a good situation at all. 
That car was missing tin, rubber and the heaters were rusted out. My friend 
just could seem to let go of enough money to fix it right. Plenty of money 
for other stuff though.. .<grin!> This car had all new everything but not 
attention given to the heater.

C.O. is a very, very bad thing. The Internet can tell you all about it.

Should not smell of anything. The fan pulls the fresh air into the engine 
cooling fan and forces some of it through the heater boxes and into the 
tubes that deliver it to the front of the vehicle. If there are leaks then 
the air leaks out of the system and you get less or no heat but the leaks 
can't add fumes to the air becuase it is leaking OUT. If there are leaks in 
the exhaust you can get fumes INTO the system. If your tin and perimeter 
seal is poor then you can get fumes INTO the fan and thus into the fan.

If you add an aux blower - set it up so it forces air into the heater boxes 
and not where it pulls air through the heater boxes (between the heater 
boxes and you). With it set up incorrectly the blower will not last if it 
is plastic (melts letting off fumes) and it could potentially draw exhaust 
and oil fumes through leaky seams in the exhaust system and poison you. 
Replace the stock blower with the aux blower and you will be just fine.

Take it all apart and clean the pipes out. Dust, dirt, grease, grime, dead 
rodents, etc. are in there.

Use a leaf blower to blow out the pipes.

Fix the heater now while you don't need it. We'll all be bitching in a few 
months about heaters that don't work.

>It isn't supposed to smell at all. Lets see 2002 - 1971 that's 31 years.
>A little of everything has been through your system.
>You can dis connect the heater tubes to your interior and address this
>again when your brain cells replenish.
>I always disconnect my heater tubes and tie up the flappers in warm
>months because heat always comes in past the highly efficient, expertly
>designed premium flapper valves.

Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


