Date: Wed, 07 Aug 2002 09:21:59 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Dan Terrel <danterrel(-at-)attbi.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Low compression


>140 lbs of compression all the way around.

Except #4 right? I'm confused.

>Number 4 spark seems weak when in motor!  (pull sparkplug, ground and 
>spark good and strong)

When you check it - it is weak? Or that cylinder doesn't seem to contribute 
to much of the engine idle when you pull the wire? Have you measured the 
resistance of the wire? Swapped the plugs around?

>Pull the plug and insert compression tester, start motor and only 40 lbs 
>of compression?

Have you tried another compression tester? Are you cranking the motor or 
testing rolling it over?

I pull all the plugs, disable the coil (unplug the 12v+), and then roll the 
engine over for each cylinder test until the compression tester tops out or 
10 seconds passes. Is your compression tester a thread in tester or just 
one that you press against the sparkplug hole? Thread in are better for me 
because they seal better IMHO. Also check that pressure relief valve in it. 
Mine leaked at one time until I fixed it.

>(Carb and Jets clean, valves adjusted correctly)

When you adjust the valves - are you doing it by going to TDC for #1 and 
then rolling the engine backwards or forwards?

>What could be causing the loss of compression after start up?

If you have good compression when you roll the engine over with the starter 
and then low compression during idle speeds (engine running on 3 cylinders) 
then I would suspect a sticking valve or rocker arm is seizing up a bit.

>Could this be a split valve?

Valves that seal good during the test should seal good for engine running 
too. Burnt valves won't pass a compression test or let the engine idle 
correctly.

Are the heads on tight? I had one engine pull a stud and it had exhaust 
gasses leaking between the head and cylinder. Ruined the cylinder. Made 
noise, idled poorly, down on power.

Let us know...


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


