Date: Wed, 07 Aug 2002 11:24:13 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Janice Bartmess <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] I guess it's not wrong after all


>Yes, I was wondering about that. But maybe you could reduce the pulley
>diameter on the generator or alternator a bit to get more turns on that fan
>per engine revolution. It couldn't get a lot smaller than it is, I suspect,
>but you wouldn't need a lot..What do you think? Jan B

Okay - take with is with a grain of salt and the info is dated but Gene 
Berg had a paper in his tech manuals about this and he said that the pulley 
size couldn't be changed a whole lot without using more power than before 
to run the fan (speeding the fan up with a lower engine rpm). Essentially 
putting a higher gear on the fan hub and we all know what a higher gear 
does - lower rpms at the source, more power used by the load, faster output 
shaft speed - just like the wheel on your bus.

He also mentioned that slowing the fan down would remove much or all of 
your extra cooling reserve for steep hills and hot days.

This was info written about the Type I engine built to huge HP ratings for 
their Beetle. I can't comment with any real authority of my own.

I expect you could slow it down some but on a Type IV since the fan is on 
the end of the crank you couldn't change pulley sizes unless you had 
converted to 911 style cooling.

I don't think I'd want to slow down a Type I engine at all (lack of power 
all ready, already making alot more heat than the same engine would in a 
Beetle chassis) but I would certainly want 5 speeds in such a heavy vehicle 
with such a small engine!

For a real understand of the engineering of aircooled engines read 
"Aircooled Engines" by Julius Mackerle. He was one of the Tatra designers - 
the V-8 aircooled Czech car. Tatra continues to build WONDERFUL aircooled 
engines today - though mostly diesel for heavy trucks. They race the Paris 
to Dakar race every year.


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


