Date: Wed, 07 Aug 2002 13:52:08 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Why VW buses die


>Myself, I'm of the run it till it's used up group. Rust is my biggest enemy;
>how 'bout you?

Now that I am over halfway through a new Honda car payoff I can say that 
both my VW's and Hondas will have to last another 400K miles before I feel 
the need to buy another car payment...

I think most vehicles last about 150K miles or whenever the owner gets 
bored with it and begins to slack off on the maintenance and upkeep - - - 
whichever comes first.

Some die sooner than they should because of inept owners who take their 
cars to the cheapest service places, buys the cheapest parts, considers 
duct tape to be a valid repair material, and generally drives everywhere as 
fast as they can - - - or lets their kids wrestle around inside the car 
spilling food and drinks, breaking off the interior trim, and tearing the 
upholstery - - - it is amazing to see what kind of damage some people let 
their kids do to the family car.

Somebody told me that the quickest way to run a car into the ground is to 
start and stop as quickly as you can all the time. There is a reason your 
grandma got 20 years out of her Ford LTD and it isn't b/c Ford made it....

<grin!>

I am seriously interested these days in getting maximum mileage and use out 
of my vehicles. I was raised with the idea that you sold your car before it 
cost you any money - - - sell it at 90K miles if it was American and 190K 
miles if it was Japanese or VW and let the next guy replace everything. 
Keep it nice and sell it for top dollar.

Now I have the attitude that I can - with care - get 400K out of my cars IF 
I can keep the rust at bay. Takes alot of touch up maintenance and 
inspection...

If people would put half as much care and upkeep into a modern car as they 
did in the 50's and 60's cars that required it, modern cars would last 
forever. Of course despite all of these modern time saving and labor saving 
devices - we are the most "busy" of any generation in a century.



Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


