Date: Wed, 07 Aug 2002 14:17:36 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: michael walter <ibskot(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] wiring harness

No - do not remove the dash. Sorry should have told you that last time.

Worst case you might have to remove the instrument cluster to get a better, 
more comfortable look inside the dash.

I suspect the rear light problem is a rusty light socket or ground wire. 
The schematic will tell you where.

There is one or two wires that serves the entire turn signal circuit and 
one of them is obviously dead.

Get out your book and see if the positive source (12v+) runs through the 
turn signal flasher, and then to the steering column. Hang on, don't do 
anything drastic because I am doing this from memory.

If this is true then one side of the flasher circuit should be 12v+ with 
the key "on". That comes from the source. Probably through the fuse panel. 
Is the right size fuse in there? Are the tips clean? Use some fine 
sandpaper to clean both sides of the connection - the fuse and the fuse 
socket.

Then follow that hot wire through the flasher socket to the steering 
column. It will also branch off to the indicator on the dash too. With a 
jumper in place of the flasher relay, you should be able to trace 12v+ into 
the steering column. See if when you pull the pigtail off of the bottom of 
the column - is that wire is still hot? With the jumper in place the 
circuit would turn the lights on but not flash them. You can leave that 
jumper in until you finish chasing the circuit. If the lights come on now 
with the jumper then you have a bad relay.

(Is the fuse panel getting wet from a leaking windshield gasket? A friend's 
Riviera constantly ruins the flasher relays because every time it rains 
they get wet and fill with water. Without fixing that windshield gasket, 
this whole exercise is futile. Fix that first!)

If that wire is not hot from the flasher to the steering column and the 
schematic says it should be then you need to inspect for breaks and cuts.

If it is then next you need to follow the schematic through the signal 
switch and to the lights. I think this common 12v+ wire (unknown color to 
me) is simply connected to the bright filaments of the signals on the left 
or the right of the vehicle - depending on the position of the switch.

With the lever in the left position you should be able to get 12v+ all the 
way out to each light socket. The circuit grounds through the light bulb 
sockets.

You could got out to each light and disassemble to check for 12v+. Check 
the grounds at each light. If you apply 12v+ to the light through the 
signal wire - will it light?

This should keep you busy.

What year is your bus?

The hazards are similar - basically connects the left and right wires 
together to another relay and a 12v+ circuit I believe. Will be much easier 
to read than remember.

Remember the circuit at the top of the page (horizontal line) represents 
12v+ and the line at the bottom of the page represents 12v-. Each 
connection is numbered and if you look at each switch where these 
connections take place you will find the same numbers. I think (but not 
sure) that Bentley lists where the major ground terminals are. On my '78 
there is one near the emergency brake handle bracket and one near the right 
tailight. I am sure there is another but from memory I don't know where.

On the schematic few if any of the switches or sockets are labelled - they 
are instead numbered. You have to look at the list to see what each switch 
or socket is called.

Hope this gets you started.



>All signals are defunct, as is the driver's side brakelight and the horn, 
>and defroster. That is all I know of as of now, not that this is not 
>enough....I have a bentley manual, but the understanding of the diagram I 
>don't completely have. Regarding the PO being a potential madman, I won't 
>argue with...at least wiring wise....I also have the rest of what was 
>mentioned..
>I am sure i disconnected something when I removed the tach, no doubt, but 
>for the life of me I can't discover what.
>Will I need to remove the dash for this?
>again...thanks for any contributions

Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


