Date: Wed, 07 Aug 2002 12:46:12 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Attitudes

At 08:43 AM 08/07/2002, you wrote:
>   I am not too thrilled at the prospect of paying someone to fix this 
> more than I paid for the bus itself...so any suggestions?

(Not picking on you, Michael. Just taking your comment out of context to 
develop a general theme.)

Let's look a the above attitude, as it relates to a 79 T-II currently at my 
shop in WA St. from Kansas. In phone conversation with the owner. "Help, I 
can't get the tranny out of 2nd gear."  I explain this can be as simple as 
loose bolts or bad tranny. Could be $20 or $1000+ to fix. She says, "Well, 
I only paid $500 for it so I would be a fool to spend more than that to fix 
it."

As if she will find another anywhere and anywhen that actually can be 
driven from Kansas to Wa. for another $500.

I tell her it will cost $40 to have it towed to my shop and give her the 
number to call.

As it turns out, this one will be solved with just a front bushing and 
cleaning, lubing and adjusting the shifter. When I meet with her and after 
I get paid, cash or no keys, I will then explain to her the risk in trying 
to make it back to Kansas with this machine as is. It is apparent from a 
cursory look at the engine compartment that it has not seen a real mechanic 
since Hermes built a pyramid. Nothing but original failing parts and 
juris-rigous-maximus replacement ideas. Frankly, from the cancer all over 
the chassis, this is just a parts bus that happens to actually still be 
moving under it's own power. It never ceases to amaze me just how much 
abuse these busses will take before they quit, or kill someone.

As far as I'm concerned she has one of 2 choices. Either put up the funds 
to make it safe and reliable, or address the risk of failure by being sure 
you have your glass slippers handy when your try to recross the Rockies. I 
guess it's a 70% chance she will not make Kansas without the slippers. I 
guess a third possible would be rose colored glasses, certainly cheaper 
than Crystal Shoes.

This is a case of someone who might kill herself and/or somebodies else 
with failure on the road, or be victimized to the point of rape and murder 
broke down at the rest area or side of the road at night, if you want to 
look at the extreme downside. More common, breakdown in a strange land with 
a 200 mile tow bill to the shop from Hell. Just how foolish is it to pay 
the price of safety??? Even if that's more than you paid for the "bargain" 
Bus that was running?? Don't have the price?? Could this be a consequence 
of attitude?? Most certainly!!! How much money for insurance does such an 
attitude have?? For liability to others?? For their own Life??

I will point out a few items to check if it dies, like the 3/4" coolant 
hose for the crankcase breather about to pop off the metric fittings. For 
the giant hole in the tin where the A/C compressor was removed, I'll 
suggest she cut a piece of cardboard and buy some duct tape. She will buy 
the cheapest roll in town. The adhesive will turn to powder in a few 
hundred miles. Depending on her attitude, it may or may not get checked 
until she get's back to Auntie Em's.

But her budget will mean no option to carrying a great many and some HUGH 
risks. Whether I mention any of this to her will depend upon how she reacts 
to a few basic mechanical facts. I'll send her to the type2 list if she's 
connected and has the attitude of wanting to know more.





