Date: Wed, 07 Aug 2002 15:33:41 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: michael walter <ibskot(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] wiring harness

--=====================_26973742==_.ALT
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"; format=flowed


>craftsman multimeter (that I dont know how to use:(  )


Not a problem. Read the instructions as it should give you more insight 
than I can.

Also check Radio Shack for a book or the local Library (I work at one and 
there is plenty of FREE info here).

Also there is the Internet....

www.repairfaq.org

Here are the basics. You need to measure 12volts and run continuity tests.

Measuring voltage
Plug the black lead into the common or black socket. Plug the red into the 
main red socket. Turn the dial to the DC range right above 12 volts - 
probably 20 volts if it is an analog meter. If it is a digital then just 
set it to DC. Now touch the battery of your vehicle. Red lead to red or 
positive terminal and the same for the black leads. You should see 12 volts 
on the 20 volt scale (or which ever scale your meter is set to - if you set 
it to 30 volts then look at the 30 volt scale.). Now start the vehicle and 
rev it up to 2 K rpms for 2 seconds or more. Now while the engine is 
running you'll see 14 volts. Turn the car off.

Now notice that as long as the positive (red) lead is on the positive post 
on the battery, you can put the negative lead anywhere metal on the car 
that is paint and rust free - and connected to the frame - and you'll still 
see 12 volts. This is because the frame of the car is part of the 
electrical system.

Most automotive circuits do not have a positive wire and then a negative 
wire too - the positive wire supplies power and the item is either bolted 
to the metal frame of the car or has a short wire that leads to the metal 
frame. Saves wire and weight.

Test your coil. Turn the key on. Put the red lead on the + wire on the 
coil. That comes from the key. Put the black test lead to something metal - 
a screw or whatever. It should show 12v+. If you put it on the negative 
side of the coil and the points are open you will still see 12v+. If the 
points are closed you will see zero.

This is because the meter measures the difference in potential. The first 
coil measurement showed that there was 12v difference in potential between 
the coil+ and the frame. The same for - side of the coil if the points are 
open. However if the points are closed the negative side of the coil is 
connected to the frame so essentially the red lead is connected to the 
frame just like the black lead - - in other words no difference electrically.

Now remove the heavy black cable from the coil that goes to the dist. With 
the red lead on the negative terminal and the black lead connected to the 
frame or something metal and shiny (ground) roll the engine over with the 
key on. You should see 12volts and then zero, 12 volts and then zero. Take 
a look at the points and see how that they relate.

Turn the car off and go measure the house voltage. Set the analog meter to 
something above 120 volts (if you are in the United States) and be sure it 
is AC. Put the leads into the outlet and you'll see the house voltage.

Back to 12 volts DC. You can use all the settings on the analog meter (try 
it) as long as they are above 12 volts. If you measure 12 volts on a high 
setting like 120 volts DC then the needle hardly moves and isn't as 
accurate as the 20 volt setting where the needle moves more than halfway... 
Set it on 3 volts and test 12 volts and the needle will bang over to full 
sweep and you risk ruining the accuracy of the meter or simply burning it 
up. If you are lucky it will blow and internal fuse that you can replace. 
Ask me how I know...

Analog meter mirror: notice the mirror behind the needle? Look at the meter 
so that the reflected needle is behind the original needle and you will get 
the most accurate readings.

Measure the fuse box in your bus. Key on, black lead on a clean screw head 
and the red lead probing the wires and you will see that some are "hot" 
when the switches are on and some are hot all the time. You can look at the 
schematic and see which terminals should be hot all the time and which 
terminals are powered through a switch. By the way they should all still 
read about the same voltage as the battery maybe a little less (but not 
more than a fraction of a volt). If you get 12 volts at the battery and 10 
volts at the fuse panel then retest your black lead connection on the screw 
head. Dig that in there a little harder to try to scratch through the 
corrosion and grime. Now did your voltage readings go up? Do the same with 
the red lead.

If you could test the actual schematic page in the Bentley you would see 
that if the black lead was on the line at the bottom of the page and the 
red lead was connected to anything at the top of the page you would always 
get 12 volts. Now you could test any point connected to the top line (that 
didn't pass through the switches) and still get 12 volts. Finally you could 
turn the switch in question on (close the switch contacts) and see zero 
because electrically they would be the same.

With one lead on each side of a simple motor you would see a small voltage 
representing the voltage drop across the motor. Maybe something like 5 
volts representing a 7 volt drop across the motor.

Without power you could test continuity. Testing the same switch, when the 
switch was off you would see no needle movement. With the switch closed you 
would see full needle movement.

Continuity Tests

This simply tests to see if power makes it from the positive lead out 
through whatever metal thing you are testing and back through the black 
lead to the meter without an external power source like the car battery.

It is useful when tracking wiring to see if power goes from some place on 
the fuse panel to some place in the steering column for example. Is this 
the same wire? Is this wire good? Does that switch make a good electrical 
connection? If the needle goes to full sweep during a continuity test then 
all of the above questions get answered yes!

  Set the dial to the upside down horseshoe looking symbol. If your battery 
inside the meter is good, and if the fuses inside the meter are good then 
when you touch the leads together you will see the meter needle go up. If 
not all the way then adjust the little thumb wheel on the face or side of 
the meter. If you still can't get it to go the full width of the meter then 
something is wrong like the meter is defective or more likely the battery 
is failing.

Always test your meter before testing a circuit. Do not leave the meter in 
the continuity test mode when you are done with it because it can and will 
kill the internal battery.

The continuity scale ends with a zero in the maximum position of the 
needle. It means that there is no resistance in the leads. There is really 
a bit of resistance in those leads but you compensated for that with the 
thumb wheel.

Now take a piece of wire and test it. Should still reach zero. Check a VW 
fuse. If it is good then the needle will go full sweep. If it is bad it 
will not let the needle move because no electricity is flowing. That is a 
good way of thinking of it - the further the needle moves, the more 
electricity is leaving the meter battery and making it all the way back to 
the meter. If there is a break in the wire then none is leaving the meter 
and none is coming back. If the needle moves full sweep, then there is no 
or little resistance -and all the electricity is making the trip. If the 
needle does not move then there is infinite resistance - - thus the little 
infinity symbol you see at the left end of the scale.

DO NOT TEST LIVE CIRCUITS. It will fry the fuse and possibly the meter too.

Some digital meters will beep when you have a good test - good continuity.

You can really test live circuits but I won't tell you how to do that....


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


--=====================_26973742==_.ALT--

