Date: Wed, 07 Aug 2002 15:48:25 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Why VW buses die

I have a friend that constantly wants to dump her Chrysler minivan for a 
Durango. Her van is trashed (dirty) and has had several major mechanical 
things happen to it as some Chryslers are prone to do.

Every time she starts rambling about trading in her van I ask her how many 
payments she has to go (not long) and I suggest she get it detailed and 
drive it another week.

She then finds renewed joy and vows to keep her minivan forever! I chuckle 
to myself and wait for the next episode of new car payment fever.

I find that people who care for their things (cars) take care of them 
better and they last longer. Some folks of course just get bored every two 
years and want something new or different. I'm not rich enough for that 
habit...

She'll be overcome sometime soon and buy a new car payment. The last time 
she made it all the way to the dealer and they would not give her anything 
for it b/c the HVAC makes a funny noise (flapper doors inside makes a 
popping noise for the first 3 seconds) .

I try to keep mine reasonably clean and I take care of the little stuff as 
soon as possible. I have also spent alot of time reading and talking to 
folks about how to do a permanent repair versus a regular repair that fails 
annually. This involves repairing the part that failed, the cause of the 
failure (if it was a separate problem) and use good quality parts - and not 
typical supermarket FLAPS. You can cheat sometimes but as we see regularly 
in the old VW world the cheap South American parts don't measure up every 
time to other sources. I'm not saying German is the best, but just that the 
answer is someplace in between.

Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


