From: "The mailbox of Duncan Newberry and Jennifer Olander"
To: "type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 22 Apr 2003 13:55:14 -0700
Subject: valve bent part duex: how to remove the keeper?

After taking a breather (what I do now that I don't smoke) I went back to
the bus and had another look. I took off the adjusting tappet to get a good
look at the valve, and it seemed straight and moved easily back and forth
under my fingers. The spring is mashed, the keeper is 1/2 on 1/2 off, and
the valve is still attached to the spring. there was (I'm guessing) a
little more then a cm of play were the valve could move back and forth. My
best guess is that the valve was opening during the intake stroke, but
closing for the exhaust stroke. By my estimate the valve wasn't hitting the
cylinder head (I could be wrong), but I didn't here any metal on metal
noises... the push rod tube seemed off tho (at least worth checking). So I
called the mechanic back, explained that I didn't have a thousand bucks,
and that I may have been overly hasty in my assessment of the valve.  the
mechanic said that I should replace the spring, keepers and push rod tube
myself, do a valve, dwell and timing adjustment and then bring it buy for a
compression check (I don't have a compression tester and they will do one
for ten bucks). He said that any damage to the valve will show up in a
compression check, so all Ill be out is the cost of the parts if I get a
new head. (and the compression check). seeing as I don't have 350$, I'm
just praying that the head is OK, or that the guy who sold me the bus (a
shade tree mechanic who just replaced the spring that died) will cough up a
head for me. If its OK, I may start scrounging for a head to have rebuilt,
get it rebuilt and then have it installed later. (another professional
garage said 350$ in labor). Between the lack of work space, my back and the
lack of any help, I am very hesitant to pull a type IV motor. I will if I
have to, but I am hoping it wont be within 3 days of buying the bus.

So now I went to the archives, and got the info on rocker arm removal and
using rope to keep the valve from floating, my next question is how to
remove the spring keepers. maybe after I get the rest of this stuff off it
will be more obvious, but right now I don't get it (and its not in the
idiots guide).


Duncan
