Date: Tue, 22 Apr 2003 20:28:26 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Eric W. Bradway" <eric(-at-)bradway.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] ordered tires...interesting

>>I've ordered from Tire Rack on 4 occasions. I like dealing with them better
>>  than most of the local tire stores because their info is spot on.
>
> I've bought online from TireRack and thoroughly enjoyed the experience. Look
> for their ads in magazine as you can get a really great deal on close-outs.

The last set of tires I bought - for my Porsche 911 (no longer mine, sniff) -
I actually took the price from TireRack's website into NTB and they matched it
(including shipping). I called ahead to make sure they had the tires I wanted.
I was on a budget, so I was looking for a specific low-end performance tire.

However, I did have to watch the installer like a hawk. He balanced the tires
out to 'close enough' at 55mph and started to mount the wheels. I made him do
it over at the fastest speed ont he machine would go - and get it to read 0s.
He was annoyed but I pointed to the car on the rack and said I'm going to
notice that the wheel is out of balance about 55mph! And I paid for high-speed
balancing. I also pointed out that the tires were V-rated for speed (up to 139
- the '86 911 has a factory topend of 148, but I never come close to it). I
asked him why he would balance a V-rated tire for such a low speed.

And then I had to jump all over his a## when he tried to hammer the weights on
the outide rim of my Fuchs. He said he was out of the sticky kind that goes
inside. I made him find the manager and find more of the right kind of
weights.

Don't get me wrong - I had the front and rear done separately (at the same
place) and the other guy treated the car like it was his baby. He _ENJOY_
putting the tires on it and doing the right thing.

Of course, most of this is a moot point for a bus - but having a sales person
who knows to make sure you get the right weight ratings would help...

-Eric

P.S. I once had a Sears tire salesman try to sell me a thrust-line alignment
for my 1980 Toyota, stating that it's necessary for unibody cars. I had to
point out that the car had a frame...

-- 
www.bradway.net
