From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: David Mayes <mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, 
Cc: buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org
Date: Wed, 23 Apr 2003 10:09:59 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] Vintage VW insurance/again

  I checked with American family and their primary vehicle rates are almost
triple what I allready pay to Farmers for full coverage on my domestic
vehicles which also need to be insured by American Family to get the vintage
coverage.
  All Pullman's requires is that all none vintage vehicles and drivers in
the household are insured.  People just need to shop to get the best deal.
  I'm sure that if I switched all of my insurance over to American I would
get a better rate, but that would be a major PITA

ronnie

ps. For some reasom AZ has higher rates through Pullman then other states,
the minimum for the first VW is 150 dollars a year, 20 dollars for the
second and then 15 dollars a year for each after that.

-----Original Message-----
From: David Mayes [mailto:mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com]
Sent: Wednesday, April 23, 2003 9:34 AM
To: 'OldVolks General'; vintagebus(-at-)type2.com; type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org
Subject: RE: [VB] Vintage VW insurance/again


I have all mine insured at American Family Insurance.  Most are insured
for 10-14k each.  Cost is around $110 per year.  No real mileage limit,
full coverage, and no requirement for locked garages.  The v80 is parked
outside a few blocks from the police station on the road they go to
catch any bad guys.

The interesting one is that no one will insure the double cab... seems
they only insure a *complete* vehicle.  It's considered 'parts' so I
guess if someone broke in and stole it (LOL) it would be considered
under my home owners policy.

I have friends around town that have offered space for vehicles.  This
summer I'm hoping to move a few to new locations.




David
... in much need of additional garage space...



Ronnie wrote:
  Just got off the phone with Pollman's Insurance and got quotes for a
couple of my VW's. To insure my wifes 65 fake rag top and my 1960 DD
panel
is $170.00 dollars a year for 10,000 dollars coverage and a 250 dollar
deductable.
  You are also allowed to drive to work SOMETIMES and also no mileage
limitations, seems to be the best policy out there for us MULTPLE VW
owners.
I currently have 5 insured with my Farmers and changeing them all over
will
save me 1000"s a year. 
  The downside is they require that all VW's are kept in locked garages,
my
current garage will hold 2 and they are pouring concrete today for my
garage
addition that will hold 2 to 3 more.
  It will 14 foot tall ceilings so I can put one on the lift (future
plans)
and park another under it. Too many buses and not enough garage.
   Here's a link to their site, they have offices in Cali and now have
one
in Phoenix, AZ.
