Date: Wed, 23 Apr 2003 18:27:08 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Doh!!! I fried my F.I. wiring harness

Hello List,

I did it this time... I was finially able to get my
bus running Sunday after I finished my Fuel Injection.
I wanted to show it off to my brother on Monday. I put
the key in the ignition and tried to crank it. The
engine fired a couple of times and then it would not
catch. Meanwhile, my brother casually says to me that
there is smoke comming from the back of the bus. I
dismissed it as exhaust without even looking. What had
actually happened was my fuel pump wires had shorted
together. (I had temporary connections to test a
different fuel pump) I completely fried that entire
section of the F.I. wiring harness. I am a bit bummed
now... 

Some how, my double relay survived this vicious attack
of carelessness. I just finished testing it and it is
functionally sound. I hope I will be able to say the
same about all the other F.I. parts. What I need now
is the section of the wiring harness that plugs into
the left side of the double relay. This section goes
through the fire wall and connects to the fuel pump as
well as the starter. It also has a black wire that
connects to the coil. This section of the wiring
harness is NOT the one with all white wires. I am not
exactally sure which year model bus this F.I. came
from. For reference sake, the part number for the ECU
is: 

022 906 021 S

Maybe someone could figure what year it came from
using that part number. I don't think it makes any
difference because I "think" that this section of the
F.I. wiring harness is basically the same in all the
F.I. bus models. So, does anyone happen to have this
part of the F.I. wiring harness that they would be
willing to sell? I could REALLY use it right about
now. 

On a lighter note, I just ordered the Pertronix
pointless ignition settup for my bus. I will let you
know how that goes. ( I have to get the wiring harness
replaced first) Thanks in advance for any help that
you might be able to give! I hope someone has one!

Have a great day!

Regards,

David Kelly
from Wilmington, NC

volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com
