Date: Mon, 27 Jun 2011 09:28:40 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Cranking...cranking...ignition

Here is my nickel's worth:

If it is cranking at a reasonable pace then you do not have a dead 
battery. Especially since you were able to crank the engine for a long 
time.

If sometimes it will crank and other times it won't then you've got 
either a bad battery to cables connection (clean and seal with the red 
terminal spray), a bad ignition switch where the crank contact is about 
worn out, or your starter is getting hot and stuck (look into a hot 
start relay).

If it won't start when cranking for a long time then I'd want to look to 
see whether it is a lack of timing or points gap is wrong or whether you 
have a fuel problem (too much or too little).

The timing and points you check with a timing light (running), a test 
light or continuity test with a $10 electrical meter (to see if the 
timing is spot on as you roll the engine over by hand with a wrench), 
and a dwell meter (running) or feeler gauges (stopped). I check 
everything static and then go back and check it again with the dwell 
meter and timing light.

Check all the electrical connections. You don't want want to be stumped 
by a crimp connector losing it's hold on it's spade connector. You also 
don't want an electrical connection to be dependent on a final two or 
three strands of wire, the others having broken. Are you getting a good 
12V+ at the coil when the key is on?

Is your choke functioning? Is the carb set up decently? Any carb 
solenoids working?

Last is - fuel. Yes your mechanical pump can fail and degrade.

I'd check to see if you have an unobstructed flow of gasoline coming out 
of the gas tank.

I HATE playing with gasoline but I disconnect the battery, roll the bus 
out in the driveway away from my house and other cars so if it caught on 
fire it wouldn't burn down my house, and then pull the fuel line off of 
the bottom of the gas tank and let it drain into a 5 gallon bucket (bus 
up on ramps). Got silt and dirt in the fuel? My Beetle did exactly as 
your bus is when the fuel line nipple out of the tank had clogged with 
debris. Sometimes the dirt would sink down and clog the fuel outlet, 
sometimes it would stay suspended in the fuel (bumpy roads). The Beetle 
(and Bus?) originally had a screen over the fuel outlet to prevent this 
from happening but my Beetle's had rusted away b/c water had settled to 
the very bottom of the tank around the screen and rusted the screen 
away. The tank was good though. My Beetle also had obstructed flow 
through the fuel line in the frame hump. Not an issue on a Bus. Oh, 
while you are there, just replace all the rubber fuel lines. Not much 
money or additional work required. Clamps. Use clamps.

Assuming you've got good fuel flow it is still possible to have a bad 
pump. The pump may leak into the crankcase and dilute your oil so 
beware. You could remove the pump and pump it with your fingers or a 
screwdriver. See if the fuel eagerly flows out. You could leave it in 
place on the engine and crank the engine and see if it will eagerly push 
the fuel along. I'm not keen on this with gasoline so I usually dump a 
gallon or so of diesel into my tank (after the gasoline is drained, 
covered and put across the yard) for testing purposes. Diesel is not 
nearly as explosive and I re-use it for cleaning parts. While you are 
there - go ahead and replace those rubber fuel lines. Inspect the fuel 
line grommet where it goes through the cooling tin to the left of the 
bellhousing.

You can remove the carb(s) and drain it (them). You can check the float 
valve by blowing gently into the fuel inlet. When you flip the carb over 
the float valve ought to close and impede your blowing. Oh - and replace 
those rubber fuel lines while you've got it apart. Vacuum lines too. 
(see a theme? GRIN!)

Look for vacuum leaks as well. I have had vacuum leaks that made it just 
about impossible to start the engine. Idled slower and poorer too.

Assuming your fuel pump is good and doing it's job, I'd test to see if 
the carbs are still lean. Is the idle circuit partially clogged? Will 
the engine start (or try) when the engine gets a shot of carb cleaner or 
WD-40? If it tries to start with each shot then you've got a lack of 
fuel problem.

If it starts on it's own and there is a cloud of black smoke) then 
you've got excess fuel. Does it smell like raw gasoline while you are 
cranking it forever? Excess fuel and/or lack of spark. If it backfires 
through the carb then you've got a timing problem. All the same - check 
those points. The rubbing block may be worn down to such a tiny gap that 
it is affecting your idle speed and making it hard to start.

How about your sparkplugs? Look decent? How about your valve adjustment? 
Reasonable?

let us know...

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L (Corvair implanted)
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L (Type IV implanted)
'97 VW Cabrio Highline
'99 CR-V AWD (219K, original clutch!)
Brenderup 1205S
