Date: Mon, 27 Jun 2011 12:36:04 -0700
From: Max Bronsema <max.bronsema(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Jim and Avalon <Wildthings(-at-)gorge.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Cranking...cranking...ignition

Thanks everyone for jumping on the solution kombi. I'll check out the
suggestions when I get home tonight. Let me answer a few of the
questions raised in the responses.

Bus Diagnostics:

My battery is an olide but goody, last replaced sometime in 2006. It
has been through a lot but was recently checked and verified as good.
There is a bit of cruft on the negative terminal, I'll clean it up and
put some dielectric grease on the post. I didn't have the bus jumped,
just waited for awhile sorting out what may have been occurring with
my bus.

My bus has new fuel lines and vacuum lines of the proper type. It is
running really well and was tuned up with the carb/exhaust swap. I
checked the tune when I received it back from the shop and it all
checked out. I did not smell any extra fuel when I was cranking, at
least no more than I would expect after cranking for a long time. When
it did start, both times on the return trip and once when I was
curious at home, with the engine still warm, no black smoke on the
start, it just took an excessive amount of cranking.


Check's I will make:

I will verify that the wire connections on my coil are all tight. I
will smell the dipstick to ascertain whether or not my fuel pump is
going out. I like the idea of vapor lock. It was most likely the
warmest day this year, cruising at 55, that warms up the bus. I will
definitely look at where those fuel lines are laying. These guys
recommend wrapping the fuel lines with some aluminum foil,
http://www.vw-resource.com/vapor_lock.html , sounds like fun.  I can
check out the needle valve too.

Another question: I did not drive the bus to work today, when I get
home, it will have been sitting for about 24 hours. If it is suffering
from vapor lock, should it now start like normal. For me, normal is
about 1 -2 seconds of cranking, it usually fires on the first or
second revolution.

Thanks again,

Max
'71 Westy "KK-Louise" 1600dp
