Date: Tue, 28 Jun 2011 09:05:04 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Lourd Baltimore <lourd_baltimore(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Switching Oil

Josh, now this is a hard call, as this is a generality statement between
brands, etc, but...
 
Personally I do NOT often find 20W50 to actually perform heavier/thicker than
SAE30.  Even in a same brand comparison, back when I cared and had my highly
instrumented air cooled Vanagon, between Castrol straight 30 and 20W50, the
straight 30 would across the board, start, cruise, heavy load, run higher
pressures, and slightly cooler temps actually.  Now this was a long, long,
time ago ('95 or so) in an oil galaxy far far away.  And 40 weight would run
even better pressures of course.
 
Some other obvious concerns, flickering is WAY too low pressure, in this case
even I, now a minimalist would probably put in a sender and gage to see where
those pressures really are.  Could be as low as a few psi and that is too low,
might be better, but might not be as well.
 
Now obvious solution is SAE 40 or SAE 50, both still available in the US
(though getting harder, the only on the shelf at box store solution is usually
Valvoline Racing in SAE 50) if I look.  40 should do it atually, if it takes
50 on a 90F day to maintain reasonalbe hot idle oil temps, you probably need
to be thinking a rebuild is coming.  Another benefit is perhaps both still
with realistic levels of ZDDP by the way, if not, you should of course
enhance, see the last oil thread.  If you were to actually pull out a VW
manual and look at the VERY conservative oil weight specs, you'll see SAE40 as
the rec for continuous use above 75F, 20W50 is not (actually it ans SAE 30 are
the same, with top temp of 75F or so) but that is from a long time ago, sort
of...
 
This is because I'd note that chart didn't change for VW for a long time as
well, even for FWD VW's as VW did not jump on the "energy conserving" BS oil
for a very, very, long time compared to others, perhaps not until the A3,
maybe even A4 cars (mid 90s'?)
 
So find some SAE 40, go from there, if the flickering doesn't go away, install
a gage and figure out where you really are.
 
John


--- On Tue, 6/28/11, Lourd Baltimore <lourd_baltimore(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:



Would switching to 20W-50 part-synthetic help with the summer months?
Or would some other oil type or specification help?
I've read some accounts that say you should expect oil light flickering during
hot days, but I find it disconcerting when I come to an idle or take a
low-speed
