From: "Duncan Hewitt" <duncan(-at-)kopperdrake.co.uk>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 21 Sep 2005 10:05:07 +0100
Subject: RE: [T2] Re: Power loss update.

Hi :)

I'm reasonably new to this group, and was lucky enough to get myself a 1970
Deluxe Sundial US Import T2 at VanFest in the UK this year and have a few
questions that may seem daft but what the hell!

What's the best oil to use in it? Do I need a different version for winter
and summer?

When I brake I get a dull clacking noise from the righthand rear wheel (it's
drums all round) - could this be the brakes? Happens once every rotation of
the wheel and if I apply the brakes really hard, let go, then reapply them
it seems to not happen. Perhaps something not lubed enough?

What are the little odd bits of maintenance that I really should get in the
habit of doing regularly? Especially for longish journeys. And how often?

As it's been sat in the sun for years, pretty much most of the rubber could
do with replacing at some stage. I plan on spending the winter tidying the
interior up and then come spring start repairing the minor patches of
surface rust, massive amount of stonechipping on the front, and get a new
battery tray put in (the only bit of decent rust on it). This will need
respraying so I was thinking of getting a paint coat put all over to hide my
little stone-chip/ding repairs at the same time. Question is, if I replace
the rubbers, on the cab doors in particular, will they be a pain to remove
and replace again next spring when I come to get a quick spray done?

When I rub down the various small patches of surface rust, what's the best
thing to do? Rub back to bare metal, treat with a rust inhibitor, sand back
again and prime? Would a spray-can primer be good enough until I get a
top-coat of colour put over when it goes in for its respray? That way I can
do it in the garage and take it in when it's all ready.

I had a bus for a short while a few years back but had to sell due to a long
commute. This one's  here to stay so I'd like to do a decent job of prepping
her for protection against UK weather! The first job is to scrape off the
old belly protection ,which is pretty flaky, wax-fill the cavities (was
thinking of Ditrinol) and reseal the underbelly.

Ah, I was lucky enough to get a diary kept by the previous US owner, listing
every trip he'd been on, the total mileage, what repairs and services he'd
carried out and when! 8 years of it! Amazing :D The guy who imported it over
here 6 months ago meant to sell it but is giving up old VWs to get a T4
(needs something with more space with little kids being around) so
reluctantly sold it to me.

Not sure if they'd ever read this but it lists the original owner from new
as being Jay R Oliver, Wenatchee, WA, and the guy who kept the diary is Erik
Life, Wenatchee, WA. If they ever read this it's just to let them know
she'll be looked after :)

Cheers :)

Dunk
