Date: Wed, 21 Sep 2005 08:35:57 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2]age old question(OIL)

>i have been using Castrol SAE40...i need to
change my oil grade as i dont think that the oil
i am using happens to be thick enough.

It should be thick enough for the hottest summer
day in most of the world.  I guess I may need 50W
in southern Arizona at times, but I'm only
guessing because 119 degrees is off the scale
provided in the owners manual.  

>my oil temp gauge has slightly went up from the
temps outside and 

Oil temp has very little correlation to the
viscosity of the oil.  Look for cooling problems,
not for a bottle of SAE50.    

>friend of mine suggested synthetic oil but i
cant however afford that type of oil and dont
really know enough about it to buy it if i could
afford 6 bucks a qaurt shhheeesh it must be good
hmmm maybe???...
 
Great stuff, if you need extended oil change
intervals.  Of course, our engines (especially
the uprights) probably shouldn't have extended
intervals.  Also, most of it isn't really
"synthetic" at all.  The feds decided that any
oil that is a little better than the normal stuff
can be labelled "synthetic" even if it is merely
engineered normal petroleum oil.  AFAIK Mobil 1
is the only one of the normal over the counter
stuff that uses real synthetics.    

>or am i safe at sae 40 even though i think its
what is causing my high temps on the hotter days
maybe? 

You shouldn't think it is causing high temps. 
Mostly like the problem is something else.  

>"SAE 40 is SAE 40 no matter what the "W" prefix
number is: 5W, 10W, 
15W or 20W. 

That makes no sense, and it confuses the issue. 
(Or maybe confuses me?)  So I should assume that
10W40 cannot flow well enough for cold startup,
because it's really 40W?  Of course that's wrong.
 Obviously the marketing department wrote that. 
10W40 is NEVER thicker than normal SAE10, but it
resists thinning hopefully similar to 40W so long
as the VII's hang in there.  People think that
the magic polymers suddenly make multivis oil
into pudding as the engine temps rise.  I also
note that the spec given, 100 degrees celcius
doesn't tell us much at all about what the oil is
doing at normal VW oil temps.  

>I personally would use Catrol GTX 15w40 over a
10w40. 

http://www.baywindowbus.com/77infocard.jpg

>I disagree.  Manufacturers have been going to
oils of _less_ viscosity in search of improved
fuel mileage, not because of any deficiency with
10W40.  They've gone to 5W30 and even 0W20 (yes,
zero!).  

Which begs the question, if 5W30 is really the
same as SAE30 at high temps, how could it provide
better fuel economy?  I thought they said that
5W30 mimics SAE30?  Maybe someone with an
engineering background could explain it to me,
but I believe I've read that viscosity as
measured by the time it takes the oil to flow at
at 100 degrees does not correlate to the real
things we need oil to do:  maintain oil pressure
and maintain a protective oil film.   If 5W30 was
capable of perfectly mimicking SAE30, it would be
just as thick and wouldn't provide any fuel
efficiency advantage, right?  Also, why do racers
use SAE40 or SAE50 instead of 20W50 or 5W40? 
I've also read and am concerned about temporary
polymer shear:  the polymers basically aligning
themselves or "spooning" when at high temp and
under pressure as they take the path of least
resistance.  This is apparently still a concern,
even as the VII polymers are more capable of
avoiding breakdown. 

>Following their lead for our VWs would not be a
good idea, since our engines are designed to use
the higher viscosity stuff.  

I love when the young kids tell us that "oil is
better these days" as if somehow the lubricating
properties of a specific weight of oil has
changed over the last 25 years or our engine
tolerances have updated themselves to reflect the
growing trend toward microtolerances and
0W-whatever or 5W-whatever oil.  



Happy bussin'
Ray

Nemo, the Bus Captain
http://www.geocities.com/nemobuscaptain
Not affiliated or associated with VW, VWOA, or VWAG.
