Date: Tue, 24 Jun 2003 22:23:03 -0700
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: A friend in need

I just met someone new. He doesn't have good net access so I thought I'd
pose his problem here.

He had a bus transported from TX to CA at company expense and I went to take
a look at it tonight. I told him not to fear the smog tester but I didn't
know what state the bus was in before he decided to bring it. Anyway I doubt
he could have found a buyer in the condition it's in.

It's a 77 Westfalia with unknown mileage on a GD engine. The body is in good
shape and the interior clean but the engine is in trouble.

It runs really rough (dwell 54, idle rpm errating, vacuum 14-15 bouncing a
lot) and the timing was near TDC instead of 7.5BTDC.

I was about to let the engine warm up and do some adjustments when I asked
him when the last valve adjustment was done and out came two repair
receipts: within the last 6 months the following was done by a local Austin
mechanic with a good rep:

- valves adjusted
- compression on #3 60 psi
- 3/4 spark plugs replaced
- 1/2 plugs stuck in head and not replaced
- vacuum hoses replaced
- new valve cover gaskets

Four months later is was taken into the shop again and another valve
adjustment was done because it wasn't holding it's timing. Since the timing
is off after only 2 more months I figure the heads are truly in bad shape
but I don't have further compression data.

The repairs were done for a reasonable price but unfortunately the problem
persists and the original cost of the bus was expensive. He was quoted $1300
to repair the problems but this will skyrocket the cost of the bus and it
will be average and need a lot of other work. A new AVP engine is only $1100
right?

The transmission is noisy but that's another story. The engine looks pretty
good to me and the only oil leak I found was at the oil pressure switch.

I haven't taken a peek inside the valve covers yet but there was some
tapping from the hydraulic lifters which I think was later replaced by a
noisy valve train. I'll have to see what condition the adjustment screws are
in.

I think for the amount of money sunk into this bus it would be a shame not
to get it working again. It's not possible to sell it here in CA in it's
current condition and it's not going to fetch a good price if it was
transported back to TX especially after the transportation cost.

Can someone in this situation before suggest what to do next? I'm loathe to
recommend new heads until I've had a better look at the valve train. Still,
the compression is hopeless on #3 and both plugs are stuck in #1 and #2.

-- 
Richard
1978 Westfalia CDN
Cupertino, CA
