From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 25 Jun 2003 09:02:57 -0400
Subject: Fuel Line Replacement

I've read a lot of posts about people replacing their rubber fuel lines,
etc. I was thinking, wouldn't it just be better to replace it with a steel
line? 

On my 73 Bus, in particular, the car is NOT original. If my Bus was a
concourse restoration, then I'd undoubtedly go with what the car came with
from the factory.. however, since it isn't, I went ahead and replaced the
fuel line with a steel line. I'm REALLY glad I listed to you guys on the
list. At first, I figured.. what's the big deal? All the other cars I've had
in my life, carbureted or fuel injected... I've never had a fuel leak
before. Well... just to be on the safe side, I was getting ready to take the
Bus out for it's debut trip (to the grocery store). It would be it's first
drive on public roads in over 4 years. Well.. I went under the car and
fiddled with the fuel line to make sure everything was ok, and suddenly gas
started leaking everywhere! I ended up dumping about a half-gallon of fuel
in the parking lot before I could get a bucket. Turns out.. I had an OLD OLD
rubber hose.. (looked original). When I pulled out the entire line, the hose
literally crumbled in my hand (and this was with an electric fuel pump). 

Needless to say, I replaced it. I decided to get a 6 foot long piece of
steel fuel line. I used my "professional" pipe bending tool ($2.99 in the
clearance bin) to work the fuel line from the tank, all the way to the
electric fuel pump. I threaded it both into the fuel tank, and to the fuel
pump. Then halfway from the electric fuel pump to the carburetor, I used
another small steel line threaded directly into the pump, and into the clear
glass fuel filter. From the end of the fuel filter, I used a 5" piece of
THICK rubber fuel line to the carburetor.

I can't tell you how well it works. I noticed a MASSIVE increase in
horsepower too. (I HAD driven the car around before.. but just in the
parking lot). As it would appear to me.. the fuel line more than likely had
a lot of holes in it. Since the first 4 feet of fuel line was in BETWEEN the
tank and the electric fuel pump, there was technically no PRESSURE (only
suction) in those lines.. which is why it didn't burst into pieces. I'm
guessing I probably sucked up a lot of oxygen too, and not just fuel which
is why the car had so little power. With the new steel lines, I noticed at
LEAST a 100% increase in power to what I had before. 

The total cost for the steel fuel line conversion (all pieces) was about $20
dollars. They charged me $11.95 for the 6 feet of steel fuel line. $2.95 for
the smaller piece of steel line, $0.99 for the piece of rubber line, $1.95
for the clear glass fuel filter with the threaded end, and about $0.25 for
the hose clamp.

I used the fuel line pipe bending tool (available at most auto parts stores
for less than $5 dollars), a 7/16" and 1/2" crescent wrenches, and a flat
head screw driver.

I now NEVER have to worry about whether or not my fuel line is going to
spring a leak.

I check it when I change my oil, and that's it.

Todd Jaspers - Programmer 
AmeriPath IT - Fort Lauderdale 
954-377-3291 

> CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments, is
> for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential
> and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or
> distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
> contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original
> message.
