From: "Sage Green" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 26 Jun 2003 14:38:13 +0000
Subject: RE: [T2] Mexico VWs?

Whoa . . .

What am I missing here ? ? ?

With JUST a title on a '77 bay, in Virginia, you can get an antique plate 
(yellow, or black on white) for $13.50.  You get pocket registration card(s) 
too.

No inspection needed.


I believe there are only three areas where the VIN in located on a '77.  
Please correct me if I am wrong.

1) plate on dash board

2) in engine compartment

3) on driver door jam


At home, in the comfort of your garage, remove windshield from '77 and drill 
out two pop rivets.  Now you have the VIN plate.

Cut out (welder??) the VIN in the lip in the engine compartment.  This goes 
to Mexico with you.

Razor blade will take off the VIN and non-cat stickers from the door jam.  
Want to see mine, from my '77??  It can be done  Practice on a junk yard VW 
and be very, very patient.

Get some insurance for the VIN, both collectors insurance, and somehow, some 
Mexico insurance (this last part I have no idea on how to do it)

Take all the stuff, plus a new windshield seal, plus some windshield 
stickers, like a registration for a military installation, like a county tax 
sticker, and even a valid safety inspection sticker (use ingenuity), 
appartment parking, or bogus ANYTHING, particularly if you can get an older 
date onthe sticker.


Swish, swash, swap, slip, slop, slide back thru the border with ALL this 
stuff grafted to a Mexico VW.

Of course, the border guards have NEVER seen a Mexico VW, nor a USA VW, and 
they would not be able to tell the difference, and they probably don't know 
what you are trying to do, and they would not want to stop you just because 
you DID NOT have any peace symbols on the VW (opps, we forgot something.  
Break out the hippy stuff..  OK, how many leaves was that . .  ? ? ?.)

Yes, please remember to take OFF anything that indicates this is a Mexican 
bus.  You don't NEED the black grill up front, what ever that's for...


So, if they do confiscate the VW, at least you have insurance.  You could 
use the insurance payment to get you out of the Mexican jail.

Then when you get back to the states, you could wire home for bond money for 
insurance fraud charges..


HTH.


<<<<   Isn't there ANYBODY monitering this discussion that is living in 
Mexico now??  Realy...  >>>>

Barry sends
