Date: Mon, 14 Mar 2011 11:25:29 -0700 (PDT)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Art McGinn <ajmcginn(-at-)comcast.net>
Cc: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] re:seafoam?

Hi Kevin/Art,
I use Seafoam intermittently on various vehicle and marine engines.  Not a
cure all. it is somewhat popular amongst the marine folk here and more popular
on the Toyota truck forums at toytotanation. If you have serious compression
issues, it is probably not going to help much.  I use it in the hope that it
will clean the oil control rings, and let them work as well as they are able
for their current condition. I think it also cleans out cylinder head and
intake/exhaust valve  soft deposits.  I have also had good luck with restore,
another snake oil available in most FLAPS.  Used as recommended (IIRC add,
then drive for 500-1000 miles then change the oil) the subsequent oil changes
have very noticeably cleaner oil. At least in my rigs. For sure the oil change
after adding the restore is really black.  I'm not sure that any carbon layer
actually helps a piston ring seal better than a smooth, clean cylinder wall. 
If anyone has any links to research
 publications i.e. SAE papers, on that topic I would be interested to read
them.  Jenkins found that installing a fresh set of rings immediately after
break in  i.e. on a clean, optimal-condition, carbon-free, cylinder wall, gave
him 10-15 hp in a (very) high performance engine; about 1.5- 2%.  He was
particularly concerned with oil control in the belief that oil passing up into
the combustion chamber 1) lowered the octane rating and 2) burned on the
cylinder wall further damaging the ring seal.  As we all know, cylinder oil
control is particularly difficult in flat engines.  I believe it was Hoover
that recommended running a pint low on the dipstick to help with that; I do so
in my van.  I recently saw an air-cooled, inverted, V-8, on a Storch, and
cannot imagine the oil control issues inherent in that design. German
powerplant engineers were fearless in the 30's.

jon


snip> Two folks have suggested I try it on my '82 Westy engine, which has
some serious compression problems. Subsequent research suggests that
SeaFoam could, or would, lower compression by removing carbon that is
actually
keeping compression higher than it would be otherwise, not a good thing in
my case. SeaFoam is evidently just one of several products that do the same
thing.


You only really own those things you can carry under both arms at a dead
run... (Robert A. Heinlein)
