Date: Tue, 15 Mar 2011 12:38:17 +1300
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] "clear burn"

Art featured:

>The mechanic who worked recently on my '82 Westy used a term
>I hadn't heard before, "clear burn."  He referred to oil slipping past the
>rings and burning at high (but normal) rpms in an air-cooled VW engine but
>producing no blue smoke or any other visible exhaust. I asked around among my
>learned mechanical friends,  none of whom speaks vw, and they said they'd
>never heard of such a thing either. I can rev this engine at top heat and get
>no visible exhaust at all. (But, on a recent freeway trip from california to
>washington state, I had to add a quart every 300 miles, so it's going
>somewhere.


Jon mentioned
>  the belief that oil passing up into
>the combustion chamber 1) lowered the octane rating and 2) burned on the
>cylinder wall further damaging the ring seal.



	Oil is not a good fuel, and decreases power if at needlessly 
high ratio to fuel in combustion.  Those of us immersed in 
petroil-lubricated strokers have taken much interest in these 
processes.   My main test engine, a baby Jawa, definitely loses some 
power if I revert to the mfr's 2% (1:50) oil in the fuel from 1:80.
	All these stroker oil/fuel ratios are higher than what you 
report with your old VW motor in racing condition, and cause visible 
oil fog in the exhaust at high power.  Your 'no visible exhaust' is, 
I think, compatible with oil consumption such as 1 qt /300 mi.  I 
guess you're burning the oil alright, but little enough to keep the 
exhaust looking clean.  Whether that rates as 'clean burn' I'm not so 
sure.


My '53 Meteor owner's booklet featured a whole page What About Oil 
Consumption?.  A key statement (as I imagine all such N. Amer. Ford 
booklets said in those days):

		If an engine burned as much as one drop of oil on 
every firing stroke, then it would use more than a quart every two 
miles.  Such consumption if unheard of in the automotive field but 
all efficient engines use some oil.  If they did not they would 
quickly wear out.  [emphases in original]

	True, that motor had double our number of cylinders, but on 
the other hand it was an even slower-revving motor (yes, there was 
such a thing 8-) and BTW there still is e.g decade-old Toymota 
Sillycar 1600 rpm at 62 mph cruise).

	One corollary of rather fast oil consumption is the question 
whether on a long trip you may as well add cheap oil e.g. SC if you 
can get it.  The newer additives that qualify expensive sump oil as 
SF, or SG or whatever they've got it out to now, have a main use in 
allowing the oil to last longer in the engine  -  especially, a 
longer period with many cold starts  -  without undue chemical 
degradation from water, oxygen, and acids.  None of that applies as 
you cruise e.g as I gloated in my intro msg on this list 5 y ago of 
my new

>1973 1600cc pop-top campmobile which immediately took us 1255 mi 
>home, cruising at the 62-mph speed limit on the flat, consuming 3 
>litre oil (within specs!) and 26 mpg (22 mpgUS).

	The owner's booklet for that VW does stipulate that oil 
consumption is 0.5 - 1.4 litre per 1000km which in the charmingly 
olde-fashioned imperial system so puzzlingly favoured by the Yanks 
would be somewheres approximately in the vicinity of 1 quart per 500 
mi.
	But I must add that some VW mechanics aim for better and 
disagree with the factory wrt what is allowable oil consumption (in 
the absence of other bad signs).

	If the oil-usage is due to sloppy valve guides, that will be 
detected by a cloud of blue exhaust fog when you open the throttle 
back to cruise after a long over-run.  Slack rings can also produce 
that sign.  If your motor, fully warmed up, doesn't produce that blue 
smoke in that test, it sounds to be 'merely' at the limit of specs 
for cruising oil consumption.  What do people think of 'cheap & 
cheerful' SC oil or suchlike, doubtless from your FLAPS?  And it 
should be re-refined if available.

	Your crankcase breather isn't obstructed, is it?

-- 
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600dp Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
