Date: Wed, 16 Mar 2011 00:18:02 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: t2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] re:seafoam?

On Wed, Mar 16, 2011 at 12:08 AM, Fairview Mail <ajmcginn(-at-)comcast.net> wrote:
>  John: Having blown a few engines on my '68 (No. 3 piston, pushing too hard
 with a heavy load), I'm amazed that my '82 Westy runs so cool. You you can
 pop the hatch after a long drive and it's just warm, not hot (except outside
 of Redding, Calif., in July). This was the last full year of the
 Porche-designed air-cooled engine for the Vanagon and that basic engine,
 according to its many fans, had been proven a winner for 50 years in every
 climate from desert to arctic, and I think of that when I pop that hatch to
 confirm it hasn't melted on me....and despite its wheezing compression ratio
 in two cylinders. Interestingly, it runs so much better than those
 compression numbers indicate. I am suspect the numbers. Art

Well, that's a lot to think about, Art. That's one of the reasons a
compression test is supposed to be done on a hot engine. The spark
plugs are supposed to be out and the throttle open so the starter has
strength for maximum effect. I say that, but I don't do it. I don't
care to work on a hot engine, and the numbers I get are close enough
to give me an idea.

But the 1977 Type 2 Quick Data card from VW says 71 psi is the minimum
acceptable. The engine is essentially the same as the 1982 Vanagon, so
I don't see why the higher number cited earlier.

Are you in Redding? I was in Red Bluff and quite active in the Redding
club (RAVA). Type 4 engines do run cooler than upright engines though.
The cooling system was one of the improvements in the design change.
The Type 4 is also a tougher engine. The lower end is generally good
for 300,000 miles and rarely see one needing an align bore. People
curse the exhaust studs though, so keep an eye on them and make sure
you have all your exhaust supports so you don't stress the head studs.

John
