Date: Thu, 17 Mar 2011 22:05:26 -0600
From: Jonathan Stiles <misterstiles(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Ches Cole <ches(-at-)chescole.com>
Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Suspension

Ches,

The front is not adjustable, so the sag is most likely from the rear.

A few things can cause one side to sag.

Most common is the torsion arm bushings can deteriorate and crumble. This
allows the torsion arm to egg-out the round hole, causing sag. Replacement
for the outer bushings is simple by removing the four bolts on the cap and
replacing the bushing. To replace the inner bushings, it requires removing
the torsion arm, and disconnecting the swing arm but the torsion bar can
stay in place. Just mark the location of the splines before you remove the
torsion arm so the adjustment doesn't change. Pop the caps off and take a
look at the condition of the bushings and it will give you an idea where to
start.

The second most common is the torsion bar itself fatigues slightly and needs
to be adjusted. Common on Westfalia models with more constant weight on the
left side of the vehicle. See your Bentley or the good tutorial Josh Rodgers
wrote in the Type2.com library for directions on how to adjust the torsion
bars. If they won't adjust evenly, then one may need to be replaced. The
procedure isn't for the weak of heart, but with enough preparation it is
very straight forward.

I have also seen the swing arm bend from overloading and then the owner
beating on the suspension. I've also seen it happen from jumping a bus
(gulp) or from an accident. The only repair is a replacement arm and
sometimes a replacement bus.

In rare occasions, the torsion arm itself will rust and break. This can
happen if the protective paint on the torsion arms gets corroded, combined
with a rusted out torsion tube allowing water to get trapped inside.

Take a close look at your Bentley for procedures and photos.

Jon Stiles


On Thu, Mar 17, 2011 at 4:24 PM, Ches Cole <ches(-at-)chescole.com> wrote:

> My front suspension is significantly lower on the left side.   Is there a
> way
> of adjusting the torsion bar on that side to compensate?
