From: "John Rogers" <jnrogers5555(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "Busless Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 19 Oct 2002 09:24:34 -0400
Subject: In gentle defense of agilises ...

Nemo the "Busless Captain" writes:

>
> Personally, I'm not interested in Agilis.  They
> don't look like the have enough siping and voids
> to be all season, but Michelin says they meet the
> formula (it's a percentage of some sort).  All
> the vanagon guys love Agilis, but maybe they're
> just trying to prove they have more money.
>

The problem with choosing tires, like choosing hiking boots, is that you do
not know if they are comfortable, will wear well and have good traction
until you try them on. I have over the years come to rely on top-of-the-line
Michelins for almost every application and for one important reason: quality
control.

Here is a simple test, Buy a top quality Michelins you will almost never
need to balance it. Oh you may see a tiny weight now and then on a top
quality Michelin, but it will probably be there because  some guy was being
paid for balancing, or an imperfection in the rim or just counter the weight
of the valve stem. Normally you can put on of top-of-the line Michelin and
drive smoothly without vibration at any speed down any road if your front
end is in good shape without balancing it.

Here is another test. Put a top-quality Michelin on your bus and jack it up
so that the tire is just the thickness of a sheet of paper off the concrete
floor of your garage. Now turn the wheel. Your Michelin will prove perfectly
round. Many other tires will not. There is nothing you can do, even
balancing,  to correct an out-on-round tire.

Round, perfectly in-balance tires not only ride better they wear better.
Now I am not saying that there aren't other, even better tires out there.
But because of Michelin's quality control Agilises are tires you can count
on. Mine, by the way, were made in Italy.

If there is anyone out there has a set and is not satisfied I would like to
hear from them.

Cheers and happy busing,

John Rogers
