Date: Sat, 19 Oct 2002 23:07:41 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busless Captain <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, Doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com,
Subject: Re: [T2] Help with final decision on tires for Westy and

>The 94 load rating may officially translate into
1,477 lbs of load on some table, but my Conti
CR12's have "Max. Load 1540 lbs." molded right on
their sidewalls. 

That is the old passenger tire max load trick. 
Some americun bureaucrat thought this up.  No
offense Steve.  :)  

See my webpage (which desperately needs updated
and the formatting errors removed) for a
discussion of this. 
http://www.geocities.com/nemobuscaptain/tires.htmlBottomline:
 a passenger tire is rated at a higher max load
than a comparable truck tire.  I believe that
load range is more useable information because
you don't have to multiply to compare max loads
of passenger tires and truck tires.  

ALSO NOTE WELL that the VW spec, per Bentley,
does not specify a load index, max load, or load
range for a tire.  Instead they listed a size of
the tire and the minimum max pressure.  The rest
of the specs are "reverse engineered" from the
tires that meet the specs.  

> I'm really interested in the way the sidewalls
stabilize the vehicle with regard to side-wind
vectors. And all the brands I am considering are
reinforced and probably adequate in this category
if one controls the actual load and speed....
Well, what are some of the realities? If I buy
the Continentals, I can only run them at 40psi
maximum cold pressure, and load them no greater
than 1,477 pounds per tire. My Westy GVWR is 4961
pounds maximum. Of that, 2227 is on the front
axle and 2,800 on the rear axle. That calls for a
1,400 load rating on each rear tire. Side-wind
situations could load either rear tire much
higher, perhaps beyond the Continental's 1,477
pound load index value. A 77 pound safety margin
isn't much. It doesn't make me very happy. If I
go with the Cooper, or any tire that carries an
1,874 pound load index at 65 psi, I can run that
pressure up to 65 psi and have a 474 pound safety
margin on either rear tire, as opposed to a 77
pound margin with the Continentals. I like that
idea and that option and that potential safety
margin. If I load my bus pretty heavy, I can
expect the tires to get hot and the pressures
will go up with the heat. With the higher load
index and at the higher pressure, if I travel at
the same 60 mph pace, then I will have a greater
margin of safety for encountering side-winds and
truck-passings. I like the idea of the safety
margin and the option of running the pressures up
in the rear tires, to accommodate heavy loading
situations. 

I cannot disagree.  You've spent a lot of time
with this, and your points are persuasive.  

> Captain Nemo indicated that, if he thought the
Agilis was the right tire for his application,
he'd buy the CooperSRM II Radial LT, in 185 R
14C, with the almost the same specifications as
the Agilis, for $30 less per tire.

If I you heard that, I'm sorry because that's not
what I meant.  I think the Conti is an excellent
tire.  Smarter guys than meDoktor Tim for
example-- think they are perfect and recommend
them. And the Conti's presence on the market
allowed me to "reverse engineer" the 185R14
Reinforced specs for load index and max load.  

I think Michelin, Cooper, Yoko, Bridgestone and
others brands listed on my page are tires I
wouldn't hesitate to put on a bus.  I simply
indicated that I don't believe the Agilis will do
well in mud or snow, due to the tire's 
nonaggressive tread and inadequate voids on the
tire, and that the Cooper/Mastercraft twins have
a more aggressive tread.  Yes Cooper/Mastercraft
is cheaper, and I am indeed a truly, devoted
cheapskate (for which obsession I pay I am often
compelled to pay several times), but the tread
was my real focus.  

>So, I guess your objection to the Agilis is
based on value.....it is priced too high. Unless
the tread composition and siping patterns are
different, it seems to me that it would perform
pretty 
much like the Agilis.

I have no objection to Agilis.  It may be perfect
for 99% of the bus owners.  It may be perfect for
me 99% of the time, but I prefer a different type
of tread.  The tread pattern is quite different
on the Agilis and the Cooper, despite both having
all season and M+S ratings.  (Some of the Agilis,
like the 81 model, are not all-season and M+S
rated).  All of the Agilis models, even the all
seasons,  look more like highway tread to me, but
apparently they have enough tread to qualify for
that all-season label and the M+S snowflake.  But
the Cooper has a more aggressive tread...  plain
and simple.

>But because of Michelin's quality control
Agilises are tires you can count on. 

Agili?   I have no problem with Agilis ... or
Michelin in general.  In stating my
preference/opinion, I conceded that all the
vanagon guys absolutely LOVE the agilis tires. 
My admitted bias is towards an A/T or even M/T
tire.  We get some snow here and one of the
advantages of a bus, over most other vans, is
it's decent traction in mud or snow if you have
the right tire.   However, you may not think that
an AT, MT, or aggressive all season is a good
tire for your bus and for your type of driving. 
You may prefer the better ride, longer wear,
easier balancing, and quietness of something like
Agilis.  

I really have no agenda to steer anyone for or
against any of the tires.  You need not defend
agilis.  It won't bother me in the slightest if
you choose or previously chose conti's, agilis,
bridgestones, yoko's, or anything else that meets
Bentley spec.   I do have an agenda in promoting
knowledge of the unique tire requirements of our
vans and attempting to convince others not to put
standard passenger tires on their bus.


=====
Peace and blessings, 
Nemo, the Busless Captain

http://www.geocities.com/nemobuscaptain/index.html
Y! Web Hosting - Let the expert host your web site
http://webhosting.yahoo.com/
