From: " dwolf" <dwolf(-at-)bluefrog.com>
To: <Skateswithboard(-at-)aol.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 18 Jul 2007 22:27:42 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] HELP DIAGNOSE PROBLEM

If you "throw" a rod, the engine can lock up
in less than one revolution, the rod
disassembles itself and pieces wedge in places
where there is no room, or rod components
come through the case or half the big end
remains on the crank  and acts like a lever
to stop motion.
A "spun" rod means the overheated bearing shell
has lost enough of it's soft inner surface to
open the oil clearance tolerance sufficiently
to make noise. The rod continues to function,
you may have compression, but your crankshaft
will have sustained major damage on the journal.
This make a noise like a rattlesnake.
You can find the remains of the bearing if you
drain the oil into a clean  container. It's like
panning for gold. You will find shiny metallic
sparkly stuff, (and it's expensive, too:)

It is certainly possible for a valve guide to
seize a valve and move up and down with it,
but this is not very noisy.
By "throwing a valve guide" you more likely
mean "sucking a valve seat", one of the most
popular methods of destroying your vacation
in the least likely and most inconvenient place.
Try removing just the valve cover and the rocker
hardware to expose all the valve stems.
A ruler placed across all the stems can reveal the
culprit if a valve seat has disintegrated or a seat has wedged
itself out of place. It may not display, if the seat has loosened,
opened the retaining press fit, but remains in the proper location.
Last time, you pulled the heads with the engine in the bus.
( No small feat for a Lady!) This time you will more likely be
looking at the crank. Pull the fan housing and the engine comes out easy.
Sorry for being so verbose. I haven't posted in a while. But I've been here.
Dave

----- Original Message -----
From: <Skateswithboard(-at-)aol.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Sent: Sunday, July 15, 2007 12:07 PM
Subject: [T2] HELP DIAGNOSE PROBLEM


> Anyone know the difference between throwing a valve guide  noise and say,
> throwing a rod engine noise? Bus, 1979, overheated on a trip,  engine turns
over
> with a loud noise which seems to be on the passenger  side. Thanks for any
> help.
> Laura :o)
