Date: Thu, 19 Jul 2007 14:22:41 -0700
From: "zach drew" <zachula(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Jason Meyer" <thesykboy(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: "Type 2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Missiles and guns failed - switching to banging

Okay,
      Heres what I did.  I did this last year. IT WAS REALLY REALLY
REALLY difficult.  Not from a technical standpoint, the tooling is
simple and the process is straight forward.

I took 3/4" allthread.  2 HARDENED washers that just happened to be
the right diameter.  I did this all at ace.  I took the new bushings
in with me and used them to figure out clearances.

I still have the tool I made, I will take a picture of it later.

I used a large impact wrench socket on the bottom that fit just inside
the ring at the bottom.

I ran the allthread up through the bottom after I had the rear wheels
chocked and the front end up on 2.5 ton jackstands.

Then I put two hardened washers on the top of the allthread, then 4
smaller washers, then I put two locknuts on the top and jammed them
together so they wouldn't spin.

Then slid the impact socket up under and then two more hardened
washers and two more smaller washers and a nut.

Getting it started was the hardest part.  Pulling them out I didn't
really care if I buggered them up and it was crooked at first but that
was mostly because I didn't have it all centered.

once you get it centered it tends to "self-level", at least thats what
happened to me.

The biggest problem I had, other than the fact that it was alot of
work and lots and lots of banging on the wrench with a 8lb sledge was
preventing the whole thing from just spinning but once you get it
tight enough the friction from the jammed nuts at the top were enough
to prevent the allthread from turning.

I would note that this is pretty much a once time use tool.  The
threads on mine got trashed in the extraction process, the jammed nuts
at the top are not coming apart and the threads are messed up at the
top.

I used the same tool to insert the new ones.   It was WAY easy to put
the new ones in (on a later bay since you don't have to ream them).  I
had some crooked issues at first but if you go slow and take your time
it doesn't take even a fraction of the force to put new ones in that
it took to pull the old ones out.  to put the new ones in I used the
same tool with a bigger washer that would stop when it was flush with
the edges.  When the time came to inset the top one I think its an 8th
of an inch that needs to be done, it was easy with the flat washer on
the bottom and the pulling washer on top just pulled it in a little
bit.

The whole job took me about 4 - 6 hours.  most of that was spent
pulling the bushings.  I have to call bull on the slide hammer process
in bentley.....I can't even imagine how long that would take.

Again...this was really hard.  I'm a pretty robust individual when it
comes to elbowgrease and I was sore for the next couple days.  I think
at one point I was using vicegrips at the top to prevent the allthread
from turning

I also lubed the front end at this time.

I'll send some pictures of my all thread tool later when I get home.

-Zach
