Date: Fri, 13 Aug 2010 10:19:05 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Paint prep

Have you considered renting a compressor and sandblaster?

I worked at a local sign company years ago and they were able to rent a 
compressor trailer (jack hammer compressor) and huge sandblaster for 
perhaps $150 per day. Sand wasn't too expensive from the rental company. 
I sandblasted a bunch of signs for that employer and with his permission 
I then sandblasted my Beetle chassis.  I simply stood further back from 
the item I was sandblasting and/or turned down the pressure regulator. 
It went FAST.

It's messy. Real messy. Noisy too. And very, very fast. You might need 
to find a place away from neighbors for a rig that size. On the other 
hand they might not care if the noisy and sust only lasts 4-5 hours vs 
days and days of sander noises. They might be really glad to have a see 
a shiny vehicle in your driveway... GRIN!

A local fellow will sandblast my Beetle for $600+. Ouch. I can buy a 
small pressurized canister blaster at Tractor Supply for $250 or less 
and use my compressor. I'd need to buy another 50 ft of hose so I could 
take the car and sandblaster to the back of my yard away from the house.

Years ago when I was poor (what am I saying? I'm still poor! GRIN!) I 
did some trading of labor with a friend to get him to paint my bus. I 
supplied the paint. I paid another friend a little to prep it b/c I did 
not have the skills or tools (no way to spray primer, no big sander). 
The prep was pretty good (got my money's worth) but not up to my current 
skills and quality preference. My friend who painted the bus did a good 
job on the white portion but the red portion orange peeled pretty badly.

In retrospect I could have purchased a single stage 60 gal compressor 
(like I have now) and sandblaster for what I paid for that paint job.

Now years later the bus is ready for another paint job. I have some 
minor rust bubbles that need attention, am replacing the passenger door 
outright (THANKS Kevin Roberts!), and the paint needs to be prepped 
better than last time. Interior needs new paint as well. I suspect that 
he used bondo where I requested (and supplied him with) AL metal 
impregnated filler which doesn't absorb moisture. We'll see when I begin 
sanding.

I'm going to sandblast the exterior seams and lightly blast the drip 
rails. I'll leave the paint on the roof and sides and simply sand it 
down b/c it hasn't flaked or peeled or lifted.

I would not sandblast big flat panels with too much pressure b/c you 
could warp them. Haven't made those mistakes yet. I've just sandblast 
pieces and details. Also consider decent respiratory gear. The fellow 
that rented us the compressor back then had some sort of serious 
respiratory problem b/c he blasted without any dust control for his lungs.

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L
