Date: Fri, 13 Aug 2010 11:08:13 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: The Miracle of Go-Jo

Or on the 8th day we were given Go-Jo.
 
This has been mentioned in years past, but is a good tip recently in my mind
I'll remind people of.  The VW content on my end is limited (I'm using it on
an, uh, err, other vehicle) BUT it is perfectly applicable.  For my VW content
(hey it's Friday) I'll say, imagine you bought one of Steve Dolan's buses (who
bought the Vanagon?) and it has 10 years of chain smoking Camels and VW parts
randomly thrown in it (I love you Steve, you know that man, aside for the
Camels mine are nor better.)  Well I did about the same, bought a North
Slope vehicle with low miles, but 10 years of 4 guys chain smoking 24 hours a
day in it.  And then of course a greasy work vehicle as well.  Highly textured
vinyl interior parts, just like a VW, with a layer of grease, nicotine, who
knows what.  You could scrape a layer off with your finger nail that peeled
off and left a noticeable depression.  First I tried simple green, right...,
then the purple cleaner, then TSP,
 then my usual miracle trick, fume free Easy-Off oven cleaner (sheeze, I clean
carbon and grease from cases and heads with that stuff.)  Only the Easy Off
with vigorous brushing had any effect, and not great.  Then I remembered the
Go-Jo.  The regular stuff, not pumice, just beige slimey emulsifying Go-Jo. 
Slathered a thin coat on an interior part, let sit about 10 minutes.  Light
brushing and washed it in hot TSP/water.  10 years of who knows what just
melted away, not even much scrubbing, the longer it sits the easier it washes
off.  I got bold and saturated the carpet on the door panels with the same,
rubbed it with warm TSP/water on a towel, vacuumed dry, and poof new like
magic.  The upholstery/seats I replaced, but I've used it on vanagon seats
before, and the same wonders.  I've done this many times in the past, but had
forgotten about it until I had already done about 1/2 the interior in Easy Off
(removed it all to replace the
 headliner) so then had to go back and remove it to re-do it with Go-Jo,
though I figure I could have done it in place (I did leave the dash top in
place.)
 
Anyway, long live Go-Jo folks.  The only problem using it to spot clean cloth
upholstery is that it will clean the spot TOO well and you'll have to go back
and do the whole thing.  Pretreating spots and a light coat on everything,
then a little Bissel carpet cleaner has done wonders for me on Westy fabric in
the past.
 
John
