From: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: "John Kolak" <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>, "John Anderson"
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 14 Aug 2010 10:46:49 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: [VB] Cheap painting technique

----- Original Message ----- 
From: "John Kolak" <


> I think the reason we don't use electric sprayer is because
> atomization is not fine, so you getter bigger paint blobs. I've heard
> of success in painting a bus with foam rollers though. Seems the trick
> is the right consistency to avoid bubbling.

I used to have quite a bit of fun with a SCORE class 5 baja bug... besides
the driving fun... there was working on the driveline.. and something I
found a lot of fun doing,, was repainting after the inevitable dings, dents
, bashing, and crashing in the dirt!

I was working on a looooow budget...  so a gallon of paint, and a roller.
as you said John.....  "Seems the trick is the right consistency to avoid
bubbling."

that , along with the time it takes for the paint to cure.... so even if you
apply the right viscosity ,, if it dries tooo soon, or tooo late.. you have
problem.

I was amazed at the 'quality' of most of my paint jobs! ... probably because
I didn't care if the paint came out right.. as long as it looked orange!

I have painted with airless.. and with air,  with rollers, and with
brushes...    if you do it in the direct sunlight.. most likely the paint
will dry way too fast...... if you do it in a unheated garage... it might
take forever to cure!  ... well in a Canadian unheated garage. lol

so , to add to your comment..  you can make any applicator work... if you
have the correct viscosity for the temps.. and out of direct sunlight.

I was shown by an old pro how to mix the "thinner" so that it would "drip"
off the stir stick ... if it ran off... it was tooo thin... if it blob blob
blobbed off.. it was too thick..   I see there is a device to ensure the
mixture is correct..
if you read the part on this link about " ford 4 viscosity cup"
http://www.spraygunworld.com/Information2/Viscosity.html
most paint supply places can help you determine the viscosity for the paint
you're applying.
