From: Sami Dakhlia <sami.dakhlia(-at-)gmail.com>
To: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Date: Mon, 16 Aug 2010 21:04:05 -0700
Cc: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, Maria Crawford
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: stranded in Wichita Falls, TX

Epilogue.

Greetings from France. :) We eventually made it to Calfornia, not in  
style, but with the bus on a flatbed trailer pulled by a Penske rental  
truck. When I last wrote, we were being towed from Gallup/RedRock Park  
to Flagstaff,  courtesy of AAA. I had called the dealer ahead of time  
and asked if they still worked on air-cooled cars; they said to bring  
it over. On our honeymoon, back in '93, we also had to take Le Bus to  
the Flagstaff dealership and I remembered them as a friendly and  
competent bunch. As it turns out, that dealership had closed shop many  
years ago and the new one has only been there for a short time.

They allegedly spent 4 hours hunting down the problem(s) but were  
unable to find any, except that the dwell was off (I had just set it  
to 50 deg, at least according to my newly Sears purchased meter, so  
either I misread the meter or it is defective). Even though they  
insisted on a $100 diagnostic fee and promised to call first if the  
repair cost was going to exceed that amount, they presented me with a  
$220 bill, claiming to have fixed the problem. I complained, but was  
not in a sufficiently confrontational mood and just wanted my key  
back. Cranked the bus and it keeps stalling. Call the dumbfounded  
mechanic, who revs it until it warms up, at which point, it idles  
fine. I ask how fixing dwell would resolve bucking, hesitation and I'm  
not getting a clear explanation. His answer, "Well, I adjusted the  
timing and then it ran fine" simply didn't cut it for me.

The service manager admitted that they don't like to work on old  
veedubs, because they usually are riddled with multiple problems and  
customer satisfaction then tends to be low. He should have said so  
earlier and I would have been perfectly content if they had admitted  
to being unable to find the problem and not charge the unauthorized  
extra $120. So lesson learned: as a general rule, stay away from the  
dealerships. I later found that there might have been a better  
alternative in Flagstaff: a place called the Bus Stop opened shop  
three months ago. Next time!

So we were running out of time, my traveling partner needed to catch  
his plane out of Vegas back to Mississippi the next morning and my  
wife and daughters were impatiently waiting for me to join them in San  
Diego. We've been paying for AAA Premium for the last 10 years and it  
was time to get our money's worth. AAA pays up to $750 for expenses  
related to trip interruption, so it is likely that they will reimburse  
me for the $500 one-way truck and flatbed trailer rental, as least  
according to the AAA agent I got to talk to.

I arrive in Santa Monica and take it to BMW, where my brother is  
manager. He hooks me up with "Ben", the foreman who trained in Germany  
with BMW, VW, and Mercedes. Of course the bus looked out of place  
among 5, 6, and 7 series, but it was a pleasure watching Ben  
methodically go over the bus. Diagnostic: the rubber elbow at the  
auxiliary air regulator was cracked, allowing air into the intake  
manifold, in particular on a cold engine when the regulator is open.  
As for overheating, he suspects that the oil cooler is blocked and oil  
is not circulating properly: it needs to be pulled and cleaned in  
gasoline. He did not check the injectors, but suggested we check their  
spray pattern. Ten years of sitting can gum up things. For a quick and  
dirty fix, he recommended Chevron oil cleaner and Chevron fuel  
injector cleaner. It's worth a shot.

Le Bus drove fine from Santa Monica to its new spot in Topanga. It's a  
steep 1,500 ft climb from Malibu, but it made it fine.

I'm looking forward to my next US trip/vacation, where I'll be  
properly prepping the bus for a trip along the Western coast.

I know I did not get to respond to all our mails over last couple if  
weeks, but I appreciated them all. It was a big help and quite a  
relief not to be completely on my own.

Cheers!

Sami
http://type2.com/dakhlia 
