Date: Tue, 17 Aug 2010 10:53:14 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Camping AC placement survey

Hello List,
 
I tried to solve this problem last year. It failed so I am going to describe
what I did so that others won't wast their time and money trying it.
 
I am sure that most people who have thought about air conditioning their bus
have considered using a small window unit in their bus.
 
I bought a 5200 btu window unit for my bus on clearence.
 
I have a fridge unit in my bus that did not have a stove or sink on top. The
fridge unit sits behind the drivers seat under the louvered window. I built an
enclousure/ duct for the a/c unit with built in drip pan and drain that
mounted to the top of the fridge. The entire window unit was mounted inside of
the bus with the back vented out the louvered window. I made a sliding window
that fit where the window screen  was made out of plexi glass. This kept the
hot air from re-entering the bus.
 
I plugged the 110v cord into the outlet indside the bus. This allowed me to
plug in the bus while camping. I also bought a Honda eu1000i generator that I
strapped to my roof rack. I plugged in the a/c to the generator while driving.
The prolem was that the radiant heat from the back side of the a/c heated up
the interior of the bus faster than the a/c could cool. The other problem was
that the a/c was NOT big enough. It would probably have to be at least 25,000
btu to cool the entire bus in summer like a new car would. I was doing
research and found that a honda Acura has around a 14,000btu a/c to cool that
small car.
 
By fantasy would be to have an adequate a/c settup that could be run by a
generator such as a Honda EU2000i that could cool the bus while driving and
could be plugged in while it is parked or camping. 
 
I have come up with a possible solution that would be a total of 13,000 btu of
cooling and could be run off of a Honda EU2000i generator. You would mount 2
of these spot coolers to the roof of your bus.
 
http://cgi.ebay.com/Portable-Mini-Spot-Cooler-Air-Conditioner-Dehumidifier-/2
70623093642?pt=Air_Conditioner
 
 I chose these because they are 6500 BTU each and are very slim line. They
will NOT fit under the bus but could be mounted to the roof with a homemade
fiberglass encousure. They also have a small, 4" output that can be ducted,
one to the front cab and the other to the rear. The generator can handle both
units running at once. I have seen these sell for around $200 each including
shipping. The Honda EU2000i generator can be had used for around $700-800. You
could also buy a cheeper portable 2000 watt generator. You are looking at
around $1200 in total expenses incluing a nice generator.
 
They could also be mounted to the nose of your bus and ducted to the original
fresh air settup, so no custom vents inside. Covers could be made to resemble
jerry cans or suit cases, or just a nice fiberglass hump adorned with a VW
symbol. They would require cutting two 4" round holes in the nose for the duct
work.
 
They would not cool your bus a well as say a nice Eurovan, but would make it
tolerable, Plus you could plug them in and turn them on to pre-cool your bus
before a trip. 
 
 That said, you could also mount a roof mount 1200 btu a/c and run it off the
generator. Your cost would be around the same.
 
This is my not-so-perfect solution to the problem
 
David Kelly
volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com
 
 
--- On Tue, 8/17/10, Avocado Tom Tarka <tommy(-at-)roadtrip.net> wrote:




My eventual goal is to design something that takes the edge off.  If
I can shave 10 degrees off a hot evening/morning, I feel like I've
at least won the battle, if not the war.  The key will be indirect
cooling...(as opposed to evaporative).
