Date: Tue, 17 Aug 2010 14:55:12 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: "Martin Jr., D. Michael" <martinm(-at-)montevallo.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] Camping AC placement survey

I had considered the trailer idea too. I have a '78 Westy.

The "ultimate" idea I ponder occasionally is using the upright spare 
tire space behind the driver's seat to house one of those Italian 
Delonghi portable airconditioners and use a Honda generator in our 
Brenderup 1205S (with the exhaust ported through the side of the 
trailer) since we usually take the trailer on camping trips anyhow. 
Unsure how well the Honda would tolerate the bumps of jolts of riding in 
a trailer though. I have the 1000W version and when I carry it while it 
runs - the generator creates a gyroscope effect. Would the generator 
fight the trailer shakes and wear out the ginny bearings prematurely? I 
don't think the 1000W generator would run an air conditioner. Would need 
a 2000W.

I'd be more inclined to play with an ammonia cooler larger but similar 
to the stock fridge with no moving parts. Ours - when it works - does 
create cold well. Solid state too meaning I only have to provide heat. 
Would there be some way to route hot oil or exhaust heat to the coils to 
get it cooling?

Push some air through it with some muffin fans (x3). Perhaps put the 
cold part inside the dash vent system allowing me to route cool air to 
the front seat area. Perhaps twin systems - one for the front and one 
for the back of the van?  After alll aside from very low current fans - 
the system would be solid state. Perhaps ambulance style fans for the 
dash? Front coils would be integrated with the left heat exchanger and 
the rear coils would be integrated with the right heater box?

Seems to me all a guy would need to do is wrap copper lines around an 
exhaust pipe and shield it from the road draft and debris. I think the 
tech for the inner workings could be gleaned from the info on Bucky Balls.

Wonder if I could place stock VW underdash condenser coils under the 
dash plus fan housing and run ammonia through them? Have long thought 
about running hot water through similar coils mounted under the dash for 
heat.

For a/c during the night, simply heat the coils with propane or an 
electric heater element?

That makes me want to shop for commercially available ammonia 
refrigeration ideas that could be morphed into a/c systems.

I like this idea b/c it would not consume any gasoline or engine power 
running going down the road much like a heater in a traditional water 
cooled vehicle.

For winter I've wondered about using the same kinds of copper coils 
heated by the exhaust plus a hot water tank blowoff valve to create hot 
water to heat the vehicle with. Easier to route to the front of the 
vehicle than hot air that cools off.

I guess I'd characterize the aircooled heater boxes VW used as a cost 
conscious solution and not necessarily the best idea. I have ridden in a 
'78 with ~80K miles that did make good heat down to ~28 degrees F so 
VW's design isn't fundamentally flawed or anything. Did not deliver much 
airflow though around town.

I'd love to get away from the idea of heater boxes (carbon monoxide 
risk) or gas heaters (explosion, carbon monoxide risk again). Yeah 
ammonia has risks too.

How about peltier devices mounted in a double walled tube? On the inside 
of the inner tube about be aluminum heat sinks from computers that have 
been curved by bending. On the outside of the inner tube would be the 
cold side of the peltier devices pulling heat from the heat sinks. Then 
the hot sides/heat could be exhausted outside the van through the outer 
tube. Other ideas would be to mount them to the bus skin as heatsinks. 
Line the vent intake with these buggers.

Could mount them in the vent tubes feeding the vents along the ends of 
the dash. A sizable temp drop would be more important than consistent 
40F air from a freon based a/c system. Have not figured their electrical 
load or used them to see how much temp drop they would create. Want to 
look and see if the electric drink coolers use one or many of these 
gizmos. If many then obviously they don't create enough cooling power to 
do much good for the electrical load they consume.

In reverse polarity they might be used to heat as well. Might be 
worthwhile in my drafty stock vent system. Warm draft vs cold draft.

I can just see it now - the world's most complicated HVAC system -> 
peltier devices plus ammonia cooling system plus stock VW heaterboxes 
plus seat heaters plus those like 12V heater/defroster thingies from the 
FLAPS that don't work. All together I get something that is impossible 
to maintain but keeps the bus marginally warm or cool. GRIN!

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L
