Date: Tue, 17 Aug 2010 13:27:20 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: " D. MichaelMartin Jr." <martinm(-at-)montevallo.edu>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] Camping AC placement survey

Hello List,
 
I thought of that. The problem is that cold air does not rise. Most of the
cold air would exit at the drivers feet and stay there. Only a little cold air
would exit through the defrost vents and when it did, the hot windshield would
heat the exiting air.
 
The small Honda suitcase sized eu20001 generator would not need a trailer, but
would need a trey not much bigger than a battery tray for it to mount to. One
could be fabricated to bolt to the top of the front bumper. I would recomend a
metal stap going through the handle, bolted to the tray to secure it from
falling and from being stollen. The generator only weighs around 30lbs or so.
 
An alternative to cutting holes in the front of the bus would be to mount the
units high enough where they would duct right into the fresh air vent in the
front of the bus. You would have to make a fiberglass "hump" or cover to go
over them making the bus look like it has a nose. All the fabricating would be
in making a mounting bracket and cover for the units. There would be little
cutting of the bus other than mounting holes.  If you decided to only use one
unit, it could be desquised as a spare tire and you would only need a Honda
EU1000i generator (around $450 used).  It weighs less and is smaller. The draw
back is that it would not cool the bus, but rather it would just make the
driver and front passanger a little cooler.
 
David Kelly

--- On Tue, 8/17/10, Martin Jr., D. Michael <martinm(-at-)montevallo.edu> wrote:




OK.  I was pretty much content with only cooling the bus while camping but
now
David has got my wheels turning (very dangerous).

First of all, I really dislike the idea of cutting into the bus to make such
modifications BUT the idea of using the stock vents and using an assist
generator has its merits.  Recalling how many have pulled a small trailer
behind their buses for everything from just holding those extra items in the
bus to actually hauling gasification systems, I am thinking that the
generator
might could be mounted in a small trailer (or even the luggage rack, as
suggested).  Next, what about using the duct system in reverse, similar to
how
the heat gets to the bus and placing an AC unit somewhere inconspicuous and
ducting to that system?
