Date: Tue, 17 Aug 2010 16:42:06 -0400
From: Mike Benthin <muts(-at-)verizon.net>
To: Sami Dakhlia <sami.dakhlia(-at-)gmail.com>, "type2(-at-)type2.com"
Subject: Re: stranded in Wichita Falls, TX and our T2 reliability issue

I know I mentioned finding a Porsche shop as working on VW AFC, but 
should have mentioned my daughter's actual problem was like hers in in 
her 75, stalling at stoplights, etc, having to keep her foot on it to 
idle, etc.  I did tell her to wiggle the giant S tube and other hoses to 
see if they made sucking sounds or if the idling got worse as this was 
done.  You do this looking down through the upper engine access lid as 
it is running. I personally visualized a crack in our 78 camper s-hose 
this way and covered it with seal-all until I found a good one.
   She could not find it and I sent her to a Porsche repair shop who 
found the manifold to distribution box connectors were leaking and fixed 
it for a hefty labor charge per hour.  That's a tough spot to check 
unless you spray something flammable near the hose to hear the idle 
change, or use a smoke stick to see where the smoke goes, or see if they 
are so loose they spin.  A temp repair there also is to cover the ends 
with silicone sealer until you buy and put in new ones.
    This issue leads me to mention my wife's concerns that your VW 
dealership is right, problems can appear and overlap and be intermittant 
in these old busses, making a family trip a nighmare even if you know 
the problem, such as our blocked gas tank.  We were stranded in Flint 
Michigan bad town to be stuck) and I had to consult the Limbo rescue 
book to find Monk's in Pontiac, much further than the nearest repair 
shop Good Sam wanted to send us to.  They do guaantee that you will be 
towed to whover can actually fix it, even if it is 400 miles, which is 
why we use them.  The SO will go on trips on our east coast, but does 
not want to head for the West for all the reasons this list exists.  We 
virtually have to carry a spare engine to have any hope of getting it 
repaired in ant timely fashion in some parts of the country.
