Date: Tue, 11 Jul 2006 12:32:47 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Steve Pribyl <steve(-at-)unliketea.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2]Temp Roof

i'll be driving from south carolina to new hampshire... that would be a nice ride with the top out and if not so far would do that but 17 + hours is aways away and also i will have lots of my store stuff with me so dont want it blowing round...
   
   
   
  hey mark i dont have a donor bus to cut from.... buddahs bus down the road but his had a hightop on it so his has a huge hole right where this one does..... so that dont work...
   
   
  ian the plexiglass sounds like a idea...
  it will bend pretty good also...
  and what a star night view LoL
   
  got to measure the size hole i got to cover,..
   
  i left the cross member in so that will help support whatever i do end up putting up there....
  the pleixglass will hold up to the water/moisture beeter than plywood . probadly be alot lighter also....?
   
  drill small holes in the sides of that and put the sheet metal screws through where the frame of the rivera canvas was held down..? and then maybe put some duct tape around the plexiglass...?
   
   starting to sound like a plan...~!~
   
  hey steve was you talking about removing the back hatch for???? air flow? to keep things from flying out the top? not sure i follow you there? and weather is a big issue....
  hoping for blue skys.... and starry nights.... once i get the new hightop on i will be fine longs it dont leak to awful bad LOL....
   
   
   
  peace
  chai

Steve Pribyl <steve(-at-)unliketea.com> wrote:
  Last year I drove my High top bus with out the top from Chicago to Kelly 
Browns Shop in NC and back.

I had stripped the interior and all of the windows except the windshield 
and the front door windows.

Got lots of funny looks but did not have much of an issue with wind and 
driving. As for the rain it was all behind me, though that might not 
work for you.

Removing the rear hatch should be enough to keep things smooth and plan 
for good weather.

Even got pulled over by someone asking if I wanted to by another bus.

Steve



                                                                 Break out the shorts, tank tops and sandles........
     Tune up the Bus wash off the winter rust~!~
       It's camping season woohooooooo LETS GO CAMPING~!~
