Date: Tue, 11 Jul 2006 18:36:42 -0700
From: "zach drew" <zachula(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] loose sterring / front end?

> It wanders .....  So my question is where to start the rebuild / replace
> of what parts in the front end?

Usual suspects are the pivot pin bushings, ball joints, steering
dampener, steering box, and the rubber steering junction(the name
escapes me at the moment)

> What steps would I need to take to diagnosis the issues?

My pivot pin bushings were very worn and I just replaced them.   This
pretty much put an end to the play I had in my steering.   I was
getting about 4-6  inches of travel before my steering would "catch".
Easy way to check is to crawl underneath and have someone turn the
wheel back and forth.   Find the part thats wiggling that shouldn't
be.

My pivot pin was obvious, turning the wheel made my entire swing arm
move up and down at the tierod end an inch or two.  As I under stand
it there should be little to no vertical movement in your steering
linkages once you get to the swing arm.

Heres a pic I took of mine:
http://www.zachula.com/swingleverdetail.jpg

If you crawl under there take a small flathead screwdriver so you can
pry the grease cap off the bottom of the pivot pin.  If the bushings
are shot you will see the pin in there wobble.

This was my problem so I stopped here.  The rest of my front end was
pretty tight so I left it be.

I know the steering damper (the shock like thing) is another common
problem but the pivot pin seems to be the worst.

GL and hope this helps

Note: I was able to fashion a tool out of allthread, washers, a 30mm
socket and some nuts to pull my bushings.  It was tough going, my
"tool" went through a few iterations before I really got it working
right so once I had my rythm down it only really took about 2 hours to
pull the bushings  and put it all back together.  Setting the bushings
was really easy, just be careful.  Get the BB tool if you want...I
know its probably worth it but all thread can work.

-Zach
