Date: Fri, 14 Jul 2006 15:13:22 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: we do not have ignition

		LESSONS  FROM  SMOKESCREENS
				R Mann  July 06

	 I used the nearest couple mile of flat 4-lane motorway for a 
preliminary test of the transfusion needle inserting water into the 
lo-vac carb nozzle which sends vacuum to the distributor from the 
Brazilian Weber.  Indicated 71 mph each way; but much more exciting 
was holding that speed after rolling off to ca. 2/3 throttle.  I 
hesitate to announce results prematurely, but I must say it was 
exciting to slide down onto a cruise mode which, from throttle 
position and even sound, is presumably more economical than 
wide-open, but just as fast.  My working hypothesis is that the 
vacuum regime at that nozzle is such that more water is sucked in 
when you float down onto cruise mode from flat-out.
	It is well known that a carb uses less fuel in a given cruise 
regime if that speed is approached from above by throttling back 
gently, floating down onto that speed, than if you do as most do  - 
come up to the cruise regime from below. (This reflects what can be 
called imperfections in carbs.)   But what is novel in this new 
experience (apart from similar results on a test Jawa stroker, 
slapping the water in after the carb) is to save fuel while losing no 
speed. Allow me to redouble my entreaties of youse 
highly-instrumented busahaulics to slap in the water and measure what 
happens.
	But after a mile or so elated by this encouraging first 
result with water on the 1600cc single-carb bus, I suddenly notice 
dense white smoke billowing in my mirrors, and the motor suddenly 
stumbling.  Whoops, I murmur  -  must have overdone this 
fastest-thing-on-the-highway stunt.  Stomping down the clutch, 
changing promptly into neutral, and switching off the ignition, I 
coast into a handy shoulder lane that appears within a few hundred 
yards  -  not before seeing smoke rising from the windscreen heater 
vents, and my view rearwards utterly whited out.  I wish I'd had a 
camera with me.  I am lucky not to get booked for air pollution.
	I'd cruised the Devon just as hard during most of the 
1,255-mi delivery from the S. Is., without any such smoke.  What is 
new?  As I stride back toward the rear, smoke is curling up out of 
the high-level airscoops (the factory's quiet admission that us 
Berkeley bus fans were right).  I open the engine hatch with 
trepidation, vaguely imagining some dire damage and already thinking 
which friend lives nearest  -  a walk of a couple mile, I estimate.
	The engine seems to me pretty hot when I open the hatch  - 
but at least I can see it, and indeed there's far less smoke in the 
engine compartment than I'd expected.  I appreciate the warmth from 
the engine on my face  -  it's a dampish winter day  -  as I lie on 
my back and use the rear bumper to sling myself underneath.
	Then I notice a dense curtain of white smoke pouring 
downwards from the rear of the tin platform, blown under the sump by 
a tail-wind.  This voluminous smoke is being created by combustion in 
the Armathane closed-cell foam which I've previously praised as a 
cheap gasket to fill in the gap round the rim of the tin 
engine-compatrment floor.  The underside of the rearmost foam is 
smoking liberally, and is obviously shrivelled, but coming somewhere 
near refuting the old saw "where there's smoke there's fire".   I 
infer RIPO has been burning without flame, and has initiated 
combustion in the foam.  I assume the engine stumbling was caused by 
too much smoke being sucked into the air-cleaner and temporarily 
overwhelming even the mighty oilbath.
	I press on gently for a few miles, which re-starts powerful 
smoke-generation such as the Navy would have been glad of in some 
W1/W2 battles.  Traffic behind me keeps its distance, helping me to 
move 3 lanes over while pressing on to the start of another shoulder 
-  at the crest of a slight hill, in case my last-legs battery can't 
crank the motor enough for re-starting.  This time I allow cooling 
for about 5 min, and open the sunroof to let out smoke; the starter 
evokes, after quite a few seconds at wide throttle, the normal 
heartening discreet rumble from the rear; and I then drive quietly 
the 3 miles home.

	The spectacular smoke seems to have been caused by 
interaction between two of my favourite capers  -  RIPO to embalm 
existing rust and prevent new rust of the tin platform, and the black 
Armathane foam at the edge of that platform to act as the air-sealing 
gasket.  One at a time, they're fine; together, they can make you 
spectacularly obnoxious if not downright dangerous.  "We have 
ignition", observers will intone; but fortunately they'll be wrong in 
the sense that no flames were seen.
	The Armathane was there when I bought the bus (saving me the 
trouble of fitting it); the RIPO I slapped on only after the 1255-mi 
journey home, and this is the first time the motor has been really 
warmed up since then.

	I'd been misinformed that RIPO mfr Altex Devoe is a USA-based 
firm; they turn out to be Australasian only.  I doubt they'd want to 
licence RIPO mfg to any foreign firm, for fear the formula would be 
offripped.  I'll urge the head man, Mr Mike O'Sullivan at the 
Tauranga factory of Altex, to go for export-led growth.  But if 
you're going to use RIPO where it can creep into Armathane, and also 
the temp in fast cruising is warm, be prepared to create an extreme 
false alarm on the road.
	The Armathane (20mm ID, 13mm wall thickness) is slit 
'longways' and the edge of the tin fits in that slit.  My prediction 
is that 2 or 3 layers of aluminium foil will keep the RIPO from 
creeping into the foam, and will cause the foam to run much cooler, 
so that smokescreens will not be generated.

	Having smugly composed the above, I head out for a repeat 
test run.  Just as I move onto the motorway, the smokescreen stunt 
repeats.  Not only a shoulder but also a nice piece of junked carpet 
(actually underlay felt) beckon just ahead.  I lay out the carpet on 
the damp ground and ease underneath.  The Armathane is indeed OK now; 
but there's sump oil on the muffler, which is boiling off a beautiful 
cloud of white oil-fog.  One of the heater boxes is pulling a similar 
stunt; the other one to a lesser extent.  I wipe oil off them with a 
rag, fold up my lovely new carpet, and sit while the engine/exhaust 
cool, reflecting on some lessons of these two days' mild adventures:-

1.  Spectacular signs do not necessarily imply a cause in drastic 
damage.  Do not panic just because you can't see any following 
traffic owing to a wall of smoke you're emitting.
2.  A given sign does not always result from the same cause  -  rogue 
RIPO (one day) is different from a leaking sump next day.
3.  (I'm sure some will be able to extend this list of lessons)

	On the few mi home, if speed is kept down to 40 mph the drips 
of oil are not blown rearwards onto the muffler, so smokescreens are 
not produced.
	It's now Friday afternoon in New Zealand.

-- 
Robt Mann
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
'69 Renault 10  -  The Water Wagon
'61 Norton 600 Domiracer
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
http://www.dave-cushman.net/misc/mannject.html
