From: "Heath, Raymond E" <raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com>
To: "'Bryan M ,the volkswagen drivin man in Charlotte NC'"
Date: Wed, 3 Apr 2002 17:55:43 -0800 
Subject: RE: [VB] should I feel bad or good

Boy, have you got that wrong. That is a picture(s) of his truck that he
took. If anyone has claim to it, it is the owner of the truck and camera. VW
doesn't have anymore right to images of that truck other than their showroom
floor. Whew, someone thinks everythings free for the taking. IMHO

67 Single Cab, DP 1641cc 34PICT
71 Trike 1776cc 32/36 Progressive
VolksAir 1585cc 28 PICT
Ray, Kent WA
A loose rattlesnake in the living room ends discussion of animal rights


-----Original Message-----
From: Bryan M ,the volkswagen drivin man in Charlotte NC
[mailto:jezzina(-at-)ctc.net]
Sent: Wednesday, April 03, 2002 5:47 PM
To: splitbus
Subject: Re: [VB] should I feel bad or good


Ok I admit it,
 I am the one who "pilfered" the image from David's site,
 Perhaps its just me but I don't understand the big deal.

1st,   It has always been my opinion that if an image is on a site it is
fair game for copying unless it is "original art" or of a personal nature.
Original art being  drawings , paintings , or original photography.
 It is always recommended to ask permission to use any of the above just
like in a trade mark situation.

2nd   I think that anything that has been previously published such as
manuals, brochures or advertisements on a site is fair game. How can the
site designer claim the rights to something they did not create. Volkswagen
is the only one who has a legitimate claim to those images. I understand
that the site designer may have taken the time to scan the image but if it
is going to be broadcast to the word wide public then the designer should
take precautions as to not let it be copied.

3rd,   Any site designer has the ability to keep a viewer from copying an
image. There is a right click disabler that makes the viewer unable to copy
an image. This is a viable option to a designer who doesn't want to have an
image "pilfered" rather than marking the image with a "tag" .

BTW , I removed the offending image from my web site. I have not profited
from the images I use on my Enthusiast website . I have made all of the
images on my computer available through my site. just click on "images" on
the menu column to the left.

Later- Bryan
www.mvwe.org





---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: vintagebus-unsubscribe(-at-)type2.com
For additional commands, e-mail: vintagebus-help(-at-)type2.com
Donations help keep the list going. http://www.type2.com/donate.html
