Date: Wed, 21 Sep 2005 17:23:03 -0500
From: "John R. Sedy" <john.sedy(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: front left (?) wheel knocking with braking

Hi all,

First time posting, long time reading.

I have a 1974 Westfalia on which I'm solving the problems one by one. The
current problem is a knocking when I apply the brakes. An outside listener
says it comes from the driver's side, front wheel when I drive by. Seems to
be the same frequency of the wheel. I searched this list and the samba, but
I couldn't find anything about a noise that comes with braking, though the
question comes up.

I don't know if any or all of the following has anything to do with this.
The bus had been sitting for a couple of years. I just redid the front
brakes, new pads, hardware, rotors, hoses (and rear), flushed brake fluid.
The notes that I have with the bus say that the front shocks are shot, and I
would agree, though I have no basis for comparison.

I guess I've put 1000 miles on the bus now (highway, flat, no bumps mostly),
but I live in St Louis where the roads are for crap. I would swear that I've
never heard the knocking before until just after I finished my brake repair.
One reason I did my repair was because of what I found to be a stuck right
brake caliper which caused my bus to pull to one side.

Now it brakes nicely, no sqeaks, no engine dying (booster sucking extra
vacuum because no pads), stops without pulling. Just a troubling knocking
sound.

I don't think the sound is the rear CV transmitting to the front because
those boots look fine and not torn, though there might be something seeping
at either end of axle - haven't diagnosed that yet. And the driveby listener
swore it wasn't the rear, but the front. I don't think it's the wheel
bearing. I don't hear a grinding noise, and when I try to wiggle the jacked
wheel, it's pretty tight, and no different from right wheel.

Does it just need a good lube job? shocks? Of course I'm going to do these
things, but what will cure the noise?

Sorry for the long post, tried to be complete.

John in St Louis
1974 Westfalia
