Date: Thu, 22 Sep 2005 23:52:41 -0400
From: Mike <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: jkolak(-at-)byu.edu
Subject: Re: [T2] Duncan's new bus (removong paint and repainting/re

We have been thru this with the 75 bus for daughter. It had good but oxidized
paint on the sides and back, but lots of pits and rust bubbles on roof and
front.  Sanding the roof made me realized the rust travels further under the
paint that it appears, and you cannot get it out of the pits without acids and
washing.  Same with the nose.  We masked the glass and drove it to the
sandblasting place. The nose, roof, under gutter, and rockers were sandblasted
and after much air blasting and edge sanding of old paint to bare edge in the
rocker and gutter zone, painted  it the same day with 2 part Uroprime, which
is truly waterproof until painted.  Fill paste and filling primer was used to
deal with deep pits.  Two dents were filled with a good filler and sanded/gray
primed until smooth with surrounding metal.  Daughter's web site covers some
pics: http://www.geocities.com/the_fider (follow link re her bus).   My
practice with the Uroprime made me realize someone else should shoot it, so
talked to Maaco, who advised their best epoxy acrylic for smooth coverage of
even 200 grit sanded surface.
So we dealt with the few nicks/rust on the sides, treated it with a
hydrocarbon wash to get off old wax, and sanded the rest with up to 320 grit,
followed by another rubdown with a prepainting hydrocarbon wash.   The paint
looks great, has not changed in 2 years, but we question its bond to the areas
we only sanded, as the few nicks it sustained (especially the car door that
the wind knocked into the side)- one could peel it easily with a fingernail-
the primer they shot first could have adhered better.  I understand now that a
PO may have used NuFinish or such containing silicones, which apparently goes
right into the paint and necessarily cannot be sanded off?  So unless you are
the OO and never used silicones, I would remove the paint to bare metal.
...........   .Mike Benthin in NJ
