From: "Duncan Hewitt" <duncan(-at-)kopperdrake.co.uk>
To: "Billy Price" <wfp3(-at-)lycos.com>, <duncan(-at-)kopperdrake.co.uk>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 23 Sep 2005 17:18:34 +0100
Subject: RE: [T2] Duncan's new bus (oops/power loss update)

LOL...hit me with the sarcasm :D I'm a great believer in naivety...if I
don't know about the bad stuff yet to happen to me I can't be afraid of it
;)

I'm afraid it's an outdoor job but luckily there isn't much rust to treat
(afaik). That's why I'm leaving it for the spring time next year to tackle
the rust there is, but was hoping that when I get a week free to sit there
and rub it down I can quickly cover it over with spray can primer just to
get it to the shop for its real coat. It's not a concourse vehicle, and I
don't aim to make it one - I just want to minimise the rust problem before
it starts :) Sounds like I may be best to start sanding and covering bits
with rust inhibitor now before winter sets in?

Cheers for the input :)

Dunk

-----Original Message-----
From: Billy Price [mailto:wfp3(-at-)lycos.com]

Duncan, et al.,

D. is a new list member, so let's make things clear for him.

Duncan, if you're going to be parking this bus under shelter and working on
it till it gets painted, go ahead and leave the body work areas you work on
bare.

All I'm saying is, if you're doing bodywork/paint on a daily driver (like I
am right now), keep some kind of paint on it if you're driving around in UK
weather conditions or it will begin rusting on you.

Also, disregard the sarcasm about your efforts from listmembers who do
professionally what you are attempting as a do-it-yourselfer.

Billy's Current Garage Paint Procedure List
(1) Visualize future chromatic glory with artist's eye.
(2) Hand Sand with 150 grit to remove grime, rough it up a bit.
(3) Dust off with rag/brush.
(4) Hold Breath.
(5) Apply olive drab green hardware store spraypaint (in a professional
manner)
(6) Enjoy new color of bus with cold beverage.
(7) Do another panel next weekend, repeat.
