From: "Jerry Azevedo" <jwazevedo(-at-)gulfislands.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 23 Sep 2005 12:21:15 -0700
Subject: VDO oil temp sender drain plug, Redux

Hi folks,

A few weeks ago I asked about installing a drain-plug-style VDO oil temp
sender in a type1 1600 engine (i.e., stock upright engine for my '70 bus).  I
couldn't see how to get the required clearance for the sender; it hit the
bottom of the oil screen.  I got a few replies about using another type of
sender but no solution for this one.

These two pictures illustrate the problem:

    http://img.villagephotos.com/p/2005-8/1069151/Sendercomponents.jpg
    http://img.villagephotos.com/p/2005-8/1069151/Senderblocked.jpg


The first shows the sender and the stock components for my installation.  The
second shows the sender installed in the plate and how it hits the bottom of
the oil screen.  (Sorry for the blurriness.)

Three of our usual online vendors say (or imply) on their Websites that the
drain plug sender is a straight swap.  One vendor notes that there's a trick
to making it work on upright engines, but remains suspiciously and
ungenerously mum on the details.  Three other vendors don't recommend the
drain plug sender for upright engines.

When I asked my vendor about it, he said that he's been selling these senders
for 10 years, and I'm the first guy to have trouble.  (I feel like such a
trailblazer.  Either that or a dolt.)  He referred me to EMPI, their VDO
distributor, who told me that I should "push the bottom of the oil screen up
with my finger", and that would give me the required clearance.  They made it
sound like, oh yeah, this is standard procedure, to push the center of the oil
screen up like that.  Muir doesn't mention it.  Bentley doesn't mention it.
In 16 years of oil changes on my bus, I've never done it.

My question for you (owners of pancake engines can ignore this) is: Has anyone
successfully installed a VDO 323055 drain plug oil sender in a 1600 upright
engine fitted with a stock oil screen, and if so, how in the blast did you
manage it?

Thanks.

See you on the road,
Jerry
'70 bus
Galiano Island, BC
