Date: Fri, 23 Sep 2005 16:40:29 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Chris Chubb <cchubb(-at-)codegurus.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] How much material?

>From: Anton Pitts <apitts(-at-)interchange.ubc.ca>
>I haven't *done* this yet, so take any advice with a grain of salt, but
>I have pondered it, and it appears that much canvas comes in 150cm
>bolts, which should be enough to cut the side panels out of.  Since
>those side panels are more-or-less triangles, it should also be
>possible to cut both of them out of roughly the same length of canvas.

Seems possible. Measure, measure, measure. Give yourself at least 2 cm on 
the top and bottom for making a good double or triple thickness hem so the 
staples and screws have something solid to go through. No use going to all 
this effort and having the edge fray and the screws pull through.

>I'm not yet sure whether the windows would be best sewed by cutting out
>the window, and using a separate piece, bigger than the hole you cut,
>to cover it afterwards, or whether one could get away with sewing the
>zipper straight onto the panel, then cutting it open and using a few
>long bias-cut strips of fabric to tidy up the edges and make a storm
>flap to cover the zipper.  Not even sure if that explanation makes any
>sense on screen.  It's clear in my mind :)

If you are very careful you can sew in the zippers and then cut out along 
the zipper teeth. But, some pointers: Sew near the outside edge of the 
zipper because you are going to want to tuck the edge back under it's self 
and sew again so you don't have a ratty edge. Also put the zipper on the 
inside, naturally. I don't put much faith in "storm flaps" because the 
water seems to get caught in the stitching just as much. Get good plastic 
sealing zippers and you should not have to worry about it too much. Don't 
use cheapo brass zippers.

Do yourself the further favor of putting a zippered panel, without 
screening, on the front piece, if your roof tips up at the front. Makes it 
much easier to load the roof rack.

If you want to save money, you may not get your big canvas at the 
sailmakers, as someone suggested. Sunbrella is expensive stuff, but will 
last about 20 more years on the van. Mildew and sun don't phase it. You CAN 
find it online sometimes cheaper than the local place. But, one thing you 
DO want to buy from them (online is cheap, too) is the thread. Get real UV 
stabilized thread. A lot of the "upholstery" thread at the store will fall 
apart in months if used in bright sunlight and outdoor air. It's only a 
couple of bucks and makes the job last much longer. Another good source for 
relatively cheap canvas is canvas drop cloths they sell at the hardware 
store. Not as durable and long lasting, but reasonably cheap.

Sounds like a good winter project.

Chris
