From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, "surfdoc99" <surfdoc99(-at-)aol.com>, "Robert Hays" <roberth(-at-)redshift.com>,
Date: Wed, 6 Feb 2002 20:24:36 -0800
Subject: Engine Troubles...HELP!!!

this is rather and long and complicated, so if you're not in that frame of
mind you may not want to follow along, but ANY help or suggestions would be
GREATLY appreciated. i'm lost and frustrated.
situation: engine doesn't want to idle well, especially after decelarating
from high rpm's, especially after driving, then it just wants to stall out.
idle is rough, alomst sounds like a cylinder isn't firing (they all are),
and the engine is visibly shaking (but not super bad, but noticeable to me)
at idle. runs good when first starting it and the choke is closed, but when
off the choke, it runs like crap.
I DID NOT BUILD THE ENGINE, so i am not sure what's going on inside, but
from a couple tests i have ruled out that the cam is engaged in the wrong
tooth on the crank gear. engine has about 125 miles on it, gets minimal
use, and has been sitting for about 2 years, but preventative measures were
taken before storage. the heads are NEW brazilian, so i have ruled out a
burned valve.
here's the specifics of the engine in it's current status: new bosch blue
coil, terminal 1 to terminal 15 resistance is 3.5ohm (within spec); new
bosch w145t1.1 (w8ac) plugs at 0,7mm gap (i removed the platinums); rotor
resistance 2K ohms (good); coil wire resistance 0 ohms; all other spark
plug wire resistance (through the end terminals with a 1K resistance
rating) are at 1K ohms and a nice blue spark jumps from the ends of the
wires to ground if pulled of a plug when running, and engine makes the
noticeable sputter when wire is removed when running and then picks up when
re-attached (so i know the cylinder is firing); distributor cap resistance
for plug wires is 0 ohms, for the coil wire is 30 ohm WHICH SEEMS HIGH TO
ME, but i narrowed the resistance down to the wire between the copper plug
in for the coil wire and the graphite (?) thing that rides on the rotor;
there is a governor which has been gutted and sealed--just there for looks;
WW rebuilt (disassembled and THOROUGHLY CLEANED AND CHECKED by me) 30
PICT-1 carb with the following-- 55g idle jet (NOT electrical type), 125z
air correction jet, 120 main jet, choke operational and closes to second
tooth when cold, accelerator pump has good squirting and is going down the
hole properly, all passages clear and functioning-blown with compressed
air, accelerator pump ball bearing free moving; single vacuum distributor
p/n 131 905 205 (bosch 0 231 137 011) single vacuum (only) advance which
holds vacuum (it's nos), .40mm point gap, timed to 7.5 BTDC, all new bosch
parts--points, condenser (checked for ground out--it's not), cap, rotor,
vacuum line to carb is clean and not blocked; valves adjusted and checked
again--setting .15mm; freshly changed 30w oil-castrol; 12v; generator;
factory vw cyclone air cleaner; fuel pump works and pumps a good quantity
of gas per stroke; NO detectable vacuum leaks anywhere, and no backfiring.
plugs did appear a little black after running for about 15 minutes, but not
enough to cause alarm, and there is no real soot coming out of the exhaust
(later i held up a white towel to the tailpipe for about 10 minutes--came
away clean), and the exhaust does not smell overly rich/gassy.
here's the kicker--the compression: #1 175; #2 175; #3 185; #4 180. now my
compression gauge is reading about 15 pounds when released, but even if
15lbs is deducted from those numbers, it's still awfully high to me. i'm at
sea level.
i replaced the intake mainfold gaskets to eliminate the possibility of a
vacuum leak. no leak was detected before replacement, but it was a thought
that there could be one anyway.
i used a different carb which was rebuilt by WW, but it ran worse after
that one was installed, so the original WW rebuild was re-installed.
tried an 009 with points, to eliminate a vacuum leak at the distributor, NO
CHANGE.
the following are things i took off MY engine which runs great, just to
check things out:
tried a different 009 with pertronix, no change. tried my 30-PICT-1 carb
with AND without the vacuum distributor, NO CHANGE. tried my coil, NO
CHANGE. so basically i took known good and functioning parts off a driver
engine to eliminate any possibilities of individual component failure, but
still NO CHANGE it it's running crappy, even with my known good parts.
originally the first 30-PICT-1 on the engine was rebuilt by WW. i
disassembled it completely to clean all passages and to make sure nothing
was gummed up, nothing was. i replaced the accelerator pump and the top
gasket, that's it. i used a different carb which was rebuilt by WW, but it
ran worse after that one was installed, so the original WW rebuild was
re-installed. i DID change the 115 main jet to a 120 late this afternoon,
but no change was noticed.
i even ghanged the GASOLINE in the tank, as it had been sitting a while
with fuel extender in it, but NO noticeable CHANGE.
so my dilemma is what to check next. i feel like i've checked everything 3
times or more and changed enough things in enough combinations (without any
change) to eliminate it being a coil, distributor, fuel pump, carb, or
vacuum leak problem. i spent the better part of the last 2 days screwing
with it, and i'm frustrated and i feel like i may be overlooking the
completely obvious. it's nothing like the fuel filter, because i changed
it. is the compression too high for it to run right? that is my only
thought, and i don't think the coil wire resistance in the distributor cap
is enough to make it have this kind of trouble. i thought that too high
compression would show up as pinging or detonation, but none has been
detected. i am frustrated, don't know what else to check, and tired of
replacing and changing parts that aren't bad, and having no change in the
overall crappy performance.
any suggestions? please help. t
thanks, 
jon







