From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 7 Feb 2002 00:26:14 EST
To: kurtlundquist(-at-)hotmail.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Hello, new bus owner

In a message dated 2/6/02 4:17:01 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
kurtlundquist(-at-)hotmail.com writes:

<< 
 My current problem is that the bus wont start.  (It will push start fine).  
 When I turn the key over the engine does a sluggish half attempt at 
 starting.  Battery is fully charged and the cables are all good (I've tested 
 the voltage from the battery to the solenoid and that looked great).  I 
 hooked a jumper up to bypass the solenoid (err a screwdriver ;) and the 
 starter whirred to life.  I've taken the starter out (not as easy as I 
 thought it would be) and here is where I'm at.
 
 The PO said the old starter (6 volt) died (didn't explain much)and so he 
 went out and bought a 12 volt starter (the bus has been converted to 12 volt 
 but I can't tell how thorough of a job was done [wipers go so fast they must 
 still be 6 volt + speedometer dosen't work but I'm not sure if that would be 
 effected]).  I'm 99% positive that the flywheel is still the smaller 6volt 
 size but the PO said the rebuilt 12v starter he bought was designed for a 6v 
 flywheel.  Have any of you heard of this?  I've heard that a bushing needs 
 to be changed in the tranny for this to work.  My current thinking is to try 
 a new solenoid on the supposedly "new" rebuilt 12v starter.  Sorry if my 
 questions seem a bit stuipid, I'm very new with busses and automechanics in 
 general.  I have a Bently and the Idiots guide but I was wondering if any of 
 ya'll know of a hint or trick I'm missing before I go waste my $. >>

if it starts by crossing the starter terminals, sounds like the starter is 
fine.  what you probably have is a six volt start with a 12V solenoid.  the 
solenoid is the smaller cylinder.   it you clean off the dirt you should find 
markings stamped into the pieces.   That set up is fine.  if the teeth didn't 
match, you would hear it - sounds horrible.

I suspect your wiring connections.  you have an old bus, and it really helps 
to go and clean up all the connections.  I'd throw the starter back in, make 
sure the starter wires and clean and snugly attached, clean up the positive 
and ground on the battery (use that dielectric grease, i have only found at 
in a little plastic pouch called 'bulb grease')  leave the ground strap off, 
and clean up the fuse box, removing one wire at a time, scruff with fine 
sandpapper, apply dielectric grease, replace.  especially the big red wires- 
those power the starter.  okay, do the big red wires on your wiper switch as 
well.   might as well clean up all your turn signals/taillight connections, 
and where the bulbs go in too, and make sure the taillights have a separate 
ground.   It can really brighten up dull lights- especially in this NW 
humidity.  clean up where the group bolts to the body nice and shiny, conent 
that too.

if after all that it still has problems starting, cuss some.   Usually it 
fixes the problem, but not 100% of the time.  once in a while the big red 
wires running front to back (one running front, another coming back from the 
ig switch to the starter) are old and have corrosion inside them.  That is, 
unfortunately, the case with my 65 westy, so I am not sure if I'll run 
another wire underneath, or add a voltage increaser booster thing in the 
back.  I know Veewee111 hates those, but I cleaned everything , sometimes 
more than once, and sometimes it just don't start.   In fact, it seemed to 
start less and less with the key.
