From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 7 Feb 2002 01:16:03 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 2Re: [VB] Hello, new bus owner

In a message dated 2/6/02 4:34:47 PM Pacific Standard Time, VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com 
writes:

<<  went out and bought a 12 volt starter (the bus has been converted to 12 
 > volt but I can't tell how thorough of a job was done [wipers go so fast 
 > they must still be 6 volt + speedometer dosen't work but I'm not sure if 
 > that would be effected]).  
  >>
no, the speedo is purely mechanical.  The cable goes from the speedo (feel 
under the speedo there) down through the dash tray, angles forward through 
the kick panel, down through the floor, under the bus, back tracks to the 
rear, and goes through the spindle, and pokes out of the dust cap on the 
drivers wheel.  if you have a hubcap on that wheel, take it off.  the dust 
cap is the smaller cap over the center of the drum- keeps the grit out of the 
wheel bearings.  it should have a small square hole in it with the square end 
of the speedo cable peeking out, and a cotter pin or circlip on it keeping 
the end from going back inside the dust cap.  

one thing that could've happened is the end fell into the dust cap- pull the 
cap off with a claw hammer, pull the cable out a bit, spin the end of the 
cable with you hand fast- the speedo should register while it is spinning, 
put the cap on carefully so the end sticks through it, clip or pin the cable 
end.  

second, if the square hole turned circular  the cable does not spin as the 
wheel does, get a replacement dust cap

or cable could be broken, replace cable.  before removing cable, undo end 
from under speedo, hold one end and spin other- if it you can feel it spin 
with the other hand, you cable is fine.  can be a pain to replace cables if 
they are suck, meant to be pulled up out of dash tray,  can be stuck at 
spindle.

yes the wipers should not run too fast.  get a voltage drop.  when you feel 
happy about it, remove the wiper motor and regrease the gears and the moving 
parts of the linkage. it will be so much quieter  and smoother afterwards.   
I am thinking I really need to do that to my 61.  The wiper motor is kind of 
loud.
