From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "Richard Palmer" <rapalmer(-at-)unity.ncsu.edu>
Cc: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 6 Mar 2002 14:40:11 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] Bugpack & spark plugs

i'm not really sure what you are "complaining" about and what you are
trying to accomplish, other than having to re-gap plugs. poor gas mileage?
sluggy performance?
anyway, platinum plugs have a very small area where the spark originates
from, and they tend to foul out due to (usually) short trips where they
can't burn off the deposits properly by reaching self cleaning temps (400
degrees celcius). they are designed more for fuel injected vehicles with
more control over fuel delivery than a carb can deliver. and if your bus
runs rich to begin with, you're just asking for trouble. i have experienced
this (ran platinums for about 3 weeks before i couldn't stand it anymore)
and i have seen this time and time again. crappy performance, bad running,
sometimes won't even start. put in BOSCH copper cores, problem goes away.
i can't say about the supposed 2 and 4 electrode platinums, but i don't
think they make them in "bug" 1600 sizes anyway.
i'm also not sure about .05" either. sounds way too large to me. according
to a conversion website, that's 1.27mm. i'd be  amazed if it even runs with
a gap that large. maybe .05mm? i do mine with a BOSCH spark plug gapping
tool, in metric, and am usually setting at .6mm in "winter", .7mm in warmer
weather. i also run GERMAN BOSCH ONLY, usually n.o.s. W175-T1 (w7ac
currently--bus plugs, a bit "colder" (?) to pull heat into the head more),
and many old timers have told me about NGK running too hot and burning
holes in pistons. oh yeah, BOSCH plugs are gapped at the factory and the
specs listed on the side of the box.
who has provided the gap specs? the Jacob's people? haven't seen that
particular set-up, but does it replace the coil somehow? you did list a
coil, so i don't know. what does the Jacob's thing do?
so, what are you trying to accomplish/fix? what NGK's are you running? i
personally don't think plugs will increase power much if any. i think
that's more up to engine specs, wear, condition, compression, wire
resistance, etc. have you checked these things as well? same for
mileage-plugs may help a little, but they aren't a device that magically
changes mpg.




> [Original Message]
> Hi. I've been getting the camper ready for spring travel & show season,
and thought I'd tap into the list wisdom on spark plugs. I'm running a 1600
single port, 009, 30/31 carb, and a pertronix ignitor w/ high output coil,
and also the Jacob's Bugpak electronic ignition module. It says to use
copper core plugs, gap to (I think) .05", and then experiment with the gap
to optimize. I'm using NGK copper core plugs, and must have regapped the
plugs 10 times after installing the darn thing, and never really got any
kind of super optimum situation. I would run through a tank of gas, figure
out the mileage, and then re-gap. 
>   Anyway, as I get ready to put in new plugs, just wondering what other
volks were doing in a similar situation. Any tips, hints, etc, besides lots
of re-gapping? Why again must we use the copper plugs? I got tired of
redoing the plugs time after time, especially the #1 & 3...and I never
really found that super power or mileage increase they promised.
> Anyway, just wondering...


