From: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>
To: Thom Fitzpatrick <thom(-at-)calweb.com>
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 7 Mar 2002 15:49:48 -0500 
Subject: RE: [VB] Various MC notes for conversion to bay unit


Thom is right on target, and is right that even with the early single pot
944 setup (not the 4 pot Turbo units) that it is probably overkill...  But I
have not run the numbers on how much a 944 weighs versus what a loaded westi
does either?  Might be remarkably similar in weight for all I know...

Plus this kit is remarkably easy to install and I happened to have a set of
15"x6" Fuchs laying around the house and so on the story goes :)  Too much
free time and all that as well.

In the future, as the family grows, I will add some sort of trailer as well
and designed a braking system that can facilitate that extra weight.
Thinking a custom Westi inspired teardrop or if I am lazy a Scamp or vintage
Eriba Puck...  Now that Ellis "sold out" my inspiration partly gone for the
Eriba setup :( 

Also the wife wants to learn how to drive the split for long camping trips
and she needs all the help she can get coming from plush easy to use power
brakes.

One day for giggles I would like to auto-x the bus.  No kidding.  BUT there
is loads of work to be done before that would ever happen.  For instance the
swing axles would need serious attention or an IRS conversion.  Plus the
need for Bilstein shocks combined with tight anti-sway bars for the front
and rear.  Definitely the 2.0L T4 motor installed.  Mebbe even an extra set
of low profile tires and wheels as opposed to the sloppy 215/75s I plan for
the street.  Thinking with the IRS conversion I could use 944 CVs and axles
which would be kind of trick and super heavy duty...  Talk to me in about
two years :)

Just so no one is having a heart attack out there everything I do and plan
to do is 100% undoable in case I want to go back stock at any time.



Adrian Pillow wrote:
> The final plan entails the addition of early Porsche 944 front disc brakes
> to my '66.  The calipers are the easiest to rebuild and use that I have
> ever seen!  The rotors are massive at 11+ some odd inches (same rotors on
> the 911) and should provide enough grip to embarrass some SUVs.   Please

Thom writ:

>Ah yes - the most common brake fallacy - "bigger is always better"

>Bigger *is* better, to a point, but beyond that you're just in it
>for the hardware.  You can put Big Reds on there, but if you don't 
>have the tires hold it, you're 'braking' in the wind.  

>If you can lock the wheels with stock brakes and tires, bigger brakes
>won't help.  That is, unless you'e tracking your bus!

>Thom
