Date: Mon, 22 Jul 2002 16:11:29 -0700
To: giles clement <gilesclement(-at-)yahoo.com>,
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] living in a VW

At 06:14 PM 7/19/2002, giles clement wrote:
>Just out of curiosity has anyone out there tried
>living in a Bus for an extended period of time?

I did it for a month while traveling cross-country.  It was a lot of fun!

>I just
>got transfered to Cali by my company and rather than
>pay the exorbitant rents out here I decided to buy and
>live out of a bus. Thinking I'd kill two birds with
>one dollar so to speak ie combine transport with
>housing.

I strongly considered doing the same when I went from Cali to Dallas, 
because I wanted to buy a house but needed some time to find the right 
neighborhood and get a feel for the market.  In the end I found an 
apartment complex with a 3-month lease and stayed there instead, but the 
main reason I did that was because I had my entire household coming in a 
truck and needed somewhere to put it.  Without that constraint I would have 
probably stayed in the bus for a while.

A few suggestions:

Where to park - IMO find a cheap campground and stay there.  It will give 
you a home base that is safe, and you will have electrical service, shower 
and other essentials.  If you look around you should be able to find one in 
an outlying area that has long-term rates.  I'm not talking about a 
KOA-type place which will be too expensive, rather a mom&pop place where 
you may have some room to negotiate.  I would think you could find 
something for under $10/day if you looked, which would be half the price of 
the cheapest apartment you could find, maybe less.  If that is too much, 
there are lots of places near the beach where you can stay overnight 
without too much trouble.  My favorite one is in Mission bay, a small 
parking lot and public beach next to a resort (can't remember the 
name).  There are always a few campers in the lot and I've never been 
hassled.  There is also a bathroom with cold shower, which is okay on all 
but the coolest mornings.  It's 100% free!

Phone/Internet - Sprint has a "Wireless Web Connection Kit" for most of 
their phones now.  The price has come down from nearly $100 to $40 now and 
the software is now Windows 2k compatable.  I recently bought this kit and 
I can connect reliably at 14.4k.  Granted it's slow but it is okay for 
e-mail and with loads of free night/weekend minutes, I can stay connected 
for hours if I need to.  The coverage is also improving and I have to say 
that the freedom is addicting.  I can't wait for the day that 
high-bandwidth connectivity is available through cellphones.  In any case, 
phone and internet access are now possible from an isolated VW van parked 
at the beach in San Diego or LA if you desire.

Showers - I must have one per day to really feel good.  If you are not 
staying at a campground, the beach is the best place to get a free 
shower.  In a pinch, you can sneak into a hospital or walk in the front 
gates of a KOA with your towel in a backpack.  Many truck stops have 
showers available for a few bucks if you're on the road.  A fitness club 
is, as someone else already mentioned, a great idea too.

Food - unless you are *really* on a budget, don't bother with cooking in 
your bus.  It's messy and time consuming and won't save you a whole lot of 
money anyway.  I like to keep fresh fruit in the bus for snacks, 
particularly grapes - no candy bar has the appeal of cold, sweet seedless 
grapes.  My fridge is usually only stocked with drinks and fruit, which 
takes care of breakfast and snacks.  Lunch and dinner can be had for under 
$10/day via the value menus at many fast food places.  Taco Bell bean 
burritos are fairly healthy, dirt cheap and taste pretty good with fire 
sauce.  Many places have 99-cent side salads that are healthy and 
tasty.  Wendys Chili is good too.  For burgers, 99-cent Jumbo Jacks get my 
vote.  Good sized and include lettuce and tomato.  Just buy the food and 
drink your own drinks.

Privacy - Get a good set of curtains that are easy to put up and take 
down.  You will be doing this at least twice per day and if you can't do it 
quickly it will get aggravating.

-David
-David

