From: "Jonathan Crawford" <servious(-at-)servious.org>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "'Jamie Rivers'" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
Date: Mon, 22 Jul 2002 19:03:57 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] brake booster

Jamie,

	If the brake booster is filling with brake fluid you have seals
that are shot in the master cylinder. Each time you are pressing down
the brakes fluid is leaking around the seals and making its way into the
booster itself. I've seen this happen on my parent's volvo and my
mercedes every time the MC failed except once, so I would say it is
fairly common way of failure. Replacing the master cylinder should solve
this problem but, since the person said he never had to add fluid, this
is probably not the case. The only way I could see water getting into
the booster is through the vent line, which might be caused by going
through a big puddle. I'd say check the location of the vent line and
see if it is possible for water to be entering it. These are the only
two ways I could see fluid getting into the booster.

Jonathan

-----Original Message-----
From: Jamie Rivers [mailto:jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net] 
Sent: Monday, July 22, 2002 6:14 PM
To: type2 List
Subject: [T2] brake booster


question is:

What would make a power brake system fill the booster with fluid, and
pull the pedal to the floor on it's own?


This bus has a history ... the first time this happened the [say
original, who knows] booster and master cylinder were replaced with a
rebuilt one... worked for about 2 years , it repeated itself.

Booster fills with fluid [I thought it was brake fluid, in fact I am
sure it is brake fluid] 
Brake pedal pulls itself to the floor when the engine is running

That rebuilt booster and master was replaced with a "fresh off a
scrapped bus with working brakes" known good used master and booster,,
this situation worked for about a year

Now, 1 year later , that used booster is full of fluid , and sucks the
pedal to the floor.

Each time, the "customer" complains that he never had to ever add fluid
to the reservoir, even though about 2 liters spill out of the booster

Vac check valve seems to work when tested
The inside of the rebuilt booster was full of rust,,, leading me to
believe the fluid was actually water... or mostly water,, 
could the vent be sucking in water?

so:
??? All of them have deteriorated so they leak enough fluid past the
master into the booster?

Could this fluid come from somewhere else?

What do you think causes this???




