From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 22 Jul 2002 19:52:44 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] painting question

> I'm the first to admit that I over engineer just about everything I do.
> I suppose I'm one of those masochists that consider "anal retentive" a
> badge of honor.
>
> Here's to you!
>
> Bob Bueling
> Port Hueneme, CA
>
Thanks, Bob..
   This is a great list and I'm really benefitting from it and learning a
lot, thanks to you all. The VW is something worth conserving and celebrating
and it's neet that there is a list like this one. I only wish I'd have
joined sooner. Hope I'm not irritating anyone, because I ask too many
questions, but it's hard not too, because I know there's a ton of experience
here on this list. I was never really this deep into the VWs as I would like
to have been. For fifteen years, I did very little with them at all, working
and doing other things, preferring to drive and fix an old Ford F250, but I
kept my '71 VW transporter and '67 VW sedan. I always figured to get back
into them, and now that I'm at least retired for awhile, they've suddenly
become a big focal point of interest. I am frankly a little bit shocked to
look around and see as few of them as I do now. At one time, I remember
being able to see an average of one out of four vehicles on the Los Angeles
roads to be a VW sedan.
  Well, as far as being retentively inclined, it's the process that is so
tantalizing to many, I think. If that seems retentive to some more
superficial folks, well, people speak and hear different languages, you
know? The useful results gained are a validation of the process and a
valuable reward to be sure. Excellence is the eventual fruit of diligence.
But real dreamers have to be willing to brave a lot of embarrassment and
failure before and if they indeed realize their goal. For them, there must
be an intrinsic reward in the process itself.
  In so many cases the end users of a well-designed and well-worked item or
device never get the joy out of it that the engineer and maker did. The
users seemingly seldom can understand and appreciate it on the same level.
In a larger way (that they may be forever incapable of grasping), they are
deprived of a sense of meaning and purpose, or fullness in life. On the
other hand, people who get deep into the challenge and the process are very
misunderstood by the general public, often ridiculed and intentionally
thwarted or unduly punished for their failures and difficulties. Well, that
is what I see, anyway. Crazy world. Jan B


