From: "Rich Van Baalen" <rvanbaa1(-at-)tampabay.rr.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 14 Dec 2002 22:37:04 -0500
Subject: RE: [VB] Towing a splitty with folding / quick disconnect 

Steve:
We have a 1979 Winnebago Class A that momma and I kick around with on the
weekends.  I have often contimplated the same thing (hooking up the bus as a
toad) with the '67.  We have a J**p Wrangler that we tow all the time and I
thought it might be cool to hook the bus to the back of the RV and head out
to shows every once in a while.  In the end I rationalized the best solution
would be to get a trailer.

Here is where my thoughts have taken me:
a) runing a tow bar.  The only place to safely hook the bar on the bus would
be to have it wrap around the front axle.  This would mean that the tow bar
would have a heck of a time clearing the front bumper from what I can see.
Another thing; although the transmission could be placed in nuetral and not
effect the transmission, I would be concerned that the sway/drift to the
left and right might be a problem because the bus is so light.  They sell
light kits (Ive seen them at Camping World) that you can stick; they have a
magnetic base; on the roof of the bus or in the back window.  They plug
directly into a standard trailer electrical connection.
b) tow dolly.  Because the front wheels are in the dolly the entire front
end of the bus is raised.  Keep in mind that when the front is raised, the
back becomes lowered.  Given the fact that the engine is in the rear, I am
afraid that the lowered back end combined with the weight would cause the
back to bottom out (scraping the engine/exhaust) too easily.
c) trailer.  Although I have not done this (I have no place to store a
trailer and my wife would hurt me if I brought another toy home <g>), this
is probably your best bet to tow a bus.  Because the bus is relatively light
you dont need a super heavy duty trailer.  The combined weight of the
trailer and the bus will probably not be a problem (as a point of reference
the Wrangler weighs around 3300lbs; BTW we dont have the brake systems
linked together and have not had problems stopping on the road) if you are
worried about the RV pulling it, although your gas mileage will drop by
about 3-4MPG.  Granted you will loose the 'quick disconnect' luxury you have
with a dolly and then there is always the question of where you are going to
stash the trailer when you are at Camp Grounds, BUT you know that quirks of
pulling a 35 year-old bus are not going to be an issue.

Please dont throw me off the list for saying this, but if you REALLY need
the quick disconnect that a tow bar provides (which I can definitly see for
full-timing), you might want to forget restoring the Westy and look for
another (non VW) toad.

One more thing (before the vultures decend upon me for suggesting that
somebody should not have a bus);  there are a couple of list server groups
you might want to tap into.  I subscribe to both and have gotten some good
stuff from both lists:
Classic RVS(classicrv thru yahoogroups); alot of good break/fix discussion
stuff for older RVS there
RV Talk (sponsored thru http://www.rvclub.com/); a bit chatty but good
technical stuff from mainly full-timers

--Rich
