Date: Sun, 15 Dec 2002 00:30:50 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Towing a splitty with folding / quick disconnect setup

>From: "Stephen Gutknecht (vintagebus)" <IML-vintagebus(-at-)i405.com>
>Date: Sat, 14 Dec 2002 15:19:46 -0800
>
>The brakes might also be an issue, especially if we load up the Westy.
>Anyone have experience linking the brakes?  Is it even possible on a
>splitty?

The two kinds of trailer brakes I have seen are electric and hydraulic.
Big rigs use air brakes but I've never been up close to see exactly
how those work.

Electric brakes use a drum brake setup, but with solenoids instead of
wheel cylinders.  There is a controller in the tow vehicle that senses
brake application (brake light wire) and deceleration of the tow vehicle
and sends a pulsing signal to the trailer brakes to vary the braking
effort.  These usually also have a small auxiliary battery on the trailer
with a breakaway switch, so if the trailer comes uncoupled from the tow
vehicle, the trailer brakes are applied fully by the auxiliary battery.

The hydraulic trailer brakes I have seen use normal brakes and wheel
cylinders and a master cylinder mounted on the trailer tongue.  It is
arranged so that as the tow vehicle slows, some of the trailer's momentum
is transferred to the master cylinder pushrod, applying the brakes.

It would probably be impractical to fit electric brakes to the Westy.
As far as I can tell, you'd need to replace the wheel cylinders on at
least one axle with solenoids when you wanted to tow, and then put the
wheel cylinders back when you wanted to drive the Westy.  Connecting a
master cylinder on the tow bar to the Westy's brakes is probably more
practical, but would require that you bleed the brakes every time you
hook and unhook the Westy from the Bluebird.

As has been mentioned, if the Bluebird is heavy enough, you may not need
to care about brakes on the Westy at all.  On the other hand, state law
may require some kind of braking on a towed vehicle.

>I figured I could link the tail lights and brake lights pretty easily
>myself with available kits.

If I was going to tow a Bus once, I would buy some 4-wire 14 gauge flat
cable and run it from the tow bar all the way to the back of the Bus,
zip-tieing it to the bottom of the Bus, clear of moving parts.  Then,
run the wire up into the engine compartment, disconnect the VW wires from
the tail lights, and plug on the new wires.  This is simple and ensures
that only the rear lights on the Bus are powered by the tow vehicle.

For a slightly more elegant setup, more suitable for repeated towing, you
could tap into the stock VW wiring up front.  What I would do is to buy
one 4-conductor male plug and two 4-conductor female plugs.  The
standard-ish "4 flat" trailer connector would work fine here.  I would
wire the male plug to the tail light wire (58) from the fuse box, the
black/purple (R) and black/yellow (L) wires from the rear lights, and
ground.  I would wire one of the female plugs to the tail light wire from
the headlight switch, the R and L wires from the turn signal switch, and
leave the ground connection open.  With these two plugs connected, the
Westy is in the stock configuration, suitable for driving.  The second
female plug would have four long wires going out the bottom of the Bus
and up the tow bar, to the appropriate connector to match the Bluebird.
When the male plug is plugged into this female plug, the rear lights on
the Westy are disconnected from the VW wiring and plugged into the
Bluebird.  You could either remove this second plug/harness from the
Westy when it isn't being towed, or coil it up and stow it on the Bus.

The main considerations on the Bluebird side are the tail light
configuration and the flasher capacity.  If the Bluebird has all-red
stop/turn lights like a Bus -- the same filament is used for stop and
turn -- then you can wire the Bus lights in parallel.  If the Bluebird
has red stop lights and orange turn lights, then you need a "tail light
converter" for $10 from any car parts store.  The converter turns the
three wires (R-turn, L-turn, stop) into two wires (R-stop+turn,
L-stop+turn).  It probably already has a "heavy duty" turn signal flasher,
especially if it's already set up for towing, but if not you may need to
replace the standard flasher with one.  These are $5 or less.

The Bluebird is 12 volt, right?  Also, no matter what you do for the
lighting, *run a ground wire* between the Bluebird and the Bus and/or
trailer.  Many people simply assume that the towed-vehicle lights will
ground through the hitch ball.  You can tell these people out on the
highway because their towed-vehicle lights are dim and flicker whenever
they hit a bump.

>I know we could tow a flatbed to carry the westy, but that somewhat
>defeats our desire to be able to "cut the extra length off" when we
>want.

There are some folding trailers that might help the trailer-stowage
problem.  If you do get a trailer, a tongue jack and a winch (even a
simple hand-cranked one) will save you a lot of hassles.

>All feedback, suggestions appreciated.

Some random stuff - If you tow the Westy on its wheels, make sure it is
in Neutral and staying there (tie up the gearshift?)  If it slips into
4th it may not be so bad, but if it slips into 1st while you're on the
highway it will cost you a transmission and maybe an engine.  I think
the standard recommendation is to leave the Westy's steering wheel
unlocked so it can "follow" you around curves.  Some states require (or
at least used to require) a "VEHICLE IN TOW" sign in the back window;
a piece of posterboard and a marker is easy enough.  I think most all
states will require a valid tag on the Westy if it's being towed with
its wheels on the ground.

Maybe you could get a roof rack for the Bluebird and park the Bus up
there (watch out for bridges).  Or, maybe, add a back door that folds
down into a ramp so you can park the Westy inside a' la KITT.  :)

Good luck!

Matt Roberds
