Date: Thu, 22 Jun 2006 23:06:51 -0400
From: Will Anderson <wha(-at-)alumni.princeton.edu>
To: phil cain <bearsvw2000(-at-)yahoo.com>, 1970_VW_Westy
Subject: Re: [T2] SOS from Jackson WY westbound

Phil, Zach, Jim, t2 listees--

thanks for the input concerning my valvetrain issues and mushroomed 
valve stem.  I got a few critical used parts (more stock rockers) from 
Don a mechanic and bug enthusiast in Idaho Falls (100 miles from 
Jackson) who responded to my thesamba SOS and then on his recommendation 
260 miles later I hooked up with the local bug hotrodder in Boise, where 
I am now, all fixed up (I think).  One of those guys who was 
exceptionally generous perhaps because of my traveling predicament and 
the karmic wheel.  His name is Kona--he's going to Hawaii for 3 weeks 
tomorrow, and his wife was on his case for spending the afternoon 
helping me out with his shop, parts, and expertise (idahovwparts, web 
site under construction). . . I'm more-or-less roadworthy again now and 
it feels good, even though this trip I missed a few days of kayaking 
opportunities in beautiful Idaho, but I digress. . .

the chronic failure of rocker assy's problem was made much much worse by 
a batch of inferior adjustment screws (I used 10 spares in this debacle, 
8 were a bad batch not matched to stainless valves).  took me a while to 
figure that one out, they made a mess of silver shavings (good thing for 
full-flow filter, although I think I will need to tear everything down 
again before the next cross-country trip). changed oil and filter again 
of course.  definitely will need at least an oil pump as the shavings 
have gone through there and I have lower running oil pressure. and a few 
bronze-looking shavings in the oil, ewww.  but no chunks.

desperation fix: we removed the valve spring in situ, ground down the 
valve stem carefully with air die grinders and hand file, added a lash 
cap, and installed elephant-foot swivel adjusters on custom solid rocker 
shafts.  Seems to be holding up now.  I have about 500 miles of 
cross-country desert to Reno and then just around town until I can get 
it torn down and done right.

thanks again for the support and the forum.
Will A.
'70 Westy "Rebertha"

PS learned items:
1- beefing up one part of an engine will cause the weak link to fail, 
that's why staying stock is safer
2- heavy duty valve springs require upgrading rocker shafts, swivel 
adjusters, and/or lash caps
3- stainless valves require matching hardened adjusting screws
4- RMMW lifetime warranty parts--rot in hell
