Date: Sun, 25 Jun 2006 17:32:04 -0600
From: DurocShark <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "type2 list" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: More Tire FART Goodness! (Vredestein vs Nokian)

I would have posted this weeks ago but with my job situation and the surgery
last week (and I'm still doped up on Percocet) I never got a round-to-it.

I'm in the unique position of having driven on two different sets of correct
tires on the Guac in a short period of time. The Guac came with the Nokian
Hakkapeliitta CS tires. Beefy all-season tires (that wear nicely on dry
pavement, BTW. They made the trip to CA and back with no noticable wear.)

Then 2 weeks ago Troy calls to tell me he still has the Vredestein Steel
Transport tires that he had replaced with the Nokians. Gobs of tread left on
them, so I figured I'd get the Vreds on and save the expensive Nokians for
winter.

Both tires have reinforced sidewalls. Specs:

Nokian Hakkapeliitta CS All-Season Tires:
http://www.nokiantires.com/newsite/tires_popup.cfm?id=15
195R14
Load 106/104S
8PR

Vredestein Transport Steel Tires:
http://www.tyreland.co.nz/transport.html
185R14C8
102/100 N
8PR as well

The Nokians were so good on snow, slush, and ice it's scary. Going through
the Rockies back in May would have been a disaster if I didn't have those
tires on the Guac. Everything over 8000 feet was just a sheet of ice. The
Guac stuck to that ice like dry pavement. Crosswinds had a minimal effect on
the Guac, thanks to the tires and Koni shocks set full stiff. Just
outstanding all around.

Then I put the Vredesteins on the same steel wheels. Mounted and balanced by
WallyMart for $60 (used to be $20, but now they jack you for the "lifetime
balance" at $7.50 per tire. Bleh, I can go to a real shop for $80 for the
set.)

Steering is stiffer with the Vreds. More positive. Probably because of the
mile deep treads on the Nokians. Crosswinds have even less effect on the
Guac with the Vreds. The tires give a softer ride than the Nokians without
sacrificing the handling.

I'm sold on the Vreds for summer use and the Nokians for winter. But it
doesn't appear that the Vredestein Transport Steel tires are available in
the US. The only links I found were overseas.


-- 
Don
The Guacamole Bus
http://www.donimages.com/guac
