From: surlygirl(-at-)email.com
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 22 Apr 2003 08:39:48 +0800
Subject: Re: [VB] insurance work & hobbyist's responsibility (longish)

consensus has it that a body shop does as little work in an insurance claim as possible.  thank you all for reinforcing the little voice in my head to which i should have listened.  if there ever is a "next time" i'll be doing it differently.

fortunately the shop the shop did a really nice job in the areas that i have no skill.  they did a great job of repairing the smashed wheel well and fenders and painting the aftermarket, later raised three-hole hood.  they also had the bumper blade straightened pretty good, then had it and over-rider i supplied re-chromed.

the issues i have range from reasonable and david mayes-style picky and are all things with which that i am more competent.  the headlight and turn signal wires were cut (after i specifically asked that they not cut the wires and showed them how to disconnect the light units) but fortunately the left headlight was wired incorrectly and harness burned hours after pick-up.  now i've got a new front harness (paid for by the shop) to install.  i also need to install headlight to fender seals and the rubber seals/boots for hood trim clips.

down the road, i will replace the hood with a correct, flat four-tab hood and replace the aftermarket hood handle with another original handle.  i will replace the later model trunk seal with correct style and remove the "glue" used to affix the corners of the seal.  i will also try to repair crimping in the rolled edge of the hood seal channel.  i'll also replace the incorrect screw in bullet housing, the three bolts in the hood hinges and all of the bolts in the wheel well after i verify that the threads are not fouled.

cheers,
Rachel, Monterey CA			http://home.csumb.edu/~holl1802/pig.html
In a new car, you're just going somewhere;                                
in a Volkswagen you ARE somewhere. -Stormy Henderson's Dad
-- 
