From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: <ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com>
Cc: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 3 Aug 2002 09:17:48 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] vw pics and vwoa license

This generally pertains to educational and informative sites, but does not
allow you to reproduce works in their entirety,
> Does this mean (evil grin), if I copy  page 1 of a manual (for educational
> purposes) and link to another site with page 2 and they link to page 3,
> etc, etc, ...We can eventually reproduce the entire VW body of literature?
>
Well, who would actually do that? Would it be worth all that trouble? Unless
you derive a certain amount of glee in sending rooms full of suits into full
throttle, that is.. But, first of all, I would never directly copy anything
(as in scan for reproduction) but I would transcribe excerpts of another
text, by way of example, demonstration, and illustration, and integrate them
into my own creation of my own organization in a sparing manner (not
blatant) which would suggest that I was a reasonable person with reasonable
intent (not malicious or provocative).
There is this thing called the "test of reasonableness" that is used to
decide a lot of matters in court.. "What would any reasonable person do in a
similar situation?" Sometimes this is fairly clear to all, but it is just
one more way in which a court (judge) can exercise tremendous discretion,
maybe even wiggle room. Judges can be notoriously grouchy and devoid of
humor. They don't like their time wasted. Just keep that in mind. But
lawyers don't mind.. You can have as much of their time as you like, at a
minimum of $250 per hour.
There's a saying that I like, to the effect of: "You can do what you like,
but the payback's a b*tch". Most people don't want to be the recipient of
that kind of corporate legal interest. Don't tug on Superman's cape. If
nothing else, they'd probably succeed in getting your website pulled by your
server. Servers can stand to lose one little website and intimidate pretty
easily. If you maintain your own server, they couldn't do that end-run. At
that point, you'd likely get served some pretty formal papers.
I'm not a lawyer, nor am I trained as one (though I am considering it), so
all I can offer is opinions, and opinions are like something else that
everyone else has, or so they say.    Jan B


