Date: Tue, 26 Jun 2007 00:44:31 -0400
From: Jules <jules.herr(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Mark Reed" <TABITHAMARK(-at-)peoplepc.com>, "Type 2 List"
Subject: Re: [T2] summer trip, new cht gauge, and advice on the route

Mark,

I'd recommend starting out going straight north. Once you hit the NY
state line I'd go I-86/US17 across the southern tier to the finger
lakes. This terrain is generally flat to easy rolling hills. From
there you could follow 86/17 all the way to Binghamton, the route is
generally bus friendly, generally no grades too steep to handle. From
Binghaton I-88 to Albany, some long steep grades here but good truck
lanes and you won't be the only one using them as this is a popular
trucker route. Alternately, if you end up on the north end of the
finger lakes, US5 through Syracuse and Utica is a very viable bus
route. It follows the Mohawk river and canals and the rail lines much
of the way and is a good, mostly flat route. From Albany east is a bit
trickier as I wouldn't take my bus up I-90 across the Taconics on the
NYS Thruway or through the Berkshires on the Mass Pike, just too much
fast moving traffic on long uphill grades, you might not meet the
45mph minimum speed limit. I'd checkout US20 or US2 as good, slower
moving alternates. US 2 from Troy NY West (the Mohawk trail) to I-91
is (in my opinion) one of the more beautiful drives in the north east.
If you're up to checking out the hills of southern Vermont and a more
northern route, NY7 to VT9 east is also a great drive across the green
mountains to southern New Hampshire. Though from there though you'd
need to drive all the way down and through Boston to the Cape.

peace
jules
'71 1600 dp
troy ny

oh, if you're looking for a place to camp just over the Mass border
the Mohawk Trail State park on RT 2, east of North Adams is pretty
nice.

On 6/25/07, Mark Reed <TABITHAMARK(-at-)peoplepc.com> wrote:
> List,
> I got a new cht gauge and plan on having it hooked up for the trip.  We are
> taking a family camping vacation to Cape Cod, Mass, leaving Pittsburgh PA area
> 7-7-07, and traveling to Finger lakes region in New York to camp a night, next
> day traveling to somewhere across the Massachusetts border, to camp out a
> night, then on the third day arrive at the tip of Cape Cod MA.  Spend four
> nights there, and then make the trip back in 2 or 3 days.  Any advice on the
> best bus friendly route?  Any can't miss special points of interest along this
> route?  Anything interesting for the kids?
> I plan on printing out AIRS info to take with, but my biggest concern is
> mountains and lessening their impact if possible.....  I plan on logging cht's
> to pass that info on upon my return.  Also, this will be the maiden voyage of
> the "new camper layout", as with 4 kids and the wife, stock westy no longer
> fit...  Let me know, all, and safe travels!
> Mark
