Date: Wed, 13 Oct 2004 14:31:41 -0700
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Koni shock bulk purchase

After trying most of the Koni distributors in the US and a few in other
English speaking countries looking for the NLA front shocks (yes, I know I'm
crazy), I made some technical inquiries looking for another part number that
would be a suitable replacement with the same min/max length, eye bolt
bushing size and similar valving qualities. I did find one but read on...

While doing this I found out through talking directly with Koni that it's
possible to have a production run of 25 pairs of the front shock made up if
they are similar enough to their other 80 series shocks in current
production. The rear shock is shared with a Daimler Benz model in Europe so
it will continue to be imported to the US on an infrequent basis so no
worries there yet.

The Koni shocks have a compression setting tailored to the bus and a rebound
setting which is also tailored but is adjustable from the stock setting,
which I would call soft, another 100% in firmness to hard. Adjustment simply
requires a 180 degree twist of the top relative to the bottom and remounting
on the bus.

They are twin tube hydraulic shocks with the performance of gas shocks but
the comfort of oil shocks without the fade. They are lifetime guaranteed
(the original purchaser) and Koni can rebuild them under warranty in KY.

If you are interested in buying the last shocks your bus will ever need
pmail me and I'll use this to get the ball rolling at Koni. We need about 25
people to buy a pair of front shocks at roughly $100/shock but the more the
better. Thinking about how much I spend on gasoline I quickly got over the
sticker shock and the rears feel great so far.

I will not be collecting money from list members. Nor will you be comitting
yourself to a purchase or eternal Type 2 blacklisting. :-)

I simply need a genuine list of names to generate enough interest at the
Koni distributor I bought my rears from to place the order once Koni agrees
to production.

Are there any vendors interested in helping out with this effort? Pmail
please...

--
Richard, 1978 Westfalia CDN
http://www.ratwell.com/
Cupertino, CA
