Date: Fri, 2 Jul 2004 12:29:29 -0700 (PDT)
From: Richard Lenzmeier <dicklenznd(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Back in a bus after 30 years!

We flew out to Ohio from North Dakota six days ago, and bought (via
eBay) a 1964 white-over-green standard bus in pretty good condition.
After a brief look-see and test drive, the deal was completed, seat
belts were installed, and my 12 y/o daughter and I drove to a hotel for
a rest before setting off back to Fargo. 

I took a lot a pictures for my insurance company, then looked to see
why the shifting was so sloppy. Ah, the bushing was absent. Hey, I
remembered a metal pan of some kind in the way--also absent! Put that
on a list. Also, the oil level was nearly an inch above the full mark
and the oil looked very black, despite a receipt for an oil change 100
miles earlier. Another note made... I heeded listees' advice and put
four hose clamps on the fuel lines and fuel filter ends. I also took
the rotor off each night because ("Oh, by the way, this thing is
broken.") the right wing latch was busted off and I couldn't lock the
bus. So each night we emptied the bus, including the 45 lbs of tools
and spare parts in an extra suitcase, and parked as close to the office
as we could. Did I get up to check on it a few times? Yup, especially
the first two nights.

Next morning, after about 20 hectic miles on I77 we stopped and made a
joint decision to try side roads, and that was a much better drive.
Especially the first road we took in Ohio, which wound through small
towns, with a 45mph speed limit much of the way. I was very concerned
about the oil level, and tried not too push the engine, but it was a
Sunday and I couldn't think of a good way to do anything about it.
Stopped at an "African Safari Animal Park" near Sandusky, OH, and got
the side windows smeared with elk, buffalo, zebra and giraffe slobber.
My daughter disliked the animals sticking their heads into the bus and
jumped back to the middle of the middle seat when the buffalo got near.
We stopped in Toledo for the night, again with the rotor ritual. 

Early Monday we found a Jiffy Lube near the motel. The older manager
had owned an ACVW 20 years before, but the young kids had never seen a
VW in for an oil change. All four of them helped, which probably slowed
things down, and I had to tell them when things were, but they had so
much fun doing it that they didn't charge me! "What!-no oil filter, no
radiator?" Funny, as we drove off with fresh oil, right at the top
line, I felt a piece of mind that I've had before only after deep
meditation.

Western Ohio and eastern Indiana flew by on Hwy 20, a nice two lane
road with few semis. It was here that I first passed a motorized
vehicle on the highway, a youngster driving a moped on the shoulder of
the road. This is Amish country, and I hoped to come upon a
horse-driven cart going our way, but all were going east so I didn't
get to pass another "vehicle" that day. We stayed just east of Gary,
IN, rather foolishly in retrospect, because the next morning we got up
early to get to Six Flags north of Chicago, not thinking that we would
be in rush hour traffic on the way. Yuck. Changing lanes quickly to fit
into an short-lived hole in traffic is not an action I came to
associate as one of my bus' strong suits. I did however pass my second
vehicle of the trip, a newer minivan even. I still am counting it
though I must add that its driver was gesturing madly and talking to
himself loudly.

Six Flags was a gas, and we got a lot of thumbs up and "Like your car"
shouts in the parking lot. That tinny little horn always gets a smile
too. North and west was our route after we got pooped out at Six Flags,
and we made it through road construction to Baraboo, WI, near I94. We
had been fighting headwinds all the way, but I came to realize that the
same wind from either side is worse in a bus. We also found out what
they do with all the manure they produce in the Dairy State of
Wisconsin--they put it on their fields and plow it in just when VW
buses are driving by on hot days with their windows open!

The next day we took I94 from central WI to my other daughter's home on
the west side of Minneapolis, MN. A hot day, needed the windows open.
The number of semis going our way (all of them passing us of course),
and the incredible noise they make, made the drive unpleasant. About
ten miles from the MN state line we were commenting on the number of
semis, when my daughter offered to count them for 10 cents each. Seemed
fair, but I hadn't tought to limit it to the semis that passed us, and
not those on the other eastbound side. In that 10 miles she spotted 275
semis, including some on overpasses and at a truck stop! She had a
ball, and I was out $27.50, but I have spent more before for less
fun...

Took my daughter and her hubbie on a drive to Chuck-E-Cheese, then
turned in. We drove the last five hours to Fargo on Thursday morning,
in nice cool air, in lake country, on a quiet little-used state
highway. Very relaxing ending to our adventure, and we passed our third
motorized vehicle, an auctioneers pickup with a very high booth in the
bed. Our first tail wind of the trip definitely helped, and the noise
level was a bit less too.

We got close to 25 mpg on the trip, way better than my daily driver, a
1985 Toyota Land Cruiser gets, and it doesn't bite so bad when you just
get 7 or 8 gallons at a time. Gas prices varied 30 cents a gallon, with
Indiana and Illinois being the highest. We stopped for interesting
sights frequently, rest breaks, snacks and to just escape the noise,
but mostly so I could add to my list as I noticed things that needed to
be addressed.

Quite an adventure, a noisy and sometimes hot trip, but much more
memorable than the same trip would have been in a modern fuel-injected
speedy quiet air-conditioned Japanese sedan, don't you think? 

Now, where is that long list I made of things I need to do? I've got an
hour before I get back to normal life, maybe I get a thing or two
done...

Richard L.
Fargo, ND
