From: "ibuyvws" <ibuyvws(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 3 Jul 2004 19:49:06 -0700
Subject: new buses to the collection

Hello everyone,
It's been a while since I've posted. One of the lurkers here.
Last time I posted was around the VW Classic and was trying to get my
15-window deluxe running correctly to make the trip from Norcal to Socal.
Prior to the trip I had purchased a 66 Westy that I was trying to get shipped
in from Florida.
Well it finally arrived. But, prior to the Westy arriving another bus came
available.
Last weekend I was checking out the local online classifieds and I see an ad
for a 61 single cab, original condition, and being sold by the nephew of the
original owners who had passed away.

I contacted the current owner and set up a time to see the truck. My wife and
I went to see it and were blown away at the originality and condition of this
truck.
Needless to say we purchased the bus right away for asking price and towed it
home two days later.
The story is the original owners were sub-contractors for the Air Force
stationed in Germany. They bought the bus in early '61, shipped it home late
'61. In 1973 the started gave out and the truck was parked in their barn in
Norcal until November of 2003.
The owners passed on and the estate was settled by their nephew.  Then I
purchased the truck from him.
1961 Sealing Wax Red truck, 96K mostly documented original miles, Frankfurt
purchased bus, no rust, OG paint, interior, service manuals, keys, owners
manual, church key.
There's a few pictures now loaded on the gallery section of The Samba under
single cabs.

The second bus is more of project, but the rarity of it is why I purchased
it.
1966 US spec Westy, pop-top, walk-thru, Dove Blue, M-code for rack and tent.
This bus needs more attention as it has a funky paint job. But, it is what it
is.

The truck will make it's debut at Kelley Park next year.
By then it will be buffed out, running, new brakes, hopefully hoops and canopy
(has the m-code for it), and back to how the original owners had it.

There are still good finds out there, it's all about timing.

The best part about the single cab story was; the wife told me to buy the
truck.
People..... if your wife ever says to buy another VW, DO NOT HESITATE, just
say the usual, yes dear!!!!!

Keep on hunting.

Dave Barnes
63 15-window deluxe
61 single cab
66 westy
60 ragtop bug
