Date: Tue, 6 Jul 2004 17:05:00 -0500
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: Vintage Bus List <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: link pin replacement thoughts and tips

Well over the long weekend I finally got around to replacing the link
pins & bearings in the 66. Not a bad job, but boy was I surprised to
find the parts in the condition they were. The drivers side top pin
bearing only had half the roller pins needed. I also finally managed
to get grease in the top pass side one (now that the crud has been
cleaned out). It was easily a day job. Here are some thoughts about
this.

This project was not replacing the kingpins so all I had to do was
remove the tie rod, brake line and then unbolt the link pins. voila it
came right out. I used a gear puller to push the pins through the ends
since they didn't want to go though, and I got couldn't find my darn
rubber dead blow. Either way came off with little complaint.

To remove the bearings the bentley calles for a special tool. I don't
have said tool so I used what was around. As it turns out a 13/16"
socket from my tool set fits perfect. I used a large bolt and washer,
inserted it in the socket w/ a nut inside the socket, and used the
head of the bolt as a striking surface. Those things came out like
butter.

Ah, but Jason, sure you avoided needing the press to get them out, but
how did you get them back in the pressed fit? The old freezer method.
I just put the bearings in the freezer for a while (an hourish) then
using one of the used pins as a striking surface drove the bearings
very easily home. The sticking point of this was getting the little
buggers aligned correctly. I solved this by holding another of the
bearings under the hole (the pin was long enough to reach) and this
kept it parallel to the bore surface.

Got both sides done and all greased up. That made a huge difference in
the ride quality of the bus. What was a harsh ride now has a lot more
give in it. Also the small amount of play in the steering is now gone.
Now if I had just made it camping the weekend would have been perfect.

-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
1979 Sportsmofakia 2000cc                        www.fasterlaster.com
1966 Westfalia SO-42 "Butch"
