Date: Tue, 6 Jul 2004 23:13:35 -0700 (PDT)
From: angus_hanger <angus_hanger(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] Broken brake spring? ...

Greets all ...

Maybe someone has had this happen before ...

On my way to work this morning in 'Albie,' my '63 Crew
Cab ... I'm on the on-ramp, getting ready to get on
the freeway and there is this loud, violent, 'BAM' ...
within a split second I'm thinking the front passenger
tire has come off ... (which incidentally, I've been
in a vehicle (non-bus) that has had a tire come off)
only there isn't any horrific lurching of the vehicle
and skidding and all that ...

I gingerly pull over to the shoulder. Get out, inspect
all four sides and tires, push, pull, okay ... take a
peek underneath ... front belly plate still in place
and isn't loose, nothing I can see binding ... hmmm?

I did have the oddest sensation when I heard the
noise:
The front seemed to pull to the passenger side and it
literally felt like the front beam had 'folded back on
itself.' 

With nothing externally wrong, 
(but knowing 'something' is wrong) I beat a slow
retreat to the nearest off ramp with it happening
again, albeit at a much reduced force at 45 mph. Like
a 'bang' and a grab. I limped 'Albie' into work with
no more trouble and made the trek home late tonight on
back roads at third gear speed with no worries.

I didn't have time to get into taking the front hub
off before class tonight and I was just wondering if
anyone else had run into anything similar to what I
had described. I am guessing it's either a broken
front brake return spring or the material has come off
the shoe backing plate and is intermittently hitting
the hub. I did not notice any smoke from the hubs in
either the morning nor the evening.

The only things I've performed on Albie recently are:
Greasing (at 750 miles now ... poor roads ... good
idea)
Brake adjust (after spongie-ness)

I welcome your theories (non-conspiracy, please).
Thanks again everyone!

Cheers!

Lance
