From: Beto Pina <type2guy(-at-)verizon.net>
To: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>,<VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 7 Jul 2004 20:31:38 -0700
Subject: Re: Re: [VB] re:Vintage v Type II

>  I was wondering what the public VB opinion
> was about asking the admins to merge VB back into the T2 list. 

Hehe....sounds like premature elistualation.  Even though I still feel like a newbie after 6 years on the list, it always seems to go through these lulls every so often.  It's certain that the list has been on a steady decline over the past few years, I remember when I joined...the average was anywhere from 50 to 100 messages per day.  I'd come back after a several day trip to Jerome and be welcomed with 500 or 600 and more messages.

Yeah..thesamba.com forums have taken some of our heavy hitters, and probably will from now on.  But I feel that the vintagebus list will be around for a good while longer.  There has been a lot of new faces lately, which is good to see.  I think we need to put more effort into listees meeting up at shows and whatnot.  I've seen very little of that lately.  Some of my best friendships have been made from this list, so I am still very dear to it.

We need more VanBondo spew, Clara's trip reports, and tire threads.  Oil and scoop discussions and redux box ratio minutia.

As for my bus content:
Been slowly toiling away at the new 60 std.  Before the Classic, Ricky Fu and I pulled two all nighters to get her on the road.  During those 48 hours we managed to..
1. Install new wiring harness and all electrical doo-dads.
2. Install motor and service tranny and brakes
3. Install ALL window seals (6 popouts and door windows included)
4. Rub elbows for a few hours at Lenny's pre-Classic shindig.

All in all...I would not be driving my bus right now had it not been for Ricky's help.  As long as he accepts it, he is probably one of my best friends.  We met a few years ago due to this list.

Now it's time to finish replacing the rear brakes and work on a camper interior.  The goal is to take the family to the Mogollon Rim campout in northern AZ in early August.

Drive dem buses and write about it!

Senseless drivel ending now....

Beto
60Std
Murrieta, CA
