From: Roamingwesty(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 8 Jul 2004 03:27:56 EDT
To: VintageBus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] re:Vintage vs. Type II vs. theSamba

Thanks Beto. Same admirations here.

There are things I considered background of my world, VB list is one of them. 
I'm still lurking mostly due to me lacking technical knowledge. Even if I 
know the answer, I know the more knowledgable ones will step up to the call 
better than I could, sooner or later. As far as I can remember the non-technical 
chitchat is alloted for Fridays only. So misc. issues don't appear on our list 
too often. That's one advantage of theSamba already - whatever you want to say, 
as long as it's the right subject forum, have at it. Not to mention it's most 
attractive feature, the classifieds. If I remembered right, the forums on 
theSamba was added on later, and soon took on a life of its own. One has to 
applaud Everett for his flagship vintage VW website.

Say that everything has its life cycle and VB has seen the mature days. Then, 
the Split Bus Forum on theSamba will see the same fate one of these days, 
when all subjects are covered and one just needs to research the archive. If 
there's no new people asking the same questions, while the old heavies (like 
VanBondo) takes indefinite time-off, this is the natural curve.

On the other hand, I have to echo what Beto and Ronnie both touched on, that 
VB friends last a good long time. My guess is if you're not real hard core you 
don't stay here long, and if you do, sooner or later we'd meet on the road.

On the surface you don't see VB with speedy moves today. But still lots of 
action below. Like Clara posted 2 emails back to back, one saying a yard 
closing, and the next saying "oh so you want to know where it's at.." I like it like 
that. Aren't you happy that people can p-mail each others instead of carrying 
on some off-the-tangent conversations that you don't need to know. Yeah I know 
I could hit [delete].. while I was on another list I did that. I am glad I 
don't have to do it here.

Ricky
