Date: Thu, 27 Sep 2012 09:33:36 -0400
From: Mike <manikmike(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Type4 2.0L rebuild - aftermarket cam bolts vs oil pump issues

Hi All,

I've gotten some input via Samba, but wanted to ask you wicked smart folks here.

I'm slowly (were going on months now) rebuilding a GE case to replace
the GEX that came with my 79 Bus.

Despite the difficulty of finding a machine shop, I seem to have had
decent work done, including an align bore to the case. Getting the
rods done locally was less pleasant (should have just had Adrian do
them), but they came out beautifully.

Upon rebuild, despite my best efforts to double-check everything spec/
play wise as per both Bentley and Wilson, I did not check the
clearance of the Type4 stock oil pump with the new Webcam camshaft and
the bolts that hold the gear to it, before closing the case. Hindsight
being 20/20, I should have and that's my mistake. Still quite
frustrated that none of the rebuild threads I'd read, nor my reference
material suggest this being an issue during rebuilds, but I digress.
Webcam, while sympathetic, had little to offer in the way of advice.

So, having sealed the case, I first tried using a Dremel to shorten
the bolt ends down to the height of the nuts on the case-side of the
oil pump.  I still get just a hint of binding - which of course will
only worsen were I foolish enough to run the engine. I removed one of
the camshaft gear bolts - the heads are only a few millimeters thick,
and quite broad - here really isn't much to remove here.  I then got
my hands on a 26mm Shadek Type1 oil pump. Here, the length of the gear
drive and tab were so long, that the pump would not actually seal to
the face of the case. The diameter of the barrel that goes into the
case was also small, making it a loose fit. I now have a stock Type1
pump that looks like a good fit. Regardless, once I get that pump in,
I won't be able to easily pull it out. I'm also not sure I can live
with not pulling the case apart again and actually seeing the
appropriate clearance...

It gets weirder. I was looking at the "stock" cam  that was in the
engine a couple nights ago - I say "stock" because despite my attempts
to find an unmolested case, this one had been opened up previously.
The cam appears to be an original VW, with the riveted gear mated to
the camshaft. A close look shows very light scoring on some of the
rivet faces.... I have all the bearings that were in there, and can
recreated the arrangement...

I haven't yet pulled the pump from the GEX engine as I wasn't sure if
it would be useful - but perhaps I should to have it for comparison -
tho who knows what was slapped in there.

Now, the questions:

1) Has anyone here dealt with this aftermarket camshaft issue? How did
you overcome? Am I going to likely be stuck with having the cam gear
machined to allow some sort of inset bolt?

2) I notice the hole on the right (if facing pump side of the case) of
the Type1 oil pump is larger the hole it will mate to in the case - is
this going to cause me an issue if I use a stock Type1 pump? Should I
even bother with this "fix"?

3) Tangent - Has anyone used the Curil K-2? If so, any suggestions on
how to clean it off the case seams?

4) What am I dealing with regarding the "stock" camshaft and gear, if
the rivets were rubbing on the oil pump bolt ends... excessive end
play due to a worn thrust bearing?  What else should I be concerned
with here?


Thanks for any input; I appreciate it.  Mike



-- 
Life expectancy would grow by leaps and bounds if green vegetables
smelled as good as bacon.
