Date: Sun, 18 Nov 2001 06:13:14 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)home.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Wisdom of the elders, part 1 (Safety)

"Cars can be dangerous and deadly weapons.  They kill more people by
 accident than are shot on purpose." - Muir, page 6, 16th edition

So, I was finishing up my RGB and transmission oil change.  I had
already put the left rear wheel back on and was getting ready to
do the right rear wheel.  The right rear jack point on my Bus is
a little bent, but it's always worked for me before, so I put the
stock jack in it and started cranking it up.

The Bus rose up off the jackstand and eased forward just a hair.  No
big deal, I think.  I keep cranking on the jack.  The Bus moves a
little more forward and I start to get concerned.  I slap my left hand
up on the side of the Bus but by this time it's an object in motion and
we all know what Mr. Newton said about that, right?

It ends up sitting on the drum on the right rear, with the jack at about
a 45 degree angle.  The jack is still taking some weight, but it is
stable enough that I can put a bottle jack under the rear torsion tube
and jack it back up enough to get the wheel on.  Whew.  The temporary
effect is that my Bus is sitting about a foot and a half further forward
in the garage than it was.  The more lasting effect is that the right
rear jack point is pretty much tweaked beyond usability, now.  I am
surprised, but physically fine.

A couple of things contributed to this accident.  When I first put the
back end up on jack stands, I put blocks _behind_ the front wheels, but
*not* in _front_ of them.  Also, when I had the rear wheels off, I took
the emergency brake off so I could adjust the brakes.  I neglected to
put it back on again before I lowered the car - I should have at least
put it back on after the left tire was back on.  Finally, I used that
right rear jack point even though it was a little bit bent already.
Individually none of these things seemed very important; working
together they put my Bus on the ground.

Be careful out there.

Matt Roberds


