Date: Sun, 18 Nov 2001 06:38:14 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)home.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Wisdom of the elders, part 2 (Gear oil)

"If you wish to equip to add your own trans oil, you will need a suction
 pump about 2" in diameter with a long flex nozzle and, of course, some
 90 wt. Hypoid gear oil.  It's a spilly job so bring some rags."
 - Muir, p. 125, 16th edition

"The [transmission] refill requirement is 2.5 liters (4.4 Imp. pints, 
 5.3 U.S. pints."
"Replace the plugs, tighten them and refill each reduction gear case
 through the filler hole situated at the top with 0.25 liters (0.53 U.S.
 pints, 0.44 Imp. pints) of hypoid oil." - Volkswagen Transporter
 Workshop Manual: 1963-1967, Type 2

From the above, the math majors will notice that it takes 3 liters or
6.36 U.S. pints to refill the transmission and both reduction gear
boxes.  Since a U.S. gallon is 8 pints or 3.7 liters, one gallon
should be plenty, right?

I knew there was a reason I bought two 1-gallon bottles of GL-4 at NAPA.
I didn't have to use very much of that second gallon, probably less
than a pint, but I did have to tap into it to get the transmission all
the way full.  It is a _very_ spilly job.  I have no problem believing
that I put over a pint and a half of gear oil on the floor of the garage
trying to do this.

Also, the suction pump Muir mentions is really the right tool for
the job.  Those cheapy little pumps you get for siphoning gas (blue
bellows, small red flap valves, about 6 feet of vinyl tubing) will
*not* pump SAE 90.  I had an incredibly clever pressurized lubrication
system rigged up, until I improved it so much that it didn't work
anymore.  I finally went and bought a real suction pump and that
worked a *lot* better.  They look kind of like a grease gun, but
with a much bigger diameter hose and without the "pistol grip" handle.
The one I got cost $10 at AutoZone.

The best way I found to attack it was from the left wheel well.  I
could get a fairly straight shot into the transmission filler hole
from there.  The next time I do this, though, I am going to drape
a rag over the brake drum, to keep the gear oil that inevitably
drips from the suction pump off of and out of it.  Also, try to
keep the pump and the oil off of the rubber brake line on top of
the frame rail here.

I still count the job as a success.  I think I have less total time
invested than if I was to take the Bus to Jiffy Lube, explain about
the two drain plugs on the transmission, explain about the RGBs,
and explain about not putting GL-5 in it.  Plus now my concrete 
garage floor will never rust.  :)

Matt Roberds


