Date: Sun, 18 Nov 2001 06:54:27 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)home.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Gas shocks and gear oil and boots, oh my!

So I *finally* got done with my current Bus project: replace all 4
shocks, replace both rear axle boots, drain and refill RGBs and
transmission.  

The shocks were pretty easy.  I put on KYB GR-2s.  The old shocks were
totally worn out - I could compress them by hand and they would stay
compressed.

The axle boots were not bad, but I probably should have waited until
I had the rear wheels off.  You can do it from under the car, but if
you're also going to take the rear wheels off for something, do the
axle boots then for better access.  In case you're curious, yes, you
will get a *lot* of gear oil dripping out when you take the old boots
off.

The drain and refill was the most interesting part of the job.  I
couldn't get the fill plugs on the RGBs out without taking the tires
off and that's where I ran into that critter that's more dangerous
than the DPO...the DPTMWAAW. [0]  After I broke one unknown ratchet
on a lug bolt, I switched to the Craftsman one.  (Yes, I know a
breaker bar is the right tool for this, but the piece of pipe I have
won't fit over my breaker bar).  The right side yielded to the pipe,
but two on the left side were stuck hard.  What ended up getting them
loose was a combination of VWX-011 and VWX-050 - hammering on the
ends of the bolts (like hammering a nail) and heating up each stuck
bolt for about a minute or so.

I had previously noticed that my RGBs have two different sizes of
spring plate bolts - one side has 17mm and the other side has 19mm.
Tonight I noticed that the RGBs themselves are a little bit different.
On one, the fill and drain holes point straight up and down.  On the
other, the fill and drain holes are rotated about 30 degrees clockwise -
they are at 1 and 7 if you are standing by the Bus looking at the tire.
They are both 46 mm (big nut) boxes, and the teeth on both top gears
seem to be in good shape, but the difference was interesting.

I spent some time also scraping a caked-on layer of transmission oil
and dirt off of the transmission and engine.  In the middle of doing
this I happened to go to knock a clod of dirt off of the rear bolt
on the rear shift coupler - and behold! the bolt turned in my fingers.
The two shift coupler bolts were safety wired to one another, and the
back one was pretty loose.  I cut out the wire, took that rear bolt
down, and looked at the joint - it seemed OK otherwise.  I cleaned
it up and re-assembled it, this time safety wiring each bolt individually.
I bet this helps clear up my funky shifting (sometimes I ask for 3rd
and get 1st).

As I was finishing up I had the adventure with gravity that I just
wrote about.  But it's all back together now and I plan to take a
little drive later today to admire my handiwork.

Matt Roberds

[0] Dreaded Previous Tire Man With An Air Wrench.  

