Date: Sun, 18 Nov 2001 22:15:56 -0500 (EST)
From: Small Change <schd(-at-)pluto.njcc.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 5 things I want to share

Split Nosers,

  Well, the 61 Side Loader went for a spin today for the first time since
I got bad gas in July.  I did not let it kick my ass, and I'm glad it is
almost finished.

  I had my problems, like most of you have had.  Here are some of the
things I did in case any of you are lost in VW Hell and need help finding
your way out.

1)  For the clutch return arm spring (assuming the front pan is screwed in
and you don't want to disconnect it up front), assemble it all the way up
with the cir clip on and the return spring on the arm and pulling it back,
the only thing to do is to fight the spring on the ledge of the trans.  I
used a screw driver without the screw bit in the end and put the end of
the spring inside the screw driver and lifted it on the ledge and then
used a screw driver and hammer to push it further in.

2)  For getting the gas tank hold down on with the rubber underneath them
I first put it on without the rubber and tightened it down, then un-did it
and put the rubber in and tightened it down.

3)  For rubber around the gas tank covers (not that anyone would see them
if they didn't have a side loader), front windshield rubber fits perfectly
around them.  Soon, I'll send some pictures in of this.  I also used gas
tank locks (2 to a side) to make them lockable, and hinge
es from the Westy cabinets so they can be lowered and removed easily.

4)  I found the stuff they sell in Sam's Club (Executive Grill Cleaner)
works at least ten times better than POR-15's Marine Clean and costs 1/3
less.  This stuff is the best underside cleaner degreaser for those who
opt not to sand-blast.

5)  I did the Clara engine light in trick with the spare gas gauge wire
(don't have a gas gauge anyhow) and I'll testify it helps out a lot in the
dark where you can't read it or find the hole to put the dip-stick back
in.  And I guess I kinda looked stupid with the miners light on my head
with weak batteries anyhow.

Best,
joe
61' Side-Loader
67' Camper

