Date: Tue, 27 Jun 2006 06:05:47 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Heat / heads / hot heads / hot-air cooleds

Harumph! Scientists! Ya can't live with 'em and ya
can't live without 'em!

George is of course correct in his evaluation of my
analysis of a phenomenon I have observed over the
years: I jumped over about 99.9% of the data required
to back the statement and grabbed a couple easy quips
- and even muddied the waters further by introducing
something totally unrelated to back my claim!

I have no dynomometer and no laboratory controlled
conditions. I have a number of years of driving only
one bus with various T4 engines in it, mostly with
quite good (if incomplete) instrumentation to track
trends (loosely.)

I have never had "all the data" but I have spent lotsa
money on heads destroyed during hot weather when I was
driving too hard and running less than 92 octane
gasoline. Was the 89 octane or 87 octane gas the
reason for the failure? No.

I'll let George explain about compression ratios, hot
spots inside combustion chambers, uniform downforce on
pistons by a single flamefront versus multiple
flamefronts and all that scientific stuff: The "why"
in my flawed observations that my bus engine ran
"cooler" with 92 octane gasoline. Meanwhile, if you're
not running a pristine engine of very low compression
ratio then you could benefit by running higher octane
gasoline in hot weather.

I am not saying that you can drive like a maniac (me)
in hot weather if you use premium gas - just that if
you're not sure whether there might be some carbon
deposits in your engine, or not sure whether one of
your sparkplugs might have a build-up of deposits that
could be acting like a glowplug, not sure that all the
surfaces that meet the cooling air are perfectly
clean, not sure if the airflow is as substantial as it
should be... If you don't know for sure, then for the
few days that we have super hot weather, it might
behoove you to run premium and keep a lighter touch on
the throttle! Up here in the cooler climates we seldom
allow our engines to thoroughly warm up and we have a
higher liklihood of having build-ups of combustion
by-products inside our engines. The use of higher
octane fuel can lessen the effect these potential hot
spots can have on the longevity of our engines.
Consider that although in a perfect engine that is
designed for lower octane fuel, the heat of combustion
will be the same whether burning regular or premium
and whether the ambient temp is 100 or 40. It is the
ability of the air to draw heat away from the engine
that is the major variable, and as the engine holds
more heat, internal temps do go up, thus creating a
scenario wherein anything that isn't perfect inside
becomes a potential engine killer.

It can only get worse: On July 3rd, Earth is the
furthest from the sun it will be all year at
94,507,891 miles (give or take). In January, we'll be
almost 3 million miles closer!
-BaH

'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2)
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01
