Date: Wed, 28 Jun 2006 11:35:37 -0400
From: Bob Haufler <rehaufler(-at-)mac.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Wire harness

I have my '72 stripped for body work, I have found the wire harness tube to be
pretty much completely rusted away and the wire harness just hangs there, I
don't feel good about that.  I am also worried about the existing wire harness
working properly after I put this thing back together.

Has anyone ever replaced the wire harness, "main wire harness only," it is
called.  I see the Bus Boys lists one for the '72, which I am sure is a one
year only design, I am very tempted to purchase it.

I am sure that I could make my own wire harness, much much better than the
original, relays for all high current users, keypad for password to activate,
better connectors, indicator lights for failures, etc. etc. etc.  This would
be so easy it is silly not to do it, BUT I have a lot on my plate getting this
beast back together before I move to Toronto, I will save this for a future
project.

So, the question is, is there any reason to not buy the bus boys wire
harness?

Stream of conciousness update, highly ignorable:

I stripped the engine of all cooling tins and I am taking those to get powder
coated, along with the aluminum plenum, matt black they will all be, I am
doing the dash, belly pan, gas tank cover, shifter rod, hedlight mounting
assemblies, and whatever else I can think of.  I will take before and after
photos and put them up soon.  I organized my website a bit, have a look:
http://homepage.mac.com/rehaufler/72type2/  I had my bumpers powder coated and
they are ready now.  I had them use a powder that looked pretty close the L90D
pastel white.  The 5 rims will get the same treatment.  I am thinking that I
am going to take my heater boxes off and have them get the high temp coating
that I put on my muffler, along with the hot air tubes that connect to the
heat control valves, as well as a new set of valves as well.  I am not sure if
they can coat assemblies like that.  Drivers side body work is nearly done as
well as the doors,  That leaves the nose and the passenger side, the paint,
yippee.  I am thinking of blasting the entire wheel areas (underneath) and
smearing with a heavy coat of dynaglass on top of the phosphate treatment and
the DE-18 anti corrosion paint.  I am sure that all my rust was due to that
spot right behind the front wheel, then water going all the way back to behind
the rear wheel, rusting everything along the way from the inside out.  I have
patched and sealed those spots with heavy guage steel, and a thick layer of
dynaglass, it will never rust there again.

Bob H.
