Date: Wed, 28 Jun 2006 17:28:50 -0600
From: "Quirk, Daniel" <daniel(-at-)sugarmtn.net>
To: "Bob Haufler" <rehaufler(-at-)mac.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] Parts engine

Thanks all for the info on the pumps I will pull it off and give it the
thumb test.  If it shows any signs of life I will try it on my bus (73,
mostly stock, dual carbs) which at some point had an electric fuel pump
put in with no safety relay in the circuit.  Before I add one, I'd
rather switch back to the mechanical fuel pump.  I had a hose pop off
the fuel pump in my bug in high school - engine died and so did fuel
delivery - so no fire, but a good lessen learned.



-----Original Message-----
From: Bob Haufler [mailto:rehaufler(-at-)mac.com]
Sent: Wednesday, June 28, 2006 11:40 AM
To: Quirk, Daniel
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Parts engine

>One final question - is there only way to test the mechanical fuel pump

>other then putting it on a bus and going for it?

I have had some experiences with the '72-'74 mechanical fuel pump.  This
is the pump for carb engines.  It's task is to convey fuel from the gas
tank to the bowl(s) in the carb(s), and to not overwhelm the float valve
with over pressure which may lead to flooding the carbs.  This requires
almost no pressure at all, something like 5 psi.  It is actuated by a
shaft that rides along a cam on the crankshaft and is located near the
starter on the front (front is front) passenger side.  Muir and the
green book both say that the engine must be removed to service this
pump, but that is not true, one needs only move part of the cooling tin.

I have found these pumps to be expensive to buy new, I see them only at
Germansupply.com in Toronto currently for about $200, so hang on to it,
the old ones are valuable, at least to me.

I have found these pumps to be quite tough and easy to make work.

To test, I would just connect if to a fuel supply and actuate the thing
with my thumb.  The pressure is going to be regulated by the k of the
spring, as it does not push the fuel when actuated, rather the spring
pushes the fuel when released.  With no back pressure, it will squirt
fuel 20' of so.  It is located below the gas tank, so it will not have
to suck the fuel in, but it can anyway.  I have had two of these leak,
but that was only because the screws got loose, and they stopped leaking
when tightened.  The diaphragms are constructed of really tough stuff.

It seems that these are also good pumps to use with weber carbs.
