Date: Thu, 01 May 2003 09:17:35 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: jenandduncan(-at-)earthlink.net, type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] two annoying electrical problems.

>No
>luck. My next thought is to check the LR ground wire, thinking that the
>ground wire is some thing that the LR turn signal, brake light and,
>taillight all have in common. Beyond that I have no idea where to look.

Ground wire....

>The second problem is that the Right high beam works, but low beam doesn't.
>I put a new bulb in, same MO. I switched the bulbs, and still the right low
>beam is not working. The connection at the bulb seems ok, the wires looks
>all right from the plug to where they go behind the fuse box. I am guessing
>the next move here is to pull the fuse box and see if the low beam wire has
>slipped its connection. My first question here is that there are three
>wires to the plug brown (ground) white w/dark stripe and yellow with  dark
>stripe. whish of the latter two is the low beam? and if the wire is
>connected into the fuse box, what else should I look for?

Buy thee a test light or multimeter and test for power in the socket. Only 
then will you know the problem.

The headlights rely on two grounds. One on the inside of the left headlight 
bucket and 1 inside the right headlight bucket. Inside means inside the van.

Look for a brown wire going to a phillips screw. Remove, clean with 
sandpaper or better yet a Dremel with a wire brush on it. (Finally a use 
for my Dremel!). Clean and reassemble. Clean both of them to be sure. If 
the screw is rusty repalce it. Check the wire to ring connector at the end 
of the brown wire. Are there alot of strands broken? Replace it with a new 
crimp on connector. Buy a real crimper at Lowe's or a contractor's supply 
store. $20 for a tool that lasts a lifetime. Won't do crappy crimps like 
the multi-tool that everyone sells that strips and crimps and cuts wire and 
is 1/8" thick.

The real crimper cuts and crimps - that's all. I'm a former Navy 
electrician and hate cheesy tools. The rela crimpers usually have a handle 
(like pliers) with different colors on each side so it is easy to know 
which way to pick up the tool. The crimp goes on the side of the crimp 
connector that has the split. That is the dent goes on the split side. A 
real electrician can show you this in 1 second - same with the counter 
folks at a real electrical supply store.

Anyhow....

Also each headlight has a yellow wire and a white wire. Yellow represents 
HB and white represents LB. Or the other way around.

HB left has it's own fuse, as does HB right, LB left and LB right. If you 
are missing one beam of one light, check the fuses. Clean all with that 
Dremel and reinstall. Clean both ends of the fuses and all the fuse panel 
contact points.

If you are missing both LB or both HB then suspect the relay.

So back to the wiring. Both headlights have three wires. 1 ground, a yellow 
wire and a white wire. The ground terminates on the back of the headlight 
bucket (inside). The white wire represents either the HB or LB (I don't 
remember) and the yellow wire represents the opposite.

The yellow and white wires go from the headlight to the fuse panel. The 4 
wires (white left, white right, yellow left, yellow right) each goes 
through it's own fuse. On the top of the fuse panel (or is it the bottom?) 
the two fuses for the yellow wire join together. That means both fuses for 
the yellow wires are supplied from the same MAIN yellow wire which then 
leads to the HB/LB toggle relay. That means if the relay failed or that 
MAIN wire failed then both fuses for the yellow wires would be dead and 
both HB lights would be dead.

Same for the white wires and fuses.

If you hear the toggle relay click then the switch in the steering column 
is working but it could be that the contacts inside the relay are shot.

Imagine a "T" intersection. The vertical portion of the "T" is the power 
supply to the relay. The left end of the "T" represents the HB contact 
(which powers the yellow wire) and the right end of the "T" represents the 
LB contact and the white wire.

When you toggle the relay with the lever on the steering column you are 
causing the HB contact to close and the LB contact to open. When you pull 
the lever again the HB contact opens and the LB contact closes. Open = not 
passing power (off) and closed = passing power (on). As long as these 
contacts are not burned, rusted badly, or otherwise ruined power will flow 
down the "T" and out to through the fuses and the wiring through the bulbs 
and to the ground. Let there be light!!!!

Hope this helped. Not hard when you break it down but baffling at first 
glance.

Buy a Bentley manual as the schematics in the Haynes (my Haynes anyhow) are 
very unclear and fuzzy. Bad printing. The Bentley is pretty good (clearly 
printed) though colored would be better. Get out some kids' markers and 
color it...

Without the schematics or without some experience the wiring system is 
tough to figure out.











Chris Mills in TN
