From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'wallace.bob(-at-)btinternet.com'" <wallace.bob(-at-)btinternet.com>,
Cc: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 1 May 2003 12:16:40 -0500 
Subject: Re: [T2] Dead Battery? Intermitent Fault?  Weekend away in

	Matthew, Bob, List, et al...

	BTW - where is tatters?  Doesn't sound like a fun place to be ;-)

	Ummm - when I was converting my '72 Westy over to a dual battery
system (Optimas), I eventually stumbled across some interesting specs re
batteries, charging voltages, regulators, etc...  In a nutshell, as
batteries moved from flooded (wet) construction to more and more
maintenance-free, the charging voltage requirement increased.  Your OE
voltage regulator was designed with the lowest possible charging output to
avoid boiling the electrolyte in a wet battery.

	Hmmm...  this may explain why for years I could never get very
decent life out of m/f batteries in my various VW/Porsche products, yet they
seemed to function very well with old school wet batteries.  The more
frequently your m/f battery runs with a partial charge, the less life you'll
get out of it...  Since this was usually within the warranty period, I
didn't much care, but it gets annoying because you think there may be a
deficiency in the charging system.  And there is, yet there isn't...

	Fixing the problem requires either going back to a spec battery, or
doing something about an improved voltage regulator that is compatible with
modern battery construction.  In my case it involved using a 3-phase marine
VR with built-in charging profiles to suit the battery type, and almost
fully user tunable to each of the 3 phases.  Bus pilots running Type 4
motors who want/need/crave a little bit more "juice" would do well to
optimize the alternator you already have if it's a 55 amp unit, and forget
about upgrading to the factory 70 amp unit, UNLESS you have a complete motor
to pirate the goodies from...

	Matthew, Bob - not sure if this Type 4 nonsense applies to you, but
there was some list-talk about alternator upgrades recently...

	Jim Hayden
	'72 Westy, '73 Deluxe & a '73 914 <--- N(ot) A R(eal) V(olkswagen)
	www.savethebays.org
