Date: Thu, 1 May 2003 11:15:43 -0700
From: "David White" <dwhite(-at-)vetmed.wsu.edu>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] vacuum assist brakes--Thanks

Thanks for all of the quick responses. I'll recheck my intake set up, I'll try
to get it hooked up this weekend and I'll keep you updated on my progress.

As I have been dared to post another message, here it is. Please don't call me
too many names and let's look at this new problem as scientific exploration
(unless one of you can tell me that you have already done the experiment).
This question involves a 2 L engine with hydraulic lifters. I have checked out
the type2 index but couldn't find a way to cull down the search results enough
to get the answer I desire.

Here's the problem: 2 L hyrdaulic lifters on an engine pushing an automatic
transmission look different than lifters on an engine pushing a standard
transmission, at least in the manual they look different. I have a std 81
vanagon and the engine that came with it is not going to take me much further.
The guy down the street gave me the engine from his 81 automatic vanagon
because the transmission went out and he just wanted to get rid of the entire
vehicle.

I harvested the brain and whatnot from this vehicle and this free engine has
good compression and I would like to use it in my vanagon with the std
transmission. As you can tell I am frugal, or shall we say, cheap. I am not
expecting an engine for which I have very little history to get me very far
for very long, but I would like to consider this vehicle reliable for local
summer transportation this year.

Does anyone have any idea the damage the engine will incur if I make the swap?
In other words, will I damage the lifters, cam, or other things on the engine
that came from the automatic transmission by using it to push a standard
transmission?  If none of you have sunk to this level of boneheadedness let me
assure you that I am the perfect person for this experiment, unless you know
anyone that needs an engine for an automatic.

Thanks in advance and remember no name calling,
David
