Date: Thu, 4 Jul 2002 17:22:14 -0400 (EDT)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To: Richard <cathrich(-at-)tpg.com.au>
Subject: Re: [T2] Gauges

On Thursday, July 4, 2002, at 04:07 , Richard wrote:

> I have purchased (at least they're on there way) oil temp., oil press.,
> volts, tacho, vacuum, and fuel press. (the cyl. head temp. seemed a
> little over board to me, and over priced).
>
> My question is this, I don't want to clutter the dash up too much, so
> which gauges do I really need up the front?

Richard,

My opinion is as follows:

Oil Pressure - goes up front.  This is the most important member of the
gauge set.  If you oil pressure at idle falls below 7psi, your idiot light
will warn you in plenty of time, but by the time you get the oil hot
enough that it falls below 7 at speed (100kph/60mph), you have done
significant damage to the engine!  I *like* my oil pressure at speed to be
at least 40, start getting nervous and slowing down when it drops to 30
and pull over if it falls below 20.

Oil temp - goes up front.  This gauge is mostly a backup for the pressure
gauge.  As your oil temp rises, the pressure will fall.  If the two get
way out of synch, you have a problem but it is 90% likely it is a gauge
problem and 10% likely it is an engine problem (split oil filter will
produce very low pressure at very low temp....  *always* believe the
pressure gauge first!)

Volts - I have a combined VOM and dwell/tach meter in the tool box.  The
gen/alt idiot light is perfectly adequate to the job of telling you your
charging system is working.  There is an infinitesimal chance that the
volt meter on the dash would tell you that the VR had stuck and was
boiling out your battery from overchaging, but this has happened to me a
grand total of once in 35 years... I don't fear it as a problem.

Tach - tool box.  If you are going to race your bus, then it might be
useful so as not to overrev it, but I just don't do that.

Vacuum - goes up front!!!!  This is a case of "do what I say,"  as mine is
in the tool box, but I would *very* much like to have a dash mounted
vacuum gauge.  First, it is an excellent driving habit modifier.  Nothing
will get your foot off the gas faster than watching that needle plummet
when you floor it :-)  Second, loose vacuum hoses are the bane of the bus
owners existence.  If one of the elbows pops off, it is easy to keep
driving and overheat the engine.  A vacuum gauge would warn of this in
time to put it back on with no damage.

Fuel pressure - Tool box.  You need it, but once a year or twice at most.

Cylinder head temp - goes up front.  Yes, they are pricy, but cheaper and
easier to install one than to install a head.  "Dropped a valve" is a
phrase you will hear over and over here.  VW type4 engines are notorious
for doing this, as a matter of fact.  The phrase is shorthand for the seat
recessing into the head when the head gets too hot, however, not snapping
the head off (except in very rare cases) as will happen in a bug.
Watching the head temp will keep you from losing heads.


                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail

