Date: Fri, 05 Jul 2002 07:39:20 -0500
From: Rick Taylor <BusBarn(-at-)Prodigy.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Gauges

I know many people have already responded, but if you don't mind, I've got a
couple opinions.  I'll have to admit, I worked for VW in the 70's and have
worked on hundreds since then, but I never ran any guages until recently.
In my opinion, the oil temp and pressure are a must.  The amps or volts are
good to have for the sake of mind knowing the charging system isn't under or
over charging your battery (I have seen this happen MANY times and usually
you won't know with just the idiot light).

About the tach, back in the 70's everyone knew how to drive an aircooled
engine and we had much better gas with the lead for our engines.  These two
problems have created a bunch of complaints about dropped seats or broken
valve heads.  The tach will keep people from "lugging" their engines if they
put a small strip of tape at the 2500 mark and put the pointer or another
stip of tape on 4200.  Then a green strip at 3800.  Tell people to shift
down at the lower mark, shift up at the higher mark, but try to cruise on
the green.

No matter what anybody says, these aircooled engines need the highest octane
gas you can put in them, the lowest octane gas in the 70's kept these
engines cooler than the best stuff we can get today!!!!  Don't tell me
octane rating has nothing to do with cylinder head temps.  It might cost a
few more cents at the pumps, but you either pay it at the pump, or pay a
whole lot more at the shop.

Also, the best place to put your gauges is under the radio.  Use a hole saw
and the gauges will look like they were factory installed and very easy to
see, even the passengers can read them for you.


Original Message from Richard  7/4/02 5:07 AM

> My question is this, I don't want to clutter the dash up too much, so which
> gauges do I really need up the front? I'm thinking of putting the two oil
> gauges and the volts up the front

