Date: Thu, 18 Dec 2003 14:41:48 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Tropicalization?

Good grief, Andy!

Preparing a 1600cc Type 1 to function reliably in 50 degrees C?  Why
don't you ask the collective minds here a really HARD question instead?
(And I thought I was sweating bullets going to Mexicali, Baja California
in the summer time with mid-40 degrees C temperatures)...  To paraphrase
the old speed shop sign:  "Running reliably in hot weather driving an
air-twirler costs money.  How cool do you want to run?"

A couple of things off the top of my head, but I'm sure the Type 1 motor
gurus will chime in with their thoughts.  Make sure any and all tin and
associated seals in the engine compartment that were there the day it
left the factory, are there before you begin the journey.  It's a single
pass system - no recycling of cooling air is allowed, and make sure that
every molecule of cooling air does it's fair share of work on it's way
through...  Cooling tin is all in good shape, and you probably don't
have any of the miserable, low quality and poorly designed kewl
krome-plated aftermarket tin to deal with that floods the market over
here.  Drop the motor and pull the tin, make sure the motor itself is
physically clean of all leaf debris, mammal or bird's nests, oily
deposits, etc.  While the motor is out, give the transmission a good
exterior cleaning too, change the gear oil if you don't know
when/if/ever it's been done.  Give the motor a good freshening up, and
spend some time going over the cylinder heads to clean up casting flash
- Bob Hoover gave some excellent instructions on this in his old Sermon
files.  If the existing motor is not presently equipped with the
"doghouse" style of oil cooler that gets the oil cooler out of the flow
of air to cylinders 3&4, get it equipped thusly.  And if it is, one more
reason to pull the tin and check on it's condition and it's seals - air
and oil...  Folks over here love to leave things off the "doghouse"
style equipment, and without some the essential pieces the cooler can't
function as well as it could.  Run down any oil leaks or drips and get
them sealed - no sense in making the oil have to work harder than it
already does...  Once the motor is completely and totally up to par, in
fact don't stop with the motor, apply the same philosophy to the whole
vehicle...  Then you can give some thoughts to additional things like...

An external oil cooler - I'm betting that this will be one of the first
things that gets mentioned by others.  I like to think of them as an
adjunct to the system rather than a quick and dirty solution to cooling
problems caused by a motor in sad shape in the first place.  I'd avoid
the older "tube and fin" style, in favor of the more modern and
efficient units such as the Setrab style.  Mount it some place where it
can get some airflow over/around/through it, but not over the cooling
fan intake (an old school approach), and definitely out of the way of
road debris.  I'm more of a Type 4 motor person myself, and it's a
little bit easier to plumb an external cooler on them via the oil filter
assembly.  Unless your motor has already been fitted with an oil filter,
it's going to be a little tougher.  You may want to consider it anyway,
but pack enough spare hoses or hose material to replace ANY hose that
may fail or be damaged in service.  The hoses will be your lifeline!
Some volks don't like remote or external coolers for that exact reason,
but given the extreme environment you are going to be operating in, I'd
take my chances with a cooler...  It might well be what saves the day
and the motor, so treat the modification like your life depends on it
;-)  If the hoses really make you nervous, and you don't want to risk
it, you also may want to give some thought to adapting the Type 4 oil
cooler to the Type 1 "doghouse" shroud-work - there are 2 extra rows of
fins which mean you need to modify the existing tin to cover the Type 4
cooler...

Other than emphasizing the need for the motor to be within complete
specifications, and the inclusion of an oil filter and external cooler,
most of the other things that I can think off are starting to go off the
deep end (thermal dispersant coatings, LN Engineering's Nikasil plated
aluminum barrel sets) in terms of cost effectiveness, and reliability
issues should said modifications start causing problems half-way into
your journey.  I tend to think about what may cause problems ahead of
time such as parts nearing the end of a life cycle, eliminate those
potential problems before they can cause trouble, pack enough tools to
perform basic roadside maintenance, pack enough spares to accomplish
basic maintenance procedures, say my prayers and drive carefully - as
though my life depends on it.  Because it does!  At the other end of the
spectrum are those who pack spares, spares for the spares, enough tools
to sink a battleship, maybe some more spares just in case the spare
spares may fail.  This is for going into town and getting the mail, or
going out to for dinner and a movie.  They get really serious about
spares on a road-trip ;-)  In some cases, perhaps multiple spares are
called for, e.g. if driving a Type 1 powered vehicle, I'd CERTAINLY pack
maybe half a dozen generator/alternator belts, perhaps an extra "extra"
clutch cable or throttle cable, but a half dozen headlights or a half
dozen wheel cylinders would get the boot...  I can still drive with a
broken headlight, or a leaky wheel cylinder (albeit slowly), but I'm
"scavenger food" without an extra belt!

It sounds like a fun trip once the bus is properly enhanced!  Anyone
else?

Jim Hayden
www.savethebays.org
