From: "TR Gesell" <trgesell(-at-)compuserve.com>
To: "TYPE2. COM \(E-mail\)" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 19 Dec 2003 08:59:22 -0800
Subject: Fuel Pump...NOT

I'm normally pretty good about diagnostic discipline, but every now and then
I jump to conclusions, and it INVARIABLY leads me down a path that is more
expensive and time consuming than it needs to be...

My recent AFM / fuel pump problems turned out to be a clogged fuel
filter...I didn't check it at first cuz it was brand new. I think I got a
tank full of crappola from my corner gas station (the day before they closed
to replace their underground tanks).

Anyhooo...during the course of this diagnostic excursion I disassembled my
AFM. It turned out this was not all bad, because it was totally grunged up
and full of fluffy calcium-like deposits...looks like somebody ran it
through a parts cleaner. It also needed the pot plate shifted to a less worn
track, which I did. My problem is that while trying to re-adjust the thing
BEFORE I replaced the fuel filter, I got the mixture screw and the spring
wheel completely out of whack. The bus now runs fine, but I want to make
sure everything is adjusted correctly. I'm going to take it to a shop with a
gas analyzer, but I wanted to at least get the spring wheel where it needs
to go first, so the shop can just set the mixture screw. I read the
archives, and I THINK that I understand a couple things:

1) The mixture screw works only at idle.
2) The spring wheel has to be tight enough to allow the fuel pump cut-off
switch to open with the engine off.


A couple questions...

1) What controls mixture above idle? Just an open-loop, pre-set deal? (77'
with no O2 sensor)
2) Any recommended techniques for doing a rough-adjust on the spring wheel?
If it's too loose(rich) the cut-off switch won't open. Any way to tell if
it's way too tight(lean)?
3) An archived post mentioned a homemade CO meter using an O2 sensor. Anyone
know where to find directions on that?

I'd appreciate any expert advice or WAG's...

Rick
'77 Westy "Pumpkin II"
Stock 2.0 L FI
