From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
Date: Fri, 19 Dec 2003 12:39:54 -0600
Subject: lubricating pistons and rings

>From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
>Subject: should I oil new pistons?

>I am installing new pistons and cylinders and I think the guy at Rimco
>(machine shop) said not to oil the pistons when installing them.  He
>said that they'd break in better.
>any thoughts on this?

Hello,

Please oil your rings and pistons and cylinder walls when you rebuild your
engine.

It is true that the rings need to "break in" and until they do, you will
burn some oil. The rings, piston, and cylinder are ordinarily lubricated by
oil splashed up by the crankshaft dipping into the oil in the sump and from
oil flying out of the pressurized crankshaft to connecting rod connection
edges. This lubrication is absolutely critical.

Brand new rings need to wear in to the cylinder walls. Rings are harder than
the cylinder walls. The rings wear up and down straight grooves in the
cylinder walls. Rings are not perfectly flat on their outside circumference.
Under a microscope you can see tall mountain peaks and and deep valleys. The
mountain peaks of the rings cut matching valleys in the cylinder walls. This
also causes the mountain peaks of the cylinder walls to fit into the valleys
of the rings. When the rings have "broken in" there is a very close, but not
touching,  fit of the peaks and valleys. Oil fills the tiny gap. Ideally,
the gap is tiny and it always contains a thin film of oil . If the film is
very thin, it acts as a solid barrier to oil passage and the oil film
lubricates the sliding parts. Until the parts are worn together in a tight
fit, the oil can leak past (through) the passages. This oil mixes with the
fuel in the combustion chamber and it doesn't burn completly and it comes
out as smoke. When the fit is perfect (tiny gap), there is no oil bypass
leakage and there is no oil burning.

The perfect fit lasts for a long time. It lasts a lot longer especially if
you provide a clean air filter. One gallon of liquid gasoline takes 20,000
gallons of air. There is a lot of abrasive crude in that much air. The
abrasives (sandpaper) cut the oil gap deeper and deeper or thicker and
thicker. When the super thin oil film turns into a deep pool it looses its
instantaneous "solidness" and the passage turns into a river. It still
lubricates the sliding parts, but the oil flows easily in the river and the
oil moves into the combustion chamber and gets burned up. Initally there is
blue-gray smoke and at the end of  the engines lifetime so much oil squirts
past that it is just pumped out as black smoke.  (you can also get smoke in
a new engine with too much fuel like a stuck choke, continuous on cold start
valve, etc..)

When rebuilding, if you do not pre-lubricate the ring-cylinder wall and
piston-cylinder wall rubbing surface, you risk great damage. The rubbing
parts can wear in too much and cause deep scoring that ruins the parts.
Brand new rings are circular. Brand new cylinders and pistons are oval. The
parts are made that way and they have to be run where they cut each other to
match. There is a lot of heat generated. There is a lot of debris generated.
If you don't lubricate the parts you will get more that just matching cuts.
You will get galling. This is where huge chunks of metal pop out and clog up
You get deep holes and huge boulders in an irregular pattern. So the ring's
mountains can never make a matching cut into the cylinder wall because the
cylinder wall has too deep a scoured out valley that is deeper in some
places and higher in other places. The unlubricated heating could also
destroy the temper of the rings, causing the rings to get soft and soft
rings will continue to loose more and more metal. The rings have to keep
their manufactured "hard and springy" temper and keep their "springyness".
The unlubricated heating could alternately cause the rings to become brittle
and crack apart. Lubrication is necessary to carry away the normal amount of
debris to limit the wearing and prevent galling. Lubrication is necessary to
carry away the normal generated heat.

It is true that some mechanics believe that you can wear in the rings
quicker if you do not lubricate them when you install them. Perhaps those
engines do not take the normal time to go through a break in time period of
initial oil burning. Intial ring break in does not take that long and why
take a chance of ruining your rings and cylinders. I am sure those engines
do not get as long a lifetime of ring life with good compression and no oil
burning.

When I rebuild an engine, I slather on lots of lube on the rings, piston,
and cylinder walls. I run the engine for 30 minutes and then change the oil.
I then change the oil at 300 miles. I then go to the 3000 mile oil change
interval.
