From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: "Jack Dinan" <jdinan(-at-)cox.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 19 Dec 2003 19:54:58 -0600
Subject: lugging an engine to create heat

----- Original Message ----- 
From: "Jack Dinan" <jdinan(-at-)cox.net>
To: <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
>
> One final issue...........  Are you one of those who climbs a 7%
> grade in fourth gear soon after installing a new engine to create
> lots of heat to promote the sealing of the rings?  I've read a number
> of posts recommending this, but I've never had the courage to include
> this step.
>

I have never heard the theory of :

"climbing a 7% grade in 4th gear ....."

I always follow the manufacturer's directions about breaking in the rings. I
have always read that you should lubricate before installing, idle for a
couple of minutes, briefly and slowly raise the rpm to about 3/4 max, then
drive less than 30 mph for 300 miles, but do not stay at one constant speed
for a great length of time.

I think if you try ""climbing a 7% grade in 4th gear ....." you will lug the
engine. Lugging means that you are in too high of a gear for the speed and
load on the engine. If you load an engine down too much you cause damage.
The engine is being forced to go too slowly to coordinate the jpiston
position with the correct timing of the expansion of the high temperature
and high pressure expanding gasses of the power stroke. The Gasoline and Air
mixture really burns very slowly compared to how fast the engine parts can
move. It is really tricky to coordinate the timing of the ignition spark and
the rate of burn (gas expansion) to the movement of the piston. Ideally, you
light the fire with the spark so that the piston will be in the going down
position and will only be pushed down by the expanding gasses. When the
engine is going real slowly, you use a "retarded" spark timing and when the
engine is going really fast, you use an "advanced" spark timing. You have to
light the fire at the proper moment in time such that the piston can move
into the correct position when the expanding gasses are ready to push it
down most efficiently.When the piston reaches top dead center it has to stop
moving up, come to a complete stop,  and then change direction and start
movig down.  If you advance the timing too much , the fire is lighted too
soon and the piston is still coming up when the gasses have reached their
maximum expansion. This is like the piston running into an immovable object.
This knocks holes in the top of the piston, This pushes the piston sideways
and wears out the piston side wall and the cylinder wall. This smashes the
piston ring lands down and squashes them into the rings; freezing the rings
at a distorted angle to really scrape against the cylinder wall. This
condition is called "knocking".When it is relatively mild it sounds like
little crackles to me, other people say they hear "pings"

When you lug an engine you are also putting too much impact force on the
connecting rod to crankshaft bearings. And too much impact force on the
crankshaft main bearings. On the type I  engines the main bearing just
wallow out the case. The connecting rod bearings usually catastrophically
fail before the main bearings do.

I would suggest that you just break in your engine with lots of stop and go
city driving but be sure to get those first 300 miles by driving long enough
to get the engine fully warmed up to running temperature. You will take
years off the life of the engine with 300 starts and 300 one-mile-trips
compared to a few starts and a few longer trips.

 ----- 
