To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Mark L. Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Date: Sun, 21 Dec 2003 05:35:23 -0800
Subject: Flagstaff 2003

The forecast was for snow showers overnight, but just a 30% chance. Out 
the window there are nothing but stars shining through a clear black 
sky.

I ought to write that the aforementioned window is one of eight in my 
transporter, but it's not. It's in a motel where I have stayed two or 
three times a year for almost ten years. And it's about two miles from 
the place on I-40 where, in October 1997, I saw a Westfalia coming down 
the on ramp -- and thought to myself that I have got to get me one of 
those.

I got me one of those, after a fashion, but I have never managed to 
drive it as far as Flagstaff. I've gotten from San Diego to Tucson and 
back.

There are fewer buses in Flagstaff this year than I remember seeing in 
the past. Partly, that could be because the college is empty for the 
holidays. Partly, it's because the region is lacking for snow. And 
probably it's because there are fewer buses anywhere with each passing 
year.

On the way up here, in my Golf GTI with the yuppy roof rack, I stopped 
at a Love's truckstop for gas and a sandwich and spotted a Eurovan 
(with a Winnebago conversion). I went over to chat with its occupants 
-- a young couple plus the driver/owner. They weren't too friendly or 
eager to have anyone looking their rig over. I've never encountered a 
baywindow owner who wasn't perfectly happy to show off his or her bus.

The motel where I am staying has wireless broadband, which it never had 
before. Otherwise, it's the same. It has that set of cabinets in the 
living room section with the TV, microwave, fridge, sink, and drawers 
that got me thinking about how I could create something similar inside 
a bus if I could just shrink it down a bit. At least I got that part 
done.

This is the year it's all going to come together. In April I will do a 
complete rebuild of Peregrine's engine (after three months of prep and 
shopping for parts). By June there will be new paint on the roof, so 
that I can take her out in the rain. In July I'll do a shakedown trip 
from San Diego to Seattle and back. And in September and October I plan 
to drive from SD to Worcester, Massachusetts and back again, with stops 
in Milwaukee, Madison, Ypsilanti, Akron, Cincinnati, Chattanooga, 
Washington, D.C., Princeton, New York City, Hamilton (NY) and 
Pittsburgh. All of that is to complete a research trip I started on 
September 10, 2001, by air and rented car. I was in Baltimore and 
Washington, D.C. on the 10th, and had an appointment at 100 Wall Street 
in Manhattan, at 9:00 am on the 11th, but I cancelled it that morning 
for reasons that can be nothing other than dumb luck. I was in 
Hartford, with a rented car. I turned the rental in 72 hours later in 
San Diego.

But for now, I'm in Flagstaff. The trains are whistling in the distance 
and a sliver of moon has just slipped up on the eastern horizon. And 
it's officially winter.

Happy Winter, type 2 types!

Mark Hineline
'76 transporter
