From: "Casting Fool" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 21 Dec 2003 11:20:32 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine woes

From: "Mark L. Hineline" <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
> What I think you meant to ask was: can you get $2000 for this bus?  That's
the unloaded question, and the answer is: probably not. Buses in the
condition you describe are routinely advertised in the $1000 to $1200 range,
and bring $700 to $900 after dickering.

I figured as much, but was still hanging on to a little bit of fantasy
there.  I really don't want to sell the bus, but was checking on the other
possibilities should things come to an impasse.

> Mike, how exactly did this happen? Did you authorize each part of the
rebuild? Was the mechanic straight with you each step of the way?

Darrell's (Robertson's Import Parts and Service) been working on VW's for
decades, and he's a great mechanic.  His shop is located about 1 minute from
my home.  It takes longer to get out of my drive than it does to go down the
street to his place, so with the bay leaking so badly, I choose to take it
there.

He's been up front about everything that he's doing.  We choose to go with a
good used engine that he's replaced all of the seals on and ensured that it
really was in good shape, and whatever else was needed to get the drive
train up to snuff.   He had to rebuild the starter, it was full of oil from
the leak, added a relay kit to the starter, new clutch to replace the one
ruined by the leak, etc..

I should have waited to take it down there until after Christmas.  Business
got real slow there for a period of several months and we're gradually
getting back on our feet.  It was just that he's usually so busy and he had
an opening.  I expected the bill to be somewhat less, about $900.00, but it
sort of turned into one of those "Dang... this really ought to be replaced,
too." deals.  Then the money that I'd expected from jobs didn't materialize.

He's called me on every step of the way and kept me filled in on how things
stand, so I have to believe that he's being up front on the costs.  We're
both go to the meetings of the local VW club, and he seems to be a really
nice guy and honest.

I haven't seriously worked on a bus (or VW for that matter) for just over 20
years, and I was afraid that I'd get the engine out and not be able to get
it back together.  So Darrell seemed like the best bet for getting the work
done right.

... and there's always that Christmas miracle to hope for. :O)

TTFN - Mike Jackson
`77 Bay, "Giacomo"
Casting Fool & Son
Augusta, GA  USA
http://www.cfnson.com
