From: "RJ Latherow" <rjl(-at-)mvwe.org>
To: "Thomas Maher" <ten_guitars4me(-at-)hotmail.com>,
Date: Mon, 19 Aug 2002 16:14:08 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] Is there a EZ way to clean the tank?


>>BTW, how long did it take to do that to yours when you did it?

About 2 hours out, 3 to put back in. Add another hour to complain
afterwards.

I did this in my '78 a year or so back (twice).  I was actually fairly
painless- a pain , sure, but definetly doable.  I made a few mistakes that
cost me tho:

Once you tear all the stuff off your engine and get the firewall off there
are 2 straps holding the gas tank in place.  Working alone and under the bus
undoing the nuts, I didn't realize the bolt had stopped turning and I
twisted the one strap until it broke.  I pair of vicegrips on the second one
solved that problem.

The killer for me was that my rotten old fuel filler hose-the one connected
between the tank and the metal filler neck - got busted during the removal.
I figured I would just replace it.  BAD MOVE!!! I spent months trying to
find any kind of replacement, eventually buying 3 feet of 2 1/4" Marine
metal reinforced fuel line for $10 a foot from Goodyear and replacing the
metal neck because the replacement hose have enough bend to replace the old
hose.  On the good side, this eliminated the lingering gas smell I had.  Be
careful with this part!  I tried to patch mine (RTV and radiator tape and
everything I can think of) but ended up taking it all the way apart (tank
loose) to fit a replacement-

I ended up having to stick my head fairly far into the engine to look
around, and I kept hitting my head on those $%^^*& sharp screws.  Watch out.
Come to think about, beware the pie-tin hole also.  I still have scars.

After I got my tank out, I had it acid washed and epoxy coated at the
radiator shop for $85 dollars.  When i got it back, it was shining, and pink
(!!!) inside, with a thin coat of epoxy sealing the inside.  Previous to
this, I was going through 2 filters a month.  Afterwards, it was as clean as
a mountain stream, although I don't know of alot of unleaded petrol mountain
streams.....

-rj

