Date: Tue, 20 Aug 2002 10:07:23 -0500
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Mike Benthin <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net>,
Subject: Re: [T2] POR-15 on clean metal &gas tank innards?

On 8/20/02 9:22 AM, "Mike Benthin" <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net> wrote:

> I see that on your pics (R. Atwell) that you used POR-15 on clean gas tank
> metal- 1. Is this apporved for continuous gas exposure by the co?  2. Is it

The sealer is designed specifically for fuels.

> OK to use on clean metal or must it be "rusty"?

You want to have bare shiny metal, like in my pictures, after the cleaning
process before you start the sealing process:

It's 4 steps:

- use your own acid mixture to remove the rust (1st day). You are flushing
the tank several times and need to dump the acid somewhere. You can
neutralize it with baking soda and pour it anywhere.

In my opinion this is equivalent to boiling the tank out at a radiator shop.
I didn't go this route because the lowest price I could find a $150 rip off.
The VW workshop manual recommends acid or something called Rodine 50 (circa
1969).

- use the marine clean to remove the gum and varnish (maybe several days).
This is the longest step as the marine clean and warm water need to
completely fill the tank.  You need to seal it up and rotate the tank
periodically so the marine clean gets all over the bowl and the roof.

- coat the inside with the sealer prep (last day) and let dry

- seal the tank by rolling it around to coat the inside (last day, dry for a
few days)

The VW workshop manual says, "When rinsing use a mixture of 1 part of
machine coolant (mineral oil type) to 20 parts of water...5 - Drain the tank
and dry it out with compressed air.  Treatment with soluble oil leave a thin
oil film and consequently further treatment is not necessary."

I think the tank sealer is a better choice than using mineral oil.  Other
people have boiled out their tanks and painted the outside and put them back
in. I have no idea how long this will last, maybe a long time.  I also don't
know if VW sealed the tank originally.  I think the tank sealer method will
easily outlast the life of your bus.  You may even be able to use the same
tank in your next bus.

See:

http://www.por15.com/restorationkits.html (call them to find a local
distributor to reduce your shipping charges). They include a good manual
showing all the steps.  It's important to observe the drying times.

I find the pictures of the tank restoration kits are out of date: they show
a gallon of marine clean but you get 2 quarts so buy the items separately:

- gallon marine clean $18
- 20 oz metal ready $13
- quart tank sealer $18

Totalled, this is the same price as the auto kit except you get more marine
clean which you may need. You don't need the stabilizer.

> MB 237,000mi Westy orig. engine

Cool!

-- 
Richard
1978 Westfalia CDN
Austin, TX

