Date: Wed, 08 Aug 2001 19:25:25 +0200
From: Erik Meltzer <ermel(-at-)ermel.org>
To: Type2 Mailing List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Oil Bath Filter

Hi Volks!

This should've gone to the list but went to Fbiffath
only instead.  Sorry, Fbiffath, you're getting it twice 
now.

Fbiffath wrote:
> What about the oil?  does it circulate through the engine, or
> just stay there?  What does the oil do?  

The oil bath air cleaner, like many great ideas, is rather
simple to understand.  The idea is to accelerate the air
toward the oil, and then make it change direction rapidly
just before it's there.  But why does this clean the air?

Imagine a dirt particle among air molecules: it is bigger
and heavier by a factor of ..., er, something rather large,
I expect ;-), and therefore cannot change directions nearly
as well as they can.  So while the air molecules whip around
the curve with ease, the dirt particle cannot follow, and
slams into the oil, where it sticks and eventually sinks to
the bottom.

Maybe imagine an oil tanker in a speedboat race for a more
comprehensive picture.  :-)

The great thing about oil bath air cleaners is that not only 
they clean the air much better than do paper filters, they 
also keep cleaning it at a very high level even when they've 
already cleaned a lot of it.  As long as the oil level is 
within spec, it doesn't quite matter whether there's new oil 
or old oil in it, and if the stuff beneath the oil level is 
100% oil or 90% dirt and 10% oil.  So it's really not necessary
to change the oil in there often.  Just keep it to the correct 
level, and clean it out when the dirt level rises too high 
(check by putting your finger in.  Ugh!).

Another great advantage is that you need not worry about
where to obtain filter inserts.  Oil is readily 
available everywhere.  Even *used* engine oil will do.
(Not sure about vegetable oil and the likes, but in a
pinch I'd even try and use that.  Any sticky liquid will
do if you're really desperate, I think.  But stick with
engine oil anyway.  The cheapest stuff will do nicely.)

So why did they discontinue building the things?

Well, apart from the obvious (sell paper filter inserts),
it's to do with exhaust regulations.  A tiny amount of
oil gets sucked into the engine and burned, apparently
enough to make it harder to pass smog laws.  So aren't
they bad for the environment then?

In a word, no.  You need to account for all the paper
filters that must be produced instead, and disposed of 
again.  You need to remember that quite a lot of them
will be disposed of improperly.  And, though this is
hardly quantifiable, you need to remember that cleaner
air means longer engine life, and that making and
disposing of engines doesn't leave the environment unharmed
either.  If you're really concerned, use used engine oil
in that air cleaner.  Everyone I know uses new oil in it,
though.  It's less than half a litre, anyway.  Change it
when changing the engine oil, and check its level when you
check the engine oil's level.  That's how you never forget.

A bit of soap to clean your fingers is less of a hassle
than replacing your engine, isn't it?

Airhowlingly yours,
   Erik.
-- 
Microsoft broke Volkswagen's world record:
VW made only 21.4 million bugs.
