Date: 8 Aug 2001 22:24:30 -0000
From: "George Lyle" <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: al brase <albeeee(-at-)home.com>, Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>,
Subject: Re: [T2] URGENT SOS



> Chris:
> You are right, this is  a normal job for most mechanics these days, changing a
> CV.

One can even do it yourself on the road if you have the foresight to bring along the proper triple square socket, snap ring pliars, and a 
brass hammer (or brass drift).

A large roll of paper towels and several pair of latex gloves will help cut down on the mess, too.  Still, have your bride change out of her 
gown into something appropriate (think "goth") before having her assist you.  A clean work surface (buy a big-city newspaper) is a must.

Clean both of the CVs with paper towels.  You don't want to get grunge in the good CV.  Clean out the socket holes too

Loosen the CV bolts and remove the axle.  It's not too light, so be sure to support it while removing the bolts.

Push the boot from the bad CV to the opposite end of the axle.  Clean as much of the grease away as you can.  Remove the snap ring 
from the end of the axle.

Using the brass hammer or brass drift, tap on the inner hub of the CV to push the hub off of the axle.  Work your way around.  It helps to 
have the axle on a firm support.  It will come off, sometimes by hand, sometimes it takes a while.

Remove both boots from the free end of the axle.  Clean the good CV with paper towels, removing as much grease as you can.  Inspect 
the balls of the good cv for major warts.  If you find any, replace this one too.

Clean the bare splines well.  Using electrical tape and starting just inboard of the end of the splines (beyond the boss) wrap the boss and 
splines with a layer of electrical tape.  This will provide a smooth surface for sliding the new boots into place.

Slide the good side boot over the taped splines.  Lube the boot with a little grease to ease its journey.

Put the two boot clamps on the axle

Slide the bad side boots over the taped splines.

Remove the tape

Install the new CV.  The ring goes outboard.  Do not install the Bellville washer, per the instructions in Bentley.  I use a socket that is 
larger than the splines against the end of the CV inner hub, and tap it home with the brass hammer.  It will probably be a bit stiffer to put 
on than the old one was to get off.  Be patient.  Many little taps will get it there.

Install the snap ring in its groove.

Grease the old and new CVs.  Squeeze as much CV grease into the joint as you can, and put the rest inside the boot.

Slide the boot into place, aligning the holes with the CV.

Install the bolts, washers, and backup plates.  Tighten the clamps on the axle end of the boots.

Install the axle, tightening the bolts to 25 ft-lb.

Trash all the greasy stuff, remove gloves, take a long shower.  Have bride do the same.

Drive car, check torque after 5 miles and 100 miles (even if a mechanic did the work!)

> I really doubt the axle is shot, just the CV.
> This is really a case where a little preventative mainenance would have gone a
> long ways. These damn CV's will almost last forever if they have boots and
> grease.

This is true.  I finally retired the last original CV from my '71.  It was dated 08/70!.  It had at least 270K miles on it.  It was still quiet, but 
two balls had developed large warts.  I pulled the axle because of a bad boot on the other end, so I ended up replacing two boots and the 
CV.  I keep a close eye on the boots and replace them when a crack starts to weep grease.  If you let it go too long, dirt can get in and 
make the cleaning much harder, requiring the disassembly of the CV to get all the dirt out..

> Chris Mills wrote:
> 
> > Encourage him to find an axle at an Auto Zone and to buy the wrench for the
> > socket head screws.

I was discouraged from doing this by my local VWFLAPS.  Apparently there may be a quality difference between the autozone "rebuilt" 
CVs and the Lobro "new" CVs.  I don't know if this is true, but for me the autozone part had to be ordered and the VWFLAPS had the CV 
on the shelf, which sealed the decision.

George
