From: DGaries808(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 1 Dec 2001 21:11:58 EST
To: VINMTAGvw(-at-)listproc.sjsu.edu
Subject: 1971 bus and 1974 Super Beetle

While on a trip to Tyler Friday, I stopped by to see Lee Prator of Prator 
Automotive.
Lee is a 30 year veteran VW mechanic. I started telling Lee about my trials 
with the
bus engine, mainly with four shims instead of three. To my surprise, Lee told 
me that
it was OK to use four shims -- but not two.

He told me that he usually starts with the assumption that the total 
"shimmage" is going to be 0.080 (I believe that's right, maybe 0.80, I'll 
check Zungfolge 1432). Then he divides the 0.080 by 3 to get the approximate 
shim size, which is easy, if you work with 1600 engines all of the time. But 
with older engines, that comes out 27 mm
apiece. There are no 27 mm shims, and nothing going down to as much as 0.26 
mm 
either. Anyhow, Lee showed me how to use a rubber "O" ring on some 1600 
crankshafts, and a gasket and steel plate with four holes in it for others. I 
did not ask
the "year" of the crankshafts that went with each.

Having noted that, I came back to Dallas and found that Scott had already put 
the flywheel back on the 1600, 1971 bus engine. He told me that he had used 
both the "O" ring and-the-gasket-and-plate and that he ended up with 0.006 
crankshaft end play.

That rang a bell, because Lee Prator had showed me one crankshaft that used 
the "O" ring, and another that used the gasket-and-plate. I know that I 
didn't catch which 
engine used the "O" ring and which used the "gasket-and-plate". But how Scott 
could
have used both and still got 0.006 end play (he demonstrated the end play to 
me, so I 
know that the engine was not too tight). Then, I asked my pal Lee Roy and 
Knight's 
Foreign Auto Parts, and he told me that only the 1966 1500 engine used both, 
and that all later models used just the "O" ring.

My question is, "is this correct?" Does someone else have a different idea 
which engines used the "O" ring and which used the "gasket-and-plate"?

Later, I went over to "Jotech" and retrieved my blue vacuum and fuel hoses. 
Wouldn't you know it? Jotech had ordered the hoses according to ID dimension, 
and they received the parts according to OD dimension. One hose fit exactly 
into the vacuum hose that it was to replace (not good). Then, I found that 
the fuel hose couldn't be used, because it was made outa the wrong stuff. 

Instead, I settled for 5 feet of 10-cm ID instead of 12-cm ID blue hose to 
use as vacuum hose. Then, they sold me some blue, "dress-up" plastic coil 
rings to go around the black fuel hose.  The reason I'm trying to get 
everything "blue" under the decklid is to match the royal blue that I had the 
engine tin powder coated. My experience tells me that it is best to powder 
coat black.

Don Garies
dgaries808(-at-)aol.com
