From: "incynr8" <incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 3 Dec 2001 09:25:40 -0500
Subject: 30/31 Brosol/Solex Jet reccomendations Trans leak Q


Going on the previous thread, I would like a couple recommendations so I
am not buying a billion jets to get this right.
Bus: 66 DLX, engine bay well sealed and stock, no scoops, major holes,
etc.
Engine:
1600  SP Doghouse cooled
	100 Engle Cam
	Stock exhaust system
	Brosol 30/31 Jetted stock NEW carb from busdepot 12v elec choke
	Stock oil bath cleaner from 66
	No preheat system hooked up to air cleaner :(
	All proper gaskets in heat risers (found an NOS set with small
big gaskets! WOOO!)

Currently, engine runs great, but seems a little cold/rich. Oil dipstick
can be held and squeezed all day long after a run, good power, no
stumbles with 009 dizzy. I can touch engine almost anywhere but heat
risers/exhaust with no major burns or discomfort. Haven't tried that on
the head fins....

There is some carbon on exhaust tip end, but most seems to be from nasty
carb I tried to run her with and had to replace fro leaking, amongst
other things.
Valves set at 006, checking again this weekend, since we just did 100
miles for second run, new oil coming after valve adjustment and third
run.

Reading plugs this weekend too, but SLIGHTLY rich condition is
suspected. Not mega rich, mind you, as NO gas smell in OIL no smoke,
even at start up when choked. I seem real close, expect staying stock
helped.

What were the stock three jets for this carb?

I seem to have a very small but weird trans leak. It occurs only after a
run, and stops in 15 mins, resulting in a very small puddle on the
driveway plywood board under the bus, about 30-50 cc. The leak is
between the trans side cover and main body, only occurs with hot trans,
hot gear oil, then stops after oil thickens again. Does not seem to leak
while driving, as I have dried trans, drove, stopped a while, then oil.
Is it feasible to apply sealant to this area when clean and dry to avoid
this small leak?
Thanks!
Enjoying the bus finally!
Al



