Date: Thu, 18 Oct 2001 21:50:09 -0500
From: RoadRunner <rklahn(-at-)austin.rr.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Lost Causes

Hi,

I am slowly working on a 65 Deluxe (21 window) that I've had for 15+ 
years. It is rusty (needs a new front floor pan, but the rest is mostly 
topical), and there are areas that are just plain ugly, cut out wheel 
wells, etc. It needs everything. *everything*

When I went to the local restoration shop, he looked at me and 
dead-panned "there is a 20 month waiting list. why don't you find 
someone who works on vw's". That's when I started working on my own bus.

I see guys with fancy equipment, but they only work on their own stuff 
(and won't lend it out because their toys are expensive). The guys with 
shops only scratch their head, looking for a crappy Buick to work on 
instead.

If you can't do it yourself, there are places to take it to, but they 
want to do all of it. BTW, this is the same with everything. I bought a 
20's-era house. The contractors want to see someone with a big wallet 
and small brains. They don't like do-it-yourselfers because you'll 
question their work. Everybody from the plumber, to the electrician, 
etc. don't want you saying - can you do the hard work, I can handle the 
rest. Their profit is in the rest, not the hard work.

Anyways, that's my story. I'll keep chipping away at my bus 'cause I 
amortized the cost of ownership years ago. If I look at it like it was 
free, I'm only in it about $500 at this point. Not a bad deal.

Besides, if you do a crappy job - just tell 'em you did it. I've found 
people are very forgiving and say stuff like, "wow, I could have never 
done that!" ;-)

Conrad

On Thursday, October 18, 2001, at 08:22  PM, Craig Ayres-Sevier wrote:

> I can do the basic upkeep myself (it's not intelligence nor desire, it's
> physical limitation), but more involved things, more appropo for
> professionals are shunned by shops in my area (understandably so, since 
> time
> is money), and what I'm seeing in this regard is more and more shops 
> will
> NOT work on your bus for the things you don't have the tools to, and if 
> they
> do, it's done pretty badly.

