Date: Fri, 22 Jun 2007 10:24:11 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine cooling air

Darren Evans-Young in Toogaloo theorized:

>  Fabricate something to fit over the fan
>that has some sort of duct work that leads over and up to
>the outside vents.  It wouldnt have to go all the way up, just
>up to that area so that the engine can pull in cooler air.
>
>Ok, you fabricators, let's hear some suggestions!
>
>I may experiment with some flexible tubing and just use
>wire ties to hold things in place and see what difference
>that makes.  I do have a DD CHT gauge too, so I'll be able to
>monitor things.

	If I'm grasping the idea (which I may not be -  it's the 
shortest day in the year, here) I fail to see how such plumbing could 
help.
	What we want is the max pressure surplus in the engine 
compartment compared with the outlet for the cooling air after it's 
been down past the fins.  To that end,

1.  We block air leaks from the engine compartment.  Darren reports 
aluminium tape is good.  Blank grommets are useful for round holes. 
Shell Flintkote V is my favourite custom-moulded tar to block 
irregular-shaped holes.  The flexible seal at the perimeter of the 
'platform' can be subst by slit 'Armathane' or similar closed-cell 
foam, which can be cheaper than the genuine seal.

2.   The high-up intake scoops pack air in to the engine compartment. 
You could try extending them sideays further into the breeze  ...  if 
they didn't extend beyond the width of the rear-vision mirrors I 
suppose they wouldn't cause much trouble  ...  Recall that, before 
the factory got the message from us Berkeley splittie enthusiasts 
who'd slapped vertical strips down the outside of the flush intake 
louvres on the splittie, those scoops didn't exist at all; certainly 
those original 'scoops' on the louvres decreased cruising oil T.

	I see little prospect for increasing the pressure, and none 
for decreasing the internal drag, in the cooling-air intake system 
for the Bay.

	One idea I've toyed with is to slap a low-drag gauze on the 
intake to the fan, and trickle water by gravity onto that from a 
narrow pipe across its top with several holes during max-power 
bursts.  The latent heat of evaporation of water is a peculiarly high 
number  -  the basis of many simple tropical cooling systems  -  so 
this should give the cooling fins cooler air.

	Having brutally hammered Darren's idea (perhaps thru 
misunderstanding it)  I now brace myself for enrubbishments of mine.


-- 
Robt Mann
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
'69 Renault 10  -  The Water Wagon
