Date: Sun, 24 Jun 2007 08:44:56 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: darren(-at-)bama.ua.edu
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine vacuum

More importantly - is the needle on the vacuum gauge
steady or does it rock or have a blip? Those are
indications that one or more cylinders are not equal
to the others. That's the real problem.

Unlikely that any damage occurred from too-loose
preload. The ends of the valves and the adjusters take
a beating, but very unlikely a problem.

Pinch off any lines you don't want to plug - to test.
Do you still have a decel valve? It was a problem for
me, plus I liked the snappier reponse with it gone.
EGR valve? Still on? Hard to check without removing it
and blocking off the port. They usually end up
decaying at the bottom end and suck road grime into
the engine.

The hoses you clamped - Be sure to leave at least one
big one un-clamped so it can blow off in event of a
backfire. If it can't blow off relatively easily, real
damage can and will occur elsewhere! -BaH

--- Darren Evans-Young <darren(-at-)bama.ua.edu> wrote:

 I'm suffering from low engine vacuum.  I get about
 14-15" at idle.
 I have replaced intake manifold gaskets, fuel
 injector seals (and
 injectors), the 4 intake hoses (sleeves...tightened
 down with
 wire ties). I've checked the S pipe and I've wrapped
 all my rubber
 hoses with silicone tape and tested them for leaks.
 
 I've adjusted my valves too. Man, they were waaay
 out of spec.
 Each valve was anywhere from no preload to 1/2 turn.
 They are
 all 1.5 turns now. Engine running MUCH smoother and
 quieter.
 The biggest change was my CH and oil temps. If I
 stay under 55 mph
 with around town driving, my CH temps rarely reach
 the 400F mark.
 My oil tmp used to get up to 240F. Now they get up
 to 220F and
 take a long time to get there.  I've got to still
 have a vacuum
 leak somewhere. I should have 17-18" of vacuum.
 
 I may plug up my brake booster hose and see if that
 makes a diff.
 
 Any other things to check?
 
 Darren Evans-Young
 Tuscaloosa, AL
 1979 Federal FI 2.0L


-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
