Date: Sun, 24 Jun 2007 21:41:42 -0500
From: "Jeremiah Stutte" <jeremiah.stutte(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "type2 list" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: dropped exhaust valve seat on avp head (i think) longish story

long story short.

Goethe is a 77 automatic passenger van w/ a 75 FI engine.  i just
rebuilt the top end, new lifters, pushrod tubes and seals, and two
rebuilt heads from avp.  my wife and i decided to take Goethe on her
maiden voyage from stl mo to kc mo.  my wife's cousin was getting
married so we needed to arrive in a timely manner, still we took the
bus.  just after columbia mo, where we had a nice late lunch/early
dinner at the cherry street artisan, i felt the bus start to lose
power on hills.  the head temp gauge read normal and oil temp and oil
pressure were within range so the engine wasn't losing power from
overheating.  then on an incline i felt the dreaded miss.  twice.
then i heard valve clatter, chatter, whatever.  it sounded bad,
especially since i could hear it over the road noise.  next level bit
of road as i tried to accelerate Goethe decided to instead decelerate.
 dirty wench.  yes, yes, i know Goethe is masculine but i pronounce it
Gerta.  pulled over onto exit 89 and waited for the engine to cool
down.  the bad sounding noise had been coming from the 3/4 side so i
knew to check there first.  knew it could not be the #3 because that
is where the sensor for my dash head temp gauge is located.  set up
piston # 4 to fire and checked the intake clearance.  perfect.
checked the exhaust.  half-inch clearance.  dammit.  dammit.  dammit.
and some other less polite words.  a large vocabulary is essential to
effective communication but sometimes nothing satisfies like a string
of off-color words and euphemisms.  did i mention this particular exit
has no services?

six or seven different people stopped to help us.  a guy by the name
of glen happened to be a buskatiers(sp) member.  he has three or for
buses of his own so when i described what i had found he agreed it was
probably a dropped valve seat or possibly a stretched valve.  glen and
his girlfriend, dee, sat with me and my wife for several hours and
kept us company.  thank god for bus tribalism.  mike, a non bus owner
but still a good guy none the less, is letting me store the bus at his
house while i figure out what to do.  mike said he wouldn't have
stopped to help if he hadn't seem me working on the bus.  said if we
had just sat there and waited for help he'd have kept on driving.

so, i have less than a thousand miles on these avp heads and this
happens.  pretty damn frustrating.  my options are renting a trailer
and pulling Goethe back to stl or finding a nearby donor engine and
dropping it in.  having depended heavily on the kindness of strangers
already, i ask you, listees, for ideas, suggestions, compliments,
criticisms, donor engines, whatever you might have to offer.  thank
you and good night.

jeremiah in saint louis, mo
