From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Sat, 8 Mar 2003 14:18:34 -0600 (CST)
To: jstric01(-at-)cs.fiu.edu (Jeff Strickrott)
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com (Type Two List)
Subject: Re: [T2] Future of the type IV engine?

Baloney.

Where have you compiled your info from--that a properly  rebuilt engine
will not last as long as the original ?

Not by you perhaps--but any compitant machine shop should be a be to
duplicate as well surpass the original units longevity with no
problems--

IF the person who contracts the work to be done has the machine shop use
top shelf parts as well as spends the money to have the parts installed
right.--
No jippo parts or labor.

No skipping anything--
No savig a buck--

The problem here is not the engine case--it's a case of cheapness--which
causes the problems in the engine's longevity.

And this isn't the cases fault--



E-mail message

From: jstric01(-at-)cs.fiu.edu (Jeff Strickrott) Date: Sat, Mar 8, 2003,
2:53pm (CST+1) To: type2(-at-)type2.com (Type Two List) Subject: [T2] Future
of the type IV engine?
How many of us on the list have a type IV engine based bus? It has been
my experience so far that most of the type IV engines being built are
either on their second or third life. Most of the cases for the heavier
vehicles (bus, Vanagon) are being aligned bored and have other sources
of wear. The used cases may last for a while but will not give us the
life of a new case.
We can buy new cranks, cams, cylinders and heads, why not cases? What
will we do in the future when the remainder of the supply of good-to
marginal cases is used up? Especially with the trend to convert type IV
engines to type 1 applications.
If we believe Berg (see his opinion on line boring, refurbished cases
and new cases at http://www.geneberg.com/casepg22.htm), we are spending
good money on used cases that will not live up to our expectations on
longevity and performance.
Will we need to convert to type I engines, similar to the Brazilian
transporters? Can we interest someone into reverse engineering a type IV
case or buying the molds from VW and supplying new castings? I certainly
would be willing to spend about $700 for a new case.
I am interested in hearing from the community and your opinions.
Regards,
--Jeff Strickrott
82 West, South Florida
