From: "Mike" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 8 Mar 2003 17:29:11 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Future of the type IV engine?

From: "Jeff Strickrott" <jstric01(-at-)cs.fiu.edu>
> Know of any builder who will offer a decent warranty on their work?

This might have a bearing (no pun intended) on this particular point.

I had another business in the past, installing vinyl mobile home skirting.
I went into that field because I'd discovered that no other installer in our
area was doing the job correctly.  I figured that I could outclass them and
garner a nice corner in the market for my work.

Well, I outclassed them.  Each installation was done to the manufacturer's
specs, validating the manufacturer's warranty (nice point that the other
installers failed to let their clients know), and offered a 5-year warranty
on my installation work.  Not one of the other installers offered any sort
of warranty on their work.  I even pioneered 12+ custom tools for the
industry.

But I never got my corner in the market, because I overlooked two factors.

Greed and stupidity.  Greed on the part of the manufactured housing dealers
("mobile homes") who contracted most of the skirting jobs, and who went for
the lowest priced installer; and stupidity on the part of consumers without
the common sense to learn _something_ about skirting before putting out
$600.00 to $1000.00 for an installation.

I think that this extends to a lot of markets.  You've got disreputable
dealers and shops turning out substandard work, and consumers not concerned
enough about their possessions to question what's going on.  Eventually, the
reputable shops lose revenue and close or limit their services, and we have
fewer and fewer places to go for quality work.

However, I did have a bit of satisfaction out of the experience.  I wrote a
Buyer's Guide on vinyl mobile home skirting, and eventually made it
available for free as a download at my family website
(http://www.melas.org).

Where it gets downloaded 700 to 1000+ times per month by inquiring
consumers.  Sweet. :O)

TTFN - Mike Jackson
`77 Bay, "Giacomo"
Casting Fool & Son
Augusta, GA  USA
http://www.cfnson.com
