Date: Sat, 19 Feb 2011 20:00:17 -0500 (EST)
From: accessys(-at-)smart.net
To: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2]where is my fuel going, was Perfect weather for Winter

On Sat, 19 Feb 2011, John Kolak wrote:

> 
> On Sat, Feb 19, 2011 at 3:41 AM,  <accessys(-at-)smart.net> wrote:
>
>> and actually it doesn't run bad at all seems like that rich it should be complaining.
>
> Well, it is complaining. You just can't see it.
>
> 1)  Cylinder wall lubrication is diluting causing accelerated P&C wear.

this worries me most of all. 
oil level is going up ever so slightly, have been changing oil at 500 
miles......


> 2)  If you're running a cat, it's going to burn out from the heat of
> processing the excess HCs.

don't have a cat, but oil temp gauge is actually running cooler than 
previously.

going back

Aug 2009  got 19mpg going to Buses of the corn
           got 15mpg coming home from buses of the corn.

by Dec 2009 was getting 11mpg

March-June 2010 engine gets rebuilt (Suburban Engine in Boston)

Aug 2010  down to 7mpg

now getting 5.5-6mpg

. have replaced ALL fuel and vacuum lines, and triple checked they are in 
right place
. have replaced ECU with known working unit
. have replaced AFC with known working then second time with rebuilt unit
. have replaced temp sensor twice
. have replaced cold start valve
. have checked start cold start sensor, it shuts off appropriately
. have checked fuel injectors and put rebuilt injectors in.
. have new kyle wiring harness.
. ran with a fuel presure gauge run to dash and presures were on spec.
. put in new fuel pump (old one was cracked anyway)
. all filters have been changed several times.
. have auto tranny and all shifts and readings are as spec'd
. all wheels spin freely no brake drag. wheels stay cool
. have crane ignition, but did remove it to check if it was the problem, 
no change so have reinstalled it.
. timing is dead on... (have crane ignition)


problem is in all cyl since all plugs are carboned up about equally

have slight leak in 3/4 exhaust connector to muffler but is not new and 
has been welded up so is better not worse.


have the yellow VW Fuel Injection trouble shooting book and have followed 
the flow chart several times with all readings on the money


this is getting expensive and frustrating


Bob
