Date: Sun, 20 Feb 2011 13:55:04 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Max Bronsema <max.bronsema(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Fuse blew and stopped my van

On 2/20/2011 12:39 PM, Max Bronsema wrote:
> Thank you for all of your guidance thus far. I removed fuses 7, 8, 9 and
> the bus will not start.  I get no power to my instrument panel until
> Fuse 9 is inserted. At that point with the key moved one notch I get my
> alt and oil light, moving it to the start position it will crank and start.

Hey Max,
Here's what I want you to do - Pull out fuses 7-12.  Turn the ignition 
off.  Now take a test light or voltmeter and touch any of the contacts 
for fuses 7-9 - notice which side (top/bottom) lights up as it may or 
may not be the same exact top/bottom orientation in the manual.  Once 
you find which side lights up, that is the +12v supply side of the 
fusebox (based on what you said below, it should be the bottom of the 
box).  ** leave fuses 7-12 out and only test this side from now on! ** 
This will be the same side that has the bused (connected) terminals for 
7-9; in other words, you will get voltage on 7, 8, or 9 because they're 
all connected to each other - VERIFY THAT YOU HAVE VOLTAGE ON ALL THREE!

Now, slide over to fuse positions 10-12 (same top/bottom orientation 
where you found the +12v in the previous test).  These three fuses 
receive voltage from the ignition switch.  With the ignition switch off, 
touch your light/multimeter and you should get no voltage on any of 
those contacts (you should still have voltage on 7-9).  Now turn on the 
ignition switch and you should have voltage on 10-12.  Do you?

If you do have voltage on the contacts for fuses 10-12, then leave the 
ignition switch on and go to the back of the car and test if you have 
12v at the coil.  If you don't, then you have a problem with where the 
coil wire is hooked up to the fusebox.  It needs to be hooked up to fuse 
10 on the supply side (where you've been finding voltage).


> Here is how I have it currently wired... I am using the Bentley "D"
> wiring diagram for August 1970 (1971 Models).

Ok, I'm using the 1968-79 Bentley and mine is on page E, but I think 
we're looking at the same thing.

> The solid red wire from the ignition switch harness  goes to the bottom
> of the fuse block at fuse 9 in the diagram. Spliced into that wire is
> the red wire that goes to the headlight switch E1 terminal 30. Also
> spliced in by whoever installed the radio is an orange wire. Without
> fuse 9 the radio does not work in my bus.

Something is wrong here - if the bottom of your fusebox matches the same 
orientation as the diagram, the bottom-side of fuse 9 should always have 
power, regardless of whether the fuse is in or not.  In other words, the 
radio should work regardless of whether the fuse is inserted or not.

When fuse 9 is removed, only E6 (interior light switch, rear) and H3 
(ignition key warning buzzer) should stop working.  If you remove the 
fuse and the radio is in-fact hooked up to the same side as the ignition 
switch and the headlight switch, then my guess is that the +12v supply 
from the battery is hooked up to the wrong side of the fusebox, probably 
the other side of fuse 9, and that's why it's blowing.  This is why you 
need to take fuses 7-12 out and run the tests above first to make sure 
your 12v supply is coming into the correct side of the fuse box.


> The bottom of fuse 10 has the wire that goes to the coil. I replaced
> that entire wire about 4 years ago.

Well, we know that's working because the car runs... it's probably 
something at the fusebox.


> Now, my fuse box is clipped under the dash and the bottom of the box is
> inaccessible. The wires I moved were all on the top of the box. In the
> paragraph above, the black wire on terminal 10 is hooked to the back of
> the fuse box. The terminal furthest towards the front of the bus. Do I
> need to actually plug wires into the bottom of the fuse block?

Heh.. I think we're finding your problem.  Remember, there are two sides 
of the fuse box - the supply side (most likely the bottom) and the fused 
side (opposite of the supply side).  You can't just plug stuff into one 
side or the other because certain contacts (on the supply side) in the 
fuse box are connected to each other.

Pull the fuse box off so that you can see both the top and bottom of the 
fuse box - it will make this all much easier to diagnose.  Once you get 
it off, it should be pretty straight-forward.... Supply comes into 
(probably) the bottom of fuse 8, goes to the ignition switch from the 
bottom of 9, comes back from the ignition switch to the bottom of 11, 
and then goes from the bottom of 10 to the coil.

Mike
