Date: Sun, 20 Feb 2011 19:29:30 -0500
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
To: accessys(-at-)smart.net, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2]where is my fuel going?

Hi Bob,

I thought a little further on this and would like to offer up the following:

I'd suggest verifying that TDC on the pulley is actually TDC with both 
the valves and pistons. I have in the past owned a VWoC reman engine 
where the mark on the pulley was about 20 degrees off from where it 
should have been. No idea how or why, but it was verified both in the 
cam timing and in the position of the piston in the cylinder. I put a 
new mark on the pulley and after that it ran great. In your case I am 
suspecting that the auto trans might help to mask a hole in the power band.

If that's the case then it's possible that with everything else set up 
OK, you've got it set up significantly retarded but it still runs well 
enough. I had this happen last year with my Vanagon after misreading the 
bentley's instructions. I drove it for about six months with poor 
midrange power and pitiful fuel economy until someone suggested I try 
tweaking the timing to get more power. Then I re-read the bentley timing 
spec and discovered my error -- and ever since then it's been much 
better behaved.  In this case it's not impossible that when your engine 
was reworked after the cam gallery plug popped there might have been an 
issue with the cam timing or the the cam gear has slipped or there's an 
issue with the installation of the fan on the end of the crank. Or 
something like that.

And since you've thoroughly checked everywhere else, it certainly 
couldn't hurt to verify the mechanicals, right?

As Sir Arthur Conan Doyle once wrote: Once you eliminate the 
impossible, whatever remains, no matter how improbable, must be the 
truth. And another SACD quote that google provided applies here as 
well: There is nothing as deceptive as an obvious fact.

So pull the 3-4 side valve cover and spin the engine until the #3 intake 
valve has just closed and the exhaust is just starting to open. Back it 
up until you have the precise spot between valve movements. IIRC that is 
the cam position for TDC#1. Then compare this with the position on the 
crank pulley AND use a piece of wire or a pencil or something to verify 
that you are also at TDC on the cylinder.

Hopefully I'm wrong on this, as it would clearly point towards another 
engine drop, and a discussion with the engine builder. But at this point 
it's definitely worth checking out. If I'm wrong you've only invested 
some time, and you get one more piece of data to add to the list of 
known facts.

Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario Canada
197x Westfakia "Bob the Tomato"
1987 Wolfsburg Weekender Hardtop (ND Graphics graphics wrap)
1988 Wolfsburg Weekender Hardtop (Colleen's ride)
www.pottsfamily.ca

BUSES OF THE CORN - AUGUST 12-14th, 2011
www.busesofthecorn.ca


On 2/19/2011 8:00 PM, accessys(-at-)smart.net wrote:
~ now getting 5.5-6mpg
~
~ . have replaced ALL fuel and vacuum lines, and triple checked they are
~ in right place
~ . have replaced ECU with known working unit
~ . have replaced AFC with known working then second time with rebuilt unit
~ . have replaced temp sensor twice
~ . have replaced cold start valve
~ . have checked start cold start sensor, it shuts off appropriately
~ . have checked fuel injectors and put rebuilt injectors in.
~ . have new kyle wiring harness.
~ . ran with a fuel presure gauge run to dash and presures were on spec.
~ . put in new fuel pump (old one was cracked anyway)
~ . all filters have been changed several times.
~ . have auto tranny and all shifts and readings are as spec'd
~ . all wheels spin freely no brake drag. wheels stay cool
~ . have crane ignition, but did remove it to check if it was the problem,
~ no change so have reinstalled it.
~ . timing is dead on... (have crane ignition)
~
~ problem is in all cyl since all plugs are carboned up about equally
~
~ have slight leak in 3/4 exhaust connector to muffler but is not new and
~ has been welded up so is better not worse.
~
~ have the yellow VW Fuel Injection trouble shooting book and have
~ followed the flow chart several times with all readings on the money
