From: "J Barry Burneskis" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 26 Dec 2004 21:08:17 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] '76 FI died - update #2

Thanks, guys and gals, for the suggestion to check if my engine was seized, 
and that I should try to turn it over by the alternator nut.

That was the problem, the non-start problem.  Now the engine will turn over 
with the starter and it will kick into action . . .  and then die again!!

So the non-start is solved, but the non-running is still active.  I will go 
back tomorrow when the sun comes out and check things like fuel pressure, 
vacuum, ...  [what else].  I locked the '76 up for the night, because is is 
on a well traveled part of my neighborhood, and quite a looker...

Ok, my engine was NOT seized up, but as it happens, sometimes my '72 would 
just not consider turning over until I took the 22mm [7/8" to we yanks] 
wrench to  the alternator nut and turned the engine a few degrees.  It 
happens quite a  bit with my '72, so I don't think much about it at all.  
But this is the first time it happened on my '76!! [I think it happened on 
my '78 once.  I stalled in Alexandria town, and it would not turn over with 
the key.  But it did start when I caught it in gear...]


I don't know if other people experienced this phenomena, but as I said. it 
is quit common with my '72 when I try to start the '72 engine from stand on 
the garage floor.  [The engine is outside the '72 so I can debug the carbs 
before I put the engine back into the '72.]

So, if your engine will suddenly refuse to turn over, forget the Bosch WR-1 
and get back to the alternator nut with two quick twists of the 22mm and 
rotate the engine a few degrees.  Of course, if you are on any kind of 
slope, you could try that with the VW moving and in gear.  Just a few 
degrees of  engine rotation is all it takes.  Heck, it could even have 
something to do with the distributor.

Just another Hint from Heloise

Barry sends thanks to all, and to all a good night ! ! !
