From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net>, "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 27 Dec 2004 23:52:59 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Oil light intermittantly on

Description of oil light operation:
1. Battery supplies positive voltage to oil light.
2. the ground wire of the oil light runs back to the oil pressure sensor. 
THe sensor is a switch that is normaly on when oil pressure is not present. 
This completes the circuit to ground and lights the oil light.
3. When enough oil pressure is present the switch in the sensor turn off, 
removing the ground and the oil light turn off.
4. An engine at normal operating temp with oil moving through it for 14 
hours can dislodge any crud in the engine. If the crud makes its way into 
the O.P. sensor it can easily cause it to stick

I'm assuming from your description that the oil light didn't come on before 
you changed the oil and that you checked the oil level and used the proper 
grade of oil for your local temps.
This sounds a lot like my 80 Vanagon right after I bought it. The light 
would come on at random times that didn't make sense. I bought a new sensor 
for a few bucks and prepared to change the sensor. Removed the original 
sensor and temporarily installed a mechanical guage ($12.00 cheapy) , cold 
idle pressure was 55 when 15 minutes earlier the idiot light said I had 
pressure problems. For grins I installed a T adapter and put the original 
sender in with the guage. Wrapped some stripped wire around the T adapter 
and grounded the other end of the wire. Started the motor. 55 psi cold idle, 
Idiot light on. Removed the ground, Idiot light off. Removed the 
guage/sender set up and installed new sender. No more problem. May not have 
needed to go throught the guage test but I wanted to know for sure this 
engine was actualy making pressure.

Another test, turn ignition key to run position but don't start the engine. 
The oil light should turn on. You will want to do this rather quickly, you 
don't want to burn your points or damage your coil. Remove the wire from 
pressure sender, the light should go off. holding the end of the wire close 
to its normal position, move it around, pull gently, and push it back and 
forth. do not let the connector end of the wire contact any metal.Keep your 
eye, or your helpers eye on the oil light while you move the wire around. If 
the light comes on you have damaged insulation somewhere along the sensor 
wire. Turn off the ignition key, start following the sensor wire from the 
connector end towards the oil light until you find the damaged insulation 
and repair it.



> OK, after 14 hr trip I changed the oil and filter in daughter's 75 bus
> and now it intermittantly has the oil light come on and stays on (and
> goes off again)- 
