Date: Tue, 28 Dec 2004 08:30:54 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Chris Chubb <cchubb(-at-)codegurus.com>
Cc: benthin(-at-)prodigy.net
Subject: Re: Oil light intermittantly on

>From: benthin(-at-)prodigy.net
>Subject: Oil light intermittantly on
>
>OK, after 14 hr trip I changed the oil and filter in daughter's 75 bus
>and now it intermittantly has the oil light come on and stays on (and
>goes off again)- oil is present, no change in sound of engine, and I
>assume it's the sender sticking- can anyone come up with any other
>reason it might do this? (immaterial if warmed up or not).  Oil temp
>gauge shows no increase in temp.

Another thing that can change after long, high speed runs and/or oil 
changes that can cause the pressure light is a sticking oil pressure 
regulator piston. If a piece of crud gets in there and it sticks down, the 
oil will be bled back to the crank case. This is a very dangerous situation 
as it will starve the main bearings.  It will show mostly from a light that 
is on at low RPM but flickers or goes away if you juice the gas.

So, unless you also have an oil pressure gauge I would recommend pulling 
and cleaning the piston. It is the one in the front of the engine. I don't 
know about a type IV engine, but on a type I engine you can even do it with 
the oil in the engine, just put a pan under it because it will drip 
constantly but I have done it and only lost about a pint of oil. Use a rag 
on a screwdriver, a shotgun bore brush and/or mop or a baby bottle brush. 
All work ok. Check for scoring of the piston and/or excessive sludge when 
you first pull it out.

I personally never had the front piston fail, but I did blow up an oil 
cooler when the rear one jammed closed. There was a big burr in the bore 
and I had to get a tap into the bottom of the piston to pull it down even 
1/16". Then it came out normally. Never did figure out what was jammed in 
there, whatever it was got lost in the oil.

Sorry to be the bearer of bad news. If it is cold where you work, swap out 
the oil pressure sender first and look for wiring issues. But, if the light 
is on at low RPM and goes out more at higher RPM then it might be your 
forward oil piston.

Chris  
