Date: Sat, 24 Nov 2001 21:25:24 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: al brase <albeeee(-at-)home.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] 76 teardown


At 09:11 PM 11/24/2001 -0600, you wrote:
>
>Billy:
>> Should I have them split this case to inspect cam/crank/innerds?
>
>I'd question whether you need to take the engine that far apart. I'd
probably just blast out the debris with an  air gun and possibly take off
one rod and check the condition of the bearing. If it looks good, I'd
reassemble from there.
>

Once you get the pistons and cylinders removed, you can inspect the cam
lobes. They tend to show the first signs of wear in a bottom end. If they
are scuffed, pitted and/or worn, I would then spit the case and put the
crank/bearings/cam back to spec clearances. That means a long block. It
takes a qualified machinist with a workstation custom configured for VW
motor assembly perhaps an hour to assemble the whole thang and verify
initial adjustments. Expect to pay $50, give or take for them to assemble,
or, save the $50 and have them send you all the parts then you can spend 4
to 10 hours+ to do the same or better job of verifying all specs as you
torque everything in three stages side to side, with rest in between, then
test the assembly and calculate the cylinder and crank shims. 

On pistons and cylinders, once the heads are off you can measure the
clearance. Orient the piston with the top just below the highest travel and
use a feeler guage to measure the distance from the top of the piston to
the cylinder. Any more than 0.2mm is out of spec and should be replaced.
Note that carbon buildup at the top side of the piston can mislead your
measure. A little solvent and very carfull cleaning can true up your
figures. Also, run the piston to the bottom of travel and inspect the
cylinders. Any signs of scuffing or scouring on the cylinder surface and
you risk short life if reused. If you replace a single cylinder/piston, you
simply MUST pull the other pistons to verify weight/balance. Also, you MUST
measure actual bore/stroke to verify if you have spec parts or an
overbore/stroke set. 

The other important spec is the clearance of piston rings and the lands,
the grooves they ride in. Typically, if you hone and recrosshatch the used
cylinder and put new rings in, during breaking in those rings get a big
bite, and you will beat the ring lands to death if the ring clearance is
not kosher. If it's just within spec to start, it won't be 100 miles later.
It can result in very short life to risk such a compromise. If you had
spent the cost of a new set of pistons and cylinders due to this failure on
the motor in the first place for spec or better clearances and assembly,
you'd be one big hassle ahead in the long run. If you haven't got the
time/money/skill/tools to do it right the first time, where will you find
the time/money/skill/tools to do it over??? 

NW Connecting Rod in Seattle can be trusted to give you good specs always
in rebuilt VW parts. I can't tell you how much I appreciate the quality of
their work. They are a VW only machine shop since the 60's at least,
operated by the son of the father who established the business many years
ago. They take care of the details that insure success, like ALWAYS new
exhaust studs, and new valve guides custom sized and properly installed
(and that takes real skill and equipment to do right). 

If I moved to Florida or New York and needed a VW motor, I would check
around the hood for some supplier like NW ConRod, and if I couldn't find
anyone with similar qualifications, I would ship from Seattle regardless
the cost. It would be worth it to know for sure I had parts that will not
fail under appropriate use and maintenance for a long and trouble free life.  

Know that it always takes more time/skill/money/tools to do the job right
than to pretend to do the job right. And there are alot of pretenders out
there. But there are good sources in most regions. 

As far as CB Performance, you could do us all a favor and find out who the
machine shop manager is and bump into him at the Elks or wherever he hangs
and play dumb and ask him about funny looking VW motors. If he thinks
Bentley is an English car, rather than his Bible, that would be good to
know. Or how about the marketing manager, and his dilemas with trying for
more volume in the face of the giant facades that are GEX etal. Quality of
carb parts from CB has been good. Their human interface has some problems
in my experience. If you need carb jets, try to be as friendly and
compliant as possible to get the order through, and you can get to jetting
a custom install.    
T.P. Stephens
Doktor Tim's

