From: "Karl" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: "Jake Raby" <rabysvw(-at-)linkamerica.net>, "al brase" <albeeee(-at-)home.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 25 Nov 2001 06:23:27 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] solid/hydraulic swap?



> Getting back to the root of the conversation, if you change lifters you must
> change cams, no matter what the profiles. The hardness of each must match or
> you WILL have troubles. I have 4 pages almost done for my site that shows
> the disasters of non matched cams.

Here you go again with saying 'you WILL have troubles'. And again I ask WHEN??
Last time you used the 'shortlived', now you have switched to 'WILL'.

I believe the last time you said:

> "The cam and lifters must be matched! Used lifters and a new cam, or vice
> versa will be shortlived..
> Jake Raby

Care to make an educated guess on how short ''shortlived'' is??

I have 78,000 trouble-free miles so far on USED hydraulic lifters running on
a USED solid cam in my 77 Westy."

I never got a reply to the earlier question so I don't really expect a reply to
this one. And I don't really care. I built my bus engine so I could drive it
every day, which I do. I drive up in the mountains, I drive it down to the high
deserts. I drive it to Arizona. Key words: I drive it. I have had a couple of
failures over the past 6 years: the EFI wire harness, a coil, tire blowouts, but
NEVER an internal engine problem. It does not leak oil, it does not burn oil. I
change the oil every 3000 miles. So far I have replaced the spark plugs once at
48,000 miles, not cause they needed it....just because, and they still looked
new out of the box. I swapped the ignition system over to the 79 and up Calif
electronic ignition also when I put the engine together. Why? Because I want to
drive my bus. If not having to do added things like changing points and
adjusting valves is something I 'have' to do, then I will do what I can to not
have to do that. Both me and my daughter have zero maintenance buses [except for
oil changes] that run every day.
That is all I have to say about this. You guys can spend a fortune on the latest
and greatest stuff out there and complain that you can't afford to drive 'your
baby' while I just drive mine. There is very good used stuff out there and used
up crap, all you have to do is pick and chose the best.


