Date: Mon, 28 Jan 2002 22:12:32 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)home.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Battery weirdness....

>From: "Alejandro Vieira" <bsnman(-at-)adelphia.net>
>Date: Sat, 26 Jan 2002 21:41:00 -0700
>
>The problem is that I forgot to leave that extra toggle switch off
>last night, so the coil just sat there merrily charged up all night
>long waiting for the distributor to tell it when to fire.

Yep...your points happened to be closed, so the coil was drawing
current from the battery all night.  If there is oil dripping out
of your coil, or if it runs funky after you get the battery back
in it, you'll probably need a new coil too.

>Fifteen minutes later, I hear a clicking sound coming from the charger,
>and the needle is swinging wildly back and forth, like it can't figure
>out if the battery is completely charged or completely discharged.

Probably the circuit breaker in the charger tripping out because your
(very dead) battery was drawing more than it could supply.  I have had
some luck with really dead batteries by using a 1 amp motorcycle charger
on them.  It takes a LONG time compared to a more normal 6 or 10 amp
charger but it generally works.  Give it, say, 12 hours on the 1 amp
charger, and then try your 6 amp charger again.  If the 6 amp charger
starts clicking right away, put it back on the 1 amp charger for another
12 hours, and so on.  Your battery will never be as good as new, but you
can probably get it reasonably close.  

>comments on more successful solutions to "high resistance over the years"
>also welcome.

Now that the battery is out of the Bus and will be for a day or two,
it's a great time to clean _all_ the connections in the electrical system.
Before you start, get a small assortment of red, yellow, and blue push-on
connectors and the pliers that crimp them because you will probably break
one or two.  Only do one or two wires at a time, so you don't get mixed
up about which terminals they go on.   Leave the battery out of the Bus
until you're all done.

I have toyed with the idea of adding a relay to the ignition circuit to
supply the coil directly from the battery when the key is on, but I've
never tried it.  (Same idea as the "hard start" relay but for the coil.)
The Right Thing to do is probably to clean and fix all the flaky
connections. 

One thing you could do to help prevent this in the future is to put a
little pilot light on the toggle switch.  Use a spare 6V VW speedometer
bulb and socket, a Radio Shack 272-1098 bulb, or a 272-340 holder and
a 272-1142 bulb.  Wire it so the light is only on when the switch is
on - it may help you to remember it. 

Matt Roberds
 

