From: Thom Fitzpatrick <thom(-at-)calweb.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com (SplitWindows Rule/LagWagens Drool)
Date: Tue, 29 Jan 2002 16:42:44 -0800 (PST)
Cc: Davesaf(-at-)aol.com
Subject: CE Safaris

----- Forwarded message from Davesaf(-at-)aol.com -----

From: Davesaf(-at-)aol.com
Message-ID: <87.169efbfe.298725e0(-at-)aol.com>
Subject: safaris

this is the letter i tried to send....

Just spied the comments on Creative Engineerings Alloy Safaris. Comment says 
that the hinge hole spacing is incorrect and the holes would not line up with 

an original captive nut strip. This is incorect. The hinge has correct 
spacing holes. The holes are 70mm apart and 24mm in from both ends. This is 
exactly the same as VW made them. Please every one measure their rusty 
originals and see if im correct. The other comment is that the hinges are 
screwed on. This is partly correct. The hinge is laser cut stainless steel 
and the frame is alloy. We tried aircraft adhesive on its own but after much 
testing we had a failure. As i did not like the idea of a frame departing the 

hinge and taking the head of of the person behind, we decided to use the 
aircraft glue and seven very small M3 socket screws. (we did try ally 
aircraft cs rivits to ). This is now bulit proof and I can sleep at night. I 
am VERY fussy and determined to offer the best Safaris bar none. I am happy 
with the apearanse of these screws. You will all be able to check them out on 

a detail photo on our new web site which will be on line in the next 7-10 
days . keep looking!  As for the idea of welding on an alloy hinge, we tried 
that to . The alloy hinge will not hold up to the stress and usage. It is 
also nigh on impossible to get a strong enough spot weld without burning 
through the hinge. We could not get a neat finish. remember youd be welding 
0.9mm ally hinge to a 2.5mm wall ally extrusion. At the end of the day were 
not the Douglas Aircraft company. Hope this puts the record straight. 
Dave Palmer
CE  England
PS how many people would want to use the OG captive nut strip instead of the 
screws we supply ??? You'll have to cut the facia of you bus. If enough 
customers want to do that i will include them . Its more difficult to install 
that way. please let me know.

