From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 29 Jan 2002 22:25:31 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Front engine compartment seal

--part1_8f.1650ef8b.2988c1ab_boundary
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="US-ASCII"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

In a message dated 1/28/2002 9:25:31 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
tainlay(-at-)sbcglobal.net writes:


> Okay I'm confused.  There are 2 seals.  The short one is for the firewall 
> area and the long one is for the sides and rear apron.  I believe that they 
> are originally two different designs/extrusions?

Hi Thomas,
Take out the engine.  Put back in the rear apron.  The pre-1970s engine seal 
was a V-cross section one where it sealed to the engine tin, and comes in 
such a length and even has a curve molded into it to match this rear apron 
curve and straight sides.  To make the early seal work properly you remove 
the old seals and carefully straighten the ends of seal channels in the body 
which were crushed slightly at the factory to keep the seals from sliding out 
during running and engine removal.  Next insert the straight ends of the 
overall U-shaped engine cross shaped V-seal.  Cut off these straight sections 
being carefull not to have these straight pieces stretched or crushed in 
length or your U-shaped section that goes into the rear apron will be too 
long or short!  Once done remove the straight sections you just cut off and 
repeat the process with a second U-shaped V-crosssection engine compartment 
seal.  Resulting in a U-section for the forward engine tin channel and two 
extra straight sections.  Once you have all the engine seal sections 
installed crush/bend the channel ends slightly just enough to keep the seals 
ends from sliding out.

  I'm referring to the piece > that seals between the front (FIF) tin and the 
> firewall.  I thought that the two lipped firewall seal was used on later 
> model 1600 CC applications for the firewall seal.

No. The L-shaped cross sectioned engine compartment seal was for 1970ish and 
later.  The two lipped or V-cross sectioned engine compartment seal was the 
earlier one used well down into the 1940s.  See Bentley reprint of or the 
original 1963-67 Workshop Manual Volkswagen Transporter Section M-4, page 2 
for the V-cross section and proper relation to sides and rear engine tin.  

> I'm not sure what you mean by "being too thick with the forward sheet 
> metal?"  Why would the seal need to be cut?  To facilitate installation and 
> removal of the rear apron?<<

FIF!  The apron is to the rear of the engine.  Yes, if you do not cut the 
seal it is a pain to get the side straight sections of the seal back into the 
channels with the engine in place.

> 
> Any pics of the proper installation?
> 
Not with the engine out.  Check photos of the engine and glimpses of the seal 
in place in the Fuel System chapter in the Bentley reprint of or the original 
Workshop Manual Volkswagen Transporter.
Eric&Barb

--part1_8f.1650ef8b.2988c1ab_boundary--
