From: Rhunes29(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 30 Jan 2002 18:35:52 EST
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: bus for sale

Hey guys, i haven't posted in a while,I  am sad to say that i have to put my 
bus up for sale. I have a 58' standard with a complete camper kit from a 68, 
haven't cut it to fit yet though. It is all just sitting in the back. I don't 
really know what it is worth, but i am about $2,000 into it. I just don't 
really want to lose money. I am just going to describe it, and if any of you 
can ive me a rough estimate of what i should ask, that would be great. iam 
sorry though, i don't have any pictures right now, but i will soon. 
It is a 58, it has all the windows, but 4 need to be put in, i have the glass 
and rubber. It has no dents, but i can feel bondo in some spots. It will need 
all the upholstery done, but it is all there with the kit that includes, the 
table, sink, booster seat, closet, fold out bed, and sink. i also have both 
bumpers in good shape, but they are not on, they are in the back, i also have 
the yellow plates, but it is not registered. I gave a mechanic $1000 to get 
it going, she put in a new clutch, new fuel pump, and made sure everything 
worked fine, she also completely redid the brakes. You can drive it anywhere. 
It even has a one day permitin the back, but i need to see that it is not 
messed up. The only thing it needs is assembly...bumpers put on, kit 
installed, glass installed, and headlights put in, they are there, but not 
installed. The main thing that it needs is electrical work. It starts right 
up, and all the electrical works, but it was mickey moused so it didn't have 
a blinker, and the original harness is there, but there shortcuts with other 
wire splicd in to get the lights to work for time being. Oh yeah, it has the 
original 36hp, and it runs great, the only part the bus needs is a turnsignal 
switch, and a rear apron. That is all!!!

Also, because i know all of you would take care of it, i would rather give it 
to the first guy on the list that wants to make a reasonable offer. I just 
don't have the time or money for the nuts and bolts it will take to put it 
together, nor the knowledge to get the electrical all done correctly. So if 
it sounds like a project any of you want to take on, let me know. I live on 
Covina, but the bus is in Claremont CA at a friends house right now.            
            
                            THANKS!!!
