From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'type 2 list'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 1 Oct 2009 12:53:42 -0400
Subject: '69 issues....and questions on front and rear end

Well I got my '69 single cab back here in Boston(2 weeks ago). And am very
excited to be driving a VW again! My regular bus has been undergoing
restoration for the summer, and is therefore off the road. So I've been
stuck driving one of these "modern" things.

Yesterday my clutch cable started having problems. I thought that the cable
had snapped, it seemed really tight recently and I have been planning on
taking a look at it, but hadn't had time yet. I had to get it towed to my
mechanic, we put it up on the lift, and found a few problems while
diagnosing the clutch. Here they are.

1-The tube the clutch goes through is split, and had a hose clamp holding it
together. The clamp had slipped, and I think this was causing the cable to
bind. We put the clamp back in, and it seems to work ok. I was able to drive
it home. It is sitting until I get a new cable and can pull the existing to
see it has a problem. The Bowden tube also appears to be a straight shot, as
opposed to a curve. It should have a curve, right? What could cause it to
straighten out?

2. The upper mount for the right rear shock has broken off. This is
frustrating, because I had been hearing a weird noise there for a while, and
had asked the mechanic in CA to look into it, and he said he couldn't see
anything wrong. I think it had been loose, and he didn't see it, but now it
has sheared off, and caused some damage. My mechanic here said he can fix
it, it will need to somehow get welded to fix. But since the shock fell it
hit the rear CV joint, and tore the boot. So I've got to replace this one. I
figure I should replace both at the same time, right?

3-The front end has been swapped for a different front end by the PO. It has
disc brakes up front(this was not standard for a '69 single cab was it?). So
they installed what appears to be an adjustable front beam and disc brakes.
I have always thought the bus sits too low up front. I do not necessarily
want the "low rider look" and I believe it can cause pre-mature wear on the
front end. I would like to raise the front back up to the correct height, or
higher than it is now. My concern is what will happen to the rear end, Is
there a way to raise the rear end as well, so it is a level ride?

4-So while looking at the new front beam, I noticed that the ball joints(I
think that is what they are) both have their boots torn. So I need to
replace these, I was wondering if there is supposed to be a zerk fitting
here to lube the ball joint?

Thoughts, suggestions, comments all appreciated.thanks.

-Kevin

'65 kombi
'69 single cab
Jamaica Plain, MA 
