Date: Sat, 3 Oct 2009 15:32:35 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Solex Rejetting

(Warning - Long!!!)

On Thu, Oct 1, 2009 at 1:39 PM, Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu> wrote:

 You might try replying to that thread and see why John is saying the things
 he does.  He's quite knowledgeable in regards to engine tuning.

Hi All,

I wrote privately to John. He referred me to this article at GAMI
(General Aviation Modifications, Inc). This is sort of the "Jake Raby"
of aircraft tuning optimization.

http://gami.com/articles/bttfpart1.php

John also gave me the following recommendations:

"I turn for Stoic for idle. 12.75-13:1 for over 1/2 throttle. 16-17:1
for under 1/2 throttle but not idle. Avoiding what I refer to as the
"death zone" of 13-15.5:1, where any engine will cook itself to death
(even watercooled).

Most vw engines currently setup are too rich at cruise, and too lean
at WOT. Or they tune for 13:1 all the time, which is equally
horrible."

The article is pretty thorough. Some of you may be interested in the
observations and conclusions I draw from this, especially as they
relate to Timo and Mike's original questions about problems with high
cylinder head temps and how it relates to John's lean tuning method,
so here's my notes. Please forgive the long quotes from the article.
They are there to put my comments in perspective:

1) Lean is a relative term. If the engine was damaged because it ran
too lean, it doesn't mean it ran lean, meaning on the lean side of
stoich, it means it ran on the lean side of the normal tuning in the
safe zone of 11-12:1, or in other words, it got into the death zone of
13-15.5:1.

2) What is WAD? Wright Aeronautical Division (WAD) of the
Curtiss-Wright Corporation.

3) How safe is this tuning method?

"By the end of the "piston" era, those engines were routinely
operating, depending on the specific model, to TBOs of more than 2,000
hours. Some airlines consistently operated more than 3000 hours
between overhauls. Most or all were using some variation of the WAD
Recommended Leaning Procedure.

Most of us would give some part of our anatomy to achieve routine
TBO's out of our IO -470s - 520s, -550s,-540s, etc, of 2,000 hours. We
would be especially happy to get 3,000 hour TBOs out of our "TSIO"
versions of those engines. The bottom line : The "WAD Recommended
Leaning Procedure" demonstrated its operational merit over millions of
hours of successful engine operation. Now that is some pretty serious
experience."

Observation: 2000 hours ~ 120,000 miles at freeway speed and 60,000 of
city driving.

4) Part 1, Figure 2. Death Zone EGT ranges from about 1450 to 1525F,
but CHT barely changes from it's rich side entry level of about 410F.
From there it peaks just a little higher at about 412F, and then drops
to 400F at stoich and then drops abruptly to 375F upon exiting the
death zone. So this demonstrates that if you are relying on a CHT to
inform you of the danger to your head, you are not getting the full
picture because EGT has taken a 125 degree increase without a
noticable increase in head temp. This confirms what Jake Raby said
about EGT being the more important factor.

5) This is not mainstream thinking as shown by the FAA exam question
and his review of industry publications, as well as the discussion
sections, "Why haven't I heard about this already and why doesn't
everyone do this?" and "Why am I only hearing about this now?"

Also GAMI says it is not safe for most engines:

Good News and Bad News

"Again, good questions. The good news is that the WAD Procedure is a
well-proven procedure. It has been proven in several hundred millions
of hours of high powered piston engine operation.

The bad news? It simply won't work well with most of our current
generation of horizontally opposed piston engines, at least without
some modification of the fuel systems to balance out the fuel/air
ratios among the cylinders."

"Our research has shown that the fuel/air ratio in the typical
Teledyne Continental IO or TSIO -470, 520, and 550 engine varies from
cylinder to cylinder by as much as 8-12%, from eanest to richest. The
Lycoming engines, do not appear to be consistently better. Lycoming
engine cylinder to cylinder variations in fuel/air ratios apparently
happens due to a combination of different reasons.

Ultimately, a major portion of the answer to the question as to "why"
everyone, including Continental and Lycoming do not routinely
recommend the WAD Leaning Procedure is that if you try to do so, your
engine will run rough. It does not run "rough" because of the reasons
you have probably heard. It does not run rough due to "lean misfire"
or anything like that. It runs rough on the lean side of peak only
because of the variation in fuel/air ratio from cylinder to cylinder
in your engine. This variation in fuel/air ratios causes cylinder to
cylinder variations in horsepower on the lean side, but not on the
rich side of peak."

Two engines successfully run with the WAD method:

"The Lycoming engine obtains this superior balance of fuel/air ratios
by injecting the fuel directly into the gear-driven supercharger,
which is spinning at more than 35,000 rpm and therefore thoroughly
mixes the fuel with the air before it is transported to the cylinders
through the induction system.

The TSIO-520BE Continental engine achieves its reasonably
well-balanced fuel/air ratios by the careful design of the top down,
"tuned" induction system. It is reported by one person who worked at
TCM at the time that Continentals engineers spent nearly two years
tweaking the design of the induction system in the TSIO-520BE in order
to get it to run smoothly at 40 to 50F lean of peak."

"The Lycoming GSIO engine rarely is seen in general aviation at the
present time. Thus, the TSIO-520BE, TSIO-550B, and the IO-550G are the
only big bore engines currently in production that have reasonably
good balance in the fuel/air ratios. The induction and fuel injection
systems in the TSIO-550 and the IO-550G, like the Malibu TSIO-520BE,
while good, still do not provide as good a balance in fuel/air ratios
among the cylinders as is desirable.

The rest of the available engines for general aviation are really
pretty dismal, when it comes to achieving good balance of the fuel/air
ratios among the cylinders."

Observation: GAMI is in the business of selling tuned and balanced
fuel injectors to the aviation industry. The discussion goes on to
point out that only two of the aircraft engines on the market are
suitable for this tuning, and points out the dangers of running this
tuning when the cylinders are not balanced (more on this further
below).

6) What is the Lean Cycle and how is it done? - Begin at 100F under
the peak EGT (stoich) on the rich side of stoich. Then lean to 50F
less than peak EGT (stoich) on the lean side of stoich.

Slightly contradictory advice to using it for our engines:

1st paragraph: 30F to 45F lean of peak EGT
2nd paragraph: 30F to 50F lean of peak EGT
Turbocharged: 40F to 60F
Normally aspirated at low power settings: 15F to 30F

7) "Why do variations in fuel/air ratios cause engines to run rough on
the lean side of peak but not on the rich side of peak?

The answer is really pretty simple. But it has nothing to do with what
you probably have been taught. Most pilots are taught that engines run
rough on the lean side of peak due to some mysterious "lean misfire"
witchcraft. Nonsense.

The engines run rough because on the lean side of peak, most engines
do not have uniform cylinder-to-cylinder horsepower output. This
cylinder-to-cylinder horsepower imbalance causes vibration, which has
been often and wrongly characterized as lean misfire. We know this is
pure nonsense because if one does precisely balance the fuel/air
ratios of all of the cylinders, one can lean the engine to more than
100 degrees lean of peak - even 120 to 140F lean of peak - and the
engine will just smoothly lose horsepower until it finally, and
gently, dies."

(Justifies my fading campfire analogy)

"If you refer to the graph from part 1 of this series, you can see the
reason most engines run rough on the lean side of peak. On the rich
side of peak EGT, there is a large surplus of fuel over available
oxygen to react with the fuel. The curve that depicts horsepower is
relatively flat on the rich side of peak, and doesn't vary
significantly with fuel flow."

My summary - HP curve flat on rich side of stoich, so individual
variations in mixture do not affect running.

8) How good does the balance have to be to use this method? 4%

"A typical TCM big bore engine, will have a spread of from 1.2 to 1.7
gph. We have seen that spread go as high as 2.5 gph, when the
injectors were worse than normal.

Other than the noted TSIO-520BEs and IO-550G models, the best stock,
factory-new or remanufactured, or shop-overhauled engine we have ever
measured had a spread of 0.9 gph. The next best was 1.2 gph. The
others were all worse. This includes a review of data from well over
one hundred engines during the last 12 months. These values represent
cylinder-to-cylinder variations in fuel flows of between 8 and 12
percent.

A mixture spread of more than 1.0 to 1.2 gph will virtually guarantee
that your engine will run rough well before you are able to lean the
engine to 50F lean of peak.

How good can my engine be?

As the graph in the lower half of figure 2 shows, the variation, or
"mixture spread", in cylinder-to-cylinder fuel flows at peak EGT can
be readily reduced to a level of 0.5 gph. In some cases, we have seen
this spread virtually disappear, when the fuel/air ratios were
carefully "tweaked". Any value under 0.6 gph is generally considered
to be acceptable. The 0.5 gph value represents a cylinder-to-cylinder
variation in fuel flow of less than 4 percent. A 4 percent, or
smaller, variation in fuel/air ratios, will ensure that your engine
will run smoothly to more than 50 F lean of peak."

Comment - These studies calibrate A/F mixture in gallons per hour
(gph). This does not relate easily to our conventional A/F mixture
ratios such as 14:1. Since the last section tells us that a 0.5 gph
variation is about 4%, we can do some rough math and get this table of
conversions:

Typical TCM Engine - 1.2 to 1.7 gph = 9.6 to 13.6% variation between
cylinders

Best new or rebuilt engine - 0.9 gph = 7.2% variation

Next best = 1.2 gph = 9.6%

The others were all worse.

So if a review of hundreds of engines found only 2 under 10%, what are
the chances that our VW engines are under the 4% criteria of
acceptability for WAD lean tuning?

The point of the article is that if you want your aircraft to have the
benefits of WAD tuning, you can hire GAMI to sell you tuned injectors
and get your engine balanced so it can do that.

The parallel is that if you want to tune your VW this way, you need an
EGT at each cylinder to ensure your engine cylinders are all operating
within the 4% tolerance that is required to safely run this kind of
tuning.

9) "Probably the primary reason that the major engine manufacturers
have never tackled this problem head on, is because, in order to
balance the cylinder-to-cylinder fuel/air ratios in current production
models of continuous flow, port injection engines, takes a great deal
of time- consuming and precision tweaking of fuel injectors and/or
induction systems. It also requires a modification to the engine type
certificate, either directly by the manufacturer or by an STC."

10) Part 3, Figure 1. Shows that when running an unbalanced engine at
50F lean of peak the richer cylinders will be running at peak EGT, or
right in the death zone! (discussed in article just above the CHT
graph at the bottom of Part 3).

This point is driven home in the article Summary:

"Summary

There are three primary points to this third installment:

1 - If you try to run the engine on the lean side of peak without
first balancing the fuel/air ratios you run the risk of cooking one or
two jugs because they will end up running rich enough to be operating
continuously back up at peak EGT. At high power settings, this is not
a good place for the cylinders to be operated.

2 - If you do balance the fuel/air ratios, you will find that engines
operated on the lean side will run smoothly and in addition, they will
run significantly cooler than engines operated on the rich side of
peak.

3 - You can save significant amounts of fuel by balancing the fuel/air
ratios and continuing to run the engines on the lean side of peak. The
engines will run smoother and the EGTs and CHTs will be more uniform."

My conclusion is that there are benefits to running this tuning method
IF you have the instrumentation and ability to ensure that your
cylinders are balanced with no more than 4% AFR/EGT variance between
cylinders.

Additionally, you must tune to ensure that your engine crosses safely
from the rich side of stoich across the death zone to the lean side of
stoich without lingering in the death zone for any length of time. The
aircraft pilot can manually adjust the mixture from the cockpit. VW
drivers have fixed jets which must be tuned before driving. If you
have megasquirt, you can pre-program and then test your programming
against EGT readings.

As addressed in the article, the main reason the industry is not
tuning this way is the expense of safely managing A/F mixtures to
safely operate on the lean side of stoichiometry. So we can safely
conclude that there are good reasons our cars/buses are not running
this tuning, but that it is possible if sufficient investment of time
and resources are committed.

Hope this helps,

John
