Date: Sun, 4 Oct 2009 21:12:04 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: t2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Broken Cable, Chatter, Burnt Clutch?

I can't imagine what could have happened. Usually the cable just
breaks and it doesn't affect the clutch. It just means that you can't
shift, or you are going to do clutchless shifting.

So the next thought is something happened inside the clutch that
jerked your cable and snapped it. What could cause something like
that? Most likely candidate is a broken finger on the pressure plate.
I've had this happen before and after a little mangling, the finger
drops off to the bottom of the bell housing and you can drive and get
around with no problem even though the pressure plate isn't quite
right missing a finger or two.

I'm not sure how this theory would explain your clutch burning up.
Perhaps the finger jammed in such a position that temporarily the
pressure plate could not return full contact to the disc and so it
slipped for a while before stabilizing back to where it works now and
you can drive it.

That being the case, by your description of odor and clutch chatter,
it sounds like you have created some glazing on the friction disc
surface. This can be temporary, or can be worn off in short order and
your clutch will start to behave normally again. I would drive it with
the chatter, easing out the clutch as smoothly as possible to minimize
chatter, for as long as you can tolerate it to see if the clutch will
return to normal behavior or whether a replacement is mandatory.
Missing fingers on the pressure plate can contribute to chatter, too,
because of insufficient and inconsistent pressure applied to the disc.
If this is the case, the chatter will not improve.

Good luck!

John

On Sun, Oct 4, 2009 at 11:06 AM, Eric Arnold <ezgruv(-at-)cox.net> wrote:
 So I'm rolling into the VW show in Las Vegas this morning, and my clutch
 cable snaps - not all the way, it is holding on by a few threads.
 I manage to drive it into the show area and park it, but it is now smelling
 like a mutha! I've never smelled a 'burnt clutch' before, but this is what I
 imagine it would smell like.

 I install my spare cable there at the show; which draws a bit of interest.
 Several hours later I drive it home, and I'm getting considerable clutch
 chatter in every gear, and still smelling that smell a bit.

 So did I 'burn' up the clutch? I'm guessing a new one is on my horizon? I
 just put this clutch in about 5 months ago.
