Date: Mon, 5 Oct 2009 10:27:27 -0600 (MDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)purple.type2.com>
To: iamdonquixote(-at-)comcast.net
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: [VB] New Mexi Engine Specs

On Wed, 23 Sep 2009, iamdonquixote(-at-)comcast.net wrote:

> 1) the valves ARE NOT SET by the factory!!! --> you must set valve lash - Clara is right 15mm nuts, thats OK I guess
> - don't forget to set the valves
> 2) Plugs are different ( long reach )
> - perhaps someone can weigh in on specific differences, my engine came with plugs installed I think
> 3) Does NOT have a distributor gear installed!!! --> you need one, plus the copper rings and ideally the little tool to put it in
> - Somewhere there is a procedure for putting the distributor gear in.
> -- you need to set engine to TDC
> -- as I recall you can put the gear in a couple of ways so that TDC could be in a odd place such that it would confuse people ( ie pointing to #3 cylinder location )
> -- I didn't have the tool but used a bent coat hanger to "lower the gear" in to place

To this I'll add:

The plugs were installed by Hercules.  Loosen them and retorque before 
putting the tin on.

The only failure I've had on two meximotors was one broken cylinder stud. 
Luckily it was the lower front one on #3 which is the most accessible one. 
Unluckily I found it in Utah on a Saturday evening when I went to adjust 
the valves.  Through the magic of The List I found a Vdub place open on 
Sunday, dropped the engine, and replaced the stud before the day was out.

I'd recommend retorquing the cylinder nuts before installation although I 
don't know if the problem was overtorqing or just a defective stud.  For 
that matter, retorque everything you can get at.

You have to install the long case stud for the dual port manifold.  For 
some reason the Meximotors come with a short stud.

If you're running a thermostat you have to drill and tap the case for the 
stud.  Be very careful drilling the case as the drill tends to catch and 
go deeper than you intend.  Go slow!

Depending upon the engine being replaced you may find the Meximotor a bit 
down on power as it is low compression.  However it will run on any fuel 
you put in on the hottest day without pinging!
