Date: Tue, 6 Oct 2009 22:33:40 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc." <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Solex Rejetting

Hi Chris,

I was thinking about the same question as you to use an EGT as well as
CHT, as well as what you were thinking about where to put the sensor.
GAMI says:

"Hot/Cold cylinder - Some pilots confuse a "hot" cylinder with a
cylinder that has a high EGT reading. The cylinder with the hottest
EGT is not necessarily, or even often, the cylinder with the hottest
cylinder head temperature (CHT). That usage is very confusing.
reference is made to a "hot" or "cold" cylinder, in this article, it
refers to the temperature measured by the thermocouple embedded in the
aluminum cylinder head, and it has nothing to do with the temperature
of the exhaust gas flowing out the exhaust stack."

So today's aircraft have EGT as standard equipment with the
thermocouple in the head. Not having seen an aircraft head, it makes
me wonder how the thermocouple is embedded such that it will give an
accurate reading of EGT. I seem to remember reading long, long ago
something on the list or Ratwell about putting the CHT sensor at the
exhaust instead of the spark plug. There may have been something to
this, but after reading GAMI, it is obvious that a proper EGT reading
is more important.

So where to turn for inspiration? Well, our favorite CHT maker, Dakota
Digital, also sells EGT! The product is here:

http://tinyurl.com/yavvolq

The instructions are here:

http://www.dakotadigital.com/pdf/odyr-12.pdf

The interesting thing here is that Dakota is going straight into the
exhaust gas, which I feel more comfortable about rather than wondering
if surrounding metal in the head is absorbing some of the heat and
giving an improper reading.

I also remember Ratwell talking about CHTs and putting a sensor at
each cylinder and having a switch, manual or digital, to alternate
between cylinder readings. Certainly cheaper than gauging each
cylinder! The same, of course, can be done with EGT sensors.

You are right on target with the concept that our AFR's are only an
average of all four cylinders. This issue alone has me thinking from
time to time about switching from my stock dual carb setup to a Weber
progressive, which was my favorite setup. I know a lot of people don't
like them, and I know that in this discussion there are other factors
that cause the AFR to be imbalanced between the cylinders. Ideally, we
could put a sensor on each cylinder as you suggested. That might be
nice for full knowledge, but might be redundant in practice as the EGT
is graphed against AFR anyway. I was also wondering if this concept of
average AFR and cylinder imbalance was a factor on Mike's high CHT
readings if he has tuned for the average AFR, but the cylinder he has
the CHT sensor on is running richer than average and is in the hot
zone.

Classically # 3 cylinder's reputation of vulnerability is an artifact
of the upright engines in the days of the non-dog house oil cooler
since the cooler interfered with the path of the cooling air for # 3.
So theoretically it should be a non-issue with Type 4 engines, but I
did record CHT's for Mike the other day and found my # 3 running
hotter than my # 1. Possible answers could be the escaping cooling air
at the oil filter. Also, I wonder if it would be hotter than # 4 due
to the distance of # 3 from the fan. More studies....

John

On Tue, Oct 6, 2009 at 12:12 AM, C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc.
<c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net> wrote:
 Did some thinking about GAMI article listed below. VB folks, its great
 reading.

 Could placing thermocouples on the exhaust manifold pipes as they exit the
 heads provide a meaningful reading?

 How would this relate to oxygen sensor readings? Usually there is only one
 sensor giving an "average" reading of the 4 cylinders.

 Could this be a reason why 3 is the bain of the VW engine?

 Chris
