Date: Thu, 1 Apr 2004 16:30:30 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Engine downgrades (a touch long)

Nemo:

You sound a touch bitter and I looked high and low for the sarcasm
emoticon - 'twas not to be found...  Then I got the joke, what with
April 1st and all.  However you did wax thusly -

"...But what you'll miss those expensive parts that are usually
available only by mailorder.  It's just not a challenge when you can
just walk into
any foreign car flaps parts place and pick up the needed parts off the
shelf--- you get spoiled..."

And which expensive parts that are only available by mail order would
those be?  Please - cough up a list for our edification.  I posit
perhaps you need to find a better foreign car place to do biz with -
perhaps one that isn't rabidly anti-Type 4 in the first place.  The
place I do biz with has all the expendibles for either Type 1 or Type 4
on hand, and if not on hand then can be delivered by that afternoon.
And you got the mail order thing back-*sswards too - those parts are
usually LESS expensive via mail order, not more expensive via mail
order.  Perhaps things in my neck of the woods are different, but the
days of VW friendly foreign auto parts on every corner pretty much died
about 15 years ago.  Mail order / internet storefronts are keeping all
our cars completely viable, and especially places that don't have big
magazine advertising budgets to support by selling all those lame chrome
aftermarket bits, see-through dizzy caps and 009s.

"...Heck anybody can build a decent engine with new heads and cases,
like the type 1 guys do.  Show me some skills buy wleding machinining
one of
those 200,000 type IV cases and heads, or I'm not impressed..."

What are you trying to say? That statement is pretty unintelligible.
Are you saying that you've got a line on new Type 4 cases and heads?
What doesn't impress me very much are backyard, hack mechanics who
insist on effing up perfectly good Type 4 powerplants with all their
superior engineering knowledge acquired by years of effing up Type 1
powerplants; and by no means am I saying that you might fall into that
category.  Then having to listen to said individuals rant, rave, p*ss
and moan about how expensive everything is when the Type 4 melts down
through no fault of it's own, because said d*p-sh*t backyard hacks leave
off crucial tinware, leave off the perimeter seal, leave off the
impeller housing flap assembly, et cetera and ad nausem.  I dare say
that if you performed all the mechanical insults I've seen inflicted on
a Type 4 to a Type 1 powerplant, I doubt they would make out the
driveway to the gas station without imploding.  Don't blame the motor...

What I was trying to point in my prior post was the fallacy of the
inexpensive hi-po Type 1 2 liter as compared with the fiendishly
expensive 2.0L Type 4.  IF you do the homework and wish to make the Type
1 hi-po motor last to the same length of time as a stock 2.0L Type 4
comparably equipped (say with equivalent intake and exhaust systems),
you'll be (un)pleasantly (un)surprised to discover that the costs will
be pretty much the same, to the extent that you'll continue to reap the
benefits of the Type 4 (e.g. oil filter, full crankcase seals, and case
through-bolts) if you stick with it.  You'll also have to deal with hard
cold facts that those hi-po Type 1 parts you need to make it a 2 liter
are pretty aftermarket-y.  Depending on which the wind is blowing in
QC/QA that day, they may be stupendously splendidily-iferous or you may
want to take your own life with a dull micrometer...

Downgrade away if you must - it's your bus.  Give some thought to the
number crunching first - figure out the costs per mile before you leap
into the downgrade void...  You "might" be surprised at what you find.
Or just go buy a '71 and call it a day - and with that I'm done.

Toodles

-jph






E-MAIL CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:  The contents of this e-mail message and any
attachments are intended solely for the
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or legally privileged
information. If you are not the
intended recipient of this message or if this message has been addressed to
you in error, please
immediately alert the sender by reply e-mail and then delete this message and
any attachments. If you
are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination,
distribution, copying, or
storage of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited.
