From: "MICHAEL TURNER" <airmike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <andy(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, <brooksdj(-at-)earthlink.net>
Date: Fri, 2 Apr 2004 11:42:31 -0800
Subject: One of recently slain in Iraq was a bus driver

"ANDY"  wrote

"mercenary by trade, vw bus driving peacenik in private......."

I sure hope I misunderstood your thought. Your comment to me reads
unnecessarily harsh and cynical.
What I've learned of this young man indicates he served our country in the
United States Army,
did well and like many ex-G.I.'s took a job whose qualifications were based on
his military experience.
My understanding of the term "mercenary", in it's main definition...  is a
person who serve's for money in the
armed forces of a foreign country. Jerry Zovko worked for an American company,
doing something he thought
was important for our country. And yes he was paid for it.
I question your use of the term "mercenary" in connection with this young
man.
I should tell you that I served in the United State Navy for thirty years and
spent close to another twenty working
for the Navy as a civilian (aviation maintenance)
I never thought of myself as a "mercenary"! The only  flag in front of my home
is the American flag.
I own three VW's and don't think of myself as a "peace at any price,
peacenik".either.
I never had the opportunity to meet Jerry Zovko, but I've meet many like him
working in many of the oversea areas
I was assigned to. The fact that he also drove a bus kind of puts a "face" on
him. Like a "brother".
While I was in Japan, I knew this fellow that was part of a little social
group I hung out with. On one occasion
we had a Bar-B-que at a friends quarters. We were passing a "jug" around and
taking "hits" from it. I recall this guy
when the jug got around to him, poured a little on the ground, then took a
sip. Someone asked "why'd you do that?"
He smiled and said "heyyy.....thats for the brothers that ain't here".
Well, I guess the next time the "jug" comes my way.....I'm gonna pour a little
on the ground.
For the brother (s) that ain't here.
At this point in my life I'm a little to old to "get out there" anymore....but
I take pride that our country can
claim a man like him......
Thats my only thought
Mike Turner
