Date: Sat, 3 Apr 2004 10:57:15 -0500 (EST)
From: "Jamie Rivers" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: <cndt3(-at-)shaw.ca>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Erratic Idle

Andre .. Btw, when did you become THE Canadian? <chuckle>

Sounds like you need to start with a visual inspection of all the rest of
your intake and spark devices. Any component with a small defect can have
some effects on the engine performance,, and a few items can pile up to
make it hard to find one solution....

After that,, inspect the valves clearances... 6 thou for solid lifters,,
turn the hyd lifters adjusters in till they touch, then 1 turn more to
start with.

install your compression gauge,, should be in the 130+ psi area for a new
engine, if the rings have seated

install a leak down tester if you can ,, especially if the compression is low

install your vac gauge,  it should have a steady needle, and should be
about 15hg at idle

install your dwell meter, ensure the point dwell is about 50 and steady as
you rev it

double check your timing with a timing light, and make sure it is steady

As you have a bit of a Hungarian gooolosh engine, you should report back
with more information..

dist # ?
cylinder head temps
fuel pressure, should be about 5psi  if it is the same as the stock solex
fuel volume delivery , should be about 400ml in 30 seconds if it is the
same as the stock solex
what type of air cleaner is on the carb... if it has a flat top it may be
causing fuel vapour condensation to drip into the venturi at idle

can't think of anything else ,,
Jamie Rivers
South Western Ont CANADA  ;-)



The Canadian wrote:
>
> My recently acquired 74 camper 'hunts' at idle.  It's not a predictable
thing but it will be idling nicely then the rpms will drop or sometimes
increase for awhile then return to normal.  Thanks to the help of some
list members I am fairly certain that I have the van timed correctly. 
The engine is a newly-rebuilt 1.7L 914 block and it has a Holley
2-barrel carb on it (not my first choice but that's what's there.) 
Apart from the idle the van runs very well, accelerates quickly and all
that.  Anybody have any suggestions about the idle?  I determined that
there were some vacuum leaks around the base of the carb so I corrected
that today.  One of my sparkplug  wires has a badly cracked insulator,
I'll be getting new wires this week.  The van has an electric fuel pump,
is that a likely suspect?

-- 
Jamie Rivers
Ontario Canada
