From: "Andy" <airhedz(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "Phil Cappellini" <philcappellini(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 13 Jul 2004 21:54:36 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] shift rod bushing replacement

Phil,

My '79 actually has four bushings on the shift rod. Surprised me, too.

The front one is much like a grommet that the front end of the rod fits into
and slides and rotates in.

The rear (long) piece of the rod has three shuttlecock (think: badminton)
shaped bushings, one which is different than the other two. As I recall, the
different one was rearmost, and it had a circular spring inside the large
end to help spread out the 'tail' of the shuttlecock. The other two did not
have this, and were slightly 'smaller' (not as robust).

Since I did not know there were actually four bushings and only had two on
hand, I only replaced the front grommet and the forewardmost shuttlecock,
which I got from Bus Depot. Fortunately, the bushings I replaced were the
only ones showing any real wear, and I reused the other two.

Since I already had the engine and tranny out, it only took me an hour or
so, cleaning out the tube and rods, relubing, etc. Quick and dirty it would
have only taken ten or fifteen minutes.

You may get away with replacing only the front grommet, which I believe can
be done without removing the shaft (you may have to disconnect the coupler,
and you will have to take out the shifter). Mine was trashed, and the front
shuttlecock was only slightly worn. Save the shuttlecock(s) for a time when
you already have the engine out. The '72's are a PITA, what with the dual
carbs sticking up, no access hatch, etc. AMHIK. The '72 is slightly
different than my '79, including different part numbers.

Good luck!

Andy McKinley
airhedz(-at-)earthlink.net
'79 Westy
'79 Kombi Sunroof
Alameda, CA



> From: Phil Cappellini [mailto:philcappellini(-at-)hotmail.com]

> Andy,
>
> Mine is a 72. I don't think they should differ to much?  How long did it
> take to do the job and did you replace both bushings at the same time?
