Date: Sat, 30 Sep 2006 21:48:48 -0400
From: "Ken Dunn" <kennydunn(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "type2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Adjusting FI mixture without an EGA

I decided to check the points today just to see if there happened to
be a coincidence between the sluggishness and the new AFM.  The point
were dead on (that's a first).

With the original AFM, the fuel pump had been operating as soon as I
would turn the key to the "on" position.  Now that I have a spared
AFM, I cracked the black cover open and fixed the fuel pump safety
contacts by adjusting the lever that operates the contacts.  I put the
original AFM back in.  The sluggishness is completely gone but, the
engine does not run as smoothly with the original AFM as with the new
AFM.  I might be imagining it but, I think the engine tends to
backfire more with the original as opposed to the new.  I'll have to
swap  them back again to be sure but, it is backfiring almost every
time I let off the gas right now.

To summarize:  with the original AFM, I have an extremely minor
hesitation, sort of bumpy accerelation unless I'm on the throttle
pretty hard and it tends to lurch at the lower end of RPMs (30 in 3rd,
45 in 4th - especially so if I'm crusing at those speeds).  The new
AFM has no hesitation and accelerates very smoothly but, not as
powerfully.  It still seems torque-y enough - it will pull a hill
pretty well but, the acceleration just doesn't compare.

My wife wanted to drive the bus today because she's always been afraid
to and she's ready to get over it.  I sat in the passenger seat for
the first time.  It was weird - I've owned the bus for over ten years
and I've never seen the view from that perspective!  Anyway,  I
decided to try adjusting the AFM a bit to see if I could maybe clear
up the backfiring or smoothly things out with the original AFM.  It
seems sort of odd that with the current adjustment, as adjusted by my
previous mechanic, I have less than a quarter of a turn available when
I turn the screw clockwise.  Turning the screw, in increments or a
quarter turn or so, counterclockwise really doesn't seem to effect the
way that the engine runs until I get over 2 complete turns and then it
wants to shut off.

I really don't have any specific questions but, if anyone has any
thoughts, I'd love to hear them.

Take care,
Ken
