Date: Sun,  1 Oct 2006 08:09:06 -0400
From: mccomas(-at-)intercom.net
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: Nurofiz(-at-)knology.net
Subject: Piston stuck in caliper

Chris,
       You said, "This is my daily driver so I'm stranded...."  I'm afraid my 
advice is not going to help you much :-((  First, I agree with Dr Tim that 
there is wide variation of quality in rebuilt calipers, and if you are going 
that route, a pre-purchase old/new comparison is a must.  Also agree that you 
need to think about cleanliness of the entire system!  Some of the old fluid 
you see will probably be pretty gross.

Blowing the pistons out with compressed air can be dangerous; also the max 
pressure is limited to the air tank pressure.  I made up an adapter for my 
Porto-Power pump, to connect with the brake hose input on the caliper. I have 
been heretical, in regard to what the shop manuals say about splitting the 
caliper. IMHO, one has no choice in some cases, and yours is one of them.  

First I clamp the piston of the caliper half that includes the hose input.  
Then I bring up the hydraulic pressure to remove the unclamped piston.  Next I 
remove the clamp and separate the caliper halves.  I use a flat metal plate 
plus C clamp to blank-off the fluid passage (s); then bring up the hydraulic 
pressure to remove the next piston.  Goes without saying, you need a quantity 
of hydraulic system fluid (available cheap at SAMs Club); also before 
reassembly you need to remove all traces of old fluid and hydraulic oil.  It's 
a messy process... those blue gloves are helpful... but it always worked for 
me, no matter how grossly salted and corroded the calipers were.

OTOH, if you are working outdoors, maybe living in an apartment, my method 
is 'way too complicated... but depending on geography perhaps someone (incl. 
me) can jump in and give you a hand.  Where are you located?   Glenn

------------- R E F -------------------
Date: Sat, 30 Sep 2006 16:21:24 -0400
Subject: Piston stuck in caliper

HELP!

I'm in the process of rebuilding my calipers.  I rebuilt the right one 
already, and now I have the skillset to rebuild the left one.  I have 
R&Rd one piston (the outboard one) on the left caliper, but now I can't 
get the other piston out.  I hooked the caliper back up to the bus and 
pumped the pedal mightily, but the piston won't budge.  Do I need a new 
caliper?

The bus has been pulling to the right for months.  The pads on the left 
side are worn all the way down, but the pads on the right side still 
have a lot of miles on them.  I'm replacing them anyway.



------------------------------------------------------
This message was sent using Delmarva Online's Webmail.
http://www.dmv.com/
