Date: Mon, 2 Oct 2006 13:48:09 -0400
From: Anymouse <honeybus(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Type 2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: '72 camper in CRays Maryland

There is a newly arrived  '72 VW camper in CRays Jessup  MD with a super
stock engine compartment, consisting of a 'round' oil bath air filter on top
of two PDSIT carbs with all the linkage and the dashpot.  See link for
prices...

http://www.crazyraysautoparts.com/price.htm

Something that original has got be be worth recycling.

It's down the back field, and you will see the pop top and canvas when you
cross over the drainage ditch bridge.

Good hunting...

There's still the '74 in CRays Hawkins Point MD (exit 1 off I-695) and
it has a square port (exhaust) set of heads on a GE coded engine.   The one
piece heat exchangers (that end in a trapezoid flange vice triangle flange)
are decent, but the crossover pipe is rusted beyond expectations.  There is
no pig tail for the EGR filter, but the HE would make a nice replacement if
you weren't faced with the need for a cat converter.  I don't know, does the
'80 Vanagon Federal have a cat converter??

For all of you friends out there, I sold my '76 Safare camper to a young boy
in Long Island NY.  He came down in a red eye Greyhound bus from NYC,
leaving NYC at 01:05 and arriving at 07:10.  He drove it back that
afternoon.

He is a final year student in some type of industrial design school up there
and he says he has access to sophisticated equipment in wood working, metal
working, fabric design and sewing.  The perfect candidate for either
restoring the '76 from 30 years of existence (15 years on the road; 15 years
inside garage storage).

The '72 Westy camper went to a 16 year old in mid Virginia whose dad is into
old Mustangs and dune buggies, and dad has a custom cabinetry firm with
computer assisted cutting of the cabinet panels.  He could select the
pattern and design and tweak as needed and feed the wood and the computer
would do the cutting to perfection. They are only a few miles from Salem
Virginia, and the boy came to Natural Bus and showed off the final work on
the '72.  Can you imagine a 16 year old boy turning down a classic Mustang
for a '72 (bed in the  back!!) VW camper...  Smart boy.

Finally, I have 10 wheels on rims that have to be resolved.  Only one is
acceptable as a spare, one is a classic original 29 year old rayon belted 8
ply tire / 6 ply rated, four are dry rotted, and four came from the '76
Safare that was in the garage from 1989 thru 2004.  New thread, but
internally the belts are busting

-- 
Anymouse sends
