Date: Mon, 2 Oct 2006 21:02:07 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Courtney Hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>
Subject: Re: [T2] OTP - Electric bike conversions when camping etc.

On Mon, 2 Oct 2006, Courtney Hook wrote:

> I realize this is somewhat off topic, but who better to ask than a bunch of
> campers that by their badge of vehicle ownership pretty much say " let's take
> the road less travelled", or else, are into tinkering.
>
> I've been keeping my eye on the price of gas when commuting, and let's be
> frank; it ain't gonna go down.

Actually, it is coming down, likely because the elections are coming up! :)

> looking at commuting much more cheaply. The latest Electric bike conversions
> utilizing a hub motor are indeed starting to look good. With claimed distances
> of 30Km on a charge at up to 32Kmp/H I'm definitely interested. Does anyone
> have any real world experience with one of these? I would especially like to
> know if I can really just sit back and the let the bike climb a hill for me,
> while I wave royally at the people sweating it out to make the same incline?

I commute on an electric scooter made by Currie Technologies and sold by
Mongoose Bicycles.  Similar scooters are also branded as Schwinn and GT.
The same company also makes electric bicycles.

They are a handy little device, but take the mileage and hill-climbing
claims with a big grain of salt.  Battery technology just isn't that
terrific unless you want to spend a _lot_ of money.  I have a 1-mile
commute and I could probably do it 3 or 4 times before the batteries
need recharging for a total of six or eight miles.  Add a hill and the
power consumption goes way up and they do not regenerate going downhill.

The scooter is also a handy thing to have at VW meets, making it easy to
run errands without having to move my bus.

It works for me, giving me the functionality of the ubertech Segway
scooter at a tenth of the cost.  No, it won't sit there balancing like a
Segway, but there is this handy little kickstand that holds it upright
even when the power is off!  It also doesn't make me do a faceplant when
the software has a glitch!  :)

George
