Date: Tue, 08 Jan 2002 18:14:15 -0800
From: Roger Clermont <roger.clermont(-at-)conducivetech.com>
To: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] heating project? (using propane)

I've got a catalytic propane heater (and CO/smoke detector) in my
Westfalia, and I've had some troubling problems with propane gas flow in
colder temperatures.  It seems that as the outside air temp drops, so
does the flow of propane.  Sometimes it's so bad that flow completely
stops(!), which kinda stinks when you're looking forward to cooking a
meal inside a toasty warm van after skiing all day (and not to mention
that the stove won't work because the propane stopped flowing).  So what
gives?

I believe the propane in the tank is in liquid form and converted to a
vapor when released from the tank, which leads to this story:

One summer not so long ago I had the valve and regulator replaced on the
westy's propane tank.  The technician at the propane supply shop burned
off a lot of the propane before removing any tank components; I say a
lot because it didn't seem to burn long enough to have emptied the
tank.  I asked him this while he was unhooking the burn hose and
starting to pull the valve stem; he said, "Well, if you let it escape
fast enough, it will get cold enough that no gas will escape, and so no
need to burn it all off."  (I nodded politely and made my way to the
back of the bus.)

So as the propane gas escapes, the temperature inside the tank drops
(ever seen the frozen condensation on the exterior of a 1 lb. propane
bottle after running a tabletop grill for a spell?).  Now in my
situation, not only is the ambient (outside) air colder, but the system
is also refrigerating itself as a byproduct of the state change (liquid
-> vapor).

So is this the nature of propane and cold climates, or is something
wrong?  Could it be too cold (atmospheric) to change the propane from a
liquid to a vapor?  Could the propane be freezing itself given the
temperature drop associated with use?  Is there a solution?  It was
mentioned previously that many RV's use similar setups for heat, so what
plagues my situation such that it falters or fails?

Thanks
-Roger



Corbett said:

> Their is a company in the UK that makes a propane heater just like the old
> gas ones.
