Date: Wed, 09 Jan 2002 21:21:18 -0500
To: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>,type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] t4 heat exchanger help needed

>The pipe that attaches to the heat exchanger has a clamp spotwelded to
>it.  The pipe was loose(as in flapping in the air) while the clamp was
>tight.  I finally got the clamp loosened up, but can't figure out if the
>pipe slides down over the pipe that comes from the heat exchanger or not.

Ahh in the dream world of all new German parts, yes the riser pipes that
go up to the flapper valve simply slip onto the exchanger and are clamped
by the spot welded on clamp you see.  Then there is reality.  Even with
old German parts this sure don't happen anymore, and I have a personal
belief all Dansk boxes are at least 1/8-1/4" too big on the diameter even
if you
get the countours right.  Depending on year if you have round outlets you
may want to remove the risers and try to round and stretch them out with
something (I have a reamer that is tapered and goes to about 4" I use for
this task.)  Then judicious attempts at making the heater box side round
and smaller by either tapping all the way round with a hammer or finding
something to cup over it.  Then liberal use of a good RTV on assembly.
A nice hint around WV is to replace the bolt in the welded on clamp with
a stainless american 3/16? maybe.  Whatever size has a 7/16 head cause
if you buy a stainless stove bolt style square nut if fits and locks perfectly
on that clamp, and it doesn't rust.  The stock bolt there is a very special
contour, would make a good Whatzit quiz picture, it steps the nut off a bit
from the clamp, but I like the stainless with a washer a lot more.

>There were remanants of some sort of "rubber" seal inside the pipe going
>up to the heater "valve".

Should be either asbestos of rubber gasket at the top going to the flapper
box.  It is nice to replace the asbestos with rubber in fact, the rubber came
on some '79 AFAIK and on all Vanagons though on the Vanagon the sides
are different so retrofit to bus involes getting two of the straight (right
I think)
side.  No rubber seal at the bottom, may be something that got blown into
the cooling fan and found its way into the heater box tract instead of onto
the top of the engine.

>Can someone who has seen one of these in proper shape tell me what it is
>supposed to look like and how it should truely fit?  Where the clamp is
>spotwelded doe not appear to let the other pipe meet up with it very well.

You have surmised everything correctly, just got to make do.  A wider clamp
and a but fit may indeed be necessary depending on how bad things are.  I
forgot to mention but the oval outlets are even worse as even with stock stuff
they tend to get beat out of shape.  Regardless with a lot of cussing and
persistence you can usually get it all to fit up.  Often you need to bend the
bracket on the riser pipe that attaches to the cooling tin to allow the riser
down some as the top sits wherever it wants attached to the flex hoses.

Have fun.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu


