From: "Bob" <rgreenup3(-at-)home.com>
To: "jesse weed" <jesse(-at-)russellsquare.org>,
Date: Wed, 9 Jan 2002 19:06:55 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] a couple dumb questions


Jesse wrote:



Hello, i'm really new to the whole vw world, i've been wanting to get a bus
ever since i can remember and finally picked about a month ago. It's a '77
standard that i got for $200. It runs almost perfect the body is straight
with very little rust, good tires breaks etc. basically decent throughout
(but not even close to perfect). I have a lot of small things that need to
be done (and some bigger things), and could use a little help. My most
prominent problem is that I took the instrument cluster apart about a week
ago and i wrote down what wires went where, but my dog thought it would make
a great chew toy, and so now i have no idea how to put everything back
together. I've tried dinking around to see if i could somehow maybe
"accidentally" figure it out, but have had no luck. The whole wiring setup
is a total mess anyway, and so basically i want to completely re-do all of
the wiring (wires are cut and taped and glued and going every which way). Is
there anywhere that I can find a good wiring schematic to be able to figure
out what should go where. I'm pretty good with wiring and electrical, but
most of the wires dead-end and don't go anywhere, and there are also holes
all over the dash where there obviously used to be various conrols for god
knows what, is there someplace i could find pictures maybe of what the dash
is supposed  to look like? That would really help me out a lot. It's hard to
fix something when you don't know what needs to be fixed. Also, would easier
(or worth the price) to just take it in and have someone who really knows
what they're doing do it? Any thoughts would be greatly appreciated. Also,
one last thing, this is just a standard, but i've always wanted a westy,
there is nothing inside the bus right now except the two front seats,
otherwise everything in back is completely stripped, how easy or hard would
it be to convert into a westy type interior? and how hard would it be to
find the equipment? Again, i'm still new to the wonderfull world of vw, so
these might be pretty stupid questions, but i didn't know how else to get
them answered, so i thought i would try here first. Thanks!

Jesse


To begin with, get yourself a copy of the Official Service Manual type 2 *
Station Wagon/Bus-68 through 79* in it you will find the complete wiring
diagram listed for your bus.

Do it yourself, do it right, don't try to cut corners.  You will be $$$
ahead, and you'll have the satisfaction of learning about your bus as well.
If you run into something you can't figure out or have questions about check
the type-2 archives first, then take it to the list for help.


Bob-- who just finished installing a new dimmer relay in my DC, thanks to
the help of Robert Bentley, George Lyle, & the type 2 archives....

71 Transporter
71 Westy--Pop Top Camper
69 DC-- Company Truck

