To: "Michael Benthin (MUTS)" <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "Theodore Reshetiloff" <TReshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com>
Date: Thu, 10 Jan 2002 10:08:16 -0500
Subject: Re: Aux Battery systems was  Charging Spare-Beckett's tome re Hella kit and


     First off thanks a lot for the explanation.  I do quite a bit of 12
volting with my 30 foot sailboat and its two battery setup. I have a large
switch that lets me select from battery 1, 2 or both. I also have an
isolation diode to prevent the more fully charged no.1 battery from leaking
down to the lower charged no.2 battery when the engine is running. The no.1
batt is a starting battery and the no. 2 is a big ass AGM which I call my
house battery as it is used for everything but starting the engine. I run a
100amp Lauderdale Marine alternator and have manual and automatic voltage
regulators. The manual regulator allows me to charge both batteries quickly
by keeping the output high. I only use this when on long cruises and I have
time to carefully monitor the voltage in both batteries. I run a 12volt
refridgerator on the boat and it requires me start and run my engine every
2 days for a 1/2 hour to get me house system back up to snuff.
     Now for my question. I have a 78' Westy with the 12/120volt fridge and
I am getting ready to hook back up the aux battery. A PO removed the
battery and simple snipped the wires. They are all there including the
original relay, the ends have just been cut. I would first off like to know
how much juice that fridge draws when it cycles and when it is not cycling?
I want to know how big of a battery I should get to install. I dont want to
put a huge AGM back there as I have enough weight in the rear as it is.
Also with the factory relay would that not limit my charging rate to say
15amps? And if so doesnt that mean it will take a lot longer to charge said
battery? If for instance I am running a 200 amp hour battery and I run it
say totally dead then go to charge it at 15amps that will take how long?
13hours? I am by no means a 12volt wizard here so perhaps I am missing a
big part of the puzzle please help.
     I don't want to over tax my alternator either but is there not a way I
could at least up that charge rate to say 30 amps and still not hurt my
alternator? I like to camp for days at a time and would love to be able to
run my fridge and not have to run my engine for 12-13 hours every other day
to keep up wiht the demand. Any ideas?
     What about running a setup similar to what I described on the boat
(Dinah Moe)? Without the manual voltage regulator? I could take the feed
from the alternator and plug it to the big switch that would let me charge
either 1,2 or both batteries and then run the isolation doide to keep them
from sharing electrons? You sound a lot more knowledgeable in this area
than I am so let me know your thoughts.


Theodore Reshetiloff
Cambridge Associates LLC
78' Westy Possum
72' Columbia 30 Dinah Moe (sailboat for you landlubbers)  ;-)
treshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com


