Date: Tue, 18 Aug 2009 15:56:59 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: David C Matthews <dcm(-at-)c-sw.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] [Q] Fuel Tank Removal

As the other respondent said, remove the hex nut/collar thing that holds the outlet to the tank.  Be ready with a catchpan or a bucket.  I used a 5 gallon paint bucket to be safe and still got a nice bath out of it.

Remove the tank vent lines.  There should be one on either end on top of the tank and one in the center top facing you.  That last one is usually cracked and is the cause of that gas smell you get when your tank is nearly full.  That rubber bit is no longer available (NLA), so be careful where you put it if it is still good.  Mine was split.

Disconnect the fuel filler hose from the tank very carefully.  That hose is NLA also.  Disconnect the fuel level sender; its a single wire plug.  Don't forget to disconnect the ground.  On mine it was screwed into the ceiling of the fuel tank compartment.

Once the wirres and lines had been removed, I pushed the hold-downs out of the way and the tank just pulled right out.  There was a foam seal around the hole in the bottom of the tank compartment.  I believe this is to keep water from getting up in there.  You'll want to keep that.

So long as its out, I encourage you to do the Eastwood gas tank restoration.  It costs less than $100 in chemicals, and the tank will be better than new after wards.  It took me a few calendar days but no more than a few hours.  If memory serves, it was about this time last year that I did it.  I'll have to check the blog...

 Paul Manning
1972 Westy (Hapy) - TDI transplant recipient
Lake Grove, OR
http://viewfromabus.blogspot.com/





----- Original Message ----
From: David C Matthews <dcm(-at-)c-sw.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Sent: Tuesday, August 18, 2009 2:20:44 PM
Subject: [T2] [Q] Fuel Tank Removal

Group-

I'm finally removing my fuel tank for general clean-up, and want to hear from someone who's done it before.  My bus is a '71, and the good news is that the engine is out (I'm still in restoration mode).  I have the cover plate off (i.e. the metal sheet which hides/closes the tank.  I've even got the two straps that secure the tank removed.

So what's next?

I'm "sure" that there's still gas in the tank.  Should I siphon it out from the side of the bus (i.e. filler cap)?  Maybe there's an easy way to drain the tank before loosing all the hoses and pullin' real hard to get 'er out?

Timely responses are welcome, as I'm trying to do this tonight.

-David
