Date: Sat, 2 Feb 2002 23:15:02 -0500 (EST)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Shell Rotella/XLA

David Bell sends:

> What is the opinion on the list of the Shell Rotella 15W40 dino oil? It
> would be for use in a daily driver 1974 T2, 1.8 ltr, with hydraulic lifters.
> I live and drive in western KY where the winter temps rarely go as low as 0F
> and usually average in the 30's to low 40's. In the summer we can have
> daytime temps of 90+ for days or weeks at a time. Most of my driving is
> short trips, ie, 10 miles to work, 5 miles to Wally World, 20 or 30 miles of
> errands around town, with an occasional 50 mile trip to the big city.

> Just looking for opinions, especially from those who have used this oil.


David,

Oil is definitely a FAQ on the list and opinions are very varied an
strongly held :-)  I like Castrol GTX 20W-50 and run it year round.  Oil
pressures here (Virginia) in the dead of winter (-10 to 0C, 10-32F) run
a bit high, but upon warm up, they drop to reasonable.

That said, there is no harm in running Rotella, it's a fine oil that has
everything you need to run safely and well.  The only drawback I see to it
is that it is a bit high in ash content, which means that over the long
run you may build up a bit more sludge than is desirable, but that is a
minor point at worst. (And the Castrol is no slouch in the ash dept.
either, so who am I to speak? :-)

There is an excellent oil FAQ at:

http://www.vtr.org/maintain/oil-overview.html

That explains the various details of oil very well.  I recommend you read
it to understand what you are doing and why.

The most important point I feel it makes has to do with what the viscosity
numbers on various oils mean.  Summarized, the points are:

The first number is the initial viscosity.  This is an arbitrary and
relative number determined by Society of Automotive Engineeers (SAE)
tests.  The lower this number is, the thinner the oil is.  An SAE 10
weight oil will pour faster than an SAE30 weight oil at any given
temperature.  Conversely, an SAE 30 weight oil will maintain its
lubricating properties (have *some* viscosity) to a higher temperature
than an SAE 10 weight oil.  higher number = slower pour at room
temperature but protection to a higher engine/oil temperature.

The second significant digit is the "W", which stands for "winter".  This
is present on oils that have the ability to pour (and PUMP!) at 0F. Oils
with a W designation have had their viscosity curve modified so that they
have *some* pour and pumpability at zero degrees... very important in the
winter!  In very cold climates, an SAE30 oil might well turn into a block
of tar whereas an SAE30W oil will pump thru your engine.

The third significant digit is the high temp rating.  This is found on
multi-viscosity oils.  these oils, like the W oils have had their
viscosity curve modified, this time at the upper end of the temp range so
that they do not thin as fast as a straight-weight oil.  An oil rated as
SAE10W-30  will pour like an oil rated at SAE10 when it is cold, but will
protect your engine at operating temperature like an SAE30 rated oil.

Many many moons ago, when the earth was younger and stew had just barely
been invented, there were problems with the initial batches of multi-
viscosity oils and some older drivers adopted a hate-hate attitude.
Since I am just lightly older than stew (tho younger than dirt :-), I had
this attitude myself at the time.  Over the years, multi-viscosity oils
have improved tremendously and I have, over the years, come to trust them.
These days, no auto manufacturer does *not* recommend multi-viscosity oils
and many require it.  VW even recommended it toward the end of air-cooled
production.

Use the Rotella if you want, it is fine.  Of course, if you want to join
the one true faith, by all means feel free to switch to *my* favorite (he
said with tongue firmly implanted in his cheek :-)

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail



