From: "Phil & Laurie Gowdy" <philgowdy(-at-)sympatico.ca>
To: "The Bus List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "The Bug Pack"
Date: Tue, 6 Apr 2004 16:36:56 -0400
Subject: PDSIT Timing

  Hello Gang,

 I've included a post from the archive, to "Ben" from Steve Dolan,

"Ben,

What you have found is not unexpected.  Because changing the dwell
angle changes not only the amount of time that the points are open/closed,
but also where in the rotation the points do open and close, resetting the
dwell will have a large effect on timing.   I would advise you to reset
the dwell as close as your patience will allow to 50 degrees, then check
the timing again.  You *must* set dwell before setting timing.  To do
otherwise produces meaningless and confusing results, as you have found.

On the vacuum ports on the distributor biscuit, the port that faces toward
the distributor is the vacuum retard port.  Originally, it was hooked to a
source of manifold vacuum, a port below the throttle butterfly.  From that
port, you get high levels of vacuum at idle and it pulled the points plate
around up to 18 degrees before TDC, depending on which distributor you
have.  On a '73, with the original 021-905-205J distributor, the timing is
set at 10 degrees before TDC, with all hoses connected, as you said in
your post.  BUT...

You also say that your vacuum retard hose is not present and that the port
is open to the air.  This is fine, and it can be run this way, but without
the vacuum hose you will get no retard at idle!!!!  As a result, you
timing spec will change from 10ATDC to 7.5BTDC.  Note at the bottom of Jim
Thompson's listing in the library for this distributor that it says:

Advance/Retard Range: Vacuum: 7-12deg Adv, 16-18deg Ret

With the vacuum retard hose missing, you have to eliminate that 16-18
degrees from your setting.  10ATDC - (16 or 18) = (6BTDC or 8BTDC).  With
rounding, usually the timing on a dual vac advance/retard distributor that
is being run without the vacuum retard hose is set at 7.5BTDC.

Since your vacuum advance is still connected (which it should be!) and
from your description would seem to be corrected correctly (to the port
that enters the carb throat just above the throttle butterfly), you should
be getting 7-12 degrees of vacuum advance as the engine RPMs increase.  In
addition, you should be seeing 9-14 degrees of advance from the mechanical
advance mechanism, for a total advance of 16-28 degrees.  Starting at
7.5BTDC, this will give you a final advance of 23.5-35.5 degrees at ~2500
RPM.

The steps you ought to take today are:

1)  Set dwell to 50 degrees.
      It is impossible to set timing until you have the dwell set
      correctly.  I find that the closer I am to 50 spot on, the happier
      the bus is.  At the very least, try to get in the 48-52 range.

2a) Set timing to 7.5BTDC if the vacuum retard hose is off or
2b) set the timing to 10ATDC if the vacuum retard hose is on.
      I would personally leave the hose off at first to eliminate a
      possible problem (maybe the vacuum retard diaphram is torn)

3)  Check advance as the engine RPMs increase.
     Accelerate the engine and see if the timing advances and where it
     advances to.  It should go to somewhere around 30 degrees at 2500RPM.

If all this works out, great!  You are done!  If it does not, here are
possible problems and places to look:

Vacuum
  My personal bugbear.  Check vacuum at the port on the carburetor.  It
  should be near 0 at idle, but rise to 10-15" as the throttle opens. If
  it starts at 15-18" and drops as you open the throttle, then you have a
  manifold vacuum port on your hands.  Wrong port!  Look for the behavior
  I described above on a different port on the carb.

  If the vacuum is near 0 at idle and does not change, then clean the
  carb!  That port is blocked.

Torn vacuum advance diaphram
  Put a piece of hose on the vacuum advance port of the distributor.  Suck
  on the hose.  Does the points plate rotate?  If not, it may be a torn
  diaphram or it may be a stuck plate.  try moving the plate with your
  fingers.  Will it move?  If not, take the dist apart and oil it up
  good. If the points plate does move freely, then the vacuum biscuit is
  dead and needs replacing.

  Suck on the hose and put your tongue over the end of the hose.  does
  the points plate stay rotated?  If not, then your vacuum biscuit is dead
  and needs replacing.

Stuck/broken mechanical advance
  Take the distributor drive dog in one hand and the rotor in the other
  and try to turn them in relation to each other.  There ought to be a
  couple of degrees of free movement. If not, try oiling with penetrating
  oil down the center of the shaft and wiggle them free.

If you still have a problem after you have done this, let us know.

                           Steve Dolan

  My 73 Bus with stock dual carbs is acting as if there is no retard to the
vacuum can. I pull the retard hose and no change. If I put a piece of tubing
on the cannister I can get the plate to move and it stays when I cut off the
vacuum.(tongue:)
There is about 11-12 on the vacuum gauge when i T it in to the carb port so I
have vacuum.
This started after rebuilding the L/H carb and replacing the R/H with new.
Only way to get the bus to run without retard is to time at 7.5BTDC.
I pulled the distributer and confirmed the advance weights are moving and the
diaphram is good on the dist.  (021 905 205J)

Any clues?

Thanks
Phil
73 Westy
The Contraption ( On the road again!)
