Date: Sun, 2 Oct 2005 19:18:35 -0700 (PDT)
From: Timothy Osburn <blues412002(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: bus <type2(-at-)type2.com>, Buskatiers <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>
Subject: VW Camper Wild West Tour (long article!)

Well, friends, I am just back from what I call the Wild West Grand Tour. Lady Jane and I took off in my 1974 VW Westfalia hardtop camper (recently named Tullio, as in T. Campagnolo, inventor of the modern bicycle derailleur and quick-release hubs) on a pleasant Friday morning and drove 620 miles from Kansas City to Tucumcari, NM. It took about 11 hours, averaging 60mph. Those of you reading this that are VW Bus fanatics know that that is a reasonable, prudent and pretty much top end speed to travel vast distances.

 

This summer, I installed a cylinder head temperature, oil pressure and oil temperature gauges in my Westy. Having done my homework, consulted with various VW gurus and read the advice of many on the internet lists, I was somewhat concerned when my CHT was reading close to 450 degrees, oil temp was just shy of 260 degrees, this while maintaining the aforementioned average speed. I did have the prevailing southwesterly winds smacking the bus squarely on the snout, so that was a factor. Most have told me that CHT should hover around 350 and oil at 180-220 degrees. So I was kind of on the edge of my seat for a couple of days until I decided that the gauges are probably inaccurate and the fact that the bus was running very strong, didnt miss a lick.

 

The second day was 420 miles, to Holbrook, AZ, near the Painted Desert/Petrified Forest, which we visited. Same general temp readings.

 

The third leg was about 140 miles, on into south rim of The Grand Canyon, stopping by Meteor Crater to have a look at the big hole it dug. The climb in altitude between Flagstaff and the rim is very gradual, but you top out at about 7000 feet elevation at the rim. Ive heard many say that you should adjust your timing, advancing it 1 degree for every 1000 feet elevation. Impractical, I say, when on the road, en route. I suppose if I lived at that altitude I would experiment with such adjustments, but not on a vacation! So I kind of factored that into my slightly elevated temp readings, as some say that high altitude makes an engine run hotter.

 

Two glorious days were spent exploring the South Rim while the bus took a well-deserved rest. Its my favorite spot in the universe, having hiked into and across it four times now. Still awesome, no matter how many times youve seen it.

 

Our next stop was to swing around the 240 miles to the North Rim, staying at an RV park in Jacob Lake before the final 45 mile drive to the rim. Everything was just humming along fine when I began to lose power all of a sudden. Way out on the high desert, cell phones out of range. Desolate yet beautiful country, surrounded by the Vermillion Cliffs, 1000 foot red sandstone cliffs that stretch for a hundred miles or more. Anyway, got out, threw open the engine hatch and began my troubleshooting. All spark plugs solidly in place, no loose wires, got good blue spark when cranking and holding the coil wire close to ground. Got out my Bentley and found where the fuel pump was, as the carbs were both bone dry. Yep, sure enough, the fuel filter was devoid of petrol also. Fuel pump, I thought. Damn, too bad I didnt have a spare, I couldve fixed it on the spot myself. But, no such preparations had been made nor foreseen. A guy stopped and offered to send back help from Jacob Lake, 30 miles
 up the road. Soon, an AZ Highway Patrol and the county sheriff stopped by to help. The HP officer offered to relay my motor plan card info and get a tow truck there. Once that was taken care of, they both split the scene and we waited, alone.

 

Finally our knight in shining tow truck arrived and hauled us in to Fredonia, AZ, about six miles south of the Utah line, 50 miles from where we crapped out. I was glad the truck was one of the modern, tilt-bed variety, as I didnt relish the thought of Tullio swaying back and forth on a harness type rig. We were put up at the Crazy Jug Motel, what a great name!

 

The next morning, I was up early, trying all the vendors at my disposal to see if I could get a new, stock fuel pump overnighted, but it was not to be. So I told the mechanic (an old hippy like me) to put an electric pump on er. Problem solved by late afternoon, so the next morning, we hightailed it out of Fredonia, on to Zion Canyon National Park.

 

Zion for a day, followed by Bryce Canyon for another day, then a very nice state park in Escalante for yet another day. There are some hellaciously steep grades in Utah and we had a long, steep climb over a 9100 foot pass. All the while, little bus was performing admirably, just slow (you know the deal). Across the Capitol Reef we headed on to eastern Utah and stayed overnight in Blanding before crossing into Colorado. We hit Mesa Verde National Park, then drove on to Durango, where Janes sister and her husband were expecting us.

 

They have a beautiful home in the mountains. I checked my GPS- almost 7600 foot elevation! We toured around Durango one day, and went up to Silverton, over a couple of 10k passes, then road the narrow gauge steam train back to Durango. Way cool!

 

Finally, after a day of downtime and DOING NOTHING, we set out for home. Its about 800 miles from Durango to KC and we were originally going to take it in three easy bites. But the lure of home was too much. The first day, we had to get up over Wolf Creek Pass, somewhere above 10k feet (never did see an elevation sign). No problem, and I really began to appreciate the fact that slow can be better. 25mph up the grade for 8 miles, but we certainly got a better look at the awesome scenery at that pace. What would we have missed at 60mph?

 

Then after the mountains, the high plains beckoned. We made it to Scott City, KS (about 50 miles east of the CO border) and crashed for the night, after 454 miles.

 

The final day, 350 miles worth, turned out to be the most nerve wracking. And it didnt get that way till the last 50 miles on I-70, from Topeka on into KC. There were four factors involved- rain, road construction, crazy urban drivers and a crosswind that was making the bus jump all over the place. White knuckle driving at its finest!

 

Finally made it home unscathed but beaten up and very tired. All in all, a very exciting and satisfying trip of almost 3000 miles in a 31-year old VW microbus, which, save for the fuel pump trouble, performed excellently. The one thing I learned and is inscribed forever in my heart and mind now about driving a bus is this maxim- The Right Lane Is Your Friend (unless it happens to turn into an unmarked right turn only lane!).

 

Hope you all enjoyed my tale, long as it was. Camping in the Westy is a dream. Jane and I are both ready to do it again. Happy Camping!

 

(For a look at a few pics, go here http://photos.yahoo.com/blues412002

other weird pics there, too, feel free to look, if you dare!)





Tim Osburn, Head Mechanic, Ralph Spoilsport Motors. 
1970 Beetle (Sport), 1974 Westfalia hardtop camper (Tullio), 1956 Euro Beetle ragtop (Ebon,in progress)
Home of The Blues Notions website- http://bluesnotions.com
