From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 18 Feb 2007 21:47:35 -0700
Subject: Strange engine

Perfect Bus weather today. In the 60s for the first time in months. The snow
is almost gone and spring is in the air. My wife says, "lets take Toffee for
a drive to see Grandma and Grandpa". I grin almost too wide.

 

Soon we were zipping down the freeway enjoying the great weather. Had my
wife and my boy in the '70 (Toffee) and everything was running like a Swiss
watch. New motor, new everything. Through the morning we did about an hours
worth of freeway driving at 60-70mph. Coming home we exited the freeway and
stopped at the light - engine dies. Restart, no problem. Get to the next
light - engine dies. Now I'm getting a little worried here. Restart, no
problem. Get to the next light - engine dies. Crap at least I am close to my
neighborhood. Restart, no problem. Get to the next light and of course it is
red - engine dies. I'm thinking the gas gauge is screwy and I am fighting
vapor here. I keep it going till the nearest gas station - Costco - engine
dies twice more before going dead whilst rolling up to the pump. Put in 10
gallons, oh great, not a fuel problem. 

 

I park in the Costco lot and while my wife feeds our little guy, and I start
calling my neighbors. No one is home, so I fiddle around with cap, wires,
ignition and change the fuel filter (a little gritty but not bad). All looks
great, she is definitely getting fuel. After 10 minuets or so, we fire it
up, I keep the revs above 2000 rpm and we make it back home on back streets
without any more business.

 

At home, I throw on a brand-new out of the box MSD Blaster II coil with the
correct Ohm resistor. She fires right up. Then after about 60 seconds dies.
Just like before. No sputter or cough, just dead, like I am turning off the
ignition. To reset the motor I just cycle the switch, bing, it runs. WTF? It
is like it is on a timer or something. I always starts, sometimes for 3
seconds sometimes for 30.

 

I swap in another Bosch Blue Coil and same thing. So it isn't the coil.
Could this be a Hot Spark issue? Ignition switch? Funky wiring during the
PO's generator/alternator swap? This is a "stock-ish" Type 1 motor, almost
nothing to go wrong here. Tomorrow I'll swap in points to see if that is the
problem. If it is the Hot Spark, a shame. The Hot Spark has been really nice
to live with.Sigh, Poor Toffee, this was her first big outing and she was
really impressing my wife.

 

Jon Stiles

Metro Denver, CO

 

'68 DC, '70 Deluxe, '78 Westy
