Date: Sat, 8 Mar 2003 12:12:36 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: dead battery/charging problem

>From: Jason Elm <jelm2(-at-)yahoo.com>
>Date: Fri, 7 Mar 2003 09:27:00 -0800 (PST)
>
>Turns out, I left the dome light on in my bus aabout two weeks ago.
>So obviously, there was absolutely nothing when I went out to the garage
>to start it today. I tried to jump start it, hooked it up, let it idel
>and rev'd it for about three minutes. When I disconnected the jumper
>cables. It died.

I agree with Scott and E&B.  Take the battery out of the Bus, water it,
and put it on a charger.

If your charger has an ammeter, note what it's doing.  I have noticed
that if a battery is not too badly discharged, when you hook it up to
the charger the ammeter will show a current close to the rated current
of the charger nearly right away.  The current will decrease over time
as the battery charges up.  When it has settled down to an amp or three
and stayed there for a few hours, the battery is as charged as it's
going to get.

If you have a really badly discharged battery, when you first hook it
up the ammeter will only show an amp or two.  The current will very
slowly (over several hours) increase to the rated current of the
charger, and then decrease again as the battery charges up.

If you have a battery that doesn't want to take a charge, sometimes it
helps to use a lower charging current for a really long time.  If you
have a "10 A/2 A" charger set it for 2 A.  I have also used a 1 A
"motorcycle" battery charger.  Put the charger on the battery and leave
it for 24 hours.  After that, put the charger on its higher setting and
try charging again.  If the battery still doesn't take a charge, it's
time for a new battery.  If it does take a charge, good.  It will
probably last a little while longer, but realize that when you start
having to play tricks like this, you aren't too far away from needing a
new battery.

Check the electrolyte again when you're done charging, and clean up the
posts on the battery and the terminals on the cable before you put it
back in the Bus.

Since you ran your battery all the way down to zero, it's probably normal
for the generator to have trouble charging it enough in just a few minutes
of running.  The stock 12 V battery was rated 45 Ah.  The stock 12 V
generator in a '67 is rated at 38 A output at around 3600 RPM at the
generator, which corresponds to about 2000 rpm at the engine.  So, to
completely fill up the battery, you'd have to run the engine at 2000 rpm
or more for at least (45 Ah / 38 A) = 1.2 hours.  It would actually take
longer than this, since some of the juice from the generator is going to
the ignition coil, choke heater, fuel cut-off valve, etc.

Matt Roberds
