Date: Sat, 8 Mar 2003 15:05:42 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: Atlternator vs Generator

On Sat, 8 Mar 2003 Claralw(-at-)aol.com wrote:

>What about those new 'solid sata' or whatever regulators.

Those will fry.  "Solid state" means it has diodes and/or transistors,
which are what fries in the EMP.

>BTW, any one know how to test regulators w/o installing them?

For a quantitative test (does it put out according to specs) you'd
probably need a generator/alternator test bench like they have at the
parts store or its equivalent.  Since this is at least a couple hundred
dollars worth of stuff, it may work out cheaper to just substitute a
new regulator if you think the one you have isn't totally dead but
isn't working 100% either.  You could take your regulator to the parts
store, but since the newest splitty is twice as old as the person who
will likely be running the testing machine, I don't know how reliable
the testing might be.  (In other words, the machine they have can
probably test a Bus regulator, but the flip-chart may not show the
connections and the sales droid won't know how to figure out the
connections on its own.)  A real auto-electric shop can probably
reliably test the regulator by itself.

For a qualitative test (is it working at all) you _might_ be able to
test it with stuff you have around the garage.  Even then, it's probably
easier to use the Bus as part of the test setup, as it has the battery
and load that you need.  The test would involve installing the regulator
in the Bus, disconnecting the wires to the generator, hooking up a power
supply in place of the generator armature, and hooking up some kind of
load in place of the field coil.  I'm not going into detail on this
because I have never tried it, I'm not sure if it will work, and it may
very well fry a good regulator.

If it's a mechanical regulator, you could probably take the cover off
and check for open or shorted coils on the relays inside with an
ohm-meter.  Some of these have resistors in them and you could check
those for being open; usually the value isn't marked on them so you
can't check to see if it has the correct resistance.  If any of
these checks fail then the regulator is probably bad, but if all of
them pass it doesn't always mean that the regulator is good.

Matt Roberds
