Date: Sun, 9 Mar 2003 11:55:31 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Keeps eating wheel bearings?

>From: Markus Benne <markus(-at-)cyberus.ca>
>Date: Sat, 08 Mar 2003 21:56:01 -0500
>
>My bus has developed a chronic wheel bearing problem.  Its eating front
>wheel bearings with astonishing regularity.  Like ever 200 or so miles.

Thinking out loud:

Earlier Buses had a spacer ring that went on the spindle inboard of
the inner bearing.  I would think that if you installed this and didn't
need it, or needed it but didn't install it, it would be obvious (the
drum wouldn't go on right) but I don't know for sure.

Is everything really, really clean before you put it back together?
All of the old grease should be gone.  Try to clean out as much of
the brake dust as you can from around the shoes, in the drum, etc.
The spindle should be absolutely shiny.

Do the new bearings fit OK on the spindle?  With a clean spindle and
dry new bearings, they should slide over the spindle but not have a
lot of slop.  It could be that the spindle is worn down.  (I know
you said you swapped spindles, but maybe both of them are worn.)

What kind of bearings are you getting?  Name brands like Timken, FAG,
or SKF are probably better than "no name" brands, but even some of
the "name brand" bearings are made in Mexico or China.  The country
of origin is usually marked on the bearing.  Theoretically, if the
company has good quality control, it doesn't matter where they make
them.  If I had a choice, though, I'd install American or German or
maybe Japanese bearings before installing Mexican or Brazilian or
Chinese ones.

Once you have the drum off and the spindle clean, you might make sure
you can easily run the locknuts all the way in on the spindle threads.
If the threads are messed up it could affect the wheel bearing
adjustment.

Do the oil seals fit well, both on the spindle and in the drum?  Beat
up seals let grease out and crap in.

Heat from dragging brakes might tend to thin out the grease.  Make
sure the brake shoes are adjusted, and that the push rod on the brake
pedal is adjusted.  Go for a several-mile drive and check the temperature
of the front drums.  If the left one is hotter, it may be the brakes
dragging.  If everything seems to be in order with the hydraulics and
the brake pads, you might consider replacing the return springs.

Matt Roberds
