Date: Wed, 28 Mar 2007 18:09:43 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2]Alternator belt problems

i had my alternator for my 76 hightop rebuilt the other day and have been driving on it since; been about a week now maybe..
   
  i looked the other day and seen that there was some string in there and around the belt and pulled it away and went on about my day... then day before yesterday at auto parts store i looked and realized that the string was my brand new belt was coming apart and string was everywhere and the belt had came off fan and pulley...
   
  so i went back into store and bought a belt... 
  i looked today being two days later and my belt is off again the brand spanking two day old one...
   
  now i put it back on and it twist up real bad and cant be used anymore,..
  so then i get out a spare i had put back and put it on there and sit there and watch it as the engine runs and watch the belt act as if it has a bad loose turn to it....floppy like buyt not always ....rolls and rolls and then flops like a looose runner band and then back tight again
   
   
  i touched the fan pulley with a screw driver and it seemed very straight to me no shutter from it at all...
   
  the alternator pulley i am not sure of....??
   
  i was thinking if maybe its possible this alternator rebuild guy might of done something to the pulley to make the belt go and do like it is doing...? maybe it isnt on there far enough and reminds me of like using shims on a generator?? is this right? maybe the pulley is sticking out to far and its throwing/tearing up the belt/s?
   
  any help here would be grateful...
  looks like i wil have to get yet another belt tomorrow ...
  hmmmmm~!~
   
  thanks
  chai




                                                          1976 HighTop(Grace)
   
  1973 Westy(Olive)
   
  1968 Beetle(Glory)
   
  www.HappyKyndArts.org






























 
---------------------------------
Need Mail bonding?
Go to the Yahoo! Mail Q&A for great tips from Yahoo! Answers users.
