Date: Sun, 1 Apr 2007 18:33:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>, Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2]73 westy driving wine

Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:    I guess people are assuming an automatic, but I can't
find any reference to it being an automatic, so I will
assume a stick. I will also assume that the noise
(whine) came along recently and got worse rather
quickly. You say it shifts better now, meaning that it
shifted worse for a while and since you didn't say it
shifts perfectly now, I assume it still does not shift
as well as it did before you started hearing the
whine. 
   
  i didnt realize when we bought it that it had this whiine to it.. so i cant say that it wasnt here before... but it is now....!
  yes its a manual trans...
  it shifts better nwo that i have put new trans fluid in there and got the old out... thats what i meant by better...
  

That's a whole lot of assuming that really should have
been included in the query, BTW!
   
  thanks for that note also...i will try to do better ;)

If all my assumptions are correct, I think you need to
replace the front shift rod bushing that is directly
under the shift lever and is reached from underneath
by removing the "skid pan." If you're mechanically
inclined, it's not a bad job to replace yourself. That
is, to replace the bushing yourself. Otherwise, see
yer mechanic!
   
  yes i gotta replace this for her and it will shift alot better then as it did on my bus when i replaced it on mine... i dont think that this will cause the bad whine i am hearing though,.,, 

Of course, if it is an automatic and or any other
assumptions are wrong, it could be something in the
engine compartment, but I still stand by my
assumptions! -BaH
   
  you know what they say about assumptions dont you... LOL...
  thansk 
  chai



                                                          1976 HighTop(Grace)
   
  1973 Westy(Olive)
   
  1968 Beetle(Glory)
   
  www.HappyKyndArts.org






























 
---------------------------------
Never miss an email again!
Yahoo! Toolbar alerts you the instant new Mail arrives. Check it out.
