Date: Wed, 15 Apr 2009 19:38:08 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Courtney Hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Battery charger negative cable sparks when moved on

Normal. Don't do it. Proper procedure is to have the charger unplugged and hook up the negative then the positive and if, when you touch the second clamp to the terminal there is a spark, then you have it hooked up backwards (remember - the charger is not plugged in.)

Once it is properly connected, plug in the charger and check the meter - it should indicate charging. It may start out extremely low, then within a minute climb up to its maximum output and eventually start dropping from there.

Once charged, UNPLUG the charger FIRST, before touching the clamps. This will avoid the possibility of any sparks where there is possibly a high concentration of explosive hydrogen gas from the charging process. A battery explosion is easily capable of blowing the entire back end of your bus apart. I saw a van-type school bus that the entire engine and drivers compartment area were just plain gone! Always unplug the charger first!

Oh - be sure to check fluid level in the cells before charging. None of us VW bus types do it cuz it's so hard to reach! There is usually what looks like a "split ring" in the filler hole that (usually) is the fill-to point. For sure be certain that the plates are covered with about a quarter inch. If you're in a soft-water area, tap water is okay. In a hard water area you need to use distilled water. {Generally, if the water stains the toilet, use distilled.}

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington



 I put my charger at 2 amps onto my postive terminal of the
 battery, and the
 engine case for the negative. I then plugged it in. Just to
 make sure, I
 "rubbed" the negative clamp where it was on the
 engine case, and got some
 sparks/snap/crackles. It stopped when I stopped moving it.
 Just wondering if this is normal when it's plugged in??
 Doesn't do it when 
 are trying to do their job
 and get to ground?
 Thanks,
 Courtney
