From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 30 Jun 2003 08:11:54 -0400
Subject: Gauge Wiring.... 

Hey guys,

	For the next year, my plan is to completely go through my entire bus
(1973) and fix all the little quirks, and re-upholster the interior and get
it back to excellent condition. I decided to start with the gauge cluster. I
have two questions actually, the first is about the gauge wiring itself, and
the second is about my Cyl Head Temperature.


1)  I noticed when I removed the gauge cluster that more than half of my
light-bulbs are burnt out. This isn't a big issue, I just plan on replacing
them. I noticed something however... I noticed that the lights on the gauges
themselves, and the lights that light up the environmental controls are on
different circuits.

I noticed that the temperature lights are on wires colored (Brown : Ground),
and (White / Redstripe : Positive)

Those seem to be controlled by the headlight switch when I turn it on. I
also noticed that when I rotate the headlight knob it dims the light a
little (but never actually can turn it off). 

I then noticed that the gauges themselves use a blue wire for the positive,
and brown for the ground. Any idea why these are on different circuits?
Would it be BAD if I decided to wire them up correctly? The wiring on my car
is pretty bad... the original and previous owner hacked all kinds of crap
into it  Of course, I don't want to make it WORSE.. so if I can put it back
to normal that would be great too.



2) My second question is about my cyl head temperature gauge. There are 4
leads on the temperature gauge. The first two are for the one that goes to
the back-light. That's not a problem. The second two however are a positive
and a ground. Here's where I get really confused. There is a LONG LONG
wiring harness that goes from the gauge cluster all the way to the
temperature sender.. which for the most part is basically just a loop-ring
with a wire attached to it. I don't understand this though.. it wants me to
connect the positive, and the negative wires all the way from the back of
the gauge all the way to the sending unit. At the sending unit, the wires
come together.. what's the point of that? How does the gauge actually get
electricity?? I'm assuming that it gets some sort of temperature reading...
but how can the heat be transmitted 10 feet from the rear of the bus to the
gauge in the front without electricity??? 



Thanks,
Todd Jaspers - Programmer 
AmeriPath IT - Fort Lauderdale 
954-377-3291 

> CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments, is
> for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential
> and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or
> distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
> contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original
> message.
