From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 30 Jun 2003 10:52:38 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] Windshield washer

>Zach wrote:
> Does anyone have any tips on how to get these things
> going. I've filled the
> tank and pressurized it. The ight one sprays really well,
> but the left one just drizzles out.


Zach,

I just got mine in my 76 going just last month.  I had the same
trouble.  I couldn't find out what the trouble was.  It turned out
to be a blocked line.  I lucked out and the jet wasn't fouled, just
the line leading to it.

This is how mine was set up.  Pressure canister at passengers feet.
Rubber hose from canister leads behind kick panels over to the
drivers side where it comes up under the dash and into the stearing
column and up to the wiper switch.  At the switch is where the
actual valve is that allows the fluid to pass into the rest of the
line.  A different section of the same rubber line then leads out of
the steering column and back under the dash where it connects to a 3
way junction piece.  Off of this 3 way junction piece runs 2
additional sections of rubber hose.  Each one of these runs to one
of the windshield jets.

Jets were a PITA to get the rubber hose connected to.  It was easier
to pull the old lines off than it was to put the new ones on because
I didn't have to contort my hands into a small area to get them
off,... but I did when installing.

I found replacement black rubber line to do this with, at a regular
autoparts store.  The interior diameter of the hose matched
perfectly and the walls of the hose were identical if not a little
heavier than the old ones I removed.  I intended to have several
feet left over, so I bought 10 feet of this hose.  As it turned out,
10 feet was perfect!  I cut the lines to the exact length of the
originals, and when I was done I had exactly 5 inches of rubber line
left over.

When I first filled it up, I made certain that I had a needle to run
into the opening of the jets.  Didn't need to stab it into the jet
or anything, just wanted to move around whatever was in there so
that the fluid would blow it out when I tried to use it.  Glad I did
too because some nastiness blasted out of there when I tried to use
them, and I cleaned or replaced every part of that system except for
the jets.

THINGS TO REMEMBER:
Volkswagon labeled the windshield wiper canister to 44 psi on the
sticker above my wiper canister.  When I took the kick plate off the
pressure rating on the canister was ACTUALLY 36 psi.  I have seen
people explode these things before.  When one pops it aint pretty
and it throws sharp heavy plastic at your face (Ugh!).  I play it
safe and only fill mine to 30 psi since the vehicle is old and so is
the canister.

One of the list members has a site that has a helpful screen shot of
the windshield washer setup and his own trials and tribulations in
finding replacement hose of a durable quality.  It's a good and
informed read.
It was posted and was very helpful to me, so here is the link.
http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell/WasherHoses.html

Hope it helps,
Seann Stafford
76' T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
76' T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
