From: "gil hayes" <gilhayes(-at-)midsouth.rr.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <ghayes(-at-)yahoo.com>
Date: Mon, 30 Jun 2003 12:46:48 -0500
Subject: windshield wiper motor replacement

I have found a strange but I think easier way to replace the windshield
wiper motor and related service than I have seen in manuals, etc., in the
past.

At one time I replaced a wiper motor by standing on my head and reaching for
the related items under the dash.

This past weekend, while stripping out a 72 Camper for parts and etc., it
occured to me that it's easier to do the following:

1.  Loosen and remove the necessary screws holding the dash unit to the body
adjacent to the windshield.

This will take some saving of small parts and jotting down what you have
removed.

2.  Sit on your butt in the passenger's seat and place both feet clad in
sneakers on the windshield.
3.  Apply even and strong pressure on the windshield until the seal and the
windshilled start to exit the vechicle.
4.  Have "freind" catch windshiled and seal as you continue to push them out
.

5.  With the windshield removed, you can now finish removing the screws clad
with covers around the dash and push it back from the VW body.

6.   Right there in front of you is the windshield wiper motor and related
parts....while you'll still have a tight squeeze, you can push and pull and
replace just about anything under the dash from there with more ease than
standing on your head.

7.  Once windshield wiper repair is complete(Be sure to test
it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!)  you can reattach the dash screws at the windshiled.
(Even before you pull the old wiper motor, be sure to give whatever
electrical object you are replacing a shot of electricity just to be certain
it's going to work before you begin to tear out the windshield.)

8.  Clean the windshileld seal if need be. Refit to windshield.   Clean
around the edge of the windshield opening. Take a lenght of small cord and
wrap in the channel around the windshield seal. Take a sponge and have a
small bucket of soapy water and slosh it around the windshield and the edge
of the windshield opening.

9.  Place the windshiled back in the vechicle and where the two ends of your
cord come together, begin to push seal and windshield back into the
vechicle.

10.  As you push -- pull the two ends of the string  and observe how easily
it "zips" into the vechicle with very little pressure applied to the
windshield. The only sticky part will be the final 2 or three inches where
you have to push with more pressure and have "friend" jiggle  the seal a bit
in order to get it to go down.

11.  With windshiled reinstalled, reattach the screws under the dash.

12.  Enjoy.

THe key here is the ease with which a windshield go in and out. If your
seals are in good shape, y ou can do this. If your seals are bad, then you
will need to replace the seal but just one should do it.
