From: "Casting Fool" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 30 Jun 2003 16:32:48 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Windshield washer

From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
> I have seen people explode these things before...

One list member has done a nifty job of modifying the in-dash wiper switch
to replace the "squirt-gun" pump with a switch that activates an electric
washer pump.  Back in April, I was asked to think about casting a similar
resin bracket assembly to make this available for others.

At the time I'd just removed the entire washer system from our own bus
looking for leaks and was planning on re-installing it with an electric
system.  I'd been trying to find an old, non-functioning wiper switch
assembly from a `77-style steering column mount, so that I can fabricate a
master for a switch mount that would replace the existing pump.

The two applications seem to need differently designed mounts for the
switch, but both should be doable in resin.

This eliminates the whole tank pressure issue, but does add several others.
All of the rubber lines really need to be in new or at least excellent
condition for this to work properly.  The electric installation would
replace the water lines to and from the wiper switch with two wires.

One wire to ground and the other to the electric pump ground terminal.  The
water lines would run from the tank, to the pump, then to the spray nozzles.
I'm not sure where the best place for the pump power tap would be, but my
own plans were to place the pump near the tank.  I was thinking about
placing the "T" closer to the pump rather than up near the nozzles.

The other thing is something that I'm still working on.  I've modified my
own tank by nipping off the little nipple on both the water outlet and the
air inlet, drilling both out to 1/8" to increase the volume of water/air
going out/in both openings.

The air inlet must have had some sort of vent on the inside (Dremel
hesitated on entry), but as I wanted to increase the volume of air anyway,
it will be replaced by an over-sized one-way valve stuck into a short piece
of tubing stuck over the inlet (or, one might imagine a lot of water popping
out on sharp left turns and speed bumps).

I'm still trying to figure out a method that will remove that filler
restrictor in the fill opening without leaving it in the tank.  I know that
it's there to make sure that the correct volume of air is in the tank for
pressurization, but it makes filling the tank up to the top difficult (no
air reserve needed for the electric pump).  I've got one idea, but it's very
difficult to manage.

Anyone out there with a dash-mount wiper switch assembly that doesn't work,
and/or a non-functioning steering column-mount one, but with the pump still
attached?

The switches/pumps don't have to be working, the switches and the pumps
could really just be junk.  The pumps' only purpose would be to get the new
switch placement correct.

TTFN - Mike Jackson
`77 Bay, "Giacomo"
Casting Fool & Son
Augusta, GA  USA
http://www.cfnson.com
