From: "Brian Zweerink" <wendyarmbuster(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 01 Jul 2003 02:27:15 +0000
Subject: Hydraulic Valve Trouble

Hi all!
  I have a 1978 Westy with a 2.0L engine that the previous owner told me had 
15,000 miles on it (he saved the paperwork, it was a GEX).  I have put maybe 
another several thousand on it.  It has sat for a few months, and last night 
I drove it 15 miles or so on the highway to a friends house, all the while 
it made a clackity klack sound that sounded like unpumped lifters, not so 
much like a thrown rod.  When I got to my friends house we noticed that when 
I removed the right rear plug wire (right rear cylinder, not right rear on 
distributor), the engine didn't change any, so we did a compression check 
which revealed a big fat 0.  When we checked the valves (hydraulic valves) I 
checked them on that cylinder as though they were solid (put the engine in 
proper position, TDC then counterclockwise 180 degrees) and there was a very 
large amout of play in the rocker arm on the exahust valve, like a half inch 
of gap.  My lifters, especially this one, always seem to take forever to 
pump up, but 15 highway miles?  Oh yeah, my oil light came on while at and 
near idle on the way over, but I have plenty of oil.  This particular valve 
spring broke several hundred miles ago, but I replaced it with an overhead 
valve spring compresser, and I bought the heads new about 500 miles ago 
after having the exhaust valves and seats shoved into the heads (away from 
the chamber).
  OK, with this information I ask the following questions:
1) Would a chincy rebuild on GEX's part keep the hydraulic lifters from 
pumping up?
2) Would non-pumped-up lifters damage the heads like I described?
3) What could I do to make my lifters pump up faster, or at all?
4) Would a rocker arm with a half inch of play be the lifters at all, or 
something else?
5) Could this be related to the oil light at all?

Thanks for any advice!  I'm thinking about going solid next time, or is my 
experience untypical?

Brian Zweerink
Wendy Armbuster  '78 Westy
GA->ME '99
Min->N.O. '02
