Date: Mon, 30 Jun 2003 21:17:24 -0700
To: Stevie Havoc <s.havoc(-at-)telus.net>,type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Scott Fraser <kn6f(-at-)dolphinsci.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] "Shore Power" to charge 2nd Battery

At 08:43 PM 6/30/03 -0600, Stevie Havoc wrote:
>  HOWEVER, I recently embarked on an "in bus" roadtrip entertainment 
> center (Flatscreen, DVD etc)  project which will require a little more 
> power from my system, though not prohibitive while the bus is running 
> (300w) it would run the battery down fairly quick with the bus off. So, I 
> got to thinking that it would be nice to be able to do something similar 
> to what they do on sailboats, plug my bus in and have the "shore" power 
> charge my accessory battery when I have access to a power outlet. Has 
> anyone got any  experience or thoughts on this ?


Steve,
you could hook up a battery charger to your AUX battery and provide a 
source of power for the bus.
If you are running your ACCs through an inverter, no problem.
If you are running the flatscreen, DVD, etc off of 12 V, you should be 
warned, that most chargers are Lousy power supplies.  They have no 
filtering on their outputs and many devices (audio, TVs) have a very hard 
time with them.  Nice annoying buzz.  The battery will provide some 
filtering, but usually not enough, especially if the battery is low and in 
need of a charge.

Another problem with being powered directly off the charger and running the 
electronic devices off of the 12V, is that the charger output peak voltage 
can be much higher than some of the electronics can withstand.  I have seen 
smoking capacitors coming out of equipment where the caps were marginally 
rated for 16V and the charger right out fried them.

I happened to pick up a 40A 12V regulated power supply (output adjustable 
up to 14V) that I'll use for similar purposes.  Works the same as the plug 
in battery charger.  I think I paid about $30 for it on ebarf and I don't 
have to worry about frying my radio gear with it.

Scott
'60 DC
