From: "Britt Grannis" <hillcountry(-at-)caltel.com>
To: "Buskatiers" <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>,
Date: Sun, 28 Apr 2002 20:59:45 -0700
Subject: Roadcow EB Trip Report  long

After we pulled into EB and set up camp I walked around the campsite and was
impressed with the general calm mood of the participants. I found out later
that the ranger had already warned the organizers that we couldn't have
drums, fires, and absolutely no burning cases! I didn't get to meet many
people so I went back to camp and got ready to sleep. The weather was nice
compared to what I had to drive through but a bit muggy so I opened the
windows on the pop top to get a nice breeze through Roadcow. I had just
gotten situated and Roadcow was jolted... what the heck? I realized that I'd
left Bryant's splitty still hooked up to Roadcow and every time he rolled
over the towbar transferred everything to my bus! I fixed that in about 2
minutes and had a good nights sleep.
I awoke to sun and the smell of the FMBC cooking their famous breakfast
burritos. I got my 2 dozen eggs and 2 lbs. of bacon and headed to the
shelter to donate them. Man o man were those burritos great! Big thanks to
FMBC for their efforts. One of my first things to do was to track down Kelly
"Metalwiz" and meet him.I didn't have far to look as he had his "barndoor
binz" parked next to the Pavilion where we had breakfast. I met Kelly and
Mark his right hand man and had a very enjoyable conversation with both.I
had prearranged with Kelly to take the "Hub Cap" from him with a promise
that I'd get it past the Mississippi! Kelly is a cool guy and funny as hell!
I asked he and Mark about some rust issues Roadcow had and mark even went
down and showed me where to cut and how to weld in a new nose. I was almost
ready to find a donor bus and swap all of Roadcow's components to it when
Mark said " hell no this bus has perfect belly pans, we've saved much
worse"!
 I them moseyed over to the Canadians camp site as this was another must do
on my list and met Greg Potts of "Bob the tomato "fame. You have to see this
bus to appreciate all of the work Greg has done to it, truely amazing. I
also had the good fortune to have both Greg and his dad Gordon ride with me
over to Kelly's shop tour. I finally got to meet fellow Buskatier Jamie Auch
and look at his Love bug trailer.
 Then I looked up Poor Richard and picked up my EB 2002 T-shirt which I'd
pre ordered and was glad I did since he was sold out! His Splitty Poptop bus
is also very cool. Next I was able to meet H Steven Dolan and was impressed
with his knowledge and genuine desire to share it with people not to make
himself feel important but so that everyone could know how to work on their
busses. I decided it was time to look up Snoopy and some of the other FMBC
members and on the way ran into Rob Henley and his Lifesaver painted 72
Highroof. I was on sensory overload since I'd only heard of these people by
web pages or on a mailing list and here I was meeting them in person, it was
sort of like meeting celebrities. After stopping by Rob's bus I met "Mad
uncle Dave"who seemed to always be on the move helping with lots of stuff. I
did get to meet his daughter and her friend Abby who gave ma a really cool
key chain of a Mad cow which Moo's twice and then has an evil laugh, thanks
again Abby.
When I got into the FMBC campsite I met Bear who had in my opinion the
coolest bus there a1980 Swiss Vanagon Westy. It had a factory 1600FI engine
in it with sort of a Doormobile top but better and even a instahot water
heater for a shower in the rear of the bus, way cool! I was able to meet
Chris who runs the event, great job Chris. We had a neighbor who had a Swiss
78 Bay radio bus in cammo with another stock 1600 in it and it was neat to
see this euro engine tin for a 1600 in a late bay.
At about 2:00 pm we loaded up about 6 busses and followed Kelly in his Thing
over to his shop for a tour.I must admit I was tempted to leave Roadcow
there on the spot and have Kelly fix the rust after seeing the excellent
work he and Mark did ( Ok Kelly there's my plug :^) ). We drove back and I
stopped at a store and got a fudgecicle which hit the spot since it was
getting warm.
That afternoon someone brought in another Swiss item, an industrial VW
engine mated to a huge 100cfm air compressor! This was very cool as the
engine had a magneto and idle governor and had a hand start that looked like
a wagon handle. Later that evening we had the awards and raffle winners in
the Pavilion which was a real blast to attend. All the while H Steven Dolan
was helping people with electrical issues. After the awards there was a
Bluegrass band which played until 11:00pm that was very enjoyable to listen
to. I'm sure I've left out a bunch but this is getting long so I'll close
for now.
Britt
71 Westy Roadcow
Hillcountry Water Treatment

