Date: Mon, 29 Apr 2002 13:48:53 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)metrowerks.com>, Type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] air conditioning


>1) you may never get a good seal with the engine tin again

Only as good as you are a tinsnipper. Many of the systems I have seen 
recently have looked like a hack job mostly b/c somebody threw much of the 
broken system a/c away leaving a hole in the tin work. These are the same 
folks who throw regular cooling tin away too over the years. The seal can 
be fine - just work carefully.

>2) the hoses required cost a fortune

Few hundred bucks. Many shops can take your old hose ends and crimp them on 
new hoses.

>3) the under the dash kind never worked that good in the first place 4) 
>goodbye
>horsepower.

And why would the ceiling mounted units work substantially better than the 
under dash units? Only thing I could theorize is that the ceiling systems 
blow cool air forward and backward whereas the underdash units cool the 
front seat folks first. Either way it is simply a set of coils inside a 
plastic case.

>After all this reading, what I saw at the boneyard didn't impress me either,
>however, someone had a VW page on the web with a good, as yet unexplored,
>idea: put a quality rooftop unit on the luggage rack of a westy.

Your vintage alternator will not like this. Look at the electrical load 
rating in the tech sheets of the new systems. Your bus may only have 65 
amps to run the whole vehicle.

May also be too heavy to lift if you mount it to the pop-top.

It can not be run in an inclined position.

Might work if installed in the cab roof. That said I would be hesitant to 
cut a hole that big in my cab roof. Your opinion may differ and I support 
that. Would be nice once parked though.

Don't think that your only options are dealer installed vintage VW units or 
the full size RV systems.

Many of the hot rod magazines offer nice kits for $$$.

We have put together several air conditioning systems from junkyard sources 
for our family hot rods. Our sources have traditionally been Japanese cars 
with hang-on systems - dealer installed a/c systems. We only buy systems 
that are complete and unopened. That means when you loosen that first line 
Freon will escape. That means the system is dry inside - a line wasn't cut 
or removed allowing moisture inside the system to create rust and havoc and 
dirt. We've used systems from old Subarus and old Yugos with great results. 
These systems have been US built and dealer installed. Cost has been $150 
or less because the systems come off of cars that nobody wants b/c they are 
ugly and orphans. They often go to the crusher will little removed.

We generally do not use the interior case but create a simple one from 
sheet metal and create a nice 1/4" wood face to match the interior decor of 
the cars they are mounted in. The systems are nice because they come with 
small Japanese compressors too. We do use the fan, fan controls, and 
thermostat with new knobs.

They may not be sized correctly for a van so take it all with a grain of 
salt and make up your own mind. Once installed we've never been able to run 
them but on the hottest days on anything but low because we get too cold.

There are some good shadetree mechanic books on installing kit based a/c 
systems. Check the larger book sellers. I think "Motorbooks" may be the 
publisher.

I'm building my system from a '78 Westy dealer installed system. The system 
will be more carefully installed than the dealer did and will use one of 
the smaller rotary compressors. I'm going to be running it on a Corvair 110 
HP so my mounting will be different than a VW. The outside coils 
(evaporator I think) will be from a '73 Westy because it mounts forward of 
the front axle and seems to be a bit less vulnerable than the '78 Westy 
version. I'll have to sandwich some electric fans on top of it for a/c in 
traffic.




Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


