Date: Tue, 1 Feb 2005 02:19:46 +0000 (GMT)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Brake pedal goes to the floor, after pumping, brakes

On Mon, 31 Jan 2005, Mark Dominesey wrote:

> When I go to brake in 74 Westy, the brake pedal goes to the floor like it
> has no pressure.  After lifting my foot and pushing it back down, there is
> plenty of pressure.
>
> Is this indicative of the master cylinder leaking?

Probably not.  There are two possible causes.  First, brake shoes that are
badly out of adjustment can cause exactly this symptom.  Second, air in
the system can cause this symptom as well.

To cure the first, adjust your brakes. There is a procedure in the
type2.com library on adjusting them.

To cure the second you need to answer a couple questions:

Have you opened the brake system?  If so, then you did not bleed the
brakes properly. Bleed them. Alas, there is no procedure in the library
for bleeding brakes, so here is a short one:

Run the adjusters for all drum brakes *out* until the wheel will not turn.
Start on the wheel closest to the master cylinder and work out.
DO ALL FOUR WHEELS!
Put a 6-point box-end wrench of the correct size on the bleed nipple.
Attach a hose of the correct diameter to the nipple.
Run that hose into a jar half filled with clean brake fluid.
Lift the jar above the bleed mipple.
Open the bleed nipple.
Have an assistant pump the brakes until the hose is full of brake fluid.
Close the bleed nipple.
After all wheels have been bled, redajust the brakes on drum brake wheels.

Have you let the resevoir run dry?  If so, then air may have entered the
system and the resevoir will need to be topped up and the system bled
again.

If the resevoir has run dry, however, there is a further question... why?
If there is a leak in the system then that leak has to be repaired.  If
the leak is in a wheel cylinder then it has probably contaminated the
shoes and the brakes on that axle will need to be redone.  If the resevoir
is dry or if fluid is disappeaing steadily and there are no obvious leaks
in the system, then you probably have a master cylinder problem and may
have a disc brake booster problem. Remove the master cylinder from the
booster and run a strip of paper towel into the booster.  If it comes out
wet with brake fluid, the master cylinder is dead and the booster should
be drained and washed immediately!!!  It is probably damaged as well, but
you may be able to prevent failure if you act quickly.  After draining and
washing the master cylinder, check your vacuum.  If it is low, disconnedt
the booster vacuum line and recheck vacuum.  If it came up, the booster is
dead.

OOK!
