Date: Sun, 21 Feb 2010 20:05:41 -0500
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
To: The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>, 
Subject: Trip Report: Seventh Annual True Canadian Winter Bus Campout

Hi Volks,

It seems amazing now, but somehow the 7th TCWBC has been put behind us. 
If you weren't there, you missed a fun event.

2010 has seen a very mild winter in Southern Ontario, with no trace 
whatsoever of the huge storms that have battered the northeast US. We've 
had lots of cold spells, but precious little snowfall. In fact, there 
was just barely enough snow on the ground for the event to qualify as 
Winter Camping. There was no XC skiing this year and definitely no place 
worthy of snowshoes. But at least we had enough so it still looks like 
winter in the photos.

As usual we had a great crowd show up. Brian Powers took the long 
distance honours with a crusty baywindow homebrew camper; it looked a 
bit rough on the outside but it got him back to Syracuse without 
incident and the TCWBC crowd are definitely not the type to be fussy 
about spit and polish.

Not one but TWO synchro vanagons made appearances, the Type 25 
represented a full half of the buses at the event with the other two 
being my parent's 85 auto westy and Klaus Fieburg's Bostig-powered 84 
westy. The other VWs camping out included three bays and a Erb Smith's 
1956 splitwindow bus. There were also plenty of "Bus Conservatists" who 
arrived to share the campfire in various buicks, Saturns, Golfs, Jettas 
and a 1975 Dodge Tradesman Hightop camper was also seen amongst the VWs.

Not quite so much for activities to report on, mostly we just hung out 
and swapped stories and shared some good cheer. Plenty of plans were 
heard around the campfire for travels to EveryBus, Granny Grose's Buses, 
Natural Bus, BusFusion, High Country Bus Festival, BOTC and the Shelter 
Valley Folk Festival. All in all it seems like we're gonna have a great 
camping season in 2010 and once again the TCWBC was a great way to get 
it started.

Thanks to everyone who came out for helping make the event a success 
again this year, and especially those who brought firewood.... for the 
first time in 7 years we failed to burn everything we brought with us, 
despite the fact that we kept a roaring blaze well fed deep into the wee 
hours.

A good time was definitely had by all. If you need proof, you can check 
out the pics online at:

http://www.pottsfamily.ca/The_Bug_Pack/TCWBC2010pics/

Happy Trails,


Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario Canada
1973/74/79 Westfakia "Bob the Tomato"
1987 Wolfsburg Weekender Hardtop
www.busesofthecorn.com
www.pottsfamily.ca
