Date: Mon, 22 Feb 2010 09:36:11 -0500
From: "Peter T. Owsianowski" <pnoceanwesty(-at-)gmail.com>
To: List - Type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Bus BRR - Ready to Go!

Hey, all you crazy bus pilots!

Just talked to Ranger Ted at Pokagon State Park and we are ready to roll for
this weekend's Buses by the Beach Bus BRR event!

Even though it says on the website the bathroom is closed at campground #3,
Ranger Ted confirms it is OPEN and HEATED - they just have not changed the
website yet.

Weather.com forecast is 34F for a high and 21F for a low.  Very little
wind.  Not bad at all when you're around the fire or in your electrically
heated bus!

Some details again:

*Each site includes an electric hook-up so you can keep warm with an
electric heater.  It also comes in handy for warming up a Crockpot full of
Chili for the "Chilly Chili Dinner".  It is always nice to come back and
warm up next to the giant Bonfire after spending some time on the 35-40mph
(faster than your average bus) dual refrigerated toboggan runs.  Lots of
great volks, music, conversation and fun!   All while supporting The Phoenix
Society for Burn Survivors.  This year, we are instituting the "Kozy as a
Baked Potato" Award for the warmest looking bus!
What you can expect at Bus Brrr!
Community Chili dinner Saturday evening (Bring a dish to pass)
Community Breakfast Sunday Morning or try out the famous Potawomie Inn
Brunch!
See old friends and make new ones!
Dual Refrigerated Toboggan Runs
Cool temperatures and a warm fire

*
*Clean, heated restrooms very near campsite
*
*The always fashionable Buses by the Beach hoodies -$30.00
*
*Costs:
Park Entrance Fee:  $5.00 Resident and $7.00 Non-Resident
Camping Fee (Includes Electric Hookup and Warm Bathrooms!):  $17.34 per
night
Toboggan Rental Fee:  $10.00 per hour  (Toboggan will fit 4 Volks)
Cool Tobaggan Video here:  www.tobogganrun.com
Sunday Brunch at the Potawatomie Inn.  $11.95 for adults  Ages 4-12 is
$.0.75 times their age
*
*Some helpful tips:
Be sure to bring warm clothing for day and night.  A 1200 watt heater
(ceramic is best!)of some sort for the cold nights.  Some of our attendees
have fashioned or purchased Mylar or something similar for insulating the
pop top canvas.  This definitely helps to keep the heat in.  We have camped
at every Bus BRR and have been warm in the bus with an electric heater down
to -5 below. Most attendees bring a Crockpot filled with delicious chili
(optional) or a dish to pass for the dinner, but don't feel obligated.  You
may consider bringing some snow pants or suit if you plan on using the
toboggan run.  The park is really beautiful under a light snowfall.  Alcohol
is permitted at the park at this time of year, but obnoxious drunks are
never welcome.  Due to the Emerald Ash Borer please leave the firewood at
home.  We'll have plenty to keep the fire roaring.  If you have any
questions about Bus BRRR! please pmail me at pnoceanwesty(-at-)gmail.com .  My
cell is: (574) 286-0848 if you need any help or directions*


Pete
'79 Westy "Aardvark"
'87 Westy "JoesVan"
WWW.Busesbythebeach.com
