Date: Mon, 22 Feb 2010 10:05:10 -0800
From: Heather Woltz <vwdreamer(-at-)gmail.com>
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>, 
Subject: '71 Bus Brake Woes

Hello all, I have been a lurker for some time, but starting to post more...

Here is my story:

Bus was under 6ft of water - obviously damage to the system. When i first
got the bus, calipers were stuck so hard, in order to drive it home we had
to manually separate them, and use e-brake only.

#1 Rebuilt calipers - reinstalled/re-bled system; front brakes still
dragging 100% of time unless i manually pulled pedal up after each use of
brakes.

#2 Right rear wheel cylinder was pouring fluid out - Replaced both rear
wheel cylinders, re-bled system; stopped draining, but no change to front

#3 Installed new(er) master cylinder and removed brake booster, drained
(lots of fluid on both sides of booster diaphragm), greased all brake pedal
joints, shortened rod from pedal to booster, re-bled system; the new master
drained a reservoirs worth of brake fluid into the booster. Brakes dragged,
but when pulled up on pedal it didn't seem to bad. Drove 15 miles or so,
after 12 miles brakes were dragging so bad I could barely make it home :(
wheels were hot and brakes were too.

#4 Pulled off master, and wicked fluid out of booster, bought a NEW off the
shelf master cylinder, shortened rod again 2 turns from pedal to booster,
re-bled system; brakes seemed a lot better, no more leaking into the
booster, but again after 12 miles, brakes started dragging as if they were
almost 90% on. However found out that if i were to pull really hard (past
the return point) on the pedal the brakes would release but as soon as i
would let go they would stick on again.

I will replace the hoses, but i think that i either have the wrong booster,
or the length of the rod that goes into the master cylinder? Thoughts? As
far as i can tell it is not adjustable. However I have not taken it off
again.. there are no specs or mentions of adjusting the booster rod length
into the master cylinder. And according to my FLAPS the master cylinder is
the same for all disc brake models, but they don't carry boosters, so I
don't know if they changed through the years.

Thinking about just finding a known good booster to eliminate the problem
considering that it was under water and sat for 2 yrs, who knows how much
damage it did to the booster.... (however I know the booster still works and
most likely doesn't have a punctured diaphragm because i still have pretty
good brakes when i use them)

Thoughts?

Thanks in advance!


-- 
Heather Woltz
'71 VW Bus: Riviera Camper - BusZilla: 2007cc
'84 Mercedes 300SD: Veggie Oil baby!
http://www.vwdreamer.com
--------------------------------------------------------
"Well-behaved women seldom make history." - Laurel Thatcher Ulrich
