Date: Mon, 22 Feb 2010 23:12:39 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] '71 Bus Brake Woes

On 2/22/2010 7:12 PM, Heather Woltz wrote:
> Any more suggestions?


Here's my guess:

So, a while back I worked on my friend's motorcycle brakes and we put a 
new brake lever on, rebuilt the brake caliper, bled the system, and 
every time he'd drive it around the front brake would slowly lock up 
after repeated braking.  At one point he had to take the box-end wrench 
with him and loosen up the bleeder down the road to let out the pressure 
otherwise he couldn't move the bike anymore.

After a lot of head-scratching, it turned out that it was the brake 
lever.  It was an aftermarket lever and it didn't exactly match the 
specs of the original lever.  What it was doing was not allowing the 
brake master cylinder piston to come back to its normal resting position 
(the lever was holding preload when there was supposed to be none). 
This meant that the little hole in the piston that lines up with the 
little hole in the bottom of the reservoir was not lining up because 
there was always a preload on the pushrod.  This meant that any excess 
pressure in the brake system could not flow back into the reservoir.

So, a way to test this on the bus would be to pump the brake a bunch of 
times and see if the front disk locks up.  If it does, try and push on 
the disk brake pads to force fluid back up into the reservoir.  If you 
aren't able to force any fluid back unless you lift the pedal and then 
the fluid is able to flow back up (or you are able to drive without your 
front-end locking up), then I'm guessing there's something up with the 
master cylinder.

I'm not sure if the VW master cylinder employs the same kinda pressure 
relief system, but I would venture to guess there is something similar 
to what was on the motorcycle.  Your symptoms also sound very similar, 
especially because you say that you can pull up on the pedal and it 
eases up the pressure on the front brakes.

My guess would be the pushrod length is not right or something is wrong 
with the front-brake circuit.

Hope that helps!
Mike
