Date: Wed, 24 Feb 2010 03:22:22 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "T.P. Stephens" <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Bus Fuse panel

At 08:18 PM 2/23/2010, you wrote:
>Hi, hope you are having fun!  I have met a 'snag' in my '74 Westy bus wiring,
>and I think I am ready to 'implant' a fuse box for 'spade' fuses, and
>think....if I take each wire off of existing 'position', and research where
>that wire goes, and remain cognisant of the original wiring circuit..I should
>be able to insatll a complete system, using 'newer' electrical components!

Well yes, it can be done, if you have the attitude and aptitude and lots of
time to VERIFY all details. I can only suggest that any major change like
this will tend to devalue the Bus. In the years between 70-78, changes to
the fuze block were made virtually every year. Before you do this, do take the
time to consider restoring the original block as opposed to 
replacement with aftermarket.
If you find a donor for an original fuze block, do not pull off the wires for
removal, but cut them some 6 inches back. Now you can see the wire codes
of the donor compared to the original, and any differences will stand 
out, then
can be confirmed on the diagrams whats what.

Do inspect the existing fuze block closely. You can pull it down sufficient for
this without disconnection anything. First, look for signs of 
corrosion or water
stains. Then for the purty purple colors and darkened insulation that 
indicate heat stress. If not much of
this, restoration will be far and away less costly in time/money.

There will simply be no inprovement with the newer type blade fuzes. 
In fact, there
is a distinct disadvantage. You will have to pull the blade type to confirm
if it is blown. The original type can be seen as to condition without touching
them, and are as well far easier to remove and replace.

The biggest weakness of the original fuze block is it's location directly under
a leaking window seal. Just a few drops of water and corrosion or a 
short rears it's ugly
head. Just replaced my flasher relay, 28 years old and 200k+ original, due to
this. I will cover the block with some form of a shield, then resolve the leak.

And by the way, if you are motivated by need of correcting a 
continuouse blowing
fuze, the fault is rarely the fuze block. Check all the dash 
switches. If the collars
get loose, the switch can turn a short a terminal. Twist the switch 
to insure clearance
and retighten the collar. All these old buses need this checked. 
Reach up behind the
dash and if you can twist and move the back of the switch, tighen the 
collar. Light switch,
wiper switch, flasher switch, whatever you got on your bus.

Regards,

T.P. Stephens aka Doktor Tim 
