Date: Wed, 24 Feb 2010 22:03:19 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] VW Microfische question?

I will say although not to knock this as the information is probably
impressive, it isn't as convenient as one would think.  Back in '92 or so when
my Corrado was 2 years old, Bentley had not yet released the manual on paper. 
So I picked up the fiche, as it was also a pile cheaper ($15-20 or so per
vehicle manual back then.)  I had a couple readers, they were standard US made
affairs dad has scavenged from AT&T when they were tossed, nothing special
about VW's fiche size folks, most GOOD readers read many sizes including
theirs (both the small service and large parts fische.)  I recall I sold one
to Ron as Bus Depot was starting up as he had got a bunch of parts fiche (at
the time, most small dealers did not have computers still.)  I used that thing
a few times (the Corrado fische) and it was such a PITA, I went and printed
the whole friggin thing at the university library using my masters advisors
account, took HOURS to print it all, as you
 manually centered the page, refocused if you needed to, printed, repeated
hundreds of pages.  I've bought and sold some vintage parts and service fische
over the years (bought the set the local dealer had in '94 that went back 40
years) and sure would have never used any of it to actually do any work except
look up occasional parts numbers.  Now all that said, as mentioned some of
this info is irretrievable in other medium, would be great to scan and .pdf
it, but boy what a task.
 
John

--- On Wed, 2/24/10, raceingcajun <raceingcajun(-at-)communicomm.com> wrote:

   The reader and films I have is about the most complete set I've seen in a
while. It is complete with service, wiring diagrams, parts, paint & body,
campaigns, product circulars, warranty, labor, special tools catalog, etc, on
and on! These films cover Volkswagen, Audi, and Porsche'.
   I dare say it would be hard to duplicate a service manual or system with
this much complete information. The great thing is it's all factory!
