Date: Fri, 24 Aug 2001 23:26:46 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] swivel foot adjusters?

>Why use this on a hydraulic lifter controlled valve adjustor?  Due to
>the nature of the lifter, the tappet should always be in contact with
>the valve end and thus will not mushroom the adjustor or the valve stem
>as in nonhydraulic engines.  I pulled a tappet on my 78 bus after
>220,000 miles and it was not worn, just shiny! (see attached pic).  I
>was aonce told if you use a swivel foot you take away the intentional
>offset contact that helps to keep the valve rotating.

I have always wondered this exact thing, if the socket rotates the force
rotating the valve has to be much reduced as well.  I get the use in
uprights but the valve guides don't seem that weak in the T4 to me so
I've never gone and wanted to use a set of swivels personally though I've
got a couple sets from engines I've picked up here and there running as
Jake mentioned with 1.7 rockers.  My point being even in solid lifter T4's
I've never seen a set of heads where the seats much outlived the guides
so the guide wear the swivel adjuster is avoiding seems a bit after the
fact to me.  The reduction in valve rotation if it does occur which truthfully
I have no idea about would seem more detrimental to me than increased
guide wear.

I would personally only do it with a lot of inspection in a hydraulic engine
as to how things fit up.  Not all 2.0 rocker arms will even work without
interference in the hydraulic application, it is rare but I've seen it happen.
As to Michael's great lifter/stem longetivity I too have taken off rocker arms
with 175k+ miles and seen only a minor polish to the tips and the adjuster.
I've also seen both galled out by the other with 25k miles.  OEM VW
valves and vw adjusters FROM THE DAY were a good match for each
other, that is definitely not always the case today.  I in fact tend to hoard
good adjuster screws from never touched core engines for use in rebuilds
as I think they had far tighter quality control on the hardness in the 70's
than
in the late 80's and now.  It seems in my experience the new adjusters are
typically soft now days compared to the valves, perhaps some of the
stellite tips are just harder who knows.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu


