Date: Sun, 26 Aug 2001 09:33:40 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: Robert Taylor <rtaylor(-at-)geog.ucsb.edu>
Subject: AFM Diagnostics was: type2 Digest 

At 07:38 AM 08/26/2001 -0700, you wrote:
>
>
>>  My mechanic says I need an air flow intake something or other   ..it
>> mounts under/near the air filter ?? looks like a silver metal box with
>> an air flap on it...what does this do?? do I need it?
>
>
>This part is the heart of your fuel injection system. you could easily
>be dollars ahead just replacing it rather than paying someone else to try
>to fix the old failing one.

If you find a mechanic willing to charge you to open the AFM and try to
tweek it, find another mechanic. This fellow is unknowledgable. Bentley
gives full procedures for validating the AFM. If it is putting out bad
data, replace it. If it responds correctly to test procedures, it's not
your problem. If your mechanic will not first follow given procedures to
insure results, find one who will. Sounds like he did determine from
inspection a problem with the AFM. Does he have the Bentley manual?? If
yes, why do you question his opinion???  What is his reputation in the
community?? Can he be trusted to give an honest opinion every time??? What
experience with Bosch systems does he have?? Does he have REAL tools or
Craftsman???? Ask him if he will warrent his diagnosis. 

Now ignore all of the above if it's the original unit 25 years old. Just
replace it. If it's not the current problem is soon will be. With regard to
longevity of proper function, the Bosch Corp ReMan units are
indistingusable from new. No risk whatsoever of a problem with their
remanufactured units. Have not had a single comeback in hundreds and
hundreds of units, FI, ignition or electrical. Indeed, many times that
Reman will actually be a NewMan, a new unit, at the ReMan price. There is
more demand for ReMan than they can supply cores. Not everyone sends them in. 

The percentage of cores returned to Bosch that are found to be function
nominal (ie-NOT THE PROBLEM, BAD DIAGNOSIS, WASTED TIME/MONEY!!) is just
too high to be funny. That goes for all the FI stuff, more especially
ECU's. Bad diagnosis is far more costly than given procedures. But given
procedures sometime's aren't cheap, either. Cheap means insufficient
knowledge/skill/time invested giving no result, either no value or negative
value. Actual knowledge and skill and time simply must be employed. There
is no way around it if results are required. 

And just a note for the day: Good detailed records are by far the strongest
influence on the lowest possible cost per mile. Documented vehicles greatly
reduce diagnostic time required when a glitch shows up. If I have the
records, I know before the vehicle arrives a whole bunch of things that ARE
NOT the problem. It can truly be the differece between 5 minutes and 3
hours to have a correct diagnosis. 

T.P. Stephens
Doktor Tim's

