Date: Sun, 26 Aug 2001 12:40:17 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: "Pat Callaghan" <patcal(-at-)qwest.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] clutch problem

At 11:58 AM 08/26/2001 -0700, you wrote:
>
> I found the pilot bearing
>almost completely gone.  It had a few needles left but they were all
>fractured.  Most of it was just powder.=20

Polish the end of the mainshaft. If the flywheel surface is not gauged but
is smooth, use 120 grit to put a tack on it. I like to try for a 20=B0 angle
from radial. Helps the new disc breakin, and too smooth a suface will slip
on a new disc. A slipping clutch will create a LOT of heat REAL fast. Burns
up the adhesives in the new fiber matrix. Falls apart in months or less.

Inspect the disc and pressure plate. Measure specs per Bentley. If they
meet specs, they can be reused for additional life. Almost all the F&S
clutch plates and discs are date stamped. If we have three or four year old
parts with low miles they can be perfectly reusable. The idiot who put them
in just didn't waste any time on the $5 pilot bearing. If they're 10 years
old of unknown history, probably better to just replace them.=20

If you get a Henco en Mehico disc, look over the rivets closely. Are they
nice and round and cleanly formed???? Yes??? WHEEEWWW!!!....... No???? Take
it back to the source and in a loud voice that everyone can hear say, "Hey,
the rivets on this disc are garbage. Can we look through the others and see
if they're all that way, or if there might be one amongst them that is
USABLE for purposes intended, as opposed to this one which certainly is not
usable for intended purposes." If no one takes the junk back they will use
it as evidence that the parts are not junk, and truth gets lost in the end.

Do verify condition of the cross shaft and it's bushings. It controls the
TO bearing by keeping it precisely perpendicular to the mainshaft, ergo,
parallel to the clutch fingers. If that spec gets out, short clutch life is
ensured. If the forks that press the TO bearing are worn into a flatness
where there should be something circular going on, have a machinist grind
new paralled curves on them and save your German shaft. You could have them
add some welding to the arms, if they know how to do that without warping
things, things any QUALIFIED machinist WILL know.=20


T.P. Stephens
Doktor Tim's

