Date: Sun, 26 Aug 2001 17:05:08 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: AFM Diagnostics was: type2 Digest

>I simply disagree. The AFM units cannot be recalibrated anywhere except on
>a Bosch bench. They hold the procedures to do this and the data as secret.
>Anyone else is guessing. It's a glorified practice of poking screwdrivers

BS, nothing at all is "secret" about any of it.  If someone were so inclined
they could easily chart the data themselves off of a new or Bosch rebuilt
AFM on a flow bench.  I'd warrant it would take about 20 minutes or so
to generate the curve at sufficient flow points.  I could run down to my old
aero department and do it myself if I was so inclined.  From there is would
be an easy matter to recalibrate other units assuming no parts are needed
because those certainly will be unobtainable.  Regardless it isn't really
necessary because the real world test of the AFM is whether or not it
can maintain a proper air/fuel relationship under load across a suitable
range of rpm/air flows.  Anyone with a dyno and an emissions tester can
verify that easily enough.  For our mini formular cars we did just that
all the time, recalibrating AFMs to our liking and application either on
the dyno or on the track with portable emissions and data aquisition
equipment.  More than a few companies do it for high performance
applications.  Now as I've alluded it isn't going to necessarily be
economically practical for a stock application or worth even your own
time or effort.  The only reason Bosch written FI manuals say to keep
that lid on is because Bosch will be happy to sell you a new AFM.
But if you let an idiot fool with it, expect the consequences, I admit
nothing scares me more than looking at a new to me bus running
poorly where that wonder silicone has been scraped away and the
lid pried off.  However, I'd be willing to bet that the original vanagon list
saved 100's of people the cost of new Digifant AFMs over the years by
telling people to simply move the circuit board or bend the brushes a bit
to restore worn resistance tracks.  Nothing magical about any of this
stuff folks but you do have to have the tools and they are largely
brains more than screwdrivers.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu


