Date: Wed, 17 Apr 2002 11:30:04 -0400
From: John Baker<jbakerccymca(-at-)springmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Westy pop-top...

On Wed, 17 Apr 2002 09:05:18 -0500 Daniel Winkert wrote:
>>Did you get any response? I am also looking for information on putting a 
later bay (longer, bed) poptop on a 71.<<

Hey Guys,
I saw this original post the other night, but I didn't have time to respond, now I do.
I put a 75 westy pop top onto a 73 once. I did run into a few snags which I didn't foresee. Mainly, the 73 westy is built around a sunroof model bus, whereas the later westys have the roof section "cut away" specifically for the pop top camper. As a result, the opening is a little wider on the later models than the sunroof models. The place where the front pop top support poles attach to the roof of the bus created an issue. The front poptop support poles will have to be mounted directly to the exterior roof of the bus, as opposed to the rail where the exterior has been cut away on a later model, because of the opening size. This creates 2 "problems", or opportunities for creative thinking, as i like to call them! First of all the area of the roof where you must attach the poptop support brackets is not completely flat on your early bay, causing your brackets to be mounted at an angle pointing outward, but your poptop supports must be completely vertical, not angled. Solution:!
 BFH (big friggin hammer). Sounds harsh, I know, but a few whacks with a 3 pound hand sledge hammer flattened the spot enough to mount the brackets.
Secondly, being that you are mounting the support brackets on the exterior of the roof, and not on interior rail where the roof has been cut away, this causes the front of the poptop to raise 1.5-2 inches higher than originaly intended, causing your canvas to be short this amount. Solution: I used a hack saw and cut off about 2 inches from the front support poles, then redrilled the hole where the retaining pin goes through and into the mounting brackets. With the poles 2 incehs shorter, it compensates for the shortness of the canvas. Also, wherever you drill through to attach the mounting bracket bolts in the front and rear, just make sure you use REALLY BIG washers on the inside of the roof, becuase there are a few spots where your drilled holes will only be going through sheet meteal and not support rails.
I know this reply may be confusing, so pmail me if you have any questions or need clarification.  I have attaced a photo of the finished 73 with the new poptop up. You can't really see much, but you will see that it looks pretty decent.
I hope this helps...


Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1966 Kombi
http://www.geocities.com/jbakerccymca
"...so we got in the red VW microbus with the shovels and rakes and implements of destruction and
headed on to the police officer's station..."
