From: "Allen, Brian R. (Ship Systems)" <brallen(-at-)northropgrumman.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 18 Apr 2002 05:41:30 -0700
Subject: Bushing?

Speaking of bushings, how much should I expect to shell out to have my
34pic3 rebushed?  It appears to be leaking around the throttle arm.

I bought this one newly rebuilt and probably have 30k miles on it.  Is this
the typical time to rebuild?

Thanks!

-Brian
71 Bus

-----Original Message-----
From: Doktor Tim [mailto:doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com]
Sent: Wednesday, April 17, 2002 7:36 PM
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Woe is me.

>1. Throttle linkage wears out and creates a vaccuum leak on the dual carbs.

He probably has never seen a tight set of Solex carbs on a VW dual carb. 
You can play with a worn set until the second coming and never get stable 
settings. Dink with them till you turn to dust and they still idle and run 
like crap. It is the most restrictive engine bay to work in for a 72 
without the engine hatch above. But even the 73/74's with the hatch are a 
bit difficult to adjust the carbs and linkage. If you have one air flow 
guage, you must hold rpms precisely while swapping from carb to carb to 
compare balance. I have it down to 2 or 3 iterations, but only because I 
don't take no for an answer and develop whatever procedure is required to 
verify reality in every case.

If a stock dual carb comes to my shop with idle or running problems, the 
first thing I do is check the shaft wear. If it's bad, it's bad. I won't 
even advise putting spark plugs in it until the carbs are fixed with turned 
down shafts and custom bushings or replaced with new or unworn carbs. For 
sure don't go get the $99 "tune up". Save the $99 until you have the bucks 
for rebushing or new carbs. You can foul up your motor if you continue 
driving with worn out carbs just pumping the throttle from point a to b. 
The first long straight at speed and you could lean out and hole a piston.

