Date: Fri, 13 Jun 2003 22:48:30 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Eric W. Bradway" <eric(-at-)bradway.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] trouble first engine pull

> the way i pulled the engine easist was that i put a cement block under the
> tranny to catch it when i gently let the enigne down and pulled back to
> slide it off the tranny...

And if you are stuck after you've taken the bolts off, remember that the
engine has to be pulled towards the back of the bus to slide it off the
transmission. It's not a surface-to-surface attachment! This is where the
problem comes in when you put it back together this way - lining up the
transmission and engine correctly because the engine has to be 'inserted' at
an angle and slid just right or the clutch with get out of alignment and you
have to start all over again.

> the tranny and engne together was a pain in the butt for one thing only for
> me and that was the rusted cv joint bolts... i cant stand haveing to take
> those dad blame cv joints and axles off./... i repalced all the cv bolts
> this last time though so there wont be that problem again.....or at least
> for a long while i hope,,

For this reason, I highly recommend buying new CV bolts for every engine pull.
They aren't that expensive and this way when you have to pull the engine on
the side of I-95 to swap the clutch, you can get them off without too much
effort!

> the cv joint bolts i had to cut off useing a dremel whihc was a pain in the
> arse but did end up and work in the end.. just watch out for gas line s this
> willcause an awful spark when cutting the bolts...

There's also the issue of getting to the CV bolts. Unless you have a patient
friend with you at that point, you have to loosen a couple on one side, then
the other, then disengage the parking brake, rotate the cv axles, engage the
parking brake, do a couple, more, lather, rinse, repeat. Whenever I do this by
myself I never feel confident that I actually got them all torqued down (so
many bolts, so many turns, they all look the same...)

> i have owned a bus for a little over a couple of months now and so far have
> dropped my engine once and my engine and tranny together twice...

Compared to my old 911, the bus is fun. The 911 was exciting but DAMNED heavy!

-Eric

-- 
www.bradway.net
