From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 14 Jun 2003 12:44:33 -0700
Subject: intermittant irregular idle

I recently acquired another 76 bus.  Stock type IV motor with stock 76 era
F.I.  Compression is well within acceptable perameters (110 on all 4, not
the best, but not bad either) and I have been driving it daily.  I live in
Oregon which is a moderate climate and am running Pennzoil 30W currently
with a fram filter.  Oil is very clean and is checked every time I fill the
tank.  I have installed new Bosch spark plugs and a new Bosch wire kit.  New
distributer cap and rotor, air and fuel filters were also added.  Motor has
a new master seal and was rebuilt (so the P.O. garage claims) 600 miles ago.

The motor runs great when I first start it.  However if I take it on a drive
that is in excess of 60 or 70 miles, or if it is a really hot day (for
Oregon that's around 90f) it begins to idle funny, as if it isn't firing on
a cylinder or possibly a partially obstructed injector.  I had my trusted
mechanic friend who works at an exclusively air cooled VW shop in Portland
adjust the timing and the dwell, but this loping idle still occurs when the
engine reaches a hot ambient running temperature.  Occassionally the motor
will stall when this idle issue presents itself.  It seems to be hit or miss
when it occurs, but as the weather is getting warmer, it is becoming more
and more common.

  My text resources are slim and I have been pouring over the archives for
weeks trying to find a similar issue with one of the boards subscribers, to
no avail.

  I'm out of ideas and it sounds and runs extremely well until it gets hot.
Sorry, no oil temp gauge installed yet, but the engine compartment and block
do not feel any warmer than my other bus which runs great and has the same
engine/F.I. setup.  Anyone want to throw me an idea?
coil maybe?  but if it was the coil wouldn't it behave that way when it was
cold also?

Seann Stafford
Training/Technical Support
INTEGRATED SERVICES, INC.
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
