From: "John Connolly" <john(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "Dennis Haynes" <dhaynes(-at-)optonline.net>, <CTOnLine(-at-)webtv.net>
Cc: <Vanagon(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, <Syncro(-at-)yahoogroups.com>,
Date: Sat, 14 Jun 2003 19:48:04 -0600
Subject: Re: [Syncro] New found AC Refrigerant

Just a few things I have learned doing my A/C research.

There are a LOT of refrigerants (like 100 of them); including but not
limited to

ammonia (aka: R717)
Nitrous Oxide (R744A)
Methane (R50)
Argon (R740)
Ethane (R170)
Propane (R290)
Sulfur dioxide (R764)
Butane (don't know the #)
etc.

you can use most anything as a "refrigerant"; as you can see, most are
already "classified" by the R designation.

There are 2 MAIN groups, the Flourocarbon based, and Hydrocarbon based.
"Flammable" is hogwash; the amount of refrigerant is only about 1% of the
fuel tank. If you get in an accident bad enough to worry about if the
refrigerant is "flammable" you have other problems to worry about IMO. Even
R12 is flammable under pressure, so that argument don't wash.

In Europe, they have pretty much changed to the HC refrigerants, since they
DO NOT DAMAGE THE OZONE LAYER (they are "environmentally friendly") like
Florocarbons. The life of HCs is under a year, while R-12 and R-134A are 16
and 15 years respectively (I believe), which is a lot of the reason they are
better for "mother earth".

The problem is HC refrigerants are illegal in 16 states of the US. The EPA
is all over this one, and as in other areas, Big Brother is not necessarily
making their decisions based on the "facts" (they are following Big
Business, and $$$). It's sad. A/C shops purge your system into their
recovery tanks, then vent them at night, or refill the next guy's car with
what they took out of yours, because turning it in is $$$. Even if you try
to do it right, most of the time it doesn't help, because the "experts at
the shop" either dont' know what they are doing (equip isn't kept up), or DO
know what they are doing and are keeping their mouth shut because the
consumer doesn't know.

You can use any refrigerant you want, but you need to do your homework on
compatibility with compressor oils, boiling points (how well it cools),
PRESSURES (how much power it draws, or if your compressor can even handle
the job), and how much load it can handle. How expensive?

You can learn a lot reading the forums at ackits.com

or searching google for "refrigeration", "refrigerants", "freon", "propane",
etc.

I think sealants are a really bad idea BTW, as is mixing refrigerants and
oils. Putting 134 into an R-12 system is a huge mistake without COMPLETE
flushing and oil changes. Ask me HOW I KNOW. :-/

John
