From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Sun, 15 Jun 2003 08:21:54 -0500 (CDT)
To: glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com (George Lyle)
Cc: dhaynes(-at-)optonline.net (Dennis Haynes), Vanagon(-at-)yahoogroups.com,
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: [Syncro] New found AC Refrigerant

George--

I retract my prior postings content---

Natural gas does have methane in it--
But it also contains propane and Butane.

So--what I should have said--and didn't      ( as usual )

Natural gas doesn't just contain methane--it has it all !!

So what---

There isn't enough of this stuff in the AC system to cause nuclear
halicost--

Like you mentioned in one of your prior postings--In the event of a
catistrophic accident--the 15 gallons of the petrolium product in your
fuel tank woud be a bigger threat-- 

Ok--here's another thought--

Forget that I ever mentioned an alternative refrigerent that I'm using--
It works, it blows colder than the R-12--and I know for a fact much
better than 134---

BUT DO NOT USE THE STUFF !!

IN THE EVENT OF A TERRORIST ATTACK IT COULD BE LETHAL--

DON'T EVEN THINK OF INSTALLING THIS PRODUCT INTO YOUR AC SYSTEM.

IT IS DANGEROUS --

Why didn't the post this sort of warning on the unsikable Titanic---?/

Enter at your own risk--this ship may sink if any undue outside force
causes structural hull failure ???

PLEASE---

 
Discarded e-mail message   
 
Since we're discussing facts: 
Fact-- 
Methane is a flammable gas just like propane and butane. When I camp, I
cook with propane and butane. When I'm at home I cook with methane
(which is also called "Natural Gas." 
Fact-- 
Methane boils at -164C. Freon 12 boils at -30C. There's no way that a
methane refrigerant can replace Freon 12. The reason that F-12 replaced
a propane/butane mixure in the first place is that propane boils at -42C
and butane boils at 0C. A mixture of the two therefore boils at about
the same temperature as the F-12 that replaced the mixtire. 
This isn't to say that a propane/butane mixure isn't a dandy
refrigerant. It worked very well before freon came along and continues
to work well even though DuPont would rather you use their stuff. 
If someone is telling you that they have a methane refrigerant that can
replace F-12 I would be suspicious of their claims. They have either
figured out a way to magically alter the physical properties of methane
or they simply don't know the difference between the various
hydrocarbons. 
George Lyle
