Date: Tue, 15 Apr 2003 14:22:12 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Access Systems <accessys(-at-)smart.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: strange tire wear pattern

>I just had my rear tires off to change the brake shoes and noticed that
>the very inner corner of the tires were wearing much faster than the rest,
>I'm not talking the inner 1/3 or so but just on the corner of the tread,
>less than 1/10 of the width.
>
>bus is not splayed at the rear and seems to be riding correctly, tires
>have correct air preasure, at the high end of the range even.

Rotate them every 5K miles.

Could be that your rear end has too much toe in (front of tire is closer 
together than rear of tire).

Some may be required for proper handling of the bus.

If you look at your bus and most of the older Beetles and my CR-V - - - the 
rear tires have a tilt where the tops of the rear tires are closer together 
than the bottoms of the rear tires. The opposite is found at the front of 
the vehicle. So each 5K miles or 7500 miles if you are driving a Honda, you 
take the left rear tire off and put it on the left front, and the same on 
the right side. Now the wear is reversed on the tires. The rear tires which 
had more wear on the inner edge is wearing more on the outer edge and vice 
versa on the tire that used to be on the front.

Now I know I just opened a rattlesnake mess by saying left rear to left 
front and same on the right side WITHOUT a criss-cross. Yes your spare tire 
isn't going to be in the mix but I am going with the advice in my Honda 
owner's manual. My plan has always been to remove the best of the worn 
tires and make it the spare. Now install all new four tires.

My question for your question: my Honda's manual tells one story and other 
owner's manuals cars that I have owned mention the criss-cross. Which is 
the common factor here - the tire technology (both cars - new and old - are 
running tires of current technology) or has the notion of how to rotate 
your tires changed or does the fact that both vehicles have 4 wheel IRS 
though of different design matter not? Would the situation be the same if 
one vehicle had 4 wheel IRS (aircooled VW or Honda) and the other had a 
modern pickup truck suspension (IRS front and solid rear axle and RWD)?

I ask this question because the people around me all drive either FWD cars 
or pickups and their opinions are based on their experience which is only 
loosely related to our old VW's so their advice is typically flawed IMHO. I 
also don't listen much to the tire store folks - they've advised me 
incorrectly before (passenger tires on a VW bus for one).

  Thanks for any assistance.




Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
