Date: Wed, 16 Apr 2003 11:03:30 -0700
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Turn signal switch

On Wednesday, April 16, 2003, at 10:35AM, Jared Sims <utvolk(-at-)hotmail.com> wrote:

>It figures. The day I go to get my bus inspected, my turn signal switch goes 
>kaput. Until recently, it worked, but never clicked itself off. I had to 
>manually turn the signal off after I turned. Saturday, the first turn I 

There is a black cancelling ring underneath the wheel. A black plastic tab cancels the signalling but it can wear down over time and fail. A new one fixes the problem. When you take it off the wear will be obvious. Until I got a replacement ring I wrapped it with a little tape to get it cancelling again.

>made, I went to turn the switch back to the off position, and the lever just 
>went limp. I can still turn my brights on, but I can't turn either signal on 
>and the lever flops around all over the place now.
>
>What's goin on? Can I repair it, or am I going to need to replace it?

You need to take it off and see what if any pieces are broken. Use your fingernails to remove the horn button. Carefully remove the nut the holds the steering wheel on. Use a 24mm socket or offset box wrench otherwise be careful not to strip the nuts.

Check the cancelling ring on the bottom of the wheel. Replace if necessary.

Look for broken pieces. If you need to remove the switch, undo the battery and disconnect the three plugs in the  steering column. Remove the top 4 screws and you can pull out the assembly. You'll need to remove the hoses from the washer system that are attached to the washer valve before it can come out completely. It then separates into two pieces (turn signal, washer lever).

After reassembly torque the nut holding the steering wheel down back up to 36ft lbs. when you are done. This step is important or the wheel will come loose while driving. Be sure to make not of the alignment marks on the column and the steering wheel hub so you put it back on straight.

> If 
>replacement is necessary, can anyone give me a ballpark figure on the price 
>of a new assembly.

About $35-40 new.

--
Richard
1978 Westfalia CDN
Cupertino, CA
