Date: Wed, 16 Apr 2003 13:56:44 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Christian Hogg <ChristianH(-at-)mdcresearch.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Tune-up question

>Well, I started the task of doing a tune-up on my '72 bus. When I went
>to replace my spark plugs, I noticed that there were these sheet metal
>cover screwed to the top of them on either side of the engine. My
>question is, when I finally get them removed to replace my spark plugs,
>do I really need to put them back on? They appear to be some type of
>cosmetic covering and thus far have proven to be somewhat of a challenge
>to get off.

Oh my. You are new to the VW thing aren't you?

Buy thee a copy of Bentley and John Muir's Idiot Manual. You need to 
understand the function of the pieces you are dealing with. You are looking 
at the cooling tin on top of the engine and this is mandatory. Your engine 
would cook itself in just a few minutes with the cylinder tin missing and 
you need to have some pics to inventory what might be missing already. 
Summer is coming and you need to have everything in place and functioning 
(flappers, thermostat, etc). Your cooling tin is the equivalent of the 
radiator in a typical watercooled car. Would you drive without a radiator? 
Not far.

You don't have to take anything off to change the sparkplugs. Remove the 
wires and use a sparkplug socket on an extension and a handle. 20 minutes 
when you've done it before. Several hours the first time.

Do this when the engine is cold. Make sure that your spark plug socket has 
a rubber insert in the socket to hold the sparkplug in it as you remove the 
socket from the hole. Try a new plug in the socket before you get started.

Good luck!!!


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
