Date: Sun, 24 Jan 2010 12:04:36 -0800
To: VB list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: new motor/old woe update

finally had a chance to tweak my carb based on listee suggestions. 
first, i swapped the  black float that came with the 30/31 to a brown 
one i found that was marked 'made in w. germany.'  i then changed the 
float valve as well, ditching the one that came in a rebuild kit... 
it was marked 1.5; swapped it for a solex marked 1.2.

next i raised the air correction to 135z (was 125z).

car fired up, but had a hard time idling. finally warmed up enough, 
and i was able to screw the speed correction screw out several turns, 
which resulted in a better idle and a better sound to the motor. not 
so much fuel stink from the tailpipe.

went for a spin, and the car was fairly peppy - did not die at stops, 
and didn't stumble at starts (although my habit of bumping the gas 
right before i let in the clutch might mask that a bit. will have to 
stop doing that if i get the carb tuned correctly!).

the only flaw was the head temp; i live on top of a hill that goes up 
600 feet in .6 of a mile... one long, steep grade, some spots worse 
than others.  temp went up to nearly 450 by the end (normally i was 
seeing 350,  425 tops on a long, hot run). this was in second gear.

the current main is a 125z, air 135z, idle and pilot are 50, 50 
stamped on the accel squirter.   88 machine-ins, torque cam.

i can either go up on the main, or down on the air...  i have a 130Y 
air.   Z means the fluid - air or fuel -  is measured as it flows 
DOWN the jet, Y indicates the fluid travels UP, and i'm not sure if 
that matters or not.  some of the motorcycle guys claim it does.

i have a bunch of bigger mains -  127.5 to 170 or something crazy  - 
but don't want to go too far back into 'too rich at idle' land.

i also did not try to remove the air cleaner, tho i did check that 
all the flaps worked properly.  IF the stock cleaner (1600 motor) is 
completely gunked up  and restricted as per one listee suggestion,  i 
may need to brainstorm... i'm thinking junkyard cleaner, coir filter 
area cut off, and some other medium to replace it. i'd have to 
research what the original specs were, and try and match the new 
material to that.   a summer project.  meantime, what aftermarket 
cleaners are people having luck with?

-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
