Date: Fri, 26 Feb 2010 20:27:44 -0800 (PST)
From: Aubrey Allen <notorious_a_u_b_(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Fri.Question-Brake Drum='68bus+ChevyBoltPattern

Hey Guys and Gals,
     This is a question for my 1968 Microbus.  I know this list is supposed to be for split windshields, but '68 is one year off.  Plus I'm on three forum's because of my rides already, and I feel too spread out to start another.  I feel there are enough members on this list that have experience with the other VDub's this would be safe to ask on a friday.
     I own a 1968 Microbus.  I am building it in homage to the early '80s lowrider buses.  I will not cut out the rear wheel-wells, I promise.  The plan is to make it look like Porsche released a version of its Race Support Van, in the '70's.  Then some kid from Cali got ahold of his Dad's van in the '80's.  Slammed it-adding a camper interior for a love machine.  Yes I have the chain steering wheel.  I have the leather wrap to make it legal (DOT is worried you will get your fingers stuck in the chains while turning, and cause an accident).  No padding- sucks if you steal my bus, and didn't realize how much it hurts to drive with a chain steering wheel.  I had surgery to try to reverse being a paralyzed quadraplegic, and am now walking with nerve and spinal chord damage.  I'll appreciate the feeling like no other.  Pain doesn't matter as long as I can feel it.
     Now the problem.  I have wire-spoked Dayton's with the GM/Ford/Mopar bolt patterns with wheel adapters.  They stick out of course, which wouldn't be too bad.  The sliding door stops before it's open (hits the tire), and most importantly the rear wheel-well will cut the tire if any weight is in the vehicle or the suspension is moving.  I want to pull them closer to the brake drum.  So far I've been trying to find someone to drill the GM 5-lug bolt pattern into the drums, and check for true, and tolerences.  Everyone, except one said they would not drill the new pattern.  They said it would make the metal too brittle.  The one guy that would is now dating my brothers ex-wife, and now it costs money, but he won't settle on a price.  I remember people used to drill out the Porsche bolt pattern to make the Fusch's fit their VDubs.  Is that when everyone figured out it was a bad idea?  Then I thought maybe there was a vendor that sold drums with no bolt
 pattern, so whatever wheel was being used, could have that pattern drilled.  Plus with all the people switching to wider wheels in the '80's, maybe there was a vendor who had drums with a Chevy 5-lug pattern instead of VW's.  I've been searching on the web, and asked two different shops if they knew of a solution using the drum system.  So far no one has been able to help.  I'm kind of reluctant to use my bro's, ex-wife's, new boyfriend, cause of the whole family drama.  My bro will know he did it, because I've been trying for two years now to solve this dilema.  Originally I met the guy through my bro, so all that's weird now.  The guy is a machinist by trade, so if there was no drama, he'd be the answer.
     Any one on the list happen to have some old-school drums with the Chevy sedan 5-lug bolt pattern I can get somehow?  Or perhaps know of a vendor that offers them?  This has been holding up my build, which will lead down the road to me getting all my VW's back to road worthy.  The bug is the closest, with the double cab taking up the rear.  I don't want to switch the suspension to disk brakes, and have a custom patterned rotor.  My resolution was to get at least two done by christmas if possible.  Thanks ahead of time for any help on this.
Sincerely,
Aubrey James Allen
------------------
1959 VW Double Cab Pick-Up
1968 VW MicroBus Deluxe
1968 VW Standard Beetle
1980 Chevrolet LUV Truck 4WD
1995 Honda Accord VTEC Coupe
