From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
Date: Mon, 1 Mar 2010 22:14:09 -0500
Subject: re:fresh air flap control?

I have been taking photos as I go. Not tons of them, but a lot. I'll find
some way or somewhere to post them.

 

The handle is basically part of the rod, there is no adjustment in the
handle. The only adjustment is in how the handle attaches to the metal flap.


 

Dean just wrote in that the flat portion actually faces down, and the screws
go down on the round side of the rod. That makes sense - in so far as that
would put the handle in the right spot. I must be mis-reading the Bentley.
Yes, I just re-read the Bentley-it says "The spindle must be inserted in the
control flap brackets so that he flat on the spindle is in line with the
flats in the bracket." So , I'll be back on it on Wednesday or Thursday,
depending on work. 

 

I replaced the gasket around the flap, and will install the gasket that the
flap closes against after installing the flap. I'll  try to take some pics,
and post them to the samba.

 

I also need to replace the gaskets on the deflector plates, that control
where the air flows, as opposed to the other flap that controls how much air
flows. It looks like the best thing is this:
http://wolfsburgwest.com/cart/DetailsList.cfm?ID=221845295A

 

Thanks for your help so far-it is put-it back together time, and order this
gasket and that screw.I should be driving it again by the time the good
weather hits!

 

-Kevin

Jamaica Plain, MA

'69 single cab

'65 Kombi

 

Was writ:

First, congrats on having the paint done!!!  Any photos where we can view 

them? Are you taking photos of the work in progress?

 

Its been a few years since I had my fresh air flap assembly opened up. I 

seem to recall that the screws are where ever they need to be to position 

the handle at the top.

 

How does the handle attach?  Can it be loosened and rotated on the shaft? 

Can't remember, though I tighted mine up as it had been loose since about 

1966. My Dad always complained about it and even tried to take the system 

apart to tighten it up and only succeeded in having a cover that leaked in 

the rain. I did manage to disassemble it far enough to tighten the handle.
