Date: Tue, 8 Feb 2005 11:14:14 -0600 (GMT-06:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Joe Clark <jclark(-at-)supernet.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: ListServs and Pix

<Just because it's easy to send attachments and inline HTML cheese to 
six gazillion people at one time doesn't make it smart.  There are WAY 
too many free web photo hosts to excuse anyone from doing it the right 
way.>

My interest is in when I look back at the archives and want to see the pics somebody is talking about 2 years ago, often the pics are not available because the freebie sites have changed, deleted pics, or a person's own domain no longer exists. Of course I archive my own messages for the day when the Type2 list might not be here and I download pics whenever I can but if the pics were there in-line with the message from the get-go then viola I've got good info there. 

As for the argument that the "load on the net" would be wasteful... Load ont eh Type2 server maybe, the net can handle it. Folks are downloading 5MB MP3s, trading software on the peer-to-peer stuff, and companies sending files back and forth. The Type2 list is not going to account in any noticeable load on anything but those of us (me too) still operating on 56K modems and still wanting pics. 800K for a big Type2 message is not going to cause Earthlink or MSN to go off line or invest in new equipments. The local university limits their messages to 2MB. Earthlink limits their's to 5MB I think. The Type2 list could limit us to 600K-800K or something. 

If it is a list cost issue, then fine, can't/won't argue that. Set fact. 

For you techies out there: would an e-mail message with text and a 2-3 pics be any larger than viewing an HTML webpage of the same size? Would it cause any more 'net traffic to download a message with an inline pic than viewing a page with pics? I don't think it would, seeking opinions. Again the subscriber could have the option NOT to recieve pics set at the Type2 server level. 

FWIW, I want pics obviously, a few do not. Most replies have not. The replies represent a small precentage of the list members. So we have the vocal minority deciding for the majority - I include myself in the minority, so don't think I'm flaming anybody. I think I'm done. Soapbox away... 

Chris
