Date: Tue, 8 Feb 2005 17:58:42 -0600 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Rotary fuel pump for carbs

On Mon, 07 Feb 2005 09:04:37 -0500 Chris Chubb <cchubb(-at-)codegurus.com>
wrote:

Librarian wrote:

> > While the instinctive reaction should indeed be to kill the engine the 
> > minute that light comes on, given the choice of "your engine or your 
> > life" the choice should always come down on the life side.

In my VW driving history I've had engines die in traffic quite a few times.
I've had engines SIEZE at speed twice. Once was a sucked #3 exhaust valve
that wedged the piston rather than beating a hole in it and one was a rod
thrown through the case when, apparently, the oil cooler became plugged up
and oil starved the engine without lighting the idiot light.

I can tell you which I prefer real quick. The bug that siezed did OK -- the
clutch was old and slipped so when the engine stopped turning I just
coasted to the side of the road. The bus I had that threw a rod had a new
clutch and almost tossed me into the windscreen when it siezed. It came to
a bucking, thumping, stop in traffic within a very short distance.

When an engine dies I tend to instinctively toss the gear shift into
neutral and head for the side of the road. When it just dies as from loss
of power I have time to do that. It stops the engine from turning while
allowing me to coast to safety.

The Raby engine I lost was due to a flat stick (piece of a board probably)
that flipped up into the (not properly sealed -- my fault entirely because
I HAD to use the bus as a daily driver) engine compartment and was fired by
the fan through the oil cooler. At 70mph I probably emptied the sump in
under 10 seconds. I heard the rod knock before I saw the idiot light and
the engine was toast. With that type of catastrophic oil loss even the
cutout may not have saved the motor -- but it might have saved more of it
and reduced the rebuild cost (I think only the heads were saved from the
long block -- everything inside the case, and the case, was scored and beat
up too bad). 

Chris wrote:

> Additionally, you will run into this problem: If there is not enough fuel in 
> the carb bowl to start your car, you may never get enough in there unless 
> the starter is putting out enough oil pressure to start the fuel pump.
> 
> Additionally, you may need a diode for the oil pressure warning light to 

I should have clarified that I don't expect it to be a simple circuit.
We've all experienced oil light flicker after returning to idle from a long
high speed run at one time or another. I'll have to put something in there
to account for that. Something that makes the relay stay energized even
with the "patial ground" caused by pressure low enough to cause the light
to flicker but not come on solid. That's for the engine kill circuit.

For the fuel pump circuit I'll add a pushbutton bypass that allows me to
run the fuel pump if I don't see the light go out during the first few
seconds of starter operation. Having the fuel pump "ficker" at idle after
the engine is running shouldn't matter much. I may need to rethink that if
it happens often in a few years as the engine gets "tired" to protect the
pump motor but I shouldn't be seeing a flickering light for a while.

All the relay sockets I buy have a diode pre-installed across the power
leads.

Gerald


-- 
No virus found in this outgoing message.
Checked by AVG Anti-Virus.
Version: 7.0.300 / Virus Database: 265.8.6 - Release Date: 2/7/2005
