From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: <ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com>, "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 8 Feb 2005 17:39:38 -0700
Subject: [T2] Don't forget. Now AFM Questions

> << Venting over. Back to installing my engine.
> Tom >>
>
> Check the new revised type 2 list by-laws, Tom, you're only
> allowed 6 vents or 12 questions whichever comes first... ;-)
>
> Tony in NJ

I guess that means I have 4 vents left but I'm Probably way over my limit on 
questions. I'll Try to slip this one past the list cops. :~)

While bolting my newly rebuilt air flow meter to the air cleaner of my 80 
Vanagon, I noticed 2 odd things I am wondering about.

#1. The hole that the C.O. adjusting screw resides in is plugged with what 
looks like a rubber stopper that's been driven into the hole so the top is 
flush with the top of the hole. I suppose I can drive a screw into the plug 
to extract it if I need to adjust the A/F ratio. Is this an indication that 
the rebuilder has somehow calibrated this AFM so that the C.O. should be 
correct in most situations? I plan to check the C.O. levels once this engine 
is in and adjust as needed but it would be nice to know if the think is in 
the ball park before I start the engine. If Ron from BusDepot.Com is out 
there, maybe you could shed some light on what the rebuilder has to say 
about this? Not a problem, I'm just curious.

#2 Looking at the top of the air cleaner box, next to the AFM, I have a 
phillips screw that has been driven into a hole that is angled so the screw 
points at the center of the air intake of the afm. Does this screw have a 
purpose other than filling the hole? It protrudes into the airstream area 
enough that I would imagin that it disturbs the air stream into the AFM. I'm 
Guessing that the hole may be to alow the insertion of some kind of 
instrument (thermometer, pitot tube, ?) into the air stream or maybe the 
screw is there to purposly disturb the air stream for some reason. OR, The 
PO drilled a hole to have a place to store an extra screw, who knows? 
Hmmmmmm.

Well, I'm warmed up again so I guess I'll go back out in the freezing temps 
and see if there is anything left to do besides clean up my tools. I'm so 
excited about finaly rolling this engine under the bus first thing tomarow 
morning. Some of my friends think I'm crazy for taking a weeks vacation to 
do this kind of work. I tell them vacations are for doing things that make 
you happy. Maybe the next vacation will be in the bus, not under it! :^)
Tom
75 bus "Turtlebus"
80 Westy "as yet unnamed"
Bus-ted minds want to know 
