To: "Mark Hineline" <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>, "Type 2 List"
From: "Miles Erickson" <miles(-at-)mileserickson.com>
Date: Wed, 9 Feb 2005 05:48:26 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] Too many questions?

> But consider the aim: I want a bus in my driveway that I could climb
> into on a moment's notice and drive from San Diego to Bar Harbor, Maine
> and back with just an oil change in Bar Harbor.

Mark -

Back in November, I drove my Bus all the way the way to L.A. and back from
Blaine, WA (up by the Canadian border) -- something like a 2,500 mile round
trip.  The only thing I needed to do in preparation was an oil change.  Thanks
to numerous fellow travelers from the Craigslist ride boards who paid their
share of gas, plus a Great Dane who needed an unaccompanied ride from
Sacramento to Seattle, I ended up breaking even on gas.

The Dragon Bus certainly didn't break down or even think about breaking down,
and I know of no other vehicle in the world that will take me on a round-trip
tour of the entire West Coast without costing a cent in gas money.

Not only that, but if I had been driving my other vehicle, my trip would have
been cut short in the first hour: about a minute after I pulled out of a gas
station in Bellingham, a kid in a rice racer swerved into my Bus in an attempt
to change lanes, apparently without checking to see whether the new lane was
already occupied.  That might have totaled my Subie -- and indeed, it
completely obliterated the kid's left-front fender -- but the damage to my Bus
was nothing more than an easily repaired dent behind the right-front tire and
a paint scratch all the way down the passenger-side door.  I was able to
proceed almost without looking back.  (I'm still waiting for the check from
the kid's parents' insurance company, Allstate, which agreed on December 15th
that it owed me money for the damage but *still* hasn't sent a check.)

So, as far as I'm concerned, you aim is certainly achievable, and my personal
experience suggests that the benefits of a reliable Bus extend beyond anything
I could have imagined.   However, it took me about 2 years and something like
$3500 to get there, on top of the $500 that I originally paid for the Bus.

- Miles ('71)
