Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Jon Stiles <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: benthin(-at-)prodigy.net
Date: Wed, 15 Jul 2009 20:03:29 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] Why tight steering?

Hey Mike,

It very well may be the ball joints.

I just had this problem with a customer's bus, which stranded her in  
Salt Lake City, 700 miles from my shop. We took it to a local and very  
reputable mechanic in SLC who replaced almost everything and it ended  
up being the ball joints. Three out of 4 were simply bad.

The mechanic (Wayne's Vee Dub Repair) who did them, has had several  
aircooled cars and buses in the last 2 years have the exact same  
situation. They were all Genuine German ball joints (the ones with the  
almost unpronounceable name). He has been using Nakata's exclusively  
with no issues.

If everything else is moving nicely, then the problem lies in the ball  
joints. On a heavy camper it is more annoying than anything, but on a  
regular transporter, look out! It becomes a VERY dangerous situation,  
especially at high speeds. I am fortunate my customer didn't roll the  
bus.

What really stinks is it is not a quick or easy fix.

Good luck and let us know how it goes.

Jon Stiles

On Jul 15, 2009, at 7:32 PM, Mike Benthin -MUTS oboe support wrote:

> 78 Camper was rebuilt about 2 years ago, only about 8K driven since  
> then, one Vacation to Indiana and some vw campouts in New England.   
> I noticed that the steering was tight then and still is (resistance  
> to freely moving the wheel, and unlike before, I cannot move the  
> wheels when jacked up to cause the steering to operate without  
> really trying). This does not vary with where the steering box is  
> rotated.  I thought it was due to new ball joints and redoing of the  
> swing lever bushing, but today after greasing the front end I had  
> someone move the steering wheel back and forth as I watched- the  
> swing lever moves visibly up and down with slight axial play and all  
> else moves OK-what could be causing this tightness?  It does not  
> creak.
