Date: Fri, 17 Jul 2009 09:59:04 -0500
From: "David Schwarze" <dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net>
To: "Timo Schairer" <tschairer(-at-)wsi-gris.uni-tuebingen.de>, 
Subject: Re: [T2] Carb Adjustment - again

-----Original message-----
From: "Timo Schairer" tschairer(-at-)wsi-gris.uni-tuebingen.de

> I'm still fiddling with my carb adjustment. Symptoms are way too high cylinder
> head temperatures. 

Apologies if you already talked about this, but are you sure you are measuring CHT accurately?  And what is "way too high"?

> After I have adjusted the throttle plate gap to 0.1mm and to 0.6mm for fast
> idle, I know I should sync the carbs for idle. 

You know that this isn't important for CHT readings, right?

> I synced the carbs by turning the stop screws on the
> throttle plate in/out (in on the carb that has too much flow, out on the one
> having less flow, until they are equal). Is this the right way to do it?

Sounds fine to me.  Hopefully you did not need to move them very far since you should have been very close with the throttle plate gap adjustment you did previously.

 > Okay, after this, I've got an idle speed of 1000rpm. Bentley says to adjust
> the idle to 500-700rpm. I lowered the idle by turning in the mixture screws in
> the throttle body with central idling system still disconnected and
> "pizza-slices" removed from the carbs. Is this correct? I think this way, I'm
> just leaning out the mixture, but shouldn't I be setting the idle speed by
> adjusting mixture and air (the throttle plate gap)?

Yes, I think you should be setting the throttle plate gap.  I would adjust the mixture screws per factory spec (I can't remember what that is, but it's something like 3-1/2 turns out, or perhaps turn them in until RPM drops and then back out 1/2 turn).  Next, after synchronizing the carbs I would back off the throttle stop screws equally on both carbs to get down to the RPM you want.  If you are not going to use the central idling system (and you should at least consider not using it), you are done.  If using the central idling system, reconnect it and adjust the idle speed with the idle speed screw (the larger one) on the top of the left carb.

> Since I want to go camping in 2 weeks, I need to get this done. Beware of my
> fiancie if I have to cancel the trip!

If your carbs are even close to being in sync, and if they have the proper main and air correction jets, they will not be causing you to overheat.  Fine-tuning the synchronization and idle mixture will have virtually zero effect on CHT since both factors are overwhelmed by the main fueling circuit that will be in play when you are driving at (relative) high speed.

More likely in my opinion is that you don't really have an overheating problem, or your timing is off, or your flaps are not open all the way.

-David
