Date: Fri, 17 Jul 2009 18:34:43 +0200
From: "Timo Schairer" <tschairer(-at-)wsi-gris.uni-tuebingen.de>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Carb Adjustment - again

David Schwarze wrote:

> Apologies if you already talked about this, but are you sure you are measuring CHT accurately?  And what is "way too high"?
I'm using a DakotaDigital CHT gauge with the sensor mounted under #3 spark plug, so I think the temperature readings are exact. I'm getting 400 to 450 when driving 65-70 mph on fairly level ground. For that speed I don't have to floor the pedal and I think going that fast should be possible. Even my 1.2l beetle with 34HP easily maintains that speed and I have 300.000 miles on the original engine.

> > After I have adjusted the throttle plate gap to 0.1mm and to 0.6mm for fast
> > idle, I know I should sync the carbs for idle. 
> You know that this isn't important for CHT readings, right?
I just want to be sure that the carbs are tuned correctly. Since I've gone through too many head replacements, I want to factor out all possible causes.

> If your carbs are even close to being in sync, and if they have the proper main and air correction jets, they will not be causing you to overheat.
> Fine-tuning the synchronization and idle mixture will have virtually zero effect on CHT since both factors are overwhelmed by the main fueling
> circuit that will be in play when you are driving at (relative) high speed.
I put in the correct jets (according to the solex manual for my engine and transmission type), but the temps are way too high if I compare them e.g. to the speed/rpm/temp chart on Richard Atwell's site.

> More likely in my opinion is that you don't really have an overheating problem, or your timing is off, or your flaps are not open all the way.
Last year I put in new ACM heads that were rebuilt (for lots of money) by a truly famous German company that work on street, as well as high-performance type4 engines (Kummetat). After one year, I broke off an exhaust stud when mounting new heat exchangers and sent the head to the company for repairing. They told me, that it would need far more effort than just replacing the stud. The head actually deformed in the lower part of the cylinder/head sealing surface and the seats were beginning to recess. So, I think I've got a temp problem.
I rebuilt the dizzy, timing is spot on, checked the centrifugal as well as vacuum advance, everything's good. Flaps are open completely. I'm running out of ideas and money and I'm fearing that I overheat the heads again... Any ideas?
Cheers,
Timo
