Date: Mon, 13 Dec 2004 19:04:07 -0500
To: "stanly steamer" <chris(-at-)eucasafari.vendioweb.com>
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <doyt(-at-)mail.buckeye-express.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re:winter handling / driving 

Date: Mon, 13 Dec 2004 11:56:30 -0800

 >Any tips on driving in the snow with your bus?
 >For the first time ever I actually found a little patch of snow and noticed
 >the bus liked to kick itself into a fishtail pretty easily.
 >I will be travelling across the country, from the midwest to the west coast
 >soon and just want to plan properly.

.................plan to stay south, or equip your bus with auxiliary heat 
and ice tires.

 >I have chains, just in case.

......put your chains on the wheels (all 4 wheels) at least once in good 
weather in the daylight. This will prove that they will fit and that you 
can drive on them without tearing up your wheel wells or having them fly 
off. PROVE the system before you have to rely on it under survival conditions.

.........If I were doing that trip, and not staying WAY south, like along 
the Rio Grande. I'd put on the best ice-snow tires I could afford (see Bus 
Depot excerpt below), and move to chains in the passes and on ice, just 
like the big trucks. And be ready to correct for sudden very strong 
side-drafts that could change your path by several feet..... I'd plan on 
wearing out  a few tenths of an inch of tread on the new ice tires crossing 
the continent and coming back. And I'd stop and wait for better conditions 
when the really nasty stuff shows up. I almost bought the farm in the 
mountains between Italy and Yugoslavia one SUMMER many years ago, driving a 
VW squareback sedan. Those mountain roads iced up unexpectedly and not just 
in the winter. I made the mistake of NOT STOPPING until they were treated 
and cleared....hit some black ice and had NO CONTROL at all on a steep 
downhill run. But I eventually got it slowed down and off the road.

........BUS DEPOT QUOTE: "The snow tire is from Vredestein of Holland, who 
is an OEM supplier of snow
tires to Volkswagen in Germany. This is a sidewall-reinforced snow tire -
quite a rarity. A similar Vredestein snow tire was just tested in the German
magazine Promobil-Extra. Using a Volkwagen T5 (the newest version of the
"Eurovan") as the test vehicle, they did a head-to-head test of snow tires
from all the top names (Michelin, Uniroyal, Continental, etc.). The
Vredestein outperformed the others so dramatically that they said it was in
a class by itself.    It's very hard to find a suitable snow tire for a Bus.
If you drive your Bus in the winter, I strongly recommend that you buy a
pair while I have them, as I have only 5 sets and I'm not sure if I'll get
any more this winter. I'm keeping one of the sets for myself! The price is
$82.95 each."

  Link:
<http://www.busdepot.com/details.jsp?partnumber=SNOWTRAC>


 >My biggest concern is what happens if I need to access the engine
 >compartment, and I have half of my worldly belongings sitting on top of the
 >hatch. Im going to need to try and plan according, where whatever I place
 >here can be easily moved.

....seems to me the biggest concern is keeping the rubber side down and in 
control for maybe 3000 miles, and concern about packing and unpacking 
belongings as a  secondary issue.   So, put on some ice tires.  And put the 
easily-moved well-contained lightweight baggage over the rear hatch. Also, 
carry a squirt bottle of really good de-icer fluid and plan on stopping 
every now and then to de-ice your windows, inside and out.....ice scraper, 
brush, etc..... Mountain survival gear. Bays don't have a reputation for 
keeping the frost off the inside of the windshield.  Maybe consider having 
a gasoline heater built in.

http://www.eberspaecher.de/en/heiz/tech/lheiz/funkt/funkt.htm


 >But is this just like an old car, where you just want all the weight at the
 >back for more traction, or doesn't that apply when the motor is also at the
 >back?

....................you have plenty of weight back there right now. It's a 
truck. Balance it out with the load in the middle, between  the front and 
rear axle, and keep it as low as possible....heavy things on the bottom, 
everything secured by straps, and anchor down the floaters. Assume you will 
do an emergency stop at the worst possible time in your trip, and store the 
load accordingly.    Doyt

 >thanks.
 >cr
