Date: Tue, 14 Dec 2004 00:52:22 -0800
From: john kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com, phil cain <bearsvw2000(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2]Blowby out dipstick update

Hi Chris,

It's good to see you making some progress on your motor. Maybe some of
these other guys have better eyes than me, but it is very hard for me
to tell exactly what I am seeing in your pics.

But I do see some things that aren't good. Didn't you say this was a
recent rebuild?

Image 11 looks like very heavy carbon build up flaking off, like from
an old engine that ran rich all the time. Or part of the piston top
has been eaten away from lean running. It looks like scoring near the
top as well. Also, because of the black ridges to the right and the
left, I am not sure what I am seeing. Are these broken rings? That
would explain blowby if so.

Image 14 looks like scoring, but the rest of the piston is not visible.

Image 15 ditto.

Image 17 appears to exhibit scoring, but it is not evident how deep it is.

Image 18 also looks like it may be scored, but the picture is just too
far out of focus with insufficient resolution to determine if it is
serious, or even existent at all.

Image 19. Again, glare and poor resolution make this impossible to read.

Image 23 looks problematic. What is the shiny part of the piston on
the right? Is it hammered? Is it melted? You need to look at the
underside to see if it is melted or scored. This is where they
overheat if the underside air deflectors are forgotten. The piston on
the left looks heat discolored on the lower body, if not melted or
scored. The upper portion looks scored unless these are reflections
from your camera flash. From Image 24 and 25, I'd say it looks scored.

Image 26. If it is just carbon flaking off the surface, it is not so
bad as if that is metal piston material that has disintegrated. Also,
is that a broken ring?

Image 27. Here it looks more clearly like a disintegrated piston,
which most likely would have happened when you ran those new dual
carbs too lean. If this is what I am seeing, this is your blowby.

Well, yahoo's server decided to quit working, but I looked at most of
the pics twice, so I think I've seen enough. I'd say you are in for a
new piston and cylinder set. The bottom end should be fine. You might
want to check the valves and see if they are okay, but you should be
able to get away with a new P&C set, shouldn't set you back too much.

I may be wrong about the pics. If so, you can't judge ring blowby by
pics. If all else is okay, you need to check ring gap to determine
they haven't worn beyond spec. Also be sure gaps are staggered per
spec to prevent blowby.

Good luck,

John

On Mon, 13 Dec 2004 19:48:55 -0800 (PST), ChaMoon
<standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:

 ok so to update what has happened since i finally got the engine torn
apart(heads off)
 (didnt  split case) where to go now..?
 is it the rings or is it something else.?
 to me the pistons are pretty burned looking but that could be normal
i wasnt thinking it as?
 do they look like they have been burning rich or lean? i was thinking
rich by blackness?
 either way from the pictures can you tell what was causeing the oil
to shoot out the dipstick hole?
 i checked the pistons over really well and didnt see any gashes or
anything in the pistons just the tops of them are burned looking and
really flakey with black deposits?
 
 where or what should i be looking for here now that i have the heads
off and such>?
 
 where to now?
