Date: Mon, 4 Jun 2012 13:47:47 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: David Raistrick <keen(-at-)icantclick.org>, type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Paint

Well it isn't in the strictest standard sense, but it will take every bit of
oil and water out of the air that you need to for paint spraying David.  Not
like a refrigerant filter or lab grade dessicant silica gel stack perhaps, but
not far off it.  A lot easier to dry out the toilet element than pouring out
the silica stack into a pan and then putting it in the oven and refilling it. 
You can get by with 3 elements, use one in the morning, sit it out in the
afternoon, sit the next one out the next morning, round robin.  5-6 hours in
the sun and they are good for the next use, or you can toss em in an electric
oven for an hour or two on super low.  I still have some elements that must be
20 years old at this point, though they get a little smashed with time.
 
I
got the 1/2" NPT one (bought on a drive over to TP Tools, sometimes cheaper on
*bay though TP has em for $75 on sale) which is the "M60" size one, both take
same element, just what size ports.  I see one for $59 shipped Item
170850653448 at the moment (but they don't say if it has an element which is
$6-7.)  I have a wall manifold, run a regular water separator first out of the
comrpessor, then branch into an oiler for tools, and the MG for paint.  I keep
yellow and red rubber hoses, I use the red for paint, the yellow for tools so
I know I'm not going to oil my paint.
 
I don't know for fuel, the element is
pretty durable stuff, and Whitless sold em for years for cars plumbed bypass
for oil.  Might do fine, but so will a good big purpose made spin on element
filter, so...
 
John


----- Original Message -----
From: David Raistrick
<keen(-at-)icantclick.org>
To: John Anderson wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com
 
Like the M30? 
They don't seem to list it as being dessicant...and their "econo" dessicant
filter starts at like $300....

(mind you, I like the look and price of the
M30...I wonder how it holds up to fuel? .01 micron could finally get rid of
that ultrafine dust shit in the fuels down here)
