Date: Mon, 4 Jun 2012 14:28:19 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>, type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Painting Safety

Robert in the US at least, anything except the new waterborne's are still
isocyante hardened (and even some of them.)  And frankly I wouldn't put
waterborne paint on my project (and I know OEMs have been using them a long
time now) unless I'd seen that exact paint in service for 10 years.  Promises
are made durability is questionable until it is in the real world, not merely
the environmental booth.
 
No doubt you can die from airway reactivity spurred
by isocyantes on subsequent exposures, can from a bee sting as well.  Perhaps
both are avoildable, and remote breathing system is always ideal, but one has
to decide what one feels is reasonable.  Sure isn't a good idea to spray a car
at all of course if one has any underlying airway reactivity issues, though as
you mention you may not know you have them with isocyanate until you do.  I'm
actually a bit wary now of doing my next one myself after likely using up some
of my reserve with my bleomycin choice when I did chemo.  Course I do use
remote air for topcoat, and a good mask for everything, even more often than
not for sanding.
 
Unfortunately even a "hobby grade" remote air system sets
you back $350-400 in the US, though there are deals to be found on craigslist
of course.
 
Like mentioned by someone, the best thing often to do is do the
bodywork yourself and leave the painting to a pro, often you can "back
door/after hours" the job for a lot less if you supply the materials and go to
a smaller shop.  But you still got to spray primer, and although there are
some iso-free primers around now days, once again you got to know and trust
them, and I don't trust anything like DP-40.  Shit I'm still lamenting when it
went lead free back in the 90's.
 
John
 
 


----- Original Message -----
From: Robert Mann robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz
 

    I repeat my earlier warning that
this class of compound, 
isocyanates, can set you up for a life-threatening
bout of asthma the 
next  time you breathe them.  The first inhaling causes a
hypersensitisation which has no apparent effect at the time or later 
-  until
you next breathe the undetectable vapour again, upon which 
you may find
yourself writing on the floor exerting all your effort 
to get rid of the
present breath in some hope of being able to drag 
in the next one thru
severely restricted pipework.
