Date: Thu, 7 Jun 2012 08:49:02 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] Please - Help me diagnose my transmission problem !

	Aside from the informed discussion about
recent additives, some of them newer than this
article, my main point is that gearoil is NOT
substitutable by sump oil. Some have yet to grasp
this point.  Last time I posted this note, a
Porsche driver said he'd been using sump oil in
his Porsche gearbox and it had yet to fail.  That
standard of logic is dismal.
  	I dare say this is in the archives, but some may not find it there.

R

                               			GEARBOX  OIL

						)
Robert Mann and David Christison

This article appeared first in 1998, in the
magazine of the New Zealand Classic Motorcycle
Racing Register.

	Many riders use ordinary sump-oil,
anything from SAE 20 to 50, in their gearboxes.
They are aware of special gear-oils with names
like 'EP 80', but have been put off by rumours
that EP oils attack the phosphor-bronze bearing
bushes which are common in classic gearboxes.
Also, some fear from the apparently  high
viscosity grade 80 or 90 that EP oils may be too
viscous.  They think gearboxes last "OK" with
sump oil, so on they go, with no apparent reason
to change.
	But they can do better.  While you put up
with increasingly vague gear-selection,
postponing that dreaded gearbox overhaul, your
engine and even you could get cruelled by sudden
disconnection of the engine at wide throttle from
the road.  In the other nasty failure mode, when
the gearbox seizes, the clutch lever will do you
no good whatever, and unless the rear chain snaps
you will probably be dumped unceremoniously as
the rear wheel locks. And even if you avoid such
acute problems, inadequate oil allows faster wear
which will cost money & work.   Gearbox
lubrication is more important, both acutely and
chronically, than some realise.  Here is what
Australasians call the good oil.
	The conditions in a gearbox are different
from those in an engine.  The temperature and
oxidation are far less; on the other hand, the
pressure (i.e. force per unit area) on the oil
film between meshing gears is indeed extreme.
The oil film itself is in fact doomed to rupture
under extreme pressures, but then the EP additive
reacts with the metal surface of the meshing
teeth, forming organometallic compounds which act
as a solid lubricant.
	As many as a couple of dozen different
additives have been used in this role; the
simplest is the element sulfur, and some fatty
acids have been used, while the more modern EP
additives are exotic chemicals with
tongue-tangling names.
	Some of these additives can undergo
breakdown by water  -  a chemical process called
hydrolysis  -  and the resulting new chemicals
can indeed attack our beloved phosphor bronze.
However, this happens only after water has
condensed in the oil; given then enough time and
temperature (i.e. persistent repeated running in
the gearbox after wetting), EP additives can
thus, indirectly, cause corrosion of bronze
bushings.
	For your typical machinery-loving
classic-rider this problem does not arise,
because we drain our gearbox oil, warm, at least
once a season.   It follows that you should use
EP80 or EP90 in your gearbox.
	The numbers in EP 80 or 90 can easily
prompt us to think these oils are much more
viscous than the sump oils (20 - 50) we've been
using in gearboxes.  This would be incorrect.
The viscosity measurement used for gear oils,
typically giving numbers like 80 or 90, is on a
different scale from the familiar 20, 30, 50 etc.
of the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE)
sump-oil viscosity.  The reason is to decrease
the chances that careless individuals will put an
oil in the wrong hole on a vehicle.  A gear oil
rated 90 actually has similar viscosity to a sump
oil of SAE 50.  Rest assured that EP 80 or 90 is
not too viscous to get amongst your gears
promptly after startup.
	In conclusion, there is good reason to
use EP gearbox oils and no reason to avoid them.
	The re-refined version is at least as
good as virgin oil.  One of us (RM) has used
nothing but re-refined oils for over 20 years and
seen some impressive mileages with surprisingly
little wear, while saving money (as has the
Auckland regional bus fleet for half a century).

		Dave Christison is employed by a
major oil company despite having been taught by
Prof. Mann (who did a lot of chemistry before he
branched out).

---
