Date: Thu, 7 Jun 2012 00:38:20 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Vanagon Alloys on Bus, and destudding Hakka C2's (a rant.)

Well the rant about the destudding at least.
 
Getting the '77 together for
it's first "summer" outing of the year (I use that term loosely and hope it
quits raining or at least doesn't snow, though tire wise I will still be ready
8-)
 
So 2 years ago I got two sets of like new Nokian Hakkas in 185R D
loaders for a massive $225.  A set of CQ's (Nokians first microsiped studdless
super squishy compound tire built to combat for that Blizzak marketshare)
mounted on Vanagon steels, and a set of C2's a more classic studded Hakka. 
Although they are both about 8 years old both had been run one season each,
stored indoors aftewards and were completely like new.  Guy had bought a newer
Westy, had the C2's from his old one but kept them and it came with the CQ's
and he went to 15" wheels and decided to never drive the newer van in the
winter.  Needless to say I was tickled at the price.  So the '77 had great old
Sears Trailhandlers AT's on it that were only about 1/2 worn but I realized
had '92 date codes when I brought it up (oof time flies) and I was a bit
queasy about them due to their age.  Now I tossed the CQ's on it for last
summer, and they drove fine, but really got some wear
 running on summer pavement in just 3000 miles, and were noisy as hell on dry
pavement to booth.  I had intended to destud the C2's as they are a more
normal compound but didn't get to it.
 
Now looking about I realized I'm at a
shortage of unmounted steel rims, but had 9 Vanagon alloys hanging
about.  Tried one up, mounts nice enough, 7 threads engagement with proper
tapered seat nuts which is fine for me (YMMV on that, consult a machinist
handbook to see what you can hang off those threads.)  So I had the C2's put
on the alloys but I was in a rush and the tire place wanted $20 EACH to destud
them and couldn't do them today.  So I figured, screw that, I've destudded
countless tires over the years, never poked a hole in one yet.  The average
set takes me about 10-15 minutes a tire, even the last 17"ers I did for the
Suburban.  There are safer, fancier tools but a 3/16" blade quality hardened
screwdriver applied with the correct technique will make short, simple, and
reasonably safe work of it if you know what you are doing, or so I thought...
 
So started at em and geez oh friggin wheez.  Each of those damn things has
102 studs, ludicrous I mean the average 16-17" truck tires I've done recently
BFG's, Firestones probably have 50-60 at most.  And they were in there like
they were vulcanized to the tire.  These aren't even the newest Hakka square
studs, and I was cussing them up and down.  It took me 75 minutes to do 2
tires and I had to give up from wearing a giant blister in my palm and will
have to finish them tomorrow.
 
Lesson learned here to me is sometimes the $80
might have been well spent.  Of course it got me out of the house so I didn't
have to listen to the wife lament the fact she turns a whopping 43 tomorrow,
so the time wasn't a total loss 8-)  And I do really like the look of the
alloys on the Bus, they are still infinitely Volkswagenish.  The width and
offset change does put them out just a smidge more, fine with 185R14's, but
close in back with an old NOS 205/70 MXL spare that I had and tried on for
giggles.  And they don't mount to the evil front mounted spare carrier that
came on my '77 so I have to leave a steel on for a spare and carry 5 ball seat
lug nuts but that isn't too bad.
 
John
