Date: Wed, 30 Nov 2005 17:08:09 -0800
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Cylinder head temp?

On Wednesday, November 30, 2005, at 04:39PM, Martin Strandgard <mnstra(-at-)unimelb.edu.au> wrote:

>My concern is that even if the absolute temperatures are incorrect, a rise 
>of > 100 degrees is still potentially a problem. Of course, this could be 
>wrong as well!

FYI about those VDO gauges (including Dave Bolen's results):

http://www.ratwell.com/technical/VDOGauges.html

One of the problems with the VDO CHT gauge is that it does not have cold junction compensation:

The themocouple wire used (which is fairly universal) produces 0.0 mV when the termperature is 70-80F (there is an exact temperature for 0.0 mV). The hot junction is under the spark plug and the cold junction is behind the gauge. When the gauge is at that 70-80F "calibrated" temp the readings have somewhat of a chance to being in the ballpark of correctness (VDO analog circuitry is slow to respond).

Unforutnately, when the temperature changes at the gauge so does the accuracy. The way the thermocouple effect works, when it's hotter than the calibrated temp where the gauge is, the reading is lower than it should be. Likewise, when it's cold, the reading is higher than it should be. If you drive around in freezing conditions and have no heat in your bus I would expect unusually high CHT readings.

The Dakota Digital gauge is really worth the extra cost. It's accurate and gives instant digital readings. You can see the temps change as you mash the pedal rather than miss them completely as you crest over a small hill trying to read the needle position on the VDO gauge. I wish I'd come across it years ago.

My only complaint with the DD gauge is the construction. I like the color and digital readout but you can see into the guts of the gauge easily. There is a white compound you can sometimes see, that they use to attach their heat sink. I also think their backing film needs to be darker.

-- 
Richard, 1978 Westfalia CDN
http://www.ratwell.com/
Cupertino, CA
