Date: Wed, 30 Nov 2005 20:01:46 -0700
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: GWB: Update and For Sale

Ok, the apartments didn't tow today. I don't know how long of a reprieve I'm
getting. But it's safe for the moment.

After some deep soul searching, talking to the wife, etc, I've decided that
the Bus Karma is not with me for the GWB. So I'm putting it up for sale.
(No, I'm not leaving VWs. I still have the 71 in the garage that I'm going
to hang on to for the moment.)

Here's the specs on the GWB in case you haven't kept track:

1973 Euro Delivery Westfalia
Converted to a High Top at some point in the past.
2.0 Vege engine with unknown (but prolly lots of) miles - Compression
100-110 on all cylinders except #2 with 80 (tested when cold)
**Koni Shocks**
Good C rated M+S tires in the rear, lots of tread.
OK 95 rated off brand tires in the front, lots of tread.
Spare on the nose
No cabinets or stove/sink/icebox.
Decent Kenwood stereo, speakers in doors and on top bed in back.
Blue carpet (needs love)
Stock dual carbs. Included is my box'o'carb parts.
Rotary electric fuel pump (new)
009 with points (keeping my vac dist with pertronix for now)
Custom shark head shifter knob
Custom westy table with surf stickers and such
Chrome bumpers
Chrome shark jaw license plate frame on the spare tire holder
Electric washer pump running off stock tank
Tachometer (not currently connected due to troubleshooting)
Mallory Hyfire 1 (not currently connected due to troubleshooting)
H-4 Headlights
Stock jack

Needs rust repair on nose and rear passenger quarter. Included is a new
panel for that corner, but you need a battery tray still. Also rust on
inside of rear due to a leak at the high top seal. I hit it with Rust
Bullet, but until the leak is sealed it will probably rust again in the
future.
Various dings and dents, including sliding door crease at rear edge.
Sliding door mechanism needs attention.
Needs brake work (e-brake does not hold bus... Adjustment did nothing. I
suspect rear brakes need attention)
Does not run. Have no friggin clue why.
Wiring is a mess. Never got to fix it. Not keeping anything from working,
just ugly.
Needs wiper switch. Currently only works at one speed, and does not self
park.

I can't think of anything else off the top of my head. But I'll list it on
The Samba and update that ad as necessary.

Asking $1000 (mostly because of the unique high top, table and knob, and the
Koni shocks).

Located in Highlands Ranch, CO.

I might be willing to negotiate down if I keep things like the Konis.

Pics in my sig link, as well as:
http://www.donimages.com/73westy/pics/
--
Don
http://www.donimages.com/gwb/
