Date: Wed, 30 Nov 2005 23:07:38 -0500
From: Dave Wolfanger <dwolf(-at-)bluefrog.com>
To: accessys(-at-)smart.net,  type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] removing dash

Just a few notes and long ramblings regarding
windshield rust repair and glass replacement.

Removal of the entire dash is only a few more bolts,
and the dash pod will feed in thru the hole and remain
intact,to ease wiring concerns. This is the best access,Bob!

If you can see holes on the inside dash/glass area,
you will find even more damage under the glass seal.
The fit and finish of a windshield will not
tolerate much deviation from the original
metal/seal shape. It is my experience that the
frame area will need great care (precision).
You will need to be better than a passable
welder to mig in repair metal there.
I have found better results from sandblasting
and brazing instead of mig, both for ease of
repair and for lasting results. Brass doesn't rust.
The mig needs a lot of grinding which makes
adjacent metal thinner, and warpage too.
Brazing can be remelted and allowed to sag,
and grinds much easier than steel.
Protect nearby glass from grinder pitting.
I would consider donor metal if the whole area
is shot, but I have never had to resort to it,
and prefer to labor in many small repair pieces ,
keeping an eye on the original shape.
The brazing torch is easy on pinholes. Quite pleasant.
You will have to sandblast the flux off prior to paint.

For all of that mess, weather, and down-time
you might want to consider the epoxy repairs.
Fashion repair metal, get the bus warm, and goop it.

Glass shops will not install a windshield
under 40F ambient temps for good reason.
You should heed this rule.

In fact, if you plan to do this whole job
in any location other than a heated garage,
for a few days, forget it. It will snow on you.
Goop the whole exterior seal with clear caulk
and wait for better weather.


-------- Original Message --------
Subject: Re: [T2] removing dash
Date: Wed, 30 Nov 2005 15:12:33 -0500 (EST)
From: Access Systems <accessys(-at-)smart.net>
CC: type2(-at-)type2.com
References: <000001c5f5d7$32a2c8f0$6501a8c0(-at-)noner4688xfd1h>

but to make a long story short I discover while doing this that the lower
lip of my windshield is pretty rough shape..
