Date: Thu, 27 Oct 2005 22:16:57 -0600
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Why I'm rebuilding my carbs...

I realized I never said why I was doing this. Especially since I just
rebuilt the left carb a few months ago.

Earlier this week I found my cutoff solenoids loose. (Or was it last
weekend? I forget. Rough week at work...) The bus had been running like crap
and I figured that was it. Power drop offs at high rpm/wot, weak idle,
gutless. Acting like points (but pertronix) or a bad coil (tried swapping
with my spare, nothing) or vacuum leaks or valve adjustments. That's when I
found the solenoids loose. But tightening them didn't help. Valves are good,
and no vacuum leaks found on hoses or manifold gaskets.

This morning I decided to go through all the vacuum connections (booster
elbows, central idle circuit boots, etc) and apply a bit of sealant. I also
checked the intake manifold torque and carb base torque. I decided to check
the screw torque as well... Ahhh...

On the left carb (surprise) the 2 screws holding the choke body to the air
horn were VERY loose. Also the air horn to bowl screws were slightly loose.
I tightened them down and saw a moderate improvement. I'm guessing the
gaskets went south from running without pressure for a while.

Since I never rebuilt my right carb (though it seems to be working smoothly)
I'm going to go ahead and build up a fresh one along with the left carb
(both from my box'o'carbs so I have no down time) and just reuse the
throttle bodies since those are the only two I have that don't have
excessive bushing wear. I'll just disassemble them to clean and lube the
throttle shafts. Plus this way using matched kits I can make sure they're
matched at all points, even if the kits aren't as good as I'd like.

This would be a great time to find somebody's old ultrasonic jewelry
cleaner! heh I'll just have to do it the old fashioned way I suppose... ;-)


--
Don
http://www.donimages.com/gwb/
