Date: Mon, 12 May 2003 07:08:48 -0700
To: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Best Spark Plugs for my 76 2.0L FI

...
...

At 02:04 AM 05/12/2003, you wrote:

>I disagree.
>The platinum tip plugs will have a preponderance of running cleaner for
>a longer period of time Tim, with a longer electrode life.

Mercedes testing proves otherwise. You are repeating ad hype. It's the only 
way you can justify your wisdom in knowing better than those who know so 
much more than you, you aren't a pimple on their arse. You got magnets on 
your fuel lines, too??? All the hype says they will improve your 
combustion. Put them on there then give us your testimony justifying your 
wisdom.

>As long as the plug is within the proper heat range, it will not cause
>one iota of a problem---
>And I don't care if the element was made out of Titanium--the heat range
>is what is   most important---

Spark energy meaning nothing???? Spark duration??

>last twice as long as the standard---run of the mill plugs, and
>run cleaner for longer.

Amazing, you conclude exactly what the hype says. What a genius.


>I have also found NGK gold plantnium tipped plugs to be superior to the
>overpriced Bosch plugs anyday.
>
>But this is my findings---

Bet Mercedes spent $100,000 or more getting their data, and likely 
representing millions of miles of stress. But they are only one whimper of 
a voice proving the hype is hype. You are the target of wizbang marketing 
and the reason it works. I mean, a mountain of claims and testimonials just 
has to be better than a one page conclusion of qualified engineers based 
upon a big stack of real experimental data. I'm the rare bird. I'll follow 
a thimble full of engineers opinions base upon real testing and data before 
casting into an ocean of layman indoctrined by sales marketing agendas.


>And this subject is another go no where--personal preference subject
>like tire's, toilet paper, and jello--run what you have found to work
>the best, regardless what Benz has to say---

Yes, if you ignore the engineers, you can pick and chose among testimonies 
with no real experiment, no real data.

Go ahead and put AP plugs in your T-IV. Just hold them next to the CC's and 
tell me if you see any differences, like half an inch shorter reach. Watch 
out for over torque as you will have 1/3 the number of threads in play. And 
if you ever try to put the stock long reach plugs back in, what happens 
when the lower threads hit the carbon build up. Suggest you buy the Split 
Fire plugs. Lot more hype than even the platinums. 
