Date: Mon, 12 May 2003 12:06:27 -0700 (PDT)
From: Jon Syder <syder(-at-)vache.ucdavis.edu>
To: "Terry K." <CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Best Spark Plugs for my 76 2.0L FI

Hi Terry,
        I too prefer NGK plugs.  Actually I prefer anything coming from
companies that listened to that American genius Dr Deming
(http://www.deming.org/) Neither VW nor MB listen much, but all the
Japanese companies did and still DO.  That's why they have reliable
products.  I too found a long time (~3O years) ago that the NGK (or the
Bosch too, actually) platinum plugs worked much better in two cycle
engines (Yamaha, Suzuki and Kawasaki in my case) and then we started to
use them in four cycle engines.  Much less fouling and electrode
erosion.  No problems.  A lot of folk do not seem to realize that there is
a very small CURRENT (~50 milliamps) forming the spark at the plug and it
does not need a large electrode cross section.  However, it greatly
prefers a sharp edge or point to depart from and that is EXACTLY what the
thin platinum electrode provides throughout it's life.  A large voltage is
needed to initiate the spark and that is greatly reduced by the presence
of sharp edges or points at the gap.  If folks want to give their regular
plugs a birthday, file the end of the ground electrode square so there is
a sharp edge on the corner nearest the hot electrode.  There, you just
lowered the spark initiation voltage needed by several thousand volts.

For your enjoyment check this test stand out.  You will notice that there
are multiple spark gaps along the top.  Close inspection, and reading of
the spec, will show that the spark gap assemblies are interchangeable-
three sets of options.  This provides both the easiest spark gap (sharp
points = fresh plugs) and the hardest (smooth spheres = old plugs). Our
test stands (Bristol Centaurus and P&W) also allowed us to pressurize the
gaps, and depressurize the magneto, to get an idea of in use performance
at altitude.

http://hydraulictechnology.com/magneto%20test_stand%20high.htm


Reach (amount of thread) and heat range (tip operating temperature during
the NON FIRING period of the engine cycle) are essentially unrelated
aspects of a spark plug design.  I.e. if you don't have enough thread you
have the wrong reach, NOT the wrong heat range.  In crude terms, heat
range is determined from needing to keep a high enough temp at the
electrodes to keep them free of too much carbon build up, which interferes
with spark initiation, and cool enough to prevent pre-ignition of the
fresh charge prior to the electrical ignition spark.  Here is where really
old plugs with excessively thinned ground electrodes shift things a bit.
One, they go up in temp a bit more during the combustion cycle and two,
they cool down a bit faster when the incoming charge hits them.  It may
end up being a wash but it IS different to the original spec.  IIRC the
change out spec is 50% of the original electrode cross section.

If there is one general truth in ignition it is that you CANNOT keep an
ignition system TOO clean.  Wiping your dizzy inside and out with a clean
rag and cleaning the wires and plug insulators (gentle solvents and no
abrasives please) will do more to ensure reliable ignition than anything
else.

   
jon

Jon Syder
arcane knowledge on a need to know basis 
