Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Stevie Havoc <s.havoc(-at-)telus.net>
Date: Thu, 25 Mar 2004 16:47:08 -0700
To: "Don Tuleja" <durocshark(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] PC in Bus

As many of the listies know and are probably tired of hearing about,  
I've had a few incarnations of bus'puter in my 73 over the last year 
and a half, a desktop PC hacked up with an inverter, a few mini-itx and 
12v mini-itx systems and a G4 powerbook.

There are pro's and cons to all of the different options but it is 
definitely cool being able to keep your passengers happy on long trips 
and its something else to be able to watch a movie in the middle of 
nowhere when yer camping out.

A couple things I have learnt over the course of my various successes 
and failures are that a quick (5400 to 7200rpm) 2.5" laptop drive is a 
must regardless of what kind of system you run and secondly that you 
really have to watch the inverter and/or power-supply you chose. Laptop 
drives can handle greater ranges of "impact" (the bouncing of your bus) 
than a normal drive and if you backup your dvd library to the drive its 
nice to have smooth playback. If you run a full 12v system (DC to DC) 
make sure you get one with a low-droput/voltage regulator wired before 
the power-supply, if you run a 120v system make sure you choose an 
inverter with either a modified sine wave (if you are sure you have a 
beefy power-supply) or a pure sine wave (if you want to be gentle on 
your components). APC makes a nice small draw inverter that puts out 
VERY clean power while the Canadian Tire inverters are all a little 
suspect ... listen for the odd hums coming from your components or just 
plug a UPS into it and watch that wiring fault light come on.

Having a Safare top allows me a perfect place to mount my LCD and to 
put some speakers to throw sound towards the back, it can get a little 
tough understanding what people are saying during a movie while the 
revs are up without some speakers facing the audience. It can be a bit 
tough on REALLY sunny summer days to see the screen and mine is tucked 
up there in the Safare, I have sewn curtains for the top windows which 
will block the glare but I have yet to mount them.

I hid all my components under a fake floor in my jump seat. If someone 
chose to poke around I guess its pretty obvious from the wires but it 
looks like nothing at a glance.

With my 802.11g card its like war driving wherever you go and there are 
a TONNE of open networks out there to check your mail etc. My friend 
wrote me a little app that attempts to connect to an open network when 
it detects a signal, get an IP by DHCP and will download my e-mail. Its 
really nice when you are out and about passing in and out of networks. 
I have always wanted to do a carabus multiplayer network video game 
<Grin>.

Also with a wireless keyboard and mouse you can keep them tucked away 
until you need them and you don't have to fuss with cables etc.

I have some pics that sort of show the screen/speakers/hidden machine, 
if you click on the thumbs the full size image will load ...

http://www.houseofhavoc.com/veedub.html

I'm just budgeting to put a nice 7" touchscreen in the dash to control 
everything while rolling but they are STEEP. I tried voice control but 
it was sketchy,  I don't think it can hear me over the revs <grin>

Cheers,
Steve


> My Camper bus is getting a complete entertainment center, with the 
> possible inclusion of a HTPC/Carputer/MAME machine. Plus, using a 15" 
> LCD monitor is cheaper than a 7" or larger TV display.
>
> Don't think you absolutely have to use a laptop in your bus. After 
> all, you've got room to spare. Built into one of the cabinets in my 
> bus, we can lay down in the bed and watch DVDs, the kids can play PS2 
> or emulator games on the MAME box, etc. Plus with wireless, just pull 
> up near a hotspot and get free internet access!
