From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 26 Mar 2004 10:44:54 -0800
Subject: RE: Soundproofing your VW Bus?

Going to be doing this soon to my bus.  I think that I will be
setting it up more like how it is done in my wife's Lincoln TC
however.

Several months back I had a solenoid die in the door of that
battleship of vehicle, the lincoln town car.  Took me forever to get
passed all the switches (made me love the non electric regulator in
my bus).  That car had keepers on it's keepers and even they were
sealed in like 3 layers of plastic in some places.   Anyway, my
point is that I got to see how the door in that car was done.  No
tar variant adhered to the steel.  What was done instead was vapor
locking adhered to the door's paint.  A tailored wool felt then
glued to the vapor locking.  Door panel then clipped/locked into the
door.  ***sound proofing similar to audio dynamat or roofer's
ice-water shield was built into the panel for that door***.  It was
pretty clean and easy and the sound proofing will never need to be
fiddled with if anything ever needs to be done with that door.

  In my experience with installing dynamat, you want to do a
thorough job and a thorough job cuts down on the high Hz vibe fairly
well,.. but if you ever need to get passed all that stuff,.. you
will rip every hair out of head going at that stuff with a heat gun
and a scraper,.. blech,. no thanks.  BTW, The lincoln is quiet
enough that I can practically hear a back seat passenger breathing.

  I fully intend to build my soundproofing into my panels that I am
currently fabbing for my bus.  The bus panel does not however, cover
as much of the door's area as the lincoln's does, so as long as I
can see painted metal, I'm experiencing body noise from somewhere in
the bus.  The bus will never be that quiet unless I design an
interior cover that will more or less upholster the entire interior
of my bus.

Seann Stafford
76' T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
76' T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
