From: "Sean Bartnik" <seabar(-at-)rcn.com>
To: "Type 2 Mailing List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 25 Mar 2002 16:57:34 -0500
Subject: Fuel pump noise fixed!

Hi guys,
Thanks to everyone who chimed in on my noisy fuel pump problem in my '79
Westy.

I knew that very often, fuel pump whine is caused by a restricted flow of
fuel to the pump.  I didn't think that was the case based on what I knew of
the history, including no history of chunkies in the gas tank and a new fuel
filter.

But everyone kept saying it, some suggested that maybe because it's been
sitting, crud settled to the bottom of the tank, etc.  So I happened to find
a spare fuel filter in my parts stash and I went out this afternoon with the
intention of replacing the fuel filter and seeing what is draining out of
the tank.

Well when I got my head under the van I noticed that the short piece of hose
between the metal line from the tank and the fuel filter inlet was bent at a
sharp angle and appeared to be kinked.  So I started up the engine and the
fuel pump was whining.  I got underneath and straightened the hose out with
my fingers and the whine stopped.  So, we did indeed have a restricted inlet
problem, just not the way I thought :-) -- the short rubber line was kinked
and it was restricting fuel flow.

So knowing that the fuel filter is basically new I opted to leave it on and
place the new one in my spare parts stash on board the Bus.  I cut a new
section of hose, shorter than the old one as it appeared that the old one
was too long and that's why it was kinked, trying to bend between the metal
line and the filter.

Got that done, spilled a minimum of gasoline and I only smell a little like
gas.  Put it all back together and no more whine!

I suppose it must have been running a little lean during the time the pump
was whining and via the butt dyno it does appear to be slightly peppier, but
it wasn't a significant difference and I'd never have known there was a
problem if not for the pump whine.

Thanks to all for your help, now we are set for EveryBus :-)

Sean Bartnik
Springfield, MA
http://www.type2.com/~bartnik

