Date: Mon, 25 Mar 2002 22:45:33 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Great www parts supplier experience

I figure I'll post an unsolicited plug for a good parts supplier, GPR
(German Parts and Restoration) www.gprparts.com.  I have bought
from these guys over the years, sodium T4 exhaust valves at very
good prices come to mind, but the last time I ordered (1997) they
ticked me off a bit.  I ordered a set of front suspension bearings for
a GTI, timing belt, head gasket, etc and needed it ASAP.  Had it
shipped UPS 2nd day at quite the expense from CA, very distinctly
giving a shipping address different from billing address via phone order.
So ended up shipping 2nd day to my billing addy, which was 150
miles, and quite a bit more than 2 days out of my schedule away.
Anyway, called and griped and the sales manager said, well we'll
make it up to you.  Anyway a bit disgruntled didn't order from them
in like 5 years.  So they got this awesome (from a FWD VW, Porsche,
Volvo, etc) www site now and I figure WTF I'll put in an order for about
$150 worth of stuff mostly cause the Bus Depot site doesn't list stuff
for FWD applications and I was too lazy to cross PN's even though
Ron does have most of the stuff, plus prices seemed to be a wash
on the few things I checked.  Anyway in the comment section of the
order I mention the past experience not really expecting anything to
come of it.  About 30 minutes after I placed the order, received an
email from the very guy who promised me the rectification 5 years
ago saying would ship free, 2nd day, out tomorrow morning.

That my friends is service.  Although they don't have so much air
cooled stuff (VW air cooled at least) I would highly recommend these
volks to anyone looking for any parts they do carry.  Plus their www
site is incredible, well organized though a bit cumbersome they have
pictures of most of the parts, many comparison brands, etc.  A great
site, others would do well to have something so complete.  A bit of
an annoyance they don't list parts by VW PN but who knows VWoA
may start suing for those PN's someday soon.

Anyway usually I'm a whiny little POS so I figured I pass on a good
experience as well.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu


