Date: Tue, 26 Mar 2002 17:13:44 -0800
From: Scott Fraser <kn6f(-at-)dolphinsci.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Engine Help Needed :-(


Well it happened :-(

First of all:
early '79 2L Type IV motor , round port exhausts, converted to upright with
fiberglass fan shroud, Type I fan and lower metal piston "tin".  CIS Fuel
Injection.

Drove the truck today and upon pulling out of the parking lot I heard a sound
that resembled a piece of loose tin, banging around on the bottom of the
engine.  I immediately pulled over (blocking traffic in a long lane of moms
w/kids from school), turned off the engine and could not find anything loose.  I
checked the fan and no loose blades.

Fired the engine up to move the truck out of the lane and all was quiet.
Hmmm.....  Ok.  Drove it about 4 blocks to Home Depot and parked.  Not a
problem, engine drove fine.  Nice and quiet.  Started right up.  Even pulled up
the hill fine.  Parked and went in and gathered up my shopping.  Came out and
again, it fired right up, no noises.

I went about 1.5 miles and the noise started ever so slightly.  Just like a
piece of loose tin.  Engine still running fine.

Drove two blocks to a mini-mall where I could pull in off the street and park.
Ran back and opened the decklid and could not see anything loose or get a bead
on where the noise was coming from.

Shut the engine down, went and bought a Dr. Pepper, came out and the engine
would not start any way what so ever.

As I tried to start the engine, it sounds like something is SCRAPING as it turns
over.  Doesn't even attempt to catch, sputter or start to run.  Just flat out
DEAD.

Possibly related issue is that on Sunday, I changed the pushrod tube seals and
valve cover seals.  Removed the rocker assemblies, kept everything layed out on
clean rags and everything went back in exactly as removed.  Valves were adjusted
and everything set.  Engine has been running fine, up to now.  Started on a half
rotation of the crank the last two mornings and during my stop and go errands.
That starting was even in the early morning when its been cold..

Any ideas on what I might find this weekend when I tear into it?

Thanks
Scott

