Date: Wed, 26 Dec 2007 13:41:29 -0500
From: Mike Benthin <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: "The Journey" with a 71 Yellow bus-worth a watch

Got this for Christmas- worth a watch! More inspiring than "Little Miss 
Sunshine"
"The Journey" 2001

-- ) Journey Productions
http://www.mooviees.com/49292/plots

    After college, Eric Saperston bought a 1971 Volkswagen Bus, took his 
Golden Retriever Jack, and set out to follow the Grateful Dead and work 
a ski season in Aspen. While out on the road, he called up some of the 
most powerful and influential people in the world and asked them out for 
a cup of coffee.  He wanted to capture the collective wisdom of our most 
thoughtful elders. He wanted to interview them and learn from their 
experiences. Along the way, his trip turned into a modern day Wizard of 
Oz. When Eric started, all he had with him was a still camera and a 
journal to document his adventures.  Then he purchased a videocamera 
with the help of sponsors like UPS.  What started out as a personal 
journey to find the answers to life's biggest questions-Why am I here? 
How can I find happiness? What is success?-quickly turned into something 
much bigger than he ever had imagined.  His journey attracted the 
attention of three others: Dave Murcott, Paige O'Brien and Kathleen 
Kelly. They too felt disconnected and were searching for purpose and 
meaning in their lives. So they quit their jobs, risked it all and 
jumped in the bus. One man's summer vacation quickly became four 
people's vacation. This team of eager travelers meandered across the 
country, from Atlanta, Ga., to Seattle, Wash., shot 500 hours of footage 
and interviews more than 200 people in search of wisdom and inspiration 
from the famous and not so famous.
     Together, the four of them and their dog Jack covered thousands of 
miles, endured three rebuilt engines and crossed countless state lines. 
They scheduled their interviews from payphones, funded their trip by 
selling sexy, kind grilled cheese sandwiches made with love for $1 off 
their Coleman Stove and found their way into the homes and hearts of 
people most of us only dream of meeting. In the end, although the wisdom 
they found from the elders was compelling, it was their own journeys 
that brought them the greatest insights. Just like the song says, "Oz 
never gave nothing to the Tin Man that he didn't already have."
A modern "Wizard of Oz" that will encourage your journey through life!

    "Are you waking up excited and going to bed fulfilled." This is a
quote from Eric toward the end of the film and it really sums up a
main theme in this film. What are you going to do with the rest of
your life?
Author: moviesforlife (moviesforlife(-at-)aol.com) from Atlanta, GA

from an IMDB commenter:
"On a routine visit to the movies one weekend, I noticed an old 
Volkswagen van, a retriever, and 3 people behind a desk advertising a 
movie called "The Journey." The same weekend I decided to revisit the 
movies and check out what the van and dog was for. Amazingly it was an 
independent movie that AMC was allowing to be shown at their theater. I 
had to go because as much as I love indie films and as mad as I am 
towards Atlanta not having enough indie films come out of the wonderful 
city. I was amazed!

Atlantan Eric Saperston directs this amazing journey about a group of 
young Americans who decide to ask the age old question in life, "what do 
our elders have to pass down to us?" The result is a road trip movie 
that deserves a standing ovation. Along the way he talks to former FBI 
Director Bill Sessions, former Texas Gov. Ann Richards, U.S. Sen. Max 
Cleland, and celebrities Henry Winkler, Billy Crystal, Indigo Girls, and 
many more. He also picks up Dave Murcott, Paige O'Brien and Kathleen 
Kelly who also question their life's journey and saddle up for the dream 
of a lifetime.

It's definitely a movie that young and old will enjoy equally and will 
make you laugh, cry, and rethink your search of success. The cast was 
absolutely down to earth people that have no idea where life is going to 
take them next. They are still trying to get this bought and released 
theatrically. I definitely recommend it when its available.

-----------------------------------------
