From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: "'Nick Griffin'" <vw1971bug(-at-)gmail.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 29 Dec 2007 20:31:50 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] 1970 Bus Turn Signal Wiring

Nick,

Welcome!

Before you get too into it, check the wiring diagrams for a 1969 and 1971
model as well. You may have a early or late '70 with a hybrid harness. This
is common on '68/'69-'71 models during transitions between years. All of
them have unique electrical wiring.

Unfortunately there isn't an easy way to access the wiring. I just pull the
cluster and dash and start from scratch until everything is traced and
corrected. It is really a tight fit to get at the wiring with the cluster in
and the dash in if you are wanting to do it right. The cluster and dash are
designed to come off fairly easily.

The turn signal wiring loom can be taken out with a little work and
loosening of the steering column. The wires go up into the dash over the
column support plate. There are no more turn signal looms or assemblies
made, but places like BustedBus still stock good used ones.

Honestly I've never seen a bus that has not had some stupid hippy-fix to the
wiring. I have seen pennys jammed in fuseboxes,  romex used in place of
stock wiring and scotch tape holding together splices. And that is just the
stuff I remember off the top of my head.

If you are patient and take your time, a nice, clean and stock wiring
harness is one of the best feelings of a bus restoration.

Good luck and let us know about the accuracy of the harness map vs. what you
actually have.

Jon Stiles
'68 Double Cab
'78 Westfalia

-----Original Message-----
From: Nick Griffin [mailto:vw1971bug(-at-)gmail.com] 
Sent: Saturday, December 29, 2007 4:31 PM
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] 1970 Bus Turn Signal Wiring

Good Evening Everyone,

I'm a newbie to the Bus world, but have had a 1971 Beetle for a few years
now.  I recently got a 1970 Bus, and have been trying to get the signals and
lights put back in it, but I have run into a problem.  My driver's side turn
signal has only one brown and white wire with a big connector at the end and
a small connector halfway down, running down to the socket, the others
aren't there.  I've checked the wiring diagram and tried to look at the
harness under the dash to find the missing wires.  It looks like there
aren't any that are disconnected.  Is there a way to get just a turn signal
wiring loom, or an easy way to take the whole dash apart to find the missing
wires?

Nick

Northcentral Ohio
