Date: Wed, 01 Jun 2005 22:58:44 -0400
From: Will Anderson <wha(-at-)alumni.princeton.edu>
To: radams(-at-)cesvegas.com,  type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] Wood Headliners

Rob--
I have some template pieces I pulled from a junkyard.  I am in the midst 
of this process.  Expect to cut the pieces soon.  I bought 3 5x5 pieces 
of the Euro baltic birch from The Hardware Store near Greensboro, NC 
(specialty hardwood store, they also supply custom wood for vintage 
airplanes and such).  I stained them with a combo stain/polyurethane.   
Looks like I will only need 2 but I haven't traced them yet. 

I assume from your email you're in Vegas.  I can send you measurements 
when I get them as close as I can, with radiuses, but there is still a 
coach built aspect where I recommend you trial fit before some of the 
finer cuts.  there was talk about making drawings in a CAD program but I 
haven't seen it for the headliner (maybe some door panels).  I think I 
am going to install some soundproofing while I'm at it. 

Let me know what you think.

Will A.
 '70 Westy "Rebertha"
Atlanta, GA



Date: Wed, 1 Jun 2005 13:44:06 -0700
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Rob Adams" <radams(-at-)cesvegas.com>
Subject: Wood Headliners
Message-ID: <002101c566ea$a8111780$0564a8c0(-at-)ces.local>

I have a 69 westy with a wood headliner. Before anyone asks, I searched the
archives all morning and couldn't find what I was looking for.

Anyway. The original headliner was removed and an attempt to put in a new
one, was done before I bought the bus. Whoever did it, didn't use
the right type of wood and didn't cut it correctly. It looks pretty bad.

This morning I found lots of threads about wood headliners, mostly
pertaining to refinishing them, or how to cut them without chipping them to
badly,
or the right type of wood to use is Baltic Birch 3mm Plywood in 5x5 sheets,
which is European.

but because I have virtually nothing to go by and don't want to guess, I'm
looking for a template, or exact measurement with radius dimensions and
all that. If i'm going to buy imported or special order plywood, I want to
do the job right the first time.

Any help is much appreciated.

Thanks

-----------
