Date: Thu, 2 Jun 2005 16:39:35 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cliff Rhoton <commodore97210(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] Aluminum Protection

You were taking about Parkerizing.  It works for
carbon steel.  
   
For anyone who is interested in listening, Aluminum is
protected in a completely different way, speaking of
the chemicals used.  100% Aluminum is nearly worthless
for any task.  Nearly all Aluminum is alloyed.  Most
types of Aluminum alloys, unprotected, develop deep
corrosion pits.  The resulting Aluminum oxide is white
and powdery.  (Aluminum Oxide is commonly used as the
grit in sand paper.) Protection of the aluminum
surface is accomplished by first preparing the
aluminum by etching the crystaline structure to open
micro fissures to improve Chromium adhesion, followed
by a separate bath in a strongly caustic Chromate
(Chromic Acid) solution.  The Chromium atoms combine
with the Aluminum atoms to create a protective type of
`Rust Coating.`  Aluminum does not rust, but
protecting Aluminum is accomplished by changing all
the surface Aluminum atoms into a hard impervious
compound, not unlike iron developing a coating of
rust.  The Etch & Chromate process for Aluminum is
much more resistant to rain and humidity than plain
Aluminum atoms.
    
By changing the chemistry of the Chromate bath, you
can impart vivid colors to the Aluminum surface.
     
Unprotected Aluminum, if left to the elements, will
eventually turn into white powder.
   
Be careful of milling, machining, or drilling aluminum
or aluminum alloys.  Doing so will expose unprotected
Al atoms, and the process of oxidation into white
powder will set-in.  When using Aluminum in wiring,
always coat the exposed aluminum surface with approved
goop, to prevent the wiring from turning to white
powder.  Technical term huh:  Goop.
    
I used quarter-inch-thick aluminum-silicone plate
stock to patch my VW Bus aux battery tray.  Way
lighter than having used iron.  And since AUX battery
trays are not sold, and turning MAIN battery trays
upside down don't fit, I needed to fabricate my own solution.
