Cc: The Bug Pack Pack <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>,
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Fri, 3 Jun 2005 08:23:45 -0400
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>, list vintage bus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
Subject: Buses of The Corn 2005- August 5-7th in Brooklin, Ontario

Hi Volks,

Just another heads-up announcement regarding Buses Of The Corn; it's  
now only 9 weeks until the best Bus camp-out that Brooklin Ontario  
has to offer.


WHERE?
Heber Down Conservation Area Group Camping Site, In Brooklin,  
Ontario, just a half-hour East of Toronto. To accomodate more campers  
this year we'll be moving to the middle meadow and bringing in  
additional "personal comfort stations".


WHEN?
August 5-7th, 2005. Gates open Friday at Noon. The campground isn't  
open to the public before that, so if you are looking for  
recommendations on local accomodation beforehand please p-mail me.


WHAT'S GOIN ON?
In 2005 we're bringing back all the great activities of past years,  
in the same great location as always.  There are no "official"  
activities for Friday, but we will have the frisbee golf course set  
up and there will be a campfire in the evening. Set up camp, relax  
and watch the buses roll in. There are hiking and biking trails  
nearby and plenty to do within a short drive - See the website for  
more local attractions. Saturday will start with a Burrito Breakfast  
and build up a strong head of steam with lots of activities...  
There's a swap meet and the driving contest for the adults, a balloon  
toss, coloring contest and scavenger hunt for the kids, and our Tie- 
Dye Workshop is fun for the whole family. After all that there's  
still the Corn Roast and pot luck dinner, and the group campfire. The  
campfire at 2004 featured an awesome jam-session  that we're already  
looking forward to repeating. If you play an instrument, please bring  
it along to BOTC5.


HOW MUCH WILL IT COST ME?
A Weekend full of Fun is $18CDN until June 30th, or you can pay $25  
at the gate.
A "One Night Stand" costs $12CDN until June 30th, or $15 at the gate.
Yes, it's a little more expensive this year, but we're putting the  
funds towards a good cause: Additional Industrial-Grade Comfort  
Stations will be brought to the campground and the door prize pile  
will also be increased. Any and all profits realized after the bills  
are paid will go to support www.type2.com. Payment may be sent by  
snail mail or paypal, see the website for details


WHAT ABOUT THE BORDER?
Passports are NOT REQUIRED for US Citizens to visit Canada. A birth  
certificate and photo ID are all that's required. Last year we had  
twelve buses from Seven different states in attendance. BOTC  
Ambassador Chris Cybulski is co-ordinating the American Invasion of  
2005; contact him if you're interested in joining or forming a  
Carabus. (Email macbus(-at-)mindspring.com)


T-SHIRTS?
Yes, there will be shirts. More info about that coming soon from our  
friends at Suburban Design Core.

WEBSITE:
www.busesofthecorn,com

If there's anything else you need to know, please email  
greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca
