From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <jdinan(-at-)cox.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 29 Sep 2003 17:21:15 -0500
Subject: brake cylinder paste

BlankDate: Mon, 29 Sep 2003 13:24:01 -0400
To: bus list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Jack Dinan <jdinan(-at-)cox.net>
Subject: brake cylinder paste?

Bentley recommends using brake cylinder paste to lubricate cylinder
parts after cleaning.
Does anyone use such a product? Where can one buy it?
jack

from ggm
you must be super cautious about what you put into the inside of your brake
calipers or cylinders or master cylinder or brake lines. You can only use a
"brake paste" product that specifically states that it can lubricate the
internal parts of a brake system: the pistons and rubber, etc. There are
many kinds of "caliper" greases out there. Those products are for the
outside only metal parts of a brake system. If you put that grease into your
brake system, you will rot the rubber and cause it to swell up and fail with
catastrophic results like pain, mutilation, and death. I have the correct
product. I can't remember the brand name. Whatever you do, do not trust the
auto dealer parts salesmen or the autoparts store salesmen. You must read
the product specifications yourself.

If you can't find the exactly correct product, don't worry about it, just
dip all internal brake parts in a saucer of fresh DOT brake fluid and use a
super clean super lint free cotton (no synthetics) rag to wipe off the
storage talc covering the rubber parts. Just before you assemble the parts,
pour a little uncontaminated DOT brake fluid over the part to rinse it off
and cover it with brake fluid. The brake fluid, itself,  acts like a
lubricant.

Brake fluid is very hygroscopic and it sucks water out of the air. Your
saucer of brake fluid is worthless in 10 minutes. Water in the fluid creates
acids that eat up the brake parts. If you have badly contaminated brake
fluid and you heat up the brake fluid by steping on the brakes down a steep
hill, the tiny bit of water could "boil" and come out solution as a gas and
cause excess pressure and dangerously lock up your brakes. Brake fluid
really tears up your skin. I wear nitrile gloves cleaned with brake fluid
for the momentary parts handling. Brake fluid attacks the nitrile after a
while.

good luck finding the correct "brake paste".

If you do find it, I also use mine to coat the external threads of those too
tiny and too weak bleeder valve threads. I also fill the hollow bleeder
valve with the lube and seal it all up with a new cap. By doing this, I can
bleed my brakes every year, without worrying about the bleeder valves
rusting shut and breaking off.
