Date: Tue, 30 Sep 2003 08:57:35 -0400 (EDT)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: Sage Green <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: My continuing vacuum saga

On Mon, 29 Sep 2003, Sage Green wrote:

> If there was a leak at the oil breather gasket (Hm... could a leaky oil
> breather gasket cause a . . .), would that be a vacuum leak or an exhaust
> leak??
>
> If (1) vacuum = negative (relative) pressure; exhaust leak = positive
> (relative) pressure, then what is the nature of a leak at the oil breather
> gasket .  And a leak further (sorry, furthur) down the oil breather tube...

Further is correct.  It may be a bus but it is not a school bus.  Maybe if
you were really old and were having flashbacks.

A leak from the crankcase ventilation system is a vacuum leak.  It is part
of the intake system and all leaks there are vacuum leaks.  If there is
positive pressure, then it is a vacuum leak with no effect.

> If (2) a leak occurs prior to the throttle, when the vacuum measured at the
> throttle body is 'negligible', is it a vacuum leak, or only additional air
> that has not been accommodated for at the AFM, like the Aux Air 'thing'

Air for the auxilary air valve comes from the intake duct after it has
passed the AFM and has been measured.  Leaks in the intake duct between
the AFM and the throttle body are definitely vacuum leaks and are very bad
because a standard vacuum check will not find them.  It is definitely a
vacuum leak and will cause lean mixture but the only check is by eye and
hand.  Make sure all the hose fittings are fully inserted.

The common vacuum check is a test of system tightness between the
combustion chamber and the butterfly in the throttle body.  There is no
check for system tightness between the throttle body and the AFM.  I can
conceive of a test rig that would put a "throttle body" upstream of the
AFM for test purposes.  At that point you could open the throttle fully
and check vacuum in the air duct but I have never seen such a device.

> (3) if a leak at the EGR valve:air mixture box (plenum) is a vacuum
> leak, what is the nature of a feed back of the exhaust gases thru the
> EGR valve at normal RPM??

The EGR valve is supposed to feed exhaust gas into the intake manifold.
By its nature this gas will have no oxygen in it and will not support
combustion.  If there is a leak in the exhaust or EGR system then
atmospheric air may be introduced and that will contain oxygen.  This
will cause lean running as with any other vacuum leak.

> (4) a leak at the exhaust elbow pigtail IS an exhaust leak, right??

If the leak is before the EGR pickup point it may be both an intake and an
exhaust leak.  If it introduces atmospheric air that can be picked up by
the EGR system then it will cause lean running.  Usually there is positive
pressure in the exhaust and usually this will exclude atmospheric air and
the amount of gas introduced by the EGR systme is very small but if you
are counting everything then it is a bit of a vacuum leak.

                             OOK!

Litera Scripta Manent
