From: "Bill Bowman" <BussesByTheArch18(-at-)msn.com>
To: "GatewayVWClub" <GatewayVW(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, "Missouri Micros"
Date: Tue, 30 Sep 2003 11:57:06 -0500
Subject: Running a VW event...

Hi gang,

I sent the following reply to an on-going discussion going on over on the
Common Gear VW Discussion List today about VW events in general, the event
fees in various areas of the country and other aspects of running a VW event.
After I replied, I thought it might be of interest to those of you who've ever
wondered what's involved in putting an event together, or perhaps questioned
the motivation of the people or Clubs that put on the shows that we all enjoy
attending throughout the year.  In my original reply below I talked about our
personal experiences hosting the BNNTA camping event in the Midwest, but there
are so many ways to host and run VW events.  Anyway, enjoy...


Hi all,

I can give you my first-hand experience with running a VW event.  I host/run
with the help of a few volunteers a VW event called "Busses Nowhere Near the
Arch" (a.k.a. "Busses Near The Arch"), a VW camping weekend every Labor Day
weekend a couple of hours north of St. Louis, which on Saturday features a
very laid back, informal participant-judged Bus show.  Our financial goal is
to at least break even on our costs.  Most years we break even or have a
little left over.  A few years I lost money.  It all seems to come out even in
the end though.  As the event organizer (the next one will be my 20th!) here's
an idea of some of the things I pay for to be able to run this VW event...

I lease an entire lakeside campground from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
for four days; pay for a simple event info web site ( www.BNNTA.com ); pay for
at least 14 award plaque/trophies; pay for roadside directional and event
signage; pay for the printing of event forms, ballots, info packets, window
decals, pay for a few door prizes (luckily many attendees bring cool goodies
to donate as door prizes!); pay NEATO for blanket event insurance coverage;
some of our one-time (hopefully) costs for equipment have been for two E-Z up
tents, a table, chairs, registration and ballot boxes, cash box, two outside
"cool-off" shower assemblies, four portable FRS radios, two large plastic
storage tubs, several portable bulletin boards, staff beverage cooler, etc.,
etc., etc.  Thankfully a Bus buddy donates the use of his P.A. system to save
my voice during the Saturday evening awards ceremony!

All of the previous stuff was just the on-going costs of running our annual VW
event, it doesn't even consider our gracious volunteers who donate their time
and efforts.  Then there is all of my time and labor involved in making
advance arrangements for, preparing the event site, then running/hosting the
event (with all it's inherent joys/headaches), then breaking down and then
storing the gear away from the event so it's ready to go again next year.

As an VW event organizer, you're always a bit stressed because you're at the
mercy of Mother Nature who can make or break your attendance (and therefore
your ability to break even, make a profit or suffer a loss).  Luckily,
Bus/camper owners are generally a hardy and resilient lot, not easily unnerved
by weather forecasts.  But often I wonder why I risk it over and over each
year.  I've tried to keep the cost to a participant as low as I can and still
reach the break even point.  For the last four years a BNNTA attendee pays a
grand total of $25 per VW (at the previous location it used to be $30) which
covers everything (Corps of Engineers campground fee and event costs) for the
entire four day holiday weekend!  I really can't imagine getting it any
cheaper than that, but we always get at least one "Bozo" who either mumbles
about the event cost or tries to avoid paying.  I've learned from experience
to ignore the former, and we hunt down and kill the latter!  Most folks
thankfully comment on how reasonable it is.

Yes, some people run events in an effort to make a profit (and good luck to
you!), others to raise funds for a charity( a very admirable thing to do).
Hell, I'm just delighted if all the event bills can be paid!  If there is
anything left over, Kathryn and I go out for a nice dinner on the group.  I
guess my main motivator was to create and maintain a great VW camping event in
our region, and to see all of my VW friends and their latest projects at least
once a year.  BNNTA seems to have developed a real Club/family reunion kind of
feel to it and as long as we host it that is the feeling we'll try to
capture.

I hope that sheds some light on what it's like to host a VW event...at least
our event anyway.

Bill Bowman
DKF, VVWCA, VWCA, NEATO, LiMBO, etc., etc.
