From: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 21 Nov 2005 13:35:51 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Living out of a Bus on the road with Kids

Well, it's funny that you should ask. I have a co-worker who's been harassing to buy my 73 VW Bus since he knew I've owned it. Without revealing anything too personal about his life, he's seriously considering retiring and driving around the country in his VW Bus. (Doing the whole Route-66 thing). This would include selling all his posessions and basically his Bus would be everything.. and then see where life takes him from there.

I come from a real conservative background. I'm Republican, I'm Catholic, and about the most misceivous thing I've done is knock over a Port-O-Pottie. So.. take my advice for what it's worth.

I personally think that as an individual, it would probably be an awesome experience. You have to really like being on the road (which I do personally). I love road trips, and I think that by myself, I would very much enjoy travelling the US by myself, in the Bus. But at the very least with the kids, it might be very difficult. At least in my experience, most kids need lots of social interaction so that they develop properly. But... please, take my advice for what it's worth. I'm 27, and I don't have kids yet... so my advice is mud basically. I don't really want to give advice on how to raise kids, as I don't have any myself, and really can't say what works best.

But in my opinion, for your own sanity, you'd probably want a little house or an apartment somewhere to at least give you some sort of stability. I know that, $20,000 will basically buy you a veritable mansion with 20 acres of land, with 5 bedrooms and 3 bathrooms and a two car garage, in Brookfield Missouri. (One of the old Train towns). There are other such places in the US where land is very inexpensive and the life is simple. Besides, if your Bus does break down, and in such a way as it would require significant repair, you would really want to have a "home base" so to speak.

In my own personal opinion, I think travelling the US in your Bus, with your kids would not only bring you closer to them, but it would probably give them memories that they can be very fond of growing up. But you really need a home camp where you can always return to, no matter what happens. The Bus can be your home away from home, but it's really hard to make it truely a home. 

I dunno, that's just my advice...


Todd




>From: jkolak(-at-)byu.edu
>Subject: Re: [T2] Living out of a Bus on the road with Kids
>
>is it possible to live out of your bus and be on the road etc and have
>kids...?
>curious if anyone has done this?
>or doing this..?
