From: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
Date: Mon, 21 Nov 2005 13:53:01 -0500
Subject: Re: Re: [T2] Living out of a Bus on the road with Kids

Yeah, I was pretty amazed myself. That's where my grandfather was born, and where my family on my grandfather's side came from when the town was first created. It used to be big industry when the rail-ways were being used. The train stopped coming that way in the early 1900s and the work just dried up. They used to make some of the wiring harnesses for the old Ford Model-A in that town.

But, land is cheap. It's one of those towns where the population continues to drop, rather than go up every year. The old high school in the center of town was condemned and it was cheaper for them to build a new one further down the road than it was for them to tear down the old one, or rebuild it. So there's this huge abandoned high school from 1830 something that's been there forever. 

Down the main part of the town, there's a lot of old stores, including an old Sears & Roebuck that's closed down, but there's a huge sign on the side of the building advertising "Manufactured Homes" during the 50s. (They look like weird space ships).

There's EVEN a store in town that sells both Liquor AND Guns. It says.. "Liquor & Guns".

I can only assume that it was grandfathered in. 

The first time I ever saw that town was when we buried my grandfather.

There's a WalMart further down that has pretty much dried up most of the local businesses.


To make it Bus related, I did see a lot of old Volkswagens. I've got some pictures (I'll have to find and scan them) but there were several fields that you could see from the main street where you would simply just see old 50s cars.. just sitting out in the middle of a field. I saw several old rusted out busses. (So at least you know the town-folk are Bus friendly... heheh).

I joke with a lot of my friends that if things don't work out, and I become totally broke, I can ALWAYS retire in Brookfield Missouri.  I don't want to insult the town though... (if that's what it sounds like I'm doing). It's a very nice town... it just has a much larger infrastructure than what it's currently supporting. About 1/4th of the buildings are abandoned. It really is a town from another time.
It's soo cheap to live there though, that you see a lot of old buildings being bought up and being restored "This Old House" style.

There's an old Gothic church in the center of town (around the town square) that was converted into a home. 

Todd

> From: Don Tuleja 
> Subject: Re: [T2] Living out of a Bus on the road with Kids
> 
> "I know that, $20,000 will basically buy you a veritable mansion with 20"
> "acres of land, with 5 bedrooms and 3 bathrooms and a two car garage, in"
> "Brookfield Missouri. (One of the old Train towns)."
> 
> !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
> 
> I wanna move!!!!!
