Date: Mon, 21 Nov 2005 15:29:20 -0800
From: MissVeeDub <vwdreamer(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>, wet <wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Aftermarket Oil thermostat/oil coolers - Long

Hello everyone, I am cross posting this on both the T2 list and the WW list,
and maybe even on the samba forums, so i apologize in advance for dual
posts.
 If you don't already know me, my name is Heather and my bus is BusZilla
(Some people know my bus better than I). Since my hi-po engine puts out a
lot of heat - the bus had a special oil cooling system setup when I bought
her. However, since I rebuilt the 2007cc (and changed and updated many
things) my mentor convinced me that I should not reinstall the 180 degree
oil thermostat - this way I can have all the oil circulating through the
system at the time. However - now that it has turned into the fall/winter
season - my engine was running way to cold with the coolers in the system -
and even when I had a little "cover" over the coolers - keep in mind with
the coolers in the system there is about 2.5 gallons of oil in the system.
 FYI the oil thermostat I have is similar to this one:
http://www.aircooled.net/new-bin/viewproductdetail.php?keyword2=ECO0023&carti
d=
 Friday I decided to remove the coolers from the system which left the
engine and the external oil filter. I drove to the Champoeg WW meet Saturday
- and watched the oil temps stay around 200-220 driving 55-60 mph!!! I
hardly every go that slow, but if the temps reached 220 I would downshift
(to raise the rpms for the stock fan to help with the cooling) and pull over
and waited until the temps went back down. This is much hotter than I have
ever run, even in California going 80 over the grapevine (with external oil
coolers) - which would usually stay at 200.
 However - my intention in writing this post - was to find opinions and
options for the inline oil thermostats that are available. And possibly to
find a better way to setup my system.
My engine:
2007cc (78.4 x 90.5)
Steve Tim's heads - 40 x 30.5 valves
Valve geometry set
7.9:0 compression
engle 110 cam
dual 40IDF
Fats performance engine Case w/piston oil squirters - cut for full flow
Gene burg full flow oil pump
External oil filter mounted in the spare tire well
Dual 48-pass mesa oil coolers mounted in the luggage rack above the
windshield (approx. 18 ft of line from engine to coolers and back).
 TEMP STATS:
 Outside temp: 55-60 degrees
MPH: 55-60
WITH stock engine oil cooler, the external oil filter
Engine Oil Temps: around 200-230 degrees
  Outside temp: 55-60 degrees
MPH: 55-60
WITH: stock oil cooler, external oil filter, AND external oil coolers (dual
48 pass mesa oil coolers)
Engine oil Temps: around 100-140 degrees (of course I would have to
work/speed in order to get the oil temps high enough to count for good
running temps (180-200).
 With the stock oil cooler, external oil coolers, external oil filter AND
the 180 degree inline oil thermostat - i should be running at 180-200 ALL
the time.
 The inline 180 Degree oil thermostat is *supposed* to only allow the oil
that is in the engine and external oil filter to circulate when the oil
temps are below 180. As soon as it hits 180 it is supposed to allow the oil
up into the lines to be cooled by the external oil coolers. - correct?
 However - can the thermostat starve the engine of oil? Can the thermostat
force the excess oil to blow seals in the engine case?
 Fact - when engine is cold all the oil goes into the engine sump (therefore
before starting, the oil level should be at least a quart OVER the full
line).
 Does this mean the oil thermostat is forcing the engine to use that much
oil? - thus increasing the possibility to blow seals - or have the excess
oil pressure blown out of the engine?
 Changing the oil is also a PITA with the oil coolers - cause i have to
drain everything (sometimes use the air compressor) fill up the engine case,
let the engine run for a minute - not to long not to short - and let the
engine pump the oil into the coolers (I am not sure what controls this - as
it seems until it gets to a certain pressure, or temperature, as the oil
will just hang out in the case).
 Coincidentally, during one oil change, it pumped ALL the oil from the
engine case into the coolers - thus almost giving me a heart attack when i
realized what was happening (only a few seconds of course) and had to
emergency transplant some oil into the case.
 Any ideas/comments/personal experience?

--
Heather Woltz
'71 VW Bus: Riviera Camper - BusZilla: 2007cc Built by Me
'71 Datsun 510 Wagon: Custom w/Ford 2.6 V6
'93 Yamaha TTR250 Open Enduro
'96 Yamaha TW200 Enduro
http://www.blue-skywebdesign.com/
http://home.comcast.net/~vwdreamer <http://home.comcast.net/%7Evwdreamer>
--------------------------------------------------------
"Well-behaved women seldom make history." - Laurel Thatcher Ulrich
