Date: Tue, 22 Nov 2005 05:42:44 -0800 (PST)
From: HappyKyndArts <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Terry K <CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net>, Harry Hoffman
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Living out of a Bus on the road with Kids

    thanks for all accounts and replies.....
  i was only curoius of whom had done this before with young N's////
   
  I know theres lots that have done it with a friend or a spouse for periods or short intervals....
   
  Our plans couldnt be as such to LIVE out of the bus being that we have to many responsibilities right now in our daughters young life...as well as other things at home.
   
  We saved and saved to buy our home and in the district that she also attends school was pciked souly for her... Was the district i went to school in and a very nice district and she does exceptionally well at school lov N it more than i ever could have or did....
   
  Our plans however are to pack up early spring and shove off as soon as school lets out right at first of june and be on our way for whatever time needed be till just time to come back home..
   
   
  This will for the most part be our winter home and the bus will be our summer getaway home... Or thats at least our plans right now..
  We are selling stuff out of the bus handmade clothing and lots of other thigns we are currently working on and also trying to get  online and next few weeks will have our website up and under construction at the least... may not get finsihed til before we go on the road or while we are on the road.....nothig but time...... ....
  OUr lap top will be our connection to the Bus world while we are on that/those road/s.........
   
  This will be our first real adventure but before we can take on such a thing the bus has got to have a few more things to make it spacious enough for our store products we are working on as well as our living space...
   
  I am adding a Hightop soon to the bus and taking the penthouse off so that we can always have the room needed...
  as well as we just bought us a trailer that is covered back in the summer that will come in very handy for keeping the living space and crusiing space in the bus area cleaned out and put into the trailer...
   
  Lots to do and even though fall just began and winter is on the way spring will be here before we know it...
   
  We plan on going out to washington and few other places oregon and possibly some parts of cali....
   
  we have family in washington so that will be a blast to see them....
  wisconsin and kansas also will be on that list hopefully as well as possibly new york and we got a friend that lives in new hampshire we want to go see....
  we might not make it off the east coast or we might who knows at this point to early yet to set a strict route .....
  we may even just follow some of the festivals so that we can set up shop and make some mooo Lahh dinero on the way.. takign time enjoying life as it was granted...
   
  Peace and love
  chai
  

 




[url=http://com5.runboard.com/bdreamlocks]NattyRainBows[/url]
