Date: Tue, 22 Nov 2005 11:25:42 -0500
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com>
Subject: Re: Living out of a bus on the road with Kids

My wife and I spent two years LOOABOTRWK in Western Europe, many years ago 
when the dollar was very strong. Our daughter was in the second and third 
grades at the time. We were on the road all over Europe during June, July 
and August both summers, camping in Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, Austria, 
France, Switzerland, Italy, England, Ireland and Scotland.

We only met a few American families on the same journey, but the campsites 
were full of European families. Most of them were just vacationing, but 
some were refugees or displaced persons. The Soviet Union was still intact 
on the eastern edge of our playground.

We lived in an apartment 9 months of the year on the North Sea near The 
Hague, and our daughter attended an elementary school in the school system 
where I taught. We came returned to Ohio after two years because she was 
starting to think of herself as a Nederlander and we wanted to get back to 
our homeland and hear English again......I read a hundred books during that 
time, just to have my own language flowing through my head. Didn't really 
appreciate how I felt about my country until I was in another one for an 
extended time. Everybody reacts differently to being in a different culture.

It was a grand adventure and an unusually rich learning experience for the 
entire family.....remarkably stressful at times in many unexpected ways, 
and rewarding in others. At the end of every summer, we felt strange and 
anxious when we were no longer confined to our little box on wheels.

If you do commit to an extended stay on the road, try to start your journey 
with some shorter periods of exposure, such as a few weeks at first, and 
maybe a few months next, if that is possible.  For each trial period, 
decide ahead of time when it will end, and include some vacations from 
traveling, where you can get back to stable and familiar things and people 
if the stresses turn out to be unhealthy for some family member. Don't burn 
all your bridges. Find out how your family thrives in the unknown before 
you put yourself there with no escape.

Doyt Echelberger
alive and happy to be on my front porch in Ohio
