From: "Gregory PJ Smith" <rnrkeys(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 23 Nov 2005 02:21:16 +0000
Subject: RE: [T2] Re: Living out of a bus on the road with Kids

   With all the traffic this has generated I'm not sure it requires any more 
feedback, but I'll throw in my $.02...

   I am a parent of a five year son with whom my wife and I have done quite 
a bit of traveling and camping, including a trip to Burning Man and a move 
from Oregon to North Carolina (the move was made in two parts -- me by 
myself in our bus and my wife and son in a moving truck a few weeks later -- 
and, yes, my bus is still being stored 2000 miles away in Denver, CO waiting 
for a new engine). My wife and I are home-schooling our son and know a 
handful of families who do or have done the same and we all have different 
approaches. I have also had a couple of friends without kids who have lived 
several years out of their van and/or camper (one is currently living on a 
sailboat in southern Cali).

   First off, I think Mr. Echelberger's post was pretty on the mark. Test 
the waters before diving in headfirst would be my advice. Our son travels 
very well and we are usually able to handle setbacks with a sense adventure 
rather than frustration, but not everyone is able to do this. It can be very 
trying at times (I'm sure that's probably obvious).

   As far as home-schooling, there is a huge debate still going on about 
this and you just have to do the research and decide for yourself. I don't 
think this is the forum for that debate.

   I say anything is possible. If you aren't sure how your family fares on 
the road, try it a little at a time and refine your approach along the way 
(that's kinda what life's about, right?). There are a ton of variables: 
living out of a bus and living "on the road" can be two very different 
things, traveling with a teenager would be a very different prospect than 
traveling with two or three very young children, etc. In the end it comes 
down to what works and what is right and best for your family.

   I'd be happy to discuss further if you'd like. Best wishes!
