From: "ibuyvws" <ibuyvws(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 31 May 2004 18:18:19 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] engine troubleshooting help needed - Problem solved

Finally,
Problem solved on my engine.
Being at Sacramento Bug-O-Rama Sunday I decided to look at a few other carbs
(new and old) in the swap meet. Tried to keep an eye out of a German Solex
34Pict-3. I located one that appeared to be in great shape.
As I kept searching for other misc stuff I wandered into the dealer area for
new parts. I ended up speaking with a guy from West Coast Core out of
Lancaster (seller jjmoneyhogg on ebay).

Anyways, we were discussing my engine problems (i.e. mid-to-high end rpm
hesitations and black smoke in exhaust) and he suggested a new carb they're
selling called the Kafer 34Pict-3 made by Pierburg Technology in Germany.
He says they're running it on most engines they build including matched up to
a 009 dizzy.
I was hesitant at first on the purchase (reasonable cost at $145), but he
seemed honest enough about it and said he had already sold three others before
me that day.

So I figured what the hell, what good is money if you can't spend it so I
bought the carb. New in the box and ready to bolt on and go.

This afternoon I pulled off the Bocar 34Pict-3 and installed the Kafer
34Pict-3. Put back together, cranked the engine a few times to get the float
bowl filled up.
Bus fires right up. Choke kicks in, idles high for a minute then kicks down to
low rpm (about 900). I then give it some gas to clear out the carbon build-up
on the plugs.
Engine purrs, no hesitation, no black smoke, perfect. I let it run for a while
and shut it off.
I then pull out the plugs, clean them off from the prior carbon build-up, and
fire the bus up. Again, runs really smooth.
This time I drive the bus around the block, smooth through all gears up to
50mph.
Get home shut off the engine, pull out #4 plug and its clean burning. No rich
mixture, hesitation, etc...

To make this long story short, the bus is back on the road and running like it
should. I still might upgrade to the Pertronix ignition before the Classic
trip in a few weeks.

Has anyone else ever used this carb before. I'm a first timer and a believer.
If anyone has any questions p-mail me.

Thanks for everyone on the list who helped me out and gave me suggestions on
which direction to go.

Dave Barnes
63 15-window deluxe
60 ragtop bug
66 westy (arriving soon)
