Date: Wed, 2 Jun 2004 09:14:56 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: engine question

Guys and Girls,

I'm having to decide whether or not to tear down this engine and do a
complete rebuild, or find some as yet undiscovered simpler cause of my
problem, and I need some opinions. Here's the details:

In July 2002, I replaced the topend stuff (heads, rings, P's and C's), as
the  engine was running badly. I found two cracked heads, and two cracked
cylinders. There was about 57,000 miles on the engine over nine years.
I had the heads shaped and formed just like the originals, at the same
place that they had come from in 93 (Rimco in SoCal), and am reusing all
the shims under the cylinders and rocker arms.

I examined and checked conn-rod clearances at the time, and the side
clearances were nice, fully in spec. Nothing seemed loose, and endplay was
perfect (I did not crack the case open), so I proceeded to do only the top
end.

Engine has run fine for about 25,000 miles, but this last winter, it has
become hard to start, runs noisily, and generally sucks. I'll be more
specific:

I found that the fairly new Mexican 34PICT3 carb I had in there for the
last 3000 miles (replacing a leaking German Solex, which has been fixed
and is now back in there) has been the apparent cause of the engines
inability to idle when hot, so let's cut to the current symptoms:

When the engine is cold, it starts quickly and idles fine. It sounds
great, no tapping sounds, no other unusual stuff. As it begins to warm up,
a 'tapping' sound begins, primarily from the left side of the engine. Once
the engine is hot, the tapping sound is quite loud over the regular sound
of the engine. That is my problem. The engine has great compression
(130-135 all around, no leakdown), and the timing is fine. Engine idles
when hot just fine. It has lots of power and doesn't seem to have any
faults beyond that loud tapping/clicking sound coming from the lower left
of the engine block. Lower end of engine now has about 75,000 miles on it
since 1993.

Any suggestions before I go crazy and take it apart?

cal
