Date: Wed, 14 Jan 2004 11:56:35 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Adjusting flaps/thermostat when in a warm climate?

Chris, Mike, and The List:

Chris wroted:

"Yeah there is a measurement for the thermostat when it is cold. Measure
with caliper, tape measure, or ruler..."

And Mike (I'm guessing) had also wroted prior to that:

"Thermostats almost always fail in the open (hot) position.  So if you
adjust your thermostat on a cold engine (ie. with the flaps closed) then
they'll never open!"

Howzabout using the calibrated eyeball Mk. I  to check on those pesky
but essential thermostats?  All the ones I've EVER seen the 30 years or
so I've been playing with VeeWees are either shrinkled up tight (good)
or expandificated out the wazoo (bad)...  Has anyone personally ever
seen one that was only partially opened or closed in the nominal
position?  And furthermore, has anyone PERSONALLY ever seen and/or HELD
one that failed in any position other than fully DEAD expanded?  I'm not
talking about one of those apocryphal "Yeah, I had a buddy who's third
ex-wife's middle nephew knew of a mechanic in Lower Slobovia that read a
post on some user group about a guy in South Africa with a second cousin
once removed that met a guy in Bali who thought he read an article in
some magazine in the Paris airport that printed a letter from this girl
who's old boyfriend found one on his bug..." kinda stories, m'kay?

I just had to sit through a good friend's old school kinda brother
reading us the riot act about why we were forking around installing the
vanes and thermostat on the friend's new 2110cc Type 1 motor.  "It's
like they could fail, why don't ya just take 'em out, those things are
SO freaking complicated, and besides, yer not driving this thing in
Minnesota..."  Makes ME wonder how the guy ever makes it outta bed in
the morning, and gets his T*y*t* started...  Those new-fangled alarm
clocks might go toes-up on you one day.  Better get that rooster ;-)

Jim Hayden
Dusting off the 2260 T4-powered '72 Weekender for BBB8 - smell ya there!
www.savethebays.org
