Date: Wed, 14 Jan 2004 12:20:17 -0600
From: Chris Mills <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Adjusting flaps/thermostat when in a warm climate?

>Howzabout using the calibrated eyeball Mk. I  to check on those pesky
>but essential thermostats?  All the ones I've EVER seen the 30 years or
>so I've been playing with VeeWees are either shrinkled up tight (good)
>or expandificated out the wazoo (bad)...  Has anyone personally ever
>seen one that was only partially opened or closed in the nominal
>position?

Well dunno if this counts but I've got 5 or 6 Corvair thermostats... Only 1 
is good (damn! got to get a second one as the Corvair uses 1 per side) and 
the others range from clearly bad to 2 which are marginal. Marginal means 
they are honestly only partially expanded. To the uneducated they might 
appear to be good but are not. I won't bother with measuring them b/c I 
know they are bad BUT I've also dealt with alot of newbies that couldn't 
tell a good one from a bad one b/c they had never paid attention, or had 
never seen a good one before - only seen ones starting to go bad or gone 
bad. You know - the part about a picture being worth a million words and 
such...

When I write (reply) to the list I try to aim my messages to the newbie 
level in case the person who I know nothing about is a newbie or the guy 4 
years from now searching the archives is a newbie. If I know the recipient 
isn't a newbie then we'll talk in mechanic's terms versus "thingies" and 
"whatcha-ma-call-its".  Unfortunately this often reads like a condescending 
explanation. Of course that is and will never be my intention. If I'm mad 
at somebody and flammin' certainly everybody will know it! <grin>


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
1972 Hodaka Wombat 125cc moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
wife, kiddo, dog, and various slightly used cats
