Date: Wed, 14 Jan 2004 13:33:29 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "Chris Mills" <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] Adjusting flaps/thermostat when in a warm climate?

Chris:

Touche WRT to the replies - 30 years dorking and one tends to forget
what's it like to be noob ;-)  Nor does humor always translate well via
the keyboard.  Nothing like the stunned looks up close and personal when
one starts nattering on about some obscure point of lore, and about that
time you realize you've probably forgotten more VW stuff than a lot of
newbies may have absorbed...  I like ya a lot Brother Chris, and I
always find your posts of great interest even to an old VW f*rt like me,
but...

It's just those goldurned "urban legendary-esque" fables that find new
legs out here in this medium, no flames intended from my response, and
we both know better than to start.  I hate to sound lawyer-ly here, but
my reponse was directed VERY, VERY specifically as to the VW
thermostats, and since I've appointed myself supreme powers for this
discourse I'll have to file a motion with The List to strike your answer
as not responsive to my question...  I'm not posing interrogatories to
The List WRT just any old kind of thermostat used on an air-twirler (VW,
Porsche, or Corvair), so you "might" be comparing apples to jellyfish
here dragging in the Corvair, and THAT might give the new guy some wrong
idears.  I do not know what manner of material or construction GM used
for the Corvair thermostats, and not knowing squat about water-pumpers
and their thermostats other than it's been MHE (albeit limited) they do
fail in strange ways known to cause water-pumpers to run hot, i.e fail
closed, or something that looks near it.  I'm thinking perhaps the same
tech was applied to the Corvair units, of which my limited understanding
is that they operate in a somewhat different manner than how VW used the
thermostat...  IOW they controlled the exits (if you will) rather than
the entrance, a la VW warm-up control methodology, so perhaps there are
a different set of measurement standards or criteria.  By it's
construction, I cannot fathom how the VW thermostat could fail in any
other mode than to fully expand, nor any other position than fully
contracted when cold, hence no need for a precise measurement of a VW
thermostat; it either is or it isn't functional...

Calling George Lyle!  Will Mr. George Lyle please adjudicate on the
subject of VW-style thermostats and their failure modes...

BTW I just got a p-mail from ONE person who has indeed held a "failed
closed" thermostat in their hot little hands...  But ONE out of millions
served does nothing to convince me that the system has no merit.  Having
said that, I would like to submit to the party in question (Tom?  I hate
to drag you in to this...) - was that thermostat EVER submitted to the
manufacturer for some sort of evaluation?  I'd love to see the
explanation for the failure mode.  Seriously!

Jim Hayden
Bunches of VWs Still Running Thermostats
www.savethebays.org

-----Original Message-----
From: Chris Mills [mailto:busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net]
Sent: Wednesday, January 14, 2004 10:20 AM
To: Hayden,James P.; type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Adjusting flaps/thermostat when in a warm climate?



>Howzabout using the calibrated eyeball Mk. I  to check on those pesky
>but essential thermostats?  All the ones I've EVER seen the 30 years or

>so I've been playing with VeeWees are either shrinkled up tight (good)
>or expandificated out the wazoo (bad)...  Has anyone personally ever
>seen one that was only partially opened or closed in the nominal
>position?

Well dunno if this counts but I've got 5 or 6 Corvair thermostats...
Only 1
is good (damn! got to get a second one as the Corvair uses 1 per side)
and
the others range from clearly bad to 2 which are marginal. Marginal
means
they are honestly only partially expanded. To the uneducated they might
appear to be good but are not. I won't bother with measuring them b/c I
know they are bad BUT I've also dealt with alot of newbies that couldn't

tell a good one from a bad one b/c they had never paid attention, or had

never seen a good one before - only seen ones starting to go bad or gone

bad. You know - the part about a picture being worth a million words and

such...

When I write (reply) to the list I try to aim my messages to the newbie
level in case the person who I know nothing about is a newbie or the guy
4
years from now searching the archives is a newbie. If I know the
recipient
isn't a newbie then we'll talk in mechanic's terms versus "thingies" and

"whatcha-ma-call-its".  Unfortunately this often reads like a
condescending
explanation. Of course that is and will never be my intention. If I'm
mad
at somebody and flammin' certainly everybody will know it! <grin>


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma '65
Beetle - Type IV powered '99 CR-V AWD station wagon 1972 Hodaka Wombat
125cc moto-chickle 2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
wife, kiddo, dog, and various slightly used cats
