Date: Fri, 04 Feb 2005 09:27:48 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Chris Chubb <cchubb(-at-)codegurus.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] another reason to drive old cars

At 08:00 AM 2/4/2005, you wrote:
>  wouldn't worry too much about radar guns...If On Star and other
>new-new systems in cars can open your doors if you've locked
>your keys inside, it stands to reason that the same system can
>disable your car...The same data base might be made available
>to PD's on a "need-to-stop" basis...

The on-star system has already been used to listen in on a car while it was 
being pursued by the police as well as to control the door functions. It is 
not connected to the engine management system (yet) but you are correct to 
worry.

Even something as simple as a 1200 watt microwave oven can be converted 
into a device that can fry electronics from a distance. But, most auto 
electronics are very well shielded from EMF and high voltage transients. 
Otherwise even nearby electrical storms or excessive static on a dry day 
would cause computer problems. Getting the EMF into the chip would be 
tough. The other problem is shielding it from the operator. Microwave ovens 
are completely encased. But if you want to project an open air beam the 
antennas are notorious for second and third modes (energy that leaks out in 
a direction perpendicular to the main beam). I wouldn't want to be running it.

Another problem with the system from that article is that they say it would 
cause the car to just drift to a stop. That may not be the case. Many new 
cars use integrated braking along with power steering. If the engine is 
killed the power functions stop as well. No steering and no brakes. Try to 
control a speeding Lincoln Navigator without power steering or power brakes.

But, all this aside, even our busses as far back as 1972 would fall victim 
to an attack like this. All it takes is one transistor, like the one in the 
electronic ignition, fuel injection, etc. If it were powerful enough, it 
would even kill the diodes in your alternator. Of course, if you have 
points and a generator, you can drive off into the sunset.

It is funny though. If you tried to evade during a high speed chase in your 
bus, the cops would just have to pedal a little harder to catch up! #:^)

Chris 
