Date: Fri, 4 Feb 2005 11:18:15 -0600
From: "Harper, Tim P" <HARPETP(-at-)cpchem.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Carb Balance Tubes?

I only got one response (thanks for the input,too) to my post on IDFs and
balance tubes that I posted the other day. Is this a topic that's been beat to
death and I missed it, or does no one have a clear cut answer to my question?
Or does no one really care because it vears away from "stock?"
Tim

Previous question:
I have a 71 bus that I am aquiring parts to build a new, and hopefully better,
engine for. I have a set of Weber 44IDF carbs, with beefy intakes so that they
can be match ported to the intake ports. The manifolds have individual
runners, running to each port with no vacuum ports located on any of them.
It's a one carb barrel per intake type setup. I have been told that I need to
tap all four intake runners and tee them together, not only to provide a
vacuum source for my brake booster, but in order to balance the flow between
the carbs and the engine. It was also noted that they all need to be plugged
during intial tuning and airflow balancing, then connected before using. If
this is so, why don't they come pre-tapped? If not, is it ok to tap one port
and use it for the brake booster since it only draws vacuum to a certain
point, assuming it's not leaking at the diaphram, and when you step on the
brake and it draws more vacuum signal, the butterflies are closed anyway
because your foots off the gas and you have max manifold vacuum at that point
anyway? I've had two prior sets of dual carbs. A set of Kadrons, with balance
tube, and a set of Weber 34 ICTs, with no balance tube. Both worked fine. I
did tap the left manifold for brake booster vacuum, and balanced the carbs,
but it runs fine in this configuration also. Which is right? Both? Neither?
Something completely different? No, wait, that's a Monty Python line. My
mistake;-) Anyway, I turn it over to the immense brain trust of the list.
Thanks in advance for all public and private replies.
Tim
71 passenger bus (And she's a beauty.)
