Date: Tue, 20 Dec 2005 08:21:29 -0800
From: "Bentley Wolfe" <bwolfe(-at-)adobe.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: rescue: Key West

Not sure if this is the right place for this, but here goes. I'll keep
it short.

My wife and I have been wanting to get a bus for a long time.   I've
previously owned a '73 squareback and a '70 Type 1 convertible.  Always
wanted a bus, never quite worked out getting one.

So two years ago my in-laws, who live on a boat in Key West, bought a
bay window bus.  Just to tease us, I suppose.  Of course, they're the
least mechanical people in the world (which imo makes them somewhat
unsuitable for acvw ownership, but that's just my opinion...)

So this bus was in good shape, they were driving it daily around the
island and taking it to a Key West shop for tuneups etc..
(note: I'm not sure what year it is at this point. My wife can't find
the only pictures she took of it...)

Along comes the hurricane..   they evacuate.  Key West floods.  The bus
floats around the parking lot a bit, gets waterlogged.

They return to the island, and decide that they're not up to dealing
with whatever damage might come from being waterlogged. Initially my
father-in-law was just going to let it be towed away!   Plenty of people
swoop in after a hurricane and grab the free cars, take them north and
resell them. I couldn't let that happen.

I drop a hint that I'd be willing to take the car off their hands.  And
they say yes.

Now, I know what you might say. Over time the wiring will collapse and
the body will rust.  I'm well aware of the potential downsides of a
hurricane car.  But there is no part of the acvw that I haven' touched
before, so I'm not afraid of those things.

The problem is the earliest I can get down there to pull the thing back
to Wisconsin is the first week of January, and my father-in-law is
having trouble preventing the thing from being towed away.

So I'm looking for someone in the keys who might be willing to pull this
thing to their place and store it for a few weeks. Or might have some
other creative ideas to keep it from being towed (so far the only other
thing I've come up with is him sending me the title and me sending back
wisconsin plates... they won't tow it with registered plates).

Part of me wants to give up on this whole deal just becuase it's such a
pain to get down there and get the vehicle (have to fly down there, get
a big SUV rental hopefully with a hitch, a car trailer, etc...)  So
there is a 50-60%% chance that any good samaritan willing to invest some
effort might just get the signed title and be able to keep the bus for
themselves.   I don't have any particular attachment to this bus, and
honestly I could probably buy a bus for the time and $ I'd have to
invest to go down there and get it.

OK there is it. Longer than I expected, sorry.



A

Bentley Wolfe
Product Support Engineer(Flash)

Email bwolfe(-at-)adobe.com <mailto:bwolfe(-at-)adobe.com>
Phone (415) 832-2650

Windows Messenger bentley_m_wolfe(-at-)hotmail.com
<mailto:bentley_m_wolfe(-at-)hotmail.com>








*Macromedia, now part of Adobe Systems
