Date: Tue, 20 Dec 2005 19:47:13 -0500
From: Eddie Goodwin <eddie(-at-)shitzthecat.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: broken exhaust studs....

the engine... 2.0L type 4.

I snapped 2 exhaust studs when taking off the manifolds on the engine I 
took from my parts bus.
The studs in question were pretty rusty and the nuts seemed to have cold 
welded themselves to the studs.
They snapped right at the nut with very little torque. I haven't had 
very good luck getting them out.

The studs are broken a little ways beyond where the 8mm threads start 
(on the exhaust side, not the head side)... I can get a nut on there for 
a few turns.

Heres what I've tried ...
First off I soaked them with penetrating fluid for a few days, tapping 
them lightly with a hammer.
Tried Vice grips... can't get a good enough grip on them... the vice 
grips just slide around the stud...
and I can't get my big ones in there.

Tried to heat them up with a propane torch and use the vice grips... no 
luck... grips just keep sliding around
the studs and I got them REAL tight.

Tried welding a nut to the top of one.... but the weld would break when 
I applied torque to get it off. I don't think
my wimpy wire feed welder is up to the task... not enough penetration.

I have since doused the base of the studs with more penetrating fluid 
and have been tapping them with a hammer.

I was thinking about dremeling a slot in the studs to act like a 
screwdriver slot and try to unscrew them.... i'm afraid
that it would just snap that little bit on the side of the slot off in 
the process... but at this point it would be a last ditch effort before 
cutting
the broken studs flush with the heads and drilling / tapping or maybe a 
screw extractor...put those are  a real PIA. I REALLY dont' want
to do that. I've never had good luck with easy outs.

Anyone ever tried my screwdriver slot idea? Could threadlocker be 
holding these suckers in there way tighter than they
should be?

I would appreciate any ideas.



Eddie
'74 Westy
'63 Sundial
