From: "James Treanor" <jtreanor10(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: durocshark(-at-)gmail.com, joe.ames(-at-)verizon.net
Cc: support(-at-)volks-web.net, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 20 Dec 2005 23:52:31 -0500
Subject: [T2] Junkyard save

Checked the library and archives, couldn't find satisfactory (read-idiot 
proof) answers.

Type 4 motor in a 71- tin should fit?

Wiring alt- Loose the reg, big red to starter lug, green/blue to idiot 
light, third to ground?

Oil press and temp for VDO gauges- tee off from sender hole above oil 
filter?


Short story- found old bay in a junkyard, covered with pinestraw, moss and 
small trees growing from detritus on the roof, interior packed with 
everything from original case with a rod sticking thru the top to ancient 
diapers, lovely o.d. green shag and paneling refit, nose pushed in and rot 
in various places
  Some old cars loose that last spark and go cold and silent after a few 
years, but as I turned my back on the old van and tried to walk away I heard 
it wisper, more to itself than anything, "Someone loved me once....."  Damn! 
  So I scrape some of the debris away, and with a sinking feeling reaalise 
that it isn't THAT bad off that it couldn't be back on the road.  So I buy 
him for his price in scrap metal and drag him out of his hole.
  So far I've done a gross decon, repaired a rear corner with a rounded 
section of a barbeque grill, pulled the nose out to a more natural angle, 
and found a running 2L engine and transaxle. He's been thru a lot, and when 
I'm done it will still show.  More repair than resto, more 'home grown' than 
'off the shelf', but he's not pretentious enough to care. We've decided on 
paint (paisley), an overall motif, (Morrocan), and even a name (The Blue 
Rajah). He hasn't volunteered his original name, and I haven't asked.
  He's pleasant, gets along well with my bulli, and really hasn't asked for 
much- a few more years, the wind in his face, maybe some campouts, and the 
occasional kind word.



JT in SC
62 404.1 Kompressor
58 VW panel
71 Transporter
62 Willys wagon
http://www.fortunecity.com/silverstone/garage/7/
