From: "J Barry Burneskis" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 21 Dec 2005 15:06:49 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] fuel sender

I particularly like this last part:

       "Once this "porthole" is installed you can unscrew the center and 
access the fuel sender easily and the access doesnt look junky."

Look.  This is a once in a lifetime event.  Really, you will not be 
replacing these fuel senders like you replace your points and plugs.  I 
mean, probably  1 out of a 1,000 would have to be re-replaced within a ten 
year period., and probably 1 out of 100 in 30 years...  You don't have to be 
concerned with "access the fuel sender easily".

It is easier to cut a SQUARE opening than it is to cut a ROUND opening in 
that deck.

And if you make a clean, measured cut, the extracted material you remove 
from the inside of that square hole will be put back in.

Heck, you can get a few packets of J B Weld and two or four strips of metal 
1" X 8" from your family hardware store , and tack 'J B Weld' the strips of 
metal to the UNDERSIDE of the square hole, so that maybe half of the width 
of of the metal strip is visible in the square opening, so that if you put 
the extracted square piece back in the square hole, the extracted square 
piece won't fall thru.

And you don't have to go out looking for a 4" hatch to make the finished 
product look nice.  just fill in the four cut sides with J B Weld (epoxy) 
for a permanent finish, or with some silicone chalking compound for a 
semi-permanent finish.  Or just throw the extracted square piece on the 
newly flanged square hole for a easily removeable feature....

It 'should' look fine...  Everything will match up.

OK, the hole does NOT have to be square, I can cut you some slack on that.  
It will look nicer, though. Cut the sides of the square hole [see, I'm being 
silly now...] right down the length of two of the ridges in the  pictures so 
you can 'JB B Weld' the 1" x 8" strips to the hole.  1/2 " under the hole, 
and 1/2 " poking out from the hole, waiting for theextracted piece to be set 
in place.

PS.  Don't buy the sender until after you have taken your's out and cleaned 
it and re-tested it.  You don't want a replacement fuel sender in you VW 
stash.  )

Barry sends

Readers Digest. Illiterates die of intestinal blockage.
