From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "VWlist" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, "Jim Ellis" <ellisjames(-at-)yahoo.com>
Date: Thu, 16 Aug 2001 11:20:46 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] Score! jealous

first bus: 65 hardtop westy. gold paint. ran drove, poor brakes. $700 lived
in it for a while. sold for $700 and bought a new golf (1988) off the
dealership floor. that turned out to be a major life changing decision.

next bus: 1971 westy. ran, drove, not rusty (for coming from PA). bought
for $2500, and couldn't find anything better for a better price, so what
the hey. i drove it for a few years, and it got me to albuquerque, where i
eventually sold it for $2500. all part of that major life change.

next bus: 1964 21 window (mouse grey/pearl white  early '64 model) after
years of pestering a guy to sell it to me, one day before i was set to fly
back to albuquerque, i saw his garage door open and stopped to ask again.
this time it was "yes". had a rebuilt motor, that was built in 1974 and
never installed, extra tools and some extra parts. unfortunately there was
no rear interior, but was a pretty clean, rust free (again, by east coast
standards) bus. bought for a whopping $600. drove it for a few months
around the country then sold for $2800. although i don't really like
deluxes, i wish i had that bus back today. i still remember the vin by
heart.

next bus: after selling the deluxe, i bought a beater 1966 kombi (velvet
green!!!!) with the money. i had seen this bus on a tow truck outside
flagstaff, and after a few phone calls to the owner, who was a student in
new jersey, i bought the bus for $200. took a motor out to drive it back
and almost made it, except the motor blew 50 miles before albuquerque.
drove that bus for a while until i was hit by a red light runner, and
ejected fom the bus and the bus landed on top of me. long story... but with
the insurance money i bought a 1970 (running, i think $800) bug, just to
get me back to albuquerque--i was in pa at the time.

next bus: with the insurance money, i bought a 1961 westfalia so-23, $1200,
safaris+ambulance fans, plus all the deluxe westy stuff, but a poor body.
had it trailered from iowa. that bus is still driving in albuquerque. drove
it shortly until i got the next bus. wish i still had it.

next bus: 1967 westy. $35. good bus, took me everywhere. sold it to someone
who had the bodywork done, but then he sold it to finance another project.
probably in north carolina somewhere.

next bus: 1963 lhd/cargo door left model 233. $200. had to trailer from el
paso to albuquerque, but...  weird bus, but cool. very solid. drove that
all over the country a couple times. UNKNOWINGLY sold it to a lying
japanese middle man. but it helped me buy my next, next bus.

next bus: 1959 westfalia so-23. bought in a 3-way deal. approximately $250.
bought from an old hippy who was moving to hawaii. some rust, ugly, but
dove blue and cool. got it running, and am now awaiting my upcoming trip
back to albuquerque to get it. it has a 1955 interior in it now, but i got
a 59 interior to put back in it.

next, next bus: current daily driver: 1961 flipseat westy. the most
expensive bus i ever bought. came fairly complete with the 2 tents, westy
owner's manual, and a bunch of extra parts. bought in in north carolina
after talking to a guy who i talked to at a show who said those magic
words: "i have this bus in my carport, and........" i was not looking to
buy a bus at the time, but couldn't pass it up. flew out, drove it home to
albuquerque, and now to monterey (twice). originally mouse grey/pearl
white, but now a "lovely" ford maroon/white. has been a good bus so far,
but needs minor mechanical help (and a repaint to original color someday).

this doesn't include any of the busses i've bought and resold as projects
(either at a loss or break even) or the ones i got for parts.
who knows what's next? probably my 62 DD panel painted like the american
flag. then hopefully a pre 59 westy..........

[...]
> [Original Message]
> Things run in cycles and I am apparently way, way, way
> out of the vw "cool deal" up swing~ at present...
> 
> Past deals:
> I cringe to think of all of the parts that I've p*ssed
> away by not knowing my prices and all of the buses
> that I've cut up and shoved away that would be better
> than alot of what I see on the current FS sites.



--- Jon Furst



