Date: Thu, 16 Aug 2001 17:26:35 -0500
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)infohiwy.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: fricking fracken carbs / fuel pumps = HELP!!

Ok, I am stumped. I have been screwing with my carb and/or fuel pump for
SIX MONTHS now and I have HAD IT!!!!!!! :P
Background: 1600 SP, 009, stock muffler... had a 30Pict1; ran fine till
the shaft wallered out and it leaked air.
Put on a 30/31. 125 main, 125z emulsion, 55 pilot and idle - this is
stock for this carb. 12 MPG, idled rich. Tried 50 idle jet. Idled rich.
120 main jet. Idled rich, ran rich. Upped the emulsion tube to 135z;
idled rich, ran like crazy at speed.


Put on a new (alternator) fuel pump at this point, as the old one
dripped. Proper pushrod. Took a trip 90 miles - car wouldn't go past 50
MPH, trailed a black cloud, sounded like crap.  When I got to my
destination, I shimmed the hell outta the pump, to the point the pushrod
barely projected from the base. This helped.  Pressure  was 2.5 psi at
3000 rpm.

Meanwhile, the 30p1 had been rebushed by Rimco; I rebuilt it, 120 main,
135 emulsion tube. IDLED RICH!!  Also, NOW the accel pump was acting up,
and when you pushed the gas pedal the engine bogged and died. OK, try
the nice vacuum dizzy I cleaned up, mebbee its the 009s fault- nope,
same problem! Total advance of 28 with both the 009 and a vacuum dizzy i
tried later, btw  .Adjust the pump rod (this rod has only 2 holes, so i
moved it to the other one: at the END of the rod. Is this MORE or LESS
fuel per stroke?). Same problem! Won't drive like this, but idles
nice... if rich :P

Took apart the 30/31, put in a 150 emulsion tube (I also have a 170 but
worried about getting too lean at speed) and 50 idle/pilot jets. Idled
rich, but ran great at speed, so that's how I drove it for 2000 miles.
15 mpg.  Moved the float level up. Moved it down. Idled rich, either
way. Tried new float valves. Rich. New float, same thing.
NOW the 30/31 started to give me the stutter at acceleration crap, so I
started to rebuild another one I had; same deal, 120 main, 135 emul, 55
i/p jets. THIS one will start, then die; fluttering the gas makes it bog
and backfire and THEN die.  Just in case the vacuum port on the side was
clogged, I put in the 009 to eliminate it as a variable. No dice.

I am running a clear plastic filter, so I can see that there are no
chunks in the gas to mess with the float valve or accel pump - plus the
tank has recently been stripped,washed,etched and then coated with POR15
tank coating, and a BD fuel tap w/ screen installed.

I have a NOS T3 pump I am going to put in here, shim it and test the PSI
this weekend to eliminate the pump as ANY sort of factor... I may put in
a regulator and lock it at 2 psi just for insurance.  I am putting the
FIRST 30/31 back on, coz at least IT ran, but really don't know what
else to do to make it idle more cleanly/accelerate properly. It goes
like gangbusters on the highway, but it isn't easy to get it there :)
Next I'll try and figure out what's up with the 30p1... does anyone know
if the MANUAL CHOKE 30p1s available on the web will work with an
ELECTRIC CHOKE top? I may just buy one if so, and eliminate worn carbs
as a culprit as well.

I am at a loss. I have fooled with every variable I can think of,
getting it to factory spec and then working up and down from there, and
still have a car that won't run properly.  Carbs are voodoo, and I hate
them for it. I know HOW they work I just can't GET them to work!!

I can only imagine the problems I'd be having if this were FI :)


PS - factoid: if you were wondering WHICH jet on the right side of a
30/31 is pilot and which is idle... the jet closest to the REAR of the
carb is the idle jet. With the carb disassembled, spray some carb fluid
into the idle mixture screwhole on the left side (watch your eyes!);
some fluid will come out the rearmost jet hole, and some will come out
of the rearmost of two holes on the top of the carb body, just above. So
changing the rearmost jet to a SMALLER size should lean out the idle
even before you get to the mixture screw. I still don't know what the
pilot jet does... it basically allows gas to be sucked into the carb
thru the other hole.
