From: "Craig Ayres-Sevier" <n7cas(-at-)gbis.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 17 Aug 2001 17:23:17 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] The name game

First bus, a 67 Kombi was "Alias," after Bob Dylan's character and horrible
acting in "Pat Garrett & Billy The Kid," plus as a ham radio operator I had
a ton of radios inside: thrashed ol' hippie bus on the outside, the bridge
of USS Enterprise on the inside... hence, "Alias." When it was disintegrated
by a self-important red-lighter at high speed in a hulking SUV after 19
years of stories and memories, realizing I was indeed immortal (since going
through the windshield didn't kill me, although it came close), to the
protests of my associates I set about acquiring another 67 Bus. Trouble was,
slim pickin's in these parts. I wanted something that needed help, but would
still operational as I repaired it. Finally I found one (1) and, recognizing
that there'd never be another Alias, even though folks automatically called
my 2nd Bus "Alias II," I named it Grief. First, after 19 years of driving
the same bus, I dearly missed "my" bus, so it seemed a fitting segue from my
quite real sorrow -- nevermind my injuries (from which I have way since
recovered, thank you) -- 19 years of driving the same bus which was by then
in perfect mechanical condition (the outside purposely kept really ratty and
mottly to go along with the name "Alias," and to discourage opportunists to
break in and steal $5,000 worth of transceivers; second, the preceding owner
of my "new" bus had painted the thing a flat black-green two-tone, giving it
this semi- (if not amusing) evil look, and I was reminded of how military
units often give themselves menacing monickers in an attempt to shore up
morale (I'm also a military history buff); and thirdly, it was a reference
to the bucks I would probably have to put into it just to get it to be
reliable transportation, nevermind restored. And that suspicion came, of
course, and quite shortly, true in spades. The day after I bought it, the
brakes went out. But I still love this bus, the one I have now, as it was in
such a sad shape and now it's at least a reliable daily driver, though the
engine still needs better cooling. Next step is the
restoring-of-what-can-be-restored part. Hey, how about windshield wipers!
There's a concept. I might even re-paint it, I'm thinking, once I get some
advice on my gas problem (another post here, though I have since seen the
topic being already active). But it, a seriously plundered Sondermodel
(currently unlockable, thus I'll be damned if I'm putting any expensive
communications in it yet), will always be named Grief for all these reasons,
regardless of its progression toward perfection. O.K., not perfection, but
you folks know what I mean. I hope.

Craig Ayres-Sevier, N7CAS
n7cas(-at-)gbis.com

