From: "Michele & Gene Cornelius" <mizamook(-at-)sonic.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 17 Aug 2001 20:46:55 -0700
Subject: All right then...Orick,Klamath Scouting!

Uh, yep....been too busy to write, much less read, or play with my bus too
much...but after last weekend's fruitless foray into Oregon for a place to
move to, we go back northward but closer...Orick area, 'bout 10 miles
inland, to see another place, and check out the area some more.

Yesterday I cranked another notch on the left axle nut to kill the seep of
goo, and today I rerouted the mess of oil plumbing I've got so there is now
a thermostat so I don't cool my oil before it's hot.

If anyone is going north on 101, make sure to stop by Paul's smoked salmon
just south of the klamath river....you won't regret it!  Tell him you want
the real thing...if he's not standing around a smoking fire ringed by fresh
slabs of salmon, you're missing out!

Also......for those passing through Coos Bay, OR....check out the sushi at
that little place on the main drag, on a corner in the middle of
town....awesome!

We saw a green and white splitty heading north into Coos Bay when we were
heading south...anyone we know?  BIG WAVE, by the way.....and we passed a
bay up those hills, and kept pulling away from that fully-loaded wasserboxer
Vanagon on the hills...love that 1776!  Love it!  And the RGB's!

Another splitty at the Humboldt lagoons parked (now why the hell didn't I
stop?)  Still...big waves again.  And One more just north of Santa Rosa
....more waves!  But still....only three splits on the road in 1400+ miles
to OR and back?!  Come on!

Anyway, if you see Michele and myself happily grooving along in our green
and white '66 Westy, give us a wave or peace sign or a honk....we'll be
heading out from home (Santa Rosa area/Occidental) at 5:00 or 6:00, and
intend to be in Orick at about 11:00 or so.  (Saturday).  We may be found,
possibly, in the Prairie Creek vicinity, perhaps there's a spot for us at
Gold Bluffs beach....hope to see some vintage bus action out there this
weekend!

Later,

Gene




