Date: Mon, 01 Oct 2007 15:44:37 -0400
From: Will Anderson <will.anderson(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 67 trans into a 59 single cab

I think this is my first post to the vintagebus list, but I have been on 
T2 for about 10 years and lurking here since January. 

Last winter, I bought a 59 single cab (May? 1959 VIN sez 
dropgates.com)--desert rat survivor that was parked in Nevada for about 
20 years.  trans was totally shot.  I picked up a replacement trans at 
the spring Bug-O-Rama in Sacramento.  It is a big nut, tunnel trans 
(complete drum-to-drum) out of a 66 but it has a 67 nose cone so that 
might be a clue that it is a 67. The bellhousing has been clearanced for 
later flywheel.

Yesterday, it was finally time to install the replacement trans, because 
I had to trailer it to a new rental house (w/ heated garage!) today.

first off, the nose cone didn't fit, on a 59 the hockey stick is about 
an inch lower, offset mount holes an inch higher, plus the reverse 
switch on the 67 cone gets in the way. No problem, I swapped the nose 
cone and hockey stick to the one that came with the bus.

NOW there appears to be no room for a rubber mount!!  I don't think 
there was one in there when I pulled it a few months ago, but I could be 
mistaken.  I have read on Samba that in 1959, VW switched from the early 
split-case trans to the tunnel.   There is a plate that bolts to the 
frame crossmember, that matches the offset M10 holes in the nosecone. 
However there is no rubber mount and I'm guessing it is going to be LOUD.

1. I'm not 100% sure it was the original trans. 2. I'm not sure if the 
"adaptor plate" is original either.

any ideas--anyone seen this scenario before?

Also, how durable are the swing axles if they hang down during install?? 
(like arms on a dead body) even with 3 people it was hard to support 
them. what are the chances I damaged something?

TIA for your insight. 

BTW I am selling the "original" small-nut trans complete drum-to-drum.  
condition poor, shrapnel holes in the bellhousing from broken clutch 
fork/case is ruined--but the 1967 nosecone is in good shape, RGBs 
condition unknown.  complete drum-to-drum.  First $75 obo takes it, 
including 2 rear wheel cylinders and a new set of shoes for small-nut.  
Pick up soon or arrange for delivery to Sac, Carson City or North Bay 
for gas money.  $50 without the new parts or I can just ship the new 
parts for $30 if you just want those.

Will A.
'70 Westy driver since 1999
'73 Westy project
'59 SC project
