Date: Thu, 11 Aug 2005 22:51:55 -0400
From: "Andrew Stephens" <andrew.stephens4(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Why has reverse gear started grinding?

Hello list,
I've had the rear wheels of my '77 up on some ramps for the past 3 weeks so I
can replace the j-tubes and muffler (a real drag as I haven't stopped the
exhaust leaks yet).

While I had the bus up there, I also drained and changed the transmission gear
oil.  Then, when I went to back the bus off of the ramps, it grinds in reverse
and pops out of reverse.  It did that up on the stands and also when on the
ground.  It hasn't done that before with me.  What's up with that?

Did the stress of driving up the ramps cause the shift linkage to come out of
alignment?  Did I get too much oil in the transmission when I filled it to
just below the fill hole while the bus was angled nose down on the 10" high
stands?

Regarding the exhaust leaks, the one-piece replacement muffler I got from Bus
Depot doesn't line up flush with the heater boxes so I've slowly tightened all
of the joints at the j-tubes and at the heater boxes in hopes of drawing
everything up flush.  I also coated the gaskets on the j-tubes with furnace
cement or putty from the hardware store.  The j-tubes seem to be sealed but
the heaterbox-muffler joints aren't sealed because they aren't lined up
enough.  Barry B. told me how he used some breaker bars stuck into the intakes
on the muffler to bend the system more flush with the heaterboxes, and he
suggests making a JB Weld sandwich with 2 gaskets at each flange joint so that
it will fill the space and harden well overnight.  I'll try that when I have a
chance.

This is the second time I've wrestled with these 76-78 exhausts with J tubes
and they are a drag.  The last time I couldn't get mine to seal on my '76 and
I took it to the local VW mechanic who promplty broke an exhaust stud so I
ended up pulling the motor for the second time in 2 months, and he charged
something like $500 to rebuild the j-tubes and manifolds by welding on new
flanges.  I haven't touched the manifolds on this bus and I'm hoping I don't
have to, but what are the odds that I break or strip a stud if I try to remove
the manifold - is it a certainty or not?
