From: "Warburton, William" <William.Warburton(-at-)let-it-be-thus.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 18 Dec 2001 11:48:00 -0000
Subject: Re: Leaded/Unleaded Fuel

Hi,

 Nicholas McLaren writes:

> Sorry if this question has been asked before (I searched the archives but
> couldn't find an answer). I have recently purchased a 79 2.0L Kombi which
> currently runs on leaded fuel. My questions are: will it run on unleaded?

 All aircooled VW 2.0 litre engines should run on unleaded.

 I've been through the switchover twice, now. Once in NZ (1600cc) and once
in the UK (2000cc). In NZ I used an addititive because I was planning to 
sell the camper and wanted to give the new owner the option to play it safe
but if it had been me I would just have used U/L.

 In the UK I run my "CJ" code (carburetted) 2.0l on unleaded.

> and, if so, is it just a matter of switching, or do I need to do something
> else? BTW, I am in Australia and I do believe (from what I have read on the
> archives) that the engines here are different to those in North America. 

 You can just fill up at the U/L pump. I think the engine differences are 
limited- US engines were mostly fuel injected, primarily for emissions
control reasons, whereas many European vehicles continued to use carbs- I 
think FI was an option here, as in Oz, but was not heavily taken up.
 The heads are made the same, they may be identical but I don't know.

 Incidentally, as you probably know, you don't need high octane fuel in
most VWs- there should be a sticker saying you need 91RON petrol, this 
was the lowest grade available in the 70s (in the UK- it was called 
two-star). I can't remember what fuel grades are available in Oz, but
IIRC you have a very similar setup to what we had here & NZ prior to the
demise of leaded fuel: Leaded, high octane; unleaded low octane & unleaded
high octane. You should be able to use the cheapest, unleaded low octane
fuel (95RON in the UK) but check with the suppliers in Oz- I see from their
Austalian website that Shell supplies 91 Octane unleaded, that's probably
your best bet as higher octane ratings are unnecessary, so you'd be wasting
money on higher graded fuels. I wish we could get that here, as it should be
cheaper than the existing fuels.

> Any help on this would be greatly appreciated.

 For more information have a look at the UK bulletin board run by the parts
vendor "Just Kampers", which has archived discussion from UK owners who have
been through the transition. I wasn't aware of any of the issues here that 
were publicised during the NZ switchover. I think that that affair was badly
handled, leading to more problems than were necessary.

 URL for Just Kampers is http://www.justkampers.co.uk, the kamperchat forum
is linked from the bottom of the homepage and an archive search facility
is available near the top of the page once you enter the board.

HTH.

Cheers,
        W. (Scotland, BTW- I take it you have some family connections... :-)
