Date: Tue, 18 Dec 2001 22:14:19 -0500 (EST)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Tom <tom.loan(-at-)sympatico.ca>
Subject: Re: [T2] steering coupler folks be aware!!!!

On Tue, 18 Dec 2001, Tom wrote:

> What do you mean by a doddle? Do you do this replacement from inside
> the van or underneath? I've read more different things about this
> coupler, should be interesting to change it. Tom

Tom,

It is easy to replace.  The answer to "inside the van or underneath?"
is... both!  This really needs two people.  Access is limited, but
available at both ends with way too much distance between them.

I am probably going to mix procedures from a number of different years
here (it has been a while) but here is what I remember...

There are a couple screws holding top of the steering column to the dash,
remove them so the top of the column is loose (you don't need to pull
wires, tho you should remove the neg lead from the battery);

there are two screws holding the plate to the floor, remove them;

lift the column ~1/2" then and push the plate off the bottom of the
column;

Remove the plastic grommet from the plate (carefully! It is vital to
horn function);

unplug horn wire from horn ring, tie a piece of string to it and feed it
down the center of the steering shaft to get slack at the bottom;

slide the bottom plate up the steering shaft with slack in wire (there is
a fairlead in the plate that the wire should pass thru);

someone goes under the car with a 13mm socket on an extension, turn wheel
'til a nut is available;

undo nut while the second person is holding the bolt from on top with a
second socket;

rotate steering wheek 1/4 turn, do it again, and again...

Things I am not sure about... I *think* I had the steering wheel off when
I last did this and the procedure may change a bit if you don't.  At any
rate, you need to get the column up 1/2" to get the plate off the outer
tube, then get the grommet out of the plate.  You should not have to
remove the steering wheel, unless you need to fix the horn or some such.

Things to remember include reattaching horn wire, bolts go down, and
insert grommet into base plate, then slide column into grommet.  The
grommet only goes into the base plate one way and the steering tube only
goes into the grommet one way.

It has been two years since I did this and as I remember, it was
relatively easy, but time purges bitter memories :-)

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail




