From: "Marya Cable" <maryayaya(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: Type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 20 Jul 2004 22:49:11 -0700
Subject: Who Needs Superman??

Everyone in this community is so very helpful and generous.  I have met two 
local (Portland) people through Type2.com who have helped me in the 
following ways: One came out and inspected my bus - in the hot hot sun, for 
a lengthy period of time, and the other, today transported my bus far across 
town using a pain-in-the-butt dolly rented from U-Haul, also in the hot hot 
sun and which also took a long time.  These two people did not know each 
other or me (other than a few e-mail exchanges between each of them and 
myself via Type2), and not only didn't ask for anything in return (except 
for me to help out someone else in the future some day) but refused payment.

In addition to these two people (before meeting them, actually), I have met 
a couple of other amazing people online as well - not in person, granted, 
but other incredibly kind and informative souls who have helped this 
VW-clueless one learn SO much about what to ask, what to look for, who/where 
to turn to, and well up from down, basically.  In fact one of them 
introduced me to the person who moved my bus for me today.  Have those two 
ever met in person?  Of course not!  I know that if you guys lived in 
Portland too or were passing through, you would come to meet my bus and help 
in any way you could, as well.

I guess what I'm trying to say is that it has become very obvious to me that 
this VW sub-culture-of-sorts is made up of authentically kind, thoughtful 
and caring individuals (not to mention intelligent, interesting and 
multi-talented - as I'm sure many of you have noticed).  I've never 
experienced anything quite like it...it says a lot about an individual or 
group when they are willing to help total strangers in such ways.

Thank you!

Marya (with my grandpa's '70 Riviera pop top now happily sitting in my 
driveway - waiting for its first bath in years!)
