Date: Thu, 22 Jul 2004 08:51:35 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Baker <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>
To: Dean Goodmanson <goodmansond(-at-)gmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Getting to know my bus

--- Dean Goodmanson <goodmansond(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:
> ~Oil leak
> I've got a slight oil leak coming from behind the
> thermostat.  2-3
> inches on concrete after parked.  I can't quite tell
> where it's coming
> from.  Thoughts? <<

Looks like leaky push rod tube seals. I just replaced
thes on a 78 I was working on, its pretty easy. Here
is step-by-step procedure that is published in the
Type2.com library:

Leaky pushrod tube oil seals are a common cause of oil
leaks on the VW air-cooled engines. To fix the leak,
you have to remove the pushrod tubes and replace the
seals on both ends. 

It's not a technically difficult task, but it is
time-consuming and will try your patience. It will be
easier to do the job with the rear wheels removed. 

NOTE:This procedure applies only to the Type 4 engine.
To replace the pushrod tube oil seals on a Type 1
engine is much more involved, since the cylinder heads
have to come off. 

To remove the pushrod tubes, 

1) Remove valve cover -- get your big honkin'
screwdriver under the bail and pry it down (don't pry
it up. You'll regret it. Ask me how I know). 

2) You are now faced with your rocker arms. Note that
there is a thin metal wire spring thing that is very
oddly shaped and goes the length of the head, fitted
under the rocker arms and holds the pushrod tubes in
place. Pay attention to how it goes because you will
need to know later. This is another reason for doing
only one side at a time so you can reference the other
side for reassembly. Anyway, loosen the rocker arm
nuts a bit so you have enough slack to get that spring
out. Try not to bend it up too much. 

3) Get a clean paper towel or something similar to
keep all the parts on. Put the spring on the towel.
Now remove the rocker arm nuts and washers and put
them on your towel. Don't lose 'em. Pull the rocker
arms off the studs and be careful as they will want to
fall apart as soon as they are free from the studs.
Put them on the towel next to each other like they are
in the engine. This is one of those jobs where you
want to avoid mixing stuff up. 

4) Remove a pushrod (I do these one at a time so I
don't get the pushrods mixed up. Just pull it right
out. Sometimes they are full of oil and surprise you.
Lay it on the paper towel, make sure it's straight by
rolling it. If it's bent, time for a new one. 

5) Remove pushrod tube. You do this by
twisting/pushing/pulling it out through the cylinder
head. Many say not to use pliers on the tube but if
you use pliers and squeeze lightly (so as not to crush
the tube) you'll be OK, I used pliers when I did it
and they're MUCH easier to get out that way. Just be
sure to squeeze very lightly. You usually need to set
up a twisting motion to break them free and then pull
back firmly but gently and pull the tube out through
the head. 

6) Clean up old tubes or replace them. Use parts
cleaner, like brake parts cleaner or carb cleaner. Get
all the crud off the tubes, you may find that they are
not supposed to be black. You may also elect to
purchase a complete set of new pushrod tubes. Remove
the old seals from the tubes if you are reusing them.
I usually get them off by getting a screwdriver blade
under the seal and prying it off the tube. 

7) Install new seals. There are two kinds available.
One is the stock VW seal and the other is the seal
that gets used on the Porsche version of the same
engine. Buy the expensive Porsche version. Word is
they will outlast the VW seals quite well. You will
need 16 seals for the job and the seal for the case
end of the tube is smaller than the seal for the
cylinder head end. So you should have 8 of the large
seals and 8 of the small. 

8) Clean up the sealing surfaces on the cylinder head
and the engine case. Use a paper towel moistened your
parts cleaner of choice. Be thorough, any dirt on the
sealing surface will cause leakage. Take your time and
do it right. 

9) Repeat with each pushrod tube. 

10) Put everything back together. When reinstalling
the pushrod tubes, you need to make sure they seat all
the way. They don't tend to want to go all the way in
by hand. I used a big 1/2" drive extension as a drift
and gently tapped the tubes home with a hammer. Be
careful doing this that you don't pinch the seals on
the head end. 

Make sure that you put that wire spring thing back in
correctly. It holds the pushrod tubes in place. Again,
don't mix up the pushrods, rockers, etc. Also, when
putting things back together, you will want to make
sure that the pushrods seat correctly in the lifters.
If you twist them around by hand you can just feel
them slip in where they're supposed to be. After
you're done, put new valve cover gaskets on (don't use
sealer, just a thin coat of wheel bearing grease on
both sides of the gasket). If the sealing surfaces for
the valve cover gaskets on the heads are rough, it is
wise to take some steel wool and use it to smooth the
cylinder head surface out. This will stop those pesky
valve cover gasket leaks. If you have solid lifters,
you will need to adjust the valves after this
operation (that's another whole procedure, but is
written up well in Muir). Some say if you have
hydraulic lifters you also need to adjust but I've
seen it done without adjusting and it's been fine. 

11) Have a beer! 



=====
Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1967 Kombi soon to be camper!
http://www.buszen.com

"So we got into the red VW microbus with the shovels and the rakes and the implements of destruction and we headed on to the police officer's station..."
