Date: Fri, 2 May 2003 07:47:29 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Baker <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>, list vintage bus
Cc: bus list <ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, airwesty(-at-)yahoo.com,
Subject: Ohio Buses n Boats Event-Only 2 weeks

Happy Friday Y'all!!
I can't believe it is only 2 weeks until the Third
Annual VW Buses, Boats, n Bands Event in Oregonia
(just north of Cincinnati) Ohio on May 16-18.
The general details can be found at the web site which
is here:
http://www.geocities.com/buses_n_boats
But here is some additional information:
When you arrive at the campground, do NOT check in at
the office. You will go back to the sites area (follow
signs) and check in at the green awning attached to
the yellow\white 71 westy (my bus). Here is where you
will register, pick up your t-shirts, pay, buy 50\50
split the pot raffle tickets, and tell me whether or
not you will be participating in the canoe trip
Saturday morning.
Our area of this campground is set up with individual
sites, not an open camping area as in past years. You
can park 2-3 buses per site, and they all have water
and electric hook-ups. There will be one camp site
area designated as the "community" site where we will
have a nice fire (I am looking for a big stack of wood
for you Frank!) and tables and chairs. PLEASE join us
at this site for a community camp fire and
socializing, this site will kind of be the "hub" of
activity, come here for all the evening action. The
community site will likely be near my bus and
registration tent. 
We will be doing Full Moon Bus Club Breakfast burritos
on Saturday morning for everyone, so bring your
favorite to throw into the mix, suggested items are:
tortillas, sausage, eggs, chopped veggies, bacon,
mushrooms, etc.
The bus will pick up the canoe trip people from the
campground about 11:00 am to take them to the canoe
livery. The bus should return to the campground after
the trip at about 3:00 pm or so.  At about 5:30 or
6:00 pm, we will have an open grill burning where you
can cook your own grillable, bring enough just for
yourself or some to share! We will do the drawing for
a few door prizes at this time. BTW, I NEED SOME MORE
DOOR PRIZES!! So if you have anything to donate, drop
it off at the registration tent.
Then after dinner, the music will begin about 7:00 or
7:30. "Man Made Moon"  http://www.manmademoon.com 
will play their unique mix of Folk\Bluegrass\Rock
music until about 10:30 pm, then it will be back to
the community campsite for fire, drinks, and acoustic
music.
The Olive Branch Campground is privately owned.
Alcohol is permitted, but please use discretion when
drinking away from your camp site. If you bring
alcohol into public areas such as game room, shelter
house, etc. then I ask that you keep it in a cup. At
your private site and our community site, there will
be NO restrictions on how you drink it (I prefer mine
right from the bottle!).
The owner of the campground, Steven Bryan, has told me
that he is going try to open the swimming pool a week
early just for us! So if the weather is warm, you can
go swimming in the pool! There is also a nice big
playground for the kids as well as a game room.  Pets
are also permitted as long as they are leashed and as
long as you clean up the doo-doo, yummy!
Anyway, I am looking froward to meeting all of you and
seeing those of you whom I already know. As always,
feel free to contact me if you need anything!

=====
Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1972 Deluxe
http://www.buszen.com

"So we got into the red VW microbus with the shovels and the rakes and the implements of destruction and we headed on to the police officer's station..."
