From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com
Date: Fri, 2 May 2003 12:15:19 -0400 
Subject: RE: [T2] VW Hippie Bashing

Well,

	Just so we don't become TOO anti-establishmental here.. lets just
remember that it was big business, and corporate attitude that provided,
designed, created, and ultimately built these Volkswagens that we drive
around in. Dunno about you guys, bust most of the Volkswagen busses that the
hippies drove around back in the day were purchased by their conservative
parents. (just as parents buy their kids Honda Civics now, and how parents
bought their kids TransAms in the late 70s).  Personally, I bought my own
first car (a crappy 4 cyl 1984 Toyota Corolla for a grand). But lets not
forget too, that it's ultimately the big businesses that provide the
redesign, sales, and manufacturing of the parts we use.  

Sure, the big guys get big tax breaks, but.. they also pay the most taxes,
and if we keep bashing them, sooner or later they're not going to foot the
bill anymore. And unless we all become proficient welders, metalurgists, and
metal fabricators.. we're going to be S**T out of luck for parts. Just
remember... the parts people, Volkswagen of America, etc.. are not owned by
hippies. They're owned by business oriented investors.

Personally, I have nothing against hippies... I think they make great music,
and provide for an interesting clothing line.


Todd Jaspers - Programmer  (the Republican list-member)
AmeriPath IT - Fort Lauderdale
954-377-3291

> CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments, is
> for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential
> and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or
> distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
> contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original
> message.
> 
> 
Date: Fri, 02 May 2003 07:31:32 -0600
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "Jason Z Upper" <jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] VW Hippie Bashing
Message-ID: <Sea2-F608i7M4BAyxJM000430bf(-at-)hotmail.com>

Hi Folks,

I just had to jump in on this one.  Even though I'm not old enough to have 
been alive during the "heyday" of the hippies back in the late 60's, I 
remember the counterculture ideas were still very much alive in the early 
70's.  Though I never got the chance to enjoy those days firsthand from 
behind the wheel of a brand-new '67 Kombi, I grew up in a VW Beetle (a '74 
Std), and have owned various VW's over the years.  I like the idea of 
community, of grass-roots movements, and of being counter to the corporate 
and governmental greed and control.  I try to follow a pretty simple and 
earth-friendly lifestyle, and I really love my Bus.  Now that a new 
generation of Bus owners is coming to the fore, I think it's our 
responsibility to keep those ideas alive.  Perhaps if we keep pushing for 
more environmental, personal, and spiritual awareness, someday the greedy 
ones will figure it out.  I enjoy passing a plastic minivan with its plastic

occupants in my "original" minivan, complete with all of its 
user-serviceable parts.  I enjoy the smiles and waves from strangers, and I 
especially enjoy the love of the VW community.

Keep the faith, all.  Heck, we even have VWoA trying to get friendly with us

again...

Take care,
Jason Upper
1979 Westy "Sweet Pea"
http://www.jzupper.com/
Asheville, North Carolina
