Date: Fri, 02 May 2003 10:16:30 -0700
To: Joel Wilson <jowils(-at-)unx.sas.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Electrical + Starter Wiring

At 08:15 AM 05/02/2003, you wrote:

>Todd J. wrote:
>
> >>If someone could give me a no BS, layman's wiring diagram in text, I'd
>appreciate.



>  C) Starter

OK, I'll take the starter.

You must verify the battery condition, clean case and terminals, load test 
and rebound in 10 minutes to min. 12.6 and your problem won't be augmented 
by insufficient amps in reserve.

Starter motor circuit. Batt + terminal to batt + cable to large terminal on 
the starter motor, through starter motor housing to trans case to ground 
strap at front trans mount to chassis to batt - cable to batt - terminal. 
Every interface or terminal in this circuit must be clean and tight.

Note how both circuits use in common the ground strap and - batt cable. 
Problems here will affect both circuits.

Starter solenoid circuit. Batt + to ignition switch to solenoid to starter 
motor case to trans case to ground strap to chassis to batt- cable to batt 
-. Same as above, all terminals clean and tight.

If you find corrosion has worked it's way into a wire, you must splice in a 
new wire down the wire until you have bright copper. If you see that the 
wiring insulation is deformed and darkened and hardened by heat = proof of 
resistance in the circuit. (TIP: very nice when splicing in new ends to use 
correct color code wires from a salvaged harness. Just cut out a 3 foot 
section from the bundle. Even a harness with gross terminals will have 
bright copper in the long runs of the harness bundles.) Please don't let 
all the effort go to waste by using cheap terminal fittings. Anchor Marine 
terminals are available and are equivalent quality to the OEM Hella 
terminals. You just have to pull and toss the plastic collars to do a 
factory type install. It is also a waste of time/money not to add the time 
and materials to solder then SEAL all splices to prevent tarnish from 
getting started there.

When you have confirmed the above and eliminated all resistances you won't 
need the relay add on. If the starter motor is still not right, then using 
a piece of 10ga wire, ebrake set, nuetral, jump from the big bolt on the 
starter to the solenoid terminal. If now it either won't turn or 
engage  you have a worn out starter or you missed some resistance in the 
starter motor circuit. If it's the starter, replace it now with a genuine 
Bosch Corp ReMan unit and your grandson will have to deal with that one by 
the time it wears out. You, however, will then use it for the rest of your 
life without T-II starter issues.

Now, if by no BS you mean insufficient data to do the job, there, you got 
it. Resolving all resistance in the above circuits will in most cases 
obviate the need of a bolt on relay. If you want the most efficient data to 
prove and resolve all issues, I can't do that better than Bentley. Nobody 
can.  Spend time leaning to read the diagrams and follow circuits. This 
ability to follow the charts is something that can be of very large value 
to you. If you truly want results founded upon skill, you just have to put 
in the learning time.
