From: "TR Gesell" <trgesell(-at-)compuserve.com>
To: "TYPE2. COM \(E-mail\)" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 2 May 2003 10:40:37 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] VW Hippie Bashing

Is it Friday? Here goes...

I like my bus because:

1) It reminds me of childhood trips in a 68(?) Camper.
2) Funky German engineering is cool
3) Makes a good hobby
4) Karma & Fun
5) There is also that link to the ol' counterculture which provides us a lot
of good food for thought. My personal preference is live & let live, golden
rule, environmentalism and all that...these are ideals to strive towards.
The real world however requires a little pragmatism...

Modern technology and corporations do lots of things that couldn't be done
the old way, including feeding cities with multi-million populations and
providing medical services which prolong our useful lifespans from 30 to
about 80 years.

There are lots of well intention folks who work for big companies. I used to
be one.

Big, medium, and small companies provide bus parts (and washer/dryer, TV,
and PC parts).

I'm not opposed to a few mild recreational chemicals within reason, but I
have to limit myself to beer because my job involves hand-eye coordination,
mental alertness, and the safety of the passengers in my airplane.

I got into the Dead in college beacuse the last two albums were more Pop
oriented and ended up on MTV. From there I developed an interest in real GD
music and the shows.

20 years ago, Peace & justice were inconceviable.  It was just too easy to
fool too many people too much of the time (and I'm not talking about in the
USofA). Peace might now be possible for one reason only: The internet and
satellite-delivered mass media. A number of countries (one of which was
recently invaded by a major superpower) place extreme restrictions on
internet (and obviously media) access by their "citizens". Eventually as
technology advances governments won't be able to restrict the flow of
information. Then everyone will decide for them selves.  I think this will
take a few decacades, and in the meantime, more conflict is likely.  My
peaceful nature extends only as far as my life & liberty, and that of
family, friends, and yeah, countrymen/women. BTW, my money is where my mouth
is, I'm reserve military and a special ops guy. I've suffered more injuries
in training than most people ever have in war, and I've come back for more.

I am infintely suspicious of hypocrisy: I saw a bumber sticker last week
that said "No War For Oil". It wasn't on a bicycle, moped, hybrid, or
electric vehicle...it was on a lincoln navigator.  I don't drive my bus as
often as I would like because my other car (my wife's) is more fuel &
emissions efficient and frankly, I feel guilty.

Ok, now I'm about out of gas (or hot air)...Strive for the ideals, but don't
automatically assume the "system" is the root of all evil. It does a lot of
good things for us, and if we were to succeed in destroying it we'd all be
up a very long, deep creek. If you read this far, thanks for your patience
:)
