From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
To: Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net, tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 2 May 2003 13:46:00 -0400 
Subject: RE: [T2] VW Hippie Bashing

Yeah, I just wanted to make sure people understood, that it is capitalism
that put the Volkswagen on the earth to begin with. I have no problems with
people that help other people. Personally, I spend probably 50% of my
weekend working on other people's cars, fixing other people's computers,
etc. I ALWAYS stop on the side of the highway if I see an older person, or a
lady (unless I can clearly see that they have a cell phone). And I ALWAYS...
ALWAYS stop to help out TransAm owners, Fiero owners, and any other car that
I know I've completely mastered. Actually, I carry quite a few spare GM
ODB-1 Computer Controlled parts in my car everywhere I go. I carry a spare
battery in the trunk, ignition coils for the mid 80s GM cars, spark plug
wires, coolant, and a set of tools. You never know when someone with an Iron
Duke or a V6/60 GM car is going to be broken down on the side of the road
for something as simply and cheesy as an Ignition Control Module or an
Ignition Coil. I'm only too happy to help. I don't do it for good kharma (is
that the correct spelling or the VW spelling?), but I do it because, I feel
that goodness does rub off on people. If I do something nice for someone,
they may realize how helpful it was to them, and then may very well do the
same for someone else in need.

Hopefully, I'll be just as good with Volkswagens in due time... but, classic
V-dubs are old enough that most people who ARE driving them already, usually
know how to work on them so I never see one on the side of the road.


Todd Jaspers - Programmer
AmeriPath IT - Fort Lauderdale
954-377-3291

> CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments, is
for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential
and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or
distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original
message.


-----Original Message-----
From: Wakanska [mailto:Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net]
Sent: Friday, May 02, 2003 12:42 PM
To: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
Cc: T2
Subject: Re: [T2] VW Hippie Bashing


Todd, you're NOT the only Republican on the list.
You said it well!
Capitalism is just the best way of sharing the good things and spreading the
love.
AIRS is an exception, an anomaly. Most people can't or won't do something
for nothing. (Then again, some people love VW buses enough to want to keep
them around, and the payback that they get from helping owners can't be
measured in dollars but does have a value!)
Considering that selfishness is a characteristic and a motivation that is
born into every living creature, that is simply the best point to work from.
Let everyone provide for themselves, and give them the freedom to do it. We
are creative and productive and talented enough to do it. We just need
government to stand aside and let us.
And I know, that VW and other big corporations are like the wide trees that
give shade, food, shelter, and solace to all manner of creatures. They
provide industry and exchange; they make products to make our lives more
satisfying... and they pay the taxes and put food on the table for workers
and for those who can no longer work. Is that such a bad thing?
