From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 2 May 2003 12:56:16 -0500 
Subject: Re: 'optimizing' alternators was: dead battery etc

	Friday greets, y'all...

	I just wanted to follow-up my post about "optimizing" the
alternator, because I did get a few off-list p-mails...  I also want to say
that I'm NOT an EE, but I can think, write and formulate intelligent
questions.  I may not be able to understand way-out concepts of how works
'lectricity - I really didn't 'cog a lot of physics (sorry 'bout that,
George L.); I was a bio major.  I can read and follow directions to a U (1.0
better than a T), and I've lurned that it's really amazing how well stuff
works when you follow directions.  

	Before I launch into my discourse - mad props to Mr. Arcane
Knowledge hisself (love the tagline, Jon) for posting the links to the A*d*
and V*lv* articles. They support pretty much 'zactly what my research into
the whole battery/isolator/voltage regulator thang uncovered - so now I feel
a whole lot less of a pariah-dog for spouting-off on the subject.  I also
went back into the T2 Library and into the archives to try and find the
article(s) which channeled me into the system I "franken-schteened"  for my
'72 Weekender.  Somewhere in the archives or the Library was an e-reprint of
an RV magazine article regarding alternators, isolators, voltage regulators,
and battery banks.  Unfortunately, I'm a lame-oh and I couldn't find it...

	What did I mean about "optimizing" the alternator?  You NEED a
better voltage regulator to deal with high(er) tech batteries!  If your OE
alternator is externally regulated (like it is on a Type 4 motor), then you
have a fighting chance for a DIY deal...  Optimizing does not mean having to
replace an OE alternator, unless of course your OE alternator is toast.
Make the most of what you've got by use of improvements in technology.  I
didn't quite understand the point of a better VR, and wound up updating it
last after my battery bank was not staying fully/completely charged.

	The section of the article regarding VRs went straight to the point
- a less than stellar VR is a big-time bottleneck between the charging
device and the battery bank.  The old skuul Bosch VR on anything other than
what it was designed for (wet batteries) is less than stellar, and "dumber"
than a sack full of hammers.  Combine this with a diode-type isolator,
maintenance free batteries, and your entire system is a waste of time,
effort and $$$.  The Bosch VR won't output enough juice long enough, there's
that pesky voltage drop across the isolator, and the m/f batteries
absolutely require more charging juice than what the VR will allow...  In
other words, your system is back-*sswards and nowhere NEAR optimum.  If you
can't keep those batteries fully charged, they don't live the long happy
life they can.  Does this sound familiar to you "infrequent use my of
camper" types?

	I can just hear the financially-challenged seats jumping up and down
waving their arms from here.  "What about tweaking the VR contacts?  What
about running a relay, or an A/B switch?  But I got a great deal on some m/f
batteries!"  Great!  Do what floats your boat.  If you're smart enough to
successfully tweak your old skuul electro-mech VR so it works for you, then
you are a better bus-pilot slash EE than I will ever be.  Run a relay if you
want an inexpensive option - understand that the relay contacts WILL go
south over time, and in accordance with the Murph-Master - at the worst
possible time/space.  If you have the brain cells to remember to futz with
the A/B switch, what can I say?  I grovel at your mass of hot steaming
cerebral material.  You got a great deal on some m/f batteries; I'm happy
for you AND you can keep them charged properly if you do the VR upgrade!  I
wanted/needed/desired a system that invoked elements of a "land-yacht" in
the fullest marine sense of the expression, and I demanded "spec" or better
reliability from that system, with little to no operator input other than
set-up.

	The thing is to do it right, you are kinda sorta going to redefine
what is "spec" for your bus (apologies to Dr. Tim).  A better quality set of
batteries, requires a better quality VR, and since you have spent the money
on better quality stuff, why not use a better quality isolator.  I've kind
of purposely strayed from mentioning brands because in 10 years time, who
knows what will be out there?  I haven't mentioned dollars, either - marine
quality is not inexpensive.  Do your research regarding marine 3-phase
voltage regulators in RV apps, do your research on isolators and see if
Polson, Montana isn't one H*ll of a place to buy some kewl things (generous
hint)...

	Anyway, to wrap this all up - be ready to spend some coin on a
higher spec VR to make the best use of what you have  and/or a system of
your own dream and design.  It will also allow the financially-challenged to
make up for some of the financially-challenging pieces that are out there
(e.g. a diode isolator) - see, I'm concerned about you Volks too...  Read,
think, ask intelligent questions, and then get ready to think a little out
of the "bread-loaf" box.  Crimp, solder and shrink tube all your
connections.  Be nice to people - particularly on all weekdays ending in
"y".  Chrome won't get you home.  Change your fuel lines regularly and clamp
everything.  Wear your seatbelt, and sit up straight.  Respect your parents.
Rotate your tires every 5,000 miles.  Use your turn signal.  Don't sit on
any cold concrete when you are reading this.  Dr. Tim is right when it comes
to "spec".  Static electricity generated by flowing liquids "can" be a
killer in explosive environments - any petro engineers wanna back me on
that?  Be kind to your *ss - for it bears you.  Eat your vegetables -
especially the ones with color.  Save the Bays!  

	I'm done frothing.   
