From: "Sean Solowiej" <solowiej(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com, type2(-at-)type2.com, jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com
Date: Fri, 02 May 2003 18:37:15 +0000
Subject: RE: [T2] VW Hippie Bashing

>From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
>
>	Just so we don't become TOO anti-establishmental here.. lets just
>remember that it was big business, and corporate attitude that provided,
>designed, created, and ultimately built these Volkswagens that we drive
>around in. Dunno about you guys, bust most of the Volkswagen busses that 
>the
>hippies drove around back in the day were purchased by their conservative
>parents.

>Todd Jaspers - Programmer  (the Republican list-member)



In fact, capitolism is not responsible for putting the VW on the Earth.  
Hitlerian socialism is.  And it was Hitler's priority that the engineers 
(Porsche, working obligatorily) make the VW completely techno-accesible to 
the end user.  This was revolutionary then and still is.  Even infants toys 
today tend to be less about understanding how things work and more about 
putting things into their proper places.

Why would a fascist dictatorship produce goods with the greatest priority 
being their long-standing value to the end user, while commercial democracy 
increasingly tends toward the opposite?
I believe that in our system, consumers and producers are on opposing sides. 
  Each tries to steer the other to do what it wants.  In theory, the demands 
of the market shape commerce, giving us a dollar-democracy.  In practice the 
consumers are disorganized, and dependent on the market dominators for their 
information.  The information is what we use to make our decisions, and to 
determine our values and trends.

I am not proposing Hitlerian Socialism as an alternative to Capitolism, nor 
do I think that having a universally accepted token of value (MATERIAL 
value) is problematic.  We don't have to throw away the dollar to question 
corporate dominance.  I do have questions about the priorities we support in 
our culture, particularly those of unnecessary 
production/consumption/disposability/commercial dependence, and find it 
interresting that CULTURALLY speaking, we have rejected the ideals inherent 
in the air-cooled VW twice (Once for Hitlerian social fascism, once for the 
Hippie movement).

Sean
