From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
To: solowiej(-at-)hotmail.com, tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com, type2(-at-)type2.com, 
Date: Fri, 2 May 2003 15:07:01 -0400 
Subject: RE: [T2] VW Hippie Bashing

Well, I see that you put quite a bit of thought into your message, and I
agree on many points. One of the beliefs that I always hold true is that, I
always accept the fact that I CAN be wrong. This helps me be open minded to
learning the truth.

In any case, you are very right about Hitler's role in the production of the
Volkswagen (I'm agreeing with you, not stating that you're correct). Hitler
enforced the production of the Volkswagen for the people. Or I guess, in not
so correct translation "Folks Wagon". Or farfignugen or whatever you wanna
call it. He built the cars very much for the END USER. In VERY much the same
way that Henry Ford produced the Model-T. 

Co-incidentally, not many people on the list found my "Commando Door"
comment funny. I was referring to the sliding door on my Bus, didn't know
whether or not there was a technical term, and when asked what the Commando
Door was, I said it was the door that the German soldiers would unload from
when they took their busses to the battle of Stalingrad. 

Anyway, I was speaking originally from a more modern stand-point. East
Germany became the communist side of the country.. which produced very
little. The West side was the capitalist side of the country. That's where
the Volkswagen was produced (correct me if I'm wrong, please). However, the
VW Bus was very much produced after the war. The Bus, as it was sold during
the "Hippie" time, was sold at least 10-15 years after the war. At that
point in time, it had more to do with Capitalism. The feeling of "FOR THE
FUHRER", or "FOR NAZI GERMANY" was pretty much crushed by that point.
Especially after they made the German citizens bury the dead from the
concentration camps (a befitting punishment in my opinion). By this time, it
was just a bunch of people with money, looking to make more. 

Like you said, Supply and Demand is correct. But my point was that if we
hold back the dollar, companies will cease to produce parts. This is a hobby
market for classic car restorers.. what I mean by that is, investors, people
with money... WILL produce restoration parts, IF and only IF, they know that
they're going to get money. It all comes back to capitalism. Even those "mom
& pop" shops, of which I personally prefer to buy from if I can, they too
are capitalistic. Sure, the intent may be genuine, but.. when they create
their businesses.. unless they're independently wealthy, they have to take
out loans from the bank (big business). The BANK will not loan money unless
THEY know that they're going to get some kind of improved return on their..
"INVESTMENT". Money drives the economy, and the economy drives progression. 

Personally, I don't have ANY problems with corporations. I don't have ANY
problem with people wanting to make money. And personally, I think it's
silly that many many people refer to themselves as "the little guy". Am I a
little guy? Hell no... no one owes me anything. I'm not little, I'm a badass
as far as I'm concerned. I'm no victim, I don't expect anyone to do anything
for me. I'm ready to squash anyone or anything that gets in my way. I mean,
it's easy for me to say, I wasn't raised in a broken home, or a home that
had very little income. BUT.. I was raised on one principle... one thing
that my father taught me... If you think of yourself as a victim, then you
always will be a victim. 


Sorry for rambling on.

On to farfignugen now!!


Todd Jaspers - Programmer
AmeriPath IT - Fort Lauderdale
954-377-3291

> CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments, is
for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential
and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or
distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original
message.


-----Original Message-----
From: Sean Solowiej [mailto:solowiej(-at-)hotmail.com]
Sent: Friday, May 02, 2003 1:37 PM
To: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com; type2(-at-)type2.com; jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com
Subject: RE: [T2] VW Hippie Bashing


>From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
>
>	Just so we don't become TOO anti-establishmental here.. lets just
>remember that it was big business, and corporate attitude that provided,
>designed, created, and ultimately built these Volkswagens that we drive
>around in. Dunno about you guys, bust most of the Volkswagen busses that 
>the
>hippies drove around back in the day were purchased by their conservative
>parents.

>Todd Jaspers - Programmer  (the Republican list-member)



In fact, capitolism is not responsible for putting the VW on the Earth.  
Hitlerian socialism is.  And it was Hitler's priority that the engineers 
(Porsche, working obligatorily) make the VW completely techno-accesible to 
the end user.  This was revolutionary then and still is.  Even infants toys 
today tend to be less about understanding how things work and more about 
putting things into their proper places.

Why would a fascist dictatorship produce goods with the greatest priority 
being their long-standing value to the end user, while commercial democracy 
increasingly tends toward the opposite?
I believe that in our system, consumers and producers are on opposing sides.

  Each tries to steer the other to do what it wants.  In theory, the demands

of the market shape commerce, giving us a dollar-democracy.  In practice the

consumers are disorganized, and dependent on the market dominators for their

information.  The information is what we use to make our decisions, and to 
determine our values and trends.

I am not proposing Hitlerian Socialism as an alternative to Capitolism, nor 
do I think that having a universally accepted token of value (MATERIAL 
value) is problematic.  We don't have to throw away the dollar to question 
corporate dominance.  I do have questions about the priorities we support in

our culture, particularly those of unnecessary 
production/consumption/disposability/commercial dependence, and find it 
interresting that CULTURALLY speaking, we have rejected the ideals inherent 
in the air-cooled VW twice (Once for Hitlerian social fascism, once for the 
Hippie movement).

Sean
