From: "Wakanska" <Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "Sean Solowiej" <solowiej(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 2 May 2003 12:12:37 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] VW Hippie Bashing

> In fact, capitolism is not responsible for putting the VW on the Earth.
> Hitlerian socialism is.
> Why would a fascist dictatorship produce goods with the greatest priority
> being their long-standing value to the end user, while commercial
democracy
> increasingly tends toward the opposite?

These are really good points, but you have to consider everything in the
context of the whole. In those times, Germany's economy was in recovery.
German people were struggling and Hitler offered every family a car, enough
to eat, and "room to live", (otherwise known as OPL "other peoples'
land"? )...Of course, he told them that it was THEIR land, historically
German land. Well, anyway.. Getting Germany built up economically and
militarily and motivating the masses meant giving them the basic features of
modern life and mobility was one of those. Remember the bit about making the
trains run on time. He was famous for that. And he wanted mobility for
industry and mobility for the people. NO DOUBT that he had in mind the need
for a practical and efficient personnel conveyance for wartime, too.. and
the Volkswagen in various forms later became an efficient war ally.
There is no doubt that Hitler was highly enthusiastic about his new
"people's car", but it was a necessary part of his plan of economic recovery
and military expansion. I wouldn't read a lot more into it than that. Rulers
choose ideological and political platforms and means for their usefulness to
themselves and their own goals and carreers. I do not believe that most of
them rule to serve the ideology, no matter what they say. That's just the
puppet show for the masses. The ideology serves the aspirations of the
ruler, not the other way around. Accordingly, there is always a degree of
hypocracy involved. All rulers want power and the things that come with it.
I also do not agree that capitalism and capitalist industry are not bringing
value to the people. It depends on what you define as "value". Most people
don't WANT to work on their cars anymore. They don't have the time, the
tools, or the interest. If a corporation can build them a car that they can
drive daily to work without servicing for a year, and that car lasts them
even five years before they trade it in for a new one, and it is for that
time good-looking, reliable and comfortable, that is all the value they
want.
