From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
To: whistlingtin(-at-)hotmail.com, tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 2 May 2003 16:26:25 -0400 
Subject: RE: [T2] VW Hippie Bashing (Capitalism and the VW)

>Well, that may have been part of the equation, but there was more to it
that
>that.  One of the pleasures of driving a bus for me is knowing that I am
>driving a machine that is 30+ years old, and was built to be repaired and
to
>last. I cannot think of any other vehicle where the manufacturer has chosen
>this path so clearly, when the programmed obsolescence that other
>manufactures chose (and it could be argued that VW eventually chose), made
>so much more financial sense.
>Think about it: If VW was only trying to make money, why build the way they
>did? How much money has VW made from your bus still being on the road, when
>you and your PO, and his/her PO, and his/her PO could be buying new ones?

Yeah, I agree. But I think in a more broad sense, most car companies during
those times created cars to be repairable. It was just how cars were made.
People expected a car to be servicable, and people KNEW how to service cars.
It stems back to the days of the Model-T. You knew EVERYTHING about that car
when you bought it. It came with manuals to do everything.

To SOME extent, I would say the VW Bus (and other German manufacturers)
built their cars more or less to be repaired.. after all they did come with
tool kits (even if they weren't that useful). 

But, as with ALL cars, as things progressed and became more complex, fewer
and fewer people knew how to work on cars, or had the desire to bother. Say
for example, a 1969 Pontiac GTO with the MASSIVE 7.4 liter 455 Cubic Inch
V8. Most people knew how to work on those cars. They knew how to replace air
filters, spark plugs, chance the oil, etc. It was VERY easy back then.

NOW... have you ever tried to service a 2003 Volkswagen Jetta? My girlfriend
has a 1.8T that she recently bought near the end of last year. The thing is
ridiculous. You can't get to ANYTHING without having to remove some sort of
obstructionary panel. 



>There are other motivations other than The American Dollar, at least for
>some of us.

Ok now, this is a family board, lets keep prostitution out of the thread.


>Have a great weekend everybody.
>
>Cheers,
>Matthew


Bye!

Todd Jaspers - Programmer
AmeriPath IT - Fort Lauderdale
954-377-3291

> CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments, is
for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential
and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or
distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original
message.


-----Original Message-----
From: El Senor Capitan [mailto:whistlingtin(-at-)hotmail.com]
Sent: Friday, May 02, 2003 3:22 PM
To: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com; type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] VW Hippie Bashing (Capitalism and the VW)



todd jaspers wrote:


> Yeah, I just wanted to make sure people understood, that it is capitalism
> that put the Volkswagen on the earth to begin with.

Well, that may have been part of the equation, but there was more to it that
that.  One of the pleasures of driving a bus for me is knowing that I am
driving a machine that is 30+ years old, and was built to be repaired and to
last. I cannot think of any other vehicle where the manufacturer has chosen
this path so clearly, when the programmed obsolescence that other
manufactures chose (and it could be argued that VW eventually chose), made
so much more financial sense.

Think about it: If VW was only trying to make money, why build the way they
did? How much money has VW made from your bus still being on the road, when
you and your PO, and his/her PO, and his/her PO could be buying new ones?

There are other motivations other than The American Dollar, at least for
some of us.

Have a great weekend everybody.

Cheers,
Matthew
