From: "Wakanska" <Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "Cara Ward" <caraward(-at-)rogers.com>
Cc: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 2 May 2003 14:41:59 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] VW Hippie Bashing

We can simplify this tremendously by thinking about capitalism as a means of
cooperative and efficient voluntary exchange. Think of money only as a means
to facilitate that exchange. Buttons could work just as well if we could
prevent unscrupulous people from creating an unearned wealth for themselves
(and diluting the wealth of others) by making more and more counterfeit
buttons for their own use. A barter system could qualify as a capitalist
system. Any method of exchange of goods or services that is voluntarily
conducted by all members of a community would also come close to defining
capitalism, to my way of thinking. Money just makes this exchange and
valuation of goods and services so much more efficient and easy. But nothing
is perfectly efficient, not even money. Money is just a tool of exchange.
It's not perfect, but the benefits far outweigh the burdens.

It sounds like you lived and grew up in a great town and you are very
fortuneate. If you just lived in a small community, it would be pretty easy
to remember who has done what for whom and who is indebted to others. Surely
no community would long tolerate a malingering cheat who only took services
and goods and gave nothing in return! So, without realizing it, what seems
like "sharing" to you is really a system of exchange of sorts. It works
because it is mutually beneficial and it's small enough to keep track of
each other.

But there are drawbacks and limitations. Even assuming that your community
works well together, and everyone pitches in, without money, you are pretty
much limited to keeping your barter and exchange only inside of your own
community. The East Germans were in somewhat of this situation because their
DDR Deutschmarks had no value in "free" Europe and the East Germans could
only buy what was made in Russia or other Soviet satellite states.
Unfortuneately, there was very little in the way of manufacture and retail
in this system. Still, they did have a life of sorts and it was simpler and
many of them lament it's passing.. but this is not the majority. If you are
certain that you would be happy with not much in life (we should try it for
awhile before we commit to this), then consider that maybe your children
might not feel the same way.

Just like us, kids are born a little bit selfish. They want things and they
won't be happy for long living in relative poverty. I know of instances
where kids have shared this kind of a simple, backwoods life with their
parents and it was a miserable and unhappy existance for them. Almost no one
appreciates or celebrates poverty. It is sad that for those who would like
to drop out, there are few options. There are not many alternatives now,
although there are relatively stable countries in which the lifestyle is
more like it was forty years ago. But I suspect that all lifestyles bring
tribulations that cannot even be imagined until one has lived them. At some
points, you are going to miss something that is not available.

I think that what you are lamenting most is the change in the world
economics. We no longer buy locally produced products. Everything is
manufactured, distributed and marketed now on a large scale. This is a big
problem for many small farmers, in particular. They cannot compete on price.
However, you are always free to buy from whomever you wish. You can still
buy milk from a local dairy. If the local dairy can't stay in business
because not enough people will buy their product and would rather buy milk
cheaper at the new supermarket in town, then that is just more proof that
most people are unfortuneately somewhat selfish. They want the best for
less. They want things easy. They aren't going to take responsibility for
the fate of a local farming family unless they have a personal interest in
it. How does the saying go? "If you can't beat 'em, join 'em". The farmer
will have to sell the cows and then sell the farm to a developer to put up
another housing tract. But don't blame it on the developer, the supermarket
chain, or the farmer, please. They can't do anything that the consumers
don't support them in doing. You see, it is WE who will get what we want and
what we deserve, in the end. We are completely in control of our own
spending. Spending is one of the purest forms of democracy that there is.

As for CPS, this is one of my keenest subjects, because I think that they
step over the line too often. They do so because we naively gave them the
power and authority to do so (Who can resist, "It's for the children!"), and
because they, too, are selfish. It all comes down to dollars for the
agencies and the foster homes and those who are in their employ. Don't
expect the children to come first. That's just the ploy.. the puppet show.
We could have been more suspicious when these programs and laws were being
pandered to us, but we too are selfish and naive. It is easier to trust
government to solve our problems for us and it is easier to believe their
statements than it is to think and take more responsibility for ourselves
and others.. We selfishly want to live in nice, safe neighborhoods and we
selfishly want someone else to provide this for us. Laziness and
irresponsibility are just other forms of selfishness.
