From: "Art & Kathy Lynch" <artlynch78vw(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 2 May 2003 16:57:17 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] VW Hippie Bashing

Hi gang;
   OK, before George or one of the David's whacks this thread off at the
knees for all the political content, I'd like to weigh in with minimal
politics.

   It was all Major Armstrong's fault. He was Chaplain at the base chapel
and a troop leader in my Boy Scout troop. It was in Germany, 1962 or so, I
was about 10 or 11.

   We were going on a camp out in the mountains of Bavaria near Garmisch.
Major Armstrong had a VW camper Bus. He had 5-6 of us and  our gear loaded
up and we were tooling down the Autobahn on our way from Frankfurt. It was
my first ride in a VW Bus. It was so cool, sitting around the table, playing
cards, drinking sodas, munching snacks while Major Armstrong piloted us
through the storm of Mercedes Benz's boiling down the Autobahn, us always in
the right lane of course.

   I fell in love with VW Busses on that trip. We had a great time camped
out in our pup tents (graciously provided by the US Army) and Major
Armstrong, wise man that he was, snoozed happily in his bus, popping out
periodically to make sure we were'nt having too much fun.  :)

   The trip back to Frankfurt was the same as the trip down to Bavaria,
cards, sodas, snacks -rinse, lather, repeat.

   Flash forward to the late 60's - early 70's, Clear Lake, Texas, last year
and a half of high school, first years of college. I met John. John's dad
had a VW bus, a green and white passenger bus of mid 60' vintage. We called
it "Magic Bus" (after the old Who song) and spend many fine hours in it,
gathering up our friends and heading to the beach to surf and ogle the
girls, heading to the drive-in on "dollar a carload" night (boy, the ticket
guy just looked amazed when thirteen of us piled in that bus one Friday
night). As is with most bus crowds, a great time was had by all.

   Then, tragedy struck. On a trip back to his homeland (Ohio) John's Dad's
bus smoked an engine in Arkansas. John's Dad, practical man that he was, had
Magic Bus towed to a dealership and traded the thing in on the spot for a
brand new red '69 Transporter!

   Joy was again in the family! Through the rest of high school and on into
college, that '69 did yeoman's duty hauling budding hippies to rock
concerts, to Padre Island National Park on spring break when we would camp
out for a week in the dunes, flipping Frisbees, surfing and imbibing *cough*
in various recreational substances including out "bootlegged from Louisiana
" beer.

   Even had fun getting towed out of the dune that formed around the bus's
tires during the six days it sat imobile in the bloweing sand. Nice group of
Texas A&M biology students in a massive Travelall stopped, got out a rope
and pulled Magic Bus 2 out of it's sandy (possible) grave. We headed toward
Houston and home.

   As we were tooling along we spotted an elderly couple alongside the road,
steam pouring out from under the hood. We pulled over and jumped out to
help.

   The old couple looked a bit suprised at the sight of this busload of
sunburnt, sand and salt encrusted hippies offering help, but they told us
they had been stopped a while and nobody stopped and offered help but us.

   Quick diagnosis was a busted radiator hose (typical H2O cooled problem)
and we left a couple of us and some cold drinks with the old couple while
the rest of us buzzed into the nearest town and found an auto parts place,
scored a new hose and headed back to the scene of the breakdown. A few
minutes later, new hose installed, a couple gallons of meltwater from our
ice chest and the old folks were good to go. Smiles and handshakes were
exchanged and we rode off toward home, following the old folks for a bit
before our ways parted.

   I think the '69 got up to the 55mph speed limit once during that journey,
on the downslope of the big bridge at Port Lavaca. There were nine of us
aboard and a full length roof rack loaded with gear. (The two smallest guys
rode over the engine.)

   Flash forward another *yipes* 30 years.

   I bailed a friend out of a messy divorce by taking possession of his '78
VW Camper for a nominal fee. It was/is not in the greatest of shape
externally, but the interior is nearly perfect. I started looking about the
internet to see what I could find out about Busses and lo and behold, I came
across this place called Type2.com!

   I signed up for the mailing list, and through thick and thin have
completely enjoyed what I've found here. AIRS came along and I was the first
Texan to sign up (Thank you Charlie Ford for that great idea!)

   Through the list and AIRS I have met a number of you in person, talked on
the phone numerous times with David Schwartz trying to get Nikki Elko back
on the road with whatever problem she was currently experiencing on her
journeys across the country and have not had one bad experience the whole
time. Several of you have stayed at my house or camped nearby. Every one was
an enjoyable experience.

   Well, I've rambled on enough I guess. Y'all have a great weekend, and see
you on down the road.

Art Lynch
(Who still has that pesky ponytail, hehe.)
