From: "Casting Fool" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 2 May 2003 18:20:56 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] VW Hippie Bashing

From: "Wakanska" <Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
> So, I know that you "get" this part. You must make money or you won't have
a
> business for long.

Whoa, Man.  That's so revolutionary, so cool, like, did you set up a pot
shop or what, did you, like, find this in the smoke?

> ... you don't have to make a buck every time you take time for someone...

[Apparently doesn't have kids... (grin)]

> The profit motive is 100% legitimate and anything to suggest that it isn't
is potentially dangerous counter-culture...

No kidding?  But personally, I don't have to have a "what's-in-it-for-me?"
attitude to support my profit motives.  Not even "enlightened self
interest".

How do I know this?

Because of my darling wife, Karen Ann.  Karen and I were married in `77.  In
`82, Karen developed seizures and other strange neurological symptoms that
took 6 years to diagnose as a rare mitochondrial disorder.

The symptoms were sort of a combination of Alzheimer's and muscular
dystrophy.  Over the course of 10 years, Karen went from the lovely,
incredibly fun to be married to woman of my dreams, to a pale shadow of
herself.  In the last few years of her life, she didn't know either me or my
son.  Karen died in `92, 13 days before our 15th wedding anniversary.

Over the course of those 10 years, I learned what it meant to sacrifice
one's life in service to another, without any return, no profit, real or
from "enlightened self interest".  Anyone can view a small glimpse into this
time by reading Karen's medical history, available in PDF format at our
website at www.melas.org.

It was beyond hell, plain and simple.  Some folk suggested that I divorce
Karen in order to avoid the burden of the financial strain (eventually
$2,000,000.00+), and others abandoned us when we needed their moral support
the most.  I learned a new definition for the word "alone", especially after
Karen died.

When I hear anything akin to "no one ever does anything without serving
themselves", I naturally suspect that some folk have never been in a
situation where they had to choose to do it.

I did what I did because I loved Karen more than my own life.  I learned it
from my father's love for my mother, and from some guy named Jesus.

Selflessness is, like, for real, Man.

TTFN - Mike Jackson
`77 Bay, "Giacomo"
Casting Fool & Son
Augusta, GA  USA
http://www.cfnson.com
