From: Ted Kitch <ted(-at-)misha1.net>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 2 May 2003 21:02:00 -0500 
Subject: RE: [T2] VW Hippie Bashing

I agree with Chris in that I don't like being lumped in with the stoners and
hippies.  I was born in 69 and I grew up with lots of the philosophy
surrounding the hippie movement.  Mostly what I saw was my mom "fighting the
man" or partying too much to care about us kids.  I must admit that it is
entertaining to tell people that I'm republican and religious, when I drive
a VW bus.  People always get perplexed by that.  When I got my last bus, I
spent a day getting rid of all the stickers that were on it.  I did leave
the "0 to 60 in 4 minutes" sticker on the bumper though.  I really love that
one.  I bought a Bus because I've always considered it a minimalist
engineering marvel.

I also really agree with the comments that Ron Salmon made.  I lived in a
third world country for 4 1/2 years serving as a missionary and working for
Microsoft.  I saw people that would give anything to have the luxuries that
we have here in the US.  As a missionary I had to live in a tin shack with
an outhouse and a dirt floor.  A very humbling experience.  Makes me glad to
have a bathroom that I can sit and read in!

I can also identify with Mike Jackson about the realities of losing a loved
one and how true selflessness is possible.  It made me a better person.  I
lost my first (and only at the time) daughter to a long battle with
leukemia.  Selflessness is possible.

One of the most important lessons I learned in life was from a complete
stranger and a hippie.  I was walking along the highway in the rain once and
a guy gave me a ride.  I offered to give him gas money or buy him lunch and
he said that there was no need, just that I need to make sure that I did the
same thing the next time I saw someone in need.  All of my mother's
"fighting the man" never taught me that simple lesson.  That is the
embodiment of the hippie philosophy in the larger karmic sense.  Even Jesus
taught the same principle in "Do unto others as you would have others do
unto you"

The coolest thing about communities, like our TypeII list, is that when
people have common interests or goals, they are more likely to overlook
their differences and work together.  AIRS is the embodiment of this.  No
where in the AIRS list does it say that in order to receive help with
someone's bus that they need to be Republican or Democrat, hippie or
conservative, religious or atheist, etc.  It is just that we share a common
interest and, due to that, we are willing to overlook our differences.  That
is why I love the list.  There are so many different people represented on
it.  

If only all of mankind could own a bus?

Ted Kitch
76 Westy 
77 Westy (Parts)
74 Delivery Bus (being sold)
