Date: Fri, 02 May 2003 22:08:26 -0400
From: Ben <huotx(-at-)videotron.ca>
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Pancake Vs Upright engine?

Good night guys,
I often have questions from visitor in relation with my web site, I 
always answer with the best of my capability and I never talk about 
stuff I dont know. I try to stay as neutral as I can. Am always pleased 
to help other VW fellow, especially those who are new to the VW world(he 
he). I know my stuff about Vanagon and I can manage myself in that 
field, but am still somewhat new to the world of Air-cooled engine. 
(well, not so new anymore but still!!!)

The following is a question I had today, I think I answered this one 
clearly and fairly, I could be wrong. Basically I have too many question 
per day, what I do, I do for free, my time is as precious as yours, so 
some time I need back up, if you have some free time to read the 
original question below, would you care to comments? I would forward 
your kind information to this fellow. Only this week I had 4 similar 
questions, so that is why am asking your opinions.
I will put the final result on my site.
Many thanks and have a nice weekend, Regards, Ben
http://pages.infinit.net/eurokit/

--------------------------------------
(original message)
Hey,

I really enjoy your web-site. I am currently looking at purchasing a 72 
westy in good all around shape with the exception of the engine. It 
basically won't turn over by hand. I am OK with this because I want to 
put in a new rebuilt motor. Problem is, I am having a hard time figuring 
out the best engine for the Westy. I have heard that the bug style 
engines are easiest to work on, but the least reliable. Pancake style 
motors offer more power and dependability but are harder to work on. If 
I am planning on buying a new rebuilt motor wouldn't I be OK with opting 
for the pancake style, more power, and dependability with fuel 
injection? Is this option over-priced? What is you opinion for the best 
way to go for cost, dependability, and power? i would love to get your 
feedback.

Thanks,

Steve

-------------------------------------
(my reply)
I will give you my feedback Steve, am real busy those day (but ok 
tonight) and i feel for you! (i mean that i was in your shoes not so 
long ago)
My English is not that good so bare with me!

First don't pay too much! Most westys are overprice!!! And not in a so 
good condition, also check the rust issue.

Engine: Here is what i think (we just put a T1 1600cc in a beetle last week)
(you know that the T1 upright is not a direct fit into the 1972 T2 
Bus??? I also think that you don't have the engine door under the 
mattress in the back to ease the engine work????)

-1600cc T1 Upright Engine:
Good: good power (very good in a Beetle) if new or well rebuilt, parts 
availability is awesome and cheap, easily modified to up to over 2000cc, 
easy to work on, especially in the year before yours (1969-71 T1 
engine). When I say plenty of part I mean it!!!!! Also, all T1 are 
mostly the same if you stay in a stock configuration. Reliable??? I 
would say yes!!! But it's still a VW, I hate VW (he he he)

Bad: The core is made of magnesium, very flexible and doesn't like 
"Time", it doesn't age well, a rebuilt core need to be align/bore. The 
head are a bit better than the T2, cylinder are same quality. Be sure to 
have to right reinforce pistons for buses.

-1700 carbureted T2 Pancake Engine (First year in 72 to 73):
Good: More power (marginal if you want to know what I think), I (I said 
I!) find it's very easy to work on. Good aluminium core, of what I 
heard, they are indestructible if you take care of this one. My lower 
end (crank, rods) is in real good shape even if the heads are cooked!!! 
Oil cooler & Filter is a +.

Bad: The Solex carbs suck! Period! The heads are marginal; they are know 
for popping out the head seats and can destroy an engine if your not 
lucky. Parts availability is...absent (heads and pistons) compare to 
other T2 or T1. When you find parts you need to be careful about the 
quality of those. I also don't like the valve design (parts and 
configuration, my experience!) If you let go for a wile the valve 
adjustment, you can end up with a situation like mine: 
http://www.desert2002.com/heads.htm everything is more expensive than 
the T1 engine.

The carburetion is the main concern, if you're on a somewhat cheap 
budget your choice a limited to the single progressive Weber or a use 
injection system (what am doing now). The best choice (more expensive) 
would be a set dual of 40-44mm Weber or Dell. I've tried last week a bus 
with a nice 1800cc (130psi x 4) with a set of 40mm Weber, I was very 
impress, good power band and good start.

1800cc in 74 & 75: A bit more power and about he same for the rest , 
still carbureted in 74. In 75 first year of the injection, more 
complicated but...very reliable and especially more smooth running.

2000cc (all other years with some minor difference): More power, 
injection, hydraulic lifter (no valve adjustment if working well!!!), 
Head are different in 79. Around here (Canada), I don't have any problem 
finding heads& pistons for the 1800cc or the 2000cc.

Conclusion:
When I bought mine (8 month ago) I should have known better, I've been 
had, I didn't ask enough question like your doing right now (good move), 
I was tired of searching (I was looking for a double bed up there) and 
rust was I big issue up here!!! I paid 6000$CAD (4000USD) for a moderate 
(condition) Bus, ok, the body is in good shape, the frame is as new (no 
rust at all) but this bus was maintain by a...Noob (Newby) for the past 
2 years, the engine (top end) and carbs are done, cooked!!! I have to 
put another 2000$ to make it to my "standard" (various parts) and even 
then, it's not my dream Bus. Also, be careful about which rebuild 
company you choose!!!!!!!!

Well if I were you, I would choose a T2 Pancake (1800 or 2000cc). More 
power overall, strong crankcase. Injection would be nice. Doesn't matter 
witch size (cc) you choose, but make sure you will have a good 
carburetion system? Be ready to spend money, not only on the engine but 
elsewhere too. (Starter, Alternator, heater box, exhausts system, 
distributor component and so on.
And here we are not talking about the camper side of the bus (Canvas...)

Final note: I just did 11000miles with a somewhat handicap 1700cc (valve 
were already burned before) and I made it back home with those stupid 
Solex carbs, barely but I made it! So, I would say it's reliable! Never 
I tough that the engine would break!

Regards, Ben
http://pages.infinit.net/eurokit/

Ps.: any engine can be highly modified, I am not talking about that here.
