From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 12 Dec 2001 22:34:58 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: oil pressure

In a message dated 12/10/2001 9:42:33 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
irievolks(-at-)lockhavenonline.com writes:

<< hi eric & barb,
 i installed an oil pressure gauge on my 65 bus (1300cc engine).  it runs 
fine now that i have the carb set up good.  i live in north central pa and 
its pretty cold here right now. anyway,  i bought the t connector and some 
copper line on my way to work and installed the whole oil pressure gauge set 
up in the parking lot before work started.  after work when i started the bus 
the oil pressure went to 40 psi after about a minute of building pressure in 
the line then backed off to about 20 psi after about 5 minutes of warming up 
and talking with my buddy.  on my way home from work on the highway, i was 
travelling at about 3000-3200 rpms and the pressure was at around 30 psi.  
then it gradually dropped to about 22-25 psi at the same rpms.  it seemed to 
hold the pressure right above 20 psi once i reached the 6 mile long windy 
road to my home with rpms between 2200-2600.  these arent expensive gauges, 
they are from the 70's but never used til now so i dont know if maybe i 
shouldnt trust them all that much.  so after all this rambling, what im 
trying to find out is if this is good, bad, or "it will last for a while" oil 
pressure for my engine.  also, when i installed the t connector at the sensor 
hole, i have it facing up and down like.  the oil
 pressure sensor is pointed down and the oil pressure gauge line comes out 
the top.  will this have any effect on the sensor with it being upside down?  
i did some searching on the archives ahead of time, but didnt find anything 
that said "this is what optimal oil pressure should be" or "your engine is 
almost toast".  so, i am hoping you will share your great knowledge on this 
subject with me.  thanks once again!     josh      >>

<<<hi, sorry i forgot to email you back earlier.  i got the answers i was 
looking for for the most part, but id like your opinion as well if you have 
time.  its a vw 1300 type 1 engine.  single port, castrol 10/30 oil, 50 to 30 
degrees as of this week.  thanks again!      josh  >>

Hi Josh,
If your engine case is a SR, the oil pressure readings at the RPMS stated 
would be fine for 70+ F.  For a DR more like 90+F.  For the outside temps you 
do state it is way too low either way.  You might want to set up a test stand 
to check the oil pressure sender and gauge.  If it is correct or close enough 
(+/- 5 lbs.) you need to check you oil temp (Should be about 160-180F this 
time of year and weather you state.) and possibly fix your cooling system.  
IE too small dia. lower pulley or too thin of cooling fan, missing cooling 
tin etc., etc.. If your cooling is fine remove the relief valve/s and check 
for stuck piston/s or incorrect spring/s length.  Check to make sure the oil 
sump pickup pipe it tight in the case (Which will cause the oil pump to suck 
a lot of air in with the oil.) and thusly does not wiggle up and down.  If 
you have a pre-1970s engine case the pickup tube is not bolted to one of the 
sump plate studs.  You might have a clogged or swollen oil cooler!    If all 
that is good remove the oil pump cover and check for wear of the cover and 
the gears.  Even if all is well or you replace all this, you might just have 
worn out bearings.  If this last possibility is true then you probably will 
have the engine last maybe till the weather gets warm enough to drop the oil 
pressure just a bit more.   Eric&Barb
