From: ILoveType2s(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 13 Dec 2001 18:22:00 EST
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Butyl Rubber & Its Many Uses

--part1_151.5b3bc51.294a9218_boundary
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="US-ASCII"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

     I've used this stuff for years and have seen it used on just about every 
make of car.  For you folks with Japanese cars (no names will be mentioned)  
it's the black stuff they put around your tail lights to keep water out.  
Butyl rubber sticks well to any clean surface, in fact a lot of car  
companies use it now for sealing encapsolated side windows, please don't 
confuse this stuff with urethane, which is used for wind shields.  The neat 
thing is, you can remove butyl rubber by rolling your thumb over it.  Comes 
right off and does not hurt the paint. I have also used it to mount the glass 
in Safari window frames and pop outs.  It can also be used too seal Safari  
window rubber to the window frame opening. It holds the rubber in place, 
hence when you do pop them open, the rubber stays on the window opening.
    This stuff is also fantastic for sealing your over head vent plate.  If 
you've ever had a leak here, you know what a bummer it can be.  And the list 
of uses goes on and on.  Got a spark plug wrench missing it's rubber insert?  
Wanna water proof your dizzy on your Baja Bug?   Check you local FLAPS, some 
sell it by the foot and some sell it as a roll.  It is also available in 
different thickness and widths to suit just about any use you have.
                                                                              
                                           Peace,
                                                                              
                                            FW Tyler
                                                                              
                                            Disabled Auto Body Tech
                                                                              
                                            12 Volkies and counting

PS  Roofing tar is for roofs

--part1_151.5b3bc51.294a9218_boundary--
