From: "Heath, Raymond E" <raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com>
To: "'vintagebus(-at-)type2.com'" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 13 Dec 2001 16:33:16 -0800
Subject: 71 brake master cylinder

Hey all,
just completed the 71 brake master cylinder mod on my 67 Single Cab. I had
read an article in type2.com on doing this mod months ago but figured I'd
never need it untill my brakes went out last week. I had always had a pull
to the right problem since I purchased this truck in August but learn to
brake and correct with steering, I know, unsafe at any speed. Well, when my
brakes went I nursed it back home and replaced the four rubber brake lines I
had ordered from Bus Boys a couple of weeks earlier (I don't care what
anyone says about them, they got my order to me in 5 days). See, I was
paying attention. I had read lot's of material showing that clogged 30 year
old lines could have that affect on braking. Guess what, I had two clogged
lines, one right front and one left rear. I had also purchased brake shoes
and new shocks for all four wheels back in September because I never
purchase a used vehicle without going throught the drivetrain and brakes if
it is a daily driver.

Anyway, I had also read about an adapter plate so that you didn't have to
cut a bolt or your rare brake pushrod. Since my 67 was a 22mm dual circuit
already I didn't have to add any additional tubing or re-route anything.
When I mounted the new 71 24mm master cylinder the two original lines were
pointed right at the ports on the master clyinder, even with the adapter
plate, just like down town! I placed the brake light switches on the oposite
side port and the downward facing port. I don't have a belly pan, although
the shadow of one is still present on the mounting beams, so nothing will
interfere with the wiring to the switches. After replacing brake shoes and
bleeding the system of the muddy fluid, I am now the owner of a fresh
braking Single Cab.

All I have to say is thanks to all the good people on this list that have
contributed so much knowledge for the rest of us. I hope to impart some of
the 30 years of knowledge to any and all that I have aquired (some during
the 70's at SIR from Gen and others) and any and all pics, manual pages and
tool help Again, thanks people, It is all of us that keeps vintage dubs
alive.

67 Single Cab
71 Trike
Ray
The water is boiling, the frog just doesn't know it yet

