Date: Thu, 13 Dec 2001 19:02:24 -0700
From: "Kyle" <cal4570(-at-)qwest.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: Oil light flickers on new rebuild.  (Long-winded boring reply)

> The synthetic oil "truth" is based on testing when?

Well, my last testing was done in '99. Castrol Syntec 5-50. Ran it in the
limo bus since it had a serious heating problem because it had a 400
smallblock Chevy in it. They have Siamesed cylinder walls and are
notoriously hot running. Even though I saw a temp increase when I put it in,
I had little choice because normal operating temps on that engine were above
the death range for dino oil. In any case, I was making a lot of trips back
and forth to Cali and was always towing something. For instance, coming up
the Indio hill in June towing the raffle bus at about 118 ambient. The Indio
hill is what, about 21 miles of 6-8% grade? Anyway, the limo had every kind
of cooling contraption known to man hanging on it to see what would work. 4
core radiator, big-ass oil cooler with a fan, tranny cooler, etc. At the top
of the hill at the rest stop I pulled off with a 265 water temperature. I
could put my hand on the oil cooler and leave it there. Got home, added an
additional singlepass radiator off a Subaru something-or-other under the bus
and got the hot loaded temps under 220. Figured I was back in the safe range
for dino so I switched back. Loaded temp dropped 20 degrees just like that.
Only change. Interesting thing is that now the oil cooler will scald the
hell out of you. Switched out the 400 for a warmed up 350 and got the temps
reasonable. Water temp much lower, oil cooler will still sting you.

I don't care if you want to run synthetic, or detergent, or non-detergent or
peanut oil. Makes absolutely no nevermind to me. I know for a FACT that
synthetic does not carry heat because I tested it on my equipment. I have no
problem at all using it in waterpumpers, I usually do. They don't use oil
for cooling, and you have to buy stuff at a race shop to make it where they
will, so the thermal conductivity isn't an issue. The VW does, and I am
thoroughly convinced for my own purposes that it does not carry heat. Didn't
read any studies, have no use for Gene Berg or his 'technical' advertising,
and am not a cheap oil freak. I encourage anyone that is curious to conduct
their own tests, don't rely on others. The only way you will know for a fact
is if you test it yourself. You don't need anyone to tell you what to run in
your bus, you are driving it every day. Figure it out. Do an oil change and
check the head and case temps after a good repeatable run or over a few
weeks. Switch to the synthetic and do the same. Ignore oil temps, some of us
say that the synthetic doesn't carry heat like dino and some say it's
better. Throw that out of the equation. Does the engine run hotter or
cooler? Go with the better one. It's not like this is a major decision like
dual port vs. single port. Just the cost of an oil change.

Kyle
57 singlecab
59 singlecab
61 Kombi
67 Westfailure
57 Oval


