From: "Dave Wolfanger" <dwolf(-at-)bluefrognet.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 11 May 2002 23:51:22 -0400
Subject:  Scary Engine Story [ Long ]

This weekend i disassembled the worst engine i have ever seen.
This engine is a Type1 1600 DP DR, and was removed by the PO
along with the transmission. He pried them apart with a lever, as the
mainshaft was rust-frozen to the clutch disc, and the mainshaft came out
still wedged to the engine.Needless to say, the case was broken in the
attempt.
It had already been dropped on the doghouse fan housing, but it still
had ( i thought ) many serviceable parts, and was going to be a campfire
so it needed the disassembly. It would not turn.
The intake manifold came off easy enough, and the alternator and fan,
along with the fan housing. The distributor would not turn nor remove.
After unbolting the heads, one came off with great effort, and the other
removed with a sledge. The BFH continued to assist, as the cylinders were
locked up with rust. The pistons were completely destroyed ( by me )
and the piston pins did not move until i melted the end of the rods with the
torch.
The rods were frozen, and did not move. The case then basically came apart
 normally, and inside, dirt (?) and case residue filled to the lifter bores
had completely packed the case. The camshaft had only the half of the gear
above the lifter bore line.
The lifters removed with a hammer and drift. Problem was, the distributor
was last to go. That problem was solved when i notched the case to allow a
drift to punch the
drive gear up out of the bore, saving the dizzy but losing the drive gear
shaft.
The amazing thing was, the case,crank,and rods were all STD, original
unrebuilt.
There also was Zero oil in this one. After removing the rods, i found the
crank to be serviceable, as the bearings had protected the journals, and the
rest of the crank
had removeable surface rust but no deep scale. It was stopped horizontal,
with all rods level.The curious part of this story is how the engine had 2
inches of debris, but none in the ports or manifold. And no oil, A few
valves were frozen open, the oil pump was filled with the same sandy
residue, the lifters were locked in their last position. The strainer was
basically free of it. I surmise now it was not dirt, but magnesium residue
from inside the case, which had been disolved and fluffed up.
I don't have photos, that would be too scary. Basically, this had been a
good running engine, parked, leaked the oil, and filled up with residue from
water attacking the case, destroyed from the inside. No spun bearings, no
rods poking out, just parked and neglected. Moral? Check your oil level
regularly !
Dave \X/



