Date: Sun, 03 Nov 2002 16:43:51 -0800
To: kayakjr(-at-)juno.com,type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Scott Fraser <kn6f(-at-)dolphinsci.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Prepping Westy for paint

At 03:24 PM 11/3/02, kayakjr(-at-)juno.com wrote:
>I was wondering what people have done in the past when painting a Westy,
>mainly when switching colors and getting the metal section of the roof
>painted and not the pop top or canvas.
>[...]
>Also, how do you deal with the fair amount of painted metal in the
>interior if you are changing colors.  Leave it the original color?  My
>friend stripped his (74 Ford) van completly and it was sprayed inside and
>out, but this is a lot of work with a Westy!
>
>This is an 81 Vanagon Westy in something like Awful Assaun (Orange)
>Brown.

John,
It depends upon what kind of job that you are going to do.
It's an 81, so the rubber is now 21+ years old.
You can mask,  to high heavens, but then there will always be the masking 
line where the tape met the metal.  I'm currently in the process of working 
on two vehicles.  My daughter's '71 super beetle and my '79 Jag.

Both vehicles had been painted before and masked off.  It wasn't long 
before the edges where the paint met the tape, started to flake off and 
peel back.  Not much, but just enough to be obnoxious.  Both vehicles were 
painted with the same color paint as the original, so it didn't matter much 
except, there was a great number of traps to catch the wax and then really 
show up.

I opted to strip both cars down to bare bones.  The interior came out of 
both, the windows out.  Every piece of chrome or metal trim (that's about a 
ton on the jag) has been removed.  I've set the jag aside and have been 
working on Theresa's bug.  Thought we were going to get it done this 
weekend, but other things (work) got in the way.

Her car was sanded, nicks and dings fixed, primered, blocked, dings fixed 
again, primered, blocked for a total of five coats of primer.  (2.5 
Gallons).  We have been wet sanding with 400 grit paper and have the rear 
right quarter panel and the dash to finish and we're done.

We should have a great base to put the new paint on and hopefully it should 
last a bit longer than the previous jobs.  I'll be back on my Jag during 
winter break in Dec/Jan.

If you're looking for a quick spray, not much time investment, just mask 
the heck out of it scuff up the paint and away you go.

I wasn't looking for this much work, but, I remember how my last car looked 
when I took it in for a respray and they did a quick scuff and paint 
job.  Never did get the shine like I had hoped.

Take a look at
http://www.dolphinsci.com/vw/ladybug.html   for an idea of the amount of 
work I'm talking about.

Theresa and I were out there again today, but not quite long enough.

Scott
'60 DC
