Date: Sun, 03 Nov 2002 21:25:23 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>, Eron Crites
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com, Ceebers24mVB(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: [T2] bus steering wheel, how to restore finish...

>I believe that are "resto" kits that you can buy from various places.
>
>also pick your favorite search engine and put in
>
>volkswagen steering wheel restoration
>
>and for example...you get....
>
>http://www.ezcamper.100megsfree4.com/steeringwheelresto.html


Scrub wheel with mineral spirits to remove ALL of the accumulated grease 
and grime. Then clean lightly with lacquer thinner to remove traces of the 
oily mineral spirits.

Allow to dry.

Re-color with color of your choice with paint for vinyl. I got mine from 
the local autobody supply store. These types of stores sell paint to 
autobody shops.

Rattle can, $8. I have enough to re-color the steering wheel, the dash, the 
instrument cluster, and assorted other details of dash.

Do several light coats. 1st coat just enough to alter the color of the 
surface of the target item. Wait 20 minutes. Next coat completely color 
target, nothing more. Next coat give it about as much paint again. I do 4 
or 5 coats like this. Never thick.

The brand name was SEM.

I see this type of paint at all the local FLAPS also but I thing that this 
professional grade stuff was much better - covered better, flowed out 
better (no runs), etc. The FLAPS grade stuff was much thinner paint (more 
thinner, less color in the can - causes more cans to be required for the 
same job and thus false economy for the buyer). FLAPS brands had about 5 
colors. Pro shop had 18 or so and I think they could get or mix more 
colors. I bet you could get this stuff in quart cans to spray from a spray 
gun.

My bus is still off the road but I also did a steering wheel on a Lumina I 
was doing to some work on. Driver known to have constant death grip on 
wheel (and the reason the OEM color was gone). Now several months later it 
is still holding up very well.

Also used SEM brand paint on this steering wheel.

Good luck.


Chris Mills in TN
