From: "Russ Neithammer" <rneithammer(-at-)mlea.com>
To: "Courtney Hook" <chook(-at-)nisa.net>, "type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Mon, 4 Nov 2002 08:08:56 -0500
Subject: RE: Looking for retractable seatbelts for my bug

I just installed a set of the BeetleMex retractable belts (including the
center buckle assembly) in my '71 standard, which my son will be driving
'soon as he gets his license.  The installation went just fine, except we
had to grind off the little spike that is located on the mounting bracket,
next to the mounting bolt hole.  Later beetles may have had a hole in the
pillar for that spike, which would help keep the reel in it's proper
position.  However, I have had no problems with the reels falling down
without the spike.  I used all of the original seat belt mounting bolts, in
their original locations.

The only problem, still unresolved, is that, out of the box, I was unable to
pull/extend the belts out of the retracting reel.  They worked fine after I
removed a small plastic cage containing a steel ball bearing from each of
the retracting mechanisms.  I suspected that this was some sort of
inertia/decelleration device, which was confirmed by another listee.  That
same listee also felt that the safety function of the belts might be
impaired by the removal of the cage/ball thing.

So, I am in somewhat of a quandry over this.  My experience so far is that
the belts have never failed to lock, whenever they are given a sharp tug, as
would happen in an accident.  However, no way, no how, would they extend
from the reel with that little cage/ball thing installed.  The removal of
the cage/ball thing just involves unsnapping it from the holder in the reel
mechanism, and it can easily be re-installed, should I happen to stumble
upon a solution to the problem.

So, for now, they (the cage/ball things) are out, but, based on my
experience so far, my confidence in the safety of the belts is pretty good.
Overall, given that teenagers will be driving and riding in this car, I
think the new belts improve the odds over the old belts, which depended on
proper adjustment by the wearer in order to assure proper safety function -
definitely not a given with my son and his gang.

Anyone have similar experience, with the BeetleMex belts?  How about the
ones from the other suppliers?

Russ Neithammer
67 sunroof beetle "Ruben"
71 standard beetle "New Beetle"
71 westy "The Bus"

-----Original Message-----
From: Courtney Hook [mailto:chook(-at-)nisa.net]
Sent: Saturday, November 02, 2002 11:20 PM
To: type2; wetwesties; vintagevw list
Subject: Looking for retractable seatbelts for my bug


OK, apparently the later bugs, 73 and up came with 3 point retractable
belts. My daughter just bought a 70 bug and it only has lap belts which are
not good enough for me. Would anyone have any of these later retractable
belts they'd like to sell or give away for my daughter's safety? I'd
appreciate that.
Regards,
Courtney
