Date: Wed, 25 Mar 2009 21:07:33 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: SQUID <sydclarke(-at-)shaw.ca>
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] "freaks" (sorry SQUID!)

Syd - None of it is "bad!" Some combinations work out better for some uses / users. The way component parts have been "mixed and matched" by sometimes ourselves and sometimes the evil previous owner, if there were "bad" components, surely none of our buses would be running by now!

Case in point: take a 914 engine, switch heads to make a bus engine. Switch the cam, too, but based on what you described your engine as, we won't go there! What do you suppose the valves on the bus heads are like, compared to the 914? Okay, that was easy. Now, valves in a bus head for a carb model vs a fuel injected model? They are different, but why? On a carb model, the gasoline is mixed with the air in the proximity of the carb. On a FI model, the mixing has to happen right at the head. To get that mixture to mix more efficiently, they made the valves smaller. How does that change anything? It speeds up the airflow getting the same amount of fuel through smaller openings in the same amount of time. The mixture is thus more complete at lower speeds, resulting in a little better torque curve for a bus.

What most of us hot-rodders have done is ignore the original design and design-intent and run off into what we, as "those who know more than the factory engineers" feel will be "better" for our particular needs. Every once in a while, one of us hits the jackpot and gets just the improvement we want without sacrificing anything we really care about anyway! For the rest of us, the rest of the time, we tinker and make freaks out of our drives and are proud of ourselves, not because we accomplished something good or better than it was, but just because we did it! This reminds me of the silly, silly people who install single cylinder CHT gauges, rolling the dice as to which cylinder to monitor - in essence guessing which one will fail! - but that's a different story and only seven people in the whole world agree with me on it - the seven who chose the wrong cylinder, I guess (like I did!)

It all works (except the single CHT!) and we adjust our driving style to make it work. Technically, it is all "wrong" or "bad" but we do it anyway - and see it as "good!" So just keep on doing what you're doing. Some things do require some serious studying or thinking through, though, to be safe. Case in point: Tire sidewall and load range ratings. The argument I enjoy most is if you take a passenger car tire that is rated for 1,000 pounds more than the load range C tire yer s'posed to run, what, exactly, is the problem? Nobody on this list has adequately addressed that issue! They (I) quote specs and requirements about sidewall flexing and support, yet they never quite acknowledge that the rating is so significantly greater that it more than compensates for that particular issue. So, we just say, "Uh-huh, you're right..." to end the battle, our minds still affixed to what we believed all along. It's wrong, but it's right. It's bad, but it's much better
 than it was. Is it? Well, anything we change could come into question if we somehow have the misfortune of getting into a wreck where somebody is badly injured or killed. Are all the factory-original parts or factory specified parts on the vehicle and in proper working order? Just because something has higher performance ratings does not mean it will perform in a balanced manner with the other related components, does it?

I DO love my Busaru! - BaH

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington


--- On Wed, 3/25/09, SQUID <sydclarke(-at-)shaw.ca> wrote:

 From: SQUID <sydclarke(-at-)shaw.ca>
 Subject: [T2] "irregularities"
 To: type2(-at-)type2.com
 Date: Wednesday, March 25, 2009, 1:28 PM
 So,....it seems...I have the "Bad" transaxle in my
 '74 Westy, and it will have
 to 'work' harder...to make the ride
 ..."nice",....but you know what...I have
 sodium filled valves, bigger valves, higher lift
 cam..(aftermarket), twin del
 34s, Header exhaust,..without "heaters", and
 'different" wheeels and tyres,
 so....."bubble bubble, toil and trouble, let me see
 what I can 'cobble'..and
 yes...I will attempt to "break away"....from the
 current "think"...and try
 something....different!  "Imagineering" is
 creativity on a budget..overseen by
 your wife!  This is not a 'dis'...ok?  Cheers
 Syd
