Date: Thu, 26 Mar 2009 01:27:36 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] "freaks" (sorry SQUID!)

Gee and with all the T4 engines I've built over the years (more than most and
for several people on this list) and 20+ air cooled busses, and a 914 I used
to race, and I've lived for 20 years of doing so without more than one CHT
gage on any of them, and none on most, driving 100s of thousands of care free
miles, on real roads with real grades in WV....   Now don't get me wrong, when
I was an engineer I instrumented things within an inch of their lives for a
living, I posted stock head sensor vs resistance curves to this list 10+years
ago (the first/only? to do it) when I was feeling all techie and running a
Vanagon Digifant system on Dolan's old 2.2 MS mill.  I even posted a method of
accurately using a stock diesel Vanagon temp gage with the air cooled head
sensor for a super slick installation, but you can overdo these things
sometime folks, more information does not always mean accurate information,
nor does it necessarily prevent or even warn of
 impending doom.  Something to be said sometimes for even Muir's advice in the
original idiot manual, something about rolling and smoking something and going
and having a feel of your dipstick...  (Or something like that, I haven't seen
my second edition printing of it in several moves)
 
Now I will mention being up here in AK now and seeing how cheap the multiple
cylinder sensor gages have become on all these snowmachines, I am tempted
sometimes to
install one.  But oh wait a sec, I know which cylinder is going to fail on a
T4, #3 same as it always has, different reason but still the same after all
this air cooled years better than 75% of the time.  #1 might be a close
second.
 
John

--- On Thu, 3/26/09, Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:



 This reminds me of the silly, silly people who install single cylinder CHT
gauges, rolling the dice as to which cylinder to monitor - in essence guessing
which one will fail! - but that's a different story and only seven people in
the whole world agree with me on it - the seven who chose the wrong cylinder,
I guess (like I did!)

It all works (except the single CHT!) and we adjust our driving style to make
it
