Date: Thu, 26 Mar 2009 19:46:33 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] "freaks" (sorry SQUID!)

Uh huh, You're right! They'll run forever without a CHT gauge. You illustrate my point very well. If you're going to spend hard-earned money to buy something, I think you should define what it is that you expect it to do and evaluate how well it will do it. There are so many variables with a single cylinder CHT gauge it is simply an ornament. One of these days I will write a complete guide that explains exactly why this is so. Until then, I need to learn to keep quiet and say, "Uh huh, you're right," and move on. Sorry to call you silly - it was not aimed at you or any other individual and the message would have been better without it. I think the message to Syd was that there's nothing wrong with the modifications he has done or will do in the future. It's his hobby and he doesn't have to conform to anybody else's likes or dislikes.
Thanks, John, for your reply. -BaH

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington


--- On Thu, 3/26/09, John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:
 From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
 Subject: Re: [T2] "freaks" (sorry SQUID!)
 To: type2(-at-)type2.com
 Date: Thursday, March 26, 2009, 1:27 AM
 Gee and with all the T4 engines I've built over the
 years (more than most and
 for several people on this list) and 20+ air cooled busses,
 and a 914 I used
 to race, and I've lived for 20 years of doing so
 without more than one CHT
 gage on any of them, and none on most, driving 100s of
 thousands of care free
 miles, on real roads with real grades in WV....   Now
 don't get me wrong, when
 I was an engineer I instrumented things within an inch of
 their lives for a
 living, I posted stock head sensor vs resistance curves to
 this list 10+years
 ago (the first/only? to do it) when I was feeling all
 techie and running a
 Vanagon Digifant system on Dolan's old 2.2 MS mill.  I
 even posted a method of
 accurately using a stock diesel Vanagon temp gage with the
 air cooled head
 sensor for a super slick installation, but you can overdo
 these things
 sometime folks, more information does not always mean
 accurate information,
 nor does it necessarily prevent or even warn of
  impending doom.  Something to be said sometimes for even
 Muir's advice in the
 original idiot manual, something about rolling and smoking
 something and going
 and having a feel of your dipstick...  (Or something like
 that, I haven't seen
 my second edition printing of it in several moves)
  
 Now I will mention being up here in AK now and seeing how
 cheap the multiple
 cylinder sensor gages have become on all these
 snowmachines, I am tempted
 sometimes to
 install one.  But oh wait a sec, I know which cylinder is
 going to fail on a
 T4, #3 same as it always has, different reason but still
 the same after all
 this air cooled years better than 75% of the time.  #1
 might be a close
 second.
  
 John
