From: "vanagonvw" <vanagonvw(-at-)gmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 27 Mar 2009 21:29:35 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Replacing fuel lines, Type IV, 81 Vanagon

Wow, I got so many great replies with good info in my pmail box, I cannot
respond to all of them but I want to post this, hope you who replied will
see it, and accept my thanks for taking time to help me out.

What I am seeing is that I am going to put the thing back together the way
that it is, and use the connections as they are.

Before you all cringe, call me an idiot, and threaten me with the
destruction of the van, :-) let me state what I have always tried to say in
all my posts for help, but sometimes leave out.

No money. I got no money. I have no job. I sure cannot spend $200 on
new/rebuilt injectors. I cannot spend -any- money on the injectors. They
were working seemingly fine when I took them off the engine, I assume they
will be working the same when I put them back on.

Where I am at, is that I live in the shit hole state of Utah, and its been
almost two years since I drove the van, so when the time comes to put my it
back on the road, I have to get a temporary registration so I can drive it,
and break in, the engine, then I have to get it past the safety/emissions
test. If I cannot do all that in two weeks, I can never drive the van on the
road, ever again (if I obey the law) One, registration for two weeks is all
I get. (after that, I am supposed to be a law abiding citizen, and tow the
car to the test station, and never, ever drive it on the road to test it out
myself. Its a stupid, moron state) If I cannot get it broken in, and past
the emissions test i two weeks, life will get really complicated. The van
doesn't have a catalytic, as the aftermarket exhaust doesn't allow for it,
nor does it have EGR. Its always passed with no problems. Not sure what I
will find with a "new" engine, but if it fails, I will have to rig a cat
onto it somehow in order to get it through the emissions test, which is not
cheap, as you all know.

All I intend to do, is put it back together, and try to survive that two
weeks. Once it passes the test, and is registered, then I can pull the
injectors and do a rebuild, or whatever. It could use a lot of new stuff, as
its an old van and the external parts are original in many cases, like the
giant hoses for the intake, but there is no logic at all in buying all new
stuff, if I have screwed up the engine rebuild internally, if I wipe out the
cam, or if my lifters refuse to pump up, etc. I was always under the
impression that replacing the fuel lines, which is a really good idea, was
not a matter of cutting, grinding, twisting, and removing that cap, hoping
all the time not to ruin the injector.

So, I have all the good advice, and if I get the van back on the road, I
have already committed myself to the fact that a lot of things still need to
be replaced. Hell, I am even using the same points, and will just wire brush
the same spark plugs. This is a low budget job.

I put on new pistons/rings/cylinders, and cleaned up a set of heads, lapped
the valves, measured the seat faces and the valves and they are all pretty
okay in spec. If it comes up working, I will be more than happy to go into a
bit of debt for the hoses, and all the other stuff, but if I have made a
mistake, or something goes way wrong, what is the point in spending hundreds
of dollars on peripherals, when it will just end up in the junkyard anyway?
:-)

Very much obliged for all the advice. Its nowhere near a daily driver, so
parking it and fixing all the externals is not a big deal. Besides, maybe I
will find a damn job before I finish, and can afford to do it.

Again, thanks for all the great help and ideas. Very much appreciated.

John
