From: Richard F Coombs <rfcoombs(-at-)syr.edu>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 28 Mar 2009 01:49:24 -0400
Subject: Weird stuff in brake booster

Hi all,

One of your infrequent posters here; usually the archives have the answer to
my problems, and when I think of jumping in on a diagnosis, one of the
all-knowing type2 gurus posts the very thing I thought of, only better!

This is something really weird, though. Vehicle is a 1971 passenger bus, with
a 1600 SP and the early power disc brake setup with the smaller booster.

Tonight, I finally got around to diagnosing a brake booster failure  that
happened on the way home from a campout in November. At the time, I lost power
assist,  and started to get a rough idle when I pressed the brake pedal. It
was November, snowing, and we were on the road home, so I disconnected the
booster line in the engine compartment, & plugged the line to the engine with
a cork & some tape, promising to get to it "real soon now".

Fast forward to tonight, when I finally took the booster out, to find nearly a
pint of dark brown, stinky gasoline - like fluid in the booster! I'd been
expecting brake fluid, but not gasoline! The master cylinder, which was new 2
years ago along with the booster, does not appear to be leaking.

Stumped for a source of gas in the booster, I thought of the vacuum line from
the intake manifold to the booster, and while I was staring at the engine
compartment end, I decided to pull the check valve.

I found that I could blow through both ends of the valve, which, according to
the archives, means it's toast.

Could a broken check valve allow gasoline vapors to make it all the way to the
booster, & gradually fill the booster with gasoline condensate?

Has anyone ever seen anything like this?

If what I think happened has happened, I think my booster is probably toast.
Bummer. Nearly new, & not cheap. Good reason to replace the (relatively) cheap
check valve when refurbishing a brake system. Live & learn.

Anyhow, I would greatly appreciate any list wisdom & experience , especially
from someone who's had a gasoline-filled booster (there must be someone).

TIA,

Richard

Syracuse, NY

'71 hippie bus "Putt-putt"

Blog: my71vwbusputt-putt.blogspot.com
