Date: Mon, 30 Mar 2009 18:37:11 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: vanagonvw <vanagonvw(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Replacing fuel lines, Type IV, 81 Vanagon

vanagonvw wrote:
> I would, if anyone had convinced me that I can get the lines off and replace
> them without destroying the injector housing. One suggestion was a cutoff
> wheel to grind off the little "hat" thing that is pressed around the

are you talking about the little ferrule cap as seen in this picture:

http://calivw78.com/v/rides/74westy/replace_fuel_lines/080418_0222.JPG.html

If so, it is not pressed on.  Cut the fuel hose with a sharp knife and 
then pull it off.  You can then try flowing the injectors backwards 
while pulsing and that will help clean them - maybe.  It's pain, though, 
cuz you gotta set up a whole test rig and pulse them all into some kinda 
measuring tube so you know that they're all flowing the same amount - 
not to mention that doing this is dangerous if you use gasoline as other 
fluids don't necessarily flow with the same pattern.  The other option 
is to send them off to someone like cruizin performance or any other 
injector cleaner and they'll actually change out the pintle cap and the 
injector filter and clean them ultrasonically.  They also give you flow 
test numbers and spray patterns so that you know that your injectors are 
actually flowing the same amount and the spray pattern looks good. 
Remember, all injectors fire at the same time, so if one is off, that 
cylinder will run lean/rich compared to the other cylinders.

As far as reinstalling the hose on the injectors, slide the little 
ferrule cap back on like you took it off and push the new hose on the 
injector - it will not pull off.  I wondered the same thing and Rich 
from Cruizin told me the exact same thing - no need to use a hose-clamp 
on the injector end.  I don't think they'd sell them like that if it 
didn't actually hold.  You aren't able to pull it off, are you? :)


Having said that, I don't know if I'd even waste my time messing with 
the injectors, especially if you don't plan to change the injector hose, 
or the rest of the FI hose for that matter.  You're running a huge risk 
regardless with all the other old hose.  I took mine off and flowed them 
backwards and thought I got them cleaned.  That was until I sent off an 
extra set of injectors to be cleaned and upon installation, it's running 
super rich.  In my case, that's good because it means that the cleaned 
injectors are able to flow more fuel per injection and I can dial back 
the amount of fuel being injected into the engine (save $$).  I've got 
the megasquirt so my setup is a little different in how fuel flow is 
metered and adjusted.

This also means that the injectors that I *thought* were clean probably 
aren't actually flowing that well.  I'm going to send the old set of 
injectors off to get flow tested to see just how far off they were so I 
have some kinda baseline to know what kinda flow each cylinder was 
seeing.  The only way to know that the injectors are properly cleaned is 
to have them flow-tested.  The only other way would be to install a WBO2 
sensor on every cylinder and monitor the AFR for that cylinder, but that 
would run you at least $800 ;)  I'd say messing with them is probably 
just going to waste your time and money.

I'd probably go around the engine compartment and bend your FI lines and 
see if any are cracked.  Replace the ones that are cracked and 
definitely plan on replacing all of them if your bus actually passes 
emissions.  If they look descent, then try and seal up as many other 
air-leaks as you can and focus on getting everything else in the best 
working order as possible (timing, air cleaner, etc).  Have a few fire 
extinguishers handy and install your new engine and run it hard to seat 
the new rings.  If you don't run it hard, you'll have a hard time 
getting it to break in and pass emissions.

good luck,
Mike
