From: "James Anderson" <james_ander(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 01 Apr 2003 15:16:08 -0500
Subject: A TIREsome thread

Sorry to bring up this subject, but after researching the archives and 
library, I still had some questions about tires.  I dont really know much 
about tires, so Im not sure if Im on the right track in my decision 
making.  I have a 73 Westfalia that I use strictly for camping during the 
spring, summer and very early fall.  Sometimes we carry quite a lot of stuff 
and travel with as many as a total of 3 adults.

Ive narrowed it down to these choices:
Continental Contact CR21, 185/0R/14 max load 1540		$50
Yokohama Y356 D 185 0R 14 max load 1850				$56
Bridgestone Dueler A/T 195 75 14 max load 1435			$66
Firestone Wilderness AT III 27 x 8.5 SR14C max load 1515	$74
BF Goodrich All Terrain T/A K/O 27x8.5 max load 1515		$89

	I also considered Cooper truck tires.  They seemed to have it all, but are 
$97 for the tire alone.  The first question is whether to go with 
all-terrain tires.  I like the idea of the look and versatility of an all 
terrain tire, but they are more expensive and with a lower load range.  The 
lower load range seems to be the big drawback for AT tires.  Also, 
realistically the worst terrain we drive on are dirt roads in state parks 
and we have never had any trouble even with passenger tires.  Is there any 
thing else I should consider about all terrain tires?  Is there any other 
reason to select them over the other options?

	I am also considering the Yoko Y356 D.  I like the idea of the higher load 
range, but the "highway" designation worries me as well as comments Ive 
heard about poor performance on wet roads.  While I never plan to drive in 
the winter, Im sure Ill drive on wet roads.  So next questions:  Does a 
highway rib tire provide significantly poorer traction and handling compared 
to all season tires?  Does the higher D rated tire result in noticeably 
surer and better handling over a C rated tire?  Does a higher load range 
tire give a more uncomfortable ride?

The Continental looks pretty good, an all season tire with a comparable load 
range to AT tires.  Since it is an all season tire, it would probably meet 
our needs in that regard.  My question would be whether I should choose 
something with a higher load range to accommodate a well loaded camping 
Westy.  The price is pretty good too.  So I guess it comes down to weighing 
which variable is the most important for my needs and contributes most to 
performance and handling.

So sorry to rehash this tire info again, but I would appreciate any guidance 
with these choices, or any suggestions about other brands, etc.  I would 
like to keep the costs down somewhat, the BF Goodrich probably being just 
outside my price range.  Thanks for your help,

James
