From: "John Morris" <volksnut(-at-)1st.net>
To: "type2 list" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "vintage bus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 25 Jan 2002 20:47:59 -0500
Subject: too much air

This was from a guy in our club I thought it was good Friday
material....................
Hi Everyone,

In my last post I mentioned that I had successfully installed my new wiper
motor, but the washer jets weren't working.

Well... get ready to laugh...

I seemed to have forgotten that the washer works off of air pressure (duh!).
When I came to my senses, I made a bee-line for the nearest gas station with
a free air pump (duh#2!).

My first try, I put too much air in ... washer fluid was shooting up over
the top of the bus, landing somewhere near the rear-end. oops! So I let out
the air, thinking it would hit a happy medium at some point. Wrong! I let
the air out until it quit squirting on it's own. So far, so good. I climb
back in the bus and push the washer button and it's still squirting over the
roof. Only problem now is the damn button wouldn't pop back out! I forgot to
put the spring back into the wiper/washer button when I installed it.
Anyways, I managed to pry the damn button back out and found/re-installed
the spring. Pushed it. Nothing but a wimpy dribble of washer fluid. Easy
enough to fix (I thought). Gave it another blast of air -- wasn't squirting
on it's own this time. Pushed the button and washer fluid was spraying.
Whoopee!

Now comes the funny part...

I'm driving down 224 about two minutes later thinking "not only do my wipers
work, but so are the wiper jets!" when all of a sudden I hear this really
loud and weird sound (kind like a wet fart). Next thing I know, the inside
of the windshield, the dash, the floor and my pants are completely drenched
in washer fluid. The moral of this story? Never put more than 42psi of air
in the windshield washer reservoir. I still haven't looked under the dash to
see what really happened (hose popped off, hose burst, whatever) -- that's
for tomorrow (Saturday). All I know is that washer fluid is VERY cold in a
Bus with no heat, and it makes for a VERY uncomfortable ride when your pants
are soaked in it!

Oh well... you live and you learn.

If the Germans had spent half the energy engineering things like this that
they did on their incredibly-well-designed air-cooled motors, my washers
would be squirting away on my windshield (and not on me). I think I'm going
to try hooking up a generic electric washer pump this weekend -- filling up
the washer reservoir is one thing, but I'll be damned if I'm going to have
to look after its air pressure too!

That's it for now. Keep on fweemin!...

Sean


