To: "Rob Henley" <campcrazy(-at-)carolina.rr.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "Theodore Reshetiloff" <TReshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com>
Date: Fri, 25 Jan 2002 13:51:51 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine replacement (long)


With 2,000 you should buy a motor from Boston Bob, have it shipped, pay
your mechanic to install it and follow Bob's advice on break in. I would
not trust a motor from anyone other than him or Jake. Go to Bob's website
and price it out yourself. I think his longblocks are around $1500. Jake
could probably make you a more powerful motor but I am a fan of stock
stuff.


Theodore Reshetiloff
Cambridge Associates LLC
78' Westy Possum
treshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com



                                                                                           
                    "Rob Henley"                                                           
                    <campcrazy(-at-)caroli        To:     <type2(-at-)type2.com>                     
                    na.rr.com>               cc:                                           
                                             Subject:     [T2] Engine replacement (long)   
                    01/25/02 01:46 PM                                                      
                                                                                           
                                                                                           




(Well I hate to be the one to post this, because I am sure it comes up
pretty frequently. I looked at the archives, but there is so much it would
take a while to decipher it all)

I am lucky enough that my Xmas bonus last year is $2000 towards replacing
my engine. Its a 1700cc with 166 000 original miles. Never rebuilt.
Apparently has bad rings and "blow by" because it pops every seal I
replace. There is nothing I would like more than doing it myself, but
because the company is paying for it they require I have somebody with
experience do the engine, so if something goes wrong I can take it back. I
will have my girlfriend smack me for being so lucky!!

My question is should I:

1)  buy an AVP engine (or another rebuilder) and have it installed by my
mechanic who works on foreign cars in general, but could probably install
it and get it running correctly. Approximate cost of AVP engine is $1200
for a long block. I have heard good and bad things about AVP. I know not to
buy GEX.

2) try to buy a spanking new engine (not sure the cost on that or the best
sources) and have my mechanic install it. Keep in mind I only have about
2000 bucks (smack) but I plan to keep my bus "forever" and drive it on long
trips.

3) have my mechanic do the rebuild on my engine. He says he can do it, but
he doesn't rebuild pancake engines very much at all. He also said it could
be up to $2500 or $2800 with new pistons and everything. Said we would have
to tear it down to know for sure, which sounds right. I would rather have
as much new stuff as possible, but have heard some say newer stuff is worse
than the original stuff.

What things should I make sure I get new? What other things should I ask?
As far as I know there is noone else here in Charlotte, NC that rebuilds
the pancake engine frequently like a Boston Bob or Jake Raby.

Thanks for any input. I have started researching some, but a big check just
came in so I better put my bus in the shop now while the money is
available.

Rob Henley
www.72camper.com





