From: "Sean Bartnik" <seabar(-at-)rcn.com>
To: <Sccogvan(-at-)aol.com>
Cc: "Type 2 Mailing List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 26 Jan 2002 11:09:04 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Windshield Wiper Motor



> I read today on the list that someone has just finished installing a new
> wiper motor and I could use some advice.  I have a 78 Riviera with
> air-conditioning.  I have read the Muir and the Bentley and they help but
> they don't deal with how to work around the air-conditioning unit.  Does
> anyone have any advice?  I have tried to work through the glove box but
the
> access isn't the best.  Also, I can hear that the motor is spinning (at
least
> making the usual sound) but it is not moving the wiper arms.  Is it time
for
> a new motor?  Any ideas?  Thanks in advance!

Mike, if the motor is spinning, the motor is fine.

Coming out of the motor there is a driveshaft.  Attached to this driveshaft
is a crank which drives the linkage and consequently the wiper arms.  This
crank is held onto the driveshaft with a nut.  Once on my '78 this nut
backed off, of course while I was on the interstate in a pouring rainstorm
and my wipers just stopped.  I found that the wiper motor was spinning but
the linkage was not moving.  I found the nut (it was sitting on top of the
airbox) and got it started back on the driveshaft.  This was not easy as
with the wiper motor installed you don't have a lot of access back there.  I
made it work the best I could, but the wipers didn't park in the right place
due to me having to manually move the crank around to get it in the right
position so I could get it working well enough to continue on.

The wipers were making a clunking noise prior to the nut falling off.

When I arrived at my destination, I removed the wiper motor/linkage from the
Bus entirely so I could get it working properly again, as far as having the
wipers park at the right place instead of in the middle of the windshield.
I don't have any advice for working around the a/c unit as I've never had
one.  Removing the wiper motor is probably the easiest way to fix this
issue.  I think I had to remove the center defroster duct under the dash as
well as the glovebox in order to get the whole wiper motor and linkage out
of the Bus.

Glad it didn't happen to me in a Vanagon!!

Sean Bartnik
Springfield, MA
http://www.type2.com/~bartnik

