Cc: Ray Haynes <rayvw(-at-)rayh.com>, Type 2 Mailing List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
Date: Sat, 6 Aug 2005 01:35:21 -0700
To: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] BAP Heads?

On Aug 5, 2005, at 7:19 PM, Faster-Laster wrote:

> what did the shop mean by unleaded fuel? From what I have always read
> and been told, ALL Vw aircooled heads are good for unleaded fuel.
> Since the hardened valve seats are insterted into the soft head they
> do not need the lubrication leaded oil added to the mix. I was not
> even aware anyone made valve seats that were not hardened. That's not
> to say the heads were not any good, just sounds like a stretch of an
> explination.

All these shops start to sound the same after a while, don't they. It  
makes you wonder where the information originated in the first place.

Except for maybe the earliest engines, I believe all VWs have used  
inserts and not needed lead to heal the contact surface where the  
valve meets the head but it didn't hurt to have it in the fuel and it  
provided anti-knock protection at the same time.

Apparently in the 60s VW upgraded the seat harness for compatibility  
with then present day fuels and I believe all 68-79 seats are made  
from the same material. The original seats in our engines were made  
from sintered metal according to the documentation. Because of the  
manufacturing process, excessive heating and cooling will deform the  
seat and allow the valve to slowly sink into the head.

I came along after Mark Stephens went out of business and never saw  
one of his heads but his so called 100,000 mi heads cured Type 4 head  
problems by:

- using a solid metal seat instead of a sintered one.
- increasing the interference fit between the seat and the seat pocket

The latter dictated the former because the aluminum surrounding the  
seat need to have a better grip on it because the seat tended to  
resist the heat and expand less. This may have been the reason why  
sintered metal was chosen in the first place (VWs are mass produced  
after all).

BTW, has anyone reached that milestone with one of his MSHP heads?

The solid seats have an improved resistance to meltdown and beyond  
the seat material itself, one of the key things to ask of your head  
builder. Will he even know what his seats are made from? This whole  
getting a good cylinder head issue lately has really annoyed me.

Anyway, I've come to interpret the comment that the seats weren't  
designed for unleaded gasoline to mean the seats are original  
sintered metal and not solid by design. Rebuilders seem to commonly  
refer to this as the wrong hardness.

What's hard to determine is whether or not seat in the head failed  
because an inferior replacement seat was used or if the original seat  
was reground too much or poorly reground because the heat damage can  
mask the exact cause. Unfortunately this happens a lot and all Ray  
probably did was shop by price and with many of heads in the same  
price range he simply picked a favorite.

Either way it means avoiding that rebuilder and taking a chance on  
another.

-- 
Richard, 1978 Westfalia CDN
http://www.ratwell.com/
Cupertino, CA
