From: "Ray Haynes" <rayvw(-at-)rayh.com>
To: "'Richard Atwell'" <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>, "'Type 2 Mailing List'"
Date: Sat, 6 Aug 2005 17:28:22 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] BAP Heads?

Richard,
I don't understand why you suggest avoiding "that rebuilder". My problem
heads came from BAP and the seats eroded away plain and simple, I saw them.
The engine made it 80K miles on the previous heads so I don't see how that
could have been anything else but bad seats. My builder said that you can't
really know where the seats came from whether they were old stock or
inferior quality unless you buy the seats and install them yourself. That is
what is going to be done and I have a lot more faith in that method then
buying some off the shelf head assembled with unknown parts with a token
warranty.

I didn't shop by price. It was strictly by availability. I needed heads late
on a Saturday to have my daily driver back on the road by Monday. I figured
that BAP heads would be at least decent and I didn't expect them to last 80K
like the last ones (which were custom built, not purchased new) but they
should not have had this bad of a problem.

Unleaded has been phased over the years and in some counties in the last
couple of years. Perhaps seats not designed for unleaded could have been
used on heads in other countries and worked fine. And perhaps there was some
old seat stock that was used on this batch of heads? Or maybe it was just a
metal quality problem. With stuff being imported from all over the world I
don't think that's too much of a stretch.

My lesson is that I should plan ahead and have good heads locally built
before I'm forced to buy them at the auto grocery store.


Ray Haynes
'71 Camper




-----Original Message-----
From: Richard Atwell [mailto:ratwell(-at-)mac.com]
Sent: Saturday, August 06, 2005 1:35 AM
To: Faster-Laster
Cc: Ray Haynes; Type 2 Mailing List
Subject: Re: [T2] BAP Heads?


>What's hard to determine is whether or not seat in the head failed
>because an inferior replacement seat was used or if the original seat
>was reground too much or poorly reground because the heat damage can
>mask the exact cause. Unfortunately this happens a lot and all Ray
>probably did was shop by price and with many of heads in the same
>price range he simply picked a favorite.

>Either way it means avoiding that rebuilder and taking a chance on
>another.
