Date: Sun, 07 Aug 2005 18:14:11 -0600
From: deedeebus <deedeebus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Alternator questions

I am in the process of (among other repairs) replacing the alternator in my
'73 bus.  Remember I'm the one whose alternator - starter wire fried.   I
have the alternator out, it was tested A-OK, so now I need to put it back
in. 

I have a couple of questions.

Bartnik (in his Alternator Replacement article) says:

"Now pull that tin piece off as well as the plastic ring around the
alternator that's behind the tin. If you are missing the plastic ring, you
should get another one. It helps to seal around the alternator. If you don't
have it, your engine could be running hot."

??  I've got no plastic ring, and I've asked several parts places and they
say they've never heard of it.  Anybody have a part number on that sucker?
Or another name?

Bartnik also says:

"Pull the plate off the alternator and you will find the wiring inside.
There is a 3-prong plug for the wiring that goes to the voltage regulator,
that just pulls off. There is a wire that goes to a post for the B+
connection, undo the 10mm nut and set it aside, then pull that wire off.
Mine had the post under a little rubber cap."

OK, I see that.  But I was so excited actually to remove the alternator I
forgot to study the wiring hookup properly before I took it off.  Question:
does the B+ post connector (with the cap) go flush against the alternator
itself, or do I sandwich it between two nuts?  Does it matter? My removed
alternator's B+ post has a 10 mm nut on it right now.

More Bartnik:

"You may want to inspect your cooling boot. Mine was in fine shape so I left
well enough alone. I was tempted to replace it but I couldn't see how it
connected to the fan housing."

Sure enough, my cooling boot is slightly torn.  I don't have another one,
natch.  But if I get one I'll want to replace it - how do I get it off??

My husband and I are trying to get out of Colorado Springs so that we can go
home to LA after a stint of teaching, and if these bus repairs take much
longer he is going to divorce me.  Somebody please help!

I'm sure I'll have more questions sooner than later--

Thanks so much --
