Date: Fri, 27 May 2011 12:26:00 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Opinions?

On Fri, May 27, 2011 at 12:14 AM, Peter Pankonin <r4nd0m1z(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:

> It seems to work well enough till about -5 (C).

That sounds about the same as my experience. We got occasional pipe
freeze warnings, but mostly frost on the ground and ice sheeting over
surface water, so I don't think we ever got much below that temp.

> I tried rebuilding the Solexes, but without much success.

I'm not a carb expert, so I don't care for the extra complexity of the
dual Solex. I don't understand the function of all the extra solenoids
on the left carb, and don't find the labels on the carb diagrams to be
very helpful, so even when I rebuild such a carb, I don't feel
confident of proper function.

Mostly I decided to remove the current set of Solex again after the
GAMI aviation discussion because if you can't afford multiple sensors,
you only get an air/fuel ratio reading which is the average of the two
carbs. I also feel that the Weber Progressive is closest to VW's
original concept of simplicity in the original single port engines
with the single carb, which leads to the following comment:

On Fri, May 27, 2011 at 5:46 AM, Old Volks Home <oldvolkshome(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:

> Too much work involved in making them run right

Because of its simplicity, I find the opposite to be true. They can't
be that hard. They were used as OEM equipment on many production cars
like the Ford Pinto, and is another reason they were so popular
because they were so common at economy wrecking yards like Pick 'n
Pull for $20.

Again, not being a carb guru, I'd be in a pinch if I ever needed to
rejet one, but I've been fortunate to pick up all my Webers second
hand for a song, and have them all work well with no fiddling with
them. I've actually gotten slightly better fuel economy than stock,
which I suspect is a function of the progressive feature that runs as
a one-barrel carb at low throttle.

John
