Date: Fri, 27 May 2011 09:15:47 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Opinions?

The centermount Webers were OEM equipment but on applications with 
manifold heat. I'm not a guru either but I think the freezing causes the 
fuel to condense out of the air and not stay a vapor in the manifold. I 
think if a fellow were to heat the incoming air or better yet, keep the 
manifold tubes warmed that Weber centermount would function much better. 
I've fought that centermount carb kit and it was find in the summer, not 
so good when the weather was poor. It had the same effect as a Beetle 
with a clogged manifold crossover pipe (heat) or one that had been 
blocked off.

I'm sure un-heated centermounts work well in the dry heat of the 
southwest but not so well in the cool, humid TN weather I live in.

Has anyone ever tried a pair of Beetle carbs on a Type IV like a pair of 
34PICT-4 carbs?

I have dual Dellorto 36mm carbs off of my Beetle and they seemed to do 
pretty well with the short manifolds.

The Corvair used Rochester carbs mounted right to the head. Never an 
ideal solution b/c it was mounted between two cylinders and a fair ways 
from the third cylinder but on a four I think this would work well.

Four motorcycle carbs? I have a sixties Hot Rod magazine where they used 
six small motorcycle carbs on a Corvair flat six. It made more power and 
had better driving characteristics with very little adjustment the 
magazine said. Was not attached to an article sponsored by a company 
selling these carb conversions either. GRIN!

I'd buy those NOS carbs OldVolks has if I had a spare pile of cash. Even 
if I didn't plan on using them anytime soon. The factory design worked 
well when it was new. Just got to get some carbs in good condition and 
learn to tune them.

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L (Corvair implanted with newly sanded driver's side 
quarter)
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L (in suspended animation (barn), hosting families of 
wasps for the summer)
'97 VW Cabrio
'99 CR-V AWD with all new front end plastic and lights
Brenderup 1205S - awaiting the next hardware store run
