From: Gregory Urban <urban(-at-)yaic.com>
Date: Mon, 30 May 2011 20:13:36 -0400
Cc: t2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
To: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] I need to catch a break

Robt,

I agree that the situation needed to be rectified immediately upon discovery.
Thankfully, I put less than 25 miles on the car with the tires set up in that
configuration.  One of the tires did not seat properly on the rim, so I
brought the bus to the shop that installed them, and they fixed that tire
problem and switched everything around as Bob suggested.

Unfortunately, the 205/70s in the rear are a bit too wide, and I had some
rubbing issues.  I think there is more clearance with the 205/65s based on the
this experience, but as we speak the 70's are on the back.  I did some gentle
work to the body around the wheel to eliminate rubbing.  We had some "fun"
with the bus in the mud at the campground this weekend (I needed some helpers
to get the bus next to the drive-away tent), so there was a good amount of mud
on the sidewalls.  When I got home, the sidewalls still have mud, so it looks
like the I have just enough clearance to run these tire now that I've made the
adjustments.

If possible, I'm going to get 195 or 185 series with the next set.  What is
interesting is that the tires came from the Bus Depot, and they only advertise
the 205/65-15s (which is why I didn't get narrow tires) for the Comtrac's, yet
they shipped 205/70s.  I wonder if that means they can get narrower sizes,
too.

Greg U
1968 Kombi tin-top camper
.
.
.


On May 27, 2011, at 7:48 PM, Robert Mann wrote:
>
> Greg,
> 	I feel with some urgency that you should act on Bob's advice
>> put the 65's on the front and the 70's on the rear
>
> 	Different tyres on a given 'axle' are a serious error, deprecated by all
authorities I know of (except those who contest an eccentric 500-mile race on
a 1-direction track in Indiana ;-)).  The vehicle cannot handle symmetrically
-  skidding as readily on LH turns as on RH  -  unless the tyres on each
'axle' are very similar if not identical.
> 	Another, minor reason is that with the arrangement you have, the
differential will be working almost all the time when it would not normally
be.  You are forcing the L drive wheel to revolve slightly faster than the R,
on any straightaway (have I got the yank term right? <:-|).
> 	I agree with Bob too about which axle to slap the bigger tyres on.  Unless
you have unusually steep hills or heavy loads, slap the /70 on the drive
wheels, because this will save some fuel in cruising, demanding slightly lower
revs for a given cruise condition, and will slightly help you to exceed your
normal top speed when you get an inviting downhill stretch  ...  8-)
