Date: Wed, 1 Jun 2011 15:28:55 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] SOLVED - Problem with Vanagon lack of power

Actually I don't think that is entirely true, in the fact that I believe SM
did not limit the amount in 40 and 50 weight "second number" oils either, at
least that is what is/was commonly claimed on the net, not claiming to have
ever tried to find/read the spec.  The reality however is that it became true
in practicality.  There was a big flap a few years back as to the
legality that Valvoline was running and advertising their VR-1 oil with
1000-1100 or so, and it was stated OK as it was in their heavy weight "racing"
oils.  I think in practical reality most SN is in the same 800 range as SM
was, definitely in the thin weights, and by creep of specifications probably
for most manufacturers in the heavier weights as well as time goes by.
 
I guess the other thing to take hold of with all of this, is who the heck even
really knows what is in anything you are buying off the shelf.  If you are
buying Brad Penn or another custom "racing" or "classic car" oil advertising
higher levels, probably has a good chance of having it.  If you are adding
ZDDPlus like me, you have their claim that it "will raise SM to pre SF levels"
(presumeably to the 1500 ppm range.)  If you are buying something off the
shelf, who the heck knows, even if they have a 6 year old spec sheet on the
internet somewhere.
 
For years I ran mostly Rotella 15W40 diesel oil as it was a holdout and I
liked the weight year round in WV, never had any issues with it being diesel
oil so far as I could tell, got plenty of T4s I built to 150k miles and still
going.  But eventually when they went from CI to CJ they got a bit vague in
what they claimed.  To me adding the ZDDPlus still lets me know I'm probably
boosting to above 1100 ppm with a SM oil when I cheap out and only add half a
fill, though for some cars like my '77 Westy which I love, and the TR4A which
I thrash a bit, I still use a whole container.
 
Anyway YMMV.
 
John

--- On Wed, 6/1/11, Jim and Avalon <Wildthings(-at-)gorge.net> wrote:


The SN, GF-5 spec has no limit on the amount of ZDDP that can be added to oil
with first numbers higher than 10W and/or second numbers higher than 30.  The
SM, GF-4 spec did limit the amount of ZDDP in these oils, but the SN, GF-5
spec does not.
