Date: Wed, 1 Jun 2011 23:10:59 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Removing disintegrated engine seal from heads?

So preparing the '77 for this weekend to camp for the first time since I've
had it up here.  As I've now realized for the last 5-6 years as it has been
sitting in WV at the parents, some maintainence has been lacking, but dad had
actually been driving it as it has 92k miles and I thought it was about at
88k.  Anyway I had realized the fuel hoses and tires I felt were "new" were
last replaced by me in about '95-96, but worst of all is the engine seal.  I
replaced it last about the same time and somewhen it has given up the ghost. 
Now I figure this is more acute, not long term, and mostly during the on/off
transport and drive from Anchorage to Palmer (45 miles) last fall when my wife
brought it up here to surprise me.  In fact I stupidly lost about another foot
of it driving it last night 5 miles from the heated hanger I had it stored in
to home.  So about 1/3 - 1/2 of the seal is gone, clearly a good portion of it
sucked up the heater and
 blowing out the vents at me, which I could care less, but the implication
that the other good portion of which is now laying under the upper tins,
jamming up cooling fins on the heads, cylinders, and layered on the oil cooler
likely.
 
I'm looking for good suggestions here, the best I got is cranking the
compressor up to full 175psi and blowing from below hoping a lot blows back
out the fan and spark plug holes, but knowing what the inside of the cooling
scrolls on the fan housing look like, I don't have great hope.  Pulling the
engine and tins isn't in the cards here much as I love this thing.  I'm
wondering if I should try to blow up from below or down from the spark plug
holes first.  Up from below with a vac on a park plug hole?
 
I'll likely pull the main heater tube and blow it out and run a shop vac where
I can as well, probably a good time to blow out some asbestos anyway...
 
John
