From: "edr" <edr(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 6 Jun 2006 21:33:09 -0700
Subject: Crewcab Interior Panels

Hiya gang,
Just got a new, complete set of interior panels for my son's crewcab from
Wolfsburg West.  Everything fit great, and the last panel that we installed,
the side panel door,had the texturing on the wrong side.  In other words,
the only way the panel would fit, with the door latch in the proper place,
was with the smooth side out.  We assumed that the side door panel was one
of a pair used for a Kombi, and for the Crewcab application, they just
supplied one of the door panels, and in our case, they gave us the wrong
door panel.

So today, my son made the trip down to Wolfsburg West to exchange the panel.
The guy behind the counter told my son that that door panel was supposed to
be installed with the smooth side out.  He said that that was the proper way
to install it, and also the way it came from the factory.    My son found
that kinda hard to believe, so he asked if they could please exchange the
panel they gave us for the other side door panel, for a Kombi, with the
texture out.  They the sales guy said that they don't make side door panels
for Kombis, only for Crewcabs, and the panel that he gave us was the only
one that is made.  My son then asked what you do if you want to install door
panels in a Kombi, and they guy said that you have to get a large panel and
cut door panels to fit.

This makes no sense to me at all.  I'm not the smartest guy in the world,
but the panel they supplied us has a textured side, and a smooth side.  The
only way we can install this panel is with the smooth side out.  I would
assume that there is an extra step involved when manufacturing the panels to
texture the surface of the panel.  Why in the world would they take the
extra time, and go to the extra expense to texture the side that does not
show?  If they truly came with the smooth side out, on the side panel only,
wouldn't both sides of the panel be smooth?

I thought my son was going to tell me that the "Candid Camera" guy was going
to jump out from behind the counter and razz him, like "Oh Man, we really
had you going on that one", but that didn't happen.  Can anyone clue us in
about this?

Any comments would be greatly appreciated.

Ed
