From: "Michele & Gene Cornelius" <mizamook(-at-)sonic.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 30 Jul 2001 22:07:55 -0700
Subject: Wilde Cam? (and engine story) 

Hi All!

This is the first in a small series of questions and statements pertaining
to what I am doing...I figure that small question at a time gets more
chances of being seen and answered....

I've finally ripped into that "new" c/w, balanced 1600 sp that I got in the
'67 Kombi a year and some time ago.....my first reason for tearing it down
was that it leaked oil steadily while not being run.  The other reason was
that the distributor was backwards.  And the under-the-cylinders air
deflectors weren't there...basically, my suspicions that I had good reason
to check everything out meself were proved well-founded, as I was scraping
the orange silicone gunk out of places it shouldn't be...(in the pressure
relief plugs?!)...the guy had siliconed the oil plate to the case with no
gaskets (neither the cardboard or the copper), and no strainer!  One of the
rod nuts was loose (I noticed it turning when I brushed it with a finger),
and to top it all off, the inside of the case was gratingly filthy, and the
crankshaft was scored and the bearings were all scored and worn!  This from
a motor that had supposedly 10-20 miles on it!

So the crank is at the machine shop getting reground, the rods, which were
not quite round on the big end are getting reconditioned, and the machinist
is putting a deep stud in front of #3.  I've tapped the case for full flow
(System 1 filter and possibly an underneath the bus body cooler), and I'm
putting a Berg 1.5 sump on it.  I'm returning the relief springs to stock,
as the giant 30mm oil pump might cause a mess to happen if my reliefs don't
work right!

Now to my camshaft question:  There was a new Engle 100 cam in this engine
(I don't know if it was broken in right...???)...the machinist I was talking
to said that even an E100 is too severe for the heads/guides/valves/seats,
and will cause premature head failures.  Is this true?  I thought that the
E100 was considered "mild" as far as performance cams go, and would add just
a bit of "oomph" torque-wise.  Any comments on this?  It seems that it is
pretty common to use these cams.....I would love yoour thoughts!

Thanks!

Gene


