From: "Kyle" <cal4570(-at-)qwest.net>
To: "Wade's-Wagen's" <wades_wagens(-at-)qwest.net>,
Date: Tue, 31 Jul 2001 03:32:36 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] Oil plate thread size

You don't need to Heli-coil it. Run a bolt from the inside of the case down.
I think they are 6X1.0 mm thread, I may be FOS. Someone will surely jump in
if so. To install the bolts from the outside of the engine, drain oil remove
sump plate and gaskets, and studs. Run the appropriate tap up through the
holes from below to clean up the stripped threads and such. Take each of the
extra long bolts and install a wire on it with a wire feed welder. Hold the
wire to the tip of the threaded end, hold the bolt in the ground clamp and
pull the trigger. Center it up good, you don't want to melt threads. Once
the wire is zapped on, remove the ground clamp and feed out a couple inches
of wire then cut it off. You should end up with a bunch of bolts with a wire
handle. You want to bend a gentle hook in the wire and stick it down through
the stud holes from the top, then pull it through. You end up with the bolt
standing up in the hole, then turn the wire to thread the bolt down from the
top. This little procedure will surely have you learning French, but it does
work and sometimes it even goes easy. The hardest one by far is the one that
holds down the oil pickup, and getting the nut and washer safely out is much
harder than putting in the bolt. Once done, you have studs you can't pull
out. I wouldn't even think of installing a deep sump without these, and I
put them in everytime I build an engine. If you need the specially modified
wrench that I made for removing and tightening the pickup holddown nut from
down below, let me know. It is around here somewhere.

Kyle
57 singlecab
59 singlecab
61 Kombi
67 Westfailure
57 Oval


> Anyone know what size the 6 studs are that hold the plate cover on the
> bottom of the oil strainer? Some of mine are stripped. Really need to know
> what I should buy when I go to get the Helicoil stuff for it.


