Date: Thu, 29 Aug 2002 22:46:46 -0700
From: Jim Arnott <jrasite(-at-)eoni.com>
To: Floyd Cmmins <fccmmins(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] AIRS request

[...]

Mr. Cmmins,

You don't have a clue as to the philosophy behind the creation of the 
Aircooled Interstate Rescue Squad. Maybe Charley Ford will join in this 
discussion and bring you up to speed. (I'll offer this tidbit: Charley 
was instrumental in the formation of AIRS.  Charley does Americorps as a 
vocation.  He doesn't know 'send a check' to help the starving people of 
the world. He gives his whole being to help others.) 
<http://www.americorps.org/whoweare.html>

Think of AIRS as Americorps for the VW community. It was Charley's 
spirit of selflessly helping others that started this whole thing.

Read the AIRS intro:
<http://www.type2.com/~airswork/rescue/index.html>

"AIRS is dedicated to assisting the intrepid VW traveler when facing the 
occasional breakdown (of either yourself or your trusted VW). AIRS is a 
loosely knit group of volunteers of varying abilities who take the time 
to help other drivers in need. AIRS is NOT a loan, babysitting, bail, or 
towing service. If you need any of those types of things you might do 
well to look elsewhere. If you need help with your VW,or want to meet 
someone new that is willing, this is a place you can turn to when on the 
road."

Read the F.A.Q.:
<http://www.type2.com/~airswork/rescue/faq.html>

"What is the Purpose of A.I.R.S.?

"The purpose of the group is to promote the driving of your Volkswagen 
Type 2 bus (Late or Early model) as well as other VW's.  We do this by 
offering assistance for a fellow VW pilot traveling from one locale to 
another.

"What do you mean by "assistance"?

"This "assistance" can be rendered in times of crisis such as 
breakdowns. In fact, the group was formed after a fellow list member 
Steve Dolan,  who at the time was traveling across country, had engine 
problems.  A group of us let the mailing list know about his dilemma and 
the response was so great, it was obvious the time was right to form 
this group.

"The "assistance" might also be rendered as fellowship (the best kind in 
my opinion).  On the type2 list there are many people who each day 
converse with one another via e-mail.  These people sometimes pass right 
through each others cities and do not even know they are that physically 
close. A.I.R.S. promotes the meeting of these members."

I assume that you are not on the AIRS list.  Being 'charitable' means to 
me that I will help to the limit of my comfort zone.  A stranger calls 
at 10 pm on a Friday night from a hundred miles away.  I phone diagnose 
to the limit of my ability.  I direct to the nearest known *good* 
service facility. I may load up my tools, but probably not.

Someone like Britt Grannis or Charley Ford (or Susan or Steve or about a 
hundred other folks) makes the same call.  I grab tools, round up 
friends and hit the road.

Comfort zone.

When your perfectly maintained, pristine, new T5 bus pukes its guts out 
here in the wild west, I sincerely hope that the starving people of the 
world are there to help you.

Not everyone on this little blue ball has the wherewithal to drive a 
perfect vehicle.  Some of us drive buses that are way less than perfect. 
Some of us drive buses that are disasters looking for a circumstance. 
Many of us don't know the difference between something so basic as fuel 
injection and a carburator.  Most all of us on these lists are driving 
vehicles that are 23 to nearly 50 years old.  Things break. When we 
least expect it.  AIRS was set up as a network to provide 'support' when 
things don't go as planned.  "Support" can mean many things.  One thing 
that "support" doesn't include is criticism of another's circumstances 
or choices.

In Susan's case, what was needed was for a couple folks on her route to 
pick up the phone and call the local parts house and ask if there was an 
alternator for a '78 bus in stock. Call the local shop and ask if they 
might have time to install said alternator. Pass the info. That's all 
that was needed.

As it turned out, Susan chose to continue her journey to a locale where 
she *knew* that there would be competent service available. Had the 
'problem' turned more serious, she would have dealt with it in an 
appropriate manner. Maybe with the help of AIRS, probably without.

Sincerely,

Jim Arnott
WetWesties
Union, OR

Floyd Cmmins wrote:
> Regardless of whether the lady knew the bus had trouble when she left, 
> how can anybody justify continuing a long trip in such a fashion once it 
> is known that there is trouble?  Should anybody really expect other 
> people to look out for them when they are taking measures like this?  
> This is why I don't much like the AIRS list.  I mean, if somebody with a 
> decent VW with no known trouble breaks down, then sure, I'd like to help 
> them once.  But having trouble hundreds of miles from the destination 
> means you stop and get it fixed, and probably pay for it.  I can't get 
> much charitable feeling for somebody who is driving on old clunker bus 
> across the country when they could have bought a 92 Toyota for the same 
> amount, I mean, come on, this life ain't Disney World!  Love your bus, 
> but be realistic.  I'll save my charity for the starving people in the 
> third world.  Of course I am glad she made it where she was going okay.  FC

