Date: Fri, 30 Aug 2002 09:01:04 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Phil Cappellini <philcappellini(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Media or Sandblast?


>I have recently purchased a very restorable 1972 westy. Therefore, my 
>first concern is ensuring that the underside is solid and clean. So I am 
>considering either media or sandblasting the underside, before repainting it.
>
>Any recommendations on which is better? Has anyone done it out of there 
>own garage? Any nightmare stories I should know before I start?

I am a do it all myself kind of guy and have done ALOT of sandblasting on 
my cars and VW's and I have worked jobs that required me to do it for them. 
That said I would not do my own sandblasting unless it is a question of 
economics (your labor is cheaper than their labor and you can't afford to 
pay anyone to do it for you).

Here's my reasons: you will typically only have access to dinky home 
improvement size equipment. It takes alot of air to sandblast. Typically 
siphon sandblasters are used by us shadetree folks and they are picky about 
humidity and trash in the sand (they get clogged up). The tips wear out 
often (maybe a couple or three per job). Typically they don't move a whole 
lot of sand without a refill. You have to capture your sand, filter it and 
reuse it unless you've got alot of $$$ to buy alot of sand. The pressurized 
sandblaster is better than the siphon type.

You will find sand in your personal nether regions for a couple of weeks. I 
prefer sand to not be there... You will also find sand in your house for 
weeks so I would not do it anywhere near my house, my other car, or my dog. 
I wear ALOT of clothes, goggles, a hat, and a clear welding helmet. USE A 
RESPIRATOR - I know a fellow that suffers from what he describes as silica 
poisoning - basically breathed ALOT of paint/rust/dirt/dust/sand/etc. back 
when he sandblasted daily (1 man shop) for a living w/o any lung protection.

Generates alot of noise. Use earplugs.

It's too hot to do it in the summer and too wet to do it any other time. 
<grin!>

So  - - - what would I do? If it was a small batch of pieces (not bodywork) 
I would shop around for any old sandblaster person. I discovered locally 
that a monument company (makes cemetery headstones) will do batches cheap. 
You are basically dealing with the foreman of the shop and his judgement - 
and not a set rate usually - - - so smooch up and be friendly. The company 
I used was cheapest if I brought a big pile (engine tin, brackets, muffler, 
etc.) and let them do it at their convenience. Also cheapest if it is paid 
in cash... <grin!>
Do you want a receipt sir? Nope. Thank you. See you again soon with some 
more work I expect.

For the body I would recommend a real sandblasting service because if a 
body is done improperly (too much air pressure, nozzle too close to the 
body, sandblasting in one place too long) you WILL have a warped and wavy 
body panel. That is VERY visible on a big flat paneled vehicle like a VW 
van. Would not be a big deal on the bottom of the bus.

I cannot recommend materials but there is ALOT of information on the web 
about this. They use nutshells, baking soda, sand, glass beads (usually on 
engine parts), plastic media. They all have advantages and disadvantages. I 
got a quote on a VW Beetle to have it blasted with baking soda. I was to 
deliver it with the fenders off, body off the pan, stripped out and ready 
for blasting and the price was $600-$800 (I don't know exactly as it was 3 
years ago). Shop around - this figure seemed high to me.

Some of the blasting materials will only attack paint BUT not remove rust. 
Sand will do both BUT sand will actually remove a thin layer of metal too! 
Plastic media and the same will enable an experienced blaster to remove 
LAYERS of paint. They can actually return the vehicle is the factory primer!

Okay so you want to blast the bottom of the bus. Realize that everything 
that contains oil or grease (suspension, shifter, all the cables, engine 
and tranny) stand a very good chance of being contaminated with sandy grit. 
The plastic media might be a good solution but ask the experienced. Expect 
to take it all apart and regrease/clean/replace the plastic parts when you 
are done. Might as well take it apart ahead of time.

Lastly I would question if they will want to be under a vehicle they are 
blasting. All that sand and grit flying back into your face is not a fun 
job. Maybe they will, maybe they won't.

Could you deliver the bus shell minus suspension and drivetrain? Maybe tilt 
it over on some sort of wooden frame made from 2x4 and 2x6 boards to 
support it at the bottom and top so that the body isn't hurt? We did this 
for a test with a junk bus with good results. We tilted it up on two wheels 
and balanced it. I could hold the bus in a balance by myself. We also used 
this method when we pulled an engine from a Beetle - 3 guys can roll a 
Beetle up on two wheels. For the bus if we had a wooden frame to hold it 
tilted a little further over (and no tires to roll on) it would have been 
stable I think.

http://www.google.com/search?q=sandblasting%2Bfaq&sourceid=opera&num=0&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8

Good luck!!!!


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


