From: "Will Anderson" <will.anderson(-at-)tetratech-ffx.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 30 Aug 2002 11:06:58 -0400
Subject: Re: AIRS/travel/survival


"
Kinda like the people who think they can go mountain
climbing with just
a cell phone as 'support' "

Can't help but toss in my 2 cents.

Bad alternator won't stop you if you drive in the daytime.  And if you have
a charger and charge at night, more power to ya.

In '99 I drove from Ft. Collins CO to Butte MT with the generator light on
in my '70 Westy.  That was over 5 days and about 1000 miles through the
Tetons and Yellowstone on the scenic route!  Granted, the AutoZone rebuild I
bought 3 days earlier in Dodge City, KS was probably charging at least a
little bit, from the sparks it made.  Finally found a new Bosch at Brax
Import Parts, a VW junkyard in Divide, MT (the guys there were busy mantling
a new longblock for a starry-eyed girl with a bus who ran a brand new engine
out of oil on a steep grade going westbound near Butte, put a rod through
the case, really ugly mess).

They helped me get the fan nut off my Autozone generator with their air
wrench.  "Dual port?" Brax asked.  "No, Single port," I replied.  Brax said,
"This is a dual port fan, and its cracked too, let me get you a single port
one."  So they put on a single port fan on the new Bosch generator and off I
went.  15,000 miles later I was contemplating the various reasons why I was
overheating.  One reason is the fact that I have a doghouse shroud, stock on
the '71 DP, that takes a deeper fan; the smaller "single port fan" will fit
but does not fill the space and thus has lot less cooling.  But 15,000
miles!

To the point, just because everything isn't perfect, doesn't mean that the
laws of physics will bring a VW to a screeching halt.  And Dan can probably
go for 15,000 miles on a leaky main seal, though his clutch might slip on
steep hills.   We all are striving for that perfect bus with everything to
spec. But IMHO, a trip can still be made under imperfect circumstances, if
the driver is aware and attentive to the issues.  And checks the oil.

Will
'70 Westy "Rebertha", a good customer of AAA+ but no cell phone

"It's even worse than it appears, but it's alright."







