Date: Thu, 28 May 2009 13:09:11 -0700
To: VB list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: waaaaaaaaay too rich

hello all - i am attempting to solve some running issues with my 70 
bus; namely, that it was mushy off idle (or would stall at lights). 
also, ran too rich.
the bus is a 1600 w/ stock muffler and a vac advance dizzy. worked ok 
except for the richness ... which i think also accounts for the bog, 
correct?  carb is an H30/31 purchased new from john connally 3 years 
ago.
has been cleaned recently. some water in the gas; no gunk.


so i researched all my archived posts and checked on the jetting; in 
the desert i had put a 125main, 125 emulsion and 55 pilot and idle. 
ran a tad rich then, but kept it cool. no bogs, no black smoke.

i took these jets out, and per many archive posts and a vw bulletin, 
put in a 117.5 main, 130z emulsion and 55 pilot/idles.  smokey, and 
will start chugging and POUR out black smoke and then die. pranking 
with the idle speed and mix screws on the left side have some effect, 
but not much.  will roar happily at speed.

i then checked the float level, cut-off valve level and fuel pump.  i 
added a shim to the cut-off, and one to the fuel pump. fuel pressure 
should now be lower, and the valve quicker to stop flow.

still no go.

what puzzles me is this: the bus was RUNNING, but overrich before i 
started to fool with it. when the carb is cold, it will fire up and 
idle fine, but as SOON as you start to fool with the idle or mix 
screws, it floods and \wants to die.  huge choking black clouds fill 
the neighborhood. the motor lopes and then quits.  it seems as though 
the gas is just dumping down the manifold no matter what adjustments 
i make!  certainly, the big jump in main sizes should have helped, 
but the symptoms are exactly the same.

i am moving and need to get the beast running, so any road to follow 
here would be of help. i'm going to pull the carb tonight (again!) 
and clean it (again!) and see if that helps.

if not, any portland, oregon gurus want to stop by and gawk, or does 
anyone have a rec for a good shop on the east side?  i have a house 
to pack and move and one to remodel, and am running out of time for 
the bus to be dead.


-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
