Date: Thu, 28 May 2009 19:32:52 -0700
To: veewee111(-at-)aol.com
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Cc: VB list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] waaaaaaaaay too rich

>Hi Craig,
>Would:
>1.? Install a fuel pressure gauge to see what the pressure really is.

half my tools are in the new house - the pressure gauge being in that half :P

>2.? Try a differant float.

as are my floats. however, this is a new float from a rebuild kit 
purchased less than a year ago; float seems to sit properly, and 
isn't sinking or leaking.   doesn't mean that it isn't out of 
adjustment, but it seems to be functioning properly...

>3.? Check that choke is opening.

that it does.

>4.? Try a differant float valve.

old float valve felt wet when i removed it (like too high a gas level 
in bowl) so i did replace it with a brand new one. used extra-thick 
washer.


>5.? Make sure the accelerator pump nozzle is not partly clogged.

my pump nozzle shoots a nice clean jet riiiiight between the 
butterfly and the throat when activated. seems to working fine (i 
measured the output once, can't find where i wrote it).  nozzle is 
stamped either 50 or 60, it is a lil scratched   there  so hard to 
tell.



>Lastly do you have jetting gauges?? If not your 125 main jet could 
>really be a 135!
>E&B


no, no jet guages.

however, the behavior is the same with the  125 and the 117 (visibly 
smaller hole).

i also returned the fuel pump shims to the one above, one below the 
phenolic spacer that i had before.  returned idle/pilot jets to 50. 
left the smaller main and bigger emulsion tube for now.

pulled the plugs; they were a clean, dry black.  fuel pump and rod 
were purchased new  8 months ago; i recall setting the proper rod 
level then.


what is happening is this: i start the car, it high idles fine, 
although rich; gradually the choke comes off and the rpms drop. AS 
SOON as i go to adjust   either  the speed screw or the mixture 
screw, i start to get thick black/grey clouds of smoke, rough running 
and the engine starts trying to die.  further screwing, either in or 
out has no effect.  i have squirted a gallon or so of carb cleaner 
down those holes... doesn't mean that there isn't crud in there 
somewhere, but crud should STARVE it, not overfeed it, right?

i'm pretty baffled.  but then, carbs always hated me.
-- 
"I dont mean to sound bitter, cold or cruel, but  I am so that's how 
it comes out." - Bill Hicks
