From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 28 May 2009 23:23:24 -0400
Subject: hehr window de-construction

So luckily for me the local hardware store did not have an aluminum channel
to match the existing one. That means Im not going to build 5 new frames.
;)

After taking these windows apart I see the way they are constructed, sealed
etc.

There is a rectangular frame that is made from > c-channel. Each leg is
approximately >. The corners have tabs, and they appear to be pop-riveted
together or spot welded.  This frame then had its corners rounded, probably
via a table top belt sander. So imagine the bottom of the frame is on the
inside.

Apparently this was then screwed to the window openings in the bus. They
used a sort of white glazing compound as a seal. This seal failed. There is
not a lot of bearing. It was recommended to use butyl tape here instead? Im
going to take this to my bus tomorrow, and see how it fits.

Next there is the window component. This is actually two more parts. One
is fixed. This fixed piece had a fat bead of glazing compound at the top.
This fixed part had 6 exposed screws going through the fixed part the
glazing compound and then into the alum c-channel frame.

This fixed piece also had a rubber/silicone/plastic(not sure what it was
made of, but its all dried up and stiff now) gasket on the other three
sides. This was adhered to the fixed piece, and then a bead of sealant
between it and the c-channel piece, then 7 more screws to pinch the fixed
piece of the window assembly to the c-channel pieces.

Then the external moving part of the window just slides on a hinge, and the
crank attaches to this.

I have posted some pictures to thesamba.com to illustrate this. Search for
hehr windows. I just got some gaskets from Vintage Trailer supply, they look
like an exact match, except better material, that hopefully will not dry
out.

I am looking forward to windows that are quieter and more air-tight, and
that don't rattle.

I'm getting them soda blasted tomorrow morning, hopefully.

-Kevin

'65 kombi
'69 single cab
Jamaica Plain, MA
