Date: Sun, 31 May 2009 15:37:45 -0700
To: VB list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: waaaaaaaaay too rich  update

tore out the carb again...  sprayed cleaner in every thing that could 
be sprayed. check ball rattles. pump (a 50 nozzle) still squirts fine.
left in the 117.5 main, put in 50 idle/pilot, 130 emulsion tube.  put 
2 thick shims under the fuel pump to lower pressure.  checked the 
float and level... all ok.  toyed with the check valve; when i shut 
it off with my fingertip and blew into it hard, i could hear a 
veeeery faint whistle.  tightened  - and i mean 'darn near split the 
casting tightened' the valve into the carb top and the whislte went 
away.    peened a few brass plugs in the carb body that might have 
been leaking gas onto the manifold.  put a few gallons of fresh gas 
in to liven up things.

checked the aircleaner preheat and adjusted it to be half open at 
start-up.  replaced some old rubber caps on various vacuum ports on 
the carb.  made sure the line to the dizzy can was solid, and points 
moved.

fired it up.  idled right away. as soon as the choke came off, i 
turned in the speed screw to about 900 rpm, and began to fool with 
the mix screw... which really did little until almost fully in.  lots 
of gas still in exhaust, and bogging and spurts of black smoke when i 
hit the throttle. but it didn't die at idle, nor did it slowly chug 
to s smoke-filled stop.

drove it around the block a few times.  the a/f meter from 
aircooled.net still reads a near-solid blue at idle or low speed 
(rich), but was going to orange and red at throttle (lean).  car 
would perceptibly  'pinch out'  and lack power at upper end, and made 
a few bangs.   fine at stops, still have to flutter the gas pedal at 
starts to avoid a stall.  but it DOES run, which is better than 
yesterday!

so i apparently need to find me some 45 idle/pilot jets, and go down 
on the emulsion tube to a 120 or 125. hell, mebbee even lower!    i 
have no idea why it runs so rich at idle with a 117.5.


any other thought on what numbers to try and dial this in better?
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
