From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 3 Jun 2009 13:52:03 -0400
Subject: hehr window blasting update & painting

The person who was soda blasting my windows called me yesterday, and he said
it was not working as he anticipated. The surface ends up with a pretty
rough texture-even just using sodablasting equipment. He only did part of
one window.

I picked them up this morning, and he was right. It is way too textured a
surface. He said bead blasting would probably give the same texture.

I figured the next option was some polishing compounds, or wet sandpaper. I
tried using 300 grit wet/dry sandpaper with some water. That seems to be the
best option.

I was able to smooth out the part that he had blasted. It is pretty close.
The windows are rather beat up, so I figure at this point I am just going to
clean them as much as possible or rather as much as I have the patience for.
I sanded them all down with the 300 grit paper, and some emery cloth in
certain sections tat would not really be visible.

I think I will let them sit a bit. I will clean down the table I have been
working them on, and then do a final cleaning with just some water and 3m
scour pads. Then dry out/clean all crevices with some blown air. Then start
installing the weather stripping. I plan on using weather strip adhesive for
the black gasket, this gasket also has screws going through it. I will use
the butyl tape for the window to the frame connection. The grey gasket-I'm
not sure if I will use any adhesive with this, I'll have to see how the
gasket sits. Originally they did not use any adhesive with this, and I think
the shop I brought the gasket at-suggested no adhesive. I still need to
order the glass for this.

As for the top of the window-where they previously used glazing compound-I
think I'll use the same. It held strong for over 40 years, I'll be happy if
I get another 40 years out of the new layer of compound.

Then for the frame to body connection. Previously they used something that
looks like glaszing compound. I don't think I'll use that again. This was
the major failing part as far as water leaking. I am going to look today at
how much surface is contacting here. I think Erice & Barb suggested butyl
tape here as well, but I think some sort of gasket sealing thing that I can
apply with a caulking gun. I'll look into different products this week.

Otherwise I am going to go over and look at my bus, a final walk-thru, a
final masking, to make sure everything is masked properly, and has been
prepped properly. Then off to the painters this week, either Thursday or
Friday.

-Kevin

'65 kombi
'69 single cab
Jamaica Plain, MA 
