Date: Sun, 25 Mar 2007 12:27:53 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: LED bulbs  was  Re: [VB] Re: Speedo Cellophane

>From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
>Date: Sun, 25 Mar 2007 00:32:04 EDT
>
>With an LED you can only apply positive voltage one way to get them to
>work.  The other way and they do not go bad, they just will not work
>wired that way.

I agree that LEDs won't work with reversed polarity.  Whether they
simply don't work or don't work AND blow up when connected that way is
something of a crap shoot.

>Going to see if with Dremel, epoxy, and a  soldering iron if these bulbs
>can be rewired

If you can solder really tiny, put a surface-mount bridge rectifier in
there - that way they will work on either polarity DC or even AC.

>For some reason the 4, 6, and 9 LED bulbs have the same Wattage rating.

It might be interesting to measure with a meter and compare.  Most people
selling LEDs have never heard of Ohm's law.

>There are a lot more bulbs to look at on this website,  and other
>suppliers of LED bulbs.

I'll head this one off right now:

DON'T PUT LED REPLACEMENT "BULBS" IN YOUR EXTERIOR LIGHTS.

The reflectors that are on there now are designed to work with the
size, shape, and location of the filament in an incandescent lamp.  If
you install a replacement lamp made of clustered LEDs, you will
drastically REDUCE the total light output from the lamp/reflector/lens
assembly.  Guaranteed.

Yes, I know there are production cars with exterior LED lighting.  In
this case, the LED/reflector/lens assemblies have been ENGINEERED FROM
THE GROUND UP to work together and produce the correct light output at
all viewing angles, input voltages, etc.  Slapping an LED-cluster lamp
in a reflector that wasn't designed for it does not count as
"engineering".

Yes, there is even a 2008 Audi that will have white LED headlamps.
Again, these were designed from the ground up.  I am waiting for the
aftermarket to produce a cluster of white LEDs with an H4 or Sealed
Beam base and sell it as an "LED HEADLAMP!!1!" that "FITS ALL CARS!!!"
They won't mention the fact that at anything over 10 mph, your stopping
distance will be further than you can see with these lamps.  After
enough people get run over, the CPSC will get around to prohibiting
the sale of these lamps.

Matt Roberds
