Date: Sun, 25 Mar 2007 18:16:42 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: LED bulbs

>From: "Rennie Wible" <volksdragon(-at-)earthlink.net>
>Date: Sun, 25 Mar 2007 11:36:42 -0800
>
>Has anyone done the "engineering" (LOL) on the tailights for the pre-'62
>bus taillights?

Nobody's done the real engineering and it will probably never be done.
There probably aren't enough '61 and down Buses still on the road to
justify the multi-thousand-dollar cost of getting a new lamp/reflector/
lens assembly certified to FMVSS 108 so it could have the DOT and SAE
markings.  (There were about 830,000 Buses built through 1961, of which
about 146,000 were imported to the US.  Even if 20% of those Buses are
still on the road, that's only about 29,000 vehicles.)

>My friend has a set of LED replacement 1157 bulbs in his Vanagon Syncro
>and they are fantastic!  Very bright

as long as you're viewing them from directly behind the van.  If you
try it at any of the other half-a-dozen viewing angles that are called
for in the spec, they suck.

>and with the lack of heat, much better for the lenses.

Vanagons must be really sturdy if the cost of getting rear-ended is
less than the cost of replacing the rear light lenses periodically.

>The 62-71 buses have bad enough taillight illumination, but the pre '62
>buses are plain unsafe on the roads.

That's right.  They have dim tail lights, dim headlights, single-circuit
drum brakes, manual steering, cranky carburetors, weird 6 V batteries,
and no air bags.  They should all be converted to 12 V with LED tail
lights, HID headlights, four-wheel discs with ABS, power rack and
pinion, multiport fuel injection, air bags, DVD players for every seat,
and cup holders.

Alternatively: Buy a Chrysler minivan; it'd be a lot cheaper and quicker
than doing all that stuff to a Bus.

>I drool over the LED lights that the MTA buses use, if only they were
>bus-sized!

If you really wanted LED tail lights on a Bus, using some of the
"standard" ones like big trucks use would probably be the best way.
If you took out the stock tail light housing completely, you could make
a "sandwich" with an aluminum plate on either side of the body opening
and through-bolts to clamp the plates to the body.  Then fasten the
LED lamp to the outside plate.  Put male push-ons on the wires coming
from the LED lamp and add a ground jumper.  That way you get legal
LED tail lights, plus it's easy to go back to stock.

Matt Roberds
