Date: Wed, 28 Mar 2007 10:05:47 -0700
From: Avocado Tom <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Alternator Pulley Failure (update)

Volks,

First: Thanks for all the input on my pulley going south.  To answer some of your questions:

1. This pulley was a stock German pulley.  

2. I had 15 shims (some between the pulley halves, some outside the nut) which sounds like it could have been too many.  

3. Endplay is at 0.005 (w/i spec. and not too bad).

4. Alternator was tightened down.

This weekend I pulled the engine to install my spare alternator and found that the pulley on the alternator did not line up with the crank pulley.  Not even close. The alternator pulley extends probably a half inch past the crank pulley.  So I suspect the lack of alignment caused the failure.

From the archives Im assuming that my mis-alignment problem is probably related to:
1)	Different backing plates between alternators and generators.
2)	Different fan hubs between beetles and buses (George Lyle said that this makes a difference when converting from generator to alternator, but Im not sure how it matters in alignment issuescan you afford any more details on this George?)
3)	Potentially the use of an aftermarket crank pulley which might seat closer to the block.
4)	Mismatch of cylinder head tin with fan shroud (Im using a dog house shroud on a single-port, but Im not sure what this tin came off of and it could have been a type-3 engine or something weird, and had a weird fan shroud offset, perhaps?)

Im thinking that its either a backing plate or fan hub issue.  I tried swapping in a backing plate from a 38A generator (a dished inward backing plate, compared to the dished outwards one that was on there) and that provided *too much* offset in the wrong direction, so thats probably not it.  Regardless,  Ill play around in the garage over the next few days and see if theres anything I can figure out along these lines.  Hopefully Ill figure it out and post back to the list then.  

In the meantime, does anyone have a source for alternator bearing carriers?  i.e. the part the screws on to the face of the alternator and which the shaft passes through and containing the front bearings.  Ive got two alternators with torn up faces, both of which worked prior to pulley failure, but neither of which I trust on the long term.  (And Id rather not drop the $200+ on a new alternator if I dont *have* to)

Thanks again Volks.  Ill report back as I figure stuff out.

Cheers,
   Tom

---
 "We are MoTown. We are professionals. We're here to get the job done"
