From: "ric" <uncleric(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "ric" <uncleric(-at-)earthlink.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 31 Mar 2007 21:30:10 -0400
Subject: Re: No fire from coil -update

Thanks for all the input people.

I did a trouble shoot again today. Strange.

Started with the battery. Bought a new one and asked the guy at flaps how
often do you see a coil bad out of the box. He said "rarely but anything
possible, so here take another for free to check it out" (he wanted out of
there as it was closing time).

Put the battery in and wired the positive to the positive on the coil. Neg to
ground. Touched the coil wire while disconnecting the neg. NO spark. Replaced
with the coil and tried again. Got a little tiny spark- this is good. I am on
to something.

Took the steering column off to see if I could coax a bit of function out of
the switch to try things out and was fairly successful. I was able to get it
to turn over part of the time. No spark at coil wire.

Looked at the points again and they are opening and closing, Checked voltage
at pos terminal of coil. 12 volts with key on.

Checked condenser and is bad (again a really old NEW part), so put in the old
condenser and it tested good! No spark at coil. Bummer.

Frustrated, I grabbed a dizzy out of the parts box and stuck it in. Good spark
on hand crank!

Had to redo the firing order as is one of those 009 type dizzys with a single
advance, but fired right up and ran just fine. Go figure.

I told you I hated that dizzy.

Ric

  ----- Original Message -----
  From: ric
  To: type2(-at-)type2.com
  Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
  Sent: Wednesday, March 28, 2007 7:43 PM
  Subject: No fire from coil


  My bus:

  1969 1600 SP,

  is not my daily driver but my RV. I went to start it a few weeks ago and she
had a dead battery. Figured I would charge it or get a new one no big deal.
Last week put the battery booster and she turned right over but would not fire
up. Since my dizzy has always been a trouble spot I replaced points and
condenser. Still hooked to the battery booster, turns over just fine, no joy.

  Today was the first time I had the time to trouble shoot it and again hooked
up the booster and looked for fire at the coil by removing the connection at
the dizzy and looking for spark grounded it the shroud. No spark. Went to
flaps and bought a new coil. Replaced and still no spark. Next step was to run
a wire from the positive terminal of battery to the pos side of coil. Horn
starts honking so have power. Disconnected annoying horn. Still no spark from
the coil. Coil wire? Replaced it with another used one. Still no spark.

  So I either have two bad coil wires or a coil bad out of the box.

  She is hooked up to the battery charger right now is not taking the charge,
so this is one dead battery.

  Any ideas? Camping season is upon me with no crusty bus to drive.

  Having a bad day. The ignition switch was also bad so I replaced it before I
did the above and it worked just fine. - For about 20 engine starting
attempts. It broke that fast. Where should I buy a good one?

  Thanks for any help with this problem.

  Ric
