From: "Martin Jr., D. Michael" <martinm(-at-)montevallo.edu>
To: Ned Savoie <ned(-at-)harbourlight.com>, List - Type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 12 Mar 2009 14:51:11 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] Painting inside air scoops

In reply to...
Subject: [T2] Painting inside air scoops
From: Ned Savoie [mailto:ned(-at-)harbourlight.com]
Sent: Thursday, March 12, 2009 8:07 AM
To: List - Type 2

> Has anyone devised a good way to treat surface rust and paint inside
> of the air scoops?

-------

When I painted mine last summer, I masked the air flow area from within the
engine compartment area and did simple prep with wire brush, sanding pads,
etc...  Then I treated the area with MasterSeries by using a long handled foam
paint brush. (Actually, I painted the entire bus with MasterSeries with a
roller and foam brush.)  Then sprayed with high build primer.  Then painted
the bus.
(See pictures of the painting at
http://picasaweb.google.com/T2Wagen/Feelmore#)

The great thing about MasterSeries is that it is not a multi-stage product.
(http://www.masterseriesct.com/)
It kills, treats, and seals any rust in one application.  It is self leveling.
So foam brush application is not noticeable.  I did not do my bus this time,
but you can actually thin it and spray it as you would paint.  I have done
this in the past on some of my other projects and have actually seen others do
it as well.  They use the stuff commercially on bridges and I have many
friends who have used it for years on their street rods.

A few warnings...  Wear gloves.  Don't wear clothes you don't want to be
treated with the paint.  If you get it on anything, it will be there for good.
In other words, your hands may have to exfoliate before you see the paint
gone.  It does clean up with lacquer thinner if you clean it before it dries.
Use disposable brushes and I would recommend the better quality brushes since
the el-cheapos don't hold-up well.  If you do spray, be sure to have a good
air filter mask and cover yourself completely.  Also, if the close the can,
put a layer of plastic wrap between the lid and can or it will bond the two
together making the lid almost impossible to remove.

Good luck...

Peace,

Michael Martin in Montevallo
1971 Westy - Feelmore
