Date: Fri, 13 Mar 2009 18:19:18 +0000 (UTC)
From: James Neumeister <boletivore(-at-)comcast.net>
To: Courtney Hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>
Cc: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>, wetwesties
Subject: Re: [T2] Small Town USA, where are they?

In Oregon, my hometown (sort of,B I was in the boonies) Astoria,B Oregon, if
you visitB have lunch at the Columbian Cafe with Chef Uriah Hulsey.



Other great places include Burns, Frenchglen, and Fields , and while your in
Frenchglen you might as well drive the 18 miles to the end of Oregon's highest
road.B  While in this area be warned that the road through the Hart Mountain
B Antelope Refuge may be the worst road I have ever driven down, our car was
never the same, loud and squeaky, if I drove my bus down this road I would put
it in first and go make a sandwich, allowing at least 8 hours to go B the 80
miles.



Oakridge, Oregon, nice place, I have been saying for years that it needs
something, that an opportunity exists, and a few months ago they got a new
brewpub, the museum is ghetto-fun.



While in the Oakridge area you have a warm springs and two hotsprings.



Parkdale, Oregon is a cool little town that I only recently found myself while
visiting the Elliot Glacier Brewpub, one of the most relaxing places, we were
on a Mt. Hood loop brew tour complete with designated driver, leaving Parkdale
was when things started getting really funny.



Vernonia is still cool, visit the Jewell Elk Refuge while in the area, usually
packed.



I like Tillamook, and Garibaldi, stop in Bay City for a dozen kumomoto oyster
shooters, get them served in shot glasses to miss the grit experience.



I want to spend more time in Baker City and visit Barley Brown's Brewpub, plus
visit all of the Oregon Trail touristy things and tour all of the ghost towns
to the north and south, Paint Your Wagon was "filmed on location" here and the
museum has a huge display dedicated to the movie, the highlight for me was
reading a newspaper story about a locals response to working o n the movie
with hippies and having to get permission from work to grow a beard and the
scandal that was caused by wearing his beard into church and the general
store.



Washington.



White Salmon is nice and still just before it gets touristy, I was let off
here by a really nice policeman that understood that I didn't see the sign to
slow down, he explained that it wasn't an uncommon problem and told me to have
a nice day, I owe this town, go here.



Centralia is cool and there are a lot of nice towns around to the west,B  I
suggest theB lumber B ghosts touring book
http://www.amazon.com/Lumber-Ghosts-Historic-Pacific-Northwest/dp/0871088541/
ref=pd_sim_b_11 B for Oregon and Washington small towns, I think this book (it
is loaned out so I can't check) has my real hometown listed, Brownsmead,
Oregon.



Port Orford has Griffs on the Dock restaurant which isB a total trip, the food
is still really good, and it has a little museum, I found this picture
http://www.flickr.com/photos/webchick/3279424634/



I know you weren't asking about California but I really like drive between
Cedarville and Eagleville, and up over Duck Lake Loop Road, if you are running
a 6-ply tire, I was just thinking about this trip earlier this week and posted
some pictures to flickr, this was while I had my stepping stone to my bus, my
'86 Volvo 240 wagon
http://www.flickr.com/photos/boletivore/sets/72157615040793135/



The negative, stay away from La Pine, Prineville, Bend.



I am a huge Oregon geek, I could add to this for days on end, oh heah,
Paisley, Oregon and Summer Lake hotsprings, Joseph may have gone too far
downhill by now.


***So the Friday question is: Where are those little quaint towns from "Back
to
the Future" :-) where by God, you might not even lock your door?
