Date: Sat, 14 Mar 2009 09:48:32 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Courtney Hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Small Town USA, where are they?

I have written before about the unscrupulous VW custom shop that rebuilt my first engine. They used a flat oil cooler gasket at the oil sump pickup-to-case juncture instead of an O-ring and it never quite sealed. The result was that if the oil level got below that point and I was driving hard, the pump would lose its prime and I had to pour in extra oil as well as remove the idiot light sender and use a turkey baster to inject oil into the oil gallery there.

I had taken a spur-of-the-moment trip from my home in Seattle area to spend Saturday night at Nehalem Bay State Park campground. It was a lovely Saturday in spring. As I looked at my maps I dsicovered there was a ""shortcut""  (Note the double quotes!) from somewhere just west of Rainier cross-country to Nehalem. It chopped off the entire NW corner of the state and bypassed Astoria and Seaside and Cannon Beach! Great find - I'll try it.

The road runs along all the ridges of the mountains along the way. The two-inch line on the map, if accurate, and then straightened out would have easily stretched 24 inches or more! There were times that I swore I saw myself in the mirror, still partially on the previous switchback!

It eventually got to be upsetting as it was getting later in the day and the shadows growing longer. I increased my speed - no, I started hauling butt and being Speed Racer in the curves - until the red light came on. Uh-oh! Didn't top up the oil before I left home and now I was gonna pay for it!

When racing around curves there were several things happening: The speed of the crankshaft spinning creates a wind that tends to part the sea of oil and make the lowest level in the center - where that leak in the piping was. Hard cornering causes a shift in the oil level, again, away from center. Starting off with the oil level at nearly full on the dipstick was marginal at best, as I usually had to overfill by a quart to cover the leak in the pickup.

I found a logging road off of one of the switchbacks - and it had a chain across it so I had a good chance of NOT being run over by a log truck! - and I parked Bussy there as level as possible. I went to get a quart of oil from my stash and discovered there was none there. I went to the emergency stash and there was none. I began to have visions that were of a not very nice outcome!

I dug around in the ditches and found an empty oil bottle. I stood at the roads edge and waved the oil bottle at passers-by. I was amazed when somebody stopped (dead center in the traffic lane and in between 2 blind corners!) and got out, opened their trunk and gave me a bottle of oil! I thanked them and away they went. Well, I needed at least two quarts and should have a bit more for insurance, so I stayed the course and - you're not going to believe me - easily 8 out of 10 vehicles stopped! Some apologized for not having any oil. Some searched under the seats, in the trunk, or in the back of the truck... Really searched, grumbling that they were sure they had some. One person even turned around up the road a ways and came back, parked (again, in the road) and got out, asked me if it mattered what kind of oil it was, rummaged around in the trunk and handed me a quart, apologizing for not stopping initially!

I got all the oil I needed and was able to prime the pump and get things working once again, but I was tempted, very tempted to continue my study and see just how many people would stop and just how much oil I "could get!"  I decided that I had already proven to myself that there is a much higher "level of goodness" in the heart of the common man than I had evr imagined even though I had grown up in a very similar environment - both geographically and socially - to where I had found myself, stuck on that Oregon back-woods mountain road.

I think that anywhere people can be individuals instead of part of a mass group we tend to see each other and recognize our connections. In the cities or even the towns inundated with tourist flow people just never connect.

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
