Date: Mon, 16 Mar 2009 10:29:18 -0700
From: Ben Timmons <drben54(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: justthesells(-at-)yahoo.com
Subject: Helicoils?  Taps? Still shooting spark plugs....

Hi Jeff and all:

I followed the really good advice from the group, tightening the plug 
carefully after cleaning the threads.  I did NOT try a tap or 
heli-coils, since the tap set is at my x's and I'd have to buy another.

Last Sunday, after 300 miles, it shot out a plug again.  Looking 
closely, I see the plug is working out, not stripped.  Likely this means 
WORN threads but not stripped -- at least not quite yet.

I'd appreciate quite advice on tap sizes I need ("Horrible Freight" most 
likely as money is tight) and the size of the Heli-Coil kit. 

I need to move the bus this weekend and would like to travel in a week. 

Many thanks,

BEN

Joel Sell wrote:
> I've shot out a spark plug, too. It was a few years ago, but I remember I was driving to a week long concert and so I *had* to finish the last half hour of the trip on three cylinders (after traveling 14 hours) and then put in a heilacoil in the middle of a crowded camping spot. It IS possible to do it with the motor still in the van, but I would suggest at least pulling the offending head, checking for cracks and doing it right. If you have to repair it with the head and motor still in the bus, you will need to buy a tub of wheel bearing grease and as you SLOWLY (half turn or so at a time)re-tap the hole, make sure there's TONS of the grease on the head of the tap so it can hopefully collect the shavings that the tap will produce at it taps new threads for the insert/heilacoil. Buy a few rolls of paper towels and use a fresh paper towel to clean off the tap every time you unwind it. 
> Like I said, it does work. I've done it. I drove that bus thousands of miles after that without a problem and then sold it, so as far as I know there never was a problem. 
> Good luck.
> Joel in Philly 
>
>
>
>   


-- 
Ben Timmons
78 Westy, "Green Bean"
Sacramento, Ca 95820

Drben54(-at-)sbcglobal.net

(916) 599-3838 (Cell and Pager)
