Date: Sat, 21 Mar 2009 13:04:34 -0400
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
To: lima_1959(-at-)yahoo.com.br, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] type IV engine

Hi Lima,

I converted my dual carb engine to L-jetronic FI back in 2004. I used 
parts from other FI buses and it took about 12-15 hours to get the 
system installed and running smoothly.

You will need a complete FI system, including the FI fuel pump and the 
bus-side wiring harness running from the double relay to fuel pump and 
starter. You will also need to fabricate brackets for the fuel pump, air 
box, double relay and decel valve. The FI system will also need a 
threaded hole for the temp sender in the 3-4 side cylinder head.

Download the VW FI manuals from www.ratwell.com and study them 
carefully. They will give you a good feel for what is required. FI 
systems are easy to manage; for proper diagnosis you will need a 
compression gauge, a vacuum gauge, a fuel pressure gauge and a 
multimeter to measure voltage and resistance.

Pros: Starts without touching anything but the key. Smooth powerband and 
good fuel economy. Lower emissions. No seasonal adjustment of chokes or 
idle.

Cons: Somewhat susceptible to vacuum leaks. Some parts are hard to find 
in good condition, and some components vary by model year.

But before you invest a lot of time and $$$ into the conversion be sure 
to do a valve adjustment, compression test and ignition system tuneup. 
If there's a pre-existing problem elsewhere the FI will not be able to 
improve your fuel consumption.

Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/79 Westfakia "Bob the Tomato"
1987 Wolfsburg Weekender Hardtop
www.busesofthecorn.com
www.pottsfamily.ca


Lima wrote:
> hello all,I would like to ask a questions about a CU type IV engine. this
> engine have carburators. due to its high consumption, I am cosidering to
> install a injection system on it. my skills don't go far enough to know
> exactly what is suppose to do.what kind of injection you recomend, what pros
> and cons, and what kind of modificantion I need to perform in terms of heads,
> cilinders and so on?accept my thanks for your attention.Luis martins \
