Date: Sat, 23 Aug 2003 20:35:30 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Home, was Problem on the Road

Listees,

I made it home with the bus late last night, taking advantage of nighttime
temperatures of mid-50s along CA 101. Bus ran fine.

This is what we did over the last few days, and what we found.

The float valve actuator pin seemed a bit hesitant, so we replaced the
valve with a known good one.

The electric fuel pump, which had been working for about ten years was
replaced, as its output had dropped to a small trickle, just enough to
keep the bus rolling at speed, but very marginal.

I removed the engine yesterday, at my friends home/workshop, and
disassembled it to the long block, and retorqued the left side head.
Several nuts had been low (12-15 ftlbs), took them all back up from 0, to
an end torque of 20 ftlbs, following the two torquing patterns.

Replaced the original jets in the new carb, and reset all adjustments to
original positions.

Reset the timing to 28 advance at 2500, using my KAL timing light, and
also a professional digital unit.

Cause of the overheating symptom - the loss of clearance at #3 exhaust -
hasn't been determined. The engine has always taken hot outside
temperatures in stride. A puzzle. If I can't determine a definite cause,
I'll seek to rebuild it from scratch.

When all the above had been accomplished, I climbed in, and drove north,
leaving after rushhour traffic, and taking routes to the 101 which were
light traffic. Bus ran fine, never going above 180 degrees all night, even
on those two long uphill grades, which I ran at 35mph in 3rd (3000rpm).

I'd like to thank all those listees who offered advice and encouragement;
they helped me to focus on taking the effort to go whole-hog on getting
down to working this out as best as possible. When your bus runs for years
and tens of thousands of miles without a wimper, you can become somewhat
complacent. There'll be more to check out here, and I can do that without
impacting my life very much.

I'm sure glad I've been carrying all this junk (spare parts, tools, etc.)
around with me all these years!

I must be crazy.

cal
