From: JDStanton5(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 24 Aug 2003 01:29:17 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Jerome raffle bus

        Hello all.  I thought I would give you a little update on the 1967 13 
window Deluxe that we are readying to be raffled off at Jerome Jambore this 
year.  The bus is pearl white over velvet green (fresh body work and paint).  
Here are a few of the "features" this bus will have:  ALL new rubber, thanks to 
donations from Wolfsburg West, West Coast Metric, and Vintage Parts.  
Restored steering wheel thanks to Koch's.  New headliner thanks to Kyle Tillman.  
Fresh engine rebuild that is smooooooooooth and quiet thanks to "Master" engine 
builder Jim Burnite of Yuma, AZ.  New Continental battery by list members Jerry 
and Melissa Jess.  All new brakes thanks to BAP Import parts here in Phoenix. 
 All new shocks and other items thanks to list member Harry Houck.  New 
nubcaps and other items thanks to list member Rich Barker.  All new interior panels 
and seat covers (all 3) thanks to list member/parts guru Ronnie.  Detialed 
speedo thanks to Kody King (past raffle bus winner!).  And, most importantly, 
the bus itself that was made extreemly available by list member JP in 
Albequerque.  There are other items, too numerous to list here, that are new or 
refurbished by many, many other folks out there in VW bus land!

As of tonight, the headliner is in, the glass/rubber is all in, all the 
door/window rubber and hardware is in, some of the new panels are in, all of the 
mechanicals are done/checked/run/driven around the block.  As we progress, we 
are finding out what we still need.  Following is a short list of items needed 
to help complete this bus.  if any of you out there can help, it would be 
greatly appreciated and the karma fairies might like it a lot too :).

Pair of sunvisors
Inside rear view mirror
Ivory shift knob
Fuel gauge (we have one but it got dropped and the needle broke off)
Pair of rear hatch hinge covers
Rear apron
Rear interior deck panels/cover
Rear hatch VW script
Pair of wiper arms/blades
Pair of front door grab handles
Pair of seat stand mats
Chrome front emblem
Deluxe horn button

I know some of this stuff can be a bit pricey, but if you might happen to 
have any of it laying around collecting dust, please give me a shout (or email) 
and we can put it to good use.  This bus will certainly be the nicest one we 
have ever raffled off at a Jerome Jamboree and without a doubt THE most 
valuable.  Here is your chance to be a part of it.

Thanks in advance for any help,

Jon Stanton, Pres.
Arizona Bus Club
