From: "Bill Bowman" <BussesByTheArch18(-at-)msn.com>
To: "DBG" <DBGinfo(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, "GatewayVWClub"
Date: Mon, 25 Aug 2003 11:39:59 -0500
Subject: Great BNNTA weather and event update...

Hi all,

I just got back from attending the Eureka Springs VW event down in Arkansas.
I caravaned in my '87 Westfalia Camper GL with DBG member Brian and Dawn
Holcomb in their awesome '63 Westy.  He was "robbed" of what I (and others)
believe to be a First Place award (a story to be expounded upon around the
campfires at BNNTA this weekend).  The event was quite interesting...  They
definitely need to move to a more participant-friendly event location,
otherwise, it was a great event.  Thanks to owner Bruce Braun, Brian, Connie
(Brian's Dad) and I got to ride all over town in the event parade in his newly
restored 1944 VW Schwimwagen!  What a gas that was!

As an update, "the Weather Channel" is now forecasting a cold front to move in
on Wednesday, and that the daytime high temps in the BNNTA area ought to be in
the mid-80's throughout the Labor Day holiday weekend!!!!!  We may be getting
another great weather break for the third year in a row!  They also mention
the chance for isolated t-storms.

The Corps of Engineer rangers at the Indian Creek Recreational Area "group
use" campground have again graciously offered to open the gates for early
arrivals sometime mid-day on Thursday (a day early!), saving any early
arrivals a campsite fee over at the main public campground.  Everything is
shaping up to make for another memorable VW camping weekend.  Just thought
you'd want to know the latest info on this weekend's VW festivities.  Also,
all makes and types of VW's are welcome, not just Busses!

Hope to see you soon!

Bill Bowman
NEATO & LiMBO
http://www.BNNTA.com

----- Original Message -----
From: Stephanie L Kutz
Sent: Friday, August 22, 2003 11:29 AM
To: dbginfo(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Subject: [dbginfo] BNNTA

After much deliberation and mainly by default, the theme for this year will be
Halloween.  It sounds as if many were planning this anyway so hopefully it
will work out.

Some of us are planning on leaving next Thursday at around 7pm from Burlington
and will be caravanning through Rockford into Springfield.  If you want to
hook up with us please call me at 414-688-3072 so we can coordinate.

See everyone in a week.

Kaiser

P.S.  Still have bus matchbox cars for sale which I will be brining down.

The Real Estate Bus. Group, LLC
414-604-1404
www.realestatebus.com

Yahoo! Groups Sponsor
ADVERTISEMENT




The official DBG Mailing List:
Send correspondence to: soineydg(-at-)mail.milwaukee.k12.wi.us

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.
