From: "David Mayes" <mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com>
To: "'Matt Roberds'" <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 22 Nov 2002 15:34:48 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] Re: ruthmann speed control rebuild... Brake cylinder

Its my understanding that Ruthmann wont talk to lowly schmo like me or at
least that's what Bob told me.  Last night, we removed the rubber line
connected closest to the bucket and tried to build pressure and there was
none... hence my sights set on pulling the mc apart and at least checking it
out... it's the current likely suspect.   I have another friend that emailed
me and said he has most metric sizes of seals (for brakes) and all i should
really need to do is measure it and we can get it running.

David


Matt suggested:
I am by no means a parts expert but it seems like most of the VW
master cylinders I have seen have the reservoir input centerline
at 90 degrees to the centerline of the flange bolts.  Yours looks
more like 45 degrees.  Also, I seem to recall that there was an
ATE part number stamped somewhere on the German ATE master cylinder
I put on my '64 - perhaps an ATE dealer would have a rebuild kit
listing.

You mentioned flushing out the line and if that was successful then
this may not apply, but: It seems like there would be several rubber
hose sections in this hydraulic system.  Have you verified that all
these are good?  A test might be to take a spare wheel cylinder and
a short piece of brake line and hook it up directly to the master
cylinder.  Put a C-clamp on the wheel cylinder pistons so they can
move a bit but not fall out.  Then try to bleed this small system.
If you can get pressure doing this, then the MC is probably OK and
the lines and hoses are suspect.

Have you checked with http://www.ruthmann.de/ (caution: much Flash)
for a parts or service manual?  I looked around their site and they
have a used for-sale page (Gebrauchte -> Steiger) - the first vehicle
listed is a 1986 VW-Pritsche with a V80 installed, so they may still
support that model.  On the other hand, if German insurance companies
are like American ones, they may not offer service materials to the
end-user.
