Date: Fri, 22 Nov 2002 17:58:20 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Times they are a changeing

>From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
>Date: Fri, 22 Nov 2002 12:54:21 -0800
>
>It seems that years ago when nobody wanted a VW bus any more they were
>taken over by the hippy cult, now as things in this country progressed
>they were taken over by the yuppie cult (driving up the values and demand)
>and as things continue to go on our buses seem to be taken over by the
>computer geek (no offense to anyone, please).

I think economics can explain a lot of this.  Note that I am 29, so
take this with an appropriate amount of salt.  I would guess that the
original owners of many Buses were businesses and tradesmen that wanted
an economical van.  They ran them hard and sold them cheap when they
were done with them; the hippies latched on to them as an inexpensive
source of transportation.  The Buses needed engine overhauls and maybe
paint jobs, but were still in relatively good shape.  They probably got
held onto longer during the crap economy of the 1970s; cheaper to fix
your old Bus and get 15-20 mpg than to buy a new Chevy and get 10-15 mpg.
The Buses got a little more beat during this time and parts got a little
harder to find.

Into the 80s, gas went back down, the economy got a little better, and
people started trading their Buses for newer cars.  By that time, the
Buses were pretty beat, requiring many dollars to restore.  The Yuppies
had the money to do that - either from their jobs (young urban
professionals) or from the investment scams of the 80s like junk bonds.
They bought the things they remembered and wanted from when they were
young.  There was probably also an element of "fashion" - it was fun
for the folks that voted for Reagan and made $250K a year to pretend
to be "hippies" on the weekends.

As the 90s started, I think the Yuppies moved on to BMWs and Volvo
wagons, leaving their high-dollar Buses (and unrestored Buses needing
lots of TLC) for the next "new-money" crowd, the computer geeks.  This
probably accelerated after 1995 or so with Internet hype and the
investment scams of the 90s like tech stocks.

Right now we are going through another period of crap economy.  If the
past is any indicator, in a few years, some new investment scam will
crop up.  Assuming there still is a middle class by that time, this new
scam will make some new segment of people rich.  Whoever those people
are will probably be the next major segment of Bus owners.

Like I said, I wasn't alive for much of the above, so I might be talking
through my hat.  Feel free to direct flames to me OFF THE LIST.

Matt Roberds
