Date: Sat, 23 Nov 2002 14:28:42 -0700
From: simon6 <simon6(-at-)engr.colostate.edu>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: stripped rocker screw, stranded...help!

Hello trusty list,
The good news: I made it from CO to IL (1300 miles)!
The bad news: A stripped valve adjustment screw (on rocker arm).
I'm curious as to the diagnostic of this problem's cause and remedy; so here's 
the details...
I've put about 8 months into fixing up the bus, engine is a fresh mexico 
1600dp with high flow exhaust, berg 42 special carbs, rebuilt freeway flyer, 
about 1000 miles on the setup before I left, smooth sailing.   
About 600 miles into the trip (I stayed on interstate right lanes doing 
50-58), I began to get a knock only when pulling hills, and would notice a 
decrease in power.  The knock let up if I eased on the gas, or gave her full 
gas (didn't make much sense to me).  I had thrown in a bit of extra oil before 
I left to account for my external cooler and filter (my mechanic's idea), 3.25 
quarts, and this was obviously too much since it spewed all over the back of 
my bus.  I figured this may have been why she was bogging down.  Anyhow I kept 
plugging along, as flat roads were no problem, and made it another 700 miles 
to my folks house in IL.  This morning we pulled her apart for a diagnostic:
All plugs looked clean except that #2 was black as soot.
Exhaust pipes are coated well with black deposit.
Apparently the breather systems for my carbs sucked in some oil.
Upon taking off the 1&2 clyinder valve cover, the adjusting screw and bolt 
from #2 exhaust valve (from top of rocker arm) were lying in the valve cover, 
seperate, and the screw was severely stripped 1/2 way on the side which went 
into the spring (as if it had been pushed through the bolt.  The rocker arm 
threads seem fine, and there is no other evidence of damage from observation.  
I did adjust the valves just before leaving, and certainly may have screwed 
something up although I've adjusted valves many times with no problems. 
My questions:
What could have caused this screw to strip?
How can I fix the problem (new screw or rebuild time)?
What other damage may this have caused?
Does anyone know of a parts source around Rockford IL?
I very much appreciate your help, and am still unfamiliar with the internals 
of my engine; also I'm stranded at my folks but have obligations soon to 
return to Colorado, so I'm a bit anxious to get this resolved.     
Also if anyone could recommend a parts source around rockford IL.
Thanks much,
mark
