Date: Sat, 23 Nov 2002 22:19:54 -0800 (PST)
From: Jim Ellis <ellisjames(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: VW_VINTAGE_list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: [VB] Re: Times they are a changeing

Computer geek? What like Menubar/Tools/Spellcheck? changeing~ 
suggestion: "changing"...

The next generation of bus owners will be the mutant left-behind people using
the buses for basic shelter ala Dr. Zivago meets Road Warrior. The survivors of
the post nuclear revolution sparked by the massive disgust in
President-Chancellor Rumsfeild's take over of the Temple Mount and refusal to
cancel "Frasier" after it's 20th redundant season on NBC. I mean, my gosh even
the brutal onslaught of MASH, Lucille Ball, and 'Friends' reruns were
officially banned by the NWO World Council yet the moronic quasi-gay pap of
Frasier never was prohibited but was turned into a propaganda tool for
entertain of the Republinazis and the wive-slaves of the NWO's one world
government Delagates.

 The political power of the Carlyleians slipped following the demise of fossil
fuels as a valuable commodity. Fuel cell vehicles emitting only water vapor
were rarely available,  and like most everything else, owned only by the
"hand-scanners." Survival forced the folks who refused the digital eID and the
first generation old school MsRK-ID
(Microsoftrimonitor-Registrator-Identitylocation-Emitor), aka MARKIE for short,
to seek underground means of exchanging goods and services. Obtaining shelter
that was off of the grid and out of the GPSPurchase-Net was tricky. These
folks, known as "the refusers", sought out abandoned Type II high-roof IV
highroof panels and campers as shelter. The '74 Adventurewagons, any year
Eurocamper, Dodge tradesmen box-back delivery vans were prefered as the holy
grail. 23 window buses were sh*t for shelter due to the canvas covered hole in
the roof and excessive glass/window area. Considering the unavailability of
petroleum products and the demise of the internal combustion engine, the window
buses were thereby deemed useless. Only the desperate and the ignorant lower
castes were forced to use them for shelter.
-Aw never fear, it will never get like that... ;-0 !!!

"I remember when the Republicans were only concerned about what/who 
Bill was going to do in the White House. Now it's changed to everyone 
but the Republican Whitehouse wondering what/who THE bill is going to 
do..."
-Ellis
