Date: Sun, 24 Nov 2002 02:36:26 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: simon6(-at-)engr.colostate.edu
Subject: Re: stripped rocker screw, stranded...help!

>From: simon6 <simon6(-at-)engr.colostate.edu>
>Date: Sat, 23 Nov 2002 14:28:42 -0700
>
>I had thrown in a bit of extra oil before I left to account for my
>external cooler and filter (my mechanic's idea), 3.25 quarts, and this
>was obviously too much since it spewed all over the back of my bus.

Did you work out how much to use or just put some extra in?  You can
fill the filter before you put it on to take care of the filter volume,
and if you know the ID of the tubing and number of tubing rows you can
get a pretty good estimate of how much oil would go in your oil cooler -
same for any connecting lines.

>All plugs looked clean except that #2 was black as soot.
>Exhaust pipes are coated well with black deposit.

It sounds like for at least part of the trip, #2 cylinder wasn't running
at all (no exhaust valve action).  I think that would tend to make the
#1 run rich - even though that side is only sucking half as much air,
the carb is set to dump in enough fuel for two cylinders, so #1 might
get much more fuel than it needs.

>Apparently the breather systems for my carbs sucked in some oil.

This could also contribute to the black deposit, but I think the fact
that one cylinder was out of action probably contributed more.

>What could have caused this screw to strip?

Thinking out loud:

1) Factory problem
   a) threads poorly cut on rocker arm, screw, or nut
   b) screw, nut, or rocker arm not completely hardened - deformed under
      normal valve-adjustment torque
   c) rocker arm cracked around screw hole (inspect with a STRONG light)
   d) bad valve train geometry imposing excessive load on screw
   e) more...

2) Later problem
   a) over-torque of nut or screw stripped threads
   b) geometry change: exhaust valve stretched, rocker arm shaft loose,
      etc, causing excessive load on screw
   c) more...

There are probably many more things that could be added to the above.

>How can I fix the problem (new screw or rebuild time)?

If the rocker arm looks OK under very close inspection with a strong
light - threads OK, no cracks - you might get a tap and chase the threads,
or at least get some carb or brake cleaner and a rag and run it through
the threads to get out any shavings.  Then you need at least a new screw
and maybe a new nut to see if there are other problems.  Oil the new screw
and nut, install them, adjust the valves, then compare the position of the
new screw in the rocker arm to the other screws on that side.  If the
screw is in about the same position, then you might be OK.  If the screw
has to be backed out a lot (towards the outside of the car) to get enough
clearance on the exhaust valve, then you may have a problem like the
exhaust valve stretching or some other valve-geometry problem.

>What other damage may this have caused?

#2 cylinder and that end of the head might have gotten a little hot;
there wouldn't have been that much air/fuel mixture flowing into the
closed-off cylinder to help carry off the heat.

>Does anyone know of a parts source around Rockford IL?

I don't, but you might check with the AIRS list members in Illinois:
http://www.type2.com/~airswork/rescue/us/il.html
One of them will probably be able to direct you to the FLVWPS.

A couple of other thoughts - what clearance were you adjusting your valves
to?  Have you put a tachometer on the engine so you know how fast you're
revving it in each gear?  You don't have to install one permanently if you
don't want to - just long enough to drive around and see the engine speed
at different road speeds and gears.

I would probably get at least a couple of spare valve screws and nuts, plus
some spare valve cover gaskets.  That way you can open up the valve cover
to check it on your way back to Colorado.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds
