From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Joel Bidinger <JoelBidinger(-at-)hotmail.com>, buslist
Date: Mon, 25 Nov 2002 08:01:21 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] Welding trouble

  What I was taught by the panel beater GERU"S here in town (they build
complete bodies by hand) is when you are fitting a panel to butt weld is to
leave little tabs every 10 or so inches (really depends on the size of the
panel), bend them down at a 90 degree angle then bend them back 90 degrees
so the tab will fit under the piece you are connecting it to. Use some
kleeco's to attach the tabs and hold the metal in place. After making the
welds you use your cut off wheel to it the tabs and continue welding. 
  Anther trick I learned from an old school body guy was to take a strip of
brass or copper sheet (brass works better)kleeco it to the bottom of what
you are going to weld (will also hold the metal in place) and do your butt
welds. The brass acts like a heat sink and welds won't stick to the brass.
Also you really need to hammer the welds as you go, this will flatten the
weld and help shrink it back to shape.
  I have a set of photos of wheel well openings being installed. When he was
finished NO GRINDING was necessary, a good metal file took off any excess
weld and the weld was undetectable.
  I personally have lost the touch, but I do use .023  coated wire and stich
weld (not constant weld) sheet metal, with the biggest problem being the
BRAZILIAN CRAP
metal that is available, thin, inconsistent and just a PITA to weld.

ronnie

ps  I use a Hobart 251 commercial machine and when I have some technical
welds to do I use my Miller 250 syncrowave TIG welder.

pps. I also just bought a new helmet with a fully adjustable darkness
control auto dark lens

-----Original Message-----
From: Joel Bidinger [mailto:JoelBidinger(-at-)hotmail.com]
Sent: Sunday, November 24, 2002 6:10 PM
To: buslist
Subject: [VB] Welding trouble


Good day bus drivers,
I have this '67 Flintstones bus (no engine, no floor) and I am trying to put
it
back together. I've started with the eventually unseen bits of minor framing
under the cargo floor, as I need the welding practice before moving on to
the
bits that will be seen. Mostly it is going well, I can do the fake spotwelds
all
day, overlapping metal welds are getting better inch by inch. But I am
burning a
lot of metal and generally making a mess of butt welds on that skinny
sheetmetal. I've gotten slightly better with practice, but I still think I
must
be missing some technique or trick. I had really hoped to butt weld the new
floor sections to the old, so I either need to figure this out or accept
overlapping the pieces, which to me looks like a built-in rust pocket.
I hope there is a trick I am missing someone will tell me about. The welder
is a
new Lincoln 110V wirefeed with gas, and seems to be working properly. I turn
it
all the way down to make the butt welds, and the faster I move the better I
do,
but I'm still burning too much metal to try this with the floor.
Thanks, Joel
'64 Sundial (doing great)
'67 Kombi (in trouble deep)
