From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 25 Nov 2002 11:48:07 EST
To: kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net, VintageBus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] clutch cable broken?

If the clutch cable breaks, the pedal stays on the floor, and you can easily 
lift it up, and drop it down.  But it won't do anything to the actual clutch, 
as the cable connecting the clutch to the pedal is kaput, ya?
   You can check the cable at the back- if you can pull it back it's broken.
      If the return spring, which is located at the at the side of the 
tranny, (around the arm the cable goes theorugh that has the eye the wingnut 
is on the rear side of) if broken, the pedal would pop up partway.    

    Sounds like your pedal is stuck? The pedal is hard to push in/pull up?  
In that case you need to disconnect the clutch cable from the pedal, remove 
the pedall, remove the ivot assembly, and grease all moving parts.

Haven't done this for a while, but I think I used a drift and hammer.    It 
is fairly sturdy.


 In a message dated 11/24/2002 5:16:01 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net writes:

<< 
 Well I pushed the clutch pedal down-and it stayed down....I thought maybe it
 was the cold weather(or maybe  i hoped it was just the cold weather) anyway
 i pulled the pedal up slowly & engaged 1st gear, drove to the end of the
 block, push pedal in again-again it stayed on the floor.
 
 I put the bus in neutral, and moved the pedal back and forth a few
 times...did not seem to free the pedal up at all.
 
 So I gently get it in reverse, and reverse back to my house, get my bicycle,
 and leave the whip cream at home, but carry the pie over to my friends.
 watch the game, thinking in the back of my mind what this probably means....
 
 I am thinking that the clutch cable has frayed/broken inside the tube
 running from the front to the back of the bus, and is therefore catching
 inside the tube.
 
 so simple solution-take the old cable out, and replace with a new cable. i
 think that will be a monday morning event, although it will be tricky
 getting it in the driveway, as it is quite a tight turn from my parking
 spot. >>
