To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Date: Sun, 2 Dec 2007 17:20:17 -0500
Subject: Story time

I don't know if I ever told this story on the list. If I did, sorry  
for the redundancy. It's just been on my mind lately.

Back in '01, I was facing a smog test to renew Peregrine's  
registration. Did a little work here and there to snug things up,  
then went up to my apartment, cleaned up and changed clothes, then  
went back down to drive over to the testing shop.

When I turned the key, the starter turned but the engine didn't fire  
up. I tried a couple more times. Nothing.

I wondered whether I'd screwed something up earlier, so I went  
through the whole diagnostic process. But something was odd about the  
way the starter was turning. I took off a valve cover, hooked up the  
remote starter button, and gave it a try. The starter turned, but  
there was no motion in the valve train. The gear had separated from  
the camshaft.

Peregrine was in a garage bay that came with my apartment. If I had  
been living anywhere but where I was, everything would have been  
fine. I'd have dropped the engine as some point, split the case, and  
replaced the camshaft. Unfortunately, my landlords were the Regents  
of the University of California. One day, the university decided to  
ticket any and all vehicles with expired registrations -- even if  
they were in garages! They did this to Peregrine twice, $50 a pop.

I snarled, growled, and howled, but it did no good. I paid the  
registration and put the receipt in the back window, but it still did  
not good.

That's when Tarcy and I decided we had to buy a house with a garage  
for Peregrine. And that was the beginning of the end.

If you love your bus, don't buy a house. I built a shed, a deck,  
sheetrocked the kitchen, tiled the kitchen floor, painted the whole  
exterior of the house, and even did an elaborate engine rebuild. But  
I never got Peregrine back on the road before I left California for  
Maine.

Man, do I miss that bus. It got worse yesterday when Peter admitted  
to just sitting in his bus to think, and Todd said he did the same  
thing.

Me too, guys. Back when I had a bus.


Mark, searching for the next Peregrine
