Date: Thu, 6 Dec 2007 12:20:24 -0500
From: Anymouse <honeybus(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Type 2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Hint from Heloise: remove exhaust manifold studs with grace and

First, some conditions - the exhaust manifold is OFF and the exhaust
manifold STUDS are not broken -

OK, but first, if you are trying to remove the exhaust manifold NUT from the
exhaust manifold STUD, and you see you are backing out the exhaust manifold
STUD, don't curse, but give thanks!!  Continue to remove the exhaust
manifold STUD that way.  Easy to replace.

(but if you are really twisting the exhaust manifold STUD instead of backing
it out, you will break  / tear the STUD and all is lost.  Now is the time to
curse!!  It is time for the 'I-should-a' reflections.)

Listen:  your are backing out the STUD if you hear squeaking; you are
tearing the STUD if  after 1/16th of a turn the twisting gets even slightly
easier  (and no squeaking!!)

* * * * * * * * *

Heloise says: if there is enough thread left, use the 'double nut' removal
technique!!

John A....  says:   "OK, Heloise, just HOW is THAT going to work?!??!?!"

Listen, guys and gals, there are 13mm nuts for the 8mm studs, and there are
also 12mm  and 11mm nuts for the 8mm studs.  Did you forget???

Yes, getting two 13mm nuts to lock so that they let you 'bite' the bottom
13mm nut (with the other 13mm nut sitting on top) is near impossible in the
enclosed space of the exhaust manifold STUD's home.

But if you put a 13mm nut down as far as it can go, and then a 12mm or 11mm
nut to sit over the 13mm nut,  . . . .

Well, you get the idea. . .  .  If you don't, then your shouldn't be trying
this hint.....  Yes, Heloise can be cruel at times ! ! !

And if you put a spec of white paint  (I use the stationary store 'white
out' here. ) at where the 12mm / 11mm nut meets the STUD, you will easily
see if your removal efforts are bringing BOTH nuts off the STUD (the white
spec will not be in one piece, touching the nut and bolt in the same place),
or the the STUD is turning.

And it goes without saying that applied heat, Kroil, PB Blaster, paraffin,
50 taps with a solid 16 lb (or more) hammer should all proceed the 'double
nut'  work.

This method has never failed me yet.  NEVER ! ! !      [So I guess I should
try it ! ? ! ? ]

[If you liked this hint from Heloise, check the archives....   If you
didn't, check the archives for 'Heloise is a dope'   <<- - usually in all
caps!!!]

-
Barry Burneskis sends
Northern VA (Fairfax)   1978 Westy
