Date: Thu, 6 Jul 2006 08:53:10 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Arvid & Linda Nelson <r66bug(-at-)bellsouth.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Parts Help jacksonville to upstare south carolina or close

thanks so much for the help, but i just this morning got in touch with the guy(that has wondows) ....
  it being the fourth of july he was away but is now back and if anyone out there can still give me a hand coming close to south carolina(upstate) anytime soon or say for the HIGH COUNTRY Bus festival in boone nc (last weekend in july) let me know please...
   
  There were several folks that would be coming my way today(thursday) but it just didnt work out not being able to get in touch with him till of course a hour after Max one of the volunteers had left jacksonville area...
  My LUCK i guess..?
   
  thanks Max and others that did volunteer...
  i can be reached by email at this address if anyone can help get them from jacksonville to upstate south carolina...for me....
  AS I SAID THEY HAD A RIDE AND I WOULD HAVE HAD THEM today by 3pm at the lastest was going to meet Max off I-77 about a hour and half + from my home but not being able to get in touch with the Guy that had them till this morning prevented that ...
  yes throws a frown but a smile for the help that was offered....
  maybe someone out there can still help out at a later date or before high country possibly..? really didnt expect to get such a quick response though but look forward to it if any can help.
   
  thanks alot
  Chai

Arvid & Linda Nelson <r66bug(-at-)bellsouth.net> wrote:
  Hello ALL,
I received the following Email and Chai needs some assistance. Seems he
has obtained two jalousie windows here in Jacksonville and lives in upstate 
South Carolina. Looking for transportation for the windows if you are going 
to upstate SC or to the High Country Bus Festival 
http://www.bigmountainweb.com/hcbf/ on July 28-30 at Boone, NC.
Arvid Nelson



                                                                 Break out the shorts, tank tops and sandles........
     Tune up the Bus wash off the winter rust~!~
       It's camping season woohooooooo LETS GO CAMPING~!~
