From: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Date: Sat, 20 Nov 2004 06:57:53 -0800
To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Refurbished?

The only reason that I fronted this notion is that VW has created a 
huge whole in its model line-up by discontinuing the Eurovan and 
presenting the "idea" of a new microbus as a concept.

This idea of refurbishing vehicles is so obvious that it certainly 
would have been attempted if it were possible, and I agree that 
liability issues probably make it impossible. That's a shame.

But most of the replies on this topic sort of miss the mark, I think. 
The idea is not to take some existing model of a restoration shop and 
scale it up a little.

It's all based upon an understanding of production, which can roughly 
be divided into three classes: craft production, batch production, and 
mass production. Our buses were originally produced in the mass 
production mode. Everything we do to them -- including Doktor Tim -- is 
in the craft production mode (which says nothing about the standards of 
craft). Finally, I'm talking about batch production.

The shop I'm imagining would be a little like the Morgan factory in 
England. There would be a back lot on which refurbishable buses are 
parked, waiting their turn. Every week two of them would be rolled into 
the building, completely stripped to the shell, placed on a dolly, and 
rolled into the next room where the shells would be sandblasted and 
repaired with solid welds where warranted. Next, into the body room for 
minor body work. From there, into the paint room for primer and paint 
on the underside.

Meanwhile, cores would be sent out and rebuilt engines and mechanicals 
would come in from a variety of suppliers -- AVP for engines, for 
instance.

In another room, upholstery would be refurbished. And in another room 
still everything would come back together.

So, the cost of liability insurance makes this impossible? If that's 
the case, and I think it probably is, the business/production model is 
still useful for thinking about the kinds of problems that we, as bus 
owners, face every day. Thinking this way provides a way of thinking 
through to a standard of how to take used buses -- running and not 
running -- and turning them into vehicles that run reliably, look 
pretty good, and don't cost an arm and a leg. Especially since a lot of 
the expense of getting and keeping your first bus on the road is the 
cost of your own self-education through trial by error.
