From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 20 Nov 2004 07:51:41 -0800
Subject: Another key question

Long story short, when I bought my second bus, every door on the vehicle had
a different lock on it.  The only consistancy was between the ignition and
the rear hatch.  Taking my handy dandy pneumatic in hand, I filed the
tumblers on the random array of locks in my buses possession.  I know the
result of this is that 50% of the folks out there with a VW key in their
hand can now open my vehicle, but I don't figure that my bus was designed to
be Fort Knox anyway, and I am quite tired of having to replace glass on
vehicles.

The Issue:
The bus is a 76, with a 76 sliding door.  The locking mechanism on the
sliding door is a sealed unit.  The lock on this door does not work with the
key used for the ignition.  There are numbers on the cylinder which I
believe I could use to find the correct key, but I already know that the
ignition key will not work that lock, so I have no reason to believe that a
correct key for that cylinder will function with my ignition.

Chicken or the Egg:
mechanically, changing the cylinder to match the ignition is the easier
task.  However I am unaware of the method I would need to use to find and
then match that cylinder to my ignition key.  Furthermore, I only have one
ignition key.  Is the most sensible solution to these issues the replacement
of my ignition and all of the body locks? thus gaining the secondary key
that I lack and uniformity with my locking mechanisms?  If so, where in the
world would I find so many locks complete with an ignition and both keys for
a 29 year old vehicle?  I do not doubt that I could capably open that sealed
cylinder without breaking it and refit those tumblers for the sliding door,
but then I would still be in a situation where I would need to possibly mail
my sole ignition key to somebody for my vehicle that is my daily driver.
What is the easiest path for the consistancy that I desire?

Seann Stafford
1976 T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
1976 T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
