Date: Sat, 20 Nov 2004 12:46:07 -0800
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Busted Clutch Cable: Update

Clutch Cable $9
Clevis pin $2
Moly Grease $12
A running bus?
Priceless

It took 2 hours to swap the cables, mostly because I couldn't get the
(-at-)#%^$$ adjusting wingnut loose. I ended up trying to cut the last 2
strands of cable that were holding the thing in place. Too bad those
strands were too strong for my El Cheapo brand dykes (wire cutters).
Next stop, Sears for a decent pair.

When I bought the cable from Vee Dub Parts Unlimited (Huntington
Beach, CA http://www.vwparts.com ), I asked what to use to lube it up.
I was told a moly grease, and the clerk pointed to the shelf. I
grabbed the first one I spotted and took it back to the counter. He
laughed, said "You don't need that $12 stuff... There's a $3 one there
too." Hmm... But what's the difference? "The stuff you bought is for
CV joints and will last forever. The cheaper stuff will last for
years, still outlasting your cable." Well, I thought that if the cable
decides to last 15 years, and the grease dies out at 10, wouldn't that
be a bad thing? I stuck with the $12 stuff. Really, $9 to possibly add
a few years of life to my cable is well worth it. It's a gamble that I
don't mind making...

Here's what I found thanks to the DPO: 6" of extensions (big nuts and
washers) on the clutch end of the cable because half of the strands
had broken and the cable had stretched. That was the only way the
cable could be tight enough to do any good. There were actually 2
strands left when I got under there. I'm glad they were there, though,
since otherwise the adjusting nut would have been lost and I would
have had to go hunt down another one. It didn't occur to me to ask for
a new nut when I bought the cable and pin.

At the pedal end, instead of a clevis pin there was a bolt. No nut.
Just a bolt. The threads were stripped out from DPO trying to use it
to tap the hole in the arm. LoL!!! I'm surprised the thing has lasted
as long as it did!!!

I put everything together the way it should be, took a handful of
grease and slapped it at the opening of the tube and pushed it into
the cable as I fed the cable into the tube, replenishing as needed.
Yeah, this way was pretty wasteful but it was easier than having
greased cable flopping around outside of the tube. Kept it cleaner
too, I suspect. (BTW: I <3 latex gloves now!!!)

When the cable reached the bowden tube, it jammed. Grr... Pull the
bracket off, pull the tube out and hold it straight. Oops! Can't hold
it straight! There's a permanent bend in it. (scribble scribble...
adding to my "To Do" list.) Took some serious finangiling but I got
the cable through. The insides of the tube were smooth, just the tube
itself wanted to have that bend in it. I can live with that for now.

Pliers and vice grips to pull the cable out as far as possible and
lock in into place then put the adjusting nut on. Oh oh. 3/4 of the
adjustment used up with this brand new cable. (Actually more, I need
to pull the pedal up another inch or so.) And the cable still needs to
do its initial stretching (I know, a "good" cable shouldn't, but I
never count on what "should" be... I'll be watching the pedal height
just in case), so I'll probably use up the adjustment rather quickly.
But it's all in and functional. Not bad considering I had to do this
in a parking lot with security guards bugging me to hurry up or "we'll
have to call a tow truck".

My left knee is HAPPY!!! The clutch action is 200% smoother and the
bump in the pedal travel where the clutch would engage/release is
gone. In fact, it's kind of disconcerting not having that anymore.
LoL! It does seem to take a little more effort, but I think that's due
to a lack of stretch in the cable. Before it just seemed like less
effort because the force was being spread out over a longer distance
due to stretch.

I'm assuming the need for using up the adjustment is due to a worn
clutch disk. (scribble scribble) I guess I'll get to drop my first VW
engine soon! It'll be strange not to have to mess with radiators and
coolant hoses and fans and crap. =D



-- 
Don Tuleja
Great White:
http://www.donimages.com/1973bus/
