Date: Sun, 21 Nov 2004 02:27:29 -0800
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Seized engine photos

My friend with the nice 72 bus who's engine seized on the highway turned out
to be an all too common failure:

* Thermostat expanded
http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell/.Pictures/Parts72Bus/64-Thermostat.jpg

* PO's mechanic left thermostat flap disconnected some time in the past
http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell/.Pictures/Parts72Bus/65-ReturnSpring.jpg

* Head overheated, valves stretched and #3 valve's head broke off
http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell/.Pictures/Parts72Bus/59-ValveDamage.jpg

* Combustion chamber got pounded
http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell/.Pictures/Parts72Bus/60-HeadDamage.jpg

* Head of piston grew an unwated hole
http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell/.Pictures/Parts72Bus/61-PistonDamage.jpg

I eventually found the head of the valve in the crankcase. The strainer
caught all the large chunks but there is metal everywhere. After removing
the bad piston the engine is rotating again by hand but it's hard to say
what other damage was done: when he pulled over there was a lot of smoke in
the engine compartment. So much, he thought it was an electrical fire.

I feel bad for my friend because althougth he had the right mindset he had a
run of bad luck in a very short period of time. He was concerned about what
grade of oil to use, accidentally overheating the engine and he wanted to
install a CHT gauge right away. His first purchase for the bus was a fire
extinguisher.

This bus seemed like a gem and he wanted his first VW to last. The body was
in primo condition which prompted the purchase in the first place but the
engine didn't run right from the beginning. He bought it off craigslist 20
minutes after the ad was posted and neglected to have it inspected.

When I first saw it, the parking brake was too loose but otherwise, shocks,
steering, cv joints, bearings, brakes were all in good order. The receipts
were testament to that. There was a lot of caked on oil and dirt all over
the bottom of the engine but no leaking even though the engine was very low
on oil. The top of the engine was oily under the oil bath air cleaner and
foam from the deteriorating engine seal made the usual mess everywhere.

The bus was stock and otherwise normal looking but I was horrified at the
poor engine seal where the air compressor was installed.

As soon as he bought the bus he took it to the same local mechanic that had
serviced it for the last 15 years. The mechanic had it for two weeks,
changed the fuel lines, performed a valve adjustment, gave it a good bill of
health, charged my friend $100 but didn't give him an invoice. He told my
friend there was nothing wrong with the bus. When it started to leak fuel, I
was introduced to the bus for the first time and noticed the shoddy half
baked work by the mechanic.

The engine was in original condition but suffering: when it warmed up it
after a highway drive it had trouble idling. Even when you drove the bus
cold it felt as if something was holding it back. Was it out of tune, pooped
out, was a bearing tight?

We looked through the receipts and did a visual inspection and discovered
the ignition parts were too old, hoses cracked, etc and was in need of some
TLC. I made a list and my friend continued to drive it while we waited for
parts to arrive. We discarded the mechanics assurances but finding a
convenient time between us to check the bus over passed some borrowed time.

I eventually gave it a tune-up, replaced vacuum hoses, etc and the engine
seems to come to life but something was still holding it back. If the
previous mechanic had adjusted the valves, none of them could had held their
setting. In hindsight this was a very bad sign but I had yet to check out
the carbs.

In the receipts there was one mention of overheating and tuning problems
daing way back to 1974. I wonder if this was due to the a/c unit that
required several repairs until it broke in 1984. It was never mentioned
again.

Looking back, I wish we had done a leak down test on it asap. The 72 lacks
the engine access hatch and by the time the heads cooled so much time had
gone by doing other tasks we'd run out of daylight and decided to continue
next week. Even installing the CHT sender without the access hatch was a
task not worth looking forward to. The mechanics must have hated that model.

The original engine only had 49k original miles on it and now needs a
rebuild.

-- 
Richard, 1978 Westfalia CDN
http://www.ratwell.com/
Cupertino, CA
