Date: Fri, 18 Aug 2006 16:29:44 -0500
From: Scott Stothers <kintail(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Tuning new Kadrons for the '67 Westy.....

Thru shimming I have got the fuel pump down to approx.1.5 pounds..... but 
the loading up at constant mid to high revs didn't go away. Phoned AJ and 
his employee relayed the message that the linkage was the problem. Okay 
then.....

Well this was a bit of a problem right from the start as I got the "Friday 
special" upon delivery to the Great White North. The carbs where rejetted to 
my specs, vacuum port put in (for future use), vent tubes done, and special 
AJ linkage bought. When I got the carbs, one of then was fine the other had 
the accelerator pump linkage cranked halfway down the adjustment rod, and 
also the butterfly valve would not close the remaining 1/4" required as the 
adjustment rod had also been cranked down on. Not really complaining here as 
I think I am mechanically competent, but %$&T happens, and taking something 
from a box and expect it to work off the hop...... anyway I just want to 
solve the problem. Three linkage points to check:

So what have I done.....have the accelerator pump rod on both carbs adjusted 
so just an equal one thread shows at the end of the plastic adjustment nut. 
As mentioned the bus accelerates fine...... so I seems to be working and 
assume this is okay.

When I put the carbs on, all work was done on the bench to make sure no 
vacuum leaks occured with tin or otherwise. Also put light coat of silicone 
on gaskets before tightening down. Carb linkage was adjusted to the intial 
setup and blue locktite used on the adjusting nuts.Nice linkage by the way!! 
But I am thinking this can't be the problem if the idle adjustment screws 
are on the stops and idle rpm is fine......

So in order to close the right carb butterfly valve not closing, I had to 
adjust the linkage with the two small nuts on the threaded rod. NOW what I 
did yesterday was measured these two adjustment rods on both carbs and found 
the right with 1.5mm thread longer then the left. Adjusted this last night 
and this would supposedly close the butterfly further although I thought I 
had done this the first time around.....

BUT wait a second is this also not connected to the choke butterfly...... 
because as a result of doing this adjustment it appears to run a little 
better today by not loading up as much compared to yesterday..... Is that 
the problem? Should cut an paste this to AJ as well I guess.......

Thanks for any advice....

Scott

----- Original Message ----- 

>   Call AJ at Low Budget, the Kadron King. 
