Date: Sun, 20 Aug 2006 13:49:06 -0700
From: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc" <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: parts for sale, bus and etc.

Thought I would post it all here first. I know that many of you have more 
than just buses. All this stuff is in good enough condition to just use as 
is. If you want it to look all new and shiny, it should not take too much 
work. I don't own any of it, just posting for an aquaintance who does not 
have internet access. See bottom for his name and phone number. Suggest you 
not buy sight unseen. Pricing is between you and the seller. I will be 
posting this up on Samba later on.

I got a nice genuine VW dog house fan housing in excellent condition with 
dual port tin for a very fair price. It will be going onto my 1776 next time 
I pull it. I may pull it special just to install! I currently have an 
aftermarket POS housing.

Bus content:  A pair of Aluminum bumper guards with rubber, not sure what 
year these are for (50's vintage?). Good condition, not bent or hit, surface 
scuffs, just need a sand and a polish to look new. The rubber is still 
flexible.

Other content:
1. Roof rack, most likely for a square back, center to center distance of 
the rain gutter lugs: 42-1/4 at one end and 42-1/2 at the other.
2. Bug floor padding, horse hair type
3. Generator stand with oil breather tube on top of the filler and the drain 
going down. Don't know what year.
4. Generator, looks to be 6V.
5. Beauty rings for your wheels. Very little rust, slight dings.
6. Anti sway bar for front, Bug?
7. Misc. distributors. Ask what the part numbers are when you call. I think 
there were 5 of them. some with vacuum advance and some just plain. the 
bases on most of them are castings, not stampings. May be some for Porsche.
8. Misc. pulleys, looks like 4 or 5 generator pulleys and one crank pulley.
9. Crank pulley bolt for Hand Crank!!!!
10. Steering dampener, new in the box, bug.
11. Pair of rear brake drums, bug, used.

The parts are located in Hawthorne, CA, USA.
Call Gene at:  310-679-8951.

Good hunting,
Chris
