Date: Thu, 28 Jul 2005 22:59:21 -0600
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Why not to live in pretentious neighborhoods

I went to horrible freight today after work and picked up a right
angle drill adapter. $20. Worked beautifully to drill out the stud
bosses on my head with the head still in the bus! Woot! Tap handle
wouldn't work so I used end wrenches to turn the tap and the insert
threader thing. Aside from one insert that got hung up and had to be
taken out with needle nose pliers, everything went smoothly.

So starting at 8 until 10:25 I was getting this done and putting
everything back together.

At 10:25 I fired up the bus. No problems, everything was copasetic. I
light a cig and let it idle for a while to warm up.

10:30 I finish my smoke and start adjusting the carbs for the
umpteenth time. Normal after fixing a vacuum leak.

10:32 a cop pulls up. "You're making too much noise. We got some
complaints. Here in this county we have noise abatement laws and you
can't make noise after 10pm."

You've GOT to be kidding me. I'm idling!!! Didn't matter. He wasn't
going to leave until I shut up the bus. (Note that we're having this
"conversation" with the engine hatch open, the cargo hatch open, and
the lid off the engine compartment. The engine is running at 1100rpm.
Yet we're speaking in normal tones.) He threatened me with a fine if I
didn't stop immediately. I told him that not a single person has asked
me to be quiet, and in fact I had just started it up 7 minutes ago!

I mean, how could somebody be offended, call the cops, and have the
cop show up in 7 minutes?!?!?!

So I go in the house ranting and raving and the wife tells me that the
neighbors had frequently been commenting to her about my working on
the bus all the time. Apparently it's so unique around here to see
someone work on their own vehicles that they were all confused and
mildly disgusted by it being right in their midst. She had been
keeping that info from me because she knows I'd go off on the whining
self-righteous pieces of crap that live around here.

In fact, that sounds like a great plan. Fart cans go on both cars now!!!


--
Don
