From: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 29 Jul 2005 8:36:19 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] 73 bus smog pump

As with most emissions equipment in the early to late 70s... they actually do very little for emissions, at a great expense to the efficiency of the motor. Personally, I believe that while most of the damaging gases are being caused by things like constant ongoing volcanoes around the world.... we still owe it to ourselves to maintain properly, and clean running vehicles. At least that's my opinion.

On all the cars that I typically drive any substantial mileage, I keep my emissions equipment on it. With modern cars, they've made enough advancements in emissions technology that you don't really lose any power... they're MUCH more efficient.

The early 70s though was horrible for emissions.

There are a few things that you'll absolutely want to keep that do NOT hurt your emissions:

Thermac (I think the Bus has a thermostat heating system similar to this)
Fuel Evaporative System (contains the fuel vapors and recycles them)
PCV System (Recirculates any blow-by back into the intake)

The smog pump however does almost nothing for the car. Does your car have a catalytic converter? The smog pump only works WITH a catalytic converter. The smog pump is supposed to force outside air into the exhaust so that when the exhaust and added air make it to the catalytic converter, it'll burn easier.

The catalytic converters that they had back in the early 70s were nothing more than a canister filled with charcoal (much like the fuel evaporative canisters). These catalytic converters were absolutely horrible. I mean, they were so worthless..... some car companies wouldn't even see an improvement in emissions at the expense of nearly 20% of the engine's power.

In my HONEST opinion.... if your Bus was mine, I would remove the smog pump, and the catalytic converter. I would keep ALL of it in a box in case you wanted to restore the car to originality one day. I would then go out and get a "free-flow, 3-way" catalytic converter.

Today's modern catalytic converters are nearly 6x more efficient than the ones that originally came on the VW Busses. Not only will you:

1 - See a drastic increase in horsepower
2 - Improved acceleration in the top end
3 - Improved low end torque
4 - Improved throttle response
5 - Greatly improved fuel economy

But you'll also be helping the environment even more so than you would be if you left the factory emissions equipment.


That's my thought.


You can typically get these aftermarket catalytic converters for around $50-$100 dollars.


I've got an aftermarket high-flow cat on my 1987 Fiero SE / V6 and it runs like a dream. Huge improvement over the stock cat.

By the way, most modern cars now basically come with cats that already use this technology... but often times cars will come with two cats inline now... since they're soo efficient, I guess they figure.. why not?  My 1997 Grand Am GT has two catalytic converters. One right behind the exhaust manifold, and one halfway down the exhaust piping.


Todd


>Subject: Re: [T2] 73 bus smog pump
>
>I've been reading with great interest about the smog
>pump removal, etc. Is there a tangible benefit (ie,
>improved gas mileage) to removing it? Are there
>detrimental effects? 
