Date: Fri, 29 Jul 2005 09:16:36 -0500 (CDT)
From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
To: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Why not to live in pretentious neighborhoods

Don(and others),

Fortunately I live in one of those places where I can walk out my 
door(front or back) and fire off 16 rounds and no one will complain....my 
neighbors might call and ask if I need help or if I am just target 
practicing though.

BUT!  I *do* *know* *my* *neighbors*.....folks that call and ask me to 
keep an eye on their place cause they are going to be on vacation for a 
month...and I do the same when I am going to be gone.

Don, I would do it a different way.  Go around to your closest neighbors 
and meet them...especially the ones right next to your garage....apologize 
profusely(grovel a little if necessary<grin>), but ask them to call *you* 
if they have a problem.  People generally agonoize over calling the cops 
about neighbors making noise and only when it becomes unbearable do they 
call.

Bob is right, read up on the local noise ordinance and vehicle type laws 
in your neighborhood and understand them well.  I once lived in a 
neighboorhood that had banned clothes lines!  Not that I cared, but I read 
and understood what was allowed and what was not.

And I resemble that old and grumpy remark...LOL!

I think that as we get older, we just are less likely to put up
with frustrations and PITA's that we don't need and don't have time for.

Time *is* limited after all....

And generally, the cop really didn't want to be there either....and since 
this is Friday, I'll relate my old and grumpy story.

Several years ago while hauling my two boys around the country to go to 
"classic" soccer tournaments, the team happened to stay at a motel next to 
the local airport(Little Rock).  So, you could see a big building about 
3/4 mile away, and the people there looked like ants.  And guess who 
showed up!  Air Force 1 with the Pres(Clinton) on board.

My boys and I watched a little while and then went inside to chill out and 
watch tv and eat Pizza...later I went out the front to have a smoke and 
while I was standing there a cop drove up and told me I had to go back 
inside....My eyes got big, my bood pressure went up about 1,000 points and 
I said why?....He says " cause the Secret Service wants it that way".

Ended up talking to him a little bit and he wasn't real happy about it 
either, but I sure did consider spending the night in the jail over it...I 
mean, after all, it *is* a free country...right?

I didn't mention that the room we had was right over the motel canopy 
facing the airport, with a window that opened up to a flat roof....

nuf of that....

Oh, bus content....tried to start the wife's 67 this morning before work 
so she could clean it up for someone who wanted to possibly buy it....but 
the battery was down.


Cheers, dave


-- 
-------------------------------------------------------------------
"I'm more interested in getting it right, than being right"....dave


> 
> Remember ANYTHING can set off a neighbor... I heard 
about a lawsuit where two girls got sued for leaving 
freshbaked cookies on their neighbors doorstep as a gift!!! And won...
> 
> Could this be because of the graying of our population 
(more picky old folks as the baby-boomers get old and grumpy)?
> 
> Chris
> Cookeville
> '78 Westy 2,7L
