To: bus-life(-at-)yahoogroups.com, FullMoon(-at-)hville.net, type2(-at-)type2.com,
Date: Thu, 25 Jul 2002 21:12:42 -0700
From: myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Re: [bus-life] flaky panelling

first i would like to thank EVERYONE who wrote with advice on how to
clean up the panelling in my bus. all the suggestions were great! i also
appreciate the promptness of these replies. here are some thoughts:

On Thu, 25 Jul 2002 14:50:51 -0700 (PDT) Frank Madrid writes:
>  Try covering it with some funky groovy fabric.  Moons and stars or 
> anything that suits you.

i was actually thinking about this!!! lol! pretty much my #1 or 2 choice
at this time...
but before i can glue anything to it, it has to be cleaned of debris,
thus the request for advice.

the fabric may be too expensive at this time, so my other main thought i
had for now, was to stain it blue, letting the wood grain show through.
then maybe painting or stamping with silver or gold paint, little stars,
moons and suns. i would then put a protective layer of laquer or
something over it. then i could also get cheaper blue fabric and do the
same stamping, with a different pattern (larger and fewer) for the
curtains, instead of the more expensive patterned fabric i had looked at
before.

some good advice so far have been tack cloth or tape, i think that will
take the junk off, and others have suggested oils which i may try if i
dont stain or cover it. will the oils prevent me from being able to stain
the wood? 

oh, and vaccuuming... i dont have a hose type vaccuum, so i have taken
the bus to spot not for their "free vaccuum wednesdays" the last two
weeks, because the PO installed carpet. they are hose vaccuums, but there
arent brushes on them... 

any ideas how i could do it with their vaccuums? their tips are the
flattened type, and i don't think i can take them off to put another one
(i have a brush tip, but no hose vaccuum to attach it to) someone even
mentioned sanding with a vaccuum bag or something... i have a vibrating
sander with a bag on it, but i have contacts and i am afraid of getting
dust in my eyes by sanding over my head. anyone else have experience with
this kind that can tell me if the dust is low or high? i can get goggles
if i have to.

thanks again to everyone for the wonderful suggestions,
chris

martha stewart, eat your heart out!
