From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "cmeanley" <cmeanley(-at-)pacificcoast.net>
Cc: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 26 Jul 2002 00:01:41 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] painting question


> hey now, be careful with that westy smugness  <grin> its good to be
> different, I see that you finally admited to the nose haveing been
replaced
> on the ehell bus. Good to see you wandered over to the type 2 list
>
> Chuck
>
I'm still looking at that darned thing and can't make up my mind if the nose
was replaced or not. If they did, they did an excellent job. I'll know for
sure pretty soon because I'm going to take the good windshield out of the
'79 Westy that I bought in Goleta and put in in.. When I do, I going to look
real hard for any traces of  body filler on the windshield frame.. I have to
sand it down anyway because there is a little trace of rust beginning all
around the bottom.. OH! Did they forget to mention in their eBay ad that the
windshield was all cracked and crazed ? Gee, I guess they did. Imagine MY
surprise!
I was also real surprised when we pulled out the blown engine and saw the
big chunk out of the bell housing! We had to put it in with three bolts, but
nary a problem.. the broken flange was on the lower right. Well, we had
taken a turnkey rebuilt engine up with us and a load of tools, camping gear,
floor jack, jack stands, food, cooler, you name it.. Hubby did most of the
work and we swapped the engine in about 7 hours.. not a record time, but
there were a lot of little problems to be dealt with. Check this out.. In
the glove box we found a repair invoice from an Idaho tractor repair
company! Are they hard up for VW mechanics up there in Couer d'Alene, Idaho,
or what?!!!
I know that something happened to the front, because there is paint
overspray on the doors (where they did a really lame job of trying to blend
it in..color not a good match, and crummy paint, too!). It may just be that
the thing was stone-chipped on the front and needed repainting, or maybe
they hit a deer? These are all possibilities in the life of a northern Idaho
type 2. I know I'm probably going to end up taking some photos and posting
them to get an opinion from some experts. I'll say this much.. On a scale of
1 to 10, for me it came out to be a 7.5 or an 8 at least, if you consider
the price and we knew the engine was blown. We brought the engine back as a
possible rebuilder. It's in real good shape otherwise and came with four
almost new tires and an otherwise good working tranny. The paint (other than
the nose) and the rubber everywhere on that thing are almost like new.
Someone had been trying to take care of it, until someone else went out and
blew the engine, or that's the impression that I get. It belonged to a lady,
and I think her boyfriend trashed the engine.. she couldn't afford to
rebuild and was forced to sell it. But it was very clean inside and you can
tell it was her baby.
What I was hoping to get was a really clean restorable, original type 2. I
am just not sure about that nose, but at this point I think that it was
probably replaced, so this one will end up just being a daily driver.. but a
good one. Overall, it is a very nice vehicle, and we had a very nice
adventure, driving from LA, up and back almost to the Canadian border with a
spare engine, installing it there (not really knowing if this would work,
but gambling a little can be fun!), and camping and sightseeing our way back
through Yellowstone, Grand Tetons, Zion, etc.. Lots of grades and crossed
over the Continental Divide several times, crisscrossing over the line
through mountain roads. We traveled in eight states in twelve days! Of
course, there were the obligatory valve adjustments and even an impromptu
lube job. Check this out! The two of us left the area of LAX in Los Angeles
at about 7:00 am, fully loaded, and made it all the way up to Weed, CA by
10:00 pm.. that with about 2.5 hours of stops along the way! That's
traveling! "Dubya One" was flying, many times doing 80 mph effortlessly with
a nearly-new Mexican engine.
What little disappointment that I had with the broken windshield and
possibly or probably replaced nose was made up by the overall quality of the
vehicle, it's almost troublefree return home, and the fun along the way,
including the many stares (both wistful and amazed!), waves, honks, smiles,
and stories of beloved VWs gone by that many shared with us at rest stops
and scenic turnouts along the road home. This definitely qualified as an
excellent VW adventure! :0)  Jan B


