Date: Thu, 11 Oct 2007 17:22:26 -0700
From: "mike turner" <airmike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Fw: [VB] light switch?

I think over the years those switchs got moved around around
 possibly at some dealers option.
 My bus is a 1963 15 window walk-thru deluxe. Its an original
 Seattle bus sold thru Carter motors. I'm the third owner, with
 the first two being faculty members at the University of Washington.
My original manual to the bus coincides with the switchs on the dash.
 One to the left of the instrument pod and two to the right like yours.
 However the functions are slightly different then those called out in the
 1963 model year manual (dated Feb 1963)
 In the manual, switch number 13 shown to the left of the Instrument pod
 is the wiper switch. In my bus the 2nd switch on the right side of the
 instrument pod (the one furthest right) actualy operates the wipers. Switch 
13 in my bus
 operates the 4-way flashers with the little round red light mounted in the 
dash directly
 above it. Again this is on the left hand side of the pod. Turning back to 
the manual, the switch
located on the right hand side of  the pod (thats the first switch to the 
right)
 operates the lights and instrument lights. Its identified as number 12 in 
the manual. My bus follows suit.
 And finaly, there's the 2nd switch (called out in the manual as number  10) 
and listed as the emergency light switch.
 As I said, in my bus, it operates the wipers. My thoughts on the matter 
are, when they first came out with four way
 flashers they didn't have the little red light that winks at you to signal 
their on. So "they" reversed the wiper and
 flasher switch's to allow the little red light to be near the switch, 
mounted in the dash. It probably got overlooked in
 the owners manual. Not sure if thats what actualy happened. But thats my 
"spin" on it,
 anyway. By the way you might want to check the date on the manual your 
using for
 reference. I also have a type 2 manual dated October 1964 and it does show 
just two
 switchs identified as numbers 10 and 13. 10 located left of the instrument 
pod is called out as a wiper
 switch, and 13 located to the right of the pod is called out as a 
instrument light switch.
 Gotta love it !!!

      Mike Turner
