From: "Rennie" <volksdragon(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "'vintagebus \(vintagebus\)'" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 3 Nov 2007 19:32:23 -0700
Subject: Expensive Crew Cab for Sale

I'm driving home via the beach route down Hwy 1 on Wednesday, which I don't
do often.  While sitting on the typical rush hour, Hwy 1 parking lot,
something catches my eye.  I look over and see a pre-'62 crew cab sitting in
a used car lot.  These guys usually have a wide array of cars on the lot,
but nothing I would ever stop for.

I immediately pulled over to check it out.  I went up to this guy standing
in the bay of the repair area hoping to get lucky.  He is just nasty
looking; kind of like after you've been struggling all day to get your bus
running - greasy, matted hair, the like.  He's inhaling a cheeseburger.

I tried to only look a little bit interested as I asked, "How much for that
bus over there?"  Right after I asked I realized I still have my VW shirt on
from work (so much for stealth!).  

He starts in about it's history.  It had been in a garage for 20+ years (but
had 1996 tags), was a one-owner, and he claimed to have the window sticker
(although he wouldn't show me it).  I could tell he's gonna talk for a
half-hour before I get a price so I wonder over to check it out.

It's a '61, original Dove blue paint, og cardboard panels and headliner.
After I look at each part of the truck, I keep drooling over how nice the
paint is.  Everything is there.  I look in the back seat and there's the
canvas tarp, as nice as a new one.

The bed is pristine with no dents.  There's a small speck of rust, but it's
only surface.  The slats are missing, but it doesn't look like they have
been for very long.  The hoops are there somewhere (according to the
salesman).  There were a couple of dents, but not bad.

I ask the guy for a card because I'm running so late.  As I turn around to
leave, he asks, "Don't you want to know how much?"  I nod and he says . . .
$30,000!!!!

After I told him that was completely out of my price range, he offered me
another bus from the same guy.  It was a '71 and it was beat up.  He didn't
know how much it was going to be.

So much for having a matching pair of '61 crew cabs. . . 


Rennie
'61 911 crew cab.
