Date: Wed, 23 Jul 2003 00:12:18 -0400
From: Ben <huotx(-at-)videotron.ca>
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: About the single Weber! My conclusion...

This Carb (The single progressive Weber) was on my garage shelf since a 
bought it in California (last trip to Mexico-USA)
It was tried in CA without any success, now I can say for sure that the 
carb was NOT the problem then, I apologise to the one who sold me this one!
Since I bought my bus last September, I was aware that my old Solex were 
going away, even after many rebuilt and new parts (butterfly bushings) 
they still gave me a hard time once in a wile, well, I should say very 
often! (Very difficult start some morning with heavy backfire, some day 
it was engine hesitation at low and medium speed). Many of you guys and 
other guys from other list told me to get rid of the Solex, I didn't do 
so, I was stubborn and I was sure I could rebuilt those old carbs.
http://www.letambourin.com/west_carbu_rebuilt1.htm  
I was wrong, A 30 years old complex part will always stay 30 years old.

So lately my decision was to go FI, so I bought a complete used FI ands 
fully restored that one, but it was not completely finish + some testing 
were needed before I do another big trip, am in Montreal so summer is 
short... OK, so as summer is going fast and my girlfriend want to use 
our Bus with her girlfriends, and on top of that the bus gave me a lot 
of trouble last weekend in Maine, I've decided to try the very SCARY 
single Weber before I buy a twin set of 40mm. I heard so many horror 
stories about the single that I was somewhat scared of trying this one + 
it didn't work when I was stuck in CA (San-Diego). You should know that 
this one didn't work because I had water in my tank at the time and no 
compression on #2-3-4 (0-PSI!!!)

Here we go, I changed (45&50) the idle jets for some good average one 
(info sent by some good and friendly S-Weber user), so a 65-PIJ (primary 
idle jet) and a 50 SIJ (Secondary Idle jet) were use for a start. 
Removal of the old carbs + installation of the new Weber took 2 hours 
(rerouting the cable included), I stated the bus and.......vroummmmmmm 
on high idle -choke close - cam on, 1500rpm steady, after the idle went 
a bit high I press the pedal and it went to about 1100, I went into the 
back and started playing with the mixture screw, like stated buy other: 
always play between 2 and 3 turn, if you need to go lower or higher you 
need to change the idle jet, well I didn't! After putting that screw a 
2.5 turns and playing a bit with the idle mechanical screw, bang I was 
at 850-900rpm, STEADY!!!
So I played with the gas and I saw that I had good acceleration and 
deceleration, time for a quick ride...

For those who read my Mexico trip http://www.eurokitplane.com/intro.htm  
(not finish but will be soon)
you probably know that my trip was a nightmare mechanically, or should I 
say that since I owned that bus it was a mechanical hell, especially 
dealing with the carbs.
After my top end rebuilt the bus was almost perfect, I couldn't believe 
how powerful a Bus could be, BUTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT.... I was still 
struggling with the carbs.

After a 30 miles ride in town and freeway, I came back home crying!!! 
Eureka!!! Finally I had a super powerful running Westy  (I was ready to 
sell that bus)
I couldn't believe how sooth running was the Weber (forget about the 
icing, don't spoil my happiness for now), very stable idle, EXTRREMELY 
good acceleration, low, medium and top end. Head temp still at 350F 
steady at 60mph, oil 210F. That bus is screaming for a 5th gear. I truly 
cannot belive the power I have, this thing is pushing more than my 
Vanagon 2.1L. (It's only a 1700cc.... Oversize!)

I heard so much "Bashing" about that carb that I was sure it was pure 
crap, it is NOT!!! So before any of you guys "Bash" the Single 
Weber...you should think twice, I did a 100miles tonight in that bus, 
for the first time I was in peace, I could have driven that bus all 
night. I don't say that it won't do some icing in cold weather or you 
could need some small jetting, but it is a fine little carbs for the 
price, let me tell you that.

Best regards, Ben
http://www3.sympatico.ca/huotx/engine1.htm  
ps.: I will put up a good web page on the mechanical transition Solex-Weber.
