Date: Wed, 23 Jul 2003 15:08:25 -0700
From: "Roman Rodriguez \(Volt\)" <a-romanr(-at-)microsoft.com>
To: "Rik" <nisse(-at-)centurytel.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] Need VW Bus mechanic contact--newbie info

Well...the leak is pretty bad.  If you are standing at the back (near
the hatch) and look forward, the leak is on the left-hand side of the
engine.  It seems to be coming from higher up on the engine block, and
is running down and hitting the fan, but the majority of the stream is
running out and hitting the exhaust manifold.

The only work that I have done on the bus lately was replacing the
alternator.  I can't think of anything on that side of the engine (right
side) that could be causing a leak on the left side (ie. Pinching
anything that could cause too much pressure in the crankcase).

I did replace the bottom alternator mounting bracket, and did
accidentally tap too far into the block with the new bolts and actually
partially blocked the dip stick from sitting proplerly.  But those bolts
are tight and sealed.  I know for a fact that they are not leaking (and
the neck on the dipstick has been sealed too)...so I don't think that
would have caused any damage anywhere.

Now, I have no idea where to even begin to look.  I don't see any oil
leaking out when sitting and idling.  It only seems to leak when I
actually drive into higher RPMs.  And then it leaks fairly
badly...enough to get a puddle of about 5" in diameter in approx 2-3
minutes.

So, I was just thinking about taking the bus to a shop, but I am new to
the area and I have no idea where I can take it.  Any advice on either
fixing it or on where to take it would be of great help.

Thanks,
-RR

-----Original Message-----
From: Rik [mailto:nisse(-at-)centurytel.net]
Sent: Wednesday, July 23, 2003 2:51 PM
To: Roman Rodriguez (Volt)
Subject: Re: [T2] Need VW Bus mechanic contact--newbie info

At 01:36 PM 7/23/2003 -0700, you wrote:
>I am in the greater Seattle area and I am looking for a good &
>affordable VW Bus mechanic.

I live around there, and don't know of anyone I would trust.

>I have an oil leak that I am just about
>ready to turn over to someone who knows what they are doing.

How bad is this leak?

Which type of engine have you got?

newbie stuff
--------------------

Along with the "Hoover Sermons" (and the type2.com library) You need to
get
a copy of
the "Volkswagen Official Service Manual" from Robert Bentley
Publications,
and "How to
Keep Your Volkswagen Alive" by John Muir.  Both are available wherever
fine
VW parts
are sold, though busdepot.com generally has the lowest prices.  If these

sources don't
answer your questions, the List is here to fill in the gaps.  The Haynes

manual is similar
to the Bentley, but inferior, in my opinion.  Clymers, Chilton, etc. are

worse than useless.

The Hoover Sermons are another invaluable reference.  Download every
bit of info on this site--Bob's gotten really pissy lately, and keeps
shutting the
sites down, though he has pulled the CD from the market. Go read about
engine
pulls, the "Hoover Bit," "Cost per Mile," "Positive Things and Busses,"
and
"Engines and the American Way."  The rest can wait 'till later.

http://osf02.ktu.edu.tr/~ulutas/hoover/

Before you drive that bus, replace the fuel hoses!!!!  Either that, or
get
your marshmallow sticks ready.
The proper hose is 5mm, NOT the 1/4" stuff at your FLAPS (Friendly Local

Auto Parts Store).
Buy a roll--25 feet, or so--from someone like Bus Depot.  You will use
it
up quicker than you
think--fuel hoses get replaced every two or three years, if you don't
want
your bus to burn
to the ground, like that Listee's bus did a few weeks ago!!!!  Get about
a
dozen clamps, they'll disappear
too--into the engine bays of...........less astute...........VW-ists you

find on the side of the road.

The fuel hoses can be replaced with engine in place, but you must pull
it
to install a bulkhead fitting.
The stock set-up has the metal fuel line passing through a rubber
grommet
in the front engine tin
(front is front).  If you don't replace these things every 3,000
miles--as
specified--they dry out from
the heat of the engine, crumble, and fall away.  This allows the engine
vibration to make the front
engine tin cut through the metal fuel line (in a very short
time)--allowing
gasoline to pour (gravity feed)
onto the hottest part of the engine (#3 cylinder) until the tank is
empty.  Not a pretty sight.  So, until
you're ready to drop that engine, put a new grommet in there, and
inspect
it regularly.

Bob Hoover explains the bulkhead fitting (easily made from hardware
store
materials) in his "Sermons."
http://osf02.ktu.edu.tr/~ulutas/hoover/engine_fires.html

If it were my new bus, I'd pull the engine just to check things out (and

install that
bulkhead fitting).  If your air cooling system is blocked by mouse
nests,
or whatever,
your engine will overheat, and not last long--the same with a dirty
engine.  To clean the
outside of the engine, it really must be out of the bus.  You can also
check/replace a
bunch of things (see below) that will eventually MAKE you drop your
engine--usually
not where and when you might choose.  Dropping an engine (I find it
nicer
to drop the
engine and transmission as a unit, and replace them together as well) is

really quite
easy, and is something you WILL be doing sooner or later, and on a
regular
basis
(every few years), for one reason or another.

While the engine is out, you might want to consider
checking/replacing/lubricating the
shift bushings, shift rod linkage, CV joints (re-boot when you clean and

lube), gas tank
sender, front engine oil seal and flywheel o-ring, clutch disk, throw
out
bearing, muffler,
etc. and clean and seal gas tank.

Make sure all engine tin, the thermostat/flaps system, and all engine
seals
are present,
and in good condition.  Is the rubber soft, supple, and unbroken?  I
didn't
think so.

I'd also highly recommend inspecting the brake system.  Pull the drums
off, clean things up, and inspect the parts.  Replace those that need
replacing, anti-seize
the adjustment stars inside and out, lube those things that the Bentley
Manual says to lube.
Likewise, check the front disc brakes (if you've got 'em).  I would, at
the
very least, replace the
four rubber brake hoses.  They swell on the inside, blocking off fluid
flow, yet can look just fine on the
outside.  Flush the brake fluid BEFORE replacing any parts, then bleed
the
system when finished.

The List is here to help, but we expect you to consult The Bentley
Manual
first,
and make a reasonable attempt to find an answer in the Type2 Archives
and
Library.

Questions?  Head still spinning?

Rik                                                       Searchlight
casting
'70 Westy "The Carcass"                           for faults in the
Now on the road!!!!                                   clouds of
delusion.
with 1898cc of mind numbing power.                       R. Hunter
