From: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <nik(-at-)tfrec.wsu.edu>,<type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 11 Jul 2005 14:14:19 -0400
Subject: Re: Serious problems with gas

I'm honestly not sure.... I haven't taken that much of a look, but the only tube I have that hangs down from my gas tank is the one that the fuel comes out of for the fuel pump. When I first re-did my lines, there was a steel fitting that came down from there. (almost looked like a quick connect fitting for an air compressor). The rubber line was attached to that. It simply threaded in. I removed it and hooked the fuel line directly to the tank. 

I have a complete steel line hooked from the bottom of the tank directly to the fuel pump (which I have bolted to the bottom of the engine compartment on the side that doesn't have the battery).

I know some people really prefer to use the rubber fuel lines. Although I don't see what benefit they have over the steel lines, I can think of many benefits the steel lines have over the rubber lines. I think most people who use the rubber lines probably just prefer to keep their car stock. I'm more or less of a stock car nut myself... I like my cars to look original. I'm not into lowering, or even aftermarket wheels for that matter. But when it comes to the mechanics of a car, I usually like to do what I think will last. I'm not sure why VW originall used rubber hoses either... I would like to hear from anyone though that has an apposing opinion or knows why they use the solid rubber lines instead of steel.

Maybe it has something to do with heat transferring to the fuel line or something??? 

I do know that with the old lines (even though they weren't leaking) the car couldn't even get up to 50 miles an hour. Like, if it did... I needed about a mile stretch of road. Immediately after replacing the lines, the Bus could get to 65 in like... 20 seconds? heheh...


Todd



> Thanks for the suggestions Todd, It is a mechanical fuel pump, near the
> engine.  The lines have been replaced, albeit with rubber hoses.  I really
> like your suggestion to use steel.  I guess my symptoms would make sense if
> air is getting in somewhere.  I'll have to check hoses again.  They're
> approximately 4 yrs old.  Could air cause the gas to leak out of the tank
> though?  That's a real mystery to me.   What is that small tube coming out
> of the bottom of the tank anyway?
> -Nik
