From: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <johnvi(-at-)cloud9.net>,<type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 12 Jul 2005 10:20:13 -0400
Subject: Re: Steel fuel line connection

Actually, whether you realize it or not, you just gave me a really really good idea!

I actually had never even considered using steel braided lines. But you bring up an excellent point.


Anyway, I fixed the steel line directly to the bottom of the tank. I don't know how all Busses are, since this is my first Bus. But on the bottom of my tank, there was a fitting. This fitting was made of brass and simply unscrewed. I then had a long length of metal tubing that I got from Discount Auto Parts. It already came with the fittings at both ends. I was able to screw this directly into the bottom of the fuel tank. I then bent the lines using my $5 dollar tube bender. I used steel lines all the way from the tank, to the "2nd battery tray area" or whatever you call it. The side opposide of where the battery goes. I bolted my electric fuel pump (a Bug Pak / Purolator 4PSI pump) directly to the floor of the engine compartment, and hooked the steel fuel line directly to that. I THEN took another steel fuel line (shorter, and hooked up the steel line directly from the pump to this glass fuel filter that I have. The glass filter has a steel cap on both ends with one end having threads and the other with a nossle (that you hook a rubber line to). 

From the fuel filter, I then hooked up a brand new rubber fuel line to make the connection to my Webber 2-bbl Progressive.

It worked out quite well... my fuel pressure was boosted instantly and the car has no problems getting up to 65-70 miles an hour. (But I prefer to cruise at 50 and keep the rpms low).


Anyway, you gave me the idea that it would probably be better to use a steel braided line from the tank, to a fixed steel line. I doubt that there's any real need for a braided line from the tank to the body, but it couldn't hurt. And then maybe a braided line from the pump to the filter?


Todd




> From: johnvi(-at-)cloud9.net
> Subject: Steel fuel line connection
> 
> Todd (and list)-
> I would like to ask about installing the steel fuel lines.  How did you make the
> first connection at the fuel tank?  Did you solder, weld, glue a connection on? 
> I have been interested in the steel braded lines I see on race cars but didn't
> know how to fit the first threaded part onto the tank. How is it done?
> Thanks,
> John Ingram
> 72/65 Transvair
