From: "Buddah VW" <buddahvw(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 12 Jul 2005 13:09:28 -0400
Subject: HCBF reminders

just 16 days until the start of the 9th annual High Country Bus Festival in 
Boone, NC.

just a few reminders:

- IRAQ:   We are gathering items and going to be signing huge cards to send 
to our fellow BUS PEOPLE in Iraq.  They have asked us not to send toiletry 
type items,  they would most like to have pics of buses, pics of bus 
people,(to decorate their bunks) DVD's, Phone Cards.

- COOK BOOK:  Dixie is going to complile a Bus Camin' Cook Book...........we 
need you recipies.  We are going try to make these free, or ask a small 
donation to cover copy costs.  WHAT DO YOU COOK WHEN YOU GO CAMPIN IN THE 
BUS?  Please submit recipes to DIXE via email:   saralee36(-at-)bellsouth.net     
         deadline is JULY 20th

-  T-Shirts;   due to a severe lack of pre-orders I was not going to be able 
to make HCBF shirts this year.  hotdog ROB HENLEY has steped up and will be 
making shirts.  The design will be availble for viewing online within a day 
or so.   PLease email ROB for info to order shirts:   
robhenley(-at-)baywindowbus.com

-  Door Prize Donations:   Please bring stuff for the kids as well as the 
adults, we will be giving the kids door prizes away in a seperate group.  We 
want to make sure every child in attendance gets a door prize,

- FMBC Breakfast:  As usual the crew from the FMBC is going to cook 
breakfast for this entire group...and that's no easy feat.   Please bring 
items to donate:  eggs, burrito shells, cheese, bacon, sausage, ect.  there 
will be coolers on the poarch of the pavillion.  Please bring your food down 
and put it in these coolers on FRIDAY night, so it will be ready for Sat 
Breakfast.

And dont forget that we are in for a real musical treat on Saturday 
night........get ready for some of the most FOOT STOMPIN live bluegrass 
you've heard in a while.  We're in for a real treat!

Please email me off list with any questions.

thanks,
Buddah

link to main HCBF site:
http://www.baywindowbus.com/highcountry9.htm
