From: "Jamie Auch" <jamie(-at-)kookymathteacher.com>
To: "'VW - Type 2 mailing list'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Wed, 16 Jul 2008 12:29:31 -0400
Subject: High Country Bus Festival July 24-27

Here's another plug for High Country Bus Festival from July 24-27 in our new location in Crumpler, NC
 
The Campground is on the NEW RIVER , and pretty much all the campsites are on the NEW RIVER!! Again, Recreation opportunities
galore!!! Fishing, tubing, paddling, hiking, biking, sun tanning, Frisbee, snorkel, bocce ball, to name a few. This section of the
New River is probably 75 to 100 ft. wide, yet it is very friendly and refreshing. 

There is no need for reservations. HCBF has the whole campground reserved. The majority of the sites are in an open field (less
privacy) section, in the sun (bring shade!), along the river, and closer to the bathhouse. There are primitive sites that are closer
to a shoaly section of the river and under a cool canopy of trees. The campground sells and will deliver both ice and firewood to
your site and has inner tubes for rent. 

The campground is very close to the NC/VA. border. Just north of the campground is where the North Fork of the New River and the
South Fork of the New River confluence. At that point, the river gets bigger, deeper, and slower. Then there is a dam, then some FUN
sections of shoals to paddle, swim, snorkel, and fish. Here is a link to the maps of the New River in VA. Click Here for Link Great
maps, roads too! Just click on the Mouth of Wilson section and print out! The campground isn't to far off the beaten path from
society, only 15 mins. to Jefferson/West Jefferson and all your modern day conveniences. 

The band on Saturday Night is going to be some energizing bluegrass, UPRIGHT and BREATH IN!  These guys are going to knock you off
your feet. 

Come one, come all, it's the High Country Bus Festival, July 24, 25, 26, 27th at Twin Rivers Family Campground, in Crumpler, NC. 
 
T-shirts sales will be limited so pre-order yours today.  http://www.highcountrybusfestival.com/tshirts.htm

Hope to see you all there!!!!! 


Jamie Auch 
AKA The Kooky Math Teacher 
http://www.highcountrybusfestival.com <http://www.highcountrybusfestival.com/> 
