Date: Wed, 21 Jan 2004 10:06:19 -0700
To: James Treanor <jtreanor10(-at-)hotmail.com>
From: craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Cc: mattroberds(-at-)cox.net, Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [VB]fuel sys mod

At 10:38 AM -0500 1/21/04, James Treanor wrote:
>   Basically, I want to put together'the' mac-daddy fuel system, bay 
>tank, double shutoff, double filtered vibration proof.

an easy start is with the BD fuel tap from WW... about $50. has sump, 
filter, on/off/reserve lever ( i modified mine for on / off as per 
veewees); i have it on a bay, so i'd need to kludge a bracket and 
cable path if i want a shut-off knob in the cab like splitties did. 
clara DID send me a neat page from a workshop manual which shows a 
small hole near the right rear tire, covered by a door - when you 
wanted to turn the fuel lever, you stuck a tool in there and gave it 
a twist!  tool looks like a water-meter shutoff key, and should be 
easy to make; i'll prolly use this, as it is easier than welding on 
the cable bracket, etc. fire? just run to the side, turn the lever, 
no more gas feed.

next step is to install either a vacuum-activated valve like on the 
nighthawks, or an electric solenoid that shurts off when the ignition 
does.

as for fuel lines... i currently have about 5 feet of german fuel 
hose running from the BD switch straight to the pump; wherever it 
encounters metal it is wrapped in VERY thick hose, like 1/4" thick, 
with reinforcing cords in it. not sure of the original app, but it 
has lasted 7 years w/ no wear or cracking. in addition, foam 
wrap-stuff where it passes thru the tin...  my lines pass thru an old 
a/c hole in the firewall, so i can put a LOT of material between it 
and the steel.
every two years i shut off the tank (or drain it), replace all the 
hose (and any reinforcing hose i think needs it), and am good to go.

i have looked at metal lines - the ones that are metal COVERED hide 
the true condition of the line inside, and are likely to NOT get 
replaced in a timely fashion due to cost. also, i dislike the idea of 
braided steel hanging around places where it could short/wear thru 
wires ie dizzy.

always looking for improvements!
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
