Date: Wed, 21 Jan 2004 14:08:06 -0800 (Pacific Standard Time)
From: "Darren Smisko" <darrensmisko.alumtek(-at-)telus.net>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: wheels (corrosive brake dust?long)

Unsightly Brake Dust (and what you can do about it)
by Paul Williams
Have you seen the new BMWs? Great-looking cars. Too bad about the black
wheels, though. Actually, it's not just BMWs, and if your car has four-wheel
disc brakes, it's not just the front wheels. Brake dust is the culprit. For
the past several years, car owners have been plagued with this corrosive,
unsightly and seemingly unbeatable coating on their fancy alloy wheels. It
even creeps out from behind wheel covers on conventional steel wheels.
What's the explanation? The dust is the result of friction between the brake
rotors and your car's brake pads. While braking, the newer, softer brake pad
compounds are displaced and end up coating your wheel. On some cars it's
really bad.
Brake "dust" is actually a combination of carbon fibres, metal filings and
polymer adhesives. It's the adhesive residues that unfortunately stick
everything to the wheels. Leave our wheels unattended in this condition and
the coating becomes acidic. It etches into the finish of your wheels,
seriously damaging them, so it's not just an appearance issue.
There are three ways to control brake dust. The first is to clean your
wheels frequently (or should I say continuously?). The second is to install
dust shields, and the third is to try changing your brake pads. Let's look
at each option.
There are a number of wheel-cleaning products on the market, but most are
corrosive and require careful handling. They belong to the "spray on, hose
off" family of products that never really seem to do the trick. You'll still
have to use a sponge or brush to do a proper job. In my experience, a soapy
car wash solution and a soft mitt works just as well. Just don't use the
mitt for the rest of your car.
A highly regarded product specifically designed for cleaning wheels is P21S
alloy wheel cleaner. It's definitely the product of choice for many owners
of cars with high-end wheels. P21S is a water-based, acid-free detergent
recommended by several major automakers including Audi, Porsche, BMW, Volvo
and Mercedes-Benz. It works on every type of wheels and wheel coating on the
market. You spray it on, leave it for a while, flush the dissolved brake
dust with water, detail and dry.
Remember that after cleaning and drying the wheels you can wax them. Most
alloy wheels, after all, are painted. They respond well to a coat of wax,
which will act as a first line of defence against brake dust. Buff them up
just like you would your car.
The second approach to controlling brake dust is to use dust shields. For
many years, Florida-based Kleen Wheels has offered shields that fit between
the brake calliper and the wheel. Installation is simply a matter of
removing the wheel, fitting the shield against its inside surface and
replacing the wheel.
The shields are made of an aluminum alloy and come in sizes to fit all model
cars, sport utilities and vans. They are also available for aftermarket
wheels. The shields are "turbo-vented" and directional, permitting air to
properly reach the brakes for cooling.
This is an effective way of virtually eliminating the transfer of dust to
your wheels. You may have some concerns, however, if your car is a
high-performance model, where brake cooling in track conditions will be a
priority. That said, shields are available for the full line of Porsches,
BMWs and Jaguars.
In fact, Jaguar, Lincoln and Ford have supplied Kleen Wheels shields as
standard equipment on several of their models. If you're worried about
affecting your warranty by installing dust shields, call your dealer.
Of course, the dust shields will hide your callipers. If you're running
anodized, painted or otherwise "show" callipers, you'll have to give that
some thought.
Kleen Wheels dust shields are available through a range of suppliers. Try
your local speed shop or call Marcor Automotive of Hamilton, Ontario at
1-800-263-8621. They're a large distributor of automotive products. Prices
run between $60-75 a pair. Additional information can be found at www
kleenwheels.com.
Marcor is also the place to order the P21S products if you can't find a
local supplier (the wheel detergent is $22.92 for a 500ml kit and $29.49 for
a one-litre refill, plus shipping). You're likely to find these products at
your local German car dealership, but compare pricing if you go there.
The third strategy for reducing brake dust is to change brake pads.
Specifically, the move to a Kevlar, or carbon Kevlar pad as made by
companies such as EBC and Porterfield, may reduce black dust and improve
braking. These companies are emphatic in claims for low dust, high stopping
power and minimal squealing. Have a look at www.ebcbrakes.com or www
porterfield-brakes.com for more details.
Another option is the PBR Metal-master or PBR Deluxe Plus. These Australian
pads have a high metal content, with less carbon. Eric Racette, owner of
Ottawa's Speedstyle Automotive Tuning, retails a range of these specialty
pads.
"Like all things, you give and you get," he says. "Some of the softer pads
have great stopping power, but they make a lot of mess. The harder pads can
be effective, too, but they're hard on your rotors."
Mr. Racette agrees that a correctly chosen aftermarket pad can reduce dust
and provide effective braking. Cost for a pair of specialty front brake pads
for an Acura Integra, for instance, will range from $40 for the PBRs to $107
for the popular EBC Greenstuff. Porterfield R-4s pads can retail for over
$150. All prices are plus installation.
So there you have it. Wash the wheels, deflect the dust or replace the pads.
Or learn to love black.

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of IMSTP.gif]
