Date: Wed, 21 Jan 2004 19:12:51 -0500 (EST)
From: "Jamie Rivers" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re:[T2] A focused question regarding charging batteries

El Senor Capitan wrote:
> While it is true that a smaller wire (larger gauge) does increase the
> resistance, Do not, Do not, Do not, use undersized wires. The increased
> resistance generates heat, and is a major fire hazard.

This topic is really hard to understand from a theory point of view until you
can see it in action, in many applications small wire is the best.
I am not sure why someone would make statements like this that are NOT
entirely true.
In fact it is dangerous to use big wire in this situation. Detrimental to
the battery charge level, and to the fire hazard large wire creates.

quote >The increased resistance generates heat, and is a major fire
hazard.< unquote

Resistance does NOT generate heat,,, current does.
Resistance <impedance> limits the current,, and the heat is less by the
square of that.
If the wire has higher resistance, then the current will be less, the heat
will be less,,,and the risk of fire hazard is less.

A 10 watt lamp has high resistance in comparison to a 300 watt lamp.
The 10 watt lamp does not get as hot as the 300 watt lamp.
The small wire in the 10 watt lamp is what holds back the current..
The large wire in the 300 watt lamp has less resisitance, and allows more
current,, more heat

If you put the 10 watt lamp in series with the 300 watt lamp ,, the high
resistance 10 watt lamp will not get any hotter...

If you take the positive cable off the battery,, and connect a test light
between the post and the cable, then try to start the car to draw huge
amount of
starter current,, the lamp will light,, the test light wire will *not*
burn up, the starter
will not work.
If you connect a dead battery to a fully charged one using #12 wire, the wire
will *not* burn up.
Do not be afraid of using small wire in a charging circuit.


Westfalia used the relay, and small wire to limit the current ,, they knew
it is
safe to use small wire to limit the current

The Battery charger you have that puts out about 40 amps most likely has
12 awg
connected to the alligator clamps... this is the manufactures method of
limiting
the current.

A very good way to limit current is to use undersized wire,, and or long
lengths
of wire.

I could almost BET your house is fed from the utility power grid with small,,
your words ,, undersized wires.

Utilities understand that short circuits happen from time to time in your
home or industry,, so to limit
the available current,, they use small wires,,, your words ,, undersized
wires.

In fact, due to space constraints, when a power transformer must be
mounted very close to the main panel of your house,, one method to limit
the current available to the house is to wind up some extra cable. <I am
not getting into the effects of a wire in a shape of a coil>
Picture a large transformer on a concrete vault, in a complex of something
like 20 units.. because the wire must be sized to carry a certain current
level, it may cause concerns in the nearest apts.<where the wire is
shortest in lenght to the load> The current available may be well over the
rating of the overcurrent device.  200,000 amps. The practical method to
limit the current is to add extra wire,, no pesky fuse to blow...

Older cars used to be wired with huge welding cable wires off the positive
terminals ,, this allowed vast amounts of current, but also allowed fires
during faults.   Large
wires can cause explosions, as they will allow vast amounts of current
New Cars have something like a small #8 wire from the main positive battery
post, to limit the available current.

Ok,
Back to volkswagen,, for all you who fear undersized wire, Do not, Do not,
Do not, look at the wire from your alternator to the starter, I suspect
you will think IT is undersized.  As it is ONLY a ~ #9 size wire! [6.0]
The main charge conductor! Just slightly larger than a #10 awg!
sorry about the sarcasm...

when you use #12 wire to the aux system,, it limits the current to less
than ~20 amps,, a very good value for battery charging,, IF the load you
have connected draws 12 amps,, then only 8 amps will be left to charge the
dead battery. ,, well not really as the voltage will drop off, and
therefore the current will drop off,, but the battery doesn't care, it
loves current to get it back to charged level,
You can't shove toooo much current down that wire unless you increase the
voltage that is pusing it.

The relay is the best way to go,, an electronic isolator <diodes> creates
it's own problems with charge levels.
A bosch 25 amp relay with #12 wire covered in loom is just perfect to join
the aux battery to the charge system, control the relay with the
alternator voltage output and your just like the stock Westfalia system.

YMMV
-- 
Jamie Rivers
Ontario Canada
