Date: Wed, 21 Jan 2004 20:32:39 -0600
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re:[T2] A focused question regarding charging

At 06:12 PM 1/21/2004, Jamie Rivers wrote:
>Resistance does NOT generate heat,,, current does.

Not entirely correct either.  It takes resistance AND current to generate 
heat.  Current without resistance does not generate heat, you see.

>If the wire has higher resistance, then the current will be less, the heat
>will be less,,,and the risk of fire hazard is less.

Keep in mind that a charged battery is a near infinite source of current 
(in our applications anyway).  You take a thin wire or a thick wire and 
short circuit the battery and both wires will be dangerous.  My point is 
just that the higher resistance of the smaller wire does not mean it is 
less risky if enough current flows through it.

If you take the positive cable off the battery,, and connect a test light
>between the post and the cable, then try to start the car to draw huge
>amount of starter current,, the lamp will light,, the test light wire will 
>*not*
>burn up, the starter will not work.

Flawed logic.  A tungsten wire in a vacuum will not burn!  A thin, 
insulated wire in our atmosphere WILL burn if you put enough current 
through it.

>If you connect a dead battery to a fully charged one using #12 wire, the wire
>will *not* burn up.

Under the right circumstances, I think it would be possible.  A dead 
battery has very low internal resistance.  If it's dead enough it will be 
like a short to the charged battery.  Lots of current will flow.  No light 
bulbs in the circuit to protect you.

In one of my previous messages, I said something like "in real life" the 
smaller wire probably wouldn't be that dangerous.  That's because in real 
life the high current draw only lasts a few seconds.  With a very dead 
battery, the #12 wire would probably heat up, but the current would 
probably drop to a safe level before it melted and caught 
fire.  Probably.  But why risk it?  And the main reason not to use the 
smaller wire is because the battery won't charge as well (more on this below).

Utilities understand that short circuits happen from time to time in your
>home or industry,, so to limit the available current,, they use small 
>wires,,, your words ,, undersized
>wires.

Nope.  They use circuit breakers to protect you.  Those small wires could 
and would burn if not for that.  By your logic, they shouldn't need circuit 
breakers if the wire limits the current!  So tell me, why do they have 
circuit breakers?

Another thing - undersize wire will cause voltage drops.  If you were 
really limiting the current with wire size, you would have zero voltage at 
the limit and nothing would operate!  The wire would be absorbing all the 
power in that case.

>Older cars used to be wired with huge welding cable wires off the positive
>terminals

They also used to be 6V.  Lower voltages needed thicker cables.

>Back to volkswagen,, for all you who fear undersized wire, Do not, Do not,
>Do not, look at the wire from your alternator to the starter, I suspect
>you will think IT is undersized.  As it is ONLY a ~ #9 size wire! [6.0]
>The main charge conductor! Just slightly larger than a #10 awg!

That is because it will never, ever have to carry more than 55 amps!!!  And 
I guaran-friggin-tee you VW made sure it would carry 55 amps without 
burning up.

>when you use #12 wire to the aux system,, it limits the current to less
>than ~20 amps,, a very good value for battery charging,, IF the load you
>have connected draws 12 amps,, then only 8 amps will be left to charge the
>dead battery. ,, well not really as the voltage will drop off, and
>therefore the current will drop off,, but the battery doesn't care, it
>loves current to get it back to charged level,

What?  Jamie, I'm beginning to think you have some misconceptions about the 
fundamentals of electricity.  If your battery is dead (say, 11.5V) and you 
are trying to charge it with a small wire but there is still a 12 amp load 
on the battery (using your example above) the voltage at the battery is 
likely to be at or below 11.5V and the battery will not charge.  This is 
because there is likely to be a 1.5V drop across your #12 wire with a 12 
amp load on it (I haven't done the math but I bet I'm close).  The battery 
will only charge if the voltage supplied to it is higher than it's own 
voltage - it doesn't matter if you have a million amps available, it will 
not charge unless this is true.  You said the battery doesn't care, but it 
most certainly does!

>The relay is the best way to go,, an electronic isolator <diodes> creates
>it's own problems with charge levels.

Here we agree.

...

I've been in this game a long time, and I've tried lots and lots of 
different things.  Once upon a time I used thinner wire to connect the aux 
battery and found that it did not charge well.  Part of that was probably 
due to the stock mechanical regulator limiting the voltage to less than it 
should have been, but part of it was also due to the voltage drop across 
the small wire.  If you have #4 cable from the alternator to your starting 
battery, and #12 from your alternator to your aux battery, your aux battery 
will NEVER charge as well as your starting battery.  If you run the #12 
wire from the + terminal of your starting battery, it makes it even 
worse.  I decided to eliminate that bottleneck.

Bottom line for me is that I know for a fact that what I have works 
well.  I use #4 (4 gauge) cable and a high-power relay to isolate my 
auxiliary battery and anyone who knows me well knows that my lights always 
work, my fridge is always cold and my bus always starts.  To those who want 
to duplicate the stock Westfalia system, more power to you, but be sure to 
include a circuit breaker or fuse to protect yourself, and carry a spare 
relay.  Remember that just because it was stock, doesn't mean it was 
optimal.  VW and Westfalia made lots of decisions based on cost, packaging 
constraints, what was available to them at the time and other variables 
that may not be relevent now.  My motto is to use materials that are 
appropriate for the job.  In my bus, that meant large cables capable of 
handling >100 amps with very low resistance.

-David 
