From: "colleen and brian" <cparsley(-at-)telus.net>
To: "type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 20 Jan 2004 21:13:56 -0800
Subject: Fw: fuel injected motor won't idle

----- Original Message -----
From: colleen and brian
To: type2
Sent: Tuesday, January 20, 2004 9:09 PM
Subject: fuel injected motor won't idle


Hey Volks
  I have a problem with my 75 bus engine that I can't figure so I thought I
would invoke the wisdom of the LIST.
The van fires up fine and idles fast for about 15 seconds and then suddenly
the rpm dives and it stalls.
Once it is warm it is a bit better but it still stumbles and hunts and
sometimes still stalls. It also misses a bit at high rpm highway driving
(60-65mph).
The thing was running great throught the last year but when the temperature
went down to -10 celcius for a week I didn't drive or start it. When the
weather thawed I went to fire it up and it would not idle and then eventually
would not start. I found the points were not contacting properly so I cleaned
and adjusted them, put a new cap and rotor on(and reset timing) and voila, but
I still have the annoying idle problem.
   I started looking for vacuum leaks and found that the intake studs on my
driver's side head were loose and would not tighten up, I thought I had found
my problem.I drove it for a week like that and then on my days off I removed
the intake pipes, pulled the old studs and installed oversized ones(this
required some VW yoga as this engine is in a 72 bus with no top access door on
the engine compartment.)
  When I started the van to admire my handiwork I found to my dismay NO
Diffefrence!!!!
I then intalled a new(well, different but not new) aux air regulator.
In searching the archives I found 1 fella with the same problem but no
solutions to it.
I'm hoping one of you will just say "oh, yeah, sounds like the so and so is
bad should take about five minutes and 10 bucks to fix"
There is always hope.
Thanks in advance.                Oh yeah, what does a condenser do when it
fails?
Brian
Nanaimo BC
72 custom camper
