Date: Thu, 22 Jan 2004 12:08:56 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: A summary regarding charging batteries (hopefully)

And then Jason replied thusly to Mathew, an' David, an' Jamie's
discourse:

"...Just want to make one quick note which people have danced around and
some even said. the stock system is designed to give a battery a small
amount of charge. this tends to prolong the life of batteries..."

'Zactly my point I made sometime back WRT use of the nasty ol' stock
Bosch voltage regulator - it's designed to "barely" keep an old school
"wet" or "flooded" battery battery charged without boiling the
electrolyte, end of story, period.  Modern sealed (aka "maintenance
free") or the newer Optima "starved electrolyte" batteries want, nay,
NEED a higher charging voltage to properly charge them, and hooking them
up to the nasty ol' stock Bosch VR is asking for trouble, pure and
simple.  IIRC the charging voltage output of stock is "barely" up to par
with the bottom charging spec for a new-style battery, and never really
fully charges the new-style; hence the need for constant external
charges, or a shortened battery lifespan.  OR a better quality VR in the
first place, if you are going to run non-OE style batteries.  It's
kinda/sorta akin to using platinum plugs without doing ignition system
upgrades...  Took me years of wondering why the newer style batteries I
was using in my 914 or Type 4 powered '65 Squareback had such a sh*tty
lifespan, yet checks of the electrical system proved over and over again
that it was working as designed., yet the batteries would rarely live
past the warranty.  The real answer was discovered when I started doing
my research on how best to construct a dual battery system for my '72
Westy Weekender, and that's when the pieces started to fall together.

Matthew's point WRT operating systems in the marine environment is
EXACTLY dead n*ts correct - that's where we should be going for design
improvments for our buses today.  There aren't too many tow trucks out
at sea, and they ain't too many fire trucks either.  Much like the bus
pilot, I'm told sailors have a pathological dread, fear and loathing of
a fire at sea.   I'm not an EE, an ME, or much of anything else, but I
do know how to read, think, analyze, and defer to what a consensus of
experts agrees upon.  No point in reinventing the wheel here, or p*ssing
and moaning over the best wire gauges - as was pointed out, VW and
Westfalia used appropriate technology THEN based on the various
concerns, but we don't have to put up with that NOW...  Especially when
the old tech does NOT work very well at all in concert with the new
tech, in fact, oftentimes it appears that they are in direct
contradiction with each other.

This was why I found the information contained at the Hellroaring
Technologies web-site so, well, informative :-)  Those boys seem to
really have their sh*t rolled into little balls when it comes to doing
battery rigs.  And why I chose to design the dual battery system in
accord with Hellroaring's suggested design for running the starter
battery in full isolation, with the camping/leisure/house/deep cycle
battery "first in line" (so to speak) off the alternator, and the
starter battery chained to it via the isolator, instead of the other way
around.  Even if you don't want to use their product, the concept (to me
anyway) is valid - the starter battery is ONLY used to start the bus,
and when the bus is camped with all house loads connected to the d/c
battery, it's protected from the deep cycle battery by the isolator.  It
was really and truly not that hard to set up or to make the
modifications, provided you have the wiring diagrams, and know how to
use your head.  The tech guys at Hellroaring ARE pretty smart, so I just
decided to let them do the thinking for me, and I followed their
directions/recommendations to a "tee"...  And a couple years down the
road, the bus is working just fine, never had a problem, spent a week on
a remote beach in the state of Michoacan in Mexico with it, etc.
Perfect starts every time, and no half-*ssed hacks or fixes were
required to overcome the limitations of some half-*ssed product either
(e.g. VR tweaks to overcome diode drops found on diode isolators).

Other than the fact it was more expensive for the hardware, could/would
any of you electrical-types tell me if running it this way is an
insanely BAD idea?   Or was it a stroke of pure genius coming from a
slightly different camp?

Jim Hayden
Still not an EE, but still daily-driving my bus (when not in the wife's
Ghia)
www.savethebays.org
