Date: Thu, 22 Jan 2004 15:48:12 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: fire talk

Volks:

I'm not an underwriter, nor do I play one on TV, but there's this little
precept in the arcane world of insurance underwriting that goes
something like this:

"You can't insure a known risk..."  'cause it goes against public
policy, see...  So like if you were a slumlord and you knew your
building was a firetrap, it would be EXTREMELY difficult to buy fire
insurance for it ('specially without an inspection by the insurance
rep), 'cause it's WAY too tempting to spark it up and collect on the
insurance...  Insurance companies had BTDT thousands of years ago, when
dinosaurs roamed North America.  And insurance fraud hurts us all in the
pocketbook, see...

Which is also like why there are pollution exclusions in your policies
these days, too - and gawdnose, the insurance companies got in trouble
writing those things out back in the early to mid '60s...  Try reading
policy language of an old Lloyds' policy sometime just for G&S.  They
tried to write them such that any pollution/contamination clean-up that
occurred due to some accident (e.g. an explosion) would be covered by
insurance money, but the companies that just dumped their crud out in
the back 40 got squat, when the clean-up bill arrived (against public
policy)...  Puh-leaze don't make me have to explain any further, 'cause
the "sudden and accidental" language didn't work, and the "unexpected
and unintended" language got boogered too.  Does the very definition of
"sudden" imply a temporal quality?  Can an "accident" be "expected" or
"intended"?  And besides all that, what IS a "pollutant" anyway?  Riddle
me this...  If a tree falls in the forest, if angels are slam-dancing on
pinheads, could an all-powerful God make a boulder so heavy it could not
be picked up by said God?   My brain hurts enough as it is, so puh-leaze
also don't make me have to sit you down and explain CERCLA, RCRA, or
TSCA...

Bus content - the same friendly local marine and boating stores usually
sell fire extinguishers by the, uh, dare I say this, (ahem) -
"boatload"...  My bus sports 4, and NO ONE can leave it in a hurry
without stumbling across one near any one exit in the event of an
unfortunate occurrence...

Jim Hayden
www.savethebays.org
