From: "Richard Beckers" <cathrich(-at-)tpg.com.au>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 23 Jan 2004 08:39:39 +1000
Subject: fire talk

Well I must pipe in here.
Burnt Bus's are as common here (in Australia) as anywhere else in the world,
so is just as much of an issue.
Also I along with many of you have had a scare of some sort over the years.
Like the time I faithfully replaces EVERY (or at least I thought) fuel line,
only to find I had missed the one behind the spare wheel mount, causing fuel
to flow into the engine bay when it finally let go after filling the tank, or
the time my partner drove the bus and 'noticed' some liquid leaking out the
back. Too my horror a not so friendly mechanic who happened to be near by not
wanting to help a maiden in distress said 'just drive it down to the shop so
we can have look'. Luckily it wouldn't re-start. I found the problem was one
of the brass pipes to the carby had come loose, despite I check for this EVERY
service.

So all I am trying to point out is no matter how careful you are, some things
are bound to happen. When you try to make your bus as safe as possible, just
remember you need two thing for a fire, a fuel source AND something to ignite
it. I was EXTREAMLY lucky in the two scares I had, but I believe a well
maintained electrical system can greatly reduce an ignition source if fuel
does leak.

Now, to what I have done to minimise the risk of fire. I have fitted a
solenoid in the fuel line at the tank to cut fuel off when ignition is off. I
have also threaded the brass fuel lines to prevent them coming loose (in
carbies) AND ensure I keep my electrical's healthy.
In addition to this, just check everything carefully each service and carry a
DECENT fire extinguisher. I'd even recommend using one on a fire out in the
open somewhere to practice using one. I really hate to hear stories where
someone has done the right thing only to find either they have no idea how to
use one and waste it before they put the fire out, or they find it is WAY to
small to be of any use if the fire has already taken hold.

All the best and happy bus'in
Richard,
Brisbane Australia.
