Date: Thu, 13 May 2004 13:58:56 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Yank fuel injectors for dual carbs? Worth it?

Eventually I'd actually like to document what I did, but here's the 
quick rundown.

First, I took an extra double relay and gutted it leaving the plugs 
intact.  This allowed me to take the car's plug that has +12, switched 
12 (ignition), fuel pump, and interface directly into the MS Relay box 
without cutting any wires.  This also allowed me to jump back and forth 
between the L-Jet and MS.

I then took an extra wiring harness and chopped the appropriate 
connectors (injectors, aux air regulator, resistor pack connector) and 
wired those into the MS relay box.  This way I could unplug the L-Jet 
injector wires and plug the MS wires to the injectors.

I used a throttle body from a pre-76 EFI bus that has a D-shaft sticking 
out the bottom.  I was able to take a TPS from a group buy and mount it 
on the bottom.  I needed to make an adapter plate, but that was a cinch, 
especially if you still have the old throttle switch plate.  There is 
one guy that didn't use a TPS and says he's running fine, too.

For the sensors, I just cut a hole in my S-tube and screwed the sensor 
in that and put some silicone to seal it.  For the coolant sensor, I am 
using another sensor mounted below the heads, but I'm going to switch 
back to using the L-Jet head sensor cuz it'll give me better results.

Everything else is stock.. same intake runners, manifold, injectors, 
etc.  If I wanted to, I could switch right back to the L-Jet by 
unplugging the MS and plugging in the appropriate connectors.  In the 
beginning I was switching back and forth because I'd screw something up, 
but now I've taken the original harness out and run exclusively on the MS.

hope that helps ;)



Jason Thorpe wrote:

> 
> On May 13, 2004, at 12:19 PM, Mike Soultanian wrote:
> 
>> Throw the baby out and replace it with megasquirt!
> 
> 
> Mike, would you be so kind as to describe your megasquirt setup?  Are 
> you using a mix of L-Jet parts along with something else?
