Date: Fri, 14 May 2004 13:25:05 -0400
From: "R. E. Haufler" <rehaufler(-at-)mac.com>
To: <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>, type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] OUCH $150 for a mecahnical fuel pump, how about 

I have purchased a replacement fuel pump and paid the $185, I think that is
what it cost.  A few months later it was leaking as was the original.  It
was leaking at the main diaphragm seal.  I disassembled, I put some gasoline
compatible seal compound on it and reassembled it and it was fine and has
been for years now.  I also did the same to the original, the diaphragm was
fine.  The diaphragm material is a very high quality, very tough, strong,
etc.  There was nothing wrong with it at all.  There was a plastic guide
that was broken on both, (and my other two junker backups as well), that
does not seem to affect performance.

I have had problems with my fuel pump recently (symptom - intermittent power
loss).  After much worry, toil, expenditures, incorrect diagnosing, and
suffering, I have determined that the push rod got out of alignment slightly
and was just barely actuating the pump.  I filed the spacer and now it works
quite well.

The mechanical fuel pump is dual action.  It sucks the fuel from the tank
when the push rod is actuated and pushes it into the carbs.  There is a
spring that does the pushing, when the float valves are closed in the carbs,
the pumps quits, it is pushed back and just stays there until there is a
subsequent need for fuel.  Then the fuel is delivered by the spring.

This makes for a very constant fuel delivery pressure.  On a good pump,
actuation of the pump with fingers will send the fuel 10+ft.  The carbs need
very little pressure.  Just enough to fill the bowls.

I would be completely comfortable with a fuel pump taken from a junker, if I
had disassembled it and found the diaphragms in good condition and the
springs in good order.  The pumps that I have that are no good seem like
someone pumped white powder through them, they are so totally corroded that
the pieces inside can not move.  Interestingly, the diaphragms (and probably
the springs as well) are fine.  It is easy to disassemble the pump and
determine if it is acceptable to use.

Bob H.
http://homepage.mac.com/rehaufler/Bussie/
