To: tommy(-at-)roadtrip.net, Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 20 Aug 2010 12:21:24 -0400
From: claralw(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Steering *clunk*

Well, time to inspect,
 lay under the bus while a friend turns the wheel, and look and listen.

Then jack it up so the wheels are off the ground and do it again.  Follow what
your idiot book says about checking the king pins, bearings, tie rods, swing
lever, drag link, and steering gear box.
Swing lever pins can get very funky.

Grease the suspension.  That should be done at every 3K mile service, or at
600 miles if you drive on bad roads.


Have you checked the steering box oil?   Let wheels back on ground, unplug
horn, place drain pan under box, screw cover plate and let box drip over
night.  Sometimes I will spray solvent through there.   What comes out?   nice
clean golden gear oil?   icky dirty gear oil?  Water and rust?  unidentifiable
powder?    dried mice?
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/album_page.php?pic_id=540307
I removed the four 10mm headed bolts before taking the above pic. Tap the
square plate side ways with a rubber mallet to loosen it, then remove it

http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/album_page.php?pic_id=540308


Clean up plate and shims, and reinstall (I use the brown gasket goo here) in
the morning.

Often the box has water in it, which is not good for the bearings in there. :(
Probably should change the SGbox oil at 30,000 miles or 3 years, same at the
gear oil.

remove 8mm square fill plug (at very top in first pic), and fill the box with
gear oil, same stuff you put in the tranny.   Some people use a mix of grease
and gear oil, but I recommend agaisnt too much grease, you still want it
liquid.   If you want to put grease it not thicker than 1:3 ratio.   (so it is
1/4 grease).
the point of adding grease is if the seal is old and leaky, the steering box
will slowly drip.  replace plug

................





-----Original Message-----
From: Avocado Tom Tarka tommy(-at-)roadtrip.net

I have a budding problem with my '67 that I'm hoping isn't what I think it is
(a
bad steering box).

Basic behavior is that when I turn the steering wheel under load, it gets
harder
to turn, then there's a slightly audible *clunk* as the steering wheel moves
abruptly (if only slightly).  If you continue to turn the wheel in the same
direction, it will happen again.
