From: "Bill Bowman" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
To: "List - Buskatiers" <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>, "List - Common
Cc: "O'Shea, Kathie \(& Craig Cotter\)" <koshea56(-at-)aol.com>, "Bowman,
Date: Wed, 1 Sep 2010 09:36:55 -0500
Subject: Update for BNNTA event this weekend!

Hi all,

It's Wednesday morning and we're pretty busy getting ready for your arrival at
Mark Twain Lake this weekend. I just checked weather.com for the Labor Day
weekend forecast. Wooo Hoooo! Clear skies all weekend, very cool temps (highs
in the high 70's and lows at night in the mid-50's!!!) so bring a sweat shirt
or light jacket for those evening visits around the campfire. Great camping
weather!!!

We ordered new approach signage, so if you've never been to BNNTA before, just
use the map link at our event website at www.bnnta.com to get you there and
watch for "B.N.N.T.A." signs with a directional arrow right before your turns.
I think this link should get you the Google Map to the event:
http://maps.google.com/maps?f=d&hl=en&geoc...urce=embed

Technically, the BNNTA event doesn't officially start until Friday at noon,
but if you plan to be in the area early, I think that the Rangers will open
the gate to our private group campground sometime on Thursday (usually near
noon) for you "early birds". When the Rangers pass thru please pay them the
normal camping rate for Thursday night only for your VW, and then your BNNTA
event registration will take care of Friday through Sunday night. But don't
worry if you're coming on Friday or later, there is plenty of camping room for
everyone, as I leased the entire campground for the entire holiday weekend for
our festivities. There is no pre-registration, just show up and register
on-site, set-up your camp and start enjoying all the VWs.

With great weather and lots of camping VWs and friends to meet, it's not too
late to load up your VW and head to the 25th "Buses Nowhere Near The Arch"
camping VW event this weekend for one last late Summer fling! Drive safely and
we'll see you as you arrive at the Lake!

Bill Bowman
