Date: Mon, 20 Sep 2010 08:25:49 -0700
From: Avocado Tom Tarka <tommy(-at-)roadtrip.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Tight Steering (was: Re: [VB] Steering *clunk*)

Finally had a chance to really dig into my steering issues this 
weekend and what I found out is below.  The problem is that the 
steering on my '67 is damn tight (wheels off the ground) and 
also binds in a place or two.  This is a new phenomenon on a bus 
I drive every month or two.  Audible clunk occurs under load after 
"bind" is passed, coupled with a dramatic shift in steering: like 
you had been applying pressure by turning the wheel, but the wheel 
isn't turning, then the tires suddenly move to where they should 
have moved to gradually.

Anyway, here are my weekend findings:

1. I have a steering box that doesn't have a drain at the bottom 
(no 4-bolt square plate).  In reading the archives it appears 
that these "sealed" boxes exist.  It does have fluid/grease in 
it though (dipped a clean screwdriver into the fill hole and 
it came out with dark, chewy oil on it: time to replace it.  
Bentley says to run a tube to the bottom of the steering box 
(wheel at left lock) and fill.  Presumably with a pan underneath 
to catch all the goo that is forced out of the fill hole.  Not 
looking forward to this, but I guess it beats pulling the side 
cover off unless I can find a new gasket, although I suppose 
I could use gasket goo...

2. There appears to be some slop in the horizontal steering box 
shaft (that connects to the pitman arm).  I can move the shaft 
back and forth (axially, i.e. horizontally) a smidge with my 
hand and I see this play when someone else is moving the wheel. 
 I can presumably adjust this by tightening the adjusting bolt, 
but the fact that my steering is already tight and lumpy means 
that I can't properly adjust it until that's resolved. Perhaps 
this is the "binding" I'm feeling?  Maybe my bearings are toast 
and I need a steering box rebuild?

3. Drag link appears to been replaced at some point.  No appreciable slop.

4. Front end has not been greased in too long.  Reading bentley 
says that this could be the issue (seized center pin).  I have 
now greased most of it (ran out of grease) it but steering appears 
to still be tight.  Will finish the job, then spend some time 
just moving the wheel back and forth before greasing again to 
see if this works it in at all. As an aside - is there supposed 
to be a grease nipple on the upper beam in the center somewhere?

5. Center pin slop exists (some up and down movement when steering 
is turned).  This will need to be addressed at some point, and 
now might be a good time to do it.

6. King pins appear to be good and adjusted based on test with 
bearings tightened all the way down.

7. Front bearings are fairly new (<10,000 miles) and have lubed/adjusted recently.

8. Tie rods appear to be ok.

9. Did not check camber or toe-in as of yet.

Based on all of this, I'm going to continue to lube and work 
the front end to see if it results in the steering loosening 
up.  The next step may be to disconnect the tie rods, followed 
by the drag link in order to isolate the "tightness" to a certain 
component. Once all that is done, I'll concern myself with the 
steering box and/or the slop on the horizontal axis.  That all 
sound reasonable?

Thanks for listening...

Cheers,
   Tom


On Fri, Aug 20, 2010 at 12:21:24PM -0400, claralw(-at-)aol.com wrote:
> Well, time to inspect,
>  lay under the bus while a friend turns the wheel, and look and listen.
> 
> Then jack it up so the wheels are off the ground and do it again.  Follow what
> your idiot book says about checking the king pins, bearings, tie rods, swing
> lever, drag link, and steering gear box.
> Swing lever pins can get very funky.
> 
> Grease the suspension.  That should be done at every 3K mile service, or at
> 600 miles if you drive on bad roads.
> 
> Have you checked the steering box oil?   

<snip>
 
-- 
    "It's better to burn out...than it is to rust."  - Neil Young
