Date: Tue, 19 Oct 2010 13:22:17 -0700 (PDT)
From: Ken Linoski <kenlinoski(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: re Hey Everyone, a cute little story

when i bought my 67 westy a few years back i dragged my kids along with me to
go pick it up (out of state) here is what happened according to my then 15
year old son.
B 
So this Saturday I went on a "wonderful" trip to Denver, Colorado with my
dearest dad. The first thing that happened was that I didnbt have to wake up
after getting only a few hours of sleep [always a plus]. After eventually
dragging myself out of bed I took a shower and got ready for the day. I put on
my usual pants, shirt, and stupidB  long sleeve collared shirt. After a short
drive to the airport we walked around looking for our gate. After a while of
looking, my dad deduced from the huge amount of people crowding those gates
[and the huge amount of people in front of us on the Stand-by list] that we
werenbt going to catch our flight. However the thought of dragging his kids
around with him to places that they would rather not go to compelled him to
think quickly and get us on a flight to Colorado Springs. Ibve been there
once.. It was for a Boy Scout summer camp. We were starved, ran like dogs, and
few of us even got a single merit badge from
 the whole ordeal. Ibve had bad luck with Colorado all together; in fact I
had to drive home with my family in a VW bus from that state back home before.
So when we finally get up to Denver my dad had problems navigating through the
last few streets to the place we were trying to get to. In my fatherbs
wisdom we tried to turn left against the traffic and through a median.
However, when we finally made it through that we got to the place where the VW
was. Now, normally the prize at the end of the tunnel should be worth it, it
should be worth all the trouble and strife. This was a rather nice exception
to that rule. Now, when I heard that we were driving that thing back in the
thing, well my thoughts ran along these lines bwhat the hell?b bWhy
canbt anything be easy?b The thoughts ran off while apparently so did the
condition of the bus. While it took my dad a while and a new pair of pants to
get the thing working, me and my brother just made
 random insults at each other, since there was nothing better to do. So we
were off, after returning the rental car we started off in the vehicle that
was slowly starting to fall apart. For the most part it was smooth sailing
until we got into Texas. There the bus really showed that it was truly worth
the money that was put out for it. We started to get rained on. First a few
leaks on the front window... Nothing much a few drops onto my shoe. Then
through the little ventilation system in front. Soon as we knew it, we were
being rained on while my brother enjoyed a nice little dry spot of the bed and
was wrapped in a nice warm blanket. I was able to amuse myself with seeing how
long the last sliver of battery on my I-Pod could last, and text messaging
since I wasnbt able to really call anyone since the noise the bus gives off
makes communication hard, then add in the fact my cell phone isnbt of high
quality and you have just a small portion of why the
 trip wasnbt fun. So what did I do to occupy the remaining 2-4 hours of the
trip? Well since music couldnbt exist in the bus, my phone was slowly dying,
and to top it all off, I couldnbt read my books or study since the water
from outside was leaking in more and more. So I had to avoid getting fined a
hundred dollars or so by the high school. So, as the disaster of a trip was
coming to a close I quickly started contacting friends and started planning. I
didnbt want my weekend to be totally ruined by my dadbs junk collecting
craze. So, we were finally entering Keller and what a great feeling that was.
The water had stopped pouring into the bus and I the fresh Keller air was
coming into the bus. When we finally got home, we had to wait for dad to get
the keys to the garage out of his backpack. Because the garage door opener was
in the car that we drove to the airport in. Which will raise the following
question: How the heck would one get the car
 back? Since it would take a car to get there, and a car going back. Unless
one gets another driver to drive you there, it is nearly impossible. One could
always pull a Multiple Man and defy physics by being in two places at once,
but how often does an actual mutant bXb gene occur in real life? However,
that was my "wonderful" trip to and from the "great" state of Colorado.
