From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 20 Oct 2010 14:31:19 -0400
Subject: re:Hey everyone!

Lets see, how did I end up with my bus? My story is not as good as Kens
son

Back about 12 years ago I was going back to grad school in Houston, at the
time I was living in Boston, and had never owned a car. Everyone I knew
said-you need  a car if you move to Houston. So as I was not really into
cars per se-the only cars I ever really was interested in was a beetle or a
mini. A friend of mine had a beetle, and she really enjoyed it, but
suggested that a Bus may be a better vehicle to drive back and forth across
country.

I did a little searching and found a Canadian couple that had purchased a
bus in CA, and drove it cross country. They figured once they reached the
East coast, they would begin to advertise their bus for sale.

I forgot to mention-somehow or other I picked up an idiots guide to VWs.
So I used this to assess the VWs I was looking at. I looked at a
couple-some newer some older, some that I was told were rust free-but
actually were total rust buckets-that was part of the learning experience.

 Once I saw the 65 ez-camper I was pretty much sold. The current owners
gave me a mini-lesson on tuning it up, and explained the hot start problem
they had, and how to remedy it. They were not sure what caused it, or how to
fix it. They then took their stuff, and were going to fly to Europe and try
to buy a bus over there, and drive around over there too. I never heard from
them again-although I tried to get in touch. So Im not sure what actually
happened.

A few weeks later I was driving it down to Houston. If I knew then what I
know now, I probably would have done a bit more prep-work before leaving.

So there were many more stories about driving it around for a long time, it
was my daily driver for over 8 years. It was the beginning of my VW
addiction. About 1 = years ago I finally took it off the road to begin a
thorough overhaul/rehab/renovation. Mostly body work, not much mechanically,
as I had been doing mechanical things on it since I got it. Mostly learned
from the list. I am currently installing sound proofing, before I put the
interior back together. Unfortunately the sound proofing has been stalled
for a few months, due to work requirements.

I like the ez-camper set up, and will be re-doing that, and installing some
gauges, and probably a modern sound system of some sort. I had finally
upgraded the system to 12V about 9 months before taking it off the road.

I'm not shooting for garage queen, I enjoy driving these things-I just had
to go for the restoration route, as a couple winters back here in Boston
really reeked havoc with the body-too much salt on the road. So when I'm
done, I'm not sure about driving it in the winter...time will tell.

My wife loves the VW's and she is very anxious for me to finish the
restoration, so we can go camping in it again.

-Kevin
Jamaica Plain, MA
'69 single cab
'65 Kombi
