Date: Fri, 11 Oct 2002 20:28:02 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
Subject: RE: rattle

>yes the rattle is no longer there. but i am still unable to start the
>bus-except via a hill.

No problem if you live on a hill.  If not, time to call the real estate
agent, I guess.

>i tried putting it in 2nd gear, and turning the key-the bus doesn't move.

That's a pretty good indication that the starter gear is not engaging
the flywheel.

>the charge come from the battery into the solenoid & starter at the
>same time.

Close.  The battery voltage is always available to the starter motor
via the heavy cable direct from the battery.  The solenoid only gets
voltage (through the thin wire and push-on connector) when you turn
the key.

>the solenoid plunger pulls into it's shell (like a turtle hiding) which
>throws the arm forward(FIF) which in turn shoves the gear on the end of
>the starter back,

Right...

>and since the starter is getting juice at the same time-this gear is
>spinning crazily-

...Actually the starter motor hasn't quite got juice yet.  It is
mechanically "timed" so that the gear is pretty close to fully back
towards the flywheel before the electrical contact is made for the
starter motor.  If you're lucky the gear goes all the way back and is
fully engaged in the flywheel before the starter motor even starts
turning.  If not, the gear is pressed against the side of the flywheel
and it only takes at most one tooth's worth of rotation of the starter
motor before it moves all the way back to fully engage the flywheel.

>so the whirring noise i hear is probably the starter spinning, it is
>just that the solenoid is not pushing the starter gear (which i guess
>is called the bendix)

This is the most likely explanation for what is happening.

There is one adjustment you may be able to try.  For the Bosch starters
listed in the Bentley, the solenoid plunger has a lock nut on it and
can be screwed in and out.  The back (FIF) end of the slot in the plunger
is supposed to be 19mm away from the back end of the solenoid when the
solenoid is pulled in.  If you don't have this measurement, you can
undo the lock nut and screw the plunger in and out until you get it,
and then tighten the lock nut.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds
