From: "Thomas Ainlay" <tainlay(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 11 Oct 2002 21:57:22 -0700
Subject: Replacing front window rubber

This weekend I'm going to start the long needed rust repair and tar sealing
of the front windows in the single cab.  I have the following items ready
for use:

New window seals
POR-15 starter kit - Marine Clean, Metal Ready and a can of POR-15
High Zinc primer
White Krylon spray paint
Henry's #108 Roofing tar
Sanding disks - replaceable type, various grits
Wire wheels
Sand paper - various grits
Gloves
Cotton string - two sizes
Small tin brushes
1" paint brush
Painter's masking tape
Plastic drop cloth
Goop - for cleanup of excess tar
MEK - a possible substitute for the Marine Clean

There is a ~2"x2" rusted area on the passenger's side where the window
frame, dash and door pillar all meet that needs to be treated as well as
some rust/rot where the window frame edge.  Hopefully there won't be any
holes under the seal but I have the POR-15 putty just in case.  My plan of
attack is to remove the antenna and windows/seals.  Next I'll clean up the
rust areas using the sanding disks, sand paper and wire wheels.  Marine
clean will degrease followed by the metal ready.  I'll use two coats of
POR-15 with a light coat of high zinc primer after the second coat has set
for 2 hours.  Once the POR-15 is dried I'll finish the primer coat and then
use the Krylon which should dry fast and last until the bus is ready to
paint.  The last step will be to use the tar in the window channel of the
seal and on the window seal to frame  surfaces.  I have saved some posts
covering this topic for reference but would like to hear any last minute
suggestions to help insure that this is a positive experience.  One concern
I have is whether I should use the POR-15 on the surface of the dash which
is visible.  Will it be really thick and noticeable if I only cover the
~2"x2" rusted area?  I know POR-15 is supposed to be hard as a rock but when
I do get the bus paint redone can it be sanded down with reasonable effort
so that the dash is smooth again?  Would I be better off not using the
POR-15 in that area?

Thanks,

Thomas
