Date: Wed, 9 Oct 2002 00:39:19 -0400 (EDT)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To: warren baity <warrenbaity(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Brake booster check procedure (was: brake booster and front

On Tue, 8 Oct 2002, warren baity wrote:

> ok here's a question. is there a test that you can do on a brake booster
> that will tell if its bad or not?

To check the brake booster, you will need:
o to tune the ignition (set dwell, timing and idle speed to spec),
o a vacuum gauge[1],
o a "T" fitting to get the gauge inserted into a vacuum line, and
o a cork of the correct size to plug the place where the line to the brake
  booster comes off the intake manifold.

The procedure is:
(Part 1)
o plug in the vacuum gauge with the booster line connected to the intake
  manifold,
o start the engine,
o read the gauge,
o have an assistant step on the brakes while you watch the gauge.
(Part 2)
o turn the engine off,
o unplug the line to the booster from the intake manifold and plug the
  hole in the intake manifold with the cork,
o start the engine,
o read the gauge.

Making sense of what you just did:

When you start the engine with the vacuum gauge connected, the gauge ought
to read at least 15" of vacuum.  If it does not, and the dwell, timing and
idle speed are correctly set, then you have a vacuum leak *somewhere*.  We
don't know where yet, it may be in the booster, it may be in the line to
the booster, it may be somewhere else.

When you step on the brake, the booster *may* (or may not) "use" that
vacuum and the gauge *may* dip momentarily and then return to normal.  It
may not, tho.  The purpose of the one-way valve in the system is to
"store" vacuum in the booster and if it is working and your booster is
good, it may have enough stored that there is no dip.

When you unplug the booster from the system and plug its port, if there
were no leaks before, then the reading should not change because it's
gone, so it should read the same as with the booster line plugged in.

What's normal and what's not (and what the "not" means):

Normal is 15"-18" of vacuum at 900RPM with needle in the gauge steady at
900RPM.

Normal is the vacuum gauge dropping a bit when you furst step on the
brakes, but coming right back up.  But if it's *really* normal then this
may not happen.  The reading not changing at all is wonderful!

Normal is no change in the reading at idle whether the booster line is
plugged in or corked.

If the reading drops and stays down when you step on the brakes, then the
diaphram inside the booster is torn and you need to rebuild the booster.

If the vacuum reading is low when the hose is booster hose is plugged in
and rises when the cork is in, then you have a leak in the line leading to
the booster (or in the booster, tho the first check should show that).

If the vacuum reading is low when the booster is plugged in and stays low
when the booster line is plugged, then you have a vacuum leak somewhere
else in your system.

> also why i am on the topic, exactly how does it work???

Magic! :-)

Seriously, the "normal" pressure of the atmosphere is ~15psi (that's
pounds per square inch).  As you step on the brake pedal, it opens a valve
in the booster that allows the booster to vent air to the engine (or the
engine to suck air from the booster, same thing expressed a different
way), creating a vacuum on one side of the diaphram.  On the other side of
the diaphram is normal air pressure (that silly hose leading from the
front of the booster into the frame).  Since the area of the diaphram is
~355 square inches ((6" radius * pi (3.14159)) ^2), the pressure is 15
(pounds) times that (355 square inch area) or about 5300 pounds! *LOTS* of
assistance!

> what does it hook up to and how should i check mine.

On FI engines, the vacuum side of the hose hooks into the air distribution
box on the left side of the box, at a Y with the decel valve.  On Dual
Carb engines, there is a pipe between the carbs that draws vacuum down
around the base of the two short manifold stacks.  On single carb engines,
there is a tube welded to the center section of the intake manifold just
below the manifold (I am told, never owned a T1 with disc brake bus). In
all cases, it is ~3/8" diameter.  On all engines, there is a "static" line
off the front of the booster that leads into the frame (out of the
weather, basically) to pick up air at normal pressure.

> also would a new front panel from a 72 NON westy fit right on my 72 westy. i
> would think so except that i recall another conversation sometime ago that
> said that the body of a westy was different from that of standard buses.

If you are talking about the nose skin, there is no difference between
westy and non-westy.

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail

[1] It takes a vacuum gauge!  why is no one surprised that Steve is
posting and it needs a vacuum gauge? :-)
