Date: Wed, 9 Oct 2002 08:50:36 -0500
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: Kelly Fowler <fowler(-at-)midicorp.com>
Cc: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Buying a bus

While it "might" have a 914 engine most likely it is just the pancake
which shares many of the same design features as the 914 engine. There
is most likely an easier way to check, but the way I know is that on
the heads where the intake runners connect to them. On the 914 head
there are only 3 studs to mount the runners to, the bus engine has 4.
Many people try to distinguish the upright engine (i.e. beetles &
older busses) and the T4 (or T2) engine which has a fan on the end of
the crankshaft, this way.

As far as the misfire, this suggests that the owner has not done any
diagnosis on the engine, other that perhaps it is missing on one (or
more) cylinders. It could be as simple as bad plug or as serious as a
dropped valve or hole in cylinder. these are things you can't guess at
& only can tell if you test the engine.

The pancake engine isn't harder or easier to work on, just different.
It's more of a pain to pull this engine than the T1 engine. But note
this is because of the removable apron on the rear of old busses not
the engine design. The T4 case are very tough & will last a long time.
Both have their good & bad points. I would just focus on finding the
bus that fits your needs. You can learn to work on either engine.

On Wed, Oct 09, 2002 at 08:02:58AM -0400, Kelly Fowler wrote:
> I'll be looking at a bus in the New York (Brewster) area soon and its listed
> as having a Porsche 914 engine (with a misfire?).  What do I have to be
> aware of with the Porsche engine?  Is it harder to work on?  What would
> cause the misfire? Is there anyone one in that area who would be willing to
> take a look at it with me?  

-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
"Two wrongs don't make a right, but 3 rights make a left"
-Cosmo
