Date: Wed, 09 Oct 2002 13:14:55 -0700
From: Nicholas Palmer <nicholas(-at-)slackers.net>
To: BigWig Webmaster <bigwigwebmaster(-at-)cvconline.com>, type2
Subject: Re: [T2] westy with heart problems

BigWig Webmaster wrote:

>And she's running like she was when I got her....except, she still 
>won't hold an idle.  I have to keep the accelerator down in order to 
>start her and she stalls as soon as I remove my foot.  Even when 
>cruising at highway speeds, she stalls when I take my foot off the 
>gas.  She sounds better, and she's got power back, but it'd be a lot 
>cooler if I could keep her running.
>
You need to verify dwell, and timing, and then adjust the idle screw. 
(Basically  do a little tune up.) Get a Dwell/Tach meter if you don't 
have one, and a strobing timing light. To get things going adjust the 
idle screw to the right until she will idle. This is located at the 
front of the engine just to the right of center below the throttle. I am 
guessing a half turn will do it for you.

With the engine running, check that the dwell is at 50 degrees plus or 
minus 2 degrees. If not adjust your point gap until it is set. Once 
dwell is set properly, hook up the tach, and check the idle. It will be 
high. Turn it down until either it reads 850, or the engine starts to 
stumble. Check the timing with the timing light. Rotate the distributor 
so the timing is set to the red dot on your timing gauge. (7.5 degrees).

Now the fun part. Check the tach again, and adjust the idle back to 850. 
Check the timing again adjust until it is at 7.5 again. Lather, rinse, 
repeat. This should get things running great.

I assume you have a manual transmission. If not then you need to set the 
idle higher. I think it is 950 for the auto, but I am not positive, as I 
don't have one. Check the Bently to be sure. If you don't have a Bently 
let me know.

If this doesn't work for you, your mixture may be off. This is much 
harder to adjust, but you CAN do it. Try this first, and if it doesn't 
work then let me know and I will tell you how to adjust the mix. I 
suspect your mix is fine though, and that you didn't get everything 
tuned up right when you swaped your parts.

-Nick
'77 Riviera
'71 Project
