To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 10 Oct 2002 14:48:29 -0500
From: myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Re: [T2] wiring gremlins and wheel noise

i have a 70 westy and though i dont have THIS problem, i do have a
similar one that, perhaps, someone could help me with.

when i turn on my right blinker, the little brake light by my heater
levers comes on. i rarely notice it since it is right behind where my
steering wheel is, but at night, i see it reflected off the windshield...
scared the *^%$* out of me the first time i saw it! what does the little
brake light indicate, anyway? is it connected to the drums or brake pedal
or what? an idiot light doesnt mean anything to me if i dont know WHAT it
is trying to tell me.

now... since i got the bus running and got the wheels off to get all new
tires (not an option, you should have seen those tires!) i noticed the
right front wheel (hub, according to muir) made a dry rubbing noise when
i spun it. a friend told me it was not to worry about, probably just
surface rust and grime from it sitting for 15+ years and that it would go
away after i drove it a while. well, it hasnt. yesterday i was driving
home and it started making a rather disturbing noise (well, to someone
who has no clue what the noise is or how terminal it may be). it didnt
shake or anything, but just made noise. up til about a week ago, it would
grab to the right when i would stop, but now it just pulls to the left...
as if the right wheel brake isnt doing anything anymore. i FEEL it may
either be a toasted wheel bearing or brake shoe has come loose. ok, i
think the bad noise (like loose parts rattling and dragging on something)
is the brake shoes and maybe the holding springs, and the dry noise is in
fact, toasted wheel bearings. took the tire/wheel off, took the cap off
and the "clamping adjusting nut" and my ex said the bearings were toast.
with no other way to get to the parts store to get replacements, decided
to put it back together before the bearings fell apart when we took them
out. once i get the parts, we will take it apart completely. didnt want
to get stuck without a car. thing is, i am worried about the noise... how
likely am i to have the wheel lock up if the brake shoe HAS come loose
AND the wheel bearings are bad? never had it happen, but i am paranoid...
i am a single mom with 2 young kids... being stranded away from home is
NOT fun.

waving thanks and bowing to the list's superior intellect,
chris
70 westy

On Thu, 10 Oct 2002 10:00:26 -0700 (PDT) Blake Haralson
<nakedclimber(-at-)yahoo.com> writes:
... I have noticed that sometimes my
> red light glows on and off with my blinkers as they
> blink. This is completly random, sometimes doing it
> and sometimes not. 
