Date: Thu, 1 May 2003 14:38:11 +0100 (BST)
From: wallace.bob(-at-)btinternet.com
To: Matthew.Beckley(-at-)egg.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Dead Battery? Intermitent Fault?  Weekend away in

Hi Matt,

Its quite possible that your battery has a cell which has 'gone dead' overnight (I'm told maintainence free battries are particularly prone to this). 
Last year I drove 400 miles on my way back from holidays with perhaps 6 engine starts; the next day the starter would not turn the engine. I recharged the battery and when I checked it with a digital volt meter I could watch the volts dropping; witin an hour the volts were back to 10.5.

I would recharge the battery and see what happens to the volts over an hour or two with it just standing. If its drops off quickly you will need a new battery (as I did).

With regard to the touching auxilliary battery leads - they should only have power from the main battery when the engine is running, so unless you have mechanism other than a split charge relay connecting them there should be no current drain (with a split charge relay current while engine is off would indicate a fault with the relay). 

The positive to positive link between the two batteries should be fused and when no auxilliary battery is present then the fuse should be removed. Else if the two leads touch while the engine is running or just the positive touches the body work then you will get sparking and a definite risk of fire in the engine bay.

Its possible of course that your two leads may have been touching for some time and thats the cause of the flat main battery as it would have been preventing the main battery recharching.

Whatever you will have no answers untill you recharge the battery and see if it will hold charge.

Good luck
Bob Wallace
Bristol UK
1998 T2

> 
> Last night I went to start the bus (3days later) and the battery was
> completely flat with only faint ignition lights.  I tested the battery and
> it was down to 10.5V.  I checked to see if there was any power draining from
> the battery and couldn't detect anything.
