From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "'schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net'" <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Date: Wed, 13 Nov 2002 12:11:30 -0600
Subject: RE: Ignition switch trouble

	David & Esteemed List:

	Oh! Oh! Oh!

	Here's another one I've had personal and very ugly experience
with...  It may JUST ONLY be the electrical portion of the key switch
failing, it may JUST ONLY be the steering column lock mechanism loose in the
housing, it may JUST ONLY be the lock cylinder portion of the summagun
getting ready to go, or (Supreme Being forbid) a heinous combination of all
three...

	To use HSD's expression, replacing the electrical only part of the
switch is a "doddle"...  see yer Bentley.  But there's a few minor issues
with the directions, if'n you don't got either an early Bay, or a later Bay.
Be forewarned that some replacement pieces may be of lower quality that the
unit already in place - AMHIK.  I replaced mine on GP shortly after I bought
my '72 in 1997, and was bedeviled by a gradually fading ignite sequence that
was much worse in cold weather morning starts than warm.  Finally said
"Whatever!" this summer and replaced the replacement, and now my Westy
ignites everytime I hit the switch.

	What may well make you wanna take your own life, is if the double
secret pair of set screws that hold the steering column lock in place loosen
up.  I could never figure for the life of me, why my ignite key-switch was
soooooooooo loose and wobbly in the housing, and the day the cam-lock
mechanism failed (in my driveway after having moved my cars around, such
that the daily driver was now outside) thereby permanently locking the
steering wheel, and nearly holding onto the key in it's evil grip as well, I
figured out why.  You'll scream in horror!  You'll
beg/plead/rant/rave/snivel/p*ss/moan in despair!  You'll rent your clothing!
And you may just take up self-flagellation as a new found hobby!

	You'll then discover that the steering column lock has been
obsoleted, and THEN you'll discover what a friend we all have in Steve
Sandlin and his Amazing Stash of Bay Window Ignite Bits Goody Bag.  You'll
also discover some great articles in the Type2 Library about the super
secret hole you must find in the dark, down in a blind place in the housing,
with all three hands tied behind your back while suspended over a shark
tank, to release the super secret catch on the lock cylinder.  You CAN'T
manipulate the catch with a paper clip, I'm sorry to say.  You must use
something more substantial - like coat hanger material.  Sounds like fun,
donut?  Just like a hertz donut, donut?  Is that old bromide still around?
Young 'uns?

	You'll get it all figured out, but you'll grow a few grey ones if'n
your hair hasn't turned, and if it has, you'll lose a few grey ones in the
process.  So what did I learn?  Like I keep telling you all, "Keep your
nuts, and set screws, on tight!"

	Jim Hayden
	www.savethebays.org  
