Date: Wed, 13 Nov 2002 14:06:48 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Help! Beetle powered Bus won't start

>I seem to have created some problems...because now my bus
>won't start. Turns over but won't fire.

Worry not - you have a non-fuel injection engine so this will be easy to 
troubleshoot, even by remote control (e-mail).

>I do have a couple of specifc questions I wanted to ask you.  When I had the
>engine out I thought about changing the spark plugs but decided not to for
>fear that after setting up for 10-12 years one of the plugs might twist out
>crooked and mess up the threads and really put me in a pickle because I dont
>have time to take the engine apart and to a machine shop for insert
>replacement ( you might recall I have to move in the next couple of weeks).

Good logic. Just keep it running and do the plugs later. Remove them when 
the engine is stone cold and put a drop of oil on the threads or some 
anti-seize grease on the threads before you put the new plugs in.

The steel spark plug expands faster than the aluminum head and trying to 
loosen a hot spark plug will likely pull the threads right out.

Tighten them with your hand near the ratchet wrench "head". Much reduces 
your ability to crank down hard on the threads and lessens your ability to 
strip the threads. You only have to tighten until the compression washer 
collapses. I can feel this happen. Hope you can too.

>Question # 1. Would it do any good to spray penetrating oil down around the
>plugs and let it set for a few days before trying to take them out?

Can't hurt a thing. Might help a bit. What may have happened is that the 
spark plug is a thread or two too long and the last threads are exposed 
inside the combustion chamber. The exposed thread has carbon buildup on it 
and the spark plug can't drag the carbon buildup along with it back through 
the hole when you try to remove it. It has effectively locked the spark 
plug in the head.

A worse case would be if the previous spark plug changer mistakened 
Locktite for Anti-Seize... <grin>

What I do is double and triple check that I am trying to rotate the spark 
plug in the correct direction. Lefty loosey, righty tighty... Silly but has 
stuck with me all these years.

Crank down on the spark plug hard once or twice (loosening it). If it moves 
at all then tighten it up again. Continue the loosen/tighten procedure 
(loosening it a bit more each time) until you get the plug out.

You might spray more and more light oil in as more and more threads are 
exposed as you remove the spark plug. This should and could get to any 
stubborn threads easier than when the spark plug is fully seated.

>Question # 2. Am I correct that if a plug strips the threads it requires me
>to pull the engine again and get it repaired at a machine shop?

Yes. You "could" do it with the engine in place but it's not easy either. 
My ideal version would be to have the naked head laying on the work table. 
My second favorite would be to have the tin off the engine but the head and 
engine in place in the vehicle. My last favorite is head and cooling tin on 
the engine and in the vehicle.

>Couple of other things....When trying to adjust the engine idle I seem to be
>plagued with a backfiring problem (actually the backfiring started as soon as
>I put the engine back in) and I cant seem to get it to go away.  I have
>driven it around the block several times and it either backfires during
>acceleration or deacceleration (depending on carb ajustment; which I
>obviously havent gotten right) and hesitates and wont take fuel smoothly.

I'd do a full tune up to get started. Doesn't require any new parts, just 
cleaning and adjusting what you've got. Eliminates a BUNCH of maybes.

Okay my tune up procedure starts with a dead cold engine. Adjust the valves 
to .006". Adjust #3 exhaust valve at .008". A stuck valve will cause the 
symptoms you mention (back fires). Basically the combustion event 
(combustion pressure created by the exploding fuel) is leaking out past a 
partially open exhaust valve versus pushing down on the piston. A worse 
case would be a burnt (cracked and broken) valve. Common on VW's.

A compression test would tell the tale.

Next adjust the timing to the value most correct for your engine and your 
vehicle (engines and body styles - Beetles vs. Busses).

Make sure that you have the right distributor for your engine and vehicle. 
Look at the serial number on the distributor. Some 
distributor/engine/chassis combinations required different timing specs.

Adjust the timing with a timing light. A cheap one is $30 and you'll use it 
every 3K miles so it is worthwhile to have. The other item you need is a 
dwell meter. My meter was $20. Some have 6 cylinder and 8 cylinder scales 
but no 4 cylinder scales. On these set your points to 50 degrees +/- 2 
degrees on the 8 cylinder scale. Again you'll need this meter every 3K 
miles so it's worth the time to borrow or buy one.

Woops! Just noticed you checked all that below...

>My engine is an AE series and has a Solex 30/31 PIC carb (one of the
>Mexican/Brazilan models) and it was working fine until I started fiddleing
>with it.  I have a 009 distributor (the dwell is at 52), The timing seemed
>good, according to what I read; the advance seems to be OK  at 3000 RPM. When
>I got back in town I tried to start it up but it just turns over and wont
>fire at all. But with more time I am sure I can get it going again,
>however; I am thinking I have an ignition/electrical problem.  I have ordered
>a coil, points, condenser, plugs, plug wires and hope to install the new
>parts next week. I figure that after all the years of setting up these parts
>will be needed even if I have some other gremlin causing my current problem..

Okay.. You've got to have spark, air, and fuel.

If the engine is rolling over then you've got air.

You can splash a bit of gasoline into the carb and then you'd have fuel for 
sure. (Try to start it with the gas pedal on the floor then - like if it 
was flooded - because it will be...)

I would suspect the condenser or shorted points. The condenser is checked 
by a continuity test with a multimeter I believe.

The same with the points. MUIR has a nice procedure for this but a light 
bulb in series with the green wire going to the coil will at least tell you 
if the points are getting juice or firing the coil.

You can pull a spark plug out and pop a new spark plug into the end of the 
wire. Ground the tip of the plug to something bare metal such as the top of 
a shroud screw. Nothing fuel related.

Roll the motor over with the starter and see if you get a spark.

If not you've got to see if the coil is getting a good 12 volts of power 
from the key. That will be the wire on the coil that is black I believe. 
Opposite from the green wire. Will be attached to the (+) terminal on the 
coil. It should get 12 volts whenever the key is on or whenever the engine 
is cranking.

Also on this same (+) terminal would be: 12+ from the key mentioned before, 
the choke/carb solenoid (mentioned soon below), and the reverse lights.

On the (-) terminal only the green wire should be found unless you have a 
tachometer which would clipped here too. This terminal switches on and off 
with the frequency of the points.

The (-) side of the coil is (should) have the wire running to the points 
connected to it. Generally green. A check with a light bulb or meter should 
show the power on this side of the coil going from 12 volts to 0 volts to 
12 volts while the engine is rolling over by hand (wrench on the generator 
shaft). It would be 0 volts when the points are closed since the points 
connect the coil to ground. It should be 12 volts when the points are open. 
If the condenser is bad then you may see 0 volts all the time I believe.

If the condenser is bad or if the connections at (+) and (-) on the coil 
are backwards then the engine will run poorly.

Carburetor:

You carb has two electrical connections. The first is the choke. It is 
attached by a single wire to the (+) side of the coil. This allows the 
choke heater element is get warm anytime the ignition switch is on. When 
the choke is cold then it should be lightly closed. When it is warm (5 
minutes) it should hold the choke plate all the way open. If it is stuck 
closed then the engine will belch black smoke (excess unburned fuel) and 
"chug" instead of idle properly. Wrecks your gas mileage (excess fuel) and 
wrecks your engine eventually b/c the excess fuel gets into your oil and 
dilutes it ruining it's lubricating qualities.

The second electrical connection is also connected to the (+) side of the 
coil and this is the little solenoid on the driver's side of the carb. This 
simply turns off the fuel to the carb idle circuit (the part of the carb 
that provides fuel at idle) when the key is off as part of some rudimentary 
air pollution equipment and helps the carb operate properly during hot 
weather - helps avoid vapor lock and the engine running on - on hot days.

If you unscrew it from the carb you should see a little plunger on the end 
that will retract when the key is turned on. You can here it click too. 
Some folks have cut these off (and left the solenoid there) and it doesn't 
really hurt anything BUT the engine might "run on" after you turn the key 
off on a hot day. This means the engine stumbles and refuses to stop 
running for an extra 10-15 seconds. Basically red hot portions of the 
combustion chamber causes combustion to continue and the carb will continue 
to supply fuel as long as the engine continues to rotate. Turning the key 
off simply turns off the spark plugs, everything else if ready to function 
automatically without driver intervention.

Okay if you've got your valves adjusted, compression test done, points and 
timing set, you are ready for the carb adjustment.

Your engine should start and run - at least poorly - now. A splash of gas 
will take the place of the carb if the carb is a clogged up mess.

Adjust the carb now. Start the engine and idle it. Idle or drive the engine 
until the choke is off (vertical) and the engine is hot.

Prerequistes:

Spark plugs serviceable
Engine adjusted and tuned
Dwell and timing adjusted

Connect tachometer and oil temp gauge and start engine.

Check oil temp is between 122 -158 F ,and shut down engine.

Check that choke is open fully.

Disconnect the accelerator cable from the carb.

Turn idle screw out until it is no longer touching fast idle cam. (That is 
the top of the lever that moves when you pump the gas pedal).
Turn idle screw in till it just touches fast idle cam.

Carefully turn volume control screw in till it stops, then turn out 2 1/2 
To 3 turns.

Start engine, make sure that choke is open again and reinstall air cleaner.

Set idle speed at 900RPM by the bypass screw.

Turn out volume screw to highest idle speed and then turn back in till RPM 
drops by 20-30 RPM.

Turn the bypass screw till the idle is correct at 750-900RPM.

Reconnect the accelerator cable.

I got this summary from the Type2 library.

Read this:   http://www.type2.com/library/fuel/cutting.htm

In case that new carb has turned old.

That SHOULD get your engine tuned right. The last thing I did not mention 
is your exhaust system. Is it noisy with leaks? Leaks can let in fresh 
oxygen and cause explosions in the exhaust system using the heat of the 
pipe and the excess fuel left over if your carb is excessively rich.

>One more thing....when doing idleing adjustments and such I noticed that the
>fan belt had gotten real loose (it was a new one) and was twisted. This
>occured quite suddenly  So I put a new on one, in doing so I noticed that the
>generator pully shaft that goes through to the fan would move in and out
>about an 1/8 of an inch.  I didn't recall this movement when I put the other
>belt on a couple of months ago.

Slack belt caused it to flip over. 1/8" of play in the bearings will also 
help cause this but not just the 1/8". You may have a bearing replacement 
in your future. I would check the tightness of the nut at the center of the 
fan behind the fan shroud. Also make sure the nut on the pulley is tight. 
May just be age and wear. Bearings sometimes wear and cause end play (axial 
movement) in addition to radial movement. As long as it is quiet and not 
excessive and all the fasteners are tight then I would not worry but know 
you may have to tear down the generator and put in new bearings at some 
point in the future. Any bearing supplier can supply the right bearings - 
now need to buy a whole rebuilt generator.

>Question # 3.  Is it normal for the shaft to have a slight amount of play 
>like
>this or do I have some other problem?

Maybe a slight amount of play but 1/8" is near excessive for my standards. 
Maybe 1/2 of that would be okay.


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
