From: Debbdavis(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 13 Nov 2002 19:07:35 EST
To: syder(-at-)vache.ucdavis.edu
Subject: Re: [T2] spark plug thread chaser

I used one of these several months ago when I had replaced my plugs and 
hadn't tightened them down quite right.  I was terrified that I'd ruined my 
heads when I couldn't get the plugs back in, but tried this as what I thought 
might be a last chance fix.  It worked like a charm and the plugs (two needed 
help) haven't given me lick of trouble since.  Since no one really puts 
instructions on these things, let me offer this.   
Clean out the hole with carb cleaner before you do anything.  Odds are 
there's a bunch of crap in there that won't help matters when you rethread 
the hole, so spray a liberal amount and wipe it out real good (I used a clean 
piece of tee shirt wrapped around a long screw driver and it seemed to do the 
trick-it went in clean and came out with cleaner and little shards of metal.  
This is what you want).  Try to compare the angle of entry of a good plug 
before you use the chaser.  Close your eyes, listen to the metal as it 
enters, go by sense of smell or whatever you do when you go to your 
extrasensory VW place.  Then just go slow and steady until it stops (it'll 
let you know, but about 12-15 half turns, however many it takes to turn your 
plugs all the way down) Take it out steady so the new threads stay straight 
and at the same angle it went in, clean it again and put your plug in.  When 
I finished the process, I was tempted to do the other two because the new 
threads were so perfect and allowed the plugs such easy entry.  This is the 
beauty of titanium.
I'm still a novice at a lot of this stuff and will certainly be asking 
questions as time and money allow me to bring my camper back to (perhaps 
beyond?) her former glory, but this is something that I know can be done only 
because I have done it.  There are some things I'd rather leave to a pro but 
nothing bonds you to your vehicle like fixing its problems yourself!
Best of luck and let me know how you do.
Debbie
69 Westy- Sunshine
