Date: Wed, 13 Nov 2002 19:36:39 -0800 (PST)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] gas tank resto  varnish/sludge

Hello List,

I have had the chance to use the POR 15 gas tank
restoration kit. I used it on a late model bus FI gas
tank which had some rust crust and a considerable
ammount of sludge on the bottom. The marine clean did
do the job for me. IT was able to remove all traces of
sludge. It is important to follow the instructions
though. This process requires you to mix the quart of
Marine cleand with 1 quart of HOT water. After pouring
it in the gas tank, you have to rotate the tank ever 2
hours so it works on all surfaces. You have to do this
process three times and if your gas tank was like
mine, you had to let the solution set in the bottom of
the tank longer than 2 hours at a time. When I was
through, I could see no build up and the water I
rinsed it with appeared crystal clear. The Metal Ready
does a good job or removing rust as well. You can also
reuse it after treating the tank! It got rid of all
but alittle rust in my tank and I am sure that it
would have disolved that rust if I let it sit long
enough. Tonight, I think that I am going to go ahead
and pour the sealer in the tanks seeing as the weather
has cleared up and the humidity is down. So far, I
think the kit was well worth the money. It will be
nice to know that my fuel filter won't be stoped up
with rust and debret and that my fuel won't be
contaminated with old fuel. By the way, I still have
that 74 bus fuel tank for sale that I am restoring!
Have a great day!

David Kelly
From Wilmington, North Carolina

P.S. I agree about not mixing the chemicals. If you
are not sure what the chemicals consist of, then it
would be very easy to mix 2 chemicals together that
will neutralize one another making them useless and
wasting your money. Besides, I cannot think of one
time where I mixed 2 house hold cleaners and came up
with a better cleaner than just using a higher
concentration of one of them. Any way, I will stop my
endless rambling now. Have a good day!
