From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Wed, 13 Nov 2002 23:09:31 -0600 (CST)
To: ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: [VB] BMW, Get a hint VWoA

Anthony--

Don't go telling the BMW folks there isn't a big following.

Lets see---let me look at the credits of my recent Roundel Magazine---

Ahh--acoording to the most recent tally there are over 62,000 members of
the BMW car club of America, and this only the documented members
here---

How about the rest of the planet---??

I think you may be cuttig the Beemer folks a little short here.-----

I'm kinda proud of BMW for offering and assisting in the  restoration,
and the continuation of the margue--

For the most profitable pivatley owened automobile manufacturer in the
world, they are offering more to assist  the guy trying to restore and
keep running an older vehicle than VW mega builder even wants to
consider.

The BMW's are a little pricey--but look at the car your buying--VW
doesn't hold a candle to them--a much higher quality vehicle from the
get go---

VW is way short on the totem pole on this one.---

I'm right proud of BMW

Later

Terry


E-mail message

<< Hello All   Lets not get carried away, BMW did exactly what VW did
on the trademark about 8 years ago. Also did they produce the number of
vehicles that VW did? Is there as large of a following? I don't think
so. We can only hope VW wises up but I won't hold my breath. Later and
have fun Mark Dearing Salem Import Service Salem Va >>
350,000 world wide for BMW...4 million for VW last year... Both Ford and
VW are snapping at BMW's heels; the Rover takeover was way overpriced
and so far has only produced the nouveau Mini (35,000 so far). The 90's
boom has left most manufacturers with excess capacity and not enough
market to split so many ways. The final four or five will probably end
up being "platform" manufacturers with models spun off or "badge
engineered" (Opel/Catera, etc.) to suit marketing whims...
Remember the shake out of the British auto industry? Lots of Marques
survived the war but gradually ground down to a precious few and then
winked out...
Tony in NJ
W.A.S.T.E.
