To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Date: Thu, 23 Sep 2004 18:52:37 -0700
Subject: What would you do?

A couple of years ago, Peregrine's camshaft separated from its gear. I 
bought a house with a garage, towed Peregrine to the garage, put her 
inside, and shut the door.

Over the past two years I have been collecting parts for an engine 
rebuild. As I said in an earlier post this week, I had planned to (1) 
have Jake Raby do a dynamic balance on the rotating mass, (2) have 
Boston Bob align bore the case, then (3) assemble the engine myself.

It has occurred to me this week that (1) and (2) don't go together with 
(3), if what I want is a perfect engine. So I've been thinking about 
buying a full longblock from Boston Bob. Even though the price makes me 
gnash my teeth, I am sure that it's worth it in terms of peace of mind 
(and several people on the list have assured me that this is so).

BUT:

As of today I have:

2 Mark Stephens heads with 5000 miles or less on them (on the engine in 
Peregrine)
A set of P&Cs of the same vintage and the same deal: 5000 miles or less
A reconditioned crankshaft (Bus Depot)
A new camshaft for hydraulic lifters (Bus Depot)
A reconditioned flywheel (Bus Depot)
A new oil pump
New hydraulic lifters
A new (to me) case out of a junkyard that seems fairly clean inside, 
after splitting

So really the only thing I'm missing to do a build is bearings and a 
gasket set.

One final point: my wife, bless her heart, bought me the Stephens heads 
(then he went out of business) and the P&Cs. So, propesterously, these 
parts have sentimental value.

What I'm thinking is that I'm a few hundred bucks away from getting 
Peregrine running and going out and raising hell, or at least going 
birdwatching.

I'd still like to have that perfect engine, but no one needs to have 
everything all at once.

What do you think? Would you build an engine Tom Wilson style and dream 
of the ultimate engine while stuffing the money for it in a sock?

Or would you go for perfection now?
