Cc: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Fri, 24 Sep 2004 19:18:33 -0400
To: <csheridan(-at-)virtual-consulting.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] AIRS Update - Need Diagnosis

Hi Chris,

I have 2 suggestions:

1. Make sure you're getting full throttle when the pedal is at the 
floor. Have someone hold the pedal UP when tightening the linkage to 
ensure it's tight, then check the action when the pedal is on the 
floor. If you aren't asking for full throttle the bus will be quite 
anemic.

2. Compression test. This will also give you a look at the plugs, to 
check the mixture.


Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.busesofthecorn.com


On 24-Sep-04, at 5:07 PM, Chris Sheridan wrote:

The problem: No power in any of the forward gears when encountering 
even the
slightest hill. Another thing I noticed is you could drive to like 20 or
more in 1st gear, all the gearing seemed super high. We get in for the 
test
ride and take it out of the farm down a very steep dirt driveway and 
out of
the woods to the main road. I'm driving and it shifts like butter 
through 1
and 2 but with much more than the definite classic 009 dead spot but if 
you
drive REALLY fast, you can keep it running. hmmm. we get out on the main
road and I try to take it back up a gentle sloping hill and it has zero
power. Way worse than any 009 dead spot I've felt. Here you ride the 
clutch
and compensate and give it a lot of gas and there's nothing there, it 
won't
push the bus at all. The only way we were able to get back up the 
driveway
was in reverse gear. In reverse gear it works fine - the gas pedal 
floored
spins the wheels and gets it up the steep hill okay..

Other factors: Vacuum line from Servo to Weber manifold is original and 
has
a pretty good kink in it at the manifold. I had them put a hose clamp 
on it
but I suspect there's probably a leak there as it's running hot.  The 
accel
cable is broken just after it comes through the engine firewall. Another
cable is matched against it and they are held together by a barrel nut -
seems to work okay but I had them buy a new one which they have on hand 
-
I'm not sure that this is contributing to their power problem. The fuel 
pump
appears to be working fine with a fuel filter full of fuel.

I'm looking for feedback on the source of total absence of power in the 
low
end of gears 1,2 & 3, but plenty of power in reverse. I don't have any
experience with Weber Performance carbs, but I suspect we're doing 
something
wrong ie timing/carb adjustment. Any feedback appreciated - Thanks.
