From: "Stan Wilder" <wilden1-1(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 25 Sep 2004 21:17:31 -0500
Subject: Subject: Final question: align bore?

In reference to the case bore: You need to use a set of inside micrometers
(tube type) and measure your case bores against the minimum tolerances in
the Bentleys or a Hayes manual.
There are no shims that are suitable for getting you by in this situation.
If the case is hammered out you'll need to have it align bored but before
you do you need to locate the proper bearings.
Porsche 914 and 912e use about the same case. Porsche lists more variety of
oversize bearings than VW for the Type IV case.
In the eight or more Type IV cases that I've split open only one ever showed
to be out of tolerance on #2 main bearing web.
For the most part the Type IV cases hold up very well and main bearings
often last well past 200,000 miles.

Stan Wilder

Date: Sat, 25 Sep 2004 19:57:19 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: mccomas(-at-)intercom.net
Cc: hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net
Subject: Final question: align bore?
Message-ID: <1096156639.415605dfc5be1(-at-)webmail.dmv.com>

Hi Mark,
          I was working last week with a friend who is an independent
mechanic
for specializing in fine vintage German cars.  As a special favor to one of
his
customers, he is working on the bottom end of a vintage Pontiac.  The fit of
the bearings is of particular importance -- so he is using the plastic gauge
product to be certain the oil clearances are correct.  In case you are not
familiar with this, it looks like fine spaghetti; you put an inch or so
along
the bearing face, parallel to the axis of the crankshaft; then you see how
it squishes down.  The manufacturer gives you a handy little ruler kind of
thing.  I don't know if this product is applicable for non-split bearings,
but
you could certainly check the split bearings this way.  Years ago I remember
seeing the techs using fine (soft) solder, which got mashed down to a couple
of
mils, when they measured it with a micrometer.  In all cases (it goes
without
saying) the bearing house must be torqued to spec.  If you take the
measurements carefully, then you know firsthand.  Just bolting-up an engine
does not sound like good practice to me; YMMV.  All the best... Glenn
