From: "Karl" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: "Candra Cantrell" <candrajonathan(-at-)yahoo.com>, "Type2"
Date: Sat, 25 Sep 2004 20:25:18 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] power issues

Just for grins and giggles, unplug the black wire from the coil that goes to your back up light switch on your
transmission.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

 '72 bus with a '78 rebuilt 2 litre pancake engine,
dual Weber carbs, 009 distributor

 Conundrum:
No power in any gears, except for reverse.......until
midway thru each gear, then it kicks in but sputters
(wants to stall).
Everything was fine, until we did a tune-up- oil
change, new points, plugs, rotor, condenser, cap, and
timing......Then on the drive home from the friend's
house where we did the tune-up, it started this thing
where there was no power.
Starting off in first, I would have to put the pedal
to the metal to even get going, and all the while it
was  sputtering with no force behind it , as if I was
not even applying the gas.  Sounds like a fuel or carb
problem?  But, why would it have worked fine before
the tune-up.  We didn't mess with the carbs! We also
just replaced both fuel filters and they are filling
up just fine.
So then (after getting past the sputtering) it would
go full speed ahead, until time to change gears. Then
the whole sputtering, no power thing would happen all
over- at each gear change.
This was on flat terrain-  but up a hill I had to ride
the clutch and floor it.  Actually, I had to go up my
pretty steep driveway in reverse- no chance in first!
Also, by the time I got home (only 1 mile from the
friend's house),  this burning plastic smell was
wafting from the engine compartment.

So, how can it pull fine in reverse, but not in first?
And how can all of this start up just because I did a
tune-up for goodness sake?

 Note:  Recently replaced transmission, but it drove
fine after that, until we did the tune-up a few days
later.  Could the new (used) transmission have
anything to do with all of this- even though it drove
fine with this transmission BEFORE we did the tune-up?

Also,  once it gets past the sputtering bit, then the
engine kicks in pretty strong- actually feels stronger
than ever before- AND doesn't want to go to second
until like 20 mph.  We were thinking that the gearing
could be higher on this tranny than on our old one,
but this one drove just like the old one until after
the tune-up.

 Does anyone have any freakin clue what could be going
on here?
Tomorrow we are going to try adjusting the hydraulic
valves and check the compression.  Also we are
thinking that our dual carbs need to be synchronized,
but again, keep in mind, all was fine before the
tune-up.
Any ideas?  We are trying to go home to Georgia from
California (San Fran area) and can't even get out of
our driveway.  Luckily we have a friend here (who we
hooked up with thru AIRS)  who has been helping us,
but he is at the end of his rope as far as figuring
this one out.  We are trying to get all the help we
can, hoping that we will not have to take it into a
mechanic.
Thanks to all of you for your time!
