Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Sat, 25 Sep 2004 23:37:51 -0400
To: Candra Cantrell <candrajonathan(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] power issues

Hi Candra,

Reverse will be better for hill climbing simply because it is a lower 
gear ratio.

What are the dwell and timing set to? These numbers are critical for 
getting usable power.

If you have between 48-52 degrees of dwell and timing at 7.5 degrees 
BTDC and it's still not running right, set the valves and test 
compression. It's not impossible that you might have a bad ignition 
component... even the brand new stuff these days can be bad right out 
of the box sometimes.

If it was working when you left your friend's place, then something has 
changed. Either something has broken or it's out of adjustment. If the 
distributor is loose the timing will have changed, or it might be that 
the points might have slipped, affecting dwell and timing. Either of 
these is a simple fix. If we're not including the carbs in the analysis 
then it has to be ignition, timing or a mechanical problem.

A bit of extra advice: Even if you KNOW something is good, check it 
anyway, just to be sure. It only takes a minute.

Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.busesofthecorn.com

On 25-Sep-04, at 11:15 PM, Candra Cantrell wrote:

'72 bus with a '78 rebuilt 2 litre pancake engine,
dual Weber carbs, 009 distributor

SNIP

Does anyone have any freakin clue what could be going
on here?
Tomorrow we are going to try adjusting the hydraulic
valves and check the compression.  Also we are
thinking that our dual carbs need to be synchronized,
but again, keep in mind, all was fine before the
tune-up.
Any ideas?  We are trying to go home to Georgia from
California (San Fran area) and can't even get out of
our driveway.  Luckily we have a friend here (who we
hooked up with thru AIRS)  who has been helping us,
but he is at the end of his rope as far as figuring
this one out.  We are trying to get all the help we
can, hoping that we will not have to take it into a
mechanic.
Thanks to all of you for your time!
