From: "John Kolak" <jkolak(-at-)byu.edu>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 25 Sep 2004 23:14:58 -0700
Subject: Help -- New head install

Hi,

Some may remember me working with a 74 bus with a Porsche 914 motor. 
Couldn't get it running well and discovered a hole in #3 under the valve 
seat causing zero compression.

Ordered a replacement head according to the part number on the bad head. 
Never could get confirmation on whether it was a VW or Porsche head. Porsche 
catalog shows part number 021-101-351. VW catalog shows 021-101-361. My head 
is 021-101-371 O. Seller said it was a Porsche head.

Head arrived Thursday. I measured it for fit, and apparently the new one was 
stock 1700, and my old one was 2 liter. This took me by surprise because my 
engine code indicated 1700.

So Friday I had my wife take it to the machine shop to have it opened up to 
match my old head. Today I finished installing it. Compression was good, so 
I fired it up for final dual carb synchronization. It ran good at first, but 
as I was revving it up to check carb balance, it suddenly got loud and I 
shut it off.

Cranking it with the starter gives a definite clunk at each revolution. At 
first I thought rod knock, but I got to thinking about the list dictum of 
suspecting the last thing you did rather than something new, so I have been 
thinking I have a piston hitting a valve, so I wanted to get opinions from 
the list on this.

First, I can't remember if the old head had head gaskets / shims on it 
before it went to the machine shop. I remember thinking I needed to get them 
off the old head, but when I went to do it today, I saw there were none, so 
I don't know if the machine shop took them out when they measured the old 
head to know how much to bore out the new one, or if there never was one. 
The mating area of cylinder sleeve to head is clean, so maybe I thought that 
bright, clean area was a shim/gasket when it wasn't.

Secondly, when I turn over the engine by hand, the engine clunks to a stop 
at about 24 degrees ATDC after the compression strokes of #1 and #3. If I 
get a running start on it, it will clunk past that point and continue to 
turn normally.

I'm thinking that kind of shoots my theory of piston hitting valve due to 
the new head not being shimmed because I should have problems relating to #3 
and #4, not #1 and #3, although I recognize that although #1 and #3 are near 
TDC, other things are happening elsewhere with other cylinders. But I should 
still be getting problems with adjacent cylinders rather than opposite 
cylinders if it were the new head.

So, do I have valve interference with a piston, or is the clunk I get also 
possible with a rod knock? I also heard a light internal clack when coming 
up to #3 or #1 today, so maybe a rod is loose?

Thanks in advance for opinions and advice,

John
