Date: Sat, 25 Sep 2004 23:45:15 -0700 (PDT)
From: Jason Elm <jelm2(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Tire shop apes broke my bus (long)

Something happened to day which will haunt me for a
very long time. Grab a seat and listen to this

I just bought an all-original 72 Westy a couple of
weeks ago, I had my ACVW guy give it the once over and
it got a pretty clean bill of health, enough to make
me confident enough to take the family on a 2-night
campout 1 hour up the coast tomorrow.

Well, the tires had cracks in the sidewalls, so I
figured Id better get new rubber on the wheels before
heading out. So today (the day before we leave) I
called some local tire shops looking for a set of 185s
with a 1540 Lb. Load rating or better.
(lesson #1: Dont wait until the day before you leave
to do something)
After some searching I actually found some Goodyears
at the local Just Tires shop. Not the cheapest
tires, but 6-ply sidewall -- pretty darn good tires.

I took my new Westy down there and even brought
along the Bentley manual so theyd have the specs to
do a front end alignment.
Silly me.
(lesson #2 only ask VW-familiar people to do the
particulars)
So, I leave the bus and about a half-hour later they
call me on the cel phone to say that the bus was
ready, but they couldnt do the alignment because they
didnt have the right machine. 
Fine. (see lesson #2)
I went back, paid, and hopped in the bus, which was
parked just outside the tire bay.
Put the key in, press the clutch, reach for the gear
shiftwhoops!
My hand just fell into air.
Look down ,and the gearshift is pointing at the
passenger door. I mean POINTING at the LOWER part of
the passenger door panel.
Hmmm. This isnt good I thought.
First, I looked around for Candid Camera or something
like that. No dice.
So I grabbed it and wiggled it a bit. It would slide
forward and back (barely) but not sideways, and I
could rotate it from what Id call a 3-oclock
position (pointing at passenger door) to about 5:30,
(almost straight back, but still leaning way to the
right). Ive never had a shifter that could spin
before. I was afraid to force it any direction. I
pushed the clutch and started the engine to see if it
was in any gear. From what I could tell it was in
fourth.
I took a deep breath, jumped out off the bus and went
inside.
The ASSistant manager was surprised to see me back
inside. I explained the situation and said that
someone must have forced the gearshift into a position
where it doesnt belong and I needed to talk to
whoever drove the bus.
After some finger pointing and wrangling, I met with
three techs Supposedly, one guy pulled the bus into
the bay. I asked, did it go into reverse? He confirmed
this, push down and left.
Suspect #1 off the hook. Then the other gorilla said,
I went to pull it out of the bay and it wouldnt go
into reverse. Finally we pushed it out of the bay to
where it is now.
(lesson #3 Dont assume everyone who works on cars
will treat your bus as nicely as you do)
Great. Perfect .Just frickin perfect. Nevermind that
I have a camping trip 18 hours from now.
(see lesson #1)
I had to take several deep breaths to: 1)grasp that
this was actually happening 2)keep from strangling
someone. And 3) remain calm to figure out what to do
with this, because I sure wasnt going to get any help
from the tire people.
Nobody would tell me they did anything wrong. Okay, so
its normal to not be able to put a car into gear and
then you just roll it out and let the owner get it? I
mean, the way the shifter was pointing it was pretty
obvious something was wrong.
I explained to the guys Im not trying to bite any
heads off, I just need answers so I can fix this. At
one point the thing popped, broke, bent, snapped, etc.
while somebody had their hand on it, I need to know
what happened so I can try to fix it and get camping
in the morning.
Nothing.
Hear no evil. See no evil. Speak no evil.
I had to take matters into my own hands. I tried
calling two of my local VW guys, figuring I could tow
it there. But they were closed (this was coming up on
4 pm). So I took the ASSistant manager outside to show
her the shifter. I said, I need to get this fixed. I
need some tools and a guy to help me. Because if we
have to tow this to a VW shop, its going to be
expensive.
She said Not really, we have triple-A
I replied, No, the REPAIR. Im not paying to fix
this
She said, Well hold on, you come in here with a
60-something year car
(Man, at this point I was inhaling like Dennis Hopper
in Blue Velvet)
I said, Its a 72! You dont shove a gearshift where
it doesnt belong! And then leave the car outside like
nothing happened! Its obviously broken!
breathe--Look, I sort-of know my way around these
things but I need a guy and tools.
(lesson #4 Keep the Manuals IN the bus)
So, she said shed get one guy to help me fix it. I
had them roll it back into the bay. Then I waited. And
waited. And waited.
Finally, I remembered that there was a small VW tool
pouch under the rear seat. I opened it up and sure
enough the only wrench in there was a 13mm open end.
(lesson #5 keep the necessary emergency tools IN the
bus) 
I wasnt about to wait for another Neanderthal to make
matters worse, so I peeled up the floor mat and undid
the plate at the bottom of the shifter. I took the
shifter out, inspected the bottom for wear or
breakage. None. Hallelujiah. I put the shifter back
the way it should go and I HAD SHIFTING!
So, apparently, the ape who got in the car, in an
effort to find reverse, popped the bottom of the
shifter right out of its socket in the front shift
rod. How is that even possible? I dont know, but
after a quick spin around the lot, I got the hell out
of there as fast as I could. I got home and greased it
and re-adjusted and aligned the shifter plate. Works
better than before.
Home free.
Right?
WRONG!
They didnt put on one of my (perfect OEM) hubcaps
properly and somewhere on the way home it flew off.
(lesson #6  always check the tightness of hubcaps you
care about)
Thanks, idiots. I went straight to Pep Boys and bought
at 153 piece tool set to keep in the bus. (see lesson
#5)

So, in short, even with a shift pattern on the
ashtray, dont assume that young apes know how to
shift a Baywindow bus. This goes for shop guys,
valets, friends, ANYBODY. Over-explain it, better safe
than sorry. I thought my 67 may be confusing. But
never imagined the camper would run into this sadism.
Now I know. I mean, Im glad I was able to fix it
myself, but their attitude was the WORST. Anyone
without the knowledge of the car would have been
screwed. Needless to say,  the Just Tires manager and
owner will be getting a very lengthy letter from me
about customer service. 
Thanks for listening.
Jason
