Date: Sun, 26 Sep 2004 09:11:44 -0400
To: Jason Elm <jelm2(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
From: ncbus <macbus(-at-)mindspring.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Tire shop apes broke my bus (long)

Jason,

Sorry that happened to you. Although I have not had anyone brake the 
shifter before I have (during tire work and safety inspections) had 
mechanics or shop people tell me to come back the van out of the bay 
because they could not find reverse.

Once, I brought my 67 bus in for tires and had a box on the passenger 
seat with a fan belt and a set of NOS wiper blades, that are rare and 
expense. In an effort to be more than helpful the mechanic put the 
NOS blades on and tossed the good set that was on there. Correct 
sized splitty wipers do not grow on trees and I was ill about that 
but the real kicker was the phone call that I got telling my that my 
van would not be ready on time because they stripped the generator 
shaft trying to change the fan belt and had to die the threads and 
find a bolt that would fit. I was furious. Who told anyone to change 
a fan belt of wiper blades? At least they used a 17mm nut.

Over the years I have learned to stay with the bus no matter how long 
it takes and insist that they do not tourque the wheels down after 
doing tire work. Every time I tell them to do it at 85 to 90 lbs they 
want to argue about that not being safe. I have them roll it out to 
the lot and I do it myself per spec and put the hub caps on myself.

You are a much nicer person then I am. If I found my bus f'd up like 
yours I would have caused a scene that shut the shop down as soon the 
AM started playing dumb and told me that I needed to find out who did 
it. Good for you staying cooling a finding a solution to the problem.

Chris
www.everybus.com
http://www.mindspring.com/~macbus/

The next big thing is John Brown's buses
http://www.johnbrownsbuses.com/


At 11:45 PM -0700 9/25/04, Jason Elm wrote:
>Something happened to day which will haunt me for a
>very long time. Grab a seat and listen to this
