To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Mon, 16 Aug 2004 22:28:27 -0400
Subject: Serious Oil Leak from the filler tube???

Hi Volks,

The westfakia has a 2L engine with solid lifters. Recently it has 
started performing a pretty good imitation of the Exxon Valdez. In 
yesterday's 400-mile trip home from the Dixie Bus Gathering in Ohio we 
spewed out more than 4 liters of 20W50. There wasn't any blue smoke 
behind me until we stopped when it would cook off on the muffler and 
heat exchangers. The westrailer and the buses' rear hatch certainly 
aren't going to be rusty any time soon.

Tonight I came home from work and put the bus on stands.  I cleaned off 
as much of the oil and crud as possible with simple green and wiped off 
the excess. Then I started the engine and went under to look for leaks. 
I had my daughter Lisa rev the engine to keep the pressure at 4 bars 
and there still wasn't more than a small welling up happening at the #2 
pushrod tubes. So I figured I'd tweak the idle, and I now have it down 
to 900 RPM with18 inches of vacuum. After that there were still no 
running drips on the heads, just a *slight* beading starting at the 
edge of the tubes.  I did wipe a drop of two away from the filler tube 
though, but I figured that was just residue from the cleaner I used. So 
I decided I need to drive it a bit to get the leak to show.

I took itthe bus around the block, and when I got back underneath there 
was a more oil on the filler tube. Somehow the filler tube is leaking, 
either at the coupling to the filler cap or at the junction with the 
block. Other than in that one spot there isn't a substantial leak 
anywhere else in the engine. And there's a huge black spot on the 
muffler just below the filler tube where the muffler has been coated 
with fresh oil.

Comments would be welcome. I've seen lots of oil leaks on T4 engines, 
but this one is new on me. I have a spare filler tube here from a 1.8L 
engine, so I guess I'll swap that in tomorrow and see if I can solve 
the problem.

Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.busesofthecorn.com
