Date: Tue, 17 Aug 2004 06:27:16 -0700 (PDT)
From: Jon Wade <jonwade88(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: A bit urgent: No brake lights; taillights lighting brakes

Hello,

**DAMN, DIDN'T MEAN TO WRITE A BOOK.  THE LAST FOUR
PARAGRAPHS ARE THE IMPORTANT STUFF IF YOU DONT FEEL
LIKE READING ALL THIS CRAP.  THANKS!**


I'm having a bit of an electrical dilemma with my
brake lights.  Wouldn't you know it, I have to be in
SC today (about 170 miles away) to catch a 6:30 AM
flight tomorrow morning, and it's raining right this
minute where I am in Robbinsville, NC.

Here's the story.  It's a 1970 bus...stock.  Several
times in the past few months, I've had a problem where
the brake lights stayed on all the time, whenever the
key was turned on.  When I would press the brake
pedal, there would be a split second where they
dimmed, then back to full bright.  

I focused on the front end (with the help of you all!
thanks), replacing the pressure switch at the master
cylinder, and just fiddling with wires.  Who knows
what really fixed it, but they have worked fine for
the past few weeks.  I'm sure too, cause I am
constantly testing them at night, when I can easily
see the grass light up.

Yesterday, in preparation for my trip, and the two
months he will be sitting in my friend's barn in SC, I
did a pretty good maintenance routine.  Valves,
timing, cap/rotor, plugs, oil change, lube front end,
brakes, etc.  I took my mom up to the top of the
mountain for some going-away-hangout-time.  Purred
like a kitten.  OK, enough set up, huh?  Here's the
deal.

Last night, I was going to go to my friends' house to
say goodbye around 10pm.  Got in the goat, and checked
for brake lights on, with no pedal.  No lights, OK. 
Pressed the pedal...no lights.  Turned on the
headlight switch to parking light position, BRIGHT
LIGHTS.  I am almost certain that these are the brake
lights on, not the taillights.  With the headlights
off, I get no brakelight action.  With the taillights
on, pressing the brakes does nothing...not even the
1/4 second of dimness I was getting with the always-on
problem.  

So far, I've checked the fuses...all look good. 
Checked the pressure switch, attached firmly and
looking good.  Jiggled all the push on connectors at
the taillights.

If I wasn't almost positive that the taillights-on are
in fact the brakelights-on, I would focus more on the
standard fuse, switch, wires stuff.  Any tips in
general?  How about what to do when your tail lights
light up the brake light circuit?  Last night, I
figured I could just take it easy, and be ready with
the headlight switch and an arm out the window for
letting people know I'm braking.  With the rain, I
really need my taillights on all the time, so I'm
stressing out about driving with this condition.

Thanks a lot for any help.  This list has enlightened
me on more than one occasion.

Jon Wade
jonwade88(-at-)yahoo.com
828-479-3800
828-735-1833
