Cc: The Bug Pack <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Tue, 17 Aug 2004 19:02:06 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: The ramifications of high crankcase pressure

Hi Volks,

I followed Scott Lyon's reasoning today and took another look at the 
filler tube when I got home from work tonight. I pulled the top off, 
cleaned up the clamp and wiped everything off, and this is definitely 
where the oil is leaking from. It runs down the filler tube, some of it 
gets sucked into the fan (there is oil on the cover screen) and a LOT 
of it drops onto the trailer hitch. The oil that is drawn into the fan 
then proceeds to coat the engine... it must be a heck of a mess under 
the tinwork, as I can see traces of oil beginning to seep out upwards 
from the spark plug holes.

So I drilled a quarter-inch hole in the filler cap, (it was off the bus 
at the time) and started the engine. There's quite a lot of air coming 
out that hole, and it would probably scream pretty loudly at high RPM 
if I put a whistle up to it.

I haven't done a compression test yet because I need to adjust the 
valves first and the bus was still warm from my wife taking one of the 
kids to a Dr.'s appt. So I'll do that tomorrow. But since the numbers 
weren't all that great before, I am pretty certain they're not going to 
be any better this time. And it's not gonna be a head problem, as the 
last compression test was done when the heads were fresh from the 
machine shop. (and bolted up to a bottom end of unknown pedigree, but 
let's not flog that horse just now, thanks)

If the compression comes in better than 90PSI then I'm inclined to 
continue driving it for the balance of the season (2500 miles or so) 
with some form of pressure relief system hooked up. If the compression 
is less, then I'm probably going to "borrow" the engine from the 
sunroof bus for the rest of the season. Either way, there seems to be 
an engine rebuild or a new longblock coming this winter.

So here's the question: Is there any reason I shouldn't get an extra 
couple thousand miles out of this engine if I can somehow lower the 
case pressure? Or should I brace myself for a weekend with TWO engine 
drops?

Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.busesofthecorn.com
