Date: Wed, 05 May 2004 21:02:35 -0700
From: The Canadian <cndt3(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: Type 2 Mailing List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Can't get it to run right cont'd

74 Van, Engine # EAS600703, apparently a 1.7L 914 engine with a Holley carb

I probably wasn't specific enough in my last post.  The van was running fairly
well and I drove it about 45 minutes on the highway to get it home.  Before me
the previous owner essentially hung the motor in there and got it to run then
I picked it up.  It had good power on the hills but had a really awkward
hesitating spot just as you got the clutch out when getting going. The next
day I used what I thought was a TDC mark to reset the valves and timing and
the van still ran fairly well.  The notch in the distributor was way off and
no use at all.  The engine tended to 'hunt' at idle which turned out to be
caused by vacuum leaks at the intake manifold.  I fixed that and it was
smoother but still not smoooooth like my old Type 3.  I now found TDC again,
this time by positioning the engine so that the rotor was coming around to the
#1 spark plug wire terminal, then using a screwdriver in the #1 spark plug
hole to feel the piston reach it's highest point.  This led me to a TDC mark
very close to (but not exactly) the filed notch on the pulley.  I reset the
valves again (not much difference anywhere) then re-timed the engine.  I
changed the points because there was a hole right through the old set and got
the dwell set to 50 degrees.  OK it's actually 52 degrees but I don't think
that difference can be causing this.  Now the engine would barely run at 27
degrees.  I turned the idle up a little and it will idle but if I give it gas
it takes careful 'feathering' to get the revs up.  Jump on it and it just
dies.  If I advance the timing it feels much better and accelerates properly
but the timing is way to high, going right off the scale.

Maybe I've got the wrong distributor in there!?  It seems to be that since the
timing is being set at 3500 rpm different distributors would have a major
effect on the amount of advance.  (I AM disconnecting the vacuum hose before
timing!) My distributor has the following part #s:  JFUD4,  0 231 181 005,   0
21 905 205N.  I have a 009 that I could put in there temporarily to see what
happens...

Anybody??

Thanks,
Andre
