From: "Don Tuleja" <durocshark(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 6 May 2004 04:47:58 -0700
Subject: Sniff. My 73 is being mean to me. Sniff.

Drove it to work past 2 days! I was soooo happy that it was running well
enough.

But yesterday after work, it started backfiring and lacked power. I pulled
over and found a vacuum plug missing. Whipped together a plug from a piece of
vacuum line and a screw. Better. Sort of.

I was heading to a company party so I couldn't go home and spend some quality
time with my carbs. On the way home from the party, it started doing it again.
But no missing vacuum lines or caps could be found.

My carbs are missing the hose from the top of the left carb to the air
cleaner. To get it running stable I had put several layers of electrical tape
over the hole, then punched a small hole in the tape. (Because fully plugged
or fully open and the engine wouldn't idle.) But I have to keep replacing the
tape because the vacuum from that port would slowly suck it in until it starts
running crappy again. So I had gotten a washer slightly larger than the pipe
in the carb and taped THAT down. Theory being that the washer will keep the
tape from being sucked in.

I discovered that the hole wouldn't "self adjust" (stretch from the force of
the vacuum) with that washer in place. So I made the hole bigger. Ack! Ran
worse! It being 10pm and I have to work this morning, I grabbed a regular
vacuum T connector. Shoved that in the now larger hole. Whew! Running good
again!!!

Now, here are the three questions:
#1: What is that hose called? (and/or where can I get one?)
#2: The port in the air cleaner looks like a valve controlled by a vacuum
line. Manifold vacuum, throttle vacuum, or?
#3: Haynes is missing this info: How do I adjust the chokes? I had to replace
both of them, but there doesn't seem to be any info on adjustment (or am I
just missing it?)

--This post has been certified "Official Bathroom Reading"--

=D

Thanks!
Don
1973 HiTop
