Date: Fri, 7 May 2004 07:30:18 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Thomas J. Tarka" <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Friday: Why I drive Buses...

I've been saving this one all week for a good Friday post.

It's a summary someone wrote for "The Love Bug" on imdb.com.

I think it covers an aspect of "Why I drive buses..." -- the certain hole 
it fills in my life.  It's not so much that I've resigned myself to owning 
buses as it's a nice symbiosis...

happy friday!

	-tom


Quoted from http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0064603/usercomments 

    The search for identity and acceptance among peers is consistently a 
popular allusion in film scripts. "The Love Bug," despite its misleading 
genre of "children's comedy," expertly disguises a propensity toward 
examining the identity theme with many of the significant characters in 
the picture (including, no doubt, Herbie the Volkswagen as well).

    Herbie seeks acceptance and comfort in "life," even threatening to 
commit "suicide" if his haven is not established to the best of Jim 
Douglas' knowledge and aptitude. The automobile is not so much interested 
in a conventional, superficial form of success (such as racing) for its 
own sake; he is more mature than his "owner" in the sense that Herbie 
understands the necessary requirements for mature success: happiness and 
fulfilment with an established status. Yet the vehicle still searches, 
almost fruitlessly throughout the first half of the film, for an identity. 
Once he stumbles upon his purpose-winning races for Douglas-his owner 
quickly denies him acceptance and assumes foolishly that personal needs 
are a more significant priority than others' requirements. The final third 
of "The Love Bug" allows both automobile and owner to accept one another 
and form a dependency, certainly one of the more important and necessary 
aspects of existence.

    Tennessee also questions his role and place in San Francisco; 
previously, he taught English (which allows a few humorous lines in the 
film) in China. Until Herbie arrives, Tennessee appears restless and 
spiritually languid. Thorndike and Carol also consistently and repeatedly 
question their abilities and roles. Herbie, either directly or indirectly, 
is the focal point of the directions the characters take, not only in the 
choices they reach but in their beliefs about the important aspects of 
life as well.

    Functioning on a series of discrete yet interconnected pieces, "The 
Love Bug" engenders several levels of emotional reactions from an amalgam 
of viewers. For example, as a children's tale, the young audience member 
will easily appreciate the action, overt comedic scenarios, and fantasy 
elements. And as an adult, the relationships between characters, although 
inherently not possible in empirical reality, operate similar to the most 
effective fiction. The viewers can identify with the characters and 
unrealistic situations to the point of the pinnacle of an author's 
achievement: the suspension of disbelief.

kbyerly
Berkeley, California
