Date: Fri, 7 May 2004 08:36:56 -0500
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: James Jackson <firesong4ng(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] overheated bad

On Fri, May 07, 2004 at 08:14:38AM -0600, James Jackson wrote:
> Im a little intimidated by checking the timing.. i haven't done it before 
> and I don't think i have the tools to do it. Any advice you can suggest for 
> my upcoming ontheroadside tuneup?

hey James. I'd seriously look at somehow getting the bus (pet peve,
use BUS not van) by tow or something. It really sounds like you and
your bus need a good quiet weekend to get to know each other. having
a bus you aren't familiar with away from home is gonna just create
more stress for you. It's nice to go back in the house and grab a beer
if you get stuck on a problem. Go to a local bookstore and buy the
muir idiot guide. Order the Bentley for your particular year from one
of the internet vendors. I like the Bentley much more, but if you are
not real technical minded, the pics and instructions will scare the
snot out of you :) You will find the muir to be a bit less correct in
areas (having a lot to do w/ the authors preferences more than real
incorrectness) but quite easy to read. A good weekend taking a look at
everything with a book handy to support and the list here 24/7 and you
should have a very good grasp on what you need to do. Then the next
week you can gather any parts if needed (and tools) and work hard the
next weekend to fix it all.

As far as timing you need a strobe light and dwell/tach meter to do it
correctly. You can get tools sutible to use from a local FLAPS. The
quality of these tools isn't gonna be the greatest, but it will work
just fine. When you report back in for more help, I can tell you the
list will need at the very least the model number of distributor
(stamped on the side of it). 

You mentioned it has a 2.0L FI engine? this sure wasn't stock for 74,
so you will encounter a bit of problems sometimes getting parts for a
74, not because of any scarce parts, but b/c of getting the correct
part.

On a last note, didn't you say the oil was boiling, or something to
that effect. what makes you say that? That is HOT!!!





-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
1979 Sportsmofakia 2000cc                        www.fasterlaster.com
1966 Westfalia SO-42 "Butch"
