Date: Thu, 13 Apr 2006 12:00:47 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2]Alignment(update)

Ok so i took the bus back up there today and talked with same fellow i talked ot on the phone and also the same guy that told me there was no way to get the steering wheel straight again...
   
  Well as it turns out he and i went head to head and i got him mad real mad but stood my ground...
   
  i was ready.. 
  he said that if he had to heat it up and get it to turn etc that it would be another 20-25 bucks and i spoke up and saiud doesnt seem right since it should have been done at alignment time..
  he said well it dont have nothing to do with alignment.. i said funny it dont when it certainly does... it is paret of the job and should be done..
   
  he goes outside and points under the bus and says is that what youre talking about pointing at the ball joints camber adjustment....
   
  I said UMMMMM NO.....
  i had the bentley in hand and marked..
  pg23 front axle 9-5......... and next page also...
   
  i asked you want ot look this over first in here and he got really mad then and said i dont need no manual to tell me what to do... i been doing this for 10- 15 years now .. I said well then you ought to knwo that this should of been done then right...
   
  him already about to explode... i says so you going to fix it or what?
  he says pull the da** thing up in the bay there and i will do it right now..
  i said well i hope you dont go getting mad and beating on this thing and break something...? he says what??? i aint gonna break nothing..
   
  So i sat right next to him there as he was in the open floor bay for oil changes...
   
  he popped drag link off and twisted it couple times the guy up top says its straight and he put back together and he saiud there././.
  I looked at him and said you know i brought it here cause i wanted it done right and well i just hope now it is done right~!~
   
  I said i could have took it anywhere .. but i brought it here.....
   
  he just wanted me gone i think and i wanted to be... Dang man just do the job you were paid for....
   
  there were other things said but i wont go into it but thing is i didnt let up.. i used everything i gathered from here and what i read last night and this morning... and well guess what.,.
  LOL
   
  pulled out and the steering wheel is worse crooked now than it was before.. and more to the left than before... eeeeeeeeeeeerrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrggggggggggg
   
   
  so do i get under there now and fix it myself...???
   
  and how do i know if i got it right or not..?  i know i will need a helper up top..?
   
  btw nodine doesnt have much to do with the shop no more..... so knowing him dont make a difference exspecially it seems when you got know it all's working for you.,.....
   
  made him real mad when i offered the manual though.. i could see it in his eyes he wanted to slap it out of my hand.as he got real nasty toned.. ''' I was already in the mood wanting him to do so...
  then i would of had a reason to be as mad as him.. LOL..
   
  good god at the lazy shade tree mechanics.....
  chai
   
   
  

 


                                                                 Driving down the road singing a song~!~
          ~ Heading towards the FuLLMoon~
