Date: Fri, 14 Apr 2006 14:32:57 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: mygroups(-at-)frontiernet.net
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2]Alignment(update)

ok so the guy took the drag link off just that one end....right there where it connects to the steering box....
   
  ..
   
  LOoking down at wheel the bar should run straight acros top of turn signal and wipers correct? left hand on that bar in middle and right hand on right bar in middle...the either sides of the horn rather~!~
   
  Ok my steering wheel has always, as long as i have owned it been slightly with the left hand 3-4 inches towards me....and the right hand 3-4 inches towards dash.
   
  Now the steering wheel is even further on left hand towards me i would say more like 5-7 inches now...?and same for right hand but towards dash....
   
  he screwed the end piece of the drag link out i seen him do it and guy up top said its straight....
   
  so dosn that mean he should of went other way screwed it in instead of out...?
   
  I read over and over the bentley and well.....? he didnt do nothing like the bentley says....?
  Course i still havent grasped completely what to do even after reading bentley ...and looking and looking....
   
  sometimes it takes me a bit.. so what i rode the little school bus LOL and now i drive one....hehehehe~!~
   
  to say more read in muir that a tire doesnt get broke in till 500 miles so dont rotate tires ??? is that right....?
  if so i been a rotating for awhile now... if its wrong then I"ll stay where they at for now on,....
   
  chai
   
  

mygroups <mygroups(-at-)frontiernet.net> wrote:
  Do not let him "heat" anything up... He's going to ruin something he
apparently doesn't understand.

What you are going to have to do is prob do the alignment and all the
adjustments yourself to get it "close". We typically have to do this on
all our street rods before we get an actual alignment.

You can do most of the alignment stuff with yard sticks and an angle
gauge (Sears or one of the hardware stores).

What you are going to have to do is disconnect the steering box from the
tie rods and find center again.

Typically there is a mark on the top of the steering shaft that
indicates center. Put that mark at 12 o'clock. You should have the same
number of turns to lock to the left and the same number of turns to the
right.

Also I will tkae a leap here and say that the tie rods prob screw into
the drag links approximately the same number of turns.

Find some sort "basic" middleground and then set the caster, camber, and
toe.

When you get it right it should be only slightly off adjustment. We've
done cars this way and got it right causing no long term tire wear using
only measuring tools. Muir had a good explaination for a link pin / king
pin front suspension. Don't know if they updated the procedure any for
the ball joint front suspensions.

You'll need a helper for a few steps but not all.

Stay away from that guy. His ignorance over rides his ability to say "I
screwed up".

The only problem I see is that you need to look careful for bent
suspension parts.

Chris in Cookeville
'78 Wetsy 2,7L



                                                                 Break out the shorts, tank tops and sandles........
     Tune up the Bus wash off the winter rust~!~
       It's camping season woohooooooo LETS GO CAMPING~!~
