Date: Sat, 15 Apr 2006 22:49:16 -0600
From: "Bronsema, Max" <MBronsema(-at-)albertson.edu>
To: "Old Volks Home" <oldvolkshome(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: "type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] ignition wire on coil

Hi all,



First off I would like to say thanks to everyone that offered ideas as
to why my ignition had gone kaput. Usually I am better at getting back
to people but it has been a crazy week. I conducted the tests that Jim
Thompson suggested and determined that my ignition switch was bad. I
went ahead and replaced it, thank goodness, someone had done it before
and the wiring was atrocious. Got it all figured out but when I plugged
it back in I still just got just the starter turning over. Tomorrow I
will run test 4 and 5 and try to find the break in the wire. If I need
to replace the wire I assume 12 gauge wire will suffice.



Thanks everyone,



Max

'71 Westy "Louise" 1600dp



4.  We need to check continuity from the fusebox to the engine
compartment. Go to the engine compartment and disconnect the Black wire
from Terminal 15 on the coil.   Connect it to the plus (+) side of the
VOM.  Connect the minus (-) side to the coil.  Turn the Ignition Switch
to ON position only.  It should read 12 Volts.  If not, there may be a
break in the wire in the harness somewhere.  If this is the case, you
may be able to spot where the break is, either in the front or in the
engine compartment, which is a more likely culprit.  Why?  Over 30 years
of engine heat can eventually harden and break at the crimped connection
to the push-on terminal.  Easily fixable if this in this case.



5.  Second way to determine the Black wire to the coil is suspect.
Disconnect the wire at fuse #10.  Disconnect the wire at the coil
(terminal #15).  Reset your VOM to 1K or 2K ohms.  Connect the plus (+)
wire to the Black coil wire in the driver's cab.  Connect the minus (-)
to a a real long wire back to the engine compartment and connect it to
the exposed Black coil wire.  The meter should read 1 or 2K ohms
(depending on your VOM setting), indicating full continuity.  If there
is no reading or if the reading is low and/or flucuating in the low
numbers area, there's probably a break in the wire.
