From: "Vanagon Man" <vgonman(-at-)msn.com>
To: "CR" <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>, "DARREN"
Date: Fri, 16 Jul 2004 15:38:05 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] PUSHROD TUBE SEALANT

> high darren i used the high temp red in color sealent for my pushrod
tubes...
> i have installed them before without sealent and they end up leaking but
coating on the sealent they last so much longer...


JEEZUS!!! You guys will never, ever learn.  The reason they leaked on you is
becuase you tore them when you put them in.  Coating them with silicone is a
really bad idea.  It makes a nasty mess for the real mechanic that has to go
into your motor and fix it .....

You have to install the o-rings on the tubes, lube them with oil and that is
it.  But when you are pushing them back thru the hear, you have to go
SLOOWWW.using a pair of long pliers to gently twist the tube, watching the
oring that it slips into its hole without tearing on the lip of the
head.........if the oring starts to kink, back off a little and do it again
sometimes something blunt can push the oring where it needs to go.........if
you just bash them in with a spark plug socket they are going to leak.

I once had a local customer (and very prominent listee) call me about this.I
told him how to do it using oil, and guess what...........I am working on
the same motor with caked on silicone, because someone else insured that it
couldnt hurt. Well, I was the "real" mechanic that ended up cleaning that,
and I wasn't too happy about it either.


Well in fact, it sort of does hurt.  It ends up in your sump screen, and
jams it up.  That viton (hopefully that is what you have) should seat right
on the metal............it expands and contracts right along with the metal
and makes a tight seal.

I say this for I have learned from this error myself, and thru the
preachings of Jake Raby on the type 4 video, Bob Donalds of Boston Engine,
and any other "real" engine rebuilder you can talk to.  There is no way they
are going to cake silicone on these orings to seal them.


Adam P
Charleston,SC     Coburn, WV
70 Single Cab "Whitey"
74 Beetle "Ol Yeller"
73 Transporter (STILL at paint shop)
1988 Vanagon Wolfsburg
1976 Transporter (New CA bus)
1974 412 "Goldmember"
1972 VW Super Beetle
