Date: Fri, 16 Jul 2004 13:46:28 -0600
From: Gundesens <gundesen(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Rebuilt 2.0 FI - worst case scenario

Hello, I posted awhile ago about my rebuilt (I did it) 2.0 FI California 
engine and thinking the timing was way off. I then discarded that theory 
in favour of a large vacuum leak. I resealed every possible thing and 
still no luck.

Here is what it is doing:
Tries to run, but won't idle. Can get it to run very roughly at minimum 
2000 rpm by holding the throttle open.  Occasionally it will burp, 
backfire and then try to take off at 4-5k (throttle open) sounding 
tremendous and dangerous so I let go the throttle and it dies.  Runs 
best with the distributor turned max CCW against the cold start valve 
(retarded or advanced?)

Here is what I know/have tried:
- keep in mind this engine ran fine before I stripped it. I put in new 
bearings, P/Cs (tried to achieve stock CR), new webcam 107i and matching 
lifters
- Getting great blue spark all around, new bosch copper plugs
- Verified distributor drive orientation versus #1 TDC (crank pulley 
mark), and rotor lining up with distributor notch
- have 36psi fuel pressure without vacuum to the FP regulator
- getting virtually no vacuum on line attached to the air distribution 
box (normally goes to the FP reg and deceleration valve), except when it 
tries to go at 4-5K
- 2 cleaned and tested fuel injectors, 2 new injectors. Test light 
flickers at each FI connection when I crank the starter.  Correct 
resistance at each FI.
- AFM checks out for resistance (engine will partially run but even 
worse without AFM plugged in!)

My new worst case scenario theory:
Somehow I managed to install the cam one tooth off of the correct 
alignment with the crank, so valve timing is off.  This could explain 
propensity to run OK at high rpm (valve timing advanced from stock), and 
possibly the no vacuum condition, no?

Questions:
What have I missed?   I could do wire by wire continuity checks as per 
Bentley but given the good spark, fuel and ignition timing could it 
still be someting like that?

How can I check *absolutely* that my valve timing is off (by only one 
tooth?) before investing in a new teardown?

Any other words of wisdom for the doomed?

I appreciate hugely any help with this highly frustrating and long 
running epic.  I want to go camping one month from now Calgary to Colorado.

GG
'82 Westy California














Can I check this absolutely befor tearing it down
