Date: Fri, 16 Jul 2004 17:22:20 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: jdd <johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca>
Subject: Re: [T2] OT - VHF, UHF, CB

On Sun, 11 Jul 2004, jdd wrote:

> What's the difference between VHF, UHF, and CB.  Is there any point in having
> a VHF radio in a bus?  I'm assuming that it is a two way VHF radio.

Not really off-topic, since inter-bus communications is important!
HF stands for "High Frequency", which ranges from 3 to 30MHz
VHF stands for "Very High Frequency", which ranges from 30-300MHz
UHF stands for "Ultra High Frequency", which ranges from 300-1000MHz

These names were coined back when most radio activity occured on
frequencies well below 3MHz, and the HF, VHF, and UHF bands were
considered relatively useless spectrum, suitable only for experimentation.
If you follow the FCC spectrum auctions, you'll see that this is no longer
the case.

HF is good for long range communications, as it has the tendency to "skip"
off the ionosphere.  Pick the right time of day and you can talk to
anywhere.  At BBB in Lake Havasu last year, I was making contacts with
Japan on the 14MHz band with 100 watts and a simple wire antenna.  The
only license-free allocation in this spectrum is CB (citizens band).  CB
is at 27MHz, making it part of the HF spectrum.  It was placed here
because that was the highest frequency at which inexpensive
radios could be built when CB was conceived in the 1950s.  This is why you
can sometimes talk to another state with a CB but not be able to hear
someone a mile away.

VHF is good for short range communications, with the ability to bend a bit
over obstructions to extend range a bit beyond line-of-sight.
Unfortunately, there is no license-free radio service available in this
spectrum.  Your choices are the Amateur 50Mhz, 144MHz and 222MHz
allocations and business band at 150MHz.  There is a marine VHF
allocation, but these radios are not legal for use in land vehicles, and
the FCC isn't shy about hitting violators with $10,000 fines.

UHF is strictly line-of-sight, which makes it good for short
point-to-point communications.  The Family Radio Service and business
radio service are available in the 460MHz range, as well as the amateur
440Mhz allocation.

For bus use, the FRS radios are by far the best, as they need no
installation, have good range, and don't suffer from skip.

CB is still with us, but isn't as popular as it used to be unless you want
to talk to truckers.  It suffers from skip and a high overall noise level.
Radios are limited to 5W output, but truckers often far exceed this which
adds to the noise problem and makes life harder for law-abiding users.

If you've got the urge to do a little work, an amateur license isn't hard
to get, and then you can operate at higher power levels (50W is normal,
although you can go to 1500W if you have the money!) and use the amateur
repeater systems.  Hams tend to be more polite and businesslike, since
they have their license at risk.

George
