Date: Fri, 16 Jul 2004 17:47:14 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Stevie Havoc <s.havoc(-at-)telus.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine Swap Info?

On Mon, 12 Jul 2004, Stevie Havoc wrote:

> The more I am reading this thread the more it upsets me and the more I
> just want it killed for being, as Mark said "SO not zen".
...
> I don't buy the need to move to a whole new world of engines to derive
> the power/reliability and easy of use you speak of, my 73 is pretty
> much bone stock, a rebuilt 73, 1700, dual Solex pdsits. I spent some
> serious time rebuilding and tweaking both the engine and carbs, tuning
> here and there adjusting as I went until she is as she stands today, a
> great bus. I can spark her up in the middle of winter up here in
> Calgary, Alberta, Canada, she lights right up, give her the same amount
> of time I would give any car up here to warm up and she is ready.  She
> will cruise at 70mph on the highway, she can reach 85mph if I put my
> foot into it. She has carted myself friends and family all over the
> continent without fail, sure there is preventative maintenance here and
> there to make sure she is in tip top shape, doing adjustments, tune ups
> and changes even when there is nothing wrong, but thats loving your
> bus. If you aren't into that then perhaps its not the right vehicle.

I have pretty much the same feelings about my '71 with stock 1600DP, BUT:

Having just droven down US395 over four 7-8000 foot passes with a load of
three bedroom dressers (drawers full), twentysome large paintings, two end
tables, a large wrought iron sculpture, wife, and two daughters, I
suspect that the trip would have been a bit more fun with about 100 more
horsepower.  35MPH on the uphills just isn't pleasant, especially when
getting worse mileage than vehicles with twice as much power.  Even
unloaded, the uphills slow the bus too much.

The VW bus is an irreplaceable vehicle for its utility and functionality.
Unfortunately, it was saddled with a grossly underpowered engine.  Even
though the engine grew in later years, it still is inadequate by
modern standards.  Power mods tend to make the stock engine unreliable so
they are not the answer.

The alternative is swapping in another engine, one that is designed to
produce more power without strain.  KEP has made the 2.5 liter Subaru
nearly a drop-in for wasserboxer vanagon owners and it would be nice if
they could do the same for those who own earlier buses.

George Lyle
