Date: Fri, 16 Jul 2004 22:43:37 -0500
From: Dean Goodmanson <goodmansond(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] never-camped in trailer queen? + Friday report

On Fri, 16 Jul 2004 22:30:26 -0400, Greg Potts wrote:
> 
> Personally, I despise the never-camped in trailer queen.
> 

What is that?

Friday bus report:
Grandma came up so I got to take my wife round a few blocks. :-D  She
had the same glittery eyes, grin and giggles she did 6 years ago when
we bought it months before our marriage.  "I SO want to go camping!"
She testified the carb. power problem. :-D    Weber replacement should
be in the mail any day to put the holley on the bench and start
looking for rebuild kits. (Neither automatic choke works, but
replacement is recently rebuilt and should cost slightly more than the
cost of a Weber rebuild kit. Why not.)
I've been sure to start it up every week or so.  On the two times it's
been ~2 weeks it's started with a few times and just more than a few
accelerator pumping.

But should I be concerned about the smoke plume after starting? (It
doesn't continue, even on later and next day starts).

The foam cooling gasket isn't in yet, and neither are the few mystery
holes in the tin, which I think are from a previous FI setup the PO's
mechanic (and guy who fixed the brakes) told me.
It was plenty hot, and smelled warm and like oil.  Wife said it
smelled like sitting in traffic.  Dipstic was touchable.
The tin is rusty and has many ragged edges, and I'm pretty sure
there's a home-made section in there.

After we got it home and gave my Mom the tour and a smile of approval,
I wanted to get it up on ramps and try to find the oil leak(s?).  
Sorry little clutch and a dozen starts. :-(
Only leak I could see was dripping right off next to the grimey thermostat. 

Oil pressure light isn't lighting and upon inspecting found sensor
wasn't connected.  It was connected and working when we drove it home
from winter storage. Reconnected but still no On position safety
light.  Grounding test of cable verified light worked.  It's all
rather grimey. No questions, just personal hands-on milestone. Maybe
it'll work after cleaning up connections.

Time under bus cleaning and gazing showed lots of undercoating still
there but plenty flaking. Brake lines look good, although lots to
learn there regarding very rusty parts lines connect to under drivers
seat, and need to figure out emergency brake.  Lots of unconnected
cables, also.  Expect those relate to the heating (center channel
gone, insulated parts quite crunchy.), but need to trace emergency
brake.

New gas lines put on by mechanic are solid and clamped, but no visible
filter and they lay across manifold. Should I loft it above engine, or
be concerned about no filter (as was before).

Better stop there.
Finished by taking a roll of film if different areas to start my "1
thing at a time" list. Hopefully later I'll get these posted and ask
for help prioritizing.

- Dean
73 Sportsmobile, central WI
