Date: Tue, 15 Nov 2011 11:28:58 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: courtney hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>, "type2(-at-)type2.com"
Subject: Re: [T2] TCP Globals  Restoration Paint??

Courtney, I sent you a bunch of replies (3 as they came to me) but they
bounced.  Didn't feel the list needed the wisdom, but I'll copy em again and
here for the hell of it in case they bounce to you, as the list is hardly
onerous bandwidth these days.  As some random thoughts...

First reply:
 Courtney a couple guys  who have been here over the years have shot it.  I
have not.  Not heard anything bad about it.  I would suspect them on par with
say PPGs cheap line (Omni AE) which I've had varied results with depending on
color for solids content and thereby coverage.  Personally I like good ole PPG
Delstar AE, always going to be good, but getting pricey.  And I've actually
had pretty fair luck with cheaper ones over the years including the Omni as I
mention for the most part.  I'd guess the TCP stuff to be fine, and as
catalyzed acryllic enamel, long lasting.  As I've mentioned over the years, it
is NOT the easiest thing to shoot in a driveway.  Not at all impossible, even
for a first timer, and actually the slower drying can help with
overspray/orange peel some, but be prepared that you will have crap in
it.  Like I said, what color sanding and buffing are for.  The attraction to
the TCP is the price of course, and if
 I were in the lower 48 still, I'd certainly have tried it by now, but
shipping to AK is prohibitive. 
There is something to be said for a good local
supplier though who is helpful and stands behind their product.  Worth talking
to your local PPG and Dupont guys, tell them you are a hobbiest, not rich, are
looking at the TCP and ask if they have anything that can come in close price
wise.  They may surprise you, they got tons of markup on paint, probably give
shops 30-40% off list, so got wiggle room.  In WV some "good ole boy" shops
would give you an amazing break, some didn't give a shit for the hobbiest
business and would not.  But I wouldn't shy away from the TCP if the money
makes it look good.  I think actually they have a single stage urethane (or
did at least) which might be even better for a driveway spray. 
Lots of good
painting forums out there BTW, I'd google TCP auto paint (opinions, reviews,
quality) and see what people say.

Second one:

 Courtney, 
You know I surfed
to TCP now and had a look.  I would consider that 1 stage AU urethane, might
spray a whole lot better.  It is tack free, and tapeable much faster than the
enamel, which means bug and dust free much faster than the enamel.  Now I will
say something else, it's been about 5 years since I've bought a gallon, but
they (TCP) quote $435 for a gallon of Chrome Yellow in Delstar, about $495 for
Concept, and that just the paint.  Which makes the $140 and $180 or so they
want for their AE and AU look damn reasonable.  But I doubt those PPG prices
even though they are "presumably" a large PPG distributor.  Red, orange,
yellow are pricier, but last time I bought a gallon of Afrika Red Delstar, was
defintely under $220, and Concept was truely even then about $400, so unless
Delstar has gone up that much for some reason (might be though as PPG is
pushing people out of it, and pushing their waterborne shit) I don't see that
being
 realistic.  Anyway if it is, I'd definitely think about either of the TCP
paints, but be careful to compare how they reduce, and what components are
needed so you got an idea what your total cost of either would be. 
John

Last
thought of that day:

Courtney, taking this one step further (you can tell I
got too much time...) 
Local distributor wants only $131 for a gallon of
Chrome yellow Omni AE, $212 for a Nason brand AE (which has a better rep, and
I have shot a few times in the past.) 
Now I don't have anything against some
Omni, just I've had majorly differing coverage, for instance needing 5-6 coats
to cover gray primer of the 80-83 beige/offwhite used on Vanagon Westys, but
only 2 to cover with Arctic White on a Golf, go figure.  Anyway assuming you
got a PPG dealer there in Canada, I bet price similar to Alaska prices, so you
may find the Omni as cheap local as the TCP.  And those weren't haggling
prices, just called and asked, I bet they would have given me 5-10% if I had
been in the store with cash ready to order. 
They guy stated when they last
had Delstar (about 3 years ago) it was about 2.2x price of the Omni (so
presumably would only be $290 or so today) but they dropped it because they
were selling pretty much only the Omni and Nason due to price of the Delstar. 
Still nowhere near the $400+ TCP states it costs. 
So shop around. 
John    
