Date: Sat, 19 Nov 2011 21:43:50 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Gregory Urban <urban(-at-)yaic.com>, "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Odd Electrical Problem

Several, in no particular order.
 
Ignition switch may be suspect, in several
ways, everything from not really functioning in start at all, to high
resistance in start that comes and goes.  Standard relay elimination setup to
avoid the long run up to the switch and back may very well solve the problem
if resistance.
 
As to your diagnostic tests, battery box output is probably
laughable compared to the other running car, more volts in helps with
overcoming the resistance, plus the current boost available to turn things.
 
Now if just resistance issues that wouldn't explain the rest of power out in
start unless the rest of the stuff does go off in start to preserve starting
power, I'm not sure about a '68 wiring in that regard.  Again perhaps the
first and most obvious failure is the ignition switch.
 
Solenoid could be a
bit wonky (again internal resistance) but I'd bet the others first.
 
Quick
test, take a short lead of good 8-10 gage right from batter positive to the
solenoid start terminal (can use one of those trigger things from an auto tune
up kit, can use a bit of wire with a momentary contact switch it if you don't
have the guts to just hit it and pull it) if that starts it, $5 relay and some
crimp connectors (but solder them) and use the switch run to power the relay,
the relay to switch your good heavy gage from the battery to the starter.
 
Obviously see with a voltmeter if you got something on the starting wire in
start postion.  And I'd just for the shit of it pull all the connections, at
starter and battery and clean em all up real well
 
John


>I'm having a
strange problem with my 1968 bus.  When I turn the key to
>the acc position,
the two dash lights go on as they should and the
>fuel pump (I have an
electric fuel pump) kicks on.  When I turn the
>key to start the engine I get
one click an all power goes out.
