Date: Mon, 21 Nov 2011 23:44:03 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Helicoil time

We used em typically for 2 reasons, the first and most obvious is why one uses
inserts in new
aluminum parts most of the time, which is that the insert is at
a larger OD.  The utility being say
one only needed an M8 thread (steel bolt)
for the application, and one of the adjoining parts was
limited to that
diameter, but one was reasonably worried that the aluminum side wasn't going
to take
it in M8, slap in the insert (whatever the style) and you are out to
M9 or M10 on the aluminum,
which is somewhat closer to what the steel fastener
can deliver.
 
The second benefit, which is particularly suited to helicoils
is corrosion resistance as they are
stainless (all of the time? for genuine
Helicoil brand, no?)  Course that can bight you with galling
if you go
stainless on stainless, but doesn't usually.
 
Third benefit is for parts like
Jamie mentions that will be taken down routinely, again with a steel
fastener
into aluminum.  Without, no good for lots of repeats, insert makes it last.
 
Problem with helicoils is sloppy workmanship, and I'm not always above this. 
You are always trying
to do something stupid with them on repairs.  And often
that means not well jigged when you
overdrill and the overdrill is either
tapered, oval shaped, or otherwise "wallowed out" to use a WV
rocket scientist
expression.  A solid insert will tolerate all of these much bettery, driving
into the taper
or being tight on two sides of the oval, a helicoil won't, it
will just follow the contour somewhat.
 
The big benefit of helicoils to me in
the metric world is convenience in already having the overtap mostly
at hand. 
As a hobby machinist, I pretty much got all the oddball size taps 1mm up from
most common
metric threads, in the pitches of the same, so I don't need to pay
for Helicoil taps, just for the inserts.  And
a piece of steel rod with a
dremel cut groove makes an install tool in about 60 seconds.
 
Anyway, didn't
mean to knock Jon, I think he hit on the obvious solution like Adrian did, but
don't fear
the helicoil if you are using it and installing it correctly.
 
John


----- Original Message -----
From: Jamie jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net
 
findings too.. in fact , a lot of racers will helicoil engine parts before
they machine them... because the alum parts that get taken apart and back
togther a lot will wear.. etc etc etc..
