Date: Mon, 4 Apr 2005 22:17:56 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: herky jerky

Hey list, need your help on a diagnosis. As always, pmail is welcome.
symptoms: cutout at speed started Friday. Usually on hills, but
sometimes on no-load downhill slowing. Sounds like engine skips a beat
but the wheels get engine spinning again. Stopped dead Friday in front
of my house. popped engine lid and checked the oil. not low, little
warm. Thought the fuel filter looked empty, and figured I ran out of
gas. smacked head with open hand, made note to verify ground in
dashboard for faulty gas gauge. 
Sat morn, checked gas guage, seemed fine... started motor. puzzled,
checked fuel filter - almost full. hmm.. conclude I'm deluded and
paranoid, so I checked timing. Then re-checked TDC, and rechecked
timing. noticed thermostat cable wasn't connected to Mexi-stat and
reconnected with ferrule. thought cold running was cause (low 40's
lately) as the Weber no do like the cold. tightened carb to intake.
Drove today, got another $10 of 87 at Chevron ($2.24/gal ouch) and had
a fine ride. Evening commute was very jerky after about 15 minutes of
driving. Died at intersection near home. Started up, drove, well,
limped home. Died in front of house. Checked oil: little low, but
dipstick was pretty hot. Slight smell of gas. Fuel filter looks empty
again.
I haven't made any significant changes leading up to this issue, so I
don't think this is DCO (DumbCurrentOwner) related. It almost seems
like the engine (or maybe just the fuel pump) starts running poorly
once it gets warm. It certainly seems fuel is not getting to the carb,
at least, when it finally dies. 
related parts: carb=Weber32/36, dizzy=ACN SVDA, fuel pump=mechanical,
air cleaner=Sprint snorkeled, fuel lines replaced 2 months ago,
plugs=yr old not platinum, plug wires=PO install (over 2 yrs ago), carb
pulled & regasketed to intake 2 months ago. fuel filter=yr old (yeah,
its old, but the fuel doesn't seem to be getting this far anyway).
So, the question to the list is:
does this sound like a dying fuel pump? a marble in the fuel tank?
simple clogged fule filter? something totally unrelated, like an
exhaust leak? Vapor lock caused by too much heat at the fuel pump (if
so, how would I fix that)?
All advice welcome,
Pail Manning
Lake Oswego, OR
1972 Westy (Hapy) 32/26 Weber on the motor, dual Solexes in a box -
maybe its time to reverse those conditions.
