Date: Thu, 10 Jun 2004 08:24:56 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Phil Houtz <phil(-at-)deadbus.org>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] can I paint my bus like this?????

I've sprayed quite a bit over the years (I am FAR from the professional but have done a few car restos, worked in a sign shop, etc.) and used the Wagner too. I own a Wagner. It's good for water based paints and for use on the house, barn, etc. 

It might work in a pinch and certainly worth a freebie borrow and attempt but I would not buy it for the project. The one I own has innards that will suffer from the solvents used in automotive paints. Valves, seals, tips. 

I did buy a Campbell-Hausfeld gun ($30) for my little rotary compressor (sans compressor tank) and also found it tough to use reliably. Tough to match the pattern and volume to the project and paint. I've got some runs on my top b/c of it. It is a very good primer gun when I will be sanding the primer afterwards. 

The cheap gun did not atomize the paint very well so by the time I got enough color on the object getting sprayed, there was so much paint on the surface that the paint would sag. It was tough to get a light coat that covered. The cup vent was also a mess dripping all over the surface of the painting project. MY cheap gun has been good on flat horizontal surfaces but poor on vertical surfaces. Runs... Mixing the paint thin didn't agree with the gun well (don't remember why), and thicker paints didn't atomize properly (causing heavy coats). Thin paints with fast reducers might work well. I'll save it for frame painting, spraying tractor paint, and painting anything who's appearance doesn't matter too much like the lawnmower. 

I have used a handfull of very GOOD pro-style guns (Binks and Binks-copies) and let me tell you it is the way to go. I have a Binks copy right now and I have to borrow a compressor to use it as my little rotary compressor is only good for painting dog houses and inflating tires - not enough volume at a decent pressure. 

Good fan control, good volume control, no drips, good paint atomization, etc. Gun cost me $50+ I think several years ago. The cost of paint not ruined and my time not fixing problems is worth the cost of the better gun. If I was doing this everyday then of course I would invest in better tools yet like a HVLP gun. 

Just my $.02 worth. Anything will work with enough compromise and patience. I want to get it done right this time right now so the basic paint delivery systems just aggravate me - YMMV.

See ya! 

Chris
'78 West w/Corvair implant
