Date: Sat, 7 Feb 2004 06:33:30 -0500 (EST)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Loctite

Over the years I have used many different Loctite products in many
applications and have found that the properties vary very significantly.
I have gotten out the torch to remove fasteners locked down with "blue"
and I have gotten fasteners out that were locked with "red" using only
hand tools. Mr. Hayden is correct that generally you are lucky to find one
one medium strength (blue) and one high strength (red) product in blister
packs at most automotive parts stores and that for home use the medium
strength is to be preferred in most applications.  At the same time I can
see Mr. Deering's position that the high strength product is desirable in
the specific application discussed (the bolt holding the fan hub to the
end of the crankshaft)  It is not a bolt that needs to be removed on a
regular basis and it is a bolt that you do NOT want to come loose in
operation. Especially in the case where the bolt has come loose once
already and the surfaces are less than perfect I might well be talked into
using a high strength loctite product to retain it until the engine needed
rebuilding.

In order to clear up some questions I had in my mind I went to the
www.loctite.us web site and extracted what I considered the most important
data from each of the technical data sheets that Loctite publishes.  I put
all this data into an xls spreadsheet and sorted it in a variety of ways
to understand the various properties.

At some time in the near future I hope to be able to to make this
spreadsheet available on a web site but I do not currently have access to
one.  If anyone wants a copy please let me know and I will e-mail it to
you on Monday.

The spreadsheet contains the following fields for each threadlocker
product that Loctite makes:

Product Name/Number

Product Description and Typical Application - These paragraphs describe
any special properties of the product (for use in oily environments, etc.)

Breakloose and Prevail Torques - These tests are a measure of the strength
of the bond.  The test is typically run using an M10 bolt and nut.  The
product is applied to the threads of the bolt and the nut is run halfway
onto the bolt with no torque.  The product is then allowed to cure for 24
hours. A torque wrench is applied and the nut is unscrewed.  Breakloose
torque is the force in newton/meters or inch/pounds needed to move the nut
at all.  Prevail torque is the force needed to turn the nut through one
complete rotation.

Strengh retained at 150C - the amount of the original strength retained
when the fastener is heated to 150C.  Loctite expresses this as a curve
and the curves vary widely.  I picked this as a typical number but as you
select a product you should look at the whole curve.

Disassembly instructions - When I embarked on this I was hoping to find
this listed much more often than I actually did.  I considered questioning
their tech department on each and every product but decided that would be
asking too much.  I have given it where they gave it.

Loctite makes many, many different varieties of thread locking products in
grades from ultra low to ultra high strengths.  There are Loctite products
that are designed for various temperature regimes, for oily environments,
and for special metals.  Most Loctite products lose a good bit of their
strength with heat but some are actually stronger.

Please note that even with the medium strength threadlockers that heat may
well be required for disassembly. This is especially true if you use it on
a long bolt into a threaded hole.  The more threads it is applied to, the
more force it will take to disassemble.

                             OOK!

Litera Scripta Manent
