From: "gns.wagnon" <gns.wagnon(-at-)verizon.net>
To: "Vintage Bus Post" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, "Type 2 List"
Date: Sun, 8 Feb 2004 07:31:17 -0600
Subject: WHOOOHOOO!!!!

Volk-a-maniacs,

Annie is officially on the road again!  My '63 Grey and White camper
conversion from a Panel is roaring down the streets at speeds only a breakdown
paranoid driver can muster.

Today, we had our first real trip out of town since her engine rebuild and
re-assembly... heck, since I paid cash for her early last year.  I was mostly
just puttering around the last week or so since I got her back together.  But
today, I took her with wife & kid down to the Salem area from the Portland
area (Oregon).  All told about 175 mile roundabout jaunt on some back
highways.

WHAT A GREAT FEELING!  Picture this if you will.... cruising along at about
50-55 MPH and I break from shower conditions to a nice sunny country highway.
2 year old (tomorrow is her birthday) giggling in the back (in car seat,
strapped in of course) and the love of my life (the wife) singing some silly
song or another to cause the giggles.

I just thought I would share that with you all.  I know the posts on this list
are seemingly less, but my theory is that the season is only just beginning
and everyone needs to feel that good feeling again to get up out of their
winter slumber.  I suggest that all of you who are able, get out and drive for
the heck of it.  You may hit a patch of good weather, or good road, or good
song on the radio, or a really great giggle from the back of the bus.  That is
one reason I have this bus.  To experience the perfect moments that come from
admiring the world around you.  Having that moment while in a machine that is
40+ years old and only on the road due to my accomplishments (and learning
from many failures) just makes it all the sweeter.

WHOOOHOOO!!  I love Homer moments.

Have a spectacular day!  I did.

Greg
1963  'Annie'

Random Pictures of Bus Events and other randomness.
http://community.webshots.com/user/tempor4
