Date: Sun, 08 Feb 2004 11:11:53 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine Removal article

The engine probably comes off at a 20 degree angle or so.  Plus you 
don't have to remove any of the tin at all.  You might have to remove 
the oil filler cap for clearance..

My VW shop does it the same way and they have the engine out in less 
than an hour.  It's also easy to put the engine back in.. line it up, 
push it into the tranny, and jack it up.

As far as the tranny, you're *supposed* to support it, but I just let it 
rest on the CV joints (which is probably what most people do).  Here's a 
writeup that karl gave me a while back.  He also does not undo the 
heater cables like you suggested.  Here it is:


I have a 79 engine laying on a handtruck.....kinda hard to measure it. It is
approx 18'' including the plenum.
When I remove my 77 engine [have 2 of them] I drive the front up ramps. Then
jack the bus up and put standard jack stands under the rear. Do NOT 
raise the
rear of the bus with the jack under the engine. Use the rear support bar 
for the
jack support. If you jack up the engine, you WILL destroy the rear motor 
mounts
on top of the support bar. Then I put a 6 x 6 on the jack and raise it 
higher.
Then I put a tall set of stands under it. These stands are 19'' tall. I 
remove
the rear bumper but leave everything on the engine. I roll it out on the 
floor
jack.
By myself, I have the engine dropped and out in 35 minutes.
 From the top:
remove air cleaner assembly.
unplug voltage regulator and the 2 wires in same area.
disconnect efi harness from ecu.
remove big S hose.
disconnect throttle cable.
unplug right plug of double relay.
unplug resistor pack above it.
follow harness down from blower fan, disconnect black wire to coil, 
white wire
to coil, blue/green wire to oil sender.
remove the coil.
disconnect black wire from coil to fuse holder on left side.
disconnect vacuum hose to brake booster.
remove plastic tube to decel valve.
remove both upper trans-to-engine nuts.

Under bus:
get two clamps, clamp both fuel lines above starter.
disconnect fuel line on passenger side at front side of tin.
disconnect fuel line at end of fuel pump.
get a 10mm socket and loosen the clamps at the base of the heater 
flapper valves
and raise the valves up off the end of the heater boxes....and leave 
them alone,
they will sit there. DON"T screw with the heater cables!
remove the 13mm headed nut on the starter solenoid and ONLY remove the 
one heavy
wire that goes towards the rear bumper....this one feeds the alternator, 
all the
rest stay in place.
remove the 2 upper trans hanger bolts, they go in from the FRONT, you 
have to
reach up over the trans.... the nuts on the rear are welded in place.
on the rear hanger, do NOT remove the bolts that go thru the bar. remove the
bolts that go thru the brackets and body.
put the floor jack under middle and towards the front of the engine. 
raise it up
enough to relieve the weight on the support bolts and remove them.
remove the 2 lower nuts at the bell housing-to-engine studs.
lower jack, engine will drop down.
when top of fan housing clears body, wiggle the engine side to side to 
get it
off the trans.
roll out......


Richard Atwell wrote:


> I smell another article: in 15 easier steps!
> 
> This is the third time I've had the engine out and I've been doing it the
> way I was shown. I mentioned the difficulty in the article but I've been
> less adventurous with the combined drop without having seen it done.
> 
> At what angle is the engine when it slides off the transmission (this might
> be easier with a simple jack that the atv jack)? Exactly how do you support
> the transmission in the angled position?
