Date: Sun, 15 Oct 2006 16:55:57 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] non bus( Beetle hub)

sorry for the post to the bus list for a beetle problem but i dont knwo what else to do....
   
  i gotta know whats the trick to getting the hub loose....

i have broken now two half inch bars from wal mart now today plus my torque wrench is busted now as well as my big craftsman 1/2 inch racthet...

i have bought a small propane tank and torch deal thing and have heated the bolt for along long time to try to see if that works and nothing....

the last person that put this on here wasnt even thinking about me just how strong they were i guess....

also i cant get the tire to not turn.....
i have stuffed wheel chocks and rocks and tree limbs and had beck stand on the bumper(not that she weights enough to hold down a gopher or nothing but worth a shot) i have also tried p[b blaster....

i have came to end of my wits here.... i only got a big socket that is for 1/2 inch dont have anything bigger to use...

i am using a piece of fence post for a pri bar to put on the 1/2 inch....

her rear wheel cylinder needs replacing its leaking everywhere i gotta have this done by tomorrow night...

got to ... she has to work tuesday... and i will have to do this after work tomorrow night...

so whats the trick to getting the nut off there after some one elses lack of...?

i cant keep taking 1/2 inch bars back and now need some more tools myself after this one.... really really sad about my torque wrench and not getting this dene this weekend.. that was my own fault though.... i knew i had things to do but went and played any ways....


it wont budge.... what to do what to do.... its all downhill if i can get that loose..... i can change the rear wheel cylinder and be done....



thanks in advance...
chai


                                                                Better start thinking about sealing up those windows and leaky doors....
  Winter months are on there way,dont forget to break out the heater and Lets Go CamPing~!
