Date: Mon, 16 Oct 2006 17:02:52 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] non bus( Beetle hub) update

well had no choice but to take off at 12 noon today from work and glad i did now very glad....
   i came home and after calling everywhere here around us no one knew what a axle nut removal tool was....
   
  i called someone that did and drove 45+ minutes down there and seen a bear and the bear gave me some tools that might be of good use.... and lots of know how to do's for the trip to think about...
   
  got home tried every thing was told to do.... and well didnt work.. tire still spun and wouldnt break loose on hub...
   
  so after calling the bear again i put tire back on and easily drove like 1 mph to the nearest tire store pissing everyone off that got behind me..... but made it there...
   
  now the guy there tried many many times to take the axle nut off with a impact wrench... butttttttttttttttttt it wouldnt come off and he was swearing saying dag gum who put this thing on....
   
  he said i will take care of it... he went inside for a few minutes and then came back out and had this HUGE impact wrench like the terminator would use huge sucker and he went at it for a few minutes with that thing and finally it came loose... he stopped looked at me and said fellow i dont know who put that thing on there but they sure wasnt wanting it to come off....
   
  i wasnt sure who it was that put it on that tight i had many hands helping me the last time the hubs were off but i can tell you this lay off the wheaties dad gum it....
   
  what a arm....
   
  thanks for all the replies on and off the list... i didnt even check my mail till tonight and had a inbox slam full of suggestions... and just a hint to all...
   
  yes the right tools make things alot easier... thats  why i am asking santa claus for a air compressor and impact wrench LOL.... i just dont think i been good enough this year though hehehehehehehehe~!~ thanks so much everyone...
   
  and to the Bear Cheeers ,,.,.,.., youre to cool.....
   
   
   
  chai
   
   


                                                                Better start thinking about sealing up those windows and leaky doors....
  Winter months are on there way,dont forget to break out the heater and Lets Go CamPing~!
          






























 		
---------------------------------
Stay in the know. Pulse on the new Yahoo.com.  Check it out. 
