From: rodewarrior(-at-)comcast.net
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 17 Oct 2006 02:02:48 +0000
Subject: RE: [T2] Blueprinted

> when a spec says .009 it usually means there are tolerances such as 
> .007-.011 blueprinting means EXACTLY .009 

Having been a machinist for 14 years I can tell you there is no such thing as "EXACTLY .009"

For starters you require a measuring tool that can measure in increments of .0001" and I have seen very few in my life, you also need a room and measuring tools held at a 1 degree temperature accuraccy, and I doubt many engine rebuilders have such a place, still, EXACTLY is not a word when it comes to machining, no offense intended, really,  I am a nerd about this stuff.

Tolerance windows exist because they work, the edge of a tolerance should work just as good as the nominal size.

A lot of people do not understand measurement tool accuracy, I made some tiny aluminum parts once for a large company you have all heard of with a bore accuraccy of +-.0025, I had them honed under coolant to size, the customer called and told me that the parts had a 50% rejection rate.

I stopped by the honing company and borrowed their precision pins with certification that I needed to create a Go-No Go set up on my way to check this out.

Engineers were using a CMM to measure the diameter of the holes, they were around a .200" diameter.

The CMM had an accuraccy of .001" and the probe mounted on it had a .0005" accuracy, this thing could only measure an accuraccy of +-.003 at best, if you wanted to be a stickler it would really be +-.0075", and these holes had a half thousandth tolerance, besides that CMMs are really for finding position, not measuring diameter.

Don't let somebody screw you by telling you that they can hold accuraccies that they can't measure, to guarantee .001" they need to be able to measure .0001".

When I was taught engine rebuilding I was taught that blueprinting means you measure everything and make sure it is in tolerance rather than assuming.

If you plastigauge 2 sets of rod bearings and one is tight and one is loose switch the bearings and see what you get.

The tolerance of the bearings plus the crank journals plus the rod I.D. stack up to give you many possibilities of fit.

The same goes for the rings.

I have built engines both ways, I have found that measuring things and finding the best fit gives me better oil pressure and a more even compression, I think at best it is insurance that when you get it together it works.

Am I missing the mark on what blueprinting is?
