Date: Tue, 17 Oct 2006 08:44:14 -0500 (CDT)
From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
To: rodewarrior(-at-)comcast.net
Subject: Re: [T2] Blueprinted

The book "How to Hot Rod your VW Engine" by Fischer refers to it this way.

Assuming I am remembering it correctly.

"Blueprinting means building your engine to the design specs rather than 
the tolerances that occur in production manufacturing."

Essentially, to me, it means measuring everything to the "new" specs 
listed in the manual....and then even more than that...

It does include balancing...why wouldn't it?

Examples....things that those of us who build "hot rod" engines already 
know(or have learned).

The case is measured so that you *know* that the camshaft bore and the 
crankshaft bore are parallel to each other and to the rest of the case.

The centerline split is actually the centerline of the the cases.
The distance from that centerline to the base of the cylinder spigot holes 
is the same....and on and on and on....

All crankshaft bearing holders are the same(correct) size...assuming that 
before you check them, the bearings are all exact as well...

There is much, much more.  The cost is in the details...always has been, 
and it takes a lot of time to measure, change, measure again, change and 
so on.

More exapmples...of at least trying....going to the local parts store and 
making them drag all of their rebuilt 1600 rods out so you can pick out 4 
that are even half way close to the plus or minus gram limit in the 
*production* part of the manual specs....while you sit their with your 
triple beam balance...measuring 40 rods to get 4 that are within 5 grams 
or so of each other....*then* you take them and have them balanced.

Pistons are easy, you can do them at home with the same triple beam 
balance and get them to less than a 10th of a gram or so....as long as 
they were even close enough to start with!  Even 2-3 grams of aluminum out 
of a piston is a lot!...oh, and keep yer stinkin finger prints off of 
them, cause it makes a difference.

The difference is a hand built carefully checked engine that meets or 
exceeds all published specs, rather than a production line engine that is 
just "close enough" for the average person.

Cheers, dave


-- 
-------------------------------------------------------------------
Enough sunlight reaches the Earth *every* hour to meet the world's
energy demand for an entire year...The problem is, that sunlight is free.


On Mon, 16 Oct 2006, rodewarrior(-at-)comcast.net wrote:

> Could somebody please explain what a blueprinted engine is or what it means to blueprint an engine?
>
  I thought I knew but saw a post earlier saying that blueprinting costs big bucks, so maybe I don't know.
>
> Thanks
