Date: Sat, 24 Dec 2011 09:56:42 -0800 (PST)
From: Happy Jack Feder <happyfeder(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: 76 Westy with Christmas Lights

Thought I'd share a video I posted on YouTube of my 76 Westy adorned with
Christmas lights and 36 inch reindeer (or maybe it's just a plain old deer)
with a moving head. 
      http://www.youtube.com/user/happyfeder?feature=mhee
I used a DC/AC converter, $40 at WalMart and 5 strings of LED lights. I have
to keep the engine running or the converter overloads and turns off.  
I
mounted the lights on two cords on the roof, running the length from the front
luggage rack hooks to inside the rear lid. I mounted the Reindeer firmly on
two boards in the luggage rack. I never went over over 40mph, or the lights
started flapping.  Also, unfortunately, due to the cops finally putting the
smack down on me, I was unable to take the footage I planned on taking, so
what you see of the Westy is slightly shaky test footage where I tested
various aperture and shutter settings for nighttime shooting.  
BUT! it was an
AMAZING experience driving around my little town of Helena Montana.  I
expected some response, sure, but WOW.  I gave up counting people stopping to
take pictures of me at 100.  Horns and thumbs up and peace signs were near
constant.  I noticed women responded more suddenly, more often and with bigger
laughter and applause than men.  Also, what really made the difference was the
addition, a few days in, of the reindeer on top, with its head moving right to
left and back again. $9.99 walgreens on sale.  
Despite being forced off the
streets by the Fuzz, I still cruise the big block parking lots where there are
actually more pedestrians than the streets.
I highly recommend the experience!
Enjoy the video, silly as it is.  
Again, the youtube link is---
   
http://www.youtube.com/user/happyfeder?feature=mhee 
 
Happy Jack Feder 
335
N. Davis 
Helena, MT 59601 
Cell    406 - 594 - 0292
Home 406 - 442 - 2910
