Date: Wed, 4 Jan 2012 07:27:21 -0800 (PST)
From: Joel Cort <joel_cort(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: Vanagon_List <vanagon(-at-)gerry.vanagon.com>
Subject: Heartbreaker movie with a VW bus as a co-star

Happy New Year
 
I have to share this with my VW buddies: The other night
after the New Years festivities, I am flipping through some movies on Netflick
and started watching this 2010 movie from France called the "Heartbreakers".
 
Pretty simple movie in French with English subtitles, until they hop into
their surveillance vehicle. 
 
YES!! It is a 70's VW Bus with lots of artful
painting on it.  It is loaded with surveillance gear, radio broadcaster, and
computers.   Cool!! So I watch the movie a bit more and this is becoming a
GREAT movie.
 
Then Milanie (Julie Ferrier) one of the lady star of the movie
starts complaining about having no money to change the oil and the fact that
the bus only starts every other time.  Perfect lines!! Congrats to the script
writer!!
 
In another scene, the VW bus is following either a Mercedes up the
mountain road out of Monte Carlo.  This is where they race cars and the little
bus stays right behind the Mercedes going up hill... go figure.


Heartbreaker
(2010) HEARTBREAKER ('L'ARNACOEUR') is a delightful bit of French fluff,
created as only the French know how. There are 'quotes' from certain films and
songs that mix the two main characters together and add to the meringue of the
farce. Based on a light story by Laurent Zeitoun, Jeremy Doner, and Yhan Gromb
and directed with a fine sense of comic timing by Pascal Chaumeil, this is one
of those examples of the farces the French do so well. 

Happy warm Camping,
Joel Cort
Rochester NY

jcort(-at-)rochester.rr.com
joel_cort(-at-)yahoo.com

89 Syncro
Westy (VanGo)
87 Syncro Transporter (Stella Blue)
73 Westy Campmobile (Agent
Orange)

Western New York LiMBO Representative www.limbobus.org
Founding
member of the Empire State VW Camping Club www.empirevwcamping.org
Westies(-at-)Watkins XI is planned for September 21-22-23, 2012
www.westies-at-watkins.org
