Date: Fri, 6 Jan 2012 07:43:38 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] bus wreck in Boulder

On Fri, Jan 6, 2012 at 6:25 AM,  <accessys(-at-)smart.net> wrote:

> can't imagine why one would drive a bus without a seatbelt

Here's two of my favorites on bus safety. First, from John Muir in the
Idiot's Guide:

"If we all constantly drive as if we were strapped to the front of the
car like Aztec sacrifices so
we'd be the first thing hit, there would be a helluva lot less accidents."

And this one from Car Talk:

"Romanticized as it has been, the Volkswagen bus had no heat, blew
over in the wind and used the driver's front legs as its first line of
defense in an accident."

Dear Sirs or Madmen:

Your description of the VW bus was completely accurate, but, alas,
pathetically unenlightened. Further contemplation will bring you to
these epiphanic conclusions:

A) If a VW bus shifts in the wind, it is simply because you are on the
wrong path, heading in the wrong direction. Think of it not as a
potentially lethal driving hazard but rather as a "spiritual GPS."

B) Heat? Who among us has actually known heat? Is not one man's boil
another man's frost? Could it be that the sound of one hand clapping
is actually a VW driver attempting to at once both shift and survive?

C) Factually, the driver's legs are not the first line of defense.You
have overlooked the thick layer of bug guts aerodynamically meshed
into a natural and practically impenetrable polymer covering the bus's
front. In addition, many buses feature a front-mounted Triplated
Independent Repealing Emobilizer (TIRE) combining the science of
high-cost air bags and the proven effectiveness of amusement-park
bumper cars.

Finally and most importantly, remember that every VW bus is surrounded
by the plush and cushioning aura of St. Jerry of Garcia, providing
divine Truckin' guidance to freaks, Deadheads, 17-year-old wannabe's
and balding 40-something used-to-be's.

Bob Hamrick
Balding, frostbitten owner of a goat-vomit green '76 Westfalia

http://www.cartalk.com/content/volkswagen-bus
