From: "Joe Luther" <jluther(-at-)alfons-haar.us>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 8 Jan 2012 09:51:36 -0500
Subject: New member

Hi all, new to the list but not to VW's, but recent experience has been
mostly water cooled and diesels.  I'm an admin on a regional VW site but 99%
of the members are watercoolers.  

I started dailying aircooleds back in 78 with a 67 bug, and I've had 4 or 5
bugs and 4 or 5 buses over the years, but with me being in Ohio rust took
most of the rolling stock to the shredder years ago.  I occasionally buy an
decent aircooled that is down on its luck and nurse it back to health.
Generally, the way this works is I buy it in the spring, with two kids and
60 hour work weeks it takes me till winter to get it  functional, then I
need the garage space so I sell it.  I live in the woods and the trees like
to fall on my cars.   The last two projects have been fuel injected, so it
has been quite a while since I worked with carbs.   I'm one of those who has
to work on something, the last project was a Ford 9N tractor.  

I've always been looking for a solid Type 2 with sheet metal decent enough
to hang onto when the mechanicals were working, and I just found one.   It's
a 72 deluxe bay that apparently spent a lot of time down south (Tennessee
dealer sticker on the back, South Carolina inspection sticker on the
windshield).  Not perfect by any means, but pretty solid.  Original 1.7 is
gone, a rebuilt 1.8 AW code case is in the back, along with a few two barrel
carbs (one a Weber, one a clone) and two single barrel manifold/intake
setups.  Original Solex carbs and manifolds etc are gone.   The PPO that
rebuilt the engine was pretty gung ho on the bus, having installed a tach in
the cluster, an EMPI shifter, and a few other handy gauges, so I'm hoping
the engine rebuild should be good.   I think health failing was the reason
the PPO let this go some years ago and the PO put it in his garage but never
could make time for it, which is when I got it.  

I've recently discovered these VW based lists, having been a member of the
bricklist for Volvos for years on and off, and I was a member of the Vanagon
list last year when redoing a Vanagon.   As mentioned, it has been a while
since I played around with carbs and I am in a situation where I have a non
OEM setup to install so I'll probably be asking for help and advice.  I've
generally focused on the mechanicals so the quirks of the body and wiring
are going to be new to me too.  

I'll try to use the web and FAQ's and my manuals but I discovered the hard
way with the Vanagon that the manuals aren't always to be relied on, whether
a Bentley or a Haynes.  I work for a German machine company so I'm used to
documentation being randomly accurate, especially in electrical matters, but
I hope you guys can point me the right direction through BTDT when I see
different ways of doing something.

I read the intro, and being an admin on another site for years and member of
other lists, I think I know the boundaries pretty well.  I'm sure someone
will let me know if I trespass.  If I have photos to share to illustrate
something, I'll use a photobucket link, I assume that is ok.  

Thanks

Joe
