Date: Mon, 9 Jan 2012 09:01:47 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Joe Luther <jluther(-at-)alfons-haar.us>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] New member

On Mon, Jan 9, 2012 at 2:38 AM, Joe Luther <jluther(-at-)alfons-haar.us> wrote:

> since youre happy with your setup, maybe you can tell me what I need to
know.

Sure Joe. There's no telling why one man's trash is another man's
treasure. You have to remember that these carbs were originally sold
as an upgrade to stock and they have been used extensively by
mainstream auto manufacturers. The Ford Pinto is one that comes to
mind, and it is one reason that they are widely available at used
prices for a song. I used to pick them up at Bug-o-Rama for $20 and
the manifold for $20. I picked up an additional 10 mph on my top speed
when I ditched my dual Solexes for the Weber, and a friend who used to
work in a SoCal VW shop told me that they always found the vehicles
with marginal clutches when they did conversions from fuel injection
to carbs because the FI didn't provide enough power to make the
clutches slip, but when the carbs were installed the clutch would slip
under heavy acceleration.

I suppose there are 3 most likely reasons for people to have bad
experiences, and you are on the right track with your suggestions.
First I would look at condition. Are all the external components in
place? Do you have fresh manifold boots? Is there slop in the throttle
shaft bushings? Is it equipped with a choke? Does the second barrel
engage correctly? Does the carb look old and dirty or fairly new or
freshly rebuilt? It's probably best to do a full disassembly and
cleanup while you've got it out of the vehicle. There's no sense
hoping for the best and having to take it out again later. Don't rely
on carb spray. Get the $20 gallon of carb dip that comes with the
little parts basket inside. You'll need a compressor with an air tip
to blow out all the passages after the dip. Then follow with your
spray can of carb cleaner to rinse. Install a carb rebuilt kit if the
rubber isn't fresh. Install one anyway for peace of mind. Hardening of
the rubber needle valve tip is a primary cause of float bowl overflow
and performance problems.

Next you have the jetting or fuel mixture to worry about. This is
constantly discussed as a problem point for Weber users and there are
conflicting claims about what combination is right. Personally I
installed a lot of Webers on a lot of buses before I learned about
jetting, and I never had a problem with any of them. Since I don't
have a big budget for auto repair, my philosophy for bringing dead
buses back to life is that at some time in the past that bus was under
the care of a competent mechanic and everything was properly set up
and functioning. So I consider it my mission to discover the problem
that caused the vehicle to be put out of service. Sometimes you can
get some information (that is not always correct) from the previous
owner, but often you will not have that luxury. So if I apply that
principle to Weber carbs, there is hope that it is correctly jetted,
but I understand that in the hobby community there are likely to have
been a lot of people like me who took a carb from an incompatible
application or new off the shelf without any consideration for the
jetting. In my case with my current Weber I started studying jetting,
and when I read all the forum posts about it and looked at the numbers
on my jets, I thought, oh no, there's no way I'm going to be able to
run this carb and I didn't have the money to buy jets. Well, I put it
on anyway and set up my AFR meter and it was spot on all the way up
and down the RPM range, so obviously someone had set it up competently
and didn't have the same approach as the tuners I had been studying.
So I would consider it necessary that you invest in an AFR meter to
verify your fuel mixture after installation. The LM-1 is available
used at bargain basement prices now that the LM-2 is out. In the
interim you can use the old school method of checking spark plug
color, but that is somewhat of a hassle and I hate the extra wear and
tear on the threads. I got the tailpipe adaptor for my LM-1 so I
wouldn't have to weld a bung on the exhaust.

The third and possibly largest complaint for the center mount is cold
weather operation. Many claim it cannot be made to run satisfactorily
in cold winter weather. My bus was my daily driver when I lived in an
area that got mildly icy conditions in the winter. My Weber has an
electric choke and I found it adequate to start reliably to go to work
on icy mornings with just a little more difficulty starting. By that I
mean that in the state of tune I keep my buses in, they usually start
on the first or second try. In icy cold it might be 3 or 4 tries, and
that diminished to fewer tries as I got the experience to realize that
in the cold it wasn't going to start with just 2 pumps of the gas
pedal to prime, so with time I started to figure out how many pumps it
wanted, and then a minute or two of rough running and then off to work
running like normal.

For those who live in harsher winter conditions, Walter at Bus Boys
mentioned that in Canada they have electric manifold wrap. I looked
into that and found them rather pricey, but I read something from
someone else who had a quite simple solution by installing pipe
nipples on the exhaust and base of the Weber manifold to run a pipe to
carry exhaust gas into the manifold. He said it de-ices perfectly and
has the added advantages that you get with exhaust recirculation with
an EGR valve.

All I can think of for now.

Have fun,

John
