From: "Bryan \"bc\" Castles" <bc(-at-)version3.net>
To: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 8 Nov 2001 12:30:15 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] painting an engine

What evidence is there...

The idea is to keep the engine and the space around it as cool as possible.
If you need evidence, go outside on the next 100 degree day and stick your
hand flat on the hood of a white car. Ow, kind of warm, but you can stand
125 or so degrees can't you?  Yeah, stick your other hand on a black
ar.  -Email us from the emergency room if you did not pull it back off in
about 5 seconds.  Black does not "pull" heat away from the engine.  You
can't "pull" heat 4" away and expect for your engine to magically run
cooler.  Black does absorb heat, and it radiates it too.  Don't believe me?
Do the same experiment above except hold your hand 12" away from the car's
hood.  Can you even feel the heat off of the white car?  Bet you can on the
black.  Proof or no proof, the layer of dried chemical on the engine is not
really insulating your motor, it all comes down to any given materials
ability to dissipate heat.  Paint will not do it as well as a powerdercoated
or electicoated material.  It's pretty simple.  Now, practical usage.  How
much does it REALLY affect your engine's running temperature?  That would
actually require testing.  I'll say that the block in my '67 bug was painted
red after I had it for a year, and I noticed no heat related changes when I
put the same engine back in.  -Now, I did not paint the tin, but rather had
chrome in there...   but I had primed sheet metal in there before, and all
of this was in Texas heat.  I'd say this:  if you have trouble with your
motor running hot...  you may want to spend your time and money on something
besides a neat flashy color.  If you have no trouble.  Experiment with the
tin first since it is easy and cheap to replace.  If results are good, move
on to the bigger project.

Hope that helps,

bc
'70 Ex-Westy

> I would like to add my .02 on this topic as my tin is
> currentley drying in the shop.  I painted the tin
> black for heat transfer (black absorbes the full
> spectum of light including IR)  which causes heat to
> be "pulled" away from the engine. This is why chrome
> or white is a bad idea, it looks clean but reflects
> much of the light spectrum back at the engine. I did
> not paint the engine case because I agree with the
> theory that it will act like a blanket of sort around
>

