From: "Frank E Biffath III" <fbiffath(-at-)mailingsolutions.com>
To: "Ohio Valley Tribe" <ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 26 May 2004 16:02:17 -0400
Subject: BBB...What didn't happen

Hey All,

A lot has been written over the last two years of my antics at our little
gatherings, and this trip report is about what didn't happen.  There were no
big fires.

I usually like to make some sort of grand entrance, you know, just to let
everyone know that HapyBus has arrived.  This year I was not disappointed,
however, it was not the entrance that I had envisioned.  As I shut ole'
HapyBus off to register, said my hellos and exchanged hugs and kisses, I went
tot scope out the perfect spot for a glorious weekend.  I didn't move, or
rather Hapy decided he was tired, and wasn't going to start.  After a ration
of trash from my "friends" about my driving style, we decided to wait for it
to "cool down" because the way I drive, according to the experts, is way to
hard.....an it is undoubtedly HOT.  Time to enjoy a beverage.  We waited, we
tried, everyone stuck there head in the bay, felt the lack of heart beat, and
started with the scare tactics....dropped valve, burnt up, new engine, I Told
You So...and on and on.  My patience wore thin, and chose to be drug to the
middle of the campground by a Honda.  Now that will humble you.
As I unpack, I am so bewildered by my friends "burnt up" condolences, that I
can not set up camp.  Nothing is going together.  As nightfall sets, I wander
over to the fire pit and kinda sulk.  No Mr. Excitement.  No big fire.  No
tall tales.  I made one attempt at the "name game" and finished at about 80%.
Not good enough!
Morning comes, and I am awaken to a loud bang, multiple fists hitting the
original paint of the 78 HapyBus, nearly cracking the fine texture, and peer
pressured into waking up....why you ask???  Cuz brother John was up of
course.
It's breakfast time, and time to feed the masses.  Big frying pan in hand, I
commence to fry 12 pounds of sausage.  I know how to cook in bulk.  My friends
on the otherhand, are still cooking like they are in an apartment, cooking one
egg at a time.  Folks, that aint gonna get it!!  We made some quick management
decisions, barked a few orders, and FMBC breakfast burritos were devoured by
all.
After breakfast, my chief engineer and trusty mechanic already had the
operating tools sanitizing in the sun, ready for the worse.  We assemble, and
the planned 11 am trouble shooting seminar was held at the HapyBus camp spot.
All the experts gathered, all knowing that I drove the damn thing too hard,
aint no wonder it's dead....just pull the engine and start fresh.  With a head
in the bay, and a body over the cushion in rear, peeking through the operating
access point, we begin pulling prodding and poking.  We notice, well not
really "we" but I am stroking those who helped, that there is a whole where
one should not be, in the throttle assembly.  Dig under the manifold, find a
round screw thingy, and I am feeling very lucky!!!!  With everything in place,
we are idling.  What a HapyDay!!
Time to start chili.  Again the helper bees arrived, and I had 3 gentlemen do
nothing but peel garlic for an hour and a half.     PEEL IT LIKE YOU MEAN IT
GENTLEMEN!!!!  Thanx to Sixer, RoosterHead and "Stealth" Terry.  They peeled,
and I commenced to brown off 22 pounds of ground turkey and chorizo sausage.
Everyone wondered, including me, just how big is that pot???  Well the
esteemed Mr. Steele put an end to our guessing, and proclaimed that according
to his deductive reasoning, it was 15 gallons.  How's he know that?  Because
of the stamping on the side of course, LFM Mfg, 1944, 15 gals!  The first
taste of juice I took told me I was in trouble.  This is by far the hottest
dang bowl I have made yet.  I guess 6 pounds of peppers don't go as far as I
thought.  I added the next 12 pounds of meat and hoped for the best.
Dinner time, and I summon help from my number one chili fan Eric Shook and we
make a 3 stop trek to the shelter house.  Dinner is served.  I barely got two
bowls down, but did with a lot of liquid refreshment.  This has been a long
day, and I had an escort to my bus for a nap.  Why an escort?  I was afraid.
Very afraid.  That chili was blazin hot, and I figured someone wanted revenge.
At 8:30, I am down for the count, my family tucks me in, kisses me good nite,
and heads back to Columbus.
So, I didn't build big fires, I didn't make the absolute best bowl of chili.
By the way?? Who is still feeling that chili??  I know my wife and I are, and
that right there my friends, says it all.
I have made a personal promise, if there is to be another 15 gallons of chili,
there will be 2 changes.  Very few peppers, so we can get back to the "taste"
of this concoction, and secondly, only 5-6 gallons will be made.  We only seem
to go through half a barrel any whooooo.
In conclusion, and certainly not least, I need to thank Mr. Baker for a
wonderful event.  Thanx John!  The tasting was indeed a very neat experience.
Thank you to Mr. Phil Cain for his help in getting HapyBus on the road.  To my
ace mechanic Sixer, thanx for the help.  To my garlic peeling crew,   I AM
THANKING YOU LIKE I MEAN IT!  You need to ask Rooster Head if you do not
understand.  Kai, thanx for putting up with me.  And anyone else.....

Beep Beep!!

HapyBus
