Date: Thu, 27 May 2004 14:17:24 -0500
From: Alex Wisniewski <awisniewski(-at-)comcast.net>
To: multipang(-at-)kconline.com,  type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Fuel Injectors (Autozone variety)

> Can anybody recommend a place to purchase new ones? I read
> awhile back  that Autozone carried these for like $35. Is
> this true and do these  work well?

Hello Tim,
I'm running a set of Autozone (Lucus) injectors right now in
my '77 bus. They are working just fine and I'm happy with
them. I've only had them for about 8k miles though. My bus
did have a single center mount Weber carburetor and I decided
to converted it back to fuel injection a year or so ago. I
always try and buy the best I can afford but in this case the
Bosch injectors were a bit pricey. If I had known of the
other Bosch alternative injectors I might have bought them
instead. OK, The only issues with these injectors as John A
mentioned is you should not use the crap injector seals that
are included in the boxes. Buy german seals and use them. He
also mentions it is difficult to line up the injectors
squarely on the intake with the clamp but I had no trouble.
Just take your time and double checked your work. You have to
have the injector sitting squarely in the rail for the clamp
to do its work, true for the Bosch injectors also.

At the time the price for each injector was $31.
I think Autozone had the '77 bus listed in their computer
if not tell them you need injectors for a '82 Vanagon.
The part number was 800-1507N for reference though.

Their computer list the injectors as GP-Sorensen and I
was a bit confused when I saw that so I emailed John A.
He said they that the injectors come in GP-Sorensen boxes
but are Lucas injectors. Rebadging, etc..

The only other issue I had was I had to shorten the fuel hose
length so the fuel ring fit correctly. Besides that they fit
in just fine and have served me well. If you have any
other questions on them send me a message.

Alex Wisniewski
'77 Riviera Camper
