Date: Fri, 5 Dec 2003 12:31:44 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Zen & The Art of Breakdown Management, was 1600 T3 in a 78

David, and by extension, the List:

I read your response to the List last night upon arrival at home, and
since it IS Friday...  You spake thusly:

"...Yall prolly think "oh... hes just an ex VB dude that got one of
those new fangled buses and is about to gut it" but it just aint true
man..."

And furthermore:

"...have been to a T4 engine to a T1 trans party... thats not a prob...
never been invited to a T1 engine to a T4 trans party... theyd prolly
just invite me as a joke to throw rocks.... "theres that guy!!!" :)..."

I noticed this morning that there has not been any further activity on
this thread - but 9 a.m. looms, and hope springs eternal...  Mrs. Type4
Guy said to be helpful and stop being such a wet-blanket ;-)  When I was
cussing out that 1776cc T1 last weekend, she was saying her prayers - lo
and behold, that pesky generator nut came loose.  It may have been the
Gods of Propane & Oxygen, the Gods of Kroil, or maybe even the Gods of
the BFH.  Mrs. Type4  Guy says otherwise.  Type4 Guy says, "Yes, dear...
You're absolutely correct, dear."

Since you HAVE been to the "T4 engine to a T1 trans" party, it occurs to
me that all you need to just "reverse-engineer" the operation in order
for your proposed activity.  How did you accomplish that other
particular swap in the first place?  Flywheel, clutch, t/o bearing
compatibility, and starter issues, right?  Kit your spare T3 motor
accordingly.  Pack a compatible starter with the T3 flywheel/pressure
plate (late style) - the stock starter in the '78 is "probably" not
going to work with the T3 flywheel rig.  Right?  And while you're at it,
will the T3 package work with the 091 bell-housing?  You'll need to kit
the T3 motor with longer lower studs if it does.  You may want to pack a
002 bell-housing off an early Bay (if it doesn't), with the starter
attached.  You'll also have to deal with the input shaft on the 091
transmission, it's longer, so you'll need to trim it off a bit.  How
much?  I don't know - you'd better ask the tranny guys - you have the
buggy/off-road connections.  Once it's trimmed off, will there be any
problems with it all still working with a T4?  Sounds like you may need
to investigate that issue further, and maybe pack a die grinder and
power source so you can do it out by the side of the road.  I think that
may sum up the basic "4 Bolt Items".  Or maybe not...  I forgot the
support bar issues - you'll probably need to run down one of those
Euro-Brazi-Xican "T1 motor in a late Bay" crossbars, figure out how/if
it's going to fit with/on/around that T3 blower housing.  Or did you
intend to just let it hang by the transmission support bracket?  Of
course, if you wind up having to use the 002 bell housing you'll need to
pack the gasket and couple of quarts of gear oil too, and  let's not
forget whaddabout the gallon or so of OLD gear oil, AND there will be NO
overhead support bosses or bolt holes - early Bay T1 was held by the
"moustache bar".  Hmm??

Moving on:  Fuel pump.  '78 Bay is FI - your going to need a lower
pressure fuel pump.  If already kitted, no worries, mate!  Induction?
Eeeeek!  I don't know exactly HOW you intend to get around that.
Throttle cable for appropriate system?  Electrical.  T3 uses a generator
with matching voltage regulator, T4 uses alternator with matching VR.
You'll need to map out ahead of time how to connect a generator-based
propulsion package to an alternator-based vehicle, and then pack
accordingly.  Exhaust system?  More stuff to pack.  Lather, rinse,
repeat.  Ad infinitum, ad nauseam...

My brain has shrinkled by one-fourth, that's about ALL I can think of at
this time, and I'm sure I've probably overlooked some major detail -
silly me.  I bet ya $5 to a hole in a doughnut that Karl, Librarian the
Librarian, and/or Doktor Tim could point out plot-holes the size of
Cincinnati in my proposal.  I would think it might just be a tad easier
(since you seem h*ll-bent on packing spares) to merely break down and
squirrel away one of those 5 T4 motors you spoke of on board.  The short
block is not too hefty, pack the P&Cs in box, heads, rocker arms,
pushrods/pushrod tubes bundled together, gasket sets (may as well
through in a couple of extras), big ol' toolbox, probably should pack a
towel, the list grows and grows...

Pray to the VW Gods and the Highway Gods - hope they haven't had a
"falling-out" day.  Get a rabbit's foot, AND a St. Christopher medal.
Sacrifice a virgin.  Couple of Hail Marys for good measure.  Tithe.
Sack cloth and ashes.  Hope a meteor doesn't strike the earth - better
check the Near Earth Object d-base over at JPL.  What if Clark Kent had
been born in Nazi Germany, instead of Smalltown?  Does anyone else think
that this has gotten a bit out of control - besides me?  I read this
parable once about a knight setting out on a thousand mile journey who
was obsessed with handling every possible contingency and packed
accordingly.  Ultimately, the first step he took across the drawbrige
caused a catastrophic failure of the bridge (due to overpacking), and he
plunged screaming to his death by drowning in the moat.  The journey of
a thousand miles never happened, as the first step was the last step.

You asked for some help/thoughts/words/deeds... I suspect that you "may"
not have received a much help as you were hoping for - the cure sounds
like it may be 100 times worse than the disease.  R. Goldberg would be
proud.

"Look everbody!  There's THAT guy!  Git yer stack of rocks ready!  When
we're done, back to my place for spongecake!"

HTH and TGIF, David :-)  I'm so done with this - my brain is like
oatmeal.

The Type4 Guy at
www.savethebays.org
