From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K)
Date: Sat, 6 Dec 2003 07:14:46 -0600 (CST)
To: librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com (librarian)
Cc: vanagon(-at-)yahoogroups.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] sand blasting/paint prep & walnut media???

From a bunch of practical experience, and being a bodyman / painter the
silica sand is way to go for a quick cleanup of old paint and corrosion.

The ONLY way your going to warp any panels on these older Buses is by
simply bearing down on one specific area for an unreasonable amount of
time--and even then it would take an awful lot to do any warping--

These vehicles aren't made of toilet paper thin metal as the late model
vehicles are--

I've tried the walnut shell media--and the plastic beads--

It's like blowing feather's at a brick--

If you have a bunch of time--and want to use twice as much product to
get the job done--this is the way to go--

And whatever product you choose to use, a Binks respirator is highly
suggested--

Later,

Terry


First, I am not a body man. I am a mechanic. That having been said,
careless sandblasting with silica-based media can deform sheet metal.
Has anyone used the walnut or corn cob blast media....I'm thinking of
trying this and want something that isn't silica based. I'll wear a mask
but still prefer something organic.
"Brown lung" (attained in cotton mills) is no better or worse than
"black lung" (attained in coal mines). Your lungs are not designed to
handle any fibrous material or dust in large quantities for long periods
of time.
In my ignorant opinion it would be best to use synthetic media to
sand-blast sheet metal. Second best would be "organic media" (walnut
shells, etc.). Last would be abrasive grit. The reasoning I use is that
the synthetic media has the lowest mass and is the least likely to
distort body panels.
I would very definitely use an approved breathing apparatus while using
any media.
                                                          OOK!
Litera Scripta Manent
