Date: Thu, 16 Jan 2003 09:54:37 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Jared Sims <utvolk(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Q-Pad substitute

>Does anyone remember a few months back, there was someone who said they 
>found a substitute for Q-Pads that was cheaper yet worked just as well? 
>Does anyon remember what that stuff was? Even if no one remembers, does 
>anyone have any suggestions? I'm starting to gather materials to insulate 
>my bus per www.bulley-hewlett.com/VWindex, but I don't want to fork over 
>the money for Q-Pads if there is a cheaper alternative.

I'm using flat roof "walk pads". Used to protect a flat roof from foot 
traffic around heating and cooling equipment. $40 for enough to do 5 vans. 
Come in large ~50 lb roll. Takes heat to get the material to lay flat. I 
laid the hole roll in my bus for about 6-9 months before I got around to 
using it. Never stunk then, never since. I don't have real numbers for you 
but it takes temps close to 200 degrees to make it soften and/or run.

3/16" thick asphalt type material. You'll need a heat gun to soften it so 
it will lay flat. One side will soften and get sticky when done correctly. 
Glue wasn't the right adhesive. I have some curling where I used glue. Van 
went from empty barrel sound to a solid thud sound when rapped from 
outside. My front doors got the glue treatment. My sliding door got the 
heat only treatment. My sliding door is MUCH better. The pieces fit better, 
the molded to the shape of the door better. They stuck to the metal better.

I have had this material in my van for over 2 years during it's resto 
without stink, without further melting (sagging, runs, etc.) despite the 
fact that it sits on the carport and gets the afternoon sun. My thermometer 
on that side of the house regularly goes over 115 degrees. Good thing is it 
does not trap moisture so I don't worry about it contributing to rust 
problems. BE VERY AWARE of anything against the sheetmetal that might trap 
moisture. Undercoating will do this - I have rust out in my bus and Beetle 
from this. Fortunately it is very limited areas easy to fix with metal 
fabrication and welding.

It is 100% like the stuff found in my Beetles covering the shifter tunnel 
between the seats under the carpet or rubber mats (there is another HUGE 
source of rust).



Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
