Date: Thu, 16 Jan 2003 12:27:03 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Cc: utvolk(-at-)hotmail.com (Jared Sims), type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Q-Pad substitute

>Please elaborate on one point you made--
>
>" Undercoating Traps Moisture"
>
>So the Wax undercoating on my perfect 74 has trapped moiture nad caused
>it to rust away to nothing, even though the underside and the floors are
>as new--
>Same with my 325 BMW, and one of my Vanagons--the other I did with
>urethane bed liner myself--and no rust yet after 4 years.
>
>I want to hear more on this bonkers theory--

Okay, okay, okay....

I meant the rattle can rubberized stuff from the FLAPS needs to be very 
carefully applied. If it is over rust, over dirt, or incorrectly applied 
there is a chance of finding extensive rust later under the seemingly 
excellent undercoating. I found this behind the front wheels on my bus and 
on the inner fender of my Beetle and in front of the rear wheel of my 
Beetle on the inner fender well.

Yes I LOVE the wax coatings and plan to use it on my bus.

When I was tearing down my Beetle for restoration (far from done now) I 
poked the undercoating and in several places the screwdriver went right 
through the coating and metal (or where the metal should be). It had 
apparently trapped the moisture and the metal rusted away behind the 
coating. Same in the back. Another concern I think is being careful if a 
seam is coated with this rattle can stuff to be sure that the water doesn't 
come out through the seam (from behind) or that water doesn't travel down 
an incorrectly sealed seam and get trapped behind the coating.

I'm sure all of the products are okay if they are applied correctly but I 
do not think the average car owner is going to properly surface prep before 
they spray. And prep is everything (but you know that - aren't you a pro 
paint man? <I don't remember>).

I like the wax because of it's oily ingredients which I presume would 
continue to protect for a long time.

The things I have seen promoted rust are: rubber floor mats, paint applied 
over incorrectly prepped surfaces, jute directly on floors that get wet, 
rubberized undercoatings and even tar over rust or incorrectly prepped 
metal (dirty, rusty, etc.).

That's my whole knowledge on the topic.

You folks have got to know more than I - - how do you prep for rust 
prevention, where do you apply it, what materials do you use, how long did 
it last (before you had problems or sold the vehicle), what would you or 
would you not put on rust prone areas like floors such as carpet, jute, 
foam, etc.?






Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
