Date: Thu, 16 Jan 2003 15:53:45 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Jared Sims <utvolk(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Q-Pad substitute

>>I'm using flat roof "walk pads". Used to protect a flat roof from foot 
>>traffic around heating and cooling equipment. $40 for enough to do 5 
>>vans. Come in large ~50 lb roll.
>
>Where did you buy this stuff?

Open the phone book and look for a roofing contractor (not residential). 
Anyone that does flat asphalt roofs will have this stuff. I would not buy 
it from anyone that has to order it so you can see and touch the stuff. 
Imagine 3/16" thick plastic or rubber. It is stiff stuff when cold. The 
contractor I bought mine from had maybe 18 rolls on hand.


>>Glue wasn't the right adhesive. I have some curling where I used glue.
>
>So, you got it quasi hot, and tried to glue it but it didn't work as well 
>as just getting it hot?

Well I tried it warm (summer outside temps, laying in the sun). Still about 
as flexible as corrugated cardboard and will not hold a shape. With heat 
the one side gets runny (not liquid unless you get it too hot for our 
purposes) and the material gets like wet cardboard. Then you can put the 
soft side against the metal and use a wooden block (rounded edges) and 
gloves to spread it out. Work until it cools. The soft side then glues 
itself to the metal. The pieces I did right will not come off without more 
heat... To remove I would have to heat the metal and scrape it off for a 
restoration at sometime in the future. A sandblaster would also eliminate 
the residue.

With the material not heated it would not conform to the curvatures of the 
panels I was trying to apply it to and because it came in a roll it 
continued to try to roll up! The glue applied to one surface was not able 
to do it. Glue applied to both surfaces and allowed to "cure" or "tack up" 
was okay but the edges still curled. It was difficult to apply heat and not 
rush cure the glue so my best glued solution was to heat it until it laid 
flat and then cool, and finally glue it in place. This was not a good 
solution but better.

>And, in your experiences, a heat gun got the stuff hot enough to flatten 
>it out and form it to the contours of the bottom of your bus? Is it hard 
>to get the holes into for your seats, etc?

Yeah I was able to get it hot enough that the wet side (the side designed 
to be the adhesive) would liquify and the whole thing would turn to a runny 
mess with the consistency of wet cardboard. Don't get it that hot because 
then you can't work with it. Fortunately you can wait a minute and it will 
cool and return to it's former self and you can watch it and decide when 
you have the right mix between soft and flexible and a runny mess.

As for your seats: I put this inside of the nose of the bus where the OEM 
Styrofoam was. I even tried to use to the OEM Styrofoam as the pattern but 
it was crumbling SO fast. I also put smaller pieces inside the front door 
between the supports and stiffening ribs. Most pieces were about the size 
of legal paper or 4x5 note cards. I also plan to put panels of if in each 
wall section. I filled each of the four sliding door cavities. I plan to 
cover the cargo floor, the front floor and between the seat pedestals with 
it. Also the rear door will get a couple of small panels. I also plan to 
make a mat to go over the engine compartment but I may either seal the 
asphalt material in plastic or between two layers of that silver NASA type 
bubblewrap. That will keep the heat outside (more important to me in the 
summer than winter) and because it is a big envelope of sorts if I 
miscalculate the temps over the engine and the temps needed to melt the 
asphalt material - it will be contained. I don't think I'll have a problem.

Under the front seat I think I may install 1 panel. The rest I think I will 
either cover with JUTE or the OEM type pedestal mats. I like the look of 
the OEM mats.

The idea (as I understand it) is to control vibration of the metal surface 
it is attached to. This controls the drumming or vibration caused noises by 
adding mass and a little bit of support to the metal. Sort of like making 
the vehicle out of thicker stiffer steel. I don't know for certain that 
adding this material under the seat is going to control that much sound. I 
don't expect this material to muffle much sound, just control those 
vibrations. The set pedestals are pretty stiff and substantial anyhow.

Something like JUTE or foam might be more appropriate. Might muffle noise 
coming through from the road and tires better. It is a material used by 
most OEM carmakers under carpets and inside plastic panels. It would be 
easy to lay sections of this material and other materials like Jute and 
foam under the seat to see what made the best difference. At least the 
pedestals stay pretty dry so Jute and foam isn't going to wick up much 
water and cause rust. If I use Jute or foam I'll have to custom cut carpet 
to cover the pedestals versus the rubber mats to make it look right. I'll 
do the same on the floors - asphalt, layer of Jute, carpet. I'll glue the 
carpet and Jute to each other and stick the asphalt to the floor. Overhead 
I plan on covering all of the wallpapered ceiling sections with a layer of 
1/8" foam and then a layer of upholstery. That will cut down on echo noise 
(noise just reverberating around the inside of the bus). Over the engine 
will be a layer of plastic or NASA bubblewrap, asphalt, NASA stuff, Jute, 
carpet and then the mattress. I suspect we'll leave the mattress out when 
we aren't camping. I may also build a wooden frame with a bottom to act as 
a cargo tray to keep things from sliding around with a carpeted bottom inside

Lastly while you are working around the seat pedestals take a close look at 
the seat belt mounting bolt at the outside rear corner of each seat. Mine 
is rusty and I doubt it's strength in an accident.

Hope this helps.



Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
