Date: Sat, 18 Jan 2003 08:07:47 -0600
From: Chuck Hill <hilltech(-at-)netins.net>
To: David White <dwhite(-at-)vetmed.wsu.edu>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: How much noise should the clutch throwout make?

David White wrote:
And now my van sits on the side of the road. It went very quickly from
shifting fine when I pushed in the clutch to not even disengaging the
engine
from the transmission in about 4 pushes of the clutch pedal.

	I've had this happen to me not once, but twice.  Each time it turned
out to be the pilot bearing.  The first time I was with the wife & one
of the boys about 150 miles from home on a Sunday morning.  I had the
van taken to the VW dealer and repaired.  Needless to say, I was
overcharged.  At least they fixed it, and didn't screw anything up.

	What happens is that the pilot bearing fails and jams on the input
shaft to the transmission.  Pressing the clutch still operates the
throwout bearing normally, but because of the jammed bearing/shaft
situation, the engine and transmission are still engaged.  You press the
clutch, and it "doesn't work".  You have to shut off the engine, and
coast to a stop.  This may temporarily free the bearing/shaft, but
probably not.  You put it in first, start the engine (while jerking
forward) and move off.  If you're lucky with traffic, and good at
shifting without a clutch, you can make it home, but you are a hazard on
the road.  I live in Iowa, with pretty sparse traffic in most areas, and
so when this all happened to me the second time, I did just drive it
home.

	Fixing it:  The pilot bearing is only about $5.00, so that's no
problem.  You can buy a good used transmission input shaft from Weddle
engineering for maybe $20, or a new one from VW and replace it yourself
easily enough.  The clutch disc, pressure plate, and throwout bearing
aren't really part of the failure, and don't necesarily have to be
replaced, but if they have more than 50,000 miles on it, then certainly
they should be replaced too.  If you are paying someone else to do the
job, I personally would replace the clutch disc, pressure plate, and
throwout bearing at this time.  The Bus depot sells this for something
like $125.00.  So the price to repair it yourself is about $150.  
Dropping the aircooled engine and transmission together and separating
them on the ground can be done easily enough in your driveway with a
cheap floor jack and a 6 foot 2 X 6.  If you can do it on a day when the
temperature is a little warmer than 0, like it is here this morning, it
is not a bad job at all.

	Sorry you've had this annoying problem, but it's not likely to happen
again.

Chuck Hill
