Date: Sat, 24 Apr 2004 13:16:29 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Jamie Rivers" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Absolute breakdown tools

Some of you may have seen my travel list.. I carry all the tools that I need at home while working
on the Bus..
a step stool with a tool box under the lid fits it all even though the list looks like it takes
the entire bus to hold it all.

Well, Greg Potts had a cool idea to install known defects on a Bus and give contestants 20 minutes
to get it running.


With the help of Denmiester and Gramps <Gord Potts>, We came up with the tools needed to test the
Broken Bus.

1. Philips / Flat factory combo screwdriver
2. 13 / 10 mm open factory wrench
3. Factory spark plug / lug wrench

We went into this contest knowing the engine 'should' start...and it was a fairly well maintained
vehicle.
this would mean all the nuts and bolts would not be rusted in place or otherwise difficult to
remove. Also, the folks who installed the defective parts made sure of that.

So,, what could be wrong?,, and how can you test Electrical, mechanical, and fuel with 3 things,,
a screw driver, a sparkplug wrench, and a 10/13mm wrench?

Turn the key,,  no start... no lights on dash...
could be a bad battery, or a bad connection
Pop off rocker cover and check valves at same time
rotate engine NOTE #1 and check valves again,,, repeat for all 4 cylinders 8 valves
2 very loose valve lash settings corrected to 0.006" using the screw driver and 13mm wrench,, the
gap is set by "ear" wiggle it till you hear that nice 'click' is close enough to get it started
and running
While your under there and cross the starter terminals with screwdriver,,
no power at starter, or starter is dead.
careful now, but you can drag the screwdriver across a ground while touching the live wire at the
starter and watch for big sparks... good battery,, little sparks,, dead battery,, this is a last
resort test
we had a known good battery to substitute and see if it was a dead battery
Check the Battery leads,, dead battery
install new battery with 13mm wrench

starter working now, dash lights working now,, still no start!
key on... pull coil high tension wire from distributor cap and hold it near ground
remove points green wire from coil and use screwdriver to short the coil term to the fan housing
when you remove the screwdriver from the coil terminal, watch for high voltage spark at coil wire
near ground
tease this many times to watch for high voltage spark at coil wire near ground end
also, watch for small spark at coil points connection terminal
we had spark at the points terminal, meaning power was reaching coil,
no spark,,, replace coil using the 10mm wrench
spark at coil wire near ground now,,
Check spark at spark plug wires by interchanging them for the coil wire test
2 bad wires,, replace wires
still no start
pull cap off dist, using screwdriver, visual cracks or damage?.. darn it has the center terminal
missing,,
new cap,,
still no start
Ah,,, rotor has the end missing,, install new rotor
Pull spark plugs,using the factory plug socket and screwdriver for handle, center electrodes are
touching ground
replace spark plugs
No start.  We have the electric circuit and the valves in place now
on to the fuel.. timing will have to wait see note #1
Actuate throttle and watch and listen for gas squirting from accelerator nozzle in carb venturi
no gas
Pull fuel pump off case stand, and hose off carb. using flat screwriver and 13mm wrench
manually manipulate pump with your fingers and watch fuel
note #2
no fuel
pull supply line off pump using flat screwriver and check for gas
gas supply ok,
pull line off pump outlet, pumps fuel, pump ok,
the line between pump and carb must be blocked <filter here>
replace line <filter> using flat screwriver
turn engine over till it burps,,
engine now starts and runs.

Note #1
engine would not rotate by hand ,, which made timing, valve adjustment and point adjustments very
difficult  flywheel thrust and crank bearing had seized to the crank and started to spin in the
case.

Note #2
contest judge wouldn't let me pull pump at this point and the carb had not been drained from the
previous attempt, so there was a small amount of gas to work with.. timing needed to be tweaked
but time ran out.

If I could have set the engine to TDC, I would have watch points spark as I twisted the dist.
requires using the 10mm wrench , that would have been static set timing

I think that is the entire story,, LOL
I am not bitching at all,, no sour grapes,, we didn't get the engine running.
This team made a fatal error assuming there would only be a few problems,, we were astounded to
find EVERYTHING screwed with!  LOL  There was about 10 defects

I wrote this to let you know just how few tools are required to trouble shoot.

Bad Battery
Loose Valves
Bad plug wires
Bad coil
plugged fuel line
broken distributor cap
broken ignition rotor
bad spark plugs


-- 
Jamie Rivers
Ontario Canada
