Date: Thu, 2 Jun 2011 12:36:10 -0700 (PDT)
From: Steve <cochise3300-lists(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Vacuum Leak. - was: No power ... could it be the rain?

Well, I've checked a lot of the things that were recommended, without much success. 

     1. changed the fuel filter
     2. checked the fuel lines
     3. crimped down all the connections from the coil
     4. checked idle cutoff solenoids by touching the wire to them ... they click every time

As I was working on the fuel lines I discovered a hose that was off.  Put it back on, but it didn't fix the problem.  I decided to check for vacuum leaks and I ended up working on almost every vacuum line. There is STILL a leak that I think is either coming from where the each carb mounts on the pipe below, or where that pipe attaches to the engine.  Spraying carb cleaner makes the engine rev up and I can even keep it from dying.  Using propane on the other hand doesn't seem to do anything ... but I may not have it turned up high enough because I'm a little wary about the damn stuff igniting.

I'm a mechanical novice so I have a couple of questions.

     1. How difficult would it be to remove the carbs and the pipe below it (is that the intake manifold?) to change the gasket?  It's rather tight, is that something you have to pull the engine to do?

     2. Once, God willing, I fix the leak ... will I have to re-balance the carbs?

     3. Is this something a novice like myself should even attempt?

There are a few more vacuum issues that I want to check as well.  The brake booster hoses were loose/cracking so I replaced them.  I didn't check on the other side of the compartment ... might there be a leak there?  Also, some of the tubes didn't seem to be connected like the Ratwell page: http://www.ratwell.com/technical/VacuumHosesCarb.html so I am going to double check that again ... some hoses like from the oil breather (?) is missing all together.

Thanks for any help. 


_________________


Last week my 74 Westy was running great and looking forward to camping this weekend.  Then the storms came.

Now, she'll start fine the first try but then after 15-30 of idling she dies.  The second or third starts are fine but I have to keep my foot on the gas to keep her running.  Driving, she wants to stall every time I push the clutch in, in addition to not having any power to get up and go.  1st gear seems fine but she really bogs down in 2nd.

I am a complete VW mechanic novice so I will ask the stupid sounding question ... could the rain have somehow caused a problem?  I'm thinking not but rather maybe its a fuel filter, (electric) fuel pump though reading the "no power" thread it could obviously be other things.  

Haven't checked/adjusted the valves since she sat for most of the winter ... throwing that out there just in case.  Dual carbs clogged up after sitting?

Any help would be greatly appreciated.  I'd love to get her on the road this weekend!
