From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 5 Jun 2011 23:08:58 -0400
Subject: re:Park Brake

Thanks for  all the help with this, I know it has been a few weeks-but I got
new cables, and tackled the project this weekend.

 

In case you forgot-I  had a weird thing where the parking brake seemed
tighter when the bed of my truck was loaded with weight. As per your
recommendations, I checked the cables, and the sheathing was in rough
shape-cracked etc. So I ordered a new pair, and installed them this weekend.

 

This is what I found - 

I was a little leery about getting the rear axle nuts off. Fortunately or
unfortunately they came off real easy. I did the passenger side first- this
nut was so loose it was moving when I went to remove the cotter pin-I don't
think that is good. I took the nut off, and then the drum came off real
easy, as well as the cable. Something did not seem right with the brake pad
set up, eventually after searching for pics online(the samba) I figured out
one of the brake return springs was missing.  The other odd thing-the old
cable had a little clip next to its' return spring (to keep it compressed a
little bit?) The replacement cable did not have this clip, and I saw no
mention of picture of it anywhere else, so I didn't put it back. It also
didn't seem to have any purpose. While the drum was off, I wire brushed and
acid washed the exterior, and gave it a quick paint job. I used some
anti-seize on the spline, and the nut and put it back together.

 

The driver side nut was a little bit tighter, but basically I got is off
with a channel lock wrench. Not hard at all. This side also had that odd
clip, and was missing the same spring. Also the drum on this side did not
want to come off, so I searched the archive for tips on removal-the tip that
worked for me was to back off the adjusting stars, reattach the wheel, and
gently whack the tire with a sledge. This helped get it off. 

 

Re-install was bit trickier. It looks like the trailing arm that the brake
cable snakes through has its' hole in a different location on the drivers'
side than the passenger side, which caused the cable to not sit quite the
same. I got it all together, it just doesn't look quite right. I took it for
a couple short spins in the neighborhood, the brakes are tighter-probably
due to my adjustment. It seems to work ok, but I'm sure it won't be quite
right until I get those missing springs replaced. I'll order them tomorrow.

 

One thing that was weird-while adjusting the stars on the passenger side-the
drum felt like it was rubbing unevenly on the pads. Ie it would move as
though it were totally free-then it would drag on something real hard. Does
this mean the drum needs to be turned? Or is there something wrong with the
pads? Both looked fine to my untrained eye. And both sides looked the same,
but he passenger side dragged unevenly. 

 

Last question after the test drive, I backed the truck into my driveway, and
the brake squealed really loudly when I backed up. I'm hoping this is
something that will go away-but what could cause that noise?

 

Thanks for any further tips and suggestions.

 

-Kevin

Jamaica Plain, MA

'69 single cab

'65 Kombi - EZ-Camper
