Date: Mon, 6 Jun 2011 14:18:43 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: More Tires (Nokian CQs)

So a bit more seperately on these.  As I just mentioned I got this killer deal
on a set of CQs and C2s.  Although the CQs are supposed to be softer
microsiped compound, as they are NOT studded and the C2's are, I put them on
the '77 for the weekend and summer.  In addition the CQs were the newest date
code set ('05) I bought.  Which although still "more than 6 years old" dear
me, what to do, is a whole pile newer than the '94 and '95 code tires I took
off.
 
So the CQs probably have 1 heavy AK winter season use, or 2 light seasons at
most.  They are barely worn, but you can just see the wear, likely 5-6000
miles.  Now the funny bit, or not, these are a directional tire.  4 big arrows
around the tire, and a small arrow on every single tread block.  And the
entire wear up to this point has clearly been backwards.  Idiots, I wonder if
tire store or owner.  You can tell the wear on each little siped block, and
the blocks as a whole (barely but you can tell) and as I mounted them I was
like, WTF am I doing these backwards, sat looking with each tire, but rolled
the bus a few feet 5-6 times and realized, idiots.  Now I picked the CQs again
cause no studs, and newish, and the rubber frankly perhaps due to being 6
years old didn't feel any softer to my trained durometer thumb than any other
tire I had at hand 8-).
 
Anyway they did nicely this weekend (400 miles), handling is exceptional on
these, but to qualify it ended up a frigid 40 degree weekend, with a bit of
sleet up on 1 of the passes, so all in all the unintentional snow tire ended
up fine.  Today at 65-70F feel just as solid, not at all squirly, but as I
mention in my last post, these are a SQUARE profile, wide, D (8PR) rated
tire.  And they are noisy AS HELL.  Now I'm not sure that isn't partially due
to me reversing these to correct rotation after prior idiots, but compared to
the "A/T" rated Trailhandlers they replace the noise, particularly in the
45mph area is bad, gets a bit better up at 55-60 mph, but is still pretty
loud.  But this on dry or wet but clear, not on snow, so the noise may be what
it is.
 
Anyway I see the CQ is NLA, as is the matching tire in "harder" rubber the CS
I feel (perhaps not) but if anyone found a set somewhere I certainly wouldn't
fear either.  The CS is probably a real nice 4 season (with occasional true
snow use) tire, and the CQ new probably is the same with faster wear if run in
summer.  We'll see how they go, at the price I paid (125$ for 8 mounted tires)
hard to gripe.  I thank a Vanagon owner who upgraded to 15" tires and needed
these out of his storage, and to craigslist.
 
John
