Date: Tue, 7 Jun 2011 15:46:25 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: GregBensinger <greg_bensinger(-at-)mentor.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Seat belts : Drilling a hole through bus

Greg,
 
looking at these as always for that thickness sheet metal, stepped bit
(Unibit) would be best, after a small pilot hole.  And not that they should be
anywhere near, but watch out for the gas vent lines.
 
Needing these oddly came to my mind this weekend and I'm glad you posted
because I didn't know they existed as a kit.  The '77 over the weekend I
strapped the poor 4yo into a 5 point booster much to her chagrin at being in
a "baby" seat with the lap belt holding and I put an old Vanagon rear anchor I
cut a belt off in the factory available threaded location for the rear tether
into the not used in a westy seatback post mounting nut.  In fact I was going
to rejoin Vanagon to have someone send me a picture of what a late Vanagon set
looked like as my '87 doesn't have them and it's been 15 years since I owned a
'90 and I forgot what the look like.  Frankly I still don't recall them
looking this way on a Vanagon and I'd love to hear feedback of how they work. 
I will mention looking at this, the meat a factory vanagon post goes into is a
lot more reinforced than a big honking washer through relatively thin
sheetmetal.  I'm a bit surprised GoWesty
 takes the liability of selling these, although I think it is OK for a sub
100lb kid (if the routing seems good) I sure wouldn't want my 275lb ass
trusting to one of these in the event of a 5-50g ? head on collision into
something solid.
 
The next obvious question for those of us who haven't bought a set, is there a
cheaper VW sourced solution from the 80's or 90's.  Figuring that GoWesty
never does anything too original, and prices by their old formula of:
 
part cost + cost of added hardware as if in solid silver + cost to plate all
in gold  = cost to customer
 
One might presume there is a cheaper homebrew solution.  Somewhere I have some
retractors from some late 80's golfs, I think I should go looking.
 
John

--- On Tue, 6/7/11, Bensinger, Greg <greg_bensinger(-at-)mentor.com> wrote:



I am getting to the point of having to drill the holes for the mounting of
the
retracting units.  They go behind the side windows, and need a 7/16" hole
drilled through the bus in the side scoop air vent area.
