Date: Wed, 8 Jun 2011 11:20:32 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Phosphoric acid

On Tue, Jun 7, 2011 at 9:05 PM, Pratt, Bob, VBABOST <bob.pratt(-at-)va.gov> wrote:

> I'm starting to prepare the engine compartment for paint. I am planning to
 wire wheel as much rust, scale and loose paint as I can and go over these
 areas with phosphoric acid. Once I take care of the rust, I'm planning to
 spray Rust Bullet in this area.

Hi Bob,

We are pretty much on the same track. I'm also planning to use wire
wheel, acid and Rust Bullet.

I've also had trouble finding phosphoric acid.

After reading this thread, I'm having second thoughts about whether
phosphoric acid is the best choice for Rust Bullet users. Well,
there's two ways to use phosphoric acid. If you rinse immediately, you
don't get the black ferric phosphate coating.

The point of Picklex and rust converter products is to use the ferric
phosphate as a "primer" or protective shield. But the reason I am
using Rust Bullet this time is because in the past I've had trouble
with insufficient penetration by the phosphoric acid into the rust.
This means the underlying rust is essentially "encapsulated" by the
overlying layer of ferric phosphate.

The problem has been that the underlying rust continues to grow, and I
end up with paint chipping off, bringing the ferric phosphate "primer"
with it and exposing the underlying returned rust.

I feel that Rust Bullet's chemistry is superior to phosphoric acid in
that I expect complete penetration of the rust and conversion of all
the rust down to the underlying metal. Rust Bullet is so confident of
their product that they say it is not even necessary to attempt to
remove rust, but I feel it is still necessary to do all due diligence
in removing all the rust that can be practically removed with the wire
wheel and acid because a rust layer is a physical barrier to the flow
of Rust Bullet, and Rust Bullet cannot convert rust it cannot
physically reach, especially where crusty flaking is present.

So the rub comes in that I think the ferric phosphate layer left by
phosphoric acid treatment and Picklex is also a barrier to Rust
Bullet. So based on these thoughts, I have decided that I will use
hydrochloric acid first. Then I will see how much coverage I get from
Rust Bullet, starting with the worst areas. Then when I run out, I
will use phosphoric acid for the rest of the light patina on the broad
surface areas. Hopefully this will be effective and not have me later
regretting not having been willing to spend more to get enough Rust
Bullet to do the entire bus. If I had enough for that, I might even
experiment with leaving that color without a top coat. I like the
steel color. I saw a split window bug painted that color on the cover
of Volksworld magazine. I thought it looked awesome enough to use it
for my desktop background pic.

But first I've got a leaking windshield on my 78 Passat, so I'd better
get outside while the sun is shining!

John
