Date: Wed, 8 Jun 2011 00:23:20 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Phosphoric acid

John,
 
Frankly I think you hit on the reality, but you seem to be igoring it a bit. 
Phosophoric acid treatments SHOULD have nothing to do with conversion of
anything beyond superficial flash rust present after metal work, until etching
or epoxy primer is applied.  That is all they are for.  They do/can remove
rust, slowly, small thin amounts after mechanical removal of 98% or so of the
initial rust, and can be used for that as well.  There is ABSOLUTELY no
alternative to proper metal preparation, cleaning, and rust repair.  NO
alternative.
 
Rust Bullet which I have never used, is undoubtedly just one more in a long
line of such products going back forever.  I don't care if they seem to
penetrate and change the rust's color through to "base metal" to green, black,
purple, or indigo, if they seem to stabilize, seem to coat, whatever.  It is
coming back.  Might it be delayed 5-6 years instead of 2-3 years, sure, but it
is coming back.  Metal repair involves total rusty metal removal.  Bare clean
metal by blasting, grinding, sanding, etching, whatever.  Then repair with
adequate weld through primer when the metal work is done.  Phosphoric acid to
finish only.  Etching or epoxy primer depending on belief.  Any miracle
product (including POR and all the others) will fail eventually.  They always
do, again might delay, even for years, but always fail.
 
Now what one needs to do in repair though, depends largely on what one wants
of the project at hand.  Rust Bullet might be just the thing for my single cab
for instance, perhaps I'll look into it, I have a feeling I know what it is
already from similar products.  Would it be something I'd use on something I
intended to really restore, no, but to drive hoping to get 8-10 years looking
good before things go to hell, yeah maybe.
 
John

--- On Wed, 6/8/11, John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:


The point of Picklex and rust converter products is to use the ferric
phosphate as a "primer" or protective shield. But the reason I am
using Rust Bullet this time is because in the past I've had trouble
with insufficient penetration by the phosphoric acid into the rust.
This means the underlying rust is essentially "encapsulated" by the
overlying layer of ferric phosphate.

I feel that Rust Bullet's chemistry is superior to phosphoric acid in
that I expect complete penetration of the rust and conversion of all
the rust down to the underlying metal. Rust Bullet is so confident of
their product that they say it is not even necessary to attempt to
remove rust,
