Date: Thu, 9 Jun 2011 20:14:32 -0500
From: Gerald Livingston <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] This is a strange one...

Bad battery. Install a known good battery from another vehicle and
re-do the same tests.

A lead acid battery can be safely charged one of two ways:

14+ volts at 1 or 2 amps 
OR
30+ amps at 1 or 2 volts above the battery's current charge level

Today's crop of "smart chargers" (the plug in type) will atlernate
between the two (high volts low amps then high amps low volts) to help
de-sulfate batteries. An automotive generator/alternator and voltage
regulator only have control of the output VOLTAGE. They will put out
all the amps the system calls for up to the rated max of the alt/gen.
They are designed to put out a MINIMUM of around 12 volts and a MAXIMUM
of around 14.5 volts but the amperage output will always be "all that is
required by the running system"

To control the voltage output they use a reference voltage from the
battery. As the reference voltage drops so does the output voltage of
the regulator. this is to keep the charging voltage just a bit higher
than the current level of the battery because the charging amps will
always be "whatever the battery calls for" (usually in the 5 - 15 amp
range).

You have a cell that is going bad in the battery. With no load --- or
a very SMALL load --- it shows as a full 12.8 volts. As soon as you
increase the load on the battery the bed cell does its thing and he
output from the battery drops below 11 volts. That's what happens when
you rev the engine. The ignition wants more juice and the battery can't
handle it. The partly shorted cell causes the battery to want more
amps pumped in to try to maintain proper voltage. The voltage regulator
reduces it's output voltage to keep from boiling the battery by shoving
14 volts at 20+ amps into it.

Before you pull the battery out for a swap do one more test. Key off,
hook up the VOM and verify 12.8 volts. Now, while you keep an eye on
the meter, have your wife turn on the headlights. See how fast the
voltage drops and watch it until it stops dropping to see where it
settles. 

G2

On Thu, 9 Jun 2011 16:46:50 -0700 (PDT)
John Baker <busvwzen(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:

+ with engine OFF I get 12.8 volts. OK. Then at idle I get 13.5-14.5
+ volts, that seems a bit too high, right!? Then, when I rev-up [...]
+ the reading actually decreases to 12.5-12.6 with the engine
+ 
+ regulator issue [...] funky battery...or both?!

-- 
I am on the email list. Unless you are sending information which should
not be shared with everyone else please reply to the list, not directly
to me.
