Date: Mon, 13 Jun 2011 12:57:22 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Collector Car Insurance on Westy (for real use.)

Or, why can't I insure the '77 for $200/year for minimal real use???
 
Copying this to both type2, and vintage, would be interesting to see if any
syncro guys are trying this as well though.
 
So on the '77 Westy, now up here in AK, first outing last weekend.  I was
forced to put only liability through my useless regular insurance ($380 for 6
months.)  Now I'm not sure on this, could be an agent issue, previous agent
retired, new agent is obnoxious, and useless in general.  Regardless she
claims Horace Mann (don't ask, only people who would do a log home with cedar
roof) doesn't do comprehensive on cars older than 10 years, frankly I believe
she is lying as I had comp on several 10-15 year old vehicles with the
previous agent, but whatever.   (I would love to know if anyone has an agreed
or even stated value policy through Horace Mann on a car older than 25 years
though.)
 
Anyway in the lower 48 parents had the '77 on Nationwide with an agreed value
comprehensive policy, no issues, paid a realistic premium on it ($500 for
seasonal use yearly.)  No Nationwide in AK.  We traded the '95 EVC and the '77
essentially and wife brought the '77 up here.   So I start trying to figure
things out.  Horace Mann as above.  I call Grundy who has my '66 Triumph
TR4A.  They are happy to insure sort of...  First the lady says no because a
camper, then talks to supervisor who advises of collect-ability, says yes, but
essentially says, with even more restrictions than normal for collector
insurance.
 
Now the 3 big players I can get in AK (limited insurance in general up here
due to big lawsuits a decade ago) as collector goes are Grundy, Hagarty, and
American Collectors (AC), who are the 3 big ones in general.  All 3 are VERY
nebulous about actual use, AC the most so.  In general for collector vehicles,
no extensive mods allowed, somewhat limited mileage expected (AC verifies this
to the mile,)  limited "pleasure use" at most, and no drives to work, or for
errands unless related to the collector vehicle, no non vehicle errand even on
the way to pleasure use (don't stop at Walmart on the way to dinner.)  The
enforcement of these is various, at worst to looking for a reason to simply
deny a full loss claim, to perhaps just dropping you immediately after paying
for one.  AC would seem the most vague, most likely from reading on the web to
drop you, and want mileage documentation, etc.  AC however does sell a
"Freedom Tier" of usage, which costs
 about half what a real yearly policy costs from a regular insurer (if I could
get one up here) which is about triple the cost of regular collector
insurance, which they claim allows more real pleasure use.  They are however
REAL, REAL, vague as to what it means, and I literally would imagine them
sending investigators asking your neighbors, or co-workers, how many days a
week you drive the vehicle, etc.  They really can't tell me what the triple
premium really buys me beyond the base as to use.
 
Anyway long story short, for yearly rates of collector insurance with a $16k
agreed value policy on the '77 Westy from Grundy or Hagarty, or low end "2500
mile" policy from AC is about $125-150 per YEAR, yes YEAR folks.  And that for
increased high liability limits, and supposedly "no arguing agreed value full
payout" if you are using the vehicle per the restrictions that are never even
fully mentioned.  On the TR4A, I had been very worried about use, miles,
pleasure use, etc.  I've ended up driving it maybe 1500 miles in 4 years,
maybe, so it has been a non-issue, and I've been happy to send Grundy
$125/year.
 
The Westy I will use more, but the rub comes to overnight use, and camping. 
To varying degrees all the companies want overnight use to be very limited,
when "going to shows, or on driving tours."  (One would presume AC wants none
period.)  None of them want camping in the vehicle.  Hagarty seemed the most
OK with it (perhaps the agent just lying on the phone) when I told him VW
people want to camp in their VW "at shows" (not that I have any shows in AK to
go to.)  I mean we'll probably use this less than 10 times a year, it will
stay in a locked garage, just as they want except for the fact those 10
useages will involve a couple days of overnight camping.
 
Wondering if anyone has any real world experience using/insuring a Westy with
any of these or any other collector company.  Or any regular company I might
be ignoring (State Farm does a good job for some, local agent doesn't seem
interested/able, AAA does well in CA apparently, but isn't up here.)  I have
nothing against paying for this, even $5-600 for seasonal use in a year, but
want ability to really use the camper if I'm paying that money.
 
Thanks for any suggestion,
John
