Date: Tue, 25 Sep 2007 11:53:32 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Can we weld new exhaust manifold flanges on our heater

Terry K <CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net> wrote:  <corroding badly, yet the boxes themselves are in very good condition. I
was wondering if I could just weld new triangular flanges on where the
old ones are? >>

Sure , why not?
As long as your proficiant in welding, and have air welding down pat,
welding is the only answer--
----------------------------------------------------------------------

  Wow that's a bit harsh.  How about a real answer?  Now I'm an OK welder, and could weld new flanges on a heater box, have in the past in fact sort of (well I've welded the same triangular flange to the U tubes which have been long NLA and even from CA often are a bit thin and are worth salvaging whereas heater boxes aren't IMHO.)  I think Courtney's question was more along the lines, that even if she had someone do it, or if she is in fact a proficient welder, will it fit if you doubled up the flange?  A real answer from me is hard to say.  If it were a Vanagon or a '72-'74 box I wouldn't see an issue as only the rear flange would be replaceable and that would merely shove back the muffler a bit.  But the '75-'79 is tricky because the flange on the front of the boxes that hit the U tubes if doubled will shove back the whole box which will shove the muffler back a hare (who cares) but more importantly will wreak havoc with the fit of the box to the fan shroud, and even a
 stupid 1/4" there might prove a real PITA.  It is already often a pain to get that and the fit of the upright heater tubes up to the flapper boxes (where there is some wiggle room with the flex hoses but not with the brackets to the tin) right because of the way the U tubes seem to "bend in" over time.  Now if you were to just cut off and replace the flanges in total, standard exhaust fab procedures would apply, like it is assembled ON THE ENGINE and at least tacked in place before final welding.  Personally I'd pay someone $150-200 for a nice set of CA boxes if you can't spring for new and leave it at that as even if you do your own welding, it will be several hours to do it better spent doing something else to save a stock part which is not that hard to find.  And often the tubes immediately adjacent the flanges aren't as good as they seem...
   
  John
  
 

       
---------------------------------
Pinpoint customers who are looking for what you sell. 
