Date: Tue, 25 Sep 2007 21:35:30 -0700 (PDT)
From: Michael Kaiser <kaiseriron2(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Can we weld new exhaust manifold flanges on our heater

Scott,
Are the flanges available in stainless? If your company goes to the expense of
having these flanges waterjet, I would think you would make them out of
stainless, so the same problem wouldnt happen again...plus the repair would be
much better, i.e. you would be welding the same material together. When you
weld stainless to mild steel, the chromium, nickel, manganese, etc. immediately
cause an electrolytic effect, and you can actually watch these welds rust right
before your eyes. I'm gonna crawl under the bus tomorrow and check all of my
flanges, and if I need to replace, I'll cut some 304 out with the plasma
cutter. Then again, I have those types of tools.

Terry,
You are right. If you dont have the tools and are not willing to take the time
to buy them and use them (and mess up with them frequently), then save yourself
some agony and money and pay someone else to do it. 

Courtney,
I commend your willingness to learn a very helpful (for a Type 2 owner) skill.
Practice, practice, practice. I also understand your wanting to know wether or
not the flanges were cast iron or not, as a lot of exhaust parts ARE cast,
because it resists surface oxidation during heating/cooling cycles. And its a
devil to weld even under the best of situations. When you go to weld the new
flange on, keep most of the heat (the bead) on the thickest part of the metal,
like the flange, and just "brush by" the thinner walls of the heater boxes.
Start with just three tack welds, stop, let them cool, then three more in
between each weld, let cool, and so on. Before you do this on those expensive
heater boxes, try welding some soup cans together, if you can weld those
together without blowing through the metal, then try welding the heater boxes.
Oh yeah, and clean the metal till its shiny before you start, and keep it clean
between tack welds with a wire brush. You can spray the area to be welded and
your nozzle with "Pam", rather than buy expensive anti-spatter spray. Sorry to
ramble.

Michael Kaiser
