From: Stevie Havoc <s.havoc(-at-)telus.net>
Date: Mon, 12 Jul 2004 10:06:42 -0600
To: VW - Type 2 mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine Swap Info?

The more I am reading this thread the more it upsets me and the more I 
just want it killed for being, as Mark said "SO not zen".

I have been, like most of you, following Don's trials and tribulations 
with interest, hoping he would have a breakthrough and his bus would be 
on the road humming along. It started "Way Back" in March of this year 
with his debut on the list, wanting to swap in a 1600 instead of the 
stock 1700, worked its way through various problems to wanting to douse 
it in gasoline and burn it, to the last wanting to sell it and now 
this, transplanting a toyota powerplant into it. I find myself 
considerably displeased by the this swap for some reason, it really 
leaves a bitter taste in my mouth. Perhaps its because, like Don, I 
have a 73 Westy that was converted to a Safare top, the exact same 
thing as his, that this really seems like a wrong path to walk. When I 
got this particular bus just over a year ago she was a mess 
mechanically, great body but she was suffering from serious neglect in 
the engine dept. So like a good bus rescuer I got dirty.

I don't buy the need to move to a whole new world of engines to derive 
the power/reliability and easy of use you speak of, my 73 is pretty 
much bone stock, a rebuilt 73, 1700, dual Solex pdsits. I spent some 
serious time rebuilding and tweaking both the engine and carbs, tuning 
here and there adjusting as I went until she is as she stands today, a 
great bus. I can spark her up in the middle of winter up here in 
Calgary, Alberta, Canada, she lights right up, give her the same amount 
of time I would give any car up here to warm up and she is ready.  She 
will cruise at 70mph on the highway, she can reach 85mph if I put my 
foot into it. She has carted myself friends and family all over the 
continent without fail, sure there is preventative maintenance here and 
there to make sure she is in tip top shape, doing adjustments, tune ups 
and changes even when there is nothing wrong, but thats loving your 
bus. If you aren't into that then perhaps its not the right vehicle.

If you take the time to work in, around, on your bus and learn the 
insides and outs of all its wonderful and vital parts you will find 
yourself forming the kind of relationship you NEED to have with your 
bus, one formed over time, through the trials and tribulations. I find 
this need to slap a water cooled engine in to make it what you want it 
to be a very poor decision and perhaps another decision made in haste, 
like many others we have seen on this list. Keep plodding on the right 
path here, run the gamut of aircooled engines and components if you 
want, or just spend some time really getting to know your bus and its 
current systems. There is little you cant recover from if you invest 
the time and effort.

Reading through all your posts Don, since you first joined us on the 
list, I have seen you contemplating all kinds of things and making 
decisions in haste. I fear that once you walk this road, your bus will 
be a goner. With your haste I don't see it being done right, the rad in 
the rear hatch for example, thats a hack, we see far to many of those. 
If you do some looking you WILL find people who have done it right, the 
radiator hidden in plain sight in a fake spare tire on the front of the 
bus, things like that.

Anyways, its really not my problem, I suppose I will stop there,
Just another concerned bus pilot.

Steve
