From: "Rob Henley" <robhenley(-at-)72camper.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 12 Jul 2004 13:28:39 -0400
Subject: Weighing my options

I am looking for opinions on what to do about my engine situation....

I have determined that the engine in my bus is from a type 4 car. Although
unusual the only fault really is that I can't get it to stop leaking oil. The
oil seems to be leaking from the case seams. I haven't done a compression
test, but I can. It is a pretty strong runner, minus the oil leaks. I have no
idea how many miles are on this engine.

I found another good 2 litre engine in the junkyard, practically free. The bus
was removed from a body shop, so it was running when parked. We have torn the
engine down and it seems pretty good. The pistons and cylinders are great. The
crank looks good and the heads are good. The camshaft has a couple lobes that
show some wear/grooves. A couple of the main bearing/journals show a slight
amout of wear. I am just learning about the internals of my engine.

I had intended to take my time and completely rebuild this engine, however I
have lost any workspace to store or work on the new engine over a period of
time. My budget is gone now and I can't afford much new stuff at all. I have
purchased a complete engine seal kit. My question is:

Should I keep running the type 4 car engine that is in the bus now, with oil
leaks and just be patient and continue to build the new found engine out of a
box over time?

Or should I change out the bearings in the new engine, put on new rings and
all seals and get as much out of the new engine as I can? I am worried about
reusing the cam, and believe me I know I should change the cam and lifters,
rebuild the heads, polish the crank and all of that, but I am torn between
using the leaky car engine or essentially putting in a freshened up original
engine with 130k miles on it. I am trying to minimize breaking down as much as
possible, although the engine has not failed on me and I have driven on an 8
hour trip one way before.

How bad is the thought of putting new rings on the original pistons, and
reusing a cam and lifters that show some wear?

What says the list?

Rob Henley
www.baywindowbus.com
