From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, "surfdoc99" <surfdoc99(-at-)aol.com>, "Cls7142" <Cls7142(-at-)aol.com>
Date: Sat, 2 Feb 2002 18:11:22 -0800
Subject: petcock

ok, geez, get your mind out of the gutter!
today i spent about 7 leisurely hours working on my '59 westfalia,
including about an hour devoted to rachel's '67 bug (an oil change) and
some single cab measurements for a canvas she's having made.
anyway, i needed to replace my throwout bearing and possibly a slipping,
oil soaked clutch. i also wanted to install my fuel petcock and the cable
to operate it, which the previous owner graciously removed for me. i pulled
the engine, which for me includes removing the bumper, and checked the
clutch disc--not oil soaked, whew! i disassembled the old throwout bearing
and inspected it, and i will clean it and re-grease it at a later date. i
installed a good, barely used throwout bearing and then proceeded to drain
the gas from the tank so i could install the petcock (fuel reserve tap to
some..).
why does it seem like there is always never enough gas when driving around,
but when you need to drain the tank for something, it's almost full? i
drained the 4+ gallons and removed the straight flow pipe from the tank and
then installed my nos petcock with new screen. this is not one of the
current production ones which i have heard are plumbed backwards, but an
actual nos one that was on a shelf since the early 70's. i'm glad it was
stored well, because the rubber was still nice and supple. i installed it
and put new fuel hose on from the valve to the metal line on the engine. 
i re-installed the engine, put a new damper pipe on the muffler due to the
old one having an exhaust leak where the bracket it welded to it, put the
bumper and apron back on, and then it was off to measure the bowden cable
to install it. i have about 4 misc. cables from petcocks and gas heaters,
so i used the one that was closest in length as specified in the parts
book. i was worried i wouldn't be able to figure out the routing of the
cable, but after consulting with my 61 westy, i figured it out. plus the
few places on the body where there are welded on tabs for the cable to pass
through kinda gave it away. i removed the cable from the sleeve and lubed
it with a mixture of kopr-kote and wheel bearing grease, reassembled, and
then snaked the cable through the passenger compartment and to the rear of
the bus, following the heater cable tube. after a few double checks of
length and pulls of the cable, i attached the cable to the rear bracket,
attached the arm to the petcock, and put the cable through the barrel nut
and tightened everything up. i even attached the cable to the heater cable
tube with original metal band straps.
so now my bus is happy it's getting more close to original, and i don't
have to be as concerned about carrying a spare gas can. plus it really
looks cool now with a knob below the seat rather than a gaping hole. i
really want to go drive around now and "run out" of gas, just so i can
operate the petcock in a "real life" situation.

