From: "Joel Bidinger" <JoelBidinger(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "buslist" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 4 Feb 2002 12:10:02 -0800
Subject: sticky valve?

(update to black#2 mystery)
Looking inside the dual port intake manifold end casting I see some
black deposits on the #2 side, more than the others which have
negligable deposits. I don't quite know what this means, but I am
wondering if it couldn't be a valve problem? Yet they seem to operate
correctly when I turn the engine over by hand... I am mystified, more
new plugs, more new wires? What else could it be?

black#2 mystery was:
Help!
I pulled the spark plugs last night and #2 was a blackened mess; 1,3
and 4 look just right. Bad plug or wire, right? Well, I don't think
so. Twice before, about three months ago and then again about a month
ago I noticed the same thing, same plug, and both times I put in new
plugs and wires. Now once again, #2 is black again. Too much
coincidence...
What else could it be? I have pulled the engine, retorqued the heads
which were not far off and don't appear cracked or damaged. Valves
check out OK, maybe #2 exhaust was .08 not .06 but that isn't enough
to make a difference is it? Dizzy is oriented correctly I believe, the
drive slot is perpendicular to the car and offset towards the rear.
The only thing I have run into that might have been at fault was the
rubber connector on the 1&2 side of the dual port intake manifold
which tore apart as I lifted off the manifold - it could well have
been cracked or split and I didn't notice it before. But wouldn't that
lean not richen the mix, and wouldn't it affect both 1&2?
I am really tempted to go out and buy some single port heads tomorrow,
I could then get rid of all those rubber boots and connections and
carb adapter on the dual port intake manifold and replace it with one
solid from carb to cylinders VW Germany single port intake manifold
which I have stashed away for just such a happy occasion. But does the
intake manifold really have anything to do with this black #2 plug?
What is going on here? Help please!
Engine is 1600 dual port. Carb is Brosol H30/31 with adapter to fit it
to the dual port intake manifold. Dizzy is 009, dwell at 48 degrees,
maximum advance to just shy of 30 degrees at 2500 rpms, somewhere
between 5 and 10 before TDC at idle. All points, plugs, condenser,
plug wires, rotor, cap are Bosch, replaced less than 3000 miles ago.
Stock exhaust with unclogged heat riser, functioning thermostat and
flaps, all tin except that saddle shaped one that goes rear of the
crankshaft pulley and covers up the pulley bolt - that one rubs the
pulley and I haven't trimmed it yet, oilbath aircleaner with
functioning preheat, I even have a hoover bit. Compression test reads
about 120 for all four cylinders, #2 reads the same as the others.
I'll leave the engine out and hope you volks have some advice for me.
Thanks,
Joel and the '64 Sundial (down but not out)
Ps. Was offered a Blaupunkt radio/cassette player, shaft mount style,
says VW and Porsche on the box - sucker doesn't fit! What a weekend I
am having!



