Date: Wed, 3 Aug 2005 23:12:26 +0000 (GMT)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] O2 Sensors

This gets very complicated very quickly but....

It depends on what you care about.  For VW in the early 80's (and every
car today) emissions was IT and fuel mixture was and is critical to
controlling emissions.  A single O2 sensor, heated or not, that sensed the
composition of the exhaust gas with a tie-in to the FI computer helped to
adjust mixture "on the fly" and cut emissions substantially.

*You* probably do not care so much about emissions (beyond what is needed
to meet your State's regulations) but should be terribly concerned with
excess heat that can damage your engine.

In an ideal world, you would measure the temperature of th aluminum
at/near the valve seat and DO SOMETHING if it ever got near the melting
point of that aluminum.  While it would be possible to machine in eight
thermocouples or thermistors with appropriate gauging it would be quite
expensive.  As a result a proxy measurement is more often used.  Among the
more common strategies are:

1)  single or multiple O2 sensor(s).  Fuel mixture is an excellent
indicator of combustion temperature and will generally indicate the heat
situation in the engine.  The down side is that a stoichiometric fuel/air
mix in a VW engine with too much advance will still burn up the engine.
In addition, one rich and one lean cylinder will indicate as being just
fine on a single O2 sensor when in fact damage is being done.

2)  Exhaust Gas Temperature (EGT) sensor(s)  will tell you how hot the gas
coming out of the engine is.  Since this is the source of the heat, it is
a very good indication of the heat situation.  It will not warn you about
the rag in the fan or the busted fan belt or the sheared bolts that are
not holding the fan to the crank however.

3) Cylinder head temperature sender(s) are the closest to the direct
measure you want.  They will not tell you the temperature at the valve
seat, but if the head is above 500 degrees at the surface then the
interior temperature is too bloody hot and it is time to shut down!

The above is a gross simplification.  I recommend research on all three
sensor systems. If I were to have to choose a balls-to-the-wall full out
sensor system in a type 4 engine I would probably drill and tap all four
of the shroud screw holes in the heads, go out and research a four needle
gauge from an airplane instrument catalog and install four of the stock
CHT senders and hook them to the gauge somehow. I personally am happy
enough with a dwell, timing, and vacuum check twice a year at oil change
time and whenever the bus "feels funny."  I've had more gauges than that
(oil temp, cylinder head temp, oil pressure, O2 mixture) but I found it
just made me paranoid.

OOK!
