Date: Tue, 5 Aug 2008 09:52:22 -0400
From: "Michael Rule" <manikmike(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: GEX ponderings

-----
Disclaimer for anyone who pulls this out of a search: This is in no way a
promo for GEX engines- run from them. It's reasonably well documented that
they are terrible rebuilds. I have one because (to me) the overall vehicle
was well worth the purchase of it with a GEX engine unfortunately installed.
-----

Vaguely Philosophical question for ya'll...

I've been running a GEX for 10K now; got it with about 300miles on it.
 After a recent trip, I have horrendous compression in  #3 cylinder.

Historically, the engine has always had poor comp on #3 (90) and overall
high head/ oil temps, as well as poor gas mileage.  These are all now
amplified, and I'm quite surprised it got me home without welding itself
together.  Near as I can tell, the compression problem is mechanical, and
not due to lifters being out of adjustment... My knowledge here on how the
heads and rings etc can cause poor compression are somewhat limited...  All
the FI and spark items check out... I've spent a lot of time trying to
remedy the high temps to no avail.

Given the known instability (read: crappiness) of GEX rebuilds, I expected
it to die in 1K miles.  Instead, altho generally hot, it has always run
strong, albeit with compression starting (-at-)90 on #3 (other cylinders hover
around 115), and now bout 60 after this last trip when I developed a
noticeable loss of power and an engine wobble, not unlike when one unplugs a
sparkplug wire.  I should also mention that unplugging #3 no makes very
little difference now.

So- my Q:  It's expected to be a crappy engine, but other than the low
compression, this particular one *seems* to be solid... anyone think it is
worth tearing apart to try to fix?  I believe at present that it appears I
have a solid core to exchange for a rebuild; if I start tearing it apart, I
may muck that up.  The flip side is that there may be the potential of a
several $100s instead of a several $1000s fix, altho I question my ability
to trouble shoot this sort of issue... anywho, just looking for opinions.

Thanks, Mike
