To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Michael Henry <maestromh(-at-)comcast.net>
Date: Sat, 9 Aug 2008 10:10:22 -0700
Subject: Engine advice needed

First time post by a Type 2 Newbie...

About a year ago, I purchased a 76 Bus, a one-owner vehicle that  
while needing some work, had been meticulously maintained prior to  
its semi-retirement a few years back.

Only a little surface rust, body in decent shape, and while it burns  
some oil (naturally) it has been running pretty good.

Last weekend I turned 50 and wanted to drive down to Monterey with  
some friends to celebrate, so before leaving I took it into the shop  
to have everything looked over, and also to fix a problem with my  
engine idle when it was cold -- I had to drive for 10 minutes before  
the engine would idle, and until it warmed up it would die instantly  
the minute I stopped.

Got the bus back and everything seemed normal, idle was better. They  
said compression was low on one cylinder, which had a stuck intake  
valve. They also fixed a vacuum leak, and some other minor things.

Well, coming back from Monterey, I'm cruising along at 65 when I  
suddenly get a loss of power, top speed drops to 40 and the engine  
sounds like it's about to give up.

I pulled over, and indeed it was overheating. After letting it cool  
off, and adding some oil. I  tried to restart. Nothing. Turned over,  
but no spark.

I had it towed back to my repair shop.

Now here is where things begin to get a little interesting....after  
they had a chance to look it over, I get a call from the shop. They  
ask me if I was lugging the engine (no, coming back I wasn't going  
uphill or anything, and prior to having my bus serviced I had made  
this same trip maybe 3-4 times without any issues). They tell me that  
compression is low on all four cylinders, they've found a fuel hose  
leaking, but they were able to get everything back up, the only thing  
that was odd was something about them not being able to get my airbox  
up to spec. They said they'd tidy up and I could pick up the bus in  
the afternoon.

Three hours later I get a call saying that they want to keep the bus  
for the weekend, and that they may need to scrap my engine.

I didn't get to speak with them prior to closing yesterday, but this  
place is a fairly well known VW specialty service shop here in the SF  
bay area.

I'm no mechanic, so I have to rely on others for service beyond an  
oil change, plugs, or other simple things. While the bus is sort of  
my weekend vehicle, I'd like it to run reliably.

Should I consider a new/rebuilt engine? Any thoughts? Any good  
sources to recommend if I do need to get a new engine?

All advice is appreciated.

Regards,

-MH


Michael Henry
maestromh(-at-)comcast.net
