From: "Yasger" <yasger67(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: "vw" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 10 Aug 2008 22:23:45 -0400
Subject: Can't start my Bus

BlankI recently posted a message about my 79 bus.
I acquired it as a gift without any knowledge of the running status.
All I know is that it is a 1979 bus with a 2 liter fuel injected engine.  The
AC is still hooked up and the bus is in very good condition.
A friend of mine removed it from a property that was foreclosed upon and the
vehicle was abandoned.
He said either I take it or he crushes it...it was a no brainer.
I had no keys so I replaced the ignition switch and put a fuel pump on it
today.
I had all the excitement of getting ready to fire it up today when I got a
whole bunch of let down.
Upon turning the ignition switch all the lights work and all the electrical
things work in the bus.  What does not happen is the starter turning over.
 I left the ignition switch on and crawled under and "grounded" out the
starter. ( Placing a screw driver on both posts of the starter).  This does
cause the starter to spin but not engage to turn over the engine.  one thing
that does happen is that upon turning the key to crank it, there is a relay
under the dash just forward of the steering column that puts out a "click"
when you turn the ignition fully.  When you let off the key the relay stops.
This is my 5th VW and my second bus.  My greatest weakness is diagnosing
electrical issues.  Where do I start and what to I do?
I was really hoping for the simple cure. This bus really has a lot of life in
her and I want to get her going down the road again.
I hope this helps with any input.  Oh yes, I forgot to say that there is a
good battery in her...in fact I even hooked up the charger on rapid
charge/quick start to be assured I have enough voltage to turn over the
engine.  I know that bus has been sitting for at least a year minimum.
Any input is greatly appreciated.
I'm just trying to save another classic from the crusher.

Take care,
Scott

Continuing the journey in His grip!

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of Blank Bkgrd.gif]
