Date: Tue, 8 Feb 2011 20:41:54 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: doug sornberger <doug_sornberger(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Paint Westy Top or Not

Oh a long debated topic.  This one back to at least the first years.
 
My opinion is as it ever was.  Polyester primer/surfacer, then a good topcoat,
possibly with a bit of flex additive.  I have always done Delstar AE with flex
additive on tops after Z-coat "Rust Defender."  But, getting the prep right is
a big effort for ? return here if not a concours bus, and wouldn't be correct
for that.  Some others have proffered ideas as wide ranging as re gel-coating
(essentially the polyester primer surfacer but thicker and pricier) to
reflective white trailer top paint (which I've seen on and is better than one
might think.)  No reason not to paint fiberglass of course BTW, as every
Corvette ever made knows.
 
$150 seems a miraculously good price for the addition of this work to do it
well, or at all really.  I'm guessing you'll get a power wash, maybe some
primer, and whatever topcoat they are spraying.  The last time I did one of
these right I was $150 into material with a good solid 1 man, 10-15 hours of
prep, so figure that what $500 or more in labor.  And that was 8 years ago
when I did my last.  And that wasn't to get to finish paint level that I would
consider of my body work level for the rest of a bus, just to presentable,
relatively smooth, relatively shiney.   I've been putting off the '77 in fact
as long as I could and need to do it, but don't want to.  Even with pretty
much 50-60% of the gel intact on it, I figure it will be 3-4 heavy coats of
the surfacer, and a good 3-4 days work.

So would I do something yes, would I be suspicious of that cheap, yes.
 
John

--- On Tue, 2/8/11, doug sornberger <doug_sornberger(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:

My 71 Westy is in the body shop being painted right now.  The shop has offered
to paint the pop top for an additional $150 and the question is, should I
paint it.  It is fiberglass after all, is it a bad idea to put paint on it
instead of a gel coat?
