Date: Mon, 14 Feb 2011 09:25:54 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Fuse blew and stopped my van

On 2/13/2011 6:38 PM, Max Bronsema wrote:
> I would like to find out why the fuse blew. What is the general procedure
> for doing so?

Hey Max,
The first thing to do is bust out your Bentley and look at the wiring 
diagram for your model year.  If you don't have a Bentley, I'd highly 
recommend getting one because if you don't have the diagram to refer to, 
it will make it really difficult to diagnose these kinds of problems.

So, that said, if you look at the coil, it is supposed to have a black 
wire that runs from the positive side of the coil to the supply, or 
unfused, side of the fuse box.  Those particular bused terminals on the 
fuse box receive power from the ignition switch.  The ignition switch 
receives +12v power from some different terminals on the unfused side of 
the fuse box, which runs back to the starter, and then the battery.

The point here is that the path from the battery to coil is completely 
unfused.  This would lead me to believe something somewhere along that 
path is broken, meaning the power has to be supplied via an alternate 
path through another electrical path, which is probably why it's blowing 
a fuse (because it's pulling more current through that path than 
designed for).

What I would do is pull all of your fuses and then turn on the ignition 
switch (don't start it) and see if you have +12v at the coil.  You can 
either use a test light, a volt meter, or you can try putting the car in 
reverse and see if your reverse lights come on as they also receive 
power from the coil terminal (assuming they're hooked correctly).  If 
you don't have +12v, then I would turn the key off and do a continuity 
test on the wire from where it connects to the fusebox all the way back 
to the coil (disconnecting the wire at either end first to get an 
accurate test).

Let us know how it goes.

Mike
