From: "Casting Fool" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 4 Dec 2004 23:09:43 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] WR1

Being in retail, I could make a point about part costs, overhead, stocking
costs, insurance, employees, taxes, etc..  And about most parts getting
marked up 50-300% (at least in the hobby industy).  For example if you buy
hobby knife blades wholesale, a #11 ProEdge blade pack can be marked up
around 70%.  Exacto blades are so expensive for retailers, you can only mark
the same pack of blades up around 40% to make the same profit.

If Bosch is going to stay in business, they're going to charge what the
market will bear to make a profit.  If it sells, the manufacturer is going
to go for the highest price they can get.  Want to save money?  Then someone
on the list buy parts in bulk and sell the things to the list at cost.  Oh,
and make sure you have them available 24-7.  Create a website to sell them.
And don't raise the price by adding part costs, overhead, stocking costs,
insurance, employees, taxes, etc..

To put it bluntly, I don't give a rat's backside what anyone else thinks
about my buying and installing a WR1 kit.

I'm bascially broke, working three different businesses simultaniously as
well as doing what I can on the side.  It's working, but very slowly.  I've
spent $70.00 this week on the bus to get parts for three different repairs.
For me that's a small fortune, grocery money.  I don't have a ready way to
make purchases over the 'Net, so buying 10 of each part to save money isn't
going to happen.

I KNOW THE WR1 KIT IS AN OVER-PRICED, STOP-GAP MEASURE !  I bought it
because it was a handy way of getting my bus to run a bit longer until I can
afford the right fix.  I'm tired of push-starting the bus.  I recently spent
$2000.00 on a engine replacement (don't go there on the cost, it still
stings).  I honestly care about my bus.

I had the (Bosch) starter and solinoid rebuilt when I had the engine
replaced.  Because of this I assumed that it was the wiring causing the
problem.

I've hesitated about replying on this thread because I was somewhat offended
by some of the responses and didn't want to make a fool of myself replying
in anger.

Mark wrote "Most of us start out knowing that we can't do everything that
needs to be done on our buses all at once. We engage in "false economies"
because there isn't any choice in the matter."  Thank you, Mark.

TTFN - Mike Jackson
`77 Bay, (we're rethinking the name, it's definitely not a masculine bus)
Casting Fool & Son
Augusta, GA  USA
http://www.cfnson.com
Water Sysop Services
http://www.watersysop.com
WarpSite Web Publishing
