Date: Sun, 05 Dec 2004 10:32:51 -0600
To: LostWater(-at-)LostWater.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Higher Amp Alternator alternatives?

At 08:20 AM 12/3/2004, Mark Dominesey wrote:
>Does anybody know of a higher amperage alternator for the type 4 motor?  I
>know the options are probably limited as the alternator is enclosed by the
>engine tin.  I am in need of an alternator and I am afraid that 55 amps
>are not enough.

A timely question!  I have had a need for this also and have been 
thinking/threatening to do something about it for years.  The impetus for 
me came when I was at the pick-n-pull and they were having a 
half-off-everything sale.  I picked up a Bosch 90-amp alternator from a 
1986 BMW 325i for eight dollars (I posted this about two months ago).  I 
believe it to be an AL49X although it is not marked.  Since that time I 
have been working on the bracket, which will hold both the alternator and 
the A/C compressor.  It's been slow going as I am putting 1200 miles/month 
on the bus these days commuting to work, and the measuring to make sure 
everything lines up is tedious as is trying to bend/shape 3/16" steel (I'm 
no blacksmith!).  The bracket is 90% finished - just need to round/smooth 
off the edges and add one more mounting point for reinforcement.  I would 
love to have this bracket powdercoated but will probably just paint it 
silver for now, to more-or-less match the fan housing.  Here is a photo as 
it looks now (I know, ugly):

http://motorheads.net/vw/Dcp_5490.jpg

Both the drive assembly and the A/C compressor have dual pulleys with the 
drive assembly pulleys being different diameters.  So that I would have a 
choice of driven speed, I made the single-pullied alternator mount with a 
spacer such that if the spacer is in front of the alternator, it lines up 
with one drive pulley and if the spacer is behind the alternator, it lines 
up with the other.

Unfortunately there is not much you can do to the factory alternator since 
it is a rare variety that relies on an external fan to cool it (i.e. no fan 
is attached to the alternator) and it is in an enclosed space right next to 
the exhaust and engine which gets very warm.  I've heard that you can have 
the factory alternator rewound to ~70 amps but I would be hesitant to do 
this because of cooling issues.  If you require more than 55 amps as I do, 
the second alternator is probably a better option unless you are a very 
talented fabricator.

-David 
