Date: Sun, 18 Apr 2004 14:25:27 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, ev_update(-at-)yahoogroups.com,
From: ncbus <macbus(-at-)mindspring.com>
Subject: 96 Hours at EveryBus 2004

I pulled out of the Hagan-Stone 96 hours after I arrived.  I am so 
tired I can barely type and so happy I am almost in tears but I will 
try and give you an executive summary.

Total registered buses 145
Transient buses 8
Deadbeats about 7
Let's call it 160.

By Friday Morning there were already 75 buses in loop C and that was 
barely half the final number. They came from as far away as Montreal, 
Miami, Tulsa and Detroit and every point in between.  And in the case 
of Larry Chase, EB was just a point on a trip lasting tens of 
thousands of miles. I was honored the he attended! The oldest bus was 
a 1957 23 window from NC and there were a few 2003 Westy Weekenders 
rounding out the line.

EB is a group effort there are some folks that need to be recognized.

The players
Judy Neville - registration
Canadians - Friday Breakfast
OVT, FMBC, et al - Saturday Breakfast (FRANK ROCKS! )
Jamie Auch, Melanie Lewis, and Tootsie Jablonski - Kids Activities
Greg Potts, Mark Dearing and all the mechanics - Time Trials
Mad Uncle Dave - Chilli Cook Off
Tootsie, Stella, Daisy,Emily Stainlkamp and the Surly Teen Squad - Door Prizes
Free Coffee Busman/Buswoman - Kids bingo. free coffee, lots of fun 
and being cool!
Everyone who donated door prizes. I know few got left out and those 
will be redonated at Naturalbus. Sorry I lost track of them.
AJ and his bus Dopey for the drama and the love! ( You will hear more 
about that soon! )
John Stainkamp for the EB2004 fire pit!
Michele, Stella and Frank (my family ) for being mostly ignored while 
I played Mayor McBus for a few days. I can get back being Dad now :)
The nice lady locksmith for saving the dog locked in the New Beetle.
Terry, Dane, and Amy - the Park Rangers.
Steve Dolan - being generous beyond belief
Jamie for doing the 50/50 Raffle
Whitney and Jamie for the door Awards.
All those who gave a little thank$.
The hundreds of people who attended EB.
Everyone who helped out AJ included Jamie, Den, Marcus, Steve Mark 
and many others.

Thank you., thank you, thank you. If I left you name out please forgive me.

On a personal note, EB was a great chance to reconnect with dozens of 
friends and this year I made a few new ones that I look forward to 
camping with in the future.

I hope everyone had a safe journey home and I hope to see you soon. 
As trip reports and pics become available I will post them to 
www.everybus.com but the server will be down for maintenance for a 
few days so it may be Wednesday.

I need sleep now
Thanks!
Chris
www.everybus.com
