Date: Mon, 19 Apr 2004 09:25:44 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: timing the SVDA

I'm trying to get a recently purchased SVDA to run correctly. I am
installing into a 1972 VW bus engine (type4) with a Weber 32/36 carb.
The SVDA is replacing a 009. Aircooled.net installed the Compufire
electronic ignition, and I've installed a new blue Bosch coil (also
from Aircooled). I have a Sprint aircleaner pulling exclusively from
the pre-heat system, so there is warm air going to the carb.
 
After installing, the engine will fire, but runs extremely rough, and
without much power. I've tried fiddling with the carb according to the
included documentation, but I'm not getting very far. 
 
I thought I might have the timing off. According to the Idiot's book
and Bentley's I should set it to 5 degrees ATDC. I started there, but
it ran funny (sounded real quiet, not too responsive, stalled out). A
recheck of the paperwork that came with the SVDA said the timing should
be at 7.5 degrees BTDC. I reset to 7.5BTDC and started adjusting the
carb as the docs indicated would be necessary. Neither setting ran
well, but I didn't try tuning the carb at 5ATDC. Which setting is
correct for static timing?
 
I like to be certain of this before I do any additional tweaking on the
carb. Carb adjustments seem to be making matters worse anyway. The
symptoms I'm seeing: 
1- hard to maintain idle at cold startup
2- gasping, gagging when pedal pressed under a load
3- no power at any point in the RPM cycle
4- occasional backfire (too lean?), some misfires
 
I had to take today off from work to get this fixed (the bus is my only
transpo), so its imperative that I get this fixed today. I don't want
to make things worse by experimenting at this point either. A similar
version of this was sent to Aircooled.net, but I haven't heard from
them yet. Knowing that many of you are running his SVDA, I thought I
might hear from you first. 
Thanks--
Paul Manning
Lake Oswego, OR (just South of Portland)
1972 Westy (hapy)
type2.com listee
