From: "Marcus Schaper" <mschaper(-at-)gvpt.umd.edu>
To: "'Dave C. Bolen'" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 19 Apr 2004 14:29:21 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Painting wheels with POR

Some personal experience here ...

74 bus. Wheels were freshly sand-blasted and painted. Soon after
installation my brake booster failed and caused the front brakes not to
release resulting in a red hot brake rotor (don't do this at home ...) on
the driver's side. This heat cooked off the paint on the mating surface of
hub and wheel and the wheel lugs in fact became loose. The wheel did not
come off but the lugs nuts were very easy to remove when I replaced the
brake assembly though they were tightned with a BIG 3/4" ratchet.

After I noticed that I checked the other (non-cooked wheels) and noted that
the paint had given a bit there as well requiring me to torque down the
other lugs as well.

As a note on rust protection: Since this incidence (about 3 years ago) the
mating surface of this one rim has no paint on it but there is no rust
present either (just replaced my brake pads before Everybus). Apparently
there is no need to paint this part anyway because the hub protects it from
the elements.

POR does not protect from rust, it only hides it. Sand-blast the rims or use
a proven rust-removal product.

Marcus


Date: Fri, 16 Apr 2004 13:29:18 -0500 (CDT)
To: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>

Just my personal expierience....anyone else have any *real world* personal
experience with their wheels *ever* coming off...painted or not? because of
powder coat or painted mating surfaces?...in other words for any reason
besides not tightening them down good to start with?...and I never put
them on with an air wrench and I lubricate the lug nuts/bolts and the
mating area on them with a thin film of grease before I put them on cause
they always seem to have about twice as much torque on them when i try and
get
them off!
