Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Mon, 19 Apr 2004 12:25:57 -0700
To: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] timing the SVDA

On Apr 19, 2004, at 9:25 AM, Paul Manning wrote:

> After installing, the engine will fire, but runs extremely rough, and
> without much power. I've tried fiddling with the carb according to the
> included documentation, but I'm not getting very far.

I just installed an ACN SVDA + Pertronix into my 2.0L FI Bus last 
night, replacing my old, worn out (but rebuildable) dual-vacuum 
distributor.

There is at least one "gotcha" to look out for (and I am highlighting 
that in the little web article I'm writing about it, but I just haven't 
gotten very far writing it up yet).

The SVDA I received is based on a Hecho en Mexico Bosch 0 231 170 034 
core, which according to Richard Atwell is stock for a '74 Ghia (I 
haven't looked this up myself; this is just based on an email 
conversation we had).  On Type 1 engines, the vacuum can points "down 
to the left".  On Type 4 engines, the vacuum can points "up to the 
right".  This means that the #1 score and the cap notch are 180 degrees 
off on the SVDA.

That is to say, the score mark will actually point to #3 when this is 
installed in a Type 4 engine, and the cap notch will be at the front 
(front is front), whereas it was at the rear on my old distributor 
(Bosch 0 231 181 012).

I took some comparative photos of the two that show that all the other 
parts are oriented in the same way.  For example, if you orient both 
distributors with the vacuum can to the right, the points plate has the 
same orientation.  If you point the rotor toward the #1 position ("down 
to the right"), the distributor drive engagement doodad has the same 
key offset.

I had no problems once I got the new distributor installed.  It took a 
couple of nudges to get the timing close enough for the engine to 
start, but once the engine was running and warm, I timed it to 7.5 
BTDC, tightened up the clamp, and took it for a drive down to Pacifica 
and back, running smoothly all the way.  With the Pertronix, dwell is 
rock-steady at 54 (that does seem a bit high to me, though... I was 
expecting a rock-steady 50).

I don't know if its my imagination or not, but the Bus did seem to have 
a little harder of a time going up the hills and getting up to freeway 
speeds ... however, I am being mindful of the "vacuum diaphragm will be 
stiff at first" note that ACN sends along when you order the SDVA, and 
so I expect that (or my flawed perception :-) to improve over time.

I have not yet taken the time to verify the centrifugal advance spec 
... I'll need to procure a helper for that task.

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
