Date: Fri, 22 Aug 2003 18:10:46 -0400 (EDT)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: tank <bedhead(-at-)pacbell.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] the bad news on Alice

On Fri, 22 Aug 2003, tank wrote:

> Well, Alice isn't going to Burning Man.

Nonsense!

> Even worse, there is something deeply wrong with her, something that,
> as yet, remains undiagnosed, though we now know the symptom: extremely
> low vacuum in the exhaust manifold, on the order of only 7-8 lbs.

First, as has already been mentioned, I think you mean 7-8 inches of
vacuum not 7-8 pounds. If the cylinder compression readings are adequate
then this is probably a trivial repair.  On a type 1 engine, there are a
very limited number of places that a vacuum leak can occur.  The most
probable point is the boots between the intake manifold center section and
the ends.  The second most probable place is the vacuum booster line and
its connection to the manifold.  Third check the small vacuum caps and
lines on the carburetor.

In order:

Inspect the manifold boots.

Did you replace the boots on the intake manifold?
If not, consider doing so and consider using the urethane replacements.
Check the fit and clamps.  Make sure they are aligned correctly and that
the clamps are tight.
Look especially for cracks or holes in the step between the large and
small ends.  As the sections wiggle in relation to each other they tend to
crack or tear the boot in that location which is hard to see with the boot
installed.
No matter what do not consider installing the split boots.  The do not
work.  They leak and will kill your engine. Use the aftermarket urethane
boots which are much tougher than th eoriginals.

Inspect the brake booster line.

Make sure that the connection between the line forward to the booster and
the boot to the intake manifold is attached and that there are no cracks
in the boot.
Disconnect the line forward and plug the hole in the manifold.
Check your vacuum with that hole plugged.
If your vacuum rises substantially with the line disconnected and plugged
then go down the line and look for a crack or leak in it.  If removing the
line from the booster and plugging it makes the vacuum rise, then your
booster is defective.

Inspect the accessory ports on your carburetor.

If your left end casting has a vacuum port in it for a throttle positioner
make sure it connected or plugged. Make sure all vacuum ports on the carb
are connected or capped.

> I'm exhausted. I'm crushed. I'm teary-eyed. All this, and I may not even be
> able to drive her around town any time soon, let alone to the playa.

I am sorry. I feel badly for you.  Would a banana help? a dried frog pill?

This is very likely to be an easy problem to solve.  It is vital that you
solve it though as a vacuum leak as large as the one you have will cause
your engine to overheat very quickly.

                             OOK!

Litera Scripta Manent
