Date: Fri, 22 Aug 2003 19:12:41 -0400
From: scott lyons <slyons(-at-)netrover.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Oil pump for type IV Whose to Use

on 8/22/03 11:26, Theodore Reshetiloff related:

> I am in need of a new oil pump for Possum and I did a little searching.

are you rebuilding the motor or just thinking about changing the pump?

> Aircooled.net has some 30mm pumps they recommend for type 4. But they
> mention something about high pressures when cold(200psi) and having to
> maybe modify the oil pressure relief valve. Don't know if I want to do that.
> I am adding an external cooler with thermostat since I like to tow a small
> sailboat and want to keep it cool. Aircooled's pumps are $30.00, pretty
> good I say. So then looked at Bus Depot, been pretty happy with Ron's
> stuff. They list a Melling Pump for about $70.00. More than twice the pump
> at Aircooled.net but which one should I use? I like the idea of spending
> $30 over $70, but I want the better pump too.

i think the schadek pump is a better unit than the melling. there are a few
reasons why i say this - first off it (the schadek) is very well made, the
machining is very good and the design of the flow passages is good. it is
aluminum, which is better suited than the cast iron melling.

if you are worried about high pressures at startup, you might get a berg
pump cover with pressure relief. this is probably not needed, though. the
high pressures are less likely on a t4 motor. i think the note on
aircooled's site refers more to t1's.

> Any help here in making this
> choice would be nice. Also Bus Depot sells an Oil Pressure Booster kit any
> idea what that is all about? I am getting low oil pressure when the bus
> warms up at idle. Say 10-15 lbs at idle when oil temps are at 210-225.

this is not really that low a pressure. the stock oil pressure switch (that
turns on the oil idiot light on the dash) triggers at between 2.5-6 psi! now
that is low idle pressure, but anything over 10 is fine. one thing you can
do to increase oil pressure at idle is use the tool rented by aircooled.net
which resurfaces the pressure relief valve seat. it really works! i have
used it on 3 motors and the claim of 7-10 psi increase of idle oil pressure
is true in my experiences.

> Strong pressure on startup 60lbs. Running at 65-70mph when temps are in the
> 210-225 range I get about 25-30lbs sometimes less. I say thats not so good?

25 psi at that rpm (i'm guessing about 3700?) is indeed a bit low. you
should be able to hold a bit more, like 35 fully hot. these numbers depend
on a few things, oil viscosity in particular.

i've messed around with a few different oil pumps in type IV's. the stock
one is really the best bet for a stock motor, but they are not easy to find
and expensive when you can find them. the schadek is a very nice pump, the
next best bet to a stock t4 pump in my opinion. you need to be really
careful when you install a non-stock pump, there can be claerance issues
with the cam gear, and all type 1 style pumps are much more prone to leaking
than the stock t4 pump.

all in all, my vote is for the schadek 30mm over a melling, new stock T4
pump over either of them.

scott lyons
