From: Gregory Urban <urban(-at-)yaic.com>
Date: Sun, 3 Apr 2011 21:24:05 -0400
To: Erik Meltzer <ermel(-at-)ermel.org>, Type2 Mailing List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] VW Informercial

Actually, Subaru outsold VW in the US last year.  The CRV outsells the Tiguan
10-1.  And the Routan? VWoA is not exactly knocking it out of the park.

But to the more important issue, can VW put out a Concept-2?  The hard part
for all of us list members and Type-2 owners to wrap our heads around is that
"utilitarian" has changed over time.  So, no, we're not going to see an empty
box on wheels reincarnation of a 1958 type-2.

The key to the bus, IMHO, was the ability to sell to the commercial, fleet,
and passenger segments.  There have been two recent trucks that have had great
in the light commercial market; the Sprinter and the Ford Transit.  Could a
company slot in a commercial van right in the middle of these two?  And then,
use that same base for a passenger van?

What works against that idea is the amazing refinement of the vehicles in the
(poorly named) mini-van market (those cars are not mini anything).  The
difference between driving a Sienna and a Chevy 2500 van are enormous.  But
with a Honda Odyssey running $30k-$45k, there might be room for something in
size between a Mazda 5/Honda Element and a Toyota Sienna/Honda Odyssey.

Could it be done?  Probably, but not by a European or Japanese manufacturer.
They couldn't hit the price point.  I'd venture a Hyundai could make it
happen, but they have no incentive to do so.

I'd be happy to get the Kalifornia here  in the US for a reasonable price.

Greg U


On Apr 2, 2011, at 6:09 AM, Erik Meltzer wrote:
>
> John Kolak wrote:
>
> ... Volkswagen will never, never, again make any vehicle that is comparable
to the Type 2 in its simplicity, robustness, or interior/exterior space
ratio,
> at least not for European or US markets.  The reason is simple: because they
can't, due to crash safety legislation, and because
> it wouldn't sell, due to different demands by the customer.
>
> Today, car makers receive flak from the press if a new microcar comes
without ESP, a minimum of four airbags, and airconditioning.
> No-one would buy a spartan ulitarian box-on-wheels like the Type 2 (except
for those few enthusiasts who would like one,
> could afford one, AND would not rather sink that money into the restoration
or purchase of an original one instead).  Such a van
> would be a huge market flop.  And Volkswagen don't do flops, that's why
they're doing so well these days.
