Date: Mon, 04 Apr 2011 09:49:49 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] VW Informercial

On 04/03/2011 08:24 PM, Gregory Urban wrote:
> The key to the bus, IMHO, was the ability to sell to the commercial, fleet,
> and passenger segments.  There have been two recent trucks that have had great
> in the light commercial market; the Sprinter and the Ford Transit.
Anybody seen the Nissan entry into the commercial delievery/service 
vehicle segment? It's their pickup or their SUV with a panel van body on 
the back. Odd proportions to me. BIG. We have two on the local Nissan 
dealer lot, seen none one the road yet. Seeing alot of the Sprinters and 
Transits though even around here (small TN town) - as personal and 
professional vehicles.

Took my Brenderup 1205S on our first Boy Scout campout this weekend. My 
boy has just crossed over from Webelos. This was the first time I'd had 
really had a chance to get to know the other parents.

Carried all of the troop gear for the boys whose parents did not come. 
Right tool for the job. Trailer was full. Towed it with our well-aged 
four cylinder 215K mile CR-V.

Alot of the fathers were complimenting me on it and asking questions. 
How much does it weigh, where did I buy it, how did it cost?

I have to wonder how many American consumers are trained to just buy the 
most obvious products from the most popular local sources (department 
stores) without looking around for alternatives. Just buying whatever 
your friends and family are buying without thinking outside of the box. 
With the internet, I'd rather find a better alternative to what I can 
get locally if there is a better alternative to be had.

To me this is the problem with many of the mainstream American market 
cars and SUVs. They are popular sellers but far from the right tool for 
the job. Me? I'm a Transit or Sprinter kind of guy if I'm buying new. 
The Detroit SUV is likely much more popular for the the Transit and 
Sprinter offer more room for their footprint and do their jobs with less 
HP and I'd guess better MPG.

C
