Date: Thu, 7 Apr 2011 11:03:03 -0700 (PDT)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
Subject: Re: Screeching Fan belt?

Hi Kevin,
        The spray is for garagistes that cant be bothered doing it correctly,
i.e. adjusting/replacing the belt.  If you cant adjust the belt so that it
doesn't squeak, you have either a belt mismatched to your pulleys, more common
than you think, or a worn out belt. I highly recommend having your belt
tension adjusted and tested with a quality belt tension tester;  even if you
only do it once.  I think you will be surprised at how high the tension is
when correctly adjusted. My personal opinion is that most belts are way UNDER
tensioned unless a tester was used. Good belt tension will not affect the life
of alternator/generator bearings at all, let alone engine bearings..  Old, or
bad i.e. contaminated, grease will give you most of your problems there.
Especially with cold weather starts.  How long was the vehicle sitting before
you got it? How old is the alternator/generator?  Easy fix is to flush and
replace the bearing lube with
 Lubriplate EMB. I do it even with new bearings, but I live and drive in cold
places.  One tube will last a lifetime.  You will only have to do it once
during your ownership of the van/truck unless you are a very lucky owner who
dries their van a lot.  $5:39 at the link below in 10's, but Lubriplate has an
extensive distributor network where you could get one tube for not much more. 
Good for many other purposes around your van.

http://www.tooldex.com/product/LUB-L0148-098/Lubriplate-L0148-098-EMB-High-Sp
eed-Electric-Motor-Grease/

We tested it in an environmental chamber at Era Helicopters and found it was
still operational below -75F (well below the data sheet spec) whereas the
(Bendix gyro) factory grease was solid at -25F.  Ball bearings do not like to
skate.

If you replace your belts when you replace your tires that should work out
ok.  Check, and adjust, tension yearly, regardless of mileage driven.

jon

snip>
I think they sell some stuff  you can spray on the fan belt to keep it from
slipping, but I was wondering does this noise mean the belt is too loose?
When I checked it, it didn't look as though there was too much play in it.or
does it mean the belt is at the end of its life? How long should a belt last
anyway?

You only really own those things you can carry under both arms at a dead
run... (Robert A. Heinlein)
