From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'j syder'" <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>, "'type2list'"
Date: Thu, 7 Apr 2011 14:35:42 -0400
Subject: RE: Screeching Fan belt?

Wow Jonthanks for all the info.



I had never heard of a belt tension testerI just followed Muirs guide and
looked for about = of play. If I were to get/find a tensioner, what should
the tension be? This is for a 69 with an alternator-which I believe
originally had a generator. While asking this question---what should the
tension be on a 65 with a generator?



As far as how long the vehicle has been sittingit sat for a while over the
winter, but I started driving it again a few weeks ago. I dont remember the
screech last fall before I parked it for the winter.



As for flushing and lubing the alternator-is this procedure detailed in the
Bentley, or is it pretty self-explanatory? I dont see a procedure for doing
this in the Bentley, but maybe Im not looking in the right place.  That
grease is pretty funny, a websearch indicates you need to order at least 10
cartridgesfrom almost any supplier I tried online. Ill try one of their
local distributors.



-Kevin

Jamaica Plain, MA

'69 single cab

'65 Kombi - EZ-Camper



From: j syder [mailto:scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com]
Subject: Re: Screeching Fan belt?




Hi Kevin,
        The spray is for garagistes that cant be bothered doing it
correctly, i.e. adjusting/replacing the belt.  If you cant adjust the belt
so that it doesn't squeak, you have either a belt mismatched to your
pulleys, more common than you think, or a worn out belt. I highly recommend
having your belt tension adjusted and tested with a quality belt tension
tester;  even if you only do it once.  I think you will be surprised at how
high the tension is when correctly adjusted. My personal opinion is that
most belts are way UNDER tensioned unless a tester was used. Good belt
tension will not affect the life of alternator/generator bearings at all,
let alone engine bearings..  Old, or bad i.e. contaminated, grease will give
you most of your problems there. Especially with cold weather starts.  How
long was the vehicle sitting before you got it? How old is the
alternator/generator?  Easy fix is to flush and replace the bearing lube
with Lubriplate EMB. I do it even with new bearings, but I live and drive in
cold places.  One tube will last a lifetime.  You will only have to do it
once during your ownership of the van/truck unless you are a very lucky
owner who dries their van a lot.  $5:39 at the link below in 10's, but
Lubriplate has an extensive distributor network where you could get one tube
for not much more.  Good for many other purposes around your van.

http://www.tooldex.com/product/LUB-L0148-098/Lubriplate-L0148-098-EMB-High-S
peed-Electric-Motor-Grease/

We tested it in an environmental chamber at Era Helicopters and found it was
still operational below -75F (well below the data sheet spec) whereas the
(Bendix gyro) factory grease was solid at -25F.  Ball bearings do not like
to skate.

If you replace your belts when you replace your tires that should work out
ok.  Check, and adjust, tension yearly, regardless of mileage driven.

jon
