Date: Fri, 8 Apr 2011 12:53:20 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: RE: [T2] RE: Screeching Fan belt?

Kevin who is familiar with the Kingston Trio song featuring his 
subway station wrote:

>Thanks.  I was able to get a woodruff key at my local hardware store-not
>quite the right size, but it fits.  It is a bit small, but I think it should
>keep the pulley from spinning freely.  Hopefully I'll be near a real shop
>that would carry that in the right size, and now I know the size to ask for.


	If the gap is across the short direction of the slot, the 
proper procedure is to file down a bigger key (or piece of suitable 
scrap metal).
	HOWEVER:
	Imagine you're in the swimming-pool sequence of The Graduate. 
I lean furtively towards you and murmur
		Psst   ... shims


	Kev, your bodgieish approach can develop into a mini-Munro 
career, the way you're going.  Your intuition told you the 
sub-standard key would last awhile, and you acted on that.  So let me 
point out that thin sheetmetal, of brass or aluminium, can sometimes 
fit into gaps of width, shall we say, sub-mm.  Drink-can aluminium 
has just allowed me to 're-bush' an important plain bearing which had 
become so worn the eqpt had been laid aside useless; I bent a piece 
of can to a near-cylinder and fitted it into the slop-gap, result 
Swiss secateurs working like new with no detectable slop.
	Metalwork apprentices are not encouraged to explore the scope 
for shims until they've had a gutsful of files.  You are tending to 
short-circuit traditional training.  A good principle is to minimise 
the pieces of metal that can come loose, a principle that tends to 
militate against shims.
	Well I've had zero metalwork training, so I'm merely 
murmuring from the bodgie amateur fringe.  If I had to use a key that 
was too small, I'd explore whether I could squeeze in the gap next to 
it a shim of sheet brass or aluminium.
	And yes, do slap in a correct key, whether store-bought or home-filed.


	{Advance   pssst:   bench grinder :-X }

-- 
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600dp Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
