Date: Thu, 07 Apr 2011 22:09:31 -0700
From: Christophe Guilbert <cguilbert(-at-)picasso.ucsf.edu>
To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Need tips how to rebuild and maximize a  type 4 engine

Hi guys ,

That's it , I urgently need to rebuild my engine otherwise I won't be 
able to take my daughter to school and we'll miss our annual spring trip 
to death valley !!!
I have plenty of questions which I hope could be answered !
My engine is 2L type 4 engine found in the aircool 1983

1) Does the engine stand found in Harbor Freight compatibles with my 
engine type.
2) Any help concerning how to build a strong and lasting engine is welcome
    I remember from reading this list that balancing the crankshaft, and 
flywheel was a must , what else should be balanced ?, do you guys have 
some good shop to do this job (I live the bay area in California)
3) Also, I remember that they were some recommendation about sealing the 
block using some of the state of the art airplane sealant !
4) Some of the aircool engine rebuild claim to have hight HP than the 
stock engine. some of them  was using 2.2L cylinder. Did anyone try those ?
5) In general I am looking for (affordable) parts which would make my 
engine stronger without modifying the stock engine core.
6) the thermostat can't be found anymore. you can find an equivalent and 
adapt the cable to it. They fail so often that I don't bother changing 
them anymore. but what about a long cable running from the dash board to 
the engine flap so you can manually control their opening and closure in 
the light  of the head temperature reading.
7) this engine can be considered as an oilcool engine also ;-)
I have this wonderful extra oil cooler I bought 6 years ago that I never 
installed because I was never satisfy with the location to put it. The 
place of choice for me would be in the front since I already have the 
setup for it, my van was one of the rare aircool van to be equipped with 
air conditioning. the air conditioning does work any more but all the 
infrastructure is there to replace it by an extra oil cooler. Is there 
any oil pump out there strong enough to carry oil back and force that 
far ? Is it a good idea ? what the alternative ?


Our Family deam is too build a reliable engine which will allow us to go 
from SF up to the arctic circle in Alaska !!!
Sorry for all those questions , I am sure I'll have some more in the 
next few weeks.

Any tips will be welcome

Thanks

Chris

//
