Date: Fri, 8 Apr 2011 12:49:26 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: t2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Need tips how to rebuild and maximize a type 4 engine

On Fri, Apr 8, 2011 at 12:09 PM, Christophe Guilbert
<cguilbert(-at-)picasso.ucsf.edu> wrote:

> 1) Does the engine stand found in Harbor Freight compatibles with my engine
type.

You just rotate the arms to match the case bolt holes.

> 2) Any help concerning how to build a strong and lasting engine is welcome
    I remember from reading this list that balancing the crankshaft, and
 flywheel was a must , what else should be balanced ?, do you guys have
 some good shop to do this job (I live the bay area in California)

It just depends on how far you want to get into it, which is a
decision based on what failed in your engine, how long it has been
since the last rebuild, and the current state of wear and tear.

The Type 4 engine is considerably stronger than the Type 1 engine, and
it is rare for the bottom end to need reconditioning other than the
camshaft, and possibly bearing inserts.

If interesting in balancing, the right way to do it is to have the
entire engine balanced as a rotating mass.

> 4) Some of the aircool engine rebuild claim to have hight HP than the stock
engine. some of them  was using 2.2L cylinder. Did anyone try those ?

You can build it as big as you want. This adds expense in parts and
engineering considerations, as well as difficulty locating parts in
case of field repairs.

> 5) In general I am looking for (affordable) parts which would make my engine
stronger without modifying the stock engine core.

Performance and economy do not go together. Speed costs money. How
fast to you want to go?

> 6) the thermostat can't be found anymore. you can find an equivalent and
 adapt the cable to it. They fail so often that I don't bother changing
 them anymore. but what about a long cable running from the dash board to
 the engine flap so you can manually control their opening and closure in
 the light  of the head temperature reading.

Then forget or let the wife drive it and fry your engine?

> 7) this engine can be considered as an oilcool engine also ;-)
 I have this wonderful extra oil cooler I bought 6 years ago that I never
 installed because I was never satisfy with the location to put it. The
 place of choice for me would be in the front since I already have the
 setup for it, my van was one of the rare aircool van to be equipped with
 air conditioning. the air conditioning does work any more but all the
 infrastructure is there to replace it by an extra oil cooler. Is there
 any oil pump out there strong enough to carry oil back and force that
 far ? Is it a good idea ? what the alternative ?

Type 4 runs cooler. External oil cooler is not needed. Head temps are
the critical factor, and an oil temp gauge won't tell you what is
happening there.

John
