Date: Fri, 8 Apr 2011 12:49:45 -0700 (PDT)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: propane and tape

Hi Courtney/Mike,
                Working pressure for propane after the regulator is in the
region of 2psi, thats TWO pounds/square inch.  Any minor restriction will
block the flow.  Especially bad is if the PO used any teflon tape.  Never,
ever, use teflon, or any other, tape on a propane/fuel/oil system.  You might
be able to get it on and sealed the first time, but you will never be able to
get all the little shreds out of the fitting if you ever break the line at
that fitting.  Some WILL get in the line.  Once it gets into a line you cant
get it out, except by mechanical means. So typically it's a replacement job. 
The preferred sealant is Fuelube, got from your local aircraft supply or
mechanic.

http://www.aircraftspruce.com/catalog/cspages/ezturnlube.php

There are plenty of other grease type sealants. Loctite Quickstix 561 PST for
one or DuPont Krytox. These can be washed out with solvents, unlike teflon
tape which is pretty near insoluble in anything.  Really, if you cant make a
pipe joint that seals at 2psi you should give up the plumbing biz and try
another career ;)  Propane fittings are pretty nicely made, cone to cone
unions, similar to AN fittings.  They are not intended to need any sealant
between the cones.  Teflon tape is designed as an anti-galling LUBE on tapered
thread fittings, not a sealant.  The tapered threads of pipe fittings are
designed to seal by pressure between the two conical thread forms. A little
lube makes them go together and come apart easier.  Leave teflon tape for the
water lines in your house.  IMHO there is no place for it on your bus at all. 
Even the oil pressure gauge fitting, the only pipe thread I can think of on
the bus, is best lubed with Loctite 561 or
 something similar.

Seriously, if you cant get flow with 70psi in a system designed for 2psi, its
time to test each line along the way and find the block just as Mike says.
More than likely, at 70psi, you have blown something further into a bad
place.  jon


snip>
> never been disconnected before, but I'm not getting anything through it to
the
> burners. What am I missing? Does it need to be a higher psi??
snip>
I'd start at the burner and remove the gas line and hook up air to it.
If it works, remove the hose that runs from the coupling and see if it's
clear, then check the coupling, then check the hose that runs from the
tank to the regulator, and then check that propane is coming out of the
regulator.

You only really own those things you can carry under both arms at a dead
run... (Robert A. Heinlein)
