Date: Thu, 27 Mar 2003 16:11:50 -0800 (PST)
From: Bill Abbott <bill.abbott(-at-)teradyne.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: '70 Fuel Hose story

	Just after I changed the oil, I had a 'hydrocarbon' smell
when I turned on the heat. Thought I'd spilled some oil, looked,
didn't see any. But did see some staining over on the port side
(left is left is port) of the engine- something had dripped on
the dust on the intake, riser and cooling tin. And the hose
from pump to carb felt 'cool' to the touch. Top of the pump, held
down by 4 screws, looked damp also.

	SO I tightened the screws, got about 1/8 turn out of each
of them with little effort, stopped there.

	Then I called local VW dealer- they took a while to find
the entry for '70, 'Oh, that's a type 2 motor', and then told
me that the hose was 7mm. My factory parts book says 5 x 2.5mm
and I suggested that this was the right size. Guy on the phone
grunted assent and went to see if he had any. After a while,
the answer was no. But $25/yard if they do have it.

	So where can I find correct, 5mm, cloth-covered fuel hose
for a VW in Oakland, CA or points south? Looking in the Yellow
Pages shows no "Bugformance", no "Economy Imports", just Kragen
and the like. I don't really want to try 13/64" or whatever nightmare
they have in inch size, I want 5mm hose, the right stuff, so
I pass.

	Then I see the ad, and a quick phone call confirms they have
it. Yep, "PartsHeaven", the Hayward Porsche dismantler, stocks
correct 5 X 2.5mm hose. Labeled that way. Other sizes too. Probably
does the job on 356s and non 'E' 912s. I drive down to them.

	The counter guy takes me in the back so I can eyeball it before 
he cuts it too- neat. PartsHeaven are nice people but I suspect most 
customers don't get to walk into the back for a $10 purchase. :)
Like Builders Emporium crossed with The Porsche's Graveyard.

	I buy two pieces, 1 foot (book says 325mm or 12 25/32"- I figure a 
generous counter guy's '1 foot' will do it and it does.) and a second 
piece 3 feet long for stock to replace the rest of the system. Only the 
pump to carb part is under much pressure, the rest is under suction and 
can wait until the weekend. 

	My backup plan was to go to Bugformance in Sunnyvale but its out
of my way and the less driving I did with wet fuel hoses the better
I figured. When I flexed the old one to remove it the outside got damp
on the side I compressed. Time to replace the lot. I paid $2.50/foot,
30% of what the dealership wanted.

	Completing the drive down to work, no more bad smell. :)

	Moral of the story is that you should remember that the local
Porsche shop will stock bits like fuel hose and even Type IV oil
change gasket sets (914 and 912E are Type IV case motors). Even
when there are no aftermarket VW people around, aftermarket Porsche
or BMW places may have what you need, if they support the old stuff.

	Last time I replaced the hoses was probably 1997. I DID check the
grommet that the hard fuel pipe goes through and recomend you do too!

	Happy motoring!
	Bill

'97 Benjamin  '96 Marriage w/ Jean  '93 Corrado   '70 Single Cab
