From: "Neale Green" <tigger(-at-)neale.org>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 1 Jan 2006 22:24:11 +1100
Subject: Suggestions on frustrating fuel problem?

Hopefully this is an issue that the more experienced and/or mechanically 
talented have come across over time.

A while back my local(ish) VW specialists did a major service on Tigger, my 
'74 Supro Campmobile to get the roadworthy certificate for  registration. 
The motor is a 2L T4, built by them and using the stock (rebuilt) twin carbs 
of the 1800 T4 it replaced

Just after that I started experiencing intermittent and elusive fuel 
starvation problems, the guys were booked out at the time, so I couldn't put 
Tigger back in to locate the problem, and it sorta cleared up by itself, so 
I put it down to getting a batch of bad fuel and having a smaller volume 
fuel filter than she'd had before the service.

During the year it came back in a minor way once, or maybe twice, but it was 
just a passing problem that cleared up almost straight away, so I thought it 
was behind me, UNTIL I had to go down to the country for Christmas with the 
family, and she played up most of the way down ( she's normally a pretty 
strong runner, but stumbling from apparent fuel starvation I was going up 
most SLIGHT rises on the shoulder at 60-80 KPH as that was as good as she'd 
do :o(

I think I've ruled out the fuel filter as the issue, as I bought a larger 
volume filter down country and replaced it before I came home, and had the 
same problem ( well, maybe not quite as bad but still a problem ) on the way 
back two days ago.

Basically, the problem SEEMS to be related to high fuel flow situations ( 
100-120 KPH on highway ) , and especially when the attitude is nose up ( 
climbing a hill or incline ). The problem never occurs in town, and rarely 
on slower, twistier minor roads, which is what makes me think that it's high 
flow related, and the issue of occurring on climbing was what made me think 
the smaller volume filter could have been causing the problem if there was a 
bit of water in the filter, blocking the fuel flow.

Anyway, sorry to ramble on so much, but do the symptoms suggest anything 
obvious to those of us with a wealth of experience on the VW motors, Karl, 
Richard, George, anyone?? ;^)

Any suggestions and/or assistance would be greatly appreciated.

Oh, and Happy New Year folks, hope everyone has a good year this year.

Best regards,

Neale Green
Sydney, Australia
'74 Supro Campmobile 
