Date: Sun, 1 Jan 2006 08:40:29 -0700
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: FW: An understanding of HP and Torque, part 1

This came off the Volvo list I'm on, in turn that post came from a Dodge Ram
list. I can't guarantee the accuracy, but thought I'd share it...

-----------------------------------------------------

Subject: Re: [DiRT] A couple of engineering questions

OK sorry to bore everyone but this is my understanding....

Horsepower = Torque x RPM

Obviously you have to have compatable units but its pretty much that
simple.
An interesting analogy is....

Watts = Amps x Volts

If you have a battery that can supply 100A at 12V you will get 1200Watts
which is exactly the same ammount of power as a battery that can produce
50A at 24V. This is analogous to; for example the fact that an engine
producing 300lbft(-at-)3000rpm will make exactly the same amount of horsepower
as an engine producting 150lbft(-at-)6000rpm.

However having the same ammount of peak [horse]power does not necessarily
mean you have the same pulling power. This is because the rpm you need at
the wheels is not the same as the rpms you have at the engine so you need
a gearbox. Unfortunatly gearboxes are not 100% efficient continously
variable ratio converters. If all gearboxes were continously variable and
had the same efficiency at all ratios then yes the pulling power of the
two engines would identical. However in real life they absolutley arn't.

Lets give an example of pulling away at a very low speed. Your wheels are
doing a very low rpm that means that the chances are, unless you have
really really low gear ratios or you are smoking the clutch to death on a
manual or seriously spinning the torque converter on an auto your engine
will also have to be turning at a lowish rpm. Looking back at our two
examples we have a 300lbft(-at-)3000rpm and a 150lbft(-at-)6000rpm which produce the
same power. However because torque is fairly constant throughout the rpm
range, at 1000rpm we have a different story. 300lbft(-at-)1000rpm on one engine
and 150lbft(-at-)1000rpm on the other. As you can see the 300lbft engine now
has double the power of the 150lbft engine.

For those of you that dont like maths you could see all this by overlaying
the horsepower plots of the two engines if you had them. The lines would
cross at the horsepower point where the 300lbft engine was at 3000rpm and
the 150lbft engine was at 6000rpm but if we drew a line at the 1000rpm
point, the 300lbft would have double the power of the 150lbft engine
because the power curve of the 300lbft engine is much shallower than the
150lbft engine which is quite steep.

Therefore if the engines were in comparable weight vehicles the higher
torque engine would pull away quicker because at lower rpm it has more
power. Even if the low torque vehicle was smoking the clutch or spinning
the torque converter to get the rpms up higher into its power band, the
loss through the clutch smoking/torque converter spinning process would be
considerable so it would probably still loose.

On paper however its possible the 150lbft engine would have more peak
horsepower. How ? Lets say the 300lbft engine peaked at 3000rpm but the
150lbft engine revved all the way to a peak at 7000rpm, the overall peak
horsepower of the 150lbft engine would be higher since 300lbft*3000rpm is
lower than 150lbft*7000rpm. This means that on the spec sheet of the
150lbft engine it would show it has more horsepower so the owner might
think he can go faster. This may be true but the extra power he has is in
the wrong place during pull away so its no good to him off the line.

Basically to summarise:
The peak horsepower and peak torque figures can only be used as a guidline
to figure out whether something can "go faster" or "pull better" than
something else. To truely know you need the gear ratios and power curves.

One good guidline to judge an engine I always thought was to look at the
area underneath the power curve. Having a low torque and hence steep power
curve is OK as long as it revs real high to make up for it. Additionally
having a low peak rpm is also acceptable if the torque is real high and
hence the power curve shallow, because that way more of the power is
available more of the time lower down.

Of course that isnt the only story, you need to look carefully at your
application. If you plan to tow, having more area under the curve at the
lower rpms is more usefull than higher up, hence picking a high torque low
revving engine such as a diesel or a gas V8 is appropriate. If you just
wanna speed round a track barely slowing down at all or you simply dont
have much weight to shift you want an engine with the power high up in the
rpms such as a high revving low torque engine on a motorbike.

If anyone is still awake thanks for listening :)

> 1) Assuming a 1:1 transmission output (in direct drive), if you run the
> power through a set of 4:1 gears, will this effectively quadruple your
> available torque?

Assuming a 100% efficient gearbox the horsepower will remain the same,
torque will quadrouple and the rpm will quarter.

In real life the horsepower will go down due to losses the rpm will
exactly quarter and the torque will almost quadrouple based on the loss.


--
Don
Great White Bus
http://www.donimages.com/gwb
