Date: Tue, 28 May 2002 21:38:09 -0400
From: 80 Westy Pokey <pokey(-at-)vanagon.org>
To: vanagon(-at-)gerry.vanagon.com, the_bug_pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Is my aux battery draining my primary?

I thought I hooked up my second battery right. Given the 
fact that it was totally dead today I clearly didn't.

Before I get into the battery let me also say that I ALSO 
suspect my alternator brushes to be worn out. Anyone know 
the partnumber for the replacement cartridge?

Anyway... I jump started the vehicle and as soon as I 
unhooked the negative terminal the engine died. This happend 
twice. So the battery was DEAD.

Now here is how the second battery was hooked up. First off 
remeber this is a 1980 westy, with no stock second battery 
and no relay under the drivers seat.

Secondly, I don't know much about electrical systems and 
hooked this up with someone else's instruction. I won't be 
able to follow a complex answer, nor is my explanation of 
the setup complex.

1) The black sheath to the fridge was cut to do the install. 
The rear part has a red wire (with an inline fuse) and a 
white wire. The front part has a blue and a red. The red was 
one wire before it was cut and the blue and the white were 
also the same wire.

2) The rear portion of the sheathed wire, the one with the 
white and the red is setup like this: The red goes from the 
inline fuse to the positive terminal on battery number 2. 
The white goes to some kind rectangular clear connector, 
then on the other side of the connector the wire turns blue. 
That blue wire goes to the 86 on the relay... then continues 
to the front part of the sheathed wire and dissapears under 
the drivers seat.

3) The red from the front sheathing goes to the 85 on the 
relay.

4) There is a wire running from the 87 on the relay to the 
positive terminal on battery number 2.

5) There is a wire running from the 30 on the relay to the 
positive terminal on battery number ONE.
 
I just cant figure out where the power is being sucked from. 
Any ideas?

Thanks,
Chris
