Date: Mon, 15 Apr 2002 00:07:13 -0500
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: "Terry K." <CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] hard data, and guessing games

On Sun, Apr 14, 2002 at 11:48:48PM -0500, Terry K. wrote:
>  I reflect upon the the principal's of seat of the pant's experience--

While just following this thread w/ small interest I can see one small
point that I believe you are overlooking. Your perception is that in
the engines that you maintain (and others engines) you have not had
bad things happen to them. Your claim is that it b/c of the additives
you add. It's hard to quantify that since the simple act of properly
maintaining an engine will help extend it's life to what it was
designed for. I believe what you can claim w/ your experience with
these products is that you have seen no detrimental effects to using
them. This is a good claim, I would hate to put something in my engine
which causes it harm. I believe what dr tim is saying that without
tests in a controlled fashion it's hard to tell if you get something
positive from them. A request for hard evidence could be as simple as
running 2 identical engines side-by-side non stop and checking if
there are any noticable differences after different amounts of time.
It's not unreasonable to ask.


> The Wright Bros, flew an aircraft, with no data whatsoever----It was
> their own failures,and accomplishment's-- that they accomplished was
> what they were there to do--fly---no wriiten data
> Not so far, not too long but they did it through their seat of the pant
> determination---no data, only  the input supplied from Clair Chanute,
> who was experimenting with unpowered glider's---the rest was all on
> their own--trial and error---
> 
> Same with Edison and the light bulb--Marconi with the radio, and a whole
> broad expanse of other's in the early days of trial and error---zero
> documented data---

these aren't quite in the same arena. Look at them from this
viewpoint. with the wright bros, it was quite easy to see that it flew
at Kitty Hawk. Edison? would have been easy to "see" that the light
bulb he worked on worked (no he didn't invent it) Marconi as well.

-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
"Ten million monkeys all pick up guitars, but nobody taught them how"
-The Presidents of the United States of America
