To: "Karl" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "Jeff Tickner" <JeffT(-at-)softlanding.com>
Date: Mon, 15 Apr 2002 08:29:12 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] 79 Cali dist


I'm on digest mode to my work address (I only read the list while I'm
compiling ;-), I swear) so I didn't get your response before my visit to my
mechanic, Karl.

On Saturday I went over there and he handed me the complete distributer
with module and wiring harness. I asked him about the coil and he said "You
have a Bosch blue coil anyway, right? Your all set". Then he showed me
another Cali 79 in his shop that he was doing a pilot bearing and exhaust
on that had a Bosch red coil. The blue coil confused the issue enough for
me that I stopped questioning him and put it on. That giant vac can on the
side gets rid of any space you might have had to get at the mount nut. He
said to plug the retard, he double checked the wiring and it cranked right
up, he set the timing, and it ran wonderful. I took the long way home,
maybe 10 miles with some 60MPH driving and it felt real good.

Here it is Monday morning and I read Karl's response. So am I killing my
coil? or the module? Karl, I will get the correct coil before I run this
set up too much.

I'm also enjoying the "am I 180 out" thread as I am wondering just where it
was that my mechanic timed it. I also started this project with a 009 in my
bus last fall, put in a stock vac-adv dizzy and couldn't get it running. I
switched the plug wires around and it would start and die. It required a
tow to my mechanic so he could tell me the fuel injection harness was loose
(doh!). So I got to drive my bus twice with the stock 78 vac-adv and
points, and then changed to the Cali 79. I just want to say, the 009 sucks,
even with Pertronix, having driven with both on the same engine. I'm
looking forward to connecting both vac advcance and retard and timing it
per VW, with the correct coil.

I'm going over to see my mechanic tonight anyway, he's moving his
shop/semi-retiring and I'm buying a big lot of mixed parts he doesn't feel
like moving, all NOS parts I haven't seen yet, bearings, little bits and
pieces. I don't want to argue with him too much about this since it looks
like I could be in the right place at the right time during this move :-)



                                                                                                                                    
                      "Karl"                                                                                                        
                      <aufever(-at-)prodigy         To:      <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "Jeff Tickner" <JeffT(-at-)softlanding.com>                   
                      .net>                    cc:                                                                                  
                                               Subject: Re: [T2] 79 Cali dist                                                       
                      04/12/02 08:58                                                                                                
                      PM                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    




Sorry, your mechanic is wrong. You have to use the correct coil. Go get a
68 -79 Bentley. Section 5, page 78. 20.1 Special coil.
"The basic description of coil operation, installation, and maintenance
given
in 19.1 Coil applies equally to the special coil installed on vehicles with
breakerless transistorized ignitions. However, under no circumstances
should a
coil other than VW part # 211 905 115C be used with the breakerless
transistorized system."


Before you go back to him, get a 80 - 85 Vanagon Bentley, go to page 28.8.
Except for the idle stabilizer and the dist. drive at the bottom, THESE are
all the parts you NEED to make this swap
work. Sorry, you cannot piece together standard ignition parts with this
system.

Perhaps if he distrusts list info, maybe he will believe the info in the
Bentley.

> This saturday I'm getting and installing my 79 Calif distributor in my 78
> stock 2L.
>
> My mechanic said the stock coil will work fine, while Karl  said a Bosch
> electronic coil from the donor bus or a Rabbit is required.







