Date: Mon, 15 Apr 2002 09:43:37 -0700
To: Matty Kirk <bustedbreadloaf(-at-)YAHOO.COM>,
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] diesel conversion (some questions)

At 10:25 AM 4/14/2002, Matty Kirk wrote:

>what is HP of the 2.0 Type IV compared to the 1.6
>Diesel? if anyone knows HP of both GREAT but all i'm
>really looking for (from this list) is the HP figure
>for the 2.0 Type IV.(searched archives for this to no
>avail)

Not exactly sure on the type IV but 67hp comes to mind.  The 1.6D is 
52hp.  As someone else mentioned, torque should be similar.

>also, does anyone know of anyone who has done this
>conversion or something similiar? perhaps a website or
>email address would be helpful.

Here's a mailing list that may be helpful:

TDI-conversion(-at-)yahoogroups.com

Low-traffic list and it's specifically for TDI engines into Vanagons but 
there are some knowledgeable people there that can and probably will help you.

>thanks very much. as always any answers, opinions or
>insights will be GREATLY appreciated!!!! thanks
>again!!!

Here's my opinion - I don't think you're crazy, but there are some issues 
to consider.  A friend of mine has a 1.6D Vanagon Westy and has shared his 
opinion of it with me.  He says there is adequate grunt to get moving 
around town and he can hold 60 on the highway.  He likes the great torque 
of the engine off idle.  Mileage is better than the 2.0 also.  Drawbacks - 
top speed is reduced, no passing power, smokes under full throttle, etc.. 
typical diesel stuff.  Your '76 tranny is probably geared too tall for the 
1.6D , but a baywindow is also a bit lighter so you might get away with it 
if you live in a flat area.  I've considered this swap also, but I think I 
would try to find a 1.9D engine instead, as Chris mentioned.  It has 12 
more hp (64 vs. 52) along with a corresponding increase in 
torque.  Shouldn't be any more difficult to install (not that the 1.6 won't 
be difficult) and mileage should still be better than the 2.0.

-David

