From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Mon, 15 Apr 2002 10:28:48 -0500 (CDT)
To: doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com (Doktor Tim)
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] hard data, and guessing games

And I got all this from a can of $9.00 Marvel----

What a bargain--

My beltline is fine--I believe that your shoe's are a tad too tight---

 Later,

Terry


 
E-mail message   
 
From: doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com (Doktor=A0Tim) Date: Mon, Apr 15, 2002,
4:27am (CDT-2) To: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.) Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] hard data, and guessing games 
At 09:48 PM 04/14/2002, you wrote: 
This is a tough subject, and in no way shape or form am I a chemical
engineer, nor a physicist--I do not have a degree in mechanical
engineering, nor in metallurgy--- 
=A0=A0=A0=A0I reflect upon the the principal's of seat of the pant's
experience-- 
Yes, please, outline those principles for us please. Just how low below
the navel should the belt height be???? 
Same with Edison and the light bulb--Marconi with the radio, and a whole
broad expanse of other's in the early days of trial and error---zero
documented data--- 
You are so full of bullshit your eyes are brown. Every one of the
substances Edison tried to make a filement from was written down. The
time it took to fry was written down. The date of the experiment was
written down. The amps draw during testing was written down. All data
within his capability of measurement was written down. 
And this is all I was attempting to convey to Tim and other's---- He is
locked in to Mfg's recommendation and nothing else--according to his
prior statement's--- 
If it ain't recommended by the factory --It ain't right. 
You have clearly missed my message. You must distinguish between
experiment (damn the cost, I want to do something different for it's own
sake, or, I want my T-II to do something the factory never contemplated)
and functional suitability for uses contemplated by the manufacturer. In
the majority of cases when some toe-head wants to put a Rabbit diesel in
his T-IV T-II, his purpose is to save time/money, cause he has a bum
T-IV motor that will cost big bucks to fix and a scrap car with a motor
he assumes is usable. He doesn't have enough money to hire anything. So
I tell them, IF you want the vehicle to be safe and reliable for normal
transportation (as contemplated by the manufacturer) whatever the cost
to follow original specs is the lowest cost to get safe and reliable
transportation and maintain the value of the vehicle, ie, USE IT to get
from point a to point b without failure. 
If you are experimenting to try to get around the actual time/money
required to get safe and reliable, your probability of success is almost
nil. You really have only two choices. Keep it as originally engineered,
or do the engineering to modify the design. If time/money is one of your
important criteria, the first option is the only rational choice. Trial
and error is just another way to say experiment. Same thing. I encourage
experimentation, but only if the time/money to follow through is
considered RATIONALLY. The point is, if you and a few buddies have among
you 3 phd's in physics and engineering and economics and decide to make
up a better design from scratch, if you have enough time/money you might
come up with something viable for market. You still won't be a pimple on
the ass of the Neandereers who have already demonstrated a world wide
beloved design, and will sell to you at far less cost the results of
their exhaustive development. If you want safe and reliable on the
street, no matter the cost to make it all stock, that is the lowest cost
to put vehicle problems behind you and receive the benefits of the
safest and most reliable RESULTS possible. 
With hindsight, is it better to spend $2000 time/money experimenting
with a conversion, get poor results, then spend $4000 to do it right,
or, just spend the $4000 to do it right the first time and be done with
it?? Which method will typically end up getting results at the lowest
cost in the shortest time??? How many of you were thrilled with the
experiments of PO's on your new T-II when you got it home and finally
got a chance to really look things over??? 
The best value of experimentation for the DIY'er is the knowledge
gained. The knowledge of most value for the rest of your life is a real
world lesson in economic reality. 
=A0=A0=A0=A0So with this in mind--and he being of the air cooled
mentality ( today, I remember when he was on the Vanagon list ),
straight weight oil is the optima best for you air cooled engine, no
sodium or titanium valves, and God help you if you convert your type 2
suitcase engine to hydraulic lifter's, because the factory didn't supply
them unit's with that set-up--- 
Updates within the context of the original design are fine, as long as
they are documented. Guy blows a clutch in his Westy. I tell him $xxx to
replace it based upon stock configuration. I pull the engine and what I
have is a 1500cc T-III motor and clutch in an overloaded camper. Now it
will cost $xxx PLUS $xxx to install a bigger flywheel and clutch and
send him down the road with a very over stressed motor. Is this economic
efficiency?? 
---it must be point's or bust, no platinum plugs, because this isn't
correct--and zero blue Bosch coils, it ain't factory original---- 
You are just trying to warp the message. Please don't put words in my
mouth. Search the archives all you want and you will find I never said
anything like that. The Bosch blue coil is a proper, called for, correct
replacement item for most of the earlier designs. It is a stock upgrade.
Platinum plugs were tested exhaustively at the factory and found to
provide a tiny measurable benefit at twice the cost, and only when used
with later, high-energy electronic ignitions. Ergo, not approved. They
don't provide enough benefit to justify the extra cost, not even close.
Review the archives on after market conversions. Note all the problems
cropping up with experiments originally conceived to save time/money. 
All I'm trying to say here there are so many improvement's that can be
done to a Bus engine, including the use of Marvel, to increase the
reliability,and longevity, of the air cooled engine waaaay beyond the
limits of the holy Bentley, or the factory issued repair manuals, that
are truly beneficial in the long run---- 
What an enlightened CLAIM. This list is great. We can get better info
here than from all the Neandereers in Germany combined. Send this man
$29.95 for the great savings and improved viability you will get from
assuming he's right. 
This is why I mention wearing blinder's in a prior message , regarding
this subject---- look beyond the stuck on stupid factory maintenance
recommendations --you'll be happier in the long run--and so will your
Bus--- 
Now there is a bald assed claim you can surly sell to someone. Anybody
want to help this guy with marketing??? He's a millionaire spam artist
just waiting to happen. Pull you pants back up, more than the crack is
showing. Stupid is as stupid does. 
---------------------------------------------- 
=A0=A0=A0=A0To UNSUBSCRIBE send any e-mail to:
type2-unsubscribe(-at-)pon.type2.com To email the admin for list help only:
type2-admin(-at-)pon.type2.com 
=A0=A0For additional commands send any e-mail to:
type2-help(-at-)pon.type2.com Donations help keep the list going.
http://www.type2.com/donate.html 
----------------------------------------------

