Date: Mon, 15 Apr 2002 17:07:11 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: "Terry K." <CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] hard data, and guessing games



On Sun, 14 Apr 2002, Terry K. wrote:

>
> This is a tough subject, and in no way shape or form am I a chemical
> engineer, nor a physicist--I do not have a degree in mechanical
> engineering, nor in metallurgy---
>
>  I reflect upon the the principal's of seat of the pant's experience--
>
> The Wright Bros, flew an aircraft, with no data whatsoever----It was
> their own failures,and accomplishment's-- that they accomplished was
> what they were there to do--fly---no wriiten data
> Not so far, not too long but they did it through their seat of the pant
> determination---no data, only  the input supplied from Clair Chanute,
> who was experimenting with unpowered glider's---the rest was all on
> their own--trial and error---

The Wrights built a wind tunnel and conducted extensive tests on wing
sections, as well as building and experimenting with several full-size
gliders.  they collected a _lot_ of data before they flew an airplane.
Among other things, they invented efficient airfoils, propellers, control
methods, and, oh yes, built the engine that powered their airplane from
scratch.  They were far from the backyard tinkerers that  they are
portrayed as.

> Same with Edison and the light bulb

Edison was the ultimate trial-and-error scientist.  Nikola Tesla commented
that if Edison wanted to find a needle in a haystack he would examine each
straw individually to determine if it was a needle or not.  Edison
collected data in volumes.

--Marconi with the radio

Well, Marconi created the radio using Tesla's patents.  He was good at
application and public relations.  Tesla was too busy experimenting with
transmission of power to develop his radio technology.

, and a whole
> broad expanse of other's in the early days of trial and error---zero
> documented data---

Where data did not exist, the scientists _created_ it through extensive
experimental work, not simply by empirical observation.

> And this is all I was attempting to convey to Tim and other's----
> He is locked in to Mfg's recommendation and nothing else--according to
> his prior statement's---

The factory has spent considerable time and money figuring out how to
keep their vehicles running for the maximum time.  They certainly aren't
going to recommend anything that isn't good for their vehicles.

The lubricant manufacturers have engineered their product to meet the
specifications of the auto manufacturers.  They aren't going to do
anything to their products that would make them not meet those
specifications.

> If it ain't recommended by the factory --It ain't right.

This is not always true.  There are some products that, in specialized
applications, are better than the recommended products.  However, in 99%
of the cases the factory recommedations are the best.  If you decide to go
outside the factory recommendations you are now an engineer, and you have
to decide on the ramifications of your decisions.  If you decide to add an
extra taillight, for example, you have to make sure that there is enough
excess capicity in the electrical system to handle the current.

> All I'm trying to say here there are so many improvement's that can be
> done to a Bus engine, including the use of Marvel, to increase the
> reliability,and logevity,  of the air cooled engine waaaay beyond the
> limits of the holy Bentley, or the factory issued repair manuals, that
> are truly beneficial in the long run----

My beef with Marvel is that the stuff is advertised to be good for
everything no matter where you use it.  Gasoline, crankcase, brushing
teeth, it's the cat's meow!  In reality the stuff is just light petroleum
oil with some solvent.  It's good for things like freeing lifters, but as
a regular additive there is no evidence that it is useful or advantageous.
It's seldom a good idea to fiddle around with oil chemistry unless you
_really_ know what you are doing.  Marvel has been around for ages, and if
it was good for aircooled VW engines I'd think that VW would have figured
it out by now.

> This is why I mention wearing blinder's in a prior message , regarding
> this subject---- look beyond the stuck on stupid factory maintenance
> recommendations --you'll be happier in the long run--and so will your
> Bus---

I have yet to come across a "stupid factory maintainance
recommendation", but I have come across a lot of wild claims from the
snake oil people.  They are in the business of making money and who cares
if it harms your vehicle.

Engineers know that there are a hundred ways to do something wrong for
every way of doing something right.  When you alter with one system, you
will have consequences with others.  Snake oil substances concentrate on
one or two positives and not on the negatives.  Marvel is a good solvent,
but is it a good idea to put it into a motor with a buildup of sludge on
the internals?  I think not.  One cannot make blanket recommendations
about products, since a particular application may not be good for
everyone.

If I were smart I'd start marketing diesel fuel
in 12 ounce cans and call it "superdupercleanolube" or somesuch.  I could
claim that it "cleans your engine", "frees stuck lifters", "lubricates
rings", etc, as diesel fuel _does_ these things.  If I kept the amount
small, the oil contamination wouldn't be enough to cause any immediate
problems.  People would use the stuff, and with luck a fair number of them
would experience no problems.  Some of these people will give glowing
testimonials for my product.

As long as I didn't let it get out what was in my product I would make a
fortune!  Perhaps if I put "mystery" in the name of the product...

George Lyle

