Date: Mon, 15 Apr 2002 17:57:07 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: "Eric W. Bradway" <eric(-at-)bradway.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] hard data, and guessing games



On Mon, 15 Apr 2002, Eric W. Bradway wrote:

> >>  I reflect upon the the principal's of seat of the pant's experience--
> >
> > While just
> following this thread w/ small interest I can see one small
> > point that I believe you are
> overlooking. Your perception is that in
> > the engines that you maintain (and others
> engines) you have not had bad
>
> Oil and additives become real voodoo with these engines -
> as they were in my Porsche 911. Nobody makes an oil that works really well
> in oil-cooledengines anymore. Except, maybe, the oil that Harley-Davidson sells at
> their  dealerships.If you want the rundown on oil and oil-cooling, ask a hawg rider.

What would a MD or lawyer know about motor oil?  :)

Actually, there are a couple of other big users of air-cooled engines out
there.  Just about every piston-engine aircraft is air-cooled.  Just about
every industrial engine is air-cooled.  A fair number of motorcycles are
air-cooled.  I'd go with their data any day over that of a random Harley
rider.  The assertion that "Nobody makes an oil that works really well in
aircooled engines anymore" is a myth, since quite a few new aircooled
engines are running happily on the available oils.

There isn't all that much
difference in oil technology between water and air-cooled engines.  Yes,
the air cooled engines run higher head temperatures, but the hottest part
of an engine is under the piston crown.  Both air and water engines cook
their oil there!

> Persoanlly, I use the same oilon my Type 4 VW engine as I used in my 911 - straight 30 weight. I'm also
> planning to add andexternal oil coolar and reserviour, like my 911. Will the 10.5 quart
> capacity of thereservior and cooler of the 911, Porsche recommended oil changes at 15K
> miles - in time withvalve adjustments. Of course, Porsche used solid lifters through at least
> 1989, so maybethey are better than hydraulic.

Oil technology has improved considerably since the '30s.  Multi-viscosity
oils are now stable and quite suitable for all engines.  Literally
thousands of hours of chemical engineering has gone into making oil into
the product it is today.  Why is it that some think that they can improve
upon this effort by the random addition of one form of additive or
another?

> > Do remember - if the dance is improv - you need to keep an eye
> on the lead - your engine - to remain in step.

If you're improvising, then you don't have a leader!  The fact is that
your engine has been designed to function well as designed.  If you
decide to set off on other design paths, you are now the chief engineer
and it's up to you to determine if your great idea will have unintended
consequences.

> You can't depend on the
> prescribed footwork of awaltz or a rumbha - and you can't depend on the prescribed maintenance of
> Bentley or Muir(although Muir says about the same thing).

Why not?  Did the invention of the pertronix ignition mean that all
Kettering systems suddenly stopped working?.  Does SL oil not work as well
as SF?  You really can't go wrong with the stock setup, and the Bentley
book as well as the owner's manual will serve you well for service.  If
you want to modify, fine, but don't get into the mindset that everyone
has to modify just because the stuff is available.

I've done a lot of shadetree modificatons.  I've also been an engineer
tasked to make modifications to complex vehicles.  One task was to replace
the "outdated" avionics in a certain aging mach-3 aircraft with modern
parts.  No problem, design some brackets for the new boxes that fit the
old mounts.  Next thing I know, I get a call from the weights group (the
folks  who keep track of what everything weighs in the airplane).  Seems
that I  have overlooked something, in that the old avionics weighed over
100  pounds and the new ones less than 10 pounds.  Airplanes don't like to
have  their centers of gravity moved back.  Next task was designing
brackets to hold the 90 pounds of lead weights behind the new avionics
boxes to get the CG back to where it belongs.  Unintended consequences
will come back to bite you if you aren't careful!

George

