Date: Mon, 15 Apr 2002 20:18:24 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Eric W. Bradway" <eric(-at-)bradway.net>
To: <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Cc: <eric(-at-)bradway.net>, <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>, <CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] hard data, and guessing games

>> Harley-Davidson sells at their  dealerships.If you want the rundown on
>> oil and oil-
cooling, ask a hawg rider.
>
> What would a MD or lawyer know about motor oil?  :)

Maybe
not a new Harley rider. Ask one who rides an older bike ;)

> of a random Harley rider.  The
assertion that "Nobody makes an oil that
> works really well in aircooled engines
anymore" is a myth, since quite
> a few new aircooled engines are running happily on the
available oils.

So I see this argument going both ways. I guess it's a almost a religious
matter. Personally, I like straight 30 weight but I really want an
external oil cooler toincrease the oil capacity and keep the oil from breaking down too fast. I
have somemisgivings about putting synthetic in an engine this old - but I don't
know if it's based onfact. But I guess when I'm the one who's going to be doing the rebuilding
(on the side of theroad if necessary), then I feel justified listening to my gut.

It sure would be nice to
accumulate some empirical data on the Type 4 engine and oil use. Maybe I
should write a web-based survey to try to collect and collate the data. Any thoughts on what
to include?
>
hottest part of an engine is under the piston crown.  Both air and
> water engines cook their
oil there!

Yes. Boiling oil happens with both oil and water coolers. That's why you can
buy external oil coolers for water-cooled motors. So the best answer -
monitor your oil tempand condition.

> making oil into the product it is today.  Why is it that some think
>
that they can improve upon this effort by the random addition of one
> form of additive or
another?

The additives, I would assume, alter the viscosity. If it helps then I guess
you are using the wrong oil to begin with.

> If you're improvising, then you don't have a
leader!  The fact is that
> your engine has been designed to function well as designed.  If
you

There are many questions here. Where did VW intend these engines to run?
At whatspeeds should the bus be driven?

Personally, I am following the lead of the previous
owners of my bus. I have a 28-year-old bus that has had countless mods
made. It's a journey ofdiscovery to figure out just what's in it. For instance, I have a Weber
Progressive which Ijust rebuilt. It was full of crud. Still, the throttle linkage is sloppy.
The EGR isn'thooked up. Etc., etc. I don't want to go back to stock - and ultimately,
is it better to go back tostock '74 vintage or add the features of the later engines?

> and it's up to you to
determine if your great idea will have unintended
> consequences.

The unintended
consequences may mean I get to rebuild the engine on the side of the road.
When/If thathappens, I'll learn alot and maybe change directions again. I don't know
if I want to go backto stock '74 as I'm not  at all impressed with the performance of this
engine in this vehicle. Afuel-injected 2-liter might be happier.

> service.  If you want to modify, fine, but don't
get into the mindset
> that everyone has to modify just because the stuff is
available.

I don't know if I implied that. Part of the improv is deciding which mods you
want to live with. And yes, you can dance by the book.

Thanks for the feedback, George. I
don't think we actually disagree but we don't exactly agree either. But
that's cool! If I'mstuck on the side of the road and you stop to help - I'd be happy to
consider your advice,especially if it gets me rolling!

-Eric
---------------------------------------------------------------
www.yogabus.com                  '74 Westy 'Portia'



