From: "Neale Green" <yeti(-at-)neale.org>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 21 Sep 2001 21:10:19 +1000
Subject: Brasilia Bus Bumpers? (Fridayish Bus Topic)

As I'll ACTUALLY have both of my Double Cabs in my possession, as of
tomorrow, and hence the object of a running, road registered, daily driver
DC is getting closer to fruition, a slightly frivolous styling question MAY
be suitable.

When asking a question about Bay windows with Splittie style double opening
cargo doors a while back ( seems like ages now ), Thom brought my attention
to the 70's (or was it 80's?) Brasilia Busses, which had a Baywindow cab,
but were 15 window from the B Pillar back.
(http://neale.org/images/brasilia.html). As they were pretty much what I was
thinking of, they really caught my attention. I'd still love to do the Yeti
Project ( IE a fake Brasilia DC), but that's lookin' a rather distant dream
at this point, as the 15 window corners & hatch don't appear to be available
for love, nor money, in Australia at this time.

ANYWAY, one thing that I'd love to change on the '79 DC (if I can't do the
Yeti Project), is the bumpers, to get rid of the industrial/agricultural
look of the late Type 2 bumpers. I believe that I can get the T2a ('68-72,
or at least '72) SC/DC rear Bumper & mounts to fit (if I can find them), but
(as everyone knows quite well), there isn't much that can be done about the
front bumper. One VERY interesting thing about the Brasilia Busses, however,
is that they APPEAR to have the front Clip of the T2b ('73-'79) Type 2s, but
they had a much nicer (IMHO) rounded bumper bar.

So, here's the Friday Longshot Question/request, does anyone have, or know
of, a Brasilia front Bumper Bar (with Mounts), that they'd be interested in
selling (and shipping to Sydney, Australia). If there are any NZ list
members, I know that they were over there, as the nice red RHD Brasilia in
the Picture was there, any one able to help the needy? ;^)

Alternatively, can any list members identify the front bumpers on the blue &
red Brasilias? If they're "standard" Bus bumpers, maybe I can find the
Brasilia bumper Mounts somewhere, and replace the front Girder (  I mean
bumper) that way?

Thanking you in anticipation.

Regards,

Neale

Neale Green
Sydney,  Australia
Tigger        - '74 Sopru Campmobile
Yeti            - '75 DC Basketcase
Dixie Belle  - '79 DC
http://neale.org/type2.html

