From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 21 Sep 2001 11:04:50 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Euro Tails Again

In a message dated 9/20/2001 10:52:51 PM Pacific Daylight Time, 
mattroberds(-at-)home.com writes:  << It sounds like you disconnected *both* wires 
at the MC switch, which isn't right.  You have to disconnect one wire and 
leave the feed wire hooked up.  To find the feed wire, turn on the key but 
don't step on the brakes.  Go under the Bus and try your test light from 
ground to each wire in turn.  The one that lights the light is the one that 
should stay connected to the switch.  Disconnect the other one and turn the 
key off. >>

Hi Matt,
The rest of your of your explaination is great, but this part....   Best to 
dissconnect the Black/Red brake light wire just where it connects just in 
front of the drive kick panel and goes to the turn signal switch and hook the 
brake wire coming back from the brake light switch to a wire going to the 
seperate brake lights.  Before doing this though first go out to your local 
hardware store and buy at least 21' (6.5m) of what is commonly refered to as 
trailer wire.  This trailer wire has a thick outer black rubber sheath and 
anywhere from three to eight individually insulated stranded wires.  We use 
trailer wire that has at least 4 individual wires and each of these are about 
14 gauge size which is what the majority of the VW wiring harness is made up 
of.  Drill a hole from underneath through the lower nose of the bus just 
above the nose belly pan, but make darned sure you miss the rest of the 
wiring harness above this spot you drill!  Also drill a hole in the left 
forward wall of the engine compartment just above the forward engine tin.  
Grommets that fit this trailer wire are needed in both of the driled holes 
and usable ones can be found in wrecked VW buses where the main wiring 
harness passes through the forward engine compartment wall on the right side. 
 Weave the trailer wire under the bus making sure it does not get anywhere to 
close to moving cables and linkages!  Then solder and heat shrink on extender 
wires and female clips where needed to not only hook up the brake wire, but 
this allows easy installation of gauges now or in the future!   Eric&Barb
