From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 21 Sep 2001 11:49:31 EDT
To: jbakerccymca(-at-)springmail.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Where theres smoke...

In a message dated 9/21/01 8:06:22 AM Pacific Daylight Time, 
jbakerccymca(-at-)springmail.com writes:

<< 
  So to make a long story even longer here is my question: Should this have 
happened?  Is there likely a problem with that heater box?  Or did it 
probably just have some oil or something on it and without the fan air, just 
got hot enough to burn the gunk off? 
 
 
  >>

ya- the other reason not to pull the fresh air hoses off is they are part of 
your cooling system-  especially on a hot day.

once upon a time I was on a road trip and the fan belt broke.   I replaced 
the fan belt, but it thrashed the right side paper tube when it went.  I 
crumpled up the top of the tube so block the air from blowing out the hole, 
at least it'll blow over the cylinders I thought.  I had no spare fresh air 
tube.  Not far down the highway had this horrible smell in the bus.    THe 
tube from heater box to bus body was a later (bay) one that was plastic and 
melting.  ick stink yick.     The fresh air really does help cool the exhaust 
and heater box and head.   I pulled the plastic tube from between heater box 
and body immediately to stop the stink, and got a new fresh air tube ASAP, 
now carry a spare tube, tend toward the hard plastic fresh air tubes instead 
of the paper, stronger vs fan belts..

I think probably just that combination grease etc sticking to the heater 
boxes was burning off.  On a hot day they can get really hot. especially w/o 
cooling.

Perhaps try to readjust the heat cables on your bus so that when the heat 
cable is turned off the heat actually goes all the way off, rather than 
hooking it up so full on is full on.   There are different arms on 
bug/splitty heater boxes- by comparing these I figured out which to use so 
the heat can be turned all the way and all the way off, rather than spanning 
half the specturm (off to half heat, or half heat to full).  watch unde rthe 
bus while a friend turns the heat knob.
