From: SatireDUN(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 21 Sep 2001 16:56:54 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, VolksSpeed(-at-)aol.com
Subject: bad manners

--part1_b8.1bb1e587.28dd0396_boundary
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="US-ASCII"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

this is still not the place for that. no matter how bad it gets violence does 
not ever lead to any good. we cant destroy a whole country for the sake of a 
small sect of people
"i would give my front bumper to run over bin laden"
you must understand that the places where these people, these terrorists 
reside is very, very, tiny. however the way our militalry is designed is 
meant for a large scale attack...so whenever or whoever we decide to atack, a 
large area around them will withstain heavy damage...including civilians who 
have nothing to do with this war. the footage of people celebrating in 
istanbul the day of the attack was VERY overhyped (and i do mean VERY), you 
have to realize that we as a country are not popular in the world..that 
doesnt mean that ever person in the countries involved who does not agree 
with americas policies is a terrorist. that would make many people in america 
terorists. we as a country have a very selfish foreign relations regime...we 
take what we want, when we want it, and if you dont give it to us...watch 
out. we are a bully. so it shoudl be understandable that many, many people 
DONT LIKE AMERICA...thats why, whenever in the middle east, africa, eurasia, 
or even europe you dont generaly say your american...you say your canadian. 
but, like i said before, and i stress it again, EVEN IF MANY PEOPLE IN THESE 
COUNTRIES DONT LIKE US, IT DOESNT MAKE THEM TERRORISTS. so please....assume 
anything of middle eastern peoples...dont assume those who question americas 
values and policies are terrorists or are harboring them therein...i hope you 
understand my veiw, and understand their view, as i understand yours.
good day and god bless...
-meredith  
WE are THEY are PEOPLE

--part1_b8.1bb1e587.28dd0396_boundary--
