From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 22 Sep 2001 22:30:42 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Throttle pedal/cable sticking and leaking gas in engine compartment!

In a message dated 9/22/2001 9:09:27 AM Pacific Daylight Time, 
rmcgill(-at-)carolina.rr.com writes: << I've seen many posts about a gas pedal 
rebuild. I do not understand why, but
 expect that my problem is:
 1. need new carb spring
 2. need to make sure carpet secured and not pushing on pedal
 3. maybe the pedal hinge needs some oiling or something??? >>

Hi Raymond,
1. You might need to do.  We found a thicker wire made spring that is working 
for us.
2.  Definitely a good idea, also check your linkage under the front of the 
bus and fix/replace worrn parts and grease well with molygraph grease.
3.  Again take apart and fix or replace and grease all the linkage parts with 
molygraph.
 
<< Anyone know if this is a common type II problem? >>
Definitely when using later type carbs with thier return springs on the 
carbs.  A good idea to install a accelerator cable boden tube (Which in a 
pinch can be made of a rubber fuel line and hose clamp to the tube the cable 
comes out of at the rear of the body.) to prevent the cable from rubbing on 
the nosecone of the tranny.  Take out the accelerator cable and grease it 
with the same molygraph as the other linkage parts.
 
<< Second, it looks that the dualport gas intakes from the carb are leaking 
fuel. It seems to be coming from the weld joint where the pipe goes to dual 
port (on both sides!)Any recommendations here? If I have to spend $ to fix 
this, would it be better to upgrade to a better than stock carb set up? My 
stock 72' type I 1600cc could sure use some umph.  >>

If it is leaking at all there you need to install new rubber boots or risk 
burning heads and polish the areas they seal to.  It also sounds like you 
have a problem with over pressure of the fuel pump, or a bad shut off float 
or missing it's gasket and/or the float in the carb is bad or just too heavy.
  As for your engine bolt on stuff will not really help most likely.  You 
need to tear it down to a longblock to retorque all your engine case and head 
fasteners and go through all the parts you took off the engine to blueprint 
these parts and make sure everything seals/fits/works properly.  If it still 
does not have the power you want then most likely you need to build a new 
engine to what you need.  High RPM HP or low RPM high torque, which the 
latter is what most bus volks need to keep them happy.  Talk to NQ about his 
experience with the high RPM massive flow engine he built and now he has the 
low RPM torque engine he found he needed.   Eric&Barb  
