Date: Fri, 13 Apr 2007 18:56:37 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: rodewarrior(-at-)comcast.net
Subject: Re: [T2] Friday Post - Driving the Speed Limit

When I first got my bus I was always pushing - always
going a little faster through the turns and always
getting as much run at hills as I could. When I had my
hot engine, I was over 100mph regularly - always doing
whatever I could to prevent people from passing me up
hills. When I put the Subey engine in, the first few
weeks were pretty wild, but after that, I'm pretty
laid back since I now know that any time I want to I
can pass almost any jerk who comes along (thus passing
the 'jerk' moniker on to me!) I can now downshift at
80mph (if I'd ever want to!) and 70 to 90 is a blink
of the eye. It has slowed me way down because now it's
no big deal! -BaH

--- rodewarrior(-at-)comcast.net wrote:
 I thought that when I turned 30 I wouldn't have any
 ridiculous sudden maturity issues, turns out I was
 wrong.
 
 Last week I was cruising along enjoying a good song
 and noticed that I was in a really great mood and
 that I was going somewhere between 54 and 55 miles
 per hour.
 
 I am from a long line of crazy aggressive speeders,
 my dad is in the Bonneville 200 mph club, I
 calculate my driving time in seconds, I drove a 1971
 Torino with a 429 to high school and college during
 which time I rarely had a day I didn't go over
 100mph.
 
 Since buying my bus I have been successful at giving
 myself pep talks before actual trips about taking it
 easy and enjoying the drive, but on my commute I was
 an animal, a real warrior, I will take you out, I
 was running F350s with tires as tall as my bus off
 the road and pushing my motor real hard.
 
 Suddenly last week this all seemed so ridiculous. 
 What the hell is my problem? <<SNIPPED>>

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
