From: "Todd Olson" <todd.olson(-at-)charter.net>
To: "'type2 List'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 15 Apr 2007 21:04:31 -0400
Subject: Buses By the Beach - Bus Benefit is One Month Away!

Hello Fellow Volks Folks,

We are only one month away from the fifth annual "Bus Benefit" hosted by
Buses By the Beach.com and Sponsored by GoWesty.com! We will be meeting in
Grand Rapids, Michigan May 18, 19, & 20. This event is our main fund raiser
for Burn Survivors. We are really looking forward to seeing everyone from
all over the United States and Canada! We plan our spring bus event in
conjunction with the Burn Survivor Car Show where there will be in excess of
500 cars. 

 

If you have not made your reservations yet please do so by calling
616-361-1053 and tell them you are with the Buses Group. This is important
so we can plan enough space for everyone. 

 

We look forward to seeing old friends again and meeting new ones. For more
information on the event please visit our website and feel free to post
questions and communicate with others on the forum. Also, while you are at
our website, check out the new videos and pictures on our multimedia page.
If you have photos from past Buses By the Beach events and would like to
upload them, there is a place to do so on the multimedia page. 

 

If you would like to receive information about coming events please go to
our website and sign up as a member of the forum and you will automatically
receive informational emails about coming events. 

 

This years t-shirt is awesome and I think they are going to be a great hit.
Thank you to Mary Wisnewski that designed this year's shirt. More
information on the shirts will be coming. 

 

Wishing you many miles of smiles in your bus!

The Volks Folks at Buses By the Beach.com

www.busesbythebeach.com <http://www.busesbythebeach.com/> 

 

Coming Events: 

Bus Benefit! May 18th - 20th 2007 Grand Rapids, MI 

Bus Boo! September 14th - 16th 2007 Grand Rapids, MI

Bus BRR! February 9th - 10th 2008 Angola, IN
