Date: Mon, 16 Apr 2007 18:42:20 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: Ned Savoie <ned(-at-)harbourlight.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] correction Re: WI TechPix2

It's the simplicity of Roberts design that makes it
all work. (Theoretically) I don't even have a T4 motor
any longer. I put those pix up to illustrate to those
interested in using Roberts design just to show where
the optimum placement would be.

I would drill a bit deeper with the larger bit before
drilling with the small bit. After determining that I
had the proper needle, I would secure it with expoxy
possibly, or just stick with silicone. With that short
area drilled with the larger bit, the silicone will be
mushroomed at the outer end of the hole and that will
prevent any movement.

Remember that the reservoir must be at a point where
it is below the needle in every possible driving
situation. Because of that, the water is only drawn
out the needle when there is a low pressure area at
the tip of the needle. When the throttle is closed,
there is nothing to draw water up through the needle.

Robert has not done it on a FI motor and I have not
done it on a FI motor. I had all kinds of elaborate
schemes of using injectors and presuure, but none
would work as well as his concept. One of my ideas was
to remove the EGR piping inside the plenum and add
another coldstart injector at the EGR port. That would
inject the water right toward the incoming flow of
air. The problems in making that work properly are
quite a few and some pretty major. With Robert's
design, mother nature does all the work.

Pay attention to the size of needle he recommends. He
seems to be directing us to use a larger needle for FI
but I think that is incorrect. The engines are
basically the same size and so the needles should be
the same size. The FI engine is not any more efficient
than the carb version. The only reason the needle may
need more volume is if the airflow through the TB is
too slow, which I think shall not be a problem if the
needle is placed where I indicated with the end
approximately midway between the wide open butterfly
and the sidewall of the throttle body bore.

Note also that the placement of the needle is very
slightly upstream of the closed butterfly.

If there is a problem with too much water, it is a
factor of incorrect metering or of having flow under
pressure rather than being drawn through venturi
effect of air rushing past the end of the needle and
creating a lower pressure there than the atmospheric
pressure on the water in the reservoir. That said,
when the throttle is closed there is no venturi effect
and atmospheric pressure is pressing equally on the
reservoir water and the water in the needle, so it
cannot go anywhere.

There IS a possibility that because of the increased
velocity of the air moving around the butterfly in
partially opened throttle positions, having the needle
there might actually cause a greater flow of water in
those situations than in wide-open throttle
situations. I don't know the answer to that and
neither does Robert, so it would be up to whoever
wants to try it to determine if this theoretical best
position is actually going to work as planned!

Without airflow data on what actually happens within
the plenum, I would really hesitate to inject at that
vicinity. Same goes for the "S" hose. The airflow
meter has possibilities, but there's too much going on
there in my opinion, what with the vane and the
"electronics" which may not be a good partner for
water. This leaves only one other place where there is
good airflow velocity and nothing else going on - the
air runners from the plenum to each cylinder. The hose
connectors at the plenum end would be ideal places to
stick needles, but the added complexity of 4 needles
and the requirement to have them each operate in
unison with the other three is a level of complexity
that I would not venture to master.

Lastly, remember this: water is not compressible! That
means that if you have too much water, something has
to give - like a valve head or a piston crown or a
connecting rod... and so it is imperative that the
water flow only when there is airflow past the needle.
No pressure in the bottle, no pump, no gravity flow.


If I had taken this step years ago and used it on my
T4 motor that had 10.92:1 compression ratio, I'd
probably still be running that motor instead of
woosing out and installing the Subey! (I do plan on
adding water injection to the subey soon.)

I hope this sheds some light on the subject for you
and that you realize there are unanswered questions
that you will have to figure out on your own and that
there is some risk inherent in the project, especially
if you stray from Robert's design. -BaH
--- Ned Savoie <ned(-at-)harbourlight.com> wrote:

 Dave,
 
 Those pictures look great. What are you using to
 secure the needle? What
 size needle are you using? Would it make sense to
 try to wire a fuel
 injector or similar into the plenum to help atomize
 the water? I know that
 adds complexity to Roberts design, but I'm worried
 there will be a pool of
 water in the bottom of the plenum, and it will begin
 to rust out.
 
 Ned
 
 

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
