Date: Wed, 18 Apr 2007 16:00:56 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Cc: DeanG <goodmansond(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Sick of the water injection BS

	Dean has been good enough to apologise to me for that line. 
I accept his apology, but am still sending the list this response:-

>Why don't we migrate (not just *send*) this discussion to TheSamba and
>keep this list focused on First-Aid?


	Easy q.

Serious T2 owners are interested in prevention, as well as first aid.

Some also lust for power beyond 50 bhp

Advice on many tech aspects is pretty reliable among this collection 
of enthusiasts.

You can't expect everything you read to please you, so exert the 
control you already have to protect yourself from annoyance.  Anyone 
uninterested in water-injection has only to delete the msgs as they 
show up with that Subject showing in the in-box.

Anyone who joins this list thinking that most of the msgs will be 
about first aid is mistaken and should look elsewhere, or just delete 
without opening those msgs on subjects not wanted.

That goes for Arnaud, and anyone else who calls my work of 18 y 'BS'.

The outline of this 'BS' has been:-
I joined a y ago upon buying my camper.  I soon pushed WI  -  to 
little effect.  A raver or two even mocked it.  A few have taken it 
up off-list.  Suddenly, a delayed reaction by cyberace & metalhacker 
Busahaulic suggests how to do WI for VW FI.  I comment in a friendly 
tone about his lavish  -  if delayed  ;-}  grasp of the merits of the 
free-suction method for WI as contrasted with sensor-laden, 
fault-riddled pump systems (e.g  Holley). 
	A few say this is BS.  It looks to me instead like 
development of appropriate technology by some capable people.  Those 
not interested in taking part should simply toon out.  They needn't 
open those msgs.  The real reasons they've cut up ugly we can 
speculate about, but I'm not bothering.  All I ask is that those 
interested in WI not be insulted for pursuing serious technical 
discussion  -  if in jocular quasi-abusive tone (characteristic of 
some good armed services, BTW).
	We are privileged to have active participation by Phil Cain, 
USN (rtd), whose power at takeoff has been crucially improved on many 
occasions by WI.  I've given plenty evidence of power, economy, 
cooling, & cleaner exhaust with WI.  Getting a date may be added to 
that list, Dean, if you care to join in.  Otherwise, toon out; and 
realise that first aid is less likely to come to those who've proven 
themselves rude, disrespectful of the other main interests of T2.

-- 
Robt Mann
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
'69 Renault 10  -  The Water Wagon
http://www.dave-cushman.net/misc/mannject.html
