From: "Gensler, Mike" <Mike.Gensler(-at-)CONCERT.COM>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 19 Mar 2004 11:37:12 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] camshaft bearing

>I'm under the impression that it's difficult (impossible?) 
>to diagnosis "camshaft bearing problems" with the engine in 
>the car since I'm not aware of a characteristic noise or 
>whatever that gives this problem away.

The tell-tale sound of camshaft bearings going south is a distinctive odd
"ticking" sound that you can hear best at idle and using a long screwdriver
with the blade pressed against the top center of the case and the handle
stuffed up against your ear.  The visual indication is non-magnetic
bronze-colored shavings on the oil screen.  If the shavings are
silver-colored then they're more likely main bearings.  I'm sure this is not
a 100% method, but it's a darned close indication.

To the gent who's planning on replacing his cam bearings, bear in mind that
since you're splitting your case you really really really need to do a
complete bottom-end rebuild.  This means main bearings, cam bearings, and
rod bearings (big and small), front and rear seal (these are not included in
the gasket set), and of course, a complete gasket kit and the appropriate
sealants.  If it's an upright engine you should have the line-bore
checked/corrected before ordering the main bearings.  This is the absolute
minimum you should be doing anytime the case comes apart.  Figure about
$250-$300 for the necessary parts for this.

Additionally you should evaluate your pistons - if they've got under 50K
miles and they spec out OK just clean them up real good, hone your
cylinders, and install new rings.  If they're of unknown mileage and/or
don't spec out OK you should really consider a new piston/cylinder set.  You
can price out your cylinders or rings at www.busdepot.com or any number of
other places.  Spend the bucks and get Mahle's if you're buying new P&Cs.

Then there's heads.  While these can be done at another time, if you've got
the $$$ and are hoping to build an engine that'll last 75K+ miles, have the
heads inspected by a reputable shop.  I like www.rimco.com - they did an
excellent job on my 914 2.0 heads recently, but there are many others as
well.  Head work can run anywhere from $100 - 800 depending on what needs
doing.

Minimum time estimates are:  A long evening to pull the motor, a whole
weekend to disassemble everything, several evenings to get everything
squeaky clean (essential to a proper rebuild!!), and the following weekend
to reassemble and install.  This is what it took me for the last few engines
I did.  If you're new at this and don't have an experienced helper, you
should probably double everything.  If you know what you're doing, have all
the right tools and parts, and like long hours you could do it in less.

I'm not trying to discourage, just giving you my opinion of what you're in
for.  It's all very do-able with patience, a little common sense, some
elbow-grease, and (if you're lucky), an experienced helper.

Mike g.
73 Westy 5-speed (for sale - $3500)
76 Porsche 914 2.0 (for sale - $2000?)
See them both at http://home.adelphia.net/~mgensler/
Colorado Springs, CO
