Date: Fri, 19 Mar 2004 16:11:34 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Throttle Plate Opening on PDSIT 32-34 carbs

Barry spakes thusly (more or less):

"...Bingo!!  Since I work in a paperless government contracting office,
that means we have reams and reams of paper !!  A ream of paper has 500
sheets, and approximately measures 2" thick!!!  So, one sheet of paper
is approximately 0.004" thick (well, at that measure, I guess I should
say 'thin')..." and then proceeded to start slapping himself around for
being nonsensical...

What the *$%&(-at-)!

Ya know - I've taken my fair ration of chit-ohs on this esteemed list
for being unintelligible, vague, ambiguous and whatever OTHER adjectives
& invective can be hurled at me by other speakers and writers of the
Anglish Languish, but this takes the cake :-)  Is it the Friday Funnies?
Or have you mad-cap stewards of the the public trust been doing lines of
the copy machine toner again?  I mean if we've told you once, we've told
you a thousand times - the color laser toner is the stuff; first the
magenta, THEN the cyan!  The copy machine toner gives you drain bamage.
Or memory loss.  Or, umm, what's that other thing called?  Oh, never
mind...

Last night I saw this great pic-a-ture over on the 914club site: it's
this little bunny wabbit with a pancake on his little head - the caption
reads something like "I have no idea WTF you are talking about, so
here's a bunny wabbit with a pancake on his head..."  ROTFLMAO!

Barry, ol' buddy, ol' pal - do you not have a feeler gauge with a .004
blade on it?  And if not, why not?  Why on this green earth would you
need a micrometer to set the throttle plates?  Did I take too much
antacid in the '60s?  And if that doesn't do the trick...  <insert bus
content here> I found out that the cellophane tops on my microwaveable
lunch entrees miked out at .001" - perfect for checking the Type 4
center main bearing saddle for collapse...  Four pieces should do the
trick!

Now if you'll excuse me, I need to go find my picture of a bunny wabbit
with a pancake on his head.  Eh?  What's that you say?  I have a yellow
banana stuck in my ear?  Terribly sorry, my good man, I can't make out a
word you're saying - I have this yellow banana stuck in my ear...

You know - I'm the lemon merchant, and so that means you can be the
keeper of the cheese for today...  and if we all keep really-really
quiet they won't release the marmosets.

TGIF

Jim Hayden
www.savethebays.org


E-MAIL CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:  The contents of this e-mail message and any
attachments are intended solely for the
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or legally privileged
information. If you are not the
intended recipient of this message or if this message has been addressed to
you in error, please
immediately alert the sender by reply e-mail and then delete this message and
any attachments. If you
are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination,
distribution, copying, or
storage of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited.
