Date: Sat, 20 Mar 2004 09:09:26 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Explative !(-at-)#$!

At 05:20 AM 03/20/2004, you wrote:
>Volk-a-maniacs,
>
>Well, I got Annie back again from the mechanic.  No charge.  :o)
>
>He ended up splicing in some new wiring on all the burned areas.  That part
>of the fix freaks me out a bit, since wire splicing is really the last thing
>an I want done on this old bus who has endured conversion to 12v, abuse from
>prior owners and more splice fixes over the years to make up for the abuse.
>O'well, it works for the moment.

It all depends upon the quality of the splices. Dark patina=replace the 
wire. For small amp circuits, quality crimp splices are available. Rubber 
tape makes for a very good seal. Drawback=ugly. Better, wound wire in line 
end to end with solder and heat shrink. Very easy to do if you know how to 
use one of the tiny butane torches. A bit more skill needed but superior 
results both functionally and aesthetically.

NO SPLICES IN ANY CIRCUIT larger than 14 gauge, like the worst possible 
connection in the main artery, the dreaded quicky battery terminal fix. Any 
wire 12 gauge or larger, good splices are bad and bad splices are verboten.

Just fixed one yesterday. Cut out 6 bad and ugly splices in the battery 
cable and main feeds. AC type dry twist nuts and Chinese soft as butter 
terms and green and loose and big stresses for the battery and starter and 
alternator and well, everything. The typical novice DIY jurus riggus mortus 
quickest cheapest with the worst possible results, a half life sucked out 
of the weekend-muli-colored-loss-leader-designed-to-be-cheapest FLAPS ad 
rebuilt starter and alternator and battery in half a year of high stresses 
for the whole system. The difference between good procedures and bad 
procedures is like night and day. One provides best possible results, the 
other the worst possible costly damages.

A new battery cable and two end terminals replaced it all. Other symptoms 
and evidence prior to fix. Center electrode no name dizzy cap fried. Dies 
at stops. High idle. No start on rare occasions. Replaced all junk with 
Bosch and adjusted timing, idle and co. Result=Clean running oxy flux with 
very low but balanced compression at 216k miles. A part of the low 
compression is the weakened "rebuilt" starter. Set idle just above spec to 
get smoother idle with low compression.

>Dispite this snafu, I am still pretty satisfied with my mechanic.

NOBODY shoots 100%, but if you stay above 99%, you have no issue with 
fixing the rare failings, and right now ASAP.

>He knows I will be back if he treats me right, and I will.  A
>good mechanic is hard to find.

Yeah boy, stick with him. Do verify that he indeed installed quality 
splices as I expect he did. You can do a quick voltage drop test across the 
splice/s to verify functional quality of the electron flow. If that is 
good, you have no worries and a good splice is a proper fix for any of the 
smaller wires. 
