From: "Christian Figenschou" <fig(-at-)zebrasafari.co.za>
To: "vintagebus list" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 1 May 2005 18:34:57 +0200
Subject: Trip report: Dormer's back!!!

Hey Volks,

I got my 63 Dormobile back on the road on Friday!!!

The bus had been standing for two years while its engine sat on the bench 
waiting for me to sort out an oil pressure issue.

I eventually got off my butt about six weeks ago and checked the engine out, 
and found that the front oil pressure relief valve (dual-relief case) was 
jammed in the bore, causing excessively high oil pressure and burst oil 
coolers. It took the machine shop a while to fix it, but they drilled the 
jammed one out and machined a new oversize valve. Got the engine back last 
Tuesday. Reinstalled in bus on Wednesday. Then had to play musical cars to 
get the Dormer out of my yard (it was parked in by: 60 KG, 57 Kombi, 75 
Fleetline Kombi, 75 Fleetline panel and 71 Mercedes-Benz 280SE; only the 
Dormer, the Fleetline panel and the Benz were runners).

Next I replaced wheel cylinder seals on the LF brake; cleaned up the shoes 
that were gummy with brake fluid. Couldn't start the bus because battery was 
dead. Bought another battery and the "new" engine started immediately and 
ran soooo sweetly! Friday I rewarded the bus with new tyres. I'd been 
running 14in rims because it's easy to get the 185R14C tyres here, but very 
hard to find 15in bus tyres. But I scored a butch set of Yokohama Geolandar 
195x80R15 A/T tyres. Not cheap, but look good, with a mild offroad tread 
pattern. They are stock tyres for a Land Rover Freelander. They stand very 
tall, for extra African ground clearance!

Friday after lunch Gisela and I loaded our camping gear into the Dormer and 
headed out of town on an impromptu camping trip. We had no destination in 
mind, and just after sunset we found ourselves about 50 miles from home, at 
the Magalies Sleepy River caravan park, where we set up camp and spent the 
next two days and nights relaxing in the forest by the river.

The Dormer performed very well, although the new engine still feels a bit 
tight. The new tyres felt great. We returned to Johannesburg this afternoon. 
A few kilometres from home the bus spluttered a few times, then died. It 
felt like we'd run out of fuel, but had barely covered 100 miles on a full 
tank. WTF??? I filled up, but could only squeeze about 17 litres into the 
tank before it was full. Bus started fine?!?

I'll have to drive with a fuel can in the car in case that happens again; 
also need to fix the fuel gauge -- it was working last time I drove the bus. 
I wonder what's up? Dirt in the fuel tank???

Brakes are still pulling to the right; probably time for new shoes in front. 
Also there's a lot of play in the steering. I suspect tie rod ends. I must 
sort these items out next week, so I can go on  a big road trip the week 
after.

Woohooo!!! My Dormobile's back on the road!

fig
Kaapse Kombi Kult
Johannesburg, South Africa
1963 Dormobile
1975 Fleetline panelvan
(and a few other non-runners ...) 
