From: "ronnie chase" <ronniechase(-at-)worldnet.att.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 2 May 2005 08:46:25 -0700
Subject: bang head here. 

Short version- The long bolt that attaches the rear wheel cylinder to the
backing plate/reduction box broke off deep inside the reduction box, and I
could really use some guidance as to the best way to remove it. Is it possible
to weld a nut to the end of the bolt on the back side and turn it out from the
back? Any reason I shouldn't be welding on that bolt while still attached to
the reduction box?

Long(aka boring) version- A while back I put all new brakes(shoes, flex lines,
master, and wheel cylinders) and a new to me unknown 36hp in my 57. Never got
to do anything with any of it as I was about to move and everything was going
into storage while I house hunted. Fast forward a bit, everything now at home
I attach a few wires, get a nice new optima 6v and start the engine only to
find it has rod issues. Bummer. Sell roof rack to pay for labor to have a new
motor built. Wait for more than a month for retired little old German mechanic
to finish. In the mean time I add fluid to brakes and bleed. Rears refuse to
let go. Pull push rod from master and they still don't budge. Poke around a
bit and decide it must be the long line clogged, and since it's a bit crusty
I'll replace it. I ordered new lines from og Ronnie, but got lazy and wasn't
motivated to replace them until I had the new motor. So, new motor in.
Replace long hard line, and manage to bang my head on the front jack stand 2
times in the process. When I was done, the rear brakes were still didn't come
back! Double check for push rod binding, Crack long line from master and they
let go. pull master only to find that the washer in the front is slightly
warped/bent and not allowing everything to come completely back.  Decide to
upgrade to dual circuit since the master is out and I have the parts on hand
bought for the other 57 anyway. Bang my head at least twice more on the same
jack stand in the process of bending hard lines for the conversion and start
to wonder what I ever did to it.

 Notice the just replaced 0 miles ago axle seal is leaking, and pull the rear
drums only to find that my new $50 German wheel cylinder is also leaking. Pull
other side to find that it's leaking over there as well(note- elcheapo front
wheel cylinders bought from Ronnie are holding up fine). Sigh heavily and
drive 45 miles one way to get rebuild kits for wheel cylinders and axle seal
kits. So fresh axle seals in, brakes done(again) on drivers side, and I'm
starting on the passenger side. The bolt holding the wheel cylinder on only
makes it to 35 ft pounds and snaps off! At this point I contemplate crawling
back under the front to bang my head on the jack stand some more. Instead I
remind my self that this is indeed what I do for fun. Take the dremel tool and
cut a slot into the other side of the bolt, and try to get it out with a screw
driver. I make it about 2 turns and it stops completely. Attach vise grips and
make it another turn or two before that stops working. Should I weld a nut to
it? Any reason it won't come out the back side?

ronnie
tired of the fleet of no-ops
