Date: Mon, 9 May 2005 12:30:08 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Baker <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>
To: bus list <ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, list vintage bus
Subject: VW Buses n Boats Event final details...

Howdy Y'all,
Just over a week to go until the Fifth Annual VW Buses
'n Boats Bash May 20-22 in Morrow, Ohio (32 miles
north of Cincinnati). 
Final schedule:  All day friday is check in and set
up. Dinner is on your own on Friday. Check-in info is
found on the directions section of the Event web page.
 Friday night will be community camp fire and acoustic
jam, so bring your instrument!
Saturday morning at 9:00 am will be World famous Full
moon Bus CLub Breakfast burritos, so bring your
favorite ingredients and and a pan and stove to help
cook!  Canoe trip, for those interested, will be at
10:30 am Saturday with an estimated return time of
about 2:30 pm or so. At about 3:00 or 3:30 pm we will
have technical demos. This demo will be geared TOWARD
THE TRUE MECHANICAL BEGINNER. I am a good teacher, but
not a great mechanic, so keep that in mind! "Checking
Fuel, Spark, and Compressiion" will be the Technical
demo topic.
At 6:00 pm Saturday we will be having a "Cincinnati
Style" Chili dinner. I will be providing the chili,
everyone else is encouraged to bring hot dogs, buns,
pasta, shredded cheese, basically anything that goes
with Cincinnati Style chili and we will have a big
community dinner.  Immediately following dinner will
be the drawing for door prizes and the drawing for the
50\50 split the pot raffle.  If you have an item to
donate for the door prize drawing, give it to me at
the time of registration.  Saturday night will be a
big ole fire and more music!

Final reminders:
There is a link to driving directions on the event web
page, this year is at a NEW location.

Camping fees are $10 per Adult per night, children
under 16 years old are FREE!!  you will pay and
register with me at the camping area, NOT at the canoe
rental office.
Canoeing trip is OPTIONAL and will cost $12 per person
for a 6 mile trip.

There are no electric or water hook-ups in the
campground, however, there are flush toilets and hot
showers at the canoe livery facility which is a few
hundred yards walk from our camping area.

As are ALL Ohio Valley Tribe events, this is a
Family-friendly camping event, so bring the young'uns.
Dogs are also welcome as long as they are kept on a
leash and don't piss me off ;^)

Again, here is the link to the event web page:
http://www.geocities.com/buses_n_boats/

Well, thats about it, email me with questions!

Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1971 Double Cab
1971 SuperBeetle Convertible
1968 Karmann Ghia Convertible
http://www.buszen.com

"So we got into the red VW microbus with the shovels and the rakes and the implements of destruction and we headed on to the police officer's station..."
