Date: Tue, 10 May 2005 07:41:52 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Busted zerks and hard starting

>From: Dan Epperly <braukuche(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
>Date: Mon, 9 May 2005 06:09:45 -0700 (PDT)
>
>When going to start it, especially after it has run and the choke is
>off, I have to turn it over several times and step on the gas to get
>it to kick over.

Maybe I'm not doing it right, but when I want to start a VW that has
been running and is warmed up, I usually give one good shot on the
gas before I try to crank it with the key.  This puts a little raw
gas down the intake and lets the choke close a little if it needs to.
If I have figured out for some particular car that doing this floods
it or makes it start hard, then I don't do it, but I usually try it
first.

>From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
>Date: Mon, 9 May 2005 10:24:26 EDT
>
>We would check for voltage drop throughout the wiring system, or at
>least the difference between the voltage at the battery and the
>voltage getting to the coil and solenoid.

Just to explain further: To do this, hook up your timing light like
you are going to time the engine, then pull the center fat wire out
of the distributor cap or the coil so you don't accidentally start it.
Turn on the key, and crank the engine with a wrench until the timing
light goes out.  This means that the points are closed and current
is flowing through the coil primary.  Set your voltmeter on a good
range to measure a couple of volts DC.  Put the red probe on the
positive battery terminal - like right at the battery.  If you can,
flip up the battery cover so you can poke the probe right into the
lead post that comes up from the battery, and not into the lead
connector on the end of the battery cable.  If you can't flip up the
cover, poke the cable connector.  In either case, poke hard.  Put
the black probe on the hot primary wire to the coil - the one where
your timing light isn't.

If you have installed a superconducting wiring harness cooled by
liquid nitrogen, you will read 0.000 volts.  Most people don't have
such a harness, because 1) they're expensive and 2) your buddies
start stealing the liquid nitrogen, because when you put it in the
beer cooler instead of the wiring harness, it takes the beer from
"sitting all day in the treasure chest of the black single-cab parked
in Phoenix in August" to "ready to drink" in 0.314 seconds.  So,
you'll probably see at least 0.1 volt or so.  The "right" answer is
hard to define, but on a 12 V system, anything under 0.5 V is probably
OK and anything over 1.5 V or 2.0 V is probably cause for concern.
Halve all these numbers for a 6 V system.  When you're done measuring
this, turn the key off.  If you sit there for a long time with the
points closed and the key on, you can cook your coil.

The above test will tell you if you have a problem like a bad connection
at the battery, bad contact in the fuse box or ignition switch, etc.
It won't show up the problem like E&B described where the starter
draws too much juice when it is turning.  To find that problem, you
need an accomplice.  This time, set your voltmeter for a good range
to measure 12 V or 6 V.  Put the red probe on the hot primary wire
to the coil (the skinny wire that doesn't go to the distributor)
and the black probe on ground, like where the battery ground strap
bolts to the body, or the engine case.  Keep the test leads out of
the fan belt.  Have your accomplice crank the engine while you watch
the voltmeter.  The "right" answer is again difficult to pin down;
for fuel-injected cars a number of around 9.5 volts at the battery
during cranking is often cited as a mininum, which probably translates
to around 9 volts at the coil during cranking as a minimum (for a 12 V
system).  If the voltage you measure is way less than that, investigate
your battery cables and your starter.

>As for the zerks get a set of left hand drill bits and use those to
>drill out the pieces.

Would using regular drill bits in a reversible drill motor also work?
(I think the cutting edges of the bits would be facing the wrong
direction for this.)

Matt Roberds
