Date: Tue, 10 May 2005 08:14:12 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Getting leo's donk running (a long true and terrible tale)

>From: "King, Robert" <Robert.King(-at-)dsto.defence.gov.au>
>Date: Tue, 10 May 2005 12:43:04 +1000
>
>The battery charger's indicator light was showing fully charged (as was
>I due to caffeine and sugar as previously noted)  - sweet!

The next time you go to the doctor, take a new zerk fitting along and
ask what it would take to get your arm drilled and tapped for it.  It
would save a lot of time when taking medication, checking blood
pressure, and getting hopped up on your favorite buzz...

(I actually asked a doctor friend about this once and she replied that
they'd love to be able to do something like that, but all the "zerk
fittings" they have come up with so far either get infected, pull out
(clearly flesh-compatible helicoils are also needed), or stop taking
grease after a couple of days, so they have to put new ones in.)

>Jack leo up and pull fuel line at filter really expecting it to be
>dry because of some fuel pump problem.  Petrol pours over arm (I
>HATE getting petrol on my skin - I can smell it for days!) and
>environment.

I think somebody on this list came up with the term "Eau de Texaco"
or similar.  I have an idea that if you do spill gasoline on yourself,
it's better to wash with cold water, on the grounds that hot water
opens up the pores in your skin and lets the gas sink in further.  But
I've tried it both ways and I still stink like gas.

For suspected gross fuel problems, I have found that just dumping half
an ounce or so of fuel down the carb throat can be a useful diagnostic.
If you crank it and it tries to catch, your ignition is kind of right
and you should chase fuel.  If nothing happens, you probably need to
chase ignition...

>Can't actually look down barrels of sexy webers because not enough
>room (but looking really really sexy) but know I set the float levels
>OK and fairly sure they have petrol given its being delivered OK.

Put a mirror on the ceiling and then you can look down their throats.
What?

>Dismantle carb. Both idle jets are completely blocked with crap.  Must
>have come out of the bottom of the tank and been delivered to that carb
>first. I  wonder what my $15 Ryco fuel filter actually does?

My Dad's '74 Bug sat outside for a few years not being driven, and the
gas congealed to goo in the tank and carb.  When I was trying to
resurrect it, I had gotten as far as figuring out no gas was coming from
the tank.  I decided to pull the tank from the trunk, not knowing that I
should have first reached behind the front tire and disconnected the
short rubber hose that goes from the tank outlet to the tube that goes
through the tunnel.  I undid the bolts in the trunk and hauled up on
the tank, breaking the rubber hose.  This wasn't a disaster, as the gas
was so solid in the bottom of the tank that nothing leaked out.  We ended
up taking out the fuel sender and chipping out chunks of crud with long
screwdrivers, then taking the tank to the radiator shop to get boiled
out.  This made it driveable, but it had the problem you cited: if you
got below about 1/4 tank, the fuel filter would get plugged up.  Dad's
solution was to run the $3 clear plastic filters (Wix 31313 or 13131, I
think) and to always have a spare or two and a Phillips scrwedriver for
the hose clamps in the glove box.  He drove it that way for a couple of
years before finally springing for a new tank - no more problems after
that.

>(pity I've nearly sliced the top of my left hand index finger off
>somewhere along the line and I won't be able to play it for a while -
>I was never into the blood on the frets thing - its rusts the strings
>and they're expensive...).

Get a bottle neck, play slide guitar...

>The whine of the straight cut cam gears is serious without being too
>obtrusive and the induction roar of the webers is really really quite
>sexy.........

Perserverance Furthers.

Matt Roberds
