Date: Wed, 29 Jul 2009 14:43:09 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Greg Thompson <gretnagreg(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] engine tin restoration

Greg, I don't think powdercoat (baked dry electrostatic paint transfer) was
even invented in '78, seriously, probably in its infancy only, I think VW just
painted them.  Also strictly speaking the black isn't quite gloss black, it is
a very smooth, nearly glossy black, but a high gloss black is a too glossy.  I
usually paint mine with PPG DP90 primer only, as a topcoat.  It is slightly
duller, looks like OEM paint that is 5 years old, but is indestructable (at
least the old stuff was, the new low lead form I'm not sure, but probably
lasts OK) and is primer and topcoat in one fell swoop, lay on 2-4 coats and
done.  Could be clearcoated to be glossy (I do that sometimes on wheels), but
I like it as it sprays for tin, like I said, maybe a bit less glossy than
stock, but closer than gloss black.  To be utterly correct if you can read any
of the stampings on the tin here and there (even T4 tin has them in some
places) you then go to a stamp place with
 the wife, find something about the right size, use a nice matte white and
stamp it off a few times before you stamp on the tin.  The numbers are really
random, so if you have something you can read, it makes it look more OEM to
duplicate.  To get tin to good isn't too hard, to look perfect is actually
very hard, because after blasting it, it will be pitted, and to get it too
look new, you'd have to really do a high build primer, sand it, etc, etc, etc,
a lot of work unless you hope to do a $25k resto, worth finding a nice dry CA
set to start with, and toss any real bad bits.
 
John

--- On Wed, 7/29/09, Greg Thompson <gretnagreg(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:



am currently in process of putting engine back together for '78 2L FI
bus...would like this thing to look factory fresh.  Regarding the engine tin,
should I have it powdercoated? or should I just sandblast it and paint with
high-gloss hi-temp black paint.  I guess I'd like to do what the factory did
but don't know if it was paint or powdercoat.  Does anyone know?  thanks,
