To: msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sat, 1 Aug 2009 10:22:48 -0700
From: baillybusbarn <baillybusbarn(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] valve adjustment

Internet teaching can be so confusing.

For VW valve adjusting (if you don't have a hoist and are 
laying on your back in the gravel driveway) remember that to
be SURE you are on #1 cylinder in the firing position (TDC)
the timing mark should be close to 0 (or the case split on 
little motors) AND the distributor rotor will be pointing 
at (or close to) the notch on the distributor housing.  This 
will ONLY be the case when the #1 cylinder is in the firing 
position and there should be some clearance (lash) at the 
contact between the rocker arm adjusting screw and the stem
of the valve.  If there is NO lash the valves are TIGHT if 
you can just squeeze a .006 feeler gauge between the rocker screw
and the valve stem, the adjustment is correct. Looser (within reason)
is safer than tighter (valve noise is preferable to burned valves).
A half turn (of the crankshaft) will bring the engine to the next 
cylinder TDC.  Whatever way you turn the crankshaft if the rotor goes
counterclockwise, you will be at cylinder #2, if the rotor
goes clockwise (normal rotation) you will be at #4.   

Now to add to the mix, you need to make sure that your #1 spark plug wire
plugs into the terminal that corresponds with the notch on the
distributor
housing to make all of this work.  IF your #1 plug wire doesn't attach at

the right spot, make a mark (sharpie will work) to work through the
process
as above.

I am new to this site (about a week) so I guess I should introduce
myself. 

I was a Tank mechanic in the Army (Vietnam 69-70) and my 
specialty was the M60A1  which had a 1790 cubic INCH air cooled,
turbocharged V-12 DIESEL engine.  In 1979 I started work at 
a well known VW, Porsche, Audi independent shop as a mechanic.
A friend of mine had worked at Moore Motors VW in Bellevue, WA 
for years and got me the job and taught me the factory/dealer 
maintenance program, and got me into VW's and that has been my
focus for the last 30 years. There probably isn't a mechanical 
repair that I haven't done on a beetle, bus, 181 or type 3 or 4. 
I worked as a VW specialist at several air cooled shops until
I changed careers just a few months ago.
I have owned many cheaply purchased buses over the last 15 years. At 
the time I started emailing I owned 6 buses so that is where the busbarn
was born.

I am a contributing editor to ImportCar magazine, writing repair 
articles for a number of makes, but mostly as a VW specialist.

My current, and longest owned Type 2 is a 75 Riviera Camper with 
a '79 engine, transaxle and complete '79 FI.  The only way
I have built VW Type 4 motors for the last 10 years (for my own use)
is with a 2.0L hydraulic base, Vanagon square port heads and heater 
boxes (non Cal) and a '72-'74 style (Bologna with a tail) muffler with
EGR.  I 
have not had a valve failure since using these heads and making sure the 
EGR system stays unplugged.  I have been over Stevens pass in Washington
many, many times in several buses with the engine I am currently running.

At one of the shops I worked at, we built these engines for 914's
and it turned noisy, underpowered go carts into driveable, comfortable
speedsters.

I am encouraged that there are so many folks (probably a lot younger than
me)
that are still making these cars and trucks their daily drivers.  I hope
I can 
use some of the knowledge I have gained over the last 40+ years of
mechanics
to help answer some questions.  I will NOT always be right, but I will
work at NOT being wrong.

And I am a part time missionary (mostly to Haiti, but also Cuba, Mexico
and 
soon I hope, Vietnam)
Larry................back at the barn
When do you want to go to Haiti?  I can make it happen.
Christ lays opportunities to serve him at our feet every day.  
We can choose to pick them up or expect that someone else will.
I choose the first.
