Date: Mon, 23 May 2005 18:17:47 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Diesel oil

--- George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com> wrote:
> As has been pointed out before, that
> recommendation was made in the Olde
> Dayes, when multi-vis oils were not as good as
> they are now.

Yes.  And so were my engine tolerances.  10W or
5W oil are only appropriate for arctic conditions
in an aircooled VW.  

> At operating temperatures, a SAE10W40 oil _is_
> a SAE40 oil.  

I thought it was 10W oil with a bunch longchain
polymer VII's, which, as have been noted earlier,
do not lubricate and shear easily.  I've read the
same thing in print a few places, but I was
confused by two points:  

1. Why do the owners manual, even owner's manuals
for cars built after the olden dayes, say my
Previa or late model Camry, show that 10W30 is
not recommended for temps as high as the temps
recommended for SAE30?  In fact, 20W50 is not
rated for temps as high as SAE30.  

2.  Also, why does my pressure gauge read higher
with SAE30 than 20W50?  (I wouldn't put 10W30 in
my VW, but I'm sure someone else can tell us if
their pressure drops as I expect.)  

I once read a few pages from a petroleum engineer
who explained the reasons in terms that I didn't
fully understand.  The gist of the topic was that
the way engine oils are weight rated is how fast
the oil flows at certain temperatures.  For this
purpose VII's can make thin base oil appear to be
thicker.  But that does not equate to the same
lubrication properties (as noted VI's do not
lubricate) or the same pressures.  

If I can find a link, I'll post it later.  I'm
REALLY busy right now preparing to move.  I'm
hoping sure some of our more scientific types
could explain the answers.  I'm a liberal arts
guy.  :)

BTW, if the oils are all the same in performance,
 shouldn't we all be using 5W50 or 0W50?

I really don't buy the "Those Were The Olden
Days" theorie with respect to oil or tires.  Oil
and air pressure haven't changed that much in 30
years.  If I'm wrong, by all means show me the
error of my ways.  Why different temperature
ranges and observed oil pressures?  

 


Happy bussin'
Ray

Nemo, the Bus Captain
http://www.geocities.com/nemobuscaptain
Not affiliated or associated with VW, VWOA, or VWAG.
