Date: Tue, 24 May 2005 10:04:42 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: wes brown <wesbusn69(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] its-titles.com

<I used this process instead of getting a salvage title
so that I could have the original vin number on the
title.>

Wes' solution would prob be fine. 

I went back and read the Boyd article I sent the link for and looked into it further via Google. Boyd and his bunch got into trouble because the Soviet Republic of Kalifornia said they were mis-representing what they were registering (which was true). His cars weren't '32 Fords or 427 Cobras. They were essentially kit cars or custom built cars with NO vintage parts in them related to what they were represented to be. Prob also affected their taxed value. His cars were worth $75K+ and what they were registered as was significantly less value.

Prob doesn't apply to our VW situations by a long shot unless one was sneaking in a new Brazilian bus...

Still, prob good to know that the title companies are on the authorities' radar screeens. 

I had to apply for a lost title on a '91 Hyundai Excel I had traded my CR-X for back in '95. Believe it or not it was a trade up (honest! <grin!>) that eventually netted me $750 when I resold the now repaired Excel (broken flex plate, dirty car). Car was last registered in VA, owner promised to send me the title. Lost contact with them (we both got out of the Navy at the same time), so I went to the TN DMV and applied for a lost title. Answered the normal questions about whether the car had a lien on it, not stolen, etc. Deputy came out and verified the vehicle info (VIN). Sent my papers in and got a title. After all that the previous owners eventually sent me the VA title... <grin!> 

FWIW we have found over the years that small town TN DMVs are easier to deal with than the big city TN DMVs. 

No vehicle inspections, smog checks only in the 4 biggest cities (counties). Liability insurance only required (only recently - like the past 5 years).

Chris
'78 Westy 2,7L
Cookeville
