Date: Tue, 24 May 2005 11:35:19 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Diesel oil

> It's made by VDO?
> 
> > (I wouldn't put 10W30 in
> > my VW, but I'm sure someone else can tell us
> if
> > their pressure drops as I expect.)
> 
> I can't explain that. It's supposed to go up.

And the first thing everyone asks if a listmember
has oil light problems is what viscosity oil. 
The last vehicle that I had will oil warning
light problems was an 84 vanagon.  The sticky
lifters and oil light problems went away when I
switched from 10W30 and 20W50 to SAE30 or 40
(summer only).  (I was switching to thinner 5W30
in an attempt to allow the oil to flow into the
lifter and perhaps allow the detergents to clean
out the crud.)  Now that I think about it, I once
had a Corolla that had lifter noise when it ran
10W30 instead of SAE30 in the Florida heat.    

I just don't understand the conflicting
statements  from the oil companies and experts. 
The sweet swangsong of thinner oil interests me. 
Who isn't intersted in better startup lubrication
and improved fuel economy? However, I am deathly
afraid of low oil pressure especially here in the
115 degree heat of southern Arizona.  In my
experience, the oil light on an aircooled bus
doesn't flicker until a split second before a rod
flies through your aluminum or magnesium case.  

You guys with oil pressure gauges, what have you
noticed with respect to thinner oils versus
straight weights?  

Here's a short exposition on one of the problems
of modern multivis that may explain the lower
observed oil pressures:  

Another factor in fuel economy is temporary
polymer shear. These polymers are additives known
as viscosity index improvers (or modifiers).
Polymers are plastics dissolved in oil to provide
multiviscosity characteristics. Just as some
plastics are tougher, more brittle or more
heat-resistant than others, different polymers
have different characteristics.

Polymers are huge molecules with many branches.
As they are heated, they uncoil and spread out.
The branches entangle with those of other polymer
molecules and trap and control many tiny oil
molecules. Therefore, a relatively small amount
of polymer can have a huge effect on oil
viscosity.

As oil is forced between a bearing and journal,
many polymers have a tendency to align with each
other, somewhat like nesting spoons. When this
happens, viscosity drops. Then when the oil
progresses through the bearing, the polymer
molecules entangle again and viscosity returns to
normal. This phenomenon is referred to as
temporary shear. 

http://www.machinerylubrication.com/article_detail.asp?articleid=518&relatedbookgroup=Maintenance

Like I said, I'm open to suggestions and
explanations, and don't believe that I have
enough knowledge to separate fact from
fiction/marketying hype.  I know that the US gov
puts substantial pressure on oil companies and
auto manufacturers to use thin oils and oils that
are nice to catalytic convertors with no real
concern over the long term effects on engine
durability.  The oil specs listed in my US
owner's handbook for my Previa are entirely
different than the ones listed in the UK Haynes
(or similar) repair manual.  I doubt the engine
tolerances are different between US spec Previas
and those for the rest of the world. 

Of course, it's also well settled that most
engine wear occurs on startup, when a thin
multivis will outperform a single weight oil.  I
would like to have these benefits if I new the
thin stuff would maintain adequate pressure in
the Arizona heat that I will force it to perform.
 

I have trouble accepting the marketing data when
it does not comport with what I have observed,
such as borderline oil pressures when using
multivis 10W30 or 5W30.  


Happy bussin'
Ray

Nemo, the Bus Captain
http://www.geocities.com/nemobuscaptain
Not affiliated or associated with VW, VWOA, or VWAG.
