Date: Tue, 4 Jan 2005 19:12:52 -0800 (PST)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, philcappellini(-at-)hotmail.com, dkinerson(-at-)earthlink.net
Subject: Re:  Vanagon Experts?

>I've seen a note on one of the VW engine
rebuilder's sites (boy I wish I could remember
where!) that indicates that the 2.1L is harder on
rod bearings than the 1.9L.

The waserboxerdom's favorite engine rebuilder,
Boston Bob: 
http://www.bostonengine.com/articles/low-oil-pressure.htm

>Re: "I am considering moving up to the next
generation VW Van....."

Well... maybe it's a move up, maybe not.  There's
a reason VW couldn't sell vanagons (or eurovans):
 it's a substandard product.  I'm not an expert
and admittedly fairly biased but my own
experience with a wasserleaker (blue coolant
since new) was horrid.  

Look for:

Rust or leaks on the coolant pipes/hoses.  The
hoses cost a ton and there are a few dozen of
them to replace on most vanagons.  The early
vanagons had metal pipes and they are a pain to
replace.  Take a little time on Bus Depot and
check the prices for those hoses before you buy. 
 

Rust on top of the gas tank.  There's a little
hump on top of the gas tank.  Even in rust free
vanagons, you are likely to find that dust and
road grime collected there and rust.  

Leaky hoses on top of the gas tank.  Big job to
replace hoses and some of those connectors are
NLA.  

Heaters are fragile.  The rear ones leak badly. 
Lift the carpet back there.  That sticky stuff
means you need a new one.  The fans (front and
rear) are also often shot.  I don't know why VW
cannot make fans that last a 100,000 miles.  

Fuel injection-  the analog FI on most vanagons
is 20 years old.  It was problematic even when
new.  Check out vanagon.com for info concerning
some harness upgrade that supposedly fixes the
vanagon stumble and something called a digitool
or Boehler tool to try to diagnose the many FI
woes.  

The sliding door handle was broken, wasn't it? 
It will be every few years as long as you own a
vanagon.  

I've also heard that the AC and power windows are
always a problem, though my 84 had neither.  

Parts in general are a problem.  There just
aren't as many sources for parts and not enough
demand to get them produced at a reasonable
price. If you are lucky, your local VW yard may
have not crushed all its vanagons.  Go pillage
now before they are all gone.   

Head leaks- your vanagon will either have them
now or will have them soon.  Hard to put this
problem last, really, as it was the primary
deficiency of this vehicle.  VW paid millions
from lawsuits regarding this design flaw.  Some
claim the blue stuff fixes the problems, others
say it is the lame gasket design.  I lean toward
the latter as my vanagon had blue stuff since new
and was owned by vanagon.com/gerry listers since
new.  Regardless of the cause, it's not an easy
fix.  We're not talking about dropping a 1600
here.  Be sure to get a quote from your VW
mechanic on fixing these.  Neither of my local VW
guys would give no warranty on a wasserboxer cyl
head fix.  

I will, however, admit that the vanagon, when
running, it a very comfortable very utilitarian
box.  It rides and handles much, much nicer than
a loaf bus.  Power is up and you can usually keep
up with traffic.  There are some options for
overcoming wasserleaker syndrome, such as
swapping in a golf/jetta engine or a subaru, but
those are all costly alternatives.  

Happy bussin' or wasserleakin'
Ray
