Date: Tue, 15 Nov 2005 16:03:14 -0800
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Jamie <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com, Kevin Purell <kpurell(-at-)terrasysdesign.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] CA to US Auto Purchase

On Tuesday, November 15, 2005, at 03:35PM, Jamie <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net> wrote:

>Do any of you have experience with something like a 1989 Vanagon Truck from
>Canada to USA?
>
>Could it be imported with some work around method?

I have some more info to share...

When I imported my bus it was 24 years old and I couldn't wait until it turned 25 so I had to go through the nastier process of filling in checkbox 2B. Before doing that I had to:

- check the DOTs list of vehicles they exclude from import from Canada. Younger vehicles are more subject to denial.

http://www.nhtsa.dot.gov/cars/rules/import/ELIG081905.html

- obtain a compliance letter from VWoA (they have a department you can write to):

Volkswagen of America, Inc.
Customer Relations Department
3800 Hamlin Road
Auburn Hills, MI 48326

You will receive a letter that states "Letter of Compliance" or "Letter of non Compliance". DO NOT take a non-compliance letter to Customs as they will simply document who you are which will make importing at a later date more difficult. The only option for a non-compliance vehicle is to go through a registered importer (see below).

With your compliance letter you have to complete the modifications they require. Getting someone to do it is a lot harder because they don't state who can and can't.

In my case, I had to do two things:

- label the odometer as KM
- make the brake light "brake" instead of "B"

To accomodate the first requiment, I went to the junkyard, bought a broken speedo in Miles and swapped the faces. I labelled the odo with km in white letters and put it back together.

The second requirement didn't make sense but I had to do it, so I bought some white letraset letters and spelled brake on the bezel for the brake warning light. I've never seen a US model with brake spelled on that small warning light for 1978 so I remain confused to this day.

Trying to convince VWoA that your vehicle is not as they think it should be is a waste of time. I orginally received a non-compliance letter from them as they said my vehicle didn't pass US emissions and wasn't US EPA approved. I had US EPA stickers and when I called VW to lt them know they told me it was from the Canada EPA. Needless to say it was a painful battle fighting them to prove my vehicle was original and in compliance and I finally got a letter from them that was correct (correct enough to proceed anyway). It was this reason that sidelined my bus for several years if you've read the story before.

I then called the local VW dealer (I had to call several) and the manager of one agreed to inspect my vehicle: personally if you believe it. He said that all of his techs weren't even born with my bus was made so he'd have to do it. He looked over my mods and gave me a repair invoice and charged me nothing. I have no idea what customs accepts as a factory authorized repair if you don't go to a VW dealer.

I took my compliance letter and the VW document and the HS-7 form to customs and they processed me. I came away with a declaration form that I took to the vehicle registation office (which was the county tax accessor in my case).

If you can't get your vehicle into compliance don't think the Registers Importers (RI) are going to help you out. Not only are they often far away but they are in business to federalize rare Porsches and Ferarris. This means big bucks. I know of one person from Quebec whom I worked with that tried to get a RI to convert his 92 Jetta. The cost estimate for emissions was $5k so he never bothered, never registered it and continued used Quebec insurance and plates. I warned him about the process ahead of time and he brought his vehicle down anyway.

Note that you can also bring in a vehicle under checkbox 5 but if you overstay your 1 yr. limit and you are caught who knows what they will do.

-- 
Richard, 1978 Westfalia CDN
http://www.ratwell.com/
Cupertino, CA
