Date: Wed, 15 Oct 2008 19:48:51 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "Thomas J. Tarka" <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Rebuilding CV Joints

Correct - it's not good practice to take component parts with varying degrees of wear and put them together. The majority of force will always be concentrated on one point in that kind of situation - until that component wears down and the next highest point bears all the force.

What you have are ball hubs with pretty much equal wear on all the slots and you have outer rings with pretty much equal wear on all the slots. What I have done very successfully in the past is to assess the wear patterns on those two components to select the "best." I then went to a bearing supply house and bought a set of new balls.

This way, even though the fit of the new balls to the wear patterns in the hub and outer ring were not a perfect match, the load was distributed equally on all the balls and all the "slots" or "ramps."

My situation was a new set of CV joints that I destroyed by having the ass end of the bus up too high. After only a few months, the hard surface was cracking away on the balls and the area of the ramps they were running on. With new balls and restoring the proper driveshaft angles (ride height) the joints were operating essentially in the undamaged areas. I got about ten years of extremely hard use out of those CV joints including 5 years with the Subey engine. I still have them for spares.

Watch for areas in the ramps that have pitting and try to use hubs and outer rings that have even wear with no pitting. If you must use pitted parts, plan to replace ASAP as they will fail rapidly. I feel that new balls is a necessity as it is the only way to assure even load distribution. It's a practice that should be avoided, but if you have to do it, take the precautions I outlined and you can at least minimize your risk.

For years it was common practice to pack the boots with grease. Keep the grease away from the boots as much as possible. Pack CV joint grease into every nook and cranny in the joints then wipe the excess off the outside before assembling with the clean dry boots. This will assure proper lubrication of the contact parts and the best lifespan for the boots. Recheck the bolts to mounting flanges after a couple days and again in a couple weeks then you're good.  Hope this helps. - BaH

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
V



 
 I need a new set of CV joints for one axle on my '71. 
 I have 4 or 5 spare CV joints
 but all of them have one or two bearings which are pitted
 (often in very minor
 ways, but I can still find one or two marks).
 
 Is it reasonable to take bearings from one joint and use
 them in another one?  I seem
 to remember hearing at one point that this should not be
 done, but I could not remember
 "why" and so I thought I'd ping the list to
 see what people's experiences have been.
 
 Thanks!
