From: "Jim Arnott" <jrasite(-at-)eoni.com>
To: "type2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 24 Oct 2008 14:13:09 -0700
Subject: Fw: Donations Requested - Boston Bob

From the Vanagon List:

----- Original Message ----- 
From: "Larry Chase" <roadguy(-at-)ROADHAUS.COM>
To: <vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM>
Sent: Friday, October 24, 2008 1:19 PM
Subject: Donations Requested - Boston Bob


Volks,

Donations Requested.

By now most everyone knows of the passing of a true icon within our
community.

Bob Donalds aka Boston Bob of Boston Engine fame.

http://www.bostonengine.com/

Bob built what many of us feel was "State of the Art"  VW Air cooled,
Water cooled & Zamboni engines.

Even more importantly, as many have already documented, he shared his
love and immense knowledge of these marvelous, mischievous vehicles
with anyone in need within our community.

He was a great mentor, teacher and inspiration to so many.

Sadly, Bob leaves a wife Karen and three children.

Samantha who is working/living at a co-op type non-profit farm in
central Mass.

Chris who graduated from high school last year and lives at home.

Julia about 16 years old, lives at home, has special needs and
requires 24/7 care.

Daryl Christensen, Jim Akiba, Maggie Dew and I would like to ask you
to join us in easing the financial burden a little for Karen & family.

I have done PiFF (Pay it Forward Fund) projects over the years to help
keep a few more VW Vans & Buses on the road a bit longer.

But never has there been a need more pressing or deserving.

This is a difficult financial time for many of us, but if you could
find a way to help, it would be greatly appreciated.
 
Donations can be made via PayPal or Charge Cards thru the Roadhaus.com
PiF Fund at,

www.roadhaus.com ... then click on "Donate" Pay It Forward Fund.
Or by sending checks / money orders to:

Larry Chase
2512 Calle De Rincon Bonito
Santa Fe, New Mexico 87505
 
 Please send me an email (roadguy(-at-)roadhaus.com)  if you are mailing a
donation.
 
Maggie & I will donate all PayPal Fees so that 100% of every
contribution goes directly to Karen Donalds.

Lastly ... please spread the word and forward this posting to all
appropriate list groups and forums.


Thank You for your help.

Larry, Maggie, Daryl & Jim
