From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K)
Date: Wed, 21 Apr 2004 11:08:57 -0500
To: accessys(-at-)smart.net (Access Systems)
Cc: ron(-at-)busdepot.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] Rust Under the Windshield

Bob,

The only reason this miracle in the can Ca-Ca was developed  was for the
hobbyist in a hurry--too lazy to do the job right, a wham bam --thank
you mam, cave and pave kinda guy.

Slop it on today--drive it today situation.

My finger's are tired, my keys are worn out, in typing the correct way
of getting rid of, and stopping rust.

But here goes--

First the corrosion has to be taken off  the surface--
I like the less aggressive than grinding sand blasting method--
Messy--Yes--thorough--absolutely.

Now that you have most of the surface rust off the metal--you have to
get into the pores of it--and get the root of the rust out--

And by simply wiping a wet sponge--or rag saturated with some metal
prep, by Dupont, will do this job well.

Let it dry--and apply a coat of zinc chromate acid etch primer--Vari
Prime by Dupont is about the best you can use.

Let that set up overnight--and do a scuff job on it with some 220--320
paper--

Now you can prime it with any high fill sealer / primer, I like Sherwin
Williams Ultra Fill, or I have been also using a urethane 3 part primer
/ sealer by Dupont called Uro Prime.

I use a flex agent in this too-so the primer is flexible--it won't
chip--it's not brittle.

This stuff is like putting a plastic bag over the repaired area--it's
bullet proof, attracts zero moisture as all of the clay / talic based
primer's do.

It's easy to sand--holds down anything under it---and won't lift prior
paints as a lacquer based primer will.

Using 320 paper is adequate--sand the Uro Prime--or the Ultra Fill
down--and refinish to taste.

Your done--and looking at a properly prepped and repaired panel that
will outlast the vehicle--

This process will probably take 4 to 5 times longer than the cave and
pave hobbyist technique--but you can rest assured that the job is done
right.

I know of zero--zip--nada professional refinishing / body shops anywhere
in the continental US, of any renowned that uses POR 15.

It's was designed as a back yard product.

OK--I'm Done--


Take Care,

Terry


From: accessys(-at-)smart.net(Access Systems) Date: Wed, Apr 21, 2004,
11:05am

don't stop there, what do you use and why????? and where do you get it
gotta stop the rust on mine while I still have a bus to stop the rust
on.
Bob
