Date: Wed, 21 Apr 2004 14:57:48 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Bob T Rhodes <Bob_T_Rhodes(-at-)raytheon.com>
Cc: harold(-at-)pop1.kepnet.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: VW - Corvair

The axle adapters will prob require some careful cutting. It is simply a steel disc same diameter as the CV joint. Same bolt pattern. Also has another piece of steel whose length is the same as the diameter of the circle and the width is the same as the diameter of the U-joint caps on the Corvair. Again a pic says a thousand words!!! 

All common dimension steel. 

I'll try to get something together here soon! 

Chris

-----Original Message-----
From: Bob T Rhodes <Bob_T_Rhodes(-at-)raytheon.com>
Sent: Apr 20, 2004 6:00 PM
To: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
Cc: harold(-at-)pop1.kepnet.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: VW - Corvair






Hi Chris,

Yes!! Thanks, the picture disc would be great!
I have been following the e-bay stuff but never saw a bus conversion kit
listed. If you hear of one popping up, please let me know.
I would still prefer to buy a kit rather than  build all the pieces,  if I
can.
Some of the other hardware needed are the couplers to hook up the bus axles
to the corvair transaxle. Do those look easy to fab?

Thank you very much for the help,

Bob Rhodes
8244 S. Placita del Plantio
Tucson, AZ 85747




                                                                                                                                       
                      "Chris M."                                                                                                       
                      <busbodger(-at-)earth         To:      harold(-at-)pop1.kepnet.com, Bob_T_Rhodes(-at-)raytheon.com                              
                      link.net>                cc:      type2(-at-)type2.com                                                                
                                               Subject: RE: VW - Corvair                                                               
                      04/20/2004 12:54                                                                                                 
                      PM                                                                                                               
                      Please respond                                                                                                   
                      to "Chris M."                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                       




Honestly - with some good pics and measurements you can build your own kit
for less than the kit price.

Any muffler shop worth it's salt can bend you a cross member (you supply
heavier wall tubing - don't use muffler pipe) and the rest is steel rod
(shifter) and 3/16" steel for any brackets. You'll need access to a welder
or someone who can do it for you.

So far the hardest thing for me has been fabricating the tin as I am trying
to fit the engine to the bus rather than fitting the bus to the engine in
case I want to go back to VW power (in case my "original" bus is suddenly
worth $50K... Don't see it happening!!! <grin>)

Every once in a while I will hear about a used kit on eBay or through the
"VirtualVairs" Corvair list. That is how I found my NOS kit (old but
unused).

I'd be glad to shoot you a pile of digi pics and send you a CD. I already
have another fellow waiting and it is no more trouble to make 2 discs than
1 disc. I'd also be glad to take measurements for you of anything you want.

It promises to be an exciting ride once I get this thing done. FWIW the
conversion doesn't take the 4 months it has taken me (actual work period),
I'm playing "single Dad" while my wife is working 80+ hours a week student
teaching / working full time. I only get a few hours during the week to
work in the evenings.

The whole project should only take a long weekend to install once
everything is clean, painted, repaired, etc. to suit your tastes.

See ya.
Chris M.
'78 Westy w/Corvair implant
'65 Beetle w/Type IV implant

<snip>

Well, well, well...... Would you believe I came across a 1974 VW Camper in
reasonably good shape missing the VW engine/ trans.

<unsnip>
