From: "Bill Bowman" <BussesByTheArch18(-at-)msn.com>
To: "\(msge\) VintageBus List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 12 Dec 2002 14:33:56 -0600
Subject: Clutch and brake pedal shaft "felt" seals...

Seasons greetings everyone!

Concerning the recent thread about the sealing of the brake and clutch pedal
shafts to the body...my assumptions first, then a question.

I think there are three types of pedal shaft seals depending on the March of
1955 through 1967 era of the Splitty you own (I know nothing about what the
Barndoor's use for this).  According to the April 1958 "VW Transporter Spare
Parts List", I understand that the earlier Busses up to chassis #501 706 used
a "round" shaped thick (about 10 mm thick) felt seal that fit into a sort of
round-ish metal retainer spot welded to the underside of the floor.  Then,
according to the 1967 "VW Transporter Spare Parts List", VW modified the seal
and as of chassis #501 707 they used a "square" shaped thick (again, about 10
mm thick) felt seal that fit into a square-ish metal retainer spot welded to
the underside of the floor (both of my May and June produced '59 Busses are
like this version).  These types of felts had a hole in the center about the
same diameter as the thickness of the pedal shaft that the pedal shaft went
through.  Then at some unknown magical date (not shown in any of my early
Spare Parts List books), VW again modified the seal by totally eliminating the
felt seal along with it's metal retainer and coming out with the round rubber
seal that fits snuggly (moves up and down with the shaft) onto the pedal shaft
and seals against the flat underside surface of the floor only when the pedal
isn't pushed down (my '67 Westy is like this).  These round rubber seals seem
to be commonly available, but wouldn't work well retro-actively on the earlier
Busses with those spot welded retainer brackets in place.

Now my obvious question...does anyone know if either of these round or square
felt seals are available from, or reproduced by anyone, or does someone out
there have an NOS dusty box full of these babies lying around?  I'd love to be
able to replace my tattered and non-existent ones on both of my '59 Splitties.
Can anyone shed anymore light on this rather anal "felt" issue?  Ronnie, do
you stock 'em, or do you have any plans to get 'em repro'd?  They look pretty
simple to reproduce.

A safe and Happy Holiday wish for you all!

Bill Bowman
NEATO
