Date: Thu, 12 Dec 2002 23:43:40 -0600
From: craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: NOT a valve problem.

ok, when working out a problem with your car, sometimes it pays to go 
w/ your instinct!  :)
EVERYone told me that the #1 ex valve must be bent or sticking, and 
that i hadda pull the head to check. this despite the fact that it 
gave me no trouble before. but at least yanking it (and undoing a 
non-leaking, running motor:P) would rule out the valve once and for 
all.
head comes off, valve comes out... nada. a perfect (tho 20k-worn 
valve). no binding.  ok, so it HAS to be sumpin with the new springs, 
or new case - nothing else has changed. put in a stock valve spring, 
and it did NOT flex the pushrod. hmmm... extra-high-pressure spring 
in the bag  of heavyduty springs from scat? it happens.....  put the 
scat spring back on and think - when flexing, the pushrod ALWAYS 
bends in the same direction, leading me to suspect the lifter bore 
was not perfectly drilled (ronnie sez i'm nuts, clyde berg says that 
is the exact reason they won't use the aluminum cases) and that 
geometry was somehow involved.
ah, geometry!  taking some talk with ronnie and an offhand comment 
from another vw buddy - 'maybe that rocker just doesn't like the way 
its being pushed' - i shimmed the rocker arm out 30 thousandths.

presto. no flex.

i suspect the lifter bore was at outside end of spec, and this 
combined w/ a .060 cylinder spacer and a heavy-duty spring caused 
just enough bind to bend the pushrod. the shimming of the arm altered 
stuff just enough to ease the pressure. and gave me proper 'wipe' on 
the valve stem at 1/2 lift to boot!
ironically, this was the ONLY step i hadn't done to the motor - i had 
3 vw mags and two books turned to this section, but was trying to get 
the motor in and running, and i'd fine-tune it 'later.'  ALWAYS 
finish what you start :P

so the pisser is that the head never needed to come off. putting it 
back ON with the engine off the stand was a bitch; instead of the 
cylinders and head using gravity to seat them, i had to fight against 
ol Isaac Newton. when i went to attach the heat riser to the exhaust 
manifold, it no longer sat level with it - clearly, the head was a 
good 1/8" lower than it was; the cylinder/head assembly had sagged a 
bit when bolting up.  after all this sh*t, i was NOT about to fool 
with it again... when we move to phoenix in june, i'll do a 3k 
teardown to the shortblock. for fun. and fix it.

engine runs ok... i now have #3 intake adjuster screw kissing the 
valve cover, and need to dimple the cover to clearance it. my 30pict1 
carb had the accel pump clog up, and the 30/31 i put on runs too rich 
as a way of life, so i need to find a good carb in the pile again.
the 010 dizzy began to bounce timing, so slapped in a 009 for now. 
going to try a 205 this wekeend. i hope to have the motor in by next 
monday - THEN i get to see if my rebuilt tranny works :)

thanks for all the advice given.


PS - not hving the proper tools, i didn't degree my cam - is there a 
way to do this with the engine assembled? i have a degree wheel and a 
dial indicator; i just didn't have the little rod to fit in the 
lifter, or a welded-up lifter and extension like berg uses...... 
could i just use a magnetic base to mount the dial indicator 
somewhere, and put the ball on the spring keeper?
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
