Date: Mon, 12 May 2003 15:39:28 -0500
To: "Theodore Reshetiloff" <TReshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com>,
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Biggest Battry that will fit?

At 02:57 PM 5/12/2003, Theodore Reshetiloff wrote:
>avail and what I am wondering is what is the biggest (highest amp
>hour)battery I can fit in the auxilliary location of my bus. I am looking
>at Optima yellow tops and see thqat they have a 55 apm hour rating.

You are not going to get a large amp-hour rating out of an Optima-style battery.  They are designed for high-current applications, not trickle-discharge like what your fridge will ask for.  You could get more amp-hours in the same size from an inexpensive RV/Marine Group 24 battery, and it will be lighter although it probably will not last as long.

My bus has part of the spare tire well cut away above the aux battery location in the engine compartment (I didn't do it!).  Because of this, I can't say for sure that it will work for you but a group 27 battery fits in my bus just fine, and I suspect even a group 28 would fit.  For a long time I ran a pair of group 27's mounted sideways in that spot, in parallel.  They stuck out over the engine seal a little bit but I never had a problem.  This was kind of a lowbrow approach but it did give me about 180 amp-hours, or way more than even a pair of those Optimas could hope to give you, at a fraction of the price.  A pair of group 24's would be a better fit and still give around 140 amp-hours.  They will last 2-3 years if you maintain them properly and don't run them flat.

Unfortunately, true deep-cycle batteries do not come in convenient sizes for busses.  I have 220 amp-hours worth of golfcart batteries, but they are inside the bus because they were too tall (and too heavy) for the engine compartment.  When they reach the end of their useful lives (6 years and counting) I will probably just pay the weight penalty and replace them with Hawker AGM batteries, which are sealed and can safely be kept inside the bus.

-David
