From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 12 May 2003 17:21:18 -0400
Subject: Big stuff went on this weekend!

Ok, so I did a major once-over on the Bus this weekend to try to get it
ready and registered.

First things first: 

	I have the Bus running, and running pretty decent. Like I may have
mentioned before I have the single DUAL port Webber carb atop a small plenum
that's attached to four ridiculously sized runners into the intake ports of
the motor. In any case, I am curious about the performance of the Bus. From
say.. 0 to 30 miles an hour, the Bus actually does get up and go pretty
decent. But from say 30 to 40 miles an hour, I need a drag strip. I was
under the impression that this was a motor I could easily drive on the road,
and go say.. 50-60 miles an hour regular cruising if I wanted to without any
problems. How did all those people make it to Wood Stock in these things if
the top speed was 40 miles an hour? So, this brings me to question my car...
what can I do to fix this? I'm assuming this is not normal. Could it be the
way my motor was built VS the way it's presently geared? Granted.. I wasn't
flooring it... but it sure was taking a long time to get to 40. 


The second issue is fuel lines. This is more of a statement than anything
else. In any case, I remember you guys saying.. "REPLACE YOUR FUEL LINES!
REPLACE YOUR FUEL LINES!" every other e-mail was "REPLACE YOUR FUEL LINES!"
I was thinking to myself.. yeah yeah, chill out, I'll get to it when I've
got time.

Well......

	I was considering taking the Bus out for a spin on Friday (decided
to take off from work). I got under the car to check everything out... it
was going to be a longer than normal drive. In any case, I tapped the rubber
fuel line with my hand.

Suddenly, a fuel leak started. Fuel came spurting out of the fuel line.. all
over the driveway / parking area. I quickly got a fuel container to let it
drain into. After it had completely drained, I figured now would be a good
time to replace the lines.. well... I was shocked at what I saw. When I
removed the fuel line (in pieces I might add), the fuel lines were SOOO
brittle in some places that even an INFANT... could easily tear the fuel
lines apart. If I took even a 2-inch piece of the line, and twisted it.. the
line literally crumbled in half!!! I couldn't believe how bad it was.

Anyway, with my little pipe bending tool, I bent a steel fuel line the
ENTIRE length of the fuel path from the fuel tank, all the way to the
electric fuel pump on the left side of the engine compartment. I then
purchased a good rubber line (twice the thickness) and connected the fuel
pump to the carburetor (about 1 foot in length) with a fuel filter in the
middle.

One of the things I noticed by the way was, after replacing the fuel line
with the steel line, the car also RAN much better. Any idea why this would
be? It doesn't immediately make sense to me. Also, the fuel filter (glass
exterior) seemed to fill up completely too as apposed to before where it
only filled up 3/4ths of the way.



So, any idea why the top end of my Bus is so ridiculously slow? Anything I
can do to correct this?

Todd Jaspers - Programmer
AmeriPath IT - Fort Lauderdale
954-377-3291

> CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments, is
> for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential
> and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or
> distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
> contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original
> message.
