Date: Mon, 12 May 2003 17:53:41 -0400 (EDT)
From: david raistrick <keen(-at-)type2.com>
To: <tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Big stuff went on this weekend!

On Mon, 12 May 2003 tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com wrote:

> So, any idea why the top end of my Bus is so ridiculously slow? Anything I
> can do to correct this?

Lots of ideas.  Based on the limited information in your email I'd start
with:

dont shift to 4th at 30mph. :)  That could cause you to lug slowly up to
40...

Seriously, though, I'd look at a few things.   You don't mention what year
your bus is, btw, so I don't know what type of engine you might have.

First, check and adjust your timing and dwell/point gap.  These could
certianly limit your top speed.  but see below.

Since you mention you have a Weber progressive I'm going to assume
you no longer have a stock vaccum advance or mechanical/vaccum advance
distributor.  If you've got a big "pod" that sticks off the side of your
distributor we need to start over entirely and investigate where your
advance mechanism is attached.  (the weber carb doesn't, in most cases,
have the correct ports available to provide vaccum for a stock advance
mechanism.  You'll need a mechanical-advance distributor. a 009 or 050 or
such.)

Is the second barrel of the carb opening?  Memory says that around 3/4
throttle the second barrel opens.  If it's not (..or if you never opent he
throttle far enough to open the second barrel) opening you're engine is
not going to have the air and fuel available to produce the power needed
to get you up to speed.  You may have to adjust the throttle and/or carb
linkage.  You want both barrels to be open with the pedal on the floor,
both barrels to be closed (or stopped on the idle stops) with no pressure
on the pedal.


If you've got a type4 engined bus (72-79) then chances are you'll need an
"extension" to the throttle cable for it to connect to the carb linkage.

If you've got a 68-71 bus you'll find that the linkage on the weber is a
confusing mess...it has to translate the "pull" of the cable to a "push"
on the linkage to open the barrels...

Note that this carb was never designed for ANY VW.

Once your timing and timing advance is correct and your linkage is opening
see how it works.  You'll probably experiance a bit "stumble" off-idle.  A
common problem with a 009 and a weber.  Using a 009 on a type4 engine is
never a good idea, the distr. doesnt have enough advance range to work
with a t4...it has about 28-30 degrees of advance available, a t4 needs
closer to 40 degrees.  You end up compromising by having the timing to
advanced at idle or to retarded at higher RPM...

Search the archives for "timing" "weber" "progressive" etc...you'll find
lots of information.



-- 
/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campain      David Raistrick '66 SO-44 Westy
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail     keen(-at-)type2.com          in Orlando Fl
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail          http://www.expita.com/nomime.html
