Date: Mon, 12 May 2003 18:37:16 -0400
From: Jamie <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: Theodore Reshetiloff <TReshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Oil Temps and Breather Boxes

Theodore Reshetiloff wrote:

> The motor is fresh. 8k since full rebuild. The stock breather does not vent
> the heads as the solid lifters I am running seal that part of the motor
> from the crankcase. 

you say,,, "the solid lifters I am running seal that part of the motor"  
I don't think so.... correct me if I am wrong

What part of the lifter seals the push rod tubes?  Are your lifters longer than
stock? Do they extend into the push rod tube?
If "no"... then your heads are vented.

I think if you look closely in the lifter bore,, you will see a VENT/drain slot
approx. 1mm from the tube seal in the block

BTW, If your heads and push rod tubes are sealed from the crank case, then oil
that
is pumped into the rocker box through the center of the push rods ,,, would NOT
drain back to the crank case.

Your rocker box vents through the pushrod tubes, back to the case just before
the lifter seals the bore, through a small slot that in turn vents into your air
intake breather box.

Just a reminder, a fresh engine that rings have not sealed yet in,, will produce
excess crank case pressure.

Make sure your rocker cover is not warped,,,  
I find you can "glue" the rocker cover gaskets to the COVER,, use 3M weather
strip adhesive,, or <gasp> silicone rtv <<< my preference>   
This keep the gasket stuck to the cover, and use a non hardening goo on the
gasket surface that contacts the head,,, make sure the bail is tight ... seems
to work for me!

Some things you can do to see about making your engine run cooler.... 
you say "Timing and dwell are on"
"Are on" to what?,,, a 20 year old manual spec that knew nothing about TODAYS
fuel?

You say "I'm running castrol 20W50."  and I think it was said before,,, a fresh
engine may not need 20w50

Ok,, If I could suggest that as you already have the CHT gauge  AND the oil temp
gauge,, you should add the oil pressure gauge.

Now you will have DATA for your engine!

Start by trying 10W30... as the T4 engine is *pressure* controlled oil cooling,,
you want to have the least amount of oil pressure to allow the MOST oil to
travel through the cooler,, instead of bypassing it via the pressure sensitive
oil pressure relief valve.

Read your gauges,, makes NOTES  did lowering the oil SAE change the pressure,,
temperatures?

Then ,, advance your timing a degree or 2...... read your gauges ,, make notes

If you find the oil is tooo thin,,, increase the weight,, 
If you find the temps go up... retard the timing,,,

pretty soon you will KNOW what oil weight is correct, and what timing setting is
correct.... for YOUR engine in your climate.
If you decide to travel in the Bus,, you will know what to do, if you hit an
area which is significantly different in ambient temperature, altitude,
humidity, 

Lastly!  you can start playing with Air Fuel ratio's .... maybe it needs to
be modified.... as TODAYS fuels have oxygen in them,, putting the AIR FUEL
ratio off....


IMHO

YMMV

Keep Cool! :-)
-- 
Jamie Rivers
Ontario Canada
