From: "El Senor Capitan" <whistlingtin(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "Theodore Reshetiloff" <TReshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com>,
Date: Mon, 12 May 2003 18:24:03 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Biggest Battry that will fit? (Deep-cycle vs Starter)

Theodore-
...have a 55 apm hour rating. If my
> fridge draws 5amps like it says it does then I should have 11 hours, but I
> would never run it that low.

Only in a perfect world! Batteries are like income: What you get paid is
never what is in your pocket. You are doing well if you get half of that for
any period of time. I live on a 12 volt system, (on a boat), and have spent
many years getting a system set up that will fulfill all of my needs, and
still be self sustaining. This is a sneakily complex problem, and to avoid
repeating what I have already written on this topic, and boring our average
reader, I will limit this to a couple of  basic points. If you want more
technical info, feel free to p-mail me.

To start with, it is very important to distinguish between deep-cycle and
starting batteries, regardless of whether you are taking about AGM (optima),
gel, or wet-cells. While they both may have the same A/H ratings, they are
constructed very differently, and are designed for very different purposes.
They are not interchangeable. Starting batteries are designed for exactly
that: High loads for very short periods of time, with shallow discharge and
quick recharge. Using a starting battery for a continuous load (like a
fridge) will wear it out quickly, and you will not get anywhere near the
listed A/H. Deep-cycles have heavier plates, and are much more durable for
(you guessed it!) deeper cycling. (Still, if you want any kind of lifespan
from your batteries, even deep-cycles should not be taken below 50%.)
Because the heavier plates have less surface area exposed to the
electrolyte, deep-cycles cannot generate the high amps for cranking that a
starter can.

So, what to put in your van? If it were me, I would (I am not at this stage
yet with my van) install a deep-cycle battery (or a few depending on what
size(s) fit best to give you enough a/h) for your domestic loads, and a
regular starter for starting. I would install a 3-way switch between them
(house, starter, both) so that I could charge them, and use them
independently depending on the circumstance. Dividing your batteries this
way has the side benefit of making it so that even if you accidentally drain
your house batteries, you will still have a fresh starter to get you going
(or vice-versa).

Hope this helps.

Cheers,
Matthew
