Date: Mon, 12 May 2003 18:44:52 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Spark Plugs Bosch vs NGK

At 01:58 PM 05/12/2003, you wrote:

>On Mon, 12 May 2003, paul gould wrote:
>
> > ...NOT the platinum, but just NGK ...
>
>Good point.  Unless the ignition was designed for platinum plugs, they
>won't work as well as standard plugs.

I asked before and no one answered so I'll ask again. Which manufactures 
have designed an ignition system that calls for platinum Bosch, or any 
other brand platinum, as factory stock???? I only know the Euro designs 
don't. Any body know if the US or Asian cars come with platinum???? On the 
Euro marks, there are quite a few that require special plugs. If you don't 
use the correct Silver plugs for big Beemers, you got problems. There are 
the unique 2 and 3 tang specials for others, like some of the WasserBoxers. 
Bosch makes also a 4 ground platinum sold after market only, and as far as 
I know they are like the original platinums, no manufacturer approves them 
or uses them.

I think Bosch spent a lot of years and a lot of dollars in perfecting the 
platinum electrode, and when they couldn't sell them to the manufacturers 
based upon tested merits, they hyped them up for after market sales cause 
it is the only way they can recover the development cost. It took them 10 
years to get them to last as long as the coppers. I think the 4 prong 
platinums were designed to help pay off the initial platinum development, 
because the "plain" platinums look like they never will. They just jumped 
the hype and price and are fishing in the wizbang market, just like the new 
cheap Bosch oil filters designed to run with the bottom feeders at cheap 
quicky lube prices, and not approved by any of the Euro factories. Amazing, 
many of these manufacturers have called for nothing but Bosch fuel filters, 
but they won't touch those oil filters with a 10 foot pole. I think all 
their decisions are based upon actual tests for suitability, and the 
inferior designs are rejected and the superior selected every time, no hype 
allowed. Even if they don't publish their findings, you can see their 
decision in the parts on the cars from the factory.  
