Date: Mon, 12 May 2003 19:26:57 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvwbus(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 091 Tranny Tools Whoopee

Well I just had to share it with someone and it ends up being all of you, I just picked up everything to properly put together an 002 or 091 box, the older style but quite useable 381 measuring mandrel set, the round nut clamp and pinion sockets for both boxes, and the shift fork adjustment jig.
 
The practical offshoot of this is the following, if I know you and trust you and you have the urge to fool around and borrow/use the set (Al Brase if you are still out there) and can pick it up in WV, give me a yell when you need to and we can work something out.  I will be using it only late this summer and sporadically after that as far as I can tell.  Heck even if I don't know you or don't trust you but know someone who does I might let you borrow the stuff.
 
The 381 is a simple, neat tool, I had the mandrel before but not the bits and pieces to make it work, this set has everything and all the stuff to set backlash that you need even if you were using the universal bar.  This set can measure R&P depth, and allow setting of backlash on any 002, 091, 091/1, and probably 094 and 094-4WD box well enough using the early procedures shown in the Bus Bentley.  Probably won't do the front diff on a syncro of course.
 
Anyway I'm sorry but I just had to share, I've been looking for these for a reasonable (well about what I usually pay for a bus) price for some time as I've had a hankering to put big tires and a 5.43 box I've had for a while under the '77.
 
I do have a question for anyone in the know.  I'm a bit confused by what to use for a turning torque gage for checking the bearing preloads.  I see the think in the manuals and have seen it in person at the dealer but I've never seen anything quite like it anywhere else in reality.  I have a number of dial type 1/4" Snap-On torque wrenches in recent calibration in the appropriate range (0-30 in-lb) but I've never used one of them exactly like this while turning, I mean they don't have a crank handle like that think in the books, they are just a torque wrench.  Are they appropriate?  An american car nut buddy says he sets up rear ends using them, but frankly they don't seem really made to "spin rapidly in both directions" like the manual says.  He machined a little spinner handle that he attached to his about halfway along the handle.  Any thoughts?
 
 
John
wvwbus(-at-)yahoo.com
