Date: Mon, 12 May 2003 19:30:08 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Spark Plugs Bosch vs NGK

At 10:54 AM 05/12/2003, you wrote:

>Hopefully I won't add fuel to the fire, but... Doktor Tim has many
>times commented to use the proper Bosch plugs in VWs. Terry recently
>mentioned using NGK Platnium. What I find interesting is that in my
>new longblock from Mexico it came with NGK plugs in it. Not platnium,
>just regular ones. Anyone care to comment on vw's apparent switch to
>NGK. At least south of the border.


I do believe that the Mexican heads are Mexican design and manufacture. 
They even use long reach plugs in the T-I motors, is that right??? It's not 
really comparing apples with apples. Sounds like the Mexican engineers 
don't see the platinums as cost efficient for their designs either. Nothing 
like the extra benefits to justify the cost. Want best chance of best cost 
per mile?? Go Stock, and let the know it alls pay for the hype. I just 
don't think I can use German VW specs on Mexican production as an 
assumption. I gotta read the Mexican specs to verify what is the same and 
what is different. Rule of thumb, if I serviced an engine that lists NGK as 
factory fit, I'd use NGK.

I service all German and Swedish production and have put thousands of plugs 
in them, all stock, all Bosch, 80% Supers (plain Copper electrode), no 
Platinums at all. The only spark plug problems I have seen are when 
non-stock plugs are used, like the Bosch Platinums which in the big Beemers 
will have the electrode migrating out and closing the gap. Or the 
SplitFires with 5000 miles and all the insulators cracked. Or the brand new 
Champions that made a little Beemer run like crap right out of the box. 
Stock Bosch solved them all. Those are the easiest. Wrong plug, install 
right plug, problem solved. 20 minutes and I'm a genius. Many times I have 
a new client call me the next day and say, "I've had this car for 5 years 
and it has NEVER RUN THIS GOOD!!! What did you do???". I tell the truth, I 
made it stock again. That's it, and it's the easiest way I know for a DUMB 
man to get good results.

"Gee, I don't know what happened, it was running fine before I got a whole 
"tune-up"." The problem is mechanics that think they know more than those 
who designed the car. Lots of them around, just ask them, they can fix 
anything, and sell you some fancy plugs to boost your horsepower. They may 
have a set of those magnets for your fuel line, too, and you can have both 
more horsepower and better mileage, if you buy the hype. Then you can bring 
it to me when it don't run right and I'll make it all stock again. No 
wisdom here at all, just following instructions given by those who know best.

You can beat on me all you want for passing on the wisdom of the designers, 
but it won't change their minds so it won't change mine either. If you do 
change their minds, no problem, I will then follow them. At least I know 
they won't give a whit for the hype and their decisions will be founded in 
facts proven only.  
