From: "Mike Mueller!" <Mike(-at-)My-Loan-Officer.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 12 May 2003 21:37:58 -0700
Subject: Solex Carb help

Hey Fellow Bus People-
I'm back again with another problem-
I finally finished the gas tank fuel hose (many thanks for pointing me to Napa
Auto parts)
put the new 2.0 back in, started it up and drove it down to the local shop
from where I bought the motor.
(Gary Lavere's VW Restorations is less than 2 miles from me)
www.vwrestorations.com
For him to validate the 6 month warranty he needs to check it all out.
I also wanted him to check everything I did to make sure it was all done
right.

His worker is saying everything is ok except for the throttle shaft bushing on
the left carb.
I talked to Gary this morning and he has no idea on how to fix this.
He says he knows of nobody being able to restore these carbs.
Only option seems to be to replace it with some type of aftermarket carb kit.

This doesn't sound right to me at all.
I also am working on my 68 912 which has dual Solex carbs and they are prone
to wear out there too.
But open the hood of almost every pristine 912 and you will not see
aftermarket carbs
(well sometimes you'll see Webbers but the guy isn't happy with them)

On the old motor, which was a 1.7, everything was running great until the #1
Cylinder's rocker arms pulled out from the head.  (it was an old motor and I
was looking forward to the day I could put in a rebuilt 2.0)

And here's another twist: maybe a little more than a year ago the old motor
was checked thoroughly by the same shop with no throttle shaft problems.  The
head mechanic at the time was an experienced Porsche Guy, Todd who was by far
very technical in what he did (sometimes to a fault).  He's no longer there.

The only other thing I thought of is while I was talking to AVP about putting
in a 2.0, they mentioned the idle might run a little rough because of the
stock jets but it would have no damaging effect on the motor.
BTW:  I was talked out of the AVP motor (I won't go into here but email me and
I can tell you what I heard, but remember it's only rumor at best).
The motor I did get is made by a company called JCS in Irwindale, CA
They have supposedly been supplying AVP rebuilt heads, blocks etc.

I'm feeling a little stuck here.
I have an extra set of carbs, not rebuilt like the ones on the bus now.
and I really don't want aftermarket carbs.
Any ideas?
Anyone know where I can send a carb to be re-bushed?
I want to drive my bus, I want to go camping!
Don't we all?
Help!

Thanks!

Mike Mueller - Sr. Loan Officer
mike(-at-)my-loan-officer.com
www.My-Loan-Officer.com
National City Mortgage
PH 800 545-6996 xt 237
Fax 925 955-1640
