Date: Tue, 13 May 2003 01:47:18 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: "Terry K." <CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Best Spark Plugs for my 76 2.0L FI

On Mon, 12 May 2003, Terry K. wrote:

> ...A lot of folk do not seem to realize
> that there is a very small CURRENT (~50 milliamps) forming the spark at
> the plug and it does not need a large electrode cross section. However,
> it greatly prefers a sharp edge or point to depart from and that is
> EXACTLY what the thin platinum electrode provides throughout it's life.
> A large voltage is needed to initiate the spark and that is greatly
> reduced by the presence of sharp edges or points at the gap.

There is a germ of truth here.  A spark will more easily jump from a sharp
point than from a broad round surface.

In class, I use a very fun machine called a Van der Graff generator.
It consists of a one-foot-diameter metal sphere that builds up a static
charge of 400,000 volts or so.  If I place my nice broad rounded forearm
near it I will receive a nice fat blue spark about 4 inches long.
However, if I point my finger at it, I will only get a weak spark about a
half-inch long.  If I use a straight pin, I can ground out the sphere
without drawing a visible spark at all!

How does this relate to spark plugs?  Well, the ignition system of a VW
was designed to work with the capacitance of the standard broad-tip plug.
If you use platinum narrow-tip plugs in this system, the spark will indeed
jump the gap easier.  However, the spark will jump the gap before the coil
builds up its highest voltage.  You will therefore get a weaker spark than
if you used the standard plug.

Platinum plugs can cause apparent improvement in ignition systems that are
weak, since they will fire on less voltage.  This isn't really a gain, as
they will always fire on less voltage, yielding weaker sparks.

Stock, conservative design is best, unless you want to redesign the entire
system to accommodate the new technology.

George Lyle
