From: "The mailbox of Duncan Newberry and Jennifer Olander"
To: "type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 13 May 2003 10:57:0 -0700
Subject: first shakedown incident

So we loaded up the dog and headed up to Olympia to check out the bus for a
mothers day visit. The weather was perfect and the freeway mostly clear.
The mechanic said during the breaking to keep it under 60MPh and shift on
time and that in 1000miles he would check the torque on the head and the
carbs (both newly installed), which I did. The gas mileage was 18mpg in
mixed (60%hwy 40%in town) driving with a pair of dual Weber 40's. There was
plenty of oomph in the engine, and I had to ease of the gas to keep it at
60MPH on the freeway. Engine was never over hot (per dipstick test). All
good. 

At the first rest stop, I noticed there was a little oil at the bottom of
the engine tin below the fan, coming from the oil filler tube. The plastic
part was loose, so I tightened it down, and that slowed the flow but didn't
stop it. Is there supposed to be a gasket between the metal part and the
plastic part? There isn't one on mine, and I cant remember.

The second is that on a very steep hill, approaching 25mph in second (VERY
STEEP) I looked behind me and saw a cloud of (what I thought was) gas
smoke. Now I didn't keep looking in the rear view mirror while driving down
a steep windy hill towards a stop sign to verify this, I hit the breaks and
brought the car down to 20 and the smoking ceased- so it could have been
oil. The first potential diagnosis Thought of was bad rings- ie it was oil
smoke not gas caused by excessive crankcase pressure from blowby. So a
compression check is on the list. Any other diagnostic tests?

The only other thing is that she shifts gears like a cast iron pig. I am
assuming its because the front tranny mount is broken and has been replaced
by a steel bar bolted to the cross beam, as opposed to the rubber mount on
the original) so it works well if you shift delicately (ie you don't force
it into gear, you finesse it into gear). Where would one get a replacement
nose cone? do you have to buy a whole tranny to get it? seems like a tough
part to score from a junkyard, as they aren't going to want to let you pull
it off and leave the rest of the tranny behind. If some one has an extra
one let me know.

All in all I am very happy with the performance. She defiantly needs new
shocks and tires soon, but she still handled well. It took awhile to get
used to the right hand lane driving (70MPH in WA state means that every
grandma with a disabled sticker was passing me in their chevy celebrity)

Duncan
75 ASI "Ezmerelda"  
