Date: Tue, 13 May 2003 11:50:00 -0700
To: "Karl" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Spark Plugs Bosch vs NGK

...
...

Yeah, I thought about the people refusing to pay for spark plugs until they 
are at the full 100,000. There will always be some of those about. I saw a 
guy once with a Big Beemer with black tape covering the "Overdue" dash 
indicator. Ruined the tranny at 80k and now I was the thief needing $200 
PLUS LABOR to replace the idle motor. No way Jose, set a clamp on the 
bypass hose and he will suffer it through warmup until it will idle warm, 
and bad mouth the car every morning for 5 minutes. When I stepped up to the 
car when he first drove up and looked in as he explained his perpetually 
Bad Beemer I noticed right off the taped over "Overdue" light and told him, 
"Yes, I see your problem. It's right there staring you in the face." as I 
pointed to it. He didn't like that. But he knew he was trapped. He had been 
to every shop on the island and they had refused in recognition of their 
lack of knowledge and/or referred him to me. I tried to send him to the 
mainland but he informed me they were all crooks just like me. Just the 
most extreme example of ignorant I've ever seen, as to vehicle maintenance. 
Yeah, I did remove the tape and didn't reset the indicators. He can put 
another on there if he wants to.

As to the 100k plug issues, doesn't matter if they became fouled and are 
THE issue with poor drivability at 80,000 to the hype buying public. They 
aren't warranted for 100,000 are they?? Just suggested maintenance???

For all the alloy heads on all the Euro's, I pull the plugs every 20,000 or 
3 years max. Only rarely do I run into a plug that wants to fight and has 
to be wound out with the tools. I have seen many cases of as little as 
10,000 with anti-seize causing seizing. It gets gummy and grabby and needs 
the tools all the way out. Then you have chewing gum in the head threads to 
clean.

I put two drops of machine oil on clean dry threads and if they won't screw 
in with fingers, service and clean the threads and/or reform the threads 
until they do. On my regularly serviced vehicles I never have thread issues 
at all. Pop them loose with the socket then spin them freely all the way 
out every time. Very fast inspections compared to any thread issues at all. 
By the way, does the factory install these new long range plugs with other 
than clean, dry threads??? I'd be amazed if they are using anti-seize. Does 
the manual for these call for any special thread treatment beyond clean and 
dry???

I really consider 100,000 miles for spark plug interval with no call for 
maintenance a marketing standard, not an engineers recommendation, or at 
least not an engineer without a market thumb screw in play. That could well 
be 20 years for some drivers. Don't want to look bad in the magazine 
comparisons and see other than the smallest possible maintenance costs, the 
absolute minimum for ideal uses. 80% or more are used in ways more 
stressful than ideal.

Following rule of thumb time/distance intervals can't hold a candle to 
actual periodic inspection. It ensures that a vehicle that could live 30 
years and 300,000 becomes something to throw away in half that life when 
the cost of a motor or tranny crops up. "Oh my God, the whole car isn't 
worth that much!!" Even if replacing the car with something younger will 
cost them 3 to 5 times as much as a motor rebuild.

Anyway, always interested in the view of the Euro dealer mechanics. They at 
least understand the meaning of the word, "Procedure" and probably know how 
to spell it as well. But I do know of some dealers who's marketing style 
does not require reading for shop positions.

At 06:01 AM 05/13/2003, you wrote:

> > One question, Karl. Do they suggest that the plugs be pulled from time to
>  time to prevent seizure of the threads, or just wait till 100,000 and break
>  the plug off trying to get it out???
>
>During normal services, there is no requirement to touch the plugs. We 
>have not had one seize yet. Some owners
>are tight fisted and don't want the plugs replaced at 100,000 miles when 
>they come in for just an oil change
>in their ML320 because they don't want to spend the $$$ for the plugs. 12 
>x $26. So they wait til a major
>service, around 115K to 120K miles. The plugs look good still and do not 
>seize.
