Date: Tue, 13 May 2003 19:42:55 -0700
To: Jon Syder <syder(-at-)vache.ucdavis.edu>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Spark Plugs Bosch vs NGK

At 02:39 PM 05/13/2003, you wrote:

>According to the Bosch and Beru sites, several manufacturers DO call for
>non-iron electrode plugs as OEM.
>
>Please provide us with a link to some information from Mercedes or ANY
>other manufacturer on the Bosch list that shows us that they DO NOT
>recommend platinum or something similar.  I have been unable to find any
>such references and would be happy to be directed to some.

The information I have was in the form of an announcement in an auto 
industry journal, a release to the press and an advisement/report to all 
dealers worldwide. No I don't remember which one. It stated that Mercedes 
had concluding testing of Bosck Platinum spark plugs for factory install. 
Their data showed barley measurable improvements with Mercedes electronic 
ignitions over Bosch Supers and their extra cost was not justified. It also 
stated they were simply not appropriate for early Mercedes ignitions. The 
conclusion was Bosch Platinum Plugs are not approved for use in any 
Mercedes ever produced to that date. This was back less than a year from 
the introduction of the first world production of  Platinum spark plug tech 
by Bosch, late 80's early 90's. It was news because of the large investment 
Bosch had made in developing the technology and then not getting essential 
contracts to supply the factories.

It'a a memory only, but hardly a fantasy. Any Mercedes Dealer has access to 
the Genuine Mercedes Publication, if they want to track it down for you. 
Proven by factory testing not to be economically sound, not even close. I 
don't remember any two stroke motorcycles were mentioned. Absolutely and 
totally irrelevant. That, like everything else they didn't say, is someone 
else's experiment.

This isn't a case where something is untested therefor by omission is not 
approved. This is a case where it looked like it might work so was fully 
tested and found to not meet specs. What spec?? Economic spec!!!! Purely a 
case of double the cost for insignificant extra value. Double the cost for 
triple the value is more in harmony with the improvements that do get 
approved at Mercedes as in all the German marks, and the Swedish, too.   
