Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Mon, 17 May 2004 10:48:43 -0700
To: "aaron vanderwerff" <vndrwrff(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Shaking and Shuttering

On May 17, 2004, at 10:07 AM, aaron vanderwerff wrote:

> The problem is intermittent, and seems to show up during long trips.  
> It started the first trip I took in it, and at that time would only 
> happen on a partial tank of gas, and would go away when you would fill 
> it up.  I used a gas cleaner product to possibly clean varnish out of 
> the bottom of the tank and it seemed to go away for about a year.  
> Recently it has been getting worse.  Here is the description:
>
> -van shakes (like I am pushing on the gas and releasing repeatedly 
> very quickly)
> -shaking stops if I let off the gas entirely

This sounds very much like the symptoms I had when my fuel tank outlet 
was clogged.  Put the engine under load (like accelerating away from a 
stop sign) and it would buck hard.

I ended up having to tow it to the shop so the tank could be removed, 
boiled out, and relined.  When it got to the shop, it drove just fine 
(of course; things never go wrong once you get it to the mechanic :-) 
... why?  Because the flotsam that was clogging the outlet probably 
sloshed out of the bowl in the tank when the tow truck lifted the rear 
end of the Bus.  After they got the tank out, they were able to fish 
out bits of the rubber "birds beak" (from the filler neck) and what 
seemed to be bits of a fuel pump nozzle!

If you have rust or varnish blobs clogging your tank, the turbulence 
created in the liquid by adding more fuel to the tank could knock some 
of it out of the way.

One thing to check ... when this is happening, is your fuel pump noisy? 
  It should make a nice quiet hum.  If it makes a rattle or grinding 
noise, it's very likely having a hard time drawing fuel.  You should 
not be able to hear the fuel pump from the driver seat over the engine 
noise.  When my tank was clogged, the fuel pump was quite loud, easily 
heard from the driver seat.

Now, before concentrating on the tank, I would replace the fuel lines 
and the fuel filter (make sure to use the proper high pressure fuel 
hose).  Those are inexpensive and easy to do, and just maybe they're 
the problem.  But with your description of "filling the tank makes it 
go away", I'm inclined to believe that it is, in fact, your tank.

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
