Date: Mon, 17 May 2004 15:17:58 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Cc: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Bus stays running with key off

At 11:07 PM 4/20/2004, Doktor Tim wrote:
>Check all the dash knobs. If the collar nuts get loose, they can turn and 
>short or cross feed. Next time it happens, just reach under and wiggle the 
>wires and just see if it don't shut off. If you can't find anything else, 
>it could be the ignition switch.

Thanks for the replies.  I checked everything I could think of and still 
wasn't able to find the problem so... I simply unplugged the regulator and 
have been driving for the past month with no alternator.  It's not as bad 
as it sounds - it's sunny here and I have solar panels on top of the bus, 
and extra batteries.  I just park outside instead of in the garage.

The extra batteries are a pair of Trojan T-105 golf cart batteries - rated 
at 220 amp-hours.  The solar panels were wired to charge only these extra 
batteries and not the starting (Optima) battery, which was a problem since 
the starting battery is incurring most of the loads.  I found a low-tech 
solution that worked out very well - a marine style A-B switch.  I wired 
the solar panels to the "load" terminal, starting battery to A and extra 
batteries to B. So the switch allows me to direct the output from the solar 
panels to either the starting battery, the extra batteries, or both.  The 
big bonus is that in the "Both" position all of the batteries are connected 
together - instant jumpstart because the switch is rated about 350 amps.  I 
bought the switch at Academy for $20 and it is the same brand as the bilge 
blower I bought a while back... Atco I think?  Or was it Detmar?  Anyway, 
it is a name brand switch and aside from it being an ugly orange color, I 
like it a lot.

I have a spare alternator, but I need to drop the engine to address a 
couple of other issues and I think I'm going to wait until then to swap out 
the alternator.  Much easier that way.  The solar panels put out 3-4 amps 
in full sunlight which is enough to keep the batteries fully charged if I'm 
just driving around town, even using the stereo and A/C.

-David 
