From: "Russ Neithammer" <rneithammer(-at-)mlea.com>
To: <TYPE2(-at-)TYPE2.COM>
Date: Thu, 9 Jan 2003 08:18:38 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] dual carbs to single.

My understanding of this is that the problem is not only related to keeping
fuel vaporized (that's why we have chokes on carb's and cold start injectors
on FI), but is also related to keeping water vapor in the intake air stream
from condensing and/or freezing.  The water vapor is present in the
atmosphere, and, as the air flows through the carburetor venturi, it
accelerates, causing a reduction in pressure and temperature, and thus a
reduction in dew point.  For any given amount of moisture present in the
air, there is a combination of temperature and pressure, resulting in a dew
point, below which excess moisture will condense.  Under these conditions,
the relative humidity would be 100%, inside the engine.  Similar to the
phenomenon that causes rain.  I'm not a thermodynamics guy, but, try
searching on "Bernoulli" to get more detail on this effect.

Since the reduction in pressure (i.e., vacuum) is a necessary fact of life
for gasoline engine operation, heat on the manifold and carb or pre-heat in
the intake air stream (or both) is needed to counteract this problem and
keep the air stream above the dew point.  VW type 1 engine manifolds have
heat riser tubes that interface with the muffler to retrieve heat from the
exhaust, and the air cleaners on the newer ones also have air pre-heat, but
(correct me if I'm wrong), single carb conversion kits for type 4's do not
have either heat source.  Without any heat on the manifold/carb and/or
intake air, moisture (and probably fuel as well) will condense and in many
cases freeze in the carb or manifold under almost any climatic conditions.
I think both heat sources are needed to fully address moisture and fuel
condensation issues.  Certainly, an air pre-heat system can be fabricated
for the type 4 single carb configuration, but I'm not sure how one would go
about adding manifold heat.

In my experience with installing a Weber on and old S*B*R* (also a flat four
engine), the problem was actually worse during warm summer months, where (at
least here in southeast PA), the relative humidity is high so the air is
already very close to the dew point.  Even on hot summer days, there was
frost on the outside of the carb.  Same problems as described by Eric, lousy
idle, stalls at stop lights, rough running on the primary barrel, etc.  Only
when I put my foot in it and opened the secondary did it ever really smooth
out.  I probably could have solved the problem by rigging some sort of air
pre-heat system, which is what the original carb had (on the original air
cleaner), but the Weber precluded the use of the original air cleaner and
thus eliminated the air preheat system.  A poorly or incompletely engineered
conversion, in my opinion.

Date: Wed, 8 Jan 2003 19:05:37 -0500 (EST)
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Eric W. Bradway" <eric(-at-)bradway.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] dual carbs to single.
Message-ID: <1103.150.182.180.170.1042070737.squirrel(-at-)scrounge.bradway.net>

> I live in the cold and high, and I'm thinking about Kadrons for my 1600DP,
> so I'd appreciate any insight on their winter (or all around) performance.
> TIA.

Theory aside - I have issues in cold weather (sub 50 degrees) with my Weber
progressive that closely mimics a vacuum leak. Poor idle, hard to maintain
idle when warming up, engine dies when I slow to a stop, etc. The problems
go
away completely with warm weather.

Right now, I'm used to heal-toe braking and keep the idle set a little high
in
the winter. In Ontario, I would definitely think twice.

There are lots of instructions on the web for making your own heat riser for
it. I'm going to make a stab at it myself by running some duct-work off the
heating system. I'll make it easily detached for Summer driving. Don't want
that hot air in the engine compartment come Summer!

-Eric
