Date: Thu, 09 Jan 2003 09:50:20 -0800
From: High-Tech Red Neck <hitkrdnk(-at-)gte.net>
Subject: Question for Type1 experts on Valves

For those that a familiar with Type 1 engines.

I'm scrambling to get a 1600 long block into my van to replace a 1500
that is going south quick.

The engine came from my son's '72 Super Beetle that got totaled.  The
only physical damage to the engine from outward appearances was a dent
in a push rod tube from the header being bent up and kissing it which
I'll replace and a dent in the fan shroud which will be replaced with
the one from the 1500 (already has doghouse shroud and cooler). Also a
couple of exhaust studs were broken due to the header and mufflers
getting mangled so I'm going to replace all eight figuring they were at
least stressed.  This engine ran very well previous to the SB being
stepped on by a suburban.

Last night after stripping most of the damaged tin off and before
cleaning it up I did a leak down test on it.  Cylinder 1 was 15%.  I was
very happy, this engine is going to be great!  Cylinder 2 was 50% - hmmm
- maybe not so good.  Cylinder 3 80% and Cylinder 4 was 90% - Danger!
Danger! Will Robinson!


All three cylinders were leaking through the intake valves.  I had
figured that exhaust valves would be the most likely to go.

I don't know the history on this engine.  My son bought it last summer
and once we replaced the carb and rebuilt the distributor it was a
strong runner.  It looks like it was a rebuild because there is a metal
serial number tag with a number starting with "AG" (maybe "AD") riveted
over the regular serial number.

I'm going to pull the heads anyway to replace the one damaged push rod
tube and all of the push rod seals so I'll be able to inspect them.  My
question is:  Do you think that just doing a quick lapping job on the
offending intake valves will likely fix my problem?  It's been a long
time since I've done this stuff and never before on VW parts.  Just
looking for more experienced opinions on whether I seem to be on the
right track or not.

Thanks in advance for any advice,

Bob Bueling
Port Hueneme, CA
