From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: "'Richard Atwell'" <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>, "'Type2List'"
Cc: "'Michael Benthin'" <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net>, <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
Date: Wed, 2 May 2007 22:16:01 -0600
Subject: RE: [T2] Re: Cooling flaps

Listees,

Read at your own risk, this is as preachy as I get.

I have been following this thread and there are some interesting views. BUT,
I think this needs to be said. Almost all of modifications to the VW cooling
systems, both type 1 (post '70) and type 4, detract from the original VW
engineering and result in many negative outcomes. I have been a sucker for a
few VW cooling myths and each has proven false. I have been lucky so far.

Living in Colorado brings some of the most violent weather extremes in the
lower 48. One day it can be 85F and in 24 hours it drops well below zero or
into the negatives and snows 4 inches. (just ask Don, Chris, Dan, Troy
etc...) We experience everything in rapid succession. Heat, humidity,
freezing, fog, wind, rain, sleet, hail, drought etc and etc...all at a very
thin altitude. Never has there been a better testing area for the aircooled
motor.

Without the proper cooling elements (tin, flaps, thermostat, etc) in the
thin air, buses just plain overheat or under-cool. Regardless of any
theoretical physics or practical "my mechanic's advice".

Missing a thermostat, heater flaps, heat deflector pipes (depending on model
years) motors wear out a lot quicker, at every latitude and longitude. A
motor needs to warm up quickly. thermostats assist in that one. Simple. Even
if it is 80F ambient, the engine's operating temperature is about 175F-190F,
so the motor needs to warm up. I doubt it is 185F in Arizona when a bus
starts in the morning. (maybe in Australia :)

Taking any of the cooling flaps off screws up the cooling flow and pre-heat.
MANY bus owners passing through the Rockies take all kinds of odd advice on
repairs and modifications. When they do it wrong, Chris gets a call up at
BustedBus and hauls them away. It sucks every time.

In fact as a rule we on this list should help new bus owners find parts to
return their bus to as close to stock as possible in regards to the cooling
and heating systems. There will be more buses on the road as a result and
isn't that why we are all here?

Stepping off his soapbox and signing off,

Be cool everybody,

Jon Stiles
