Date: Fri, 04 May 2007 19:23:56 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Tom Young <tomyoung1(-at-)comcast.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Air-cooled Federal EGR filter and SMOG

Tom Young wrote:
> Unfortunately, in the SFBay area $30 might get you a free brake 
> inspection, but not much more.

ehhh.. ya never know.  I stopped over at a shop and they were pretty cool...

> times. But in those cases where I was doing adjustment I had a built-in 
> O2 sensor to guide me and give me some feedback on  how I was doing.  
> Without that sensor in place I kind of feel that I'm just guessing.  I 

You're guessing regardless unless you use a dyno.  So whether you try 
and make the adjustment via the screw or the spring, you still have no 
reference.  However, you do know that you're rich, so that is a start.

While an NB02 sensor won't tell you much (BTDT), a WB02 will tell you 
tons of information that would be very helpful for tuning. 
Unfortunately, it's a bit more expensive than getting a run on the dyno...

> don't agree that the CO screw only adjusts idle; if you look at the air 
> vane as you turn the CO screw you'll see that the air vane is moving in 
> response.  Turn the screw in (richer) and the vane moves 

The adjustment might be negligible as the air passage is pretty small... 
at least that's what list wisdom has said in the past.  YMMV


> across the resistance strip.  I may end up opening up the AFM and 
> tightening things down in the end, but it's not my first choice.

I would start here because you know for sure that an adjustment in the 
AFM is going to affect your ENTIRE RPM range.  You can try with the 
screw, but again, you don't know if it's going to make much of a 
difference, where you can be guaranteed that the AFM adjustment will 
change your mixture.  Plus, it's easily reversible.. it's not like 
you're running the risk of blowing the thing up if you tighten it a few 
clicks.

> Unfortunately, I think I'm about getting to the end of my rope with 
> air-cooled VW busses.  If I get this sucker to pass I may just take the 
> opportunity to pass it along to some "greater fool!"

ehhhh.. you know, you just have to get through this year and then you 
only have to worry about it again two years later, or, if you get it 
dialed in this year, it should work then, too ;)

Too bad it's a bit difficult for me to remove my WB02 cuz I'm going to 
be up in those parts for Mother's Day....

Mike
