From: "Mike Anderson" <mikeanderso(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 08 Jul 2003 22:57:41 +0000
Subject: Hi-performance forced convection

Hello everyone,

Recently at work I've been attempting to cool down cadaver tendons to 0 
degrees celcius so that we can do tension testing with them.   Turns out 
that the tendons get stiffer at that temp, and can support a greater tension 
load than they can at room temp.  This has no application in real life, but 
it does have an application for the bus list.  Keep reading, I'll get there 
I promise.

The tendons are placed inside a jaw like clamp that has serrated edges on 
it.  Clamps similar to this have been cooled in other studies using liquid 
nitrogen, or liquid carbon dioxide.  Both work very well, but it is 
difficult to avoid temperature spikes due to freeze/thaw cycles.  We're 
using piezoelectric chips to cool down the clamps, basically the same things 
that power the coleman travel chests. The key to making the cold side 
coooooooold is to move the heat away from the hot side.  This is typically 
accomplished in the coleman coolers with a fan.  We've been using compressed 
air passed over a copper heat sink, since we've got wall air in the lab.  
Shrouding on the sides of the sink controls where the air flows and helps 
make sure we get the most convective heat transfer possible.  Beginning to 
see how this relates to the ACVW???

I've been fooling around with different variables, trying to optimize the 
cooling and get the temps as low as I can.  Some of those variables include: 
air pressure, air flow rate, humidity of the cooling air, temperature of the 
cooling air, and most recently the chemical content of the cooling air.  I 
found that the most efficient way to cool the thing down was to pass low 
pressure cooled air with a high humidity over the fins.  That of course 
sounds intuitive.  But the fun stuff started happening when I started 
humidifying the air with ethanol rather than water.  That got me thinking... 
  I'm envisioning a couple of swamp cooler mats that mount inside the engine 
compartment behind the vents.  The ethanol source of your choice is 
percolated through the mats with a pump, so that all the air entering the 
cooling fan is high in ethanol content.  I'd have to do some math on it, but 
from what I've learned with my simple lab system you could probably drop 
head temps a bit with such a system.

Whether or not it's worth it, I dunno.  I prolly won't ever build it either 
since I don't know if the benefit/bullshit ratio is high enough.  I'd have 
to do some math, and some testing in the bus.  But just the thought of 
pulling off the road every couple hundred miles at the local liquor store 
and picking up a couple bottles "for the bus" struck me as kinda fun.

FWIW,

Mike A.
'64 SO-34 in SLC
