Date: Wed, 9 Jul 2003 20:58:58 -0700 (PDT)
From: Good Ole Volk <goodolevolk(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Cliff B Styles <cliff.styles(-at-)cmcsg.com>, Vanagon List
Subject: Buses On The River, 2003

Buses On The River
http://www.carltonandadams.com/busriver/busriver.html  

Heard people talking about last coupla years?  Cant get
enough of the breakfast burritos?  Wondering what to do the
third weekend in August?  Pondering the meaning of life, or
at least the theory behind the oil-spot award?
Buses On The River is your solution to all of lifes little
pains, sniffles, sneezes, coughs, aches, stuffy heads, and
fevers.  OK, not really but its darn good medicine,
anyway.

If you're into mountain biking, watersports, hiking,
eating, fishing, or just plain doing nothing, then this is
the campout for you. The middle of August will be hot, but
the water will be cool and the pines that we will be
camping under will provide ample shade.  Experience August
as it ought to be experienced... with your VW friends, at
the Buses On The River campout!

We will be camping alongside the Nolichucky River, at the
Nolichucky Gorge Campground in Erwin, TN. This campground
was built by many rafters, kayakers, and hikers hours of
fruitful volunteer efforts. It is positioned within one of
the deepest gorges in the entire Southeast, and has great
water accessibility, not to mention literally bordering the
National Forest and the Appalachian Trail. All beverages
and all dogs (who play well with others) are WELCOME within
the campground, so it is a perfect spot for us! At only an
hour's drive from Asheville and just 2 hours from
Knoxville, it makes for the PERFECT TENNESSEE camping
experience! 

2003 has been a great year for rain and if the weather
weve had is any indication of the weather to come, the
river should be up to a great level!  Bring your swimsuit,
your banjo, your flotation device, and a smile.

The only meal well be doing together is the famed
Breakfast Burrito Extravaganza.  Be sure to bring enough
for you and yours to eat on and feel free to contribute to
the stockade.  The groceries signup sheet is on the website
for any newbies or forgetful frolickers.  Email me when you
decide on something to bring.  If you dont want to signup,
you dont have to, just bring a little of everything and
throw it in someone WILL eat it!?!  Please remember to do
your part.  We wont let anyone go hungry, but dont expect
to get fed just because you showed up.

We had several folks ask for the availability of a T-Shirt
with the design by T.J. Spivey.  We planned on making those
available last year with on-site screen printing, but
because of shipping difficulties, the materials did not
arrive in time to allow for us to do them at the event.  My
sincere apologies, as I take responsibility for that
mishap!  This year, were gonna go ahead and do some up
prior to the event.  They will be sold on a first come,
first served basis.

So heres the low-down:  (copy, paste, print, magnet it to
refrigerator or bus dash)

Buses On The River
August 15-17
At the Nolichucky Gorge Campground in Erwin, TN 
http://www.angelfire.com/tn/nolichucky/index.html  
Cost is $6.00, per person, per night; full hook-ups also
available for an additional $5.00 per site, per night.  The
camp manager, L.D., will NOT take power reservations prior
to the event!  These will be accessible only through the TN
Mechanized and paid for at the event!  This is to eliminate
pricing confusion.  PLEASE let us know if youre requiring
power.

Campout Website is: 
http://www.carltonandadams.com/busriver/busriver.html  and
is chock full of information, including directions, the
food sign-up and recipe listing, as well as the place to
check for ALL updates and info changes.
Email for replies, questions, comments, concerns:
GoodOleVolk(-at-)yahoo.com 
If you just dont want to type out your questions or need
to pass the news along to someone who doesnt email, then
by all means, call me, Travis: [cell](423)612-0248  or
Eddie: [home] (423)743-2409

The TN Mechanized looks forward to seeing everybody from
the previous years and MANY more!

Yours in wet water wielding,
Travis T Adams
