From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: bueses <bueses(-at-)earthlink.net>, OldVolks General
Date: Thu, 10 Jul 2003 15:45:55 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] costco canopy tarps

  1 turned sideways, 2 put side by side and 1 up on the hoist. I allready
tested the 3 on the ground approach and it works and if I use the extension
uprights on my 2 post hoist a bus will fit underneath as long as it doesn't
have a roof rack!!!! Now if I put the container van in it gets real tight.
My plan is to keep the restored buses in the garage (kind of like trailer
queens)out of the elements. My plan is to have 2 done by the end of the year
and maybe 3. My Double Cab is going to John Jones (aka Kustom Coach Works)
next week, my single cab is going into my friends body shop (local) for it's
paint. The Double door is getting slammed (using my NEW custom made
spindles), either repainted or buffed out, then converted to look like an
emergency vehicle, flashing lights, duel tone horns, etc.. Then it's on to
the container van (which is now a trailer queen being I don't want to get it
totaled like Richards (only 4 known left). When all is said and done the
flip seat westy gets restored and who knows which bus after those I will do.
I have 2 more  coming but hope to just leave them in the original patina.
The fire truck is going up FOR SALE in a couple weeks.
   As time and money (hard to come by) permits the next garage is going to
be built, around 2000 to 2500 square feet next to the current one (this one
built out of styrofoam sold by another bus person from Tucson, Az.), I have
a big lot, then all my buses will be housed indoors, out of the hot AZ sun.

Ronnie

ps, you can see it in January when you come to BBB, 

-----Original Message-----
From: bueses [mailto:bueses(-at-)earthlink.net]
Sent: Thursday, July 10, 2003 1:30 PM
To: OldVolks General; ronnie chase; Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] costco canopy tarps


on 7/10/03 1:10 PM, OldVolks General at General(-at-)OldVolks.com wrote:

> My new garage which is almost complete 18X24 with 13' 6" ceilings is
> almost complete and I will be able to house 4 in there when I put the
hoist
> in(2 post 7000 lb, old one from the shop) so I will only need 3 more
> shelters to hide the rest that are at home!
>
I really wanna see a pic of 4 buses in an 18' x 24' x 13'-6" high garage!!!
Hope none of them have poptops/tilts or bumpers!  grin

Tom Buese-coveting my buddy's new 5000 s.f.backyard shop w/ 12 ton bridge
crane
