Date: Sun, 26 Oct 1997 10:25:46 -0700
From: Will Wood <wkwood@burgoyne.com>
To: mwest@CDSNET.NET, type2@bigkitty.azaccess.com
Subject: RE: Hot-rodding the Fuel Injection 

Mike Wrote:

<SNIP>

Anyway, the two critical areas in Electronic Fuel Injection are fuel delivery
and information feedback.  Systems like the Berg Haltech and CB Performance
system require in the car tuning sessions or mounted dials and switches
to compensate for the lack of feedback to the system.  This has the advantage
of custom tuning to the drivers preferences, however the best advice would
be to use the sensors that were intended with the system.  I myself have
done a few experiments with Rabbit EFI systems on a Type I motor.  It works
great.  But when you start getting into bigger motors, fuel flow and delivery
become critical, i.e., injectors start getting too small and the fuel
pump can't keep up with the demand (of course using a stock electric fuel
pump).  Last one I did was a Turbo application in a Sandrail, the EFI was
"free", but we wound up putting about $400 in upgrades, new lines, new pump
bigger injectors.  We also went through about three different O2 Sensors
that would work with the higher exhaust manifold temp that the turbo produced.

But it did and still does work.  This thing (1776, Berg Crank, VW Rods) with
the Turbo roosts for days, Boost is limited to 10 PSI, but it doesn't ping
and is very responsive.  I have a couple of Rabbit systems still hanging
around here, I think I'm going to do some more experiments this winter.  Maybe
a 1600 but with higher boost characteristics.  I have a Mitus. Turbo that I
bought at a recent swap - $75  - Woohoo instant low buck power.

BTW, you're still working with an Aircooled Platform here, so heat dissapation
and how much fun you can have depends upon your willingness to let the
engine operate within effective cooling parameters.  A Turbo on an Aircooled
VW Engine will overheat the engine, very quickly.  The difference betwen
a couple of pounds of boost can me intake charge temps soar, so heat in =
heat stored = not so much heat out.  I also use intercoolers.  (find them
out of old trashed saabs or Volvos..).

Will Wood

KdF Service and Supply
801 731 3360 
801 732 1250 Fax.
<http://www.burgoyne.com/pages/wkwood/kdf.htm>

