Date: Sun, 2 Mar 1997 10:18:24 -0800
From: Mike West <mwest@cdsnet.net>
Subject: Plug insert install

>Am I going to have to drop the engine to do this?
>
>The guy down at the FLAPS said stuff a clean rag down into the cylinder
>before re-tapping the threads, and then gently pull it out afterwards to
>get the metal shavings out.  Hmmm.
>
>Instructions on the thread tap kit say gotta remove the head, manufacturer
>will not be liable, etc.
>
>Scary stuff.
>
>Plus you can't see what you're doing down in that hole.
>
>Well I got an insert tap kit but I am afraid to go out and do anything with it.
>
>Hmph.

>        - Bill Blake

  - - - - - - - - - - -

 Found this under the title of"Help I'm going crazy" which was about
a guy that had a plugged fuel line.

 At the risk of repeating myself, if you have a problem, tell us what
the problem is in the title. I can't and won't read all the posts
with some inane title past it's conclusion or even a first post with
the name "Jesus" in it.

 OK, now that we've established I'm strange and cranky, let's look at
the problem at hand.

 I have done this tapping in an insert while the engine was in the car. The
#1 in front on the right hand side in fact.

 Couldn't even see the damn thing.

 The plug hole is horizontal to the ground. 90% of the chips are going
to fall in the hole itself.

 Using just the tap for the insert and no drill, totally by feel, I
proceded to work the new tap in the hole until the insert went in all
the way snuggly and no more.

 Here's all the theory:

 The chips will fall in around the tap and if the tap has a tapping
fluid like oil on it, it will capture the majority before they have a
chance to be pushed into the commbustion chamber.

 Make a turn in and then screw the tap clear back out and clean it.
Put on more clean tapping fluid and go in again.

Get an aluminum tapping fluid like "Alumitap" at your local friendly.

 Repeat this process till you're in as deep as you want to be.

 You can't get a rag in that cylinder and hope to get it out so don't
try.

 Lock the insert tight on a plug to run in the hole ocassionally to
check your depth. if it isn't locked tight on the plug it may try to
stay in the hole when you back it out.

 By keeping the tap clean, you will get almost all of the chips and
what is left in the cylinder is a few tiny aluminum chips.

 They will either be blown out in the process of combustion or burn
up.

 It isn't a perfect solution but I got away with it. I can live with
that.  :-)

 When you have the new tapped hole deep enough, use some spray carb-
cleaner to clean the oil out of the threads.

 Clean the threads on the insert itself.

 Now use a permanent locktite or a good epoxy like JB Weld on the threads
and screw it in there and tighten to a good torque.

 You will want to have unlocked the insert from the plug you're using
and oil the threads of the plug, as this time you want the plug to
come out and not the insert.

Put it in and torque it and then let the locktite/epoxy cure overnite
before you remove the plug you put it in there with.

 If you do this all right, you have a solid insert in there that will
stay and damned few chips in the chamber to worry about.

 You can stop worrying after a couple days of driving.  :-)

 west

