Date: Fri, 19 Jul 2002 00:29:16 -0500
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org (craig k)
Subject: advice on 2 1600s

well, my first rebuild is hitting the 5K mark, and i am beginning to wonder
if a newbie mistake somewhere isn't catching up with me...
1584 sp, all stock. ran great on our honeymoon trip (2k), but lately
started to make a 'clack'ing sound from the #4 cylinder/dizzy area; thought
it was a loose valve, but they hadn't budged since the last setting
(intakes: .004; exhausts: .006).
engine was also vibrating  a good deal, and pulling plug wires didn't seem
to make a difference; an examination of the plugs showed all were firing,
so it wasn't a dead cylinder.  new dizzy points/condenser/rotor/cap.
plugs were: #1 light brown, a -teeny- bit fluffy  #2 slightly lighter, with
either some splash deposits, or some glazing #3 slightly white cone, light
brown outer  #4 brown and dry.  nothing that looked too hot, and no wet oil
fouling. neither side seems to be running leaner than the other.
engine vibrations damped out at higher rpms, but were VERY annoying at idle.
final straw was a burning oil smell that i couldn't track - it could've
been some drips into the heater boxes, but it didn't smell right.
was running a little hotter than usual, even tho my afm says i am dead on
jetting - 117.5 main, 130z air -at cruise ( still a bit rich at idle).
timing is about 32 with a cast-iron 010, but i run a 6.9:1 CR, so the
lower-than-usual jet and extra timing are fine. 'cording to berg, at least!

dropped the engine and began to unmantle it; i hate to split the case, but
i'd hate to ruin my berg p/cs and rods worse!  any advice on what to look
for that could cause the odd noise would be welcome.

engine #2 -  its my beater spare, so beyond 1600sp i know little about it
EXCEPT for the monstrous end play... you can pull on the pulley and move it
about 1/32" and get a good 'whunk' outa the case when the crank moves.  i
only need the motor to get around town while doctoring the other case (and
it was driving before, but heated up on longer highway trips), so i'm
wondering if there are any tricks to bandage the slop. a racer suggested
modifying a 40hp shim, but didn't fill in the details. any other ideas?

Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen


