Date: Mon, 22 Jul 2002 05:17:22 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] charging 6v battery with 12v charger?

>From: "King, Robert" <Robert.King(-at-)dsto.defence.gov.au>
>Date: Mon, 22 Jul 2002 09:52:20 +1000
>
>Matt Roberts?

Uh oh, they're asking for me by name now... :)

>Would it be possible to charge a 6V battery using a 12V charger on 
>'trickle' (1 amp) by using a suitable resistor to drop the voltage
>in the charge line (using something similar to the resistor used to
>drop 12v for 6v wipers?)

The answer is an unqualified maybe.  On most cheap chargers, this will 
work just fine - they are designed to crank out the voltage as soon as
you plug them in to the wall socket.  Fancier chargers may refuse to
charge a 6 V battery when hooked up this way.  They may have a circuit
that looks at the battery voltage before charging - this is a form of
protection in case you've hooked up the leads backwards or whatever.
This circuit wants to see maybe 10 volts at the proper polarity before
it will allow the charging to begin, and the 6 volts or less it will
see won't convince it to turn on.  Unfortunately, the only really
reliable way to determine this is to try it.

If you want to try it, you'll need a resistor that will drop about 
6 volts when 1 amp of current goes through it.  If you go ask this
German guy http://www-gap.dcs.st-and.ac.uk/~history/BigPictures/Ohm.jpeg
he'll tell you that means you need a 6 ohm resistor.  If you ask
nicely he'll also tell you that it needs to have a power rating of
at least 6 watts.  Now you have to find a resistor like that.  The
ones that are sold as "voltage drops" for 12V conversions will 
probably work _IF_ they are adjustable.  The fixed ones will have too
little resistance for this application.  You might try an electronics
store; if Dick Smith still exists in .au they may have something close
to what you want.

Another trick you can try is to use a light bulb as a resistor.
Ideally this means you'd need a 6 volt, 6 watt bulb, which you
don't have, but you probably have a few 6 volt, 5 watt bulbs
kicking around your Bus -- dome lights, parking or license plate
lights (depending on specification).  If you want to get real
fancy you could even use the tail filaments of two 6 V stop/tail
bulbs in parallel as that should give you a 6 watt bulb exactly.
The best way to play this game is to buy a socket at the auto
parts store that matches the bulb(s) you're going to use, and
the bulb(s) to fit it, if you're not going to steal the ones from
your Bus.  This way you don't have to pull the socket out of
the Bus.

Whichever way you go, the hookup is pretty simple.  Clip the charger
negative lead onto the battery negative post.  Clip the charger
positive lead onto one terminal of the resistor or light bulb. 
Run another wire from the other terminal of the resistor or light
bulb to the battery positive post.  Then, plug the charger into
the wall and see what happens.

If you are using a light bulb, it should light fairly brightly.
A resistor will get warm to the touch after a few minutes.  In
either case, use a voltmeter to measure the voltage at the battery
terminals - anything over 6.3 volts means it's charging.  Depending
on the resistor value, you could see anything from 6.3 volts to
maybe 9 volts at the battery.  If you see much over 7.5 to 8 volts,
you should use a slightly higher-value resistor (more ohms) or go to
a slightly lower-wattage light bulb (same thing).  If you have an
adjustable resistor, adjust it until you see 7.5 volts or so at
the battery.

If you happen to have two 6-volt batteries of the same size and
rating, you can connect them in series and charge them with a
12-volt charger.  This works best if both batteries are at about
the same state-of-charge, as otherwise they will charge unevenly.
One way to ensure this is to first connect the two batteries in
parallel - negative to negative, positive to positive - and leave
them that way for a few hours.  Disconnect the batteries from each
other and measure each battery's voltage - if they are equal or
very close to it, they are at the same state of charge.  You can
then rewire them in series and put them on the charger: charger
negative clip to negative of battery 1, positive of battery 1
to negative of battery 2, charger positive clip to positive of
battery 2.  This has the advantage of working even if you have
a fancy charger that checks the battery voltage before starting,
but has the disadvantage of requiring a second 6 V battery.

Note that charging at 1 amp could potentially take a long time
if your battery is very discharged.  VW used 6 V, 77 amp-hour
batteries originally, which means that it could take 3.5+ days
to charge the battery fully.  Most of the time the battery isn't
that discharged and a shorter charge will work.  Using a higher
rate of charge is perfectly fine, but you'll have to go talk
to that German guy again to figure out a different resistor
value or lamp wattage. 

Good luck!


