From: "Walkingboss" <walkingboss(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: "< Arnaud >" <turbo2cv(-at-)gmail.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 21 Apr 2006 23:23:24 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Are the Asian CV joints any good?

Hello Arnaud,

    To be truthful, its a yes and no answer. I have installed Chinese parts
on two occasions I remember very well. I installed a customers Chinese
parts, ( against my better judgment ) trying to help my customer save a few
dollars. In reality I did him no favor at all.
    One customer supplied Type One wheel bearings, and one lasted less than
4000 miles. I also installed customer supplied ball joints that lasted only
six months. And when it failed, it was with a good boot, and full of grease!
    In both cases even though I could not warranty their parts, I did
install quality parts at no labor charge as a goodwill gesture.
    I own a Volkswagen repair shop, and I am not willing to gamble my
customers money, nor our reputation on a non proven parts. We give a 2 yr -
24,000 mi  warranty with all our work, and live or die by the same.
    So it's a simple choice for me. Use known quality parts, have well
trained Technicians install them, charge a fair price, and stand behind your
work. I have run my shop for seventeen years with this philosophy, and I'm
not going to change now.
    By the way I get a very good feel for parts quality, customer service,
price, etc, by monitoring the feedback from this and other lists. List
members really tell it like it is.
    Not trying to flame/bash the Chinese. When their parts prove themselves,
I'll be the first in line to save a dollar, Yang, Ying, or what ever it is.
    I will offer this. I regularly go to a Chinese restaurant, where they
have a great buffet, at a very good price. Not only that, the drive there is
through a very nice neighborhood that has very few stray dogs and cats!
    But for now, I'll just keep working hard trying to make my customers
happy while making a living!

Howard


Subject: Re: [T2] Are the Asian CV joints any good?


Howard,
Have you tried them ? Some years ago many would flame japanese
production as junk...
