Date: Sun, 23 Apr 2006 18:30:37 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Courtney Hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>
Subject: Re: [T2] Interesting brake pedal question.

On Sun, 23 Apr 2006, Courtney Hook wrote:

> My 70 bug brakes (I own 2 bugs as well as my Westy) work fine, all redone with
> new hoses etc., except for one thing. I did not replace the master cylinder.
> Now when I use them, the car will have brake drag unless I reach down with my
> foot and lift the brake pedal up the last 1". Then there is no drag. The pedal
> does not appear to be returning that last 1" of travel to the top. If I do it
> manually, it will work fine. I would appreciate any clues on this? Is there a
> return spring in the MC that is tired and needs to be replaced? This is what

There is a coil spring that returns the brake pedal lever.  It lives
forward (FIF) of the throttle pedal.  If it is broken, the lever won't
return properly.

I doubt that the MC is the problem.  The pedal does not have any way to
"pull" the piston back out of the MC.  It just has a pushrod that sits in
a pocket in the aft end of the MC.  It can push, but it cannot pull.


Odd you should ask this question, as I just got done going through the
brakes on our '69 bug.  Got in the car last week and found that I had
no brakes at all!  Bit the bullet and installed new wheel cylinders and
hoses all around (master cylinder was done about 6 months ago).  Three
of the hoses I removed were '69 originals.  One of these was spookily soft
and bulgy.  I couldn't blow through it, but the brake was still working
and there was no leak before I removed it.

Went to bleed the brakes and soon noticed a bad leak in the right front.
Joint where the rubber line joins the metal line was spurting every time
the pedal was depressed.  Tightened the connection.  Still spurted.
Removed the new hose and replaced it with the old hose (the only
non-original hose) from the other side of the car.  Sealed just fine.
Pedal high and firm.

Looked at the end of the leaking hose, but I can't see anything amiss
there.  Its mate worked just fine on the opposite side.  I'll have to go
back to the VWFLAPS Monday and exchange it.

Other than having to replace the hose again, it's nice to have a car that
stops well.  Also nice to find all those 37-year-old threaded connections
all broke loose without any undue hassle.

George
