Date: Mon, 24 Apr 2006 13:11:09 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] how to fix Running Hot

ok so its just april aND I havent driven in the summer season with this engine .. fairly brand new engine few thousand miles LOL.... but all done over winter....
   
  engine has been fine....
  temp wise and pretty decent engine to me ..
   
  regular maintenance...
  its bareing down just in the low 80's mid 70's right now in sunny south carolina... and already the oil temp gauge has flew up to 220 degrees.....
  i was told to cut bus off if it got this high and let cool but i mean it flew up to 220 just with a simple drive cross town....goodness,.,.,..
   
  I know its hot and the temp gauge isnt lying cause when the motor runs hot it stutters to cut off....
  always when the oil temp gauge reaches right at or right below 220 its gonna shutter or stutter when it cuts off.... me cutting it off it not shutting down by its self.. to clear that up..
   
  the bus acts like its running hot also by sluggishness of little power... i mean it goes but it is hot...runs fine still but runs better less hot .....lot better...
   
  So what to do to get temps down...????
   
  what could be causing it to jump up in temps so fast....?
   
  i have another oil cooler(external) i have been debating to put on there but will this in fact solve my rise in heat ...>? or can there be something else making it jump that fast....
  does really good while there is highway air there but as soon as i hit ONE red light temp shoots way back up.... i am so afraid of having to rebuild yet another engine....
   
  also cant afford it either....even if i just gall a piston.... 
   
  how to prevent this from happening?
   
  ok 
  dwell is 25(8cylinder scale) so is like 50 on (4cylinder scale)
  changed oil from 10w 40 to 20 w 50( and still running hot)
  plugged any holes that were found in engine bay....for colling purposes....
  timing is also right on 7.5 BFTDC
   
   
  this is a 1800  76 transporter(converted to sportsmobile rivera)
   
  running weber dfev 32/36 carb ....( rebuilt..when engine was....few thousand miles back...)
   
  what else can be done....to get cooler temps... i can only imagine that if temps stay where they are gas prices wont be the only thing that keep me off the roads this summer in the bus.... looks like more driving at night and less in the day....? But wait i work during the day hmmmmmmm?
   
  surely something can be done....to bring temps down... and why are they going so high even though its not scorching hot outside yet... dont get me wrong it is hot yeah buddy its hot.... but not liek it will be in 2 months...+ july and august though are our hottest months and OMG are they ruff on the V dubs/////
   
  chai
   
   
   
   
   
   


                                                                 Break out the shorts, tank tops and sandles........
     Tune up the Bus wash off the winter rust~!~
       It's camping season woohooooooo LETS GO CAMPING~!~
