Date: Mon, 24 Apr 2006 16:19:22 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: John C <spikerrr(-at-)mchsi.com>, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] how to fix Running Hot

ok so as someone else emailed me and asked about the carb jets...?
   
  hmmm this leads me to believe that it is possible,..
  i have another carb i could try i guess and see how it runs...?
   
  maybe wait till this weekend when i can leave room for mistakes and anything that might come up.. it seems the simplest things can boggg you down sometimes...
   
  i dont know what the jets are in it either but will check and write down before i attempt to change the carb....
   
  the one i have is newer than what i am now using so maybe it will show better results...?
   
  peace and thanks
  chai

John C <spikerrr(-at-)mchsi.com> wrote:
  A. 220 degree oil temps in a type four motor isnt that high.
B.If your using the vdo oil temp guage they are notoriosly innacurate.
Try to confirm that the oil is actually getting hot.If you stop when the oil
guage reads 220 and run back to the engine compartment,does it seem hot?Grab
the dipstick.If you get instant blisters ,then its too hot.If you can pull
it out and hold it its probably not too bad.The running like crap and such
when hot could be a seperate problem.The carb could be jetted a little lean
and when its cold the choke richens it up a little so it runs better>I dont
know anything a webers so its just a guess.You certainly shouldnt need an
external cooler.By the way my gene berg temp dipstick wouldnt go off until
my vdo guage read around 260.Anyway I found my problem was that the timing
likes to andvance itself slowly.I think I have a bad clamp.Anyway when the
timong is where it should be my vdo will get up to about 235 -240 but my
physical check of the motor assures me that its cool as a cucumber.Well its
not too hot anyway.
On 4/24/06 3:11:09 PM, Chai (standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com) wrote:
> ok so its just april aND I havent driven in the summer season with this
> engine .. fairly brand new engine few thousand miles LOL.... but all done
> over winter....



                                                                 Break out the shorts, tank tops and sandles........
     Tune up the Bus wash off the winter rust~!~
       It's camping season woohooooooo LETS GO CAMPING~!~
