From: "Walkingboss" <walkingboss(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: "Gary Watts" <garyb(-at-)fatmedia.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 25 Apr 2006 01:41:08 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Pesky heater cables.

Hello Gary,

    Give this a try. Flood the cable tubes with WD40 or the like, then blow
air down the tube. You may have to do this several times until you get lube
out at the rear. Once it has flow, cut the cable off at the front end of the
tube. Go to the rear and attach your vice grips to the "cable" at the end,
not on the cable boss where the crimp screws attach. You want to use the
cable end as a stop to keep your vice grips from sliding off the end of the
cable.
    Now take a hammer and "rap" on the side of your vice grips, driving the
cable out. It should come, but if it is stubborn, give it another spray and
blow, let it sit and repeat if needed until it comes out.
    Now you need to get a 1/64 inch, 10 ft long flexible drill bit, and
drill the tube from end to end to clean it out!
    Wait, you ask where are you going to get a drill bit like that? You
already have one! Take the old cable and flatten about one inch of it at the
front end where you made your cut. If you beat it on the flat of a vice with
a hammer the cable will flatten out very nicely. Now chuck the rear end of
the cable up in your drill. Now blow more oil/WD40 etc. in the tube, and
while you feed the cable in the tube, run your drill. Feed it slowly, don't
force it, and it will drill out all the rust and junk. I do this by myself
all the time, but being a first timer you may want a helper. Feed slow, run
the drill fast, but feed slow!
    A variable speed drill helps but is not necessary. When you get the tube
clean, coat the new cable with anti-size and install as usual. Make sure you
have the flex housings in front, and the rubber seals at the rear to prevent
water from getting in the tubes, and you should be ok for years.
    After all its spring, lets fix that heater! :-)

Howard


Subject: [T2] Pesky heater cables.

>The installation looks easy, you pull the
> old cables out, and feed the new ones in.

> So... what's the trick to get the old cables out.  I'm assuming when I
> get them out, I should oil the outside of the new cable housings to
> make them slide in easier.
