To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: macbus <macbus(-at-)mindspring.com>
Date: Tue, 25 Apr 2006 06:42:44 -0400
Subject: EB 2006 Wrap up

Let me start by saying thank you to everyone who took the time and 
resources to attend EveryBus 2006. You are a fantastic group of people!

Special Thanks

There are many wonderful people who help make EB possible. I want to 
thank the following people for their help. EB would not work without 
them.

Judy for her tireless efforts at the registration table
Stephanie and Olivia (Little Laster) for helping with mobile 
registration.
Alicia for all the cookies.
Greg Potts, family, and friends for Friday morning pancakes for all.
Craig for buying and cooking the pig.
Dave and Madonna for overseeing the Saturday Breakfast Burritos and 
everyone who chipped in with food, cookers, and efforts to cook.
Jeff and Ryan( sp?) for bingo and free coffee. You guys are really 
great!
Richard and Adam for making shirts.
Stella, Franny, Casey, Lilly, Frank and Judy for help with all of the 
door prizes.
Michele for the estimation jars.
Terry the ranger on duty for the weekend as well as the entire HSP 
staff. They all work hard to provide an excellent venue for EB. I can't 
thank them enough.
The Wycalls for reminding me what this is all about.
Ken for helping with registration and running shuttle in the double cab.
Michele, Stella, and Frank for their patience.
If I left your name out it's because my memory is slipping with age and 
not because I don't appreciate you!

Rethink for 2007
Bring back the chili cook-off.
Find a better way to do door prizes.
More stuff for the kids.
Less rain.
More cowbell.

Lots of folks chipped in to help rescue Adam, Heather and the kids from 
PA. Thanks for your contributions and to Dennis for driving a couple of 
hundred miles with parts to get the bus going.
Thanks for John for helping Chris from NJ by storing his broken bus and 
taking them to the Greyhound terminal so they could get home. I am 
sorry I missed your call on Sunday night. Best wishes to you.

Everyone wants to know how many buses were at EB. I believe there were 
more but I am going to be conservative and make the official number for 
the weekend 154.

Please send links to pics and trip reports so I can add them to the EB 
page.

Onward to 2007
