From: "King, Robert" <Robert.King(-at-)dsto.defence.gov.au>
To: "'Curt Conklin'" <CONKLINC(-at-)lawgate.byu.edu>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 1 Aug 2002 07:44:10 +1000 
Subject:  RE: [VB] The Orlando rondevous:  another viewpoint

Glad you made it home safely Curt.......  

I have bought the barney sunroof
home, have him driving and will start rust repair and resto shortly.
My neighbours looked slightly aghast - another five years of grinding,
welding
and loud cussing coming from the workshop?

I know you won't believe it but I really think I am going to sell the 23 to
do the barney ......I just can't bring myself to put lots of miles
on the 23 because of all that went into it....weird isn't it?

see you next time

RobK


--
I am baaack volks, after a two month absence.  I got to see Rob Kings'
Down Under sweet restoration of his '59, I think it was.  Have to say,
it is both "Legal" and sweet.  He switched it over to right-ahnd drive.

She's  real show car, and he has some trophies to prove it.  What a
sano
job he did with it, and he did it himself.  The paint job is just
immaculate, the upholstery is beautiful, the detail approaches
perfection.  Rob has set his own standard to follow as he begins to
restore the barn door which is up next.  I saw that too, and I didn't
see anything needing to be done on it that he hasn't already mastered
as
evidenced by his '59!  I admire his patience talent and expertise. 
Just
think, in 7 years I hope to be a neighbor of his, at least 6 months
out
of the year. 

I saw tons of busses in Australia, but they were practically all bays,
including a rare bay single cab, I had never seen one before.  I saw
only three splitties, two belonging to Rob and one on the road,
ironically, there in Geelong, with Rob.  We were on oure way back to
his
house from the storage place where his barndoor sits, safe inside,
away
from the elements (except for dust!) awaiting Robs' TLC.  Someday soon
.
. .  And I need to tell you, his wife has a sweet notchback for a
daily
driver.  OTH, to turn either of his busses into a daily driver would
be
a crime agains humanity . . . it it just too far a drive for them.


