From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, "Craig Spaeth" <spaeth(-at-)gorge.net>
Date: Wed, 31 Jul 2002 16:34:55 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] Should I cut up a bus?...

------=_NextPart_84815C5ABAF209EF376268C8
Content-type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII



well, i am a westy freak and i could care less about a 
panel right now. i also get the feeling that people may think this bus is the 
cleanest, unrestored bus ever. it isn't, but it sure would be a much easier 
project than many i see being fixed. i also think that people may see the paint 
and think it a roach. sorry, i don't have any pics available right now. and why 
do people keep bringing up deluxes? i don't like deluxes and don't own 
any.

YES, it is my bus, and NO i have not come to any 
conclusions about it. my reason for posting was to get some kind of input that 
may change my thinking or give me some kind of direction to lean my thinking 
about possibly cutting it up. maybe i'm crazy for wanting nice sheetmetal and 
desiring to cut up a clean bus (cough cough, storage shed), or maybe someone 
wants a clean panel and may have some metal i need. it's all a jumble of ideas 
right now. there have been and continue to be no decisions made on my part. i 
was just wonderiong the feel of the crowd as to whether or not to likk one to 
save others, or let others suffer in the meantime. i do appreciate all the input 
and look forward to more.



----- Original Message ----- 

 I would take the

straight rust free double door over a 23 window or Westy any day. 
Your

post is very interesting because you go through a long dissertation 
why

you should cut up this bus. Then you ask our opinion and lastly you

state that it is your bus so you can do what you want with it. If you

truly believe that it is your bus so you could do what you want, why 
ask

for opinions from us?  

As you stated yourself it is not about me, it is your bus do what you want 
but why tell a whole

list about it if your mind is already made up? This isn't meant to be

mean, I just see this type of post on a few different lists and have

wondered why spend the time writing a post asking opinions about

something you are already decided on? 

------=_NextPart_84815C5ABAF209EF376268C8--

