Date: Wed, 31 Jul 2002 20:23:47 -0500
From: Rick Taylor <BusBarn(-at-)Prodigy.net>
To: <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>, <bbbb(-at-)buskatiers.org>, <Type2(-at-)type2.com>,
Subject: Central States Fall events

Just trying to figure out the calender, so here are the fall VW events to m=
y
knowledge that are here in the central states.  Please feel free to add to
the list, am I missing some?


August 9-11, RMMW campout and show, Woodland Park, CO
More Info:  http://www.coloradovwbusclub.com/

August 23-25, Eureka Springs, Ark.

September 7-9, BNNTA, Mark Twain State Park, MO

Everything is right on track for the 18th "Busses Nowhere Near The Arch"
(a.k.a. "Busses By The Arch") held at 22 mile long Mark Twain Lake near
Hannibal, Missouri held over the upcoming Labor Day holiday weekend.  More
Info:  Bill Bowman www.BussesByTheArch.com, www.BNNTA.com

September 13-15, Josh Rogers IV, Keystone State Park, OK

Josh Rogers IV (soon to be called Oklahoma Bus Bash 2002) is on. The
site has been narrowed down to either Kaw Lake, or more likely, Keystone
State Park, just east of Tulsa. The dates are firm, 13-15 Sept, 02 This dat=
e
only conflicts with Jerome and I don't know how many Buskatier plan on
attending that. This is going to be a combined Oklahoma BusHead/Buskatier
event.  More info:  Art Long <along11(-at-)cox.net>


Oct 4-7, Indigibus Fest Birch Tree, MO

Discover America with Your Brothers and Sisters. Come on out to see the
Second National Gathering of the Full Moon Bus Club. This event is held at
Phoenix Ranch on 850 acres. Events, prizes, and surprises! Miles of
hiking/biking trails, 8 caves on the property, Tug-of-War (-at-) the Mud pit,
Native American Sweat Lodge to be held on Saturday night, communal cooking
for breakfast Sat and Sun=8ASpaghetti Dinner on Friday, and chili cookoff on
Saturday=8A.Last year was a blast and this year is bound to be even better!


October 11th - 13th, 9th Annual VW Fest, Danville, MO.

A camping event for all VWs. Cruise to the historic town of Hermann, MO for
their annual Octoberfest. Chili cook-off, door prizes, more... Contact Rick
for more details at 636-488-0423, e-mail vwfest(-at-)microcollector.org, or visi=
t
www.microcollector.org. This is a Missouri Micros, NEATO sponsored event.


October 25 - 27, 3rd annual Bustoberfest,

This is the signature event for the Buskatiers.  For all VW people, no
matter what you drive.  Held at the historic Nebraska State park, Indian
Cave in the South East corner of the State overlooking the Might Mo river.
This weekend will have hay rack rides, craft demonstrations and tours of th=
e
historic "half breed" town.  The showers are warm, but the nights may be
cool so bring your cool weather gear.  More Info:  www.Buskatiers.com

