From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 2 Aug 2002 08:11:51 -0700 
Subject:  Rob and Terry's Western Journey

Here's an e-mail from 2 BUS travelers.

-----Original Message-----
From: Terrance Wolfe Linda Wolfe [mailto:wolfe(-at-)tconl.com]
Sent: Friday, August 02, 2002 7:34 AM
To: buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org
Subject: [BSKA] Rob and Terry's Western Journey


Greetings from Cooke City, Montana.
 Rob and I have over 1100 miles on our busses so far this trip. Starting
last Sunday in Omaha we have been to 4 states 2 of them twice.
The weather was Very hot in Nebraska, South Dakota and Wyoming. Montana has
been the most kind with Mild days and very cool nites. Rob and Justin, his
son, are sleeping in the back of the Johnny Lighting Single cab.
Our highest pass was Beartooth Pass at 10,940 ft. We got down to 2nd gear
and 20 MPH when we got closer to the top.
We will be in the Jackson Hole area tomorrow. We are trying for The Jenny
Lake campgrounds but that will be a small chance. Likely we will be at one
of the campgrounds further north around Jackson Lake. We are planning on
being in the Jackson area for 2 nites.  Then we are heading toward Pinedale
and a campgrounds I have heard tell of. It is on Fremont Lake in Bridger
Teton National Forest for a nite. From there we head south. We expect to be
to at Steve Walters in Boulder CO on Weds evening.  Steve please send me
directions at the address below. There may be other stops along the way if
anyone wants to catch up with us please email me (Tom Buese and co.!!) at
buskatiers(-at-)hotmail.com. I will check that account in Jackson this weekend.
Looking forward to seeing ya?ll next week

This is Rob Laffoon ?..We have been doing great and  have been getting 21
mpg on the trip.  My only casualty was a bad fuel pump and my tool box flew
out the treasure chest door on a switchback on the Beartooth Pass.  I was
trying to keep speed up on the swithchback turns!!!  Looking forward to
seeing Ronnie and Rich and JP and the rest of the gang at RMMW/Bandimere
next weekend!!  Later!!  PD Rob

PS Couls someone please forward this to the Vintage list.
