From: "Frank E Biffath III" <fbiffath(-at-)mailingsolutions.com>
To: "Kerry Steding" <cat762(-at-)optimum.net>,
Date: Fri, 2 Aug 2002 11:59:43 -0400
Subject: Dixie Bus Gathering

Hello Everyone,

One week away for the inaugural Dixie Bus Gathering.  We may not have 160
buses show up, but there have been 160 bus owners talking about our event!

I have made some updates to the web site, I have added some basic directions
to follow.  Additionally, I was asked about a local festival in Mt Vernon
that I talked about months ago.  The city of Mt Vernon throws a large 4 day
festival every year to celebrate the author of "Dixie".  I have added a link
to their site.  Great family entertainment, or basically great wife
entertainment if she is not into talking about VW Dubs all day, such as my
wife.

The festival will have bands all weekend, an ice cream social, market days,
classic car shows and more.

I'll bet if I asked real nice, Mr. Dearing from Salem VA would send me his
little Dixie song thingy.  It is great, small enough to fit in your pocket,
and Mark says at least once a day, he needs to hear "Dixie".  Maybe next
year we will find a way to order these and have them as give aways!

We will cara bus to the Central Ohio Vintage Volkswagen show, leaving Rustic
Knolls at 8 am.  I will leave the show approximately 1 pm or so to start the
chili supper.

It would be great, if you all could bring something to eat, or share, like a
pot luck supper to enhance my award winning German Air Cooled Chili.

Sunday Morning we will rise very early to make breakfast for everyone.
There will be a few that are traveling a long way (Syracuse NY far away) and
they will want to leave early.  I want to send them home with a full belly.
Please bring items for the community breakfast.  We will be making the FMBC
Breakfast Burrito.  Bring a few eggs, some veggies, some cheese, some large
burrito wraps, some bacon, sausage, sour cream hot sauce, and such.

Your pots, pans, Coleman stoves, knives , and of course your input will be
greatly appreciated.  Don't be intimidated, we have one friend from the
Chicago area that can only cut an onion one way, in half!  Now that's a
large chunk!  hehehehe

We will have a 50/50 raffle and the 50 goes to you, and the other 50 to the
type2 list.

Remember your swimming attire (optional) and / or fishing pole.  Kids will
love the playground.  hot showers available.  Camping fee will be $20,
includes water and electric hookups.  There will be shade available.

When arriving at Rustic Knolls, please stop at the office and register.  You
will be directed to the event.  If arriving after 9 pm, just come to the
group area, and we will get you registered in the morning.

Have  a great Trip!!!

I look forward to meeting some new friends!


Frank E Biffath III
71 HapyBus
66 Westy New addition


