From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Scott Fraser <kn6f(-at-)dolphinsci.com>, Bart Daugherty
Date: Fri, 2 Aug 2002 10:29:39 -0700 
Subject: RE: [VB] Harry's amazing seat of cool

   In Vic Edelbrocks vintage race cars he has cool suit systems in all of
them. All it consist of is a smaill ice chest with a copper coil in them. To
that is an air pump with pumps cool air to his and his daughters  helments
and driving suits. These systems are available from most good speed shops.
You could adapt this to cool a seat by running coils of flexable tubing
throughout the seat and pumping the cooled water instead of the cooled air.
The flexable tubing ahould not be felt under the padding of the seat. Kind
of like radient cooling.

ronnie

-----Original Message-----
From: Scott Fraser [mailto:kn6f(-at-)dolphinsci.com]
Sent: Friday, August 02, 2002 10:09 AM
To: Bart Daugherty; hhouck(-at-)attbi.com; vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Harry's amazing seat of cool


At 09:57 AM 8/2/02, Bart Daugherty wrote:
>Harry Houck said
>"The long drive to Jerome will be a good test in a month and a half."
>
>Well I hope you and Karl fair better this year and good luck on the raffle 
>bus.  That seat sounds neat, any pics?  Also what about just putting some 
>peltiers under your seat?  You could have a switch to change polarity and 
>warm it in the winter.


Harry has a real neat idea here.  I've seen his "contraption" and if it 
works, he and karl should stay quite a bit cooler this year.  Hope for no 
leaks!

The problem with the peltiers, is that you have to directly couple a 
mechanism to move the heat.  Big hunks of metal, aluminum heat sinks,  not 
all that comfortable to sit on.  You could fabricate yourself a metal 
formed seat, mount those things all over the backside of the seat then 
connect up your heat sinks to the back of the peltiers.  Instant cool or 
hot seat, but not too comfortable.  I guess kind of like a racers seat.

If Harry's water cooler works, he could keep the water cooler on the cold 
side with a big batch of peltiers used to cool the water.

I just was thinking, if you did go with the metal seat, I'd hate to 
accidently touch it after it was sitting in the desert or Fresno sun for 
any length of time.  Ouch!


Scott
'60 DC

