Date: Fri, 14 Nov 2003 21:39:31 -0800 (PST)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: vacuum, PCV hose & carb tuning

I'm pretty new to VW ownership (6 months), and this list (1 week), so
please be kind. I've spent the better part of 3 weeks trying to id the
poor performance of my '72 camperbus. A previous owner replaced
the dual carb set up with a Weber. After much research on many sites
offered through this list and elsewhere (and some mild tinkering), I've
become conviced the issue is vacuum, and not jetting or the idle
mixture screw setting. 
I've discovered that I'm missing the hose that goes from the little
canister dealy (that lives next to the distributor) to the underside of
the air cleaner. (found a pic at this
site:http://www.benplace.com/weber.htm - I'm missing the orange hose in
the pictures) The little bib on the air cleaner isn't there either, but
there's a hole for it. 
My first question is: would this offset the vacuum sufficiently to
throw the system off? Regardless, I'd like to get this hose installed,
but I can't find a hose sizing or a part number for the bib anywhere.
If anyone has a source for this data, I'd really appreciate it. 
My tinkering has involved: "disarming the choke" a la John Muir, and
adjusting the mixture (which has been returned to its pre-tinkered
setting). The behavior I'm experiencing is rough running and choking
when I step on the gas at low RPM - to the point where the gas pedal
acts like an engine brake. When the choke was active, this behavior
wouldn't present itself until the bus was warm. Now that the choke has
been disarmed, this behavior is ever-present. 
If I'm heading down the wrong road in my diagnosis, please let me know.
I just figure that this hose should be replaced before I go much
further. Then, I figure I'll confirm the vacuum is/is not the issue
before swapping the jets around, or start asking you all more
questions. Thanks--
paulie in Lake Oswego, Oregon
1972 Camperbus (hapy)
