To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Mon, 17 Nov 2003 16:44:04 -0800
Subject: Is this a bled-down hydraulic lifter?

The rebuilt engine I got for my '76 Westy recently came with hydraulic 
lifters.  I am totally new to the whole hydraulic lifter scene, and 
have never personally heard the banging noise that hydraulic lifters 
make when they bleed down, though I have heard/read the stories about 
it.

Anyway, being so delighted that I fixed my electrical problem 
yesterday, I decided I would take the Bus on some errands today.  I 
started it up (yay, no more cold start problem), and I got back out 
while the engine was running to put my Bentley manual back underneath 
the seat.

In short, I was horrified by the noise I heard: *bang bang bang bang*.  
"Eeek, do I have a loose rocker?  What the hell is that?", I think.

Being in a hurry, and not wanting to do any damage if it was a real 
problem, I punted and used our Honda for the errand-running.

I didn't think that a recently rebuilt engine's lifters would bleed 
down, so I called Buslab (who did the engine job on my Bus) and asked 
them about it.  I drive the Bus about once a week, and it has been 
sitting totally idle for a week due to the electrical problem I had.  
They said that it's totally possible for even a new lifter to bleed 
down with that type if interval between trips (my trips tend to be 
short right now, as well).

A friend and I went out to record the noise:

	http://www.shagadelic.org/VW/bus-knocking.wav

Nevermind the clipping of the track (the roar of a VW is a little too 
much for the microphone on a Palm Tungsten T, I guess :-), but you can 
plainly hear the noise as the engine winds down after revving.  It's 
also pretty audible at idle.  Listen for the "clack clack clack" type 
sound.

Is this the sort of noise that bled-down lifters make?  I guess perhaps 
I should just drive it around for a while and see if the lifter pumps 
back up and the noise goes away.  Or should I first pull off the valve 
covers and inspect the valvetrain?  Or am I just being too paranoid? 
:-)

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/
