From: "Eric Allred" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>, "Vintage Bus"
Date: Thu, 12 May 2005 08:22:18 -0600
Subject: Re: [VB] re:overheating

You want airflow into the engine bay, but you do not want to create a vacuum
in the engine bay. You want the vacuum to be as minimal as possible.

The cooling fan will not pump however much air as it is spinning. With
restriction, the air will start swirling with the fan, rather than getting
pumped through it. Reduce the restriction, get more air pressure in your
cooling system.

Years back when I figured this all out, here's how it all went down:

I had my 64 hardtop delux trucking around while living in Vegas. I put in a
new motor with low compression to help it run cool. Driving around town on
the surface streets, it ran cool as a cucumber. Running on the highway I
could get 7 miles before my oil and heads got too hot (230 oil, 400 head).
This was from the motor being bone cold at the start.

So I held the motor to 3500rpm and closed the engine lid. I held a shop
towel by hand by the side of the bus. As I got about 1 1/2 feet away from
the side louvers, it pulled the shop towel sideways to the louvers it was
trying to pull so much air. It was amazing.

So I pulled the tin from the motor that straddled where the engine and trans
meet and repeated the test. I had to get just inches away from the louvers
before it pulled the shop towel toward the louvers.

I took it for another drive on the highway to see what difference that made.
I hauled off and the temps were rediculously low compared to before. I
started pushing the bus more and was to the point of flooring the bus if I
wasn't doing 70mph. No matter how hard I pushed it, my head temps wouldn't
get higher than 350 and oil temps stayed around 200.

Even with my bus fully loaded with garage tools and parts while moving up to
Utah, I was still able to floor it the whole way (475 miles) without running
hot at all. Then came the trips to Sacramento. Fully loaded with 5 persons
and enough gear to let us camp for the few days (back fully loaded and roof
rack piled high). My dad took a turn driving and I told him to floor it if
he wasn't doing 70mph.  He must not have heard the 70mph part so he was
floored the whole time and was bumping off the rev limiter a number of times
(4500rpm). The motor was literally floord full throttle for about 700 miles
each way on that trip. 350 head temps and 200-210 oil temps the whole way.

That's a LONG way from driving 65mph for 7 miles before my temps got too
high. (how much higher would they have gotten if I kept on driving?)

Trust me guys, the KEY to cooling the VW engine is reducing engine bay
vacuum. Bastart motor combo's will run hot no matter what, but even perfect
motors will run hot if EBV is not accounted for.

Eric Allred



----- Original Message ----- 

> I don't quite understand your response Eric.
>
> I thought we were supposed to have a vacuum in the engine compartment, so
> suck cool air in from the louvers on the side.
