From: "Eric Allred" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "Vintage Bus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 12 May 2005 13:53:59 -0600
Subject: [T2] Overheating / to those who use Gene  Berg dipstick oil 

Hi Greg,

But fact is, Over the winter of 02/03, I drove my bus back and forth from
Vegas to SLC every week. Bus empty on the way to Vegas, loaded to the hilt
on the way back. The pedal was floored the entire time I did those drives
over the course of 4 months.

Also floored it the whole way to Sacramento and back numerous times. One
time with five of us in there with the third seat folded down and the entire
back loaded to the roof with gear and the roof rack piled high. We kept it
floored the whole way there and back too. All the way up the canyons and
all. Never ran hot.

That's how I drove that bus every time it was on the freeway or going up
hills. Oil temps on that motor were steady at 200 to 210, and head temps
hovered around 350. If the bus wasn't doing 70mph already, then the pedal
was floored.
And yes, the throttle was hitting WOT as well.

My current 79 Westy gets the pedal to the metal non stop on the highways if
it's not chugging along at 75mph already. I set the cruise at 75 and let it
go. Bone stock motor combo. I've even held that bus floored at 85mph for a
long period of time once and it still didn't run hot. I floor it up the
canyons here in SLC and still no problem with heat when I get to the top.
I've even leaned the FI on this motor so i'm nailing mid 20's on the gas
mileage too. No problems with heat. I run cheap 85 octane too.  :-P

So I will agree that fuels are not as good as they used to be, but it still
is not the limiting factor. Correct engine combo's can be floored for hours
on end without running hot and risking reliability. Bastard combo's and too
much airflow restriction to the engine bay are what make a bus run hot.

On the worst days, my engines never top 380 head temps. Well withing 'safe'
operating ranges.

Eric Allred

----- Original Message ----- 

> Hi Eric,
>
> I agree, BUT..... That was then and this is now.
>
> One thing in the combo we have no control over is the composition of
> the fuel. The gasoline of 2005 is not the same molecule as the
> gasoline of 1968 - 79. Newer fuels contain additives that the
> manufacturers never dreamed of, and it does affect combustion.  Which
> means that none of our buses will ever run the way they did from the
> factory unless you have a source of 1970's era fuel stock.
>
> Once you add modern fuels into the equation, you pick your poison:
>
> 1. you modify your engine to compensate.
> or
> 2. you modify your driving style.  (ie, slow down on hills)
> or
> 3. you shorten the life expectancy of your engine.
