Date: Thu, 12 May 2005 22:32:07 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Temp gauges

>From: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc." <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
>Date: Thu, 12 May 2005 13:20:38 -0700
>
>What equipment are you folks using to measure head temps and oil temps?

For a while, Actron used to have a "garage sale" on their Web site.  One
of the items offered was a temperature-to-voltage adapter.  It was
basically a box with a thermocouple and a 9 V battery that would plug
into your meter and give you 0.01 volt per degree C or F.  2.12 V = 212
degrees.  The best part was that it was $9 plus shipping.  Unfortunately
I can't find this on their Web site anymore.  You can get the same box
from other makers, but it will cost more.

Making it so you can read it while you're driving can also be interesting.
Probably the best thing to do is to buy two banana plugs and two banana
jacks at Radio Shack, plus a long piece of two-conductor wire.  The wire
doesn't have to be very heavy; cheap 24 gauge speaker cable will work
fine, as will lamp cord.  One one end of the wire, attach the banana
jacks, and plug the box into that.  Route the thermocouple wire and stash
the box in the engine compartment where they won't foul the belt, lay on
the engine, etc.  Run the wire up to the dash (out the vents and back in
the window works well for short-term, no-holes-drilled testing) and
attach the banana plugs, then plug them into your meter.  Rig the meter
to the dash so you can see it while driving.  At various times, I have
used duct tape, Velcro, and solid wire twisted around the meter and the
grab handle or through the dash slots.

If you're really into it, you can install more than one thermocouple+box+
wire assembly and swap wires around up front to check the temperatures
in different places.

Omega ( http://www.omega.com/ ) makes lots of nice thermocouples, meters,
etc, but they can be a little spendy.

My friend Jim designs cooling systems for Daimler-Chrysler and has told
me that on research cars, they will often just epoxy thermocouples to
points of interest.  J-B Weld works well for most things that aren't
exhaust pipes.  (I tried to tell him that he didn't _need_ the water but
he remains unconvinced...)

One of my many projects is to epoxy a small thermocouple to the side of
a spark plug, creating a "portable built-in" temperature sender I can
use on different VWs.

Matt Roberds
