Date: Mon, 16 May 2005 01:19:06 -0400
From: Don J <djohnson1(-at-)snet.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: VW & other dreams come true (Sorta long)

Hi all - Been on the list for a few years now, mostly lurking, and 
gaining list wisdom.  This weekend, I finally got my 60 DC back into 
service after over 2 years, so I thought I'd share a few pics (and the 
story:)

Short story is: I started my vw fascination with a dormobile matchbox 
car around age 9,  ran a small engine rebuild service for a short while 
as a 13 year old, bought a 71 westy at 28, got married a year later, 
bought a 65 EZ Camper without spousal permission at 30, spent 2 years 
trying to get out of the doghouse, then just had to have this 60 DC, so 
dug myself another huge hole, and bought it anyway, and tried to hide 
it at my brother's house. (It took her about 2 days to find it).  Well 
that was 2 years ago, and although I no longer have the 71, or the 65, 
my marriage is still intact, and better yet, we've moved out of our 
little place where at one time I was in possession of 5 cars on .17 
acre. It took 4 years to find it, but it was worth it. The new place 
and the 60 DC running and working is the dream come true part.

I've licked my chops at some of the shops listees have to work on their 
buses, and now I have one too.  We're on 3.7 acres, with another 3 acre 
abandoned old-time service station next door.  I've actually already 
found found a complete 1600 motor buried to the fuel pump, and a beetle 
rear decklid while poking around in the woods next door.  The locals 
have told me they sold Model A's there at one time.    Anyway, we've 
bitten off a big chunk, but this house came with a 4 bay barn/garage, 
built in 1970 with 20" steel beams, but made to look like it matched 
the house, which was built in 1835.  It also has it's own electrical 
drop off the street, and an oil furnace.  The DC has a pretty nice 
place to live now.

I've been dreaming of this kid of setup for a long time, worked as hard 
as possible to achieve it, and with alot of patience and faith, somehow 
managed to have it happen.

Many thanks to all on this list who have shared their passion and 
knowledge, and contributed in part to making this all come true

Don J in CT

60 DC

here's the link (hope it works)

  http://pg.photos.yahoo.com/ph/djohnson1(-at-)snet.net/album?.dir=/2032
