From: "Eric Allred" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "Vintage Bus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 16 May 2005 08:56:08 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: [VB] Overheating / to those who use Gene Berg

----- Original Message ----- 

> Eric
> can you elaborate on this test procediure,, I can't seem to follow it..
>
> Jamie Rivers


Tape the end of the small tubing to somewhere in the engine bay. I prefer
taping it the ignition coil. It's pretty central, and is away from the fan
itself to avoid skewing the readings.

run the other end of the tubing out through the louvers, and bring it into
the passenger compartment to the passenger seat. Put the end of the hose
into a clear glass of water that you can see through easily.

If the water pulls above the water surface, then you have engine bay vacuum.
If the water level doesn't move, you have no variance. If the air pushes the
water down below the surface of the water, then you have actually created
pressure in the engine bay.

Check in a stopped position first. See what it does at idle. Most likley it
is sitting at a neutral position. Now, while sitting still, take the motor
up to 4000rpm (use a tach to make sure you're reving it high enough). The
water in the tubing will likley pull above the surface of the water about a
full inch. That's engine bay vacuum right there. This means the stock
louvers on the side of the bus are not enough surface area for the fan to be
able to pull air.

Now repeat the 4000rpm test while going down the road. On a split bus, it
won't likley change much unless you have scoops installed. On a bay window
bus, it will lower it quite a bit. On my particular bay window, I was able
to actually create enough pressure in the engine bay to push the water down
about 3/8" below the water surface.

Since the cooling system depends on the fanshroud to creat air pressure to
force air past the cooling fins on the heads and cylinders, if the air the
fan is taking in starts out as a vacuum to begin with, then the total amount
of pressure the shroud is going to make will be reduced as well. This is the
importance of engine bay vacuum monitoring.

Also think of it this way. The largest motor VW ever put into a split window
bus bus was a singleport 1500 with a non-doghouse fan. We're all sticking
engines in these engine bays with doghouse cooling systems and larger
displacements increasing the CFM requirements of the motors, but we just
aren't increasing the ability of the air being able to get INTO the engine
bay.

Also think of it this way. By the time VW was done with the VW beetle, they
had the louvers under the rear window, four sets of louvers in the decklid,
and a final thermostatically controlled opening vent behind the license
plate. This was the amount of air required for a STOCK 1600 dualport motor.
Split buses have a helluva lot LESS intake area going to the engine than
this. Remembe that!

Eric Allred
