From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 16 May 2005 11:43:17 EDT
To: eric(-at-)aircooled.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: [T2] Overheating / to those who use Gene Berg 

You can, I can, probably anyone can push a good running bus past its  'max 
speed'.  Even with a stock size motor in an old bus.. I am  not wrong on this 
information....check an owners manual for max/cruising  speed... driving faster 
than that is overrevving it, and causes reduced engine  life.   I think part 
of what you said agrees with me... but part  contradicts the other part... 
maybe...  do you mean I'm wrong on everything  I wrote?   on that they added 
governors so people wouldn't  overrev?
I don't know what SLC is, or what you are running in your bus, or temps  your 
are driving around in.  But I guess that you spent some time and  
effort/money building a motor than is not stock, and have some mods.
 
the better balanced an engine is the higher rpms it can reliably do... some  
stock motors happen to be superwell balanced, some aren't.  You can  also do 
things to help it run cooler...but that doesn't change the fact  that high revs 
make the engine run hotter... it'll just change  the heat range.
 
No offense intended.   Glad you're happy with your reliable  bus!!!
 
In a message dated 5/16/2005 7:20:51 A.M. Pacific Standard Time,  
eric(-at-)aircooled.net writes:

-----  Original Message ----- 
> if you look at the owners manual for your VW,  yes max speed=cruising
speed.
> This is max speed they recommend the  VW be driven at, NOT the max  speed
you
> can push it to  go.  Does not mean they designed it to be floored  w/o ill
>  effect.
>   In fact, governors were added at some point to  keep the rpms from  going
> above what VW considered  max.
>
> VWs do run hotter when driven faster than 'max  speed'

Then you'll also have to explain to me how I can literally FLOOR  my Type 2's
for hundreds of miles non-stop fully loaded with head temps  never getting
higher than 375-ish, and oil temps no hotter than 200-210.  Explain that.
Back up your claim. Ask any of the local bus guys up here in  SLC and they'll
tell you that my buses do NOT have any  heading/dependablitly issues.

Sorry, but you are wrong on your  information. When you bought a VW new from
the dealer back in the day, you  were able to push the thing as hard as you
wanted as long as you weren't  over-revving it. The governor stopped the
motors from over-revving. Not to  reduce throttle at lower rpms when pulling
a hill!

Just because you  can't build a bus motor that is able to acomplish this
task, doesn't mean  it's impossible.

Hey, i'll tell you what, if anyone is interested, I  can build them a copy of
my last motor full turnkey, ready to install. All  cooling tin, intake,
exhaust, everything. Complete, ready to install.  You'll be able to floor it
70mph all day long without running hot on heads  or oil temps, it won't leak
a drop of oil, and to maintain proper oil  pressure, you just need a light
5w30 oil in the sump. e-mail me if you want  one built. I'll figure out the
cost if I have any takers.

Yes, your  heard right, I run 5w30 oil in my buses. Now before anyone  starts
cat-calling that i'm doing my motors no good by running this oil,  keep this
in mind:
Who's flooring thier motors on the highway year after  year, for hundreds of
miles at a time, fully loaded, etc, etc, and who  can't becuase of
heat/dependability problems?  ;-)

If this rubs  a few of you the wrong way, i'm sorry. There is a lot of bad
information  out there regarding VW engines and thier cooling
systems/requirements and  sometimes I just get fed up when people try to tell
me i'm the one doing it  the wrong way, when I get better
performance/reliability than any of  them.

See you on the flip side. I'll be the one flooring my bus up the  canyon or
against a headwind without a problem.

Eric  Allred






..............................................................................
.........
http://home.comcast.net/~sunrisebus/sunrisebuswerk.html
