Date: Fri, 3 Jun 2005 22:04:28 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Randall Carpenter <rjcarp(-at-)earthlink.net>
Subject: timing mark on fan

Greetings list,

	I'm here in Minneapolis working at finally getting my '72 
Westy on the road.  I found a junkyard engine, a 1700cc from a '73 I 
believe.  The motor appears to be in very good shape inside.  The 
compression is 120 on all four. I think what the PO of the motor did 
was to get a long block reman from Canada and then bolted all the old 
parts back on it. Rotten clutch. Rotten boots on the intake 
manifolds. The motor starts up at the slightest touch of the starter.
	I finally got around to checking the timing.  The old metal 
timing indicator was almost impossible to see.  I replaced it with a 
plastic one I had and took a look.  16 degrees BTC!  Well obviously 
not.  I fooled around with the distributor and my motor runs best at 
16 BTC indicated. I also looked at another fan I have and the timing 
mark (notch) is nowhere near where the one in the car is.  There is a 
white paint mark on my spare, but that is also not near where the one 
in my car is.  So how can these marks get so far off?  These fans 
only go on one way, right?  And the hub only goes on one way on the 
crank, right?  I know there is a pulley between the fan and the hub. 
But isn't there a registration pin that goes from the hub and into 
the fan?  And even if I had the fan on the hub wrong wouldn't it be 
120 degrees off not 20-30?
	So what is the easiest way to determine TDC on #1 and get things lined up?
	All I really have left to take a short ride is to get the 
accelerator cable rigged up.  I have a webber replacement.  The PO 
used the pulley method to run the cable.  I'm going to use a cable in 
tube system (bike brake cable).  I have a lot of work to do, 
especially on the brakes, but I'm hoping to get out on a short drive 
in the next couple of weeks.  It will be the first time in 12 years 
the girl has moved under her own power.  Thanks for any help.

Randy Carpenter
'72 Westy
