Date: Sat, 04 Jun 2005 21:31:30 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Chris Chubb <cchubb(-at-)codegurus.com>
Cc: s.havoc(-at-)intangiblerealities.com
Subject: Re: Heavy Braking = Stall ?

I used to have this problem with all of my beetles and my bus when I lived 
in Pittsburgh. Brake to the stop at the bottom of the hill and it would 
just die, almost every time.

I found that it was almost always a problem with the float in my carb. On 
the beetle I could bend the little tab on the float  to make it let a 
little most gas in the bowl and that would help. Sometimes. On the bus 
nothing I could do would help, it would just die. It got so bad that I 
wired up a push button switch to run the starter so I wouldn't have to turn 
the key off and back on again, which would lock the ignition, not good when 
you didn't really come to a complete stop and had to make a turn at the 
bottom of the hill.

Then, there was one hill in Squirrel Hill where it would die if I tried to 
go all the way to the top in one stage. It would get about 2/3 of the way 
up then start stumbling and would finally die. It was flooding the engine. 
I learned to drive around a block about 1/2 way up and that would solve it. 
Otherwise there was no way to get to my favorite pizza place.

Don't bend the float tab too much, you don't want the carb overflowing with 
gas or not shutting off when full or it will fill your crankcase with gas. 
Be careful of this.

Another way to get around it was to keep it in a low gear as much as 
possible and just let the engine run out of gas. Just feather the clutch 
enough to keep it turning if you can, and it will often start up again if 
you come to a stop somewhere near level.

Chris

>Well, I've developed an irritating problem with my '73 Safare (1700cc,
>Dual Kadrons), where the last few times I have really had to put my
>foot into the brakes (steep hills and yellow lights etc) she will start
>to stall and if I dont catch it she stalls out completely. I had
>thought it was something to do with it not idling or dropping from
>higher RPM's but I tried revving it up and letting go off the gas
>suddenly, pushing the clutch in suddenly, but she wont stall, its ONLY
>when I really slow down in a hurry.
