Date: Sat, 04 Jun 2005 22:14:39 -0400
From: "Andrew Stephens" <andrew.stephens4(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: FI Fuel pump runs. And runs, and runs.

Hello List, I haven't posted in about 6 years - I sold my first bus and I've
been busy raising a couple of kids, etc., here in Maryland.

I bought a '77 deluxe Westy in 2003 and kept in my garage since then.  I
started it every few months, and it ran last month.  This month I got no
fuel pressure, so Barry Bernskis loaned me an extra pump to troubleshoot
with.  I replaced all of the fuel lines and put in the new(er) pump.    I
bolted on a VDO fuel pressure guage from germansupply and got between 40
lbs. at start up, which drifted down to a steady 30 lbs. of pressure when
the motor runs.

My problem is, the fuel pump keeps running - even after I switch off the
ignition and remove the key.  The only way to get the pump to stop running
is to disconnect the battery.  Any suggestions?

Barry suggests that I start tracing the wiring circuit, and I've looked in the
archives, and it looks I
should check the AFM to see if the meter may be stuck open (I gently stuck a
screwdriver in the air filter cavity to open it and shoot a tiny squirt of
starting fluid, so I may have wedged it in a position).  Your advice is most
appreciated
(other than staying away from starting fluid - I know, but I was desparate).

I know it has been said many times, but this really is a great community -
the archives and the library have been a big help in refreshing my memory of
bus mechanics.

The bus I bought for $3k is in pretty good shape - the Eberspacher heater
even works (although I have some questions for the list before I use it).
It was owned by a couple in Chicago area for at least 10 years, and it looks
like that PO cared enough to take care of things.  I had it shipped here sight
unseen and I'm happy with it.  It's got about 80k on the speedo, and I think
that is the total miles.  Compared to my clapped out
'76, this bus is a real pleasure.

- Andrew
