Date: Sun, 5 Jun 2005 00:52:41 +0000 (GMT)
From: dworkin <dworkin(-at-)everybus.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Wolfsburg West Seat cover review

Volks,

Well, I got the '67 back from Mark and it's beautiful, as those who saw it
at EB will testify.  This weekend I finally got out the interior 'bits'
and started into reinstalling and restoring the interior.  I'm starting at
the front and working my way back, so the first step was to reupholster
the front seats.

I'd like to review the seat materials I got from Wolfsburg West (WW).  As
with any 30+ year old car, the seat covers and horsehair pads were shot on
this bus, so I ordered up a set of the reproductions that WW is selling.
While these are for a split, they also sell bay cushions and covers wo
this might be of interest.

The horsehair pads I can recommend without hesitation.  They "just fit"...
slid right into place and look and feel like the originals, except for the
brittle crunchy bit :-)  You WILL need to go to a good fabric store or
quilting shoppe (there is no such thing as a quilting shop :) and buy a
couple sheets of 1/8" cotton batting to fit between the pads and covers.
Do *not* buy felt, buy "batting"!  I considered hard and bought the
"antique" 80/20 cotton/poly as opposed to the "modern" 100% polyester, but
it probably does not matter.  There was also a layer of glossy fiber on
the old seat, but I was unable to locate anything like that and the lady
at the store said it was probably just "compressed-until-glossy" batting
after that many years.

The seat covers were a bit more problematic.  Below are my comments.  Note
that I am, overall, VERY pleased.  I just want to go over the nits for the
information of others considering a purchase.  If you are not going for a
"restoration" with all its limits, then these covers will almost
certainly knock your socks off.  If you are, pay attention to the details
becuase they may or may not match what you originally had.

Color:  The "salt and pepper" (S&P) color and the texture were a
*very* close match.  They really look just like the originals, at least
where the sun had not hit them in 38 years, at least after a couple
scrubbings with 409 :-)  The grey vinyl and piping were also spot on.
Looked just like the ones I was removing.

Details: Although the covers might be "right" for some VW bus, they were
not right for my '67.  The covers that WW provided had "pleats"
heat-pressed into them that my covers did not have.  In addition, the S&P
fabric on the original covers ran down the back, under, and all the way to
the fastening point on the seat backs.  The WW repop stopped the S&P
fabric where it stopped showing at the bottom and sewed on a strip of the
grey vinyl from the sides to reach the rear fastening point.  No one will
see it, but it's wrong and I know it and it was such a *pointlees* way of
saving 4 inches of fabric at the expense of another seam to sew.  This may
again be a matter of being authentic for some other year/model, but it was
not right for mine.

The original covers were "tighened" to the bottom frames with 16 gauge
wire.  On the WW repops this was replaced by ?nylon? cord.  I tried to
pull this tight enough to cinch the covers up, but it was difficult and I
did not achieve a satisfactory level of tension.  In addition, the 1/3
seat had wire ties holding the bottom seam to the frame, not duplicable
with nylon.  I went out and got a spool of 16 gauge wire and slid it in...
after that all went very smoothly.

My bus is a bench-seat, so it has the 1/3-2/3 seat.  The fit on the 1/3
(driver's) seat was exceptionally good.  Again, it "just fit".  On the 2/3
seat, the top pocket was fine but the side flaps provided by WW were about
1 1/2 inches too long for my frame.  I will be taking the seat to an
upholstery shop to re-seam that closer to the frame.

On the 2/3 seat, the bottom fastening is to tuck the seam of the fabric
into a slot cut into a tube.  The original cover has a layer of cardboard
sewn into this seam to thicken it and wedge it in this cut in the tube.
The WW repop does not have this layer of cardboard and popped right out of
the slot.  Inserting a wire stiffener (see below) cured this problem.

End of review.  Overall, I am pleased, but the covers were not perfect.

Other comments:
As you disassemble your old seats, I do advise that there are a number of
wire stiffening rods in the edges.  THEY ARE IMPORTANT! SAVE THEM!

The seat covers are fastened to the frames by small metal points welded to
the frames.  To get the old covers off and the new covers on, you will
need to lift these points.  BE CAREFUL! DO *NOT* lift them to 90 degrees
and expect them not to snap off!!!  There is a very high metal fatique
factor going here and the less you muck with them the better off you will
be.  I used an old wood chisel to get them started and up.  I tried to
grasp and lift with a vise-grip, but wound up snapping off a point, so I
stopped that real quick.

The rear springs on the 2/3 seat can be removed by gently lifitng a series
of tabs around the edge.  I found this helpful in getting the old cover
off and the new bottom cover on that seat.

I ought to write up a complete "procedure" on reupholstering these seats,
but being a lazy scut I probably never will :-(

Steve Dolan
