Date: Sun, 5 Jun 2005 07:22:29 -0500 (CDT)
From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
To: TYPE 2 LIST <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] VPC Air Conditioner for Station Wagon

Sorry to be so slow replying on this thread guys, but I have been on 
vacation and spent the last week working on another vw project...which 
obviously(like ususal) took lots more time than I expected.

This was previously rejected to the list, so here it is again from afew 
days ago.

I am getting ready to answer the post from vwesty as well.



Sherwin,

I installed one of these in my 78 last year.  Used to work for VPC.

I am on vacation right now(finishing up a 2110 for another car).

Detailed instructions would take more time than I have right now, but you 
can start this way.

Lay everything out in the floor first.  Dirt in an A/C is just as bad as 
in an engine.

Match the hoses to where they go.  Carefully lay out the electrical 
connections as well....Don't forget the pressure switch on the dryer.

Make a couple of 2X4 "t" supports with padding on the "t" end.  Have a 
helper roughly position the overhead unit and get the supports under it
so that you can hold it in place against the headliner.

Next, examine the long black plastic pieces that cover the hoses from the 
overhead unit.  Play with them until you match the cutouts with the window 
and the unit.  It will just "look" right(and fit right).

That is a start.

I have been promising several people pics since I finished it last year, 
and If I get my other project finished up today, I will do my very best to 
take pics of my setup before we start 4 days of rain here.

The compressor installation on yours will be way different as I used a 
rotary compressor and have it all under the original tin on my 78.  I can 
help with that, but you can start by looking for pics on the net on 
engines with the original compressor set up....it is ugly!

Seems like Richard Atwell actually had a scan of the instructions 
somewhere on his site.

Cheers, dave



-- 
-------------------------------------------------------------------
"I'm more interested in getting it right, than being right"....dave
