From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: "bus" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 24 Feb 2004 09:32:30 -0800
Subject: RE: [T2] '69 and a '71 bus comparison !

Just curious, but why are the turn signals on the late bays so
hated?

Granted, the shape of the signals stinks.  The location of the turn
signal amplifies the rectangular shape of the turn signal, but I
still need to applaud VW for moving the signals back up high.  I
think that they should have made them less square though.  A
circular style, as is found on the splitties, would have been much
better looking and would have flowed better with the rounded body
style that the late bays have.

A turn signal up high means visibility.  Everybody and their long
lost brother can see you with your blinkers flashing because they
are very very visible.  In safety terms this is a more appropriate
location for a turn signal.  It's my supposition that that is why VW
moved them back up again.

Another thought....  A lot of modern cars/trucks have realized the
wisdom of the visibility issue when it comes to turn signals.  Most
likely the reason why these same manufacturers are now putting a
third brake light in/near/on/around the rear window and also moving
the right and left brake/turn signal housing higher up on the body,
and not so close to the bumper.

Assuming that my supposition for the moving of the turn signal back
up high is correct, isn't it odd that they didn't apply that same
logic to the rear of the bus as well?  That they didn't also move
the brake/turn signal housing higher up?  I'm not saying that it
would have been pretty,... I'm just saying it would have been more
visible, as is true with the front of a late bay.

I like their location, but I hate the squarish aesthetic that is the
front turn signal of a late bay.

Seann Stafford
76' T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
76' T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com

> '73-up steering box and brakes
> '71-down nose, scoops, and taillights
> '73 up top engine access lid
> Porsche six cylinder engine and five speed transmission
> (what the heck,
> I'm dreaming)
