Date: Tue, 24 Feb 2004 14:26:07 -0600 (GMT-06:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Fuel control valve idea

As some folks might be aware I have been scratching my head about a way to make the VW bus more resistant to gasoline fires. The obvious method are keeping your fuel lines in good condition. 

My method was to add a normally closed electric solenoid valve to the bottom of the tank to limit fuel flow to the engine and fuel pump in case of fire or theft. In case of fire, simply turn the key off (or flip a switch supplying power to the solenoid). Also the owner could add a hidden switch which would keep the bus from starting (EFI busses) or getting too far in case of theft (carb buses). 

These valves are really expensive from all the sources I found save one (see the archives). A couple hundrd bucks but one source was $50. I'm also somewhat wary of electric solenoid valves handling flammable liquids even if they are rated for the job... <grin> 

My new "idea"? A manual ball valve actuated by a vacuum solenoid as used on the heating and cooling systems of late model (80's and 90's) cars... Source: junkyard. 

Setup would keep the valve closed until there was a vacuum signal (i.e. engine was running) and would close again once the engine stopped (crash) or was shut off (fire). The anti-theft function could be retained by the addition of a normally closed electric vacuum control solenoid. No power (hidden switch off?) and the solenoid stops vacuum signal from getting to the vacuum solenoid and the valve does not open even if the engine is running. 

Manual overide: hide a manual choke cable with the control coming through the floor into a camper cabinet through a grommet. Push = automatic control, pull = valve open. 

So ball valves... Source from industrial supply houses like MSC or McMaster-Carr amoung others... Total cost: less than $50 I'm sure. 

Vaccum control valves: my '90 Hyundai (ugh) had the appropriate valves. Junkyard trip!

Any suggestions? 

Chris M. 
