From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: "bus" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 25 Feb 2004 07:30:07 -0800
Subject: FW: [T2] WD-40 (was: Sliding door question)

Whew,
just so long as it doesn't cause cancer.....  (rolls eyes).  What
about hair loss?  does it cause hair loss?  That disclaimer makes me
wonder if people are out there using WD-40 like the father in the
film, 'My Big Fat Greek Wedding', uses Windex.  heh

seriously though,
several years back I used to belong to a club that would go target
shooting with black powder muzzle loading rifles and muskets.  Many
of the members(usually the new ones) would use WD-40 for quick
de-fouling of a flash pan or some such thing.  This worked great....
and it continued to work great so long as a person remembered to
either add more WD-40 at a later date, or remove it from various
parts during a thorough cleaning.

What was the down side you may ask?  The closest that anybody can
figure is that WD-40 if left alone to it's own _decomposition_,
tended to draw humidity.  Now this would take several weeks for this
to happen, but nevertheless, folks consistantly found their
equipment beginning to shows signs of oxidation and moisture
accumulation if old WD-40 was left to it's own devices.

So was it good?  Yup,.. great stuff.  It was super easy to pack and
did the job effectively in the field.  You just had to be
responsible enough to clean and lubricate your equipment properly
once you were no longer in the field.

Moral of the story:
If your machinery, be it firearm or transporter, is in desperate
need of cleaning or lubrication, you will probably be better off
using 'correct' lubricants and solvents in the long run.  WD-40 is
fantastic stuff and I use it often,... but it is not my long term
solution to bus hinges or stuck bolts and certainly not antique
firearms.  Everything has a proper use, and some things are just
meant to be short term IMHO.

Seann Stafford
76' T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
76' T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com

>
>
> On Tue, Feb 24, 2004 at 05:21:59PM -0800, Rik wrote:
> > At 04:09 PM 2/24/2004 -0500, Billy wrote:

> What does WD-40 contain?
> While the ingredients in WD-40 are secret, we can tell
> you what WD-40
> does NOT contain. WD-40 does not contain silicone,
> kerosene, water,
> wax, graphite, chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), or any known
> cancer-causing
> agents
