Date: Wed, 10 Oct 2001 09:14:13 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: easy engine removal/install


Hello listees,

It just occurred to me that I never mentioned a tool that I have been
using for decades, which makes engine 'R and R' a heck of a lot easier and
faster, and that is available at your local Sears tool section (Proto
makes the tool also).

I don't have the tool's part number but it is the flat 17/19mm ratcheted
box wrench, usually grey and chrome in color, costing $12 last time I
looked. You only use the 17mm hole. You use it to remove and replace the
two upper nuts, which usually are a pain to deal with. With practice, you
can get the wrench onto the nuts by feel alone, and it fits in there
quickly and solidly, getting the job done fast. This tool works great, 
especially with the doghouse-type fan housing with its extra tin in the
way. Note that the tool is used to both loosen AND tighten the nuts.

I have a matching tip that works with this tool to guarantee 15
minute single-handed removal or installation, which is:

Next time you have your engine out, slip out both upper bolts, clean up
the area from the head of the bolts to about an inch down their shafts, as
well as cleaning up and degreasing the holes and flanges that they go into
on the starter and tranny. Take some 3M #80001 yellow weatherstrip glue,
coat the underside of the bolt heads, plus about 1/2 inch of the bolt with
lots of glue, and insert them into their holes, JUST BEFORE installing your
engine. Tighten up your nuts as usual. From then on, your bolts are glued
in, in proper position, and this will make future engine removals/installs
painless, especially using the flat ratchet wrench mentioned above. The
bolts are easily removable by hammering them out lightly, if you ever need
to replace starter or tranny. Those upper nuts go onto the glued-in bolts
in seconds, using your fingers, then that tool sets them up easy. Removal
becomes a no-brainer too. Been doing it this way for 29 years. 

To further make this job easier than opening the fridge for a drink,
lightly coat the bolts threads with Permatex silver anti-sieze lube, and
use stainless steel 17mm nuts. Keep some spare nuts in case you drop one
back there, and be sure to recover it next time you take out the engine. I
usually have a pile of them waiting back there!

Buy a 1-1/2 ton small Sears floor jack to stow in the bus while yer there
to make the job go smoothly.

Anyway, that's my tip for the week.

cj/cal





