Date: Fri, 14 Sep 2001 07:55:05 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Ted Browning <tedbrowning(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Removing and Replacing Windows

Ted had an excellent, concise explanation.

I use silicon spray instead of soap. To me (FWIW) it is slippier than soap.

Also heard (HEARD - not necessarily fact...) that something in the soap 
with promotes rust and silicon will not.

Also silicon is supposed to be good for the rubber.

Can anyone elaborate?


Once you have pulled and replaced a few windows you'll do it on every paint 
job. It is too easy to not do. My wife and I can install a window and new 
gasket in 10 minutes or so. Don't bother saving the old gaskets, we just 
cut them out to get the window out safely. You can get glass and gaskets 
out safely but it takes time.

By the way we replaced all of the flat glass with lightly grey tinted new 
glass - the tinting is in the glass not a film applied to the outside. 
About $200 for the jalouise panes, and the two rear windows. I'll have to 
have the front door windows and vent windows tinted with film a similar 
darkness.

Yes I know about the laws relating to tinting - but it is not enforced 
locally (along with alot of other things). My tinting is light enough that 
it looks factory (factory for what??? You get the idea! <grin>)

Seems to help reduce interior heat in the summer, some added security in 
parking lots, and I like the look.

We also spent the money on new window rubbers - seals. My old ones had 
shrunk (I think) allowing water to leak inside in heavy rains and sit under 
the seals helping rust the van away. The only bad damage was under the 
front and rear window.

MONEY WELL SPENT!




Ciao!

Chris M. <Busbodger>
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE: 	Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing, otherwise 
complete (make offer)

