Date: Sat, 11 Aug 2007 12:14:30 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: VWBrain(-at-)aol.com
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] ok to drive w/o "r"

Gosh Mark - I had a tranny where that small reverse
gear disengaged from its' fork. The gear was able to
slide and engage / disengage regardless of what other
gears were engaged. If I had not had this happen to me
personally and had not had to jack the back of the bus
up high and rock the rear wheel until the gear slid
the other way, then I would not have written about it!
I wish I had read this before it happened as then it
could never have happened, right?

The point is, if you don't know why reverse isn't
working you propbably shouldn't be driving it - and
that part is opinion. The other part was fact. -BaH

--- VWBrain(-at-)aol.com wrote:

  
 In a message dated 8/10/2007 8:06:56 P.M. Eastern
 Daylight Time,  
 busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com writes:
 
 If the  reverse gear has slipped out of engagement
 with
 the key that slides it into  and out of engaging,
 then
 the gear is floating on the shaft and can engage  /
 disengage depending on the attitude of the bus. If I
 remember  correctly, a nose-down position disengages
 it
 whereas a nose-up position  could engage it. There
 is
 the possibility it could get really ugly  really
 suddenly! -BaH 
 
 
 
 hello Guys    This isn't correct. the only part that
 can  slide off  is the 
 small reverse gear on the input shaft that is held
 in  place by a circlip in 
 side the diff area.. the way that reverse is engaged
 is by  the slider hub for 
 1st and 2nd gears . For reverse the only part that
 moves is  the small engaging 
 gear which is on its own fork that moves onto this
 hub. Now I  have seen a 
 lot of the circlips come loose and allow the reverse
 gear to slide  and 
 therefore not have a reverse , I have seen this
 happen also that when  pulling the 
 motor the input shaft will come out with the motor.
 This will not  cause the 
 tranny to lock up. For the tranny to lock up it has
 to go into 2  different gears 
 at the same time or a bearing seize. This is how you
 torque  parts of the 
 trannie when you are putting one together by locking
 it into 1st  and 3rd gears at 
 the same time.The reverse is the weakest part of a
 vw tranny as  it has 3 of 
 its 4 gears being only about 1 1/2 in in diameter. I
 tell everybody  to try 
 not to back up any hills as this is very hard on
 these small gears.On the  
 trannies that I have seen that poped out of reverse
 it is normally the small  
 engaging ,gear that is eaten its edges off. On
 trannies with no reverse it is  
 normally the input gear that has come loose.   later
  Mark  Dearing 
 


-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
