Date: Tue, 14 Aug 2007 13:48:56 -0700
From: "richard jackson" <aiiadict(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 73 bus with 83 subaru engine so far so good!

about 2500 miles so far.

problems:
1)bad injector.  took 5 minutes to replace (but 1 week
to diagnose)
2)had to move radiator from engine compartment to
front of bus
3)3 speed VW transmission isn't any fun..  also it is
vacuum kickdown control, and the manifold port
isn't the proper size.  I have to shift 1,2, D

power:  much more than the 1700 that was in it stock...
I think the 1700 was 65 hp?  the subaru 1.8 is 75hp.

cooling:  on hot days (90+) the radiator fan needs to be turned
on (manual switch on the dash).  When it is <90 it stays
perfectly cool.  1.5 ID steel pipe running from the rear to the
front.  the stock subaru water pump is pushing water through
about 40 feet of piping (instead of the stock subaru setup, where
the pump had to push through about 4 feet of pipe)

mileage:  with the bad injector (it was sticking open and
letting too much fuel flow) I was getting 20 to 25mpg.  now
I'll do some more logging and see what I get.  From what
I read, I could get up to 35mpg

kennedy adaptor:  so far so good (although after letting them
know they sent me the wrong bolts, they sent me new bolts,
which were wrong as well.  I sent them EXACT measurements
of the bolts I needed.  The bolts they sent me weren't even
close.  I don't think they read their emails or actually listen
to their phone conversations.)

my engine mount:  so far so good.  this was modifications
to the standard "mustache bar"...  angle iron bolted to the
engine, standard subaru engine mounts sandwiched between
the angle iron and the mustache bar.


transmission mount is w/o a front mount, so it thumps
a bit when I put it in gear.  Transmission is almost 35
years old, and doesn't slip or make any bad noise.

engine removal:  it'll drop out of the engine compartment in
10 minutes...  plenty of clearance on all sides, and just as
easy to reinstall.

public reaction:  everyone stares at me...  cal-trans orange
vintage bus with a big ugly subaru radiator on front.  and the
upside down fishing boat that is stacked on top.. oh wait that
is the camper top :-)

cop reaction:  so far ZERO pull overs.  pretty damn good for
a tiny redneck town.

oil:  no leaks!

compression:  still excellent after 2500 miles

The subaru gauge cluster is hanging under the dash so I have
oil pressure, water temp, and tach

next to do:  still more wiring harness cleanup
replace battery tray (rusted away)
hook up the heater core.  It is mounted under the rear bench seat,
with hoses running back to the engine.  The cooling booster fan
from the VW engine is hooked up to it, and tapped into the heater
ducting under the bus.  all I have to do is put in a valve to control
water flow into the heater core, and attach the hoses to the engine.
it should be nice having water heat in the bus.

I've travelled between Sacramento and San Francisco numerous
times.

Not a single stranding!  (might have to do with the fact that I
have full set of tools, extra hoses, wires, injectors, FI sensors,
etc in the bus)

I lost the bus one night in the middle of nowhere.  Found it the
next day after sleeping under a tree.

A year ago I was thinking about rebuilding the 1700.  Parts were ridiculously
expensive (500 per head!!)

Free 1.8 subaru from my neighbor.
about $300 to rebuild the bottom end
$300 to get the heads rebuilt
$600 for the kennedy adaptor
$300 misc parts, hoses, etc

$1500 total approximately.  Less than rebuilding the 1700 would have been,
according to my research (the crank needed regrinding... new heads, etc)

Rich
