Date: Fri, 21 Jan 2005 09:53:44 -0600 (GMT-06:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Fwd: [T2] Yep, it's a PCV valve ... sort of

I had a Kawasaki Concours for a couple years. We loved it. Yes, basically it was the same bike at the start and last time I looked. Yeha - the magazines all have this USELESS commentary of the next "new" thing. That's why I quit wasting my money on them. 

My '87 Honda Accord and my '99 Honda CR-V really aren't that different but the magazines would make us think that this is 43% better, it's .78 seconds faster than the old car, and that is 67% stronger and blah, blah, blah... Both verhicles are fine, both got me around reliably with minimum cost, and frankly I'd be as happy to drive my old '87 (if I still owned it) as I am to drive my '99 (my LAST new car I might add). The new car thing was exciting but I paid through the nose for 5 years and worried over it like I might a Rolls-Royce. I still treat it well and maintain it to death and still worry about it...

So, keep the old one up to date (maintained) and be happy. Your 20 year old vehicle is NOT that different than the 5 year old the neighbor drives. Yeah creature comforts have come a long way, but the basic purpose and ability of the vehicle to keep you dry, warm and moving for minimum cost and that has not changed. The car companies change the looks of cars constantly and add more gizmos (DVD, intermittent butt scratchers, automatic sunvisors, heated tailgate handles, and according to the car mags' math the average chassis is 9056% stronger than in 1972...) but the main differences are not worth $25K+ IMHO. 

It is my opinion that the main reason people dump their old car for a new one is boredom. Gotta keep up with their friends. 2nd main reason is allowing the repairs to get behind so they are facing $2K to get everything repaired (broken a/c, that dead driver's window, a leaky trunk gasket, etc). Then they can say well the car is only worth $2K and it needs $2K in repairs so let the next owner worry about it. However if they had spend $500 a year on repairs then all would be taken care of. Better than $400+ a MONTH for 5 years. Been there, done that. I have people close to me that use the excuse of clutches, major engine repairs, or tires to justify replacing a vehicle. It's got 125K miles on it and I gotta sell it before the tires get too worn and have to spend $500 again on tires. 

Lastly peopel dump this car for that car is the failure to learn how to take care of their car. Buy decent parts, look after it, investigate it's ailments immediately, etc. 

It has paid off. Family and friends are starting to notice that I have the same set of vehicles that I did years ago and they have replaced their cars 2 or 3 times. Quietly I think some of them are starting to calculate the cost of their transportation vs. the cost of my transportation. One acquaintance mentioned that my '97 VW Cabrio must be expensive to fix... I said yeah, cost me almost $300 this year...  

Off my soap box. 

Chris
