Date: Sat, 22 Jan 2005 14:31:22 -0800 (PST)
From: Cliff Rhoton <commodore97210(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Fwd: Re: [T2] Temp 2 Stand-off Prototype

> Have you used an O2 sensor to check the mixture at
> operating temperature,
> both with and without the stand-off? My concern is
> that even a small
> amount of heat radiation off the stand-off will
> lower the sensed
> temperature during operation and lean the mix.  Not
> a lot, just a little,
> but I would worry until I knew.  Of course insering
> a low-value resister
> would probably make up for the temperature loss but
> then you are back to
> square one on the starting.  The whole subject of
> heat transmission,
> transfer, and radiation within and between different
> metals and alloys
> gets very complicated very fast.
> 
> OOK!
> 
> 
> 
    
Not yet; I have not measured the exhaust with an
Oxygen sensor.  But you are getting too tedious and
technical here.  Using the O2 sensor is a technique
that is way to fine an adjustment at this phase.  You
see, without the standoff, the engine will not idle. 
It will not continue running.  It dies.  The engine
must be running to measure CO.  This stand-off seems
to trick the original Bosch FI to accommodate what
appears to be Heads which heat-up faster than the
original Equipment heads.
    
VW corporate apparently diagnosed and offered a
correction for this condition by designing and
distributing the stand-off.  So the engineering has
already been done for us.  What is missing is part
availability.  My goal is to fabricate a replacement
to this VW engineered part so my engine will run
properly, as originally designed, at all temperatures.
    
But back to the basics.  To restate, when I first
start the engine when cold, all is well for 10 or 15
seconds.  Then the engine begins to slow-down, cough,
and shortly die.  It readily re-starts, but will not
idle without the accellerator pedal physically
held-down to force a high idle.  Now when the engine
reaches its operating temperature, idling is no
problem.  After heat-up, everything works great. 
Starting.  Accellerating.  Idle.  Freeway speeds are
no problem either, after it is warm.  The problem
occurs during warm-up.  It is a tacky solution, but
shortly after starting the engine cold (without the
stand-off) I have been laying the car jack onto the
rear of the accellerator pedal, and then pushing it
down a bit to assure a faster idle, to prevent the
engine from stopping.  Low tech, but it worked.
   
And guess what:  Inserting a prototype stand-off has
solved all of the problems!
    
Without the CO and Oxygen sensor facts, I would
presume this stand-off serves to force the Bosch FI
system to accommodate the thinner or faster heating
hunk of metal that is the new heads I am using.  My 78
Federal did not have an oxygen sensor, and I have been
thinking about upgrading the FI to 79 CA or 80 & later
federal which uses the Lambda sensor feedback system. 

   
But I digress.  This standoff, in my opinion at this
time, "tunes" the original Bosch Fuel Injection to
accommodate my "heating up faster" heads.  
   
As has always been the case, a CO meter must be used,
according to Bentley, to correctly adjust the idle
mixture.  I acknowledge that need.  The CO adjustment
has been performed a couple of times on my 78 in the 5
years I have owned it.
    
Although CO measurement is in my future, it is way to
fine a discussion topic for an engine that will not
run.  Don't be offended, but I need an engine which
will run before I can tune the CO mixture.  :-o
   
My role now is to closely fabricate a replacement for
the VW engineered stand-off part 022-133-079.
  
(There is also the possibility the new T2 sensor I
installed late last year, has electrical
characteristics which differ from the original BOSCH
FI specs.  But who will argue the fact that having
added the T2 stand-off, the engine is running well
again?  Success speaks loudly.  The T2 stand-off is
the solution to my problem.)
    
Now, back to CO and mixture.  During testing of the
fabricated Stand-off, I will look at mixture% using a
Lambda or Oxygen sensor.  But whether lean or rich, I
will need to follow Bentley procedures to diagnose and
correct the CO/Mixture problem.  
     
Clifford Rhoton
Portland, Oregon
