Date: Sun, 23 Jan 2005 00:30:21 -0800
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Vacuum advance cutoff

I spent the day tuning the PDSIT carbs and timing on the 72 bus. Sure enough
these carbs are great. Unless the throttle shafts are badly worn and need
rebushing or the carbs are terminally corroded I think it's worthwhile to
rebuild and adjust them.

The bus is really fun to drive except for the horrible blindspot this camper
furniture produces. My friend put one of those wide angle stick-ons onto the
passenger side mirror and I hate driving with those things.

The one problem I can't pin down after all the tuning is how to get more
fuel to the carb when starting the engine warm. It easily starts cold using
the chokes and it restart easily when it's hot. I'm out of idea and so are
the experts so I'm going to leave it as is for now.

The vacuum reading from the manifold vacuum hoses was about 8". Everything
is air tight and I can watch the retard go away but the vacuum gauge doesn't
behave as I expected it to. This port seems to have an on/off behavior. Has
anyone seen different behavior?

The engine also seems to run best with the vacuum advance cutoff connected.
Bentley describes this at the end of the Engine & Clutch chapter. When the
bus first came to me all of the wiring to coil for this item and the hoses
were missing. I didn't think it was necessary but the distributor seems
built for it.

The retard action on the distributor surprised me although it followed the
specs. When the retard goes away there is a lot of mechanical advance
present. So much that I think the fact the vacuum advance cutoff was
disconnected helped to fry the previous engine (among the other violations:
engine seal issues, thermostat flap spring failure, etc).

The diagram in Bentley shows a temperature switch that enables the advance
in the lower three gears below 54F. I can only find the switch on the
transmission. Does anyone know where this temperature switch is located and
which 72-74 models have it?

-- 
Richard, 1978 Westfalia CDN
http://www.ratwell.com/
Cupertino, CA
