From: "Fbiffath" <fbiffath(-at-)mailingsolutions.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 21 Nov 2001 20:18:34 -0500
Subject: Master Card Commercial

Hey All,
I'll probably get toasted for this.....But hey, Happy Thanksgiving.  If any
one knows these gentlemen, tell them I said go get em!
FEBIII
71 HapyBus


Tuesday, November 20

Fans claim MasterCard stole their idea for commercials

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
----
ESPN.com news services


MINNEAPOLIS -- Two Minnesota Twins fans who made a documentary film about
traveling in a Volkswagen van to ballparks across the nation have sued
MasterCard, claiming the company stole their idea for its commercials.

In a lawsuit filed in federal court in Minneapolis, David Hoch and Joe
Marble accuse MasterCard and its ad agency of duplicating their 1998
documentary in a series of commercials.

According to the lawsuit, MasterCard used a Volkswagen van with the same
orange-and-white coloring as the one Hoch and Marble drove, used video shots
of stadiums photographed through bridge girders that resemble scenes in
their film, and had music similar to theirs.

"You start asking yourself, 'How could this be a coincidence?' " said
Minneapolis lawyer Ronald Schutz, who filed the lawsuit.

The lawsuit accuses MasterCard and New York-based McCann-Erickson Worldwide
of violating the copyright. It seeks unspecified damages and an injunction
barring further use of the commercials.

"If there is a substantial amount of similarity between the film and the
commercial, and MasterCard or the ad agency knew of the film, this case
could hold up," Mark Conrad, professor of legal and ethical studies at the
Fordham University School of Business, told ESPN.com. "The other essential
question to ask is: Can what these guys did in the documentary be deemed
original?"

A spokeswoman for the ad agency said Monday she hadn't seen the lawsuit and
couldn't comment. Representatives of MasterCard couldn't immediately be
reached for comment.

Hoch, 41, a mortgage broker from Arden Hills, and Marble, 41, a real estate
broker from Hopkins, created the group Citizens United for Baseball in
Minnesota after hearing rumors in 1997 about a plan to move the Twins. The
following year, the two filmed their travels to ballparks in Milwaukee,
Chicago, Cleveland, Baltimore and Denver.

The documentary, called "Twins -- Now and Forever," was shown at the
Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N.Y., according to the lawsuit.

The Associated Press contributed to this report












