Date: Thu, 22 Nov 2001 22:05:27 -0500
From: Jim Mowreader <xpr3(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: <ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com>,
Subject: Re: [T2] RE:black crud coming off my 1970's steering wheel

ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com sends:

> No, I'm familiar with the PC-7 type of repair + painting. I'm really looking
> for the formula for colored Bakelite...It's cellulose plus something based
> and I was curious if it was possible to actually home manufacture a rim
> for a "banjo" wheel. I've done one in mahogany in an octagon for an MG
> (Natch!), now I'd thought I'd try a period Bakelite rim...
> Thanks for the reply, anyway.

A quick search on the Internet turns up...

Cellulose plus something is either celluloid (cellulose nitrate [guncotton]
treated with camphor and alcohol) or cellulose acetate (cellulose treated
with glacial acetic acid). These days, no one makes celluloid; cellulose
acetate does everything celluloid did except burn with almost no
provocation. When celluloid came out, shirt manufacturers would make men's
collar stays from it instead of from bone; the men wearing the shirts would
then light a cigar, dribble an ash or two on the collar, and go up in
flames. Not a pretty sight.

Now let's talk Bakelite. It is the first of several "phenolic" plastics,
which are made by reacting carbolic acid (phenol) with formaldehyde.
Phenolic is a strange beast; one site I found said "Bakelite is not used any
more" and fifty more sites had products they make from phenolic (Bakelite)
right now. It seems to be really popular in the manufacture of electrical
components like light switches and cover plates.

There are two kinds of plastic, thermoplastic and thermosetting. Phenolic is
the thermosetting plastic--very handy if you want to make something that's
going to be subjected to heat since it gets harder as it gets hotter. I even
found a company that makes phenolic brake-caliper pistons.

How do you make it? You start by mixing carbolic acid with formaldehyde in a
"reacting quantity" and cooking it in a steam-heated retort. The reaction is
exothermic, necessitating turning off the steam to the kettle on occasion
during the process. When you're done, you have basic phenolic which is then
ground into molding powder. By varying the formula of the phenolic, you can
get different colors and various desirable characteristics. Don't ask me
what the various desirable characteristics are; it's late and I'm no
plastics engineer.

The product manufacturer puts the powder into a steel mold. The mold is then
placed in a hydraulic forming press, many tons of pressure are applied and
the mold is heated, which causes a secondary reaction that results in a
product. (The mechanic's press you have in your shop now won't work. You
need a press like the one Sarah Connor used to squash the Terminator to do
this.)

One site I found makes phenolic lawn-bowling balls. The molding doesn't
produce a perfect bowl (they don't call them balls, they call them bowls) so
to get them right, they put them in a metal lathe and true them with diamond
bits.

The moral of this story: If you decide to make your own phenolic steering
wheel after reading this, let us know; since you'll be buying a hydraulic
forming press and a steering wheel mold, it should be no problem to knock
out a whole lot of new steering wheels after yours is done.
-- 

--jmowreader
xpr3(-at-)earthlink.net

Congratulations to Bobby Labonte for winning the NAPA 500!

