Date: Wed, 28 Nov 2001 08:44:43 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Battery cable, starter relay.


>I found the perfect answer, it was a Bosch WR1 Low Voltage Relay Kit.
>It cost less than fifteen Dollars. This reduces the amount of voltage required
>to run the starter to around 7 volts. It was easy to install and all my
>starting problems went away.


The way I understood it was that the starter always requires 12 volts and 
ALOT of current - regardless of which relay kit we use - it is the solenoid 
that needs help.

The idea behind this solution is that the voltage/current to operate the 
starter solenoid in the original wiring harness is going from the battery 
to the front of the bus and then through the key switch and then back to 
the solenoid. That results in a large current drop (high resistance).

The starter solenoid needs all the current it can get when it is old or hot 
to operate properly.

However the relay that we install doesn't care much about what sort of 
voltage or current that it receives (it's needs are small). Now with the 
new solenoid (or starter) relay - when you turn the key you are clicking 
(cycling or closing) the new relay. The relay then sends 12volts straight 
from the battery to the solenoid (which used to get its juice from the 
key). The starter solenoid then gets full battery voltage (and current - 
the important part) and without so much current loss the solenoid is happy 
and eager to do it's job.

While the relay you mentioned is fine - it doesn't require any specific 
Bosch or VW relays. Anyone doing this conversion can use an old Ford 
starter relay which is a bit cheaper in my experience and available 
anywhere (even used off of that old Ford in the backyard that your 
brother/father/uncle keeps saying they are going to restore someday).

Oh and unlike what I used to believe - you certainly don't need any special 
"kit" from a catalog.

The detailed instructions are in the Type2.com library.



Ciao!

Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE:       Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing and exhaust 
- make offer
                 5 Beauty rings for 13" wheels, very nice, no dents, packed 
ready to go, $40 (was my cost)

