Date: Wed, 28 Nov 2001 07:59:28 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Test Equipment

Just saw on the SanFranBay auction site a KAL Tunemaster Automotive
Maintenance Set. This is a better than middlin' set that would be ideal for
a high quality DIY user. A great place for a novice to start learning
procedures or an apprentice seeking more skills, and they will continue to
serve well after learning and mastering Ohm's Law. 

Would be best for carburated applications only. Analog volt meters can and
will spike any ECU circuit you try to monitor. You must use a digital, 10k
ohm impedence protected voltmeter on those. Also, analog meters do not give
precise low ohm readings. You must have 1 ohm accuracy down to 0 for FI
related circuits running small fractions of an amp and that is not possible
to do with needle and scale of an analog meter. 

A perfect holiday gift for a novice T-II newbee planning to know what's
what with that "new" project bus. And the above set is far more durable and
reliable, much better quality, than any of the "consumer" sets you see at
the FLAPS/Sears/Costco, even the ones KAL sells under the SunPro name.
Please don't waste your time/money on Gorgonzola instruments. Bad data is
far worse than no data at all. It guarantees confusion/error/failure. A
guess has better odds going for it than acting on instrument errors. 

Want the goods on quality digital, ECU safe VOM's??? Find a Fluke 70, 80,
or if your lucky, 90 series VOM. Best models for DIY automotive
applications are 77, 78, 87, 88 or the big time wizbang scopemeter 98 if
your other car is a Maserati. If you get a used one without a manual, you
can get one from Fluke, and you must if you want to learn how to use it
properly FAST. 77's can be bought at actions for $30 to $80 plus shipping.
An unmitigated bargain at a few dimes on the dollar for lifetime accuracy
and value down the road. Full repair and/or re-certification is available
from Fluke at any time for reasonable fees. Sometimes this service includes
free updated parts installed at no additional charge, even with long
expired warrenty. Shades of Mercedes, superb value from followup support
services. 

And by the way, if your other car is a Uni Mog, you will fry your 12v
instruments (KAL a/f ratiometer) with the 24v system if you ain't payin'
attention for a micro second. AMHIK, $400, ca-ching!!! Talk about tool
abuse.
T.P. Stephens
Doktor Tim's

