From: "Russell Neithammer" <rneithammer(-at-)mlea.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 29 Nov 2001 09:10:59 -0500
Subject: RE: Busted accel. cable/pedal?

I had a similar symptom occur on my 71.  The Maw-in-Law (don't ask) tried to
fix it using brute force on the pedal, and only managed to bend and
otherwise screw up the gas pedal bracket.  However, the problem really had
nothing to do with either the pedal or the cable.

What happened was that the throttle return stop screw on the carburetor
(stock 34 mm carb) was out of adjustment, being adjusted too far out.  It
was to the point that the degree of closure of the throttle plate was
determined by when the throttle plate contacted the inside of the venturi,
not by when the throttle stop screw on the throttle arm contacted the stop
plate on the carb.  Everthing was OK, and there was no noticable problem
when the car was running and warmed up.  The warm carb venturi expanded
enough that the throttle plate did not bind in the venturi, and the warm and
expanded venturi actually allowed a slightly higher degree of throttle plate
closure than was possible when the venturi was cold and contracted.
However, after sitting overnight, the venturi would cool and contract, and
that was enough for it to "grab" the throttle plate and make it stick.  The
solution was to adjust the throttle return screw porperly as describe in the
Bentley book.

This problem is not unique to VW's or even to carbureted engines.  I have
dealt with it on two of my fuel injected T*Y*T*s.  They still have a
throttle, even though they have fuel injection - same problem - same
solution.

You can easily check to see if this is what is happening to your bus.  Next
time it happens, instead of kicking the pedal, go back to the engine and try
to work the throttle arm.  If you have to push hard to move it that first
time, you what to to do to fix it.  You might have bent or otherwise messed
up something in the pedal or elsewhere in the throttle linkage due to your
previous efforts to unstick the pedal - if so correct as necessary.

R

Date: Wed, 28 Nov 2001 11:26:05 -0600
To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
From: jdh97t <jdh97t(-at-)acu.edu>
Subject: Busted accel. cable/pedal?
Message-ID: <3C019761(-at-)webmail.acu.edu>

Hello to all you good folks-

Having just moved out into the New Mexico desert, my garage was/is full of
stuff, thusly the bus is out in the cold. Had a good, cold morning, and
apparently my accelerator pedal froze up. Gave it a kick and it came
unstuck.
Next morning, it did the same thing and the kick smacked it down to the
floor.
There is now perhaps only 1 inch of play, and the vehicle will not turn over
without the punch of gas in the morning. Help! What could I be looking at
here, and can I do this myself. I'm a newbie owner and I really do not want
to
tow this guy into the city. BTW, 1971 Campmobile.

Regards
Joshua Hinson


