Date: Thu, 29 Nov 2001 09:48:46 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Mystery Water

It the water is on the top of the dash I believe I would look at the top of 
the windshield as well as the bottom. Time to grab your best friend and the 
garden hose and start tracing water leaks. One of you sits inside while the 
other hoses the front of the van - with low pressure and high pressure.

I would make a trip to the local glass installer or better yet NAPA and get 
a tube of urethane glass sealer.

They run about $10 or less a tube. I WOULD NOT USE SILICONE. If you do and 
it works - good for you but in my own experience it has led to more rust 
and more leaks because it does not really stay adhered to the paint and 
steel. Also the ammonia in the silicone seems to do bad things to the metal.

I used silicone on my first car (1966 Mustang) way back when (1987?) and 
when I later pulled the glass again there was alot of new rust - and I do 
not know if it was from trapped water or the ammonia in the sealant.

Anyhow.... I figure there is a reason why the glass installers don't use 
silicone when silicone is cheaper than urethane.

Fill the cavity between the window rubber and the steel of the bus 
completely. You can also use it between the rubber and the glass but I 
don't think your are leaking there.

Question: did you get the windshield centered on the bus? When my wife and 
I installed ours we discovered the rubber was bulging out on the driver's 
side more than the passenger's side. Since we used silicone spray to lube 
the rubber seal for installation we were able to slide the windshield over 
the 3/16" it needed. How we did this was I opened the door and placed one 
hand on the inside of the glass and my other hand on the outside and pushed 
them together as hard as I could and then gave the glass several hard pulls 
in the correct direction. Never, never, never bang or push on glass. Took 
30 seconds to pull the windshield over.

If you bus is mobile I might even take it for a quick drive and got in an 
out of a few parking lots which flexed the bus and would help situate the 
glass a bit before you added sealer. Just something I am not sure about and 
have been wondering about.



At 08:21 PM 11/28/01 -0800, you wrote:
>Help!
>
>I recently replaced my windshield on my 71 bus.  I welded the usual 
>rusted-out area at the lower edge of the windshield, then put in a brand 
>new windshield with a brand new seal.  This evening, after about 1 hour of 
>light rain, I went out to my bus and, to my horror, discovered about 1/4" 
>of water pooled on the dash board along the bottom edge of the 
>windshield.  Some details: The bus is parked on an inclined driveway, 
>front facing downhill, rear wheels about a foot higher than the front wheels.
>I fumbled around in the dark looking for an obvious leak, but couldn't 
>find one.  Anybody have any ideas??  I put too much tender loving care 
>into putting in this new windshield to have a %$#(-at-)(-at-)%^% leak!!

Ciao!

Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE:       Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing and exhaust 
- make offer
                 5 Beauty rings for 13" wheels, very nice, no dents, packed 
ready to go, $40 (was my cost)

