Date: Tue, 28 Oct 2008 16:34:32 -0400
From: "Eddie Goodwin" <eddiegood(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: to buy or not to buy....

Hello List.

I come here seeking advice today. I have the opportunity to purchase
an '86 Vanagon Syncro for under $1000 and I don't know if I should do
it. Its a non-camper, has the rear locking-diff, and is in average
condition for an '86. I am completely on the fence on this one.

I have mostly driven and worked on bays and splits. I've had my '74
for about 10 years and have done lots of work to it, including 3
engine/tranny swaps, fuel injection retrofit, lots of body
work/welding, and all the usual other stuff that bays of this vintage
need.  I have very limited experience with vanagons and the
wasserboxer engine. I don't have the time to invest into it like I
have my past VWs. This vanagon seems pretty solid. No real rust
problems to speak of (I checked all the equivelnt places that buses
rust, they were all good), It has 74,000 original miles, and had the
tranny replaced at 66,000 under a warranty.

I drove it and was amazed with the difference in drivability from the
bus. It was so smooth! (and my bus has brand new HD boge shocks). It
had decent power compared to what i was used to, shifted pretty
smooth. I did notice the gas pedal had a lot of resistance compared to
my bus...a lot.. so much that I actually stalled it starting off for
the first time.... once I got the hang of really nailing the pedal I
was fine.....im sure thats an easy fix.

The PO says its been plagued with coolant line leaks, most of which
he's fixed. He says the engine doesn't leak coolant or oil. He seems
to know his stuff and has put a lot of work and money into it,
including new brakes all around. The drive train was removed for
improved gas mileage but is included, he said the VC was good. I also
noticed what looked like brand new axles and CV boots up front. He
said he had the CV joints replaced in the past year. I pulled the diff
lock, but the light didn't come on... I may not have left it engaged
for long enough... I know its bad to use them on pavement.

I guess my question is how much of my air-cooled bus knowledge will
transfer over to the vanagon? Air cooled vw's are pretty much all I
know. I've had them and their engines apart in every which way, but
the liquid cooled successor scares me a little. I know they are
notorious for head gasket/overheating problems. Can I really depend on
this to be my daily driver for the winter months? I must admit the
heat is nice.

I use a tired 95 GMC Jimmy for the winter that is on borrowed time....
I think I can get it through the winter, but theres no guarantee...
the vangon would be its replacement.

I'd really appreciate your thoughts

thanks list!
Eddie Goodwin
