Date: Fri, 31 Oct 2008 14:16:23 -0500
From: Andrew Philbrick <herrschildkrote(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Eddie Goodwin <eddiegood(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] to buy or not to buy....

Hey Eddie,

I understand your fear.  I had always owned air-cooled VW until I got my 
'86 2wd Vanagon.  At first I was afraid that nothing would be the same 
and that the Vanagon would be impossible to work on but slowly (as when 
I was first learning about ACVWs) I learned one thing after another and 
fixed the problems as they came along.  They are surprisingly similar to 
Late Bays in some ways.  As for the notorious problems, I'd say that if 
the engine is not currently leaking coolant, then it won't for quite a 
while.  A Vanagon does have a bit more power than a bay but it is still 
not like most "modern" cars.  I knew someone who drove his Vanagon like 
a car and it wore out the motor within 2 years.  As long as you remember 
that the Vanagon is still a VW T2 and drive it as such, then you 
shouldn't have many problems with it.

I would suggest you get the '86.  In the two years I have owned my '86, 
I have learned that the 1986 model year and on was one of the best 
Vanagons designs ever made.  The earlier Air cooled Vanagons and even 
the 1.9 water cooled was considered to be underpowered for the van.  
When they put the 2.1 in to replace the 1.9, the early 2.1 Vanagons had 
trouble overheating.  However, for the 1986 model year, VW redesigned 
the coolant system/flow to greatly improve the cooling systems 
effectiveness in cooling the engine.  Basic rule is "steer clear of the 
round headlights".

I don't think the syncro package is going to give you more trouble than 
its worth.  From what I understand, the parts are becoming more 
available by the day.

Like I said, I think you should buy the '86.  For some new tools, get 
the Vanagon Bentley manual and join the Vanagon listserv 
(www.vanagon.com).  The folks on the Vanagon list are very helpful and 
knowledgeable (just like the other VW lists out there!)

Andrew


> I guess my question is how much of my air-cooled bus knowledge will
> transfer over to the vanagon? Air cooled vw's are pretty much all I
> know. 
