From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Joel Bidinger <JoelBidinger(-at-)hotmail.com>, buslist
Date: Sat, 9 Mar 2002 13:57:54 -0800 
Subject: RE: [VB] redux/trans repair

  There is a ridge created at the snap ring groove from wear, a piece of
sandpaper along the snap ring groove should take care of that.
  I use an oil pump piller on the RGB plugs. I put four tack welds on each
side of each tip on the puller and tighten up the nut and out they come. Cut
a couple of the welds with a hack saw and snap the rest of the welds, clean
and reuse.
  Get a time-sert, heli coil, case saver to use in the threads of the RGB.
Each brand has a different outside diameter and you might find one that will
just thread in with-out redrilling and tapping.


ronnie

I have NEW RGB plugs (metal) in stock 

ps. been there done that on all of the above (just finished another one
today)

-----Original Message-----
From: Joel Bidinger [mailto:JoelBidinger(-at-)hotmail.com]
Sent: Saturday, March 09, 2002 12:24 PM
To: buslist
Subject: [VB] redux/trans repair


Once the snap rings, thrust washers and axle shafts are removed from
the trans, shouldn't the differential side gears just slide out? I
can't see anything holding them in, but I am a little reluctant to
take a puller to them without a second opinion.
The holes in one redux box into which the bolts holding the spring
plate on thread are tapped oversize. I'd like to fix this, would some
kind of case-saver like threaded insert do the job, or should I be
looking at having the holes welded up and retapped? Can anyone tell me
the dos and don'ts of welding on cast parts like the redux boxes?
I'd like to pull the end caps out of the redux boxes and get a better
look at the reduction gear shafts and bearings. Am I going to able to
find new end caps, or will I be most likely reusing the ones I have?
Is welding on a nut and fashioning a puller the simplest way to remove
them?
Thanks,
Joel and the '64 Sundial


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: vintagebus-unsubscribe(-at-)type2.com
For additional commands, e-mail: vintagebus-help(-at-)type2.com
Donations help keep the list going. http://www.type2.com/donate.html
