From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 9 Mar 2002 17:12:18 EST
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] redux/trans repair

--part1_177.4d60389.29bbe2c2_boundary
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="US-ASCII"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

In a message dated 3/9/2002 12:27:53 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
JoelBidinger(-at-)hotmail.com writes:
Once the snap rings, thrust washers and axle shafts are removed from > the 
> trans, shouldn't the differential side gears just slide out? I can't see 
> anything holding them in, but I am a little reluctant to take a puller to 
> them without a second opinion.

Hi Joel,
You are going to have to remove the six nuts and washers holding the tranny 
side plate on to then remove the differential and side gears.

> The holes in one redux box into which the bolts holding the spring plate on 
> thread are tapped oversize. I'd like to fix this, would some kind of 
> case-saver like threaded insert do the job, or should I be looking at 
> having the holes welded up and retapped? Can anyone tell me the dos and 
> don'ts of welding on cast parts like the redux boxes?

Depends on how big oversized they were drilled.  You may have to have them 
welded up first and is not a problem to do welding on them.  Then go to 
http://timesert.com/mtrcsert.htm
and see about ordering the solid inserts there and tooling required.  We were 
able to special order 30mm instead of the 24mm listed length inserts.  This 
allows you to use a deeper drilled and tapped hole and longer bolts.  
Resulting in much better holding power and no stripping of internal threads 
we used to get with each tranny installation with stock length bolts.

> I'd like to pull the end caps out of the redux boxes and get a better look 
> at the reduction gear shafts and bearings. Am I going to able to find new 
> end caps, or will I be most likely reusing the ones I have?
> Is welding on a nut and fashioning a puller the simplest way to remove 
> them?

Yes, it the simplest way.  Think Bus Boys and probably Ronnie have new ones 
metal  of these.  The plastic ones that were the only availible item for 
several years were junk!  We drill, file and weld in thin nuts on the 
original end caps we have.  We weld shut the stub axle side of this nut 
closed.  Then drill a large enough dimple in each swing plate to allow 
clearance for these nuts.  When we need to remove these end caps next time we 
use one of the RGB half bolts and a claw hammer to remove them.  We apply a 
good amount of high temp silicon sealant just before bolting on the swing 
plates to seal the end caps to both the RGBs and swing plates.
  Alot of trouble?  Yes, but when the time come that we need to rebuild a RGB 
on the road we can without any special tools.....   BTDT with the 1955-63 
RGBs twice before!  Once in Abilene Texas, and in the rest stop just N. of 
Redding California.  Since we carry enough bearing to do one RGB since our 
first experience in Texas we were able to fix the RGB in California in just 
over two hours.
Eric&Barb

--part1_177.4d60389.29bbe2c2_boundary--
