Date: Sat, 9 Mar 2002 23:22:08 -0500
To: fmbc <FullMoon(-at-)Hville.Net>, type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>,
From: ncbus <ncbus(-at-)mindspring.com>
Subject: EveryBus updates

Hello,

EveryBua 2002 will start on April 19th 2002 just south of Greensboro, 
NC. Last years event brought over 120 VW Transporters together for a 
weekend of fun and buses. Complete info can be found at 
http://www.everybus.com

*Carabus List
You will find on the web site an incomplete but maintained list of 
those attending the event and where they will begin their journey. 
The carabus list is helpful so you can hook up with those in your 
area that are attending and perhaps you can arrange to travel 
together.

There have been quite a few additions to the carabus list and the 
format for the page has been changed. If you are on the list and have 
a picture of your bus send me a link and I will post it on the page 
so we can identify each other on the road and at the campground.

*EveryBus T-shirts
The always funky Richard Palmer has out done himself again with EB 
t-shirts. You can place you orders now with Richard. If you want one 
please pre-order!!!!!!!!!!! info at http://www.teamspatula.com

*50/50 raffle
I am copying this from Snoopy. You buy a tickets for $1 per ticket. 
All the money is thrown into a pot. A ticket is drawn at random and 
the winner gets half the money. The other half goes to www.type2.com 
to help maintain the servers, ISP, etc. I make no money off the deal!

*Met-wiz Tour.
Kelly Brown, the Metal Wizard will be conducting a shop tour of his 
bus repair headquarters which is located about 10 miles from the 
event site. Check out his web site at http://www.metwiz.com. You will 
be impressed!

*Kids activities: This area is still a question mark. Last year we 
did some fun stuff but Michele and Stella we be off doing the soccer 
thing Saturday Afternoon and my plate is a little full. Are there any 
parents out there that want to get together and organize something? 
Let me know!


*Chilli contest/pot luck dinner
The chilli contest is for meat and meat-free ( that means without 
meat not stuff someone gave you) Here is how it works - you make a 
pot of your finest chilli and bring it to the shelter area at. The 
chilli will be judged by an esteemed and flatulent group of bus 
geezers. They will bestow honors to the winners in the two 
categories. The leftovers are fed to the masses. Those who do not 
make chilli, if you will, could whip of something such as a side or a 
dessert that would round out the menu for the feast..

*Door prizes, etc.
Once again there will be a busload of stuff to give away. If you want 
to donate something it would be welcome. Please keep donations in the 
vain of VW Transporter stuff or camping goodies.

*Bluegrass and old timey music.
The High Lonsome Strings will be back again this year for a Saturday show.

$15 per night per bus. Hookups first come first serve.

Thanks!!!!!!!!!!
-- 
Chris
'68 A-wagen
Greensboro, NC
www.mindspring.com/~ncbus/
