Date: Wed, 02 Apr 2003 09:42:18 -0600
To: "James Anderson" <james_ander(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] A TIREsome thread

At 02:16 PM 4/1/2003, James Anderson wrote:
>The first question is whether to go with all-terrain tires.  I like the idea
of the look and versatility of an all terrain tire, but they are more
expensive and with a lower load range.  The lower load range seems to be the
big drawback for AT tires.  Also, realistically the worst terrain we drive on
are dirt roads in state parks and we have never had any trouble even with
passenger tires.

The load range is fine - yes they might be a couple of pounds under spec, but
in the real world the all-terrain tires are plenty strong for even a
well-loaded bus.  I have driven many tens of thousands of miles on several
different brands of 8.5x27x14 tires with zero problems.  As others have
mentioned, they can be noisy.  I found this to only be true in the later
stages of life of the tire though.  When they are new, they are not much
louder than a street tire (true at least for the BFG's).  I will also repeat
my experience that the BFG All-Terrain tire you listed was by far the best
handling tire I have ever had on my bus (and I've tried quite a few including
the Yokohamas).  A very confidence-inspiring tire.

On the negative side, the ride with a tire like the BFG is going to be "firm".
Given that you will never do any serious offroading in your bus, you would
probably be better off with a highway-rib or M+S tire.

>        I am also considering the Yoko Y356 D.  I like the idea of the higher
load range, but the "highway" designation worries me as well as comments Ive
heard about poor performance on wet roads. While I never plan to drive in the
winter, Im sure Ill drive on wet roads.  So next questions:  Does a highway
rib tire provide significantly poorer traction and handling compared to all
season tires?

Highway rib tires typically have deep grooves that run the entire
circumference of the tire.  These grooves usually mean excellent performance
in standing water such as a heavy downpour.  Traction on roads that are merely
damp is more a function of the tire compound than the tread design.  Lower
treadwear ratings typically indicate a softer compound which typically means
better traction under all conditions including wet roads.

This is a pet peeve of mine.  People walk into tire stores and buy the tire
with the highest treadwear rating, as if it were some kind of win-win
situation with no drawbacks.  But just like most things in life, there is a
drawback!  What you gain in treadwear you likely lose in traction.  You might
think that because your bus can't accelerate quickly enough to spin the tires
(not you, Gensler!), the traction must be adequate.  The truth is that
traction is directly related to safety and there is no such thing as too much.
You need traction to turn and stop also, not just to accelerate.  Buy that
tire with an 800 treadwear rating and you might find yourself sliding into the
intersection next time you have to make a panic stop.  You might find yourself
in the ditch next time you accidentally take a turn a little too fast.  Don't
think it won't happen.  Read the reviews on a tire before you buy it.  Talk to
people who don't have a vested interest.  Avoid tires with astronomical
treadwear ratings.

>  Does the higher D rated tire result in noticeably surer and better handling
over a C rated tire?  Does a higher load range tire give a more uncomfortable
ride?

In general, the answer is yes to both questions.

>So sorry to rehash this tire info again, but I would appreciate any guidance
with these choices, or any suggestions about other brands, etc.  I would like
to keep the costs down somewhat, the BF Goodrich probably being just outside
my price range.  Thanks for your help,

In your situation the Yokohamas look like the best choice to me.  Excellent
load rating, tread design matched to your driving habits, not too expensive.
Only drawback is that the ride may be a bit firm.  I don't think it will be
that bad since you say you are usually loaded down.  I'd revisit the wet
weather handling issue though - how reliable are those comments you said you
heard?

-David
