Date: Wed, 2 Apr 2003 12:58:03 -0600
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: Dan & Nisha <danishasculpture(-at-)bigfoot.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] That part I need...Please try again Karl

On Wed, Apr 02, 2003 at 12:42:52PM -0600, Dan & Nisha wrote:
> The fuel regulator works because it still has succion, or that's how
> the mechanic tested it. It still creates succion, therefore, he
> says, it's this other part...the pressure regulator?

The pressure reg does not create suction, in fact it creates nothing.
Your mechanic might not have explained it correctly, but I'll see if I
can draw a mental picture for you since you are having trouble viewing
the gif that karl sent the link to.

The fuel makes a loop around the engine compartment. It leaves the
fuel tank, travels through a filter then onto a electric pump [0]. The
pump creates a flow and an increase in pressure in the loop. The
pressure regulator [1] is what causes creates the backpressure so that
the energy of the pump increases the pressure in the fuel loop instead
of just pushing a whole lot of fuel around a loop. Think of the visual
of putting your thumb over a garden hose & how you can feel the
pressure in the hose increase on your thumb. All you did was restrict
flow, suddenly the loop (read garden hose) has an increase in
pressure. From the pressure regulator the fuel returns to the fuel
tank. In between the pump and the regulator there are only 4 fuel
injectors and one cold start valve.

Soooo. if extra gas is getting in the engine it can only come from a
few places. Five of these are the injectors & cold start valve. The
only other place the engine connects to the fuel system is at the
pressure regulator, as Karl pointed out. Here a vacuum hose is
connected to the regulator. If the insides of the regulator have
ruptured, the vacuum of the engine can easily pull fuel through the
vacuum line and into the air path, causing a very rich engine
condition. The Bentley contains a good section on testing the entire
FI system including the pressure regulator, have your mechanic run
these tests, before guessing.

[0] this is located on the drivers side, mounted to the frame in front
of the rear wheel.

[1] Looking at the engine from the rear of the bus, this part is on
the right of the engine, where the fuel line runs through the tin.

-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
1979 Sportsmofakia 2000cc                        www.fasterlaster.com
1966 Westfalia SO-42 "Butch"?
