Date: Thu, 03 Apr 2003 09:57:16 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Access Systems <accessys(-at-)smart.net>, VWBrain(-at-)aol.com
Cc: honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com, Type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Broken into again. (fed up)

>not much room and have to remove before driving.

Working as an MP in Naples, I wrote many, many reports on car break-ins.

Sometimes you are dealing with a thief that works a particular area and 
they watch cars come and go. They will see you moving valuables to the 
trunk or stuffing things under the seats. I parked my car along the street 
in Naples (Super Beetle) and moved a video camera to the trunk before I 
left. I actually just went across the street to visit with Italian friends 
standing on the sidewalk - far from normal American areas. Wasn't 5 minutes 
before some fellow came along, backed up to the trunk like he was leaning 
on the car and then began pulling on the trunk handle as hard as he could 
(car nose pumping). I screamed at him in Italian to get the f%$k away from 
my car and started running across the street. He was gone in a flash, no 
damage, no chance to discuss the situation with him physically.

I was careful to keep my car looking very local with local plates versus 
the military American issued plates, European make, minor body damage, no 
visible base passes, etc. I had to chuckle when an American would come in 
to file a report on a theft of personal items from inside their Chevy 
Lumina with America plates, Kenwood speaker boxes visible in the rear 
window, American flag sticker on the bumper, base pass glued to the 
windshield.

Sometimes it was as dumb as leaving a wallet or purse on the front seat.

I think thieves target rich looking cars and young folks who they presume 
like their music and consequently a nice stereo to play it on.

I prefer no visible stereo (unless vintage am/fm mono or am only in dash) 
and no visible speakers. Light tinting on windows to add privacy.

As I am not in the car more than 20 minutes on most of my trips around 
town, I just assume have the most rudimentary music maker anyhow.


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
