From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 10 Dec 2001 20:14:53 -0800
Subject: 6-12V wiper motor

all this talk of slow/fast 6/12v wiper motors is leading me to tell y'all
about one of my "conversions".
(for all with a 6v bus wiper motor up to 65.)
a while back WW sold a 12v armature conversion. simple install, no need for
any other modifications. hasn't been available for a while.
here's the secret: go to your local junkyard, swap meet, or vw shop (last
resort as they seem to think they are worth big $$$)and get a 67, 68, or 69
BUG wiper motor. i prefer to get them at swaps, because usually the seller
doesn't care or know what it is, and can be had for $5 or less. a 68-69 bug
motor is easy to distinguish because the shaft/post for the linkage is
about 6mm in diameter, much larger than the 67 and earlier versions. make
sure that you get an SWF version if you have an SWF motor. i'd assume the
Bosch units are interchangeable, but i have personally never had a Bosch
bus wiper motor.
disassemble the 67-69 bug motor and remove the armature. then disassemble
your 6V bus motor and install the armature from the 67-69 bug motor, and
then re-assemble. the things i like to do before installing the armature is
check the armature electrically, and clean any brush dust off and to clean
it and maybe lightly emery cloth the area where the brushes ride for better
contact. i also lightly grease the end, sometimes by removing the bottom
cover of the motor and using some of that grease. (also a good time to make
sure everything else has grease on it where it is supposed to.) the hardest
part of re-assembly for me has been re-aligning the brush carrier, but i
just make sure to mark it in a few spots before unscrewing it, and keeping
the brushes pressed back when putting the carrier on. these are not major
hurdles to overcome. (this is also a good time to remove, disassemble,
clean, and grease the wiper shafts.)
i have found that the armatures are the same, other than voltage/windings,
with the same gearing on the bottom. i have NOT done this conversion on
screw terminal motors, so i don't know if it will work on those or not, but
that day is coming soon. (i guess if worse came to worse, a spade terminal
motor could be substitued in a screw terminal bus) also, this is a ONE
SPEED conversion, as the original motor was one speed.
there is no further need for any kind of voltage reducers, rhiostats,
electrical voltage drops, etc... 12V, stock looking, and anyway, who is
going to pop your wiper motor cover off at a show?
mine have worked very well in the past (and currently), and it's nice not
to have to worry about stuff getting hot under the dash. just turn it on,
and no more fast wiping. it goes at a nice, "normal" speed.
...and no more progressively speeding up as a voltage reducer gets hot.






