From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 11 Dec 2001 11:35:15 EST
To: thom(-at-)calweb.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] drafty front floor  :(

Hi, ya I do have the underfloor pan.  The draft I plugged was to the left of 
the pedal pan.   Crawl under your bus and look to the driver side door from 
the pedal pan- that is where the hole is.  you could just about put a foot 
through it.

Don't be such a freakin' resto purist.   This bus needs ENTIRE front floor, 
not just what the patches cover, capiche?    It came new with leaky safari 
windows.    Remember where it got hit on left drivers door and the front 
floor is bent?   This would take more than 2.5 hours.  Thom has a Central CA 
bus.  it's not the same as a western Wa bus.

Ideally this bus would turn into the perfectly rust free straight painted 
sealed bus. Ya, right, and I just have not spent the time &money on the full 
resto.   Haven't painted the barndoor either.  In fact, now I am doing the 
student thing again, I wanted to take a bit of time to plug a draft to make 
it more comfortable to drive the bus.  Duh.  I said that in my first post on 
the subject.  It's a stop gap measure.  I want to keep my beautiful 61 on the 
road and fairly comfortably drivable.   And it is, with original paint and 
original trinkets on it.  Hm, need to powder coat 15" rims.

 I was thinking about checking the insulation on the long heat tube as well.  
Next I'll put a rust cover plate on the other side, replace the seals over 
the cab windows, on the cab window scrapers, and roofing tar the roof to make 
it warmer and keep it from rusting...  

In a message dated 12/10/01 10:44:02 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
thom(-at-)calweb.com writes:

<< 
 But some of us that *do* have shiny, reasonably straight, rust-free
 restored buses have them because we spent the time to replace the
 floor pans and rockers and whatnot.
 
 The passenger side floor section took me between 2 and 2.5 hours to replace
 on the '60.
 
 Also - do you have the pedal pan on your bus?  It makes a *huge* difference
 in draft reduction!
 
 Although I haven't done it on this bus yet, I found that replacing the
 factory heater tube wrap with foam pipe insulation, as well as insulating
 the curved sections fore and aft that are not normally insulated, helped
 considerably with heat.
 
 Claralw(-at-)aol.com wrote:
 > We don't all have perfectly straight shiny rust free restored buses.  
 
  >>
