From: LANDBUY(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 11 Dec 2001 15:57:20 EST
To: swharris(-at-)earthlink.net
Subject: Re: [VB] Garage/Shop suggestions

--part1_be.1f4a1bc2.2947cd30_boundary
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="US-ASCII"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

Steve,

I am a VW enthusiast, not a professional mechanic, so take these comments as 
such.  I am a builder, so I know what is cost effective when constructing.  
Make sure you use at least 8' doors.  Additional cost is minimal, and my bus 
won't fit in 7' doors with roof rack on.  I like at least 3' clear of the car 
on the sides of the "working bay" and at 4' behind.  Front may contain work 
benches and storage.  I recommend a 30' depth.  Also, I recommend a minimum 
of 10 and probably 12' ceiling in the working bay.  This allows for you to 
jack the bus up with the roof rack on without hitting the garage door opener. 
 

Remember that up is cheap.  When building a structure, to add another floor 
or loft for storage, will cost you next to nothing.  If you think about it, 
the foundation (footings), slab and roof remain the same $.  What it costs 
you to go vertical is extra studs (or Length), some extra sheathing and 
siding.  Relatively cheap in the realm of the initial building.  If you are 
going to use roof trusses you must decide now if you are going use the attic 
as storage and tell the designer/manufacturer.  All trusses are designed with 
a minimum dead load that will only support the sheet rock hung on the bottom, 
and a man walking across them.  They can design for storage, and the cost 
will be cheap as it has more to do with design than material.  

You cannot have enough electrical outlets in a garage.  Going to use a welder 
or compressor?  100 amp service may not be sufficient and may require a 200 
amp electrical service.  Put outlets in the ceiling for garage door openers 
and drop lights.  Insulation is cheap when building, put it in.  It not only 
helps with energy costs, but keeps the noise in and the family/neighbors 
complaints out.  That's all I can think of now.  Good luck with the project.

Jim Cahill
56 Kombi

--part1_be.1f4a1bc2.2947cd30_boundary--
