From: "Rich Van Baalen" <rvanbaa1(-at-)tampabay.rr.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 12 Dec 2001 08:52:49 -0500
Subject: RE: [VB] Time to start replacing glass seals

Well the inital adventure is just about over (I still need to put the
passenger side window in tonight) on the first two windows.  Although I
still have 5 more to do, this first effort has been quite an experience that
should make the others a 'piece of cake'.

I pulled the glass Saturday AM and had a bigger rust problem than I could
see before.  There were three small spots on the bottom where it had rusted
thru.  I wound up:
	Cleaning the frame
	Naval jelly on the bottom lip
	Wire Wheel (actually got a chance to use my new cordless drill; not a total
waste <g>) the lip
	Phospo on the lip (dont want rust coming back)
	Lots of JBWeld to fill in the holes and to smooth the divots caused by the
rust
	Sand/Primer/Paint

... all this effort (sigh) just to get ready for the gaskets

I believe this is the point where I made my life difficult.  I believe some
clarification on this point discussed in the thread last week may in fact be
necessary.  As I was putting the gasket on the windshield (passenger side) I
was using a condiment bottle to squirt in the tar.  This made a huge mess
that I will be cleaning up for a while.  When I put the drivers side gasket
on I installed it in the glass and then put the bead of roofing tar under
the lip.  This was a much cleaner technique, but I still dont think this was
the way to go; I suspect that the bead of tar should go under the point
there the lip meets the glass AFTER the windshield is back in the bus.
Eric, if you could clarify this finer point (for those of us  that tend to
archive these messages for future reference) I am sure it would be greatly
appreciated.

This AM I went out and painted a thin layer of tar on the frame and
installed the drivers side glass (by myself I might add) without incident.
Although I have no other point of reference to compare against, somebody out
there recommended using using the monofillament stuff from a string trimmer
to use inside the gasket to pull that lip over the frame.  That worked out
well for me.

Tonight I will get the passenger side done; hopefully without the infamous
CRACK sound; and I should be back on the road in the AM (driving the Fe*tiva
gets me there but it isn't nearly as much fun!!!).

Thanks for all the encouragement and advice
--Rich

