From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 12 Dec 2001 13:20:24 EST
To: rvanbaa1(-at-)tampabay.rr.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Time to start replacing glass seals

I have a tub of roofing tar, mix it up well with a screwdriver, and smear a 
thin layer on the bottom edge and corners of the window ledge before 
installing window.  never bothered with the condiment bottle. Once used the 
squeeze tube you put in a squeeze tube squeeer (sorry I can't remember the 
name, caulk gun, that's it) but it was unusable the next time I tried it (the 
tube, not the caulk gun) so I went back to the tub. 

clean up inside and out with wd-40 after installing, then glass cleaner.  You 
get an idea of how much to use after you do a couple.  You don't need so much 
that it slops all over the place, it is supposed to be between the seal and 
body, not a very thick space.

Eric likes to tar the seal before putting the seal on the glass, but I use 
motor oil.  And oil around the entire outside of the seal, and where the 
string goes (makes it much easier to get the string in the groove and remove 
string). Once someone mentioned it isn't the best idea to use petroleum 
lubricants on rubber, but I think he was thinking of something else, and the 
bus hasn't had babies yet.  

In a message dated 12/12/01 5:51:43 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
rvanbaa1(-at-)tampabay.rr.com writes:

<< 
 I believe this is the point where I made my life difficult.  I believe some
 clarification on this point discussed in the thread last week may in fact be
 necessary.  As I was putting the gasket on the windshield (passenger side) I
 was using a condiment bottle to squirt in the tar.  This made a huge mess
 that I will be cleaning up for a while.  When I put the drivers side gasket
 on I installed it in the glass and then put the bead of roofing tar under
 the lip.  This was a much cleaner technique, but I still dont think this was
 the way to go; I suspect that the bead of tar should go under the point
 there the lip meets the glass AFTER the windshield is back in the bus. >>
