From: "Warburton, William" <William.Warburton(-at-)let-it-be-thus.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 12 Feb 2002 11:08:11 -0000
Subject: KYB shocks: GR2 vs Gas-A-Just.

Hi Volks,

	In the discussions about upgrading shocks the possibility of using
KYB's GR2 in place of the "normal" Gas-A-Just has been mentioned in the 
past. These can be harder to get hold of, since some vendors don't stock
them but they are definitely available for baywindow busses.

 I've just fitted a set to the front of my bus (which is fitted with
upgraded anti-roll bars and 15" alloys) and so far I'm quite taken
with them.

They are designed to be a little more forgiving than the Gas-A-Justs,
which tend to give quite a harsh ride. This is particularly noticeable
on a bus, of course, because the front axle is right under your spine.

 I originally fitted the Gas-A-Justs when I had the stock wheels on
my bus- the softer sidewalls (185R14C vs. 195/70R15C) are a bit more
forgiving so they are were OK, though the ride tended to be a bit 
hard even then. With the 15" rims the bus is better to drive (more
body control, stability etc) but you certainly know when you've
hit a bump

 Now that I have the GR2s I feel that I still have the extra
stability that the lower-profile tyres gave but the bus is more
comfortable to ride in than it was with the Gas-A-Justs.
 The shocks firm up when driving hard and they should still be a
significant improvement over the stock ones but I can't really 
comment accurately on that since it's been a while since I had
stock shocks.

 In summary, I'd recommend the Gas-A-Justs if you don't care about
comfort but want the best stability you can get. The GR2s seem a
fair bit more forgiving, especially if you have stiff tyres.
 I like the combination of the 15" rims and the GR2s better than
stock rims with Gas-A-Justs. 
 The Gas-A-Justs seem to be fine on the rear- I think the weight
of the engine & transmission and the distance from the passenger
compartment mean the firmness isn't a problem.

 The KYB Part Number for the front GR2s is 343144, the Gas-A-Justs
are P/N KG4521. Fitting is straightforward.

 Finally, as a point of reference, My nearside front Gas-A-Just
failed at about 50,000 miles. Sorry I can't be more precise
about that, but I didn't note the mileage when I fitted them.

Cheers,
	 W.
