To: vanagon(-at-)gerry.vanagon.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com,
From: everybus <everybus(-at-)mindspring.com>
Date: Tue, 22 Mar 2005 08:51:44 -0500
Subject: EveryBus 2005 update

Hi,

EveryBus 2005 is coming up in just a few weeks. EB is one of the larger
VW bus gatherings on the east coast (160 buses in 2004) and all
transporters from Splits to Eurovans are welcome. The event takes place
out side of Greensboro North Caroina and begins Thursday April 14th.
All the details can be found on the web site.

www.everybus.com (the website has been redesigned so if you have not
been in a while check it out.)

Check out the  carabus page on the web site and have your name added if
you are not already there!

Fees for the event are $16 per night per vehicle and there were be a $5
event fee per registration. EB offers lots of fun for the entire
family.  From the activities page:

Thursday 

Arrive early and get a good spot

Friday 

Pancake Breakfast Once again our neighbors to the North will be cooking
up the round fluffies and smothering them in REAL CANADIAN MAPLE SYRUP.
Greg will also have some freshly tapped Maple Syrup for sake. If you
want to help out or buy some of the real thing contact Greg.

Hang out

Meet and great

Saturday

Burrito breakfast? This seems to happen without any real planning so
watch out it could happen again.

For the kids

Jamie Auch will be the kids fun Czar again this year. The will be lots
of fun and games.

The moonwalk will also be back by popular demand!

For Everyone

The Bus Camping Competition.

The Bus Camping Competition - Greg Potts will preside over this event
  From a rolling start, the clock starts when the bus wheel's stop
rolling. The crew must then:
  1. Pop the top, make a bed and get horizontal.
  2. put away the bed and set out a meal. (table, plate, cutlery)
  3. clean away the meal, and get relaxed in a lawn chair with a
beverage.
  4. pack up and put the roof down, when everyone is aboard and the
wheels are turning the clock stops.

This could be the most fun ever had at EB. In order the make the prizes
commensurate with fun we will put up the following

1st place 512K iPod Shuffle
  2nd place Your camping fees refunded
  3rd place Pair of camp chairs.

Chili cooking contest and pot luck supper. There are two categories ,
meaty and veggie. Mad Uncle Dave will head an international panel of
judges. If you are not going to enter feel free to bring and entree,
sidedish or desert for the potluck.

The usual Saturday night stuff. We usually hand out some door prizes
and recognize so outstanding people. If you would like to donate a VW
bus or camping related door prize please let Judy know .

Sunday

Decamp 

If you have any questions, let me know.

Chris
RED CUP!
www.everybus.com
