From: <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 24 Mar 2005 19:28:59 -0500
Subject: Re: checking altenator

> From: John Moore <jem_93035(-at-)yahoo.com>
> Date: Thu, 24 Mar 2005 05:29:33 -0800 (PST)
> 
> How do you check to see if your altenator is working
> or if your battery is shot?

The simplest test is to let the Bus sit for a couple of
hours and then measure the battery voltage.  With
everything shut off you should have 12.6 volts on a fully
charged battery.  Then start the engine, rev it up to
around 2000 RPM, and re-check the voltage; it should have
gone up at least a volt to 13.6 volts or more at the
battery.  If you see this, your charging system is at
least trying; if you don't get any increase, try goosing
the engine a little more -- but you should definitely see
something by 3000 RPM.  If not, your charging system isn't
working.

If you do see a rise to 13.6 volts or more, go up front
and turn on all the electrical stuff - high beams, wipers,
hazard lights, radio, etc.  Go back to the back, measure
the battery, and goose the engine a little.  You will
probably have something less than what you read before,
but it should still be more than 12.6 volts.  This means
that your alternator can deal with the extra load and
still manage to charge the battery.

You might check the electrolyte level in each cell of
the battery and top up with distilled water as required.
Also, check the battery cable connections (both ends)
and the connections at the alternator and starter.

You could have a short that is draining your battery.  If
it's a large enough short, this will find it: turn
everything off, disconnect the battery negative strap,
then hook up your test light from the battery negative
terminal to the place on the body the strap bolts to.  If
the light stays off, you either don't have a short or
have a very small one that probably shouldn't kill your
battery in 8 hours.  But if the light comes on, you've
got a short somewhere.  You can go up front and remove
one fuse at a time to track it down... the fuse that
makes the light go out is the circuit with the short.
If none of the fuses make the light go out, you could
have a short in one of the unfused circuits, like the
ignition or the alternator itself.  If you suspect an
alternator short, carefully remove all the wires on
the alternator and tape up the ends individually.  If
this makes your test light go out, the problem is in the
alternator.

Matt Roberds
