From: "doc ric" <uncleric(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 25 Mar 2005 21:34:38 -0500
Subject: First East Tennessee "fix your bus"

Trip report:

This am the 69  bus started like a champion and first gear was difficult to
find but I drove on. I made it to Boyd's by 9:00 and we thought the
situation out. The TO bearing was not making any noise, first was hard to
find but easier with the engine off, had a "little" more free play in the
clutch than normal, shifter sloppy.

We used Boyd's new "tool" to adjust the clutch a bit

We took the shifter apart, cleaned, greased, and felt like the bushing in
the front of the rod that goes to the transmission needed to be replaced. A
call to Mike at D&G resulted in a recurrence of a common situation. "Yes, we
have no bushing". This is not a dig on Mike; he just works there.

By this time, Travis, Eddy and Glen had arrived and I refuse to tell anyone
what Travis fabricated.

I put it all back together. The test drive with Eddy was interesting. First
gear is available but is right next to third gear. This is gonna take some
finesse to drive but is driveable.

We decided to skip the R&R of the engine as the throwout bearing was quiet
and maybe the clutch adjustment helped. Who knows at this point? We will
see.

We jacked up the rear again and found I found that the last time I changed
the fuel lines, I left one a little too long between the tank and the shroud
so that it had been rubbing on the heater box and had almost worn through.
When I took that section of line out I found it to be in really poor shape
and decided to replace all the fuel lines. When I replaced the line to the
tank, Travis was taking bets on how many times I would say "equine
reproductive organ", but the gas bath was short and I disrobed to my
T-shirt. Good idea, as all lines were cracked on the ends. I know I am
preaching to the converted, but please change these lines on your bus!

When I built this engine, I put the German heater boxes I bought from Bus
Depot but never hooked them up. Boyd had a spare accordion thingy as I only
had one. It was a little bit short but with a little persuasion I made it
work. I wired them open, what the heck, it is still cool outside.

About then the dinner bell rang and Mildred Smith, the caretaker of Boyd and
guardian angel of the TN mechanized called us for lunch. You have to love
this woman. Hamburgers, hotdogs, veggie dogs and burgers for me, fresh
veggies and chips and chili for all! What a host!

After lunch, Travis fell asleep and we went back to work. Actually, we
talked for a while and some shady characters showed up trying to extract
money from anyone that would trade the crap that they had available. They
left disappointed. I think these guys were the ones lined up to get me if I
had not made it there this morning. They seemed OK to me. Boyd says stay on
their good side. :-)

Glen and I wanted to keep working so we decided to get Boyd's hightop in the
garage to pull the engine. That was a sight to behold. A long cable attached
to a pulley attached to the wall of the garage pulled by Mildred's crown
vic. The cable broke once but was repaired, success! Boyd is a genius and
can handle this operation on he own if needed. Think mountains, garage on
top of a hill, have to get the non-running bus in there.

Timer started when the jack was under the tranny. Engine out in 3 minutes! I
will skip the part about the "new engine" run on the floor as I was doing
the fuel lines. Boyd can tell about that. We stripped the engine and torqued
the heads and Jason showed up just in time to learn about valve adjustment.
I explained that it is much easier with the engine out. It is a good lesson
the first time. Mike showed up with a gasket kit after work and I decided to
head home before dark.

A strange thing happened on the way home. What the???? Papers and mojo
flying from my dashboard! The heat works! Air to spare!

Jason and Mad Uncle Dave re-jetted my carb at BOTR and although that trip
home was complicated by the shifter, it did seem to run cooler.

On the way home tonight, even on the long stretches in third gear up the
mountain, I never went over 220 degrees. Thanks guys, I think it worked!

I am as happy as a little girl.

Ric Jablonski
Roan Mountain, TN
Where's Teddy?
