Date: Sun, 27 Mar 2005 14:57:30 -0500
From: claralw(-at-)aol.com
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] field bus revives

Day 6 Saturday
  go back to field to pull out 2 more buses.   Pink panel has tranny fully bolted in now, installed drag link (bent) and steering wheel.   Someone had stripped front suspension, tranny, etc, pedals, shifter, most everything, leaving a solid shell with shiny blue paint on the front floor and round glass taillights in the back, at ~45* angle sideways, go figure.   PO has partly bolted in a front beam,  had earlier got it at a normal angle.   but it had stuck front drums.  Drag it around with them not turning.  this sucks badly.  remove front wheels, bang vigourously on drums with BFH, spray copious amounts of PB Blaster into the drums in hopes of freeing drums from shoes, which seem to be firmly adhered to each other. Drums stick stuck, give us the finger and laugh.  ya, well, same to you
 
  Installed spring plates, tranny in the blue SO-42 westy, bus drums found in field are FUBAR.  pull drums off a bug pan lying around, they fit on the little nut stub axles.  file thread so axle nuts spin on. install 4 tires that hold air, bus rolls nicely, pull it out with chain and jeep.  remove mass carpet on rear floor, front floor, seat stands, clean out broken glass.  bus looks much better. 
get neighbor with bobcat tractor thing to drag pink panel out to where it gets loaded up.   front drums still dont turn.   drag drag drag.  guy seems to enjoy using heavy machinery.  we promise to bring him beer.
 stop when it gets dark, nice weather, sunny, clear skies, warm even.   starts raining on long drive back.
 
Day 5 Friday 
replace MC with new braziallian one.  have to shorten push rod.  Vice grips on front hoses.   Have taillight issues.  where are the 6V bulbs?   Greg put tailpipe on, mangled apron further in order to do that...don't worry, it'll buff out.   put on roof rack.  It has to have a hat.   do other stuff in afternoon.


 ............................
 Day 4
we removed rear wheels, drums.  Drain RGBs and center section..not too badly grubby the oil.   both sides brakes gooey. old riveted shoes.   bus gets new wheel cylinders, brakes shoes.   remove crusty old rear brake hoses, the clips were very tight, which meant pounding them out from underneath, stuff dropping in eyes.   all 11mm metal brake line nuts freed easily, blessed be dry buses.  new rear brake hoses installed.    Remove old axle boots, which leaked only on one side, and actually looked not too bad, but 27+ years old?   out they go.  
scraped big pile of crud from under bus, handfuls of oil with dust stuck to it.  
 new axle boots.   go to remove gas tank.   one bolt breaks off  .   Grrrrr.    remove gas tank, reserve tap, which  actually works... clean tank with chain and gas.   drill out broken off bolt, re tap hole. :)   install tank with all original felts (David Mayes eat your heart out).  
 pull choke and reserve cables out all the way, apply antiseize, reinstall.  note that pulling the cables out actually worked.   hook up reserve, now the ON position no longer works.   WW rebuild kits were out of stock, bummer, so didn't have one with. at least have reserve and OFF.  new fuel line. New rear tranny seal.  reinstalled the new TO bearing.   filled RGBs and center section with gear oil. install new body to engine seal. install bowden tube for gas cable.  installed missing RGB bolt (was removing one bolt the start of pulling the seized up tranny?)
reinstall motor.  for some reason I remember it was tricky to put a 1600 in a 36hp bus, but no problems here, and it was not cut out where the heater boxes hit the body..    the rear apron fits funny with the seal on.   Greg 'restores' the rear engine tin to fit, with BFH.  Note 1600 bus muffler not meant for use with crank start apron.  I grab large pliers and bend never messed with apron.  Greg freaks, Gasp...shock... horror.... what sacrilege, he takes the pliers from my hand .  "that is so tragic".     Bowden tube for acceleerator cable too long, remove it, shorten it, reinstall.  bumper on (field bus with bumper!!!!)  apply penetrating oil to engine lid screws, and to engine lid hinge scews on spare engine lid with unbroken hinges.  Engine starts with key again.  :)
 
mailman complained about the windsheild being replaced, he liked the bullet hole version.  
no pictures yet, bus should be at BYOB/KP
 

-----Original Message-----
From: claralw(-at-)aol.com
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Sent: Thu, 24 Mar 2005 19:04:17 -0500
Subject: [VB] field bus revives


day 1
drag bus out of field.  po informs that the tranny is seized up, then that he 
drove it to where it was parked in 77?  78?
 
day2 
jack back of bus up, put in various gears, spin one rear wheel.   center shaft 
spins.   funny noises in first gear, like it's not all the way in.   shift 
coupler is trashed.  drain tranny oil, looks okay.  put 30wt in tranny/ rgbs.  
 
day 3
install rear shift coupler, find broken front shift plate.   replace front shift 
plate, install motor.  find a key to left of motor in dirt and spare bolts... it 
operates ignition and some (all?) doors.   bonus.  install new 6V battery, post 
breaks off.  install battery out of rental bus. engine starts with key, drive up 
down street.   all 4 forward gears fine, reverse funky / grinds/ :(   evidently 
that's what a seized up tranny means.   hmmmmm
 Drive to car wash and pull out interior (front seat), get $10 of quarters, wash 
bus inside and out.   get filthy, bus still looks dirty, leave big pile of crap 
that blew off the bus at car wash.   drive back, remove engine, replace drivers 
windsheild because of the bullet holes.
