Date: Mon, 28 Mar 2005 11:42:05 -0800 (PST)
From: John Moore <jem_93035(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: re:  checking alternator

Here's an update on the altenator problem.  You could
really file this under charging system problems. 
Symptom - dead battery.

First I replaced the battery.

Then I checked the alternator with a multimeter and
read less than 12 volts.  I then increased the rpm to
something that seemed "revved up" as I don't have a
tach.  Still no increase in voltage measured at the
battery. I checked for a short with a test light.  No
indication of a short.

I replaced the alternator.  I measured the voltage
across the battery at 12.4 volts.  I then started the
engine and checked the output at the alternator.  I
got 12.4 volts.  I revved up the engine and got no
increase of voltage.  I checked for a short with the
test light and found no short.  At this point I
collected some more advice from the group ... thanks
Matt and Eric/Barb.  I went over some things that were
not working in the near past and came up with the
headlight dimmer switch.  I checked that out and
decided part of the switch mechanism in the steering
column assy. might be shorting out against the column.
 The lights were switching to bright a couple times
without touching the switch.  I also found the brown
wire attached to the circuit board to be nearly broken
in two so I resoldered it.  I taped up the area inside
the housing to prevent the dimmer switch parts from
making contact.  Then I disconnected the ignition
system to the front of the bus and used a jumper wire
to the coil and a remote starter switch to start the
engine and rechecked the alternator output.  I still
got 12.4 volts.  I checked for shorts with a
multimeter and read 1 milliamp, next to nothing.  I
then revved up the engine with no increase in voltage.
 That was when I revved it up even higher and the
output voltage INCREASED to 13.7 volts.  I turned on
the wipers and lights and it held at 13.7 volts or so.
 I have rechecked it a couple times now and it seems
to be working.  The only problem is I am not sure what
I did to fix it or if it only needed to be revved up
higher.  I probably replaced a good battery and
alternator.  Next I'll check that I have the right
pulley on the alternator as I had to replace that when
I couldn't get the old one off the other alternator. 
I also had to scrounge the local marine shops for a
woodruff key which I had to file down to the correct
thickness, a little less that 1/8th inch.  I got that
spacer between the alternator-mounting panel-fan hub
wrong when I left it out.  I also found discussions on
this topic on the Bently publications forum.   Yup,
another adventure in VWbus maintenance.  

John Moore
67 Westy 
