Date: Wed, 30 Mar 2005 12:21:05 -0800 (PST)
From: Karl von Salzen <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: PAUL WILLIAMSON <pwilliamson(-at-)mandtbank.com>, bueses(-at-)earthlink.net,
Subject: Re: [VB] Complete OG paint 63-15 window found in a Pick & Pull

That is exactly how Titles Unlimited and Broadway
works: You send them the vin and $$ and they mail you
back a title from another state.

BUT, somehow Calif KNOWS the title is coming from
Titles Unlimited or Broadway or some other same
company. How? I don't know..... but they know.

--- PAUL WILLIAMSON wrote:
 What if a title was obtained via another state and
 then the 
 vehicle was sold to you?
 
 I got a bus from a guy a couple years back and the
 title 
 he gave me for it was from Titles Unlimited.  I
 registered 
 it in NY, got a valid title from them, and sold it
 about a year 
 later to a guy in NV.  The title he received was
 from NY, 
 and in no way reflected that the original title was
 from 
 Titles Unlimited.  The bus was involved in the
 floods in 
 the south years ago.  The insurance company totalled
 the vehicle and it ended up in a junkyard.  I bought
 the it from the wrecking yard without a title, and
 once 
 TU determined whatever it is they do (stolen, fraud,
 etc.)
 I was issued a clean title.  I think the guy I sold
 the bus 
 to is still cruising around in NV with a real NV
 title.
 
 Paul
 
 >>> Karl <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net> 03/30/05 10:31 AM >>>
 From James Treanor:
 
 Ask them if they will sell the bus and give you a
 reciept for the bus
 as
 parts, run the vin thru Titles Unlimited and title
 it that way.  I'm
 sure it
 will get under the Calii radar that way as long as
 it's not stolen.
 

------------------------------------------------------
 Nooooo........ do not go thru Titles Unlimited or
 any other mail order
 title company.
 All of them are being scutinized by Calif DMV.
 
 From this article:
 http://streetrodderweb.com/hotnews/0410sr_boyds/ 
 
 Read this paragraph:
 
 "The California Department of Motor Vehicles is in
 the process of
 canceling registrations that involve
 documents obtained from Titles Unlimited. (Titles
 Unlimited is believed
 to have provided false documents to
 Californians that cost the state more than $1
 million in tax revenues
 and license fees over the past two
 years, and as much as $14 million since 1975, when
 the company began
 operating.) The Attorney General's Office
 also has notified law enforcement officials in more
 than 20 counties
 regarding residents who titled their cars
 through the company for possible prosecution."
 
 I have a 67 bus I bought from a wrecking yard 4
 years ago, I have not
 done the paperwork yet. I thought about
 going thru an out of state title company so I would
 not have a salvage
 title. So I asked a high-up-on-ladder
 DMV friend of mine about using Broadway etc and he
 said "No no no,
 don't do it, we are investigating all of
 them". He knew.......
