Date: Thu, 03 Jan 2013 02:31:24 -0500
From: Mike Benthin <muts(-at-)verizon.net>
To: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Avoid E-15 gas; issuses of ethanol in gas for our 

Hi John, to quote your own publication:
3. Ethanol Fuels in Unmodified Vehicles
The purpose of this paper is to provide recommendations concerning the 
use of ethanol fuels in unmodified
vehicles. The temperature information, and its danger to engines, 
discussed here is the primary factor that
needs to be considered. In the past there have been concerns about 
damage to rubber and plastic fuel system
components being damaged by ethanol. However, the US government has 
mandated that all vehicles sold in
the US be able to tolerate ethanol since the introduction of E10 gasohol 
in 1983. For those living outside the
US, you can probably add a couple of years as manufacturers use up their 
supplies of old stock and adjust
contracts with component suppliers. Abe spoke to one technician who said 
that ethanol should be safe for all
cars since 1990.
    **  So my point for my 1975 and 1978 busses is still valid- unless 
there is assurance (Bus Depot, are you listening) that all the rubber 
purchased my me is ethanol "safe" now, although I think any seals in the 
injectors are original.

Further reading beyond the sensationalism of the Fox News report shows 
that phase-separation is an issue only when the ethanol
has become saturated in its ability to hold water in the fuel- as the
more expensive/gallon "Drygas" methanol additives did. These issues
come up when E10 is added to a tank already contaminated with water
(usually condensation from being kept close to empty and as weather gets
colder), or a contaminated gas supplier tank. Another issue is that
ethanol IS the octane booster, so it is 84 octane gas before the ethonol
is added; if phase separation occurs, the gas above the bottom
water-ethanol phase can damage your engine, even if you drain out the
water phase. This was not true for older tanks/pure gas combo-the water
settled to the bottom- your car would not start if water is sucked in,
but E10 acts as dry gas and can hold a quart of water (harmlessly burned
off) in a full tank. The take home message is keep tank topped off to
not allow condensation.
Other issues is that ethanol does solubilize off gums on the walls
of the gas tank, which could block fuel filters. I believed this 
happened to me right after a rebuild about 6 yrs ago where the tank was 
replaced with a "used clean (not rusty)" looking one and a trip to 
Indiana from NJ ended up with blocked tank/starving fuel pump issues 
where we found something had "peeled" from the walls and physically 
blocked the gas outlet, leaving filter clean!
