Date: Thu, 03 Jan 2013 09:26:55 -0500
From: Mike Benthin <muts(-at-)verizon.net>
To: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Avoid E-15 gas; issuses of ethanol in gas for our 

 From the small engine and boat folks- Can you refute any of the claims 
re brass, zinc, solder (all of which exist in our older carburators as 
jets, floats, carb bodies, etc? Also re dissolving the glues in gas 
filters?  Remember, the EPA has exempted the boat crowd, which can still 
buy E-0 at the pump.

from:Mike Folks 
http://bbs.homeshopmachinist.net/archive/index.php/t-54963.html
07-01-2012, 06:43 PM
Ethanol In Gasoline Problems (E-10,E-15,E-20, & E-85)

Certain materials commonly used with gasoline may be incompatible with 
high-level ethanol blends, causing them to degrade and contaminate the 
fuel. Metals that have been shown to degrade over time in the presence 
of high-level alcohol blends include brass,(floats & jets) lead, 
zinc(carb bodies) and lead-based solder.

Nonmetallic materials that degrade when in contact with ethanol include 
natural rubber, polyurethane, cork gasket material, leather, polyvinyl 
chloride (PVC) polyamides, and certain thermoplastic or thermoset polymers.

On the other hand, unplated steel, nickel-plated steel, stainless steel, 
black iron and bronze have shown resistance to ethanol corrosion, with 
nonmetallic materials like reinforced fiberglass, Buna-N, Neoprene 
rubber, polypropylene, nitrile rubber, Viton and Teflon meeting 
acceptable usage standards with E85.

1. Ethanol can break down resins and fillers in fiberglass gas tanks, 
causing them to leak.The small boat community has gotten exemptions from 
the EPA permitting no Ethanol in their gas pumps due to this.

2. Resins leached from fiberglass tanks can go through the fuel system, 
sticking to valves and other internal engine parts.

3.These deposits have caused bent pushrods and have clogged intake valves.

4.The alcohol attracts water, leading to increased corrosion in metal 
gas tanks.

5.Water in the fuel affects the octane and leads to knocking and 
decreased performance.

6.Ethanol acts as an efficient solvent, gradually cleaning out the 
accumulated gunk in fuel tanks and lines, and clogging carburetors.

7. Certain rubber gaskets and fuel lines are weakened by ethanol. Some 
rubber fuel lines may develop internal swelling, restricting the flow of 
gasoline. My understanding is the Silicone fuel lines resist the effects 
of Ethanol in gas.

8. The Ethanol in the gas has been reported to attack the glue used in 
gas filters, rendering them useless, as the paper filter medium is now 
coated with glue. It also softened the filter hose connection ends, 
causing possible failure.

John Kolak wrote:
>>From my standpoint as a chemist, if you have incompatible rubbers in
> your fuel system, they are going to be damaged whether you run E5 or
> E85. Since US regulations require all vehicles to be sold with
> compatible rubbers, I would presume that any carb rebuild kits you buy
> that have been made since 1990 will have the appropriate materials,
> and if your local fuel source has any oxygenation of the fuel at all,
> you have been running ethanol, and if your fuel system has been
> holding together, you are probably fine. For VW bus owners, the real
> problems are shift of the AFR in carburetors and for FI users,
> shifting the AFR beyond the range of the systems compensation ability.
