Date: Mon, 07 Jan 2013 16:03:48 -0600
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Rear engine support bracket

I don't see any reason you couldn't use a Type IV moustache bar and real 
mounts and have a muffler shop fab/weld something for you that would 
connect the Type IV engine to the tops of the Type IV rubber mounts.

Do it like this: install the Type I engine and the Type IV bus moustache 
bar. Install the Type IV rubber mounts. Then see if you can lay a piece 
of 1" square tubing across the tops of the Type IV rubber mounts. If so 
shorten the tubing to the right length (basically outside edge of one 
rubber mount to the outside edge of another). Drill holes for the bolts 
so you can bolt this new steel bracket to the tops of the rubber mounts.

Then you'll probably need a couple of tabs that bolt to the Type IV 
engine that will weld to this new bracket. Where does the original Type 
IV moustache bar bolt to the engine?

And so forth. You're bolting something to the engine and something to 
the mounts and then welding the two somethings together. Have the 
welder-man tack weld them together and then remove it from the bus and 
finish welding it so he doesn't melt anything not steel. Keep the engine 
rubber isolate from the chassis or you're going to have loose fillings 
and deaf ears. FWIW my Type IV powered bus had broken bellhousing 
mounts. The transmission was safely in the vehicle but the bracket had 
slide over to touch the chassis - steel to steel. Man was that bus noisy 
until I figured that out (couple of years). I knew something was up b/c 
our local friend with a '78 Riviera let me drive her van and it was much 
quieter.

Any Mom 'n Pop muffler shop is capable of doing this fab job if you 
don't have a welder. So could any trade school shop. Buy them a pizza or 
make a contribution of supplies. Got a local VW club you could call 
upon? When I started my Corvair conversion I joined the local Corvair 
club and they were well stocked with spare parts I could buy 
second/third hand and there were several members who could teach me 
things like fabricating and carb rebuilds on Corvairs.

Frankly I'd look for the early baywindow moustache bar, two early frame 
brackets (cut them off of a junkyard bus going to the crusher) and 
assemble it all and then see where the frame brackets touch the frame on 
both sides of the engine bay and weld them in. Done.

Lastly - because I've been down this road personally - consider that the 
late bay transmission is going to be geared higher than an Type I 
powered bus and it may be a real dog on the hills. I had a roommate when 
I was stationed in Italy twenty years ago that had an NA-spec Super 
Beetle that was geared for a 1600cc engine (3.88 R&P) but had a 1200cc 
engine or 65HP vs 40HP. On downhill runs it was a joy - lower noise, 
better MPG, 75MPH+, etc. On the flats it would - if lightly loaded - 
maintain the speed but it took forever to get there and most importantly 
it ran hot. On the hills going back up though it was slow-slow-slow - 
slower than my 1200cc Super Beetle with the right gears (Euro-spec car 
with the right ratios). Just remember slow and hot described his car. 
Not good in a bus which is already slow and potentially hot by design.

I don't think your bus would be as dramatically slow b/c the ratios 
aren't as drastically different as the Beetle example but it's something 
to consider.

I subscribe to the idea that everything has to match - either put it 
back the way the factory engineers designed it or adjust the whole 
design to accommodate your goals. In this case gear ratio head 
scratching. Or - simply put it together cheap and drive it to see if it 
is reasonable on the road. If so, keep it and make it pretty 
(permanent). if not, go back to Type IV power.

Chris in TN
