Date: Tue, 08 Jan 2013 23:00:47 -0500
From: Kevin H Roberts <kevin(-at-)bopsax.com>
To: Type II List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: GPS

Hey, guys.  Sorry I've been so inactive for so long.  The Bopmobile runs 
good but she really needs me to do a bunch of body work and I don't have 
the time or the money right now.  I've been off the the ships of almost 
a year and a half now but I'm not where I need to be financially.  I 
plan on making some changes soon and I hope to be able to do it right 
rather than doing it on the cheap and having a lot of problems in the 
future.

So I recently bought a new GPS.  Now, I've had one for years but my old 
one was good for finding your way if you were lost in the woods or even 
finding your way back to the ship if you were in a strange land and lost 
your bearings.  It was also fun keeping track of how many knots the ship 
was cruising and what direction it was taking. But it didn't have maps 
and all of the modern accoutrements available in the newer ones.  I've 
been having a blast with this one.  I bought it for $50 at a flea market 
and found out that it is a higher-end, factory refurbished Garmin.  I 
synced my cell phone to it and, wallah, it had my whole address book and 
everything.  I've never bought a Bluetooth device but now I have 
hands-free cell phone right through the GPS!  With all of it's advanced 
features, it's a real gas.  I really bought it because I recently missed 
an exit on a trip to Middle TN and it turned into a nightmare.

So my question is this:  The GPS consistently reads my speed at 4 MPH 
less than my speedometer.  Does anybody know how accurate they are 
speed-wise.  Now, don't say that I should go with the most 
conservative.  I don't have a problem with speeding.  I'm usually at or 
below it anyhow in my bus.  But I'm a stickler for accuracy in terms of 
my clocks and watches and I really want to know which would be more 
accurate.  I don't know now speedometers are calibrated or how they can 
change with different tires.  I know that mine are not the original 
factory tires so there is probably some difference there.  But 4 MPH 
seems like a lot.  Any thoughts?

Thanks for keeping the list going.  I've been lurking for a long time 
now but not very active.  Cheers...

-- 
Kevin H. Roberts
76 Sage Green Westy, 1.7, Baby Dels, 009, Hancooks.
Chattanooga, TN
Email:  Kevin(-at-)bopsax.com
Website:  http://www.bopsax.com
