Date: Wed, 09 Jan 2013 18:42:53 -0500
From: Kevin H Roberts <kevin(-at-)bopsax.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] RE:GPS

Thanks for all of the great responses to my GPS question!  For those who 
asked, it is off by 4 MPH around cruising speed which for me is between 
60 and 65.  My drive to work is all freeway from 1/4 mile from my house 
to 1/2 mile from the store.  Yesterday, I just followed the GPS to the 
store. I had it set for 'shortest time' but it actually took about six 
minutes longer than going the freeway.  It's route was a couple miles 
closer.  What I figured out is that the GPS doesn't know about traffic 
or traffic lights.  It does have some kind of FM traffic alert 
something-or-other but that only works in major cities and Chattanooga 
is not on Garmin's list as of yet.  I would say that it would have been 
correct if not for the traffic lights.  I guess it is worth driving an 
extra couple of miles not to have to think too much.  I had one guy make 
a quick turn in front of me, in the left lane on a four-lane, and then 
stop quickly to turn into a convenience store.  City driving does 
require even extra caution as opposed to freeway.  But it was still fun 
trying to see how it would take me.    My dream would be to have my bus 
completely re-done with a bunch of extra electronics:  electronic door 
locks, power windows, really good stereo system (I have most of that 
already), flip-down LCD TV, my ham radio with antennas for most bands, 
laptop, power inverter, etc.  I was once much closer than I am now.  
This economy thing has been a real drag on my plans.  Maybe I'll start 
hitting banks.  Unfortunately, the Bopmobile won't be a very good as a 
getaway vehicle.  Maybe if I go see Jake Raby first.  Heeeey, does 
anybody know where Jake Raby banks?  :)

One other thing about marks on the road.  My Uncle Gilbert was a trooper 
with the Indiana State Patrol but he was a pilot before he could drive a 
car.  When they bought their first plane, they let him fly it and they 
painted lines on the road at 1/2 mile intervals.  He'd fly over and time 
the cars between the marks and radio down to a car for the stop.  Later 
on they bought a helicopter and sent him to Bell Helicopter to learn to 
fly those. This was in the early fifties.  So they still have the marks, 
huh?  Ciao....

Kevin H. Roberts
Chattanooga, TN
Email:  Kevin(-at-)bopsax.com
Website:  http://www.bopsax.com

On 1/9/13 4:43 PM, Jamie wrote:
> I think it is NY, or PA .. where I have seen the interstate marked 
> every 0.2 miles,, yup,, I was suprized when I watched them go by.. 
> 100.2 ... 100.4 . etc
> I was trying to figure out what they were... then I noticed they jived 
> with the exit numbers!  too bad I can't remember what road ... one of 
> those trips I guess..
> lol
