Date: Sun, 28 Jun 2009 23:12:56 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Wayne Scharf <natron15(-at-)cox.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] THE PLEASURES OF A VACUUM ADVANCE DISTRIBUTOR

Wayne Scharf wrote:
> A lot of people seem to prefer the various vacuum advance distributors, 
> but I am  in a peculiar circumstance in that every time I go anywhere, 
> it involves an altitude change of 1000 feet.  My suspicion is that 
> vacuum advance, or the lack of it when going up-hill, tends to generally
 > make things run on the warm side.  I have a '72 bay with a pretty new

You don't want vacuum advance when going uphill.  When you're at full 
load, or near it, vacuum advance drops to zero and you should be running 
full mechanical advance; somewhere around 32 for our stock engines, but 
it really just needs to be low enough so you're not causing knock.

Also, many people don't understand that a vacuum advance distributor is 
just a mechanical advance distributor with the vacuum advance added on. 
  If you are curious, disconnect the vacuum line and now you have a 009 
distributor, except it doesn't have the annoying 90 degree offset or 
possibly an incorrect mechanical advance curve for your engine.  Plus, 
it will drive noticeably worse than when you had the vacuum line 
connected.  Put the vacuum line back on and feel a sense of comfort now 
that you know how much better it is to have a vacuum advance distributor.

It was really funny how much my friend defended his new 009... that was 
until he drove my bus.  And even then, it didn't really kick in for him 
until he drove the bus with the vacuum line disconnected.  That's when 
it really clicked in and he realized the mistake he made in getting the 009.

Many people buy the 009 because it's cheap, but they don't realize that 
it's biting them in the ass in the long run.

> crate engine that I was lucky enough to find (it had been in a warehouse 
> for 25 years or so..) and I am using a centrifugal distributor from and 
> early porsche 914 with good results.  I believe it is similar to the 009 
> with a somewhat longer advance curve.

A longer advance curve could be a bad thing - it really depends on what 
your engine wants for idle advance, when it wants the advance to kick 
in, and what max advance it can tolerate.  If it is working, it is out 
of luck, not because one distributor is "better" than another.  The 
working advance range of one distributor can be different than another, 
and it may or may not be a good thing.

The centrifugal advance distributors, assuming they're timed correctly, 
are good for people who race or drive at WOT (wide-open-throttle) all 
the time.  They are not good, however, for driveability and fuel 
economy.  At cruise speeds, for example, you have a leaner mixture. 
Because of that, you want your timing advanced because a leaner mixture 
burns slower and this is specifically what the vacuum advance does. 
Another area of driveability is off-idle advance.  Centrifugal advance 
distributors are not able to advance the timing off-idle and you end up 
with a low-power lull before the advance kicks in.  Once you start 
putting a load on the engine, the vacuum advance begins to diminish, and 
continues to diminis with increasing load until it finally drops to zero 
at WOT.

I would check to see what your max advance is on your current 
distributor and then compare it to the correct distributor for your 
engine - if the correct distributor is a vacuum advance distributor, 
compare it with the vacuum line disconnected.  If they're not the same, 
rotate one of the distributors until they are.  Idle advance is not the 
important thing here - max advance is what really matters.  Yes, the VW 
engineers did set specific idle advance values, but they found the max 
advance first, and then adjusted the total advance range such that it 
would yield the idle advance they were looking for when the engine is 
running at idle speeds.  Idle advance won't blow up your engine - WOT 
advance will.

You might also want to compare the timing curve of your non-stock 
distributor to make sure that it's kicking in the correct amount of 
timing at the right RPM to match the particular engine that it's meant 
for.  If not, you're not getting as much efficiency out of your engine 
as you could...
