From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 29 Jun 2009 11:18:44 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Getting ready to do some welding

Paul, 

I'll second everything that Jon said. I purchased a SP-175 Lincoln MIG 
recently. It is the bottom of the 220V product line. Plenty of juice for 
welding frame steel (trailers, hot rods, etc) and can still turn down the 
heat for a bit of bodywork. Purchased it on the recommendation of a buddy who 
has used his to build 5-6 cars ranging from kit cars (handmade tubing 
chassis) to hot rods (alot of reworked chassis and suspension crossmembers). 

I previously had been given a very cheap flux core welder and it's usefulness 
was very limited. Couldn't weld sheet metal reliably with it. Didn't have 
enough heat control to allow me to get enough heat into the weld quickly 
enough. From my amateur point of view it required a low temp so it did not 
burn holes but it was difficult to get the metal to flow from the welding rod 
and the two pieces of metal being joined. Once I got everything hot enough to 
weld (a few seconds?) then it would start making holes. That welder only had 
two settings. High and low. I think it could also change its polarity. The 
little welder was from Italy and had no owner's manual when I got it so it 
was a mystery most of the time I had it. It did do good welds on mower decks 
because the steel was a little heavier and needed the added heat. Anything 
thinner or heavier was poor though. The wire delivery system was plastic and 
flexed alot so the wire feed was unreliable. The rollers would slip b/c they 
would not clamp hard enough. I got around that with a C-clamp. I only used it 
as a flux-core welder. 

The Lincoln I bought has none of these problems. Can use very fine wire that 
does not need alot of heat (amps or current) to flow. I could - if I wanted - 
use flux core wire again. I had to get a bottle of Argon/CO2 gas. Not too bad 
cost wise. I've got about $1K in my rig with everything - wire, gas, helmet, 
cart, outlet, etc. I bought mine online and avoided our state sales tax and 
with the savings bought the Lincoln cart. I feel a little guilty about 
that... Or not. VBG! You could of course use your new welder to build your 
own cart... 

Had to install a 220V outlet in my garage. No problem. 

Next comes a few metal working tools. Some are optional of course. I have a 
set of cheap body hammers and dollies. See Harbor Freight or Northen Tools. 
Long ago bought a $40 sander. Maybe a 6" wheel on it? Chinese made, "Chicago 
Tools" brand. Gearbox sounds like it'll last another 3 minutes - MAYBE. Has 
lasted for years. Buy something better. My sander's gearbox requires hearing 
protection just running it no-load. I have a DeWalt right-angle grinder. 
Years old. Good stuff. Also have a Porter-Cable rotating palm sander. Good 
for stripping paint. My ancient Black&Decker professional palm sander is just 
back and forth and slow sanding (great for wood). That was before B&D 
invented the DeWalt brand I guess. Tin snips. Dust mask. Goggles. Power 
drill. Mine are a DeWalt cordless and a 20 year old Milwaukee "Hole-Shooter" 
corded drill. Both have been very good. I bought a Milwaukee Sawz-All 15 
years ago. Still good. 

Need vice grip clamps soon. Also want a used air compressor. Something capable 
of pushing enough air to paint a vehicle. My father's ancient Sears and 
Roebuck isn't very big but does a nice job. Prob something like that. A basic 
220V compressor. The compressor I have now is really just a tire pump. 

I look at tool purchases like this - I can pay somebody to do work for me and 
end up with a finished project with no effort on my part (very attractive to 
me I must say) but as I seldom have the money for all that labor I do it 
myself with tools I bought for other projects in the past and possibly I'll 
have to buy a tool for this project too. Every tool I own represents some 
past project. Spend $100 on a tool, save $XYZ on the project overall, and 
have the tool for later for the next project or to loan to a friend who I 
trust. Then friend has historically offered me some free labor or one of his 
tools in return. If nothign else we get the families together, drink a few 
beers while we BBQ something and talk about our projects. That's just as 
good! 

This weekend I replaced a power window motor in a friend's truck who loaned me 
the truck to haul a load of dirt. Pretty good trade. I was out only my time 
and I returned the truck washed and vacuumed (better than when I got it). 

Good luck on your project! Keep us updated! 

Chris

> This is good news! Doing your own metal work the right way will help
> your project come out the way YOU want it to. It is my firm belief
> after many years that paint and body shops can't weld worth a durn (no
> offense to the body guys on the list). They owners usually can, but
> their $12/hr helpers sure can't and you don't want them practicing on
> your project.
