From: Shad <shenderson(-at-)thegeekgroup.org>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 30 Jun 2009 11:35:48 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Update: Clutch problems

Hi All, 

Go ahead and drop it yourself.  I was a bit apprehensive the first time
I dropped the engine in my '77 bus, but after the first time, it was
much easier.  Takes me about 45 minutes to an hour to do it now, working
at a sedate pace and taking a break now and then for my beverage of
choice and to rest my arms.  

I use 2' lengths of 2x6 lumber, 3 under each rear wheel, to block up the
back of the bus.  I just stagger 'em and drive up on them.  You may have
to jack up each wheel and put them in place.  I use a Horrible Freight
ATV/motorcycle jack with a piece of plywood on it to lower/lift the
engine, and I manhandle it back into position by blocking up one end
with scraps of wood under the edge of the engine block.  

I disconnect all lines, hoses, and wires that need be.  Remove the foam
seal.  I then loosen the front tranny mount, and put the atv jack in
place.  I then remove the bolts that hold the moustache bar to the
frame, then the upper transmission mounting bolts.  Long extension and
safety glasses to prevent crud from falling into your eyes.  I then
lower the engine a bit so I can get to the 4 bolts that secure it to the
tranny.  At that point, I use a ratchet strap to secure the transmission
so it can't fall.  Then I remove the 4 nuts that hold the engine to the
tranny. After that, I wiggle, nudge, and gently manhandle the engine
free.  

I have dual Kadrons on my bus, and without the air filters and the
mounting studs for the air filters, it *barely* clears the rear apron
with the ATV jack all the way down.  The 2x6's give me just enough
clearance to squeak it out.   At that point, I can do what needs done. 

Installation is pretty much the reverse of removal.  I get the engine
back under the bus, then use scraps of wood to block it up so it matches
the angle of the tranny.  I then sit on my butt, grab the bumper with
both hands, and use my feet to gently nudge the engine back into it's
place.  If the input shaft is not rotationally aligned with the engine I
use a 13mm ratchet to nudge the pulley and coax it with my feet some
more.  Usually takes only a minute or two to get it nearly in place. I
then gently snug the 4 case-to-tranny nuts until I'm sure everything is
copacetic then bring them to torque.  I then jack the engine up until I
can get the upper transmission bolts in place and torqued, then I get
the moustache bar bolted back to the frame.  Then I remove the jack and
install the foam seal.  After that I start reconnecting the wires,
hoses, lines, cables, etc.  Once again, I take a break now and then, so
re-installation generally takes an hour or a little more.  And don't
forget to tighten the front transmission mount.  I did that once, and
kept wondering what the hell that clunking sound was...

I agree that it sounds like a tranny problem. TOB, clutch, possibly
pressure plate.  Should be easy enough to see once you can get at it,
and reasonably inexpensive to fix.  Especially compared to what a
mechanic would charge to do it, and doing it yourself you can at least
ensure it'll be done properly.   Just set aside a Saturday, grab your
Muir or better yet, Bentley manual, and have at it.  Though I do
recommend reading the manual first, so you know what to expect.  Also,
don't be shocked to find the DPO might have hacked things up a bit.  My
bus's DPO did all sorts of things that make me want to cry...

Shad H. 




> I now have to decide if I should drop the engine myself or have it
> towed to a mechanic..that I dont know/trust. *sigh* My work is cut
> out for me.
