Date: Tue, 30 Jun 2009 12:07:41 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Welding Question

Something I'll toss in.  A lot of people mention getting a 220V MIG, and there
is merit to that.  To do anything approaching even 3/16" you will need the
220V machine for a realistic duty cycle to get the penetration you need.  And
yeah it isn't that hard to put in a 220V outlet in the garage or to worst case
make an extension cord for the dryer outlet.
 
BUT...
 
You need to ask yourself what do you mostly intent to weld.  I have a 220V
outlet, 3 in fact, one for my big ole 2 stage compressor, one for my stick
welder (which is what I use to weld anything over 3/16", one for my plasma,
that also doubles for my roto-phase for my lathe.
 
I still have a 110V MIG, my second one actually, replaced my first with a 110V
machine again when I bought a new one, and why do you ask?  Because it is so
friggin convenient to have it in 110V.  I want to weld a bracket in situ on
the back porch, I take it to the porch, to weld on the swingset, I plug it
into a westy extension cord, to weld out in the drive, same cord, to weld in
the garage, any outlet any where convenient.  To weld on my bobcat stuck
sitting over in my next door lot, I take my 4kW generator and fire it up.  My
current machine is a Miller, 135A I think (I don't recall as I'm at work as I
write this) and is the smoothest MIG I've ever run hands down.  It is about a
$800 machine, I paid $400 off craigslist with a 3/4 full bottle, cart, and it
had been used very, VERY, little (maybe once or twice.)  Before this I had a
15 year old Century (was offshore made, even 15 years ago) a good machine, but
not nearly as good as the Miller,
 left it for dad when I moved to AK as he needed it at the time.  I've run
the bigger 110V Lincoln from Home Depot, its about the same as the Century. 
I've run several Homier/Harbor Freight, etc. they are all about the same just
harder to get parts for if something goes wrong.  For my money I would never
buy a 220V MIG, and I'd only buy a Miller from now on.  If I want to weld
something thicker, admittedly I just pull out the stick.  But, if you intend
to do mostly body work, with the occasional forray into something a bit
thicker, a 110V machine is going to do 95% or more of what you want, and in a
pinch, working slow, you can do some heavier stuff.  The portability
convenience factor is IMMENSE, consider this in your purchase.
 
As always YMMV,
John
 
