Date: Tue, 30 Jun 2009 13:00:34 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Welding Question

Courtney, mine must have been a somewhat better machine man.  It was from
SAM'S club, probably in about 1991-2, $450 or so new then.  Mine was gas or
flux cored but came set up for gas, about 125-135A nominal, several wire feed
and power settins.  Mine was a fair machine, I thought it was quite good at
the time, posted to that effect here many times back in the day.  And I
listened to people rave about their little blue box Millers, blah, blah,
blah.  Until I welded with this Miller, I never understood what I was
missing.  I did a fine job with the Century, but there is just no friggin
comparison as to how much better this Miller is.  But another thing.  A
retired pro welder friend of dads came by one time as I was turning a little
part for him on my lathe, and dad got him to weld something with the Century. 
He butt welded two thinner than body gage bits of steel together that I could
never have pulled off and commented on what a good little
 machine the Century was.  So it goes to the fact that practice makes
perfect.  I think if you got a machine, use it some, never hurts.
 
Something I failed to note in my other post volks.  A good (or even cheapo)
auto darkening helmet will make wonderous improvement for a starter welder.  I
have had one for 15 years or more, initially an old Miller insert I paid $150
for, then was using a Homier "speedline" helmet for $30-40 out of the tent,
but the Miller set came with a brand new miller helmet so I use it mostly now,
I think the cheapo was fine though.  The miller is a bit nicer physically
however.
 
The other thing to note is don't feel you can have only one machine !!!  Say
you want to weld some heavy stuff now and then, look for a deal.   My current
stick is an old Powercraft that I got on a pallet of crap at an auction in he
rain for $5 for the pallet.  I sold off some of the other crap for $50-60 and
I figured the 20' each leads on the welder were worth $50 or more. I took off
the case, blew it out, dried it out, bought a new stick holder at the local
weld shop for $15 and it welds smooth as any buzz box I've ever had.  You can
see some deals on Lincoln "tombstones" on craigslist all the time for less
than $50.  Remember good welding lead is pricey now days though, so good lead
is worth more than a good welder.

Again YMMV.
John

--- On Tue, 6/30/09, Courtney Hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca> wrote:



John, I think I HAVE that Century welder. :-) It has a high and low setting
only, and then wire feed speed controller, and is set up for gas. Sound the
same? I was wondering if I could get good welds with it, as I've only played
on a piece of angle iron with it set up with flux-core wire? Someone told me
it was junk, so I was a bit disheartened.
