From: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: "Jill Tipton" <mike_jill_co(-at-)q.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 5 Jul 2009 11:33:08 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] new tranny '79

----- Original Message ----- 
From: "Jill Tipton"
> This new tranny is very stiff. I'm having the clutch adjusted next week.
> Would anyone know if the shifter will loosen up or is this just normal for
a
> re-built?
> I did replace the shifter, shift kit too.
>


My question is... is it the shifter that is stiff..? or is it the gear
selection that isn't working...?

If the shifter has been bent.. may be you can straighten it..
if a bushing is a problem,, maybe you can replace it.
if the gears are tight..  I dunno,, wait till they get a little wear on
them?
 clutch adjusting? .. you should be able to feel the 1" play at the top of
the pedal.

sometimes folks forget to select neutral before they pull the trans.. and
sometimes they allow the nosecone of the trans to be the last thing undone.
When you do that ,, the 'wrist' of the shift rod... that 'T' at the end.. is
on a tilt,, and is held in place by the hockey stick that goes in the
nosecone..  this can change the angle of the 'T' or wrist as I refered to..
that slight bend can be hard to detect,, and will alter the shift pattern,,
and I think it can be compensated for by adjusting the plate under the shift
handle in the cab.

I would try to avoid adjusting the plate.. but it  may work , I dunno.

The front bushings can pop out,, maybe it was coincidental ,, I would think
you would hear some squealing if it is not aligned correctly.

otherwise... you might try double clutching for a few miles and see if that
makes a difference.  I have found that the wrong trans fluid can cause the
syncros to be slippery,, and they won't grab,, and the gears won't select
like a speed shift.
IF you double clutch .. or something similar.. like clutch, neutral, wait,
put pressure on shifter towards next ^ gear,, then it may plunk into gear,,
or you may have to blip the throttle with the pressure on the shiter and it
should plunk into gear.

If you get the hang of that technique,, you can shift without a clutch...
and if you drive it a bit , not using the clutch above moving from
stopped... then you will know if the trans is tight, or the clutch is out of
adjustment..
an added benifit may be -if you loose a clutch cable.. you will know how to
drive without using it.
