Date: Fri, 12 Dec 2003 12:13:49 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Seat swap on a 72 bay

Doug, Esteemed List, et al...

What Richard said!  WW is NOT jerking your chain when they say in their
ads (or they used to) that using their repro pads even compleat
upholstery maroons (like ME, for example) can get way-snazzy results!
Good gravy, did I just say "snazzy"?  I just turned into my Dad when I
wasn't looking...  Check the "paint plate", get the M-code data for
color combos (see The T2 Library for details), and you can even figure
out approximately what the upholstery  is "supposed" to be!  FWIW - WW's
tan is pretty close to my '72 Weekender's "dark beige" call-out...

So what's it gonna be? Let's see - last time I checked WW it was about
$36 a seat for the hair pads, and about $100 for the upholstery kit for
the two seats...  Sadly, the head-rest covers are way spendy considering
'zactly what they are, OTOH they don't materially affect how your
posterior fits into said nicely redone seats, so just save them for
another time.  A Saturday afternoon and you are DONE!  A Saturday AND a
Sunday if yer slow.  DONE I said!  End of story...  Go take the bus out
for a drive, get a burger, pizza, souffle-to-go, or what ever food
substance that floats your boat...  Enjoy the sublime sensations of "New
Upholstery Smell" as your heinie nestles into that seat.  You can budget
the whole thing into two credit card sessions of more or less equal
value, or do as my father used to tell me:  "Save yer pennies, son!"

The alternatives might involve tons more time rounding up alternative
seating, vehicle down-time spent dorking around fitting said seats,
potentially serious safety issues if the the job is half-donkey'd and
you have an occurrence, and I can rant 'n rave onandonandonandon  'til
I'm blue in the face.  And don't forget one of the  lesser known
corollaries to the General Theory of Relativity (or is it the Special
Theory? I'm spacing out here...):  Time IS Money.  This is not the past,
Volks, there are places out there that sell VERY decent stuff for your
buses, and that will ship to West Timbucktoo for next to nothing.  You
CAN do it yourself, the results are pretty d*mn sweet, why booger up a
perfectly decent classic car - treat it with the respect it deserves.
Know what I'm saying?

Okay, I'm done being the Resident Cranky Old "Keep It OE, Or I'll Kill
This Piston" F*rt - there's just been way too much of  "I'm looking into
suggestions for lame-oh, cheap-*ss fixes when The Right Stuff to do it
right the first time is out there and doesn't cost THAT much more" on
The List lately :-)  I'm stepping a-w-a-y from the soapbox now,
c-a-r-e-f-u-l-l-y and q-u-i-e-t-l-y...  Where's my happy (DM-tm) place?
Where's my happy (DM-tm) place?

Jim Hayden
www.savethebays.org
