To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 15 Apr 2010 21:42:31 -0400
From: mbjeeper(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Carburettor whistle??

I have a strange problem that I've never encountered before.
I have a bus, a '78 model, that was brought to me with a melted #3 piston.
Someone had been into the top end before, and had removed all of the
thermostat system, and the rod and flaps. Oh, and the engine compartment seal.
Of course it overheated and melted the piston, destroying ##3-4 cylinders, and
the head.  Then the friendly Road Courtesy Patrol folks stoped, and poured
water into the oil (PA turnpike, so you might want to avoid that road).  After
all, it was overheated.
Point is, I never heard this bus run.
I have it rebuilt, and I started it yesterday to break in the cam, etc.  It
runs just fine, but after 10-15 minutes, the carburettor starts to whisle like
a teapot.  It is a loud, noticeable whistle that seems to be coming from the
carb area.
It is a Weber progressive 2bbl. I cannot find any vacuum leaks on the boots or
at the head/manifold gaskets (it has the one piece 1/4 inch or so thick,
plastic intake gaskets).
Here's the crazy part. The only thing that I have found that will stop the
whistle is to reach down thru the access hatch and pull up on the passenger
side intake manifold runners.  If I lift them slightly, the noise stops.  Why?
I have no idea.
I had to quit this evening, but I'm going to be back at it tomorrow to find
this noise. I'm going to pull the pass. side intake manifold and have a look.
I went over the intake boots (not new, but look good), snugged the intake
manifold nuts, and the carb/intake bolts, but no change.
The bus is running good, so  if it is a vacuum leak, I don't think it's a big
one.  And this is a big noise.  And I can't find it.
Like I said, I don't know if it did this before, as I never had the bus
running.
Why would it be happening only after the motor has warmed up?  Choke related?
Anybody ever have this happen before?
I'm stumped.
Greg
Moundsville, WV

13 Air Cooleds, 3 Type2s
