From: "John Rogers" <jnrogers(-at-)verizon.net>
To: "SQUID" <sydclarke(-at-)shaw.ca>, <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 17 Apr 2010 09:31:19 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] John, the "adventurere" going out into America..in his

To SQUID and all my friends on Type2  ...

I'm alive and well and so is my bus.  Last night was my first Wal-Mart
experience.  I had spent the last two nights in a state park in Santa Rosa,
and the previous two in another state park high in the mountains, Manzano
Mountain state park.

Before that more than three weeks at Caballo State park.

Since last writing, I've driven about 600 miles.  No big adventures
bus-wise.  The bus proved it could handle altitudes above 8,000 feet &
moderate grades quite well, so I have new confidence in my abilities to go
just about anywhere.  I did notice that my idle had slowed to barely  200 or
300 rpm, so I fiddled with the carb and enriched the idle mixture and all is
well.  I seem also to have a little more power at highway speeds now,
especially on grades.

Yesterday morning, at Santa Rosa, the weather turned cold and cloudy.  The
park is beautiful, bordering a large reservoir, but almost the only other
campers there were fishermen.  So I went into town, about 9 miles away.

Santa Rosa turn out an odd town.  I'm almost sure it is the town that the
little city in the movie "Cars" is modeled on.  The main street, old Highway
66, is six lanes of broad and smooth concrete.  It was a major stopping
place on old Route 66, and literally dozens of motels and restaurants and
gas stations once flourished there.  They are still there, or at least the
structures, but now at least half of them or more are shuttered and in
various states of falling apart.  Their fate has been made worse, the locals
tell me, by the arrival of several big name hotels that have sucked away
what little tourist business still exists.

I did stop at the Santa Rosa antique car museum.  It was fun.  They did have
some rather amazing cars, including a 1931 Auburn.  A beautiful car, and I
had never heard of an Auburn before.  The museum isn't really a museum,
though, but a show place for restorations done by a local car restoration
genius.  When he finishes a restoration it is shown at the "museum" while at
the same time it is up for sale.  The Auburn can be had for $45,000.

So, after the museum, around 5 o'clock, and being warned by locals that the
park, close to water, gets pelted sometimes by hail during storms, and a
storm brewing, but mostly just a little hungry for people after so much time
in nearly deserted parks, I turned around and drove back to Albuquerque and
here did my first "Wal-Mart" camping.  It worked out fine.  I was left alone
and slept in peace all during a steady cold rain.  I  will do a little
exploring of the city later.

But I could not help but feel, as I drove the lonely miles from Santa Rosa
back to Albuquerque, a longing to be at Everybus, which I know is going on
this weekend even as I type. I am lonely for buses and for bus people,  I
have only seen one other bus, in a garage at Mountainair, NM, just in
passing.

So I had the Dead on, and PPM,   listening to the good vibes and hungering
after free spirit bus people and the good sentiments and all as I drove the
116 evening miles under a strange storm-splashed sky back to Albuquerque.

I have met a few odd characters along the way.  One, Michel Brewer, does
drive a bus ... a 1965 green Wayne school bus that at one time he paneled
inside and out in cedar planking so it looked like a giant Woody and smelled
like a cedar chest.  Much of the paneling has now fallen away but some is
still attached.  He was a trip.  A victim of a charging bull that shattered
one leg and perhaps a hundred or more too many acid trips.

The wildest time occurred Easter weekend at Caballo.  Beginning late
Thursday, the park began filling up until by Good Friday Eve almost every
spot was taken and the park overflowing.  Seems this has been going on for
more than 20 years.  The camp host estimated a crowd of 3,000 to 4,000.  At
10 a.m. Easter morning the go ahead was sounded and at least 500 kids
invaded a large field that had been seeded the night before with thousands
of painted eggs.

Most of the crowd were Mexican Americans with large extended families.  I
was befriended by one Albert and his family and fed luxuriously, steak and
chili.  Albert speaks softly and is sometimes difficult to understand but
worth the effort.  He tells wonderful, warm stories.  He plays Santa
(although he is a slim man who requires much padding) at Christmas time and
visits nursing homes all over southern New Mexico.

"The worst thing is they always want to see me drink the milk and eat the
cookies.  The milk is warm, sometimes starting to turn, but I have to drink
it," he says.

Mostly, he drinks Bud Light, as did almost everyone else at the festival,
seemingly the south central New Mexican brew of choice.

During the crowded weekend some minor disputes did erupt, usually over
music.  As evening festivities wore on and beer flowed, and with camp sites
but a short distance each the other, one family large family (one site had
10 tents!) would turn up its music, perhaps country western,  to drown out
its neighbor's Spanish musica.  The Spanish music buffs in turn, not to be
drowned out,  would turn up theirs, perhaps triggering a volume war with the
a group listening to Oldies nearby, and so on.  And as everyone turned their
music to louder and louder, those without music preferences but desiring
sleep also got into the fray.

Fortunately, at  10 pm.  Quiet Time in the park, everyone did turn down or
off his or her music and peace reigned. But it was still too early for most
to go to bed, and so the camp fires and drinking and eating continued well
into the night and into the morning.  Some of the fires, made with cedar,
smelled quite wonderful.  Others, made with who only knows what were nasty
and acrid.  Smoke and wisps of conversation curled and hung in the air till
dawn.

********

Sorry for so long a post.

So far on balance living in my bus has been lots of fun.  The greatest
lesson learned so far is the need to be constantly organized and on top of
things.  In past camping experiences, there was always the tendency to let
things pile up or slide "until I get home."  Here, there is no "getting
home" ... or rather here is home.  So keeping a tidy, organized and
maintained bus is important and I am enjoying it.

The other lesson is to spend as much or more time as at home cooking and
eating well.  Meals, well prepared meals, together with others or even
alone, are high points and moral boosters of the traveling and living in the
bus experience.

Thanks for all the emails.  My wife is flying out in a few weeks to join me
on a tour that will take us to the Grand Canyon and other sites.  I shall
have more reports in the future.

All the best .... and happy busing.

John



--------------------------------------------------
From: "SQUID" <sydclarke(-at-)shaw.ca>
Sent: Friday, April 16, 2010 5:25 PM
To: <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: [T2] John, the "adventurere" going out into America..in his VW Van?

> Awhile back there were some posts from a "hard core" VW Bus guy who was
> going
> out into America in his VW bus.  Has anyone one heard from him?  Or if he
> 'receives"..how are you doing?  Just some .."Friday"..think.
> Cheers
> Syd
