From: "TR Gesell" <trgesell(-at-)compuserve.com>
To: "TYPE2. COM \(E-mail\)" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 8 Jun 2003 13:17:34 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] Urgent! daily driver down, was running rough

Was running OK before you fixed the dizzy?

Does it not start at all, or does it try to start then die?

The basic things which might have changed suddenly are:

1) Fuel: Best thing to do here is remove a fuel injector and crank the
engine. You should see a fine conical spray of gas (careful!).  This ensures
that fuel is getting where it needs to go. Maybe check all 4 while you're at
it.

2) Spark: You checked this, but let's go a little further...when you fixed
the dizzy ground, did the timing get changed? Check this. It's supposed to
be timed while idling, but if you set it to 7.5 BTDC static, that should be
enough to get it to run so you can time it right. Dwell OK? Check spark at
all 4 wires, and make sure the wires go to the right plugs in the right
order.

3) Air: too much or too little is bad. Check all those hoses again. Filter
clean & not blocked?


Also, the solder on the dizzy ground is a temporary fix that may not last
long; solder doesn't withstand vibration at all. Get a rebuilt dizzy.
Somebody said that you can TIG weld the ground strap back on if you know
what you're doing.


RickG
'77 westy


<SNIP>
my 79 westy isn't starting.
It is my daily driver/ only car.
Plus I have a road trip coming up.
I'm at a loss now.
there was a broken ground wire in the distributor, but I soldered it back
on.
still wont start.
I pulled off a spark plug wire and held a screw driver to it and turned over
the engine. I get a spark.
The starter/solenoid is working.
battery is good.
Can't seem to find a disconnected vacuum hose.
I'm pretty sure I hear the fuel pump working. so I pulled off the fuel
filter. Gas everywhere.
blew through it. It was dirty, but gas can flow through it. That is where I
stopped. It has been raining and I haven't had a chance to even put it back
on.
Muir talks about checking fuse 15. My fuse box only goes up to 12. Am I
missing something.
Any way, I really need to get this started soon, so I really appreciate any
help.
Thanks.
