Date: Mon, 09 Jun 2003 11:00:45 -0700
To: eric(-at-)bradway.net,<type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Scott Fraser <kn6f(-at-)dolphinsci.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] OT: FRS and GMRS radios

At 12:04 PM 6/9/03 -0400, Eric W. Bradway wrote:
>This is somewhat off-topic, but I want to buy a pair of FRS or GMRS radios for
>Heidi and I to use to keep track of each other at bus campouts. I'm asking on
>the list because you guys share some of my sensibilities: has to be cheap and
>functional!

FRS is a non licensed service
GMRS requires a license from the FCC.
Don't pay more for a unit with GMRS capabilities unless you plan on 
licensing it and participating in that service.


>There's also an Audiovox FR1400 for $14.99 each that seems comparable. But you
>can get the Uniden GMRS680-2CK for $47.99 that does both FRS and GMRS,
>claiming a 5-mile range with built-in rechargeable battery. Decisions,
>decisions...

For use with the bus and on camping trips, you might want to rig up a 
recharger that operates off of a solar panel.  Have an extra set of 
batteries for the radios and charge them while using the other around camp.

Range is sometimes a very subjective issue.  It depends upon obstructions, 
type of antenna, clear path, and a few other things.  In a campground there 
are so many obstructions, hills and valleys who know's how far you could 
get.  Remember, due to the frequency these units are at they operate line 
of sight.  That means that if there is a hill between you and your buddy, 
chances are, you won't hear each other.

When I purchased a set of FRS radios to use around the building on campus, 
I looked for a model that had a removable antenna.  This allowed me to use 
the radios in a communications class and have the students design antennas 
for that band.  They could then test the antennas without licensing issues.

For use in your bus, a removable antenna along with an externally mounted 
antenna will do more for extending your range than upping the power output 
of the radio.

In the camp site, you could hike the external antenna up on a pole as high 
as you could get it and extend the range of the camp unit without having to 
increase power.  Again, line of sight rules apply, but we all know, the 
higher you are the farther out you can see.

Another thing that you might want to think about if using the radios while 
in the bus and traveling is to look for a set that allows you to plug into 
an external source of power.  That way you could plug an adapter into a 12v 
outlet and then into the radio.  Typical scenario would be to spend the 
morning yacking back and forth between the lead bus and yours.  You break 
for lunch and after the lead vehicle pulled away, you find yourself 
stranded because your bus won't start.  You figure no problem, I'll just 
call them on the FRS.  Woops, we ate the batteries by yacking all morning.

Scott
'60 DC
