From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 9 Jun 2003 16:07:08 -0500 
Subject: Re: [T2] OT: FRS and GMRS radios

Eric, Scott, George, Mike & esteemed List...

	Boy, oh boy, do you guys go into some schtuff near and dear...

	What everybody said.  I got turned on to FRS by the Mexican VW club
I was invited to join two years or so ago.  As everyone knows, CB radio is
illegal as all get out in Mexico, so the club all packs FRS as means of
keeping in touch on road trips, and club events...

	My first rite of initiation to the club (German Toys - VW's Friends
Mexicali) was to buy a set of FRS radios...

	The second rite was to show them all how to reinstall engine
compartment seals, pitch the 009s, make them promise to put back all the
missing Type 4 motors in their post '72 buses, etc...

	The last and best rite was that I have to marry the sister of one of
the club's founding members, and attend the club's functions as the resident
North American affiliate...  Boy let me tell you, they do take membership
seriously, but what privileges ;-)  And besides, she comes with her very own
Karmann Ghia, and is VERY partial to bus pilots.  I mean, how lucky can a
guy get - I got 2 buses, a 914, and now this...  Who says the guy with a
large hauling capacity (if you know what I mean) can't get the girl?

	Where was I?  Oh, yes - FRS radios.  For bus-a-van use, find ones
that will also use the headset and have PTT/VOX (push to talk / voice
activation) operation - I got a couple package deals on pairs - Midland
brand - SpeakEasy(??).  The headset allows you to literally keep an ear in
on things on tours.  Without the headset, you'll be constantly having to ask
people to repeat things.  I like the PTT function - a lot of times
extraneous cabin noise will trigger the mike if set to VOX operation.  This
wears out other people's batteries (and patience) unnecessarily.  The
Midlands have a little strap that you can hang them from the vent window
catch - the closer to the outside world they are, the greater the range.
With the headset, you can extend the range even more by holding the radio
OUT the window, and outside the confines of the metal box you're driving...

	3 other things - you can out-kewl fast food clerks by wearing your
FRS + headset indoors - "Look Ma, another radio-controlled human!"  Show up
at VW events and people start coming up to you and asking questions, because
they think you look important with your radio, and therefore you must be
somehow involved.  And finally - you'll gain a better appreciation for those
who hear voices, because you too, have just joined their ranks!

	Jim Hayden
	Bunch of Air-Coolers, Wife Ver. 2.0 (coming soon 7/26/03)
	www.savethebays.org
