Date: Tue, 31 Dec 2002 16:05:43 +0000 (GMT)
From: =?iso-8859-1?q?Nigel=20Skeet?= <naskeet(-at-)yahoo.co.uk>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, midwestbass(-at-)hotmail.com
Subject: Yellow or White Wire? - Wiring up supplementary lamps &

From: Nigel A. Skeet
To: Christopher Renz & all VW Type 2 ListeeS
Date: 31st December 2002
Reply to: naskeet(-at-)hotmail.com  OR  naskeet(-at-)yahoo.co.uk

Dear Christopher

YOU SAID:

Date: Tue, 24 Dec 2002 10:04:14 -0800
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Christopher Renz" <midwestbass(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: the yellow or the white wire?

Hi, I have a 76 westy, and am trying to hook up my
driving lights. They need to be spliced into the
highbeam or lowbeam wire to the headlights, but I
don't know which is which. 

Technically, your supposed to wire driving lights to
only come on when your high beams are on, legally, and
fog when your lowbeams are on....Anyone know which is
which? Im pretty close to just splicing into one 
of them, and seeing which setting they end up turning
on with. 

Christopher

76 westy
"jasper"


RE FOG LAMPS' & AUXILIARY DRIVING LAMPS' WIRING
CIRCUIT, FOR 1971~79 VW TYPE 2

Fuse No. 2, Front Parking Lights & Side Marker Lights,
grey 0.5mm2 electrical cable

Fuse No. 3, Left-hand Headlamp Low Beam yellow 2.5mm2
electrical cable

Fuse No. 4, Right-hand Headlamp Low Beam, yellow/black
2.5mm2 electrical cable

Fuse No. 5, Left-hand Headlamp High Beam, white 2.5mm2
electrical cable

Fuse No. 6, Right-hand Headlamp High Beam, white/black
2.5mm2 electrical cable

If one wishes front fog lamps to illuminate only, when
the headlamp low beams are illuminated, this can be
accomplished, by deriving the switch current, for the
front fog lamps' relay, from either of fuse numbers 3
or 4, corresponding to the 2.5mm2 yellow or
yellow/black cables respectively.

However, having the headlamp low beams illuminated in
foggy conditions, defeats the purpose of having
specialised front fog lamps, which is to minimise
back-scatter of the light beams.

In Great Britain, the Road Vehicles' Lighting
Regulations, permit the use of a matched pair of front
fog lamps, to be used in conjunction with front
parking lights, instead of the headlamp low beams
(i.e. in the absence of headlamp low beams).

This greatly contributes to safer driving in fog, as I
know from personal experience. For details of this and
many other important topics, see my comprehensive
technical article, entitled "Improving Vision,
Visibility and Lighting Performance, for Air-Cooled
Volkswagens and Other Models", which hopefully will be
published by the British VW Type 2 Owners' Club, one
of these days!

If one wishes front fog lamps to illuminate, when the
front parking lights are illuminated, this can be
accomplished, by deriving the switch current, for the
front fog lamps' relay, from fuse number 2,
corresponding to the 0.5mm2 grey & grey/red cables.

Auxiliary driving lamps should be wired up so that
they only illuminate, when the headlamp high beams are
illuminated. This can be accomplished, by deriving the
switch current, for the auxiliary driving lamps'
relay, from either of fuse numbers 5 or 6,
corresponding to the 2.5mm2 white or white/black
cables respectively.

USE OF ACCESSORY RELAYS FOR SUPPLEMENTARY LAMPS &
HEADLAMP CIRCUIT UPGRADE

When wiring up front fog lamps or front auxiliary
driving lamps, it is essential to use accessory
relays, whose supply current, is derived directly from
the battery cum alternator, main fusebox supply; both
to minimise voltage losses in the electrical supply to
the lamps and to avoid overloading the existing wiring
for the headlamps and/or parking lights, plus the main
dashboard light switch, headlamp dimmer relay,
ignition switch & associated wiring.

These considerations also apply to the existing
headlamp circuit, especially if retro-fitting higher
power lamps and/or the vehicle is old (all 1968~79 VW
Type 2s!) and subject to wiring loom connections of
increasing electrical resistance. Such an upgraded
circuit, which I designed for my 1973 VW Type 2, is
covered in the aforementioned technical article,
"Improving Vision, Visibility and Lighting
Performance, for Air-Cooled Volkswagens and Other
Models".

As many owners of air-cooled VWs will realise, even
the fuseboxes of later model years, of the 1968~79 VW
Type 2, have only three (only two, for USA
specification vehicles, which also accommodate a
buzzer!) spare positions, for plug-in accessory
relays.

However, for my lighting system upgrades and other
plug-in relay installations, I discovered that two
six-position relay mounting cum connector blocks,
salvaged from some model years of Austin Montego or
Metro cars, can be mounted very neatly (almost has
factory-fitted appearance!), beneath the 1968~79 VW
Type 2, steering column support bracket. If one only
wishes to mount relays singly, in various dispersed
locations, there are also available, a variety of
single-position relay mounting or trailing cum
connector blocks, salvaged from these and other cars.

If anyone is interested, I still have a few
six-position and single position, relay mounting cum
connector blocks, for sale or trade, pictures of which
I can e-mail, to interested parties.

Regards.

                 Nigel A. Skeet
Everything you'll ever need on one web page
from News and Sport to Email and Music Charts
http://uk.my.yahoo.com
