Date: Wed, 01 Jan 2003 07:33:04 -0800
From: Dave Dixon <ddixon(-at-)mbay.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: dwell fluctuations

Hello splitties,

Twice in the past three mornings my 65 microbus failed to start. When I 
finally got it started later in the day and warmed up the engine there 
wasn't much of a problem with the way it ran except for the usual minor 
hesitation coming off idle that I read about so much on this list. I 
think my distributor is malfunctioning.

Here is what I discovered the other day with my dwell meter. The dwell 
meter needle went from 20 to 70 degress at different times while I 
changed the RPM. I thought maybe either the meter was hooked up 
improperly or something else was wrong. So I hooked the dwell meter up 
to my 57 van which also has a similar distributor. The needle stayed 
steady at 50 degrees as I changed the RPM's.

So I went back to my 65 bus and inspected the points. Besides being a 
little pitted, I found that the points hinge pin was a little loose. It 
wobbles a millimeter or two back a forth. It didn't seem right that this 
should occur. I cleaned up the points with a file, stuck them back in 
and restarted the engine. The dwell meter again fluctuated.

This distributor has a single vacuum advance. I don't know the model 
number but the guy at the auto parts store figured it out when I told 
him my points came without the hinge pin because the hinge pin was part 
of the distributor. I think he found in the parts book that it belonged 
to a 1970 1600 cc.

Well what you do at this point? Here are some choices to make among 
others. How about some advice?

Choice 1: Ignore it. Deny there is a problem until it gets worse. If 
there is one thing I hate, it is a non starting engine in the morning. 
It's cold, I need to go to work or some place else. I need a vehicle 
that starts up when I need it and is reliable, won't break down. Does 
this rule out this choice for everyone?

Choice 2: Replace the distributor with a 009. I read about unsatisfied 
009 owners who want a vacuum advance distributor. I guess the 009 is now 
the most common and easiest to buy. They come with points, rotor and 
cap. Cost: $50 each

Choice3: Replace the points with a Pertronix igniter. They are virtually 
trouble free. They fully function even when the distributor gets wet. (I 
understand that Compufire igniter is not available for a single vacuum 
advance distributor and Pertronix makes a unit though) Cost: $70 to $85

Choice 4: Replace the vacuum advance distributor with a new 009 and 
replace the points with a Petronix igniter. This spends the most money, 
acquires the latest, easily obtainable, reliable technology. Cost: 
Distributor($50)+Igniter($80)=Total($130)

Is it pretty close of a decision for you? What would you recommend? 
Thanks for your advice.

Dave (57 van, 65 microbus, 66 bug, 79 camper)
