From: "Buddah VW" <buddahvw(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: fullmoon(-at-)hville.net, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 02 Jan 2003 13:21:48 -0500
Subject: New Bus Resolution Campout Report

Happy New Year to all of you!

We had a wonderful time at the Pine Ridge Campground.

I made it out to the campground on Friday afternoon and started to get 
set-up.  Later that night Jay, Lynn, Xeno and Molly arrived and the 
tarp/tapestry enginering marvel that is "Vallhalla" began to take shape.

On Saturday Morning we had a few more arrivals:  Dixie arrived and brought 
her son along to enjoy the Full Moon Festvities.  Gary and Vicky, Cliff 
Styles, Jamie Auch, Snoopy and Sunshine also rolled in as the day 
progressed.

On Saturday night we all went out to eat for a holiday meal of sorts.  We 
went to WADE's, a local spartanburg favorite: home cookin, lots of veggies 
and the BEST damn yeast rolls anywhere.....just ask Sunshine :-)
Kurt and his family drove down from Charlotte to have dinner SAturday night 
but went back home that night..........don't dispare...Kurt and the crew 
came back down on Monday for some camping!  It was nice to have a big meal 
without any of us having to cook or clean!

The weather could not have been better.  It was a a little chilly during the 
weekend nights, but Monday and Tuesday nights were quite pleasant.......and 
we had highs in the 60's on most days. There was a little bit of rain late 
on New Years Eve and on Wednesday AM, but it did not dampen anyone spirits.

We also had some NEW moonies join us:  Giles pulled in on Monday night 
behind Jose and Sarah.  We also had "the amazing drummer boys" who camped 
with us on New Year's Eve.

By New Year's Eve we had 16 buses camping.  Special thanks to all of those 
who helped with the NEW YEARS EVE feast of Ham, Greens, Black-Eyed Peas and 
a varitable pleathora of delicous treats.

The little bit of rain we had did not damped the spirits.  We had a big bon 
fire and thanks to the local South Carolina Laws we had an AWESOME fireworks 
disply at Midnight. (special thanks to Jay Blankenship for the firworks)

Wednesday morning we awoke................slowly to a NEW YEAR,  all of us 
excited about the upcomming Bus Campouts in 2003.

Snoopy and Sunshine took a bunch of pictures which will be put online soon. 
Look for the link to be posted.

until then,
GobusGo,
Buddah



-----------------------------------------------
1972 Type 2 Adventure Camper Conversion
1965 Type 3 Notchback  1500-S Model
1995 Passat  VR-6  GLX
