From: "Tom and Thanh" <tom.loan(-at-)rogers.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 2 Jan 2003 15:12:20 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Various questions (long)

On a 34PICT 3, you don't set the idling speed with the smaller idle mixture
screw. You should put that screw about 2 1/2 turns out, and then set the
idle speed with the larger idle bypass screw. The throttle stop screw should
have a slight gap between it and the ramp at idle and with the automatic
choke fully open and warmed up.

You need a timing light. Set the timing with the light, and check that it is
advancing fully and smoothly at the same time. If it is jerky or not
advancing fully, you may have dizzy problems. Set the timing at full
advance. It should be at near TDC at idle, but when you rev it up to 2500 or
more rpms, the timing mark should be advanced to right at the fanbelt. When
you can get these two items right, your timing is set. Be carefull of your
fingers near that spinning fanbelt-instant finger loss if careless!!!!!!!!
And, keep the timing light wires away from the hot heat riser tube, the
wires will melt and short out-ask me how I know.

BTW, 34PICT 3 carbs are notorious for not idling. When that happens, you
scrap them and find a new or nearly new Bocar 34 carb on ebay for about
10-30 bucks.

BTW , the fuel pipe that goes through the firewall should have a rubber
grommet around it. If it is missing, replace this pipe. Many a VW bus has
burned to the ground because the vibrations have sawed through this pipe.
Ignore this at your peril. I prefer to see the fuel filter between the fuel
tank outlet and here, not inside the engine compartment. Much safer.
Tom

70 High Roof


< Is there an easy method to test the vacuum advance on the dizzy?  I have
another vacuum advance dizzy from a type 4 motor, will that work?  (Sorry,
I don't have the part numbers with me...)

In the archives I've read about many headaches with the 34-pict-3, what's
a good alternative carb?

I wanted to clean the fuel pump, but there seems to be no bolts, screws,
or any other method to pull it apart.  Is there a way to inspect and
clean it?

Thanks,

Rob>
