Date: Fri, 26 Mar 2010 08:30:34 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "T.P. Stephens" <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] problems

At 06:54 AM 3/26/2010, you wrote:
>The one I am installing now has a bad mismatch in the casting halves
>of the center manifold.

For sure, most of these conversion kits present all kinds of issues. 
Fitting up the carb manifold to the runners is a big challenge. The 
little bracket they supply to mount the manifold to the case half 
bolt is useless except as an idea to fab one from scatch that will 
actually fit and do the job. Then they don't supply the longer case 
bolt that is required to add the bracket. And typically, you must 
design and install a fix for the throttle cable so it will smoothly 
pull the throttle lever through it's full range.

If everything in the kit was properly designed, install would take 
perhaps an hour to install, certainly not more than 2. Reality is, 
several days of design prototyping is required to make it work well. 
Then verify the jets and emulsion tubes are designed for the 1600 
T-III and must spend another $100 for the correct ones. Only then can 
you adjust for proper mix at both idle and off idle. The idea that 
the same jets will work for anything from 1600 to 2000cc is just a 
charletan salesman's joke on the buyer.

In the back of the Weber Carbs book is a listing of all the stock 
applications for that carb. You must review that to find the motors 
of similar capacity to yours, then order the jets and emulsion tubes 
for your engine size. That should get you close enough to be within 
the range of adjustabilty your engine requires.

The labor to install these kits when I had the shop would be about 3 
times the cost of the kit, but only if you want it to be verified to 
work as good as it can, just short of the drivability of any stock system.

When you add it all up, new or rebuilt carbs from the Euro vendors to 
retain stock dual carbs might cost similar, but will run better and 
maintain value. And almost any fix for an FI motor to just fix the FI 
will be less than the conversion, and again, maintain value and 
drivability that you WILL diminish to some degree with the conversion.

Impossible to save time/money with the Weber conversion. Just 
impossible. But that is the headline "FEATURE" used to sell the kits.

Anyone who doesn't believe me, I have the complete kit with my 
brackets and fixes and jets correct for the 1700 available. It's got 
not more than 2000 miles on it. I would provide a sketch showing 
exactly where to drill a hole and set up the throttle cable for use 
of the stock cable. Just a new kit and correct jets will cost you 
more than the $300 plus shipping to get mine. If you bring your Bus 
to Hillsboro, OR, I can even install it for you in reasonable time/money.
