From: "Jeff Stewart" <fonman4277(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "The_Bug_Pack" <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Date: Mon, 3 Jul 2006 13:54:13 -0400
Subject: My Saturday

Hey Folks,
         Every year in July a friend of mine invites me to a car show he holds on his property. This is an invitation only show, and my friend is, well, shall we say "quite well to do", and has a thing for Ferrari's (of which he has owned many). Last year my Westy was off the road for some bodywork, so I took my '81 Suzuki GS850G. But it was ready to go this year. The show was scheduled for noon to 4pm, and I arrived about 12:15 and was directed to park right in front of some pine trees bordering his property, which turned out to be a nice shady spot on a very hot day. I was next to an older Mercedes sedan on my left and then a Fiat Spyder on my right. A Thing rolled in around 1:00 and also parked near me. There was an incredible amount of expensive iron here, Ferrari's, Maserati's, a Jaguar XKE coupe, and an Aston Martin. On the American side were were lots of 60's/70's Camaro's, Mustang's, a '58 Vette and a Chevy Nomad with a wild paint job and a blower sticking out of the hood-cool car! I set my Westy up just like I would when camping-roof up, stove open, coffee pot, and table and chairs. I couldn't get a minutes peace! Everyone was going crazy over my Westy! Everyone either grew up in a family with VW's or had a neighbor/boyfriend/girlfiend with a VW. Even around 2:00 when I tried to eat my lunch I couldn't get away from folks wanting to know about the Westy. And, of course, the kids loved it. There is a prize at this show for first and second place, the voting being done by the participants and their guests. Around 3:00 the host told me he couldn't believe the number of comments he was getting on my Westy. I started to think that I just may take first or second place! Then, with 20 minutes left to go in the voting, a concours 1929 Packard rolled in! But, in end, it was of all things a Lotus Elise that took first place (this thing is basically a glorified go kart). The Packard took second. <sigh> Always the bridesmaid, never the bride. Doesn't matter, I had a great time. And later I saw the owner of the Lotus relieving himself behind the pines trees on the hosts property, despite the fact that facilities were available. Which just goes to show, as Paris Hilton has proven, just because you have money doen't mean you have class! Can't wait 'til next year!     Jeff


Jeff Stewart
fonman4277(-at-)earthlink.net
EarthLink Revolves Around You.
