Date: Mon, 3 Jul 2006 23:09:13 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Central OR trip report

If there's some standard format out there for these reports, I'll use
it next time.  Sorry if its too long, or too focused on non-bus stuff. 
Anyways, here's the notes from the trip I just completed with my family
in our '72 Westy.  The route was I-205 > OR26 > Madras > OR97 > Lake
Billy Chinook (extended stay) > OR97 > Bend (2 nights) > OR20 > Albany
> I-5 > home.  I'll get pictures up to Yahoo eventually.

Jun-24-06: completed the front brakes install (new rotors, calipers,
hoses) and bled the system.  Managed to break off the bleeder screws on
both rears, so I had that to think on during the drive.  Thought it
might be a bad omen.

Jun-25-06: After the usual grocery runs, we left town just as the heat
wave started to get going.  Heading North on I-205 we lost a rear
hubcap (anyone local got a spare for cheap?), and the temps broke 100
degrees.  more Bad omen thoughts as we filled the tank at the Chevron
in West Linn, and again when we stopped to eat at a McDonald's (yuck)
in Gresham where the A/C was out and a few locals nearly had a
fistfight.  We cleared Zigzag (OR26) before I felt the need to cool
Hapy again, and he dieseled on shutdown telling me he was hot.  After
watering the dog and the shoulder of the road, I retarded the timing to
around 7.5ATDC.  This is near what the stock should have been at,
though I'm running a ACN SVDA - more fodder for the 'timing set by
engine not dizzy' debate.  Every time I checked Hapy's temp after this,
though, he wasn't nearly as warm.  By the time we got to Lake Billy
Chinook (Loop E), the air had cooled under 100.  A hot stew and a cool
shower later, and everyone was feeling pretty good.  So much for all
the "bad omen" stuff.

If you're thinking of going to Lake Billy Chinook, stay in Loop E, as
Loops A, B and C are in the lower bowl and are more arid, less shady,
hotter and don't have much grass.  E is also quieter.  I couldn't find
Loop D.  Hmm.

Jun-26-06: Spent the day playing at Lake Billy Chinook.  70 degree
water, lots of kids everywhere.  Great time, but the heat wave
continued.  Lots of looks and comments on the bus.

Jun-27-06: Dug Thundereggs at Richardson's Agate Beds.  Contrary to the
maps and all, getting to the beds involved driving 12 miles of rough
gravel/dirt roads in the desert.  The new timing helped keep Hapy very
cool, even after driving through the desert.  Definitely recommend
going - digging your own was really neat.  Still heat waving.

Jun-28-06: Rock & Gem Show in Madras.  Neat show.  Grabbed burgers at a
car-hop - notable because of how good they were. 

Jun-29-06: Heat wave broke with rain, so we drove to Warm Springs to
see the Museum at Warm Springs - possibly the only museum dedicated to
the Native American culture that was built, managed and controlled
completely by Native Americans.  Very interesting.  Stopped at the
Pelton Dam and the reregulator reservoir on the way back.  Heard low
popping at low RPM's, so I re-torqued the HE's, but it didn't totally
go away.

Jun-30-06: Drove to Bend (OR97), stopping at Smith Rock along the way. 
Amazing rock formations created through unusual volcanic action with
the Deschutes River running in the middle.  Started hearing a low clunk
coming from the p-side on the way into the Smith Rock State Park.  Upon
inspection, it was the ball joint on the passenger side making the
noise.  Fun.  One more thing to think about while driving back over the
mountains.  Steering was more of a battle driving to Bend, but taht
could have been my imagination.

Jul-1-06: spent in Bend.  Saturday Market, Drake Park, ate BBQ.  

Jul-2-06: Drove home.  Drive through the mountains was nerve-racking
with the steering becoming less responsive.  The brakes and the engine
temps, OTOH, were spot-on.  Had to cool Hapy at the rest stop just
South of Wilsonville.  That was my fault for not minding my speed. 
OR20 was a great view, I can see why its designated a scenic drive.

Hapy did great.  The brakes held up well, which is always a confidence
boost.  At some point, I'll have to deal with the rear brakes not
having any way of bleeding.  EZ outs, I suppose.  On to the ball joints
before the next adventure. 

Paul Manning
Lake Oswego, OR
1972 Westy (hapy)
