Date: Tue, 18 Jun 2002 09:36:09 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re:1st time head replacement

If you are going to replace the heads and the piston/cylinders, oil pump, 
etc. etc. Then do a FULL rebuild.

If you just want to replace a dead head then match your existing head with 
a used head - inspect for cracks and worn valve guides. Or have you heads 
rebuilt... (better solution).

Consider what you have money and time for of course.

It is a good time to paint the engine compartment, paint the engine, 
REPLACE THE FUEL LINES AND VENT LINES, and clean all the 25 years+ of gunk 
and grime off of the components.

I'd recommend that you pull the engine yourself and reinstall the engine 
yourself in addition to all the cleaning and painting. I did my own 
rebuilding (actually my wife built the engine after I wrecked my hand 
during a battle with my lawn tractor...).

I pulled everything off of the engine. Then came the cleaning with diesel 
and mineral spirits. Then banging the dents out of the tin. Then wet 
sanding it all with a few drops of soap in the water to wash away any 
remaining oils. Then primer and paint. I sprayed the shrouds and misc with 
good quality rattle can paint.

Next came the engine compartment. I stripped it of parts (including 
grommets) and pulled the gas tank. I used a small angle grinder and a tough 
wire brush and also a grinding wheel to clean the battery trays. They were 
rough and perforated in some places. I then covered them with a layer of 
metal impregnated filler. Sand. Primer. Sand. Primer. Etc. The primer was 
generic cheapo primer from the same shop that sold me the paint I was going 
to use. The paint was the same color that I planned to use on the exterior 
of the van. It was an acrylic enamel with hardner added. There are 
certainly better materials to be had but what can you afford?

Not the best of materials but it fit my budget and has lasted several years 
now with no problems.

I reinstalled all of the fuel lines, tank, vent lines, and wiring after 
replacing the fuel system hoses and a good scrubbing.

Then we rebuilt the engine sort of. Right in the middle of the project I 
hurt my hand very badly in a battle with the lawn tractor and gravity (I 
lost) and my wife rebuilt then engine. It was basically a freshening job 
because I opted not to have the crank turned and the next size bearings 
fitted. I started with a low oil pressure problems (when it was hot) and 
ended up with a low pressure problem. But it was pretty and leak free.

All the paint and such cost less than $200. There were some misc. rubber 
parts that got replaced and of course the engine stuff.

The labor took 2 weeks of afternoons and evenings.

Ciao!

Chris Mills
Cookeville, Tennessee
ICQ# 5944649

