Date: Tue, 18 Jun 2002 11:25:26 -0400
From: <ballantiner(-at-)uncw.edu>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: troubling signs, and other questions (long)



This weekend I began my quest to remove the heads from
my 78 2.0 FI engine.  I believe the problem is a
burnt exhaust valve, 3 cylinders have compression of
120-130, 1 has 30.  I'm pretty sure this engine is
all original, never having been rebuilt.

In my haste to remove my engine, I forgot to drain the oil,
so the first thing I did was block the engine up high-enough
to get my oil container underneath.  Apparently a PO replaced my
oil drain plug with one that requires an allen wrench.  After
finding the right allen wrench I attempted to extract the plug
to no avail.  I applied a fair ammount torque and the thing didn't =
budge.
Rather than risking breaking something, I decided to drain the oil via =
the
oil strainer. =20

There was a lot of sludge caked in the oil strainer cap, including
what looked like aluminum foil (*gulp*).  There were some fairly
large pieces and after arranging them I deduced that what I had was
remnants of an oil container seal, you could even still make out the
round impression of the rim of the oil container.  Also found was a
piece of blackened paper about the size of a quarter, I'm figuring
this is part of a gasket or the like.

Besides the above, I found a small ammount of what seemed to be brittle =
flakes of metal, blackened from their time in the engine case.  A magnet =
did not attract
said pieces, so I figure they are either pieces of my case of maybe some
burned pieces of afore mentioned tin foil.  Any guesses? =20

After cleaning & replacing the oil screen, I started to remove the =
intake
and sheetmetal from the engine.  I noticed that the injector on the =
cylinder
with the pressumed bad valve had the tip busted/burnt off.  Could this =
be
a cause or an effect of my valve problem?

Also, trying to remove the screws that secure the sheetmetal to the
head has been a royal PITA.  Now I'm left with 2 phillips-head
screws that have the innards stripped out.  I have a set of
easy-outs that, after last weeks thread, have decided to leave alone. =
I'm
a little nervous about drilling into the head. My latest thought about=20
this is that I could cut a groove in the screw heads with a dremel and
use a flat screwdriver to remove them.
Any other suggestions?

Thanks,

Rob
