From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Tue, 18 Jun 2002 11:06:46 -0500 (CDT)
To: ballantiner(-at-)uncw.edu
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] troubling signs, and other questions (long)

I'm at a loss on the internal waste material you have found.

 The cut the slot into the screw head is the way to go, and rap the
screws with an impact driver, for rapid removal.

Interesting subject.
When I tore down my 1800, to do the heads all the screws were flat
bladed.

When did they change to phillips heads?

Later,

Terry

 
E-mail message   
 
 
This weekend I began my quest to remove the heads from my 78 2.0 FI
engine. I believe the problem is a burnt exhaust valve, 3 cylinders have
compression of 120-130, 1 has 30. I'm pretty sure this engine is all
original, never having been rebuilt. 
In my haste to remove my engine, I forgot to drain the oil, so the first
thing I did was block the engine up high-enough to get my oil container
underneath. Apparently a PO replaced my oil drain plug with one that
requires an allen wrench. After finding the right allen wrench I
attempted to extract the plug to no avail. I applied a fair ammount
torque and the thing didn't budge. Rather than risking breaking
something, I decided to drain the oil via the oil strainer. 
There was a lot of sludge caked in the oil strainer cap, including what
looked like aluminum foil (*gulp*). There were some fairly large pieces
and after arranging them I deduced that what I had was remnants of an
oil container seal, you could even still make out the round impression
of the rim of the oil container. Also found was a piece of blackened
paper about the size of a quarter, I'm figuring this is part of a gasket
or the like. 
Besides the above, I found a small ammount of what seemed to be brittle
flakes of metal, blackened from their time in the engine case. A magnet
did not attract said pieces, so I figure they are either pieces of my
case of maybe some 
burned pieces of afore mentioned tin foil. Any guesses? 
After cleaning & replacing the oil screen, I started to remove the
intake and sheetmetal from the engine. I noticed that the injector on
the cylinder with the pressumed bad valve had the tip busted/burnt off.
Could this be a cause or an effect of my valve problem? 
Also, trying to remove the screws that secure the sheetmetal to the head
has been a royal PITA. Now I'm left with 2 phillips-head screws that
have the innards stripped out. I have a set of easy-outs that, after
last weeks thread, have decided to leave alone. I'm a little nervous
about drilling into the head. My latest thought about this is that I
could cut a groove in the screw heads with a dremel and use a flat
screwdriver to remove them. 
Any other suggestions? 
Thanks, 
Rob 
---------------------------------------------- 
=A0=A0=A0=A0=A0=A0=A0=A0To UNSUBSCRIBE send any e-mail to:
type2-unsubscribe(-at-)type2.com =A0 =A0 To email the admin for list help
only: type2-admin(-at-)type2.com 
=A0=A0=A0=A0=A0=A0For additional commands send any e-mail to:
type2-help(-at-)type2.com Donations help keep the list going.
http://www.type2.com/donate.html 
---------------------------------------------- 

