Date: Wed, 03 Dec 2003 10:33:56 -0500
From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
To: vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: women &mechanics/stuck drum Re: [VB] No more begging - or

I wrote this whole long post that segued from the brake issues my 67 rivi is having, that i took it to midas yesterday in the hope they'd break loose the stuck RR drum which has some goo oozing in there, being really really condescended to and actually finding it amusing, but then going on this thing about how it didn't used to be funny and could be really irritating, and how I had great VW buddies when I got my first bus.  Not like they were experts, just my friends.  But it  was really excellent.

 and  later ending up running into all these guys who were all messed up in the head about working on a car w/o an outie.  not that I ever figured out what it was good for with a car, (though I think maybe someone tried it in a listee's gas tank!!??!! I doubt that fixed the rust in the tank issue) 

It wasn't at first that I ran into these people who have that issue.  But there really is a horrible bias againt women w/ cars. Nothing personal you guys, but society just tells people these things (tells men and women), and I can see it ... thoughts twirling as it filters through the brain that I know what I'm saying and I'm not a guy and them trying to reconcile these two things they don't have experience as fitting together.  And realising that actually older guys are better at figuring it out, unexpectedly.  anyway it can be frustrating to be treated like an idiot.  and not feel like you can trust the mechanic.   (I started doing more major stuff than a tune up as I got ripped off by a mechanic)

anyway, that what I was writing about before got erased accidently but the RR drum is still stuck on the 67 and the midas guys didn't get it free, and I once destroyed a drum before w/ a puller, and not sure where to go from here.   any suggestions?

ya, I miss NQ's posts too.  

 .......................................
 In a message dated 12/2/2003 11:41:17 PM Eastern Standard Time, vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org writes:

> 
> hey, do what i did with my millions of posts about the sh*tty 
> aluminum motor blocks for sale out there... continue to 
> post and let 
> THEM unsubscribe  :)
> -- 
> Craig K
