Date: Wed, 27 Feb 2002 14:42:23 +1100
To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
From: Stephen Overmyer <s.overmyer(-at-)uws.edu.au>
Subject: Re: Wheel width & diameter

    Andrew...

At 16:00 26/02/02 -0000, you wrote:
>Can anyone tell me what the standard wheel width &
>diameter are on a 77 bus?
>I think they're 5 x 14 but I could be wrong 

    That would be 5.5" x 14"

>The front tyres are almost bald but since the bus is
>rear wheel drive they don't have to be very chunky &
>I'll probably go with standard road tyres.....correct
>me if I'm wrong on that one & should go to safer
>tyres.

    The consensus is usually that a C rated tyre with a reinforced
    sidewall is preferable...You should be able to find one with a
    block style tread pattern that is reasonable in off-road conditions.

>The rear tyres, however, could probably do with a
>semi-offroad/4x4 style tread for greater traction in
>winter when we will DEFINITELY get snow.

    Well you can...there is not a lot of variety of off-road style
    tyres made for 14" rims any more however there is one type
    still made by both Bridgestone & BF Goodrich,available in
    Australia.But they aint cheap at around $180Aus ea.
    Presumably they will fit on a standard VW rim however I can't be
    sure...I have a pair mounted on 14x7" rims and they fit nicely
    on those rims however....

    Whilst these tyres will give you superior grip in snow & muddy
    conditions and on dirt roads,nothing comes without a trade-off.
    You will significantly reduce you on-road handling with these
    type of tyres so be aware of that and consider carefully how
    much of your driving will really be in conditions requiring
    such a tyre.

    I bought a pair for the rear of my Double Cab to make for easier
    access on a dodgey road (well track really)onto a property I bought
    recently and whilst it certainly did help that,it made the on-road
    trip to the property a far less pleasant experience.
    The truck doesn't handle as well as it did in cornering,and is more
    suseptable to cross winds.Prior to fitting these tyres,it handled 
    beautifully and always felt very safe at any speed.The softer sidewall
    of the off-road tyres doesn't do the VW any favours.

    As an addendum,I recently had a new road built into the property
    and lined with road base so the BF Goodrich All-Terrains are
    no longer strictly required. Whilst they have no more than 2000kms
    on them and changing tyres again seems extravagant,I am seriously
    considering removing them and going back to the 225s it previously
    had and felt great to drive.
    Hey,you don't wanna buy a good pair of slightly used off road
    tyres for van do you...? ;) Going cheap!

    Cheers,
    Steve O
    Blue Mountains NSW Aust.
    '92 Transporter WBX Kombi
    '76 Transporter Double Cab
    '68 Beetle
    '00 Transporter 5Cyl Double Cab (work truck)
   

