Date: Wed, 27 Feb 2002 00:03:56 -0500
To: "jim rustad" <jimrustad(-at-)hotmail.com>,type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] type 4 case

At 08:37 PM 2/26/02 -0800, you wrote:
>I just split the case on my 2.0 l engine yesterday, expecting to
>find much better news than I got when I split my type 3 case a couple
>of weeks ago--but like the type 3, I
>found the parts number from main bearing
>#2 (?? the one that splits apart..)imprinted in the bore--
>Does this mean that the case for sure needs align boring or can
>it just be from oil discoloration?  I am beginning to think that
>any case I split will look like this.  Also, could someone explain
>to me what "fretting" actually looks like?  Do you see this on the
>flat part of the case web or on the edges?  Is there a shop anyone
>can recommend which will honestly assess what shape my case is in?
>I don't want to align bore it if I can avoid it.

You see it imprinted on any T4 case over 50k miles.  I doubt seriously
though they will even catch your fingernail if you scrape it.  Fretting on the
T4 case is sort of subtle you see it on the faces of the webs and it
starts where you no longer see the pattern of the grinding marks on
the faces around the main through bolt holes.  They initially are sort
of polished away and you will see the grinding marks adjacent in thin
strips where the other case half doesn't touch.  Then they become a
dull grey, and then the metal sort of gets rough.  In practicality as far
as I can tell this coresponds say to 75k, 115k, 150k miles respectively.
Over that the metal gets rougher and subtly "balled up looking."  What
it means, well if you clean the case, put some cam bearings in and
while plastigaging the cam, go and torque the case down without anything
in the mains, chances are by about 100-125k you don't strictly meet the
by the book spec.  On the T4 usually because of out of round.  But it
won't be bad.  And as there is a lot of tolerance stack up between the
size of the case, the bearings, the crank, you can have some loss of
tolerances and still expect good life with good oil pressure.  If the
case looks to the bad end of what I described and oil pressure was
poor before tear down without extreme wear on the mains or rods
on inspection, and you think the pump was OK, or if the thing has over
200k on it, or if you know it is on its 3rd rebuild consider having it cut.
$40-$50 at Rimco, work will be superb.  Not so far from you.  Also
have the main galleys tapped for pipe plugs and the case pressure
washed.  Peen whatever galleys you don't have tapped with a center
punch in a circular pattern surrounding the factory aluminum plug but
you should also replace the small one behind the fan area with a 1/8
NPT plug.  If you know the thing is only on its 2nd rebuild or under 150k
miles and it didn't suffer a real hot horrible end you can probably go
ahead and rebuild it.  The T4 case isn't indestructable but it is pretty
darn tough.  Align bore T4 bearing sets are getting sort of pricey BTW.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu


