From: "Thomas Ainlay" <tainlay(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 27 Apr 2002 13:38:56 -0700
Subject: Steering box lube job

It's been one week since I got the single cab back on the road and over the
last seven days I have been getting to all the maintenance that was
neglected while it sat for four years.  The list was long and included
things like greasing linkages and cables, safety wiring the shift rod
fasteners and adjusting the drag link to get the wheel close to where it
should be.  I think that the wheel is now within a 1/2 turn of the drag link
so any more will have to come from a swap to an adjustable right side tie
rod some time down the road.  I have to admit that this stuff has been
really fun.  Yesterday's assignment was to change the steering box
lubricant:)

I didn't get a definitive answer regarding if a gasket was needed as a
service install when changing the fluid so I just went ahead with the job
anyway.  Went to the flaps where I managed to find some moly grease and a
bottle of STP for about $8.  Started the job by removing the horn wire and
drain plate to let the box drain for a couple of hours.  The lube that was
in there had a pretty odd odor, almost like the smell you get from circuit
boards that have shorted out and fried.  Upon inspection there were 3 shims
in place between the housing and drain plate of my steering box.  I cleaned
them up with some solvent, used a thin amount of Hylomar sealant and bolted
the drain plate back in with the horn wire.  That being done I noticed that
there wasn't a lot of fluid that came out of the box.

The STP is pretty thick and I decided to mix up a batch in my oil squirt
can.  It's one of those smaller Eagle brand cans used to apply oil on
hinges, etc. and has a long tube which was perfect to reach the fill hole.
BTW, the fill plug has a square head that is the same as the shift tube
fasteners and I used a 5/16" square socket.  First batch of lube was one
part grease, one part STP and one part 90 wt. gear oil.  It took a while to
pump this stuff into the box and when the can was empty I mixed up another
batch.  I felt the first batch was too thin so I modified the mix to 1/2
grease and 1/2 STP.  The consistency was stickier than the first batch but
seemed to flow well enough.  I pumped all of that in there and still there
was no overflow from the fill hole so I mixed up a third batch just like
number two and proceeded to pump most of that in the box until it finally
flowed out of the hole.  After replacing the fill plug I noticed that the
fluid was leaking out the drain plate through the horn wire hole.  The level
must have reached a point over the horn wire tube so I just let it drain off
overnight.  All in all a very satisfying job with the knowledge that the
gear box is full of good stuff and I won't have to worry about that for a
while:)  If you haven't done this to your bus you might want to set aside
some time next weekend to get it done.  Also, while doing this it's a good
time to re-grease the front end until all that comes out is fresh grease.
Don't forget those king and link pins either:)  One thing I did with the
extra lube was to get to all the gate hinges and latches since they needed
some oil anyway.

Thomas

p.s. next up is replacing the wiper motor grease with some white lithium.

