Date: Tue, 31 Dec 1996 00:46:26 -0800
From: Mike West <mwest@cdsnet.net>
Subject: Re: New Eng. have hyd. lifters?

>Do the new Beetles being built in Mexico have hydraulic lifters?  More
>specifically, do the new engines for sale at the various parts places
>have hydraulic lifters?  I am thinking about scrapping the engine to my '68
Bus and buying a new one if they have hydraulic lifters.
 I am a little frightened to by a rebuilt engine after reading the
horrorstories here.  All comments are welcome.
>Jeffrey Linkinhoker
----------------------------------------------------------------------


  I had hoped someone more knowledgeable on these new engines would
answer this.

 I'm not giving out any information but his initials are Kyle Wade.

 Horror stories: you know the difference between a fairy tale and a
war story?

 One of them begins with "once upon a time" and the other with "this
is no shit!"

 The fact is we are all here because we want control of our lives to
be in "our" hands.  Not some mechanic who hands you a bill for replacing the
D.I.S.: $86, labor: $225.

 The fact is the only way any of us can afford to run one of these
older cars is if we "do it ourselves".  Labor alone is just too much.

 Most war stories, albeit true for the most part, are caused by the
owners ignorance. And down right neglect.

 Now look at a brand new engine from Mexico. Do you speak good spanish?

 Do you have a local Dealer, to handle the bugs, etc. ?

 What good is a warranty then?

 Hydraulic lifters:  I like them, but you can't just put them in and forget
them any more than you can on any engine. Yes, several rebuilders make them
with hydraulics, $150 more.

 Now let's put in a pointless ignition so we can stop having to do
that too.

 Now you never have to look in the engine room again, right?

 It's almost true, but how many have spotted that loose hose or frayed
belt or broken CV boot while doing the "routine maintenance"?

 Will you still change the oil as often?

 When was the last time you inspected your front end? That's on the
other end of the car.   :-)

 You ever had a "new car" warranty? They have you into the "Dealer"
for regular check-ups at prices that will buy you another car.

 Now there's the silver lining story: I have a bug out here with an
engine I didn't build (shudder) and have practically rebuilt.

 Still, once I got it tightened up and give it a monthly tune/check,
just an hour or so, it runs like the much quoted "watch".

 It's gone about 30k miles with no trouble at all and a total of around 50K.
That's at least 3 years I've done nothing but change the
oil, etc.  Had a belt break. Damned girlfriend broke all the door handles.
Had to get rid of her.

I could head for Chicago tomorrow and expect to get there with no difficulty.

 You've heard I'm building another engine which was supposed to go
in that bug but is now going in the van.

 This one I will know every bolt head by name.

 The only thing I can possibly have any doubts about are the parts I
couldn't personally inspect. Like the crank.

 I have a good feel for that crank tho, it turns in there and fits those
bearings etc. like I planned it that way.

 I still wish I'd put a counter balanced crank in but everything else
is balanced so it should go a 100k miles with any luck at all.

 When an Irishman talks about luck, you best believe he hand carved
it. Luck favors the efficient and always will.

 Bottom line: even if God herself came down and handed me a new engine
I'd be suspicious and worry all the time.

 "You" can build a better engine than VW ever did.
 Go read Bob Hoovers Sermons.

Let's not forget my own pile at Raistricks house!   :-)

 That's all

  west

 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
       Send SIGNOFF TYPE2 commands to LISTSERV@HOME.EASE.LSOFT.COM
