From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 3 Apr 2004 11:23:46 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] humpy 67 gas tank

In a message dated 4/2/2004 9:24:47 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
the-andyman518(-at-)charter.net writes:
So what is the hump in the '67 only tank for?
Hi Andrew,
Some volks erroneously think the hump adds extra room for more fuel, but this 
is not so because there is no way for the air trapped in the space in the 
hump to escape unless you tip the bus on its left side.  The hump is to trap a 
bubble of air above the fuel.  Benzine, petrol, gasolene being differant names 
for the same substance, naturally evaporates from a liquid into a gas.  This 
evaporation happens more as the outside temp rises, and increases even more with 
a nice hot engine next to this tank when you park you bus.  This is a real 
problem for volks who drive on the right side of the road due to most roads have 
a crown to them making the center of the road higher than the sides to help 
run off rain or melting ice water.  This means the bus tank where the neck 
comes out of the tank ends up lower than most of the rest of the top of the tank.  
Adding the hump means there is an air space that has to be first pressurized 
by the fuel vapor evaporating before the still liquid fuel in the tank can be 
forced up the neck of the tank and out through or around the gas cap.  Without 
the hump the fuel is forced up and out far sooner especially before the 
engine has a chance to cool off.
  This is the same reason that hand carryable gas tanks must not be filled 
completely to the absolute top!  No air space and the container will either leak 
or even possibly burst from the excess pressure built up when the tank is 
heated up.  We have used this fuel expansion physics to take out shallow dents in 
spare tire gas tanks!  By filling the tank competely full and then laying it 
in the sun and keeping carefull track of the dent being pushed out.  Once the 
dent is gone we loosen the cap and release the over pressure and expect some 
fuel spillage.  With the pressure released move the gas can to a shady spot to 
let it cool down and later pour off the excess fuel.  If one just moves the 
tank to a shady spot before releasing the over pressure the fuel will condense 
and cause a partial vaccum sucking back in the dent.
Eric&Barb
