Date: Mon, 05 Apr 2004 15:39:54 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: [VB] Will it run cooler if.....

A differing opinion from the Bulley-hewlett site regarding cooling the 
exhaust too soon:

"Exhaust wrapping is fiberglass-mesh webbing, approximately 3 
millimeters thick, and about 6 centimeters wide. It is applied by 
moistening the mesh, then wrapping the exhaust spiral fashion. The 
webbing hardens into a chrysalis around the pipes.

Its purpose is twofold. First, to insulate the exhaust tubing so the 
waste gasses do not cool immediately after leaving the heads, thus 
maintaining their velocity. This is important. If the exhaust cools 
suddenly on leaving the heads, it slows down, making the motor work 
harder to push it out the exahust tubing, muffler, and tailpipe. Don't 
forget, it is the force of your piston that has to do the job of pushing 
that exhaust out, wasting horsepower.

Second, the insulation prevents the glowing HOT exhaust tubes from 
radiating tremendous heat (infrared) to the heads. we forget about this 
IR heat sometimes, but if you turn your motor off after a hard run ahd 
put your hand near your bare exhaust, you will feel the tremendous 
toasting action. All of this IR would normally bake the lower portion of 
the heads as they are trying to stay cool. Counter productive.

Finally, you want the exhaust to stay hot for another reason though: 
namely more available heat in your heat exchangers. As an added benefit 
you get cleaner emissions. The emissions decrease is due to the hotter 
temperatures "afterburning" unburned exhaust/fuel products. VW's 
afterburner pipe was for this reason, but the original insulation never 
lasts more than a few years. This product more than adaquately replaces 
that afterburning effect. Most importantly, though, all of that heat is 
now available for release INSIDE your heat exchanger, driving the 
heated-air temperatures through the roof."


Claralw(-at-)aol.com wrote:

> it's a question of either/or as far as I can see.  running heater boxes (with 
> air through them) cools the exhaust.   I would think this would make the 
> heads run cooler (which is supported by my experience with a bad fan belt and a 
> destroyed fresh air tube on a road trip, but no numbers for you) 
> 
> but w/o the fresh air tubes, yes more goes to the cylinders instead of 
> cooling the exhaust.
> 
>   Though if someone has a head temp sensor and want to give number with the 
> fresh air tube installed vs plugged off, that'd be neat.
