From: "David Mayes" <mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 6 Apr 2004 07:31:29 -0700
Subject: RE: 63 Oz, trivia, bulb holders

Clara muses:

"that leaves C through I unaccounted for.    7 taillight light styles"

 

well, Clara, Here they are

 

 

C:  Hans pre prototype 'D' revision: never produced

D:  'D' version to go to production but unfortunate Pilsner stain
rendered final blue prints illegible.

E:  Finally in production but last minute review by German TUV officials
stopped production due to incorrect reflector pattern.

F:  version F details lost to history.  During the time of great
upheaval in the bulb holder engineering department which was brought on
by the snafu of versions D and E.

G: Under new engineering, revision G is scheduled for release to
manufacture but for an ongoing effort to boost inventory tracking
procedures, a new layout change in the blue print submission process
forced engineering to re-draft.

H:  The redraft blue print part number.  Into production it went but
wouldn't you know it, the same incorrect reflector pattern was repeated.
Management is stymied; they had changed the work force but the same
problem occurred.  A suggestion that it was actually managements fault
caused the 'cubical riots' of '64.

I:  With Engineering in control, revision I was the final production
model but a last minute cost reduction solution for a 20% savings was
found bringing us to the final version.  

. and then you have 'J' and the executive board finally happy after
eliminating all middle management boobs.

 

 

hope that clears it all up   :-)

 

 

 

David

    

 

 

 

 

In reference to:

re taillights... I thought the flatter housing were earlier and the
fatter were later...  changed in 63?   64?   definately pre 67, as the
68-71 had the stylee buildt in ground.  

 

progressive refinements say:   nothing

 

63 ed. parts list say:  

 the round glass style bulb holder is  211 945 237B

the us spec (M24) 62 on bulb holder: 211 945 237K

 

no mention of left or right

 

Read between the lines:   Actung!!! this is from a 63 edition book. It
lists what was FS at the dealership when it was in use.  Some p/n s are
superceded by later edition of the parts.  If I had access to the 61
edition more clues might fall into place.    

 

now there are a lot of letters between B and K.  

 

 J is the euro (bulbholder for 2 tone lens)

 

that leaves C through I unaccounted for.    7 taillight light styles.   
