From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 22 Oct 2002 12:12:54 -0500
Subject: Feedback Required on Quality of Rebuilt '68-'72 Steering Boxes

	Oh Great Ones...

	After 30 years in service, the time has come to finally replace the
steering box on my '72 Westy Weekender.  I know that some of the Wisest like
to use good shape used boxes, but unless someone is willing to provide a
signed and notarized affidavit that said used box came off a '72 with only
10K documented "old lady driven" miles, I'm not really interested.  Just so
we are clear...

	I have done a quick review of the archives, and have not turned up
any immensely relevant in 2002 information - I suspect this might the kind
of thing done off-list for some quasi-obvious reasons.  Just so we don't
waste any bandwidth here, everything on the front end that CAN be replaced
has been replaced, with the notable exception of the steering box.  I
replace, therefore I am...  Also to eliminate additional wasted b-width, my
Westy DOES have certain non-stock (to a VeeWee) acoutrements in the rim and
tire department, AND yes, I am aware that those things do stress to the
steering box - I endeavor to practice "safe steering" to the best of my
abilities.  I don't need the lecture, Dad... The bottom line is that the box
is 30 years old and time to go to the great steering box home in the sky...

	I am not looking for cheap here either, and am painfully aware of
the outstanding (outstandlying BAD) quality of the inexpensive rebuilds
available.   BTDT, and felt like shooting the messenger chicken.  I know a
quality rebuild is going to set me back some coin and I can afford it - that
is not the issue here.  What has kind of surprised me during my research, is
the fact that one or two vendors who I would normally trust on this are
selling the "cheap stuff" for $$$$.

	If anyone has feedback (yay or nay) on the usual suspects who ARE
rebuilding boxes, and I think we all know who they are, please feel free to
step up and comment.  If this is the kind of thing that needs to remain
confidential or plausibly deniable, feel free to p-mail.  If you are of the
"used box" camp, I know who you are and I'm aware of your thoughts on the
subject ;-)

	Jim H.
	www.savethebays.org
	"Sir, are you aware that your license plate spells Pot Bus -
anything on board you need to tell us about?"    
