Date: Tue, 22 Oct 2002 22:46:35 -0400
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <Doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com>
Subject: Re:Upgrading to H-4's

What hasn't been emphasized by all these excellent posts on the upgrade is, 
grounding the new circuits is as important as running the new positive 
wiring and fuses.

If you run an 8 or 10 gauge trunk from the battery or starter, please 
consider running a similar gauge ground trunk back to the battery. You 
shoving lots of electrons at those filaments, and they need an easy path 
back to the battery FROM EACH FILAMENT.

I found the Bosch relays more reliable than the other brands. (Tried the 
other brands and one out of three were faulty in the first two days of use.)

Also, consider using distribution blocks to branch the individual circuits 
off of the #8 or #10 trunk. You can use # 12 wire to feed each filament. 
Same goes for the ground wire loom.

Last suggestion: Get some liquid electrical tape and dab plenty on each 
connection in the new circuit, after everything is zip-tied down and tested 
a few times.  The liquid electrical tape seals the junctions from the 
corroding effects of moisture and salt and ozone, and some of your 
connections your do operate in an outside environment.

On my installation, I chose a quad system....4 rectangular units.  This was 
popular in the early to middle 80's.  I have two pure high beam lamps (H2), 
and two lamps that are both high and low beam (H4).  I found that using the 
higher wattage (100/80)filaments in the H4 lamps resulted in much shorter 
life spans, like...months instead of years. I tried the e-code 100/80 watt 
H4's and they lasted about 4 months.  I went back to using the 60/55 watt 
filaments in the H4 lamps.  The H2's aren't used much in my driving, so the 
short life doesn't matter much at all. But at the very costly price of 
e-code bulbs, I can't justify running high watt-short life H4's.  An 
H4  e-code bulb costs between $15 and $18.

Again, try the Daniel Stern Lighting web site for a great free education 
about upgrading to e-code headlights.    http://lighting.mbz.org/tech/

Doyt Echelberger
76 Westfalia
