Date: Wed, 23 Oct 2002 11:31:40 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] Upgrading to H4s

On Tue, 22 Oct 2002, Doktor Tim wrote:

> First thing I did when I got my 72 was put on the Bosch H-4's. Stock
> wiring. Superb function, not just a little better than sealed beams, a
> bunch better, particularly at night in the rain. Make danged sure you get
> them adjusted properly. The reason they are banned is because any idiot
> that doesn't adjust them properly can and will blind on comers.

Sealed-beam headlights were a great advance in lighting when they were
first introduced, because the headlights of that era were subject to
deterioration of their reflectors by corrosion.  Sealed Beams were made
mandatory in the US, but the rest of the world lagged behind.

This "lagging behind" was not all bad, since it led to the development of
the better-sealed H4 style lamps in Europe.  The advantage of the H4 lamps
was that the reflector and lens could be made much more precisely (and
expensively) since you only bought them once.  Sealed beam lenses and
reflectors were mass-produced, so they couldn't be as well made as the H4
and still be economical.

Oddly enough, sealed beam headlights were only required for automobiles in
the US.  Motorcycles could use the same H4 lights they carried in the rest
of the world, which produced a loophole for car drivers here to obtain
those lamps.  Of course, they were labeled "off road use only" but we all
knew what to do with that label!

In the 90s, aerodynamics forced US manufacturers to go to separate bulb
lights, as the lenses had to be designed for each specific car.  US
drivers finally have pretty much the same lights as Europeans.  The result
is that H4 lights aren't as easily distinguishable to the gendarmes as
they used to be and therefore we can run them with little fear of penalty.

In the bad old days, the way that cops could tell that you were running
H4s was the lack of glare, as they have a sharp low beam cutoff.  The H4s
appeared much darker to the oncoming driver.  This is rather ironic, as
the usual reason stated for H4s being illegal was because they were "too
bright"!

George
