Date: Wed, 23 Oct 2002 14:43:53 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Stinky heat

>         Yuck! I still remember the oddly evil smell another child's parent's
>Corvair station wagon had when I was in 4th grade... worst stinky heat
>I ever smelled. Car was newish too, this was in 1966. I never smelled
>anything so bad in a VW.

GM used the stale air style heater in the Corvair like the early 60's VW 
Beetle. Used heat off the bottom of the cylinders and heads to heat the 
cabin versus the VW system that uses the heater boxes. The material GM used 
in the pushrod o-rings was not up to the heat of the Corvair engine so they 
leaked very soon after the car was sold. All that oil and oily air got sent 
to the cabin with the heat. BAD design considering the limitations of the 
o-rings. If you talk to the current Corvair owners these problems have been 
solved with new O-rings made of Viton. I still prefer the heater box design 
of the VW but the Corvair system is a good one that makes decent clean 
heat. Much higher chance of carbon monoxide though because the exhaust pipe 
to head connection is part of the heater system and a leak in the exhaust 
manifold doughnuts will kill you if un-noticed so many owners carry a CO 
monitor.

>         My recollection is that Type 4 engines have an electric fan
>that blows fresh air into the heat exchangers- so the blower
>can be turned off, as opposed to Type 1/2 (upright fan shroud)
>where the design presumes fresh air is always been blown
>through the heat exchangers. If you turn the blower off for
>the first 10-15 minutes of operation, to let things get
>really hot, then turn it on for the rest of the trip, I would
>think that would promote faster burn-off of the oil in the
>heat exchanger. Its a crummy problem and I wish you luck. I
>live in Oakland and didn't have my heat exchangers hooked up
>for a while. Not only was it cold, the front windshield tended to
>fog up. :( So carry some hand towels or something else to wipe
>down with.

The Type IV uses an aux fan in addition to the engine fan to push heat to 
the cabin. At low speeds the aux fan does the work (if it is turned on) and 
at anything over a certain engine rpm (2K?) the main engine fan pushes the 
air along.

The Type IV busses dump the any unused heated air outside because the 
flappers are more like diverters than valves. The Type I engines simply 
stopped the flow of heated air when the heat was turned off. The Type IV 
diverted the heated air to pipes which dumped it near the back bumper.


Chris Mills in TN
