From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Thu, 24 Oct 2002 09:41:15 -0500 (CDT)
To: schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net (David Schwarze)
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com (Type2)
Subject: RE: [T2] Upgrading to H4s

David--

I'm glad you mentioned MMM

I am still expounding upon the astounding virtues of Marvel to this
day---Yep, I think I have been using the stuff for about 39 years with
stupendious results.--You ought to use it too.--:>) 

Now back to the relay quagmire of misunderstandings---and the root of
your confounding,

I didn't even mention one vowel about hooking up the power wire  all the
way back at the battery  ---and I for one wouldn't take that approach,
no  do I condone that Rube Goldberg attachment procedure.

It's exactly like the toaster you mentioned.
Why not run the extension cord over to the neighbors house to plug it
in?

There is plenty of amperage at the feed right above your tootsie's to
supply the relay's more than adequately, right at the fuse box.

Yea I know the supply wire to the fuse box is coming from the back of
the Bus--but why be Thomas Alva Edison and recreate the light bulb?

Good idea in Disneyland perhaps, --but in the length of wire you are
talking about there will be a loss of amps, unless your running maybe 8
ga. or perhaps 00, if you want direct drive volts--

LIke I said--this relay set up hooked directly to the hot wire feed area
of the fuse box in both my Vanagons, as well as perhaps a hundred or so
other owner's of said vehcles has proved to work out real good, and the
results are astounding.

I'll proceeed to update my lame lighting system in my 74 the same way,
and it too will function flawlessly, allowing me to see where in the
heck I'm going at night without squinting---:>)

OK---Your Turn---    

The Magnificently Marvelous Marvel Man.


 
E-mail message   
  
David-- 

TK wrote;

Quite elementary---two relays two seperate 12v feed wires-- Why overload
a single wire if you don't have to? 


David offers retort;

Why overload any wire at all? I'm not saying you should use one 12-gauge
wire in place of two 12-gauge wires. I'm saying (for example) use one
10-gauge wire in place of two 12-gauge wires. They can carry the same
amount of current. 
Why run dual 12-gauge wires all the way back to the battery when you
could run a single 10-gauge wire? Much easier. Let me ask you this -
does the toaster in your kitchen have a wire all the way back to the
power company? How about your iron? Your TV? Are you saying they would
work better if they did? 
You can get a better ground off two wires than one of the same gauge. 
Agreed, but I never suggested that. 
Your logic here confounds me, just as it did when you were extolling the
virtues of Marvel Mystery Oil a few months ago. 
-David  
