Date: Thu, 24 Oct 2002 09:41:33 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] Upgrading to H4s

>Please explain why they function better with two separate feed wires.  The 
>electricity does not care whether it is one wire or two as the source and 
>destination are the same.

The way I looked at it I did not want both headlights to fail at once due 
to a blown fuse. I've got mine wired up so a blowing fuse only takes out 
one low beam or one high beam. Most cars are wired this way, it may be a 
DOT requirement (dunno for sure). Another idea I have been considering is 
to run two more wires so each high beam and each low beam circuit is 
separate but I also have aux lighting on the front of the bus so I feel 
confident I could get to a safe stopping point in my travels to fix the 
headlights with 3 of a total 4 lights on.

I have two wires running from the aux fuse panel at the rear of the van. 1 
wire handles the high and low beams for the left side of the car, 1 wire 
handles the high and low beams for the right side of the car.

Each wire is connected to two relays. Total of four relays. It cost me an 
extra $10 but the safety margin is worth it... I figure any collision due 
to headlight failure would be much more expensive.

The OEM wires that originally powered the headlights now trigger the 
relays. Not cutting required of the OEM wires. I could remove this relay 
upgrade and be back to OEM in minutes.

The OEM high beam wire triggers the high beam relays - both of the them. 
The OEM low beam triggers the low beam relays, both of them.

The relays connect the two source wires from the aux fuse panel to the 
headlights.

There does seem to be a slight brightness improvement. The upgrade is 
slightly Rube Goldberg because I have the OEM high/low beam relay 
triggering the new relays but this was the easiest way for me to do the 
job. It's still easy to troubleshoot.

The chassis is the ground. One way to judge expected resistance of a wire 
is by it's cross section. A bigger wire has less resistance than a smaller 
wire. I figure the chassis is MUCH larger in cross section than any wire I 
could install, just make sure the ground connections at the battery and at 
the headlights are clean tight.

With this setup I can do anything I want with the headlights. I could go 
with 80/100W lighting or whatever. I don't want to blind the oncoming 
drivers so I'll stick with the 55/65w bulbs.

I have my aux lighting (Hella 550's) setup to come on automatically with 
the high beams. They have a pattern that really lights up the road - and 
trees, and bushes, and ditches, etc. If I use them anytime the oncoming 
traffic can seem them the other driver's flash their lights at me ALOT (of 
course), so they only get used with the high beams so I have the high beams 
setup to trigger the relay for the Hellas and turn them on too. I have used 
this setup on my CR-V for 3 years now and it has worked well. On the Honda 
I also included a switch so that I could disable them but I never disable 
them so I left the switch out on the Westy.

I feel that aux lighting and extra bright lights really don't have a place 
in town but the open road so stock lighting is enough for me in town. When 
I'm alone on a dark road though I want to light up the world!!!

We cross a mountain to visit family in Chattanooga often at night. I would 
occasionally see deer. The first time I ran the same route with the Hellas 
I saw deer EVERYWHERE. I now do the trip with extra caution.

Hundreds of eyes in the dark...

Cost? Hella 550s were about $55 at Pep Boys. Better than so many other el 
cheapo lighting kits found at every discount store in country for $20 or 
whatever. The relays were $5 or $6 at Radio Shack and identical to the 
relays found the in the Hella kit and sold for much more from some places 
on the net. They are 30 AMP max relays. The wire came from the hardware 
store. I figure if the OEM wire can handle 2 65w headlights then 2 wires of 
the same size can certainly handle 1 light each. The fuse panel came from 
Advance Auto for $7 or so. NAPA had the identical same fuse panel for twice 
(three times?) that. It handles 6 spade fuses. You supply the fuses. The 
H-4 headlights were bought from a catalog 6 or 7 years ago and spent alot 
of time on my Beetle. Now that the Beetle is off the road for storage they 
ride on my Westy. I don't remember the cost.

FWIW, YMMV....



Chris Mills in TN
