Date: Thu, 24 Oct 2002 09:43:43 -0500
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: lifters et.al.

I know there is a lot of talk about this in the archives & have read
most (if not all) of it. I was hoping to get the current list opinions
on the bikeshed that is hydraulic vs. solid.

So I'm in the process of planning out my rebuild to replace the
current 2.0L in my 79. I'm looking into keeping the system in place on
my rebuild engine which is solid.

We all know the pros of hyd, such:
	Long milage between adjustment
	quieter (albeit slightly)
	less chance of leaky valve cover due to taking it off	less

But I started to think if VW should have not given into the demand
near the end of their air cooled days for less maintenance on their
engines. Hydraulic lifters have been used in american cars for a long
time, but the design of the engine is completely different. These
lifters are placed into the engine in a more or less vertical
position. Less tendancy to bleed down due to the holes being on the
side verses in a VW engine where if it turns just the right way will
bleed down. Now, this might just be my observations based on a very
worn 227k mile engine.

Another known issue w/ our air cooled power plants is the change of
valve trouble. This included dropped seats, stretched valve stems,
sunk seats & assorted other's I don't know about or have forgotten.
With solid lifters, checking the gap is as simple as turning the
crank, poping off the cover & using a feeler gauge to check. Adjust as
necessary & if needed watch that one cyl that seems to keep closing
the gap (sign of something bad). With hyd lifters I can't check it at
all. All I can do to see if things are amiss is to readjust all the
lifters & hope I can count the rotations correctly to account for any
difference. The hyd have to be reset just to check. I'm not sure this
is optimum in an engine whose weak point is overheated heads cause bad
valve train mojo.

There is also the question that if the lifters are always pressed
against the cam (such as in a hyd setup) there is less lubrication
between these. I keep hearing that a hyd cam is no good after 100k or
so, due to the wear that takes place. Don't know if this is an apples
to oranges comparison since I suspect both wear, just differently.

I welcome any all comments on this & remember the bikeshed should
always be painted green :)
-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
"Two wrongs don't make a right, but 3 rights make a left"
-Cosmo
