Date: Thu, 24 Oct 2002 10:05:45 -0500
To: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com (Type2)
Subject: RE: [T2] Upgrading to H4s

At 09:41 AM 10/24/2002, Terry K. wrote:

>I didn't even mention one vowel about hooking up the power wire  all the
>way back at the battery  ---and I for one wouldn't take that approach,
>no  do I condone that Rube Goldberg attachment procedure.

Rube Goldberg?  Hardly.  As was discussed in this thread before you jumped in, running a separate hot wire back to the battery (and fusing it appropriately) is a good way to have brighter lights.  The existing hot wire running to the fuse box is easily overloaded.  Now if you want to try to pull out the existing wire from the harness and replace it with a larger one to support your brighter lights, for a cleaner installation, I won't stop you.  I however will simply put the new wire inside a sheath, zip-tie it to the original harness and spend my time doing fun things instead, thank you.

>There is plenty of amperage at the feed right above your tootsie's to
>supply the relay's more than adequately, right at the fuse box.

Depends on your definition of "adequate".  I remember measuring the voltage drop once many moons ago and with all accessories running it was under 11 volts.  That's a sizeable drop that WILL result in dimmer lights.

>Yea I know the supply wire to the fuse box is coming from the back of
>the Bus--but why be Thomas Alva Edison and recreate the light bulb?

Okay you're confounding me again.  I don't see how running a separate wire equates to "recreating the light bulb" (Is that TerryK for Reinventing the wheel? :->).

>Good idea in Disneyland perhaps, --but in the length of wire you are
>talking about there will be a loss of amps, unless your running maybe 8
>ga. or perhaps 00, if you want direct drive volts--

Huh?  Wha?  Terry, there will be no loss of amps!  A loss of volts, maybe.  If you run a separate 10-gauge wire to the battery for your lights, you will have much less of a voltage drop for your lights AND you will have much less of a voltage drop for your other accessories since the lights are no longer driven by that wire.

>LIke I said--this relay set up hooked directly to the hot wire feed area
>of the fuse box in both my Vanagons, as well as perhaps a hundred or so
>other owner's of said vehcles has proved to work out real good, and the
>results are astounding.

Okay then, based on a misunderstanding I no longer take issue with your use of two hot wires to feed the relays.  I do however still take issue with you refusal to admit the possibility that there might be a better way to wire the lights, and your unnatural love for MMO.  :)

-David
